from the boston chronotype. sermon on the memory of john quincy adams. by rev. theodore parker. [concluded.] the various papers he prepared when minister, secretary, and president, are astonishing for their number, as well as their clearness and orderly treatment of the subject in hand. he was familiar with the classics and w ith the modern tongues, at home in their literature, and familiar with their history tu a wonder- i ful extent. perhaps no man on either side of the water was so familiar with the political history of america, eng land, france, germany, and of all the north and south of europe for two hundred year's. in everything which concerned international law, or the law ot nature, he was profoundly read, lie, read much, rememberer! much, and un derstood much. there are few theo logians who are so widely read, even in, that department. his numerous ora tions astonish you with lire amazing erudition of a man busy all his life in the affairs of a great nation. put to achieve that, all that is w anted is health, diligence, memory, and long life, and he had all four. lie had higher qualities. he loved his country. perhaps no man ever loved her more. he had patriotism in a heroic degree. he loved his country and his whole country. and when that country was wrong he came up and told her so, because he loved her. he reminded old men of their duty to the land of washington. he reminded the voting men of the noble examples of franklin, washington, jetferson, madison, marshall, and thus he stirred and stimulated their minds to love the land that gave them birth. he was a conseiencious man. nothing in* his character was more distinctly marked than this. all told of conscience. i know there were exceptions, and i have k p pt one for this place. he pursued persons, lie was a good hater. if he loved an idea, he seemed to hate the man who opposed it. he would some times he cruel and even barbarous.— without remorse, he thrashed his oppo nents. and the most awful specimens iof invective found in our language may be taken from his works. how hitter and unrelenting! it is not iny fault that these things are true, but it would he my fault if 1 said they were not so. he had wit, but it often sat as an un just judge. such were his own words jppeakinir of rogers. his arrows were sharp and barbed with poison.” llow much better if at the end of his long life he could say he had spent his force on ideas, and not against his foes —if he could have said that he never wasted a shot in a personal quarrel. true, lit: had such provocation as man never had before, but then he hud such advantages as no man ever had. there was one answer, christian and irrefu table, and that was the dignity of si lence. in speech, in reply to abuse, be was often violent, and sometimes savage. true, his words on such oc casions may have been iron, and silver, but bis silence would have been gold. judged by the standard of other politi cians, he is n«t worse than they, only abler. tried by the standard of con science, christianity, by his own stand ard, be is wrong. with these exceptions, ho was re markably conscientious. he would not accept a present. this be learned early in youth, for his bible taught him, what his observation might have taught hi in, that a gift bliudtth the eyes of the the north star wise man, and preventeth justice. no i bribes, no presents would he receive for deeds performed in his place for the public service. he would not be the president of a party, but of the people. he would not be the represenative of a party, hut of justice and eternal right. when president, he one from office on account of his political opinions. he favored not the men who had voted for him, aad warred not with the men who had voted against hirn.— and of what president since his time can this be said? surely of none.— conscientiousness in this matter is the highest development’ of political character. i then he had a high reverence for religion. he aimed to be a christian man in his public acts. he seemed to be animated by the thought that he stood in the presence of god. it was the pccu iar excellence of bis christian ity that it recognized rove as the para mount law of nature. and you shall find few statesmen in our day who have a more continual reverence for religion as motive, guide and comforter. vet he was no sectarian. his principle of freedom was conspicuous even here.— thinking for himself, he would have others do the same. he was a ,unita rian. it is no great matter to be a uni tarian, a calvinist, or a catholic. he w as not ashamed of it when unitarian ism was little, despised, mocked at, and called infidelity on all sides. when at w ashington, the unitarians, a feeble band, small and opposed by everybody, met in a little obscure chamber over a public vbathing-room, then john quincy adams, who was secretary of state, and hoping to be president, cainc there and worshipfierl amongst them. it was not fashionable. it was hardly re spectable, and he went wor shipped. it there ever was a man who loved the praise of god more than the praise of man, i believq john quincy adams was one of them. fearing god, he feared no man, hut stood uff ihde pendent and hold. his patriotism, his love of freedom for all, his conscien tiousness, and his sense,of religion,are four things very noticeable in his char acter, four filings for which you shall look long among our great and famous men before you shali find his equal— very long before you find his -su perior. somebody says no man ever used all his intellectual faculties as far as possi ble. if any man is an exception to this j role, it is mr. adams, lie was dili-! gent, orderly, and systematic, yet lie! had not the mind of a great man, of a! philosopher, of a poet, of an organizer, j or of a discovcror. his great excel lence was his memory, his conscien tiousness, his firmness and his dili gence. he wrote much, and some; tilings surprisingly well, as his lectures on oratory, (.fiber things were plain and homely. and he wrote much that rhymes tolerably, but nothing poetic. he was seldom eloquent. alas lor the. statesman and alas for the preacher who has nothing hut eloquence w ith which; to build upchurch or state. washing ton had none of it. no man had so much influence as jefferson, save only washington, and yet mr. jefferson was a very indifferent w-riter and never made a speech. true, eloquence has its value. if a mail has at command the electricity of truth, justice, right, and the great ideas thereof, it is a good tiling to be able to condense this electricity into bolts of i eloquence, to thunder and lighten in the sky; but if a man has that electric truth, it matters little whether it is mo ses that speaks or aaron. it matters little whether or no paul’s bodily frame is weak. it is the thought of moses that lightens; it is the idea of paul that 1 becomes powerful in the founding of a church. mr. adams had a little elo quence, and that little appeared in his old age. vet he was a powerful speak er. he was commanding when he dwelt on great men, as jetferson, madi son, lafayette or washington. but he was most eloquent, i am sorry to say, when he smote a foe. his last period of life was the great est and noblest. he had all the honors the state could bestow. he reached the highest honor of serving the state when it had nothing more to bestow.— he was a servant of no party, but the servant of the people, the champion of human rights. 'llie south had said, we will drive the north to the wall. it had driven us there mid nailed us there. but adams stood up manfully, and sometimes alone. l)id the north send their petitions to congress, he was there to present them. jfid women and slaves petition, he was there. though every mouth was silent, that the south had overcome, yet the fearless soul of adams would not bend, it could not be broke. he saw from afar the plots of politicians for extending slavery and i narrowing the area of freedom, and be exposed those plots. i know of no greater speeches of his than those on the right of petition. l>id they vote to ■expel or censure him? ltid the’y threat i ien to assassinate him iu the streets? the old man could not be made to cringe. in the face of all there stood up that bold and audacious man, and the ii rocks of cohassct stand not firmer 1 1 more unyielding, fearless than he amid jthe yeasty waves of tha stormy house at washington. that humble knee, so pliant before god, shrank never before man. his career was more glorious than a ■conqueror’s, though in it he may not have conquered. i know few things greater in these modern times than this om man, the compeer of wosluogton, a man who bad acquitted himself ably in tbc stormy times of the french rev* olulion, who bad held the highest office in the nation’s gift, the son of a presi dent, and himself a president, standing right is of no sex—truth is of no color—god is the father of us all, and all we are brethren. up as the champion of the oppressed. there tssio nobler sight than when, on his going into the supreme court after thirty yean* of absence, as the advo cate of a body of friendless negroes unjustly held in thrall, he asked those venerable judges to excuse him for both the trembling of age and the inexperi ence of youth, the man having lived so long that he had forgotten the rules of the court. when he summed up the wli le matter, and brought before those judicial yet moistening eyes the great men whom he had once met there— cha«e, cushing, martin, marshall him self—when he remembered that those men were all gone from and forgotten in the seats of justice, and the eternal justice that is never gone—then the sight was more than great; it was the sublimest spectacle in our history for more than fifty years. it was not the old roman patrician who had been con-| sul and dictator, come to stand in the forum to raise levies for new victories, but it was a freeman of america, who had held an office greater than consul, king or dictator, come to plead for the slave, for the barbarian negro of afri ca, lor cingucz and morra, comparing them to harrnodius and aristogciton, those patriots of athens whose memory made every heart thrill. it was worth living four-score years for that. when he stood in the house of re presentatives as the champion of the rights of the minority, he stood there singly and alone. frederick the great seemed doubly magnificent when he contended against austria, france, england and russia, anff kept them all at bay, provided you do not look at his objects. but if you do, frederick the great becomes frederick the little, and mr. adams becomes the great, for he fought not for kingdom, not for fame, but for justice, eternal right. he fought too w ith weapons tempered in a heaven ly stream. well, he had his reward. from my thological cain who slew his brother, dow n to judas iscariot and aaron burr —from jesus of nazareth dow n to the least man who lives or dies, who ever lost his reward? no man. surely not one. in the heart there dwells the avenger who poisons the bowl, and gets ready the nessus garment. there stands the palladium of justice, radi ant w ith celestial light, no mortal hands may make or mar. no tyrant can ever tear the man from the man’s heart. but mr. adams had his outward re wards. when iu 1843 he went to the west, the whole west rose up to do him honor. when cicero, the only great man whom rome never feared, return ed from his exile, ail italy rose up and went out to meet him. so it was with mr. adams. as he lnnisclf said. 3 that alone was recompense enough. yes, it was too much lor one man to have, as a reward for one life,” and he w iped the tears from both his eyes as he said it. yet that was not enough. he had another reward greater still. a slaveholder of kentucky wrote home to his constituents, that lie was mainly de sirous to check that man, for it’ he could be removed from the councils ofj the nation, or silenced, he believed! there could not be found another hardy' enough and had enough to till his place. y'ct more, at a fourth of july dinner at walterboro’, s. c., this sentiment was proposed and received with nine cheers; 1 may we never lack a democrat to trip up the heels of the federalists, nor a hangman to fit a halter for john quincy adams.” considering what he had done,, i know r of nothiug which can compare with that. but let me not w’eary you. his, death was noble, fit ending for such a life. he was a noble man, the last that had held a diplomatic otfiee under washington. he had uttered his ora cles, had done his work. but his towns-j men tell us, all that was very little in comparison with his character. they sent to congress, not the president, but the man. he had borne his testimony j for freedom, for right, for mankind. he i had stood in congress alone. and if, victory escaped him, it was because night came on. he saw others enter the field in good heart; and lived long enough to see the seal broken. and then this old simeon, joyful of the con solation, bowed his head and went home in peace. he died with his ar mor on, like a senator in the capitol of the nation, like an american, like a christian full of immortality, like a man, brave, fearless and free. you will ask where did he gain strength so to stand alone. he looked beyond time, beyond ineu, to the eternal god; and fearing hun, forgot all other fear. some of his errors he knew to be errors and struggled w ith them, but did not overcome them. a man, not a very modest one perhaps, once asked him what he most of all lamented in his life. “my impetuous temper,” he re plied, and vituperative speech, that i have not always returned good for evil, but in the madness of my blood 1 have said things that 1 am ashamed of before my god.” it needed a great man to say that. when he was a boy, his mother, a still woman, deep-hearted, far-sighted, and pious, took paius with his culture, and most of all with his religious cul ture. when ten years of age, he was about to leave home, she took hito aside and told him of temptations he; could then not understand, bade him remember religion, god, and bis secret and bilent prayer. often in his life there came the earthquake of party i strife, the fire, the rtorm and whirlwind of passion; but god was not in the earthquake, the storm, or the fire. bat there came in tlig| hour the memory of that mother’» effect counsel, and god was in that memory. and earthquake, and fire, and storm, and whirlwind were rochester, n. y., friday, april 7, 1848. silent and hushed before that still, small voice—his mother pleading with 4he man and bearing him up to god.— beautifully did she #rite to her son when ten years old: great learning and superior abilities will be of little avail, unless virtue, honor, truth and integrity are added to them. remem ber that you are accountable to your maker for all your words and your ac tions. dear as you are to me,” said that more than spartan mother, i had rather you would have perished in that ocean you have crossed, or that untime ly death had cropped your infant years, than to see you an immoral profligat or graceless child. she tells him, your grandfather, a plain clergyman, left you a legacy more valuable than gold or silver—his blessing and prayer that you might become a useful citizen, a guardian of the laws, of the liberty, and religion of your may this be treasured up in your memory.— practise upon it, and believe me you will find it a treasure that moth and rust cannot corrujrt.” the child that has a mother like that, it is no wonder that he stood fearless. his was a charmed life, w hich opposition could not break nor even turn. i wonder not that one so born and by such a mother bred could so stand. 1 wonder rather that he could ever have swerved from the path of duty, and in dulged that hatred, that he could ever have stood up in the senate and re fused to deliberate. religion is a qual ity that makes a man independent.— disappointment will not make him sour. elevation will not make him proud.— power w ill not dazzle, gold corrupt, vi olence silence, nor fear subdue him. there are men born with greater abilities than he. how many are there that use them so diligently in the pub lic service? nay, tell us of one. shall i compare him with the most famous men of the north and the south, with the greatest of the whigs cr demo crats, and ask w hich was the purer and more patriotic? shall i lay the two lives side by side, the public and pri vate, and then ask which was the great er, which the more meritorious, which the most eminently christian? that is not for me to do or to attempt. but there was one thing in which he sur passed almost every man. he grew more modern as he grew older. he acquired more ideas after he was sixty years old, and never fell into that crab bed admiration of former times which is the palsy of so many minds, making old age conservative of.old errors, and' in a man who had his veneration for the past this is the more astonishing. i will not sorrow that he was wrong, let us remember his evil, and beware of ambition, party strife and personal hate. let us remember his good, his willing ness to be guided by time and place.— there was not in him a mere greatness of mind, to command admiration, but an independent love of justice, of right, of his country and his kind. nosonol new england has ever been so distin guished in political life as he. it is no great thing to be president of the uni ted states. some men it makes ridicu lous. a worm on a steeple’s top is no greater and no nearer flying than that which crawls at its foot. a mountain needs no steeple to proclaim that it is great and high. this is his great praise, in private life he corrupted not man and no woman. his influence never debased the public councils yet in public and private lie did teach the truth and a fearless love ofj right. j the slave has lost a champion un tiring and fearless. religion has lost a supporter. freedom an unfailing: friend, and mankind have lost a noble j vindicator of our inalienable rights. it; is not many months since he was here j in the midst of us. three winter months liavc scarcely flown since he left us. he set out for his toil, and has l gone home to his rest. his labors are' over. no longer shall a man threaten t<v censure or expel him, to assassinate; him in the streets of the capital. south carolina shall no longer a hang-j man to fit a halter for that northern neck which she could not bend, and which never was broken. the tear* of his country are dropped on hia urn, and the silent muse of history shall write them in ineffaceable letters, one great man since washington, whom america had no cause to fear. to-day that venerable form lies at the capitol. all is silent. but his un dying soul, if wc might suppose it, is now hovering and lingering over his na tive state, to give its farewell, yet loath to depart—he whose character was loves of his country, of man, of freedom, of justice, of right, and of god. to-' morrow, his mortal dust starts oocel more to join the dear presence of his father and mother, to mingle his ashes, with their ashes, as their lives were, mingled, and their souls were united. j what shall w e say to him when he re-» turns? we shall say— wbrr* *urrr\’« ninisbf rower befcjrr u* waite power, he bar o* bu, ami like lbe that beared at etroke. when amtd e*» romtd it broke, stood ap mmam. nsv, whew at amm waa kiwi. ami n**»d lu« kke a flood e*me thtrk mad bfarfc, he owfad sdorr. aod like osjmmmmamtt, with hi* tiwa tbawder drovw the pkofan not tern or bk-dy fch borne'** iw battered ekreu, *~?rrel bat fro** w •gat* la (far defrtkx of r**«, clotted we bad bhb baa. n«r wich tea kill bad deod imj tea more teoored bead where amt rearaa ala!;-* that aaat atefl aew tfie. while god cia aarth sod ay, bat dafdte m b«re» m bicb. am* as ktmbad jo«. origin op mkcro slavery. mr. bancroft in the first volume o his history of the united states, give* j an account of the early traffic of euro peans in slaves. in the middle age; the venetians purchased white tnec and christians, and others, and sok 1 them to the saracens in sicily anc spain. in england, the anglo saxor nobility sold their servants as slaves u foreigners. the portuguese first im ported negro slaves from western africa into europe in 114*2. spaii soon engaged in the traffic, and negrr slaves abounded in some parts of thai kingdom. after america was dis covered, the indians of hispaniola wert imported into spain and made slaves. the spaniards visited the coast of nortli america and captured thousands of the indians, whom they transported intc in europe and the west indies. columbus himself enslaved five hun dred native americans, and sent their into spain, that they might be publicly sold at seville. the practice of selling north american indians into bondage continued lor nearly two centuries, negro slavery was first introduced intc america by spanish slaveholders, whe emigrated with their negroes. a royal edict of spain authorized negro slavery in america in 1503. king ferdinand himself sent fifty slaves to labor in the mines. in 1511, the direct traffic in slaves between africa and hispaniola was enjoined by a royal ordinance. las casas, who had seen the indians vanish away like dew before the cruel ties of the spaniards, suggested the ex pedient that the negroes, who alone could endure severe toils, might he still further employed. this was in 1518. the mistaken benevolence of las casas extended the slave trade which had been previously established. sir john hawkins was the first en glishman that engaged in the slave i trade. in 155*2 he transported a large cargo of africans to hispaniola. in 1557 another expedition was prepared, and queen elizabeth protected and shared in the traffic. hawkins in one of his expeditions, set fire to an african village, and out of eight thou sand inhabitants succeeded in seizing two hundred and sixty. james smith of boston, and thomas keyser, first brought upon the colonies the guilt of participating in the african slave trade. in l(if>s they imported a cargo of neg roes from africa. throughout massachusetts the cry of justice was raised against them as male factors and murderers the guilty men were committed for the offence, and the representatives of the people ordered the negroes to be restored to their na tive land at the public charge. at the latter period there were both indian and negro slaves in massachusetts. in i:>3j a dutch ship entered james river, and landed twenty negroes for sale. this is the epoch of the introduction of negro slavery into virginia. for many years the dutch were princi pally concerned in the slave trade in the market of virginia. reminiscences of a slave. the albany evening journal gives some account of an interesting work, entitled “life and opinions of julius melbourn; with sketches of the lives and characters of thomas jefferson, john quincy adams, john randolph, and several other eminent statesmen— edited by a late member of congress.” julius melbourn was the child of a color d mother and a white father, and was born to a state of slavery near raleigh, n. c. he became the prop-i erty of a philanthropic woman, from whom he received not only freedom and education, but at her death the bulk of! her property. the strangeness of the story leads the journal to distrust the accuracy, but the book is put forth un der the auspices of a respected citizen, whose character is a pledge for its gen eral accuracy. in the year 1815, hav ing occasion to corne north, melbourn received from mr pendledon, a letter, of introduction to mr. jefferson, by whom he was kindly and hospitably entertained. at mr. jefferson’s table he one day met chief justice marshall, william wirt, dr. samuel l. mitchell, of new york, samuel dexter, of bos ton, and elder lcland, of berkshire. mr. dexter having expressed an appre hension that slavery was destined to di vide the union, i lie following conversa tion ensued. it seems like just the conversation which might have hap pened. mr. jefferson’s opinions upon slavery arc well known. elder lcland/ of berkshire county, was a baptist clergyman, a famous democrat in his day, and distinguished in political fife, the more distinguished, as most of the clergymen of massachusetts were in the federal ranks. wc believe he once complimented mr. jefferson by sending him an enormous* cheese.—j whether elder leland said wbat b attributed to him, or whether the author, intends him to stand as the representa tive of the northern democracy, is doubtful, and rather immaterial. the slang he uttered is the slang of north ern locofocoiein to this very day. but to the conversation: “ob,*’ aaid mr. jefferson, dismiss your fears on that subject, slavery will soon be abolished iu all the states. “never,” ooid judge marshall, “•ev er by the voluntary consent of the glare holding sutea” i regret,” replied mr. jeffersoh, (hat go attentive an observer os you are. chief justice, should entertain such an opinion. i well know that at the time american independence was declared, no member, either north or south, expected that slavery would con tinue as long as it has.” but,” said dr. mitchell, i very much doubt whether, according to the laws of nature, the africans are no j formed to be subject to the caucasia? race. from my own observations, i am satiaticd that nature has formed ai essential difference between the tw< races, and much to the disadvantage o the negro race.*' here the learned doctor went into ai elaborate description of the brain which he said was the source of intel i lectual power. he spoke of the con nection of the brain with the ncrvoui system, and of hts discoveries in tht dissection of the heads of several ne groes which he had superintended, anc i pointed out the difference in the de velopment, size, and quality, between the brain of the negro and the white man, and insisted that the brain of the i former was not so capable of producing intellectual power as that of the latter, —so, said the doctor, if your position, that all men are born equal, is politi cally true, it is physically false. as regards personal rights,’' said j mr. jefferson, it seems to me most palpably absurd, that the individual rights of volition and locomotion should depend on the degree of intellectual power possessed by the individual. 1 should hardly be w illing to subscribe to the doctrine, that because the chic! justice has a stronger mind or a more capacious and better formed brain than i, therefore he has a right to make me his slave. but, doctor, continued i mr. jefferson, may not the diet and exercise, bodily and mentally, of a child, produce some effect on the size, shape and quality of the brain? i will suppose that my triend, mr. dexter, has two sons, the eldest of whom shall be six years old, as near alike as broth ers of the age of five and six years generally are. suppose the younger to be transferred to a rice plantation in south carolina, placed in the negro cabin, and brought up with the field slaves, associating only with them; and that the eider should be continued in mr. dexter’s family, associate with none but highly intellectual people; then let his education be completed by four years’ residence and tuition at cambridge. look at the heads and faces of these boys when they shall respectively arrive at mature age, and then let a phrenologist, dr. spurzlicim, if you please, pronounce upon the na tive intellectual pow er of each. do we not all know that the difference would be immense? but to do justice to the negro race, and to carry cut the experi ment fairly, we ought to suppose that the younger has married a caucasian slave; and let dr. mitchell dissect and compare the heads of the great-grand children of that issue with the great children of the issue of the elder bro ther. i ask, what would be the result of that experiment?” “i do not mean to advocate sla very,” said the chief justice; “i wish, from my soul, i wish it was abolished, but when we calculate on political re sults, we must look at society as it is. i do not found my opinion on the per petuity of slavery upon any natural in feriority of the negro. you arc well aware that nearly every man at the south, who possesses any influence at our elections, is a slaveholder and hence our legislators will be slavehold ers, or under their influence. probaly nine-tenths of them will be actual slave-! holders. you have then a pecuniary! influence to contend with, which you cannot overcome except by force.” “and i,” said mr. lcland, “say he ought not to be emancipated. ido not! predicate my opinion on the anatomical j discoveries of j )r. mitchell, but i think i the negroes are the children of ham, i and according to the bible, they are doomed to be the servants of servants, j besides, i am convinced, from my own observation, and i have had a pretty good opportunity to observe, for i was two years a missionary in the slave holding states for a massachusetts bap tist association, that the blacks are al together inferior to the whites. they, are, i assure you, low-minded, and beastly in their propensities. they de sire nothing but to eat, drink, fiddle, laugh, sleep, and dance. for my part, i regard them as a mongrel species,half man and half ape.” while mr. iceland was making these remarks, i could not avoid the reflec tion, that in this instance, as in many others, the visionary, though learned philosopher, and the fanatical zealot, arrived by an entirely different process of mental action to the same conclu sion. extremes frequently approach near each other. i was roused from the reverie occasioned by this train of thought, by mr. jefferson saying to mr. leiand, i am happy to have it in my power at this moment to prove to you and dr. mitchell, by ocular de monstration, that the experience of one of you and the theory of the other, has led you to erroneous conclusions. look at the young gentleman win sita oppo site to you. in the meantime,” con tinued be, mr. melbourne, allow me the pleasure of drinking a glass of w ine with you. “mr. melbourne,” added mr. jefferson, was born a slave, and is of african descent, though lie has considerable saxon blood in his veins. he was enfranchised by a pious and benevolent lady, and is now a man of wealth. he has by his own efforts and industry cultivated and well improved his mind—a mind which 1 religiously believe your missionary observations, friead leiand, find dr." mitchell’s dis sections to the contrary notwithstand ing, is of the first order of human in tellects.” 1 was much embarrassed at the compliment from so great e man mr. jefferson, end i presume appeared quite awkward. the whole company gazed at me with astonishment. the piercing eye of the chief justice* in particular, l perceived was fixed most wii.i.un c. nell. rsstussß. john dick, psivvsa. whole no.-xv. l intently upon me. mr. jefferson then i, related some part of my history, (for i had previously told him my stc*ry,) and i he animadverted with great severity on the treatment i had receivsd at natch- i ez, and upon the laws that legalised that treatment. while he was talking, i i perceived mr. vn irt’s countenance several times redden with apparent in dignation. it was now too late, and i took my leave; but as i was retiring, i mr. wirt follow«d me into the hall, ’i ai *d taking me by the hand, expressed •j a desire to continue his acquaintance i with me. “1 a mortified and ashamed,” said i< h e that this glorious country sustains such laws as those nndcr which you have suffered.” the next morning i proceeded on my journey. i the city op hew orleans. in 1717, the french government issued a charter to ‘the western company,’ granting the monopoly of the trade of louisiana for twenty-five years. bien ville was chosen governor, and the fol lowing year he selected the site of new orleans, ninety-two miles from the riv er’s mouth, and employed filly men in clearing the ground and erecting the necessary buildings. the next year the town was oveiflowed and abandoned. three years afterward it was reoccu pied; and in the place contained a population of tw o hundred. the transfer to spain in 17515, was thought very much to retard its pros perity. the misfortune was partly j remedied by the opening of the missis sippi to the states, some thirty years aller, and entirely by a transfer of louisiana to france, and immediately afterward to the united states in 1802. in 1810, the population was 24,552; and in 1840, 10*2,101. the census just taken shows a decrease since 1840, but it is thought to be very incorrect. so much for statistics. the new orleans levee is of wood, is two hundred feet wide, {he whole length of the city, and is certainly one of tho best in the united states. the wharfs for five miles are crowded with vessels from every foreign and domestic port— steamboats and flat bouts almost in numerable. the levee proper is occu pied by steam vessels. above and below the wooden levee the wharf is built in piers, at which sail vessels are arranged according to their size; j sloops, schooners, brigs, barks, and ships, with the most perfect regularity. the sail vessels lie from two to five i deep, those outside loading, and un j loading, by means of ways constructed over those between them and the shore. three thousand drays are said to be i employed in the removal of merchan dize of every description, and from every clime, with which the landing is crowded. during the year 1784, only sixty years since, an american vessel, hav ing eighty bales of cotton on board, was seized at liverpool, on the plea that so large an amount of cotton could not have been produced in the united states. the shipment in 1785, amoun ted to fourteen bales; in itsfi to six; in 1787, to one hundred and nine; i7bh three hundred and eighty-nine; 17hft, to eight hundred and forty-two. fifty years ago an ow carolina farmer having gathered his crop of five acres, was so alarmed at the yield of fifteen hales, that he exclaimed. ‘well well, i have done with oitfon; here is enough to make stockings for all the people in america. the cotton crop of the uni ted states for 1*44, was 2,1100,000 bales. ihe cultivation of the sugar cano commenced in this country in about the middle of the last century. at that time the jesuits of st. domingo sent some of the plants 4* a present to the jesuits of lmisiana, ncconipnnied by negroes well acquainted with its culti vation and with the process for manu facturing it into sugar. the experiment was made on a part of the ground now occupied by this city. rtwißi)* or genius.—ln the reign of james 1., hugh middleton, an in genious man, unuettook to bring a river of pure water above i|h miles out of its natural course for the supply of london. he persevered in this immense under taking, in spitej of every difficulty, till he at last accomplished that great good which he “had proposed, of bringing wholesome.water to every man’s door. “at the present fime the jntw liner, which was the work of hugh middle ton, supplies 211,01)0,000 of gajh ns of water every day; and though the ori ginal projector was rwtnrd btf lb r imtlrr taking, in consequence of the difficulty which he had of pr<»cunfjg proper sup port, such is now the general advantage of the benefit which he procured for his fellow-citizens, and so desirous are the people to possess that advantage, that a share in the new ktver com pany, which was at first sold at jiou, is now c 15,000. william lea, s clergyman, invented th‘e first stocking machine in i<"*b>, before that, none hut the rich wore stockings. dt made a pair of stock ing* by the frame before james f.; but there was such a prejudice against his idea, that he found n« encouragement. he went to france, where finding no better success, he died of a broken heart. nczntks —-needle* were first man. ufactured in england by a negro from spain during the reign of queen mary the bloody. at hia death the sit wsi lost, and not recovered again till loflii, in the reign of elizabeth, when elias growse, a german, according to tha chronicler stowe, taught the art to tha english. notices. no union with slaveholders! fourteenth anniversary of the american anti-slavery society. the fourteenth annual meeting off the american anti-slavery society, will he held in the broadway tabernacle, new york, on tuesday, the ninth i>day of may, at 10 o'clock, a. m the present a«aspect of public affairs in this country, should make this meeting one of more than usual importance and interest, the southern boundary of american slavery, which, since this society was formed, has been removed from the sabine to the nueces, it rx»wr |»o*i««kd by it* guardian* tv reinorr stiil further into the free lerntoiy of a sistci kspublie. wf imre |ntlj ration to expert a more pvvurtn termination to the two years war waged, at an enormous cxj>er.*e of blood and treasure, f.ir the sols purpose of extending the worst syst *m ol human bondage by con quest. whether the abolitionist* of the country can arrest the perpetration of the stupendous national crime, or not, it i*no lest tluir duty to make lh.j effort. ti»e la«t jtuhlic protest they may have the ojijiortunity to record agaiust it, should be earnest and unanimous. th n necessity of the moment should also remind us of ho.v much of the work is still tu h'dam, which this soei-ty, fmrt *cn yean ng resolved to <lo. since its formation, sla very ims not been abolished" in n single state ot the llilion. a million more of our coun trymen have been b >rn to the lot of slave.-*. ll.it that this society and lu auxiliaries have aroused, to a certain degree, a universal anti- slavcrv sentiment at the north, and have m ule th a topic one of absorbing interest throughout the country, is the best evidence of the wisdom of their measures, and should ik; the strongest incentive to still more strenu ous and self-denvmg toil. the old and tried friends of the cause, and those who have been but recently aroused to the necessity of the overthrow of the felon system of american slavery, are urged to make of this meeting a grand rally for free him. w.m. lloyd garrison, prcs't. v v i d, ll ill scmtorim. h. h. (.ay, s anti-seaveky .ueetixgs. jonathan wai.keh, from florida, and jolts s. jacobs, from north ('arolina, will address the puoplo at the following named places and times. will the friends of hu manity at those places make the necessary arrangement, and assist them from place to place fairport, saturday', march l ft egypt, .sunday, 10. penlidd, monday, 20. west walworth, tuesday, 21. corners, wednesday, 22. williamsom, thursdays 23. marion, friday, 21. palmyra, saturday, 25. rochester, sunday, 20. seneca falls, monday, 2/. syracuse, wednesday, 44 20. whitcsboro, tlmisday, 30. utica, friday, 31 little falls, saturday, april 1. m.iidvcun, sunday, 2. j;»h’i s-. jacobs, a s dfi emancipated slave front north carolina, proposes the following sori.-s of in.mtiugs, relying upon the influence (.f th?frisndb in each place to aid the cause along. westfield, m-iss. wednesday, april r wareestjr, thursday, g. providenco, it. 1., friday, newport, sat. a sun. ha 9. fall llivcr, mass. monday, 10. nantucket tues.a wed. 11 a 12. fairhaven, friday, m 11- new bedford, satuiday, lfl. cambridge, tuesday, 18. south boston, wednesday, 19. 11/p th? liberator will please copy. labors in rhode island westerly, r. 1., feb. 28, 1848; m -j. garrison dear sir :—at the request of a few tried friends of the slave, i still remain in this i busy .little state, delivering addresses, dis-i trihuting books, and calling attention to ‘•th” sum of all viilanies/' iu every proper manner. during the last two months, 1 have spoken' before nearly i*o different audiencas, th most 1 of which, w re large, and all of them very kind ami attentive. 1 am now in this active, pleasant corner of) the land of roger williams, expecting to 1 .••■tore this evening and although the sev enth i>iv baptists are now quite active, and •arc. holding a protracted meeting here, 1 have the prospect of a full attendance. our faith ful friend, charles perry, whose hospitality 1 am now enjoying, lias k en very active in giv ing notice, and in making preparation. the narrative of my life and sufferings in tho pnson-lhmise of liberty j is nearly' ready lor distribution, and wdl, 1 trust, yield a sufficient return to maintain myself and family firr some time longer, and enable met!i continue to plead the cause of tli: breth ren 1 left hriuad me,—-to contribute, to the i i meat of my feeble powers, in awakening this, people to a realizing sense of the falsity of lliterr position before the world, and their m:j quity m the sight of god yours, iu the cause of truth. ilenky watson. in* i:ice this liter was written, wc have revived a copy of the narrative of mr. wat son, written by iu use if, which adds another useful and interesting work to th growing literature of fugitive slaves. it is arcoui pjuured with wvural platan, which convey to ill,, mind, through the medium of the eye, a v.fitrf. vivid idea of th- cruelties of slavery to ttm body than any language can depict.— |pit it i« impossible, by any pictorial exhibi tion*, to portray th* stitl greater outrages |**r ift rated upon ilm spirit and iteud by tint in t ruaj pow?r. we trope this lull.* narrative wdl find a ready sale, a* mr. w*t«w,.i is do -rviig of sympathy and encourage maul, aud in truthfulness uiay bs u|wu, t»*low>, in all its particular*. it will led;* swell the tidt of public indignation afaiust ik; trim of all vi i!a*iie*. /a h-rataf tpcsishmest. —the select c-om tihttos on capital punishment in the senate of the stat of new york, kve tnade an i.jzntmotts report :n favor of its akihtion. t ry the pennsylvania senate le:ve pasv t': w the l:il i» p.>'*••< t tlia main' 1 *n the north star. >*li al. jmt- hochkstkk, april 7, 181*. editorial i’orrebfosdeffc’e. a, march 87a.— in i’rsttsburgh, steuben county, new york. the ride from penn van to this place, was mid. damp, disagreea ble and tedious. 'hie frost mining out <a the roads has almost rendered them impassi ble. ptir several miles we lave been in mud and mire up to the bubs of our wheel*. the though powerful, and fled, and brave, mule little head, hare h:ul heavy work to day. wu have been nearly seven hours travelling seventeen nulcs. <>n leu-hmg prittsburgh, tie were invited, in company with friends itemond and hatha way, to n/ake oar home at the hot;sc of jodge van valkonburgh, who, though, as we think to lx*, f ir from a consistent abolitionist, is, nercrth.-lcss. an independent, *j iriu d and hos pitable nian. we had little time to iesl after reaching here, the day hating been consumed in the struggle of getting from pcdii yan.— our first meeting was held in the congrega tional church, and considering the inclemency of tli s weather and ihe desjicrately bad state of the roads, it was well attended the meeting was opened by appointing judge yan vilkenbtirgh chairman, who called upon rev. mi. smith to offer prayer. j. c. hath away, f l. r-mond, and ourself, severally addressed the meeting, dwelling chiefly upon urn mans to be employed in advancing the sacred cause, and exposing the mean suhser vicney of northern uiiuistcrs and jhiliticians on the question. march 28.—we have just closed our sec ond and third anti-slavery meetings here— one this afternoon and one this evening. the weather has been vc-y unprnpitious through out but the desire to hear has defied the weather, and our meetings have been well attended. the caus'j looks hopeful. the people generally are of the right mould to receive and retain anti-slavery sentiments.— they are of tin puritanic stock, somewhat modified, and chastened by the liberality com mon to a newly-settled region. most of the influential families here arc originally from new england. once make such people abo litionists, and they w ill generally remain such. like the scotch, they are hard to convert; but when converted, never fall from grace.— our meetings have revived discussion, and produced an extended interest; and much good may result front them. at the close of this evening’s meeting, a notice was given for a meeting for the pur pose of forming a ladies’ anti-slavery sew ing circle. several ladies expressed their interest in this mode of effort, among whom we may mention the names of mrs. van hitson, miss rhoda smith, and miss mary yan yalkenburg. these ladies will un doubtedly do much towards perpetuating and extending the interest already created in i’rattsburgli. march 2'.)th and 30th.—in hath, the capital of steuben county, new york. it is a growing town, situated fin the conliocton, a quick-moving stream, uniting with the tioga a short distance alxive its confluence with the susquehanna. the scenery surrounding hath, like that of tnanv other parts of this country, is picturesque and beautiful. lofty hills surround it on all sides, and rival in beauty the far-famed dunkcld. the steep hill-sides ate richly covered from base to top with tall and finely proportioned firs, towering up one above another, at times wholly con cealing the cragged rocks, out of the midsl of which they rise. it is worth a journey to hath to enjoy the scenery. much more can be said of the natural beauty of the place than of the actual goodness of the people. it so happens that hath was settled, to a considera ble extent, by slaveholders. it is easy to sec here the fruits of slavery the old roots ol bitterness are still visible. there s here the same supercilious air to be seen on the partol whites towards colored persons, and the same display of degrading servlity on the part of a portion of the latter, which we have been accustomed to see in slave states. many ol the colored people here are the children ol persons formerly held as slaves in this lown, and some of the elder men and women have themselves b»on slaves, and of course u'ear the marks of slavery in their tempers and dispositions. wc happen here at a time when our presence is much needed, and when we can be of some service to out oppressed brethren and sisters of this place, by asserting and defending their rights. the town has just built a large and com modious brick school-house. they have done this by imposing a special tax on all taxable property, making no distinction on account ot the color of the jx.rsons owning it; and now that the school-house is completed, a petition has been put in circulation, and has been nu merously signed by the white inhabitants, de signed to exclude colored children from the school. \yc are here while this proposition i is before the peojile, and arc doing our best to defeat it. the monstrous injustice and inef fable meanness of the measure is so palpable, that one would think the community which would adopt it as destitute of shame as they are of a moral sense. they tax the pro[»ertp of the blaj't man equally with that of the white man, under the pretence of building a school-house for the common benefit of all, and when it is finished, the w hites combine to exclude the black unit's children from all participation tu the benefits which the school house w as intended to confer. a more fraud ulent and disgraceful transaction could not well be enacted. it is, however, due to truth, as well as the credit of hath, to say that some of its most wealthy and most distin guished c t.zens are utterly opposrd to this most flagitious measure, aud that there is strong reason to believe that it w ill be defeat ed. it is also highly creditable to the intelli gence of the colored people themselves that they stand unanimously opposed to this meas ure. i’alike certain advocates fur exclusive organizations amongst the colored people, they see that such separation must he injurious tu i all, both white and black. lan them art on uiu principle in church and state, and ame rican prejudice will be of short duration. the parlms here w ishing to exclude the colored chiljren from the district school, are nut ig norant of their cruelty aud injustice, and, as usual, they throw a veil over their motives, by saying that they ate willing to contribute lib erally fi't a colored winch shall be exj rluiirfly forcohrcd children. ttiiiwßmue •h«w «f geflereufy, we are gbd to <»fi d*** ant den-tr* any part of the colored here. all see in it the spirit of cwlo«4*»*fon. nxhara, a men ana re to entrap and keaf oted peoplfe hi tbeir present degraded eoodi* tion. tb«y cannot) as they ought not) trust and confide he the promises and preteoaies* o( men who can promise ao fairly and act so un justly. they hare taken the black man*a money to haild ao .decant school house, in the most eligible part of the town, professedly for the common good of all, and after it is com ph*ed,all nieely finished, it is said, this house is too nice for niggers/* and we will build them one mueb better soiled to their condi tion. infernal as this treatment is, it is but a counterpart of that which crcry where pursues tlic worried footseps of oor injured fellow countrymen. we are wronged and plundered io all directions injustice 'cruelty auh fraad scera to be our doom. oh. when shall this spirit cease to pursue and dog our footsteps when will the american people learn to treat as with common justice stares to tndtridu a.'* at the south, we are hut little better than slaves to romnmnity at the north. the com munity sport with oor rights with as much im punity, as if we formed no part of die family of mao. they tax ns, deny us the right of suffrage, take our money to build school houses, and spurn our children from their doors. prejudice pursues us in every lane of life. even our courts of uwr are against us. we are tried by our enemies. the judge, jury and counsellor are all undet the influence of a bittet prejudice against us. in such a state, justice isbm a name. march 31st.—still in hath. we have held four meetings, and another is called for to morrow evening and considering the urgent invitations and the general interest excited, es pecially with reference to excluding colored children from the new district school-house, retnond, hathaway and ourself have conclu ded to stay and hold another meeting. it will he an importa it point gained if we secure this right. let colored children be educated and grow up side by side with white children come up friends from unsophisticated and generous childhood together, and it will re quire a powerful agent to convext them intc enemies, and lead them to prey upon eacli other's rights and liberties. now is the timi for effort. the town is in considerable com motion. the enemies of justice, liberty anr equality are active, and using their utmost en deavore to blast armf destroy the force of ou arguments and appeals in behalf of cqua rights. the old cry of amalgamation is raiset 1 here with as much fierceness as it was tci years ago in new england. the people an j just about ten years behind the times on thi: subject. when about leaving the court house aftc the meeting this evening, wc were hailed b) a pro-slavery methodist episcopal priest bt the name of aldin, who said that the churcl had no more right to abolish slavery than i had to abolish whiggery, and that the mctho dist conference did right in assuming th< ground that they had no right, wish, or in tention to abolish slavery, it being an iiistitn tiou upheld by thg laws of the country. w< i asked him why he did not speak out hisviewi i in the public congregation when called upoi to do so. lie answered, because i wouh not put myself on a level with a niggrr up j on which wc walked off, feeling that the sell righteous ruffian was not a suitable person fo us to expend our breath upon. we shall however, give the public the benefit of in views, with suitable comments, to-morrov evening. he could speak and insult us ii i e 1 private, but could not condescend to utter word in regard to us in public, where hi sophistry could be exposed before all. f. d. new liseon, 0., march 22, *4b. dear dot glass :—here i am. i le! pittsburgh, after an effectual settlement inv business and domestic affairs, on monday the 13th inst., ou my western tour for th i north star. i passed through new brighton, sojournin with our kind mutual friends, elizabeth an milo a. townsend, stopping at darlington where i received kind attention fiom dr. fn j sier and hev. mr. scott. i have held meetings at palestine, colunr biana, salem, cool-spring, and new lisbor all in thi3 slate, which meetings were well and, in some cases, numerously attended. i am now, as you know, in the region c the anti-slavery bugle,” a well-conducte paper, under the editorial management of ou kind frieuds, benj. and elizabeth jones, shall leave this morning for hanover, thane shape my course south-westerly, touchin the most important places and settlements c the friends of humanity, both white an colored, until i reach cincinnati. i have ha a loud call to this city—l am in hopes it wi not be in vain. i have met thus far in my travels, wit courtesy and kindness, the friends tnvariabl keeping me clear of expense, and wherever stopped at hotels, i fared, as common sens would liave it, equally w ith the others. of all the places i have as yet visited i ohio, i find new lislron to be the most nnd< pro-slavery influence. there are, it is tru< some noble spirits here, such as the garre sons, and others whom 1 could name bu aside from these, there is an assumed mocl 1 aristocracy, who endeavor to mould ever thing to suit their own caprices; and such the iuflueoce they exert, that what is terrue the poor men,” or common men, in walkin along the streets, look and act the very slavi i for instance, a respectable looking strang 1 colored man, is assailed and assaulted on e' erv side as he passes through the streets,wrii all manner of low and disparaging cpithcti and those w ho do it, like spaniels fawnin upon their masters, look about towards tl doors of the stores and offices, to receive tl; grinning approbation of the hidden iutnau who, too proud to do the duty wo*k hunsel mis or oars is within the dors, and coounaot his miserable serfs witlmct. j so prevalent is this serfdom of prejudiei thst there is scarcely a child in the place ah to lisp a name, but it flifa 00l dinparagetnei against the colored stranger —even the chi drt*n of some who call themselves abolitior isis. this proves, that such persons are c crushed with the prevailing influence of tli i place, that they readily yield to its base max dates, rather than fat! victims to the odiui consequent upon a contrary course. 1 bet are, however, but few such, as the majority i .ii 1. an w** (a< the nbolttkmisis heir, especially ihs friends, ►are themselves wealthy, aw (aside from the* abolition) influential, and above the influenpte, is qoesßion. there is herr a sewing circle, hit few hi number, though great in acting and the good they effect. i expect much good in the slave and the ems* of bleeding humanity, to b* effected by the effects of these good ladies. god bless them! notwithstanding petty 1 prejudices, this is a great field for anti-sla very labor, and i had s very urge meeting, though there were several imp riant meetings in session, together with a night session of the court, upon uwery interesting case. of course this manifests a desire on the part of the people to scarth after anti-slavery truths. considering that this place-is the seat of the county court house, you may not wonder at the servility of tie lower classes, because where there is in this country the most law, there is the least liberty. columbiana is a place that promises much, only wanting more laborers; but salem, of which i can speak but little now, has raised its bead the highest above the pre-slavery io fluenecs of the state of any that i hare yet 1 visited. here, the people are free, and pre slavenr is evidently at the fmot instead of the head of society. this independence of the place may easily be accounted for, when it is considered that the bugle*’ has here planted its standaid, i benjamin and elizabeth jones, the fearless and unfiinchiug bearers. here, also, james j barnaby lives, and our indefatigable friend and co-laborer in the cause of the downtrod j den, samuel brooke. here, also, isaac and jane m. trescott, among the foremost and best of the fnends of humanity, reside. jane h. treacott is a most noble woman—a wo- j i man of the best and highest order of intel lect, the largest and most excellent heart. there are in new lisbon but few colored people —these very industrious and respecta ble. sly kind friend, isaac pleasance, who, together with his kind wife, tenders hospital ity to all the friends of freedom, is among the foremost her?. i opine, that the colored citizens of the west generally will take the north star. having now made a beginning, i shall, while on my tour, give you weekly advices of my w hereabouts. yours in the cause goff and humanity, m. it. d'. cheap postage. on our outside will be found a letter from the boston committed, on the subject of cheap postage. that letter will be read with attention by all interested (and who is not iu this matter. every one is interested in it. the letter shows that the revenue will not be injured by the reduction in the price of post age. this will be satisfactory to those who consider this a fit inode of raising a revenue. it is not so. it is a tax on knowledge. it would be as rational to raise the means of supporting a government, by levying a tax on every one who loams to read, or write, or cypher, increasing the tax with his increasing acquirements. a high rate of postage is a great barrier to the spread of intelligence and of friendly sentiment throughout the land. if the post-olfiee pays its own expenses, nothing more should be expected or desired of il. in england, the introduction of the penny rate of postage hns added incalculably to the happiness and intelligence of the people. petitions arc in circulation,asking congress to introduce the two-cent system of postage. it is to he hoped that congress will have the wisdom to grant the request. a petition lies for signature at the arcade, in this city. what is there to prevent its being signed by every citizen of rochester? here is a means by which the nation may acquire what is more useful, and substantial, and inestimably more valuable than glory—the glory of a suc cessful mexican war, which, after all, is no glory, but disgrace. up, and be doing now j. d. it~p mr. palfrey lias introduced the follow ing resolution it the house of representatives. notice of debate being given (of course) it jies over under the rule. resolved, that the president be requested to communicate to this house, if not incon sistent with the public interest, conies of in structions issued from the stale department tovvm. hogan, employed'by this govern ment in the island of llayti in the year 1844 and 1545; also copies of any correspondence between the department of state and said hogan, during and subsequent to the time of his said mission. the following is mr. tuck’s resolution, which also lies over: whereas, the laws ef the united states now permit the collection of debts by the extent of executions upon persons held as slaves, and spies have been made of slaves by virtue of such laws; therefore, resolved, that the committee on the ju diciary be directed to report a bill to prohibit the sale of persons held as slaves, on any pre cept in favor of the united states. new york anti slavery society. a special meeting of the executive com mittee will be held at lite anti-slavery office, 25, ruftalo street, on tuesday evening, april 18th, at 7 o’clock precisely. it is con fidently expected, that every member will be present. the emergency calls for it. w. c. nell, rec. sec. anti-slavery meetings. —c. l. re mold and j. c. hathaway, agents of the western new york anti-slavery society, will hold meetings as follows: millport, sat. sund. april 8& 9. ittaica, mood. tues. 10 11. springport, thure. yn* 13 14. io 3 frederick dot glass will attend the above meetings. plllic doc chests. hon. john g. pal frey, will please accept our thanks for the message from the president of the united states, and accompanying documents hon. josh. r. ginotxns, for a copy of mr. root's speech on indemnity and hon. f.g. reid, of the new york assembly, lor a copy of the report of the select committee appointed to inquire into the condition and operation of the normal school. to coiuuapondentb. e. d. k., rranlftdd, o.—yoar noarj was sub ject to some discount. yam are credited to no. *6. <lk.. adrian, m>c*~_lrato4wly srinow tedded. r. k. w., b««iaa—mar. ?4 received. thanks. j. c. h. —lfflrr of 24* b ah. received, sad sob* srribeis ail registered. notices wen; nut in time for luy uamii.tr. m iftmununuatioits. aiexk ax slavery, b» tfrcu mpm tke sun+nmmf p>jmiatxm *f urn ii 11 a 1 »l»nk<s pnwpr \m* irwimnranl onhr i la dr tract fra* thr tuppinr** of thr jirrwai* afcu an rtd jrrt to it, ims tu tl nntrr thr e ,wj qmlitir* of that whojwmrm it. thr wbt.tr hmury of human natnrr will jwtify me in mving, that aorh m thr trn-' ilmry of pw»«r ua thr oac hand, a«l •iarcrtr an thr oth rt.—dr. tkvuu c**f*r, s. c. shttrry prey* spun thr mj vitals of, and is prr-' jirhrial la, ail the stair# uj ahicb it cxtsu.—jl 4mm. if there could be any works of rupemrofa tion in the intwlitetj cause, it v|oah! cer tainly be in arguing the effects of such a sys tem as american slavsry upon .the moral condition of the slavckokkng population at the 1 south, to any observer or reader of southern character, or its edicts upon theur pecuniary interest, to any one capable of making a com* i parison between the wealth and population of the respective sections. we need but look at the daily records of the south, from trias to the federal city, and they too plainly indicate what is the effect of the peculiar institution” upon the morals of the south, by the frequent occurrence of 1 crimes, of rencontres, of duels and assassina tions, in all parts of the community, from the most obscure haunts of the refuse ef society, to the legislative councils of the nation— amongst the most favored 90ns of the 44 chi valrous south the press of the country is now heralding a disgraceful scene that oc curred between messrs. l£arralson,of georgia, and jones, of tennessee, in the house of representatives, the post week. both of these gentlemen” are slaveholders. in deed, so frequent are these occurrences, that 1 the papers at the south lament the insecu rity of human life, and the impotency of law. and could human life he other than inse cure, when the law affords no protection to the lives of one-tliird of its inhabitants, allowing the master to destioy the limb or life of his slaves in the administering of 44 moderate 1 correction tan the child be nursed and daily exercised in tyrannizing over one class of human beings, without disregarding the lives of the other f it may be said that the- laws in most of the slave states expressly protect the lives of slaves but this is only a seeming protection for in all the slave,as in some of the so-called free states, the evidence of colored persons (negroes and mulattocs) is inadmissible when white persons are parties to tbo case crcause. throughout the w hole south, front maryland to the rio grande, any white assassin may plunge a daggerin the heart of the most re spectable colored citizen, in tho presence of any number of colored persons of the same 'respectability, and their combined evidence will be insufficient to cause the issuing of a magistrate's warrant for the arrest of the cul prit. this same diabolical law exists i washington, the capital of the nation, andir ohio and several other miscalled free states, its express terms are, “that no indian, ne gro, or mulatto’b word shall be taken ir evidence against a christian white person" —a law that would disgrace an algerine pirate's i vessel. the result of the privilege of exercising such unrestrained power and passion over the lives and persons of their 44 <labels,” the unlimited power of masters over their female !-laves, is to create a recklessness of human life, a general disregard of morality, and the giving vent to violenco and licentiousness, producing murders, duels and rapine, con j verting the whole region into one gulf ol wholesale jxdlution and illegitimacy. if w e look back to the settlement of the several colonies, that compose the states ol this confederacy, their position, population, resources and commercial advantages at the time of tlie formation of the federal union, we must be forcibly impressed with thf truthfulness of the expression of presidcnl i madison, that slavery had preyed upon the vitals of every state in which it exists, i virginia in 1790 had a population ol 748,308 souls; whilst new york had 340,- 110: virginia a surface embracing 70,00( square miles new york a surface embracing 45,059 square miles. the former (va.) was more favored by the hand of nature, bj 'the mother country, when a colony, and bj the federal gqvernment as a state and yetir fifty years the population of new york hac increased from one half to double that of ir ginia, viz: new york, in 1840, 2,428,921 virginia, 1,239,797 the estimated value of property in new yotu, $651,000,000, in 1839. the estimated value of property iu virginia, $212,000,000, in 1838. even mong unfavorable results to thf southern or slaveholding states, may be ar rived at by comparing verdant maryland with sterile, blue, and frigid massachusetts; keu tucky, upon which the aoft mellow sun" smiles, with ohio, whose hardy features arc lit up by the 44 aurora borealis.” now, w hat is the cause of this disparity ol wealth end population, in spite of superioi natural advantages, and national favor i tb< answer is, slavery. in a community where the working popu lation are freemen, receiving a stipulated com pensation for their labor, or cultivating thcii owi farms, they create a market for the mail ufacturer and the merchant, and effort employment to the doctor, lawyer and me chauic. let ns suppose the foundation of a settle i ment by 500 freemen and their families, upot 1 50,000 acres of land, equally divided betweet 100 proprietors, (500 acres each,) the other being their free laborers; these would ral l together a number of carpenters and mason to build comfortable houses these, with tin others, would create a market fur the grocer dry goods and other merchants; and all takei together, would afford employment fee th< 1 minister, schoolmaster, lawyer and doctor thus concentrating a population, and cor.se i quently enhancing the value of the land.— let us estimate this land at 10 dollars pe acre at the commencement, and at the expire tkm of ten years, 60 dollars per acre, the dif fereuce in value of lands equi-diatant (tun cincinnati, in kentucky and ohio; this wool jdange the value of the 50,000 acres, at ill per acre, from $500,000 to 60,000 acres a $oo per sera—s3,ooo,os% now jet us suppose toe same dumber e j proprietors,owning the same number of acres at the same value, $lo ger acre, with 400 slaves an fcborew, with than fem*l« s and children. the unrequited laborer* would hare no huuorsbls incentive to industry they would impoverish instead of improving the land instead of firing employment to those dial the community of freemen would rail to gether, they would he fed on the coarser pro ducts of the land, clothed, if clothed at all, in the coarsest domestics, sheltered under the most rude and miserable huts, fsrbid an ae quaintance with the lawyer and the school master, the land would decrease instead of increasing in value; and, perudventure, the wolf and deer would at the expiration of ten years graze on the spot once marked with ripening corn. but let us value their lantf at firsf price, $500,000; let us 4dd to their 4(h) men, 3(h) women, 600 children, and their iucrcasc in ten years, 700 more, making iu all 2,000 per sons, atan average value of $3o0 —$600,000, and compare the wealth of the respective proprietors in land and slaves: total value of lands of free company, $3,000,000 tot'll value of lands and slaves of slave company, 1,100,000 balance in favor of free co. 1,900,001 an item of pecuniary consideration, es tablishing the fact that right is at all times expedient, duty and interest inseparably con uected together. j. c. 11. brooklyn, march 20. 1848. colored ministers. the last number of the ram's horn, pub lishes an excellent letter from its hartford correspondent, augustus washington, con taining many valuable suggestions, conferring credit alike upon the head and of its au thor. but the following tribute to a dis tinguished colored clergyman, will be gratify i ing to many readers-of the north star and af ford opportunity for remarks which i hope will not prove out of place the rev. mr. pennington, of the fifth congregational church, has accepted a sec ond call from the first colored presbyterian church of your city, and will leave here as soon as an ecclesiastical council of the associa turn shall have accepted his resignation. i may be selfish, vet i cannot but regret exceed- i ingly that ho should feel it his duty to leave i this people, whose pastor he has been for the i ins* eight years. he has ever secured the confidence "and respect of the whole communi ty r and has had one of the most oiderly, re spectable, and intelligent audiences that 1 ev lor knew. lie-is a sound theologian, a good self-inadc scholar, and a gentleman: aside from pastoral duties, actively engaged, heart and hand, to temperance, education, anti-sla very, and all the rclwrmsthat tend to improve refine and elevate society, lie is one ot th« ablest men we have in the country, and per haps lvas never been properly appreciated by ui till now. he w ill leave us with the esteen and regret of all the good, and the respect am admiration of those even who seldom nppre ciate virtue and moral worth. we bid bin i god speed, lie cannot but do good whereve i} he goes. it is indeed, a cheering sign of the times that there can be found colored ministers win i 1 believe it to be a part of their appropriati l sphere, to impress upon their congregation i the 44 ways and means of elevation;” fo j strange as it may seem to some, it is neverthe less true, that a large number of colored cler i gymen, deacons and lay members have labor cd under the erroneous and fatal impression that a study of the arts and sciene >s necessa rily contributes to a decline of religious knowledge, and have therefore thought they were doing god service, when frowning down any attempt at mental improvement in theii f (lock, except what may happen to sqr.art with their sectarian dogmas, as if by a familial i acquaintance w ith the different departments o f science, which is but truth reduced to a system their reverence would become cold for hie s v. ho is the author of all truth; forgetting that towards whatever branch of knowledge we direct our researches we may, if sodispos t cd, make every kind pay its contribution tc the oracles of god. j religion teaches us to recognize cod in al f things. every moment of our lives we are it .1 the tnnplc of the creator for the whole ere ation is that temple—the mountains that lifl their heads above the clouds—the boundless ocean, the roar of whose waves chant from r 1 shore to shore—the countless tribes of plants r and animals, all are manifestations of the pow i er, and display the greatness of that being 1 who measures the waters of the universe ir the hollow of his hand, who weighs tin j mountains in scales and the hills in a balance it lias been my lot to listen, from earl) childhood, to colored c lergymen of variorn r sects and denominations and witli sorrow dr 111 record the fact that in but a minority ,1 eases have they exhibited the capability at al i worthy of their high calling as teachers.— the reroiniscense of the many delinquencies apparent at times,-even to the school childrci i' among the congregation, are sufficient to cx 1 cits a tear of deep regret in view of the un profitable contract between pastor and people i a few years since, the colored citizens ch boston, regretting that those among them as f piring to lead in religious matters did no r! evince the proper degree of zeal for intellect t ual improvement adopted the following resolu tions resolved, that the apathy manifested bt our colored ininbtera of the gospel, in r«*fer enee to the promulgation of the arts and amen r j ccs among us as a people, tend* more to re tard out intellectual emancipation, than tin l influence of any date of persons, except tin slaveholders. resolved, that it is the duty of our peopl< to gree their support to such ministers of tic gospel, as show proof of the best inu-llectua j and spiritual cultivation. i i hi* an axiom, that a minister exerts a grea influence over his people, either for good o evil. }j-t hut those, to whom the color® 1 j people of the different stales give their patron s age, either go before or with the people, i t matters [«rtaiaing to their elevation in society end we shall soon rejoice in a better state r things. then will be realized the bcauttfi a language of the psalmist— our son* will b t as plant* grown up in their youth, am! ot daughter* as corner stones, polished alter th similitude of a palace.” let that daw* of u dividual# duly appreciate tl* respoustbilit j vested is them, and a chord wiq w siruc r which will vibrate thtough the.nation. -1 the names of some honorable except** now occur—clergymen stationed in dues an a towns, who have dona thetr duty, by prret] j and nrompfr, the general elevation of the brethren; hat in my native city, boston, in t ptosoumt enee deserve special mention. t many yearn ago, the rev. theaue paul pr< f sided over a large congregation. he wi j possessed of fine tafeaia htmself, enriched h 1 active intercourse with, and fner.dsbip ef, celebrated individuals, in eml and literary re lations, both at hems and in england. i ran remember among uis merits, the efforts origi nated and promoted by him fer the education and welfare of those with whom his fortune* were allied. saying this is but rendering justice to a good man sow m hw grave. at a later day. john t. raymond occupied rh« same pulpit, and proudly do i testify to one fcict conspicuous in his ministry. education, anti-slavery and temperance, always re ceived from him deported attention. lertsm* on the various reforms were cordially solicited to address hw ehorch, in which exercises he participated, w ith credit to himself and satis faction to others. he believed and taught that 44 man educated will ever be better than when igiorant. every reasonable eieaturrr should be capable of considering and reflect ing on what relates to himself aid the sociaf rights of his fellow men.” this dark hour is passing away, f’olamf men and women (especially the younger portion) are looking forward, aiming toeipamf their minds,and they will not be satisfied wit is anything abort of what tends to 44 improve, elevate and refine.’’ while colored churches do exis4, for hu manity's sake, let the pulpit lie filled by men to whom the aspiring mind ran look up t«v with confidence. even this is an advance step, and w ill better prepare all for the advent of a brighter day. 1 know of no language better adapted to* impress this subject upon colored clcrgymon and their supporters, than the follow ing ex tract from i xml broughanl on popular educa tion let no one be afraid of the bulk cf community becoming too accomplished well educated, and even well versed in all th« sciences they assuredly may become, and the worst consequences that can follow to tht-ir superiors, will be, that to deserve being called their betters, they too must devote themselves more to the pursuits of solid and refined learu ing.”—w. c. m. colored churches. my dear friend and brother from tho hands of american slavery :—1 congratulate you in the philanthropic enterprise in w hich you are engaged. 1 hail you as a fellow laborer in the cause of freedom for time millions of our fellow-men, who are still toil ing und .t the slave-driver's lash, on the american soil, without wages. but while wo are battling against chattel slavery in this bated land of professed liberty, 1 think we owe it to ourselves and to our posterity” to do all we can to break down the ungodly pre judice and sectarianism which prevail to an alarming extent, and which would, if it were possible, shut the people of color out of heav en itself. 1 am happy to see that you have taken up the institution of colored churches, w hic h, i presume, will be a very unwelcome din trine among the pro-slavery white churches of tho da v, as well as among a large class of the colored. but i think we must have chanty, and make some allowance, for the latter neeus to be pitied rather than rebuked. to break down these churches would stop a large num ber of them from preaching what they call the gospel. but 1 shall not now attempt to infringe upon the subject by giving my ow»> views with regard to it for you have most philosophically spoken my mind, and pcrliaj s more felly than 1 could have done myself, and 1 only write this by way of giving response to your sentim 'tits. i consul :r this to lie one of the most vital questions connected w ith our future destiny: it stands directly in the way of our moral, re ligious and intellectual improvement, and a* such we are hound to expose it. we should contend for the natural equality of the human family, without regard to color or sect. i see un more use in having a colored church exclusively, than having a colored heaven and a colored god. 1 regard prejudice to be just as w icked iu a colored person as in a wliite oue. where is the dillerencc f —and who are they that stand holding up the enm plexionary and sectarian lines it is tho proud, aristocratic clergymen among the pro slavery whiti-s. they arc generally pleased to encourage colored schools and colored churches. and, on the other hand, we find among ourselves fanatical, superstitious, and ignorant leaders, preaching up the same doctrine.— from such quarters wo may expect to meet the strongest opposition to this important branch of reform. but i have no fears of not succeeding, sooner or later, believing that 44 god will speed the right.” sir, lam with you onlhis question. you are pulling on the right strings pull away, and i will help you. ix:t us make a long pull, a strong pull, and a poll altogether.”— i.ct us pull until we pull down ignorance, prejudice, sectarianism, superstition, colored schools, colored churches, and american sla very, tlil- mother of all these abominations.— tiieu wc shall have justice, humanity and liberty. ever true to the cause of suffering bur mamty, henry 8188. boston, march 25, 1348. mr. root on indemnity. there are a few men in the senate who do 1 not hesitate to plain things of preside! t polk and the mexican war. mr. root is oue of these. he says, on the subject of the mexican iudeinuity— i 44 indemnity for the past! where are we l to get indemnity fur the hundred billions of ,dollar* squandered in thi* accursed war? where are wc u» get indemnity cur the thou sand* of lives of our citizens, which have been sacrificed in thi* war will uus new acquisition of territory indemnify us for all i this? it may lie satisfactory to mr. polk—it may be satisfactory to a majority on this floor i but w here shall the widow look for her in demnity w litre shall the mother, made childless by thi* war, look for her uidcmuity where shall the orphan children, whose fathers have fallen in battle, or by disease in that distant land, look ire their indemnity can any of these new acquisition* under tho* treaty, indemnify them 1 oh, sir, tlrese am j things of which our government seem* to lose i sight, ludetuuity for tho past! what kind of indemnity can he obtained for the past? r dors seem to me, sir, that in all tbi* bloody business, tho men who hsve hern the most lieliw in it. have only regarded this war in ►1 rehttio* to the effect it is hkely to have on (future elections; and they bnve not oneo thought bow it will he regard**! by the judge of all. aud urlien 1 think of these things, i ‘.thank tor gun—humbly thank him, that he gave me the nerve and the firmness to stand up here* in my place, and say, “no” first, “no” last, and “no” at all times, on every measure designed for the prosecution of this accursed war. and, sir, i rejoice that, when i approach the last agony of earth, whatever other guilt may press me down, none of the victims of this war can meet me, and say— let my fate sil heavy on thy soul tomorrow thi* true, but not all the truth. indem nity who ever think* of giving indemnity to a robber on the highway 1 instead of the 1 hill’d state* requiring indemnity of mexico, the mexican people have a hcavv demand against premd.-nt polk and the nation, of more than they will ever be able to pay, for the devastation, destruction, and misery which have b°en carried into their territory. it is by no mean* a new discovery, however, thi* of making a people pay for being injured. it i* a very old doctrine; so old, indeed, that many not unreasonable persons* hav e imagined it to be worn out and obsolete. hut it would *ectn otherwise.—j. n. mr. mbbhtkr’fi sj»kk< 11. i have just read mr. webster** speech on the i/o.ui hill, delivered in the senate cham ber, march *23d. this great speech,” the editor of the tribune calls it. great it tnay be, but it is withal a rich sjiociincn of the nnti'/vr not of the distant past, of greek or homan story, n«*r yet of the day* of joust and tournament. no, it docs not belong to the rhivalric age there is nothing of that in it. hut yet we are reminded of days gone by, when it would have l>een in lime, when it might have prevented, perhaps, much mis chief. surely, the honorable senator has heard of gian hills and increasing* of regu lar and volunteer forces indore this; he has known all alnmt the folly and wickedness of this war for the acquisition of more territory, of a wider area of freedom.” where has he been i—whv 1 —whv has not the oracle spoken why, daniel lias come to judgment 100 lnt< the steed is stolen *tis of no us? to try to shut the door nmr. it's a pity, too, he should have been so easily discouraged. he says he made efforts, hv applying to distinguished gentlemen, before texas was annexed, to devise a plan to warn the people the danger, hut met with no encourage ment. what of that sueli a man should load the van—should he the standard-bearer and if daniel webster had then, and through every step of this whole scheme for ten years past, raised ins voi-e boldly against it, none can tell what his influence m ght have ef fected—how much evil might have been pre vented. hut he has been a utile dilatory in this matter. 1 don’t know much f ins private habits; hut if they are like his senatorial ones, it is to lx: feared that the mansfield farm is not ploughed and planted in time, the crops not cared for in season that his dinner must be cold (possibly eaten up) before he gets to the table in shoit, that he is always too late. it must certainly be otherwise in the supreme court, for he gels agooj deal of business, and spends considerable time there during the session of congress and men are not apt to trust their business even to a great man who is not prompt in earing lor it. however, the .-biggish lion has shaken his mane, and made ins voice heard, though not a very kingly roar after all, but still a respeeta able noise, that might possibly have driven the wolves from the carcase, had ft been made before they had devoured it. but we may expect more front the same source for mr. \v ebstrr speaks as though the matter must be looked to. perhaps lie may make another speech after the treaty is ratified, money paid, mexican senators on the floor, &c., &c., and tell us all aliout it, how lie wanted to rouse public attention, and all that. meanwhile, let everyone read this speech, and mark how well the most important parts of it would have applied to times gone by— from *3s to "is. g. h. s. sim'.inuma.n, mass. march, 1848. frieno douglass:— o.i sunday evening the 12th inst., henry if. garnet, delivered a lecture at the town hall, on the subject of the past and pres .nit condition, and the fu ture destiny of the colored race.” he was favored with a respectable, intelligent and at tentive audience. his lectuie was a rich pro •duction of great effort and research. hv his sound reasoning, substantiated by facts and testimonies, he w holly disposed of the igno rant and foolish idea, that ihc white man is mentally superior to the colored man, in all cases and under all circumstances.” lie il lustrated the fact, by quotations from herodo tus, regarding the egyptians who where col ored and had woolly hair, and proved to a de monstration, that the anglo .saxons, borrow ed their arts, sciences, ac., from that race, lie referred to solomon's beautiful egyptian bride and his song of devotion dedicated to lnsqueen. lie instanced from ancient history, iho names of terence, cyprian, hannibal, ac.; andatoussaint j/ouvcrture, ogee, dos saline, christoph, dumas, plaeide, of mod ern date. the lecturer painted in glowing terms, the progress of the colored race, con sidi ring x heir present oppressed condition, their great exertions and perseverance notwithstand ing the countless disadvantages and depriva tions to which they are subjected, and urged them to press onward and upward, to regain that point of human greatness —that high emi nence, that has so distinguished and rendered the memory of those names illustrious. he sjntke with much power and effect, of the 4*arly history of slavery in the railed states; 4>f the landing of the 101 puritans on dreary plymouth rock,at the name perils! when a dutch vessel landed ‘2o africans at jamestown. iiat an infamous coincidence v\ hat dis cordant sounds the uotex of liberty and the groans of slavery simultaneously pealing on the air. ht: tore ofi'the hellish inask of the oilomzation society; exposed its intrigues, and proved ao as to convince even mr. clay, if lie would but acknowledge the right of justice and the force of reason, that it is moral ly impo*sib!e for a society with principles so corrupt ever to succeed. he pictured the hor rid mean* by which our progenitors had been stolen from their fatherland, and colonized in to this country the absurdity to attempt to colonize us back again to africa. “if this is good for the colored man, is it not equally *o for the white man 1 the people of tins country “of different natures, marvclouslly mixed,” all would have to swell the tide of colonization. what a chaos 1 the coloni zation scheme, is nothing more nor let* than prejudice founded on injustice *nd porpetu irtt d by folly,” am! hence it cannot vuccctd. 41 there are tome of on? people/ 4 said the lecturer, 41 who err out they hate do country —they own no home.” twn he deanmvred j an empty declamation. thla is out county an much a* it u* that of any other race, both by i birth and adoption; am) it ia a sickening com* plaint, that sometime* come a ringing in j our car*, we hate no country—wc own no home let us now rue by what moral means we may throw off this spirit of des pondency, and to a man. as far as it our power, ajfitate agitate! agitate until the monster slavery, is for ever annihilated, and our rights and immunities are guaranteed to us as citraensof this republic.” he also repu diated the party feuds and disnentions. too common arming out people said that some men have pneuituted good talents for the pur pose of kindling the fire of discord. some who oflh.it" at tha temple, said to be dedica ted to trod, art: idolaters to sectarianism and some too, would draw a line of blood distinc tion and form factions ujhjii tbe shallow basis i of complexion. he was glad to know that the number of i hi* class is small; and small as it is, he prayed th3t we may soon be able to write a cypher in its place. ilia remarks seem ed to reach a rev. sir, who took from them inopportune issue, and he hit w hat he aimed at—nothing.” i understood from mr. garnet, that it was his intention to publish bis lecture soon. i trust he rn iv. it is replete with facts and testimonies, of sterling worth, calculated to prove of inestimable benefit to the cause and advancement of humanity. he closed his dis course with the expression of a bright hope of the future destiny of the colored rare. what f,‘l! from the lip*of this eloquent orator, was enough to arouse and animate everyone—man and woman, to great exertions and action, to reach that pinnacle of human excellence w ait ing in store for us. great men have come out of egypt. ethiopia shall yet stretch forth her hands, and produce men on earth famous itv the grave illustrious; in the heavens immortal!” youis for humanity, c. e. setii. is ignorance bliss th :tc arc those w hom it is impossible to consider other than the friends of humanity— of all men, colored as well as white, who are nevertheless, occasionally guilty of the ex pression of what appears exceedingly like pro-slavery sentiment in its most insidious and worst form. they are no doubt led to this by the peculiar views which they advocate, and the opinions they hold in reference to other evils nearly akin to slavery. a corre spondent of young america, writing from est florida, lias the following: 1 have had ample opjmirtunities of judging impartially between the relative ihinrnts of w ages and liatlel slaveiv in mv observa tions at the south, and, as humiliating as the confession may appear, i would much prefer f 'hsutel slavery here, to ages slavery in new \ork. isay this honestly, sincerely. '1 he glorious boon of nominal liberty, to which the northern slave attaches such iuqiortaucr, (to us:: a homely illustration,) i can only liken to a pnr/c hors?, eating shavings through green spectacles, and cheating himself into the belief that he is grazing in green pasture lields. the condition of the chattel is far less degrading, lie is generally well fed, and better el allied than the mass of wages slaves in new york. true, his lot is cruel, harsh, severe. rut with him, ignorance is bliss,” want and hunger are not whispering in his heart, steal, steal/ and no prison doors are yawning to receive him when stern neces sity forces such an alternative. 1 was considerably in doubt, on reading this extract, whether i had read correctly; and it was not until having read it ihrce several times, that 1 was fully persuaded thir.'i was no mistake. rut, after all, does the writer mean what he says? 44 1 would much prefer wages slavery here to chattel slavery in new york. the condition of the chattel is fai less degrading. lie is generally well fed. true, his lot is erne], harsh, severe. but with him ignorance is bliss.’ there are not a few who will question the accuracy of some of these statements and no wonder. (hi, they must have been written at random, and cannot be understood to express the sen timents of the w riter. the w hole passage is so absurd and unaccountable, that it seems impossible to argue the ca>e. lie would pre f r chattel slavery in florida to wages slavery in new ork and why recause the chattel slave is generally well fed,” and with him ignorance is bli.>s most cogent reasons, certainly, and especially cogent, if a man were a horse, which the writer seems rather too apt to forget that he is not. does the w riter desire to elevate man yes; he would till his lielly, and make him fat and sleek.” men boast of their superiority to the brute creation, in their jiossession of know ledge, and some have imagined that they boasted rightly; but they must surely have been mistaken for all that they need care about, according to this writer, is to be well fil'd, and live in tbe bliss of ignorance. does not the ox that is fed lor the slaughter enjoy tbe same bliss yes and greater bliss, for the ox lias no higher aspirations. it is better, i then, to be a slave than a man lietter, also to be an ox than a slave oh, monstrous!* what can be meant by the assertion that the 1 “condition of the chattel is far less degrad ing than that of the free laborer, it is utterly impossible to imagine. slavery lias been generally considered to lx' t|, e u ,ir»t of all evils under w hich humanity cau suffer. is not the slave iu west florida, a* else where, kept in ignorance, degraded into a brute—a mere ffring automaton, that is not permitted in awjfjfagree to think or act for himself? is lie not subject to be bought, and sold, and beat, at the whim or caprice ef his* master’ are not all his hopes, and affec-' lions, and expectations, liable to be blasted at any moment, at the will of another yes he is all this and yet, says the writer of this letur, lus condition is f.ir less degrading” than that of the wages slave. what, theu, i must be the condition that is more degrading! m here shall we look for the miserable beings! w ho arc us victims» can w e conceive of any j deeper degradation than this» have we ever wen or read of it» can this be said of thr 1 intelligent and reading working man of new 1 england* his condition is sometimes hard! motigh. it is not needful fo deny, that lie las bis cares, and anxieties, and diffirultii-s rut has he not also his home, and his family j md his friends, and the produce of his own abor, and the menas of acquiring knowledge, md the vigorous incentive of hope, and a nanly reliance on his own exertions, and is »e not a fru max’ do we find it among he free labortt# of tbe qjd wpikj? ask any one of them, evqa the amt virtrm tad destitute, whether he woo id not rather be a *la»e, to be bought, and beat, mad branded, and kept fat and aleck," fike a valuable 1 hone, than a free mao la hie earuowtaacee, aad he would answer, with a frown of ltadig nation. am i not a naan i” if the writer of um letter w ould indeed prefer the condi tion of a chattel, eves when well led, and in the bliss of ignorance, to that of the mtdtigem and enter pricing freeman, mean indeed must be his spirit— fit for a dare. here is another expresewe of setrtim'trt oe this subject, from the salem (ohio,) home stead journal. speaking of the abolitionists, the w riter say* their sympathies extend only to the colored bondtnan, and even with him they labor only to dimroy the relationship of master and slave. they seek nothing mure than to loose him from his prewnt taskmaster, with out ever preparing or devising ways and means for hts future well-being, or securing him from the avaricious chicanery and fraud of the commercial chatll driver. and tins is the great boon fur which our disunion friends arc moving heaven and earth to ob tain for the black slave." there are here but three sentences; and in these thr e santen jjs there are t nes misrepre sentations. first, that the sympathies of abolitionists extend only to the colored bond man. this is so palpably untrue, in refer ence to the sentiments of abolitionists, whose philanthropy is man-wide and world-wide, that it requires not a word of commentary, but is its own b.-st refutation. second, where does this w riter learn, that abolitionists seek nothing more than to loose l!ie bond man from his present taskmaster i may be mistaken, but have been in the habit of supposing, from w hat i know and liave read of the sentiments of abolitionists, that they sought freedom for the slave, as the first step towards his advancement in the scale of intel ligence and humanity. the writer surely knows, or might know, that it is impossible for the colored bondman in any measure to advance, w hilc in a state of bondage that it is neeessary, in order to his continuing a bondman, that he should continue ignorant. third, they ask this great boon,” not only for its own sake—though that also is a matter of high import, but more as the means to an end—that end the elevation from their present brutal degradation, into intelligent human beings, of three millions of slaves. there is no bliss in ignorance.—j. d. london, march 10, 18-18. dear sir, —the great subject of interest in eutope, is the revolution which has been successfully accomplished in france. in the year 1830, louis philippe was borne to the throne on the shoulders of the people, and under the title of citizen king, pledged him self to the cause of liberty and progress. hut the atmosphere of a throne is trying to morality and whatever may have been the sincerity of louis philippe's professions, it very soon became evident, that the great end of his exertions was, the consolidation of his power, and the advancement and enrichment of his family. in pursuance of these ojects, he made common cause with the despots of europe, in his foreign policy, and at home endeavored to curtail the liberty of the press, and opposed a steady resistance to every kind of reform. having thus lost the hearts of the people, he clung for support to a fraudulent represen tation and the physical force of armies and fortifications. he thus contrived to make it appear that he governed on constitutional principles, being always supported by a ma jority in the chambers. but, in the first place, the deputies were elected by a very limited proportion of the population; and secondly, there were at least one-third of them officers of government—men who w ould therefore support whatever ministry the king might prefer. feeling the insecurity of his position, he surrounded paris with fortifica tions, and filled it with armed men. the result has proved how unavailing is the strongest force and the most cunning fraud, when opposed to an enlightened people deter mined to be free. the conduct of the provisional government has been been beyond all praise. their first proclamation ended with the motto of the new republic, liberty—equality—frater nity and all the subsequent ones have been true to this great and christian profession. they have addressed circulars to all their ministers at foreign courts, expressing their sincere desire for the maintenance of peace. they have abolished the chamber of peers and all titles of nobility; have decreed the separation of the church from the state have abolished capital punishment for political offences, and are preparing a measure for the emancipation of the neoroes in their colonies. what may be the ultimate form which their goverumeut will take, depends upon the decision of the constituent assembly, which has been convoked for the 20th of april. it is to be elected by universal suffrage and vote by ballot, and is to consist of 900 members, being one for every 40,000 of the population. such an event as this cannot fail to affect all the slates of europe. it was feared at first that warlike measures might he under taken to embarrass or put down the new: republic. the british government, however, took the earliest opportunity of declaring that they would not in any way interfere w ith the iuternal arrangements of france and all the despotic powers, with the exception of russia, art' too much troubled with the demands of their own subjects for freedom— demands which will be greatly encouraged by the events in france, and too much embarrassed by war debts of long standing, to make anv very formidable demonstration against french liberty. on the contrary, there is every rea son to hope, that the progress of freedom will be greatly accelerated by these glorious events. already, many of the lesser state* of germany hare male prompt and satisfac tory concessions. the grand duke of baden and the dukes of w une in burg and nassau, have granted freedom of the press, trial by jury and other constituuonal rights. prussia promises well, and has convoked the •sutetrlhnund. the belgian government have promised a sweeping parliamentary reform. all italy ia potting on the gnrh of freedom, and coasoiidtftng itself into one great nation. aeetrie alone, that most ruth less and miserable of au atrocious govern ments—a government of absolute force, firmed and barbarity, w ithout one redeeming quality to mitigate it* degradation, offers an obstinate re**lance to the great movement which a ur j mates europe. martial lav hi ben pro rhmncil alo abardy; hungary h putting ea the attitude of retoelhoe; and it hto be hoped that ths galling l-twra of austria are to be at last and hrercr broken. but the caotest mi) he aerate; for paeon nail prussia bare agreed to assist the a net nan govern ment againet m oppressed subject?., wbo wifi hare to suffre tnorfa, in one way or other, before their freedom a attained. but, as the poetsaya, fnwl—% battle once begee, though «am loot, is diriji worn.* 1 it began from one end of europe to the athet. it may be waged thiough much pa tience and trihuhtion but the day weems already to dawo with the ruing son of free dam. the great mass of the people of this country sympathise warmly, with the people of france and the noble spirit of the pro visional government. should the french succeed with their republic, no doubt england will profit by the example, and raise again the banner of reform. there has been some rioting in london and other large towns, but it has been confined entirely to the ignorant and degraded, who swarm in painful numbers in all the groat centres of population in this country. it is not by any such proceeding that great britain will work out its freedom, but by the energetic agitation of public opiipon, acting in a constitutional way on tlie government and parliament, and thus obtain ing gradually, yet surely, all necessary re forms. the true friends of freedom here are not rioting, but bolding public meetings, and sending friendly adtjresscs to the french nation. a large and enthusiastic meeting was held last friday in the hall of com merce, at which an eloquent address, which had been prepared by elihu burritt, was agreed to, and is to be conveyed to the pro-; visional government by joseph sturgp, ed ward miall, and other gentlemen. nothing particular has occurred in the british parliament since last mad, except the l withdrawal ol the proposed government mea-' sure to raise the income tax from three to five per cent, on all incomes exceeding jciso per' annum. the determined resistance which the nation is making to increased taxation, is a strong guarantee for peace; and it seems now to he generally believed that it w ill be almost impossible to drag us into a war. yours respectfully, r. s. d. j a card, frvm the prvprict >r» of the anglo-saj'ii," to their punn.t, malicious robbery.— between 11 o’clock on saturday night, 25th ult.. and six o'clock on the morning of the following monday, our office was entered hv some person or persons unknown, who carried off three new mail b*k)ks, into which the names of our subscri bers had been lately transferred. the en velopes already written for the next number of our paper, our old mail-hooks, and evory hing tending to give us the slightest clue to the residence of our subscribers, were also carried off. '1 hose were the only articles taken, although there were many valuable lxxiks, articles of wearing apparel, printer's materials, &c., &c., in the room where the robbery was pcrpeirated, as well as in the other rooms of our cstabluhment. we do not therefore attribute the theft to a profession al thief, but to some villain who was envious of our success, or who, fancying himself aggrieved by us, took this unlawful and mali emus means of revenging himself—rightly im agining that to cut us off from all communica tion with our subscril>ers, would he the nexl thing to a death-blow to us, and to the imme diate progress of the literary reform advocated by us. ijnder the circumstances, we have done al! that can be done. we have sent a copv ol this card to every editor in the 1 niter states and b. north america, requesting then to copy it. our subscribers are requested t« write to us immediately, informing us to wha number, or to about what number, their sub scriptions extend. we will immediately eu ter their names in a new mail book already prepared for that purpose. we will continm receiving these names until may ist. unit then, we will not publish the next regulai number of the anglo-saxon. by this ar rangement, none of the articles on pho neties,'’ by zablid haurits, nor any othe matter relating to the immediate object of the paper, will be lost to our subscribers?: in th« mean time we shall strike off several thousand copies, containing interesting matter to begin ners, and circulate them gratuitously among teachers all over the country we trust that it is unnecessary to reqnesi our subscribers, that as this misfortune ha? placed us entirely at thoir mercy, they will, il they do not remember the exact number ai which their subscription expires, rather givt us than themselves, the benefit of then doubts. it will t>e necessary for them, at any rate, to state definitely, up to what numhei they are entitled, to the of their belief— as il will be useless for them to leave us ti decide ujxm the merits of their respective ca ses—we having lost all memoranda of oui transactions w ith them. may we not also ask them, under the.se circumstances, to pay their own postage the above notice has been sent to us with a request for insertion. we sympathize with the proprietors of the anglo-saxon, in the loss they have sustained, and have pleas ure in complying with the request. p~r* dr. m. r dylan y made a pretty good speech the other evening, and thirs were more in attendance than under the circum stances could be expected. he showed up the ridiculousness and ahsurdity of prejudice against color, and proved that it was nothing but prejudice against condition. w e have not this feeling towards a black coat, horse, boots, or even a black glove—because the condition of slave is not marked upon them and even this aversion lost its influence when we know the adored man is a slave. slave holders themselves seem to know liule about it. mr. d. gives good evidf-nee that he can take care of himself. —a«* lisbon (o.) aurora. from the euaaripaiw- renouncement of sifttiusiw.—the body of christians formerly known as the liberty street church oftroy, ny." unan imously passed the following resolution* on sunday evening, march slh whereas sectanaaisiß is variance with the spirit and letter of the gospel, and is the #nd foundation of all ecclesiastical oppression, a most prolific source of wait ami slavery, and many oppressions that atfiici the world— therefore. resolved, that the membera of christ's body, berhofiiß denominated, tb* liberty street presbyterian church of troy, n. y.” do hereby solemnly repudiate all sectarianism, sincerely regretting before god and men, that we ever gave countenance to that destructive device of satan. resolved. that vreshall hereafter be known an tbe omieh in liberty street, troy, i n. y.” and that we shall acknowledge other cnad than the bime, and no other head than god and bin son jesua k’hrin. resolved, that god has bat one cbeieh on the earth, and that it ia composed of all sorb an love iron and keep htseomraandmenfa:' and that these in their church relations, are 1 equal m rights and hhrety. signed by ut-sav h. gassli. address or artlalayebt wq. her or wermuv hew yoek. undw a deep sad zbkhng imprwiuo of tfe duty are owe to god and ear feoo* being*, the amksbrm won* of rochester led caomnuard to eoetmae to persevere ia tben cffuis far the oppressed and suffering bond men who still ramus toiling unrequited ia the soathvrn prison house. wc »re frequently brought painfully to remember that not nnljr is their labor vrated from them unrcnuincra ted; not only do they suffer front interne hun ger and cold; not only are the female*, ora sums, subjected to tw cruel and pamiuoate outrages of their tyrannical masters and over seers but theta are daily instances of sun dering the dearest ties in nature, thus srpa rating them forever. and can we expert any thing better—ran vre look for benevolence or fine feelings from a system so foul and fiend ish as slavery! it would be unreasonable, because a corrupt tree cannot bring forth good fruit.*’ therefore, knowing that with out associative sfction wfi cannot render effi cient aid to this holy cause, we affectionately invite the e»i-operatiun of the citizens of huch ester and the public g?nerallv. we ask them to bear in mind the injunctions of jesus,“all things whatsoever ye would men should do to you, do ye even so to them.” rememlier, also, the beautiful parable in w hich hr calls our attention to the sick and to those who arc in prison, and concludes bv the tumble asser tion, “inxsmuch as ye have done it toon‘of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me.” we feel assured all that have hearts to feel, and are careful to attend to the monitions of conscience—all who are deter mined to live for the good of our race, instead of devoting all their time to their own per sonal ease—all who feel bound to improve the precious time allotted to them here, by pio moting as much as possible the cause of truth and righteousness in the earth, will come for ward in the work of laboring to banish forever the demon of slavery from our land and in so doing, instead of an example of corruption and wickedness, we should be a lightto the world.” e hope no one will feel too poor, nor any too rich, to enlist in this holy cause. the christian's influence, in whatever situation, is always salutary, and will certainly produce its good effects. we ask for the aid of men and of women; —we call on the old and the young, the farmer, the mechanic, and the merchant. we ask all and every one to give us their help to devote what they can sj>are, either of money or of the fruits of their la bor, to the work of restoring men and women to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights and blessings with which they were endowed by our creator. for this object, we propose holding a fair in december next. we ask the females in the adjoining towns and country around us, to get up sewing circles, and prepare such arti cles as will be most saleable, and to come, fur nish tables, give us their company, and help us, not only in selling those things thus pre pared, but in convincing the public mind of the necessity of our perseverance and fidelity, and thus be helpers in hastening the day of emancipation. abigail bi sn, rochester. sarah d. fish, do. s vkah l. llallowftll, do. mary h. hallowell, do. sarah a. burtis, do. margaret a. laiison, do. kuzabetii sllly, do. phebe treadwell, do. charlotte s. wilbur, do. hi lda anthony, do. rhoda de garmo, do. catharine g. braitiiwaite, do. sarah e. thayer, do. catharine a. f. stebbins, do. amy post, do. h enrietta platt, bath. susan u. doty, farmington. maria wilbur, do. elizabeth smith, do. esther hathaway, do. caroline halstead, walworth. julia parxer, do. eliza cooper, williamson. amy mott, do. rebecca m. c. capron,’ auburn. mrs. hamlin, port byron. margaret prior, waterloo. mary ann mcclintock, do. laura murray, victor. mrs. maokintyre, darien. from the examiner. louis philippe.* it is not a light joy, such as can express itself in vain talk, in bluster, mockery, and “tremendous cheers;” it as a stern, almost sacred, joy, that the late news from paris excite in ear nest men. for a long, melancholy series of years past, there has been no event at all to excite in earnest inch much other than weariness and disgust. to france, least of all, had we been looking of late for tidings that could elevate and cheer us. nor is the present terrible occurrence pro perly great or joyful, as we say; it is very sad rather—sad as death and hu man misery and sin—yet with a radi snee in it like that v of stars, sternly beautiful, symbolic of immortality and eternity! sophist guizot, sham-king louis philippe, and the host of quacks, ol j obscene spectral nightmares, undei which france lay writhing, are fled.— burst are the stony jaws of that en chanted accursed living tomb; rent suddenly are the leaden wrappages and cerements; from amid the noisoint claiixn and darkness of tbc grave bursts forth, thunder-clad, a soul thai was not dead, that cannot die! cou rage! the righteous gods do still ruu this earth. a divine nemesis, holder from the base and foolish,known always to the w ise noble, tracks unerringly th< footsteps of the evil-doer, who is na ture’s own enemy, anti the enemy o her eternal laws, whom she canno pardon. him no force of policy 01 most dexterous contrivance and vul pine energy and faculty, will save into his own pit he, at last, does as i suredly fall—sometimes, as now, in the sight and to the wonder of all inen. alas, that any king or man shoul' need to have this oldest truth, oldei than the world itself, made new to hiu again, and asserted to be no fable oi 1 hearsay, but a very truth and fact, ir th is frightful manner! to the freud nation and their kings it has been verj impressively taught, under many forms by most expensive courses of experi inent, fur sixty years back; and they it appears, and we, still require nev lessons upon it. very sad on all sides! here is i man of much talent, of manifold expe rience in all provinces of life, accept j ing the supreme post among his fellow i men, and deliberately, with stedfas persistence, for seventeen years, at tempting bis high task there, not in the name of god, as we may say, but o j the enemy of god! on the vulpim i capabilities alone had louis philippe any reliance; not by appealing, with i courageous energy and patience, to whatever was good, and genuine, and worthy round him (which existed too. though wide scattered, and in modest seclusion, rather than flagrant on the housetops); not by heroic appeal to this, but by easy appeal to what was bad, and false, and sordid, and to thai only,, has he endeavored to reign what noble thing achieved ivy him s wha noble man called forth into beneticen activity by him, can louis philippi look back upon? none. his manage merit has been a cunningly-deviset system of iniquity in all its bases shapes. bribery has flourished; scan dalous corruption, till the air was tliicl with it, and the heart of men sick paltry rhetoricians and parliamentary tongue-fencers mean jobbers, in triguers; every scrviceablest form, o human, greed and. low-inindedncss, ha< this source of honor patronized for the poor french people, who b\ their blood and agony bore him to tha high place, uliat did he accomplish: penal repression into silence;, tliat and too literally nothing more. tt arm the sordid cupidities of ne clas: against the bitter unreasonable neces i sities of the other, and to leave it so— lie saw no other method. his positior was indeed difficult; but he shoulc have called for help from above, noi from below! alas, in his wide roamings through the world—and few have had a widei ramble than this man—he had failed tc discover the secret of the world, aftei all. if this universe be indeed a huge swindle? in that case, supreme swin dler will mean sovereign ruler; in thai case—but not in the other pool louis philippe! his spanish marriages luid just prospered with him, to the j disgust of all honorable hearts; in his spanish marriages he felt that he had at length achieved the topstone which consolidated all, and made the louis i philippe system, cemented by such bribery-mortar, bound by such diplo i mutic tie-beams, a miracle of architec ture, when the solid earth, impatient ol such edifice, gave way, and the eu mcnides rose, and all was blazing in surrection and delirium; and louis i philippe “drove off in a brougham,” or coucon street cab, through the barrier of pussy,”— towards night and an avenging doom. egalite fils, after a long, painful life-voyage, has ended jno better than egalite pere did. it is i a tragedy equal to that of the sons ol at reus. louis philippe one could pity, as well as blame, were not all one’s pity concentrated upon the millions who have sutfered bv his sins. on the french people’s side, too, is it not tra gical? these wild men in blouses, with their faces and their hearts all blazing in celrstial and infernal light ning, with their barricades up, and their lusils in their hands—they arc now the grand*on» of the bastillers of \sd and the scjiteuiberors of the fathers fought in h jo; they, in ihlb, are still fighting. to the third gener ation it has been bequeathed bv the second and the first; by the third* gen eration, the immense problem still to solve, is not d</ertcd, is duly taken up. they nlso protest, with their heart’s blood, against a universe of lies; and say, audible, as with the voice of whirl winds, in the name of all the gods, we will not have it so! yve will die] rather; we and our sons and grand sons, ns our fathers and grandfathers have d ne. take thought of it, there fore, w hat our first mean; for y«ur own tl*. rwuler will xwoh foil t<* <fotcrt,in iiu> ab-'ve aitirfo, th- *tjli .a*i it lie. iksi* ol tli-jtaii- carlyle* sake and ours taka thought, and dia* cover it, and accomplish it r for accoro plisbed it shall and must be. and peace or rest is not in the world tilt then!'” j the throne was carried oa* by transcendent french steeolulimm did armed men in blouses, was awgged along the streets, and at length smash e«t into small pieces,’* say the journals. into small pieces: let it b« elaborately broken, pains be taken that of it there remain nothing. begone, thou wretched upholstery phantasm; des cend thou to the abysses, to the cess pools, spumed of all men;, thou art not the thing we required to heal us of oar unbearable miseries; not thou—it must ibe something other than thou!’ r so ends the throne of the barricades;” j and so it right well deserved to end. j i thrones founded on iniquity, on hypo- crisy, and the appeal to human base-' "i ne**, cannot end otherwise. when napoleon, the armed soldier of democracy, as he has been called, who at one time had discerned well that lies were unbelievable—that n«- tions and persons ought to strip them selves of lies—that it was better even to go hare than clothed with curses,” by way of garment —when napoleon, drunk with more victory than he could 5 carry, was abost deserting this true faith, and attaching himself to popes and kaisers, and other entities of the t chimerical kind—and in particular, had made an immense explosion of rnagni ficence at notre-dainc, to celebrate i his concordat the cow-pox of rcli gion,” la vaccine de la religion, as he i j himself privately named it), he said to -j angerau, the fencing-master who had f; become field-marshal, is it not mag t nificcnt?” “yes, very much so,” r answered angerau: “to complete it there wanted only some shadow of the half million of men who have been shot dead to put an end to all that.” “all fictions are now ended,” says m. lamartine, at the hotel de ville. i i may the gods grant it! something r other and better, for the french and 11 for us, might then try, were it but afar r j off, to begin! i j j from the nonconformist. j there are some men in the w orld who arc for ever skulking about the corners and sneaking in and out of the back doors of the social edifice. in stead of dealing honestly with their fellow-men, they prefer to perform here 1 1 an artful dodge au4 there w clever _ trick. to circumvent and delude is _ with them the business of life; and to _j overreach others in fheir dealings is t j the great end of all their calculations. _ i these men sometimes grow rich and retire with a self-satisfied air, and a p sneer of contempt for those who hwe i been their victims; they are, however, generally detected, either in some overt act of dishonesty, when their career is suddenly cut short by the strong arm i of the law; or in some deed not strictly illegal, but sufficiently bad to proclaim them to the world as sharpers, and in this case society lays its broad hand upon them, and says, let them go.” louis philippe is an eminent specimen t of the latter class. from the com mencement of his reign his has been an essentially back-door policy. a t petty larceny hero, he has been dis- j tinguished by the tide of the napoleon ijof peace.” a thiinblerigg politician, jj he has acquired a character for great t sagacity and acuteness. a selfish and unscrupulous man, he has been exalted as indefatigable in die pursuit of his family’s welfare. during his majesty’s sudden flight, j he is alarmed by the sudden appear j- ance of six men on horseback, whom j he immediately sets down for pursuers, 1 and rushing into a house, hides himself 1 behind a stove. his experience, how l; ever, in this instance, appears to have been the reverse of honest john gil pin’s, who was taken, by six gentlemen j for a rogue, whereas the six who now appeared took a rogue for an honest man. having escaped from the six men on j horseback, die ex-king took the first j opportunity to disguise himself f ally. it is said, he shaved off his j beard, discarded hi 3 wig, and putting on an old cap and cloak, defied the j recognition of his best friends. a ur rible transformation truly, from a j crowned king to a shorn and beardless masquerader from an all-powerful despot to a shorn and frightened run t away. we should pity the old man, in j such a sad reverse of fortune, but for one simple fact which robs us at once i ol* our pity and our gravity—namely, that while he was taking so much pains i i to escape, nobody was thinking of pur suit; we verily believe he was as safe in france as he is now in england; t having pronounced the blighting sen tence. “let him go,” hi* countrymen thought hut little of him, and bad some p, tiling else to do than to interfere with his flight. i at last, louis philippe arrives in england—he is landed at newhaven in a small boat—and disembarking, he ’exclaims with rapture, “thunk god, i am cn british ground!” yes! eighteen years ago, he bad started from eng land on a mission grander than which it would be difficult to imagine one, to sustain tiie infant energies of a free constitution, and to uphold the glorious principles of liberty—to restore to a great uation her despoiled birthright, and confirm his fellow-citizens in their resistance to injustice and oppression— to lead on a gallant people to victory over error, and build up the glorious edifice of freedom on the ruins of des t pot ism and cruelty. now' he returns, branded by all honest men as the be trayer of his country —leaving that country in a state of anarchy and bloodshed, brought about by bis mis rule. without an effort to stem the torrent, without a pang, except for his own danger, he has tied, and stepping on a foreign shore, thauks god that he has arrived in safety! ___ thisti.f.s, though noxious things in themselves, are usually signs of an ex-* cellcnt ground whereon they grow; so though it be a weakness and betrayer of the inind, is yet gener ally an argtimeat of a soul ingenuously and virtuously inclined, i —-r- i.— j sc? 1 in a sound sleep tbe soul goes hr.mc to recruit her strength, which could not else endure the w ear and tear j of life.— richter. the french protisiokal government. the following sketches of the mem bers of tbe new provisional govern ment have been complied from various authentic surces. of their character, as a whole, the well-informed corres pondent of tbe patriot author of france,” sec., says:—- the provisional governmcn (i do not inclode the four secretaries) is com posed of gentlemen as upright, as hu mane, and as talented, as any country can boast of. none of them (and 1 know thenvau) will permit or overlook any excess; but they are without pow er to resist the armed population; and fhc only means by which they can main tain it in a quiet state is to yield to their i demands.” m. otrroftt (de l’eure), 1 the president of the council, is now in his 81st year, and though there have been many abler and more successful men, still we doubt if there be a sin cerer, a more straightforward, and an j honester deputy in all france. in the jyear ’b, he was a member of thecoun cil of 500; in 1811 lie was the president i of the court of rouen; in isij he was president of the corps legislatif; in 1815 he proposed the famous declara tion, in which tbe rights of citizens were reserved; and in 1830 he was appoint ed minister of justice. there is noth f ing in the antecedents of such a venera ble magistrate calculated to excite a i larm in if ranee or out of it. his ap pointment derives its significancy from being a personal protest against mar shal bugcaud. he is moreover highly esteemed for his virtues by the french 1 people. at the elections of 1842, m. dupont, indignant at seeing the depu -1 tics of the eure servilely voting in fa vor of the execrated guizot ministry, contested four colleges of that depart ment simultaneously; he was elected in all four, and chose evreux. the votes of m. dupont need not be pointed out;, lie invariably voted against the corrupt and dishonest administration which has fallen w ith the king, its pro tector. dupont de l’eurc (says the patriot correspondent) is likely to be raised to the highest rank in the lle i public, just half a century after his in trepid resistance to general bonaparte, on the 18th of bruruairo fofctobcr 7, 11798). m.arago, is one of the first savansin france, and his reputation as an orator is scarcely i less brilliant. he was born in 178 l», and is perpetual secretary of the aca demy of science, member of the oftice j of longitudes, and the most illustrious scientific man of the age. in politics, m. arago is an excellent patriot, a sworn enemy of privileges and monopo ly, and an ardent defender of the rights of the people. he voted against the j pritchard indemnity bill, and has ever supported all the measures of the j gauche, although he goes much further, and belongs to the extreme gauche. he is now provisional minister of ma rine. though of extreme opinions, he is yet temperate in the expression ol them, and a man of moderate character. he w as present at the meeting of the i british association here in 1834, and attended the grey dinner. many i (says the scotsman) will yet remember the tall athletic gentleman of command ing presence, who mado a speech in clear sonorous french in reply to lord brougham, when the latter proposed his health as one of the most illustri ous and successful cultivators of science .now in the world.’ the compliment was not too high, for in general phys j ic, arago has certainly no superior at the present day. moreover, he receiv ed tlie freedom of our city from the town council; and this is probably the first time that the burgess of edinburgh has unmade a dynasty, or founded a republic, in one ot the greatest states of the world.” i m. de lamartine, the minister of foreign atfairs, is as famous in the republic of letters as his colleague, m. arago, in the department of science. he represents macon, and his political opinions have been freely and copiously expressed in his newspa per, lt bien public, published in that town. he is everywhere a poet, even at the tribune. like all poets, howev er, he is rather fickle and inconstant, but the elevation of his soul secures him against the greatest dangers of ver satility. m. de lamartine for a length of time occupied a very undecided po sition in the chamber, but he eventual ly ranged himself on the side of the op position. the day on which he an nounced his intention of joining the camp of the gauche was as gloomy an one for the ministry as the memorable desertion of the treasury bench of the english house of commons by the great burke. from that period m. de lamartine took a decided part in favor i of progressive reform, and ridiculed the guizot cabinet as the ministry of “limitations.” he voted against the pritchard indemnity, and was prized by the opposition as an invaluable acquisi tion. m.de lamartine is now in his 58th year, and b.ing a gentleman of birth and fortune, has thus given hostages for the moderation of his conduct.— though renowned in europe as a poet, orator, author and public writer, it is not so w ell known to the public that more than 30 years ago the deputy for: macon served his apprenticeship as a i diplomatist, and was named minister plenipotentiary by charles x. in 1820 or 1830. his travels in the holy land, and his poetical meditations, have been exceedingly popular, and his recent publication, the history of the giron dins, has produced an immense sensa- tion in france, not only by the bril liant and animated pictures it presents ot the terribly dramatic scenes of the first revolution, but by the strong 4vid unexpected republican bias which it be trays. a very interesting analysis of the work is given in in the edinburgh review for january last. the elec tric review for the present month, in review ing this volume, says of the au- i thor;— the right of tbe people to freedom and rational independence are held by him as paramount to the right of a dy nasty to absolute power; and whilst j some of the legitiinathds, faithful to' their obsolete creed and to their lumor abla affections, stiff proclaim their alle giance to their exiled prince; whilst: others transfer to a perfidious usurper; of (he regal and popular right* their] mercenary subserviency—m. de lam artine progrewe* in another direction, and becomes the champion of the peo ple, and of those men so long rerim for having sacrificed all in defence of the cause of the people. no one can impugn his motives.— no ooe can attribute to him selfish and interested views. it is evident to all who know anything of his p4«*ition and associations, that, far from being bene ficial to his interests, his commendable, his courageous impartiality will be bit terly resented by most of his former friends, and still more perhaps, by the government and its partisans. m. crr.mif.ux, the provisional minister of jforticc (deputy forchinon) was a formidable opponent of the late ministry. he ex posed all its vices and its weaknesses. he demanded, on the discussion of the game-laws (originated in the peers), the suppression of the article which ex empts the crown lands from the severe provisions of that enactment; but al though successful in the deputies, the upper chamber restored the obnoxious clause. m. cretnieux’s parliamentary career has been one of the most impor tant and honorable; nnd, in short, he was a leading member of the opposi tion. before 1830, cremieux was the foremost advocate of the bar of nismes. he is a man of wealth and substance, and immediately after 183 u ptirenaseo ofodillon barrot the place of consciller a la cour de cassation. for the last ten years he has been one of the most i popular and generally employed of the parisian advocates. m. cremieux is a philanthropist as well as a patriot, t he attended, together with his illustri ous friend, m. lsatnbert, the antfc-sla very convention held in london, in june 1840, as a deputation from the paris society. gn that occasion he 1 was introduced to the convention by dr. bowring in the following terms:— the name of cremieux can scarcely be unknown to you. his history, also, is associated with the most interesting struggles. he it was, israelite as lie fo. who defended the protestants of the gard from the persecutions of the fa natical catholics, from 1816 to 1825. he it was who, in 1830, defended the minister of public instruction, when the excited opinion of france would willing j ly have conducted him to the scaffold. and he it is now who is selected by his t brethren to proceed to damascus to t make an appeal in favor of his persecu ted brethren.—proceedings of the anti slavery convention, p. 162. m. lf.dru rollin', the provisional minister of the interior, was elected for mans, rice the late m. gamier pages. his speech to the electors subjected him to a prosecution on the part of the government, and the trial of the case produced a great sen sation. m. rollin represents the ultra- radical interest; and has often attack ed not only m. guizot, but also the policy of such men as thiers and odil lon barrot. he sits on the extreme left, and has defended at the tribune, with vigor and talent, the opinions ad vocated by la reforme newspaper.— rollin is also an advocate, a d in his 47th year. though a man of extreme ly democratic opinions, he is a person of good property and ofundoubted pro bity and talent. he came on a secret i mission from the french democrats to j ireland, when that country was in u dis turbed state a few years ago. m. carnot, the new minister of public instruction (including the administration of reli gious affairs), was born in 1801, and is i a son ot the famous conventionalist ol that name. he is a devoted partizan of democratic ideas, and belongs to the extreme left. he voted against the pritchard indemnity bill, and for m. rernusat's project of parliamentary re form. “he would,” say the authors of biographie des deputes, writing in 1846, “support a large and complete i reform which would have the effect ot 1 restoring sincerity to the government, i and all their rights to the citizens.”— hippolite carnot is one of the members j for paris, and is now in his 47th year, j he too was bred as an advocate, but lie is now by profession an homme des id tret and editor of the revue encyclo pedique. marie, one of the members for paris, is 60 years of age, and also au advocate by profession. after a youth passed in laborious struggles, he rose in ib6o to the place occupied by the dupins, mauguins, and berryers, and has since been considered the leading counsel for i political causes. his defence for one of the conspirators of the pont des arts i was a masterpiece of cleverness. garni er rages, the mayor of paris, was also bred to the bar. though rather a tedious and solemn man, yet he is of upright and rc i spectable character. he entered the j chamber in 1831, at the age of 30, and tis still a young man. he took his sta j tiou at first as the advocate of universal suffrage, and has maintained his opin ions amidst many stormy debates without flinching. “the struggle which exists (said he, in 1834) is this, l that all desire to possess those politi cal rights which at present are mo nopolized by the bourgeoisie. all con ceive that there is no safety (bonheur) for them unless they have the power of choosing their representatives. it is just and wise that the safety of all should he coufided to the care ot all.” he is not considered a man ot great in tellect, and as a speaker he is more dis tinguisbed by violence than eloquence. singular prediction. the cour rier des fiats unis, stales that among the papers of one of the marshals (since deceased) at the celebration of the french revolution in 1840, was found a sealed package with the following in scription:—** to be opened on occasion of the coming revolution in france.”* as the event has now taken place, the package has been opened and found to contain the badges worn by the decease; ed at the procession of 1830, with a de-j tailed description of the ceremony. on j the interior of the wrapper was written:, “to serve on osna*ioi» ofthe next revo lution in france; which w iu take place about the year 1847.” it would have! been cfifficult to have made a more just 1 prediction. cheap postage sia:—the boston committee on cheap postage have instructed us, as their sub-committee, to solicit you co-oper ation in calling the attention of our (ellow-citizcns to tbe movement eu that subject. yve trust thxf yot agree with the committee as to the important bearing of cheap postage, and free delivery of letters, upon the business, tbe rights, and the social enjoyments of tbe people at large. we presume, there fore, to solicit your aid an public grounds. but the proposed reform extends to an existing regulation in the rejical of which all who are connected with the newspaper press have a direct interest. e refer to the tax of three cents on “transient” newspapers, the injurious effects ot which it would be difficult to estimate. it is presumed that the cir culation ol transient papers through the post office is less by fifty %o one now, than under the old rate. a double inischict is thus perpetrated. the newspaper prsss is crippled by this reduction of its income, and the great j fund of popular intelligence, of social i sympathy and brotherhood, is reduced in a still larger proportion. w c therefore ask your influence in calling public attention within your sphere ot action, to the petition to i congress in (avor of cheap postage, now about being circulated in your vicinity. the following short summary ot reasons in favor of our object, may suggest hints for its support. should on better data be at hand for that pur pose, you will confer a great favor by inserting the whole, or any portion ol the article in your publication. we have the honor to subscribe our selves, in behalf of the boston com mittee. your most obedient servants, i john w. james, c elizur wright, j s ub to n petitions to congress for cheap postage. 1 the citizens of boston are about for warding to washington, their first petition in favor of two cent postage. this, we understand, will be followed i by other petitions, as soon as prepared j for that purpose. as it is understood that similar petitions are now in circu lation in this vicinity for signatures, public attention is request! d to some ol j the reasons offered in favor of the move j ment. cheap postage is a perpetual bene faction 1 1° the people. the average rate of postage, at present, on all tin letters passing though the post office amounts to 6 1-4 cents. those payiiq 1 this tax to government would save tw< 1 thirds of it by cheap postage, and, o course, could enjoy three times a much correspondence as they now do "j lor the same money, with the dcliverj ■j of their letters into the bargain. j 0 j cheap postage, therefore, is tru< i economy. this view is strengthenet and enlarged by higher than pecuniary j consideration. cheap postage not onh j multiplies letters, hut it multiplies cor j respondents. within the last twe years, under a partial reduction o, postage, the number of letters has in creased from 25 to 52 millions. and j in england, where the reduction has been complete, as it should he in the i united states, the number of letters has i increased four fold and the post office i revenue has exceeded, under the penny postage system, the annual expenses by four millions of dollars. so, too, in this country, a slight reduction in the rates has increased the income, accor ding to the lust report of the postmaster i general, much beyond the expectations of the friends of cheap postage. the proposed reduction of postage would not only lessen the tax of those who write often, and thus encourage a i corresponding increase in their letters, i but it would call a new class of corres j pendents into existence among those j who can write, hut cannot afford high postage, even for a limited corrcspond ence; and another class who would he incited to cultivate epistolary habits, or, if illiterate, even learn to write, it impelled by the general practice of ail i around them. thus, by a cheap, and of course universally free system of i communication, myriads now separated i would be brought into correspondence with one another, and multiplied inter changes of social feelings, and of busi ness transactions, would follow, as the natural consequence of this postal ap proximation, of the national family. facts of unquestioned authenticity prove the reasonableness both o f cheap and uniform rates of postage. to carry a letter from one end of england to the other, costs its government hut the .‘kith part of a penny—or about one mill. and a long distance costs no more than a short one. government pays the same for carrying the mail over anv given route, whether the mail he full or empty.—the postage should be tmi fjrm, as well as cheap for other rea sons. it makes the law plain to every body. this is always a boon to the people, as it is always a duty on the part of their government.—the internal expenses of the post office would be materially lessened under one uniform ritte. and further, by the proposed plan of free delivery the tax on adver tised letters would be saved, as well as an incalculable amount of time? while multiplied delays and disappointments would also be remedied. in short, all the interests connected with trade and commerce, of charily, in her multiplied operations,—of literature— of elemen tary education— of the social and ben evolent affections generally—as well as of the f* rest—of rohttes of ref —and the duty of diffusing know ledge among men—are deeply involved in the success of the movement in favor of the cheapest, the safest, and the (pack 'd conveyance of intelligence through the port office of a free, enterprising and enlightened people. p. s. the following is the form of petition to congress, as adopted by the boston petitioners. petition to congress ior cheat postage. to the senate and house off represen tatives of the vidled fsalcf t at con grrss assembled; the undersq jned, citizens chuscfts, respectfully petition to ptummmmtq establish ittnftap rate of postage, not to exceed one cent on newspapers, and two cents on each pre-pa id leiterof half an ounce, for ail distances, and as in duty bound will ever pray. boston, march i4th, 1848. the education of the phac. th ai. man. by john riertont. after defining who was the practical man in a series of illustrations, mr. pierpont said, that the best definition of happiness was, the exercise of all our faculties for our ow n benefit and that of others. “if tbis .be the case,” con tinued be, it becomes us to scrutinize very closely that great system which prevails to such an extent in england, and which is fast extending it«»*lf over oar own eoantry—l mean the division of labor. lam jealous of that system which chains an immortal soul to ono tediows bench; lam jealous of that sys tem which binds down the spirit, the organs and the intellect of ui*n to on* changeless vacuity! 1 know that it is argued that by the division of labor,, each man becomes more skilled in his little branch, that the work tamed out is better, and that a manufacturing' community grow richer by this system. all these things are irac; bat slnulft this system he pushed to its utmost, aw is done by england with her manufac turing policy, ii man suffers in the con flict? 1 was in manchester, some ycarw since. in one of the factories l saw young lad hammering up small pieces* of tin to fit them fo the ends of stay laces. this was his destiny. he cer tainly was very dexterous in his work, and he could have made six while voir or i made one. the lacings were n<» doubt better for this division of labor— no doubt the owner of the factory made more piofit, nnd no doubt the ladies are furnished with the article much cheap er. but who has to pay for it that crook-cd little boy, plying his small hammer, and swinging backward and forward in his ceaseless work, with the regularity and with little more intelli gence than a pump-brake or a reed of a power-100m —he has to pay for it dearly. he knows nothing elso in the world, and if his master turns him away, he cun only save himself from starvation by taking advantage of tho poor laws of england—thus taking his rveenge out of the state, who brought him down so low, by its odious system of manufacturing policy. my soul grew sick to think that the earthly destiny of a man was to hammer out small hits of tin, made ready to his hand, by other wretches like himself he who gave the world almost all the j civilization it enjoys, once said, ve are of more value than many spar rows,” and emphatically exclaimed, ”j* i not a man better than a sheep?” may we not as emphatically exclaim, in lit j ter soberness, is not a man better than* a silken braid? if it he true, that the i greatness of a state is in the virtue, in telligence, and physical perfection <>l its population, england will at last dis cover to her cost, that wliat is had poli -1 ey for the people, is had policy for the government.” mr. pierpont then saki that he must not be understood as in favor of air individual’s adopting moic than one trade, or one professn n. jm meant only, by introducing the subject of the division of labor, to show the ah-* solute necessity of cultivating all the faculties, both mental and physical. he. spoke with much earnestness on the education of practical women— of how much consequence such an education was, to her who might be calhul, in good time, to preside in her own house hold, the proudest kingdom of woman, or to give instruction to young ears,who who would be ready to receive from her lips either good or evil us holy truth. “the most striking feature,” con tinued the lecturer, “of flic present nge, is its practical tendency. we arc not superior to the ancients in skill, hut in the application of new* agents. it is computed that the cost to egypt of the great pyramid of ghiza, was the labor of 200,000 men for 20 years. some fifteen years ago, a calculation was,aj*o made in england that the steam engines then in use would do the tame [work in 24 hours. the poet says: ve annihilate u.tli time ami spare, aral make t\\<> lovers happy!’ the broad atlantic is already alyunk into a streamlet by the prcssuic ot stream—the news of the taking of bey rout travelled 5,060 miles in 23 days, and lovers need not now ‘go hang themselves,* for time and space really seem to be on the verge of an nihilation!” mr. pierpont then spoke of fulton and franklin, and of the won derful effects ot the several agents which they have discovered. he spoke also of the superior skill of the an cients in the fine arts, describing the parthenon of athens, and the antique cameos and gerns. he concluded with an cnlogiuin of the human hand, tho most delicate and w underfill of all earth ly machines, and w hich nothing of rnor-. tal make has ever quailed. u tlia manufacturers of sheffn id, said he, have never invtntcda machine which can cut a file at all equal to those cal by hand, and to thus day, cotton is spun finer by the fingers of the hindoo girls, than by auy ol the costly ma chinery of manchester. cotton thread, has been spun so fine in england, that 3:*o banks, of 880 yards each, weight d but a single p- und. the thread was hut l-18)of an inch in diameter. this ira* accomplished by a machine, and the |>ouml of cotton so spun, would reach kis miles. bui mark the differ ence. a thread was produced of min doo finger work, which measured only i-1000 of an inch in diameter, and o*f which one pound would extend t74u miles. the lecturer gave his authority for the above, and finished his lecture with an exhorttttioii to the members of tbe association to cultivate all their faculties, if possible, if they desired happiness and respectability. dr fraukliu said “when i see a h«»u>o well furnished with books and news papers, there i see intelligent and well informed children; but if there are no books or papers,the children arc igno rant,if not profligate.” a slip of the foot you may soon re cover; but a slip of the tongue you can never get over.