shackford’s lecture on tiie war with mexico. [continued] there is nothing more sorrowful, revealed by this present war, than the corrupt state of public opinion in regard to right. everywhere is exhibited the lowest standard of moral sentiment.— mere party expediency is unblushingly defended as the highest rule of action. every partv is seeking to make the most for party, out of the sufferings ol mexico, and the disgraces ot our coun try. advocates of a tariff make no opposition to the war, because by a public debt, the tariff is secured. parties strive to avail themselves ol the false renown of some military leader. in cateriiig to a false opinion, men whose age, experience, and exalted sta tion should raise them above the senti ment, speak of the glory which hero ic deeds and unsurpassed valor can acquire.” r. o. nv iuthfop says, our arms have gone on gloriously.” mr. clay speaks of “the long series of glorious triumphs. hig mass meetings resolve, that as whigs and american citizens, we rejoice in the signal triumph of our arms in mexico. and even tlie venerable mr. gallatin speaks of splendid successes, and the glory of these military deeds.” svith a strange want of moral discrimi€ l!! ‘i‘kmi or a subtle pliancy to a low state ol moral feeling, which cannot be right, lie says, that no men are more worthy of admiration, better entitled to the thanks ol their country, than those who, after war lias once taken place, brave death and stake their own lives in the conflict against the actual enemy.” these are tlie admissions, and these the approvals which cause a false halo to remain about war and warriors. to admit that glory can belong to men who volunteered in such a cause as this! who that rightly views it, can for one moment thus admit.'' \n hat is this war, even taking as real and indisputable the causes which are alleged in the at tempt to justify it it is u war waged by a strong and wgorou* nation, with all the choiccsi means of destruction that money, sci ence and in* 'licet cat) command, againsl a feeble and distracted people, torn bj internal conflict; a helpless sister re public, with no friend or ally; 11 mixec and half-barburous people, without mo ney, credit, or moral strength. it is a w-ur of the strong the weak. it is a war waged tor money revenge, ami satisfaction. in the enjoyment of a bound i es: prosperity, at peace with all the world with uncounted millions of unoccupied acres, with every motive of position and honor, of love to man, and duty te the cause of freedom and human right* to protect and aid, to bless and strength en, we staud before the world as the conqueror® of a weak and unprotected neighbor. by a long series of wrongs, we have alienated her affections, until at la»t the north star our very name has become the nucleus?! of hatred, ami opposition to u®, is the only tic that can unite her divided people. we arc engaged in a war in which nothing can be gained, and everything prized may be lost. wc are spending hundreds of mill ion t to get a paltry live. we are refusing peace, beause mex ico will not surrender territory which we do not want, and which if we obtain, w ill be the object of contention and in testine discord. we arc laying on blows merely for the sake of causing the prostrate foe to cry, hold, enough!” the nature of our present position could be distinctly seen, if we would dismiss the indefinite wea of nations, and look at the contest as between two individuals with human form corre sponding with their state. look at one with stalwart arm, and with the best weapons. every advan tage is his of quick eye, strong limb, and the protection which skill in train ing and all the science of defence and attack can give. beneath him lies his prostrate foe, an imbecile though stub-, horn cripple, subject to djzzincss, with-’ cred in the arm, and partly blind. he! has been prostrated by the vigorous blows of his antagonist, who now, with j foot upon his breast, commands him to sue for peace. he will not confess that lie is conquered. consent that i shall take from you all i wish, and i will let you go,” cries out the strong man. “never will i consent,” says the other. then the strong man proceeds to lop off a limb, and again cries out, consent.” never!” is tlie answer. “then, he exclaims, i ‘shall proceed to attack your vital parts, and by slow degrees, shall exhaust your life.” well, be it so; extinction is better than dishonor.” the glory to be acquired in such a contest, is the glorv f our arms in the present war. and it is a strange hallu cination which speaks of splendid suc cesses, glorious triumphs! all the terms to characterize its nature, should he drawn fr mi tlie cock-pit and tho butcher’s shambles. if this were done by those parents who read to their little ones the accounts of battles; by those who profess to be christian editors and conservators of the public morals; if the volunteer soldier were regarded as a wilful murderer, the foe to virtue, poaoo end righteousness, and so the toe to his country, instead of its friend; j if the successful warrior were spoken; of with pity, as deserving tears and prayers, not shouts and praises; ii we; could still associate with the person of the soldier his trade of human butcher, and look at the blood as it stains his garments, and keep in our nostrils the scent of human gore; no longer should we speak of splendid successes, or of “troops covered with immortal glory.” if there is any glory in the present war, we must give it to the defeated, broken mexican. when the position of that republic was that of one “de spoiled, outraged and contemned,” her persistent firmness deserves our praise. she could not be brought to treat for peace, while a threatening hand was extended over her. and when at last she did consent, when opposng factions had weakened her arm, with her army scattered, her treasury empty, her means exhausted, and her most impor tant cities in the enemy’s power; when every star of hope had sunk from the firmament, her noble refusal to give up the provinces which claimed still her protection, deserves to receive its meed of glory. it is a flash of light which reveals an unconquerable spirit, and is worthy of better days, and shall be blessed with better days. her answer to our demand of new mexico was this: “the government cannot con sent to cede new 7 mexico, whose in habitants have manifested their desire to make a part of the mexican family, with more enthusiasm than any other part of the republic. these meritori ous mexicans, abandoned to their fate during som; administrations, often with out protection even to preserve them from the incursions of the savages, have been the most truly patriotic of mexicans, because, forgetting their do mestic complaints, they have remem bered nothing but tlu ir desire to be of the mexican family; and many, ex posing and sacrificing themselves to the vengeance of the invaders, have re belled jagainst them; and when their plans were discovered or disconcerted, and their conspiracies frustrated, have again conspired. and would any go vernment sell such mexicans as a herd of cattle? never! let tlie nationali ty of the rest of the republic perish for them! let us perish together!” ves, this is the spisit. and these are the ppoplc, contending 1 >r their homes and national existence, about whom glory dwells, rather than w ith those w ho would force them to submit to a foreign rule. glory! no glory crowns our country’s brow many vears. once she stood before the world with the broad banner floating to the breeze, on which was inscribed the glorious motto, “all men are entitled'to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness 'n» e pme was won, after reddening many a field with the best blood cd’ beating, human hearts. and then av what then? these men, strong in the battle for freedom, calling upon the c f hosts; these men, brave, prudent, hon ored, form a compact to rivet vet stronger the fetters of the slave; bind ing all, even the sons of new england, those who shall tread her free moun right is of no sex—trlth is of no color— god is the father of us all, and all we are brethren. tains, bathing their summits in godv free who should till her field*, and breathe tier atmosphere; binding them all by solemn oath and perpetual contract, to spend their blood and treasure, should there come the need, in perpetuating a system full of wicked-! ness, black as the open throat of hell itself. this is the glory which this wat heaps tip. it bears inscribed upon; its banner, the extension of human slavery.” look at it! with a country abound ing in every natural resource, w ith inen and money, with every improvement in i art, with all the appliances of science,! industry and skill, how do we use, them? to win the nations to the love of freedom? to protect the weak, and aid the suffering? to advance the happiness and comfort of our race, or even to spread the peaceful pursuits of commerce? to aid industry, and bring together distant regions? oh, no, this is not our glory. with untold millions of acres, —now desolate in their solitude, or roamed over by the wild beasts of the desert, sending up to the noon-day sun and the open firmament of heaven their plead ing voice for the hand of man to be laid upon their bosun, they may give hack to him the blessings of sun. and dew*, and rain, and the fertilizing influences of the lapse of ages; with these belonging to us, there are across 1 tlie water —yes, in our homes, our streets, our cities, thousands upon ten thousands, listless, starving, dying, 1 who w ould rejoice w ith.joy unspeakable,; to possess and till these fair and fertile acres. j oh, glorious nation, which sells these: broad lands to the speculator, and ex pends the money in war! glorious nation, which gives one hun dred and sixty acres as a bounty for murder, and cannot give one rod to him who is dying for work! glorious government wh icli can: spend millions, with all the appliances of skill and science; the energies of aspiring youth and noble manhood; all the wealth of a mighty nation for years to come, to subdue a weak, divided, miserable country, while a deaf car is turned to a whole people of noble-j hearted workmen dying for bread. “no! money can be given for help, because! the money is needed for the war!”— no money for charity, none for justice, none for the payment of claims long due to our own citizens, none for internal commerce, for science, for the promo tion of the means of human comfort; all must betaken to pay the hirelings j in this war of slavery! such is tlie glory that encircles onr nation’s brow! and how can tlie man of discerning intellect and sound moral perception, use the words splendor, glory, iuiuior tolity, in connection with such a cause as this it is the cause that conse crates or curses; that crowns with tlie chaplet of a true renown, or brands with a fiery mark of hell. for deeds of individual daring, you have but to go to every painted, howl-! ing, and demoniac savage tribe. and! what, like the pirate’s deck, has ex-! hibited a fierce, unflinching courage, when the banded crew fought for money and the lust of blood? a furious zeal! excites every breast, and death is wel-i coined w ith a thoughtless joy. for thousands of years, in every clime, and under every sky, glory has been sought in deeds of blood; and to 1 seek it thus to-day, in contest with an inferior foe, is cheap, and mean, and dastard, to the extreme. vet what have we heard? not the voice of praise from one, but a univer sal chorus of exultation. professed ministers of the meek and peaceful je sus, thanking the merciful creator that the national feeling of love of victory” had been so abundantly grafi- fied; professed christian newspapers, spreading forth the sickening detail of wholesale, scientific murder, with ful some epithets of praise; grave legisla tors, —whigs, and democrats, —those who denounce and those who defend it, vicing with each other in votes of thanks to their marauding, blood-stain ed countrymen. every day in the journals that go into every corner, pen etrate into every house, and fall under the eye of young and old, woman and man, wise and foolish, arc to be seen the words of praise, the expressions of joyful admiration, the epithets that be long to deeds beloved of god, and worthy of his obedient children. in one column is seen tlie war de nounced; in another, its voluntary prosecutors, its willing instruments, hired for a few cents per day or a shin ing epaulet, to kill and be killed, are praised and glorified. the war is wrong; but they who wage its battles are right. the cause is infamous; the men who love the cause are heroes. 'the deeds are accursed, and their end is evil; but the willing doers of the mighty w rongs, are worthy of eternal memory. such is the low standard of moral estimate, the utter want of inanlv, chris tian principle, exhibited by the progress of the present war. another fact, worthy of notice in this connection, is the spit it of apathy andj indifference which prevails among us all, even those who are opposed to the war, both in its cause, origin and prose cution. it is worthy of our especial wonder. and yet whv should we wonder at this, when a greater wrong, and of which this is one incidental and ulti mate consequence, has for many years been borne so paiteutly, and has laded to enlist such an earnest opposition, as to heave it from its base fcwc have seen the iniquitous system rochester, n. y., friday, march 3, 1848. of slavery, which at the end of the la-t century had become wo unprofitable, that the advocate® of emancipation were many and poweriw, by the impulse of) a foreign market for its products, grown to a gigantic size, lord it over all our government, dictate the policy of thej trample upon that constitution by which aloue its power is upheld,, stand forth üblushingly and claim hom age from us all, and an equal right w ithj that which is good, of protection and 1 extension. we have seen this system! leading to tlie violation of treaties, the appropriation of territory claimed by a sister republic, and plunging at last our nation into a war oi conquest. we have seen, i«*c eighteen months, the work of mutilation, crime and death go on, each advancing step sunk deeper in human gore. by every mail has’ come some new deed of violence.— cities have been attacked, and the cry of helpless women and children hasj risen, amid the shrieks and agony of death and dishonor. the living have j gone forth, and dead corpses encased in lead have returned. thousands of widows and orphans have sent up to the heavens their pitiful wail. blood and treasure have been j»ourcd fortli as j water. continually has been the cry, more living to replace the dead; more silver and gold, to spend in the work of conquest; more means to penetrate into the enemy’s vital parts.” and yet all is quiet as under the most perfect despotism. there is no united appeal, which should malic the rulers tremble; no thronging voices of peti tion, no indignant rebuke, no prayer, “lord, how* long?” all is still, as though a polluted crust of selfishness, hard and icy, had bound down all the generous, noble instincts cf the human heart. all is still, as if napoleon were our emperor, and files of imperial guards,” with bayonets fixed, were ranged before our doors. oh, for some •peter the hermit, to kindle the fires oi enthusiasm! to traverse this land,tosul-j fer even the pains of martyrdom, to! rouse us from this heavy sleep! there would seem to be no hope of -our awakening, if the developments j now* taking place, fail to stir us. the evidence is clear, in the face of all denial, that this, from the first, has been a war of conquest. no condi tions of peace have been offered, ex cept coupled with the demand oi sur-; render of territory. this’is shown to 1 be the meaning of the favorite phrase,, conqueiing a peace.” fight until the enemy gives up the territory we demand; beat him until he accepts onr conditions, is the unmanly stand that j has from the first been taken. get possession of the enemy’s terri tory and keep it, has been the soul of every instruction. when commodore sloat was sent to the pacific, only two months after the war had commenced, ins instructions; were, to obtain speedy possession ofj california; so that in the event ot peace being made on the basis of actual possession, we should be found in actual possession of california. thus is dis closed the fact, that no sooner had the war begun, than the scheme w as laid of acquiring territory. the instructions say, and with an cn-, tire unconsciousness of the latent base-j ness, the object of the united statesj is, under its rights as a belligerent na-: tion, to possess itself entirely of upper california. the object of the united j states has reference to ultimate peace! with mexico; and if at the peace, the basis of the uli possidelis shall he es tablishcd, the government expects, through your forces, i<p he found in actual possession of loper cali fornia.” this policy of conquest, at first de nied, though secretly acted upon, and the desire of which has continually and progressively increased, with the suc cess of our armies, is now openly pro claimed iu the last message of tiie pre dent. he says, i cannot doubt that we should secure and render available the conquests which we have already made; and that with ais view, we should hold and occupy, by our naval and military forces, all the ports, towns, cities and provinces, now* in our occu pation, or which may fall hereafter into qur possession.” in accordance with this policy are the resolutions introduced by mr. dickin son in tbe senate, which begin thus: “resolved, that true policy requires the government of the united states to strengthen its political and commercial relations upon this continent by tlie an nexation of such contiguous territory as may conduce to that end, and may be justly obtained.” and everything now coming from the* seat of government, show’s that the schemes of ambition, grown huge by the conquest® it fed upon, look now with disdain upon single provinces, and contemplate the entire subjugation cf mexico as a province, or its absoiquic-n as a territory by twtfoited states. even mr. calhoun, who has hereto fore shown no lack of fere for increased dominion, is alarmed" and seeks to fall back. he little knew the spirit he was rousing. he little kn* w that fi*r the safety of our institutions, the spirit of foreign conquest ought long ago to have; been checked. but dr. channing wrote years ago, i did this country know itself, or were it disposed to profit by self-knowledge, it would feel the necessity of laying anj immediate curb on it® passioo for ex tended territory. it would not trust it self to new acquisitions. it would shrink from the temptation to conquest. we are a restless people, prone to en croachment, impatient of the ordinary laws of progress; less anxious to con solidate and perfect, than to extend our institution*; more ambiti.«i» of spread ing ourselves over a wide space, than of diffusing beaofymwffniitfulnesj' over a narrower field. possesst d of a domain vast enough for the growth of ages, it u time for us to stop iu the career of acquisition and conquest. already en dangered by our greatness, we cannot advance without imminent peril to our institutions, union, prosperity, virtue, and peace/*. the truth of these words. even calhoun seems ready now to j acknowledge. he has found himself far outrun, and now, spent in breath/ he pants and flutters with exhaustion. too late docs he see the danger which he has been one of the m>st tool-hardy f in provoking. lie has around spirits) of the vasty deep, spirits of tire, earth and hell, which words cannot now allay or beat back. and vet wc are all indifferent! wc feel ns if wc had little concern in these events, big with our own fate and the fate of our children. the open avowal of the rulers of this mighty nation, to push on their con quests even to the utter annihilation of the foe, if that foe does not yield to a conqueror’s terms, awakens no deep voice of remonstrance from the na tion’s heart; falls upon dull, cold ears. truly do we seem almost to have en tered into that fearful state, when our eyes are blinded and our ears are stopped, lest, at any time/we should see with our eyes and hear with our ears, turn from our evil courses, and so escape the deserved judgments of the god of universal justice. if this indifference could have been reached by the appeals of principle, it would seem as ii‘ long since it would have been disturbed. if this nation had a consciencc7 that conscience could not hut have been moved. if it had a soul of honor, it cculd not but have prostrated itself in shame to the dust. but principle, honor, conscience, seem dead, and men quietly sneer at their appeal. no glow of virtuous en thusiasm warms the general soul, no pulse of light beats in the universal j heart. therefore, according to the laws of, god’s providence, by which those infiu-j cnees successively proceed, adapted foj the state of a nation, wc arc now enter-j in" into that phase of external and ma-j teviul evils, in which every violation of! the law of jove and light must ultimate and complete itself. we are beginning to witness the effects; a degraded moral sentiment, a lust of power, a devotion to mere party good, a generation trained in the at mosphere of carnage and military glo ry; a standing army as large as the despots of europe; a flow of specie to a foreign'land; an increasing public debt; the consolidation of power in the hands of the executive; the exaltation! of warlike chiefs to places of civil pow er, and political partisans to military! rank; the decline of public credit; the difficulties of financial embarrassment; the imposition of taxes; an increased frontier to protect from savage inroads; and the seemingly inevitable necessity of furthering the extension of human slavery. [to be continued.] from the new york tribune. tiie .mormons in the w!liter* ness. we arc a great people for charity, liberty, justice, and all that, wiicnevcr wc happen to be the suffering, oppress ed or injured party, or when wc can gratify a cherished prejudice or spite against the actual wrong-doers but there are few nations on earth whose history can parallel the acts of flagrant, gigantic robbery and wrong which have; been committed by our own govern ment and citizens, and which have been i suffered to pass without public chastise-[ ment or even rebuke. the jewish captivity, the expulsion of the moors from spain, the expatriation of the french acadians from nova scotia by british cruelty and tyranny, furnish no! adequate parallel to the robbery and exile which we have inflicted on several indian tribes, but especially the chero kces; the partition of poland was not near so hypocritical and no whit more atrocious than our subjugation of mexi-, co; while the bartholomew massacres,! witch-burnings and other popular mad nesses of dark ages afford the only ade quate parallels to the atrocities which we have patiently, placidly, unresisting ly suffered to be inflicted—in violation of every principle of nationality and of the common rights of humanity—allow ed to be perpetrated upon the poor, de luded fanatics opprobiiously known as mormons. we have not time now to go into the history of this national baseness. the country looked on and saw the mons driven fjrnm their hard-won homes, while their property was stolen or de- 1 strayed, in violation ofdivinc and hu man laws. property which cost them millions was wasted or rend ere 1 worth less, and now the poor victims are wan dering over the bleak praries of the savage north-west, in bewildering ter-; ror and sullen despair, or lying down to die by hundred's of far..ine and naked ness. our government, which ought to have protected them, and might have done it, let them he plundered of their alt; and now they are starving by hun dreds for want of the implements of in dustry and the necessaries of life. shall nothing be done for them we have raised money freely for jrecce, tor ireland, and for other needy suppli cants; can we do nothing tor our own perishing countrymen, the victim* of our bigotry, our faithlessness and our ra pacity? we say, that while charity bade us be liberal on former occasion*, here hi a call upon our justice, which we cannot disregard crime.— who will step forward to render it ef fectual? the facts embodied in the following letter from col. kane of philadelphia, to major quincy of boston, a ill be found of deep and general interest,— no correct idea of the situation, for tunes, sufferings, and aims of* the mor mons, since their expulsion from illinois can elsewhere »w? obtained. col. k., j has been brought frequently in contact j with the fugitive bands since their exo dus while engaged in indian negotia tions in the far west, and has been moved to a profound sympathy by theii miseries. through his representations and efforts, a public meeting in their behalf was recently held in philadelphia, the mayor presiding, and the most emi nent citizens taking part in the pro ceedings. lie has since visited boston, in the b >pe of exciting some interest among its philanthrope citizens, anti while there addressed the following let ter to the mayor, which wc copy from the morning post: mr. kane’s letter to mr. quiver. revere house, monday, feb. it. df.a r sir: —ln our conversation, i had the pleasure of giving to you in full the views i derived from personal observation and experience with regard to the mormons, during my recent journey to the far west. i mentioned to you what i saw of their highly up right and excellent moral character white in the indian territory, and stated j my often repeated opinion of the gratui tous injustice of their persecution. it* 1 judge rightly, however, what is desiret in my present letter is a simple, un colored narrative, for the ccnsidcratior of the charitable rather than the curi j ous, of the position, numbers andcondi tion of the chief sufferers of the sect. to this i w ill confine myself as closely as i can, in the limited amount of time at my disposal. emigrating mormons, to the numbci i of nearly are to be found wef t of the missouri, from the country of the i platte, belonging to the omaha and otto indians, to that beyond the notable bear llivcr valley across the rocky j mountains; but the condition of the ma jority of these persons, though un<]ouht edly forlorn, dors not invite philnntiiro i pic invest!!* at ion, since they are gcncr j ally beyond the reach of timely help. the mormons, who can be counted ns appealing to tiie immediate generosity of your townspeople, are certain strug gles in the roar of the main body in march, and whose camps are on this, the eastern side of the or immediately along its course. ol such the unhappy destitution is very great. it is, in part, the issue of cir cumstances in which their history differs i from that of the emigrants farther ad vanccd; and which 1 think 1 cannot do better than detail. they composed, originally, the re fuse, lame, aged, sick and pauper mem bers of the church, who were found unable to attempt the great california pilgrimage of 18if>. un this account their friends, who started at that date, concluded, it seems, an especial treaty or armistice for their benefit, w ith the anti-mormon mob, and left them be hind in illinois under its protection.— 'i bis treaty covenanted, with the most solemn formalities, that they were in no wise to be molested until another asylum could be prepared for their reception beyond the rocky mountains. just so soon, however, as the mormon host had made a progress of some months upon its travels, and couhl safely be considered out of the way, the instru ment —oaths, seals and ribbons—was broken by the anti-mormons without ceremony or excuse, and tire cripples who relied upon it were ordered to take up their beds and walk. upon this the helpless beings, driven to desperation, made a remarkably rss*dute defence ol their holy city, which, being hardly more than a large hospital of incurables, could meritoriously have claimed of any other barbarians its privilege of sanctuary. it was bombarded, howev er, by an overwhelming force, and not withstanding, the beleaguered for two days supposed, as 1 am informed, they were replying to the fire upon them with three guns of their ow n, of large muz zle, they had ibrged out of a broken steamboat shaft; at lixst, after losing some of their soundest men in fight, they were glad to fiee forth with their lives, that is to say, w ifh little or nothing else. i saw most of these poor folks while they were yet on the light bank of the mississippi, opposite nauvoo. it was just after the cannonade, and i think they had been there a matter of two or throe days. some of them had fled over before the assault to escape the balls that battered in their houses; the remainder had waited till ousted by di rect force of anus. few had food enough to satisfy their hunger. exposure and fat»gue had combined to vi.,it many of the nominally robust of them w ith the ague, and the bilious remittent fever, known as favor ite indulgences of the system in the western country but, sick ar.d well, conscientious yellow souls, they all lay down alike among the reeds and s.»at lerdock* of the 1 ,w river shore; the fa vored ones huddled together under tat tered sheets, counterpanes or bed spreads stretched gipsy-tcnt-wj'c over a tripod ol sticks; others lodging eut side of these shelters, and going to sleep with their pinched faces to the sky. i have not the satisfaction of a «iouf4 that among these 1 «t upon thus shivering in the sharp night air of autumn, many whom the screening of a roof ought have saved, died looking across tne stream upon their comfort able homes, in which the orthodox bul lies of the mob were celebrating their triumph in obscene and drunken riot. at the epoch of which i speak, they were bent on m j\ ing west* ard to over- william c. mux, lysusuaa. john dick, paisvss. whole no—x. take, as they hoped, ohe rear guard of thtir column in the advance, hut wers pitiably unprovided with adequate means tor doing so. one had a cow, may be, which he could yoke to the crazy cart of his fellow. another, by disclosing to the cupidity of the lows squatti rs, his |k>*session of his watch or j °*htr paltry treasure he had secreted, was able to hire a lift in a farm wagon, j several, they were lew, appeared to own among them a mixed horse and ox i team; the rest had no other means of transportation than their own bodily frames, though it may be observed that, by a natural providence to whose effect 1 have already adverted, these were j nearly everything they had to carry. thus jury-rigged, un provisioned and almost unclothed, they started on their voyage—an overland voy nge that they intended to measure over one-fouith of the diameter of the world. it is little wonder then, that being unsuccessful in overtaking their brethren, they have since literally fallen by the wayside, in the wildernes, and there having eaten up the beasts of burden that helped them along so far upon their weary stage, now find themselves equally uu j able to push forward or to return. at i sundry crossing-places of the larger 1 streams that have impeded their pro gress, in wooded clefts aud sheltered copses of the prairie, in alatuloned in dian villages—wherever, in short, they j have found life most easily sustained, !or as some of them have said, ns their fate has proved in many instances, death tnort easily borne, they have halt -1 ed and gone to wmrk to strive to keep j body and soul together till relief, either in the way of alms of of a propitious de cease should come up and overtake them. with the aid of a quantity of indian corn and garden roots they have raised for food, and of groat fires of cot tonwood brush—these as a substitute for sufficient shelter and clothing—many lived through the last winter, and so many will doubtless survive this one, though it presses upr-ti the whole poo pie w ith cold and famine in its train.— j but the return of spring is to bring them r.o better fortunes. ihe emacia ted and pining survivors, if unaided by us, must still continue to be without tho power of replenishing their stock of ne cessaries, or of charging their pluce to ;go to seek it; while it should be noted that their gcnciul health is already so impaired that they are becoming with everyday less capable of vigorous ef fort for their own assistance* i having limited, my remarks to ap ply to individuals, concerning whose plight i am possessed of accurate infor mation. 1 ought to add that there are still others whose numbers would with difficulty be coirectly ascertained.— j somewhere beyond the head waters of the lys moim s, and on the tiibularic* j oltlie uj per. missouri from thenhdina botha to lt.nu qui ooule river, say from boo to 1100 miles abovt&t. louis, there aie, i suppose, some ft,ooo othef dejected human beings, who are proba bly without any menus to wave in our eyes their signal of distress. vet n.any of these, i know, are dying of chit! and hunger, without metaphor or exaggera r ticn. they are dying while we are talk ing about them. i am, sir, very respectfully, your friend and obedient servant, i thomas l. kane, j hon. josiaii qcixcv, jr. a tart refi.v.—alex. duinns, ihc great french dramatist, is of colored origin. a capital story is teld of him in a late number of black wood's maga zine. it seems that a person more re markable for inquisitiveness than for correct breeding—one of those who, devoid ofdelicacy and reckless of rebuff, pry into everything—took the liberty to question m. dumas rather closely concerning his genealogical tree. vou are a quadroon, m. dumas?" he began. a n>f sir," quietly replied dumas, who has sense enough not to be of h descent he cannot conceal. and your lather?" was a mulatto." and your grandfather?" ‘‘a negro,” hastily answeird th a dramatist, whose j nficnce was waning. and may i inquire what yeur great grandfather was?" “an ape, sir” thundered dumas, with a fierceness which made his im pertinent interrogator shrink into th* smallest possible compasa. ‘‘an ape, sir—my pedigree commences wlicro youia terminates."— phil, spirit <f the times. the .sties.— l cannot say, that it i n chiefly the contemplation of their infi nitude, and of the imrm-h»urabie space ts cy occupy, that enraptures me in the stars. still less do 1 regard tin m ab s< lutely with reference to the* life after this. tl e mere thought that they are so farihcyond and above everything torn striiilj—- the feeling that before* ih« in everything earthly so utterly tantalus to nothing*—that the single man is to infinitely iinsignificar.t in the compari son with fh< •r»e worlds strewn over a.j space—that his destinies, hi* enjoy ments, ard sacrifices, to which he attaches such a minute importance, how all these fad*! like nothing be fore such mm** use objects—th«n tbst tho eourtciiation* bind together all *h<* race* of fnsn, ar.d all the eras of the carlli, that they have beheld that has passed since the beginning of time, and will sec all that until »la end. in flmtighf* hke these i can a!- wavs lose myself, w itu a silent defigbr. in the view of the starry firmament.— jiumtjclm’s letters. pori t*tioi or kcrrcto.—the census of buffalo, just completed, shows population of 40521. reuters *ew york anti. slavery society. avttslavert meetings. ckaruis r-vnond and j. c. hatha way, agmrtsof the western new york anti- jharerv society, pro; tone to hold anti sla very meetings, at the following places: hopewell, wed. march 8, at 2 p.oi. and evening. vienna, thursday and friday, romrncacing on first day at two o'clock, p.tn. the fricods m tfa; diflbrent localities are expected to make all necessary arrangements. vote rr thank*. —at a meeting of thr executive ounniltee t l».dd on vefcruary 15th, 1848, on motion, it was resolved unanimously, 'lyat we tender our grateful acknowledg ments to james n. bum*, of lynn, for his generous donation of anti-slavery books to this society, and thus contributing to help the cause along.” w. c. nell, rec. sec. anti-si. a vest mrenro. —on monday evening, cth march, frederick docgliss will d diver an anti-slavery address in the ford street biptist church, rochester. to commence at seven o'clock, p.m. the pub lic arc respectfully invited to attend. a temi'ekanck meeting will he held in the court house at the usual hour on sunday evening, march 5, which will be addressed bv frederick doucglam. death of john q. adams. the venerable patriot and statesman john quincy ad ms expired at the capitol last evening, a little after sesen o'clock. he lin gered, to all appearance, insensible and un conseious, from the period of his attack on monday, until an hour after sunset last even isg, when he gently breathed his last, and his spirit returned to god who gave it.” it is not for us to pronounce the eulogy of one so eminent, and so honorably and constantly associated with all that was exalted in his country's history, from the very foundation of the government to the present tune. that task will be fittingly discharged by more com petent and more appropriate hands. it will suffice for this brief notice to say, that feu men have filled a larger space, or acted a more important part in the great civil affairs of their country that few have commanded a higher admiration for abilities, or won a wider respect for unwavering integrity and a sight adherence to his views of duty. ilis domestic character was not less bright than liis public, and was truly above all praise and all reproach.— nat. intelligencer feb. 24. the north star. rochester. march 3, 1848 colored churches—no- 11- in discussing this subject, we will not overlook or disregard tha fact, that those institutions have a place in the holiest affec tions and associations of colored persons themselves; and that calling them in question will be, by many, regarded a most unwarrant able and sacrilegious interference with god approved and hcaven-onlained institutions.— we say to any such, pause before you con demn. give attention to what we are about to say. weigh well our words, and judge dispassionately. remember that error may be safely tolerated, if truth be left free to combat it; and that you are required to prove all tilings, and hold fast to that which is good and that you arc toll by the great teacher hi»self, to judge for yourselves what is right. we do not wish this discussion to be all on one side, and shall therefore gladly welcome to our columns any views conflict ing with our own on this subject. wc raise this question, (and are prepared to discuss it w'ith dr. smith, alexander crummell, or any other advocate of separata religious organi zations,) to wit: are churches esjwcially as signed to the use of colored persons in this country, consistent with the true idea of hu man brotherhood, the spirit and precepts ol the christian religion, and the best means of improving the moral and religious condition of the colored people we recommend this question to the consideration of debating so cieties, as well as to out entire fellow country men. in speaking against the existence of colored curchos, wc don't wish to be under stood as attaching particular blame to the persons composing them. they, for the part, are without blame. they have cone what seemed to them best. in the founders of those churches, the motive fur tsparating from the white churches was in e>ery respect commendable. it was a blow ttruek in the cause of religious liberty. it v ts a declaration of ecclesiastical independ ence and while we dislike the measure as unwise and injudicious, we nevertheless re *ct the motive which impelled them to a ‘opt it. their white religious brothers had proved themselves oppressors. they were proscribed, degraded and insulted in the very house of god. they were denied equal privileges, compelled to be seated in a sepa rate and distant part of the bouse of worship, ft up as a mark for tha proud finger of 3cirn. at the very altar, where were dealt the emblems of the death and bufferings him tflio, when on earth, taught his de voted followers the equal brotherhood of the r.re, by making his bad among the lowly, and. drawing about him the poor and ready, th:- wretched and the despised, even here it. 7 were proscriiied and insulted, solely on account of the cub* hi which an allwisc god bad clothed them. i*h dr grievances were numerous and weighty. they had rai.se for their conduct; and th** censure due to building uj sects and denouuaafons on the mere com plexion of peisons, must fall <>u those who forced colored persons ;ilo such relations.— jsot withstanding, wc c*.» mh fe d at liberty to censure tluwo who have formed such churches. we must insist that it would have tioen far better (or them to have stood up man fully for their rights in the several white churches to which they belonged, treating t! >*c churches as mere htanau urgamzatiiius, and exposing their uitjost and unnatural con duct before the people. wo do not bkunc men for sitting in w hat is called the negro pfvr, but ws blame the ta for having it under .stood that they sit th-r from choice, and that t ey recoguizu the cbarch as a christian -*dy which b«|uir«» such uisdwtetian dts unotion in the bouse of worship. they f to ild have earnestly protested, under the solemn sanction of christianity hartf, against such an open- tiolwaan of that religion vhasft regards all niukri alike. thii done; and if imsucuiaafal, clhacbes might have been formed apm the basso of that religion which proclaims he doctrine of onitersal brother hood and the cmnnasn equality of all its mem bers; thus preventing the evil of separate organizations for the especial use of colored persons, and laying the burden and dtagraee on the white churches tor compelling us to the measure. asti-slave by meeting at williamson. the anti-slavery convention, held on saturday and sunday last, in williamson. wan truly a bright and spirited one. the audience was large and earnest. as we en tered the baptist church, where the meeting i was held during the first day, charles lenox remond was on his legs, pouring forth to the excited assembly a must impassioned and elo- j quent address, designed to show that the i anti-slavery was the white, as well as the black man's cause. already we observe the fire of freedom burning. after remond, giles b. stebbins (a more truthful and clear sighted friend of the cause than whom does not breathe) took the platform, and engaged the attention of the audience in a brief but pertinent speech, on the same subject. after him, we were called for, and responded in a speech which occupied about one hour, and the afternoon meeting adjourned to seven o'clock. in the at the time appointed, the meeting house was again well filled.— men, women and children, age, youth and beauty, w r ere there, and all alive in the cause freedom. it was truly heart-cheering to look out upon the warm-hearted assemblage. at the very commencement, a* man of a very strange name, (which we have forgotten,) and stranger views, rose, and in a very strange way, proceeded, as well as we were able to understand him, to oppose the adoption |of several resolutions, affirming the wicked ness of slavery and the hypocritical character of the american people. to show that we had no right to pass such resolutions, he read a letter from elihu burritt, on using slave j produce. he was listened to with attention, i j and replied to by remond, in a manner that left no doubt as to what was right and who was wrong in the matter. we made the clo sing remarks, and the meeting adjourned to meet again on sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock, in the same place. during the night there came on a heavy snow storm, which continuing nearly all the 1 forenoon of sunday, left the earlh covered eighteen inches deep, and mantled the forest with purest elegance and beauty. at two o'clock, the meeting assembled at the metho dist, instead of the baptist meeting house.— we were not present, but were informed that the meeting was a good one. hathaway, j remond and stebhins severally addressed the meeting, and it adjourned to meet again in the evening. j again the house was crou’dcd, and the meeting passed off in the most satisfactory manner. remond made one of the most soul-stirring addresses we ever heard from his ever-eloquent lips. the impression was deep, and we think it will be lasting. at the j close of the meeting, an anti-slavery sewing i circle, auxiliary to the western new york anti-slavery society, was notified to meet this day at the house of john mott. out friends in williamson came nobly up to the work. griffith m. cooper, the veteran friend of the indian, as well as the african, aided, with sympathy, hospitality and money, to help the cause along. great religious revival*. they are, we regret to observe, becoming uncommonly prevalent throughout our war making and man-stealing, ecclesiastical and political union. vermont, new hampshire, massachusetts, connecticut, new york, tennessee, and mississippi, are triumphantly trumpeted by our slaveholding religious press, as being at present favored with a most co pious out-pouring of the spirit of god. there is a revival now going forward in this city. we understand that one has been in progress at waterloo, during the entire winter; another too, is on the full tide of successful opera tion” in genet a. churches and ministers which have during along period, gone through the dead form and dumb-show of religious worship, with as little life, as if the holy spirit had bidden them adieu aud taken its everlasting flight—are at last aroused from their stupor by the galvanic operation of pro tracted meetings. of the various plans pro posed, for getting up these revivals, none seem to be regarded with more general favor, than protracted insetings. all praying in the closet, and preaching in the pulpit, seem un availing in producing a revival without these. but to cany on these successfully, extra nrtai of a peculiar cast must be employed. the usual minister answers very well for the com mon occasions of religious service but he cannot create or manage the storm of revival. a preacher must be obtained by importation or otherwise, possessing largely, that wonder ful quality—known among old revivalists, as the falling power.” the genteel and re fined, jo not usually possess this power—re vivals rddom follow the polite and beautiful sermons of r-rcrened i)rs. of divinity these tnav do very well for sunday morning, when the heads of the congregation have been cool ed, cleared, and chastened by refreshing sleep; but such ministers arc wholly ungual to stir ring up lira! wild fire ia the passions of a community, which is comprehended in the i term revival.” ]t requires more ol jthe “old rough and ready” material, tu i create aud earry through these high and bois tcrous storms of fiery passion, than is usuallv possessed by learned dn. the latter, there -1 fore, are commonly lost sight of during these times. large lungs are found to be far more effective, than large heads, while revivals are in progress. but when the revival is over, order lakes the place of confusion reaaoo controls the passions ilte man w ho lias near ly exhausted ins organs of speech, nuned his lungs, and through whose powerful and wcar ing labors hundreds have beso */t<ud to the church, nun* give way to make plsee for some dr., who, as trough says, u pots the p dial iug on. one of this unfortunate clam, has long wrho bent the bush, while others caught the hare,” cotnpkiiucd to us a few days ago, that doc crrtfit had not bee* ffrea to him by hk man refried kethrea of(lbe craft, for hating ben *be mem under goo, of awakeamf soak, and getting op a revival in ua town. he gate tt» no ascotl of the very quit, (to one ua ovrn wools,) where the revival “broke •at,” aad traced it from one church to another all over the vicinity. in oooe ofthoae church es, he acid, waa anything mentioned? indica ting who bad commenced the work- la all the exclamations of this apparently sincere and good man, about the value of precious souk andthegloryofged.it waa evident,that be had not forgotten the meed of praise doe tn himself. well, could anything else he ex pected, when a man who baa toiled and sweat ed, and almost worn out his hangs in convert ing souk, sees another too bay and lifeless u> get up a revival for himself, oat only pocket ing the cadi resulting from those labors, bat actually carrying off the glory of these revi vals we do not marvel, that they feel grieved and wronged. it is, however, no part of our purpose to remedy this evil—we allude to it simply as an illustration of the characters of the men engaged in carrying oo revivab. the great purpose for which we call atten tion to this subject, is because of its relation and bearing upon the righteous reforms of the age, and especially the anti-slavery reform. it is remarkable as it is true, that the high claims of outraged humanity, are never more disregarded, than in times of what are popu larly called religious revivals, and by the very persons professing to be most deeply interest ed in carry ing on. there may be ex ceptions to thi/broad and general statement; but our whole experience as a slave, and as a freeman at the south and at the north, con firms us in the full truth of this statement. in these days, humanity has cause to mourn rather than rejoice over what is popularly re garded, as an out-pouting of the spirit of god. it was not so in the days of christ and his apostles. a revival then, was in perfect keeping with going about doing good, reliev ing distress* enlightening the ignorant and im proving the physical condition of mankind to propose such worksto our revivalists, seems al most a wasteful expenditure of time they treat such works with contempt, stigmatizing them as infidel movements, calculated to draw off attention from the all important and solemn duty of saving souls. during one of these re vivals, recently, at waterloo, the minister made us the especial object of attack, calling us by name, denouncing us as being a child of the devil, and coupling us with the vilest of persons. we are informed, that he called the names of several others, and his sermon applied to them the most disgusting epithets; and when an intelligent and highly respecta ble gentleman of the place asked permission to say a word in behalf of his absent and as persed friends, he was vociferously and in sultingly told, he should not be allowed to speak. this is a fair specimen of our rever end revilers. availing themselves of the ad vantages of the pulpit, to stab and blast the character of absent men; and when their falsehoods are attempted to be exposed, they take shelter under the laws protecting reli gious worship. they are very brave men in assaulting w hen the hands of their victims are, tied. they can utter the most malignant falsehoods, when no one is allowed to expose them they can talk loudly of meeting all the imps of pandemonium, and yet shrink from an' open and free discussion w ith an humble comeouter.” ob the cowards we think all laws, giving to religious meetings su perior advantages to others, ought to be at once repealed. religions meetings ought to' be controlled by the same laws of decency and order, that check and control the action of other meetings. why should a malignant minister of religion, be allowed pulicly to misrepresent and asperse the characters of those he may wish to harm, any more than any other man there is no good reason for it, yet such is the case a man in the garb of a religious minister, is allowed to deal damnation” on w homsoever he may elect, and if any reply be attempted, the person so doing, is denounced as a disturber of religious ser vices.” oh rtligion, what deeds are done in thy sacred name. our old master, a real revival class leader in the methodist church, used to tie up a young woman, our owm cousin, and scourge her naked back, till her w arm blood dripped at her feet and in justification of his fiendish brutality, he would quote this passage of scripture j he who kno wet* i hi* master’* u ill and doetli it not, *hall he beaten with many stripes.” j we know, that what we say of these wick led revivals and revivalists, is not to be set i down to the charge of christianity itself, or to j ‘rue piety against these we have nothing to say. it is against revivals, that go hand in hand with the slave trade—a religion that sanctions robbery, murder and wholesale adultery—a piety that covers with glory, the j bloody pirate—a church which has man-steal ers and women-whippers for members and ministers—w hich regards as christians, those j who traffic iu the souls and bodies of men, and who shelter themselves from our rebuke under the pretence, that god is owning and blessing their labors, by reviving his work among them a band of religious professors, who are loud in their real for god, and arc heartless and indifferent about the welfare of man. we say it is against such as these, that we would hurl the most pointed rebukes, and brand them with the deepest condemnation. thr blackstonk chronicle. —the first 1 number of this paper made its appearance on j the 26th of february, un<l*r the editorial management of oliver johnson, esq. the; paper is of double medium size, neatly print-, ed—terms one dollar and seventy-five cents j in advance, and two dollars if paymeat be delayed. the paper is to be fettered by neither sect nor party. the editor informs his readers, that the chronicle is intended— first of all, lobe a 4 family newspaper/' we however, gather from its preliminaries, that it is to be altogether different from the iruay uvsay trash in the shape of american news paper, already too extensively circulated and read in the sacred family circle. nothing need be said in praise of either the industry, enterprise, experience, or ability of the editor. ail who know him are aware that he poo aesoes every qualification necessary to make a most able and interesting paper; and we have no doubt of his complete success. lit the hoo. john p. hale,of the senate, and the hon. joswia r. guiding*, of the hook of representatives, win accept onr thanks for cq»pcssio»al documents. bit. mrau h.cwwc*im. we see it staked to the new turk et» gefieit that thft recreant eobed wk im retsraed to this country f sad b «ow in phib ddphia. he west to england tar the pw pane of nitaf money, with whiah to build aed pay tar ehsreh. wo nedettaood that he has boea very aoeecmtal, and has ooo> eroded h getting largo anas am ajbolitam iata fer thb porpooe. while m setaknd. he eras the companion of beggs, r ■oeinghtm, candliah, *e., of the misnamed free chotch. yea, he wao in tall fellowship with the only church in that country, which dares to fellow ship with and defend the christian character of, american amaetoafets. he was careaoed and honored by the men who cams to this country, preached in the pulpits, and collected money from manatealen; who saw the slave in rags and wretchedntm, whhoot marriage, without bibles, withoat sabbath-schools, without the privilege of learning to read the oarne of the god that made them, nd never raised a whisper of rebuke to their enslavers, nor gave a word of sympathy to the perishing slave. strange companionship indeed for a colored minister! we would thank any one of our readers in philadelphia to send us the address of this gentleman, published in the ledger of that eity, immediately after the mob of 1842, for we desire to pay our res pects to this reverend orator at another time. «et. itbpbbjv b» commits ications. —lt is a source of ex treme pride, and great encouragement, that our editorial table is constantly stocked with well written articles and communications, from the pens of colored writers, many of whom, like ourself, have never enjoyed the advantage of one day's schooling in their lives. if they are intelligent, they are so not only without the fostering aid of outward cir cumstances, but against their most powerful influences. we shall entertain no fears as to the ultimate and complete freedom and equal ity of the colored people in this country, when they shall once adopt and enjoy the custom of reading and writing, and seize upon the or dinary means of intellectual improvement. we proclaim the high mission of our star to be, the awakening of the oppressed to a just sense of their wrongs, a high apprecia tion of their heaven-derived rights—the im buing of their mir.ds with a manly self-respect a spirit of enterprise and industry, and a virtuous ambition. in order to this desirable end, we shall publish as many such articles a^we conveniently can, that as many of the oppressed may speak as possible; and that they may have the satisfaction of knowing that their thoughts and feelings are going to' swell the common tide of opinion, which shall one day bring a glorious deliverance to our race. we counsel such as have written articles, not to be discouraged, because they may not always find a place in the north star. want of room frequently excludes articles which in other circumstances it would be quite proper to publish. we shall do the very best we can in this respect. fame and glory is the title of an address before the literary societies of amherst col lege, at their anniversary, august it, 1847, by charles sumner, esq. we have.read this timely and highly instructive address with feelings of intense satisfaction. mr. sumner, though a highly cultivated gentle man and scholar, often alluding to books we have never seen, and to the sayings and do ings of men of whom we (a poor fugitive have never heard, has nevertheless put us in possession of his valuable thoughts on fame and glory, which, we trust, will be as useful to others as we intend to make them to ourself. pittsburgh, february 19, 1848. bear douglass —this, probably is my last letter hailing- from this quarter, and i should have been gone ere this, but provi dential matters, beyond my control, have prevented. anti-slavery, as such, is still at low tide in this quarter, the almighty dollar,” the over-ruling pelf, being first in thought, first in desire, and the first thing grasped at bf our fallow countrymen. the temperance cause is begyyiing to look up,” i having, by invitation, addressed the pittsburgh so ciety of washingtonians, on monday evening last, in temperance hall, and on the follow ing friday evening, the rev. mr. west, of the fifth presbyterian church, a scotch gentleman, gave a most edifying and classic lecture, before a crowded honse. one of mr. w esl's strongest arguments was illustrated; by a simile, in which the kidnapper, the slave trader and the slaveholder, were the figure used for demonstration. he is an anti- slavery man, of*the old conscientious scotch school, and does not scruple to avow his sen timents, even in the presence of slaveocrats and cokmizationists, as there were in this instance a goodly number present. one dip more, and the old gentleman would stand unblemished in abolition, as he now does in morality—l mean when he cuts himself loose from obligations to pro-slavery government, and above all, a pro-ehvery church. his is a new school. the underground railroad is in high flight, and doing a lair business here and while i write, a panting fugitive enters my room, in company with a brother, seeking aid and ad vice. of course i immediately sent the! brother out lor aid. he returns—a ticket is; obtained—and another moment, and be is on his way rejoicing ho, the car emanripatkia, ride* majestic tbruugb oar uatioa the whigs have another long and loud call fur a candidate meeting in this city.— scott is the choice of this call. what in the world they intend doing with ail their nomi nees, they only know. there is also a suggestion lor a taylor meeting. ilia thought that there is not much difference between the clay and taylontes, as the aim of both parties seem to be to support a alavekolder at all hazards. when a house is divided against itself, it eannot stand.” i am in hopes that tbs whig* will stand long enough to overthrow the pro-ebtvery democrats, then fall themselves, never nun to rins, until thin whole abveocvatic nation shall have heooaae regenerated. the mexicans, it would appear, an not yet conquered; so far is this tram being the cane, that they, if army reports are at afl re liable authority, have now in the field an army of *o,ooo able-bodied men,,ready to make, or mm uj <—naitrntinns which wj be ■ale apui 1 k trar, dwi* an tu mors «f peace, (natal without llnddw of fiinartitina: m, without doubt, than fighting yet to b* done is mexico —no?, with out a speedy issue rf peace, tbe struggle is mmlj begin. hayti, aconrifing to tipeiga reports, is asm is qaite a paosparoos condition. tbs iw deal is very popular with the people, sad afl departments of the government har- i s» that tint most infamous personage, o'doancll, gsrnnor ot cuba, ie to be suc ceeded by oae whose eap of nsfailjr, is to be hoped, will never equal in fuhoem that of this man. o’donnell is one ef, if not the largest african slaveholder in tbe trorid, and! neat to pedro blanco, the wretched proprietor of tbe slave factories on the coast of africa, is the greatest slave trader living. perhaps there is not a slave of the hundreds which tail out of cuba, that is sot partly owned by o'donnell. so wealthy has he become by this infernal traffic in human beings, that the crown of spain is alarmed at his influence over the colony. he is the same, it will be remembered, who, when tbe memorial from the world’s convention, for the abolition of slavery, went forth, invoking the immediate action of the crowned heads of europe, and the sore reign ties of the world, in aid of the great cause, declared, that though an act were passed by the cortes councils, sanc tioned by the sovereign, for the abolition of slavery in the spanish colonies, he would never, while acting as the chief magistrate of that island, permit such an act to take ef fect there.” this stand was taken by him in an official proclamation to the slaveholders of cuba. it may be well, in this connection, to name the fact that trist, who is ndw in mexico, as the representative of this republic, en deavoring to treat with an anti-slavery nation, is also a slaveholder, and the same who, as the resident consul of the u. s., endeavored his utmost to"effect the re-enslaveroent of the amiatad captives. trist is a fast friend of o'donnell, and also enters, it is said, and 1 doubt not the report is correct, largely into the foreign slave-trade. his immediate inter est is in the barracoons or slave factories of cuba, and instead of being, as he naw is, i n mexico, the representative of a nation making high pretensions to justice, he, by their own laws, the act of congress, 1808, should be branded as a felon and pirate. if we except pedro blanco and o'donnell, there is no one who is more our enemy than mr. trist. the recent re-publication of the- letter of the duke of wellington to sir john j. bur goyne, a major general in the british.army, respecting the dangerous exposure of the english coast to french invasion, has created quite an alarm, as well as thrown into specu lation the political world. neither is it hard, for any who at all understand political econo my, especially the present history of the poli tical world, to determine the cause, at such a time as this, when england is at peace with all nations,” and especially in friendly rela tions with france, of the issue of such a doc ument by the duke. louis philippe, king of france, is cer tainly, in my estimation, a great politician, having a great portion of the shrewdness,with all the intrigue of talleyrand, inheriting a greater share ofi duplicity than most men liv ing. and what no monarch of france, from louis i. to the f.mperor napoleon, was ever able to effect by political intrigue, pow er and the sword, philippe is about to accom plish by duplicity, yet carried out in a manner the least to be suspected. it is known that france has ever desired a universal mastery, as shown by the welling ton letter, having, at different periods, occu pied every capital in europe, save that cy england. the extension of a royal family over different kingdoms, has, in enrope, ever been regarded as a most dangerous precedent, and more dreaded by rival powers than fleet and armies. for the consummation of a pro ject of such mighty magnitude, the court at versailles has resorted to means unparal leled at least in modern ages. this subtle monarch, who has neither the propensity nor talents for military achieve ments, commenced his rapid strides to power first by tbe crusade of his eldest son, the duke of orleans in 1833, upon the northern nations of africa, whom, with little or no resistance, he expected to subdut; and this once being effected, would give a pretext for a powerful fleet to cruise the indian ocean and mediter ranean sea, and continually act as a check upon the formidable baval force of great britain. but contrary to his expectations, the resistance met from abd-el-kader foiled and baffled that great project. in the mean time, the duke was killed by a fall from his horse, upon his own estate, near paris. the next effort was in 1835 —a demonstra tion upon the republic of hayti—for which purpose an expedition was fitted out, of which his second son, prince de joinville, was the chief, aided by baron lascasses, with whom it was left optional whether that demonstration should be made by treaty or bombardment.— but the prince and baron, having before their mind's eye the fate of general leclere, j the greatest captain and military tactician under napoleon, considered it no disgrace to j enter into friendly negotiations with the war- j like republic. leaving hayti, without an opportunity of testing the military skill of tbe prince, the next attack was in 1836,up0n vers crux, by storming tbe castle of st. juan ds ulloa. in this, tbe squadron was quite successful, the mexicans, under santa anna, being repulsed, with the lons of a leg or foot by that chieftain. the prince haring proved his military abil ity, the old king, as the first link in the great chain by which the fidelity of foreign powers was to be scoured to fiance, manages to consummate s marriage between his son, the prince de joinville, and clementina, daugh ter to the emperor of brasil. thie great link being wedded, in order to dope england mto an indifferent observation of his rapid strides, the masterly step was to effect the union of prince augustus coburg, brother to prince albert, husband to tho qnerfu of england, with bissecood daughter. another link faimig completed, he leagues in the tins of matrimony duke de montspenmrr, his third non, to isabella, queen of spam. no sooner is this effected, the inst liak of the great eaus being complete, than the heafeh of the lafirott isabella** bneomro impaired, or ike aftal rata gim «a my ofpobl* mb, and a prvpomim at oom b rode u> sbdi aaaa tka throe ia flaw at her duke 4a moitf rawer of conns this it once fives spaia to the grows of france, which wffl thereby sot oa)y bold the key of eu rope, but key of tho western hemisphere, aho ia her hands. the last stroke of the hammer gehf struck, all france being open her leal, each officer at hie station and each man at hie post, loots philipp* looking upon his owsei as sore, as the crowning scene ia the drama, efforts the appointment of prince de xoinvide to the lord admiralty of the navy of france on office of the same import and rank, bat called by another name. all thia ia bat a prelude to the design of eoorpe. of course england would be the first point of attack; and there is no man living more ca pable, and none who would so quickly dis cover and effectually foil the designs of the crafty old monarch, aa the invincible conquer or of napoleon. but are we no\ interested deeply in these movements? mow certainly vre are. eng land. at present, is the masterspirit of the world. her every example ia to promote the cause of freedom and had she possessed the same principles during the revolution ary period, in every place that she possessed, slavery would have been abolished. hence, slavery in this country could not have stood; for the slave ones tasting freedom, all the powers of earth and hell osuld not have re duced him again to servitude. but bow with france? she is a slave holding power, deeply engaged in human traffic, favoring and fostering the institntion of slavery wherever she holds the power or influence and with the able politician and learned statesman, guizot, at the helmnfcf affairs, the cause and progress of liberty would be retarded for years. yours, in behalf of our oppressed and down-trodden countrymen, m. r. d. errata. —ln my first letter, i intended to say, laic had more to do with slavery than another honorable calling. in my second, speaking of the sum fixed by the act of congress of 'u3, it should read at $5oo, instead of $l5oo, as made by the compositor. thera were three slaves in the mitchell case; hence the sura of $l5oo ex torted from dr. mitchell. m. r. d. female legislators. two ladies are members of the prussian diet, and have a right to take their seats, and vote, among the nobles. they are the princess of sagan talleyrand, formerly the duchess of dino,, and the countess kiclmanscgge; these ladies have only availed themselves of their rights by proxies. hayti. —the forty-fifth anniversary of the independence of hayti was celebrated on the evening of the 3ist of december and the ist of january, with great pomp. the fcuille de commerce publishes the commercial treaty concluded at port au prince, on the 15th of may last, between france and hayti, and the forma] ratification thereof, with the proclama tion of president solouque. id 3 an english paper says,“ it is rumored that a few gentlemen of london have formed themselves into a committee for bringing about an improvement in the dress worn by men.” llr henry, the slave in mrs. spring's boar ding-house washington, who was sold to a slave-dealer by his mistress, after he had bought himself of her, and had paid her the priee within a few dollars, has finally been set at liberty through the exertions of several member* of congress. the female mis creant who sold him to himself and then to a flesh-jobber, was made to disgorge a good part of the later plunder. a further sum $lbo dollars \v3s subscribed, and his freedom secured—until somebody shall steal and sell him again tribune. id* our correspondent tony is tho roughly devoted to the cause of freedom we, however, doubt the wisdom of his measures, as well as the propriety of his language but of the latter wc are willing that he shall be the judge. tony speak* for himself. id* a number of colored persons, both free and slave, were arrested in new orleans on sunday, the bth ult., for the crime of a»» sembiing to worship god a new orleans paper mentions, as an evidence of their crimi nality, that one of them had a bible and three prayer-books. “no niggers. a sabbath school teacher in louisville, ky., was exhorting a poor, pious old female slave to be very hum ble—reminding her that she should be like the lord jesus, who had neither house nor home. yes,” she added with emphasis blessed be god—he had no house—no home —and no niggers american civilization.—the following notice, which is posted in the moyamensmg soup house, will doubtless one day be highly prised by antiquarians, as a relic of the dark ages: notice.—white people served in the house. colored people served at the window, and in no other way. byorder of the board.” id* a democratic state convention has been called by the barnburners in our state legislature, to assemble at utica on the 30th of sept., to nominate governor, presi dential electors, see. a majority of the loco foeo membes of each house unite to this call. debts ctrl v« fur.—the main building of the woollen factory at northfield, vermont, with the machinery and a large part of the stock, vii destroyed by fire on monday night. john p. hale voted alone in the senate, against the bill thanking and rewarding the chief botchers in the mexican war. to correspondents. s. b. n. tmmtrmi, phase wad da nils at joar anr tmlmcrtim, at mt. cam. marfan* tboana is aa aator an mam mm mm bask. i. c. 8..1 aataaiiohn. —ftk litk,received. the papers bn heap rsgahriy aailm aaifak. mhnmval r> r., maachessar, hm *f»wr at pik m iwaw. yam papers awe aaihd m wpaiai. d. r., j, c. h., h. t aad s. t bpria|aeu, an a*. avaarfamy nwau tai his ssdu c0!!ii(iicati*n9, the fugitive slave law. fbicsd dotoum :—i hare an item of food news for you fren oar littlo state, which 1 know you will be glad to bear. rhode bland haa joat declared, through her highest legislative authoritj, that she will no longer net the part of bud-dog for the south, to setae and hold their runaway slaves. she baa just panned a law, forbidding any state officer, under a severe penalty, seat seizing a person claimed aa a runaway dare also prohibiting her magistrates from etrtertainiag any claim made by a slaveholder, or hts agent for a slave; and also forbiddsag tbe use of her jails to confine any person claimed aa a slave. then haa rhode island, in spite of the threats of southern legislatures, taken her stand, from which she will never retreat, and done something to atone for het former con nection with the execrable business of slave holding and alavctrading. she has placed her seal of reprobation upon it, and hereafter the poor fugitive from the southern prison house may repose in her borders, with his rights partially recognized at least, and with little danger of recapture. the haughty southron may still, if he pleases, make la yearly pilgrimage to our shores, to enjoy that grand old ocean beach at newport, or to* court health by the waters of our beautiful narraganset hay; but he must either wain upon himself, or, contrary to his usual custom, pay for being served. ’twill be dmgerou* to bring his slaves with him. so far, acf good. i.et our little state have due praise for this timely act; and to those members of our legislature, of both political parties, who exerted themselves so strenuously for its passage, i would here, in behalf of the slave, express my thanks. the abolitionists of this state have for (he last three yearn- been endeavoring to vbtaii* the- passage' of a law similar to the one just passed. at' the session of the legislature one year ago, this same law passed the house of representatives by a large majority, but was lost in the senate. at the session of the legislature which has just closed, an act further to protect personal liberty” was introduced by mr. thomas whipple, from coventry, and strenuously advocated by him self, by mr. sherman, of kingston, mr. ballou, of cumberland, and others. mr. barber, of hopkinton, declared in his place in the house, that while he did not consider the act as very important, and (if i am not mis taken) was opposed to its passage still that he should vote for it, because nine-tenths of his constituents were, as he said, determined that such a law should be passed; and this was the feeling of members from many other towns in the state, showing that abolition ists have not been idle or reposing on their oars. notwithstanding all this, the law met w ith a violent opposition, and during three days the discussion, pro and con, was loud and high. mr. ames, a distinguished lawyer of this city, led on the opposition forces, as sisted by mr. cranston, of newport, and backed by influences high in rank and station without the house. it was stated by one- member in his place, that the united states judge lor thi» district was using all his influence to defeat the passage of tho law. on the other hand, mr. robinson, mr. da vis, and other members of our exec. com., did what they could by personal conversation with the members, and by furnishing them with facts and documents, &c., to ensure its passage. mr. yeazin, and other members of the liberty party in this state, also used their influence in its behalf. finally, after all attempts to defeat the bil? had proved nugatory, and after an attempt to have the whele matter postponed until the next session, was decidedly negatived, the law passed the lower house by the decisive vote of more than two to one. its fate in the senate was still considered extremely doubt ful but t*ie leading influences there recom mended its passage, and it anally passed that body unanimously, and is now the law of this common v,« i th. the passage ut this act is timely, as well as very needful. during the past year, the fugitives—tbe “happy and contented” victims of the patriarchal institution”—have ar rived in this city almost by scores. during, no one year of my anti-slavery experience have 1 had so many applications from runaway slaves for advice and assistance, as during the past year. our anti-slavery office has at time* swarmed with them; but we did not dare counsel them to remain in the state. we knew that any constable might snest them, and any magistrate give a certificate conaign ng flcnip to bondage. bat this is the case nn longer, and you will rejoice with me in view of this fact. but much yet remains for our state, in its official capacity, to do. there is the stoning' ton railroad, almost the only one in new england, i believe, still pursuing the nsrrow policy of excluding colored people from aa equal participation in its benefits. you can speak cxperuncntlaly in thip mat ter. the abolitionists are determined that the ngbts of colored people shall be respected on that road. we think it might be easily accomplished, if the colored inhabitants of this city would show the politicians that they mean to aaaert and maintain their just rights.' and so in relation to the public srhoois, and many other matters. the entered voters of this state have now the power, if they will use it wisely, of saying to the politicians, ‘do this,” or “do that,” and they will do it. but 1 took up my pen merely to inform you of the passage of the fugitive slave law,” and must conclude. we hope to see you with os before long. the ladies of paw tucket have just held their auras) fair, ai d met with very flattering success. the la dies of are also talking of haviog a tea party in this city is the course of a few weeks, is aid of the good cause. you may real assured, friend douglass, that the abolitionists of this state are of the right [sort; they make but little noise or parade, but they are silently and surely eer reeting the public aestimest on tbe slavery qaemaos, and bringing rhode island where, is justice to her founder, she ought to stand*"* is as very vanguard of slavery's fees. truly yours, ,george l. clarke, i psovipcxca, r. 1., feb. 10, iwo. northern vassalage while reading the contents of your excellent paper. the wish has ever been presen l with nv 1 that means might be devised by which to place it in every colored family in the non-slaveholding states; it seems to b’ well calculated to enlist their sympathies and to gam their confidence— two essentia) point* to be gamed in order to influence etthei for good or evil. the time most eventtialh omrtc, when a paper edited and published in c >lorc'l men, will cease to he regarded as at experiment of doubtful utility, or as an anoma 1v in the literary world. emanating from tht source it does, the north .star'’ will have an important bearing upon the anti-elaverj cause and its influence will he felt in those c relea, which have affected to look upon tlw social, moral, and intellectual elevation of thr co’ored race, as a fanciful idea existing only in the restless brains of northern fanatics.’ slaveholders and their apologias, v. ill con sider it beneath their dignity, to notice such a paper in any other way, than to give vent tc their spite against its authors and supporters but their vituperations will fall as harmless a.* snow-flakes on a winter morning. north ern fanatics,” thank fortune, are not dough faces,” to be frightened by southern chivalry for this reason they are feared, as well a* ha ted by the south, and are tradueed by “north ern men (and women) with southern princi ples, which, in obsequiousness to the slave power, rank next to overseen. they prate long and loud of their patriot ism, and of their devotion to their country while the seductive influence of southern courtesy, without the temptation which led an arnold to the commissi in of a lesser crime, leads them to surrender—not a part to king george, but their own manhood, and the in terests of the north, to the keeping of the slave power. if arnold deserved the execra tion of his countrymen—“ northern dough faces” deserve some kind of a compliment from their constituents, accompanied with jt free pass” into the shades of retiracy froirl public life. the south, like a petulent antlj exacting bride, says to the north—“ i shals do as i please and you will submit to md; caprices, or there will be trouble in the family;’:* while the north complacently replies—“ l will submit to anything, my dear, for the sake; of living with you;” and meekly assumes the duties of a subordinate. is there not anti-sla very feeling enough at the north, if it could be faithfully represented, to effectually resist! the encroachments of the slave power? if) there is not, may the shades of the departed) heroes of the rovolution, never revisit the earth, lest a knowledge of the regencracy of their sons should disturb their future repose. in the present position of political parties, it is impossible for the anti-slavery sentiment of the north to obtain a fair representation for the claims of humanity must be rudely thrust aside when they conflict wbh the interest, or endanger the success of a party. and never, until the north indignantly thrusts its con temptible dough-faces” from their seats of power, and commits its interest to the keeping of ru m who dare to be free—who scorn the low trickery of servile demagogues—and whose principles are strong enough to with stand the blandishment of southern couite sy will the north emerge from a state of vassullage to the south and consign, if such a thing he possible, the emblems of its servi tude to oblivion. the slave toils on in his bonds, at times hopeless and desponding; again looking eagerly forward for b'tter days, as some tem porary mitigation of his wrongs leads him to look for justice from the hands of his fellow man. but will justice, be rendered while it can be withheld the domestic servitude of the south, finds a counterpart in the political vassallage of the north; and the existence' «;f the former seems to depend, in a great mea sure, upon the continuance of the latter.— will the southern slave be permitted to as sume his manhood before the northern vassal becomes free when the north dares to be free—to assert and maintain its claim to equal rights and impartial legislation—then, the slave may look forward to a time as not far distant, when the fetters will fall from.his limbs and he will receive his manhood and his freedom—not as a gift from man—hut as rights belonging to him in common with all the human family. for this wc labor, feel ing fully assured that our purpose will be ac complished and that the repudiation of po litical vassallage by the north, will be the precursor of the downfall of domestic slavery at the south. harriet n. torrey. pakkman, 0., feb. 37, 1648. ___ ror hkstkr, feb. 14, 1811. the excitement that pervades our city on recount «f the sudden and singular disappear ance of porter pierce, one of our citizens, has awakened in me mingled emotions of gratitude and astouishmeut. i feel grateful to .our citizens for the involuntary burst of sym pathy, which discovers a holy feeling that -emanates from the fount of purity; but it speaks volumes that tell plainly that divine love in the hearts of many of us is in a great measure repressed. the apathy which has appeared to exist in our city, towards those ou whom wc, as a nation, are daily inflicting wrong and outrage, our victims at mexico and in the southern states, has not unfre ■quently caused me to adopt the language cf cowper,” there is no fit sli m man’s obdurate heart,” arid almost makes me feel that it is impossible that we should be so enthusiastic in our sympathy for the sufferings of one family but it inspires me with a hope that rochester will vet stand forth and raise her •voice for suffering humanity. i should have supposed that the feeling manifested on this occasion would have called out our loudest iterated and reiterated expressions of indigna tion and rebuke, through the length and breadth of the land, at the idea of our people making an unprovoked attack on mexico, our sister republic, and for the vile and exceed ingly sinful purpose of perpetuating slavery, and enlarging its domain thus sacrificing our fellow men by thousands, sanctioning rapine nod murder, burning the homes and destroy ing the lives and property of hundreds and hundreds of it* inhabitants, and crushing at once all their earthly hopes.. how bit that, with these appalling facts before our eyes, our fraternal .sympathies are not aroused; that, with the inibl, unresisting, forging, loving and holy example of jesus, christians do not see war to bo unholy, evd and only t*if i im astonished beyond ottenaa i when the reality flashes before my raenta vision, that men, formed in the imageof chid should deliberately march to the field of batik with the express intent of killing each other children of the some universal father, whom command is, thou shaft not kill tboo shall i love thy neighbor so thyself;** wjwfcas en joined it upon ns, through the meek and jto sly jeaos, whose example christians pro fess to follow, to do unto others ss we would others should do to*us. it is not strange, in my opinion, whet bloodshed and murder are sanctioned and en couraged by our president and ministers ol j .state—by our churches and professed chris tians, that occasionally a single murder should ix- perpetrated. it would be strange were it not so in aoch a compact. what a world ol responsibility rests on the originators and conspirators of such high-banded sins, and ol those abettors who arc determined to go for their country right or wrong do we expect to se? the heads of a family committing mur der, theft and robbery, and all the children living christian live*? e do not. the examples and influence of those around us are great; there fore, it is the duty of every christian, so long as such mns as war and slavery arc not-only tolerated, but held up as the basis of republicanism, to come out from amongst them and be separate, to partake not ;of their sins, lest they partake also of the (consequent) plagues. i hope, at least in view of the great sufferings of our own sex in consequence of these evils, the female voice :in our city w ill be raised against them. i call i on my sisters iu rochester to be consistent.— you who arc so ready to lend a helping hand to relieve suffering in our midst; you who 1 discover so much feeling for mothers whose children are snatched away by death—remem ber the exquisite sufferings of mothers, occa sioned by war and slavery; think of the heart-rending scenes now c onstantly occurring at mexico think of the mothers at the south who have their children rudely torn from them by the man&tealer, cruelly sold and sepa rated from them, and knowing they are to -drag out a miserable existence in bondage; remember that omission, as well as com mission, is sometimes sinful—remember the words of jesus, inasmuch as ye have not done it to the last of these my brethren, ye have not done it unto me*’—let us remember that the poor as well as the rich, the bond as j w oll as the free, belong to tho sacred brother- i hood. let us come to the aid of the few self-sacrificing, devoted servants of god, up and down in the land, who are giving their all on earth to the cause of suffering humani ty. in this way, even if we should not live j to see christianity and humanity triumph, we 1 shall at least have done our duty and improved j our own hearts; we shall have, at least, i sowed the good seed which will in time yield j a r c h harvest. let us raise high our stand- j i ar ‘l) thus be a light to those around us j let us, indeed, prove the truthfulness of the [beautiful and thrilling motto of the north j i -star, which ought to be emblazoned in letters of gold at the corners of our streets, that right is of no sex—truth is of no color— i god is the father of us all, and all wc are brethren.” s. d. f. lowell, february 18, 1848. fkisnxvb bm and dklvny ;—i fully concur with friend david ruggles, of north- 1 ampton, in what lie says of the north star, i in his loiter to you a short time since; and the last sentence i would reiterate—“ let him who would be a slave refuse to support your paper.” there is much meaning in j that sentence. who that has lived in our j country, and ins felt the cruel shafts of pro- judice, and been shut out from society, and been denied the privileges of education, i and felt his manhood-insulted every hour, be- cause of his color, does not feci himself j enslaved 1 the peculiar auspices under i which your press lias been established, and 1 the liigh-souled and magnanimous purpose of i our friends, both in this country and europe, j to establish it for the elevation of the colored j men of the north, and the freedom of the slave at the south, supersedes all necessity j for the establishment of any similar press,, by our colored friends in this country and all of them who have a spark of genius or of j freedom to fire their souls, cannot help, 1 1 think, reciprocating such a favor. of those whose rights have never been fully obtained, but may be by the assertion of them, through 1 this press of trans-atlantic beneficence, who will not subscribe for the north stfr i have for a long time subscribed for the liberator, and shall continue to do so, so long as it continues to sustain the high moral prin ciple it always has sustained. but my con science would condemn me, if i were not giving equal support to the north star. the prejudices of the american people can never be dissipated bv docility or appeals to their sympathy, but by absolute merit alone ef the colored people. it is business quali fication, professional skill, enterprise, perse verance, and high moral principle, which will command the respect of our enemies. the enterprise of a colored man is less appreciated than that of a white man but it is neverthe less true, that such enterprise wherever found, will force itself upon their recognition. in haste, 1 must conclude, bv saving of the l north star, let him who would be a slave i refuse to sustain it.” yours for the progress of human freedom, ii w. foster. p.s. enclosed arc the names of some subscribers. i shall ere long send you more. buffalo, feb. 23, 1548. missus. docclass a dclasy —gentle men—l feel that a few moments cannot be better occupied than to give you a sketch of the doings of tho present session of the court of common pleas in this city. you probably recollect, on the 30th day of september last, of an unsuccessful attempt on the part of tw o bloodhounds from covfegton, kentucky named wolf and perry, the former i think very appropriate in this connection, to take away a young man from our city by the name of webb, who has bmg been areskfem here, ths defeat of which depended solely on the energetic action of some of our citizens. on i the evening succeeding the arrest, a mass meeting was called, and a sen,, of spirited resolutions passed, sud a fund created to meet whatever emergency the nature of the r*ae demanded. after a full investigatma of the subject, and the known violation of the law by two officers who assisted in making the ■j vrm of die alleged fagtthre, s sort waa m- e i stituted agafawt one-of the ofieen by webb, and upon lea own responsibility, which i think displayed a eondenue degree of man ly courage in bringing it to a final iaaee. tv case came off at this term. a (her nearly two days of iancaamg interest, it wfa brought to a dnee at 7 o'clock bat arming. a kurgr number of witnesses were examined on both sides. on the part of the defendants, them waa nothing wanting, co far as tact and cot mag, united with pro-slavery trickery and fake swearing, were concerned hot it faded j *»ke root in the mind of the court or jury. the plaintiffs counsel, messrs. cook a j abrams, managed the case with much ability, portraying in giaruig colon the unwarrantable position of their opponents. in justice to ieh cook, esq., i would say, that his able defence i shall never forwet. after com menting upon the law or 1840, the duties there enjoined, and the liability of officers to severe and rigid punishment for acting as in this case, aside from it, his appeal to the jury, of the dangerous precedent of suffering such violation of law to go unpunished, leaving i the hunted fugitive alone to defend himself, 31, d justifiable in such a case to strike the fatal blow, if necessary, to defend his per onal liberty, and the scorn and derision, which this government would justlv incur in the eyes of any of the inhabitants of mo narchial kingdoms of the old world, waa trulv an unanswerable defence, and more than mv pen can describe. the verdict of the jnry was $bo, damages, and all costa, of course, which swells the, expense to nearly two hun dred dollars, a well merited rebuke for a slaveboiding fee of some ten or twenty dol lars. the facts in the case, brought out by the trial of the guilty culprit, jacob emerick, has so implicated the other officer, j. t, hathaway, that a suit has, or is about to be instituted against him, thus far terminating these acts of villany, and, i think, will settle it forever, so for as our city is concerned, in this branch of legal investigation, and one mole conclusive proof of the onward progress of the cause. yours for the oppressed, a. h. f. we are very thankful to our ever-watchful and devoted correspondent for the foregoing letter. its contents will cheei the hearts of the flying fugitives, and appal the blood thirsty kidnappers who howl on his track.— editor. february, 14, 1849. mr. editor i propose sending you, from time to time for publication, certain ar ticles, provided in the first place, you shall think them worth the printing and the room they occupy, and in the second place, that you do not feel ashamed of your humble corres pondent and his narpe. for this much i must arrange, that all my articles, or any part of them, shall appear over my own signature, it being an old family name, and i begin to feel that there is considerable nobility associated with it. 1 have thought that much good might be done, by getting up a new system of free masonry and odd fellowship, among the darkies” and their friends of every name. i would have it in this way, somev, hat :—let enquiry be made at once, in every city and town for blacks and mulaltoes, who are en-! gaged or would like to be engaged in carry ing on any of the branches of business, that are properly considered respectable, and when any such persons can be found, who will con- 1 duct such business honorably and with advan-' tage to themselves, let them receive a deter- j mined, unceasing support, by giving them our custom and our influence. for example, i would have in every town, of sufficient negro j and abolition population, a full nigger” merchant, even if it should require an exten sive copartnership, in order to make up an actual cash capital, to do business with, and i would adopt to the fullest extent, the cash system to render it safe, and to get all our peo ple as much as possible into the habit of keep ing out of debt. i would have in every city and large town, negro public houses kept by persons of the first respectability and intel ligence, and affording the best accommodations, and 1 would take care to have them advertised all over the civilized world. i would have wholesale dealers in all the cities, as well as retail dealers of this class, and call on all newspaj»er editors professedly friendly, to ad vertise them and call public attention to them. i would fill the country as fast as possible, with every description of mechanics, and the blacker the better. i would have my friends become owners, as fast as possible, of the different kinds of water crafts employed on allttland and other waters. i would have every black or mulatto of genius or skill, as an artist, architect, mechanic, trader, or pro fessional man, carefully sought out and re commended to public notice and lavor. i feel confident that we have enough of talent and acquirements with ourselves, to carry out this, and many other and better plans for our own elevation and welfare, if we will only take hold in earnest. perhaps it may be well for some one to get up in pamph let form, a kind of general register of the names and location of such individuals in dif ferent parts of the country, as are now' so on gaged, or may be so hereafter. every one, i think will see at once, how many openings fur respectable employment might be made in this way, as well as advan tages for acquiring trades ard professions for our young men, to say nothing of the influ ence it might have, in bringing black to be a more popular color. if this, my first effort should be well re ceived, you may expect to hear from me again. your friend, tony. a uttle more piety. drat douglass :—a few days age,*l attended a missionary meeting in rome, n. y., where a resolution was discussed, in sub stance, like this 4 all that is necessity to make us more successful in making prose lytes of the heathen, is more piety.” my business there was to get a notice of an anti-slavery meeting read; bat 1 was told that they could not read it. they related some thrilling stories of the people in bengal. one story that pleased the mismgrtsnes very much was, that some one, some where, si some tune or other, gave a catholic girl a bible, which she read with much pleasure, a*tu km print kn aequaialed with the fiat, who nude her carry it kdt. this they thought wmm mptnknhle ris. oh that i coaid find wards to express my indignation! do they not know that every bthle they hare handled wan they have been on their taukica, has been to part purchased with the blood of the slave? and if they wen basest, they woaid write oa the ltd of every bible, the price of the mood and souls of those who are act allowed to read it,” oh what a happyjpad of mtsskioaries and slaves, dibles and handcuffs, bible pedlers and moo pedfers, ao belonging to the same church! of all the horrible things that the sun ever shone upon, a baby-stealing, woman whipping, man-murdering and war-making religion u the most horrible. these men are fearing scenes of suffering here at home, to go to a land where the mtroductioo of them would not for one minute be tolerated. one of the speakers asked hw hearers to read the 13th' chapter of rev. he might with great propriety bate said the 18th. 1 beard another voice from heaven, saying, come out of her, sav people, that ye be not parta kers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues; for her sins have reached unto heaven, and god hath remembered her iniqui ties, for trading in slaves and the souls of men.” let us suppose those missionaries* wives and children were now clanking ticir chains in india. would they tell us that they had business of greater importance than their deliverance from whips, and chains, and sla very, to attend to? would they hail the man that held them as a good christian and a brother yours for the truth, john s. jacobs, j ro tiie church members oi rochester. friends and fellow-citizens:—l hav< been led to address a few words to you, bi the tery unaccountable position you now occupy, in reference to an agitation that it being carried on against the slave-system o this country. an organization, of which yot cannot possibly be ignorant, is in existence ir this city, for the purpose «f spreading correci views upon the extent of the crime, and thf best means to be used for its removal; anc you stand aloof from it, frowning upon it! efforts. you profess to dosire the welfare o your fellow-citizens you profess to be anxiom for the moral and commercial prosperity o your country; every first day of the week you pray for the salvation of the world. yoi take the bible for your guide, and profess t( take christ for your example. god hatl made of one blood all nations of men, for te dwell on all the face of the earth,” is thf doctrine of the one; a life of antagonism tf every system of abuse, injustice and wrong, was the example of the other the son ol man came to preach deliverance to the cap tives, and the opening of the prison-doors to them that were bound; to comfort all that mourned;” and when an opportunity is af forded you of proving the sincerity of youi belief, and your readiness to follow the ex ample of your master, you stand aloof, as uninterested and unconcerned spectators see to it, and that speedily for there is some thing rotten in the state of denmark.” you well know that there are three mil lions of slaves in this free country three millions of your fellow-citizens are held ii: for no crime of which they have been guilty—for no offence which they have committed against the law of the land but simply and solely because their creator has seen fit to give them a skin cf a different color from your own. for this heinous crime of color” these three millions of human beings are subjected, at every hour ol every day, to the passion, caprice and lust of their tyrannical masters—to every species of injury and degradation which it is in the power of a corrupted humanity to contrive and perpetrate. all other evils dwindle into insignificance in comparison with this mighty wrong. realize, if you can, to youi own minds, what it is to be a slave. think of the misery and anguish of soul which such a state must inevitably entail upor its sufferer. think of the insulted honor, the disgraced humanity, the degrading sub jection, and miserable subserviency of a state of bondage! think of the whips—the chains —the thumbscrews, that are needful to keep the slave in submission! think of the ravished affections—the broken hearts—the outraged feelings of the victims of slavery bring all this to bear upon your mind, if it ii possible for you to do so, in the force of a living reality, and what a picture of horroi presents itself before you but multiply thu by three millions, making a slight deductior for the number of those who are not galled b\ their chains, and have become degraded iutc human brutes under the influence of the in fernal slave system; and a little further de duction for the few who have kind and indul gent masters, and have little to complain oi in regard to their bodily, howevet degradec may be their mental condition and whai mind of man or archangel is there that ii capable to conceive of the immense amount of wretchedness and degradation that is sum med up in the words—three millions oi slates? stretch your imagination to the very utmost—fear not that you will overcoloi or exaggerate the dreadful picture summor up in sad array, all the scenes of oppression wrong and outrage, of which you have bcei witness, and of which you have read; heap them all up into one vast mour:tam-ma&s o misery; and yet bow far will your utinosi efforts of thought flag behind the fearful reality three millions or slaves ofc it is impossible to realise the magnitude am! monstrosity of the sin of ame rican slavery' it is a sin which is crying, in thunder-tones, to heaven for vengeance which is even cow bringing upon this guilty nation a fearful retribution of corrupting influences and de graded morality; which has stirred up a war of conquest against a sister republic, and hai left the inhuman and unchristian spirit ol war raging in the hearts of the people. d» guise the truth as we may— shot our eyet against the feet ss we may; suit the truth ia certs is —the feet m apparent as the sus a! boon-day, that the moral sentiment of the americas people is making making* ondei the blighting eurae of slavery. i ask you, caa you, ss men, approve ol this inhuman system can ym, ss chris tians, sanction this crying iniquity dora your interpretation of the mind a jnstoud y<* that portion *f the human mad to perpetual sohjnehao, tobberj nd bondage i nv* your answer to these quetkot. too aril! at obc* and an. hesitatingly my, that yon helirv* the mind «i god to he ncne to ab sin ibt the man whc jnmnnatee against christianity, that it io any measure sanctions slavery, must be gteady ignorant of ita first pnaciplee. christianity, yoa will say, teaches the equality of tht entire human family; it stakes no distinctive of place or eomplexioo, bet is s message oi merry to all mankind. ton bekcve as this: you trill say all this; you trill perhaps say more than nil this: many, if not all of you trill say, that sjav%y is a great evil and a grievous oobnce against the divine bur, am ought to be abolished. but when you havr said thn. which, he it is rarrft a spontaneous expression of your thoughts but is, u it were, dragged from you, more it the form of a confession, than ss the fret utterance of a genuine sentiment, —yon tliiul you have done all that duly requires of you— all that christianity requires of you nevei putting forth the slightest effort to remove th< evil—to correct the offence; and not unfre quentiy seriously quarrelling with those win are more zealous than yourselves. but perhaps you will still offer the exrusi a limping all this to be true, we are no to blame; we do not commit the sin if wt do little to prevent, vre do nothing to promoti it; the sin of slavery lies not at oar door: w< hate it, and would not under any circum stances be guilty of it.” it is a principle ii common law, as if is in bible law, that th< accessary in crime is held equally guilty will the principal. it is allowed «>u all bauds that if the different religious denominations wer i to do their duty—were to act up to their be 1 lief, the downfall of slavery would be ccrtaii —would be speedy. it is also sometime asserted, that if the abolitionists did ro occupy the position which they do, and ha< allowed the religious public to take th: foremost place in this movement, slaver i would by this time have ceased to exist out of thine own mouth will i judge thee thou wicked servant.” if you could have re i moved the a in, and did not, at whose doo does it lie 1 the fact that there is anothe force in the field—which has been in the fiek j for years, and has fought many a hard batik j with the upholders of this system, docs in m way excuse yon from doing your part in tin struggle. does your mcrul obligation cease simply because you choose it should cease rather, are you not grievously guilty ii permitting this sin to'continue a single dai after the time when you have the power t( forbid its existence. and have you not beet adding, year after year to the amount of vow responsibility and crime if one were to see an incendiary about tt set fire to his neighbor's house, would it b< 0 7 enough for him to say, i could save that house j from destruction, its owner from ruin, ar.d possibly some of its inmates from death it is i a grievous wrong—a great evil! would it j were not so! if one were walking by the highway, and heard the cry of robbers!” and had a moral certainty that his interference 1 would have the effect of preventing a robbery, could he be guilty of the dastardly conduct of w ithholding his assistance yet worse than this—more dastardly than this—a thousand times more grievous than this, is the sin ol i the american churches. three millions of men and women are being roblred ever) day—robbed of themselves ar.d all they hole dear—robbed of their minds—of their very j humanity. the american churches could j prevent this and —rniralik <?i< tu! they sit i down in holy composure, some of them lifting up their eyes to heaven, and piously ejaculat ing—“it is a grievous wrong—oflbuce against the law of god—would it were abol ished!” while other some hold out the hand ol fellowship to the slaveholder, who is spotted j w ith the blood of his scourged and dripping j victim, and welcome him us a christian and a j brother! all your excuse and pretences are but cloaks to cover your sin—even the sin ol 1 slaveholding. there’s an achan in your camp. slavery is among you. you have eaten of forbidden fruit, and it is poisoning your entire system, working death to your 1 churches, and disgrace to christianity. the salt hath lost its savor, and is henceforth fit for nothing, but to be cast out and trodden under foot of men.” christ carne to save men from the curse of sin, by removing the cause of the curse—namely, sin itself; but, instead of following liis example, you are giving the sanction of bis lugh na.nc to the most abominable, iniquity, by receiving the guilty slaveholder into your fellow ship. your teachers may tell you, as some of them do, that to attempt the abolition of slavery is a utopian scheme, without rationality or feasibility;” the}' may even allege that thpy know nothing about such a scheme—that they have barely heard of its existence, and know nothing whatever about its agents. if there be any such, as 1 understand there are those among your teachers who profess this utter ijjuoru-.' of what is g* g on in the world around them, i woqkl simply ask, how come they to occupy the portion they do' what, in heaven's name, do they profess to teach is it mathematics, or astronomy, or astrof<*gv, ct some other of tbs sciences* certain am i that they eanfiot teach chris tianity that is fencthirg which i« uot yet dreamed of in their hy. they may be as rigid is their enforcement cf the obliga tion of the sabbath, as the most exemplary jewish adherent to the law' of 3loses; they may ding to the doctrine of predestination w ith a more thsn turkish fatalism they may hold to the belief of the eternal damna tion of three-fourths of the human family, with a firmer than death’s grasp they may be able to split doctrinal hairs with the mo*t perfect nicety, as if with the aid of a moral microscope all tins is no p*rt of christian itv—it has nothing to do with christianity it is a mere college theology, of which they may have a perfect knowledge, without in any measure following the example of christ. there m a revival among you—of, as it a called, an outpouring of the spirit—a great work being done—a »1 taking among the dry bones. would god that it were ro would that there were a revival of true religion, not only rochester, but in every city, town and village of thin slavery-blasted laud! would that there were a mighty iscrease m the num ber of those who possess the spirit of christ —-that spent without which ye an owe of his* spirit that would lead vow to sacrifice m all—to suffer all, firlhesake of principle— j spirit, by the help of which te would both act and fed the extent of par owigatym ami par duty. la rdtwwcc to poor arc hoaod frikm-citiuras 1 woam that then were a shaking aw nog the dry bears, for they me v*tj maay and they we eery dry. tv ■eo! ha* departed from the churches—then fife fled. the watchmen watch m raw; for they ratae not the wn sf warn®* at tl* approach of danger. they are greedy that will not bark, given to slumber.” thcv are hirelings that care not for the »w xhry are comiptod with the hire cf gain—erased with the greed of gold—-cariug for the fleece. a church is led by such men cancel *rm the woild-4t cannot save itself. it is a* •tubble in the moral field, which is fit ooly tc ip.* burned. it is a church which unless ts.. speedily repent ami prudi.ee the fruits of re peninnee. is doomed to d, ktructaon, and tba at a not distant day. awake, ere it bo too late, to a sense o your duties and your privileges? shak yourselves free from the curse of slavery show that you are indeed what yon pwfes yourselves to be—the fidiovrers of christ—tlx determined and unflinching enemies of all sin rous%you to the glorious conflict with vice error and ignorance! if your christianity does not teach you to do this, it is a poor am spurcur christ anity; it is not the chris tianity of christ, not that of his apostles nor that of many of the faithful ram in late ages, who have finished their course and kep the fuilh; and to whom the words may 1* addressed—“ serv ant nf g*d, well done share in your master's joy!” your most sincere well-wisher, j j. d. rochester, march 1, 1848. the cleveland plain dealer, (dem. is out in favor of abolishing slavery in tb district of columbia. from the liberty bell charity bowery. by l. m. child. the following story was told me by an aged colored woman in new york. i shall endeavor lo relate it precisely in her own words, so oft repeated that they j are tolerably well impressed on my memory. some confusion of names, dates, and incidents, i may very natu rally make. i profess only to give “the pith and marrow” of charity’s story, deprived of the highly dramatic e£teet it received from her sw» lling emo tions, earnest looks aud changing tones. “1 am about si\ty-five years old. 1 was horn on an estate called pembroke, i about 3 miles from edeuton,north car olina. my master was very kind to his slaves. if an overseer whipped thrm, ,he turned him away. he used to whip them himself, sometimes with hickory switches as large as my little finger.— my mother suckled all his children. she was reckoned a very good servant, i and our mistress made it a point to give one of my mother’s children of hers. i fell to the lot of elizabeth, her second daughter. it was my business jto wait upon her. oh, my old mistress was a kind woman. she was allthe same as a mother to poor charity. if char ity wanted to learn to spin, she let her learn; if charity wanted to learn to knit, she let her learn; if charity wanted to learn to weave, she let her learn. i had a wedding when i was married; for mistress didn’t like to have her people take up with one another, without any minister to inarry them.— i when my dear good mistress died, she charged her children never to separate ine and my husband; for,’ said she, ‘if ever there was a match made in heaven, it was chanty and her hus band.’ my husband was a nice good man; and mistress knew wc set stores by j one another. her children promised her they never would separate me from my husband and children. indeed, i they used to tell me they would never i sell me at all; and i am sure they meant what they said. but my young master got into trouble. he used to j come home and sit leaning his head on j his hand by the hour together, without speaking to anybody. i see something was the matter; and i begged of him to tell me what made him look so wor ried. he told me he owed seventeen i hundred dollars that he could not pay; and he was afraid he w ould have to go to prison. i begged him to sell me and my children rather than go to jail. i sec the tears come to his eyes. i don’t know, charity,’ said he; i’ll see what can be done. one tiling you may feel easy about; i will never separate you from your husband and children, let what will come.’ “tw o or three days after, he corueto me, and says he, charity, how should you like ,to be sold to mr. mckinley?’ i told him i would rather be sold to hi in than to anybody else, because my husband be longed to him. my husband was a nice good man, and we set stores by one another. mi*. mckinley agreed to buy us; and so 1 and my children went there to live. he was a kind master; but as for mistress mckinley— she was a divil! mr. mckinley died a! few years after he bought us; and in; his will he give me and my husband i free; but i never knowed about it for years afterward. i don’t know how they managed it. my poor husband died, and never knowed that he was free. but it’s all the same now. he’s among the ransomed. he used: to say, ‘thank god, it’s only a little, way home; 1 shall soon be with jesus.*! oh-, he had a fine old christian heart.” here the old woman sighed deeply, 1 and remained silent for a moment,while' her right hand slowly rose and fell upon! her lap, as if her thoughts were mourn fully busy. at last she resumed: sixteen children i’ve had, first and last; and twelve i’ve nursed for my mistress. from the time my first baby was born, i always set my heart upon 1 buying freedom for some of my chil dren. i thought it was of more con sequence to them than to me; for i was old and used to being a slave. but mistress mckinley wouldn’t let me j have my children. one after another— one after another—she sold ’em aw*av from me. oh, how ninny times that 1 woman broke my heart!” here her voice choked, and tlie tears began to flow. she wiped them quickly w itii the corner of her apron, and con tinued: “i tried every way i could to lay up a copper, to buy inv chil dren; but i found it pretty hard; for mistress kept me at work all tlie time. it was charity! charity! i charity!’ from morning till night.— ‘charity do this,’and ‘charity do that.’ i used to do the washings of the family; and large washings they were. the public road run right by my little hut, and i thought to myself, while i stood there at the wash-tub, i might ;just as well as not be earning some thing to buy my children. so i set up a little oyster-boat d; and w hen anvbody cainc along that wanted a few* oysters aud a cracker, i left my wash-tub and waited upon him. when i got a little money laid up, i went to my mistress and tried to buy one of iny children.— she knew not how long my heart had been set upon it, and how haid i had j worked for it. bat she wouldn’t let me i have one! so i went to work again; and l set up late o’ night, in hopes 1 could earn enough to tempt her. when i had two hundred dollars, i went to j her again; but she thought she could j find a better market, and she wouldn’t let me have one. at last, what do you 'think that woman did? she sold me i and live of my children to the specula tors! oh, haw i did frcl when i heard inv children w as sold to the sncc ulators!”* after a short pause, her face again brightened up and her voice sud -1 denly changed to a gay and spriehtlv tone. “surely, ma’am, thcr’s always some f ood comes of being kind to folks. vhile i kept my oyster-board, there was a thin, pmkcd-looking man used to buy of me. sometimes he would sav ‘aunt charity, (he always called me jlunt charity,) you must fix me up a men wlw* owk- tra/ie <4 l*tj ing up *f t4a«c» fiw *ajr, kfxxuuuiii in, ui. droves ut cattle fat the bi jetton uimjket. nice little mess, tor 1 feel poorly to-day i always made something good for him; and it he. didn't happen to bare am change, 1 always trusted him. hi liked ray messes mighty well. now, who do you think that should turn out to be, but the very speculator thal bought me! he come to me, and sayi he, 'aunt charity, (he always catted me •had charity,) you’re been rery good to me, and fixed me up many nice little mess when i’re been poorly; and now you shell bare your freedom for it; and i’ll gire you your youngcsl child.”* that was rejy kind, said i but i wish he had giren you all ol them.** with a look of great simplicity, ami in tones of expostulating the alare inother replied, oh, he couldn’t afford /fat, you know.” well,” continued she, 44 after that, i concluded i’d come to the free states. but mistress mckinley had one child of mine; a boy about twelve years old. i had always set ray heart upon buying richard. he was the image of bis father; and my husband was a nice good man; and we set stores by one another. besides, i was al ways uneasy in my mind about richard. he was a spirify lad; i knew it was hard for him to be a slave. many a time i have said to him, 1 richard, let what will happen, never lift yout hand against your master.' “but i knew it would always be hard work for him to bring his mind to be a slave. i carried all my money to my mistress, and told her i had more due to me; and if all of it wasn’t enough to buy my poor boy, i’d work hard, and send her all my earnings, till she said i had paid enough. she knew she could trust me. she knew charity al ways kept her word. bat site was a hard-hearted woman. she wouldn’t let ine have my boy. with a heavy heart, i went to work to earn more, nt hopes i might one day be able to buy him. to be sure, i didn’t get much more time than i did when i was [a slave; for mistress was always calling upon me, and 1 didn’t like to disoblige her. i wanted to keep the right side oi her, in hopes she’d let me have my boy. one day she sent me of an er rand. 1 had to woit some time. when i come back, mistress was counting a heap of bills in her lap. she was a rich woman, —she rolled in gold. my little girl stood behind her chair; and as mistress counted the money,—ten dollars, —twenty dollars, —fifty dollars, —i sec that she kept crying. i thought may be mistress had struck her. but when i see the tears keep roiling down her cheeks all the time,* i went up to her, and whispered, 4 what’s the mat ter?’ she pointed to mistress’ lap, and said, 4 broder’s money! broder’s mo ney!’ oh, then i understood it all! i said to mistress mckinley, 4 hare you sold my boy?’ without looking up from counting her money, she drawled >ut, 4 yes, charity; and i got a great mce for him!’ [here the colored voman imitated to perfection the lan guid, indolent tones common to south ern ladies.] 44 oh, my heart was too full! she lad sent me away on an errand, be cause she didn’t want to be troubled w ith our cries. i hadn’t any chance to see my poor boy. i shall never see him again in this world. my heart felt as if it was under a great load of lead. 1 couldn’t speak a word to reproach her. i never reproached her from hat day to this. as i went out of the room, 1 lifted up iny bands, and all 1 ;ould say was, ‘mistress, how could you lo it?’ th£ poor creature’s voice had grown more and more tremulous, as she pro ceeded, and >vas at length stifled w r ith so’bs. in a few moments, she resumed her story: 44 when my boy was gone, i thought i might sure enough as well go to the free states. but mistress mckinley had a little grandchild of mine. his mother died when he was born. i thought it would be some com brt to me, if 1 could buy little orphan sammy. so i carried all the money i lad to my mistress again, and asked her f she would let me buy my grandson. but she wouldn’t let me have him.— fhen i had nothing more to wait for; so i come on to the free states.— here 1 have taken in washing, and my laughter is smart at her needle, and we get a very comfortable living.” do you ever hear from any of your children?” said i. yes, ma’am, i hear from one of them. mistress mckinley sold one to a lady that comes to the north every summer; and she brings my daughter with her.” don’t she know that it is a good chance to take her freedom, when she comes to the north?” said i. to be sure she knows that,'* re plied charity,with significant emphasis. “but my daughter is pious. she’s member of a church. her mistress knows she wouldn’t tell a lie for her right hand. she makes her promise on the bible, that she won’t try to run away, and that she will go back to the south w ith her; and so, ma’am, for her houor and her christianity’s sake, she goes back into slavery.” 44 is her mistress kind to her?” 44 yes, ma’am; but then everybody likes to be free. her mistress is r try kind. she says i may buy her for four hundred dollars; and that’s a low price for her two hundred paid down, and the rest as we can earn it. kitty and 1 are trying to lay up enough to buv her.” 44 what has become of vour mistress mckinley? do you ever hear from her?” yes, ma'am, i often hear from her; aud summer before last, as i was walking up broadway, with a basket of clean clothes, who should i meet but my old mistress mckinley! she gave a sort of a start, and said in her drawl ing way, 4 0, charity, is it yaw?' her voice sounded deep and hollow, as if it conic from under the ground; for she was far gone in a consumption. if 1 wasn't mistaken, there was a little something about here (laying her hand on her heart) that made her feel strangely when she met poor charity. says i, 4 howr do you do, mistress mckinley? how does little sammy io?’ ("that was my little grandson, y ou know, that she wouldn't let me buy.) m i*m poorly, charity,* says she very poorly. sammy *s a smart boy he’s grown. tall, and tank tabh nicely. every night 1 teach him hi) prayer*. i the indignant grandmdther dravriec t out the last word in m tone, whid t garrick himself could not hare ear h passed. then suddenly changing boti voice and manner, she added, in tonei i of earnest dignity, “oeh! 1 could n'l stand tkzil good morning, ma’am!* i said i. i 1 smiled, as i inquired whether she had beard from mrs. mckinley since. yes, ma’am. the lady that bring* r my daughter to the north every sum mer, told me last fall she didn’t thinii i she could lire long. when she weni home, she asked me if i had any dies* i sage to send to my old mistress mckin ley. 1 told her i hod a message tc send. tell her, says 1, to prepare tc meet poor charity at the judgmenl i seat. about a year aller this conversation, i again visited new york, and called to see charity bowery. i asked her il i she had heard any further tidings oi 1 her scattered children. the tears came to her eyes. you know i told you,” j said she, that i found otit my poor richard was sold to a mr. mitchell, ol i alabama. a white gentleman, w ho j has been very kind to me, went to them parts lately, and brought me back news of richard. his master ordered him to he flogged, and he would’nt come up i to be tied. if you don’t come up, you i black rascal, i’ll shoot you,* said his master. shoot away,’ said richard; j 1 won’t come to be flogged.’ his j master pointed a pistol at him—and, in jtwo hours my poor boy was dead! richard was a spirity lad. i always j knew’ it was hard for him to be a slave. well, he’s free now. god be praised, he’s free now; and i shall soon be with him.” in the course of my conversations with this interesting woman, she to!d me much about the patrols, who, armed with arbitrary power, and frequently intoxicated, break into the houses ol the colored people, antf subject them to all manner of outrages. but nothing seemed to have excited her imagina tion so much as the insurrection of nat turner. the panic that prevailed throughout the slave states on that occasion of course reached her ear in repeated echoes, and the reasons are obvious why it should have awakened intense interest. it was in fact a sort of hegira to her mind, from which she was prone to date all important events in the history of her limited world. “on sundays,” said she, “i have i seen the negroes up in the country go ing away under large oaks, and in secret places, sitting in the woods with j spelling-books. the brightest and best men were killed in nat’s time. such j one 3 are always suspected. all the colored folks were afraid to pray in the time of the old prophet nat. there ’was no law about it; but the whites reported it round among themselves, that if a note w r as heard, w’e should j have some dreadful punishment; and j after that, the low whites would fall upon any slaves they heard praying or singing a hymn, and often killed them before their masters or mistresses could 1 get to them.” i asked charity to give me a speci men of their hymns. in a voice crack cd with age, but still retaining consi derable sweetness, she sang: a few more beatings of the wind and rain, ere litc w inter wtu be over— glory, hallelujah! some friends has g<me lcforc me; i must try to go anti meet them— glory, hallelujah! a few more risings au.l settings of tlie sun, ere tlic winter will be over— glory, hallelujah! t 1 lore’s a better day a-couiing— there’s a better da% a-omiing— oh, glory, hallelujah! with a very arch expression, she j looked up, as she concluded, and said, j they wouldn’t let us sing that. they wouldn’t let us sing that. they thought we was going to rise, because we sung, better days are coming.' j it is now more than a year since poor i charity went w here the w icked cease from troubling, and the weary are at jest.” eccentricities of men of genius. many have exhibited foibles and vices in proportion to the magnitude of i the talents by which they were raised above other men, lest, perhaps, they might carry themselves too much above common humanity. pope was an epi j cure, and would he in bed at lord j bolingbroke’s for days, unless he was told there were stewed lamyrfeys for i dinner, when he instantly rose and j came to the table. even sir isaac ’newton gave credit to the idle non sense of judicial astrology; he who first calculated the distances of the stars, and revealed the laws of motion by which the supreme being organ izes and keeps in their orbits unnum bered worlds; he who had revealed the mysteries of the stars themselves. 1 dryden, sir isaac newton’s contem porary, believed in the same absurdity. the great duke of mariboiough, when visited by prince eugene, on ihe night before a battle, when no doubt the two generals w ere in consultation upon a measure that might decide the fate ol an empire, w as heard to call his serv aut to account for lighting up four candles in bis tent open the occasion; i and he was once actually seen on horseback darning his own gloves. hobbes, who wrote the leviathan,” a deist in creed, had a most extraor dinary belief in spirits and apparitions locke, the philosopher—the matter-of fact locke, who wrote, and in fact established the decision of things by the rule of right reason, laying down the rule itself—-lie delighted in romances and revelled in works of fiction. what was the great lord ventlam? alas! too truly, “the wisest, grcatcst.meancgs of mankind.** as for martin luther, the fetbrmcr, he was so passionate and unchristian-like that he struck his j triends, melancthon in particular, and perhaps would have burned him as readily as an inquisitor in those days would have burned a heretic, in the paroxysms of his rage. cardinal richelieu, the minister of a great em pire, believed in the calculation of nativities. sir thomas more burned ike heretic to whom in his writings be gave full liberty of conscience. alex ander the great was a drunkard, and •lew bis friends in his cops. caesar sullied the glory of his talents by the desire of governing his country des potically, and died the victim of his ambition, though one of the wisest, most accomplished, and humane of con querors. but we are travelling far hack tor examples which should be taken from later times. tasso believed in his good angel, and was often heard to converse with what he fancied was a spirit or demon, which be believed he saw. raphael, the most gifted artist the world ever produced, died at the age of thirty-seven, his constitution weakened by irregular living. dr. samuel johnson was notoriously super stitious. sir christopher wren, who built st. paflt’s cathedral, was a be liever in dreams. he had a pleurisy once, being in paris, and dreamed that lie was in a place where palm-trees grew, and that a woman in a romantic dress gave him some dates. the next day he sent for some dates, in the full belief of their revealed virtues, and they cured him. dr. halley had the same superstitious belief. melancthon believed in dreams and aparitions, and used to say, that one came to him in his study, and told him to bid guyneus his friend, to go away for some time, as the inquisition sought his life. his friend went away in consequence, and thus, by accident, really saved his life. addison was fond of the bottle, and is i said to have shortened his days bv it. i burns, the poet, was a hard drinker, and there can be no doubt, wore out his constitution by his conviviality, i goldsmith was a gambler, and the i victim of the fraudulent. prior was dupe of a common woman, whom he believed to be an angel. garrick was 'as vain as any woman, and equally loved flattery. kneller’s vanity was such, that nothing was too gross for him to swallow. porson, the fijst ol greek scholars, was a notorious tippler. we might multiply examples of this kind without end; but we need not have quoted so many to exhibit how wisely and well the balance is poised to keep human pride within due limits. fifteen minutes to-spare. in passing from one engagement to another, during the day, there are often small portions of time, for which many make no provision, and so lose them entirely. a good economist ol time, however, which is money, and to many their only capital, will always have something to fill up these spaces. put together, they make days and months, and years, and are worth sav ing. some persons are so constituted, that it is next to impossible for them tc be systematic, methodical, and steadily, and continuously diligent. they car work only by fits and starts, and the) u*ork best when the spirit moves them compensating, by the earnestness ant energy with which they labor, for th( seasons. during which they loaf oj lounge. such gentlemen of genius are, however, rare; a good many lazy fel lows, who imagine themselves mem bers of this class, having in fact no right to be ranked with them, and de serving to be talked to—first for their idleness, and, secondly, for their im pudence, in trying to excuse their drone-like propensities, by pretending to be like the few eccentric great men who arc, in respect to the way in which they do things, a law unto themselves. most people, to acc jinplish anything, need to be constantly industrious; and for them it is wiser never to have fif teen minutes to spare,” and always tc have some little matter to which they can turn their hand. a certain mathe matician, we forget who, is said tc have composed an elaborate work, when visiting with his wife, during the interval between the moment when she first started to take leave of theii friends, and the moment when she hat fairly finished her last words. wt heard once of a young man, eager foi knowledge, w'he read the whole of the history of england, whilst waiting ai his boarding-house, for his meals to b< served. no excuse for ignorance ii more common, than a want of time t( learn; and no excuse is more false. i is not always false. uncontsciousl) one may get engrossed in business ant entangled with engagements, so tha he cannot well release himself ant escape. but it is bad to do this; ant against it one should be on his guard in many cases, however, such entirt occupation of time is not the facte it i: only imagined to be the fact. every body, every day, wastes moments, i not hours, which might be devoted ti useful ends. where there is a will there is always a way,” says the pro verb. a systematic arrangement o business, habits of rigid punctuality and a determination to gather up thi fragments, will enable a man to rnaki wonderful additions to his stock o knowledge. the small stones whicl fill up the crevices have almost a much to do w ith making the fair an< firm wall, as the great rocks; so tb right and wise use of spare moment contributes not a little to the buildin; up in good proportions, and will strength, a man’s mind. because w are merchants or mechanics, we nee< not be ignorant of all that lies withou the boundaries of the counting-roon or the shop. because the good wotnaj looketh well to her household, she nee< not abstain entirely front looking int books. if to make money or get dinner, the mind must be entirely ne glee ted, it were better to l*e poor am starv e. but there is no such necessit as this, as any one may discover vvh will with justifiable avarice make goo use of every fifteen minutes he ha to spare.” srs woj'.ial fracas.— yesterday morniof before the lieut. governor took bis seat a president of the senate, two members of tiu indy, mesare. parkhamand mama, bad som words with one another, fhnii which they g< to blows. a great deal of confusion ensue among tfc? grave gentlemen assembled in tb senate chamber, and no small difficulty ws overcome in keeping the combatants apar some one called the senate to order by pn poring um. walter brash ear as preside) pro tens. whereupon quiet was restored and tb senate proceeded to transact more appropr ate business. it is supposed that the renconti grew not of the election of the u. 8. senate the day before.— .v. o. picayune, vuk. the icimrttf a* a specimen op litckatcie. •t b. c, cogswell* id simplicity and purity of rtyte, and in originality of sentiment, the bible stand. unrivaled. its purity and elo- jueace are unsurpassed by any pro* actions ancient or modem. its ma terial for the exercise of deep thought, for cultivating the taste, for invigorat ing the imagination, and for eliciting the best feelings of the soul, is rich and exhaustless. its weighty doctrines, the hopes it enkindles, the fears it arrays, alike prove its divine original. no human composition is so exquisite ms a/eays to please. its stores of wis dom are quickly exhausted; the eye aoon perceives the end of created per fection; but the beauties of the bible are none the less lovely, though the charm ot novelty may have passed away. he who can read the inspired narra tion of moses with diminished interest, can have no beauty in his own soul, j cold must be that heart which does not kindle at his eloquence, and melt at his pathos. i moses’s account of the creation is i unique. it is abrupt, simple! sublime. the volume of destiny is suddenly j thrown open; time is proclaimed; cre ation arises; and a new race of intelli gences appear on the scene. the almighty voice is addressed to chaos. confusion hears it, and wild uproar stands ruled.” the waters subside; the verdant landscape is seen; songs burst from every grove, and stars, l bright rolling, silent beaming, are hurled forth from the aimighty's hand. j the story of jacob’s darling boy, dressed out in his coat of many^colors, sold into egypt by jealous brothers, rising to be second in power in that 1 mighty nation, saving by his foresight i a famishing world, especially the chosen people of god, and dying the most beloved of princes, far surpasses the sublimcst conceptions of poets or nove lists. the styleofmoscs as a historian, is the best model, both in the vigorous and the sublime, the pleasing and the tender. his history is clothed with the grace of eloquence, the charms of poetry, and the fascinations of fiction. poetry is the breathing out of that principle which is deepest and sublimest in human nature; the expression of s that aspiration for something more powr j erful and more thrilling than ordinary life affords. the bible is replete with poetry. the hebrew poets rouse, warm, and transport the mind in strains the sweetest and boldest that bard ever sung; in numbers, the loftiest that imagination ever dictated. no poetry extant equals that which comes to us from the rapt patriarch of idumea, and the inspired prophets of salem: from the schools of bethel and jericho. the bible is the prototype; the unri valed* model and inspirer of all that is elevated in poetry. it has been a fountain from which later poets have drawn their richest thoughts, their boldest figures their grandest imagery. the psalms of david are an elegant specimen of poetic literature. the character of their diction and expression is vivid, the thoughts animated, passion ate. they communicate truths which philiosophy could never investigate, in a style which uninspired poetry can never equal. the hebrew literature itself contains nothing more lovely. among the prophetic writers, isaiah stands unrivaled. his language pos sesses surprising beauties. his tri umphat song upon the fall of the baby- 1 lonish monarch is replete with imagery, diversified and sublime. the concep tion is bold, the characters are intro duced with wonderful art. nothing is wanting to defend its claims to pcriect, beauty! in every excellence of com position, it is uncqualed by any spe cimen of greek er homan poetry. the strains of ezekiel break forth like the gushing of a mighty fountain. he is deep, vehemernt, tragical. he rouses every energy of the soul; over whelms the mind by his bold figures, abrupt transition, fervid expressions, j but he who astonishes us by bis gra phic images, possesses, at the same time the loveliness ol the sweetest poet. for invigorating ‘the imagination, for giving energy of thought and boldness of the writings of ezekiel are unequaled. the bible has stood the test of ages. no closeness of inspection, keenness ot investigation, or strictures of criticism, j have been able to defeat its claims to the highest excellence of language. here the man of taste may find every varity of material to discipline the mind, enrich the imagination, and polish the taste. of the men that have shed a lustre over ages and nations, the purest and the noblest are tboes who have been most deeply imbued with the literaturu of the bible. the divines of the seven teenth century, those gigantic pillars of english literature, have been cele brated for their love of the excellence of scripture composition. at this foun-j tain the most distinguished poets and orators have drank deepest. w hat but the literature of the bible has rendered immortal the writings of milton and young, or those of chatham and burke, the models of modern eloquence what else has given interest and power to the writings of jones, butler, hall and the admiration of every: scholar? it is the literature of the bible which has sent out a redeeming influence through our whole literary system —an influence which pervades and strengthens the public mind. there is a spirit in the literature of the bible, befotc which the lurid fires of impure passion, kindled at the shrine of heathen literature, go out. the whole atmosphere of the bible is pure and salutary? its clime a region of strong thought: the place for gtan, j minds to thrive is. it is an exhaustless treasury of truths— “tr«tk dst kn power to mat* oar sot*y year* wrm arawnb m the uia| of weml lilac*; iradm (ka take to parks arror.” let the bible be studied in its ori- 1 ginal, as we study the illiad of homer, or the history of liry, and giants hi 1 intellect will fbe up, to surpass the loftiest geniuses of past ages. let the student study the incomparable his tories of moses and luke, tnd the sententious writings of solomon—-me n of wonderful grasp of mind, of strong massive style, of deep reflection also the writings of paul, another name for the perfection ofcondensed eloquence the nnriraled poetry of lhmd, isaiah, ezekiel, habakkuk; and he will find such a discipline adapted to indurate his mental constitution; to give it muscle and energy; to gird the intellect with power; and to aid him in con centrating its energies so as to bring vast regions at once to the mind: to comprehend almost the infinite in the finite, as the cope of heaven is imaged in the dew drop.” such is the literature of the scrips tures. written by its numerous authors, during the space of fifteen hnndrcd years, in the sands of arabia, in the deserts of judea, in the rustic school* of the prophets, in the sumptuous palaces of babylon, in the bosom of pantheism and its sad philosophy, the bible comes to us the oldest offspring of sanctified intellect,, the highest effort of genius, the effusions of truth and nature, the overflowings of genuine feeling, the utterance of undisguised sentiments; it is essential truth—the thoughts of heaven. this volume was conceived in the councils of eternaf lt contains the wondrous story' of redeeming love. it blazes with fhw lustre of jehovah’s glory. it is cal" 1 ciliated to soften the heart; to sane." tify the affections; to elevate the souf, it is adapted to pour the balm of hea" veil into the wounded heart; to cheer the dying hour; to shed the light of j mortality upon the darkness of the tomb. the force of its truth compelled the gifted but infidel byron to testity that “within this awful volume lies the mystery of mysteries. o! happiest they of human rare, to whom our cjod ha* given grace to hear, to reail, to fear, to pray. to lift the latch, and force tiw* way; hut u-ttcr had they ne’er been born, w bo read to lioubt or read to scorn.’* the city of mexico. this famous capital, now at the mercy of gen. scott, is thus described in murry's kn cyelopedia of geography, pp. 323-1 the state of mexico comprises the valley of mexico, a fine and splendid region, varie gated by extensive lakes, and surrounded by some of the loftiest volcanic peaks of the new world. its circumference is about 200 miles, and it forms the very centre of the great table land of anahuac, elevated from 0000 to 8000 feet above the level of the sea. in the centre of this valley stands the city of mexico; the ancient mexico, or tenochtitian, having been buiit iu the middle of a lake, and connected with the continent by extensive causeways or dykes. the new mexico is three nules troin the lake of tezcueo, and nearly six from that of chaleo yet humboldt considers it certain, from the remains of the ancient i locality or temples, that it occupies the ulen- tical position of the former city, and that a greater part of the waters of the valley have boon dried up. mexico was long considered as the largest city of america, but it is now surpassed by new york, perhaps even by lfio janeiro. some estimates have raised its population to 200.000; but it may, on good grounds, be fixed at from 120,000 to 110,000. u is beyond dispute the most splendid. mexico is undoubtedly one of the finest cities built by europeans in either hemi sphere. with the exception of st. peters- i burgh, berlin, and philadelphia, and some quarters of westminster, there does not exist a city of the same extent which ean be com pared to the capital of new spain, for the uniform level of the gtound on which it stands, —for the regularity, and breadth of the streets, and the extent of the squares and public places. ihe architecture is generally of a very pure style, and there arc even edi fices of a very beautiful structure.’ the palace of the late viceroys, the cathedral, built in what is termed the gothic style’ several of the convents, and some private palaces, reared upon plans furnished by the pupils of the academy of fine arts, arc of great extent and magnificeuce yet, upon the whole, it is rather the arrangement, regu larity, and general effect which render it so striking. nothing, in particular, ran ho more enchanting than the view of the ciu and valley, lrom the surrounding heights. ihe city appears as if washed by the waters o the lake of tczcuco, which, surrounded by villages and hamlets, resembles the most beautiful of the swiss lakes, and th« rich cultivation of the vicinity forms a striking contrast with the naked mountains. among these rise the famous volcano popocatatetl and the mountain of ixtaceihuatl, of which the first, an enormous cone, bums occa sionally, throwing up smoko and ashes in the midst of eternal snows. the police of the city is excellent; most of the streets are handsomely paved, lighted, and cleansed ihe annual consumption in mexico has boen computed at 10,300 beeves; sheen o0,(,00 hogs; 1,000,000 fowls, including ducks and turkeys; 205,000 pigeons ami partridges. the markets arc well supplied with animal and vegetable productions brought by canoes along the lake of ghalco and the canal leading to it. these canoes are often guided by females, who at the time are weaving cotton in their simple nortablo looms, or plucking fowls, and throwing the leathers into the water. most of foe flowers and roots have been rawed in chintmma*, or floating gardens, an invention peculiar to the newr world. they consist of rafts formed of reeds, roots, and bushes, and covered with black saline mould, which being irrigated by the water of the lake, becomes exceedingly fertile. it is a great disadvantage to mexico, however, that it stands nearly on a level with foe surrounding lake; which in season of heavy ram, overwhelms it with destructive inundations. the construction of a drun’ue vi*” 11 cart 3 the w aters of the lake a °d °f the principal river by which it is led, iras, since 102 v, preventer) any very desolating. the desague, though not conducted with skill and judgment, cost $5,000,000, and is one of the rno*t stupendous* hydraulic works ever executed. wers it filled with water, the largest vessels of war might pass by it through ihw range of moun tains which bound the plaiu of mexico. th*» alarms, however, have been frequent, and pjinot well cease while foe level of font inks is twenty feet above the level of foe great square of mexico.” wheat is little known in sweden. the consumption is said not to average annually more than two or three pounds per head, ihruughout the kingdom. kjx and out* are the staple brcadaii.tr, li.eilitim or those »ho take periodical..—fhe law. declare thai any person to whom a periodical is sent, is responsible for payment, if he receives the paper, or inidkes use of if, even if he has never subscribed for it, r ft owrtd it to be stopped. his duty in such a case not to take the paper from the office or person with jtq 010 *j kft, but to notify the pub lisher that he doe. not wish for it. if paper, are sent to a post-office, *orc, or any other place of deposit, ®nd are not taken by the person to whom they are sent, the postmaster, store-keeper, ac. are responsible for payment, until be returns tbe papers, or informs the publisher that tkoy are lying dead in the office.