from parker’s letters on slavery. condition and treatment of slaves (continued.) the slaveholder’s temptation to cruelty is too much for common men. his power is irresponsible. it is easy to find a stick, if you would beat a dog. the lash is always at hand. if a slave disobeys—the whip; if he is idle —the whip; does humor—the whip; is he sullen and silent —the whip; is the female coy and reluctant —the whip! chains and dungeons arc also at hand. the slave is a thing; .judge and jury no friends to him. the condition of the weak is bad enough everywhere in old england and in new england; but when the strong owns the very bodies of the weak, making and exe cuting the laws as he will, it is not hard lo see to what excess their wrongs will .amount —wrongs which cannot be told. it is often said, that the evils of -.slavery are exaggerated. 1 his is said by the masters. but the story of the .victim, when told by the oppressor! it is well known what that is. the few slaves who can tell the story of their wrongs, show that slavery cannot easilv he represented as worse than it is. imagination halts behind the fact. the lives of moses roper, of luns ford lane, of m oses grundy, frederick douglass, and w. \v. brown, arc jbeforc the piihtic, and prove what ■•could easily be learned fr.-m the ad vertisements of southern newspapers, conjectured lrom the laws of the south ern states, or foretold outright from a knowledge of human nature itself; that ihe sufferings of three millions of slaves form a mass of misery which the ima gination can never realize, till the eye is familiar with its terrible details. governor giles, of virginia, calls slavery a punishment of the highest order.” and mr. brest on says, hap piness is incompatible with slavery.” in the m »st important of all relations, that of man and w ife, neither law nor custom gives protection to the slave. their connection may at any moment be dissolved by the master’s command, the parties be torn asunder, separated forever—husband and wife, child and in other. the infant may he torn from its mother s breast, and sold away out of her sight and power; the wife torn from her husband's arms, forced to the lust of another; for the slave is no person, hut a thing. for the chastity of the female there is no defence, no more than for the chastity of sheep and swine. many are ravished in tender years: so is the last insult, and outrage the most debasing, added to this race of americans. by the laws of louis iana, all children born of slaves are reckoned as natural and illegitimate.” marriage is prostitution;' sacred and permanent neither in the eyes of the churches nor the law. the female slave is wholly iu her master's power. muiattoes are in >re valuable than blacks. so in the slave states lust (tow leagues with cupidity, and now the north star. act* with singleness of aim. the soutl is full of mulattoe?; its “best blooc flows in the veins of the slaves,’" natters owning children as white a‘ bemselvcs. girls, the children of mu at toes, arc sold at great price as food for private licentiousness, or public furniture in houses of ill-fame. undci the worst of the roman emperors this outrage was foi bidden, and the prefect jf jin.* citv gave such slaves their frec rl >m. but republican parents not rarely sell their own children for that abuse. after the formal and legal abolition r ,f the african slave trade, it became more profitable to breed slaves for sale n the northern slave-holding states. i’heir labor was of comparatively little ,alue to the declining agriculture of delaware, maryland, virginia, and s'orth carolina. from planting they lave become, to a great degree, slave >reeding states. the reputed sons of he cavaliers,” have found a new 'ailing, and the “chivalry of the old lominion betakes itself, not to manu factures, commerce, or agriculture*— [>ut to the breeding of slaves for the southern market. kentucky and ten nessee have embarked largely in the iame adventure. it would be curious ascertain the exact annual amount »f money brought into those states 'rom the sale of their children, but the acts are not officially laid before the niblic, and a random conjecture or even l shrewd estimate, is not now to the mrpose. in the latter half of the last century, virginia displayed such an array of talent and statesmanship, of eloquence, of intelligent and manly life, in a noble fonn, as lew states with the same po pulation could ever equal; certainly none in america. there were ran- j dph and mason, wythe, henry, madison, jefferson, marshall, w ash ington her very “tobacco” could purchase the peace of new england and new york. now virginia is eminent as a nursery of slaves, bred and begotten for the southern maikct. ohio sends abroad the produce of her soil—hour, oxen and swine; massa chusetts the produce of her iniils and manual craft—cottons and woollens, hardware and shoes; while v irginia, chivalrous virginia, tlie “old nonu nion,” sells in the world's market the produce of her own loins—men-serv ants and maidens; her choicest exports are her sons and daughters. she ha? jornc for the nation live presidents, hree of them conspicuous men, famous ill over the world; and gnd knows tow manv slaves to till f!v soil of the favouring south. in i*3*2, it was shown in her legislature, that slaves verc “all the productive capacity,” md “constitute the entire available vealtli of eastern virginia.” the [’resident of william and mary’s col ejre savs, virginia is a negro-raising >tate for oilier states.i’homas jef erson randolph pronounced it “one menagerie where men arc raised for he market, like oxen fertile shambles.” in 1031, it wms maintained in her lc ris ature, by t»lr. gholson, tliat the nvner ot land had a reasonable rig hi ,o its annual profits; the owner ol orchards to their annual fruits the jwner of brood-mares to their products; and the owner of female slaves to their increase.” is any man born a slave." the de claration of independence says. all men are born “equal;” their natural rights inalienable.” it is absurd to sav, a ma t was born free in africa, and his son was born a slave in vir ginia. the child born in africa is made a slave by actual theft and per sonal violence; by what other processes can he he made a slave in america: ’file fact that his father was.stolen be fore makes no difference. by the law of the united stales it is piracy to en slave a man horn in africa; by the law of justice, is it less piracy to enslave him when born in baltimore? the d nnestic slave-trade is carried on continually in all the great cities oi of the south; the capital of the union, called after the father of his coun try',” is a great slave-mart. droves of slaves, chained together, may often he seen in the streets of washington; the advertisements of the dealers are in tne journals of that city. there the great dcmagagucs and the great drov ers of slaves meet together; and one citv is common to them all. if there he degrees in such wrong-doing, it seems worse to a baby in ame rica. than a man in guinea; worse to keep a gang of w<mvn in virginia, breeding children as swine for market, than to steal grown men in guinea; it is cowardly, no less than inhuman. but so long ago as 1529, it was said in the baltimore reporter, dealing in slaves has become a large buvncss: establish ments are made in several places in maryland, at which they are sold like cattle. these places of deposit are strongly built and well supplied with iron thumb-screws and gags, and orna mented with cow skins and whins often bloody.” the african slave-trader, perhaps even now, is net unknown at baltimore or new orleans, but he is a pirate; he shuffles and hides, goes sneaking and cringing to get along amongst men; while the american sla i e—trader goes openly to work, advertises “the in crease of his female slaves,” erects his jail, and when that is insufficient, has those of the nation thrown open for ills use, and all the states solemnly pledg ed to deliver up the fugitives who escajw* from his hands. he marches his cuffles where he will. the laws are on his side, public sentiment and the majesty of the constitution.” he looks in at the door of the capitol, and is not ashamed. there are mean men engaged in that bight is of no sex—'truth is of no color-god is the father of us all, and all we are brethren. traffic, who “arc generally despised even in the slave-holding states;’’ but men of property and standing are also concerned in this trade. mr. erwin, the son-in-law of mr. clay, it is said, laid the foundation of a largtt fortune bv dealing in slaves. general jackson was a dealer in slaves, and so !a*e as 11, brought a coifle and drove them to louisiana for sale. in thli transfer of slaves the most cruel separation of families takes place. in the slave-breeding states it is a common thing to sell a boy or a girl, while the mother is kept as a breed er.” docs she complain of the robbery r there is the scourge, there are chains and collars. will the husband and father resent the wrong?—there are are handcuffs and jails; the law ot the united states, the constitution, the army and navy; all the able-bodied men of the free states are bound to come, if need he, and put down the in surrection. vet, more than fifteen hundred years ago, a roman emperor forbade the separation of familios ot slaves, and ordered all which had been separated to he reunited. “w ho can bear,” said the emperor to his heathen subjects—“ who can bear that children should be separated from their parents, sisters from their brothers, wives from their husbands?” in isis, the presbyterian synod of kentucky said to the world: “bro thers and sisters, parents and children, husbands and wives, arc torn asunder and permitted to see each other no more. these acts are daily occurring in the midst of us. there is not a neighborhood where these heart-rend ing scenes arc not displayed. there is not a village or road which docs not behold the sad procession of manacled outcasts, whose chains and mournful countenances tell that they are exiled by force from all that their hearts held dear.” the affections arc proportion ally stronger in the negro than the american: his family is his all. the terror of being sold, and thus separated from the companions of his sad mis-j fortune, hangs over the slave for ever,' at least till too old for service in that way. the most able-minded are of course the most turbulent, the most difficult to manage, and therefore the; most commonly sold. but the angel of death—to them the only angel of mer cy—benignantlv visits these poor ish-| roaels in the hot swamps of georgia and alabama. thoc-god-seest-me, i were fitting inscription over the spot; where the servant thus becomes free' from his master, and the weary is at, vesij n anti-slavery petitions. mr.. editor please give the following article, with the (onus of [>.*titior.s and sugg- stior.s, one oi two insertions ia your journal. il every anti-slavery editor will give the proposedj effort a hearty support, as wo trust all will, it will do great good while we are plviag all the other agencies, which are likely to awaken an interest i:i the popular mind, on the, subject of human rights, let us not forget the very simple, yet very effi-j cient one, of petitioning. while wej may not hope that the prayer of all the j petitions will he granted now, —or per-j haps for years to come, —and while wej expect that in some cases contumely 1 and insult will he heaped on the peti tions and their signers,—still there are great advantages to be derived from! systematic petitioning, which we are! loth to see the american anti-slavery men and women of the country! abandon. let us state some of them, j (1.) they form a cheap and effect-’ ivc mode of bringing the subject of sla very home to the thoughts and feelings i of the whole mass of the northern pop ulation. an anti-slavery man or wo man takes a roll of anti-slavery peti-j tions, and goes through a certain dis trict. this person sees and converses! with nearly every man and woman in that district, answers objections, re moves prejudices, awakens an interest, and perhaps leaves a tract or newspa per; which will be as seed sown, to pro duce abundantly hereafter. (•2.) the advantage to the persons who circulate the petitions, is immense. how familiar they become with all the forms and hues of thought, in their own vicinitv, on the subject of slavery they learn how to answer objections, and what books to circulate. they know what suggestions to make to speakers, who may present the cause in their neighborhood. they take the guage of progress, and can trace that progress to its legitimate causes, and remark who remains unchanged, and what chains him to liis old idols. (3.) the results of petitioning are felt powerfully in legislative bodies.— few things make a half-hearted mem ber feel more qucerly, than an anti- slavery petition. it must he presented. it must be talked of, and voted upon. the ayes and noes may be called for, and taken, and his name may go on record, and ten years hence, the fact stare him in the face, like a ghost that will not down at bis bidding. how glad he is to know that the people grow weary of petitioning! how he is put to his wits-end, when they gather their energies and resume their work! even if the question of reception is raised only to be laid on the table, the petition is not with mt its power. let increasing thousands annually protest at the bar of our legislatures, against our legal ized crimes, and though our utterance be choked for the time, it will be felt if not hearth then the agitation that shakes those legislative bodies, that permit discussion, is among the most powerful means of awakening public scutiment. that wc know. petitions, rochester, n. y., friday, february 4, 1848. j sent in great numbers, to our legislative b«*die*, animate and strengthen those legislators who are ready to act on the side of freedom, and who only await a favorable opportunity to put forth all their power in her behalf let our pe titions remind them of our sympathy; let their appeals be backed by our en treaties; and since unprincipled law givers so often make the *c ill of the people” a pretext for their wicked legis lation, let those who are inclined to fa vor the oppressed, have the full support of an increasing multitude ot petition ers, in behalf of “equal and exact jus tice to all men.” (4.) the history of petitioning is full of instruction. in england, the people petitioned for twenty years, and almost with no other agitation than that con nected with the circulation of petitions, they made the slave-trade piracy, and the* slaves in ail the british empire, men. while our petitions rung in the ears of our legislatures, the agitation was always on the rise. indeed, the great change which has been effected in the state of public sentiment in our country, is largely due to the circulation of petitions. the right of petition it self, the repeal of the gag-rule in con gress, —the peaceful discussion of the subjects of the petitions, —and the in creasing interest in the overthrow of slavery, show that we have not labored in vain, and encourage us greatly to exertions for the future. we should remember, too, what the unjust judge said, who granted the widow’s prayer, wearied by her impor tunity, though he neither feared god nor regarded man. the work of circu lating petitions, once begun, anv dimi nution in their number will be hailed by the enemies of the cause as an omen of declining interest in the cause itself. let us give them no such occasion, even for a temporary rejoicing. let every year remind them of our exist ence, and increasing numbers and zeal, and of the gathering power that will not sleep till slavery i 3 overthrown. the following forms are given, sim ply as suggestions to the friends who may choose to adopt them. let them be modified according to the wishes of the communities into which they may find their way. the grand point is, that they should he universally circu lated. let every man and woman, in the northern states, be induced to sign them all, or as many as possible. in some states many persons might be dis posed to sign a petition for the repeal of some specific statute, who would not sign a petition which demands the re p« mil of the j*fhole.code. jn such petitions should be circulated asking for' the repealof such specific statute. they 1 can easily be prepared. to the congress of the united states: the undersigned, inhabitants of! and state of respect fully request your honorable body to pro hibit slavery and the slave trade in the district of columbia, and in all terri tories under the exclusive jurisdiction of congress also, to repeal all lawsj now in force in the aforesaid district or territories, which make any distinction among their inhabitants on account of color. to the congress of the united stales: the undersigned, inhabitants of' county, and state of respectfully request your honorable body to pass a law prohibiting the ac quisition of any new territory to the united states, except on the condition that domestic slavery be forever ex cluded therefrom. __ to the congress of the united states: the undersigned inhabitants of county, and state of respectfully request your honorable body to pass a law emancipating eliza herbert and caroline, her daughter, who were sold to satisfy a judgment in favor of the united states, vs. the'es tate of miller, and refunding the money to the person who purchased them when so sold; also, to pass a law prohibiting the sale of human beings on any debt due to the u. s., and the hold ing of slaves by any officer of the na tional government. to the congress of the united states the undersigned, inhabitants of county, and state of re spectfully request your honorable h< dy to repeal the law of congress, com monly called “the fugitive law of 179:3,” for the following reasons (1.) it makes the free states a hunting ground on which to chase dwo men, whose -only crime is a love of personal freedom. (0.) it exposes to the danger of being kidnapped, thousands of free persows of every color. (3.) it de prives persons thus seized of the right ot trial bv jury. (4.) it tempts some northern state magistrates to exercise jurisdiction in cases to which their au thority as state officers does not reach. to the congress of the united states: we, the undersigned, inhabitants of county, and state of re spectfully request your honorable body to prohibit the commerce in slaves be tween one slave state and another, whether carried on by sea or by land. to the congress of the united slates: relieving that the existing wer be tween this country and mexico origi nated in a desire to extend the area of slavery, and that it is still prosecuted with the same object: we, the under signed, inhabitants of county and state of respectfully re quest yourjhooorable body to take im mediate measure* to recall our armies from mexican territory, and to make full reparation to mexico far the wrongs we have done her. to the legislature of the undersigned, inhabitants of county, and state of respectfully request yeur honorable body to repeal all laws now in force in our state, makiug any distinction aainougst its inhabitants ou account of color. to the legislature of' the undersigued, inhabitants of i county, and state ot respectfully request your honorable body to pass a law prohibiting the use of any of the prisons of our state for the confinement of persons claimed as fugitive slaves and makiug it highly penal for any officer of this state to aid officially in any way in reclaiming any person so claimed. suggestions. 1. let the petitions all be written out with a pen. ‘2. let them be very brief, and let each embrace hut one or two, or at most but three objects. 3. let three or four persons, or one, if more cannot be found, take a set ol petitions, and visit every family in that tow nship, and secure the names of per sons of mature age, who are willing to sign them. if the proper persons to circulate the petitions are unable to to spend the necessary time without compensation, let them he paid. a bet ter disposal of anti-slavery charity could not be made. 4. let them take along, when they can, a supply of anti-slavery tracts, to give to all who will read them. o. if a hiut may be given on this subject, wc would suggest to those who circulate petitions, that they let pa tience have her perfect work,’* —when reviled, reviling not again,” but in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves.” (i. do the work at once, and v' n n the petitions are signed by all who !i give their names, enclose each to the address of the gentleman to whom you wish to confide it. ihey sh-u.u, ii possible, be sent to some member from your own district, known to be favora able to their presentation. in other cases, those addressed to your own le gislature, should be sent to some mem ber whose sympathies warrant the hope that he will not neglect them, and those addressed to congress should he sent to hon. j. p. hale, of the u. s. sen ate, or to mr. g hidings, mr. tuck, or mr. palfrey, of the house of repre sentatives. 7. be careful to divide the sheet on which pfitilios-is written, two columns, and let the names be fairly written. let each signer, if possible, w rite his or her own name. hereafter commence petitioning some two or three months before the time when your legislative bodies meet. the petitions to congress may be circulated at the same time. for this year let the work be done at once. by order of the kxectitive commit tee. t. b. hudson, acting cor. sec. ain. and for. a. s. society. from the journal r.f coimnerre. case of the spanish sc hooner l’amistad revived. the president of the united states, in his message to congress of the 7tii of december, 1847, submits the follow ing proposition: i recommend to congress that an appropriation he made, to be paid to the spanish government for the pur pose of distributing among the claim ants in the amistad case.” i enter tain the conviction that this is due to spain under the treaty of the 20th oc tober, 1705; and, moreover, that, from the earnest manner in which the claim continues to be urged, so long as it shall remain unsettled, it will be a source of irritation and discord be tween the two countries which may prove highly prejudicial to the interests of the united states. good policy, no less than a faithful compliance with our treaty obligations, requires that the in considerable appropriation demanded should be made.” the claimants referred to as above, are known to be two spaniards by the name of don pedro montez and don jose ruiz, and their claims, so far as the public records show, consisted of two parts; one for a small amount of goods, an j the other for forty-nine ne groes slopped by them on board the schooner at havana, in toe jsittm] ol cuba, june, 1839, for the port of gu anaja. these negroes were kidnapped in their native land, put in irons, and hrdtight awav by force, and landed at havana, forthe purpose of converting them into slaves for life. they were born free, and no law on earth could make them slaves. physical force could no{ change their condition from freemen to slaves. they were landed at havana in the night, and secretly bhut up in a baracoon. the law of spain has at all times, since 1819, prohibited, under severe penalties, the importation of negr *cb from africa; and, furthermore, the same law declares all s*uch imported africans to be free. when these ne groes were landed at havana, that la** was in full force, and all the authorities of cuba were bound to set them free. instead of that, the illegal and op pressive kidnapper* and importers sold them as slaves to montez and ruiz, who knew at the time of the purchase, that they were all freemen and not slaves. they knew that these negroes were fresh from africa, and had been brought to havana contrary to the law of spain. knowing these facts, it became- tie- cessarv for monte* ami ruiz to give each a false name, a spanish name un known to the negroes. bv means i»j this false and fraudulent proceeding, thev procured a false, fidi ious mid fraudulent paste, r*r permit from the governor, to remove these negies from. havana to gunnajn. the home of mon te* and ruiz. ties pet mil was false in two partieiila: it contained a false name for each negro, and then a false, designation. in the permit, they were, all designated ladimn. when in fact they were boznh. montez and ruiz were implicated in the fraud, because they procured the governor to sign this permit by their false representations. by the law of spain, the governor could not give a permit for boral ne groes. here was the necessity ol montez and ruiz to resort to such means. it is no injustice, then, to say to these men. montez mid ruiz, you must submit to all the consequences of your own fraudulent acts and false de clarations. under this spanish pa** 1 for firty-lbur slaves, you shipped on board the l’amistad fifty-four razols, knowing then! to be a different set of men for whom a pass had been given. this was a most enormous fraud in law and in fact. the perpetrators can nev er escape the consequences. here is a familiar illustration. john randolph, of virginia, by his last will; and testament, gave freedom to all his i slaves. now suppose some person, bent on gain, should seize fifty-fi ur of these freemen in virginia, put them in irons—give them all false names—pro-: eure a bill of lading at the custom house on his own oath, and ship them; to some port as slaves, and providence should cast them upon our shores,would" our courts restore them to liberty?— and then, suppose congress should he petitioned for their value? is there any one man in the civilized world who would grant such a favor? no! such a claim must he rejected upon the ground that the kidnapper has uc-, quired no title to them as property. and if the kidnapper had effected a sale, sueh sale would be uttcily void, and could confer no title to the pur chaser. if a man takes my horse by force or fraud, or feloniously, he can never convey that horse to another, and give a legal title. i may retake that animal wherever it nuty be found. does the title to men rest on weaker grounds? if you cannot fabricate orj forge a title to my horse so as legally to transmit him to another, so neither ean it be done h wgard to man, and make a slave of him. if the seller has no title, then it is plain that he can con fer none. these principles are so ob vious that any person of common un derstanding cannot mistake their appli cation to the amistad negroes. here is that application. these ne groes were born tree—they were kid napped, or i.i other words stolen, and by force were carried to havana,where the laws pronounced them free. mon tez and ruiz knew they were free, yet they purchased them with the intention of making them slaves for life. under false names and fraudulent passports, i they under take to convey them in chains to guanaja. they escape, and by pi •ovidence are thrown upon the judi ciary of this country, and by their right eous decree they are again restored to the liberty of men. we hunt out the fraud—we discover the illegal steps token by these pre tended purchasers, don pedro moiftez and don jwse ruiz, and decide that by the laws of their country, as well as ours, they have no title whatever tc>: these nit n. as these claimants cordd not hold these men as slaves, now the govern ment of spain, in its supreme authority, comes here, and by her minister takes up this cause for montez and ruiz, and the president is induced to exert his influence with congress to appropriate from our treasury money enough to sat isfy this claim, that it may be divided among these claimants. they demand seventy thousand dol lars, and say this will satisfy montez and ruiz, and pacify the angry queen of spain, so that in future she may be our friend in the way of business! this is the demand, and these are the grounds on which it rests. the demand itself is preposterous, and the grounds upon which it is pressed are unworthy the great nation whose minister urges on this claim. during the original trial, it was proved that the consul of spain de clared, that if these negroes were* re stored to spain, some of the leaders would be punched, but they could not be made slaves. he was right, and so our courts decide d. this inlets the whole case, and at once and forever puts an end to all claims, cither in law or equity, by don pedro montez and don jo*e kuiz, or the government of spain for them. it must he remembered that the claim now urged by the minister of spain, stands on no higher ground than that of m >r.tez and ruiz. it is for them that he claims. if theirs cana d he sustained neither can hit. theirs have been amply investiga ted by the judiciary, ami dismissed as illegal. the government claim must be dis posed of in the same maimer and tor the same reasons. had don pedro montez and don jose ruiz preferred their own petition to congress for this claim, then all the attending facts of their case must be spread upon the records of congress, as they have been up-»n the records ol the district court of connecticut and the supreme court of the united stale*. so it should he now under this 0 the claim. should either of «‘*i william c. kell, rmiim. john pick, r*i*tt*. whole no.—vi. grrs* «o far ei.tcrtain ihisfrabjecl as to rv!vr it to a committee, then such com mittee can do no less than to call for these records. _ lhe evidence is all preserved in the district court of connecticut, and th© rinding of that court can easily be ob tained. it is to be presumed that th© president has never personally investi gated that case, and it is deeply to b« regretted that he has not. the probability is, that he may havo seen nothing on the subject, except the argument of the former attorney gen eral, who was in fact the adviser of president van buren in this matter.— that article is superficial, and calcula ted to lead to erroneous results. to save others the trouble and labor of looking up those records, we annex to this article an extract from the find ing and opinion of the district court of connecticut, as published in the jvcw york commercial •idreriist.r ot the 10th of january, is4u. here is an extract: “the two great questions still remain to be settled. shall these africans, by a decree of this court, be delivered over to the government of spain upon th© demand of her minister, as the proper ty of don pedro monte* and don jose ruiz? put if not, w hat ultimate dispo sition shall the government of the uni ted states make of them upon the first of these question*, ull-ahsorbing as it is, 1 am called to pronounce an opinion. and what l have now to say applies to cinque* and others, who have filed their answer to the claim, on record, not including an tonio. what is the object of the demand made upon the president by the span ish minister? not to have them trans ported to cuba for punishment, but be cause they are the property of spanish subjects—their effects or merchandise —their propelty. 1 begin here by find ing certain fact's which must necessari ly be part of my decree and upon which it must be based. “these are the facts that i find prov ed in this case: in cuba there are three classes of negroes, well known and distinguished, creoles, who were born w ithin spanish dominion; lndinos, who have been long domiciled on the island, or sufficiently so that the laws of spain operate upon them—or in other words embracing those who owe spain their allegiance; and lastly, bozals, embracing all such as have' but recently been imported from africa. _ n. the negroes now in question wit® all horn in africa—-they were imported to cuba by the slave traffic, phout which monte* and ruiz had had ’noth ing to do—they were put into 0,-tmur*- coon near havana, and after remaining there not exceeding fifteen days, mon te* and ruiz brought them to tho schooner amistad as their slaves, and put them on board for guanaja. con sequently, 1 find these negrors to he bozals; they were so at the time of the shi| merit. “the demand of the spanish govern ment is, for these bozals to be restored to them, that monte* and ruiz may have them as their property. to justi fy this demand, and require this gov ernment to restore them under the trea ty, these negroes must not only he prop erty, but spanish subjects must own them—must come lawfully by them— they must have lawful right to hold them as their ow n. “in all cases where propcity and title are proved to be in spanish subject*, the treaty is imperative, and at all haz ards it must be surrendered. i go up to the letter aud£epirit of th© treaty both, lait i do not step over it, merely because the demand is made by a high contracting pow er. the demand must be lawful. the minister has de manded the schdbner, and suppose in point of fact, it should turn out that the schooner belonged to a subject of france, instead of spain, can we de liver it to spain? surely not. how stands the case here? the govern ment of spain demands of us, under their treaty, a restoration of these ne groes, and we ask them for their title. it is a very well settled principle, here and elsewhere, that the party demand ing restoration must show his title. the onus prohotuti lies on him. aware of this rule of law, the spanish claimant* send to me their evidence of title. and what is that document a deed—a hill of sale—a transfer? so. it is a per mit—a license —a pass—signed by the g jvemor general ot cuba, for don pedro monte* and don jo*e ruiz to transfer fifty-four i.adinos to guanaja,. and thi* is all! this embraces tho whole evidence of property and till© both. “in point of fact,these are not ladinos. they might he lawfully sold and car ried to guanaja. these negroes arc bozals, and are not ladinos. “here then is the point—the point up on which this great eoutrovery must turn! “to show that it is so, i shall be obliged to recur to the law* of spain, as the same ore here proved, berau*e th >s*3 laws make a f ait oflb© case is self. thev are to be proved in the courts of the united stoles a* matt*" l fiad, then, a* a maltcrofiactthat in the m .nth of june. th© w spam did prohibit, u»d*r ty, the importation groes from africa. 7w wen- imported in violation of that law. and be it remembered, that by (be sain© taw of spam. »uch imported negroes are de«l* r «d to be free in spain, ‘fbm account* for the declaration of tbe span-. ,*h consul, “that if these negroes ah wild he returned to cuba, some o# the leader* jrjight be punished, of them could be made slaves.” this declaration is in exact conformity with the law of spain, so far an the matter f>f slavery is concerned. why, then, •hould the law be doubted by me i do not doubt it. ido exprea-ly hod it to be such. if there had been any doubt an to what the itaw of spain is, 1 ask, would not the spanish minister resident- at washington, hare comma* bleated that to hit government, so that it might be scat here alow- can we expect an american court to decree that these negroes are property, while he omits to produce the evidence which makes them such? in reply, it may be said that they were in possession of spanish subjects. but possession is only one indicum of prop erty, and that has been rebutted by the proof that these are bozal negroes, and cannot be made property by any ma chinery of sale or transportation. “this brings me to the question of ti tle in montez and ruiz, who now claim them' through their government.— though they do not come into court in person, yet they do come in the majes ty of their sovereign. they need not come in person, and if they do, they may stand aside and put forward the shield of regal authority, as they do in this case. bat this establishes no title to prop erty .*v, suppose, that i admit that slaves arc property, yet montez and ruiz possess the title within tsiein sclves. they have furnished no proof of payment—they have shown no bill of sale—no witness has sworn that he was present when these negroes were sold. they have not shown us from whom they derive their title. it is the naked possession on which they rely.— when the right is disputed this is not enough. how docs the spanish minister fill up this chasm in the evidence? how docs he link together the chain of title? by nothing else except the governor general’s passo, and this has before been commented upon. now that offi cial document is to serve the double purpose of proving property and title botjv, and yet, when we look on it again; and apply to it our judicial test, if the expression may he allowed, wc find that instrument still is for ladinos, and not for boznls. it contains on its face an untruth. the governor gen eral had not given a pass for these ne groes; and consequently these bozals stand, on the deck of the l’amistad without any pass whatever.” with this, we leave the question for the present, and shall hope to see con gress meeting it as it deserves. when so done, lire question will he put at rest, and the honor of the nation saved from the disgrace of complying with a demand unjust in all its teat ores—un righteous in all its aspects. to comply w ith that demand of spain would fix a stain upon our character not easily ob literated. justice.” from tl>«* gem of tlw 1 prairie. decision in a slave case in illinois. the charleston globe gives a legal opinion recently delivered in the cir cuit court of coles co., by chief jus tice wilson and mr. justice treat, in st case involving the freedom of jane, a colored woman, and her four chil dren. these were claimed by gen. mateson as his slaves, and after argu ment on both sides, were discharged by the court. it appears in evidence, that in isi6, gen. mateson, who until that period had resided in kentucky, removed to rlinois, and purchased a farm, which he has ever since continued to culti vate. during this time he has resided about half the time in illinois and the remainder in kentucky, though always churning to be a citizen of the latter state. on first leaving kentucky, he was the owner of twenty odd slaves, and several times he brought several of them from kentucky here, and after having kept them on his farm a few months, returned them, and brought back others in their stead, ip 1845 he brought tlie woman and the children m question to illinois; since which time •he mother had acted as housekeeper tnt his farm; gen. m. constantly said that it was not his intention to keep them here, but that he meant to remove them to a farm in the western part of ken tucky. the testimony show s that gen. mateson is what is termed an indulgent master; but it seems that the woman very naturally preferred freedom for herself and children to the kindness o m master. the opinion is interesting, though a great part of it is irrelevant to the main point. the principle upon which the decision was made is embraced in the following paragraph: the constitution of the state of illinois declares that there shall he neither slavery nor involuntary servi tude,” etc., within the state. the act therefore of bringing jane and her children into this state and holding them here, being in contravention of this pro vision, would of itself work a forfeiture of the title of mateson. unless some saving clause can he found in the para mount law of the constitution of the united states by which it would be per petuated. the rig!* of recaption under the second section of the 4th article of the constitution of the lnited states is confined to persons held to service or labor in one state, under the laws there of, escaping into another. the lan guage of the net of congress of the 12th of february, i7!w, is, that, where any person held to labor in any of the united states, under the hiws tberetd* shall escape into nnv other ol the said states,” etc., t!.e owner or his agent may seize such fugitive from la bor, and upon proof made to the satis faction of tlie judge, that the person so seized doth under the laws of the state from which h cjled, owe service, etc., it becomes the duty of the judge to grant the certificate.” the opinion goes on to sav: considerable importance is attach ed by counsel to the fact, that mateson retained his citizenship in kentucky, and professed the intention of leaving ins servants in illinois hut temporarily. but we cannot perceive that these cir cumstances are entitled to the consider ation in this case claimed for thorn.— neither the pin* e of residence, not the declared intentions of mateson, can :our»tervail the fact that he voluntarily lomicilcd hie tenants bare for f*o rears or ips adi. kven if from some contingency they had remained but a lay, the circumstance of his having transferred their domicil frttm ken tucky and fixed it in illinois, would have produced the same result.” we should suppose that this whole subject had been rendered so clear by repeated decisions, all going to confitm the same principle, that not another case of the kind would ever again come up in the state. the comranv or books. —lt is chiefly through books that we enjoy in tercourse with superior minds; and these invaluable communications are in the reach of all. in the best books gre at men talk to us, give us their most precious thoughts, and pour their souls in ours, (iod be thanked for books.— they arc the voices of the distant and the dead, and make us heirs of the spir itual life of past ages. books are the true levelers. they give to all that will faithfully use them, the society, the spiritual presence, of the best and greatest of our race. no matter how poor 1 am; no matter though the pros perous of my own time will not enter and take up their abode under my roof, if milton will cross my threshold to sing to me of paradise, and shakespeare to open to me the worlds of imagination— the workings of the human heart, and franklin to enrich me with his practical wisdom, i si all not pine for want of in tellectual companionship: and i may become a cultivated man, though ex i eluded from the best company where i live. nothing can supply the place of books. they are cheering or soothintr companions in solitude, illness and affliction. let every man if possible gather some good books under his roof. charming. the north star. rochester, february 4, 1848. i west winfield. this little, unassuming agricultural town, though r.ot very extensively known among the lovers of liberty, is nevertheless the very garden spot of thorough going, radical anti- slavery in central new york. it possesses more of that independent spirit, warmth of heart, and purity of mind, essential to the growth of anti-slavery sentiment, than is often met with in this country. at present, its locality is determined, bv the relation to i larger, but inferior places. the traveller will find it at the end of eighteen miles, in a south south-east direction from utica, (a place long since consigned to slavcholding, mobo cratie infamy,) reated among, and completely surrounded by hills, slightly inferior to the beautiful grampians of scotland. had burns or scott lived there, those hills would ere this have been richly mantled by thcfabricsof their magnificent genius. passing over and around them, we sincerely craved ability to give voice to their silent but speaking beauty.— this, however, is not our gift. our life has not been such as to favor such utterances.— slavery has imparted to us a rude sternness, i altogether unfavorable to such creations —so wc leave the hills, and proceed to give our i readers some account of the fair, and anti- slavery meetings,which wc had the happiness to attend last week. i the fair was held in a hall connected with the i temperance hotel, kept by our active anti- slavery friends, mr. ami mrs. thomas, and will accommodate about two hundred and fifty persons. it is the same hall where the fair was held last year, and which, to the great delight of pro-slavery persons, gave way beneath the pressure of the multitude that thronged it on that occasion. our anti i slavery friends strongly fortified themselves against such another catastrophe this year, by j placing posts under the beams supporting the flour. the fair opened on wednesday, and closed on thursday evening and though the weather was very unfavorable, being very j wet, and the roads almost impassable, the room was thronged on each evening by a lively and interesting company, and all ap peared pleased with the scene. the room was tastefully trimod with evergreen, dotted l all over with artificial flowers. the tables i were well supplied with useful, rich and ele gant articles, and were nicely arranged.— j the ladies attending tlie tables, seemed heartily engaged, and sought pleasure only in selling the goods committed to their charge. it was a highlv interesting and useful ocea sion and though the proceeds may not seem i large, vet the good done is immense. there were mountains of prejudice removed, by contact with negroes and abolitionists. on the first evening, we saw several who appear ed terribly afflicted with colorphobia, most of whom were conrausccui before we left. on wednesday evening, during the fair, we had several addresses on the subject of slavery. the first washy jonathan walker, of plvmouth, massachusetts. he gave a short account of his arrest and imprisonment, in florida narrated in a simple manucr his sufferings in prison showed that ever-speak ing, branded hand and charged home the responsibility of his torture upon the people of the whole country. we followed in a few remarks, and were succeeded by joseph c. hathaway, who nude a very powerful and impressive speech—giving a dee|ier tone to the proceeding* than before had been mani fested. at the close of the evening, a meet ing was appointed for thursday morning, 1o commence at 10 o'clock. the use of the baptist meeting house was refused the meet ing so we were eo:up died to assemble in a small school-house, which was soon filh-d up, anil we luid quite a w arm discussion on the constitution and the l uion. participated m by charlc* reinond, i jr. hudson, samuel a. greene, mr. lean, several lib erty party nxm. ami ourself. the most in t< r. sting point in the discussion, hwid to the obligations of an oath hi support the con stitution of the united states. mr. greene, though a dis-unionist, we believe, took the ground, that the obligation of an oath is to j lie determined by the }>cnally annexed to its violation and said that in swearing to snp|mirt the constitution, as an assessor, wc swore ouly to a faithful discharge of the du ies of that office. he mid he could bold unr oak ia the state, ia which he waa act required to return the fugitive date, aad put dow n slave insurreetk**- la regard to fugi tive slaves, he said that several states had made it a criminal off-ire for any stale officer to interfere in the return of a slave to boodree. mr. greene is an earnest speaker, rod his vsews struck the audience fevorawy. he was replied to by esquire dean, who took the ground that the obligations of the oath were to lie determined by the terms of the oath and (hat an oath is as binding without, as with penalties, that the oath to support the constitution is an oath to support the whole instrument, with all its provisions; snd that a violation of any part of the constitution by one who had sworn to support it, was nothing leas than perjury. these poaitioos be deemed so evident, that there was no need of arguing them. messrs. smith. goudell, and spooner were all represented by liberty league sad liberty party men, who had the dissatisfac tion of seeing the ingenious argument of these gentlemen, regarding the auti-slavery character of the constitution, completely shattered and sent to the winds. tv meet ing adjourned at one o'clock, and gavej>lace to the fair in the afternoon and evening." on friday, meetingsjjere held throughout the day, at east winfield, in the congrega tional church, and were interesting to the last. remond, hudson, hathaway, hayden, thomas, walker, and john s. jacobs, spoke powerfully in behalf of the cause, and math a deep impression on the audience. mr. w'alker’s discourse was chiefly made up oi statements respecting his own sufferings in behalf of the cause, and exhorting others to follow his example. there was one state ment, respecting his poverty, which he made, for which we deeply regretted there should he any necessity. he said—and we would cal! the attention of the benevolent in massachu setts to the fact—that his family were now living in a miserable cabin in plymouth, the only covering of which is a piece of cotton cloth. this statement and others, induced the taking a special collection for mr. walker, which amounted to something more than ten dollars. it is a little too bad that a man fhal has suffered "as mr. walker has done, in the cause of the slave, and who labors as he now does, to promote the cause, should bcallowet i to live in such extreme destitution as he now docs, or to be compelled to expose his povertj before etery meeting which he may address on friday evening we lectured to a smal audience in richfield, where, we trust, then was good seed sow n, which will bring fortl fruit abundantly. evidently, the region is i somewhat dark one on this subject. on oui way to the scliool-house, for the church was closed against us, our ears were assailed in manner that told us wc were full eight mile: from west winfield. the poor creatures snorted, sneezed, and made such unsecml) noises as pro-slavery persons only can make. they are not, however, peculiar to richfield, they have just reached that period in civili zation there, which makes it as natural foi them to behave so, as for children to have mea sles or hooping cough. they will get rid ol it, as the darkness which now overshadows them shall disappear. we were greatly in debted to mr. and mrs. catlen, who showed us every attention, and rendered uscvctv as sistance in the way of getting to and fron richfield. there are a few good souls there whose influence and efforts must soon work i change in the moral sentiment of the place. george b. vasiion. —we learn that mr yashon was examined in open court. this j is highly creditable to his learning the ex amination being moic severe at new york than at pennsylvania. i i indian printers —the cherokee advo cate is now, and has been for several months, j entirely in the hands of the indians. one 1 comjxisitor is a creek, who learned the tradi at van buren, arkansas; the others arc chero kees, who have acquired it in the nation, easl of the mississippi. potato crop in france. —the com merce (paris paper,) states that the potato crop has been gathered throughout france, and that it is everywhere abundant atid ol good quality. from llayti. —the french brig rogci bontomps, 28 days from st. domirgo, ar rived at charleston on monday last, report! that, in the conspiracy discovered at st. do mingo, the minister of finance was the leader ar.d the object was to expatriate foreigners and join the republic of llayti. the chiei conspirator had been shot. apt. wright of the brig alert, from pori au prince jan. bth, reports that all was quiei in hayti when he left. theie had been some incursions upon the haytiens from the span ish portion of the island, and a haytien regi ment was raised to repel them, but the regi ment never marched. the power of the pres ent government of llayti is not represented at being very substantial, not however, from an) fear of spanish iucorsions, but from intestine divisions. itpour subscribers in victor and troy n. y., are informed that their pajicrs an regularly mailed. we regret their non-dc livery, but have done, and shall so continue our whole duty in the matter. 1 save vs from ovr friends' —lf sub scribers only knew how much anxiety thet inflict upon t:s by forwarding uncurren money, they would be sure to examine be fun mailing. a hint to the wise is sufficient." back numbers. —we have complied, aj 1 far as possible, in supplying subscribers witl our whole number. wc have now no span copies, excepting of nos. 1 and 2. sour friends have promptly forwarded no. 3; am 1 w r e will not appeal to their generosity again 1 but a few copies of no. 4 would be a hooi for w hich our thanks may be anticipated. k7* the follow ing publications have beet received, and will be noticed stareholding fhaminrd in the light of tk holy ihljr by wm. h. bnsbane. the triumph of war; also, position ant duties of the .worth urith regard to slavery j by rev. andrew p. peabody, of portsmouth n. h letter to professor stater and dr. bason by rt\. amos a. phelps. i id* we we again indebted to hon. j. g. palfrey for cwgrotwoil doruraenta. to corkespofu)^™* 11. c. vpum, km. kia mum aa agent ha* ban mimnui—llj omitted. we gretefafe ac lutonledge hie ocrtiam far the north star. b. w. r.. north newbare. ohio. oh letter of jaa. itth, had art brew reeeired at inne of going to pw. paper* hare been lrwjrdrd per mjuert of jan. 28th. b. f. w. barton. liet of wbecriber* te 26th jan. reeriee.l j. c. h. frtniiajton. conmamkatioa* of jai*. 24tb and feb. trt. rewired dirertwaa laaerred. sack a »4j~ list of cash mbecrdien may it be uar lut often to achnowlnlge. f. d. trey. order* complied with. m. r. d., rituburrh. letter* of jan. 29th re wired. several exchange* were already oa oar lirt; the rert are aow adib'd. editorial corresponded e. pitts»v*gh, january 21, 1848. dei* dornlajw:—i promised to give you weekly advices of my movetartrts, wheth er or not there were anything of interest to communicate. on last evening, there was an interesting meeting held in temperance hall, a place well known to you, to continue the measures previously entered into, for the relief of l)r. mitchell, of indiana, pa- a prominent anti- slavery friend of the liberty party, who was most unrighteously mulcted in the heavy sum of fifteen hundred dollars for no other crime under heaven than that of feeding the hun gry, clothing the naked, and giving shelter to the outcast. nay, not so much as this the doctor did but permit the weary, outcast crea tures to live in aa old log cabin on his farm— he employing them to labor, by a despotic act of congress in '93, this is made a penal i offence and the daring slaveholder may lay 1 his claim at $1,500 —the sum fixed by law— and recover the same in any state,even north l of mason and dixon's line. and ypt we are told by the pro-slavery minions, that the 1 north has nothing to do with slavery the unblushing effrontery and daring im pudence of the slaveocraey of this niock republic, have really become alarming.— whither shall we go for succor 1 i my kind friend, mrs. swisshexm, of the visit r. was there by her counsel and smiles, rendering aid and succor. you have before this seen the announce*- ment of the admittance of george boyer vashok, esq-, at the bar of the supreme court of the state of new york. this is a rebuke to the bar of pittsburgh, for which there is no palliation. upon this subject, greeley, ofilhe tribune, has a word of withering rebuke to pcnnsyl vania. by the way, greeley is a noble i hearted fellow hi* only objectionable charae teristic being the unerring fidelity with which jhe clings to that arch slaveholder, ilenry clay. but for this, greeley would be unex ceptionable. it would seem, that such is greeley’s love for clay, that were he to fasten j his monster grasp on him and his, he (gree i icy) would still essay to justify him, on the ground that it must be right, or he would not j have done so. i see by a letter from the scottish corres- i pondent of the liberator, that that miserable i person, stephen 11. gloucester, has proved himself a traitor, worthy of the deepest and most lasting execration. let the burning in dignation of a misrepresented and insulted j people, lash him naked through theworld:” and for this purpose, i would suggest the 1 calling of meetings in every place by the friends of the slave, irrespective of color, foe the exposure of the deeds of this clerical as sassin. liberia, the creature of colonization, as you have seen, has declared her independence, (for which i eemmend her, that is, provided she is determined to exist without a master j and orrrsccr,) and for this, she is lauded to the skies as an evidence of the capacity of the colored man for self-government. the proud little republic of j lay ti has for the last fifty i years fully demonstrated this truth; yet our quasi philanthropists are so /or-sighted, that tins faet is too near and apparent to come within the reach of theii vision. i sec that you and mr. nell, as well as our dear friend remond, have been fortunate in being among the chosen of the great ger rit smith. for this lam well pleased, as i do not think that his generosity could have j been extended to any more meritorious. the scintillating rays of the north star, are just beginning to beam on the west; which i brightens the horizon with cheering hopes. yours, in behalf of our oppressed and down-trodden countrymen, m. r. d. c 0 hi m r i c a tlo m s. colonization. why strew we «inj»r on the inttled spi ler, \vtu**e web m»uanth us about’” i it is indeed, a reflection upon american hu inanity, that at this late day, the iniquitous scheme called african colonization—can find any one so wicked to do it reverence. a ml yet sad to tell, there are those mighty men in church and state, who give credence to the benevolent pretensions of a society, which is practically an enemy to the class it professes to aid. it is an apologist for slavery, and justi t fk*s slave-holders. it is the enemy of imme diate emancipation. it aims to expel from the land of their birth, the colored population, not for any color of crime but for the crime of color 1 and prevents, as far as possible, their elevation in the united states. in this department, its sms axe not accidental, but a trade. in support of these charges, facts, ar gutnents, illustrations, and statistics can be reared as high as mount olymptis; hut it will suffice our present purpose, to make the i statement and challenge refutation. the free colored people, for w hose bcnefii the institution was ostensibly organized, have j ever since its formation in 1817, protested against it, aud any individual who suppose* i tlot since then, to the present, its feature* have become more lovely—its pruspect* or ue ducetneuta more flattering, or its modus oper madt the more christian our cbnrity would lain prompt the belief, that such indnridnla must be most “jolly green.'* at a mass meeting of colored citizen*, held in new york, j*n., bth, 1839, the following resolution was unanimously adopted rrsolv cd, that our sympathies for the slave, the love we bear oar native land, our respect ud tenmti#n for the institutions and govern ment of oaf country, ut so many cords which hind us to our home—the soil of our forth, which has hem wet by the tears, and fcftil iacd by the wood of our ancestors, and from which white life hist*, in spite of the oppres sor's wmogs, we will ncrpr be seduced at driven, but stride by principle and placing our trust ia the lord of hosts, we will tell the white americans that their country shall he our country —we will be governed by the same laws,and worship at the same ahar, where the* hve we will live—where they die there will we be buried, and our graves shall remain as monuments of our suffering 1 and triumph, or of our failure and their disgrace.” at boston, in june, 1847, there being an apparent resurrection of the scheme, invoked by the rev. hrraan humphrey, the colored citiiens th-rc convened and reiterated the fol lowing declaration:— resolved, tint we do ur hat* dtmt nyr ttnrr us origin, protest 3jrunst the opera tions of the american colonisation society, and its various auxiliaries, as in direct oppo sition to our best hopes, prospects and rights, and at variance with the dictates of christiani ty and republicanism. “resolved, that experience has confirmed our belief, that its advocates and agents art as fills? in words, and as wicked in practice, as their father of old, who sought to tempi our saviour upon the mount. resolved, that we are americans by birth, and firmly pledge nctrr to l*are thu land until the last shackle has fallen from the limbs of the last american slave.” similar resolutions have emanated from meetings of colored people, over tl»e length and breadth of the land. 1 one reason advanced by the above clergy man, for removing the colored americans tc liberia, wxs, that but one instance had vel occurred in that state, of any colored man’s receiving an appointment under the executive patronage; alluding to macon b. allen, then recently made a justice of the peace but om and what pray, is the reason, that but one. colored man bad ever been thus, there honor ed w hat but the pestilential influence of the colonization spirit, that has e\er retarded the growth and enterprise of her colored citizens 1 irut on*, forsooth, —it might be readily sup posed, such a fact in itself sufficient to super sede any necessity fur expatriation on the plea of incapacity for political or social eleva tion. if one can successfully aspire to a post ol honor and distinction i»thc“ athens of ame rica,” cannot and will not others? thankstc the progressive tendencies of the old bay i state, w hich bid us hopefully and confident ly, to prophecy in the affirmative. tt raynal, who expressed surprise that americ; had not produced any celebrated men, jeffersor replied, when we shall have existed as i nation, as long as the greeks, before they ha* a ilomcr—the romans a virgil—or th* i french a racine, there will be room for in j quiry;” and i would say, let the genius o american pro-slavery and prejudice, only re j move its feet from the neck of its outrage* j victims, and if improvement be not made com mensnratc with the means afforded, then, bu not till then will we admit the truth of thi gratuitous assertion, that the author of th universe, has stamped upon the brow of th colored american, a mark of inferiority. wi are now reminded of an eloquent passage ii the speech of a colored teacher, at one of thi i early anti-slavery conventions in boston.— the subject under discussion was, prejudice against color i am, said he, pained whe: i think of the condition of colored men in th< united states. my blood is as warm asyonn sir, or that of any patriot, and when i behoh i the finger of scorn pointed at my brethren, ant the curled lip, my soul weeps. i think then inay be thus insulted, one possessing th* highest attributes of man, a mind perhaps that if trained like other minds, might lead t< great deeds. some cinciunatus, capable o influencing the destinies of a nation—a hamp den, to inspire patriotism, or a milton, preg j nant with celestial fire.” j what indeed, is it but the spirit of pro-sla very hate—(a term, to the colored man synonymous with colonization) —that eject him from churches, school-houses, lyceums public-houses, stages, steamboats, rail-roa* cars, etc. etc. these indignities are ever* day items in that chapter of experience, whicl democratic, republican, christian ameri cans mete out to those whom god has award ed a complexion unlike their own. but abet ter day dawns—freedom shall yet triumph— slavery and its powerful ally, colonization will ere long be consigned to their appropri ate grave of oblivion. speed speed th* hour !—w. c. n. a word ttt objlctoos. it is said to bo the peculiar characteristic of this adventurous age, that it cares not foi i precedent takes nothing at second-hand; grapples with all difficulties; and will noi j submit to be terrified into the belief of any j dogma, because it has received the sanction ol high and venerated authority. this is said tc lie, and such, doubtless, ought to be the ease. but in laying claim to this superiority ovci other and by-gone ages, it would not be very difficult to prove, that this age arrogates tt itself higher and more noble and independcr.l «?ntiments, than it can sustain. is it not an every-dny observation, that if such or such a course were adopted, it would require that the constitution should be altered this is sup posed to be an unansu erable argument, and all-powerful to silence opposition. but what is this immaculate constitution? \\hat pure and holy thing is this, that must not be touched bv the sacrilegious hands of the pre sent generation it is nothing more nor lest nor else than a few maxims, written on parchment, by men who lived nearly a hun dred years ago and which is now locked uf in the archives of the capito). that the framers of this constitution were wise men. will not lie denied; that they were good men, nc*-d not be disputed; that they did the best they could for themselves and their posterity, is a self-ct idem fact; but to aiecrt that u hat they said, and thought, and did, was perfect, incapable of improvement or correction w hat is that but the most abject and unreasoning senility again it is said, that if such or such as editor advocates certain views; if be oppose, the opinions of this or that mao—of henry clay—of john c. calhoun—of zachary tay lor,—his paper will not live for a year—the influence of these men is so great, that he will find no readers; in other words, the public mind is so enthralled and held in sub jection by these leaders of popular sentiment, that any effort to oppose them—to expose their errors, make their inconsistencies apja i rent, bold up their dark dogmas before the sunlight of truth, would he utterly useless and unavailing, bringing down upon the pro jector of such an attempt nothing but failure land disgrace. driveller! who m henry i clay, or john c. calhoun, or zachary tay lor, tha tthe saying* and d*-.agi of either one or of all of them, should be beyond the scrutiny and the reasoning of common mortals f and what may he the idea you entertain of the intention of anting and speech 1 if an editor has nothing new to communicate to the world, if he does nut care whether or not he does anything, by lus writings, to make men wiser, or better, or happier ,—-if he has no object to gain, but his own self-interest and the miser able dollars and cents which he may contrive i squecae out of the public porket,—in the name of all that is sacred, let his publication sink into merited oblivion let him not add another screeching note to the discordant voices that are sounding out into the world heaven knows, and we all know, that there is already a ilabel-jargon sufficiently con fused and inharmonious. but if any one, be who or what he may, has a new truth tocom munieate, an iniquity to rebuke, an injustice to expose, it is in vain for any and every power to attempt to prevent hint. you may gag and pinion and imprison him; the truth will still find an utterance; it will speak from his eyes,—cow out at his finger nails. yon may even kill him, and it will spring forth from his ashes, and reviving to a new and vigorous pheenix-life, will speak with an irre sistible power; and meeting a response in the true hearts of every clime and country, its voice will wax louder and louder still, till it reverberates even in the craven soul of its trembling opposer. henry ('lay it is painful to be compelled to say anything in opposition to the views of that man of mind. heaven has bestowed up on him a rare and expansive intellect. would that his moral vision were as clear as his in tellectual would that he not only said, that slavery is a grievous wrong—a great evil,” but that he also felt what he says! then should we see him using his mighty influence to urge on the american nation to i rise up in its might and majesty, and cast from it, as an accursed thing, the last vestige j of slavery. if henry clay has so much in fluence, how responsible is he for its right exercise! it maybe right or the reverse, i that any man should possess tins influence but if he does possess it, and fails to use it for the world's good, what an amount ol ignominy and deep disgrace will rest upon him to all eternity there have been names handed dowu to us by history, which-are inseparably associated with some memorable action, or with the j. prevailing characteristic of those who bore them. we think of draco and cruelty, mani fested in revengeful and sanguinary law s o i nero and burning rome of george lyth o england and every vice which disgraces hu j manity. let the senator for south carolins beware, or a not remote age will erect fo him a niche in the same pandemonium of in famy, with this inscription over it, in flaming letters of eternal durability—“ john c. cal novn and wimps —chains slavery!” zacbary taylor strange indeed is it that men can be found in the free states of ame rica who will bow down to this idol the man who proposed in the senate, and carried forward his diabolical proposal, till it received the sanction of the assembled wisdom of the i country, that the slave who preferred freedom to bondage, and attempted to escape from the j hands of bis taskmaster, should lie tracked by i bloodhounds! zachary taylor, the slave holder the man whose hands are even now steaming with the hot blood of his fellow-men on the plains of mexico oh, the degrada tion of soul—the prostration of intellect—that can venerate such a man if the nuinlier of those who are represented by this manifesta lion of humanity were very considerable, how j slight reason would there lie to expect the 1 rapid progress of the world to that state in 1 which peace on earth and good-will among men will be universally prevalent! but, after all, these men, nor any man can, 1 either directly or indirectly, materially cheek the expression of truth. oh, man or woman, whoever thou art, that imagines! that any of thy earth-produced idols can prevent the truth from finding an utterance, learn now, 1 that it is more j>owerful than the united assemblage of men and devils or if thou w ilt not learn this, confess for once and forever, that thou art a very dolt, and utterly unteach able !—j. d. anti-slavery meeting at mis ery a hall. on sunday evening last, some six or seven hundred people gathered in minerva hall, to hear a lecture on slavery by mr. robinson, an elder of the second advent denomination. the address was a plain, clear, thorough expose of the nature of slavery; a bible ar gument against it; and a picture of the pre sent miserable position of the country'; the degradation of its politicians, the hypocrisy of its priests, and the criminal opposition or in difference of the people. the audience listened with earnest atten tion and the fact that so goodly a number came together, shows that the anti-slavery ’question is becoming the gr fit <pushon in the minds of a constantly inereas.ng number in this city. a few years since, the same call would have been answered by a much smaller audience. iy*t us w#rk without ceasing. “truth, above all tilings, beareth away the victoryand signs of cheer are about us, even in this dark hour, not the least of which is the incteaaiug willingness—nay, earnest desire to hear the gospel of ereed<in» for all. the candid attention of the people once gained, and freedom of discussion maintained, so that truth and error can grapple freely, and all organizations, in church and state, which 'uphold slavery, arc doomed. tt-cir gkay and their loighi stall perish; and their very name* shall be vile wee all the people in the light of a world’s liberty.” on sunday evening next, a meeting w ill he held in minerva hall, for the consideration of the gtcat questions of peace and war, of 1 which notice was given at the close of mr. robinson's address; and now that war is raging in the territory of a weak nation, carried on by the plundering forces of this strong republic, we hope that the spacious room may he filled by earnest hearers. g. b. s. missionaries a mono the fugi tives in canada. the following i* »n extract from the letter of a well known friend in ohio 44 there are sorae meddling, mischievous, (i will not yet say wicked,) colored men, who are going about through the upper pro* nnco of ('anada, and a 100 in the states, tra lunng the character of the missionaries who itt laboring among the fugitives from bondage m the other side of the lakes. i know many the missionaries there, but am personally acquainted with hinun wilson and isaac j. rice, and can testify that two mors labs nows, iilt-desvi.no, honest men do not exist on ■nv missionary ground. these devoted men, instead of being maligned, should be encour aged and assisted by all philanthropist#, and especially by all colortd people »ho hare any influence. at present, i will not name the traduccrs of these men of god but 1 know them well, and, if necessary, ran tell you much about them. beware of these men, if they should come to you for the purpose above named and cease not, tnv brother, to hold up the heads of the missionaries in anada. h. ir american slavery—the ten ure by vvihcii it exists letter no. i» 44 nothing can give one tnaa an adequate title to another as property, saving a bill of sale from clod almighty.” —jvdgf hairing ton, 17. messrs. editors i now avail myself of the opi>ortunity to transmit to you the first of the series of communications on slavery which indisposition has prevented me from sending before. f if we look back to the early history of our country, either to that period when the puri tan pilgrims left their island .home, and sought a retreat in the wilds of this continent, in quest of civil and religious liberty or to that period when their descendants declared that all men are created free and equal, and en dowed with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of hap ainess;” in defence ot which great principles they pledged their lives, fortunes, and sacred honors; sustaining them by a struggle of seven vears, severing the ties which bound them to the mother country, we are at a loss to account for the existence ot slavery i* a country settled under such circumstances, and taking her station among the nations of the earth, with such principles inscribed upon her banner; —yet slavery does exist in this boasted land of liberty— •‘■otir fellow coun ty non in chain*, slaves! in a land of littl»t ami law slave*! crouching on those very plain* where relied the storm of freedom’* war!” i and this slavery does not exist, as is felsc ly imagined, by the consent, support and pow er of the slaveholder alone, nor of that com i munity in which it exists but by the con sent, support and power of the whole nation. notwithstanding the clamor of the slavehold cr at the south, that it is a peculiarly south ern institution, a state concern and the cry of liia northern echo, let it alone we have nothing to do with it!—slavery is a constitu tional, national institution it is a part of our political system, and exists by the robber-right of might. this is manifest from the admission of slaveholders, and the provisions of the nation al constitution, says the editor of the mary ville (tenn.) intelligencer, “wc of the south arc emphatically surrounded by a dangcrou* class of beings—degraded, stupid savages— who, if they could entertain the idea that im mediate and unconditional death would not lie their portion, would react the st. domingo tragedy but the consciousness, with all their stupidity, that a ten-fold force, superior in discipline, if not in barbarity, would gather from the four quarters of the united states, and slaughter them, keeps them in subjection. but to the lion-slaveholding states, particu larly, are we indebted for a permanent safe guard against insurrection. without their assistance, the white population of the soutir would be too weak to quiet that innate desire for liberty which is ever ready to act itself out with every rational creature.”. here are the admissions of the slaveowner,, that his tenure to property in man is hie same* as that of the highwayman’s upon the travel ler’s purse, wh< n be has obtained it by pre senting a superior force exclaiming as her presents bis instrument of death, 44 yoor money or your life so says the man that robs his fellow man of his labor, whilst sur~ rounded by his “disciplined barbarians” “your labor or your life!” and should the plundered inan endeavor to escape from hi» unrequited toil, the deadly rifle is pointed, and! bleeding humanity falls to the earth, (his blood crying for vengeance,) as an example of the unlimited power of the slaveowner, and a ter-* ror to his wronged fellow s! 44 but,” says some northern apologist, 44 this is an abuse of the system.” no such thing it is a necessary concomitant, a nat ural result of that system which westejj termed the sum of all viiiamea, that reduce* man to property. the slaveholder eoro-. plains of being surrounded by a danger-, oua class of beings,” and but for the superior fore© that would gather from the four corner* of the united states, they would rise, m übedience to that innate desire for liberty that is implanted in the breast of every human being, arid slaughter their oppressors amt plunderers, as did the i {evolutionary father* the hired, sanguinary bands of george the third. the slaveholder is but the executioner ef this cruet power he is but the owner, whilst the nation are the holders of men as property. there are no, there can he no, non-slavehold ing states as parries under the present constitution, or in the present union. we are all one 44 great league of conspiraiota again*! the rights and liberties of the victims of sou hero, or rather national cupidity. for should the slave, in obedience to the dictates of our common humanity, (crushed as they are, by an oppression, 44 one hour'* endurance of which is more than ages of that which the heroes of *7o rose in then might and threw l off bat which minmffiiricnt to obliterate that ethereal spark of freedom that is buried deep in the bosom of the most degraded and be, 1 sotted victims of a cruel and unrelenting sya% ton of oppression,) rise and endeavor, by the strength of their own stalwart arm*, to vin dtcate their rights, the nation's resources and nerve* are pledged to encircle them with bristling bayonet*, red mouthed cannon, and glittering •word*—plunging the polished steel to the heart's’ core, and scattering limb* with the murderous charge of the cannon tc crush them in subjection to their galling yoke. the constitution of the u. s., art. ist sec. bth, says: congress shall have powei to suppress innurrectiona. art. 4th, see. 4th the u. s. »hal protect each of them [the states] against do meslic violence, on application of the legis lature, or of the executive (when the ture cannot be convened.) said brougham, the great english siates man, on the subject of human chattels tell me pot of laws. speak not to me ol enactments there is a law higher than all human laws, written by the finger «*f god, upon the heart of even- man that comes into world and so long as men hate robbery, loathe and abhor rapine, bloodshed and vio lence, they will repudiate, with severe indig nation and contempt, the guilty fantasy that man can ever hold projierty in man —property in man is only sustained by disobedience ui god and violence to man.” j. c. h. mnc’erity and sham. the most unpromising feature of the pre sent age is the sham, and hypocrisy, and rant, which are everywhere prevalent. there arc beliefs and professions of belief enough but slight indeed is the influence which cither the one or the other has upon the popular heart and conscience. evidences of this fact are so rife and apparent, in every de partment of business, statesmanship, and reli gion, that any one who will take the trouble to consider for a moment, cannot fail to find them in abundance. sham, and hypocrisy, and cant, are the miserable means which miserable men use for the deception of each other—of men in general and by which they sometimes succeed in deceiving even themselves. so prevalent, in deed, are they, that faith in man has become well nigh extinct, and he who loves all men, and would fain believe all men, feels con strained, though it pierces, as with a dagger, his inmost soul—to doubt even his dearest and most intimate friend. but the man of sincerity, who is willing to endure, for the sake of principle, jiersecution, scorn, sufferings, everything that the ingen uity of men or demons ran invent, is the true world-regenerator. he socks not honor, he ask* notpower. in entire forgetfulness of self, fearless, resolute, he struggles to give utter ance to those truths which have, as it were, taken him captive, and w ill not suffer him to remain silent. his sincerity is manifest in his every word, his every action. it may he be long before ins heaven-sent discovery is extensively received but such a time must at length arrive. his sincerity is felt—it is acknowledged it communicates itself to one and another, who are constrained to think, to examine, to believe. the ajhtstle paul felt the power of this sincerity, when he said, though i preach the gospel, 1 have nothing to glory of; for necessity is laid upon me—yea, w oe is unto me, if 1 preach not the gospel. mahomet, doubtless, was sincere, w hen fie said to the koreish at mecca, these idols of yours are wood, on which you put wax and oil and the flies stick to them. they are not god— they are hilt black wood!” said luther to tctzel, selling indulgences, this that you call a pardon of sins, is nothing more nor less than a piece of rag-paper, with ink on it. god alone can pardon sins.” confute me,” said he, in his speech before the diet at worms—“ confute me by proofs from scrip ture, or else by plain, convincing argument. i cannot recant otherwise; for it is neither safe nor prudent to do aught against con science; and god helping me, i w ill not.” so it is with the earnest, true-hearted man of every age, of every country, and of every elime. it is neither safe nor prudent for him to do aught against conscience.” thus it ever has been, and thus it ever will be. the man who has a firm-fixed and unwavering faith in principle, is ever powerful to regener ate the world. he is the world’s prophet, its teacher, its missionary. his words drop, like precious seed, into men’s minds. they germinate, they spring forth, they grow, and no power ujß»n the earth or under it, can pre vent them. religion is not a form—it is not a cere mony it has very little, if anything, to do with cither five one or the other. religion may exist and lie all-prevailing in the absence of firm and tfiere may also be a strict and frigid observance of an unending diversity of forms, where there is no religion. that which a man really and entirely believes that which he can trust to which he can live with; which lie can die with—that is his religion. in some it may be hut a |>oor reli gion and in some it may be no religion. 'i his is a lamentable tiling, and difficult to realize hut it is only too true, that there are men whose only belief is that they believe nothing, or nothing worth believing; men have neither faith nor principle—who fear not god nor regard man,” —w ho risking fihuraiel.es on the iinsul>staiitial something or nothing w hich they call chance,” like a /dnp wiflutyj compass, chart, or rudder, in 4he npdat of the feaming ocean, are driven they know- not where—they care not whither. it is not the ignoranj idolater that is here meant; f-ir idulu,urs do believe, and believe with their w hole soul. such belief is infinitely preferable to the profession of belief, when the heart and soul of it are awanling. i he udief of the poor idolater wlto lakes a piece <#f coid, fastens it round ins w rtst, and calling it bin g.wf prostrates himself before it, is preferable to ibis. lf the roman f atholic really and truly believes in the fibilmy of the virgin and the saints to jdoad for him —in the sufficiency of the popish ritual to supply all his spiritual wants; better is a for haw to continue to believe this, than, to adopt a sresd which is no cn-*d to him, if he boluives it not—which never becomes any part of himself, but is oujy, a* it were fast ened to bug, and bang* there, dangling, use less. would that there were more sincerity and less shun and make-believe in this world of pur*' then many of the wroogs and errors with which we are surrounded, and by which are cursed, would speedily disappear. 7 bt* p a truth loving world, bearing its errors on on willing shoulders, and never ceasing in its struggles to cast them off. oh, it is i glorious truth, ami one which cannot be toe firmly or too often impressed upon our minds, that it w no resting-place for error. every error came* in it* own boom the cams* of ht destruction. however powerful the interest however frening the prejudice, however in surmountable the harriers that fence room ami guard any error of the prewntt day,—those iramere shall be broken down; that intriesl fthall be overcome; and that prejudice shal rapiplv melt away liefore the warm sun light of truth. no power—no influence— no interest can procure for any error a resting place here. there is even now on tht horizon the dim dawning of a better day men are beginning to discover that they ban crml in seeking after gold and their ow n in significant selfish interests, when they mighi have found truth and the welfare of tht world. if the true men of all lands continue firm lo their trust, as doubtless they w ill, wt may vet expect to see—not a golden age—but what is inestimably more valuable than gold— an age of truthfulness and sincerity of pur pose an age in which men w ill seek, not tht interests of the few, by raising the mist* of error; but the welfare of the many, by dif fusing the light of i ruth.—j. d. columbia, pa., july 23, ibis. messrs. editors :—the object of youi article in the north star, on colored netrs pap'ts,” is, to my mind, to strike a blow at what may be supposed popular objec tions against colored newspapers. the question naturally arises, what qual ities or qualifications should a newspaper possess to entitle it to the surname “colored i have looked carefully over the columns of the north star,” and i am unable to dis cover any just reason why it should be termed a colored newspaper,” any more than the liberator, standard, freeman, or many other anti-slavery periodical. is it because it is edited by colored men certainly not. is it because it advocates the 1 emancipation of the slave, and the overthrow of prejudice! certainly not; for the papers i have mentioned have maintained the same no ble cause, in a manner and with an ability that has never been surpassed. you have asserted in your motto, that truth is of no color.” then you will certainly agree that its omnipotent power cannot be accelerated by the complexion of those who herald it! is it liecause the term colored has been asserted at the head of the paper, as formerly in the “colored american,” and “african sen tinel* certainly not; because they have long since ceased to exist, and their ghosts, however comely, no longer haunt our vision. now, if they were right in placing this dis tinctive characteristic at the head of their pa pers, (like those of many of our religious, literary and beneficial institutions,) why not follow their example, by introducing it intc your paper, so that its name may be hereaftei called the colored north star such a j course, would, in iny humble opinion, place you in a very consistent position to advocate its perpetuity, and would save you from the pain, penalty and mortification of being placed under that ban of proscription which you have framed for others, when you say thak“ there is neither good sense nor common honesty in trying to forget this distinction.” in the true spirit of charity, i am inclined to believe that your language in the above quotation has misrepresented your views. if i am capable of interpreting the meaning of your motfo, vour object is to labor for the overthrow of all those distinctions that con flict with the true interests of the common brotherhood of the human race.” you assert that we have sometimes heard persons regret the very mention of color on this account, and counselits abandonment.” it may be, that when your mind liocomcs re freshed with a scrap of history' on that point, you will find the possibility (at least) of their views being misreprsented. 1 believe that the first public discussion about the use of the term colored,” about which “you say you are in nowise sensitive,” (although you have not chosen to adopt it in practice.) took its rise from the introduction of the following resolution, which was dis cussed and unanimously adopted at a conven tion held in the city of philadelphia, in the month of june, 1835: “resolved, that we recommend to our people (as far as possible) to abandon the use of the word colored,’ whether spealing or w riting, concerning them scl ves; and, especially, to remove the title of‘african’from their institutions, churches,” ac., ac. it is useless to attempt to describe (to those w ho are familiar with the eause of reform) the excited feelings of many at the inteduc tion of this new feature of reform. it struck a blow’ at their pride and prejudices; its advo cates were vilified, and their'language mis construed. it is from this latter basis, i fear, you have drawn your arguments. now the discussion and excitement attend ant on the introduction of this new system, has passed the arguments of its opponents have either been exhausted or hushed into silence. the use of the term has been avoided in the formation of new institutions— newspapers, and your own not excepted. the time was when our contributions for the press, few and feeble as they were, were stamped with the complexional source from w hich they emanated. now’ it is otherwise; and i re joice in what i believe the progressive spirit of this age. but if the question is to be ex humed from the grave of the'past, 1 know of none so able as yourselves lo impair it resur rectionary power and life. i say, if the nega tive of this course is to be introduced by the editors of the north star, ictus have it. give us your views at length, so that your readers may be able to comprehend vour mu* poaution. it is a question of duty, and if u lies entomlted in darkness, let us disencumber it of the rubbish of tin* pan-t, so that its lumi nous rays may light up our pathway to future action. yours, for equality. \v. \v. west newton, jan. 27, l&tg. the north star pleas*-* me far beyond my very favorable anticipations. that i agree i with all the sentiments it advances, i by no means say; nor would i deem it worth my sub scription money if i did ,si nee it could then give me no new light, or food far thought and in vestigation. i look upon the enterprise, 0 which its publication ts the fruit, (sis: the elevation of tht colored man to his just right t and respectful eansidreation,) s* an swterpriss fraught wish hope for tmtceraa/ humanity, since the unjust degradation of one haas in a nation tends ever to lower, by injustice, evety other class. the wrong-doer is always in jured to the fad extent of his victim’* suffer ing. accept my hearty good wishes for the continued success of all engaged in your hon orable undertaking, and believe me yours, very truly, v arthur b. frixx*. y'v buetalo, jan. 29, 1848. /mrasas. douglass a dclast gentle men in my last, i promised that you should hear from me often. in the fulfilment of that promise, i feel that my whole duty is not discharged short of the accompanying, pre requisites necessary, and no doubt always ac ceptable, especially m a new movement like j yours, and burdened with matters of such momentous import. i therefore enclose an addition to your subscription list, wh3c *u doing, i feel that a more appropriate opportu nity could not present itself to say a word in regard to the position we occupy,—a glance at which, for years past, has, to me, always brought w ith it hs accompanyment of sorrow. in this age of false reasoning, when the ethics of the learned and great arc measured by circumstances, and dealt out by expedien cy, it is a matter of no surprise that subjects of incalculable blessing to the human race are sacrificed for the aggrandisement of un favored few especially when men of intelli gence w ill stand up and proclaim before highest legislative tribunal in the nation, that tfic institution of slavery is a part and parcel of the great compact; that it perfectly ac cords with the spirit and meaning of the word republican —a nation which for more than half a century has boasted of her constitution and just equalization of laws of her republi canism and her virtues a nation which annu ally, on the fourth day of july, sends up her merry peals of joy and thanksgiving to the god of liberty, that he has so distinguished her altovc other nations of the earth a na tion the safety of whose coming destiny alone rests upon the perpetuity of that republican principle which our forefathers waded in blood to achieve, but in part experienced a principle which is dear to every true ameri can, the basis upon which his liberty rests, and his incentive to action is founded. i repeat, that in an age like this, it is not strange that a full application of these repub can principles should he withheld from us, leaving the position we occupy, or the work ing out of these great principles of reform, mainly dependant upon our own exertions.— my cause for complaint, and to which i de sign making these few suggestions directly i bear, has its apparent origin among ourselves, either in the large amount of unconsciousness in regard to the important position we occupy, and the duties that devolve upon us in work ing out our own redemption, or else it is based upon the principle of self-exaltation. i am sor ry to be compelled lo make this sweeping as i sertion but 1 ask if it is not strange, amid all the intelligence our people possess, the difficulties to be met, and the in view, that our position is sot fully 'realized it seems that almost every redeeming feature or wise plan adopted to hasten aud usher in that delightful morn/meets its most deadly thrusts from the. hands of those whom it was intended to benefit. instead of laying aside minor difficulties, or differences of opinion on irrelevant points, and coming up in one solid phalanx, to do battle with this giant slavery, there seems to be a continual disposition to lurk by the wayside, and oppose this and that important movement w ithholding their influ ence and means but never backward to give liberally to support the low-, miserable, pro slavery, unintellectual dogmas, with which the world is filled. this paper cannot have their support, because its editors conscien ciously believe that not only slavery is sinful, and that the combined efforts of man should be arrayed against it; but they also believe that wars should cease, and that man should cease to imbrue his hands in the blood of his fellow man that capital punishment should cease, ac., ac.; and this movement cannot have my support, because such an one failed, or it started from such and such a place, or by or through such and such hands. i will riot numerate farther. these are the difficulties, ray friends, which must be overcome. this quarrelling about wliat some call extraneous matter, diverting the attention from the* great object in view, must be surrendered and the overthrow of the monster iniquity, slavery, be the rallying point around w hich our inter ests revolve, and to which all others should lie subservient. although i have differed many years from the views of some of the great pioneers in this branch of reform, far be it from me to cherish a single thought, so long as they prove faithful to the slave, of re fusing to extend to them the right hand of fellowship in fact, many of the first coadju tors, with win. l. garrison, as their leader, have ever lain nearest my heart, and shall ever receive my warmest approval. i should be happy to see some abler pen take hold of this view of the subject, and enlarge more fully upon the imperfect views set forth. yours for the oppressed, a. 11. francis. f run die liberty bell for 1847. an english child’* notion or the inferiority of the colored fof vlation in america. my little girl, between five and six years of age, has long been interested (so far as die can understand them) in the object* of the american anti-slavery society. the last two years she sent her little offering to the boston fair, and has already finished the piece of work which is to be hier contribution tins year. she and her brother (two years younger) were admiring her work and spell ing out the word liberty” in the middle of it, which she began to explain lo him, adding, after she had told him what liber ty” ami freedom” meant, for do you know,dicky, in atneiicathete are a number of cruel black people, who make slaves of the whiles’” 1 wish any apologist of slavery could have seen her faof incredulity and horror when i corrected her mistake, and she found that in fact the whites were the cruel, degraded oppressors, and the blacks the guiltless victims. bristol, england. married is boston, ibnubv 19. mr. pmilif mato, jr. to miss ass m. lima to died is this city, as the jmi ah., elizabtth, wife of dr. gates, sgsd 48. rtrekk corresfw deuce. we have the last mad fnrfn eng land, which give m very gloomy account of natters these; though ie same districts, trade is in aone measure revhriag. the directors of the bank of england have lowered the rate j of interest to five per cent., in consequence of the great amount of bullion that has recently! found its way into their coffins. the sub ject principally occupying public attention at the time, was, the appointment of dr. ftamp- den to the vacant see of hereford. we have room for only ooc or two short extracts. london, january, 1848. trade continues exceedingly dull;' and there is great distress and disease through out the country. in london alone the death* are more than double the usual average. in ireland, there is murder among the rich, and death by famine among the poor, as usual. the alliance [a recent political organ nation having for its object the extension of thcj popular vote to every sane adult male, and of which the w ritcr is secretary] is making pro-' gress; although, in consequence of our pro-; sent commeirial crisis, it is up-hill work. the cause of liberty and equality throughout! the world, is destined etc long, to achieve a! complete and final triumph. we shall be glad to see your star. it is a pity it is called a northern one. we have one of that name here; and i fear yours will be sometimes quoted in this country, and mis taken for o’connor’s. lam glad to hear of; garrison’s recovery. t. d. another letter says— there is not much going on in the political world at present. lord john russell has appointed dr. hampden to the bishopric of hereford. it is that dr. hampden who made so much noise a few years ago, in the uni-' versity of oxford. a vote of censure was, at that time, passed against him. there is a great outcry now against his appointment. half of the bishops have protested. the! dean of hereford has written long letters to the premier, complaining, that in electing dr. hampden, his conscience would be violated. but the premier continued firm to his ap pointment and so a charge of heresy was got up against dr. hampden, which was lo be tried before the bishop of oxford. the accusers have since backed out of their aecus- ation. the dean of hereford, finding that hampden was elected by a majority of the chapter, though he and another voted against him, protested, and then quietly did the need-; fill to make it a unanimous election, which it appears it must be. altogether, the eccle-l siasties have made themselves look supremely i ridiculous, and the church herself very' servile. i suppose the servility of the church was pretty well known before, to some and j now many others know it. every such ex-! hibition hastens its downfall. r. d. selections. texas a free state. a highly intelligent correspondent of the christian watchman writing from washing ton, thus speaks of the prospect of texas soou becoming a free state i have good reason to believe that texas is to become a free state at no distant day this comes to ire from a gentleman of texas, in whose means of knowing, and ability to form just opinions, i have great confidence.— he says, the germans, now coining by ship loads, and settling under the supervision of agents of their princes and nobles, who have obtained large tracts of land, are, to a man, opposed to slavery, and this has already been manifested in their local elections, and, in deed, that gov. houston was compelled by the force of popular opinion, to divest himself of his slaves, in order to secure his re-election to the united states senate.” the above paragraph now going the rounds of the press will, if true, gratify even 7 north ern heart. we of the north are divided upon the means and measures best calculated to produce the downfall of slavery, and many, through party influences, seem at times to be arrayed upon its side but yet there are none within our knowledge who will not heartily rejoice, when the preponderance of free labor and free principles, induces a state to throw off the destructive incubus. prior to the an nexation of texas, there were strong efforts made to bring about so desirable a result, efforts which we believe would have been suc cessful, had it not been for annexation. several years ego, there resided in new orleans, a young lawyer, to whom w as in trusted, if we do not very much err, the man agement of the celebrated case of mrs. w hit ney, afterwards mrs. gen. gaines, w hich has recently been decided in her favor at w ashing ton, and who prophecied at that time her ulti mate success. 1 he mind of this lawyer be came awakened upon the subject of slavery,; and though not what is usually styled an abo litonist, he was strongly anti-slavery in all his feelings. so deeply imbued did he become with hostility to the system, whose evil influ ences every where surrounded him, that he re- fused to be engaged in his professional capaci-; tv in any suit, wherein was involved the trails- j fer of slave property. in the summer of 1839! he went to texas, and one great object of ins going thither, was, if possible, to bring about a state of feeling in that new country hostile to involunlary servitude. he was gentleman ly in appearance and manners, and a scholar of rare attainments.—he understood thoroughly, many modern languages, was a lawyer more learned in his profession, than is usually met with in the south-west, and altogether such an accession as texas rarely obtained. he soon rose in position and influence among the people of his new home, was employed by the government to translate the spanish laws and make clear the obscurities ol old spanish grants, and deeds, and enjoyed, for a time at anv rate, the confidence of the leading men of the new republic. but he never lost sight of his darling object. as soon as he had obtained a fair foot-hold and a respectable fame, he began to talk upon the subject to some of the wealthiest slave- j holders and to unfold hts plan. v\e uo nut j propose to follow him, in all ibe argument* by w hich at length he gathered to his side a vast tkirtion oftheslave bolding interest. i nc appeal made, was of course to their pockets; they were told of the tide of free emigration, that would pour in was slavery abolished; of the consequent rise tu the price of land*, and of the vast addiuot to the wealth of the, country, such emigiatfoo would nuke, and! were pointed to kent tick y, and ohio, as marked illustration* and examples of ilwtiuth advanced. by such mean* a and we believe s majority of the auveboiding interest were induced lo accede to hi* b* an which plan was as follow* that be should go io england and negotiate towns with the engihh earatabsts,'based oo texan lands *ndtbe pledge of emancipation, that wem an effort should be made by tom and others «o induce new englanders, englishmen, and germans to ootomze in texas; and that <br this pur pose the north, england, and germany were to be visited. england was visited sneeeasfol negoua lions were omnnrenced with b«r capitalists, when isml aberdeen heard of tbs subject of ottr remarks, and sent for him to explain the purpose* of his mission. a correspondent of the bahtmorr patriot in lood**, heard of th interview with the bnuafc minister, wrot hone concerning it a commoniraiina, vhtri ml under the eye* of mr. upshur, who the commenced the negotiations for snnevatior it will he recollected by oar resdrts, that ib first letter written by our minister in tcxai merit wood. that one andrews” was pfoum the dowfall of slavery. this one andrews, as mr. upshur contemptuouslv styled him, i the gentleman of whom we have bvn sr* ali ing. on his return, be was driven from tes as the people being all alive for anucxitios —rochester etcninf gazette. stephen p. andrews faq., referred t above, now occupies the most prominent poo tioo in the phonographic reform in this cour try. ills ability and philanthropy we hope will yet be fully appreciated. —x. refugee slaves. the subscriber having served the cause c philanthropy during the past eleven years i t anada west, promoting the moral and inte! lectual elevation, as well as physical cunifni of the refugees from slavery, respectful! tender? his sincere thanks to all who have ai sisted him in bis humane and (.'hristinn onto prise, and wishes to make known to hi friends the following facts: 1. on entering the province in the fall 1836, lie found a colored population of aboi ten thousand, which has since, more tha doubled, most of them fugitives from slaver) all refugees from oppression; nearly two-third of them males. 2. so woful has been their experience, i the south, ii may truly be avid, they hav come up out of great tribulation their cm current testimony as to the cruelty an wickedness of the system under which the were held is convincing, not to say ovci whelming. i 3. they arc widely scattered over the fei tile regions of canada west, between lak ontario, erie, huron, and st. clair; fonnin various settlements, but many interspere among the white inhabitants, depending o them for employment. 4. they enjoy a salubrious climate, an are generally a healthy, robust and athleii people. 5. possessed of more energy of chamctc and manly vigor than is common to the er slaved, there is the best of encouragement ii improving their condition and rendering thei useful to their brethren. 6. the laws which govern them are equ: table and impartial, knowing no man by hi complexion, yet they are to some extent ar noyed by prejudice. 7. they reach their asylum in a state c utter destitution, but by persevering industn many have made themselves comfortable, sum as mechanics, sonic as tillers of the soil, dad laborers, &c. 8. not more than one in twenty could eithc read or w rite w hen they came there, but man have since learned and have had hundreds t liibles and testaments and thousands c teligious tracts, books, primmers, &c distributed among them from england and th united states, besides large quantities i clothing. 9. having sheltered themselves under th protecting segis of victoria’s sceptre, wher the avaricious mart thief could no longer did turb them, many have sought and found dc liverance from the thraldom of sin, and ar consistent christians—mostly methodists an baptists. 10. twelve missionary teachers are ther employed, four of whom are ministers of tin gospel, all in need of assistance the pionee i missionary having sacrificed everything bu life, and laid that upon the altar—bereft o j his companion in his absence from home stricken, smitten of cod and afflicted,” i j alxiut to be deprived of his only shelter fo himself and four motherless children. cea* ing from man, he trusts in god alone, and i disposed to persevere, taking joyfully th spoiling of his goods. 5 11. a manual labor school is in progress at dawn’s mills, western district, sixty mile 1 from detroit, and twenty from the st. cdi river, which promises to be extensively am permanently useful to the refugees and thei children. george cary is the principal teach er and secretary, to whom all communica tions respecting said school should be ad dressed. 12. remittances in aid ot tha canada mis sions, carefully designated, may be suit 1< lewis tappan, new york, samuel d. porter rochester, n. y., robert e. waleut, 21 com kill, boston, and hamilton hill. oberhn ohio. litkam wilson. boston, jan. 3, 18-18. massachusetts vs. pennsyl vania. colorphobi a in pennsylvania. our friend dr. david peck, a highly re spectable young physician, who has lately taken up his residence among us, w ith a view of practising in his profession, went on a cer tain evening to the auction room of messrs. thomas son, in walnut street, to attend a sale of medical books. he had been induced to go from seeing advertisements of the sale in the papers, in which gentlemen of the medical profession had been especially ifivited to attend. he had not been long in the room till he was waited upon by one of the messrs thomas, and told that persons of his com plexion could not be permitted there. he stated that he was a physician, that his busi ness there was to purchase fcsioks. in reply, he was told that if he would leave the names of the works he wanted, they would be bought in for him, but that his presence could not be allowed. our friend, though practi cally pretty well acquainted with american prejudice—os every one of his caste who is brought up in this country is obliged to be— was not looking for any manifestation quite so unreasonable and brutal as this, lie left the room, however, without any further words, but deeply penetrated with this insult. dr. peck is a gentleman of the utmost re spectability. he is a man of educated mind, refined manners, and holds a diploma from one of our western colleges as a regular graduate of medicine. but here in phila delphia he is turned out of an auction room— to which, in common w ith otbefs, he had been invited —and*no other reason alleged than that of his complexion! the auctioneer was fearful —if he permitted dr. peck to be pres ent—of giving oflence to the southern stu dent, but the nwjtive instead of mitigating,only aggravates the offence. can aordidness and servility be any excuse for such ili-bred bru tality penn. freeman. equality in massacbfsetts, robert mobbis.—the past week is me morable in the bistort of the colored people of this state, if r.ot of the union, by thcfirm, appearance in the courts of justice of one of their number as a member of the bar.— we have known one case, at least, where a colored man argued his own cause before a jury. probably others have occurred. but we are not aware that a colored man has ever argu-d a cause to a jury as a c oursellor of the court. the respect and kindness with which he was treated by the bar and the bench, did honor to both, while they showed bow great has been the improvement in pufo lie opinion during the last few years. mr. morris is well known to many of our readers— having owed to the generosity of ellis gray lonag his general education as well as his preparation for the bar. has in dustry and assiduous study, aptness for busi ness and general capacity, have well repaid the kindness extended to him- hi* appear ance in this, bis first ease, was highly credit able. the novelty smarted a urge audi ence, and the friends of his race might well rejoice thru it foil to the lot of die so well fitted to make the fins experiment. mr. mor ris too well known to make it necessary that we should recommend him to the notice of those who need his professional semcet.— jldfrattr. (iheifiu. romarrc*. fs*. f, iso*. rfcnugr rf in—ilfiiwß m l |m week. win! mtiw v7 hlf u*rl. n»» is withm l-r e fc mhs, om 83 23 bru, qp—lu, u*. refry a trm «by*» ia hopes «f rkr advices fr>ua lb*- hr-* i 6hw«t m the eu r.^__ l~d awl tint tbr sales a few week* hnm «,r h* b*** f«.r (be list irw days, a* will be «m by the ne» vuffc report, prices have rather drooped, amfpcvi hri ig unwilling to pay over *i\ dollar*. staar small parcels «f cora hare mar i n .win; the week, and hare berti ukea at 44 to 30 cts barley 56 to 60 rts; qau cl rt>. btrk*vat fvw, 12 t it*, per rat. batter sclis at 18 rrnts per fc. rockestei wholesale price* carre at. fliol r a!*i> me.\lr—dnt\ jo p p ad ral klwr, |f 1m 500 5 30 cora men i, (f ln*h 56 provision*—duiy; iwf.pork.liams, b-cow, batter awl lanl, 20fr; ivtw 30 p r wl ral pork, (iwrss) 12 50 cll 50 iv>. in h»g 4 25 i 73 beef. rat. 3 50 400 do. bhl. (n»h») 700 ft? 800 i-anl (trin!) plb 8 8$ do- (*r*f.) 8| 10 hams, (smoked) 7 a.. 8 show) ters, <k>. 6 ft 7 tmkn* yft 6| c.. 7 chickrn* 7 i'ntatiiw, lw>h ..50 fißal.x—lhrty 20 |f r ad ral wheat, ufcdi 125 com 41 50 rve 00 oat* 23®..40 bailey 38 hides—duty; 5 f r ail ral slaughter si calf ..8 sheep pelts 75 seeds—lhity liuaeed 10 |f c; mustard 20 c ail ral clover 4 50 ft 500 timothy 123 200 flax 1 25 flsh—duty ihi foreign caught; 20 cad ral whitcfmli bid 7 30 codfish rat 4 23 sundries— salt, mil 121 apj u, f lsush 25 l)o. dried 56 (ft! 63 eggs, \f dom 15 ik-ans, ixisli 97 hay, |f ton 10 00 12 50 hard wood 300 ox. i 00 soft wood 2 75 brighton cattle market.—jan. 20. at, naikrl, 323 beef cattle, 6 yokes workin oxen, 15 cows an 1 calves, 1000 sliecp, ami alum 200 swine. beef cattle—extra quality, 8? 00; first quality 6 50; second do. £5 ®8 6. working oxen—sales n<»t noticed. cows ami calves—sales ranged from 18, £26(8 34. sheep—sales of lots at 8 1 12tf?2 63. swine—sales were not notice i. m. b.—market very thinly attended. new york, feb. 2. flour and meal—the flour market is quiet to da; and w ithout change. hie sales are 1300 libbi a £6 (ft! 6 12; there were also sales iikm) bids lie ma; at if 5 87$. tlietraile lirouglit in small lots. then apjh-ars to lie no shipping enquiry. meal is 8 3 (ft) 3 i**, with sales 1000 id;is on tlx s|s>t and 200 do f >r future delivery. grain—wlieat is wanteil for milling, and sale* 2000 bushels genesee at 81 35, ami small lot ol ling island at 8 1 25. corn was dull at 6lif£67 rts for new. sales 6or 8000 husliels; in other grains litlle doing. rye 90 bailey hctfrlx);'; oats 47®50 rts, and dull. provisions have been ratlrer quiet to day. pork has a downward tendenry. prime heel 83 87$ foi city; sak-s 500 kegs lard at bs, ami looldds pickled meats very dull. sales 300 firkins butter, tompkins 00., at 17 els ami demand good. a sires—pearls are up to £7 5q©7 75; pots an £5 and firm. cotton tjuiet to day. groceries firm and iu gmsl demand. steiling closed dull at s£lo. the steamer takes 840,000 in gold, and 8 10,00 c in silver. freights firm. at the second board storks were firm. for the above we are principally indebted to the daily american.the true position of the church in relation to the agei* relation tf> the age. this is thn title «>f a dtscours* ik-lirerod bt the itev. \vs*?rstori rf b»t m. it de serve*, and w*? will bvc aa e\ten*it»- circulation. mr. watcu-tor t? c*.e i f few among lfl* cl a* who do not hi-liiai** i .*u» freely on tho tavycui of war ar«d slavery. we subjoin lb:, fallow u.g extract: connected w ith the civilizclion and philanthrope of our day, there are two monstrous inrqui’ie* which, above a t others, lift thei; hideous heads sla very and war. what is the tiue po sition of the church, in relation to these two great i!** r—sociallv. morally, re ligiously, this is the great que. te*n ol the nge; what other can surpass it in importance in l(i*jo, two vessels crossed the at lantic, bearing that whi< h v,a«to atiect the coming destinies of the new \n orld. the one was the memorable “may flower,” which landed the pilgrims at plymouth. the ether was a dutch ship, which brought to virginia the first slaves that ever trod thi sc shores. could we have seen these two vessels as they struggled amid the waves, we might have heard from the one sighs of agony, and freon the other anthems o! praise. the influence which came from the former, has made new eng land what it is:—the latter laid the foundation of a:i evil, which, from that day, lias been .spreading, until, in the place of twenty slaves, w e have three millions. those two vessels, coming tv this country in the same year, brought with them the conflicting principles which never have been, and never can be, reconciled together. they are princi ples which are now in conflict; and the conflict waxes wanner, and it never will cease until the one or the other is exterminated. two hundred years have rolled by, and this wrong has been permitted to increase, until through the whole land is heard the bitter cry of the oppressed. we are treading on the verge of a rnoial revolution, as great as any the world has ever known; and the liber ties of millions arc at .stake. has the church nothing to do? this question cannot be put down. the spirit of the age is concentrated within it. it is asked by the voice of the civilized world, lias the church nothing to do? every day the e\il accumulates; and, as the time of reckoning is postponed, there gather over us more fearful retri butions. there are in this country no less than throe hundred thousand slave holders. there arc slave-prisons, and slave-markets, and slave-laws. these are unutterable cruelties and wrongs. has the church nothing to do? whoj can forget the memorable words of jefferson, himself a slaveholder, when,- in speaking of this evil, lie* t-cid, 1 tremble for my country, when i reflect that clod is ju-t. the almighty has no attribute which can take sides with us in such a contest.” vet many churches, through a large portion of this land, have publicly declared that there is no w rong i.i slavery. clerical conferences in georgia, and south car olina, and elsewhere, have maintained that slavery is right. ecclesiastical bodies have issued proclamation, that the gospel law s of matrimony are not binding upon slaves; and christian ministers have published volumes, in which they assert that slavery is not opposed to tire principles of christiani ty? is this the true positio n of the church; —such is the declared opinion of a pait of the church—is to be gener ally responded to or opposed? if this system is one of justice and love, then let the church uphold it. if it is based on brotherly affection, then the church may advocate it. if it accords with that honoring of ah men, and preferring one another, which the gospel incul cates, then it should be defended. but if it is unjust and inhuman; if it is op posed to the spirit of jesus, and his doc trines, then, in god’s,name, the church should so declare it. the foreign slave-trade has been justly pronounced by our laws piracy; and he who engages in it is branded as a felon. is not the domestic slave trade in every respect as bad? yet this is carried on through a large section of the country; and thousands of men, women and children, are driven in herds every year, to be sold in the south and south-western market. is such a traf fic in harmony with christianity up on southern statute books there are laws pronouncing the severest penalties upon those who shall be detected in teaching a slave to read, or in gi\ir>g to him the bible. what can be said of the prevalence of christianity, where these enormities arc tolerated? that slave, so oppressed, is a fellow -creature and a child of god; he has feelings and rights—can the church do nothing in his behalf? the slave-master is an immortal and accountable being—ought net the most solemn testimony and .ur gent appeals to be brought before him respecting this l\ ai-inl w rung if there is any respect lor freedom, civiliza tion, or christianity, any j -vc for what is good and ju.-t, let something be done commensurate with the magnitude oi the evil. thi* country stands before the tribu nal oi nations; while, in their sight, this system ot oppress. n becomes daily more hateful. i hey plead with us now*" 1 and if we are not faithful, we shall soon bring upon us the exec rut ions of the world. i his count t v f tain’s befi re the tiihu nul ot heaven; and it wc go *>u in the perpetration of this wrong, h.ov long w ill its righteous jii.’gi,;. r.l-yc withheld: to what are w o at this luoincr.f, indebt ed but the loving mercy of god, that the earth ha-i,,a already opened aud the clouds shaken file from their folds? are we justiluu in saving that the iu istiuii chart n has a weight* respon sibility in conn cii. n with rt is mi*j< it? wuh her calm end gt :.t!e irii, she could guide toe j übhc thought; ai.d i she rose in the majesty of hi r pmvtr, she could urou>e the conscience f the land, and iilcrutc the peoj.le trout a fearful cut so. let it be* remembered that there ere nearly fifty thousand churches iu the* united st. its, with from thri e to four million members.— \y hat might not sm ii a body accomplish in the cause ofjiutice and truth? great c* the evil is, kt but the chrndiiij church he fiuthfdf, and it would be like the visitation of the angel to peter in prison, when a light shone round about him, and the chains fell from his hrnds wo behold, also, our country at this moment voluntarily plurg* d into all the horn* >r?i cf war. an army of occupa ti <n has become an army of invasion, ur.d a passion has been awakened for um d and fi r conquest. millie ns hau be< i exp* nd- d, and tlr usands of lives sacrificed., that we might overrun anti desolate a neighboring nation. ilia-. gc« have been swept away; cities bom barded; and mangled bodies scattered fiver the plains. think of a populous town surr< ur.dtd hv death-dealing cn giuts raining down upon the inhabi tants horrible destruction; bursting bheikt falling through their house tops; and amid the shattered ruins, women, and children, tom and bleeding, in t.'.e fearful agonies of d< ath. wbo would b< iieve that such guilt could be crpo trated bv a civilized people? and yet, this very thin" we have lived to behold: and, at flu’s in tant, the savage and b! o' dy work is still going cm. at a period when we were enjoying the infinite blessings of peace; when wo were'crowned w ith the favors w hich she had showered upon us; w hen the philanthropist felt his heart kindling with joy at the prospect of universal harmony; and when the predictions oi ancient prophecy and of christianity j seemed verging towards their fulfil ment, our country has w illingly plunged herself into all the atrocities of war, ami is still pursuing her course with unaba-4 ted vigor. this country stands beforei, us with her garments rolled in blood has the church nothing to do? aside from the motives which inay add to the j guilt, what can be more revolting than the tact of war itself? what can war accomplish, in settling questions of equity? y\ hat is there noble in brute force? how can the good rejoice in the destruction of cities, and the mur der of their fellow incur is not war murder on an extended scale wc are not yet free from barbarism. what is he sword, but a civilized scalping knife? the gospel of peace is not yet wholly respected. how can we love those whom wc shoot and stab? when: will the christian church be faithful to jesus? when will ministers of the gospel cease to lend their influence to support and advance the institution of war? ought not the church now, as in the days of the early disciples, to carry out the principles of early for giveness and mercy? if war is in accoidance w ith chris tian love, let the church plead for it. if one can pray for the forgiveness of a foe, and then destroy him, let the church advocate it. if one can do to others as he would that others should do to him, and, at the same time, burn his dwelling and slay his children, let the' church defend it. it one can be a low-j !y follow’d* of the peaceful jesus, and; still carry ruin and desolation over the' earth, lifting his hands in deadly hate against his brother, then let bishops, with solemn prayer, unite in the conse cration of banners; and ministers of the lord pay homage to military prowess, and kindle the love cf military glory but if ihe spirit of jesus was averse to this; ii bis religion is one of mercy and forgiveness; ii it would unite mankind in love, and lead them to acts of benefi cence, then, in the name of the holy .jesus, the church should so declare it, and should be faithful, in all its labors, to such declaration; knowing that the customs of the vflvrld are not to be judged by the passions of man, but by the standard ot the gospel; and that the true basis ot action is not any code' ol wordly honor, but the immaculate word of the lord. for here, as else where, other i mndation can no man lay than that is laid, w hich is jesus christ. i>i:spi: e nct-small beginnings. it is related of chant rev, the cele brated sculptor, that when a hoy, he was observed, by a gentleman in the ncighboihocd of shclhcm, very atten tively engaged in cutting a stick with a penknife. he asked the lad what he was d ang; when with great simplicity of manner, but courtesy, he replied, 1 am cutting old fox’s head,” fox was the schoolmaster of the village. on this, the gentleman asking to see what he had done, and pronouncing it to he an excellent likeness, presented the youth with a sixpence. and this may he reckoned the first money chan trev ever received for the production ol his art. 1 his anecdote is but one of a thou sand that might he cited of as many different men, who, from small begin nings, rose to great stations and influ ence; and shows the importance of not despising the day of small things, in any condition or circumstance of life. ail nature, in fact, is full of instructive lessons on this point, which it would le well for us more thoroughly to study and appreciate. the river, rolling onward its accu mulated waters to the ocean, w as, in its small beginning, but an oozing rivu -1 t, trickling down some moss-covered reck, a.id winding, like a silver thread, hit wet a the grass banks to which it im pelled verdure. the tree, that sweeps the air with its hundred branches, and mocks at the howling of the tempest, was, in its small beginning, hut a little seed. tr» d den d >wu under foot and unnoticed; then a small shoot, that the leaping hare might have forever- crushed. l iven thing around us tells us not to despise small beginnings; for they arc lh«* lower rounds of a ladder that rcaeh s to great results, and we must step upon these before we can ascend higher. despi.sc net small beginnings ol wealth. the hot use hilds, gitas d, astor. a?;d most of the richest men, began with small means. from cents they pro ceeded t> dollars; from hundreds to thousands; from thousands to millions. had they neglected these first earn ings; had they said, what is the use of saving.these lew cents r they are not of much value, ai.tl 1 w ill ju.-t spend them, and enjoy myseli as 1 go”—thev would n< t have riven to be the wealthi est among their fellows. it is nly bv the economical husbanding of small means that they increase to large sums. it is the hardest part of success to gain a little; that once gained, more will ea sily follow. despise not small beginnings of edu cation. franklin bad but little early eiltca tion; vet look at what he became, and how h»* is now reverenced. ferguson, feeding h:? sheep on the hills of scot land, picked up merely the rudiments of learning, but subsequently rose lobe one of the first astronomers in europe. herschcl, also, the great astronomer, was in his youth a dnirnmsr-buy to u marching regiment, and received but little more than a drummer-boy's edu cation; but his name is now associated with the brightest discoveries of sci ence, and is borne by the planet which his zeal discovered. a host of instances rise up to testify that, by properly im proving the small and perhaps imper fect beginnings of knowledge, they may become as foundaiiofls-stoncs of a tem ple of learning, which the future shall gaze upon and admire. a man can scarcely be too avari cious in the acquisition of knowledge; he should hoard up his intellectual gains with the utmost assiduity and d li gence; but, unlike the lucre-seeking miser, must put out his knowledge at usury, and by lending out his stock to others, increase by this commerce ol thought his capital, until his one talent shall have been five, and his five have gained them other five. despise not the small beginnings of fame or honor. the fame which springs on a sudden, like a mushroom plant, is seldom last ing. truth, fame and honor, are of slow but generally sure growth, as cending by degrees from the lower offi ces to the higher stations—fro m the re gard of a few to the applause of a na tion. but he who despises the lower steps of honor because th *y are few, will seldom reach the higher; and he who spurns at tnc commendation of his own cirek, as too small a thing to seek after, will never secure the esteem and renown of a state or nation. despise not the small beginnings of error. the walls of a castle have been un dermined by the borrowings of a small and despised animal; and the begin nings of error, though at first unheed ed, will sjon, if not cheeked, sap the foundations of truth, and build up its own wretched dogmas on its ruins. all fust errors are small; despise them not: they will soon increase to great ones, and perhaps devastate society. from the chrklftn citi/.cn. walks in westminster. there are two westminsters in lon don, one abounding with gokl, and the other with rags. but |he two are so intermingled that it would be difficult to draw* a line between them; but 1 am not now about to describe those tilings in westminster that are famous through out the world, i will pass them by for the present. i will describe scenes that i have witnessed within the shadow of the renowned abbey which are not in exact unison with the sights in buck-, ingham palace. there lives in the region cf west minster a hero. 1 do not refer to the duke of wellington, but to a city mis sionary. for ten years be has moved among the thieve- and robbers of duck lane, old and new pye streets, and the surrounding streets, alleys, and courts situate ju.-t north of the abbey. he has labored t rescue some oi' their vile ones from their condition, and many an unfortunate one can testify to the earnestness of his exertions. the very thieves speak his name with love. it was this man who offered to be mv guide for an afternoon’s walk, and most joyfully did i accept of his offer. we started out from exeter llall in excel lent spirits, crossed st. james’s park, passed along under the wall of the ab bey, and in a few minutes were tn a street the like of which i never saw be fore. the buildings are low, and the inhabitants seemed to like ct liars better than stolies. every door furnished an assortment of dirty children, who look ed as if they never saw the sun—the poor hony-l'aced things, “look said the missionary, “look! this is tny field of labor. i know every family in this region, and its occupation, and [hree-fourtius of them live by crime. and what is worse, many of them would nearly starve if they w ere honest. i have lived with them for ten years, and ain now* admitted where even a police man dare not enter, fcecau.-e they be lieve fhat i would not take the advan tage of the confidence which they giva* me.” as we stood gazing at this spe cimen of street wretchedness, a gilt sign on a building opposite caught my eye. it read—“ a juvenile school ol refuge for boys.” “what!” said i, to my friend, do you establish schools here c* yes,” said he, “that is the best school of its kind iu london. the building was formerly a thieve*' hotel. we entered the building and found that the boys were just leaving off study for their work. they sung their closing hvinn in a beautiful manner. the mis sionary whispered in tny car—“ here are fifty boys, forty of whom were once notorious thieves.” i involuntarily felt for rnv purse, but a broad scotch smile overspread his face as he said, your pocket-book is safe, they are honest now the teacher blew* his whistle, which wa i the sign for them to goto work. onc-half were learning to make shoes, and the others tailoring. so the tailors make coats and breeches for themselves and the shoemakers, and the shoema kers make shoes for the much es anil the tailors! they get their dinners and suppers at school, lui lodge and break fast at home—those who have anythin** to breakfast on. as soon an they were bn.-ily at work, wc parsed about am rim them. there was one little fellow” about a dozen years of age, who caught my attention in particular. he was extremely busy in making a button hole in a coat on the hoar. the mis sionary ,«aid to me as we walked awav, two yeans ago that boy was the most expe rt juvenile thief in old pye street. he would dub the till,' as the opera tion is called, in as sly a manner as an old and practiced thief. 1 met him one day, and asked him if he would not like to corne to our school. he said he should, and in a few days wc had him lltcre. every body said be would not frttr but it short time, and would steal the books. but he soon became the best boy in school. i was passing just in the edge oi the evening a few days since, by his lather's hut. the dooi was aj;u\ and little billy was seated on a stool and reading the testament to his parents and sisters. after he had 1 read a verse he would expu n its mean ing to them, and i was astonished tc hud him to be so talented an expounder!’ the bays were cheerful and happy while at their work, and as i had a few of friend burrittks olive leaves,” 1 gave them some for w hich they appear ed to be very thankful. it would seem almost impossible that the wretched be ings in this region could be so reformed as to be filled with sympathy and love for their fellows, but so it is. a few days since, a stranger gave six of the boys (who were once thieves) a penny a piece. they gave them to the teach er to keep until they called for them.— one morning shortly after a boy cawc to school in a pitiable plight—he was almost starved. he told the inastet that his mother had not tasted food fbi two days. well, teacher,” said one of the six, “she may have my penny!’ “and mine!” said another. “and mine too!” said a third, and so on till the whole sixpence was given, and then they got the inouey from the teacher, and went to a baker's, got a huge loal of bread and carried it to the woman just in time to save her life. here was sympathy and generosity, which i am sorry to say, is not always found in those who claim to belong to the higher classes. d. w. b. from tho herkimer freeman. the walker meetings. that well-known sufferer for right eousness’ sake, capt. jonathan walk er, an honest-hearted, weather-beaten sailor, of plymouth, mass., (in whose vicinity his wife and family of eight children live,) being now near fifty years of ago, and anxious to disseini natc more light on slavery’s swarthy theme—arrived here on the 25th inst., and spoke for two nights following at the hull, since which time he has been lec turing in our northern towns; and, af ter one more meeting here on new- year’s night, expects to show his hand" among the people of the other sections of the county. he is accom panied from boston by john s. jacobs, “a nobleman of sable brow;” who, though but nine years since a caro linian slave, has well improved his self gained freedom, and speaks with fluen cy and depth of interest scarcely ex celled by any of his predecessors— even by douglass himself. they also sell the coolly written but atfeefing narrative of the branded hand,” with other valuable anti-slavery publi cations, which the friends of god and truth should aid in scattering like snow-flakes through the vale; for sure ly, uniong the offspring of the very men who drenched it 3 soil with their own g ;rc for freedom’s sake, slavery should be a monster of so hi i'm jus mien, that to he iiateil, r:s»ei!s hut to be seen.” his narrative (besides a view of sla very", as he saw and felt it,) contains a vivid sketch of cant. walker’s life and “hair-breadth ’scapes”—from several miracu! ms preservations from imme diate death by drowning, to lingering confinement, eight thousand miles from home, with dangerous east india fe ver; wounding by musket balls ofmex iean pirates, tkc., see., down to the eventful year of 1814; when being in j lorida, and hardly brute or infidel enough to spurn the earnest prayer for liberty of half a dozen oppressed fel low beings who begged a passage in his vessel, lie was shortly overhauled, imprisoned for a year, and finally hon ored by an imp of him whom the slave power has foisted into the presidential chair, with branding in the hand! now, then, let all who, like a doubl ing thomas, will not believe till they have seen, embrace what opportunity they have to hear this candid plough man of the wave;” and look upon the marks of demon malice inflicted by an institution alike disgraceful to the ame rican and christian name. and let the lame apologist tor slavery bestow one hour on brother jacob’s full confront of the lying twaddle about the happi ness of‘human servitude, when, if not recreant to common senso and sliame, he will for ever after hold his peace.” g. r rom t!ie hampshire ileral i. dr. ruggles’ hydropathic experience. fon the purpose of’ avoiding the fre quent rehearsal of the circumstance! which led me to an acquaintance wit! the water-cure, and to adopt mj peculiar method of practice,” and t( satisfy, in a degree, the many inquiries relative thereto, i here make a brie confession of my experience: i 1. as an allopathic patient. 2. as a hydropathic patient; and 3. as a hydropathic practitioner. 1. after six years’ suffering, fron liver complaint and dyspepsia, undci the care of some of the most eminent physicians in this country, during wliicl time 1 was repeatedly bled, leeched cupped, plastered, blistered, salivated dosed with arsenic, nuxvomica, iodine strychnine, and a variety of other poi sonous drugs, which contracted an en largement of the liver, the worst kint of dyspepsia, irritation of the lungs chronic iniiammation of the bowels costiveness, piles, nervous and rnenta debility, and a numb or palsied state o the skin, which rendered me insensibh to the prick of a pin or extreme heat and, after blindness had shut me ou from the light of day, in the opinion o gentlemen standing high in the pro tessioa, my life was limited to a few weeks. 2. la january, 1843, i heard of tb« water-cure, as practised by vincent prt-issnitz; aud, from the effect pro duced in the case reported, 1 %vaa let to hope that 1 might obtain some relic; from the extreme pain and wcaknew which i expected would soon terminate my existence. under the most embarrassing circum stances, with vague notions in relation tivthe application of water as a remedy, i commenced an indifferent course ol treatment, which was continued sever*, weeks; when i became convinced, (though i had improved,) that water as an agent, was powerful for evil ai well as good; and that, unless it wai undcrstandingly applied, in/ hopes o i relief were chimerical. about this time, i heard of dr. rob ert w esse hue ft, of cambridge, now of the celebrated brattle boro’ water- cure, from whom, by correspondence, 1 obtained salutary advice, and/con tinued my practice with better effect, in a few months 1 was enabled to visit cambridge, and consult dr. wessel hceft personally. after an examination, he found the liver so much enlarged, and my sight, ami other symptoms, so prei arious, that he was not sanguine ot success; yet, considering the prog ress 1 had made, he recommended the erection of a douche bath, and advised a more thorough course of treatment. vyhilc the system was undergoing n slight change, under this course, i be came gloomy, and suspicious that the ill forebodings of friends, opposed to the w ater-cure, might be realized. at this point, the doctor raised the first note of encouragement; and ad vised perseverance, under a varied and milder treatment, until new symptoms required a more rigid course. then the packing in the wet sheet once and i twice a day, tiic plunge or shallow wash bath, the douche five minutes, three hip baths, from lo to 00 minutes each, two eye baths, and a foot bath, comprised the daily course, until a fever crisis was developed, with symptoms of salivation, and other exudations, from the trunk o! the body, which left no doubt in tiu minds of witnesses, that i had been faithfully drugged. it will be remem bered, that my physician was in cam bridge and 1 in northampton, and at this critical period, which continued about six weeks, my symptoms were s< versatile, that many of his prescriptions were inapplicable, when received. ir about eighteen months, however, from the commencement of the treatment, 1 had passed safely through the crisis, and my health finally become estab lished, with an equilibrum of circula tion. sensibility and motion were re stored to my eyes, with the feeble sight which now serves me to walk alone, where 1 had formerly been led. for a time my whole system was attended with an unaccountable sensitiveness, which i never before experienced. mv sense of feeling became so acute, thal i could recognize individuals, and de tect slrades of difference in very minute objects. my case induced many, win were hitherto faithless, to believe in the j water-cure; and, as i had some con veniences for bathing, a few persons o both sexes were induced to obtain the advice of dr. wcsselhocft, and com mencc a course of treatment, under m; care. this afforded me an opportunity to cultivate that faculty which enable me to detect symptoms of disease, am practise the cure. 3. i improved the opportunity thus afforded, t note the various symptoms developed by the treatment, in tin several stages of the complaint, in dii i ferent cases, under the doctor’s skiifu direction. practice strengthened thi acute sense of touch, until the convie tion was irresistible, that the skin is th( organ through which the symptoms ant character of the disease are indicated— a fact, which the success that lias at tended my practice for the last thret years has established before an enlight ened public. j. can feel near tiie sur face of the skin of a healthy person, c regular and forcible action, or emission indicating vitality, or power. this, j think, is electricity. in an invalid wire may be successfully treated, this symp tom is intermittent or feeble; but, where a person is suffering from general debility, beyond the power of water to relieve, no vital, or electrical action, is percep tible near the wrist. this symptom is also imperceptible in the region of the lungs and stomach, when the case is incurable and, for more than twn years, i have found it prudent to decline all applicants for the cure, who lack this vital action in the parts alluded to. in a case of neuralgia, the elec trical symptom alternates in the parts of the body affected. at times, when the patient is suffering under severe pain, it is not perceptible; at other times, it is excessive. in sciatica, this symptom is similarly developed. in chronic rheumatism, it is quiescent. in inflammatory rheuma tism, it is tremulous, and appears con fined by the cuticle. in levers, it is excessively active; but appears not to escape the pores, until it is conducted off, or equalized, by the application ol the treatment. although this is the first, in importance, yet there are other symptoms attending the skin, in various cases, that materially aid me in the varied and successful application of the treatment, which are easier felt than described. having thus briefly, though imper fectly, stated the circumstances which led me to an acquaintance with the water-cure, and to become a hydro pathic practitioner, with an outline of the principles by which i arn governed, i may he permitted to add a word of caution to persons who think of availing themselves of the benefits of the water cure. 1. such persons should be sure that their systems are attended with suffi cient vitality io commence the cure. 2. they should begin right, that they may not impair their physical strength, and thereby impede their progress, or prevent success. 3. a judicious course of treatment should never be suspended with a view to its completion at a future tune, as the best, if not the only opportunity, would be lost, for a speedy and thorough cure. 4. should a patient be partially re leived of morbid secretions, by a crisis, or otherwise, and become convalescent, he should be extremely cautious in re gard to diet, air, and exercise and, whatever may be his feelings, he should never abandon a proper bracing course of treatment, until an equilibrium ol circulation is permanently restored. 5. water used for hydropathic pur poses should always be fresh from the well, or spring, excepting what may be warmed for a tepid bath. 6. a bath should never, be taken in a painted vessel, or within one houi before a meal or taro hours after. from the testimony of numerous cort—pendents, who have commence* the treatment at home, and visitors who have presented fbem*elvr* for ex amination and prescriptions,and patient* »ho have hern treated at my estabhsh meat, i am satisfied that much error prevails among the friends of hydro pathy, on the subject alluded to, and by whom a word of caution may be heeded. as i have omitted to remark upon the condition of my own health, i would only add, that with the exception of imperfect vision, occasioned by the convexity of the cornea, my health was never belter than it is at present, or tlian it has been for more than two fears past. respectfully, i>avi;j higgles. .vt>rthamp!on, jan. i, ims southern freedom t»r opinion the class of isi 7 in william college, >f which the writer had the g*>nd for mic to be a member, among the good natured resolutions passed before their dispersion, voted that each should sub scribe for the paper of any member of the c!a>s who should enter the editorial profession. our subscription list shows that many of them considered ns bind ing,what was intended only as a playful compliment. one honest fellow, who is teaching school in georgia, writes the following, which we publish as an in stance ot the strong prejudices which. pervade the south: on must excuse me for informing 'i" 1 ta.it f cannot fukt vour paper. i lie most bitter ami violent prejudices are entertained here against every thing northern; and if i should he fouud with a paper in my pocket that advocated the wilniot proviso, as voir undoubtedly do, i should very probably be subjected to the usuai resort of lynch law, besides losing the patron age of those w ho have sons and daugh ters. you may, however, send a paper to some one at the north, wlm is in need of information, and forward your bill to me at the end of the vear. and you shall receive the amount in as good currency as ‘georgia can furnish.—. h esljieul .vtor.s-/>( r. what free labor can do. —the town of orcester, mass., in imo had a population of <407, and now, jan. i, 1818, it appears from the census returns just taken, that the population is io.tuj, showing an increase in seven years aud live months ot«fg/i/ thousand one hundred and forty-six let the south show an inland tow n in the midst of a slave country, with no navigation and but lew water privileges, and with no minerals from which to gather wealth, which has been equally prosperous, aud wo will study us history as a curiosity, and admit that slave la bor may give life to industry' and enter prise.—penn, freeman. v,,io ’s tiii: ti 1 11:r mns. jj. m. c’mi.n, t!ic interesting new york correspondent of the cou rier, speaking fit a slave case in that city, says \mid the rnanifestati .n of much misdirected feeling, it was pleasant to observe t’ at a large pro portion ot the public gave their svmpu tnios to the fugitive. \y hen the counsel tortile captain evinced legal acuteness in li;s argument, there w ere no signs of approbation from the audience; but wie-n the opposite counsel made a clev er hit at the patriarchal system,’ the general satisfaction was exprcs.-ed by smiles, and suppressed munmirs, like a tree stirred by the winds. out of doors the general iuquirv was, ivill tiie poor tel low get oil?’’ even some ot the police asked, in a tone of vexa tion, •y v hy r tiie deuce did n't his inends take care and hide lorn, when they once had him?’ tarnuiaiiy-iiall vociferations full into many honest, sim pi i souls, who cannot be made to un derstand that freedom is good for one man and not good for another. the popular heart beats truly and kindly, where popular under; landing compre hends on which side tiie right is. more and more this comes to be understood and felt, even amid all the obstructions it must necessarily meet m a great em porium ol trade. such trials as these, perhaps, do more than any other single influence to lighten the eyes and rightly guide the sympathies of the public. “a few years ego, an athletic irish man, standing by bis coni cart, beard in our streets the cry of stop thief!’ arid saw a black man running. at one bound he caught the fugitive. the pursuer came up and thanked him, say, ing, the rase aids my slave.’ 8 lave! exclaimed the astonished irishman; and slipping behind the mas ter, he adroitly caused bis feet to slide from under him, while he called out to the negro, ‘run, man, run!’ while he assisted the master not to rise, he said, i?y saint patrick, if you had only called out stop stare’” i should have known in the beginning whoso heels to trip up?’ take a newspaper. wlnt. r is now horn with its long evening* md cheerful lirwide*. th howongi, blasts v ir.fting kfionf, and other concomitant* tn thf> coking, w:!l shut up the attractions of the oiter wu; hi, and naaui h< endcannem* of the lomi.stie hearth. the family circle that has 'm:ea broken by the derai ling influence of the ausuu mi season, when toil and fatigue hare 50 rted an e r y rej o-> w ,11 again re-muted iml a season of recreation for the intellec tua! and ms ia! tsiwers will ensue. the nund most have food w ith its amusements, or else it becomes morbid and muscles*, and what a u*m-r laiiusg lourition for unproven*;ut pro tided in the family newspaper f among some of our earliest recollections of 1 light, w mingled the arrival of the rider with h.fj we* uy treason;. how our hearts „t with j*.y as we heard hi* horn sound ui distance, heralding h:* approach, and when the prize was drawn from his v-nhlfe thrown into tho door*vard, and •c-tambut ensued among the invent!*; pmuouof :.s household for the new*. i ake a. newspaper, ami you do more to mi f»rtm; the mind of your children by one dollar, than live-time* tho amount bestowed in any .dher way. it is a duty that every father owes to hia fauuiy and has country to t ike a tm'wspaper. xo parson who re;ui* a news paper, j?o«w mto the world without a knowl tdgeul its doings, that secures for him mielh- and ropuct. tinrttore, we nay tu ptrr j f ®aa, ana every man should »ay to his neighbor, take a newspaper.*’ kx. the population of columbus, ohio, is stated to he 11,797 white, and 1.u07 colored: total, this is au tu' create during the past year.