from london mercury. speech of geo. thompson, esq., m. p., on free trade with india. the meeting being organized, fran cis carnac brown, esq., chairman, addressed the assembly as follows:—ladies and gentlemen, in thanking you for the honor you have just conferred upon me, in electing me to preside over this very large meeting, it is necessary that i should address to you a few words explaining the reason why i have consented to take upon myself this office, seeing that i am altogether a stranger, not only to this present audience, but to this part of london. i, will make my observations as brief as 1 possibly can, in order that i may not be the means of detaining you from hearing a gentleman whom i am per fectly aware you are all most anxious to listen to, and who has come to this meeting for the express purpose of bringing the important subject which we shall have to discuss to-night, under j the consideration of this meeting. i will, therefore, merely observe to you, that my connection with your honora ble member, mr. george thompson, does not date from yesterday (hear, hear.) it is now about eight years since i returned from india, and met that gentleman, who had not long before landed upon the shores of this country, upon his arrival from a visit to the u. j states of america, where as you wellj know, he had devoted a considerable portion of bis time and energies to the, abolition of slavery in that land. j brought together by a community ofs sentiment, we met, and from time to time until the present a close and con-| tinned intimacy has subsisted between us. ave have acted together upon many occasions for the promotion ol questions relating to india, and at length a period has arrived when it ap pears to the best friends of india, that the powerful advocacy of yoyr mem ber may be used with the very be*.t ef fect, for the purpose of introducing to tin* public and the legislature, subjects of tiu; greatest importance to our vastj ♦wpire jo the hast, and of so far cn-, lightening public opinion upon this question, that you, and all men, may have an opportunity of seeing and ol knowing that, in bringing betore your notice the condition ot india, we are at the same time calling your attention to a subject of the deepest and most vital interest to yourselves., when mr. george thompson shah have concluded his address to-night, i have not the •lightest doubt that there will not be *>ne person in this assembly, who will l<*ave the room without being impressed with the conviction of the truth of the statement it here made, namely—that there is no individual present, whose interest, directly or indirectly, in not most essentially concerned m the fate of that country, which is to be the topic of the present lecture. with these prefatory remarks, i now beg leave to introduce to you, your own member, mr. george thompson. the north star •onircr bl„ p j rose, and was enihusiosticany greeted, lie said'. i hare nought this opportu nity that i may lay before you my views on a question of paramount importance i to the interests of thig country and of the empire at large. ou have done me the innor to elect me as one of your representatives in the parliament of england, nnd i consider, therefore, that it is my duty to put you in posses j sion of my opinions on a subject which will occupy the chief portion of my i attention in the legislature, and which i intend to agitate, as i have time and strength, both indoors and out, until it is appreciated, as i think it ought to be, by the people gene roll/. (cheers.) i do not doubt, that when i have con cluded, you will share my con visions respecting the vital importance of the question 1 am about to discuss, and that you will not only cheerfully con sent to my devoting myself to its advo cacy, but be ready also to lend me your best co-operation. (cheers.) 1 there fore ask your candid and serious atten tion. i ask that you will weigh delib erately, the facts, the statistics, and the arguments i shall adduce, and that you will vote for nothing, the propriety and truth of which i do not fully and most satisfactorily establish. (cheers.) the topic on which i have to address you this evening is, free trade with india, in relation to the condition and prospects of this country.” this text might seem to limit the discussion to matters connected with india and eng land, and to the results accruing to those countries exclusively from an ex tension of their commercial intercourse. the subject, how'ever, as i think i shall be able to demonstrate, embraces an other result, namely—the achievement of the overthrow of slavery and the slave trade—an effect following upon the attainment of the former object. a few words about slavery will bring me naturally to the subject which has been announced, and enable you to trace out for yourselves the inevitable effect of which i have spoken- in the united states of america, a country boasting its declaration of independence, its doc trines of equality, its free political insti tutions, its love of universal liberty, its educated and enlightened population, its numerous ecclesiastical bodies un trammelled by state connection, its efforts for the diffusion of the scriptures, and its many and powerful organiza tions for promulgating the faith of the gospel throughout the world,—every sixth man, woman and child is a slave. /|gh»m«i) nvhioag stf fr^o have banded themselves together to hold in hopeless bondage three millions of their fellow creatures! (hear!) a similar number of slaves are found in the empire of brazil. spain holds another million in her colonies. franee and holland participate in the crime of their colonies. we turn to africa. notwithstanding the abolition of the slave trade w itii africa, by england and the united states, simultaneously, in the year 1503, a thousand human beings are, every day, either slaugh tered in their own villages, or die on their way from the interior to the coast, or, expiring in the middle passage, are thrown into the deep; or living to reach the port, are sold in the slave market, to be worked to death on the coffee and sugar plantations of cuba and brazil. the statistics of this system inform us that from eight to nine millions are in bondage, and that africa is robbed of a thousand of her children every day! such are slavery and the slave trade, as carried on by nominally christian nations, in europe and america, at the present time. (cries of shame, and great sensation.) the object of this address is not to characterize slavery, or to dwell upon its peculiar features in the various countries where it exists, but to point out the remedy a 3 a conse quence flowing from a certain measure. let me nevertheless observe, that i do not underrate the value and necessity of the measures hitherto employed in the cause of abolition; still less do i desire to see them discontinued. they are all, save those which imply force, useful, and partially efficacious. but, besides the antidotes, which are of a purely moral and religious character, there is a remedy at hand, at once simple, direct, easy, peaceful, oronipo-' tent, and infallible —a remedy capable of immediate application,—a remedy possessed by england, and by no other a remedy which, if resorted to, will be found unattended by aught that is exceptionable—a remedy fraught with blessings far beyond even the extinc tion of°slavery and the slave trade.— (cheers.) this remedy is no discovery of yes terday. for eight or nine years there have been a few persons in this country who, having taken the trouble to ac quaint themselves with the facts relating to the history, condition, and resources of the vast empire which great britain has obtained in the east, have been convinced that h was eminently practi cable, by one and the same peaceful process, to achieve a greater triumph in the cause of freedom and humanity, and confer more extensive and perma nent blessings, of a temporal nature, on the world, than were ever before placet] within the limits of human power ami human accomplishment. they are still convinced that england possesses with in hertclf, aidtd by the resources ol her matchless asiatic empire, thf means of utterly abolishing the africac slave trade? of giving freedom to everj «uve in the islands and on the conti neat stf america of rais.ng fro* depression an*.™". conquered hin** subjects; and o augmenting indeflmtefthar home man ufacturing, trading, and maritime pro* peritirfchw) it b« *>e« privilege to be intimately associate* right is of no sex—truth is of no color-god u the father of us all, and all we are brethren. with those who have cherished this conviction—l have long shared that conviction with them—and in my bum ble efforts to impart it to others, i have been aided by the knowledge, experi ence, and generous co-operation of those to whom i have referred. the accuracy of the facts long since put forth on this subject has been tested; and so far from those facts having been either shaken or overthrown, they have been confirmed and illustrated by the most striking events; so that what were once the convictions of a few are be coming the convictions of multitudes; indeed, of all intelligent minds with the k patience and candor to enter upon an impartial inquiry on thf subject. (loud cheers.) a single glance at (he origin of negro slavery will suggest the remedy which ought to be applied. the slavery and the slave trade of the western world began in a desire to obtain by forced labor the products of the earth. the spaniards enslaved the mexicans, that they might work them in mines, and enrich themselves with the precious ores which they extracted. a similar motive led to the enslavement, and brought about the extermination of the caribs of the west india islands. the introduction of the sugar cane, and the demand for its produce, led to the trade •in slaves with africa; and the enslave ment of seven millions of africans and their descendants, at the present time, and all the existing horrors and atroci ties of the african slave trade, are founded upon the desire to realise the profits which arc obtainable by the growth and and sale of five articles— sugar, coffee, cotton, rice and tobacco. were the demand for these to cease, the nourishment and vitality of these sys tems would cease, and they would perish from the earth. abundant means exist for the elucidation of the topic now under discussion, but the materials to which i shall resort will be drawn chiefly from a pamphlet just given to the world, by a gentleman in every way qualified to furnish the necessary information. i shall make free yse both of the facts he has collected, and the language he has employed; assured that he will be grat ified if, by any means, i can render his production subservient to the end 1 have in view. the pamphlet to which i refer is entitled, free trade and the cotton question with reference to india by francis carnac brown, esq., ol tellicherry,”—our present chairman. (cheers.) mr. brown is connected by birth with the soil of india,.and is the proprietor of a large estate tfh the coast of malabar. i entertain the utmost respect for his judgment, and have the fullest reliance on his veracity. the pamphlet i have named, and from which i am about very largely to quote, does not so much deal in opin ions as in evidence —evidence drawn from the highest and most unexception able sources. the authorities cited are, —documents connected with the records of the east india company; minutes and letters of members of council; reports drawn up by mem bers of the indian government; re ports published by the directors of the east india company; and official re turns of exports aod imports. this pamphlet is addressed to her majesty’s minister for indian affairs, and is in tended for the instruction and guidance of the manufacturers of england, the 1 statesmen and legislators of this great empire, and the true friends of british india and the civilization of the world.! i it is one of the most important docu- ments ever published, and will, i trust, secure its author the gratitude of the nation. i know the only reward he i seeks is the happiness and prosperity of mankind. (loud cheers.) i seventy years ago, the colonies of america struck a decisive blow for i political freedom and national indepen dence. after a bloody struggle, they i achieved their olyect; they saw the last of the king’s troops quit their shores; and, under a general government of their own, and a constitution adopted in a congress of the states, became the united states of america/” the early settlers in virginia had introduced negro slaves for the cultivation of their plantations, and before the declaration of independence slavery had extended ■ltself over the whole of the colonies, i on the separation of the states from the mother country, the northern and eastern republics gave liberty to their slaves. the constitution adopted by the states gave no power to the federal government to abolish slavery; and the southern states still continued to main-, tain the system. the principal exports j of these states were tobacco and rice. so great, however, was the difficulty, as early as 1781, of finding remunera tive employment far the small number of slaves that were then there, that the masters, to save themselves from rain, deliberated upon the propriety of setting i all the slaves they possessed at liberty. (hear! hear!) how stood matters m england at this period? prior to the existence of the east india company, the clothing of the people of england had been chiefly woolen, and the man ufacturers of the north of england en joyed the chief part of the trade. great was the outcry when the cloths, the muslins, the silks, and the nankeens of india and china came into competition with the home manufactures of lan cashire. at length, however, the man-, ufacture of cotton goods sprung up; the east india company supplied the raw material. had england existed as a manufacturing nation 2,000 years be fore, and had the mesas of reaching india been known, and the riches and 1 capacity of the country understood, saw cotton in any quantity might have been l obtained from a soil and a people where cdctes had been grown and manufac tured f«rl and wbeee cloths rochester, n. y., friday, january 7, 1818. have been the wonder of the world and the boast of the people by whom they i were fabricated. now behold the re vivifying effect of this new branch cfj english manufacture upon the system i of slavery in the united states of ante-, rica. (hear.) the east india company were mas ters of the resources of a country which j is the natural home of the cotton plant. for reasons which i shall not now par-; ticularize, they had not brought to.this island a supply sufficient to meet the growing demand. an experiment had j been made on the shores of south car-1 olina to cultivate a few cotton trees! from seeds introduced from one of the west india islands, till the 26th ol j january, 1785, a single bag of this cotton was landed on the wharf at liv-; erpodl. that was a fatal day for the' cause of human liberty. the sample: was approved, and orders were given to send all of the same quality that could be raised. time, however, was' wanting; and, therefore, in 1786, the total export of cotton from the united states of america was only 900 pounds. in england, ingenuity, and capital and enterprise were embarked in the manu facture of cotton goods; and in america similar qualities were soon engaged to turn the labor of the slaves to profitable account, and to develop the resources of a territory illimitable in its extent. the race thus commenced has contin ued down to the present hour. in 1760 hargreaves invented the spinning-jen-! ny; arkwright soon after introduced the spinning-lr&me; crompton, in 1799, combined the two, and called it the mule. in 1785, the year lam now speaking of, watt brought the steam engine to that perfect state for acting which made it profitable. cartwright afterwards invented the power-loom. sixty years only have elapsed since this career cn the part of these two! great countries began. at home, con temporaneously with the ever increasing consumption of cotton goods by ourj own people, the export of cotton goods has advanced, until it has exceeded the mighty value of £’25, 000.000 sterling per annum being almost half the amount of the entire exports of the united kingdom. not less than £70,- 000,001) of british capital is invested in iho cotton of this ,country; more than two millions of our population de pend on this trade for employment; and, consequently, for the means of subsistence. (hear!) “the truth is, says the able editor of the econo mist, “that there is mouiing, except' food itself, which is of"such maleriaf! consequence to the well being of this country, as an abundant supply of cot-j ton; forming, as it does, the basis of so large a portion of our commerce, and of the employment of our workpeople.’” (hear! hear!) “on the supply of raw cotton,” says the times, “does it ab solutely depend whether the population of lancashire shall or shall not be reduced to the state of the population j of cork. the cotton plantations of new orleans feed the inhabitants of manchester, as directly as the potato fields of mayo or galway feed or starve the peasants of connaught.” thus, in sixty years, has this single branch of british manufactures become of vital national importance. it is in terwoven w:ith all that relates to thei employment of our population, of our! capital, and of our shipping; and all that relates to our credit, or solvency, j and our domestic peace, contentment, f and security. its rapid growth is won derful; its magnitude is stupendous; and its connection with all that is precious and important in the country is so close and inseparable tliat the boldest and most lar-seeing minds in the community cannot contemplate any serious vicissitude befalling it without the utmost alarm and terror. (hcarf hear!) it was to supply england with the raw' material for this branch of her manufactures thgt the planters of ame rica, in 1786, turned their attention and energies to cottoh cultivation. a new era commenced; all thoughts of giving emancipation to the slave ceased; for they became suddenly valuable as hu- man beasts of burden on the plantation, or as stock to raise, by natural increase, t the thousands of their kind required to cultivate this new article of produce. (hear!) there was a rush from the worn-out and profitless soils of the older states to the new and virgin soils beyond. the vast valley of the mis sissippi, and the extensive peninsula of florida, presented a boundless field for enterprise, and the profitable employ i ment of slave labor; and thither those who scrupled not to amass riches by violence and slavery betook themselves. washington became the emporium of the domestic slave trade, and new or-; leans the slave market of the south. the demand for cotton wool in england closed the -gates of mercy on tbe bond men of america; it quenched the hopes of the friends of humanity; it inflamed the love of mammon in tbe breasts of the trans-atlantic slave-holders, and offered them a tempting premium to pursue their guilty traffic, in the sure hope of a rich reward. in 17s5 r america exported from her shores a single bag of cotton wool. in 1843, that same country sent across the sea, from her slave-tilled plania tions, during tbe first nine months of that year, seven hundred end niaety two millions of pound* weight! in 1785, america held within her border* 600,- 000 slaves, end these, as we have ieen, i had become unprofitable, and were, therefore, standing on the thresbhold of freedom, in 1840, america coo tained 2,487,213 slaves, and the—were 1 valued by an american etstetman, i henry clay, himself entitled to be i regarded as a fit judge in the matter, betas bom a southern man and a slsve holder and breeder, at 128,000,006 of dollars! in 1785, a single bag of cotter was exported from america. in 1841 the total exports from the shores of thai country amounted in value to $106,- 382,7*22, of which her exported cotton amounted to $54,336,331, being $77,• 940 in excess of all her other exports put together. in 1790, the shipping of the united states was set down as 437,377 tons, and in 1844, at 1,280,090 tons! while driving this profitable trade in the staple articles of our manufactures, the united states have been compara tively inattentive to the growth of ethos kinds of tropical produce; and have, therefore, greatly enriched their slave holding ncighbois, by becoming cus tomers for the articles raised ou their plantations. her own prosperity, built on the foundation i have pointed out, has enabled her to be a large consumer of foreign produce of slave growth. hence we find her importing, during 1846 2,000,000 of pounds weight ol slave-grown coffee, and nearly 60,000 tons of slave-grown sugar. her cotton has largely assisted her to do this; and thro ugh our consumption of this slave grown article of america, we have been feeding to fatness the slaveholders of cuba and brazil, and thus supplying to thc-m*their only stimulus to the con tinuance of their slave trade with af rica. “'while, therefore,” says mr. brown, “we have been lavishing mil liens of money, and sacrificing thous ands of valuable lives, since the peace of 1814, to suppress slavery in africa, our manufactures have, year by year, been supplying a larger and larger sum to the united states, by which the demand for slaves was sure to be kept up and encouraged in cuba and brazil. this is the explanation, why cne cargo in four, instead of one in three, now repays the brazilian slavers. (cheers.) the cotton manufacture of england, viewed through the medium of the facts now stated, stands cat as the prime inciting cause of untoil «nd unutterable misery and crime. tbe arm that con tributes to the wealth, the strength, and the greatness of our native land, deals death and destruction on a continent on cne side of the ocean, and sustains and perpetuates colossal systems of slavery on the other. whilst spending thousands annually to shield the coast of africa from the visits of the slave trader, we are furnishing millions to the slaveholders of america. while laying units on the altar of freedom we are heaping ingots on the altar ot slavgyy. assembled together to express our sympathy with the slave, and our abhorrence of the system which has reduced him to what he is—a mar ketable chattel in the eye of the law— we are at the same time, as a nation, supplying the only effectual proof of the system. wc are bolding in our own hands ’the key which has shot the bolt upon him in his prison-house; nay, our persons.are arrayed in the very fabrics which have been woven from the fruits of the earth, which lie is kept a slave to (ill by his unpaid labor, and to moisten with his unpitied tears! (great cheers.} that ouch a state of things is incon sistent with the revealed law of god, we know. that it is not required by the law of nature, or the circumstances of man's condition here, we must admit —or, the principle must be conceded, that the law of god is .at war with the ordinations of nature, and that the deity himself is answerable for the! origin and continuance of the atrocious! systems which the voice of nature con demns as inhuman and unjust. (loudi cheers.) that the doctrines of politi-' cal economy are inconsistent either with "the drccepts of revelation, the laws of nature, or the rights and happi ness of any portion of the human race, we do not believe. we hold them to be based on equal justice, and their practice the carrying out dt*thc rules which god and natuie have manifestly prescribed. (cheers.) we believe, too, that all tbe inventions of genius, all the aids of machinery, ail the love! of adventure and enterprise implanted in the breast of man, are compatible in their fullest exercise and application! with the happiness of the human race, j nay, more, that wisely directed and caii v r. bed by a sense of justice, and an observance of the rights common to all, they are calculated and designed largely t augment the sum of human felicity, and to advance man in bis progress to the highest attainable condition in civ ilization and power. (great applause.) let roe now proceed to show the foundations on which we rest this belief. as if in anticipation of the present cir cumstances of this country, and tbe future destinies of the world, god has made provision in nature—in the vary ing climates of the globe, and the habits and positions of the different races of mankind, for the useful application of all the creations of mechanical shill, for the largest conceivable augmenta tion of commerce, and for the gratifica tion and reward of all honorable adven ture and enterprise. (cheers.) slavery is no less at war with the material interest* of nations, the principles of free-trade, and the teachings of political economy, than with the rights and hap piness of its victims. a return to these immutable laws is the road to the abo lition of slavery. england is in a posi tion to set the*bright example. there is hope for the slave if england wgj be wise. england poanesaes a lover pow erful enough to overthrow tbe wood stained frbric which has been reared, not lees by n violation of the lawn ol nature and political economy, ana by an outrage on ike inalienable rights ol bunmmty, and the abrogation of tin statutes of the ahnicfcfy. that i may at once prove this, i will cany you foi a few momenta to the “gorgeow east,** and land yea on the shores a british india—a country "wkwiiriiyn; «f«t o’er coral rocks ami araker to>w; whose m tic tains, »sua the local of the warn too, with dnramfa tecta; whrsr mulct* ate hke rich brvsn, l 'fljt witlt *ou bumth their tnler; whvie saadai grove* srr! bewm of *y?ie» might be a pen** parauisr.” (ltal than.) geographical]y, india is that large, distinct, and peculiar portion of the earth, stretching over twenty-eight de grees of latitude, and twenty-four de grees of longitude, and enclosed on ail sides by the sea, by the stupendous range of the hitnmaylayas, and by two of the greatest rivers in the world, the indus and burrampooter—boundaties which divide it from countries and j races altogether separate and different. politically, india is that countty which, throughout the length and breadth of these, its natural limits, is more under paramount british dominion than any english country; for, throughout its extent, the will and the word of its british rulers are, in point of fact, law. socially, india is a population of two hundred tnillkns of men, the vast ma jority of whom have for ages been indis j solubly knit together by a common religion and common traditions, by common laws, and common civil and municipal .institutions, —by common castes, rites, observances, and man ners; and who, although apparently dissociated by the obstacles of lan guages, locally differing, are, never theless, united in hourly and daily in tercourse, both among themselves and w ith their english rulers, by the medi um of a common language, adopted with common consent by all, and pre vailing from cape ccmorin to the himmaylayas. no other country in the world, of the same extent, exhibits a natural connection capable of being made so close and intimate throughout all its parts, or so powerful in its aggregation, as this; for its area would readily sustain a population of 300,- 000,000 of men; and no people of equal number offer a more complete identity of social leanings and materia] interests, whereon to found, build up, and con solidate this connection. such is british india, an empire ex tending over 1,200,000 square miles!. anxious as i am to state nothing on! my own authority, i will not describe the impressions which my own mind received while travelling round its en tire coast —while entering its ports— while gazing on its fruit-clad hills—or journeying through its li£turient plains —or examining its endicb# diversified productions, but b fcsm the work of lion. m&untstuaisjmpitmllimcr, the briefest summary i h*ve ever met with of the natural riches this gran ary of the world.* “whole plains,” mr. elphinstone says, are covered with cotton, tobacco, and poppies roses are grown for attar and rose water; the sugar-cane, though requir ing sedulous care in its culture, and rich and well watered spots for its growth, is abundant. large tracts arc given up to indigo, while many more brilliant dyes are among the produce of the fields; and silk, flax, mustard, ses samun, palma christi, and other plants yielding an ample supply of oil, both for culinary and other purposes; be sides wheat, barley, the panicum itali cum, and innumerable other descrip tions of grain, for which englishmen have no name and many kinds of pulse, and roots, and vegetables, ar.d fruits, and apices, combine to make the earth redolent with beauty, and hui dostan foremost among the regions cl the globe, as the choice store-house ol nature.” (cheers.) such is the coun try over which the sway of great brit ain universally extends; whose bound less riches are at our command; where the sceptre of victoria lias swallowed up the sceptres of fitly princes. (hear! hear! and cheers.) let me proceed to> show yon how fur this magnificent realm, thus subject, through all the millions of its population, and all its diversified regions of fertility and beau-, ty, to the absolute dominion of this island, is able to supply the articles now procured from those doleful abodes of slavery, where every wind that blows gathers up the sighs ol bleeding, broken hearts;— where laughter ia not mirth, nor thought die mint, nor worn* a language, nor even men —ramd.” scenes of desolation and slaughter— where the vultures and vaopyres of mammon resort. where columbia otnltinglv drains her hie hood from africa’s veins; where the uuare of god is accounted aa bass as tbs image of onr set up in its place.** these rois-named, free, republican, christian states, m whose fueiiase fa; of freedom nm la mockery o’er a laud of slaves. m (tremendous cheering.) the limits necessarily prescribed toj an address like the present, will not permit me to go into details upon more than one branch qf the subject; and i shall therefore confine myself on this occasion to the article of cotton wool. eleven years ago, the directors of the east india company published a vol ume of reports on the culture and man ufacture of cottas wool, raw silk, and indigo in india. in that volume it a letter addressed by the directors themselves to the board of control, in which they state that the cotton plant is indigenous throughout the peninsula i of indie, from the extreme sooth to the fix* of the himmaylaye mountains.” i this assertion of the directors is abun dantly supported by the contents of ftheir bulky volume, which is filled by !j the reports supplied to them by the dif ferent collectors of revenue throughout f india. “these documents show eoo t ekisivelysays mr. brosra, that not only is cotton an article of immemorial domestic cultivation in every oae of the i provinces, hat that the progress of the r east india company has been marked hv the successive acquisition of every; v j ttiiuam dpfcku. riasnsm hsix |ikl(, paisrsa- whole no. j province, and the virtual supremacy obtaiued over every native stale south of the sutledge, which was peculiarly favored fi.»r it* growth and production ;ot cotton. continuing this career of 1 acquisition, the lasi year, the year 1846, saw annexed to the company’s rule the province of the jullindar doab—the j fertile province north of the river sut ledge, which there produces the finest j cotton. the same year saw the real extension of the british frontier carried to attock and cashmeer. every acre of land, therefore, in india, cape ble of growing cotton, within the vast geographical limits a&signcd to the i plant in 1828 (when ti e directors w rote their letter to the indian board,) is, in 1847, subject to british control. these limits embrace a country, for the most part cultivated and civilized, cf not less extent than the whole of europe south «f the i iver nicmen, peopled by at least 150,000,000 of intelligent and industri ous men. to doubt the capacity oi this country to produce cotton in adequate quantities for the wants of england, is to doubt the tcnitoiial capacity of three-fourths of all europe to produce cabbages for its consumption, if cab bages and not cotton were the produce required for the use of its population and the working of its mills.” so much for the natural capacity of the soil of india. a word now* in ref erence to the ability of the natives to turn these natural advantages to mc i count. let us now look at the capa city of the natives. (hear!) “ihc next doubt,” says the same intelligent author, “which has been started, and in england most industriously circula ted, until it also has become an article of belief, is the dcubt whether the na j tives of india possess the requisite knowledge and manual skill to grow 1 cotton as well as the slaves of tbs united states. the proofs to dispsl and destroy this doubt can no longor be sought for in the manufactures of india. god has willed that their soil shall endure; but their manuiactures, the work of their hands, once unrivaled, are fast passing away. the muslins of dacca, that beautiful manufacture that was to bengal what the manufacture of steam engines is to england, absolutely unsurpassed, has, within living memo ry, become utterly extinct.” (hear!) a remarkable confirmation of the truth of this affecting statement has recently ra salted -country. i la bengal newspaper, called the jvmaf jnjtm, ayat lath, thaaq m n nehce sf commercial annual for the year end ing april, 1847,” containing a view o t the trade of bengal. this volume in forms the world that the past commer cial year in that part of india has been rcndeied memorable, as the year in which the export of indian piece goods to england has entirely ceased. not one bingle yard has been sent to this country for sale. fifty years ago, as stated by mr. brown, the city of dacca was celebrated for its almost magical fabrics, and thousands of looms were busily employed in the manufacture of cotton cloth for the english markets; and the export of piece goeds from tho port of calcutta ah no, amounted to more than tw'o millions sterling. n<»w, that vast and profitable trade has be come entirely extinct not a single yard of cloth is exported to this coun try—the grass grows in the once stir ring and thriving streets of dacca, and the jungle is fast invading its suburb! in the year 1840-17, instead of export ing, as at the beginning of the cen tury, two millions of pounds worth cf native goods, bengal imported £3,134,- worth of english yarns, twist, and cloths, manufactured from american cotton-wool. in this single fact, the demonstrati' n is complete and incon trovertible, that england has, within half a century, succeeded in building up the system of negro slavery in america, (which was rapidly decaying) and in annihilating the -manufacture* of bengal, once flout ishing and pro fitable. alas, for the hindoo and the afri can i am far from bringing any charge against the manufacturers as a class. they are the gieatest bene factors of this country, and would gladly have obtained their raw cotton from india. the gudty parties am those whose blind, oppressive, and infatuated policy has prevented the natives of india from sending cotton to england, and thereby becoming customers, net to the extent of three millions, but twenty, h’©or surplus had reached that amount. (loud cheers.) notwithstanding the official announce ment of the extinction of indian ntns factares for parpoecs of export, the proof of the ability of the natives of india to produce the cotton of com merce, as good as when their fab tics clothed the world, has been recently obtained in a manner so complete, sa tisfactory, and conclusive, as mast henceforth banish every doubt sn the subject. in consequence of the plan laid by the late bank of the united stales, to monopolize the crop of ame rican cotton, in the year 1838-30, the cotton manufacturers of lancashire# roused by the attempt, scot a deputa tion of their body to loudon, to re monstrate with the director* of the east india company, npon the amam supply uf indifferent cmum received from india. the directors, solicitor to lall ike alarm and calm the expee tii istirun of sji the remonstrants, de vised a novel expedient, and divertaj by means of it from indie <e america. they forthwith dispatched one of their officers, a captain of native infantry, to the united state*, where he engaged ten cotton planters, and in 18(0, proceeded with them la india. thera they were distributed in twos and threes over the vast surface of the country, and set about teaching 100,000,000 of natives how to g row a j plant which their forefathers had cultivated in perfection for 3,000 years. two of these americans, messrs. mercer and howley, found their way to the great cotton growing district ol the southern mahratta country. now, mark the success of their mission on the ‘2bth of january last, 1817, the governor in council of bombay ad dressed a circular to the several mer cantile houses of that presidency, i giving to the english and native 1 gentlemen composing this large and respectable hotly, a detail of the go vernment measures connected with in troducing an improved system of culti -5 vatmg and cleaning cotton in the j southern mahratta country, in the hope that the mercantile community would come forward and freely purchase e product, the improved quality of which w<»u!d, doubtless, command a high price in the london and china mar kets. the governor then proceeds tc detail the nature of the govcriuncnl measures and their results. j thev w'ere commenced.** he says j “in 1843, under the superintendence !of mr. mercer, an american cottor planter of great experience, energy i and zeal, who began his fanning opera tions at a village in the collectoratc o dharwar. in 1814, mr. ilowley wa; to the same district, and under took the management of an experimen tal farm at another village.” i wil now quote the exact words of th< governor in council of bomba>. “ii 1315-46, mr. mercer represented tc the government, that the experiments farms w'erc only a useless expense tc government; that the american sys tem of cultivation was not adapted tc india; that the natives of india were from their knowledge of the climate and capabilities of the snl, able tc cultivate better and much more econo mically than any enropcan, and re quested that the farms might be abo lished.” such is the testimony of mr, mercer, as quoted by tiio governor ii council, of bombay. let me now request your attention to the testiinon\ of the british collector of revenue ii the same district, who had overlookec the operations of the two americar planters, and was also intimately ac quainted with the agricultural habit; and skill of the people, as well as with the extent and capacity of the soil. will again give the precise w'ords o! the government circular: the acting collector of jdharwar states, that the new orleans cotton has been culti vated to such an extent throughout the collectoratc, that its qualities are well understood by the rvots, (the native farmers,) and there will be no further necessity of government planting on its own account. there is at present sufficient seed to plant it to any extent, provided the sale of the produce is guaranteed to them.” such is the solution of the problem which the directors of the east india company undertook, in 1830, to solve, by send ing an expedition, consisting of a cap tain of native infantry and ten american cotton planters to india, to introduce an-improved system of cultivation, an expedition which i find, by a statement of revenue and expenditure, recently j laid befare parliament, has cost the natives of india £l >,o2d a sum placed under the head of “expense; in view to the improvement of the cul tivation of the cotton in india.” the solution is, the natives of india are able to cultivate cotton better than any european. (loud applause.) “the evidence, therefore,” says mr, brown, on the two following points, is complete and unanswerable:—first, the printed evidence of the directors shows, that, throughout a period ol nearly seventy years, from 1781 tc i83t», the company held dominion ovei provinces in india, capable of yielding cotton in any quantity demanded by england or by the world. second, the evidence of american planters, acci dentally promulgated in india in 1847, eleven years later, proves that the natives have alway s had the agricul tural hnowiedge, the skill, and the experience, to produce that cotton better and cheaper than the americans vet the natives have not produced ii (for our use;) on the contrary, the official evidence is clear and con clusive to the iact that, in the face oi a demand which has more than cen tupled, the supply from india has regularly decliued. the causes o; this admitted decay must, therefore, be sought elsewhere than in tiie sterility of the soil, or the incapacity of the people.” let us, then, occupy a few moments in attempting to trace out anti understand some of tla-sc causes, for ii is only after a correct conception o] their nature and effect that we car wisely seek to remove them, and pre pare ourselves for an enlightened and determined contest with the confeder acy which has originated and upheld them. i will endeavor to make this part of the subject as plain and populai as its peculiar character will admit of. did time permit, it would be easy tc demonstrate that from the commence ment of tiic manufacture of cotton goods in this country, the raw material might have been supplied from india, in most abundant quantities, and sold in the liverpool market, at tyvopence halfpenny per pound, yielding a remu nerating profit to all partu s concerned [lad there, at an early period, been. i will not say encouragement, afforded to the native growers of cotton, but mere fair play, and an alienee of oi>- pression and direct obstacles, there would have been at the present time a supply sent to this country of the most abundant kind, and of a quality greatly superior to that of the msigni mant amount which is obtained from india. and what price,” you may inquire, “would have sati-fi,-,} grower. 1 will answer that question from authority. mr. robert tticards cmb 7 tu bonnot! of bombay from the year ihmi to 1811 having previously spent twenty vearj »f bis official life in various parts of estern india. in ibij, that gentle, nan addressed a letter to the court of hrrrtnrs, in the course of which he evealrd irom the company's own ••cord*,) the details of a deliberate 'stem practised by the g<ornt(uru| of bombay, by which the native cot tot grower* were deprived of one-half o their whole crop a* a land-tax, am •were openly plundered of the othei half by the company's servants, wh< put their own price upon il. (shame, in this letter mr. ricards demonstrate* that, while the cotton growers wert under the rule of tbe mabcmedans who set the example of taking half th< crop, they could cultivate to profit tb* best description of article, while ccttui was selling on the spot at rathei :nore than ‘-id. per paund. deducting half, therefore, for tbe land-tax, -th* id. and a fraction represented th< natural price at which the best com modify could be grown. in the pam plilet before me there is also the proi» furnished, in the shape of a reference |to actual transactions in bombay, ii 17*0, when the price of surat cottoi was rather more than 2d. per lb.; beins just the same price as it was in bom bay, in le4(i, nearly sixty years alter had the grower, therefore, not to yieb 'up to the government cne-half hi: entire crop, he would bo satisfied, a he is now virtually, with id., cr rathe more, per lb. it is, therefore, evident, that but fo the existence aud chartered mouopob 'of the east india company, whicl took the whole of the crop at its owi price, and returned to the grower tb proceeds of only one-half, tue price a rj which the best surat colton wouli have freely sold in london and liver pool, in the years 1780 to (leav ing a large profit to the importer, would have beeu 2 l-2d. per lb. tb prices at which the east india com pany sold their eutton in london, ii the years 1780 to 1791, were from lid ito la. id. per ll». of the several kind |of united states’ cotton, it is tkn 'called upland which compares wit] and is valued against surat. in 184(j the year of the short crop, the aveiagi price paid in london .and liverpool lo the three kinds ol american upland was 5 l-2d. per lb. it is unnecessary -after a simple enumeration of thes j recorded lacts, to say why the produc i tion of cotton in the united states date ilrom the year 1735, or to prove a greater length than they prove, that i was the directors of the east indii j company who in truth and in realit j sowed the fields of america broad j r ast with tne seeds, and transferred tin immemorial growth of india to taki permanent and gigantic root on th< shores of the atlantic. mr. ricards j hi the letter to which i have referred also states that the freight on the com pany’s ships amounted, at the time in j wrote to £53 (js. per ton of fifty cubh feet, and £rij a ton on the extra ships making a freight of 7 l-2d. and 4d respectively upon every pound ofeeftor imported. even d >wn to the ycai 1829, the chartered freight of the •company’s ships was £l9 ss. per ton i equal to a charge of more than 2d. pci lb. i have quoted the testimony o one member of council at bombay; le me refer to another, mr. francis wal den, now a director, who, in 1832, gavi evidence before a select parliamentan committee, that the money tax impose* lon every candy of surat cotton of tin value of £3, was £5 lus., leaving t< the grower £2 4s. for his share, r. £1 2s. less than wjas left iiim by th< rapacious mussulmans. (shame.) thi: tax was levied before the cotton wai suffered to he removed lrom the fieh on which it was grown for whicl •purpose deej> pits were dug, and tin cotton buried in them under clods o earth, and there kept in charge o the revenue officers, until the monei demanded was raised. when releast ;and removed to the grower’s hut, in it; junsceded for the purpose o being deprived of the seed* by tin women and children of his family, then was an annual tax levied upon even native gin; then an animal tax upoi every bow, the implement required t< rid it of dry leaves and dirt; then i tax upon the loom employed in weaving it and if required for distant con sumption, whether home or foreign, i itransit duty. (shame.) what has been said in no way com ipletely describes the wretched condi tion of the native cotton grower. 1 must not be supposed that he obtains the difference between the price of tin cotton and the money-tax levied bv tin j government. it must never be' for j gotten, in order correctly to appre jciate the weight of the burden lai< upon him, that he is compelled to pai his land-tax before he is suffered t< {have possession of his owu cotton, am that the only security lie has to offer, ii s order to obtain the money from tin village money-lender and cctton-tradcr is the crop buried in the pits, u n i weighed, unsccdcd, uncleancd, am altogether unmerchantable. the re i suit is that one halfpenny a pound is al i that is finally realised by this uuhappi subject ol the british government ii india. “in guzerat,” says genet a biiggs, taking for the basis'of his cal dilution the evidence given before parliament, “710 pounds of clear (cotton may be raised on seven acres o land, giving 10j pounds per acre. tim {cotton, estimated at 2 l-2d per.pound w hich is forty per c<nt. in .re than in value at dharwar, will sell fi>r £1 is. uroin which, if we deduct ids., we hau scarcely more than twenty-five pt*j cent, of the whole produce, to pay the expenses of cultivation, aud for the return of interest on capital; while the government receives seventy-five pei cent, of the w hole produce as the tax 1 he merchants of england, it is clear, cannot look to india tor cotton, while such imposts prevail.” buch is the testimony of an east india officer, win. has mude the land-tax and its effect* upon cotton-growing his study fot many years. (c heers.) let me now ask you to go w ith me tc bengal, and see bow the matter stand* there. among tbe journals published in india, there is no one more conspicu ous for the* rautjnrj with which nil its statements are put forth, and its reluct ance to bring charges against the gov ernment, than the fritnh of indin, edi ted by john marshman, esq., of seram pore. from a number of that journal dated the 1 1th of march last, 1 make the following extract:—“the deficiency in the cotton crop of america, and the rise in the price of that maple of our home manufacture*, ha* naturally turn ed the attention of the ouhlir to the cul tivation of cotton in india, where the plant was indigenous in the days or c«r aar. our manufacturers look to the boundless fields of india in the hope ol obtaining a supply for their looms; bul unfortunately they look in vam. fr bundlckund (a large division of the al* lahahad province to the south of the jumna) the supply has fallen from sixty lacks (900,000,imk) lbs) to ten (or 100,* ooo.ooolbs.) at bombay, the cultiva tion has been gradually dwindling, anti there w every reason to apprehend thal it a il! shortly lx come extinct. the ex port of cotton from bombay to china, aluch formerly gave employment to sc j large a portion of the agricultural popu lation, end its shipping, has been gradu ally contracted; and unless some ade- i qunte remedy can he supplied in time, this branch of trade must shortly closr altogether.*’ (hear, hear.) the frinul of india then goes on to give a speci men of the process bv which the culti vation and export of cotton, so essential at once to the prosperity both of india and of england, is deliberately annihi lated by those who administer the reve i nue system under the-east india com pany. names, dates and official docu ments are quoted. “the fiscal history of the province of british bundlekund which is the great cotton district on this i side of india, most clenrly dera mstrates the impolicy of over assessment. wc have now before us a valuable report o the settlement of ziilah hutneerpore ii by mr. allen and mr. muir, of the civi j service, w hich supplies us with facts j of the utmost value, and gives in forma tion that may he turned to the best ac 1 count at the present moment. it teach ■esusthe most important lessons. ii shows how the prosperity of a distric may he blighted, and half a million o its inhabitants reduced to absolute desti tution, in the shortest period of time. ii tells us how a single collector may ruin i not only the condition but the prospects of a district, depopulate its villages, anc convert its smiling fields: into barrer wastes. cur rule commenced there in 189 i and for the first ten years our fiscal ad i ministration was just and equitable. the f orbearance and happy arrange ments of government appear to have had their lull effect in developing the resourcesot the country.” the zemin dars (the land owners; were in a flour ishing condition; their tenantry satisfice and happy, and the district which hat formerly been a scene of uninterrupted devastation, or predatory incursions, presented a picture of industry and contentment. in the year 1818, a year ever memorable in the annals ol that unfortunate province, mr. scott waring, the collector, took charge of it, and formed a new settlement of the rent (government tax.) in the western dis tricts he raised the assessment thirty, and in the eastern districts, no less than forty-six per cent ihe result of this oppressive exaction in the eastern divi sion soon became apparent in the ruin ol the zemindars, the destitution of the poor ryots (the cultivators,) and the de solation of the province. (ji tlie total number of villages, amounting to gji, only 139 were preserved by the original landholders. of 137 villages brought to sale during this period, assessed al i two lakhs and thirty thousand rupees i (£i23,09j) no less than sixty-one were purchased by government, because there were no bidders at all; while the remaining seventy-six, which were sold to other parties, realized only thirty nine thousand rupees (£3,909 or about j four months’ rent! every man of sub stance who agreed to take tlie villages, j on the recusancy of the zemindars, be i came a beggar, buch was the result in tlie eastern district, of mr. waring’s i exertions at the revenue screw. jn the western districts, the proprietors oit7c3 villages threw up their lands ratliei than agree to his exhorbitant demands. it would be useless to recount,” says mr. muir, “the sickening detail of ab sconding zemindars, who, according to mr. waring, fled only because the real value of their estates was beginning to come to light, or of desolated villages, whose lands it was said were throw n oui of cultivation merely to produce a de crease of assessment. no one who has not foiled through the defails ol each village cun conceive the extent ot alienation of property or the misery at tendant on the depopulation of villages, the ruin of estates, and the disruption of society which have prevailed in this unhappy country. misfortunes seldom come single. af ter mr. waring, whose name is never mentioned in bundlekund without a malediction, and is ordinarily used like that of an ogre, by mothers to frighten disobedient children, came mr. \v h. vulpy, wboeutered into his views with increased ardor and gave another hearty turn to the revenue screw. then came (he gradual discontinuance of tlie com pany’s advances for cotton, which had formerly exceeded the revenue of the province, and finally the calamitous sea sons of isjo, 1>34, and 1838. the hand of man had been succeeded by vis itations of providence, and tlie country yvas reduced to the loyvest state of deso lation, when the new settlement, which had given such just renown to the name of robert mertins bird, was undertaken and completed. but it is easier to ruin than to revive a province. l ive years of over assessment had produced that prostratiou of agricultural resources, which twenty years of moderation could not restore. the settlement officers, in every instance, made large reduc tion* in rent, in the hope of reviving the prosperity of the ruined district; and in reference to the more itmjnediute object of this article, reduced tlifc rent-tax ot the soil on which the cotton is raised, to a suin varying fr.un tight annas to one rupee a bigah—that is on an average, to about one third of the assessment, yvhich the enplitldnaa describes as pre vailing in the broach. but it is found impossible now to realize the same amount of revenue w hich was obtained so frecjv before the calamitous adveut of mr w a ring. it ia to be hoped thuo fore that the lesson thus taught us, that over assessment invariably defeats its own object, and destroys the prospects of the exchequer for a long period of time, will not be lost on us. to the committee now said to be sit ting at bombay, we particularly recom mend tke following from muir’s report; had we been contented with the revenue of 1815,and been solicitous only to equalize it, the district would, without l"obt, have continued to flourish; ei- tent of cultivation would hare kept pact with the increase of capital and inhabi taut». and the concomitant advantage: of trade and commerce would hava ad ded to the richea of the country, and tc its strength for withstanding the attack: of famiue. our income, if not directlj increased, certainly would not have fal len off, and would thus have been, a the least, twenty per cent, greater that the impoverished land, denuded in nt ny quarters of its population, can no* possibly yield." let me afford you on< more glance into the reasons why th« natives jf india, under the east indii company's rule, do not cultivate pro duce for this country. mr. thom® williamson, late revenue commissionei nt bombay, in a letter dated 1846, ad dressed to lord wharnclifle, as chair man of tlie great india peninsula railway company, tells his lordship that besides the land which produce cotton at present, there is a vast exten of waste land capable of producing th: article, and that a very slight degree o encouragement would be sufficient ti attract cultivators supplied with sue! scanty means as are there sufficient foi tillage, and that they would greedily ac cept the terms which would be deeme: hard bv the enterprising farmer in england. well, this same mr. wil liamson, when superintending thesi very districts, granted to the native: leases of waste land, ftee from tax for i 1} few years, for the express purpose o cultivating upon it cotton and the mau ritius sugar-cane. the last, to attaii perfection, requires to be manured an< irrigated and consequently demands i considerable preliminary outlay. thi natives joyfully accepted the leases, an< set to work with the utmost alacrity an< i industry. what did the directors o the east india company do on hearing of this wise and prudent measure th< official gazette shall answer for them: bombay government gazette, 2 oth junr 1838. the honorable the court of direc tors, having been pleased to disapprove of the n itifications of the 24th february and ist august, 1335, and of the is and 17th november, 1833, issued undei authority of government, by the rcvcn i 110 commissioner, granting certain ex emptions from assessment (land-tax) tc land cultivated with cotton and the mau ritius sugar cane, and to direct that 1 such notifications be immed ately recall ed; the right honorable the governoi is pleased hereby to caneel the said no tifications from this date.” (loud cx i pressions of indignation.) in conformity with thi3 peremptory or der, leases of waste land, granted ncarh four years before by the authority of the governor and council of bombay, anr upon the faith of which the lessees hat i borrowed and spent their all, were can j celled at a moment’s warning, the les sess were turned out of possession with out the smallest compensation least redress, and most oftfiem, asfsibel as the persons who had ney to them on the security of the gov ernment leases, ruined for the remain der of their lives. tbit? was done in 1838, and in 1840 the directors of the east india company sent to the united states for ten american planters for the purpose of teaching these beggared and ruined natives how to grow cotton. let me now show you what the pecu niary result of this system has been as respects the prices paid for cotton by the manufacturers of this country. it has been before observed that the yer age price of the three kinds of ameri can uplands in the markets of the uni ted kingdom during the dear year ol 1840 was 5 l-2d. per pound. the evi dence adduced proves undeniably that, from the year 1785 down to the present time, the grower of surat cotton wou'd have been satisfied on the spot with the price of id. per pound, if freed from the company’s preliminary land-tax of 1 l-2d 1 per pound, and liberated from all inter ference of the revenue officers. “my own knowledge," says mr. brown, “hut especially my late father’s personal and practical experience through more than half a century, lead me to affirm that a price of id. to 1 l-2d. per pound, paid to the native growers, free from tax, would have been remuneration sufficient to have secured from them the produc tion of any quantity of cotton w hich the wants of england have required during the last sixty year 3. all the enquiries i have made lead me to the conviction that the same price would have paid the grower in every province in india, where the company found cotton to be a staple culture. adding id. per pound for transport and the profit of the impor ter, u price of 2 l-2d. to 3d. per pound is the natural price at which, but for the tax and the interference of the compa ny, good east india cotton would have been laid down in london and liver pool. what the profit of the english manufactures would have been by hav ing the command of the staple at this medium price, they themselves best know. but taking the price paid by toe manufacturer* for every description of united states cotton i.n the year 184 b at no more than the average price paid lor uplands," namely, 51-2 d. per lb. it is clear that they paid to the ameri can 2 i-2d. per lb. more than the natur al price of cotton, if the growth and the trade in india had been, as in the united states, perfectly free. upon the total quantity received from the united states, this sum amounts to £5,230,252. this was the excess of price they paid last year. but this year, owing to the short crop in the united states, the con sequent rise in every market, the scarci ty of food throughout europe, and the demand for tonnage in the united states lr the purpose of shipping every pound of spare load to w here food was at fam ine prices,—in consequence of these concurrent visitations, it is computed by the economist that the manufactur ers will have to pay from four to five milhous sterling more to the americans for the short supply of the present year, than for the more abundant one of last. tueir american cotton account tor "the two years will therefore stand thu§: 1846. —ordinary euchanced price paid above natural price of east india cut ton £5,236,252 1847. —ditto ditto 5,236,252 extraordinary enhanced price over 1846, 4,500,000 excess of price paid in 1 two yean to the uni-! £14,973,504. tod states tor cotton, w do the losses of the manulecturer* end even at this point? it would be a wrjr superficial examination of the sub ject which should lead to any such con elusion. this sacrifice is only the bc i ginning of what they have to suffer. in 1 consequence of the high price of fivotl 'j everywhere, and the absorption of the national capita! as well as of the profits i and wages ot individuals in the purchase i of dear food, the price of manufactured 00 instead of keeping pace with the t] rise in the price of cotton, has sunk much below this level, from the falling ofi of tne usual demand at home and i nb v',, manufacturers are compelled to hold and lock up their capital, or to sell at a loss in order to keep their mills working halftime. the t/nited'states’ merchant, gorged with english gold ex poitcd to pay for his corn and cotton, keeps aloof until manufactured goods ii have still further sunk to the point at j which it is more profitable to him to im m port go d; than to receive gold. he then enters the market, and it is by m means of his purchases, made at the i j lowest point of depression, that the drain ■j ot gold is stopped; or, in other words, ■j it is by the sacrifice of the accumulated i industry and hard-earned property ot (jtho manufacturers that the exchanges arc ultimately restored, the derange ment of commerce remedied, and the ij nation’s calamity arrested. it is niani l test, therefore, that it would be better fj for the manufacturers to ask the east •i india company to accept five millions, ii subscribed amongst themselves, and in i return suffer the natives of india tj i• grow cotton, f;ec of land-tax, for the people of this country, than to carry on i their operati >ns under the existing sys tem. five millions so given in lcll.j would have saved nearly fifteen. mr. 1 brown eloquently concludes his remai ks on this su iject by inquiring:—“ what has created anil produced the cotton of the ua.ted states? what, at the same time, lias cleared its wastes, attracted its immigrants, sextupled its population, j peopled its towns, funded its manufac tures, built its ships, created its navy, fed its trade, furnished its revenue, 1 found scope for all its energies, and last, though, unhappily, not the least, per petuated, with the foreign slave-trade, 1 its own domestic slavery? it is not i more abundant land than england has possess ed in india, nor a more fertile soil, nor a more genial climate, nor cheaper labor, nor more millions of p aieable, industrious subjects; nor is it any decline in the native vigor and perse vering enterprise of englishmen, when left unfettered and un-do nieonred over, to exert their free scope in guiding and governing men and subduing nature, under the spirit and the aegis of their parent laws and institutions. since it is undeniably not one of these supe rior advantages, which is the cause of the striking and dliferent results exhibited bv men of the same race, during the same period ol time, in india and in the united states, i trusl it is impossible that the reason of e iglish nen, or the piety of the nation, will suffer the curse of barrenness with which india has been fatal ly stricken, or the poverty in which its people j arc st vped, to be longer laid, by the decep j bon ot speech and the studied concealment ot facts, to the account of the will of providence and the ordinances of god.” 1 have now endeavored to show the bearing of this ouestion upon england and upon india, and to j tint out some of the causes of the non importation of cotton from india. it is hardly necessary to dwell upon the anti-slaverv view of the subject, fir you must be before-hand with me. i will, however, venture to ask your attention to the views entertained bv certain parties. what say the southern americans, speaking through the press of new orleans j by the blessing of heaven, the southern j planter is enahl d to raise the noblest w >ed i that was ever given for the comfort of the hu man family—a weed, destinevl to make a new era in modern commerce, if those who raise it hav*spirit and virtue enough to scorn and defy the franking and speculative quacks of the day. 1 have no idea that the slave-holding race could maintain their liberty or indepen dence for five ye irs without cotton. it is that i which gives us our energy, our enterprise, our intelligence and commands the respect of for -1 e;gu powers. the egyptian may look with devotion to his nile, as the source of the pow er and wealth of egypt: the pilgrim and in habitant of the holy land miy bathe in the sacred jordon, and take comfort from the be lief that he lias washed away his sins—the hindoo miy worship the lotus, under an idea that vishnu created brahma from its unfolded 1 flowers; but a genuine slave-holder in south i carolina will ever look with reverence tu the i cotton plant, as the a mree of his power and his liberty. all the parchments upon earth could never prot et hi n from the grasping avarice and financial fury of modern society, j if ho expects to preserve the peculiar institu j tior.s of his country, a d transmit them to posterity, he must teach his children to hold the cotton plant in one hand, and the sword in the other, ever ready to defend it.” what say the abolitionists of the united states’ cotton is now th e great anti-abolition influ ence of this country. in whatever shape op position to the cause of emancipation manifests itself-—whether in the church or state—in a mercantile or ecclesiastical association—it may be traced directly hack to the cotton-bale. were english and french manufacturers sup- plied with indian or egyptian cotton, the de mand for slaves from virginia and maryland! would cease—the growers of men and women tor the cotton planting region would find no market for their human staple—ami as a con sequence, slavery would be unprofitable, and, as another consequence, virginia stati-smen would begin to believe with thomas jeff. non. that all rnen are created equalthe virginia divines would very soon discover that sla very is t.icompatihle with genuine presbyteri anism, whether of the old or new school. i slavery now lies entrenched behind its cotton bags—lko general jackson at new orleans and tlr; efforts of the british or even ameri can abolitionists to dislodge it by moral sua sion. we far will prove a.*; meleetua! as those of general packeobam, to force the cotton barricade* of the american camp, on the bth january, i*ls. we call then upon the abo littomsts of great britain, to urge their govern rn.-nt to footer and promote, to the extent of its p nver, the cultivation of cotton in the indies. bv uj doing they will promote the interest of their own country—they will confer an incal culable benefit upon our* —they will lift the crushed millions of india from their degrada tion—and strike off the chains from thrift mil li »ns of american slaves. we confess tfiat one of our main reliant- under god, for the bloodless termination of american slavery, is the increase of cotton cultivation in the pen:a sula of british india.” wiiat were the wools of ilie venerable clarkson, written down to be d-hverei at the opening of the world's convention for the ab olition of slavery, held in 1840. how, then,” he says, can you get at these (arnt-n -eaa so as to luhuroee uteir convict. there is but one way vou must endeavor to make them fed their guilt in itsamsequeneea. you must endeavor by all justifiable means to aflfeet their temporal interests. you must en deavor among other things, to have the pro duce of free tropical labor brought uu» the markets ta undersell tham there, and if roucan do this, your victory is sure. now, that this m bumufcm, that this may ba done, there is m gleet km. the east india company aleae mm da it of tbamaahrw, and they can da k by means that are parfcrtly metal and pamir, aarurdmg la yarn own pna nplea. aamely by urn eultivalmft af tha sarth and by the employment of foie labor. they sntn-, if ibcy please, not only hate the high hnk r of abolishing slavery and tbc slave trade, |»ut the advantage of increasing their revenue kywnd calculation; for, in the first place, they have land hi their possession twenty tiroes ro»>re than equal to the supply of all europe with tropical produce; in the second place, can prorun* not tens of thousands, but tens of nuihons of free laborers to work m the third, what is of the greatest consequence m thi>cas*\ the pnee of labor with these is only from a penny u> three-ha i fper.ee per day. whit slavery can stand against these prices 1 and here 1 would oheerru, that this ia not a visionary or fanciful statement. look at the american newspapers look at the american pamphlets which have come out upon thia sub ject l<>ok at the opinion of the celebrated judgs jay on this subject also all, a l|, con f-ss, and the planters, too, con less— but the biter with fear ami trembling—-that if the east india company should resolve upon the cultivation of tropical products in india, ar.d c irry it to the extent to which they w ould be j capable of carrying them—it is all over wuh american slavery.” at the risk of wearying you, i hare laid my views b fire you at considerable length, ■i d you may now perceive the nature of the 1 objects to w.i ch 1 des ro to devote myself (loud cheers.) is it not a glorious goal sties whu hi am reaching* (che«rs.) long, lorg i have i looked to india with emotions whuh j god alone has penetrated. the study of that country, in the history of its people, the ca pacity of tis soil, its sub u gat ion by eiigfhnav and its future destinies, bus been the as.s:oi> of the last eight years rf my life long, lorgr ago l made a vow that 1 would live lor tho* i benefit of that coui.try (loud cfi ers_> hav* i your pci mission to redeem that vow (lot g j continued cheers.) hut, let m; t *ll you, i did not make that vow until 1 cl ariv perceiv c 1 that he who labored for tbc good of india,, was at the same time the truest and wisest; friend of his own country, and the most effi cient promoter of the extinction of slavery and. the slave-trade (cheers.) have 1 not shown* you that justice to india” is prosperity t<y england” and freedom to the slave?” (ap plause.) this was the motto i chose fora i small newspaper 1 started on the ist of janu ary, 18-11. it is my motto still. will you adopt it (cheers.) well then, as i told you it uie time ,1 was a candidate for your suifra ges, i shall be ever ready, by an honest vote, to support every good and sound measure, without i ierencj to party and i shall have !no ohjeettoa to speak a word oa a subject j understand, unless, as is often the case, it should bo superior wis lorn to remain silent (cheers.) the question 1 have brought be fore you thin evening, however, is that to which 1 wish you to grant mo permission in 'devote myself; and that you might to some extent have an enlightened opinion respecting its merits, its magnitude, and its importai.ee; i have delivered the address now brought to a close. let me then ask you-if you participate m my views regarding the vital importance of this question to the interest and happiness both of the people of this country and of india (loud citeers.) have 1 your sanction to give myself to the advocacy of this question* (re newed cheers.) will you support me while i am humbly and honestly engaged in calling the attention of the country and the legislature to it? (great applause.) will you allow me henceforth to say, that as far as you arc con cerned, my constituents arc co-laborers with me oil the question (loud cheers, winch last ed for a considerable time.) enough. wo understand one another. you have encour aged me on the threshold of this great work. io making the claims of india hencelorth the peculiar object of iny labors m parliament and throughout england, i shall have the firmest persuasion that 1 am acting m conformity with tne best interests of mv native country and the just rights of our conquered fellow subjects, a.id ol the enslaved throughout the world. 1 shall now submit the iollowing resolution' 1 think i have sustained every clause of it, save that which rotors to the natives of india as customers for our manufactures; but u must be self-evident that it we linprovu the condition of 150,000,000 of men, we must of necessity increase their wants, and consequent ly open a vast market for our own manufactur ed products. in another address i will abund antly demonstrate this. wnh these remarks t shall read the resolution, which i do not doubt, from the manner in which you have responded to what has been said, wall receive your cordial approval (loud cheers.) 1. 1 hat it has been demonstated to this meeting, that india, a vast british possession, peopled by millions of peaceable, intelligent’ and civilized british subj ects has been gifted* by nature with tne capacity of producing eve ry tropical raw commodity, which the capital and industry of england require lor the con stant and profitable employment of her popu lation, or lor the subtly of any of their other wants. that it has been further demonstrated, that england, although the mistress of such a possession as british india, is reudered year by year more dependent for the supply of raw cotton, winch is the staple of her principal manufacture, and one of the main supports of the public revenue, upon the united oi«u;? yf america, a foreign country; and that jyjflw land is also dep indent upon the same eounuy for the supply of the tobacco demanded by her population—-both th'i cotton and the tobact o of the united slates being the produce of slave labor. “that consequently, the domestic peace and prosperity of this country; and the stabili ty of a large portion of the public revenue, are made dependent,—f irst, upon the vicissitudes of the seasons, to w hich the cotton and tobac co plants, in common with all other produc tions of any other country, are liable sec ondly, upon the maintenance of amicable rela tions between this country and the united states, and between the united states and other countries thirdly, upon the continu ance of the tubmission of the numerous, in creasing, and oppressed slave population oi the united stab's of america. a bat this exclusive, unnecessary, and un natural dejier.dtnce— perpetuating as it does the slavery of millions of met.—u> the tource, to a great extent, as m* now experienced, of existing calamities, and manifestly pregnant with future evils to the best interests of eng land. bat the free agricultural population of uritiah liulia wouli! be the natural cuatocmra oi this country, in the exact measure that they would, il permitted, become the producers of commodities for the wants of england that il has lieen clearly shown, that these intelli gent and deserving british subjects are ren dered incapable of becoming the nation's cus tomers and producers, and of competing with the produce of the slave-stales, by reason of lhe burthens imposed upon their sml and in dustry, and by the impediment ot unwise re striction* placed upon their home and exter nal trade therefore. resolved, —thai it is the do tv of the popple of england, for the sake alike of england, of india, and of the enslaved throughout the world, to require from the legislature the immediate removal of all im posts which depress the agncutural energies and impede the commerce of the native popu lation. and also the institution of a strut and impartial inquiry, in india, into the conditicn of the natives, and into the conduct and the arts arising out of the peeuhar gover .roent ruling over them, which aflerttheir well-being and retard their prosperity. tiik national baxaar. tt was our happiness h«t wc**k to attend tbit splendid exlub.noo of antn*javcrr mdus-j trv, taste, skill, elegance. and beauty, held in, fannuil hall, from represanttiionsi wh.oh we had heard,and descriptions whtc'u we, h 3 i read, our expcctationa were very high but high a* they were, they were more than gri t.ricd. on entering the vast and venerable hall, the manner and grandeur of its decora tion reminded us strongly of some eld, hut beautiful gothic cathedrals through which we have had the pleasure to pass. for the spe cial decoration of the hall it would seem that almost a young forest of evcrgtoer.a had been •tripped of its foliage. bowers, arches, wreathes, and beautiful chains of it, were dis played in all directions; the long range of pillars supporting the capacious galleries on either side, and the upper range around the gallery, reaching the ceiling, were all ele gantly trimmed with evergreen; and between the pillars in the gallery, rising from the breastwork around it, were finely modelled forms of arches and windows of the old gothic order, all of which were beautifully dressed in living green. across the hall, m various directions from side to side, wer? chains of evergreen, meeting and crowing immediately under a large and luminous ga* light chandelier, which, when lighted, grand ly reflected the charm which nature always lends to works of art. in the centre the hall was a large table forming a circle, piled with rich and beautiful articles, too numerous to mention. this, too, was all surrounded and decorated with evergreen, in every grace ful shape and form which genius, skill, and fancy, could invent. on cither side, and all around this table, were tables connected from one end of the hall to the other, and only divided from each other by multitudinous; forms of living green rising between them. some of the more youthful of the ladies wort wreathes of evergreen about their heads, a* if d nermined to be in unity v. iih the natural and artificial beauty surrounding them. it would be pleasant to be in such a place si any time, but to be there in the glorious cause of righteous liberty, surrounded bv the old and trie! friends of the cause; meeting and conversing with many of them fur the first tint: 5 since our return from england; wit nessing tho ardor of their zeal, and gathering light and life from their lofty communications, made it a delightful occasion to us, and or.e which we could wish every friend of the slave could share. england, ireland, scotland, and wales, were all represented. the various useful, rich, elegant and beautiful works from those countries deepened, in our mind, the oarncst sincerity and devotion to our cause, which often filled our heart with grateful admiration during our sojourn in those lands. noble was the devotion and great the indus try that sent those beautiful works to our shores, and laid them on the pure altar of christian philanthropy. every article was x silent hut powerful pleader in behalf of the american slave, and a telling rebuke of the guilty siavelwldcr of the south, and his much •note guilty allies of the north. the women of monarchical england pleading with their sisters in republican america, to quit the infernal practice of trading in the bodies and souls of men, and making merchandize of the bodies of their sable sisters; and this, too, in old funeuil hall, the cradle of liberty,’ 1 the birth-place of american independence— where was nursed the young spirit ol the revolution, and where now hang the pictures of washington, adams, hancock, warren and others, who seventy years ago fought i british king in defence of american liberty scotland, too, joins the appeal with the names of her forty thousand daughters. what i rebuke is hero! in looking upon the labors of the dcai friends at home as well as abroad, we fell abashed by thc.r superior devotion. we ncvei feel more ashamed of our humble efforts in the cause of emancipation, than when we contrasi them'with the silent, unoltserved, and uiup pluuded efforts of those through whose con stant and persevering endeavors this annuai exhibition is given to the american public. anti-slavery authors and orators may be said to receive compensation for what they do, ir the applause which must, sooner or later redound to them; but not so with the thous ands whose works of use and beauty adorr tins fair. it is for them to work, unnoticec and unknown, and sometimes unenquired for and many of them unable to see the good thai results from their efforts. evidently no sinis ter taativc can enter into such action; and yet noble souls they! they have a great and glorious reward. the consciousness of hav ing done something toward releasing from cru-’l bondage, even one sister, and the gratitude o] that sister pomg_un in glory to god for deliv erance from twfflo.u, is a happiness to the pure in..id, which as far transcends that do me t from the pra.se of men, as heaven tran scend* earth, and eternity, time. let proud pro'slavery congregations get up fairs to build and beautity their churches; let them labor to cushion th'.tr pews, carpet their floors, and ornament their pulpit's; they may indeed reap the reward that results from the exercise of skill and industry, but the thought must come, after all, we have worshipped ourselves, rather than god; we have been looking to our own eas3 and comfort, rather than reliev ing those who are unable to help themselves. such persons know nothing of the holv satis faction consequent upon unselfish labor and effort in behalf of the hated and enslaved ol oar land. this is emphatically the pr ai religious movement or the day—one m which the laborer is taught to look only to the source of all good for reward. the history of the boston fair is interesting, instructive and en couraging. it shows what may be accom plished by unwavering fidelity, unfaltering industry, and patient devotion to s good cause, the that of which (this u the fourteenth fair,) w as held, we believe, in a small room, no. 40, washington street. at that tune few ventured to attend tf, and fewer to assist it. a few laches only were found willing to encounter the odium of attending such a place. i ourteen years have passed away, arid our fair, after working its way through the lower rooms of marlborough chapel, and the inoro commodious amory ilsji, finds plaro in the old cradl of liberty,” and large as is the cradle, this fourteen >v«a's growth becoming too luge for it.: the fact our v* becoming one of the m <*t popular ami genteel exhibitions of the year, we are glad of ita prosperity, not because wc love popularity, but because of the change in public opinion which it imbrues. v\ e know that imputations have been cast upon those who an most proroinenily in con ducting this fair. it is said they seek popu larity, and play into the hands of the beacon street aristocracy. the insinuation w base. where has aristocracy, cotton-ocruey or slave ocracy received more faithful rebukes within the last few weeks than in the liberator ot boston? what amount of money was realised by the fair, w. 3 do not know: probably not so much this yoar as laat. our money, like our cour.- try'ii honor, is being squandered on our fored asiaaaina in mexico, and the one is becoming about as scarce as the other. the scarcity of money will account for a decrease (if there be any) of the proceeds of the fair this but, be the sum little cr much, it l in good hands, and will be faithfully appropriated tc the dissemination of light on the subject ol slavery; and we are sure it will do mucli toward disposing tha public mind favorably tc tha cause. the bazaar itself was a sort of aati-alavcn meeting. several evenings were devoted tc addresses from well known anti-slavery speak ers, all of whom were listened to with sur i-rming attention, considering the many at i tractions in other directions. it was our 101 to make the last anti-slavery speech in fanuci hall on the last night of the old year. colored newspapers. they are sometimes objected to, on the ground that they serve to keep up an odious j and wicked distinction between white and colored persons, and are a barrier to that very equality which we are wont to advocate. we have, sometimes, heard persons regret the very mention of color, on this account, and to counsel its abandonment. we confess to no such feelings; we arc in no wise sensi tive on tliis point facts are facts; white is not black, and black is not white. there is neither good sense, nor common honesty, in trying to forget this distinction. so far from the truth is the notion that colored newspapers are serving to keep up that cruel distinction, the want of the n is the main cause of its con tinuance. the distinction which degrades us, is not that which exists between a white man and a black man. they are equal m«n the oae is white, and the other is black but both are men, and equal men. the white man is only superior to the black man, when he out strips him in the race of improvement; and the black man is only inferior, when he proves himself incapable of doing just what is done, by bis white brother. in order to remove this! odious distinction, we must do just what white i men do. it must be no longer white lawyer,! and black woodsawycr,—white editor, and! black street cleaner: it must be no longer i white, intelligent, and black, ignorant; but| wo must take our stand side by side with our 1 white follow countrymen, in all the trades,; arts, profession and callings of the day. it is one of the most cheering signs of the times, tint colored persons are becoming far mere, mechanics, lecturers, doctors, lawyers, merchants, teachers, professors and editors, i the more we have of them, the better; and i the sooner will the distinction of which we complain be removed. man’s greatness con j sists in his ability to do, and the proper appli i cation of his powers to things needful to be j done, ar.d not in the color of his skin. our movements. sineo tho appearance of the first number j of the north star, we have been actively! engaged in addressing public meetings in va-; rious towns in this and the state of massachu-! setts, and doing our best to extend the sub scription list of our paper. on the 4th de cember, in company with our friend remcndl and delany we held a meeting in mcndon the weather was cold and otherwise inclement, and our meeting was held in the school house. —friends mcetirg house having been closed against us on the jrround that our views differ ed from theirs. we asked one of them if be thought the methodists acted generously and honorably iu sometimes opening their doors and allowing ministers of the society of friends free access to their pulpits to set forth their views 1 he was slew to answer, clearly seeing the dilemma into \v hich it would place those who had been instrumental in closing the doers against us. we he'd two meetings the next day in the same place; c. l. romond and m. r. delany both spoke, and with excellent effret. we have also held meetings in le- roy, darien, pine hill and rochester, and have spoken at ikaion, lynn and marblehead, massachusetts. our friend and co-laborer, m. r. delany. is now r on a visit to his family in pittsburgh, pa., and will probably remain absent from rochester during the present winter, as he intends to travel and hold meetings in cincin nati, and many towns in the state of ohio b-.-forc his return. wc hope to be able, to k. -p our readers constantly advised of his persevering efforts. ttp the homestead journal" published at salem, ohio, devotes more than a column to a notice of the north star, and handies us roughly and as carelessly as he would do an unsound potato toward us his eye is evil, and his whole body is full of darkness; howev er sacred ia hm eyes may be the land, he shows himself thoroughly divested of ar.v high regard for rmn. for any man to talk about white slavery in this country in co •nce lion with black slavery, is to use words de ceitfully. wc shall try to examine the land reform movement, and shall venture to speak on that subject as well as others, as sooa as our opimou shall have reached an intelligent maturity. id* george thompson's speech.—we make no apology for occupying our enure outside with this speech. to have omitted to print it would hare been a wrong to tl»e noble heart that conceived, and the eloquent lips that gave it utterance, as well as the great cause it is so well calculated to subserve. we rejoice with the three mil lions m bonds, that the how of our eloquent friend yet abides in strength; and tiiat, with the speech before us, he has sent another arrow into the monster, slavery, which must do much toward shortening his existence. d7* w e intend publishing he re after, a week ly pnce cum at. the a.vn-slweri baziar at sivervahall. j notwithstanding the “white mantle’* with which dame nature greeted the anti- slavery women of western new york on the morning of the l?ih ull. t they were at their| port m minerva hall, ready ar.d wfllirg to* aid, by their every effort, the cause of bleed ing humanity. too much credit cannot be awarded to this noble band of women, who have, during the past months,been engaged m and out of sea ton /’‘plying the needle and taxing their inge nuity in fabricating saleable article* for thej fair. then nimble foot have pciambtlated■ the highways and by-ways of our good city, m quest of contributions of money and com-: modules, as the convenience or benevolence! of friends could bestow. ia some caeca their j hearts have been male glad by a generous response, (smallest farms being gratefully received,) and in others, alas! cold looks, unyielding purse strings, and repellirg voice and actions, have chilled, but, thank god, could not dishearten them; for, with that perseverance so characteristic of woman when engaged on s mission of love, one defeat only served to inspire them with courage for fresli victories. ths distinguished american historian, ban croft, at a pilgrim celebration on plymouth ro k, in a most eloquent tribute, eulogized the women passengers in the may flower, ar.d though ho would not disparage the “courage of standish, the wisdom of carver, the en during prudence of bradford, yet the highest meed of glory belonged to woman, who, ir. addition to these noble tnuis of character, dis played a nobler heroism, ar.d achieved a higher triumph, in conquering, not roan only,i but winter and the wilderness.” so, too, with the anti-slavery women of the present day. their efforts and sacrifices arc far from being appreciated as thoir merits deserve. the men have their share of labor and toil, and most willingly do they dedicate them selves to the work; yet the cause does not owe to a single influence more than to the self-denying, self devoted exertions of wo man. this is, indeed, an appropriate sphere for woman; fot their sisters at the south are the! greatest sufferers by the infernal system ol! slavery. tho very fact that they arc under tha absolute control of licentious and profligate owners, furnishes a key by ivhicn to unlock those recesses of darkness and vice, to which; ths spanish inquisition bore no parallel. then let woman be free to carry forward j the great work of regenerating public aenti-j msnt, by her sewing circles and fairs, —her! presume, influence and voice at meetings. im- j pose upon her no restrictions—clip not the i wings of her lofty aspirations for liberty. but! let her do for her country and the world what scemeth to her good, and the thanks of mil lions will yet bo to all a reward for well doing. 1 when the pretender, charles stuart, was flying from his pursuers in the wilds of seot laud, his firmest friends and most devoted ad herents were women. to their care and hazardous exertion he often owed his i lif.-. the american slave now claims the sympa thy of american women. why should not j the anti-slavery women of this republic stand side by side with the daughters of scottish nobles i the last day ar.d evening, the 18th, was jan auspicious one. the spacious hall was well filled—the ladies all vieing with each other in ways and means” to induce visitors !to “come, buy—come, buy.” two bands, at intervals, discoursed “liberty notes.’. william c. bloss, esq., and frederick douglass occupied the rostrum to the heartv acceptance of all; and every countenance seemed to indicate a new pledge for future exertions to break the yoke, and redeem j america from the shame and sin of slavery. j may each heart feel renewed by the scenes j and associations at minerva ilall. in the language of frederika bremer—“ who that ji lias striven ardently and labored honestly, has lived in vain, if it be only for a brief morning hour? they may work out no whole, but j j the spark which proceeds warms and enlight i ens the night of many a mortal. the work 5 is prepared for others, and this also is good r and gratifying. our little life—how short it is! let us be useful to each other, and it will be immortal even upon earth.”— w. c. n. great anti-slavery meeting. pursuant to a call extensively circulated through the city, a large audience convened in minerva halij on sunday morning, dec. ldtli, lor the purpose of considering the sin of american siaicry, and our duties, as chris trails, towards ns utter annihilation. joseph c. hathaway was called to the chair; and gilus d. stkhuns and william c. nell appointed secretaries. prayer was offered by rev. mr. howard. frederick douglass offered the following resolutions resolved, that in assembling on this day for the purpose of lifting up our voices in behalf of our oppressed ai.d plundered fellow countrymen, we but follow in the footsteps of him who has said, it is lawful to do good on lh sabbath-day.’’ f solved, thai in the simple act of slave holding are comprehended the crimes of theft, robbery, and murder; the subversion of all human rights; the destruction of all that dignifies and ennobles man and is direct war i upon the government of god. during the discussion which continued i during the day ar.d evening, frederick ducclasi alluded to the powerfulnnfluencc which the american church exerted against the liberation of the slave; and detailed many facts in the history of tlie various ecclesiasti cal bodies, proving conclusively their mani fold wickedness and persevering inconsistency with the teaching of him whom they claim as master. and in reference to the day, he remarked, that preaching for the slave was a paramount duty, inasmuch u u i man m of more value than a sheep.” giles b. stebbins censured the dergy for their coldness and indifference to the vital question of american slavery,—“they are by far the most guilty party; for by their position they wield a great influence with the masses but that influence, i rejoice to be lieve, is fast passing from their bands. the people have begun to perceive the fallacy of their teachings, with hurty far a text, aad irpprrssum for its commentary.” c. l. remomd briefly commented upon the resolutions; remarking that when the ear of the american people esn be gained, the downfall of slavery in this republic is cartain. j. c. hathaway presetted a graphic picture of the injuries heaped upon tbe free colored people of this land, and the slaves in the southern plantations.' many an eye filkd with the sensitive tear, as the speaker pour trayed the angiuah of mothers and daughters, victims of s relentless tyrant s pewer; and as he invoked the co-operation of all present to aid m undoing the heavy burden, that tho oppressed might go free, tha immense audi er.ee seemed, by their expression of couulen ance, the mirror of the mind,” to give in 1 their hearty assent to his appeal. after remarks in further support of the 1 resolutions, by m. d. codding, l. beans. and others, they were unanimously adopted. the meeting united in singing an anti- i slarery hymn, and with apparent reluctance adjourned. fenrth anaa! electing of tie west ers new fork aiti-surerj soci ety. t pursuant to notice, the society convened at minerva hall, in rochester, on monday, december 12th, josefh c. hathaway in the chair—wm. c. nell appointed secre tary pro tan. on motion, commilives wore chosen aa fol lows, viz: on business. frederick douglass, sarah d. fish, nel son bostwick, mary ilalluwell, r. g. murray, phebe hathaway, charles l. remond. on finance. wm. r. ilxllnwcll, lewis burtis, jlenry bush, giles b. stebbins. on nomination. benjamin fish, sarah burtis, eliza parker, g. b. stebbins, isaac post—who reported the following list of officers, which was unani mously adopted president. joseph c. hathaway, farmington. vice-presidents. henry bush, rochester. wm. g. parker, west walworth. a. l. peat, victor. eiios l. platt, bath. thos. mcciintock, waterloo. nathan marvel, port byron. corresponding sscretap.y. gile» b. stebbii.s, rochester. recokdino secretary. william c. nell, rochester. treasurer. henry bush, rochester. executive committee. wm, r. hallowell, daniel anthony, abigail bush, mary b. fish, isaac post, catharine a.stebbins, benjamin fish, john dick, lewis burtis, sarah a. burtis, sarah l. hallowell, susan a. doty, william c. .neil, caroline halstead, john kedzie, jason jeffrey, leinira m. kedzie, ralph francis, richard sully, griffith m- t-'ooper, j. p. morris, r. li. murray, frederick douglass, henrietta platt, elias degarmo, maria wilbur, asa anthony, amy post, elias l)otv, sarah d. fish, hicks halstead, pliny sexton, rhoda degarmo, mary a. m clintock, nelson bostwick, edmund p. willis, charles l. remond, mary hallowell. the following resolutions were then sub mitted by the business committee that as the members of this society, we return our sincere gratitude to the god of the oppressed lor the cheering success with which he ins crowned our humble efforts during the year now coming to a close; and that we pledge ourselves to a more faithful and'persevering application ol our energies to the slave the ensuing year. resolved, that the zeal, perseverance and fidelity with which the agents of the american anti-slavery society have prosecuted their labors in this stit3, during the last year and a half, have been well calculated to secure the confidence and approbation of every friend of the slave, and to impress upon the public mind the fact, that that society is the legiti mate and true representative, in its principles i and measures, of genuine and uncompromising j anti-slavery. resolved, that the national anti-slavery standard, the organ of the american anti- slavery society, by its open an 1 uncompro mising enurs the smallness of its price, as well as its high literary character, commends itself to the favorable consideration of all per sons; and each individual is earnestly desired to use his exertions to extend its circulation in their respective neighborhoods. resolved, that we most cordially welcome our distinguished friends and well tried fellow laborers, frederick douglass, m. r. de lany and wm. c. nell, editors and puldish er of the north star, and pledge them 1 our co-operation, aid ai.d support duru.g the war. i resolved, that we hail with joy the ap pearance ol the nortji star, trusting that in its light many a bondman shall find his liberty; and that its ravs will ev l -n pierce the prisou-itousa, exposing to the gaze of the world, the dark and danitii g deeds which are there committed, until not a slave shall be found upon american soil. resolved, that we lean with the highest gratification, that the american .'shiv*- system is on the eve of receiving a most powerful, if not fatal blow, from the cultivation of free grown cotton on the fertile soil of british india, and that we extend our most' cordial acknowledgements to george thompson, for his recent eloquent and able effort before his constituency, to awaken an intere&t through out england and the world, in this noble and praiseworthy enterprise; and that we pledge to him our warmest sympathy in the great w ork he has so boldly and successfully com menced. j resolved, that the recent demonstration of american sympathy in the city of new york, with pope pius ix, in his coble efforts u> extend constitutional liberty to the people of italy, w hile we are carrying on an extensive system of butchery’ in mexico for her subversion, is the enactment of another disgusting inarkruvtc for the purpose of turn ing off attention from the slaughter of mexi can t ‘athoiics, by a show of sympathv with the catholics of italy: and that america will never be in a reasonable position to sympa thise with th? oppressed, or to denounce and rebuke oppression of foreign lands, while under the stawspr. ngled banner three millions of her people pine in hopeless bondage, and j our national capital is a revolting slave mar- i ket. resolved, ppm we sineerew mourn the death of rev. ckaills van loon, whose j rare talents, unbending integrity and generous i affections were cheerfully dedicated to the cause of the poor and oppressed, and gave kruse of usefulness to man and glory to 11m memory is deeply enshrined in the hearts of many who survive him, inciting them to virtuous deed*, and the blessing* of those that were ready to perish have gone with him to that other land. resolved, that hmhe death of james c. fulls a the slave has lost a friend whose voice, whose pea, whose time and whose money were freely and überally given to bis rederaptkn* and we are admomalted to do quickly what we have to de; for to-morrow we die. resolved, thai the late mcaige of thel preaid.-nt of the l nited slat s ts a ussuc of fababoods. —the askstign that our country wss invaded by ths army of mexico, a war, ion and d .-liberate lie, and is known to fei such by every uileliigbrit cttir.'-n; a*, iudecd, it ts known that the object lor which the war was d eclared is. the eitjuuun cf slavery: ar.d that portion refit tup to the amistsd captives is but another of the many commands vf the south to bow down to the image. resolved, that w? are convinced hy every 1 devclopement and demonstration of slavery daily coming tinder our observation, that the only way by which can faithfully and fully maintain our fidelity to tbo slave and the god of the slave, is to re-affirm atx! carry out the d«xrtnne of no union with slave holders, aad stvk, by all rightful means, to bring a!»ut, as soon as possible, the rejection of th 3 constitution of the united slate*, on account of its slaveholding character, the dissolution of the american union. the separation of the con-slaveholding from the slaveholding stales, and the establishment of a republic in which there shall be neither a tyrant nor a slave. the above resolutions were ably discussed by various speakers. charles lennox remond eloquently de picted the slavery which, even in the free north, hunts the man whose only an is the texture of hair and hue of his skinwhich denies him, in many instances, the common civilities of life; deprives him, in the empire state, from the elective franchise, uuless worth two hundred and fifty dollars in real estate; consigns his child to a prescribed school; subjecting him to all the disadvantages conse quent upon an isolated position in society. he also commented with much force upon the late recommendation of governor smith, of virginia, to expel the free colored inhab itants from the state; together with the infa mous clause in the president s recent message relative to an appropriation to the spanish government for the amistad captives. frederick douglass, in advocacy of the j resolutions, alluded to the first principles of anti-slavery; the opposition they had encoun tered to the present moment; the influence that american religion had volunteered in aid of the inhuman man-stealer; for, said he, while america is printing tracts and bibles, sending missionaries abroad to convert the heathen, expending her money in various ways for the promotion of the gospel in for eign lands, the slave not only lies forgotten— uncared for, but is trampled under loot-by the very churches of the land. what have we in america? why, we have slavery made part of the religion of the land. yes, the pulpit there stands up as the great defender of this cursed institution as it is called. min isters of religion come forward and torture the hallowed pages of inspired wisdom to sanction the bloody deed. they stand forth as the foremost, the strongest defenders of this institution.” as a proof of this, i need not do morethan state the general fact, that slavery has existed under the droppings of th 3 sanctuary of the south, for the last two hundred years, and there has not been anv war between the religion and the slavery of the south. whips, chains, gags, and thumb screws have all lain under the droppings of the sanctuary, and instead of rusting from off the limbs of the bondman, those droppings have served to preserve them in all their strength. instead of preaching the gospel against this tyranny and rebuking this wrong, ministers of religion have sought, by all and every means, to throw in the background whatever in the bible could be construed into opposition to slavery, and to bring fjrward that which they could torture into its support. this i conceive to be the darkest feature of slavery, and the mest difficult to attack, because it is identified with religion, and exposes those who denounce it to the charge of infidelity. and northern churches, min isters and professors were in good fellowship with—nay, more, in many instances defenders of the great abomination. a glance was directed to the late demonstration of american sympathy with pope pius ix, in his efforts for cathnlic emandpntion showing it to be inconsistent, while we arc yet a nation of slaveholders, to express sincere sympathy for the oppressed of other lands. well might the rebuke be giver.— f*o looac your fettered slaves at home, then turn and ask the like of u£.” a well merited and glowing tribute was rendered george thompson, the new member of parliament for the tower hamlets, for his unceasing efforts to promote the east india cotton reform, and, through that, the! abolition of american slavery. the mexican war; the pro-slavery position of political parties; our responsibilities in the slavery question now being agitated and affect ing all phases of society, north and south— these and other kindred topics served as fruitful themes for the several speakers, keep ing the audience in close attention, save when they felt free to manifest their loud and ear nest approval of the eloquent outbursts and indignant titterings, the usual characteristics of an anti-s accry mating. the resolutions were adopted at a late hour. three cheers £,r liberty were proposed and heartily given, w hen the large concourse sep arated. we trust each member resolved to do what in him lay for the downfall of tyr anny in this otherwise happv republic. j. c. hathaway, pres't. we. c. nell, sec y. couulsposde.u e. we give our reader* the following letters, at the hazard of incurring the charge of egotism. we think it due to them, to make them acquainted with the feelings of our friends, as well as our flics concerning nur en terprise. we will, however, promise that far less will be said about ourself in future num bers, than appears m this week s paper. some notices of us, copied from other papers, would have been excluded had we been at our post when they were selected. we beg of friends who favor us with commenications, to write as much about the cause as possible, and dispense with as much about 4 the north stax" 22 they can conveniently. we gratefully acknowledge the following letter from germ smith, esq., including us among the recipients of his generous donation of land in this state. the favor is one we did not expect, and is the more highly valued on this account. we have tong desired, but havq never yet had the pleasure of an ac quaintance with this distinguished friend at the slave, sad of mankind at large. a dtde# ence of views on matters connected with ths anti-slavery movement, bi served to keep ui personally unorvfintul. thin, we met will not aiwijf he tho ca so. if hearts are one, why should difference of mind divide us 1 we differ widely firs® mr* smith ia retrard to the character of the omtitutio# of the 1* rated state* and the union and we are more ai.d more com'nned id the sound- j bc*s of our views, and the unsoundacs* of h» and yet there never was a moment since we first read la* letter to henry clay, to the delivery of his creat speech last foil, before the national lib.rty convention, that we did not regard him with grateful admiration. u. peterboeo*. dee. 8,1847* fr.sor.r!~k pvrciass—jlfy deer sir: f welcome you to th state of new vo he. in this, your new home, may you and yours, and your labors of ove for your opfitacd race, be all greaih blessed of god. above is my draft for fire dollars, to pay for two years’ subscription your forthcom ing paper. conformably to my purpose ®f (n v n l> 3cco colored inhabitants of this state the principal share of siy lands, which are fit for fanning, i made out 2000 deeds last year: 1 am now busy, with roy clerks, in vaking out the remaining 1000. inasmuch aj you and mr. nell have become inhabitants of this state, i fed at liberty to convey a parcel of land to each of you. herewith arc the deeds. i wish that the land waa in a less rigorous chute; but it is smooth and arable, and not wanting in fertility. forty acres —that is, a quarter of the same lot of which i have con veyed a quarter each to yourself and mr. nell, —i have given to mr. c. l. renaond. the remaining quarter will probably be con veyed to mr. w. w. brown, who has also become an inhabitant of this state. one of the contiguous lots i have divided amongst four fugitive slaves, viz: henry bibb, and the three brothers, lewis, milton, and cyrus clark. with great regard, your friend and brother, gejrrit smith. syracuse, dec. 9, 1817. dear douclass: —l hasten to congratulate you on the rising of the “north star” in the horizon of rochester. i have read it all with entire satisfaction—much of it with delight. it is a number one, in the best, as well as in the first sense. i hope you will write another letter to llenry clay, and expose his folly on the subject of colonization. he ought to be put to shame for clinging to that humbug. it is a delusion, however, not yet dispelled from the minds of thousands; and mr. clay’s com mendation of it furnishes you with a fair occasion to kill that dead body once more. yours, truly, samuel j. may. hartford, ct., dec. 27, 18-17. w. c. nell jjcar sir: “tle north i star,’' yol. 1, no. 1, is before me. i like the paper very much; and desiring, as they would say in maryland, to start with you from the jump,” 1 enclose you the amount of my subscription for a year. i bid you god speed; and sincerely hope that great success may attend your noble enter) rise. my owr. judgment is not worth much in regard to the style of a paper: 1 have some little taste, however, in regard to the appearance of those i have about me for my own use. my taste is well suited in the style and size of the 44 star. the name, 1 think, is a happy one, indeed. there cannr;, to my mind, bo a more appropriate name. let it be, then, what the polar star is in the heavens—bril liant, dignified, standing in bold relief, and, above all, so constant to its position, that the bewildered mariner is .sure of his reckoning if he can but fix his eye upon it. so it is also to the flying bondman; and so may the north star’* ever be. with high esteem, yours, j- w. c. pennington. seekonk, mats., 12th mo. itih. 1847. fkiend douclafs:—having read the “narrative of the life of frederick douglass,*’ i had imagined that a paper edited by the author of that work would be both interesting and valuable; and i am happy to slate, that, in the number before me, i f.nd my most sanguine expectations fully realized. if it had fallen to my lot to have suggested a name for the paper, it would have been most agree able with my fust impulse to have called it, “the polar star;’’ but, upon reflection, i am satisfied that tha north star*’ is better, as that is the appellation more commonly given to the beautiful planet from which the paper so appropriately takes it name. i hope, therefore, that it will ever remain as it is, without the slightest alteration. that star in the heavens, fixed, as it is, to one point, has been a safe guide to many a wearv wan derer, on his lonely way from that happy land which is blessed with the religious “spirit of slavehclding, robbery, and wrong,” to the more frigid, more monarchical, and, withal, 'more humane dominion* r.f queen vie tuna. it not only remains stationary in ns pesuion, but it is firm a:id determined in its purpose. it has never been known to betray its trust. the flying, panting fugitive finds in it a friend, which neither the fear of a tyrant’s frown nor the love of a tyrant's smile can possibly transform into a traitor. 1 anxiously hope, and do firmly believe, that this paper will remain as fearlessly fixed to one point, and as really determined in its purpose, as the lovely little planet from which it has its name. its only point to shine from will be the naked truth—it* purpose, to attack slavery in ail its horrible forms and aspects,” until com plete “emancipation shall be proclaimed to every slave, of whatever eclor or net, through out tlie length and breadth of this happy land,' 1 which is so strikingly remarkable for its t*ts/ anti r hgious iur/y. the govern ment of the united states appears to be fully determined that the whole of her people shal] enjoy the rich blessings of her institutions, especially the three millions of colored people st the south nor is this all: she is so anxious that neighboring nations should share bet advantage* with her, that she is at this mo ment spending an enormous smouat of treas ure and blood for the purpose of —»winj»j r g in mexico that singular kind of freedom wlggl is the lot of her colored people at home. 1 hove only to soy, in eoockatß, that if th t blessings of hbeny mi independence cum he enjoyed jp the united staten, after hei fpranom civil snd religious institutions cense d j exist, 1, for one, do not wish to enjoy suci blessings. 1 have not the uoe of language u express my utter thhflfwm of the hypoent *c*l pretences to christianity and patriotism trader which this country groans. many of j th< se who are actively engaged in the support of uh* present irsututisia of america are very loud in such pretence*, i with thtj bop that thou may 'st be favored with entire success in 'hy truly laudable un dertaking, 1 am thy friend and welt-wisher, isaac. c. kenyon. buffalo. december 17, 1847. ma. frederics doug la m-dmt sir. l am much phased with the first number of your paper, and am convinced thu the princi ples there set forth, strictly adhrred to, will effect more to accomplish the end designed than any similar organ e\er commerced id this country. time forbids, in this hasty scrawl, to say more, but i intend that you shall hear from roe frequently. yours, ac., abner 11. francis. iltstistta, dec. 11, 1847. frederics douglash— deer sir: i re ceived the first number of the north star,” through lha post-office, this week, the mean ing of which, i suppose, is, take it, and hand in your two dollars.” bnt 1 was taking so many papers, aid my means ao limited, that i aaul to myself. can't do any such thing—l have enough now—twice as many papers as i can read, and my means won’t allow me to lake any more: but i will just look into it, and see what it is going to bo. so i read the salutatory—the address to our oppressed countrymen,’’ and the letter to henry clay. enough, said i; i have read more than two dollar's worth already. i can’t refuse. so i have added the north star” to ray large list of freedom 's advocates. respectfully yours, james sperry. we extract tho following encouraging word from the correspondence of a devoted laborer in ohio. would that all the women of our land fell the same: god speed thee and thy associates in their great and good work, take the paper as long as i can command a dollar, even if it be only onr. i rejoice that the men whose brethren cannot speak for themselves, can and will speak in their behalf. yours, for our oppressed fellow eountrvmen, abby i*. brtcden.” ittciiarles lenox remono and frederick douglass, will hold a meeting in vict.*r, on monday evening, icth jan. we hope tho friends of the slave in that place, will make the necessary arrangements for ihe meeting. icr’j. o. hathaway, is row making a tour in massachusetts, and will receive sub scribers for ihe north star. he will visit boston, new bedford, providence and fall- river, and return in tima to fiir at west winfield. rip henry wa son is row travelling in the state of rhode island, and is authorised tft rapoit-a auhaoribare «üb«ori| tior.s for l the north star. mr. watson has expe rienced the wrongs of slavery in his own person, and is now, by the circulation of books and papers on the subject, and telling the story of his wrongs, doing what ho can to ward the downfall of tho slave system. we bid him in his endeavors. hr frederick douglass will deliver an anti-slavery lecture, next sunday afternoon, at two o clock, in the wesleyan methodist church, main street. jet* the rochester ladies anti-sla very society will hold its annual meeting on thursday, 13th january, at two o eleck afternoon, at the house of mr. j. ksdzio, no. 3.5, north fitzhugh street. members and friends of this society are earnestly re quested to attend. hy to our subscribers ra rochester. we hope they w ill immediately leave at the office, their address, street and number, that the north star may b« promptly delivered. kf we have already been imposed upon by persons sending letters of no interest what ever, to the paper, for which we have paid ihe postage. ah should bear in mind, that letters or communications, to ensure attention, must be post paid. noticks of new publications. a letter to the citizer* or the ujmted- states. by die her. theodore paikcr. tins is another stunning bolt from tho hea ven of thought, upon the head of american slavery. in the pamphlet before us, have one of the most concise, powerful, and thorough examinations of slavery, with which we have met daring the course of our anti slavery reading. mr. parker has examined the subject in its various bearings, aud has shown himself as much at home in its politi cal and economical, as in its and moral aspects. the letter should find a place in every firnuly, and be read and pon dered by every person in the land. wc regret that our limits forbid a more lengthy notice of this pamphlet. we may give our readers a few extracts from it next week. meanwhile, we hope to receive copies of tho work with which to supply such persona aa may wish to read it. narsative or rat lira or frederics docslais, as americas slave; wr ales by km* seif. the eletijctm thousand of this work is just published, sad may be had at this office, pnee 35 cents. it pass'*) throng* nine edi tions in england, mm) has been translated into french and german. a lecture ueitvrrvl ult urn female aeo ftlsvety suaimy of flofea,al lyceum ilu. nov -14, im7. by william w. 3towa,a s*"- we hare received a copy of this ,co tune, recently dehrpd by our hwod ar.d brother, w,lha» w. drown mr. brow well knows ia western n** of l efficient lahavia th# anti-d***’'? 6em hd *i(daitd his independence of slavery but a few rears unee. narrative of william m. brown. this interesting and useful publication is now passing through a second edition. it is altogether worthy of a wide circulation. copies of this work may be obtained at that office. tiie mexican war. tin now orlexn* commercial b .lloua rauos lha following estnuitj ol' liio cost ol tbu war thus far tna increase of the public debt, to the statement of tue f resident, his beau $‘27,870,839 t.u surplus in tin treasury at tin co.a ujnee.n ml of hostilities, was 12,000,001 taj a.iliuoaal surplus that would have accumulated up to this •tun, uujjr a pjacj cslabi.sh tm.it aad expenditure 12,000,000; •tin further extra surplus that would have also accumulated, coder the operation oi me tariif of 1810, agreeably to the ihe sidj.it stais.nu.it, of more than 8,000,000 tac bounty lends to the volun te :rs 8,000,000 tin arrearages for pay due the army and volunteers, and lor supplies,contracts and damages, ate. 12,000,000 the sum required to replenish our ameualc 4,000,000 th« .pension list, estimated on the average duration of twenty years of life, to the wounded and families of the dead, two millions per annum 40,000,000 making a grand total of $123,370,001) from the l radon weekly dispatch. th® miserable and devastating war between 'the unit a .states a.ai mexico still continues. tne war is growing at every j 01.1 t more san guinary, as well as more d ttuitory, and the individual passions of men are deco ning im ie sternly and desperately exasperated ag.inst each other, converting the w.iole territory. into a scene of outrage aid id »od--.!iej. we! iixve i.i tn.s war in ic:i buch a spuct.icic as tire! lootiier country, jspiih, eximit:d d .ring the! invasion of .\apnl»;»h,— a country occupied by the enen* in its cipitil and 1.1 rr.osi id its impart tut points, but with tits authority of tue occupying power obeyed or respected only w iere a.i armed force is i.resent to uphold it.] we hive a n dive population, quite incapable! of contending in the held with the drilled armies of tneir invaders, drive i from their ha.n ;s in mane instances, a id with a fugitive! government, almost unable to find a resting plice yet a n mg these people no idea is so h it *.ful as that of peace, and no s •ntiment is so strong as that of vengeance on the aggres so’-s. rbaiila a i i.a, tho.igh he li is never been j ail; to cop j with his opponents in pitch-d battles, lias great and acknowledg'd skill in erecting this guerilla spirit, lie consults to neguciate, but only to put h;s adversaries; directly io the wm ig. and to |)ii!ilisli 10 l’.u ropi, aid esp‘cmhy to hia own countrymen, the aim ssto i in pin 1 words, or hy as pi iin a silcacj, that ins country has been attacked, aad its ciiii.uis slaughtered, without any colorable pie 1. in his correspondence with mr. trist, the american envoy, he ins sts tint tits tr eaty shall com>n°nc j hy a declara tion of the causes of the war, or that it shall is distinctly declared thit the anglo-ameri cans decline to state them. the aggressors can fm 1 no reply, and stan 1 s'df-convicted in tin ficj of th® world of the most unprovoked and barbarous attack. the anglo-ameri cans are wd i.ig now to pay for the cessiohs they d~maid. aad to take upon themselves the seal -me.it of the very claims which they pretended to make the cause of quarrel—the d *bls due from m xico to th *ir citizens. all this, as santa anna forces them to prove, might have been «used, without spilling a d r op of blood. in the midst of the horrors of th s war, uttcrlv d sgraceful to the civi lized world, more disgraceful to the republic which proposes itself as the pioneer of man kind. more scandalous sti-i from the hypo critically insignificant cause of dispute, the organs of public opinion in the united states; call for an increas l of the evils of the war. they ask, with refm“d barbarity, the entire] destruction of ail the mexican cities. we] know th ;crim"s> and 1 he su!f‘ring winch such advice mobiles. there is no ab> mint on! which min cm indict or endure, which is not in the catalogue. and, composed as the american army mainly is, of the most rul fianlv of th ir own people, an! *d bv the buccaneers, the vomitings of all lands, we may 1 mag ms h iv such .a work would be exe cuted. a series of murders, rapes, robberies, and arsons, revenged by those against whom they are committed, is the war which the enlightened republic is recommend ‘d to wage, and winch is very livdy to result from the quarrel into which mr. polk has led his <ellow-citiz?ns. so mean an instrument never yet accomplished such liemmid evil. as ■for our american brelbr -n, tin hi'dren of «ur rare, we ask, how. long will tliev con tinue to disgrace us and tlieiuselvi'n. and the institutions which the best men m both lands lookvd ty as the beacon of their bop .s' how long will they keep down the anglo-saxon race, and a rcpumicmn eonstittit on in one common and overwhelming infamy l or. father, how long will the good, the lovers of tne lib tty, the prophets of men s rights, kullvr themselves to be ruled and tcpr-'s mled by the \ile>t ambition that ever vet showed its reckh-sstn'dß of human suifermgs, and its coutempt for human progress’ from th* «i« telegraph. cllalltkfi van loon. at able an! >nvi 1m v»m strick en dowai n our midst. tin r *v. f'uarxas va* loos, rj.sjxjct d fur hia talents, and his futhfulae*s as a rhrisliai min st r, has di.d in thiinorung oflil'*, biing only in his 2!»th y»ir, and in a career of i s •fulness. to the first biplist church of which he was the de vote i castor, his loss will h- great, to ht* wife and fa nilv irreparable and to the community in winch he lived, and wh -re h was always ready to raise his voice for ev rv benevolent or philanthropic ra«vem*nt. it will he generally mourned, as very difficult to he supplied. since his r»*aid mce here, which has been upwards of four years, bis health his been f« ;ble, though he ha* been able most of the um»* to preach and discharge hia other pastoral duties. during the last summer he left home an a tour for health, and travailed into penn 1 irvnr.ia. a irginia, kw.iucktr, 0.,io t wd the wes.ero ol this state. .si.tce n.s rdur ms *ldt has bjenutter, a.d he hi- labored x;3'ous|jr in the cat se w.ich h s htj w dcvutfci. oa m.bba b mo meg u*>- be pr-i 1, it was ihcuckt by uco 0,1. w .tti '-n more than tsua r n rn an! terror: 'j ia tejly to s*ni tn oui afterwir a- t‘< i.ts h .au, hj replied he »-vor j j 1 fe'.uti *n his lit**. he give owl ht» sub; mt for the eventtp, an l stujl lus teil would ba“ iv, al <0 ftci at tk c b.oj. just b.lure ».r ice, whide l.e wta et.g.tgod at h:s liov»j i;» giving to a mem- i her of the chmr the number of the byinr.s to i be sung, he was suddenly sdzji w'th an ajr p’ecue attack. m-ui-jal aid w jl, tmn ediat-ly ca >ei, l.e was bl id, and co. sctouai.ess par.id ly restored, but h: was beyo..d hue.a:> as.-is’- a icv, and di sd aijout one o click that ni, hi. titus has fallen a rip scimiar, a .saind rc sun?), and an able and imprjyuve speaker true it is, that w !tc:i expected, death ai.ns his arrow at a shining mark. it may b? o that bis text in the morn ing foreshadowed hts d»-parture. it wxs from llu sixteenth chapter ol john, and at the last clams *of the 32*1 vbtj, w here chrut speaks !of h ung svparatjd fnnn his disciples. the words are i am not alone, isjcauaethc fatlier is with me.” and he alluded in conclusion, to tin consoling fact, that the chrialtan was not alone in his dvtng hour. the remains ol the were attended i to the steamboat landing on monday evening, bv the sons of temperance, of division no. 9, j of which lie w is a member, and by the recha hitjs, to be conveyed to albat:y, where his, parents reside, and where he had buried since hie residencj heft two children. in the eve-j riing there were funeral services in the church of which he hnd been pastor. the buihlirg 1 was crowded to oversowing, by the hundreds of o ;r citi’.e :s whom he had often addr 'ssjd, an 1 by whom h j was esteemed and beloved. tin following is a;t extract from a sermon preach*! in poughkeepsie, on monday eve ning, nov. 22d, by the rev. mr. ludlow “i never knew a mai men; principled in his 1 every action, than charles van lyio.n. noth- mg could intimidate or bribe inn to turn aside j a moment from what ha believed to ba the path of god's requirements, or descend from tha eminence of acknowde iged rectitude to a; man action. there was a magnanimity about our brother, wins? character was truly etivia ble. it was on this account ha threw himself! into all the moral reforms of the day. in ii m, the down-trodden and the dumb of every com-1 plcxioi found a friend and advocate, and his voice was lifiel up in every assaociat on which contemplate the ultimate overthrow of intern- j peraace, licentiousness and s’aver v. it was nothing to charles van lorn, that the ri'h: and polished turned the cold shoulder to th-'s' j celestial enterprises. it was enough for him that they were crowned and blessed of god, j and contemplated the red-empti >n of sut ri-’g j mm from oppression and from crime. when charles van loon was converted, he was con- i secrated to men as well as to god. to humani- 1 tv ns well as religion. as a mi-ister of christ, h was eminently powerf 1. few men could command the auction of an a**d cnce, and hold the people in breathless silence, more j than he. when he gave utt•gir.ceto hisdeen convi'itbrs. ia |;is d *ep and solemn ton -*3, he made t!io coog-egition fie’ that the claims rf hrist and of his o' s’.kd to tlmir a <l their co- fdence were lfg understood not o ly the svs! -m, bn* the "hilosoobv ofthe th o'ogv he taught. t t is wai »ot ody the full assure, ee of fmh. but the full assiirar.es ofthe understanding.” torrey’s movement. a monument has iust erected, bv m-’ans of voluntary contributions, over the g-ave of torrey, in m tunt auburn. it oceu p es a conspicuous posiiion, and is thus des cribed by the emancipator: the form is tlwc'-s'dcd, with such finish ings ns give it gr«at beauty of apneara* ce. ns it stands, surrounded bv three avenues. it is of f-ne italian marble, handsomely cloud'd, rest ing on a granite base, which is itself rgynted on a mound, ma’ ino- th" ent're he ght upwa’-ds of 1 'ii feet, of which the marble m "'s eight feet an<l upwards. th'f ont or priori d:il side has a beautiful m 'd if -on head of cast in hrontfc, in serted in the. marbl e with p 1 >astng qft-ct. pkvearvo cp\ri,rs t. tonycy. bo-n m nov. 21. 1813: orndpath nt yah* college, \u"., 1q33l q 33 ord ’-v'd at pro* id mar.-h. 1837: a r -cst«d at pabimor'. june 21. 18-14; died in the penitentiary of that city, mav q. 18-ig. the friends of the american slave cr-*ct tlvs stone to his memory, as a martyr for liberty. over th® head is the following sublim* sen timent written hvtorrev. in prison, but thr®e months befitm ids death, when b® was already sinking under di«®ns". and wh®n lie w®s np pr'!i<*ns*vr> that bis fri *n is might urge him to pure has® irs rel'ase. hv some acknowdcdgre m'nts or r>l®dges unworthy of his principles and clinractcr: it is b®tt *r to die in prison with th® n®ace of god in opr hr<»as»s. than to liv® in fr.e®dom, w th a pomuted conscience.”— torrey’sktur, fi. 7. 18.10. on th® s®®on 1 side is a well conc-eiv®d statue of kn®'hag s’ave. "ast in h'®*!/®. with th'sn glorious lines of whittier, freedom's poet. m '’"rc now henra'h 8?« hurthca, t l» t (iti 'e skivp iiriv"**, i~! p now a tvra'»t*s m riirry t•* ncorp.i nr> f«i ircav-®; tiif.rf, -l::dl hi<; pr.lb" lie rp"-k®n, he c-’n* fitiin t'.ds^krio-’ when the f ilers s'jn 11 vc fr k*-*, an t'.ic slave sliall lie a man.” o.i tli" 1 third s’d is a brief and s'mrde stnlemant of the circumstances of his death. th° facts alon*. without comment or enhance ment f'irat>l r s turner tortifiy was for aiding slaves to regain tb*ir liberty. for this act h was indietr 1 as a criminal, and con victed l>v ilia baltimorr* pity court, and s-a terirvl to th rt n°niteruiiry for «iv years. while on h s death-bed lie was refund a pardon by tlm governor of maryland, and died of con sumption, aft*r two years confinement, a vic tim of his suldrings. notices of till) north star. _ tlic following sel ctions f r om numerous panrrs w ii show in what spirit the north star is hailed by the pr a few of the bas*r sort, such as the new york express, we understand, have made oar appearance the oecnsu n of pouring cut a little of tlmir pro-slavery hate. ilut this we can afford to bear, when we consider the respectful bearing*' toward ns of the more respectable journals of our land. i i the first numb*' of this new anti-slavery pip’r. und-r th* editor; it control of fred -rick iir’-iss. has appear d. it. w .p printed, an! give* pro ms •of ability. n k ntj ir tlt t is ultra a d tion bitter in its dmiuiicifftioms of slavery, and making but little allowance for oth *r people s opinio-.* and prejudices. \y e se* much in tb o cning numb- r tint w fin not agre'wth in smuni'mt; but the paper, as well as its propn -tors, have o ur best wishes for its success. —rtya l)<u'y democrat. we have received the firs* number of frederick douglass’ new pap r, bearing ths above tit!*. it to amonecescorv to <nv that it boars marks of miidiufthhu: for the public is well aware of the talents of it* editor. the fact tint so creditable a journal hi pub lished and conducted by a colored man, is tt> us full of interest. it is very likely we shall differ widely in opinion from the north star, yet we rejoice in the augury its publication adorda, of the e’erxtkm which sooner or bter must c.itne to an oppreobed ace. —hocaatcr lkuiy am rii.cn. the new ami-&utxery [a{ cr called tic north star ha* ji tt made i*> a. f earrncc. ii is a beaittlui *i. t, dcu:g gtiat cr tin to in ,n:t r ano pu list rrs. icu ei trx icu las9 18 us prmk-t;ri edur. and ali «ik* kt i u i hun cun n.aka a correct esue: tie ol its edito rial ability. mr. l’ougi w was once a slave j some ten years escaj ed from beudege; '.he abolnoniiu of hla jtuchlsens oitcenec talents, and gave him au ed» cation. twc .ears ago he went to et.giat-d, ai d fumtthef the english with a geed living text frrr.i wl irl ,to vent tl.etr spleen aga:i>l is. lie rccerircr great auention, tra*.ekxi il,r« gl: the lr.iur ivingtloiii, obtaurrd from f.i:gii»lir>ett i is and lvpe&, or at any rate ti.e 11 oi.ey when whl to utcba.se tbtm, aid n w las ten ltd dov.i n rochvst r to s; tak out lor bns lret! ren alt are lying in bondage. since lus escape he has certainly enjoyed great advantages both of study and observation —and bis fine natural talen’s bavo enabled him to improve them. in bis new enterprise we hope he will take discretion as bis guide, and remember that no maiter how holy the cause he advocates, exhibitions of violence either in language or otherwise, only tend to retard its adiance, whilst calmness and dig nity win respect both for our arguments and ourselves. we wish him all the success he deserves. —eochcstir everung gazitt;. the first number of this large and interest ing sheet is before us. it is published every friday, at no. 2.% buffalo sreet, rochester, at two dollars per annum, always in advance. frederick douglass and m.’ r. delany, editors. mr. douglass, it is well known, is a manu mitted slave, and has. for several years past, been a very popular lecturer in the cause of abolition. consequently the north star,” chiefy under his supervision, may be expected to be principally devoted to that causa. the jxjrd crown the philanthropic enterprise with abundant success.— advent ilariingtr. this paper, of which frederick douglrss is editor and proprietor, made its appearance ia this city on monday morning lost. the paper is large and of respectable appearanc®. mr. douglass is a man of decided talent, and is capable of making the papier a very useful ar.ti-slaverv ii strumentality. we apprehend, however, that the bent of the parer can: ot lie decided from the first issue. the number bnfore us. so far as we can see, contains no very objectionable features. in the progress of the enterprise, we shall learn ihe tendency and spirit of the man and the papier. —genesee evangelist the first number of this paper—conducted bv fitedfnick douglass, the distinguished r'f.igee from slavery—appered some days since, but. owing to som® mishap, \v® did not get hold of it until vesterdav. a glance is all that we have been able to bestow upon it: but its m.-ehamcal appearance is exceedingly neat, and its leading article indicates a high order of tale t. mr. douglass, it will rot be d n cd. s a man of m eh mor? than an ordi nary share of intell'ct: and having himself experienced the c et< of the institution,*' it i s not to h® wonder'd that he is an enthusias tic abol-tiomst. as we have plenty of prof s vn? abo!it nn sts among us. w® tr ist th®v will f-om their usual liberality, and s-stain mr. douglass'papor.— foc/iestcr dci'y afyniscr. j th-- no”ih sta l- is tb® title of a paner iust i j start'd in this city, demoted to lb® cause of! abolitionism, hv frederick do--glass, a col-j jo*-»d man. who has fdt the evils and wronos .of slavery in his own r>"-son for more tlian 20 ”®ars. he has traveled and lectured cxt®n-i s’velv in th 9 country and in many ra-ts of ieiironp. and has obtained from the lntt'r conrtry n-on®v siifnci®nt for h s present undcr lavjnfr he is poss'ss® !of the requisite talent and information to make bis paper nr effie-’ent organ ofthe abolition party. —christian sen -j fine!. w« hari hist received the first number of mr. t)on*j nss‘ now paper, the n*rth star,” pubbsh°d al rochester. n. y. it s a inroe and handsome sheet, exc-rndmelv well printed and put together. tts prj minal editorial contorts are. the editor’s introduction to his readers, fwh ch we shall eorv in another placed an address to’he cobred population r and a letter, extrem ra, v pointed and spirited, to mr. clav. s”orrest"d by ids late lexington so o eeh. its literal v and rnochan cnl execution would do honor to anv piner, now or old, ami-slavery or pro-s 1 averv, in the country. mr. douglass has our sincere <rood wishes fior tho highest degree of prosperity and usefulness 1 in ins new career. the prosnocts of h s ’ahn-s in this as yet untried field, arc certainly fell of promise of an answering harvest. we hope, as wo believe, tlmt it will not unbe seem th° promise of its spring.” dr. m. r. delanv. late of the pittsburg mvstery, fwhich. we believe, has he >n united with th* north star,) is associated with mr. douglass in tho editorship of the new paper, and w ill bring a measure of practical experi *nc’ into the partnership which cannot fiil of b'ing advantageous to its interests. mr. m illiam f n.dl, favorably kn wn to most of our readers from irs connection formerly with the liberator, and from les prom in nice in all efforts for the improvem *nt and advancement of our colored countrymen, is the publisher of the paper. his conn vtion with it will, if possible, increase the interest which will lie felt, in this region, in the success of the undertaking. the prin‘*r is m-. john dick, the son of mr. thomas dick, of ixmdon, w ho is known to our readers by his communications in our columns, as one of our most intelligent 'friends abroad. mr. john dick came to this country in the course of the last summer, and made a very favorable impression upon those who made his acquaintance here, during his short sojourn among us. it must be a source of just sit'sfiction to tilt friends of mr. douglass in england, who supplied lhe meat s for his enterprise, that he lias secured the services of this gentleman in carrying it cn. tiie next number of the north •'rtar will be issued on the first friday in january, and thenceforward regularly on every succeeding friday. its terms are tico dollars, always in advance. we are happy to hear that the present state of the subscription list is encour aging, and trust that it will become all that its friends can desire. —q.— liurctor. we have received the first number of fred erick douglass pager—the north star. it is neatly printed with handsome type, on a sheet almost the siz; of tins. its sehctioi.s are judiciously made, and its editorials well written. altogether, it does credit to the taste, the skill, and the ability of its proprietor died ejitor. and is all that i s b«>t friends could wish it to be. we cannot b’tter five an idea of its contents, ami tue spirit with which its editor has co luneoe-d his new vocation, than by copying ids introductory.— xghana! arui- slavery standard. we ate right glad to welcome this super! a t velv able and spirited advreate of the enslaved class from one of lt tt li'tiip word which manot fail lo im'tessth? herirt cf this nation. here is a ehatt 1 in hufftan shrp-’ w ho on our boast d rational j r.nciple takes the reins of s.'lf-govcpumant into ins own hands, revolutionizes himself, escapes from a slave stale, works three years on the wharv es in new b.djbrd, travels, lectures, writ ’s, speaks in his own great cause, and that of his poople. seven year* more, and now mis 0 in the sight of tb* whol nation a journal edited with as much ability ns any that can be named. of scholar, poet or statesman, we care not of whom, nothing in tbs shape of a weekly journal can be found more instinct with genius and manta) power. we pot if fearlessly to the decision of editors most devoured with prejudice efminet enter, nock ee the editor of the new york sunday despatch, for exam ple. cau you find any short coming in tfc» effort can tcu cnu a man in the editorial f.ehd who can bear th* palm item frederick 101 gia*a» all h.m taucj. imp idem, at 1 1 flare. there he i§, a wl.oie man—thcigh tiack ct.d a rutawsy tbve. al<! «e pu it u. the meet ral-iil ctlorj lobbt of the mhcle cl t. etn. whether it is anything sloti tf the itcst dev il:ah tally tc use 11 tufa timber tut lcugiaa* t* msoe it for the vile trp r*t* cl slavery. loiglasa japer t* p übushed at liocku&tcr. n*. y., tar $2 per ai um, m advance. and it t» verth ary man s mcoey. ahail gita sen.e ru h exuaits from it ancit. the tyjo grajhical extct-ticn cl it is fret rate. mr. lotglsts is rsiistni in the edilenal depart mcr.t by mr. m. r. delany, a prctkiraa 01 i ts cwn color; ard the publisher i» wiiliiut l. neil, a ctkrcd bisten boy, well kr.cwr. lor his gentlen anly bearing aid llsilcss el ergy.— cl roruipt. wc have received ftom rochester, n*. y.. the first number cf frederick douglzas paper, which bears the name of freedom s glorious beacon light. it is a large sheet, well p rinted, on good paper, and is decidedly trepoasesstuf m typographical appearance. tu motto 11 bears ia a sentiment worthy of a reformer with the noblest aims and widest philanthropy: right is of no sex —truth is of no color— god is the father of ua all, and all we are brelhren.” its opening address is manly and serious, and breathes a hopeful aptrit, which is encouraged by the favorable prospects with which the entjrpn.-e cctntncnccs. peri:aps no man can be found within their ranks better qualified ia all reapiects to be the organ of the people of color in their preset;* struggle for equal manhood in their native land. to re markable- poweis cf intellect, and a elear moral vision, and unconquerable perseverance, he aids the still more important qualifcation for this work, the solemn conviction that he is called to it. but he is too well known to our r'ad®rs to need any commendation from us. that the north star will he a powerfil aux iliary to th? anti-slavery cause, and eminently worthy of patromg®, no one who knows mr. douglass will doubt. we especially hope that the colored people w ill extensively sub scribe for it, for their own sake, as well as to sustain the paper. it is a papier which wi l stimulate them to imp rovement, and eluiate their moral and intellectual character, ar.d in crease their self-resp-ect, and the rc.sp.cct ol other men for them. to break down the walls of pre udice, which now shut them from many avenu -s to l.c.ior and c-xcelwce, tliev should rally, by thoi sands, around douglass, and sustain his hands and strengthen his heart. we ou.ot.® a passage from his opening address which will show the sp irii ai d hope w ith which he enters upon his new and iirpoitant enter prise.—pennsylvania lret mm. the north star, a new weekly folio, bv frederick l‘oi class &i co., no. 1, reaches us from rochester—vigcrously edited but not well printed. its rnctlo is— right is of no sex—truth is cf no color—god is the father of us all, arid all we are brelhren.” douglass does not w rite so happily as he sp®aks; but, considering thit he was a benighted slave until twenty-one years old, next a laborer for three years on the wharves at new bedford, never had a day s schooling in his life, and has be n only nine years out cf bondage, (if the condition of a colored hireling in a north ern city is to b® considered freedom.) all must pronounce him a man of decided talent. ifis; principal article in this no. is a letter to mr. cl tv, in review of his remarks on slavery in hislat -speech at lexington—caustic, forcible, j but rathar mi.rj savage than is politic. wj trust thj african race in this country will resolve to co c nitrate their patronage on tin star. douglass is among the ablest, if not the very ablest, of their number, and will fight their battle vigorously.—iv. y. tribune. w e have received the f rst num’ier of an anti-slavery pap®r bearing the above title, published at roriicster. edited by frederick douglass and m. r. delany. the paper evinces considerable talent, and the former gentleman (w’ho has been a slave,) asserts irs right to freedom bv publishing a till of sal and a r nipt in full for 1. is parches as a from one whom lie terns a “cold-blood -d m :tho list man-stealer." and the hypocritical nation that lias sanctioned his infamous claim.” although wc do not coincide with the abo lition views of the star, we are willing that every one should enjoy their own principles., wh ch they have an undoubted right to do; and if there are any in this section who wish to support a paper of*this character, we would recommend them to the north star, an in patronizing that sheet, they bestow their favors upon “one who has felt the wrongs] of slaver-/, and fathomed the depths of its! iniquity.”—jyt icarl (.y. l r herald. th® north star is the title of a weekly paper at itoch'ster, n. y., edited by fred erick douglass, the fugitive slave. its motto is, r'ght is of no s'x —'tyuth is of no color —god is the father of us all, and all w® ire brethren.*’ douglass was a benighted slave, unt:l 21 years old, next a labor -r for three years o.n the wharves at new bedford, never had a day’s schooling in his life, has been only nine vea r s out of bondage, and now vve i'nd him issuing one of the ablest papers in the i n-on. who f-n-'s the colored race is inferior in intel lect r hampshire ii raid. we have received the first number of this paper issued at roch®ste r n v\ illiam c. n *ll. publisher, and frederick douglass and m. r. delaney, editors. frederick do.ugla.-s is now about 29 v®ars of .age. we regard hint ns or.® of the most extrrurdirnrv of living n-.on. it would seen, ns if providence had raised lum up to deliver his race from lon dago. v» e trust he wid keep irs ove fixed on this single oh cct, an 1 not suffer his influence to be less'n -d by col lateral quest vns, not having a d;-ect bearing upon the welfare of his race. ck vclcr.it o.) true devon ret. we hail th s accession to o' r list of ro-’al>orcr.s—this mouth-piece for tlie dumb slavog. w j shall say little or this behalf, as liti’c* need be said. that little we allow mr. d., to sav for himself. [pasgcr gazette. the f rat number of the star,” wt-fc h we lave bece exprciirg for s* me v.-cchs, hro* cr»ir.e to hard. m r ivlarv. formerly rditn of the pilthbn’g mvstc-v. is aa«orinied wiib mr. doughy* in tbe editorial charge of the paper. the star is declined, vre believe, to be a powerful agar.t in reg -n >rat-rg the f t fdic sentim*lll cf this r.r;o’ t the great ci esi on cf human fr*e-lom. wc gv-in a’ <vher rr!- umn th* aodr cf th- c«li:orn, to tlie rc!o-ed peofle of the farted slat w. it t* fmrible and high tor ed: ar.d r e sure wll be re*d with n< t oedv by these to uhoxn it :e addressed, hut by *ll «ko are friendly to ike elevation of ite colored man. ar.h-sjaccrx, pugte. we hail this r a r«t f a r omen, pre saging the downfall of the bsrrier cf pr* udice existing toward* the colored race. *1 be first number is rruuded with an vie* which world do honor to ibe pen of iler.rr c by. we, welcome the 44 north staf, with almost tbe, same feeling the fegutive slave does the orb. after which it is called, when it bursts upon' his eager view, to guide him to the land of freedom. may all the expectations of friend douglass be realised, and may bis paper prme all that bis friend* have aaueipsted. with such a mas as frederick douglass at its bead, the 44 north star’* cannot fail tc give light to the mind*, and strike conviction tn the muls of his white but bitter enemies. again we any, socnens—i. w.—ctgnea af freedom, 0.)  ■i futnijci dottuti, the gaa«mitia4 slave, «hom* lecture* upon riarery havr attracted ao much attention in this country &nd europe, has conintenrcd the publcatioa, at rcck»ttr, of a paper call jd uu north stax/’ its regular issue will comioaucc mi the £rst fruity in january next. tin. spoct men sheet has been sent to us. its typogra phy is neat; its selections are in pond taste, nd its etiiton ik esbtbit a bigh order of laiont, tenertly engaged m the political and sochu refer, end ku tl the wronged and oppressed vie tuns cf american tlavcry. —atcgcm cou rier. hiscellaneoc9. utica stkam wooue* factort.—wt take special pleasure ia cotictng the fact tha a dividend of tan per cotit. cn the sto<'k ha* been declared to tbi stockholders tr the utica •steam wool jo co. the first piece of hnishet! goods was completed in this finery about the end of march last, and the establishment wt not put into full operation till the latter par; of april. this dividend m the result, there fore, of considerably less than a year's oper ation, and is a bona jidj division of actual profits. it augurs well for our steam manu facturing enterprises- —ulna caxttu. got a paper to spare?*’ yes, sir; hern is one of our last. would voa like to subscribe, sir, and taka it regular ly?” i would—bet i am too poot.” tha man had just returned from the circus, which cost fifty cents; lost tinto from his farm, fifty cents; whiskey, jcdgicg from the smell, at least fifty cents—"making a dollar and a hah actually thrown away, and then begging for newspaper, alleging that ha was too poor tc pay for it! that s what wo call “saving at tho apih, and wasting at the bung hole.” mocktabs of eatabuss.—tbs annual product of provisions in this country is enor mous. tho statistics of the commerce of our state canals during the season iust dosed, prove this. look at the mighty heap 01 enables, fur instance: w jre brm ght to tho hudson river, on 81l the eaaals of this state, during the year 1847, of flour, 3,0.72.072 bbli. giain, of all kinds, 14,055.010 bush. peas and lieans, icg.cfs potatoes, ice.rcd dried fruits, 3,558,0(0 lbs. pork ar.d beef, 145,-145 bhls. bacon, 4.002,000 lhs. cheese, 40,644,0c0 butter, 22,724,cc0 lard, 4,348,cc0 [albany express. women* in* the army.— official documents slate that th ;ra are at least 2,300 women attarhud to the american army, cooking, washing and tending the sick. the larccst church in* the united states. —tho first african church, (bap tist,) richmond, virginia, is said to be the largest body of communicants in connection with a single congregation in the uimn, bcii g two thmsaiid four hundred and seventy. tho other churches of the same denomination in that city repoit in addition two hundred and sixty eight colored members. total 2,768. what the girls cf the bay state do. —we have received the statistics of the vari ous branches cf industry in massachusetts for 1815, taken with the census that year. to show our young ladies that it is no disgrace to work in the pilgrim land, we give them the particulars of the straw bonnets and hats, and straw braid, and palm-leaf hats made there in one year: no. value. straw'bonnets and hats, 1,646,254 1,057,6?2 value of straw braid, 102,207 palm-leaf hat 3, 480,337 51,610,5c6 all this by famalcs, mostly farmers' daugh ters. worcester, hampshire, and franklin counties do most. are not such industrious girls worth going after? instead of street yarn, they are for dollars and cents. they don t constantly bother „utcir parents and husbands with leasing for a new silk dress or $lo shawl. they have the money in their purses, from their own industry. there art* lots of rosy cheeks who have iheir hundreds j ’posited in banks, from the straw braid em ployment. \v e once knew two sisters who bought a farm for si,ooo for their parents, f o n the savings of braid. —rochester daily american. an irish comrument.—a lovely girl waa ba iduig her head over a rose tree which a lady was purchasing from an irish basket woman in covent gu-den market, when the woman, looking kindly at the young beauty, said: i axes ycr pardon, young lady, but if it's pleasing to ye, i d thank ye to keep ver cheek away trom that rose ye'il put the lady out of consult with the color of her flowers.”; till r hir».go (illinois) citizen, in an article! on th colored population, thus speaks: *j ws hive made some inquiries into the! condition of the colored people in this citv.| there are probably three hundred colored inhabitants here. many of them are pereois of property; none of the n are in the lowest stairs rf j ovt rty: ai d the day is yet to come when any one has seen a colored penson herein? f r orn door to di>or. which car.not be said ol the people of any other origin residing here. in moral character thev sta> don a par with any other class of our citizens.” literatcr.e and i.earning in china.— the chinese arc a reading people, ar.d the, number of their published works is very con siderable. in the departments cf morals, history, biography, the drama, poetry, and romance, there is no lack of writings, such as thev are. the ('hinese mat tta medica com prises forty octavo volumes; of statistical works the number is very large. their novels are said to be excellent pi -lures t*f the national manners. china is fi ll cf hooks. new aulhors are continually spring up; the press is active, ard the traffic in bonks is a li c-ative and meat honorable branch of trade.! when examination take place in the capita! of the palace, tie must apt students are chosen to fill the office of bookmakers. there are, however, few revllv nsw works, and all that appear are com platers and quotations, the author never verttrirg an id»-a of lur cvrn: and in this cor? vs the-r according to l.inece r.ct ers. there m one work in the koval library on the topography of plena, which ss ia:d to ncktt of s,t:t,t» volumes: trftre cf the best translators that have had access to seme extracts from tin* giant, were fadlv diaappeimed, r» it appears to be a mars of ccr.frvcn, witheut any 1 attempt at otdr or p-oper arrangement, j the re are numerous small treatise* similar to our tracts, gratuitously distributed bv private, individual*, inculcauug morality and virtue., prini:ng is evidently cheaper m c hina than in this country, when ten volume*, each con taining ico pages, can he purchased for le«i> than a dollar. every peasant, and the poor-, cat fvherman. can read and write. private and public schools are eumeroua in every province, and ewirely md*-pendant of govern rr.ent. oecawonally, an examiner visits all, schools, to ascertain the qcahficattona of the teacher*. the mute t*.— sheridan wrote: u women govern o*; let u* try to render them perfect the more they are onhghiened. to much the more we shall he. on the cultivation of the moods of wones, depend* the wisdom of mea.” nxpoleo* «ud: the future deetiny of the eud m aivaye the work of the mother.** ciiksum xerie-qia mtk hae heee tailing, wy d*« degrees, lot tom months p*** sad he was daily wailing for ms depart ure. l| e erptml, we am told, without anf fvnng. and in ist perfect pussesnmt) of hot fjculuea to the la*:. t’p to withr* a fcw days of his death he w» occur icd in correct ing the proof sheets of one of hts works, an «r k lht press. in hi* death, we have um man, a man of great judical takm w. 4 eru diuon, and endowod with many virtues eve. fast. itt* a romr-ner once fishing a tictim of his murderous trasie on his death bed, sard to him: “do you remember me?” “yes.” said the dying man, with a startling emphas:-, 1 do reinj;uber you, ai«i l remember your shop, where i fonavi the habit winch has ruined uk; and when i ara dead, my beggar t*d widow and foilier less children will remem ber you.” for the lsm*s —-the following scrap is taken from h inry’s commentary: woman was made of a rib out of the side of adam; net made out of his head to top bun—not made out of lis fset to be trampled upon by him—but under his arm to be pro tected, and near li heart to be beloved.” female coca act. —a servant girl, r< markabli for hjr frarlcss disposition, laid wager that she would go into a charnel-kous at midnirbt with a liglit, and bring fret thcncs a d rad nun's skull. accordingly, tho appointed tunc, sha went, but the perso with whom she had made tho bjt had pen before and lad himself in the place. who lie hoard her descend a: d tako up tho t>ku!' he called out, in a hollo.v, d snal voict i.enrs me my head the girl, instead c displaying symptoms of horror or fright, ver coolly laid it down, and said, well, thsr it is,’’ and took up another; upon which th voice repeated, i.eave me my head bu tho hrxoic girl, observiug u was tho sam voice that had called before, answered, in he o-vn country dialect, “ns, na, friend; y cana ha’ twa heads 1” gallantry. fontenehc, nesting at the marriage of madame ilelvctius, did not cease to whisper the most gallant things. some moments after, he passed before her without perceiving her. madame ilelvetius, remark ing his distraction, said to hint: how lightly should i esteem your gal lantries, since you pass me without looking at me l madame, replied the amiable old man, “if i had looked at you, i should not have passed you.” correct definition. —an intelligent fc male witness having been much perplexed b old blowhard in a long cross-examination happoned in replying to use the term kumlitg madam, said the man of the law, yo must not talk unintelligibly. what is th court and jury to understand b.y the ten liurnljug?” the lady hesitated. i must insist, madam,” said the counsel lor, anticipating a victory, “that you proceci no farther until you state plainly and openl_ what vnu mean bv humbug.” why, then, sir,” returned the lady, don't know how better to express mv meaning than by saying, if i met a company of person.' who were strangers to you, and should t3l thorn that when they saw you, they niighi prepare to see a remarkablv learned, courte ous and agreeable man—that would be a humbug.” married. on the bth tilt., by rev. mr. sw, mr. benj. emerson, of rrlgeway, tn miss slaty s., daughter of john foster, of this city. on the 15:h ulu, by e. ram mr. ja cob holden to miss elizali i it ri.jiil’ks, all of this city. on the 23 i uit.,hv rsv. mr. holland, mr. john farrant, to ellen harris, alt of this city. died. on th« evening cf the 22j ult., of \vhooping cough, ellen cook, youngest daughter oi henry and abigail buah, of this city. in this city, of consumption, on fi idav evening, tire 24th ult., isaac r. mall, aged ’27 years, s.-n of j hail, esq. in this city, on the 13th ult., of a short illness, dr. e. g. ml’n.n, agc-j 44. post and w li.lis, dealers in drugs, me li cines, cltemirals, dye stuffs, faints, varnish, oils, glassware, brushes, i’erfutneiy, dag'.ierreotvpe st .ck, b renrli and german chciiiirafs, ai tints’ coitus, brushes and canvass, etiic-iiai oil, coll lrr.f s:t! foil, sic. being agents f>r most of the celebrated family and valuable fatcnt meiiiciiw-s, and receiving tlie same directly from the manufacture! s or tiieir ag-nts, they are enabled to s-pply all ordeis at wholesale ami retail, on the most favorall* terms. hom.ei p athic cm ks, medicines, ami family cates, with full directions. only agents tdr west ern new y'.ak. a is. slrerwood’s vibratory magnetic machines, with ifiiectiuns. lli sgene gas; also ethelial oil and lamps, for i burning the same. tli se who w<-ul l consult ecu- no.ny an 1 convenience are invite 1 to examine these lamp s. the atu-nti.ni of c'ouuttv .mercliants, fhv- i sicia is, families, an i ollicts, wi-liing goo.* in ti»e ate.-ve l-ir-, is rcqm stc at the al o’fiiecakieri’ hall, 4, exchange street. universe cooking stoves. iie 3.4 scribers are nianufactin ing this invaluable cinkisg stove, (!esi:-’ied f «r g.»ai or wood, warrant 'd u> tkcel any other stove ever invent**. l an i construe te i xti ictly uj-ou hilnsup-hical p t iiwiples. the oven t.'mtc 1 by hot air, (the only bat air oven ever ixitente',) an 1 wairanted to bake a* well a* any brick oven. for sale only by trie tin iejsig ied, wliolcsaje and retail, 34, exchange street. 11. llsii co. owen morris citr bindery, cx di r thf xcstum—bite fish t. k ii morris. m r. morris wa.« in tin emp l y tf mr. .alarms morse f,r seven years, and <uii<-g that time pir-ctnel fi.r him th.ee si'.ver ale 'ids, f>r t»«e lest specimens «f bor.k oiafii’?, exhit ite i at me- j chaoics’ fair* lie! 1 in litis e.ry and btr'ial i. ge t einr-.i’s litevr cs fitted uu and repaired alrsie l*;:per re’e music ami r.-rio di-.dx tiou'id and fi -iilie! t *’y rstteir. blank irr.srnt books executed at this th).lnuaewt liav* given mtetpiulw-d sutisfia'tion, i y tlitrr durabibty atj elrgjncc. strut at*e*ifi<.n is always paid to the q-tuli<y f apjo. use to render ikm equal to the hfc*t t:< the lint, d states or those iarpeittej. ie»* scrap and guard becks, album* and i'.itfdn s, r« ;jl i'reir rakur, uramdactiaed to order in tie best style. barks, l-otiti.tr.w, sorittif*, it"., tnay be ai awed of work la-lug doa* on the- most a .fssb;.**! terrr*. ge itl-mn at a <?i*«atnce, ly ra"kin? and c.rwar toar.ro** u> the at*»ve sutler, rtafrng pri -e .rad rt)b, may rely upa.a tia ir la-rug weft l<«d on tie* n> «t favorable term, a'eo ear»*bll) aad penflfcifr retotne). n.b. the pnprist'v hers spared rr> etrewse h f'tine aji ihe rsulculrmeat, ant mtr«*iwci"g mm lleettrn .\<w york the latest imr r >tra«.'i.u or book bhdisf. owen morris. city bindery, aisiri the mth-ms. boston ibh.rtimhems. clarkson, lfjndon edition—with bortrajt. \pew enpie* of ftarkson's history of the abolition of the slave trade; wfrfh preislosy r«muk* on tie- +a**y*mt idrolhiun of silvery; beautiful ba**i *dhstw», wfrn a fine bortnut of its* author, iei— oa steely—a goa wrhsch mu not be irapwir i for less than are* <uian, ran b* had at yl.cnsnktv, if applied fnt issuin'traclr,at th* very k/w ancr «fou l>ott cask. a her, eclogiim on (larkson.by auiiit'ti cscasm,sl danfira)fries d twelve and a half cent*. robert morris, j» atwnwy ml cra •ellr at law. brasm bralm*. to6cph h. turpi x wsom wv«w j of fc. files* snd the me lu* dagtfr., riax gallery. y>. sut hs sfcd— hw— if to cms— msswn uk.fczo.s3ds. wriwowm -7-km. m prntm+m mac3dn b. ali.en. anew* end csaetlbr al at las, nssmcbwnn block. boys f clothtngt saml'el* wilsonr 14, brattle btraet. having recent •duitums to las etoce, is prepared to u«;sh boyr clothing, of as mwtsrsai and fit, aoj at a* cheap prices, as sea be nhtaewii m the city slw england second hand clothing store, no. sf, stukt, bo* tor. john w r4ght kcepe ocsistantlj oa heed great variety of new and snctaj liaed ('totbrag. ooodi of at] kiais, *srh a* om cl aes. w. i. food*, wso ots, and jtln**, kt., exehenfwj fiir aew cash w‘vxrw l oe ail kiada ef (oo^sj irotn one o> c4m iwv.-rtv. tiolia*. iuhn d.'rlkaleo.n, lufr cwting bsh«r rerfmuery tmpnrni*. 11», bwlutemmt. 3 lottk ai'yeutisemems. dtt. j. m’cu.ne smith. s3,w*ai fewrafr way. p _ d r jinmng3, so.goun-dentist, us, nurtfr brwiwiy. philip a. iiii! tf., dnjp it, corwr «f fiwk* tbrf uj uolj stmt. r tttilliam s. potvell, 9hik**s cl, c y? cherry sfcw*. i 1 imv mm+ urn* i ttrilliam rich, hair dittnni ami bvtliuf v saloon, troy 11. use, trvy, new a'oik. a 1 e n vorthahhon water cere. 1, j tiie andersifaed, fratefully appraciatiaf um crw'lt j- fncrewtj lj a msoctninj j uflie to bio j- *'!c ess ai a hydrrpaauc pracfitiorsfr, wcfeld iw* p«i.tfu!!y inturm the hien-jt of nydre|atliy, that his cstahhsaincnt is pleasantly sin-vied nrsi pcnsonvilic, 6! on the west bank of the licking water, or miu river, shout two and a italf miles from the cent)* t| of the t wn. it is ihiity-si* bv seventy feet; rhi-o* stoi ies liish, with a piaxza on the seudt side. thera are sepai; te pai lors, bathing and o') easing roemv, fir r lie* an.i ireutlcnien. theie arc also twenty lodging pm ius, 'i ll cf winch is well ventilvtaa an.l ou veiiiently hauislied for die acce-mmocation cf tw<r jeisons. amonc the vaiiety ef hatha in the fata* 5 llishment are, the phniyr, .louche,- «!rerd>ee, and j, sj-ray bathe. the la :ies'idunyr is sir by ten fret, n thiee a>l a hall deep; die gentkoien’s/ eight by twelve, three and a half deep. there are also two 1 e»l i douches, urre i.f which is situated a unle, and th« itis'i hsli a imk- fiom the cst-.l hshment. tiw former has a fail of twenty-two feet, the latter eighteen^ the feotieiy in this vicinity is pictutceqne and romantic. there are a variety cf k-asart w».'ki 1 1 passing near and tv springs cf pure water. tho walks arc suthciently letiiod to all. w wttor-cu* '»i patiet-.ts to appeal- as diey should, ai !y dressed, e enjoying dicir ran.l les, with ut lei g exposed to pul,lie or observation. sit ee t'ai.y ex| et »iw, tor tire last three yearn, lass strengtbeneu his cpini. n, that the con iiticir of the skin rleaily in.deatfs tho character of many diseases, ami the vttiiy oi in tiiiiy f of a-i invalid to bear tlie water treatment in its i i various forms also the necessity of apfhing tiro j di-y wrollen lla;iket, or die wet sheet, tu promote a i evaporation or a sweat, wlien either may 1* ncccs i sary and from results which have attended his appli oation of the tieatme it, he hesitates not to say, that she ruit. ic symptom of the skin indicates tv/ utf or prwtr, and that an invalid, «h< *e skin is net af.emied will) this symptom, cannot le safely or sucresvtiilly treated with water. among die complainlv which j are here successfully treateti, are pulmonaiy affecthrn, liver complaints, jaundice, acute or chronic intlnui i mation of the bowels, piles, dyspepsia, ceneial de bihty, nervous and spinal aflw-timis, intlainnut»ry ii or eluonic rheumatism, neuralgia, sciatica, imno f limbs, paralysis, fevers, salt rlwum, scrofulous and erysipelas humors. j ail patients who visit this establishment for it eo- rse of treatment, siiotld furnish themselves with 'j dure coml'oitables, tlnee woollen blankets, one linen a:vd dr ee cotton sheets, two'pillow cases, six crash towels,some well worn linen, to cut for f« luei.utions, an old clotsk or mantle, ami a syringe.* i •terms for tieatmcnt and hoard are 65 &j per week,for those wi»o occupy rooms on the third door; lon the fust and second doors, 66 00 per week, (payable weekly; washing extra. a patient, who, from choice or necessity, occupies a room alone, on ihe third floor, will pay 6 8 00 per week; on the j first and second doers, 68 30 per week. invalids who are so feeble as to need extia attention and fire in their rooms, (except for swathing purposes,) will procure dreir own muses aud foci, or pay an extra priio. d. ruggles. xyrlfumpton, avj. 1847. n.b. tire afflicted, desirous of being examined irt regard to dicir complaints, and of ascertaining th* j adaptedness of the water-cure in llicir particular case, should call ou 'l'uesoavs and fridays. this iusti ament may he obtained at ilia csta llishment. i tfii.hiam it. logan, dealer iii fashional.l* v v lhxits and siroes, 80, i'urchase street, new j bci 1 fa.'. vv. hr. 1.; keeps co?»s*:i:rtly on hand a good assort* i ment, and will jell cheap for cash. stiicl attention tai i to custcm-uiadc work, ly .mcssis. i’aiktr and laris. j att as 11 in gto.n ’s dagnenian gallerv, ic6, vv main street, kellogg’s buildings, hartford, i connecticut. the national eua u uliioviuii city, f district of columbia. g. bailey, f.uio.r; j« hn i (i. vvsiitticr, cotrespontliiig editor. l. i*. nolle, pub.luher. tlki lea dug pnrp-rss of t!rl* journal is, die dis* rsis- do of die fjnestioo of slavery, and the advocacy of the main principles of the lil-eity i'arty. due .attention is given to social and p-litrcal c|uc«ti«ns ;of ge era i luip-n lance nor are ih* inte.ests of a pure litciatuie ovei lo< ke.*. i: ai ns to presetve a f.t.lhfi ircnl of iu.pi.riant events; of inventions or discoveries aflccti-g die progress of society; of pid lie di-cnmcnfs of pcima nt-nt valce; an. 1 during the *c»snvn* of c«<r-gie»s, to pinout such reposts it its pr> c< o-iinifs, its will cuit v v a c< irect idea n*.t onlv f r*s action, hut of its spirit ail policy. the del ales n tl»e exciting suh j.*.-ts i f and the mexican war, p*|ected to ari.se in the next congitss, wilt occipy a large >1 are «.f its columns. have bttv imdc f r extending and enriching i's already x-.ifu.il,tc crpartroent of home a.t<! f ncign correspomience. it is piintel on a mammoth sheer, tf tbe f*:>est quality, in the best style, at 12 a year, jn.yclu m {u/t'n.r. th.* generous spi'it it which the fra has been welcomed ly the (ul.'ir press, and live ve>y biciai patronage it has leceivei t’utiug thi*, the 1 r»i y*r of its existence, r*teouragrs rs to hope fet large acressious to r.ur si.l sc. ip lion fist. it is deehable that sul sfr ptions be f riwr.vl witlw.i t relay, so tln*t they may he er.iered lefore die preaefne? orgres*. all couammications a i> reseed to l p. noni.r, pu’li.'krr rf tkr s t n l fra, wcikirtri-n, p.c. the daily and weekly chrono -1 type. e rutti by eliinr wiigl.t. inl o»l^4 by w hite, f’ottei k wiiglt. 13, hint* si ref, icmtiki. teintt: ivily, one 1 \t,iwh ror* hr. fsa- y »vm.( iwar« e>l t<» ihe pvl wen lice of expense, *»»cj will send l!>«- p-at,er a* that late till the kw.ew-v cxl'iir»od. weikly, twu dohats a year in !v»'tcr, or tor a* v sh tier i one at die t*wm rate. for live ixllis, three copies will le rent t.r one year. tris rd.li'xtmm is itav in the finest style «f re«*p»jer typwjrapby. it is in'epcfwvrrt cf *ll se ts, parties, art.l eliqnes, expirssirg fire') tbe view* of its e itar amt of surb c««reipunderts »t he thick* proper to a'mit, on all tuljt rti of luu an ii-icfcst. ii advocate* equa'ry tf hues* rights, sir! d* ab btion of ibvesy, u> r u d i< w», cb*-_p al>#tiiwoee (tom ir-ioxicatmg «r» eiop.tioa of irtnpeasre men lirc m taxes w» r*\ m the damage* t( sisrmkieg, ref rm >a wiring *<a *t* m h»g tie eeg'rst* tonguttgdw w j r*\ i'-d p'ib ifwit, o -rv. i ta) and i iwik tr;ln*ls> is i'h gio», u*> and fralltl ewsiars, watet-cesc, swli-’f sea's protective uemc*, *»*d *'l olh*r p facte al lim of areeuiu,akr bmsrwal awl—and gcari any, fr-gres*. it ak> give* the news from all pwtf# f n in t« the r»o»l fwldriisnl a*! irtci'ifdw r __ elfmisst l-tsr is already very large that it will be increased am e»m» the p*rer requesting the «ch*rfe *ifl uep (te above proepectu* stasvling t mfwxe ia air* cowitrv bm>e/ which ,t-inr hs columns isfsrw-h wuk the uw st m^stxsk of as re-whs daily cfr-oh. bare «mr brat ihweks *-d ihl boston, bcp< the delaware abofjtioni»t. aftpf.r of the above msu *1 he psdnw r* wtesgimi by the delaware aeli §ie*scy isetrtr. it will be edited ly a cvwhiliw, and wiq he pduiahed eo a lalf nadsum sheer, at tweety-fiva cents pe year, of tor twenty-foe* uusabst*. 1« devoted in eruwnr ipari*n m delsware, aed ««w rsf« vorate iu actmclishmi at he all lawful pewas. *1 wi3 be peutehad ttm flfts i patiel. or an dh* a* the wmm cee he e* intend, j james b. rook poetry. fvowi the ntw york tribune. song of till american eagle. r t*i>r or vermont. t bold tm ivsm on tl*c mountain's crest. where the wild w in.'.* rock my c*gl"l* to rust; where tl*»» lightning* fla*h and the liitevjer* cr**. and the routing torrent* fsv.n an i ihrli: for mr *phit fror jmaetfirtli shall be, a type for the tour ot i j he.tv. aloft i flv. f.dtc kirh, urnwgli the vaulted sky; on a sunbeam bright »»kc n.v a*ry flight. an i float hr a flood for i lure to phy in i!«e noontide ray. and l***k m a blaze from the thrown of day. asrar i spring, w-th a tireless wing. on the frathe-.y rlond poise and swing; i'dart tlown the eteep w hom the lightning* leap, and the clear hlir canopy *lnw!y sweep: f“f <i«tf to me it the revelry of a free and leaflets liberty. flove the land w’lerc tlie mountains sta-vd. like the watclitoarer* high of a patiiot iwikl: i-or i may not in my gk/rv anj (/rile. though tne lan i he n/'t.-r so fair a id wi.le, m reig.i* o’er plains, atvl fetters the invtmni n»l in chains. then give to me in my flight to sea tl* land of the pdgi >m* ever fire an/i 1 ne'er will rove from the haunt* i lore. but w atch, from my sentinel track above, o«ir tanner free user land and sea. and extilt in your glorious destiny. ob, guard ye wrell the land wliere i dwell. lest t». future times the tale i tell, l*n slow expires in smoulder me fires the. goodly heritage of your sires, uaw i ren ioiii'* light ro»c cloui and bright from fair columbia’* beacon-height, i ill ye quenched tl/e llaioe iu a starless night. then will i tear from vour penwn lair the star* ye set ia triumph there' my olivediranth on the hlasi i'll hunch. the fluttering strings from the flagstaff wrench and array i'll ore, for i scorn to sen a craven race in the land of the free. d. btar.jjn, vermont, js*. 1544. from the philadelphia saturday c-mrier. memory of clviikson. lines occasion ed be the death of thi great and good thomas clarkson. clarks/wi retered in every clime where mercy lifts ivei voire sublime, itmn >i tal honors—miiltless fume— deep in our hearts nave set "thy name. the patriot’s wreath, though bright, must fade; th? /undent, bv mortals made, grows ilim in i pa>e, besi le that crown which circles thy unsought renown. thy simple majesty of mind, tin lofty purpose, well defined, bhall st.inl before that searching eye which every m /tive can descry. a f/reigv shore, the stranger's land, 'tie pathless waste, the burning sa ij, witnessed alike thy steady aim a nation’s sorrows to proclaim. to break the fetters of the slave thy great resolve ha i ai.nod to save, and change the n to that golden chain, by heaven designed, from heaven which came the links compose 1, since time began, of boun hess love to erriag man, though dimmed awhile a i idea le i har# with strange alloy of guilt and fear. illustrious hero, great and gioj, no trophic?, stained with hit nan blood. above tiiy honored /lust shall nave. to inosk thy pure, unblemished grave. friend of my rare, farewell farewell 1 affection weeps 11 hear thy knell; thy requiem shall in* fondly sung, in ilistant land and foreig i tongue. and when thou blandest at the gate," where countless myriads trembling wait, thine be the great reward to win— 3ly faithful servant, enter in the mechanic. i am nature’s own nobleman, happy an 1 fioc, a puer of the realm might well e.tvv me; for the lan 1 of the cagin lias given me birth, mv a /us me all freemen that meet round ni hearth. yrnnr cities now rising with htmrty an 1 might, whose palacc-like towers are fair to the sight, my ha mis bei|>cd to build ilium, my strength lent ill aid, and by tlie sweat of my brow your proud cities an made. "the ship that sweeps proudly o’er the far-spreadiii| sea, has been timbered and fishioncd hy the labor of me and the pure massive marble that strikes on tlv view. is chiselled and formed by the artisan too. the smith, as he hums oyr his anvil a glee, lie toils not for happiness or power—not lie; he dreads not lost office, he seeks none to gain— and the smith is a king in his own proud domain. the bravest of men from mechanics have sprung, and the sweetest of lays mechanics have sung, ar.d'the proudest of hearts mechanics should wear. when conscious of right in their bosoms they bear. from the ladies’ repository. eloquence. it welleth up from brimming founts, deep hid/lcu in the soul— and with a strong resistless power, its diainiess waters roll. it gushes on in words of lire; it scorches with iu breath; and as tlie ireart is pure or dark, iu words arc life or death. it peals in thunders loud and deep, that make tin- mountains quake; the mighty despot ou his throne, doth feel its pillars sliakc. in justice’ great and outraged name. the giant voice doth crave redress for earth’s down-trodden ones, and fitcdom for lite slats, song of the season. bv eliza cook. look out, look out, there are shadows about; the finest is donning its doublets ol brown, the willow tree sways with n gloomier flout, like a l/c;iutifnl fare witli a gathering frown. tis true we all know that summer must g that the swallow will never slav long in our eaves yet we’d rather be watching the wild rose blow, than be counting the color* of autumn leaves. i>n>k high, look high, there's tire lace-wings:! fly, thinking lie’s king ol a fail v realm, as ik* wings with delight on the g .ssamcr tie that is linked ’on i uw urn-in. of the mm-tipp'd elm alas, poor tiling, the tiist rustle will bring tlie pillars to dust, w lie re your plaasurr-clue weave anl many'a spirit, like thine, will bring, to hopes tliat depend i»|k>u autumn leaves. l *ok low, look low, tlie night-gusts blow. and tlie rr*ikv»a forms in luetic ie i, coma win. leg a nl spouting wbe.cvcr wc ga, lighter in dancing, as iwaicr tlie dea i! oh, who has not si*n rare ln an«, that have been i'aiale i and puling, in g.ub that ileceivcs j>ashirijj gaily along in tlu-ir fluthuing sheen avitit despair at tlie core, like the autumn leaves. txvk on, ue/k on, morn lireuketli u|xm tlie he ige-row ix/ughs, in their withering line; ‘tlie distant or/dlard is sallow and wan, bui the apple nud nut gleam richly through. oh, well will ti be, il uur life, like tlie tn-e, t»hah be k/iind, when old lime of greeu licautv l/e reaves. with tlie fruit of good works for tlie planter lo *c e> rhining /nil in i i«tb’s harvest, through autumr kaves, merrily pours, as it sings and soars. ttw west wind over tlw- land anil seas. i’ll! it plays in tlie forest a si moans and roars, seeming ie> longer a ruinlilui bnvtf. h'i music is blest, till it iitt-clrth a bn.ist tlut is |it‘ihej by the strain, wlule meua/ry (lictca to tin.ik it was sung by a loved .me at rest, ivi. it r i>:u) like the sweet mind iu autumn leaves. not an i. mi are leaf and flower h»r* k«*n i fr«. <i. stl'l »sv|'t h*/ .n; bv senile appro-' isrs, the ftrr*#t nsl die sitower m.tk« irw.lv tin; ».u» viim s kr cilling sw «v awl ■i i" hkin iiu'm 4* [nif dulte t+*ir 0 bv tlir tear lira. in stasis a,si the sigh that hr heaves, kuf he’s isa. in.) iron, earth by tsrb ulabduud’* ahwlr, trll in't w.ul.t* g". as its autumn leaves. 1/4 t»' k. is a iswi, 4'si y.w’h ti.si the trsrk n iwiuu. is arts stir mi. ihnklv ovs m till y.\ *s (h-wl hair* alt ,isy a.sl l/huk, and evetv vews si.m tljn^ nsirt ftm its sol is is i wlu ie tie- lir uw 1m a«. -htxl, i s ilw fwtom to hiaiu fa th toiler shews*., a>sl s mv trust hi tis future sprr»l it he it, ,4 worts .ty aot hit, halt* lafayette on slavery —the opinion of this great man, whome every american reveres and honors, on the subject of slavery, has but recenlty been made known to the world. the great philanthropist, clarkson, says of him, that "his amiable nature was especially aroused on this subject." to clarkson, lafayette said expressly, "i would never have drawn my sword in the cause of america, if i could have conceived that thereby i was founding a land of slavery" -cleveland democrat