the question n dv comes upon the, lust transcendent issue. will you extend the institution of slavery over mexico. w e liavc twisv acquired a territory vastjy greater in extent t'nan the whole original united states--greater, than a hundred such states as massachusetts, which would place in the senate of the united states two hundred slaveholders teom new mexico and california to control your interests, iiere is the last issue, and it you do not aland up now, if you sulier your loader to lead you blindfold to tiie surrender of this last issue, on your heads and on your children he the responsibility. the vasttiess of that policy it is impossible for me to find words to express. if in this you yield to them, you place the power hereafter iu their hands; you make yourselves slaves. what struck down the taritl'of ldl'2.' i do not say whether it was right or wrong; but the whigs ot lioktou thought it was right, and so did i. so did the democrats of pennsylvania; and i said to them iu is 11, as sure as you bring these men from texas into congress they will vote to strike down your protective tariff. vet they* voted to bring in texas. these foreigners were brought into the representative hall in direct violation of the very words and letter oi the constitution, and it was by their vote that the pro tective larilf of isi2 was struck down. i saw your interests there sacrificed by these foreign slaveholders, brought iu there iu violation of the constitution. tne democrats of new york declared that they would not g for the repeal of the tarilf of hl'2, unless their salt could be protected. w e were enabled to put the salt upon the free list by a majority of one. the next taorniug 1 saw the secretary of btate, the secretary of the navy, the secretary of the treasury, the secretary of war, and the vvh de cabinet, one holding oue man by tlie bu!t >u and another an >t!i: r. they moved a reconsideration salt received its protection bv a majority of one vote, and the tarilf w is repealed; *o that it was those two foreign slave h il lers that struck down the tarilf of lsii. are you the advocates of the tanif, and will you vote for those vvh i wdl striae d iwu your tariti? if you do, <i k with your eves open. do it as <«en. stand forth and avow it, and not do it blindfold. i havem power of conception, or imagination, or lung-iagc, to p irtray to you the consequence of this questi >n which now comes ho-.ne to you. every man who is n .w sustaining gen. tay lor, endeavors to keep this momentous a** ue ou x,e w. i hey are endeav oring to make you,think this agitation is a saclioaal question; but wi»o presses it upon us? die south asks you to yied your interests, y-, u r honor, and your constitutional rights t<> their bid ding, and extend slavery; ami because you refuse to do it, they charge y ou with agitating factional questions! judge ye who it is that agitates sectional questions. have little to aay about the nomination of gen. taylor, although they aay jb(r) is ft they tell you he is in &vor of abolition; in favor of the wilmot proviso, the peace candidate, and nil that sort of stuff. i caution you, and as i am to meet you before tbe bar of final account, i demand of you that you furcish evidence upon such a qtiea the north star, tion us thl. has it come to this, le rue know are you to surrender your interests, your rights, and the interests aud rights of your offspring, of future generations, because a man in bostoc nays that he has a letter in his pocket that informs him that general taylor u a whig? (cheers.) 1 mean no per sonal disrespect to that gentleman, bul when 1 see him attempting to hide a question of this immense, unspeakable magnitude, and to lead his feilow citizens to the polls with such a letter at this, i don't care if he has such a letter; for if gen. 'taylor is really iu fa vor of these things, and is afraid to speak out, he is not the man for me.-- (cheers.) no, sir, if he has these teelinirs in his heart, if he sees and comprehends the vastness of this issui and dare not lortimis scnimtem*, he is unworthy of confidence. what do you suppose would have been thought of samuel adams, or the patriots of that day, if all that could be said of them was, that somebody had a ldttcr in his pocket which proved that they were uufiitndiy to great hi haiti but shall we compare the interests then at stake with those now r they hear no conceivable comparison with them. imagination cannot see, knowledge cannot comprehend the heaven wide difference between the two. 'lhe oppression of great britain was as far below and inferior to the oppression which you and your children will receive if you thus extend slavery, as hell is below heaven. 'talk to me about (veil. taylor's being opposed to the extension of slavery! 1 wrote him just as pleasant a letter as i could on tiie subject, one ot the most agret able and respectful letters you ever saw, in order to learn ins pinions, and 1 tejl you that you ex,nut kick hint into uu answer. to u-e a western phrase, be 'possums." in our w«,-i< rn country, he could not run for constable.-- a man who sli >u!d set himself up for public office, and suppress hi-opini >ns could n >t maintain an argument upon the stump. the very motive for voting for a man there, is because we believe he possesses sentiments in accoidance with our own. but if you d net know whether he possesses any sentiments or not, in god's name why do'you vote for him i a-k you now. editors, political rnen, statesmen,'politicians and people, stand forth if you can, and show me the mail south of mason and dixon's line that ever gave, a vote in congress, tfuder heaven, limiting slavery? where is there a man souih'of mason asffl dix on's line that dares avow such a senti ment? kvery man south of mason and- dixon's line, senators and representatives, has voted continually uuu without exception for the jast twenty-five years against the limitation and in favor of the extension of slavery, whenever the question lia» been agitated. when 1 make this assertion, 1 make it accord ing to the best information i have, and you can correct rne if 1 am wrong.-- and if no man south of mason and dixon's line has ever done that, do you believe gen. 'taylor i» the only man that will do it j voice--john m. clayton 1 thank you; his name escaped my memory; but now i think of it, john m. clayton lives north of mason and dixon'*; line. look at jefferson davis, the son-in law of gen. taylor, the man that he lias delighted to honor, in whose welfare and interest his whole soul is wrapped up, see him put forth every energy in unalterable hostility to the wilnjot proviso, declaring unit gen. taylor is opposed to it, and yet the boston atlas teiis u> that he is in iavor of it. will the people believe you arc speaking the truth, a :d davis lying?-- m w ill the whigfc o. b >!.iou be misled by such pretences as this? i don't care what you are, or who you are; if you are an honest iwad, you are the noblest work of gxj, and will n -t be deceived or controlled by any man whatever, when you see the momentous matters lying befotve you. [mr, sumner asked about governor jones.] governor jones was advocating the election of gen. fay i »r on the stump, and saying that he was opposed to the extension of slavery, when he was asked, are you opposed to it? gov. jones evaded it. hat a man on the stump is bound to kt his whole senti meuts bo known, aud when he saw he could not evade it, lie answeieikthat b was not. and 1 w ant to kn >w it vou will vote f »r a man h is not i i favor of the extension ot slavery?" he evaded it; but the man would noflet him otf until gov. jones saw he was inexorable, and *«oid he would not.-- now, if you are gummed by such men, you will have enough of them, how is it with cass?] well, ready, it you bud waited six weeks longer, you would nut have asked that. wait six weeks and he is out of the question. (cheer-, aud laughter.) you had better be erecting a to most one for that man; you had better write his epituph. geo. cass! a wau who has bowed to the slave power s low that no honest man can get down low enough to throw the mantle over him! (great sensation.) gen. cass! a man who declares that you are bound to rote for the establishment of slavery in the territories who says you have no power to resist it; that it w a violation of the constitution to assert your rights!-- talk of him among the democrats!--* where is be? john van bures said that he was killed off* at the baltimore convention, and they were carrying his body homa by way of tha canal he said, too, that if be was nominated, they would have to take affidavits to show to tha people of new york, to eon right is of no sex--truth 13 of no color--god is thjf father of us all, and all we are brethren. vince th*.m he was a candidate six weeks hence; and 1 say it in the hon est sincerity of my heait. lam aware that it has been uiged upon you and me, and every body else, that we must vote for tay dr, or cass will be elected. i tell you it will not be so. but suppose it were the case; we would have to make some new discovciies iu moral science and get some inoial mi croscope by which to discover the shade between these two men. cass and taylor! the devil and beelzebub!-- [great cheering and laughter.] and are you hound to determine tiie moral distinction between them, when the shade is so slight that omniscience it- self could not discover it? but i know that lam tedious.--cries of g« on." it-wa* now teif c'wlock. vv* [how is it with taylor?] 1 don't know. i wish i had power of eloquence, and conception, nni im aginatiun, to place this before tiie peo-j pie to-night just as it is, to tear away the veil, and let gen. taylor and gen. cass stand lot th. it is said that gen. taylor is a whig. am ito argue the question whether he calls himself a whig, when the great question is the enslavement of yourself and your children? will you vote lor bun because he culls himself a whig? a whig!-- 1 have no doui»t he is such a whig as milton brown, such a whig as alex ander h. stevens, and other southern men who went tor'texas. if he is u wtiior, it means such a whig as that. 1 want you to jvuow, my fellow deuiu ciats, t,.ui you a.e to be cheated and du-liaudod, that the southern stales are to go tor iay lor aud not lor cass.-- lmy one oi t..e southern slates wi.l go ior taylor. ilieie will be good old oootli carolina; that staunch eld v\ hig state! she will go lor 'i ay lor. and u you follow the lead, old massachusetts will stand beside her v\ hig sister! '1 wo ?uch lug states the loia never made beiore, and never will ueain. isaac id. holmes, of sout i carehua, in 1545, in reply to a speech of mine, di clartd it to be a duty to take texas, lie said i that we must have more teri itory, and it was not only necessary to have tex- 1 as but the whole of mexico lor the ex-; tension of slavery. that man, only day before yesterday, declared himseilj the uncompromising advocate of*geu. j taylor's election. isaac k. holmes a. whig, and voting lor a whig candi date! i call your attention to these facts. jelfershn davis, 1. e. holmes, i and gen. 'taylor! a beautiful trio of! whigs! southern men whfrxiq.ver vote against tiie extension of slavery, are! n >w going for gen. taylor because! they believe he is in favor of its exten-j sinu, and here you are at the north! voting for him. because you suppose lie! is opposed to the extension of slavery!! one of you must be deceived. if you arc honest, the south art* being hum-j bugged; and t.iat is itself dishonest, for 1 would not cheat a slaveholder.-- only think of it--massachusetts votes for taylor because he is opposed to ex tending slavery, and s. carolina votes i for him because he is in favor of it!-- did you over know the slave power! deceived by a slaveholder? is not every interest of gen. taylor in favor ot extending slavery? it certainly is. john c. calhoun, the giant intellect! !of the south, the mighty advocate of sla\eiy and of slave interests, wh was in favor of annexing texas, he will soon stand forth for gen. taylor.-- 1 suppose lie does, and daniel webster, that intellectual giant of the north, whom i have admired more than any j man living, for his gigantic powers of mind--and i verily believe he will un seal his lips, and would that a thunder bolt might unseal his lips in favor of i freedom--if he was to vote for general j taylor, which of these two mighty: minds would be deceived? daniel webster cannot be deceived, neither can john c. calhoun. they may de ceive themselves bv shutting their eyes, but i say they have the means of know ing the facts, and ought to know them and if they have a right to know the facts, you have a right. your vote and mine are as good as daniel webster's. every man should see, aud judge, aud know for himself. one thing further about gen. tay lor. when was it that this plan of a campaign was put forth. at a meeting in south carolina, in april, 1547, john c. calhoun declared in substance to the meeting that the iuterc»ts of slavery would be jeopardized at the next presidential election, atid he u gfd the people to throw aside their party prejudices, and unite in favor of s mie man to sustain their instituti m, with u force of language aud eloquence which i cannot describe. in a letter t» mr. peyton, by dixon 11. lewis, dated april 3j, 1347, he inquires on what terms gen. taylor is to run. when gen. taylor was deteimined upon, there were.not five whigs in this c'om monweftlth who had any suspicion of his being a candidate. yet dixon. h. lewis, a loco fmc wrote to know the t*rms, and they were, that he was not to run as a whig or democrat,but was to discard both parties. he was not to proclaim his principles, but was to run upon toe general circumstance* of the case, and ail parties wrre to support him. he is called a whig, but this is the first time l ever knew a man made 1 a whig upon compulsion. [what are the: chances of the free state*?] tiie contest is not between taylor i and casa; it is between taylor and the j nominee of the buffalo convention (cheering.) the buckeye state, the third in the union, has gone for free dom. her convention of the 93d of thin month, was e convention dignity jof character, in moral excellence, and rochester, n. y, friday, august 4, 1843. intellectual power, unequalled in the state. the whigs of ohio have foi two years past taken their positi n.-- they have declared unalterably in the i legislature ami state convention, that they will sustain the principle of tree territory unyieldingly, and tue whigs of ohio have memories that can la*: two years. many of the l)etn<jcratic counties have passed resolutions to the i tame effect. the bigs in eyery county in that state, i believe, have taken the unyielding resolution, and they will redeem the pledge made be fore the world and before heaven. you cannot humbug and deceive the whigs jof ohio. ohio go for cass or taylor? she will do no auch thing. 1 tell you, fellow citizens, i represent no such con -1 stitaenfta, no* cor ijfc*ver would repre sent such constituents. look at the west still further. go to the youngest of the whole sisterhood of states--wisconsin. there have just arrived from wisconsin in the na tional legislature, four representatives two senators, every one of them barn burners of the very first water. they never will surrender their birthright to the slave power. go ask these men if wisconsin can be carried for such men as cass and taylor, and they will tell you, in words that burn, that she can not. well, in michigan, where lewis cass himself resides, the people arc moving. truth is doing its mighty work. the advocates or freedom and liberty stand forth unshackled, and even in i is own state gen. cass will not have a corpotui's guard in less than six weeks. n>t o in indiana. they are moving tlie*--; and you all understand what they .11 e doing in new york. 1 don't believe gen. tayjor or cass will get her nomination. i have said, and 1 stand to tlie usseition, that i have never believed that a single free state of this union would degrade itself by voting for the extension of slavery, or for am man who sustains slavery. i do not yet believe it. i will not believe that the intelligent freemen of this age, in the year and american citizens, car. he deceived into such an outrage into such moral suicide. it cannot be. how is it in massachusetts? i have seen enough within the last ten du. 5 to convince me that she is to stand where she stood in the days that tried men's i souls, in the times of-adams and war ren, of jbunkcr hill, and concord, and lexington. that spirit is now rising, and it will stand fbrtii and speak iu tones !to be heard and thrill the nation. the evidence that 1 have seen in lowell and in lynn to-day, has convinced me that* will toon b% rcdhegiccf and regenerated. i tell you, one and all, tiiat the consciousness of the rights lof man, of the dignity 9 ith which he was created, is becoming general.-- those rights with which the god of naturre has endowed him will be remain tainted. the car of freedom is going on; and, doughfaces, you had better stand out of the way, or yam will be j ci ushed beneath it. with my most hearty thanks for the indulgence with which you have been pleased to listen to my plain and open remarks, tendering my thanks tor your kindness and hospitality, 1 now bid you an affectionate farewell. io» we copy the following address from j the model worker. it was first read by gerrit smith in buffalo., before the radical libeity party convection, and was subse j quently adopted by the convention. we need scarce ask lor it a careful perusal, since j anything from the pen of gertit smith, will be read with interest by the colored jcople ot this country. the address tells some plain truth, aed such as we ought 10 profit by. to the colored people of the northern states. brethern--we are engaged, "arm and soul," iu breaking the chains ot three millions of teiaves. e need your help. you are under pecuiiai obligations to give it. from the fact that you and these slaves belong to t.n same variety of the human (amity, uik that many of you, and all <»t your a., cestors. have been slaves, it is but na tural, that the horrors of slavery shoul< j be ever before you, aod ever arousing you t.» efforts for the deliverance of it: victim*. nevertheless, so far lruu y«>ur 0* lag the wo-4 prompt and clh ciout helpers of our work, you an hiii mg the greatest biuderacces to it. the d *ctriqe of the slaveholders is that the negro is fit for 00 other condi tion than slavery. we need not say that our d :ctrine is, that every man i tit tor liberty, and bn man (or rtavery ihe slaveholders hope tor your ili-do jug and debasement, mat their dwetnut may, thereby, be justified. we hope for your well-doing and elevation, that it may, thereby, jbe related. readily and i >yfully, d we admit, that many o. you are d »iag much to refute it. ma ny of y»u are manifesting many quali ties of head and heart, waich prove the negro to be as much a man as is any othet* variety of man. a few of you are 1 adorning learned professions. most ol you are industries: and many of you, combining with industry, ara enabled m enjoy tae comfort*, and ui not rare instance*. the elegancies sad refinements of life. nevertheless, it renuins true, that, a» a pe .pie, you are doing far lets than you about j, to sham* the slaveholder# out of their wicked aod absurd doctrine, that the negro is fit for §!ar*ry only. now, say not in vindication of your selves, that you cun afford to be brought into comparison with ihe whites. you are under the necessity of being better tbanlfce vfcitaa,* prejudice of color, which, m this lend, is ns migh ty as ii is mad. i* &rh*oi% aadngsmwt you. b»ey anil tbs ude you against it. they tray be idlers, and yet be respected. but, ifj >ur industry relax, you are denounced as lazy.-- they may be spendtbrilts,without great ly, or at ail, harming their reputation. but yours is rutned, unless you are rig id economists. they uiay indulge in iutoxicatiug dunks, and yet be count ed with the sober. you must be teetotal lers, or pass for drunkards. profanity and licentiousness in them may go uu-  rebuked. but you cannot be guilty o! these vices, without being disgraced and made vile by them. they can af ford to be without knowledge--even without knowledge of the alphabet.-- i but the most ignorant of them w ill make merry over your ignorance, aud despise you for it. they can join se-i cret societies, aud yet he respected.-- j but, if you indulge in the puerilities and fooleries of the regalia and pro cessions of secret societies, you a;e laughed at fur the nonsense, and are j denounced for such wicked waste ol i your wages. we said, that you are under the ne cessity of being better than the whites. we admit, that it is unreasonableness and cruelty, which have loreed this ne-j ce*sity upon you. but, is it for that; reason a less wholesome necessity?-- are you, therefore, to be less thankful! to god tor it?--and less prayerful toj him lor that measure of grace, which; will enable you to live up to the whole extent of the demands ot tills necessity j happy, tnrice happy, the people, who! are compelled to have, it they but show themselves woithy to have, u higher standard of ciicumspectioc, propriety,! and w isdom, than have others! liappy, thrice happy, the people, who are uu- i der peculiar obligations to be industii- i ous, and frugal, and learned, and virtuous, it only u iicai the given them to ie-! spond to these obligations! one cause of your interior condition --that interior condition, which is soj much in the way of the anti-slavery enterprise, and which reflects so rnuchj dishonor upon it--is too prominent and powerlul, to be passed over on this ec casion. we refer to your clustering j in cities and large villages, and leagu ing yourselves to menial occupation.-- j it is no dishonor to an individual to be a servant. but, fora v hole people to become servants, is to sink themselves: in disgrace. they will, in such case, be very natuia ly thought fit lor nothing higher. and, true it is, that the occu-; r palion <*f a servant, if a-sedation with! noise but servants lo combined with it,' rnuft fit for nothing higher than the oc-j '.cupafion of a servants now, such arc 1 tfte cirowaaetanccs of -the jfreat body *>f! those of you, who *are congregated in populous places; and hence, the i'ino-  ranee, grovelling spirit, and destitution' ot manly independence, which charac terizes them. we have glanced yt the pernicious; influence of your inferior condition on i the anti-slavery cause. as that condi-l tiun rises or sinks, so rises or sinks this cause. as that condition rises, soj does the slaveholder become weak.-- as it sinks, so does he become strong. be what you should, and can he; aud the enslavement of your iace would no! longer he possible. in the develop-1 meat of your dignity and capabilities, the slaveholder would, awe-struck, be hold what manhood, what dignity, what capabilities, he had been trampling on, in the persons of his slaves. huislave h'ildiug heart would u'<w die within him. the rod of the oppressor would fall from his relaxed grasp, and the op- j pressed go free. we will advert to one of the benefits which could result to yourselves, from the great improvement, which should take place in your condition. you; political rights, as well as other rights of your tnanh >od, are now withheld from in >st of you. our maker knows,; that men will rob, when they can do it, with impunity. he knows, tuat they will he guilty of the ineffable meanness of robbing those of their rights, who are too weak to protect their rights.-- j hence, his command; r .b not the; poor, because he is poor." it is, be cause you are so generally poor, being so generally servants, and because you are, therefore, accounted vile, that you are plundered of your political rights. had the colored people of this state b en scattered over the state oo farms! and in machine shops, and be» n every way, as, in that case, they would have been, the equals of the white men among them--strong as is the preju dice against color, th«hr respectability would hare extorted from that prejudice the right of suffrage. nay, that prejudice, rn ltcd away before that respecta bility, this right would have been yield ed up uu.-fe**mtugly, will.ugly, gladly. but the way tu which you mostly wrong and degrade yourselves, and re tard the progress of the anti-slavery cause, remains to be specified: it is a sad truth--and as strange as s ad--that great numbers of the colored people of the northern states are bound up with proslav«rr ecclesiastical and political patties. wo d not complain, that you chertsb the methodist, or pres byunao, or any otter reiignua creed, j but, we insist, that you who are in fei lowauip with religionists of whatever deu unination, are the deadli nes! traitors to your brethren in bonds. bv means of that fellowship, your re!i- t-ton, tuih as it is. endorses *larery; !md it is the religious endorsement of slavery, which more than anything else, keeps ft ml countenance. better, infu' nitely batter, for your poor lashed and i bleeding, and chained brothers and ma ters--and, may wt not add for <hnm salves also, that you should never seuji the inside of church, nor the huidnii of a bihj*. than that you shoaid, by your pro da very connections, sanctify j their caflaeemcjk- fj agsm, we are notacow e;mplaißiag«' that you hold these cr those views o! political economy, but, most deeply, 1 do we complain, that you should con nect yourselves with, and vote with polineal parties, which, t< gether with the pro-slavery churches, ate the grt at props of amcrioau slavery. a colored man voting for slaveholder tor a civil office, or tor one who thinks a slave holder tit for it! what a cruel perfec tion of treachery to the poor southern slave is this? how it murders him in the house of his fiends! better renounce ycur right to vote, and youi right to personal liberty, and go down and grind in the southern puson jf use, loaded with the ignominious and galling chains of slavery, than make sue hr a heartless and murderous use, as this, of your suffrages and pcrsujmi liherty. at the last presidential election, there were, probably, five votes cast by colored men for henry clay, where one was cast by them for james g. birney;--and, this too, notwithstanding that the former exceeds any other man; in responsibility for the sufferings of the negro race, and that the latter has foi conscience sake, emancipated his twenty-eight slaves, and theieby, both made himself an outcast from the societv which had cherished him, and teduced hiinseli'to poverty. what unparalleled infatuation vva3 this preference for henry ciay! impressive scene would be the se cession from pro-slavery churches and and pro-slavery political parties of eve ry colored prison connected with them! slavery could not long survive a scene so influential and heaven-blest. oh, that such a scene were at hand!-- oh, that it were already one of the definitions of a negro: a person, who would sooner lose his head than belong to a pro-slavery church!" and, ch. 1 that it were, already another of these! definitions: "a person who would sooner lose bis head than belong to, or vote with a pro-slavery political party!" 1 when these ahull be among the defini tions of a negro, negro slavery will be; ready to vanish. from the .n. y. tribune. free soil meeting in bai.ti-! mgkb. baltimore, july 21, 1543. horace greeley dear sir:--l have the pleasure of informing you, i tljis morning, that the uprising'* has actually commenced in maryland,which will henceforth claim the honor of being the fifot slaveholdmg stale that raised the glorious banner of free s-il/or .a free people! x preliminary meeting of the friend* of the'free soil movement, convened at union hal! last evening, over which hiclts harris presided, j. hampden! william? acting qr secretory. thej chairman read the following circular, us explanatory of the object*of the, meeting, accompanying it with a few appropriate remarks, the chief purpose! of which was to define the position of the liie.ids of the movement in jm*ry-j land. "dear sir: considerable trouble having been taken to ascertain the ex-, tent of the feeling in this city and state, in relation to what is known as the free soil movement, it is confidently believed that there exist the elements of an organization upon that basis, which could not fail to command respect, and produce the desiitd effect in the corning election. "the object of this circular is to s 'licit the attention of such as are be lieved to be in favor of the movement, at on informal meeting to consult as to the expediency of calling a more gen eral and public meeting for thoiough organization, and the appointment of delegates tj the free soil convention to be held at buffalo on the 9llx of au gust neat. "if you can sympathize with this object, you are hereby respectfully in vited to att< ud such a meeting at union hall, on thursday evening next, 2u:h inst., at 8 o'clock." the following preamble and resolu tions were passed unanimously. yvhf reas, a general convention of such as are opposed to the further ex tension of slavery has been culled, to assemble at buffalo on the 9th day of august next, lor the purpose of nomi nating suitable candidates for the offi ces ot president and v ice president of -he united states,and to take such steps as may be necessary to unite the friends of free soil in the coming content; and wherca*, said calf meets with our cor dial approbation, believing, as we have reason to do, that it has teen made in good faith toward the vested rights of existing stares, and contemplates no interference with the same, we deem tt to be both our privilege and d »ty to co operate with the friends of free soil in the contemplated convention; there-' for,/, be tt resolved, that an adjourned meeting be held at tins place on monday! evening next, for the purpose of np-t pointing delegates to repr< scut the friends of free soiliiithe buffalo ccc vyotioa, and to take ruch other •ccpf asjinar be deemed necessary and pr jmr for the promotion of the free soil movement iu maryland. resolved, 1 bat,ail persons favorable to the i re# soj (fioveuaui he invited through the press to attendsnd portlet*! pate to the meeting. a committee of five was then on! anti »n appointed by the chair to drafi suitable resolutions for the considers-} tton of the meeting on monday eve- nu»g. k these resolution* correspond in spirit with tfombregoieg preamble, i her win so doubt he well received and j produceaa tmpurtsoieffect on thissoo* utanity. 5 j sesenil addresses were delivered by grntleuicn who have been uo& uow c-oimected *vj*!t the wb» , dtacorai- ioiin dick, r*stubsa. whole n 0.--82. i ic, an j native parties. tnese m itum sp he in bold and decided term? ot the evils of slavery, and of the ne cessity of passing umomjiromisinz laws positively prohibiting its extension to tenitones now lue, and announcing ibeir duerminaticn to abandon the old parties (it the v\ big and democratic conventions had indeed left any par ties exisi.ng!) and throw their votes and influence, into the new part/of princi ple, of which the free' soil for a free people," id the hopeful and cheer ing watchword. they wire severally appiauded for their mauly sentiments and the earnest spirit in which they found an utterance. depend upon it, the uprising" has commenced in earnest here, and the result cannot be otherwise than beneficent. i know the news will be hailed with joy by the fiicndsof the free soil movement everywhere, and therefore have hastened to send it to you. let us* rejoice together over the cheering prospect that is opening before ns! hopefully yours, s. new castle convention. agreeably to previous appointments, a luige convention of the friends of free-territory assembled in the court house at new castle, henry co, ind. july 4th 1818. 't he business committee presented the following preamble and resolu tions, which were received. whet pas, american slavery is the principal if not the only cause of the present convulsed state of our fiaticr, politically and ecclesiastically and whereas we believe that the time has fully ccme for the free men of this nation to take their own cause into their own hands, and by every proper and constitutional means, to try to avert the clause that is now hanging over, and threatening the annihilation of our re maining free institutions therefore 1. resolved, that the free states of this union should be immediately relieved from the burdens, entanglements nnd difficulties of slaveholdiug po litically, pecuniarily and morally. 2. resolved, that the principle of giving a representation to property iu our national legislature, and property votes in the election of president and vice president of tire union, is not allowed to any free states, and the grant of it to slaveholders is odious in the eyes of freemen, a dark stain upon o' v r political institutions, and should%e expunged fr< m qui- national constitu tion, end banished from our memories uttii*: earliest possibly hoar. 3. resorted, that in spiiil audnruth micro are but nvo great political parties in these united stages the anti-slave ry party, and the pro-slavery party --the two great parties that have ruled the nation for ihe last lot ty years, now called tlte whig and democratic par ties are both pro-slavery, tint the proat dividing questions between them re specting bank, 'tariff, subtieasury &.c, grew out of the conflicting interest between f ree and slave lufi6r, and hud not slavery existed, no such ques tions would have distracted (he nation for so many years. 4. resolved, that the above questions can ns longer humbug the people. such questions are cast in the thadc of the overwhelming and vitally inter esting question.* of slavery and liberty, for the principle of the w ilrnyt proviso is now the quiet ion around which the friends of republican democracy, of liberty and quality must rally. o. resolvtd, l hat the convention appoint delegates to attend u state con vention, to be held hereafter (the time uiid place not yet designated to cooperate with the people's movement now going on in the tree states for free soil, «md free territory, by appointing dele gates fo the national convention to be held in buffalo oil the 9th of august next. stile they come. the c eil (md.) democrat states that six slaves absconded from u mr. gilpin, in that county, a few days since. their master was absent on a joorfky, and they took the favor..fife opportunity to stait upon their:*. they probably d'-nigned making a aunjfwi' tour to the north.-- it is supposed that the north star wo* accessary to their escape. by the way, should not mr. south carolina butler provide in his bill" for the punish ment of that fanatic '•tar? chief justice taney menace it with fine under the law of j no doubt he can etrctch that law till it will cover this abolition luminary; or, ff this caimot be done, judge lynch should take the obetmato incendiary in hand and deal summarilv with it. v. hen they have extinguished that northern fight, they may tndulgw zotne hope of success in their eff*(ps to suppres* in free heart* all »yo:patiiy for the fugitive slave. they have ttuvd uawuelry in frying the moat difficult work first.-- j*a. b'ettauxn. as rxtit aokdix.i itv wo max.-- mia* mary chambers, of nottingham, fng., who died in her 7f*t year, wax a remark able instance of wonderworking power* of persevering apphcalion under £t««i natural disadvantage*. deprived of light from the age of two y eara, she nevertheless wn enabled by doeo study and unremitting effort* to ecqoife a taor.ogh knowledge of classed! hteri* ture, being well versed m the hebrew, greek and lax in languages, and wg« also sknjed in arithmetic, geography, rod tbe wee ef the globes. for upward* of thirty year* she ha* conducted •cbool in nnttmghatß, and aq inegti* raable friend to the blind, having taught jratuitouily, very many uiod children' md assisted in founding an the t\w for aoch, the benefit* (c)f vbicti have been grateiww tcuuowd .df- a shl .mtcv t' i notices. annual meeting. the€th annual meeting of the western society will be held at st em, columbiana co., on wednesday, thurx d iy, and friday, the loth, ltth, and 18th ol august, commencing at 10 o'clock, a. m. l<et a fall representation of the slaves' friends come tip on this occasion from all pans of the great west. th? political lead ers an* marshalling their boats fo? a conflict, heir followers are rallying by hundreds ot thousands to the support of their party ban ners. time, and money, and labor are expended to secure object. and shall the fiends of freedom, whose faith should be strong in the power of truth, be lukewarm and indifferent while politicians are so ear nest in their labors, so unltung in their zeal the events of the past year should encourage us to renewed cff>ra, for every movement ot rnportar.ee which-has been made, having any hearing upon the question of slavery, fore ahado v* the destruction of the system, aniltoe oppressors feel that it is so. the political parties will make a desperate effort to save themselves from the destruction their corruption has brought upon them; and the efforts of the abolitionists to maintain and enforce the right should be proportionally great. arrangements should be made at the coming meeting to continue the anti-slavery agitation by the itps of the living speaker, and to ex tend more widely the circulation of the society's ph per--the anti-slavery bugle. i*m none of the friends who can be there, absent themselves for any light cause, for the pre sence of all, and the couesel of all is desira ble. besides the friends of liberty in the est i who will be present on the occasion, henry i g. wright and cuts. c. burleigh are ex pected to 1»« in at tendance, and perhaps oilier representatives of the last. lot holmes, fee see. the call. the great nation al convex-1 tion of colored freemen of the! united states, will be held in cleveland. otuo, commencing on wednesday, the sixth d iv of september next. let the colored freemen all rally to this important gathering. this is a crisis, and something we must and will do we hope to see the east, north, south i snd west, come up in one mighty, unbroken phalanx, to do battle for god and humanity signed, by request of illinois, indiana, michigan, and ohio, (the western parts ol: new york and pennsylvania being readv.) j 'm. r. delany. hamilton, ohio, june 6, 1848. ict mystery, and all friendly papers, please copy- uj* the choctaw government now appropriates a year for coinmou education 1 purposes. k7* we learn that the democratic party of new bedford, mass, after a full discussion of tha merits of gen. cass and m. van buren, voted to throw their united vote for the latter. jfeeting of the free soil democracy in new york. a large assemblage of the free soil demo cracy of new york was held at the park on tuesday the 18th ult., to notify the nomina tion of martin van buren. the tribune says the meeting was estimated to number from .fifteen to twenty thousand persons. stephen allen was appointed president. one hundred and eight vice-presidents (6 from each of the eighteen wards) were then appointed, and 30 secretaries. the following were among the resolutions adopted resolved, that the democratic party of this city his been revived by the action of the lit a utica .convention; partaking of the enthusiasm which chiraeterizod its proceedings, we shall imitate its energy and aspire to its resolution. to all its acts we extend the esteem which accompanies the assertion of truth and the perforin trice of duty but our gratitude is bestowed for their nomination to the presidency of martin van buren the leader of his party when struggling for its distinctive principles, tta faithful standard bearer when in power; the calm and sagacious counsellor when iu retirement; by las noble effort for free soil, for the preservation of the territory of the union float the inroad of slavery--he has given new proofs of wisdom and statesmanship, of exalted love of country and of true sympathy with the rights and interests ol' humanity,<md has thus established hims.df in the great heart of the american democracy. resolved, that \vc are uncompromisingly opposed to any "compromise," which, instead of confining slavery wiiiiin narrower limits, shall restrict the bounds of freedom; that the congress of the united states has no power, under the constitution, to abolish freedom in any part of the public domain for the purpose of planting slavery therein, and that such an enactment by the present congress, elected for no such purpose, would be an act of usurpation and a breach of duty too gross to be forgiven, and too shameful to be submitted to, bv a free people. resolved, that v\v denounce in advance all projected compromises or surrenders of the vital principle of freedom regardless of their origin, their object or their extent; that in the anticipated defection of the senate' we place our reliance on the other branch of congress; but should the hope of favor, the fear of pun ishment, or the schemes of political ambition, accomplish the enactment of a law for the ex tension of slavery over a single square mile of territory now free, we hereby pledge ourselves immediately to enter on the task of iva repeal, and unceasingly to labor for the accomplishment ot this object. resolved, that we look with great interest to the approaching free soil convention proposed to be held at buffalo on the oth of au gust; that we hope our democratic friends in itti* and other states, who unite with us in the wish and ihe will, to preserve for freemen, in all coming generations, the heritage of freedom wish winch this republic has been entrusted, will be represeoud in n,eh conven tion and we nun that the wisdom and patriotism oi those who shall g»>uij one it rusv guide them ro the adoption of measure*, which haft promote the advance, aid secure the triumph of the great principle involved in ihe present momentous struggle. letters were read frnn john a. dix, sena tor from n. y; john m. niles, senator from conn; and others; also the following from david wilmot, of proviso celebrity washington city. july h, is4s. gcntlrxtn --i have received the imita tion with which you were pleased to honor me, to be present at, and address a meeting to be held in the park, on tuesday, the 18th tnet, lor the purpose of ratifying the nomina tion of mari to van buren for the presidency, and of contributing to the extension of free •nil, and the peinemaiioti of free labor." 1 •meecely regret flat my duties here will de prive me of the pleasure of a personal partici pation in the proj»oeed meeting. as an earnest republioan, wlo values the principles of his party mid the honor of its came, i cannot withhold the expression of my sympathy, and the encouragement of my votes, fromiho radical democracy of the bute of n< w york, in their present noble and patriotic struggle. the time has come for men to speak out. the fact cannot be that the patronage and power of southern sduumstratioo being wielded to crush tlm principles of freedom and to extend over lands ws ftroa-theeurscnl human afatve ry; sad ow effort is made to control the ma< c4. u will fix an indelible stain upon the character of the republw. slavery will l*- comotbe controlling power in the government, giving shape to it* measures and future policy. 1 he flag of the union will no longer be the _ cttihictn of liberty, lu triutnpha and it* •glonea can no more lie sung to strain* that thrill the heart. some other than a drake 1 must write, f.ir ev*r flsat (hat stan-laird «hr«t, wh*t« breatha* thr t* 11 ,u* l.i is before ns 1 wub bt*verj ao«l beneath our feet. aiklsumt'i banner streaming o'sr <u. for mr. van burea, 1 entertain profound rc*j>ect and admiration. 1 hare erer rcgirded him a» an example, of republican integrity and virtue and. in my estimation, be stand* first rmong the living statesmen of america. the friends of free soil and free labor were 1 anxious to remove this territorial question from our national patty strifes, and to confine f lit to the several congressional districts. we j did not ask the interference rtf the executive in our behalf. we demanded no pledge*. w e would cheerfully have united in liie sup-1 jx»rt of any sound republican, who would hive leuilns question to the unbiassed action i ol the people's representative*. f)ur souln- j era brethren refused to meet us upon this ground of conciliation. no lespect was paid to our feelings or our wishes. we were re j qutrerl to surrender our cherished principles-- to do violence to our solemn convictions. the democracy of the south declared as one man that they would support no candidate for t.ie i'reseidencv, unless he was pledged to veto any law of congress, securing our territories i against the encroachments and aggressions u! j slavery. the pledge was given; and we are now called upon to support the candidate thus stultified. if we do so, we give the most j solemn endorsement to principles we abhor. the tie* of party have been severed by the south. the issue has been forced upon us. we must meet it. there is no escajm from the duties and the responsibilities thaij press upon us. for the consequences, we are in no resect responsible. they rest upon those who have left us no alternative, but to meet the question, or abondon our principles. i 1 know not what course the democracy of my 1 country and congressional district may take in ■the appicaching presidential canvass. they i have the power, and i trust in god, they have the moral courage, to i;*scue the noble commonwealth of pennsylvania, from the reproach of endorsing by her vole, principles, that belie her character and history. to that democracy, i am indebted for what i am, and all i am. to those friends who have stood around me, and sustained me through the most trying conflicts, i am bound by the strongest obligations of gratitude and honor, j fidelity to them, and preservation of my repu tatiou as a public man, untarnished, shall control my action in the future, as it has in the past, accept my thanks, for this flatten ng mark of your confidence and esteem. very respectfully, your obedient servant, d. vvilmot. to john cochran, eugene casserly and others, committee &c., new york. the north star. rochester, august 4, 1849. first of august celebration. the proceedings of this day will long be j remembered by the hundreds w ho assembled j from the east and the west--from the north i and the south, for many miles around, to i commemorate the glotious english act of emancipation. the first of august is a dav j dear to the lovei of liberty, which he trea sures up among his most cherished remem j brances. the people of western new york have shown, by their presence and sympathy on this occasion, that their hearts beat in i unison with the great god-given truth; ex pressed in the declaration of independence, that "all men have an inalienable right to! life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." surely an awakening is at hand among the, nominally free colored people of these states. they cannot--they will not much longer re-! main indifferent spectators of the woes and wrongs of their suffering brethren in bonds-- 1 wrongs which many of themselves have ex- penanced--the non of which has entered into! their own souls. "up and be doing!" is, the doctrine of our times. the enemies of right are active and powerful. ceaseless, vigorous and untiring effort is required to de feat the machinations of the wicked. when such an awakening to effort and to action arrives among those w hose freedom has been in a measure secured, the day of redemption draweth nigh for the downtrodden and the dumb. we have not room this week for a detailed account of the proceedings atthiscelabration. 1 w e can only state, that a large procession formed, as was previously arranged, at the l ord street baptist church, and proceeded through the city to washington square,where! extensive accommodations had been made by the committee of arrangements. the ut most good feeling and courtesy were mani fested by our citizens, for which (though it is  no more than our right, yet being to some ex-  tent unusual) we, in behalf of our assembled brethren and sisters, tender our hearty thanks, i l he meeting in the square was large. be tween two and three thousand were present. after the reading of the english and french emancipation acts, frederick douglass de liveted an address, which we give below. he was listened to with the utmost attention tb.3 hearers univeimlly, white and colored, evidently sympathizing with the sentiment* of the speaker. 11. w. johnson, of canandat gua, then delivered an eloquent oration, i w inch we hope soon to have it in our power l to publish. w e are happy to be able to state, i that the day passed harmoniously, soberly, and pleasantly, without any of those riotous manifestations which are too apt to disgrace the rejoicing days both of the blacks and the whites. 1 he cause of human equality baa been advanced bv tbe proceedings of this day. frederick douglas** address. i mr. president and frunds m e hsve met to commemorate bo deed of secuoual pmie, or partial patriotism to erect no monument to naval or military lieio ism; to applaud tbs character or commend tha courage of no blood-mainfe warrior; to! gloat over no fallen or vanquished ioa; to re vive no ancient or obsolete antipathy to quicken and perpetuate the memory of no fierce and bloody atroggle u. take from the a*j»ee of oblivion no slumbering ambers of fiery discord. we attract your attention to do horrid strife; to ao scenes of blood and ear :f t, where foul and unnatural murder ear r 1 1 h» true designation, because regiment* w limed. we farigbteo not the memories ot l rave men slain in the hostile array and tbe deadly en counter. the celebration of such an, and •ueb deeds, may saftdy bo left to others. we tiunk heave*, it committed i mote grateful and congenial task. the dartre bare met to eommernorate, u marked by do deeds of violence, amoemted with i.o scenes of slaughter, and excites nc malignant feeluiga. peace, joy and liberty sited a halo of unfading and untarniahed glory around this annual festival. on this occa sion, no lonely widow is reminded of a slaughtered husband no helplesa orphans are reminded of slaughtered fat be is; no aged parents ate reminded of slaughtered tons; no lovely sisters meet here to mourn over the memory of slaughtered brothers. our glad ness revive* no sorrow our joyous acclama tion awakens no responsive mourning. the day, the deed, the event, which we have met to celebrate, is the tenth anniversary of west india emancipation--a day, a deed, an event, all glorious in the annals of philan thropy, and as pure as the stars of heaven on this day, ten years ago, eight hundred thousand slaves became freemen. to con gratulate our disenthralled brethren of the west indies on their peaceful emancipation to express our unfeigned gratitude to almighty god, their merciful deliverer; to bless the memory of the noble men through w hos 3 free and faithful labors the grand result was finally brought about; to hold up their pure and generous examples to be admired and copied; and to make this day, to some extent, subser vient to the sacred cause of human freedom in our own land, and throughout the world, is the grand object of our piesent assembling. i rejoice to see before me white as well as colored persons for though this is our day peculiarly, it is not so exclusively. thy great fact we this day recognize--the great truth to which we have met to do honor,belongs to the whole human family. from this meet ing, therefore, no member of the human fam ily is excluded. we have this day a free platform, to which, without respect to class, color, or condition, all are invited. let no man here feel that be is a mere spectator-- that he has no share in the proceedings of this day, because his face is of a paler hue than mine. the occasion is not one of color, but of universal man--from the purest black to the clearest white, welcome, welcome in 1 the name of liberty and ji st.ee, i extend to each and to all, of every complexion, form and feature, a heartfelt welcome to a full par ticipation in the joys of this anniversary. the great act which distinguishes this day, and which you have this day heard read, is so recent, and its history perhaps so fresh in the memory of all, as to make a longthy and mi nute detail of the nature and character of either superfluous. in the address which i had the honor to deliver twelve months since, on an occasion similar to this, at our neigh boring town, canandaigua, i entered quite largely into that investigation and presuming that i now stand before thousands of the same great audience who warmly greeted me there, i shall be allowed to call your attention to a more extended view' ot the cause of human freedom than seemed possible at that time. the subject of human freedom, in all its: grades, forms *id aspects, is within the record of this day. tyranny, in all its varied guises, may on this day be exposed--oppression apd injustice denounced, and liberty held up to the admiration of all. in appearing here to-day, and presuming to be the first to address you, frankness requires me to proclaim, at the outset, what otherwise i might become evident in the end, my own in aptitude to the task which your committee of arrangements have in their kindness as signed rne. aside fiom other causes of my i incompetency which i might name, and. which i am sure all present would appreciate,' i may, in justice to myself, 6tate that my; other numerous engagements and occupations have denied me the necessary time for suitablei preparation. i would not, however, forget that there is an apparent fitness in your selec- tton. i have stood on each side of mason and dixon's line i have endured the fright-, ful horrors of slavery, and have enjoyed the blessings of freedom. i can enter fully into! the sorrow's of the bondman and the blessings of freemen. i am one of yourselves, endur ing daily the proscription atid confronting the tide of malignant prejudice by which the free! colored man of the north is continually and; universally opposed. there is. therefore, at least an apparent fitness in your selection. if my address should prove dull and uninterest ing, i am cut off from the plea that the inci dents and facts of our times are common- place and uninteresting. in this respect, our meeting is most fortunate. we live in stirring limes, and amid thrilling events. there is no telling what a day may bring forth. the human min l 4 ia every* here fille with expect-, ation. the moral sky is studded with signs and wonder. high upon the whirlwind, lib erty rides ss on s chariot of fire. uur brave old earth rocks with mighty agitation. whe ther we look at home orabroad, liberty greets us with the same majestic air. we live in times w hich have no parallel in the history of the world. the grand com- j motion is universal >nd all-, onaciug. king-! dome, realms, empires, ana republics, roll to and fro like ships upon s stormy sea. the long pent up energies of human rights and sympathies, are at last let loose upon the world. the grand conflict of the angel liberty with the monster slavery, has at last come. the globe shakes with the contest.-- i thank god that i am permitted, with you, to live in these days, and to participate humbly in this struggle. we ate, mr. president,; parties to w hat is going on around us. wo ate more than spectators of the scenes that pass before us. our interests, sympathies and destiny compel us to be parties to what is passing around us. whether the immediate struggle be baptised by the eastern or western wave of the waters between us, the water is one, and the cause one, and we are parties to it. steam, skill, and lightning, have brought the ends of the earth together. old preju dices are vanishing. the magic power ol human sympathy is rapidly healing national divuums, and bringing mankind into the har monious bonds of a common brotherhood. in some arose, we realise the sublime declaration of the prophet of pasmos, "and these shall be no more see." the oeeens that divided us, have become badges to ope sect w, and the wide world has become whispering gallery.** the morning star of freedom aees from every quarter ef the glebe. m tnm spirit is «piri%-fr«n sack* lo wim, fee* city to huntrt, thy 4vai«  is cast; led tyres* and slaves see like ails is uf eight. standing in the far weal, we any now beer the earnest debate of the western world.-- the means of intelligence is so perfect, as well as rapid, that we seem to be mingling with the thrilling scenes of the eastern hemi sphere. in thw month of february of the present year, we may date the commencement of the great movements now piogieasmg throughout europe. in france, at that uroe, we saw a king to all appearance firmly seated on his costly throne, guarded by two hundred thou sand bayonets, la the pride of his heart, be armed himself for the destruction of liberty. a few short hours ended the struggle. a shout went up to heaven flora countless thou sands, echoing back to earth, m liberty-- equality--fraternity." the troops heard the glorious sound, and fraternized with the people in the court yard of the tuilleries.-- instantly the king was but a man. ail that was kingly fled. the throne whereon he sa was demolished his splendid palace sacked his royal carriage was burnt with fire ant! he who had arrayed himself against freedom, found himself, like the great egyptian tyrant, completely overwhelmed. out of the ruins of this grand rupture, there came up a re publican provisional government, and snaich tng the revolutionary motto of liberty-- equality--fraternity," from the fiery thou sands who had jest* rolled back the tide of tyranny, they commenced to construct a state in accordance with that noble motto. among the first of its acts, while hard pressed from without and perplexed with.;., beset on every hand--to the everlasting honor of that gov ernment. it decreed tiie complete, uncondi tional emancipation of every slave throughout the french colonics. this act of justice and consistency went into effect on the 23d of last june. thus were three hundred thou sand souls admitted to the joys of freedom.-- that provisional government is now no more the brave and brilliant men who formed it, have ceased to play a conspicuous part in the political aftairs of the nation. for the pres ent, some of the brightest lights are obscured. over the glory of the great-hearted lamar tine, the dark shadow of suspicion is cast.-- the most of the members of that government are now distiusted, suspected, and slighted.-- but while there remains on the earth one man of sable hue, there will be one witness who will ever remember with unceasing gratitude this noble act of that provisional government. sir, this act of justice to our race, on the part of the french people, has had a wide spread effect upon the question of human freedom in our own land. seldom, indeed, has the slave power of the nation received what they regarded such bad news. it placed our slaveholding republic in a dilemma which all the woild could see. we desired to rejoice with her in her republicanism, but it was impossible to do so without seeming to rejoice over abolitionism. here inconsistency, by pocrisy, covered even the brass face of our slaveholding republic with confusion. even that staunch democrat and christian, john c. calhoun, found himself embarrassed as to how to vote on a resolution congratulating the french people on the triumph o republican ism over royalty. but to return to europe. france is noy*i alone the sceneof commotion. her excitable i and inflammable disposition makes her an ap- j propriate medium for lighting more suhstan- j lial fires. austria has dispensed with met ternich, while all the german states are dd- minding freedom and even iron-hearted russia is alarmed and perplexed by what is j [joing on around her. the "french metropolis ts in direct communication with all the great lilies of europe, and the influence of her ex *mple is everywhere powerful. the revolt!-, lion of the 21th february has stirred the jormant energies of the oppressed classes all iver the continent. revolutions, outbreaks ind provisional governments, followed that ivent in almost fearful succession. a general insecurity broods over the crowned heads of europe. ireland, too, the land of o'connell, iraong the most powerful that ever advocated the cause of human.freedom--lreland, ever •haling under oppressive rule, famine-stricken, ragged and wretched, hut warm-hearted, gen 2io us and unconquerable ireland, caught up the inspiring  >ealasit swept across the bosom jf fet. george s channel, and again renewed her oath, to be free or die. her cause is al ready sanctified by the martyruom of mitch ell, and millions stand read; to be sacrificed in the same manner england, too--calm, dig nified, brave old england--is not unmoved bv what is going on through the sisterhood of european nations. her toiling sons, from the buzz and dm of the factory and workshop, to her endless coal mines deep down below the surface of the earth, have beard the joy ful sound of "liberty--equality--fraternity' and are lifting their heads and hearts in hope of better days. these facts though unfortunately associa ted with great ami crying evils--evils which you and 1, and ail of ua must deeply deplore, are nevertheless interesting to the lovers of freedom and progress. they show that all sense of manhood and moral life, has not de parted from the oppressed and plundered masses. they prove, that there yet remains an energy, when supported with the will that i can roll back the combined and encroaching powers of tyranny and injustice. to teach this lesson, the movements abroad are impor tant. even in the recent fierce strife in paris, which has subjected the infant republic to a horr.d baptism of blood, may be scanned a n 7 of goodness. the great mass of the blows behind the barricade of the faubourgs, evidently felt themselves fighting in the right eoua cause of equal rights. wrong in head, but right in heart; brave men in a bad cause, possessing s noble seal but uot according to knowledge. let us deplore their folly, bat bow their courage; mpect their aims, but their means. tyrants of the old w or id, and slaveholders of oar own, will point 10 p complacency to this awful outbreak, and say "aha! aha! aha! we told yen so--we told you so this is bat the result of under fekj#g to counteract the put poses of the must high, who h-is ordained and antuiioted kings and slaveholders to rulo over the people. so much frr attempting tq make that equal, which g«d taade unequal!" these sentiments m other words, have already bet* exprsasod by si least 000 the classes to which 1 have "frned. ta swell, i say rejoin white yon may, far year ttma is short. tbs day of fratdoaisad ovdet.fcat baad. the heaeti- doubtless will be, many failures, mistakes and blunders attending the transition from sla very to liberty. but what then? shall the transition newer be made wbo is so base, as to hsrbor the thought* in demolishing the old frame-work of the basnle of riril tyran ny, and erecting on its ruins the beautiful temple of freedom, some lives may indeed be lost; but who so craven, when beholding the noble structure--its grand proportions, its magnificent domes, its splendid towers and its elegant turrets, all pointing upward to heaven, as to say, that glorious temple ought never to have been built. i look, mr. president and friends, with the prufoundest interest on all these movements, bulb in and out of france. their influence upon our destiny here, is greater than may at first be perceived. maiuly, however, my con fidence is reposing upon what is passing in england--brave and strong old englaud.-- among tha first to do us wrong, and the firsi to do us justice. england the heart of tlu civilized world the nation that gave us the deed--the glorious deed, w hich we, on this day humbly celebrate. in these jays of great movements,- she is neither stunt nor slumbering. it is true, the world is not startled, by her thunder, or daz zled by her splendor. her stillness, however, is of deeper signification, than the noise oj many nations.--like jjer ownfuel, she less blaze--but more heat. her passage t«» freedom is not through rivers of blood she has discovered a more excellent way. whai is bloody revolution iu france, is peaceful reformation in england. the tnends and enemies of freedom, meet not at barricades thruwu up iu the streets of loudon but. on toe broad platform of exeter hall. their weapons are not pointed bayonets, but argu ments. friends ot freedom rely not ujkh. brute force but u.oral power. their courage is not that of the tiger, but that of the chris tian. their ramparts are, right and reason, ami can never be stormed their hotel de ville, is the house of commons. their fra ternity, is the unanimous sympathy of the op pressed and hungry millions, whose war cry is not bread or death," but bread! bread! bread!--give this day our daily bread! that cry cannot, must not be disregarded. the last mails, brought us accounts of a stirring debate in the house of commons, on the extension of suffrage. the opponents of the measure appeared like pigmies in the hands of giants. friends of freedom in the house, are strong men. among them is a man, whose name when i mention it, will call forth from this vast audience, a round of grateful applause. i allude to one, who, when he was but yet a youth, full eighteen years ago, dedicated himself to the cause of the west indian bondman, and pleaded that cause w ith an eloquence the most pathetic, thrilling, and powerful ever before known to british eais--and who, when he had stirred the british heart to the core, until justice to the west india bondman rung through the british empire--and the freedom which we celebrate, was gloriously trium phant; with life in hand, he left his native shores, to plead me cause of the bondman-- and went through our land taking his lot with j the despisad abolitionists,and noramaly free col- i ured man j arft.d floods ot abuse and fiery tri lls, he hazarded ins precious life in our s&uss, at last was finally induced to leave our shores by the strong persuasion of his friends lest the enemies of liberty should kill him, as they had sworn to do, and returned to his own' jounlry, and is now an honorable member of lie british parliament. that man, is jeokgl i lio.mpson. in grateful re aiambrance of whose labors, i now propose three cheers. i he '•all having been respond ed to, mr. u., proceeded .j if there be one living orator more than an nhei to whom we are indebted, that man is 3eorge thompson. faithful to the nomtions of conscience which led him to de lete himself to the cause of the west indian slave, he has now consecrated his great tal ents to tiio cause of li erty in his own country, j there are other noble men champions of hb-' jrty iu the house of commons, deserving' honorable mention; but none, so intimately net-led with the great event which dis- ttnguishes this day, as that of george 1 hompson. his life has been mainly de moted to our cause--and his very name carries with it an advocacy of <iur freedom. it is a gratifying fact, that mr. thompson, the reviled, abus-.d, and rejected of this country,. at tins moment occupies the proud position of a british legislator. it shows, that even in j england, reward waits on merit. that a man with great talents and devotion to truth, mav rise to eminence even in a monarchical aud arietocratical government. 1 now yum from the contemplation of men and movements in europe, to our own great country. great we are, in many and very un poitant respects. asa nation, we are great in numbers aud geographical extent--great in wealth-- great in internal resources--great in the proclamations of gieat truth#--great in i our professions of republicanism and religion --great in our inconsistencies--great in our! hypocrisy--and gieat in our attrocious wick edness. while onr boast is loud and jong of justice, freedom, and humanity, the slave whip rings to the mockery w hile w e are sympathising with the progress of freedom abroad, we are extending the foul curse of slavery at borne while we are rejoicing at the progress of freedom in france, july, ger many, and the whole european comment, we are propagating slavery in oregon, new mexico, california, and all our blood-bought poaoeesioos in the south and south-west.-- w bile we are engaged in congratulating the people of the east on casting down tyrants, we ire electing tyrants and men-stealers to rule over us. truly we are a great nation' at this moment, three million slaves their galling fetters sad drag their heavy obsias on american anil. three million from whom ail righto ars nibbed. three millions, a population equal to that of all scotland, who: in this land of liberty and light, are denied i the right to leant to read the name of god.-- f they toil under a broiling sun and a driver's land; they are sold tike eaufc in upmarket and am shut out from human regards--thought of and spoken of as property--sanctioned as property by cruel laws, and sanctified as wish by the cbfupb and clergy of the eotutwy.-- while i am addressing yen, fair ol my own dear asters and one brother are --during the frightful horrors of american slavery, la what pert sf urn tains, thsy may he, idea* know; two of them, sarah aad catherine* from there. lam eat off from ail comimrin lien with i cannot bear from them, nor can they bear from me--we are sundered forever. my case, is the case of thousands; and the case of my sisters, is the case of millions. 1 have oo doubt, that there are hundreds here to-day, that hare parents, children, sisters and brothers, who are now in slavery. oh! how deep is the damnation of america--under what a loa lof crime docs she stagger from day to day! what a hell of wickedness is there coiled up in her bosom, and what aw ful judgment awaits her impenitence! my friends, words cannot express my feelings. my soul is sick of this picture of an awful reality.-- the w ails of bond men are on my ear, and their heavy sorrows weigh down iny heart. i turn frum these tiorrois--from these god defying, man itubruling crimes, to those u ho in my judgment are responsible for them. and 1 trace them to th 9 door of every amer ican citizen. slavery exists in this land be cause of the moral, constitutional, political and religious support which it receives iron, the people of this country, especially the people of the north. as i stand before >nany to whom this subject may be new, 1 ii» >be ailowvd here to explain. the people •a uns country are held together by a n stiluttou. 1 bat constitution contains certain compromises m fovnr of slavery, and which 'bind the citizens to uphold slavery. the language of evety ame noun eilirtn to the slave, so far as he can comprehend that lan guage is, you shall be a slave or die.' tue history and character of the american people confirms the slave in this belief. to march to the attainment of his liberty, is to march directly upon the bristliug bayonets ul the whole military power of the nation. about eighteen years ago, a man ol noble courage, rose among his orethreu in virginia. we have long been subjected tu slavery. the hour for our deliverance has couie. let us rise and strike for liberty. in the name of a god of justice let us slay our oppressors.' what was the result? he fell amid showers of american bullets, fired by united states troops. the fact that the constitution gua rantees to the slaveholder the naval and mili tary support oi i-.o mtion the fact that he may under that constitution, recapture his fiymg bondman in any slate or territory within or belonging to this union; and the fact that slavery alone enjoys a representation in congress, makes every man who in good faith swears to support that constitution and to execute its provisions, responsible lur all the outrages committed on the millions of our brethren now in bonds. 1 therefore this dav, before this large audience, charge home upon the voters of this city, county and state, the awful responsibility of enslaving and tmbrut ing my brothers and sisters in the southern states of this union. carry it home with you from this great gathering in washing ton square, that you, my white fellow-coun trymen, are the enslavers of men, women, and children, in ihe southern states that what arc called the compromises of your glorious constitution, are but bloody links in the chain of slavery and that they make you parties to that chain. but for these compromises--but for your readiness to stand by j them, "in the fi llness of their letter and the j completeness of their letter," the slave might j instantly assert and maintain his rights. the contest now would lie wonderfully unequal, j ■seventeen millions of armed, disciplined, and intelligent people, against three millions j of unarmed and uninformed. sir, we are j often taunted with the inquiry from northern j white men--" why do your p< ople submit to i slavery and dees not that submission j rove them an inferior lace? why hate they not shown a desire for lietdcrn?" such lar  pnage is as dbgraceful to the insolent men, who use it, as it is tantalising and insulting to us. it is mean and cow ardly for any white man to use such language toward us. my language to all such, is, give us lair play and if we do not gain our freedom, it will be time to taunt us thus. before t.iking my seat, i will call your attention to some charges and misrepresentations ufth i a n incan press, respecting the result of the great measure w hich we this day com memorate. we contumely find statements and smiiimeats like this, in the whirlpool of american newspapers--" the british colo, ies are ruined," "th i emancipated negroes are i lazy and won't work," emancipation has been a failure." now, i wish to reply to these sentiments and statements and to say something about laziness in general, as applied to the race to which i belong. bv the way, i think i may claim a superior indus try for the colored man over the white man, on the showing of the white men themselves. we are just now appropiiating to ourselves, vast regions of country in the south-west. what is the laoguage of white men, as to the best population to develop the great resources of those vast countries? why, in good plain english this tb it white industry is unequal to it, and that n* c ,t the sinewy armof the sable race is ca, vnt .-pd-img so. now, fot these lazy drones to bo taunting us with lazi ness, is a little too bail. i will answer the statements respecting the ruined condition of the we*t india islands, by a declaration re- j cently made on this very subject by lord john j russell, present prime minister of england,, a man remarkable for coolness sod accuracy of speech. in regard tethe measure ol eman cipation, be says, and i read from the london times of the 17th of june, 1848 the main purpose of the act of 19&1 was as lhavesuted, to give freedom to 800,000 pe- j sons, to place those then living in a condition ul slavery in a state of independence, prosperity, and happiness. that object, 1 uuwlt, every j one admits has been accomplished. (cheers.) 1 believe s class of laborers more happy, more in possession of all the advantages and enjoy- menu of life than the negro population ut ifie west indies, does nut exist. (cheers b a it appears by evidence that tb« negroes of the west india ookhtiia stoce the abolition of slaveiy had beeu in the best condition. they had the best food, and were in all respects better clothed and provided for than any peasantry m the world. there wan n resrdu ttoa passed by t eoromaiee in 1842, that the measure of emancipation had eoo*- fdefely succeeded so fee as the welfare of the aenroen was sonccrued- l believe the noble lord the member for lynn, moved a similar mwdutien on a subsequent nrnasiim. we have it ta evidence that the degree# were able to indulge in the luxury of dress, which they earned to an almost ridiculous excess. same wme known to have dram wrath 60/." new, air, i call upon the pram of roches ter and of thi  country at large, to let these fccta be known, that alung »s.,jk*d injure r ce may at las»t hare justice done there. i moat t:«ank you now mv fnenda, for your kind and patient attention: asking your pardon for having tresspassed so long upon your hear* ing, i will take my j^at. cleveland, july 24, 134«. dei* douglass having left detroit on the 10th i have thus far arrived, m route for rochester, where 1 shall meet you on or before the glorious f.rst of auguai-- that day which, in a mce, struck the shackle* from the limbs of eight hundred thousand chaitelized beings in htman form, »h 0 in stan.ly, in the majesty of mar.hocd, stood erect in the image of their god. i held, among the colored ituers, durirg my slay, a aeries of routings m detroit, which wore as well attet dt ri as reasonably ,ct uld be expected under the c stances one i held fur the cinz ns generally, in the pi* sbvt* rian session rems,' a notice of which, through the papers, hanrg been rrg. ected, there were comparat.vely few in attendance, at which time i took the opportunity of answering suite pisitiois taken that day in the u. s. su  icuie c ourt, by mr. pratt, one of the counsel fur plaintiff, in hin pro slavery bible argun ent. in general, the colored pcc  le in detroit arodou.g tolerably well--some quite well. as i have at other times and elscw here noticed, .here are some grx d mechanics here, tr.d their number has, dutmg the last four or £vg years, been on the increase. 11 ere arc si me twenty or more carj enters. acmuly ai d in* dustriously engaged, one of wl.i m carries on the business quite extensively tivenl pl a4 terers, duing well at their trades; a number of bout and shoemakers; also liacktn.nl. s. oim gentleman is proprietor of a large cloih ing establishment on j< fierson avenue, the principal trading and lusiiuss lhonugllur* m j the city, and if numbers who crowd ihe no;# be a test, docs the principal lusn.css ol ti e j kind in the place. neither are the females left j entirely behind, as many of tliem have trades, and resort to lire needle as a means of sup port, as milliners, mantuamakers, and tailor* j esses. there is a good feature about this place.-- rhere is little or no encouragement lor per* sons wbu resort to menial occupations for livelihood. tradesmen and farmers find ready and constant employment, anti hold a respect able rank generally in society. there are few of our young men who still resort to ho- i tels and steamboats as a business, all of whom, j we learn, intend, at the earliest opportunity i possible, to quit their present vocations, and commence shopkeeping and tilling the soil for themselves. one colored gentleman ktrep* a fine livery stable of good horses and vehicles. a great many ow n good real estate in this county, and u number own and work good farms. there are two schools in detroit, one kept in common for both sexes, by elder davur, spoken of in the letter of gerrit .smith, esq., ami one by mrs. susanna gordon, a white i idy, exclusively for girls. both are public schools, supported by the state. they have here two churc! es--methodist, and baptist, the latter of w hich, elder davis,, (an amiable and intelligent gentleman.) is pastor and a third, for which efforts are now being made, an episcopal, to be erected by rev. w. i monroe, also an excellent gen tleman. there are evidently not sufficient people in this city for the support of such church, where the greater part incline to tlia methodist and baptist persuasion, and these,, too, a people just emerged from the gloom of. slavery. the people here have been much imposed! upon by a wretch who calls hi-, u-.i israel ti davis, having very much the appearance of an. indian, a large person, walks erect, with head drooping. this man, under the pretence of being a preacher, secured an appoi: iment as agent, and collected large sums from time to* lime, and eventually ran off wiih from seven, to nine hundred dollars of money collected lor the methodist church, and has never since been heard of. f saw- the miscreant once in pittsburgh, endeavoring to collect money, at which time i forewarned the people against him, which gave some offence, as l.e was a member of the church. 1 he methodist church here is evidently the most influential, embraci.-g by far the largest number of citire s, and once did embrace nearly all the most influential and business people, a great many of whom have been driven off by ignorance and intolerance. at much expeosi*. the people have erected a substantial and handsome brick church, acatly, plainly, and well finished, adorned, by ihe efforts of the ladies, with an elegant and tasty pulpit. this is the first colored methodisst church i ever saw with closed pews, tiung doors, regularly numbered, so that, like ither churches, ladies and gentlemen ait to gether, in the same pews, promiscuously.-- hiia airangernent i highly approve of, since i man going to church with his wife, or any iriher lady, is not under the necessity of stand ing half an hour in the crowded pass way of the vestibule, or out of doors, looking m everybody's face for the one be escorted, handing merely s chance of meeting her.-- in my opinion, the arrangement of diflereat places for the sexes, in many of ihe churches, especially the methodist, u very iocoovenient and awkward. the methodist church is a branch of*' old mother bethel," and might be s means of great good among the people. but unfottun ately there is a good and efficient minister st present wanted. tha preacher who holds the charge is an illiberal person, speaking against every manner of moral improvement. everything that does not yield loclencad ac/wm, is necessarily bad, and therefore of the devil, lie certainly a two-faced, doa ble toogued, subtle person pretending ona thing when he intends another; in whatever he does, always having some concealed object in view-- possessing, though s colored man, uke him of ashland, a foes for the north sad for the south, so that in reality he a moat fearfully untrustworthy man. why, id the name ot our reoe, religion, gad, sad humanity, does tha conference place such net over people whose whole dependence fm knowledge of the light of troth, the gsaprl. men sad things, is apse them, 1 cannot eoo> omv* i ask the miniafots who npappaaa ifctf conference, with may of wheel lan mm*- aaiejjr aoq or *t they are determined, imslaad of impact orient. to pro* mote ignoraoaa aai isfradniuu amo "i 
hopclew and disconsolate race. in god'* holy name, i breeech, them to future, stay this most unwi»e procedure. nut only doe* it engender ignorance and superetuon, but must deleterious are its effect* upon that whole church, by driving from it all the intelligent and best of our people, as the conference now may be assured that those who are intelligent will not, at this age of progress, submit to ignorance and superstition and if the methodist church encourage and foster suck curses as th we, however methodically inclined the people may be, they will go else where, as they should do, rather than submit to such debasement--the legitimate child and receut offspring of slavery. there are some excellent families and much intelligence here, w hich requires concentration afld encouragement to bring it to useful maturity. there are two saboath schools here, in which, 1 am sorry to tay, there are but two <»r three colorerd teacher* engaged but, as usual, depending upon our white fcl'ow-ciuz os. b iff"-g .ui the name of self-respect--will ever wc rise above this miserable life of depending upon oth ;is tod<* for ns (hat which we should do for ourselves 1 i would ih it we could be inspired with a proper, sens; of duty in this respect. oar friends and brethren, henry bibb, the, eloquent anti-slavery lecturer, and lewis hayden *i»d wile, fir whom delia webster: was falsolv aceus;d, and rev. mr fairbanks, imprisoned, for staling," self-made f-ee-j men, reside heic. mr- 13ihb s most excellent, wife, is quite an acquisition to society. hayden and wife, after the extraordinary sition and opinion of judge mol'*an in the late slave case, as well they might, became alarmed and left for boston. detroit is advantageously located sixteen miles above its junction with lake erie, and two miles below like st. clair, on the de-j troit, a large and beautiful riverj and mariners say, having the best harbor on this continent, as during the greatest storms and hurricanes, j hundreds of vessels may lie with the utmost safety. frequently has it been a subject of inquiry, which, until now, i have been unable to answer, why. with all us manifold advantages.: the progress in growth of this beautiful, pio-! outing little city, compared with all others, is so slow. in a great district of country, including detroit, which was originally a french settlement, the lands were laid o.f into fauns, two acres wide. t.iis arrangement was estab- halted for the purpose of giving each family of settlers equal fishing privileges m the detroit since then, the city has been built, but the original owners, instead of selling out into building lots, hold those farms, leasing the' lots for a term of years, or themselves building on an avenue or street, the length of a square, which is two acres .vide, four or five houses, with great waste spaces round about! them, where there should he dozens of fine! business places. hence, it is only when the demise of one of these old landholders occurs. i that building lots can be at ail purchased, by i which the growth of the city has progress 'd at a slow rate. but for this, detroit must be second to no city bordering on the lakes.-- the trade on tlie*; lakes and rivers k; immense, and timi city, but for the selfishness of j the old landholder?. must have become a metropolis. at the death of an old set'jer, 01 landholder, it is said, there is always great rejoicing--their own children not ucfrcquentlv numbering with the joyful. though cruel it may seem, tinder such circumstances they arc almost justifiable. there are, notwitstariding, many important and valuable public improvements and works creetpd. the hydraulic, or city "water \v oiks, for the supply of water to the inhabitants, is among the most useful in the place. since the transfer, by the state, of the rail road to the boston or massachusetts company, great impulse has thereby been given to business in all parts of michigan. i believe there is not an hour in the day, (sundays excepted.) that there is not one or more train of cars arriving or departing. grain and produce of; every dee-rip?ion is conveyed to all parts of the beautiful, level, fur&je state, with swal low-like velocity, borne upon jhe frt.glit trains; so that the most distant farmer in the state has the satisfaction of kuow; ;e thsi, within five or six hour* from the lime of step r 1 fitng, his coauwodiiiets safely arrive in the cash depositories of the metropolis of his own state. the boston company is quite a monopolist, j and for the batter purpose of securing the trade of the state, have erected an immense i depository and commission ware-house, 1200 feel long by 100 wide, said to be the largest in the united states, or equal ti twenty-four of the largest warehouses m detroit. ihe* depot proper, where the passenger trains arrive, stands beside this great deposi-; tory. subjacent to these buildings, arc the engine-works and machine-shops, for maufacturing and repairing locomotives, adjoining which is erected a depository for the locomotives. bemg citcular in form, one hundred feet in diameter and the same in altitude, when going up the river, approaching the city, the appearance is novel and attracting. in my last, i should have obsevred, concermng the slave-catcher troutman, att'v at law, and agent for fiawys gdtner, of carroll ■county, ky., that for good moral character his counsel, in his boisterous plea, i that h cam; clothed and biek ;d by recommendations f ro;u \j senator davis, senator jesse bright, of indiana, and llenry j clay, of kentucky. you ecn readily perceive the anxiety of this *rcb ajave-munj.-r uj rid kentucky of the curse of slavery, w lon us every act an<j wp 10 this time, the last of his life, has been 1 directed to the promotion and increase of sla very in the state. there is doubt mmy mmd but this young ajave-ea c4,er was prompted and encouraged to return to the north, in the pursuit of maustealmp, bv the knavish 1 old one. who craftily lurked at home, watch-ing among the pegro quarters*' at ashland. can there be anything great about a being bite thin? a miserable old min, ge <l for his schema* of human depravity, and veteran for bis pre-era uience in onoinbutuig to the suffer- 4ngrs of outraged bunwnity. let idle decls- i station my. and false pamottara contribute as 1 it may, i cannot and will not admit true great-1 acaa to be in any manner the characteristic of a person such at the above. the judge, as in my fonoer i should have stated.also took thispoelion,as extraordinary: *f i* overbearing and despotic, that an at- i fempf--throwing one's self between the fugi v tive and suve-catcber --raising the band, oi even spe king to the claimant, »sk neeeaea ,try to the hinderanee and obstruction in thr eve of the her; bat the bar* press not of one, even after the escape, smiling approbation, if criminal. ilevce, prstt, th; counsel for plain tiff, oo.itcaded that planter mm, one r»f the colored defendants, «<u accessary to the es cape of the slaves, because hr laughed f i came by ooerltn, where i found many excellent spints and good people. i did not find a* many young colored men and women at this institute as i could have wished.-- there sre but three young men in college, and i believe two young women, oue of w hom is fonc  «'f the amistad captives, preparing in act as a missionary in her own dear native land, among her benighted brethren. may success attend her every effort! i had some conversation with her. she was one of the three kul 5 girls whom cinque took to his arm?* mde.nbrtc d w h* n s-izsd by the"brave" iand .'\er-l be rer. •_ i. d, lieut. meades, of »i the li. s. .squad- t:mse m college are i sud to be quit'* pro-. ng. there areanum ber in preparatory schools. i was most agreeably disappointed in the arrangement of thing* at oberiin institute.-- instead of that distant coldness with which the professors are said to treat the students, the contrary is the fact--kindness and friend ship b;in,r ih-* traits mist pro.nineut-- and in rainy msua;;* th 3 trust familiar sociability existing among them. one thing i discovered --the students lore the professors aud i desire no greater evidence of the character of the institute. i visited several of the professors' families, aud found them all that could be desired. i also visited several of the recitations, and instead of confused aw k war j ness, as is usually the case among students, 1 found them ready and cheerful, full of life, with kind and smiling professors and tutors. i greatly admire the regulation and management of oberiin institute. several colored families reside here, some of whom appear to be well doing. one man! is a blacksmith, doing good business. i met; here mr. r. cushman, missionary, recently from haiti, from whom 1 received much valuable information. he married a young lady  who just finished her education here, and intends returning immediately. mr. c. has seen our correspondent there, aud also mr.i ."spencer, whom, he informs me. was more alarmed than there was cause for. hereafter, i shall have much to say about haiii, as well as oberlin. cleveland is a handsome and pleasant place, as you know but not yet having seen the people, i cannot say much about them. list night there was an anti-slavery address. to night, mr. fitzgerald fluids an emigration meeting among his colored brethren. i shall i be there and to-morrow leave for rochester.! yours for cod and humanity, m r. d. the french ii public and europe."' what is to become of it? will it stand, or iruat it fall, aud the last state of the french people be worse than the first not withstanding the republic has triumphed over the armed insurrectionists, and that order has been restored i*i the taitue of law and repub-' licanbiia, tlic-ec quet-lioi.s continue to evolve iu lfie minds of tln.se who take an intelligent' interest in the affairs of france. there are many develoneuients of character and eottdtion to he found in the events which have! transpired there within a lew weeks, that excite our most serious apprehensions. the! sudden withdrawal of confidence from m. dej lamartine, the philanthropist, author, states man, and civilian, and the read met** with! which that confidence has been repneed in* the hands of a mii!tarv chief, whose acts are to he hiijofoj 1 sword, rather than, i lho*. k.fty an j 1( als to the under-! standing and he. 'y v .ii lamartine suported his mens..its. t..us us to fear that alii faith iu the gr.ai principles of justice and human fivedmn, may be for a time destroyed that the table of stone may be broken, and the calf of absolutism, under the name of a republic, be sjt up in its «ead. the generals now in command, like our own taylors xnd scotia, have long been waging a war upon a southern people, and no doubt that, much of tliecr popularity has resulted from their triumpke aver abdel kader, as taylor's popularity remits from his victories ovfcr santa j anna. we are among those who regard military rule as a scourge, but little to be preferred to downright anaicby. france has, now four generals cavaignac, bedeau, chauganier, lamoriciere--at the head of her government. how long these generals w ill be induced to stand by republican principles, is a serious question. to our mind, a military chieftain is necessarily far removed from republican principles, and we should rot be' surprised to *c;e france again under a monarchy, through the direct agency of these very generals. we now look for a more steady! blaze of freedom, however, in germany than we find in francs. the latter, inflammable as she is, was suited to light the fire of iepubh-; can ism in europe the former must keep that fire burning. it was said some time since,by an orator in frankfort, that the political tendencies of german v arc republican, in spite of her monarchical forms, and that the tendency of f ranee is to monarchy, in spite of her twice-proclaimed republic. this may be an over statement of the case but certain it that the present aspect of europe seems to justify the statement. gen. taylor's letter of acceptance. the following copy of gen. taylor's letter is from the telegraph u the advertiser of tuesday raoromp. a whig neighbor says. "it u evidently incorrectly rephirtcd." the same writer also suewbere says; the letter is straightforward, candid and honest. it will disappoint only those who desired to see in it some committal on disputed auctions, which they might torture to gen. taylor's prujudice.'^ the buffalo commercial, (piunjore's pa per,) says-- it is one that, is its manly simplicity and dir-ctneas, does honor to general taylor, and will, we have 0o doubt, peace entirely satiifaitory. where these qualifications of manly simpltcily aud directness are, we have sot been able to discover and we should hare imagined, considering the long period of starvation to which the taylor whig* have been subjected, that jheir famishing appetites would not have been m easily satisfied. the letter could twt well have been shorter nor said less. it means nothing. batok rocca, july 15, 1945. hon. j. m- moaxuiad, green borough, n. c. sir, l )a e the honor to receive your communication of jane loth.smiouncinsr that the w tug convention which assembled fo philadelphia, en the 7th of that month, of which voa were the presiding officer, has j nomiiisted me for office of president of the u mted state*. ixtokmg to the compnei tmn of the convent»,*n, it* memliers and patriotic constituents, i fee! deeply grateful for the honor bestowed upon me, sod ii»r the distinguished confidence implied in iny nomination to the highest office in the gift of the american people. i accordingly accept the nomination, but with sincere distrust of my fitners to fulfil the duties of an office which dem inda for its ex i erase the m-»si exalted abilities and patrtot 9h. an l which hi* been rendered illustrious by the greatest name* in our history. butshould the nomination of the whig candijale be confirmed by the people, i shall endeaver to di.-c;barge t ie morr.e itou3 duties then devolving uopn me. so as to meet the expectatn ns of my fid o.v-c:uz»m and pre serve undiramished the prospeuty and reputa tion of our common couutry- i have the honor to remain, with the highest respect. your obedient s=>r'vt, zachary taylor. haiti. --we call the attention of our readers to oar haitian correspondence, and assure them, as we oft repeated, that we shall place no reliance on snv news purporting to be from that country, until we receive it from our own correspondent--a gentleman upon whose statements we can confidently rely. he refutes the miserable reports which, from time to time of late, have filled the columns of newspapers about the horriblo massacres in haiti," to w hich we call the special atten tion of our cincinnati and western readers generally. the cincinnatians. we much regret the delay of our cincinnati correspondence, which should have ap peared some lime since; but promise our friend cincinnatus" that this shall not again occur, and desire him not to grdw discouraged at this seeming neglect, but send on liis cor respondence regularly hereafter, once a week, as we prize our correspondence very highly from tiiat quarter. we must receive weekly advices of the doings of our cincinnatians, and their business movements. cincinnatus will appear in our next. m. r. delanv having returned, his post office .adjrcss will hereafter be rochester,! n t y. ift 3 lion. john p. ildc, will please accept oui thanks tor the m anorial of d. l. dix. daniel webster.-- the senator from massachusetts was once standing in company with several southern gentlemen, in front of the capitol at washington, as a drove of mules were driven bv. webster," says one of the southern gentlemen, there go some of your constituents." yes," replied mr. \v., they are going south to teach school.*' taylor and slwcry.-- an ohio whig! paper says, that g;n. taylor expended ten; thousand d liar* last winter, in the purchase f oi slaves hir h;s cotton plantation in missis 1 sippi. il7 a cull is in circulation for a free' sud" county convention, to lie held ai the j court house, in this city, on the sth of august, to semi delegates to the buffalo convention on the oth of august. "extension of freedom. under this i head the springfield republican chronicles the arrival in that place, of several runaway slaves from virginia. to cokkesi'o.v ue.v is. j- e. w. f llarrisbm g. --the information asked in not in our posiession, though we have tried to obtain it. ci. w. 8., cincinnati, o.--mistake rectified. j. m., milt'jrd, h.--know of no reason why he should not have lire paper. the blame must rest with the post oaice. e. c., elmra, n. y.--f. d. never received the letter mentioned. obtain it. communications. haitian correspondence.-- no. 111, pout au-prince, july 2-j, is4b. friends douglass dklaxv 1 have just seen a philadelphia paper, containing an article purpurtiug to be further intelligence from ilatti," aud which, from beginning to end, is one entire tissue of misrepresentations. the piece i aiiude to, give* an account ol" the murder of eighty j er&on* tu cold blood, by order of the government, and the subsequent massacre or imprisonment of all the colored inhabitants of port-au-pruice. to myself, who am present at the scene of action, this intelligence, i assure you, ia fully as novel as it is to others. i had deemed it best to say nothing iu my letters to you ia regarj to the events which have lately transpired here. i had resolved to pursue this course, for a rea son which weighed heavily wuh me. i was well aware (and the paragraph which has elicited this letter is ample proof) that the accounts received in the united states con cerning matters in this island are, generally, grossly exaggerated and i was fearful lest, m the present unhappy jiowure of affaire, any thing that 1 might say, might give a coloring of truth to the most glaring falsehoods. such a thing, however, is not to be dreaded when, in view of any account, contradiction is offer ed, and a simple statement of facta in the case attempted. in doing so, i *hall not seek to give the various suppositions advanced, or the various charges alleged against the administration, or the opp<suton respectively, by the friends or opponents of either; nor shall i pretend to decide upon the motive* which lay hidden in the breasts of individual#, or upon the cause* which have been silently at work, for years, in bringing about si ch sad results for such an attempt on tb« part of s stranger, could well merit the appellation of presumption. 1 shall merely confine myself to giving a simple summary of the events of the 10th of april, as they lie within my own knowl edge sod yon will then be able to judge fur yout selves whether they are not *uffur*sx>i!j deplorable, without any aid from the melo dramatic effect which thoughtless er retentional misstatements may throw areood them. to omsrr.eec«. about one o'clock ia the afternoon of that day, prodamatioo waa made about the ehy to the effect that the south waa  a state of revolt. two beam after, the three nans! discharges of causes assonapad that the republic was in duiger. *nd imtned lately the ton, the beating of the drum called opera ail good eiuxeos to ana themselves is defence of the government. quite a stir, of coarse, took pises about the city, which was, perhaps, increased by the intelligence of the arrest of a general at the government house, r this bad been attended w»ui some violence, i doting which a pistol shot was fired and this giving rise to a report that the president had been assassinated, the guards commenced im mediately to shrot indiscriminately among the person* there assembled. two person, i be lere, were killed, and some o the is wounded. by half past four, a portion of the citizen* in arms were assembled at la place, lira appointed rendezvous in such insrs, and hiving waited some time without receiving any orders a* to their further disposition, they retired and took up a position, first, in the place de la vafiere, and afterwards at the waterside. shortly after, the government proclaimed itself satisfied with the conduct of the citizens, and, as there was no immediaie necessity for their services, they were permitted to retire to their homes. a detachment of the guards then came down,whereupon askirtnish ensued, in which the guards were successful. in this affair, seven or eight of the eitnena fell, and some few on the part of the aoldierv. some arrests were also made, and a few military executions followed next morning. for two or three*dsys after, business was sus »ended and during this time, one or two cases of violence occurred on seme plantations near the city. on the 20th, however, a general amnesty was proclaimed in regard to*ali, with the exception of twelve persons, w hom the government regarded as prominent in dis affection towards itself. since then, cvery tiling has been quiet here; and tranquility has also been restored at the south, whither the president marched a week or so after. in conclusion, i proceed to give you a translation of the last official announcement of the state of the country. it is as follows "liberty, equality. republic of haiti. proclamation. faustin soulourpue, president of haiti to the people and army haitians ln the midst of a profound peace--at the moment when ihe government, in its solicitude, was laboring to give a new energy to the oountry, by encouraging industry and commerce, an 1 by extending its agricultural resources, a perverse minority was i plotting to overthrow our institutions, and de cimate our families. th; country would have expired in thi3 fratricidal struggle, if the providence which watches over the destinies of'haiti hud not ordered otherwise! the ingrates! how little they know theii country! the traitors! jcjoubtless they were i ignorant that tbo people are, to-day, fully 1 alive to their true interests. that people, who n they fancied their dupes, was watching, in silen;;, their sacrel movement--was reading their every thought. and when the mask was thrown aside, the people, by a spontaneous movement, arose anil tendered its aid to the government of its choice. let us cast a veil over the event which followed. haitians a new era arises for the rc i public. the country, freed from the various obstacles and heterogeneous elements which i hindered i'.s onward march, is now entering upon a prosperous career. the majority of the traitors ha- e j assed to foreign lands. they have f.td from thechas j lisement w hich they have so justly merited.-- but, in flying from the danger which they have themselves provoked, let. them never think of placing their foot again upon the soil of haiti. unnatural children let them never return to rend aguin the bosom of their mother country. that country reproves-- that country disinherits them. citizens of auk cayes! lam about leaving your city to visit the rest of the department of the south. my stay here ha 3 re stored tranquility to your community and i am happy to say, this tranquility and security aeign in every part of the kepublic. civil and military functionaries of the arrondissement of aux caves! be faithful to yourselves. i have taken all the measures dictated by prudence, to te-establish order j and to maintain the respect due to persons and; to property. entrusted with my confidence, render yourselves worthy of it by fulfilling; scrupulously your obligations. you are responsible for the slightest attempt directed against the established order of tilings. haitians! be calm and confiding in the chief who is the vanguard of the country.-- citizens and soldiers be always united; and j let the bond of national brotherhood be lover indissoluble. by that union, we shall attain the destiny marked out for us by the finger of providence. soldiers i am satisfied with your position, j persevere therein, and you will deserve well of your country. long live liberty! long live equality! long live the constitution! done at the national palace, aux caves,: this 2?th day of june, i(c)4b, in the 45th year j of independence. sou louql'e. [by the president.] l. dufrf.ne, provisionally scc'y of m ar and navy. l. vaval, provisionally sec'y of tbo interior [and of agriculture. salomon jeune, provisionally secretary of finance, of commerce, end of foreign relations." in the ardent hope that a new and glorious era may have indeed risen for hair, i sub scribe myself, as ever, your*, truly, harold. l*rtsr from got. taylor--lt is well know u to most of our readers, that gen. tay lur has purchased a urge puntati.m in the: eottuo and sugar growing region of the r;o> grande, and a* matter of course wishes to 4<eiwntrote to th* world the happily tog j result of «x:eo4iog auv e ry upon the kioj grande. jt i* also well koowu that ooe of' the old general'* particular pets who is hw aid," also hi* secretary. a short time t unee, this maj. bliss arrived at washington, on inmnw for hi* master before retumtag north. the morning after tua arrival asm, the following ndvartieemer* appeared im the daily paper* of that city-- $lo,ooo to sens; of duty in this respect. oar friends and brethren,000 for investment in slaves. boys sod girls would b: preferred bet fo avoid separation, families will be taken. proposals era invited by letter, addressed u> a. b. wsahiagtoa «ty, postage paid, at spy use between this and the first of july.** fathss mattocw--the boetoo mad announces, u« security," that parelytfo stroke will compel hr. matthew in abandon the intended nm te tkta ooontry altogether, agriculture. wbat hut t --the authorities of lb* city i of cbxrteaujn, s. c., hi»» prohibited thenk of tha diaciptiu* of ib* m.*thoti*si cbotrfe. sooth," because it main a aectioo of tha general discipkoe of ihe church which u»u he* to the great e»ii of slavery," sod in quires bow it can he extirpated." aod what is peihapa evea m *re startling, the annual conference of the state hare sanctioned the oncomphuiiicg submission of the charleston clercry and laity to the ruslfictwwi. so i that the southern breach of tha miihodtst episcopal church w in the singular position of having an authorized coda of discipline which cannot be cucuiated among its members. the shore we take from the new york cnm n?rci?l advetttxsr. if the methodist v episcopal church, smith, permits the civil "i autboiittesof charleston, smith carolina, or any other civil authorities, to dictate what it shall publish in its book of discipline on the subject of slavery, or any other subject, it will give but sorry evidence of submission to chriit as its only lawgimraad king. are next to hear that the friends are forbidden t.» i circulate the tatters of their yearly meet ings! this is a great country. v. y. recorder. a seaman named john thurston, who was locked up for vagrancy at norwich, conn., committed suicide on wednesday last by strangling himself with a towel. j address of anti-slavery women of west ern new york. under a deep and abiding impression of the duty we owe to god and our fellow beings, the anti-slavery women of rochester fee) constrained to continue to persevere in their forts for the oppressed and suffering bond men who still remain toiling unrequited in the southern prison house. wo are frequently brought painfully to remember that not only 3 their labor wrested from them unrenunerated not only do they sulfor from intense hunger and cold not only are the females, oun sisters, subjected to die cruel and pa.*sionate outrages of their tyrannical masters and over seers but there are daily instances of sun i dering the dearest ties in nature, thus topa rating them forever. and can we expect any thing better--can we look for benevolence or fine feelings from a system so foul and fiend j ish as slavery it would ba unraasanable, because a corrupt tree cannot bring furth good fruit.'' therefore, knowing that with out associative action we cannot render efficient aid to this holy cause, we affectionately invite the cooperation of thecitiz.ns of rochester and the public generally. we ask them to bear in mind the injunctions of jesus, "all things whatsoever ye would men should do to you, do ye even so to them." remember, also, the beautiful parable in which he calls our attention to the sick and to those who- are in prison, and concludes by tha forcible assertion, "inasmuch as ye have done it toone of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." we feel assured all that have hearts to feel, and are careful to attend to the monitions of conscience--all who are deter mined to live for the good of our race, instead of devoting all their time to their own personal ease --all who feel bound to improve the 1 precious urns allotted to them here, by inciting as much as possible the cause of truth and righteousness in the earth, will come forward in the work of laboring to banish forever the dimon of slavery from our land; and in so doing, instead of an example of corruption i and wickedness, we should be a light to the world." we hope no one will feel too poor, nor any too rich, to enlist in this holy cause. the christian's influence, in whatever situation, is always salutary, and will certainly produce its good effects. we ask for the eid of men and of women we call on the old and the young, the farmer, the mechanic, and the merchant. we ask ail and every one to give us their help to devote what they can spare, i either of money or of the fruits of their labor, to the work of restoring men and women to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights j and blessings with which they were endowed by our creator. for tills object, we propose holding a fair december next. aa e ask the females in the adjoining towns and country around us, to get up sewing circles, and prepare such articles as will be most saleable, and to come, furnish tables, give us thoir company, and help us, not only in selling those things thus pre i pared, but in convincing the public mind of the necessity of our perseverance and fidelity, and thus he helpers m hastening the day of emancipation. abigail bush, rochester. saka.li d. fish, do. sarah l. llallowell, do. mary if. hallowell, do. sarah a. burtis, do. margaret a. larson, do. elizabeth sully, do. phebe treadwell, do. charlotte s. wilbur, do. hulda anthony, do. rhoda de garsio, do. catharine g. bkaithvvaite, do. sarah e. thayer, do. catharine a. f. stebbins, do. amy post, do. henrietta platt, baih. susan r. doty, farmington. maria wilbur, do. elizabeth smith, do. esther hathaway, do. caroline halstead, walworth. julia park*?, do. eliza ('outer, williamson. amy mott, do. rebecca m. c. capron, auburn. c. g. hamblin, port byron. margaret prior, waterloo. mary ann mcclintock, do. laura murray, victor. mrs. mackintyrt. darien,john c. calhoun's speech. the national era, thus ably disposes of john c. calhoun's nonsense, about the dignity and standing of the white laborer in the slave states. read these facts northern supporter of slavery--read it ye tammany hall supporters of cass--read it ye white northern working men, and seal your own degradation by continuing to support by your voice and votes, the men who go for extending the curse of slavery over territory now free. but why argue the question let the constitution of mr. calhoun's own state witness against him. that constitution virtually excludes all but property-holders and slave owners from any share in the government of the state. no person is eligible to a seat in its house of representatives unless, if a resident in the election district, he owns a settled freehold estate of five hundred acres of land and ten negroes, or a real estate of the value of one hundred and fifty pounds sterling, clear of debt, (nearly oh!).) or, if non-resident of the district, a settled free-hold estate therein of the value of five hunred pounds sterling, clear of debt-- (about a member of the senate must own a settled free-hold estate of the value of nearly thus ably disposes of john c. calhoun’s nonsense,400, or, if a non resident of the election 'district, real estate to the value of about the men who go for extending the curse of slavery over territory now free. but why argue the question let the constitution of mr. calhoun’s own state witness against him. that constitution virtually excludes all but property-holders and slave owners from any share in the government of the state. no person is eligible to a seat in its house of representatives unless,500, clear of debt. the governor must own in the state a settled freehold estate of the value of about $(>,soo so must the lieutenant governor. having thus excluded white or free labor from all control of the government, and secured a monopoly ol political power and distinction to the capitalists, owners of slaves and land, the next step was, to make the monopoly perpetual, and this has been effected by tiie following provision in the constitution: no part of this constitution shall be altered, unless a bill to alter the same shall have been read three times in the house of representatives, and three tirne.s in the senate, and agreed to by two thirds of both branches of the whole repsesentation neither shall any alteration take place until the bill, so agreed to, be published three months previous to a new election for members j to the house of representatives and if the alteration proposed by the legislature shall be agreed to in their first session, by two-thirds of the whole representation in both branches of the legislature, alter the same shall have been read three times, on three several  days in each house, then, and not otherwise, the same shall become a part of the constitution." when we remember that the apportionment of representation wfts so fixed at the time of the formation of; the constitution, as to throw the weight' of the political power into the hands of; the slaveholding districts that none but slaveowners or landed men can be: members of the legislature, or occupants of the offices of governor lieutenant governor that these offices are filled not by the people, but by the legislature, which also, excluding the people from voting in the presidential election, itself chooses the presidential electors and, finally, that no alteration can be made in the constitution except by three readings of a bill, and a two-thirds majority in its favor, in two successive legislatures--we need no further enlightenment respecting the condition of poor white men, or free mechanics and agricultural laborers, in south carolina. did mr. calhoun imagine that the people of the united states had never heard of the peculiar democracy of his state, and its blessed influences on white labor from the union magazine. woman--iiiiii education and influence. by mrs. reid. the world hears so much in these days of woman's rights and influence-- the phrase has beca me so hackneyed, while so little has been done, that one almost fears to open a hook bearing the title of the one before me. but the author of this little work has ably redeemed the character of her sex; she strives to speak open and fearlessly, and calls to our aid not mere words of indignant feeling, to be replied to by sarcasm, but calm reasoning that can only be answered by arguments as conclusive. she appeals to common sense, and common justice, and asks why one half of the human race should be considered as irresponsible beings, required to give up their rights and interests into the hands of  the other half. she claims for women; an equal share in civils rights, and and education that will enable her to receive these rights as she ought. she claims for the creature to whom god has given a soul and a conscience, freedom to live according to their dictate?, and to judge of her own well being. ably does she advocate her cause hopefully docs she look forward to the future, believing that the time must! come when those rights will be acknowledged, and freedom be given to the enslaved. to those women whose minds have been awakened upon this subject, who are anxiously looking for 'ha* g'*< d time, her words come to give courage to the drooping heart, and bid it hope still. but to a more numerous class, it is to be feared she speaks in vain-- to those who have sunk to the lowest degradations ol slavery, who no longer feel their claim, who are content to be mere pleasure-loving creatures, leaving all that is woiia living tor to others. l lie unimpassioned arguments of reason cannot reach them an appeal to their feelings is required to rouse them from their stupor. to every woman who truly feels upon this subject, it becomes an imperative duty to add her sinije in the good cause. rouse youmlues, oh, my country women, to a knowledge of your true condition kuow that, boru in a country which claims to be the fn eat iu the world, one half of its citizens have no, participation in the privileges of its freedom. there are no laws which, protect cither your persons or your; property agama the arbitrary will of man. the mother baa not even a right to the guardianship and care of her i'' children they can be torn from her at any moment, at the command of a tyrannical or wicked father. let not the happy end the fortunate turn away. these things arc, although they may not suffer from them. within the last veer, has the moans of a bereaved mother come to us from a foreign land. beautiful italy could not console her for the children of her love. o let us not be deaf to her call, for with w« man does her own redemption rest, she holds her destiny in her own hands. if woman would be but faithful to her trust, if she would make not j only heart and soul but her mind what it should be, if she would cultivate the intellect god has given her, another generation would see her chains broken. think you that the son could endure to sec the mother he reveres and respect*. not alone for the love and tenderness- that have watched over his childhood, but lbr the intellect that has fostered his maturing mind, subjected to the thraldom befitung only an irrational creature. if every woman would be true to herself, public opinion would he soon changed, and in this case public opinion is all. within the last twenty years some progress has been made women have at least proved, in deeds of benevolence, where perseverance, fortitude and moral courage ate required, that they are the equals of rnan. i tiie country that has given birth to mi ss l)ix, must acknowledge this, she has unshrinkingly passed through scenes that might make the heart of the strongest man quail. with woman, then her own destiny rests. in the hands of each mother and sister are placed the welfare of her sex. if faithful to their trust we may 1 confidently hope that the time of perfect freedom will come--perfect freedom to man as well as woman, fur their interests are identical "can man be free while woman is a slave then, and not till then, may the human race approach that perfection to which we are commanded to attain. three poets in a puzzle. i led the horse to the stable, when a frdsh perplexity arose. i removed the harness without dilliculty, but, after many strenuous attempts, i could not remove the collar. in despair i called for assistance, when aid soon drew near. mr. wordsworth brought his ingenuity into exercise, but alter several unsuccessful efforts, he relinquished the achievement, as a fifing altogether impracticable. mr. coleridge now tried his hand, but showed no more grooming skill than his predecessors; for, alter twisting the poor horse's neck almost to strangulation, and the great danger ol his eyes, he gave up the use less task, pronouncing that the horse's head must have grown (gout ordropsv) since the collar was pul on, for he said it was a downright impossibility for such a huge os frvntis to pass through so narrow a collar! 'just at this moment a servant girl came near, and under standing the cause of our consternation, 'la, master, said she, 'you don't go a bout the work in the right way. you should do this, when, turning the collar completely upside-d nvn, she slipped it oil in a moment, to our great humiliation and wonderment, each satisfied a fresh tiiat there were heights of knowledge iu the world to which we had not yet attained.-- cottle's life coleridge. wisdom of the egyptians. six or seven months ago, a merchant vessel left with acarg j of grain lor malta, and returned alter having been sixty days out, the captain reporting that there was no such place, as he had not been able to find it. this was told to the pacha, and he determined with a magic stroke of his wand to remedy the crying evil of ignorance; so he called together the traders and merchants of alexandria, and represented to them the absolute necessity of having scientific masters of vessels, to which they gat e unanimous consent. there fore,' proceeded the pacha drawing his conclusion with logical precision, 'it is neccessary that you should all send your sons to schools and academies in eygpt and europe, for the purpose of recovering the necessary instruction.' at this the people stood aghast, and ventured to remonstrate, but remonstrance was of no avail, and they retired to consult how they might best evade an order so disagreeable to their feelings. after racking their brains for some thue, they fixed on and cariied out the following plaa. e th father took the son of his cook, or of his scis, or his poor neighbor, dressed them finely, and sent them as scions of the moslem aristocracy; so that four hundred young fellahs were introduced under false names to the schools of lvanka and alexandria, and some, i believe, have been forwaad cd to europe. but it was impossible to keep toe gecret long. the pacha was made aware of the trick, and vowed vengeance on the perpetrators. subsequently tee pacha &ceni3 to have taken the right view of the subject; for lie gent them all to labor on the public works, rich and poor, high and low, old and young, declaring that 'if they would remain ignorant as asses, they should work like asses." f.v.11 fho.ii the hgrld. imagine an immense extent of coun try, many hundred miles broad, and many hundred miles long, covered with dense forests, expanded lakes, broad rivers, and mighty mountains; and ail in a state of primeval sunplicty, uodelaccd by the axe of civilized men, and uuteaamed by aught save a few roving nordcs of red indians, and myriads of wild animals. imagine, amid tins wilderness, a number of small squares, each enclosing half-a-dozen wooden houses and about a dozen men, and, be tween each of these establishments, a space of forest varying from fitly to three hundred aide* in length, and you will hate a pretty correct idea of the hudson bay company's territories, and of the number of, and distance between their forts. the idea, however, cosy be still more correctly obtained by imagining populous great britain con verted into a wilderness and planted in the middle of hubert's land. the company, in that case, would baiid, tkrte forts in it, one at the land's end, one in wales, and one in the highlands; so that in britain there would be but three hamlets, with a population of some thirty men, half a dozen women, and a few' children! the company's posts extend, with these intervals be tween, from the atlantic to the pacific ocean, and from within the arctic circle to the northern boundaries of the united states. throughout this immense country there are probably not more sadies than would suffice to form half a dozen quadrilles; and these, poor banished creatures, are chiefly the wives of the principal gentlemen connected with the fur trade. the rest of the female population consist chiefly of half-breeds and indians; the latter entirely devoid of education, and the former as enlightened as can be expected from those whose life is spent in such a country. even these are not very numerous, and yet, without them, the men would be in a sad condition, for they are the only tailors and washerwomen in the country, and make all the mittens, mocassins, fur caps, deer-skin coats, &e. f worn intlie land. --every day life t'a the jtvds of north america. sir isaacxewton's courtship. --sir isaac newton was urged by one of his friends to marry; he excused himself by saying that had no time to court a wife. his friends said they would assist by sending to his apartment a woman of worth. he thanked them for their offer, and promised to receive a visit from her. his friends applied to't he woman, and requested her to dispense with the usual ceremonies of courtship, and wait on the philosopher; which she consented to do. when she came to his apartment, and produced her letter of recommendation, he received her politely, filled and fired his pipe, and sat down by her side, took hold of her hand, and conversed on the subject. before they had brought the point to a close, some question about the magnitude of the heavenly bodies struck his mind with suqh force that he forgot what he was about--he turned his eyes up to heaven, took tlie pipe out of his mouth with his left hand, and being lost in study, without design took the lady's left hand, which he held in his own, and with one of her fingers crowded the tobacco in the bowl of his pipe, and held it so long that her heart as well as her fi ger took fire, and she in a huff sprang up and went off, leaving the philosopher to finish his study a lone. a sermon for: young ladies.-- dow jr. in one of his late sermons, gave the following advice to young ladies: "my young maidens--l know you all want to get married as soon as you enter your teens; but it is better to remain single and live upon the cold soup of solitude than to marry misery and wed woe. i have but a poverty stricken opinion of the majority of my sex. they are corrupted by the mis called refinements of the age, so inflated with pride, so fooled by fashion, so afraid of the soil on which they live, so given to cultivating whiskers and mus taches, while their morals are in a most wretched state for want of weeding, and so overgrown with hair, vanity, and laziness, that scarcely one in twenty is worth being intrusted -with wile. free soil convention at exeter. --the people of rockingham county, without distinction of party friendly to the preservation of freedom upon free soil, and opposed to the election of cass and taylor, held a convention at the town hall in exeter on saturday, july ifitii, for tlie pur pose of choosing delegates to the national convention to be held at buffalo.hillsbury county free soil convention. --the friends of freedom, free territory, and free labor, with out distinction of party, were invited to meet in convention at the town hall in milford, on saturday, the twenty ninth day of july, at 10 o'clock a. m., to choose delegates to the national free soil convention, to he held at buffalo on the 9th day of august next, and to take such other measures as may be necessary to secure the triumph of free soil principles at the coming presidential election. in the call for this convention is the following: not content with sustaining their ac cursed system within its present limit  the slaveholders of the south have pro claimed a crusade for its extension into territory now free--oregon, new mexico, and california. their great leader in the infernal crusade, john c. calhoun, has declared, in his place in the senate, that this is the great issue before the country, and that it must be met! he proclaims for himself and his friends that they are ready to meet it. they have already obtained the control of both the whig and democratic parties, and are exulting in the prospect of their anticipated triumph over liberty, humanity, and the declaration of independence, and the constitution! they demand not only that slavery shall be perpetual where it now exists, but that it shall be permitted to extend itself over the immense and fer tile territories so recently acquired by the valor and blood of freemen! in short, that the american people shall j become the supporters and propagandists of human slavery! unparalled, infamous demand! without distinction, oi party, the freemen of the north art; responding to it in becoming tones of indignation. the bond-? of party, hitherto so strong, burst asunder as the green witbs that bound the limbs of sampson! one i spirit of determined and unyielding re- j distance is pervading the whole north.! the musteiing h'ksta of freemen in, massachusetts, new vork, ohio, and the far west, already shake the continent with their advancing earthquake tread! with oqe voice they shout ini indignant thunder loses, "we accept the issue-- we are ready to iseet it!"-- ld hillsborough county, the birth place of starke, re-echo the cry in tones becoming her old renown. icki o double your salary, all that is necessary is to reduce your expenses one half. people's incomes depend less on what they get, than on what they save. 
  

