Dear Douglass:—ln looking over your paper of the 7th inst., I saw, under the head of Reminiscences of a Slave,” a thing that grieved me much. In a fictitious work (written byy an ex-, judge of Otsego, county,) entitled The Life and Opinions of Julias Melbourne, a reputed Slave, with sketches of opinions of several eminent gentlemen upon the subject of slavery,” the late Rev. John Leland, of Berkshire,; Mass., is introduced and made to stand as the representative of all the thin souled pro-slavery clergy of the free States of this Union. Having enjoyed religious instruction from Elder Leland during fmiy years of my life, and, now that he is dead, have’ a volume of 710 pages of his posthumous works before me. 1 feel, assured that nothing could have been farther from tlie head or heart of that eminent disciple of Christ, than to be, in any sense, the advocate ot slavery". That Elder Leland was acquainted with slavery, is true, having lived in Virginia from 1770 to 1700, a period ot 14 years,during which time he travelled over most of the State, and preached with great success to people ot all col ors and conditions. I lc baptized during that period 700 persons, including ma ny slaves. In negro quarters, and all other quarters where sin and misery abounded, there he was never ashamed to he found in the active pursuit ot his ministerial duties, always depending upon the labor ot his own hands and the voluntary contributions of the people for his support. Although he lived to be 80 years old and devoted 07 of them to preaching the gospel, he never locked up meeting Louses, nor gave encouragement tt ruffian mobs until brickbats and rotten eggs, to put down arguments that lit might hare deemed erroneous, but was .always ready to meet every question o! public interest openly, in broad day, in tree discussion, often repeating a favorite maxim of his, that “error ceases ito be dangerous when truth is left froi to combat it.” If Elder Leland viewed the African people ot our country as the weaker class, as it is very probable he did, that circumstance alone was sufficient to enlist his wholesoul in then cause, and against their oppressors, believing, us did many patriots of his day, that “resistance to tyrants was obedience to God.” On leaving Virginia in 1791, at the close of his labor: in that State, he published a vale dictory address to the people, in wliicl he says; Before 1 close, 1 wish to add word iti behalf ot* the poor negroes und speak lor those who are not sotierec to speak fur themselves. J ain heurtih glad that the spirit ot masters hu greatly übated since 1 have been ii Virginia. It is now confessed by man; that negroes can feel injuries, hunger pain and weariness, and I hope thi spark of good tire will be raised to i fiaine in due time. I confess that I at not as much shocked to see them na ked, gaunt and trembling, as I wa when I came into the Slate. The ah ject subordination, and things relative thereto, do not a fleet me as they one did, so fatal are bad customs; but can never be recouc.led to the keeping of them nor can 1 endure to see om man strip ami whip another,%s free bj nature as himself, without the inter fereijce of u magistrate, or any beirq or thing to check his turbulent wili.- Klavery, in its best appearance, is i violent deprivation ot the rights of na fure, inconsistent with republican gov THE NOBTH STAR, emment, destructive of every human and benevolent passion of the soul, and subversive of that liberty absolutely necessary to ennoble the human mind. Let me ask whether heaven has nothing better in store for these poor negroes than those galling chains If so, ye ministers of Jesus, and saints of the Most High, yc wrestling Jacobs, who have power with God, and can prevail over the angeds, let your prayers, your ardent prayers, ascend to the throne of God incessantly, that he may pour the blessing of freedom upon the poor blacks. How Vould every heart rejoice to see the halcyon day appear, the great jubilee usher in when the poor slaves, with a Moses at their head, should hoist up their standard, and march out of bondage! Or what would be still more elating, to see the power of the gospel sp effectual, that the lion and the lainb should be together; all former insults and revenges forgotten; the name of master and slave be bu ried; every yoke broken, and the op pressed go free but not empty away!” In a pamphlet entitled the Virgina Chronicle, published in 171KJ, Eider Iceland has given to the w-orld a more extended view of slavery, from which 1 beg leave to extract a few sentences to show his extreme unlikenesa to that portion of the American clergy which the author of the above fiction intended lie should represent: “The whole scene of slavery is pregnant with enormous evils. On the master’s side, pride, haughtiness, domi nation, cruelty, deceit, and itiUblcnce; and on the si :e of the slave, ignoi nnce, servility, fraud, perfidy and despair. If these and many other evi’.s attend it, why not liberate them at on<?C W ould to Heaven this w'ere done! The sweets of rural and social life will never he enjoyed until it is the case. The voice of reason (or perhaps the voice of covetousness) says it is not the work of a day; time is necessary to accomplish the important work. A political evil requires political measures to re form.” Again, nft< r speaking of some ima ginary obstacles to their emancipation, lie says: Hut one thing is pretty certain, that fancy can hardly point out how they could serve tiic whites worse than the whites now serve them. Something be done! May Ileaven point out that something, and may the people he obedient. If they are not brought out of bondage in mercy”’, with the consent of their master, I think they will he, by judgment, against their consent.” “The poor slaves, under all their hard ships, discover trtf ineimatron Un religion as the free-born do. When they engage in the service of God, they spare no pains. It is nothing stiange for them to walk twenty miles on Sun day morning to meeting, and back again ut night. They nre rcmnikable for learning a tunc s ion, and have very melodious voices.” In an address delivered at North Adams, Mass., Elder Lcland, in speak ing of colonization and emancipation, said: The negro question, in cr.e view of it, lias been quiet ever since the ad mission of Missouri to the Union: hut in another view, it agitates the public mind. Some of the negroes in the United States have been imported from Africa, hut most of them arc American born. Some have descended from Ame rican parents more than ten genera tions. America is all the country they know, in which the bones and dust of their ancestors lie buried. All their relations and attachments are here.— Why then ship them to Liberia? How sacrilegious! Why not liberate them, and let them form into States, and treat them as sister States? When the grand emancipation is accomplished, and the black citizens have formed into a State or States, within the existing States, or in the Western Hemisphere, there w ill he no need to send any among them to teach them how to till the land, raise flocks and herds, or use the tools of mechan ism, for these things they understand. As many of them are good readers, they can keep their own schools, and the good gospel preachers among them will supersede the necessity of costly missionaries.” I he patriotic and Christian labors of Elder I.eland closed on the 13th Janu ary, 1841, and to guard against all errors that might rise, and to confirm forever the great doctrines of his whole life, he prepared the following epitaph to he inscribed upon his grave: HEnr. i.ir.s the conv of REV. JOHN LELANL), of Cheshire, ho labored (J< years to promote piety, and vindicate the civil aud religious rights of ALL MI X. W c will 11-ov "-i iiitw the above sentiments will comp ue with what the Ex- Judge and Lak Member of Congress,” in his fictitious talc, has put into the mouth ol tins eminent statesman and Christian. And I, said Mr. Leland, say he ought not to be emancipated. Ido uot predicate my opiuion on the anatomical discoveries of r Mitchell, but I thuik the negroes are the children of Ham, and according- to the Bible, they are doomed to be the servants of servants. Besides, I am convinced from my own observation, and 1 have had a pretty good opportunity to observe, for l was two years a missionary to the slave holding States for a Massachusetts Baptist association, that the blacks are altogether inferior to the whites. They are, I assure you, low-minded and beastly in their propensities. They de sire nothing but to eat,*drink, fiddle, laugh, sleep and dance. For my part. RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD 18 THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN. i regard them as a mongrel species, halt* man and half ape.” As the book above alluded to is put forth under the auspices of a respected citizen, and as man/ of its readers will regard it as general!/ accurate in its illustrations of the distinguished char acters alluded to, I have deemed the above extracts from the Works of Elder Leiand worth/ of publication, as a just defence against the foulest of all asper sions that could be cast upon the name of that highly distinguished Christian and patriot. CUYLER TANNER. Richfield. N. Y.. April 22. Selections. LETTER FROM ROBERT DOUG LASS. Our friends in Eastern Pennsylvania will be glad to see the letter from Mr. I Douglass, late of Philadelphia, ft will! interest our readers generally to know that Robert Douglass is an artist of skill and promise, who, in this country, was unable to gain a livelihood by his profession, though he added to it that of a Daguerreotypist; and has there-: fore emigrated to a country where he i hopes the colors he uses, and the way he uses them, will be the test of hisj merit, rather than that upon his own' body, which he neither put on nor can rub off.— JS'utional Anti-Slavery Stand ard. Kingston, Jamaica, Feb. 29, 1848. Friend Gay: —We arrived here safely after a very tolerable voyage. 1 was much impressed with the beauty,as j seen at a distance, of the high moun-j tains of this island, their greatest ele-j vation being, 1 am told, eight thousand' feet above the level of the sea. One, in particular, resembled a giant repos-' Lng, his profile distinctly visible against the soli light of the evening sky, the mist surrounding his capacious brow', giving the idea of a proper-fitting night cap. On landing, we found the city of Kingston exceedingly hot and dusty.! and the w’alking scarcely endurable.— The great numbers of the lower order running to and fro, almost all black, formed a striking feature. Most of them were chanting some air or ditty, which, upon listening to, 1 discovered to be a' hymn. I was impressed with their de votion, and inclined to believe that a population so fond of sacred music must certainly be a very honest one.— We must have had dealings with the! exceptions, how ever,'for we found some J of them great rogues; The rifcxt thing t that made a deep impression u*pon us, was the exhorbitant charges made for everything—board, lodging, and the, products of commence. Alcohol, which! I make use of in my busiucss, and which I have purchased at home f r til) cents the gallon, costs me here £1 the pint—and all oilier aitides aic in pro portion. There arc many Dagurrco typists here, principally Ameiican.— Some succeed—others do not. One cannot walk the streets without meeting groups of the unfortuntc Coo lies who have been so deluded by this Government, and so disappointed in their expectations. They are quite black, with regular features, slender figures, hair exceedingly black and straight; the men mostly wearing a mustache upon the upper lip, and tur bun upon the head, w hich with their entire picturesque costume, make them objects of interest to strangers. Not withstanding the failure of the scheme for cultivating the lands by their em ployment, there are many who clamor lor the importation of African laborers to till the earth; but it is the opinion of men w'no know something of the coun try, that if the native laborers were paid just w ages, the planters w ould have no reason to complain. Hurd times is the universal cry here, and there are not many amusements.— A company of amateur actors give oc casional representations in the theatre, But I am told they arc uot much pa tronized. There have been a series of religious meetings lately held in this city, which have been very numerously attended —and a large portion of the people seem devoutly inclined. Parties are frequent, and generally pass off with much enjoyment. Music is a fa vorite study, and many of the ladies and gentlemen sing well, and play upon some instrument—the guitar, flute, or piano forte. I have been to several such entertainments, which were con cluded by hymns and a prayer. The lower classes are fond of amusing themselves by the beating of drums.— A few' days previous to the election for Mayor, which took place a short time since, parties perambulated the streets w ith their drums, singing and dancing, keeping up snch a perfect discord that it was exceedingly difficult to get any sleep. One ot the candidates was white, and the other colored, and I have been told that more allusion was made to the complexion by the friends of the different parties than on any previous occasion. I was much amuacd bv an orator in favor of the white candidate, who dis« played his talent at the corner of the street just under rny w indow. He wai quite black, and attended by two blacfc companions, all three wearing badgei of bluo paper, the orators of the color ed candidate being arrryed in yellow badges. J te|l you what, my friends,” sail the ora tar, 44 I gwoine to vote for du bucra, case he do plenty good for d< poor blnckee.” (Hear! Hear! shoutet the attendants.) Him have grea lub for we, and if he be agin de mare dat bring plenty goot time for we.” H< continued speaking for half an hour but as no one stop|>ed to hear but hi; ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, JUNE 2, 1818. ittendants, he tookuphis line of march, routinuing bis address ms he proceeded, rhe white candidate was re-elected, it ras said, because his friends had gone o most expense in the bribing ci roters. 1 have bad a pleasant excursion since ny residence here to Port Royal. A urge party of us left Kingston' in the •vening, in two boats, one of them be onging to the missionary schooner Dove/’ and commanded by her Cap lain. We took the passage called the Ponds,” which abound with little Islands, with a bright moon to guide us —such a moon as is ouly to be found in the tropics. The scenery was novel md interesting, and the water so beau ifully transparent that we could see •very object at the bottom, and the fish swimming to and lro in pursuit of each >ther or in search of food. In a nar row passage our boat was aground for i few moments, but our rowers, part of he “Dove’s” crew, athletic Africans, ivith their faces ornamented, or dis figured, rather, «iib horizontal cica trices, apparently produced with hot irons, jumped out and pushed the boat along until we again floated freely. We slept that night at Port Royal, in the Mansion Houge. The next morning, very early, we started for a large cave in the opposite mountain. We made fast our boats at the entrance of the cave, and having stationed the crew to keep away the sharks, or notify us of their approach, we took a splendid hath in the sea.— e breakfasted afterwards within the cave. This is very properly considered a great natural curiosity. It is lighted up by an immense apeiture at the top of the mountain, to which we clamber ed to a great height, and amused our selves by rolling down large stones and pieces of rock. We remained here a considerable time, and then went to Green Bay, where we saw the tomb of Louis Caldy, who was swallowed up by the great earthquake which destroyed Port Royal in 1092. and by another shock thrown out into the sea; he es caped by swimming, and lived many years afterwards to tell the story. Thence we went to Fort Augusta, an immense work to defend Kingston. We were amazed at the solidity of the for tifications, the size of the cannon, of the most improved construction, the quantity of shot and shell, and other j implements of “horrid war.” The intelligence of the black who show ed; and explained the works, his language, and the readiness with which he gave correct answers to questions appertain-; ing to g innery, and other matters con nected with the uje.Qf tW tms-ihJc gines wc werd* contemplating, pleased* as well as surprised, our wh >le party, one of whom, a missionary, informed us that this man, so well informed, and a companion of his, were formerly great drunkards, but had now reformed and taken the pledge. We then sailed some miles up the Ferry river, a beau tiful stream, with woody banks, peopled by innumeiahle squadrons ol crabs, who watched our passage from the en trances to their habitations, hut disap peared in a moment if we approached them. Some were of such gaudy col ors t..at it required little imagination to liken them to those crabs in olhee— military crabs. They retreated so quickly, that wc could not get a shot at them. Women were beating and washing clothes in many places which we pass ed, and I shall not soon forget the pic turesque beauty ot this churrning.river. We took a hath in its waters, and ate our bread and cheese, beef and orang es, with increased relish. On return ing to Kingston, we had no occasion for oars, but with a gentle breeze sailed back to the “Dove,” where we took tea. The bell was rung for divine ser vice, to which all hands were assem bled. When the services were over, W’e made our way to our respective dwellings, well pi ased with our jaunt. I have a commission to take a num ber of views of missionary stations, which are to he engraved. I leave Kingston in a few days on this service, which will give me an opportunity of seeing more of the Island. In conclusion, permit me to return thanks for your kindness in forwarding me several uuinbers of the National A. S. Standard. Always interesting, I find them peculiarly so in this foreign country, furnishing, as they do, authen tic information of the progress of the great cause. I hail their arrival with much pleasure, and peruse them with the greatest enjoyment. I remain yours trulv, ROBERT DOUGLASS, Jr. from if* D«*t»a Chrooofjpe. TO THE RESCUE. Wc were about to draw our pen on the late Washington Piracies—in an agony for words that would he thunder bolts to the soulless; —we were going to chide the miserable dilatorinesa of those who do feel that something ought to be done* when the follow ing came to hand. We like the plan. Moreover, it is laid open with coolness and wis dom. The writer signs himself a I “Junior,” but we suspect he is an old head. We wish the young, whose souls are not turned into sole-leather would read it and go to work. We, j the fathers of this generation, are likely to leave our children but an inheritance of shame. They must bestir them selves or aU i* l°d. Ma. Editor: —I had a thought which, ought to have been spoken at the glori ous meeting »o Faoeuil Hall. Bat be ing only a working man, I could not t presume to talk on that platform. If yo«j|§i& veil of the thought, and can i drfjjßn decent style, send it abroad. I called it a glorious meeting, ll eoutd not be otherwise. The very name of Faneuil Hall could not be pro nounced at such a time without a glori ous oflect. For that word is synony mous with resistance to wrcng. Il wakes the remembrance of a day when men trod these streets—when gencroui hearts ibund nerve to second their no ble impulses when an iron will was not wanting to a pure conscience, to make deeds of its high behests. To think ol th*at day, to admire those men, to ap prove their deeds, is to catch then spirit, if we be not dead. But is the object of our meeting ac complished? Why, for what did we gc up to that Hall? Was it to applaud thrilling speeches? Was it to burn once more with idle indignation at thj wrongs of slavery? The day for thal is past. Or did w*e need to be told thal our fathers were so wicked as to wish to legalize slavery, or so stupid as to attempt it? We hear enough of that in Congress. Or did we go up merely tc resolve? We have been amusing our masters with resolves these dozen years, until the very word fills our ty rants with hope, and ourselves with mutual distrust. The conviction has spread through Massachusetts that the time has come for action, if we be not slaves. We need no formula of words to en sure harmony of feeling. The human ity within impels us in one direction, carries us all to one point. All the suggestions of the present time, and all the memories of the past, centre in one thought—lt is no sin to be free—it can be no crime to aid men to fteedom. Our desire for justice, and our respect for law; our love of man, and our fear of God; all concur in this one purpose —to aid men to be free in this free land, shall not be punished as a crime. We have a Constitution— engrossed upon parchment; laws—-bid in the books. We will know* if they can command justice to those three noble sailors. In Congress, it would seem, all is lost by our former supineness; but the crisis Providence has now forced upon us, we w ill meet— Rckl, iTPt. perturbed spirit of our fathers”— we will meet it like iiicu. In such a case,”said Otis, I despise a fee.*’ The Otises are dead, though the cause remains. Therefore the fee must be raised. My thought was to raise a fund of one or two hundred thousand dollars, the interest to be ap -1 preprinted to the defeuce of the present case, and such others as may arise, i until the Constitution shall establish i justice.” The principal colUld then%J>e refunded. Shares should be one dol ccftaTfity rid riTmtnftJom i inonwealth would take less than a hun !di ed. Subscribers might be registered with the town clerk, or~t>ther trust woithy citizen, in each tewn, and with the committee The cat eof the money once invested in good institutions,w’ould be trifling. I can name men who would look after it, and report annually, for almost or quite nothing, and good i men will volunteer in the towns to collect and transmit shares to the om i! mittee. Had I the tongue or the pen of a Channing, a Howe, or a V* iiittier— load we a single Burritt among us at this j moment, a hundred thousand dollars jj would be invested on the 17ih ol June. He would ask every hard-handed pa triot, what report of our Constitution he should send to the men of the Barii cades. Can it protect innocence? Can it maintain freedom of conscience—of j speech—of the press? He would call on every lover of man, whose sympa thies cross the wide ocean with the j messengers of love and mercy, whe- I j ther he will not do justice to his brother, jHe would call on every lover of God when next he shall celebrate the tri urnph of murdered innocence, whether innocence shall sutler in this land with his consent. And he would not call in vain. From our shops and farms we would run together as our fathers taught us. First of all, the smith would drop his hammer, nor would he wipe the sweat from his dusky brow until his j. haid dollar had rung for Freedom and (the Constitution. The joiner would rest his plane, and the shoe-maker 'j would throw down his lap-stoue; the plough would again be left in the fur row, and the ship would lie at her 1 moorings, until every son of freedom 1 had brought his gift to her altar. Son, did I say? Ten thousand needles would cease to ply, and ten thou-and 1 shuttles would hush their busy clatter, 1 and the daughters of mothers who wedded heroes would be found worthy of such parentage. Massachusetts f owes it herself to"lead the van. Ver i mont, New Hampshire, all New Eng land/ will instantly follow. New York will pour dow n dollars like Niagara, in i res|K>nse; and the broad west will show its descent from New England, a it be done, and the lightning that carries the news of our movement, will cleanse the foul air of the Capitol, (f r e shall save three men, perhaps ma t ny more, from unjust and cruel punish o „fent. We shall begin to atone for our past reraisaness. We shall encourage our faithful servants, and remind oth a ers to do their first work. We shall (i koow the strength of mutual confidence e and of our solemn conviction*. We r shall demonstrate to the world the v alue of a free Constitution. y No time need be lost. A brief at at e c ment of the case now pending; of the i- principles and the consequence* in volved in Us defence; an abstract of the plan for a fund, and an earnest ap h,pea! in its behalf, with a notice of a day i- f<r simultaneous meetings and eontri buttons, might be on a single baf, at it trifling expense, and sent through If known friend* of the cause to every n family in the State. Be assured the I. d. v should not go by w ithout a re- sponse. Enthnsm?m would kir.dlc from 1 Cape Cod to Mount Washington, and a response woe id come bock to aston ish our friends and nppi.l our enemies. I seem to see a reason why a fund ol this sort should be raised, in prefer ence to raising donations outright, suf ficient to defend the present case, li can be more easily, more cheerfully, more promptly done. The inter* »1 would be more available, a more salt 1 dependence for carrying the trial thro triumphantly. Besides, and more than all, the moral effect would be incalcula ble. You may hear again from Justus. fru<;ress of poetry. j In the natural progress of society, the songs which are the effusion of the feel ings of a rude tribe, arc gradual!** pol ished into a form of poetry still retain ing the marks of the national opinions, sentiments, and manners, from which it i originally sprung. Tiie plants arc im proved by cultivation; but they are s-till the native produce of the soil. The only perfect example which we know, 'of this sort, is Greece. Know ledge and useful art, and perhaps in a great mea sure religion, the Greeks received from the East; hut as they studied no foreign j language, it was impossible that any foreign literature should influence the progress of theirs. Not even the name lof a Persian, Assyrian, Phenicinn, 01 Egyptian poet is alluded to by any Greek writer; the Greek poetry was, therefore, wholly national. The Pe lasgic ballads were insensibly formed into Epic, and Tragic, and Lyric poems: but the heroes, the opinions, and the customs, continued as exclusively Gre cian, asfthey had been when the Hel lenic minstrels knew little beyond tiie Adriatic and the /Egean. The litera ture of Rome was a copy from that of Greece. When the classical studies revived amid the chivalrous maimers arid feudal institutions of Gothic Europe, the imitation of ancient poets struggled against the power of modern sentiments with various event, in different times and countries—but everyw here in such a manner, as to give somewhat of an artificial and exotic character to poetry. Jupiter and tlie Muses appeared in the poems of Christian nations. The feel ings and principles of democracies were copied by the gentlemen of Teutonic monarchies or aristocracies. The sen timents of the poet in his verse, were not those whicli actuated him in his conduct, The forms and rules of com position were borrowed from antiquity, instead of spontaneously arising from the manner of thinking of modern com tnuifies. In Italy*, *»henletiwMßrst re vived, the chivalrous principle was too near the period of its full vigor, to be oppressed by this foreign learning.— Ancient Ornaments were borrowed; but the romantic form was prevalent; and where the forms were classical, the spirit continued to be romantic. The j structure ofTasso’s poem was that of i the Grecian epic; but his heroes were Christian knights. French poetry bavin" been somewhat unaccountably j O i late in its rise, and slow in its progress, reached its most brilliant period, w hen a!! Europe had considerably lost its an cient characteristic principles, and w as fully imbued with classical ideas.— Hence it acquired faultless elegance— hence also it became less natural— more timid and more inactive—more like a feeble translation of Roman poe try. The first aire of English poetry, in the reign of Elizabeth, displayed a combination fantastic enough of) chivalrous fancy and feeling with clas-f sical pedantry; but, upon the whole,; its native genius was unsubdued. The poems of that age, w ith all their faults, and partly perhaps from their faults, are the most national part of our poetry as they undoubtedly contain its highest beauties. From the accession of James to the Civil War, the glory of .Shak-j speare turned the whole national genius to the drama: and, after the Restora tion, a new and classical school arose, under whom our old and peculiar litera ture was abandoned, and almost forgot ten. But all imported tastes in litera ture must he in some measure super ficial. The poetry which once grew in the bosoms of a people, is always ca pable of being revived by a skilful hand. When the brilliant and poignant lines of Pope began to pall on the public ear, it was natural that we should revert to the cultivation of our indigenous poetry. —Sir Jamtt Mutinloth. JLT>GE NO MAN BY Hit* DREW*. A few years ago there lived in Nan tucket a most excellent old gentleman, who, by manly prudence and other proper attributes of character, had amassed much wealth. No man wa more respected by all who knew him, but he had one eccentricity—an utter carelessness about hi* dress. His clothes were always of the most com mon kind, though cleaii, ami a stranger would never suppose him to be worth a dollar. One day there arrived at Nan tucket a lumber packet, laden with hoards, the master, or skipper, being a young man, making his first trip a* cap tain, and feeling not a little proud of his new distinction. The vessel had arrived at the wharf, and the master was walking fore and aft over the lum ber, ready for a customer, when the poorly dressed old man abofe mention ed, approached and asked the price of boards. Don't retail, sir," was the reply. I only sell by wholesale."- Well, what is the price for your wUo.e cargo?” “Twelve dollars p*' f thousand feet. The price was named without thought or caie. l ,a the whole,” said the old man, unload ih.m at once.” You .ill. captain; la- 1 T' 1 poJirVaje-I oM ft**-' IV 'k">» HILIJAM C. NEU., rtauinlift. JOHM DICK, Paimi, WHOLE NO—*2;i billet of wood at vour bxck if yo 9 *MRt otf at once. You, without a c€Bt in your pocket, to thiuk to impose upon tne!” r r TTi« old mao walked elf w ithout ut tering a word. Ihe captain turning to a person who came near at the moment, told him the story, pointing to tbs old uian, who turned and looked at them, afid then coutimird his way. Do you know that old man?'* asked the person to whom the captain now spoke. No, sir! Well, dm charge your cargo; I rather guess ho can pay for it. The captain soon felt his error, and in due time the lumber was landed at the wharf. The next morning the old man was there again. So, young man,”he said mildly, “you concluded to accept my offer:” The captain, humbly approaching the old man, said, Sir, I did not know you. Please excuse—sir—l —sir”—The old manjifc? too busy examining the lum ber to notice the stuttering apology, and merely heard enough to know for what it was intended. Give me the surveyor’s ceitificatc,” said he. It was given him. “Your bill, sir.” It was also given. “This is correct, and there’s a cheek for the amount.”— “Sir,” interposed the captain, feeling very anxious to atone for his error— Young man,” interrupted the pur chaser, and he cntphasi/i d young w ith a peculiar tone of voice, all is settled if you will allow me one word of advice —never again judge a man bv his cent. Farewell!” The. check was duly paid, and hud the captain but observed the circum stance, he might have seen the name of the giver of the check, and that of the President upon the hills received for if, belonged to the same person. The above anecdote is strictly true, and canies a good moral with it.— Transcript, THE TELESCOPE AND .MICRO SCOPE, While the telescope enables us toseo a system in every star, the microscope unfolds to us a world in cvi rv atom. The one instructs us that this mighty fdobe, with the whole burthen of its people and its countries, is hut a grain of sand in the vn>t field of immensity —the other, that every atom may harbor the tribes and families of a busy populutirn. The one shows us the insignificance of the world we inhabit—the other redeems it from all its insignificance, for it tells ns that in the leave#of every forcs|, in t'i dowers of every gorden, in the water? of every Aulef, there are world* timing w ith hie, and num berless as the stars of Ihc firmament. The one suggests to us that above and beyond all that is visible to man, there may be regions of creation which sweep immeasurably along, and carry tho impress of the Almighty ’s hand to tho remotest scenes of the universe—the other that within und beneath nil that minuteness which the aided eye of man is able to explotc, there may he a world of invisible beings; und thut, could lie draw aside the mysterious vtjl which shrouds it from our senses, we might behold a theatre of as many wonders as astronomy cun untold —a universe within the compass of n point, so small, as to elude all the powers of the microscope, hut where the Almigh ty Ruler of all things finds f room for tho exercise of his attributes, where ho can raise another mechanism of worlds, and till and animate them nil with the evidence? of his glory. Dr. Chalmers. Thf. N'f.wspapf.r.— W e occasionally meet with a business man who utfeets to (’are very little for newspapers and the information they furnish. Of course, we must give this ela** of nun credit for meaning what they say, b t, nevertheless, we eaiumt believe them to be as independent of newspaper aid as they imagine. We should liho these men to have a momentary glimpse of the business world u s it would he if all newspaper facilities were annihi lated. .Extinguish all the light which the press has shed upon the wauls and interests of society; let all the information it has gathered from all parts of the world, and scattered among its readers, he forgotten; let all the intel ligence it has imparted, ait the enterprise it lias awakened, all the ingenuity and energy it has stimulated, bo annihilated, —and in what stage of advancement may we suppose tho rnoicaaf’G would now he fund? How would a city without a wcll iuformed press ever compete wab ono hat mg tiiat aid Tim one, ui comparison with the other, would he less than half civilised, and would be constantly at fault in the common transact tans of business. And what is liue of a city would be true of an individual who should succeed in depriving hiiuaeil the aid and advantages of tin* modern journal. There are numberless wav* in which tine man of busmen* is bene fited by even the glance at this paper which he takes in the morning, which we need not repeat. The advertise ment* may give him information, or suggest a valuable thought. l*He new department intimate to him thedirectmu which hi* effort* should lake, or tho record of some stirring and sterling example of mercantile life rouim him to those endeavours whu.h will conduct to triumphant success. The expense of a newspaper, :t t* true, i» something, but the probable expense of having r»« journal often vastly great er. Ignorance i* generally costly.— .New York Mercantile Times. It has been calculated that every five families who use slave produce employ one slave! Notices. Meetings in hee West. Henry Wright, the apostle ofpeace, and Charles C. Burleigh, the eloquent Anti-slavery Advocate, will hold meetings at the following places, viz: at Pittsburgh, Pa. June 15th, 16th & 17th New Brighton, ‘ 19th & 20th Louisville, Ohio 22nd Youngstown, ‘ 24th & 25th New Lyme , ‘ 27th Paincsville, Chagrin Fall*. July ***t A *2.1 Cleveland, Twiiwburgh, 1 h Kiel* told, h*h Oth Akron, Mtl, Ravenna, 13th At 1 Ith Randolph, 15th At 16th Massillon, lHih TV meeting* at New Lyme, (Vv*!an<i nuitl Akron, w ill coinnnmcc at ten o'eloek, A M the oth.Ts, on the first day of the in t Mgs at two o'clock, I*. M.; subsequent da\: at 10 A. >1 The IrternL of Anti-Slavery and of Pear are requeued to make all necessary arrange moots lor the meetings, and give a.-> wide notice as posable. Now is the time ti ag.tato. Persons cm avail themselves of this op portumty afforded by these me dings to pa 1 for tlte Antt-Slavery .Standard, to Samvel Brooke. National Convention of the Liberty League. Notice.—Agreeably to the reeommenda tion of the Liberty Party Convention, held ii Aubuni, January 12th and 13th, l*4ri, a Na tiooal Liberty Party Convention will lie heh in the city of Buffalo, on the 14ih and 15t! da vs of June, IH4B. This Convention, from the fact that it is ex jiected to nominate candidates lor Presiden and Vice President; and to take high and ef furtive ground in hdialf of jiersonal liberty free-trade, free-soil, exemption from the burden and curse of war, and troin other violations of the equal rights of all men, will probably attract a large concourse of persons made of a deeply interesting character. The Luca Family. This interesting Band of Musical childret are entertaining the public w ith exhibitions o their powers, vocal and instrumental, tliet were warmly greeted at several anniversary meetings in New York city. The Nations Era states: That the Luca Family consists o the parents and seven children, who are al excellent singers. They reside at New Ha ven, Connecticut, and are of pure African blood. The four lads who sang on this occa sion are from ten to fourteen years of age. The youngest is uncommonly skilful on the pi ano forte. Prof. Fitch, of New 7 Haven, we learn, pronounced him one of the musical ge niuses of the age. What will be thought, said the Chairman of the Committee, of New Haven, the seat of Yale college, when it is known, that although the school fund of Con necticut amounts to nearly two millions of dollars, these interesting lads are, by public opinion, virtually excluded from the common schools T The Reformer of N. J. thus gives them an encouraging word. Thk Luca Family.—Wo should not do justice to this highly popular colored Family, not to hasp ak for tliejn, a respectful patron age and hearing on Tuesday evening next.— The testimonials they present, as well as their programme, hear witness to their tuMc and ca pacity as musical pei formers. The New Postage Hill, The following are described to be some of the principal provisions of the bill reported by the Post Office Committee of the IT. S. House of Representatives. The circulation of all newspapers free of postage within thirty miles of the place of publication, not above the superficies ol 1000 square inches. Pnder one hundred miles and over thirty, one half cent, over one hundred and for any 0 distance oils cent. Newspapers above 1,000 inches to pay pamphlet and magazine postage, which is two cents for the first ounce, and half of one cent for all additional ounces. Newspapers mid ;r 500 square inches go free for the first 30 nules, and pay qiairter of one cent, for all greater distances. Tran sient papers pay two cents when not sent from the office of publication. Publishers of pamphlets, magazines and periodicals, are allowed a free exchange, the same as the publishers of newspapers. The Slave Mother Crossing The Ohio. We remember, says a writer in the True American, the story of a cruel master, who, without cause, ha-1 determined to sever a slave mother, and her only child. .She had been faithful under tho very worst usage, and she determined to remain so, until he told her, that on the morrow, her child must be borne to New Orleans to be sold there in the slave mart. It was mid-winter. The earth was frosted with a hard crust, yet at midnight she started for the Ohio, determined, if she could, to live and die with her child. She reached its banks as the pursuers rose the hill beyond—no boat was near—masses of broken iee were sluggishly drifting along —what was she to do 1 Trusting to heaven, she put her feet on the treacherous element, and with it bonding and breaking beneath her, (spectators oa either side expecting to see her and her child sink at every moment.) she boldly pushed on from cake to cake, until she landed safely on the Ohio shore. Fiva minutes sooner and she must have perished— two minutes later and she would have met with a watery grave, for before she had proceeded twenty steps the ice behind her, close on the Kentucky side, had broken and was scattered ore she reached the mid river. Thank Hod you and your child are safe,” exclaimed the hard-hailed master, as lie saw her land, rejoiced that ho had escaped the resonsihility of their death. Brave woman, said a Kentuckian who had witnessed her escape and met her at the landing, you have won your freedom and shall have it.” The mother and the child were kept together, and liberty and hive are »iow their lot in their humble but hannv b«w. U Was there no true heroism here, and is not the scene worthy the sweetest soim of jioetry or the holiest praise of man Emigrants.—The unprccdentedlv large number of 10,035 stoerags passengers arrived itt the Quarantine (iaouiyi on Saturday and Sunday, mostly Her mans, and in good health and circumstances. The vessels in which they come were in a very dean elate. our if Stiip Fever. —We learn from the Quebec papers that already there have been many deaths at Gross*; Isle. 'J he brig (Governor, from Limerick* out of L7l passengers, eigh teen died oti the passage and ten were sick whnu thf brig armed at the quarantine station, one wf whmu died tin* next day. In the new assembly of Franc near the oratorical tribune, w hich is directly in front of the President’s chair, are tuo largo U»x<», one with 00 scats, for the newspajrer Rejiorv. ere, the other vs ith I*2 for the Editor i-itt-d American Anti-Slavcrr *rr*!ri or nun>r»ic* oocclass. Frederick Doughs*. of R.irh *ter, srtcnd ed th« |>hif*»nn when Mr. Phillip* bad finish ed, am) raid: Mr. -Cfvrirmam and Lm’irg and GtyJlmun It i* with great heaitaUw that I consent ti* rise here to «;>e;,k, after the* aide speech to whnh you have ju»t listened. had lar rather remain a listener to of fu rs, than to bt o me myself a shaker at this stage of the |>n*‘**edmi»» of this meeting. Ido not hope to be able, in the few r* marks I have to make, u> l anything new or eloquent, if, inoeeO, anything new wete needed, lor it will be tune enough to di*cu&» new truth." when old one* ►hall hart been recognized and adopted. for ae veil teen year?, Mr. huirinan, tin A holittrinist* of tbo l mted States have beet encountering obloquy, s.-orti, and opposition ol the niio-t furious eliaracter, for uttering what' I’heir conviction that a man is j mvn that every man belong* to tuinseit ant! to no one else. In proj ag:*u.ig tin? idea, thu simple proposition, wc have met with ull*urn of opposition, and with all sort* of arguments drawn from the liible, from the Constitution and fio n pliibstophy, ttil at length many hav* 1 arrived at the sage conclusion that a mai 1 is something llsc tnan a man, and that he ha.< m»t the right* of a man. An event has jus occurred in the of oluuibu, the cap ital of the Country, known to you ail, vvhicf famishes the proof of this assertion. Sutm j seventy-seten men women and children, tool it into their heads, contrary to the Constitu lion, that they were men—-not thru-fifth* oj m n —that they would have the refined avo cation of blacking bools for nothing for mein bers of Congress and seek an asylum fruit oppression and tyranny in some ol the North j eru States, or under the protection of tin Dntish Lion in Canada. The sequel is wci known; they were pursued by a band of arm ed men overtaken, and brought back in chains t and the men who aided them in their fligh are in a dungeon, and there they will pr aba >lj end their lives. Aery little is thought about this affair— very lutle noise is made about it. It excite. about as much remark, and about as mucl sympathy, as if as many horses had broker away from the halters of their owners, anc again been recovered. Sir, we have, in this country, no adequate idea of humanity yet; the nation does no’ 1 feel that these are men, it cannot see, througi f the dark skin and curly hair of the black man anything like humanity, or that has claims ti human rights. Ilad they been white mei and women, or were they regarded as humai beings, this nation would have been agitatet to its centre, and rocked as with an earth p quake, and like the nations of the old world, would have rung with the thunders of free dom against tyranny, at such an event as this, W e do not regard these men as formed in tlu image of God. We do not see that in tht persons of these men and women whose rights have been stricken down, wliftse vir tuous attempt to gain their freedom has beer defeated, the violation of the common rights of man. Even the gallant Hale, of the Lib erty party, does not dare to sjieak of the men I who aided their escape, as having done a no ble deed. To be sure, be can bring in a pro position lor the better protection of property in the District of Columbia, hut he makes ne allusion whatever to the rights of black men. This projHisition in relation to the rights of property, is regarded by his adherents as a noble act; as a timely measure as indicating great courage and heroism. Nor do I care to deny it. Hut what is the inference? If it be a noble act, a courageous act, to move in the Gapitol of the nation, in the Senate of the I United States, a bill to protect property from the assaults of a orutal and ferocious mob—it that be bold, of course it would be no less j daring and fanatical to move in that Dis -1 triet that the rights of man be protected.— (Applause.) 1 do not propel to make a lengthy speech, hat 1 would like to say a few words about how these things look to others. wail soiiw power the giftir j»ic us, To sccouix-ls as ollicrs see us.” I would like to hold up to you a picture not drawn by an American pen or pencil, hut by a foreigner. want to show you how you look abroad in the delectable business of kid napping and shvedriviug. Some time since —I think it was in the December number ol Punch —I saw an excellent pictorial de scription of America. What think you it was? It was entitled,** Jirotlier Jonathan. It was a long, lean, gaunt, shrivelled looking creature, stretched out on two chairs, and his legs resting on the prostrate bust of Wash ington projecting from behind was a cat o’ iinit* tails knotted at the ends around his person he wore a belt, in which were stuck those truly American implements, a bowie knife, dirk, and revolving pistol: behind him was a wlnpping-post, with a naked woman tied to it, and a strong-armed American citi zen in the act of scourging her livid flesh with acowskin. At his feet was another group; a sale going on of human cattle, and around the auctioneer's table were gathered the rr spixtability—the religion represented in the person of the clergy—of America, buying them for export to the goodly citv of New Orleans. Little further on, there was a scene of branding—a small group of slaves tied hand and foot, while their patriotic and phi lanthropic masters were burning their name into their quivering flesh. Further on, there was a drove of slaves, driven before the lash to a ship moored out in the stream, bound for New Orleans. Above these and several other scenes illustrative of the character of our in stitutions, waved the star-spangled banner. Still further back m the distance was the pic ture of the achievements of our gallant army in Mexico, shooting, stabbing, hanging, de stroying properly, and massacreing t.Te iuno cent with the innocent, not with ihe vuilty and over all this was a picture of the devil himself, looking down with satanic satisfaction on passing events (Laughter.) Here I con ceive to lie a true picture of America, and I hesitate not to say that this description fklls far short of the real facts, and of the aspect we bear to the world around us. Sir, although we have heard conflicting views uttered here U.-riay, of hopeful and de sponding aspect, (if, indeed, we have any de sjKjnding aspects brought to us still, 1 think much more may he said in behalf of the hopeful aspects. The signs of the times have already been alluded to; w. have verv §25*7 L'oxie beyond the limits of ihe United I see some of the audience are going out which makes me think I have spoken Jong enough some plants thrive better by facing cut Oil, and perhaps my speech may is well be cut off here not liecause theft- s no t more u be said, but because your energies havv been taxed quite cnougn already. (Fries u f go on Since then, you me u, v eecd, and, as Henry Clay WvBf j P T ways subject to the will of ,h, d i, be '..p, 1 P roc< d ‘"B wm.-irk ewiren.tr,. lie !«*prfj.l a.|KC ul Ihe limes u r fiomun, Nliite vour France. We have reumry, to bear mtieli till h America and Infidel France.” i 10 l U U Urahce.thut Igo foV.hal infidel?/ no mum r how heinous it nay be m outiou "I the American ,*„ple, strips Ihe chains fro,,, tl.- hn.U of Ur brethren; and agam*t that Christianity wfau-K p..t> them (applause forth* mfidelgy w hid.,... the r« rson of (>cm,e,.x, one of of tfco Frmnsmnal Government of speaks to the black and mulatto that come to ro„ ffr .uiiJi*!c them, aiul express lli.-tr sent linen Is upon the immediate emanci pation of then In el bu n in the French islands. I sympathize with ihat lu/i lehfv thitn,. uk. le lhe». I» ta.-bage tee .L-fri'4c brothers! iron! (Applause.) In France, Utc negtu is a man, while you who are throwing up jrour cap*, waving your banner*, and nuking beauuiul apeecLe* m Utafc'w It’jerty, deny ua our humanity, and traffic m our licah. Six, I would like to bring tnc-n. vividly be fare thui audience, the wrung* ot my dow n-trudde-n countrymen. I hare bo disposition to kink at this mutter in any setm nwiital light, bet to brmg before you stern facta, and keep kawer beiore the Ainenctui people the damning ami disgraceful fact that three millions of people are in chains to-day that while we are here tjxakiiig m their be half, saving noble woids and doing noble de»da, they are under the yoke, suuuung be neath the la*h, sundered from each other, trutLcked tn and brutally treated arid thai tlie American nation, to keep them in tbeir pres ent condition, stands leadv with its ti n thou sand bayonets, to plunge them into their hearts, U they attempt to strike fuT their free dom. 1 want every man north of Muton and Dixon's line, whenever they attend an anti tJavery meeting, to rtiut tuber that it is the Northern arm that does this that you are not only guilty cf withholding your influence, bt.t that you are the positive enemies cf Urf slave, the [*ositive holders of the slave, and that in your right aim rests the physical low er that keeps him under the yoke. (Aj>- plausc.) I want you to feel that lam ad dressing slaveholders, *j-caking to nit u win have entered luto a solemn league and coven i a:;t with the slaveholders cf the country, thai in any emcigency, li at any time the spirit ol fteedom finds a lodgment in the bosom of tht American slave, and they shall be moved U throw up barricades against tbeir tyrants, a* the French did in the streets of Farts, tha you, every man of you that swears to supper i the Constitution, is sworn to pour leader death in their hearts. 1 am speaking to slave holders, and if 1 speak plainly, set it no down to impudence, but to opposition to s!u very. For God's sake, let a n»3n speak w hei he cannot do anythingfebe when letters an on his limbs, let him have this small right o making his wrongs known; at least, let it I* done m New York. lam glad to see there n a disjxtsition to let it be done here—to allow him to tell what is in him, with regard to 1m own personal wrongs at any rate. Sir, I have been frequently denounced be cause 1 have dared to speak against the Ame rtcan nation, against the church, the northen churches especially, charging them with be mg the slaveholders of the country. I desiri to say here as elsewhere, that 1 am not at ai ambitious ol the ill opinions of my country men, nor do I desire their hatred but I mus say, as 1 have said, that I want no nian'i friendship, no matter how high he may stam in church or state, I want no man's sympa tides or approbation who is not ready to sink* the chains from the limbs of my brethren, do not ask the esteem ai.d friendship of am minister or any man, :io matter how high la: standing, nor do 1 wish to shake any inan'i hand who stands indifferent to the wrongs o my brethren. Some have boasted that whei Fred. Douglass has been at their houses, in has been treated kindly, but as soon as he go into their pulpits lie began to abuse them— that as soon as the advantage is given hi in, ht takes it to slab thoscj who befriend him.— Friends, 1 wish to stab no man, but if yoi stand on the side of the slaveholder, and crj out tlie Union a 3 it is,” the Constitutor as it is,” the Church as it is,” you may cx pect that the heart that throbs beneath this bosom, will give utterance against you. J am bound to speak, and whenever there is an opportunity to do so, I will speak againsl slavery. I meant to have said a word about Coloni zation, as I observed there was a vert/ dark looking individual here, (Gov. Finney, of Li beria,) for whose special henclit 1 wished tc say something on that subject. But as I d< not sec him here now, there is no necessity tc discuss this subject fur his benefit. When lie was pointed out to me, 1 thought it quite re markable that so dark a man should lie in fa r of colonization but there are some simph minded men even among colored people (Laughter.) I will just say, however, tha; we have had some advice given us lately from very high authority. I allude to Henri Clay, who, in his last speech before the Colo* nization Society, at AV asliington, advised tht free colored people of the l idled States thai they had better go to Afiioa. He says he does not wish to coerce hr, but thinks we had better go! (Laughter and applause.) What right has hs to tell us u go We have as much right to stay here as he has, (Laughter.) 1 don't care if you did throw up your caps foi him when he came tc this city—l don't care if he did give you “hi* heart on ihe outside of the City Hall and his hand on the inside, 1 have as much rightti stay here as he has! (With great humor.) And I want to say to our white friends thai we, colored folks, have had the subject un der careful consideration, and have decided t( •stay! (Great laughter.) p want tosiy u any colonization friends here, that they mai give tbeir minds no furfher uneasiness on out account, for our minds are made up. (Laugh ter.) I think this is about the best argumem on that subject. Now there is one thing more about us col ored folks it is this, that under all these raosi adverse circumstances, we live, and move and have our being, and that too in |>eace. (laugh ter.) and we are almost persuaded that then is a providence in our staying here. Ido no! know but tlie United States would rot in its tyranny if there were not some negroes in this land—some to clink their chains in the ear o: listening humanity, and from whose prostrate forms the lessons of liberty can be taught ti the whites. (Applause.) 'lt is through us now that you are learning that your our rights are stricken down. At this time it is tlie abolitionist lhat holds up the lamp thai shows the political parties of the north then fetters and chains. A little while ago, and the northern men were bound in the strange fa natic delusion that they had something to dt with making of Presidents of the U. States that is about given up now. No one now ol common sense, or common reading, imagines for a moment that New York has anything tc do with deciding who the President shall'he. They are allowed to vote, but what is the amount of this privilege It is to vote for the slaveholder, or whom the slaveholders select. No men that are now accounted sane think of any other than of a slaveholder or assassin, or both, who shall hold the destinies of the nation, (laughter)—and the reason is because the jienple are convinced that they belong— as they used to say—to the colored bovs ol the south, to the party. They used some times to ask me, Boy, who do you belong to?” and I used to answer, 44 To Captain Thomas Auld, of St. Michael’s, a classleadei in the Methodist Episcopal church; and now,’ 1 would ask, 44 who do you belong tot”— (laughter.) I will tell you. You belong tc the Democratic party, to ihe Whig party, at d these parties belong to the slaveholder, and the slaveholder rules the country. As tht boy said about ruling England 44 1 rul* mamma, and mamma rules papa, and papa rules the people, and the people rule Eng land.” To be sure you have the right it vote, which is like what 1 (Mice heard ol a cer tain boy, who said he was going to live will fits Uncle Hubert, and wheu I go there, raid he, lam going to do just as I please—if unclt Hubert will let me! The Northern people are going to do just as they p!oaar—if tht slaveholders will let them 1 ihe little bit ol opposition that has maniiested itself in thai little protuberance on American politic*—tht Wilntoi Proviso—which our friend Gay hai fully d-tcribed as a tempest in a teapot, I** now quite flattened down. The Whigs, whe said, We will stand by it at all hazards, bavt lairly backed out; they got afraid of ihi Union. In Ohio. I beard men, striking then fists together, saying they would stand by it at all hazards; aud alter a little while'the Him .Slate Legislature came to the conclu sion, after having carefully considered the uiatier, that “lu pres* the question of »o more slave territory, must b.* disastrous to out American l umu New Yotlt can.u out Mpnfdjr in far or of the Fnmpo, and i* has stace free# that the Union wafthe ]mik'd by adherence to that principle jfrd illwcr the North there »this fawtidpißg before that Cier which was Nfirne tuJSf ned, a* has n Mwiuqueatlv tn ched u|l« ty my frn ud I’hillijw; f« r while mea fcoktup their bands in favor of the t'tnon aad tWJTns&itt.tjoti. there a moral conflict in flieteltearta. for, as was so beautifully ex; mated Mr. Parker, at Boston, men cannot fight sfaverjT under the Constitution the Constitution coils the armor about them we cannot strike slavery while we have it on us there is no other way but to throw h off. 1 have no prepared speech, and I will not weary you any longer. 1 have thought since the ljtc occurrence in Frzncej there may be an under current re men 'a heart* here as there was in Paris; Louis Philippe thought himself perfectly secure surrounded by ins 300,000 soldiers, who, with fixed bayonets, were ready to support lum in the cupi rei-sicn of the riots but ihe trooj s w ere i found to fraternize with the people; the sol dier joined the civilian to assert and defend hi* rights. So believe here, after all we have sanl against the American people, there w yel i an under current nervadihg the mass of tiii* country, uniting Democrat and Whig, anti men of no party, taking bold in quarters wt know net of, which shall one day nse up ir one glorious fraternity for freedom, uniting into one mighty phalanx of freemen to brinj down the haughty citadel of slavery with al its bloody towers and turrets. Thcrt’r a good tone coming, boys, A ffixul time coming, \Vait a liitie longer. Wc may not live to m*c the day, Put cuttli shall glisten in die my Of the good time coming; CauacHi fails uiay aid the liuth, tint ihoUi-ht a weapon stroiiger, t ’ll u in the liuule hy its aid, VN ait a little longer.” The Captured Slaves. The Haverhill Gazette has the following notice of the .disgraceful proceedings a Washington. The Northern doughfaces wh< are continually ptaticg about tiie sanctions o the Constitution, the inviolability of the Un ion, &.c., may read it with advantage The capture and imprisonment of som< sixty or seventy runaway slaves, togethei with the captain and crew of the vessel ii which they had taken passage, has occasions great excitement at the seat of government fur some days past, and large tnulis, header by pTOiniiieut and professional men, havt gathered, night after night, for the purpose o intimidating and driving from the Capital tin editor of the National l ira. The whole pro ceeding, out of doors and in Congress, has been disgraceful in the extreme. That th< capital of a Free Republic should be tht j scene of such proceedings, is enough to pu 1 every northern freeunm to shame. Th< southern slave party have hr i: so long accus j turned to command,and thr ma th,or so much o the north as give them the control, to obey,that now,when their dictation is beyond leason ant endurance, they claim obedience as a right. I The truth is, the north have conceded tot much and too long to the south, for the sake jof party. They have virtually acknowledge* their right to rule, and their right to say by w hom they will rule. And there is a disposi lion now among a large class of men of boil parties, to wink at such acts as have trans pired within tiie last few days at Washington and gloss over the conduct of some of the moL i members of Congress who were promineir actors, and to condemn the friends of freedom of Immunity, and of good order, and this dis position is occasioned by a fear of oif'endiur Whigs, whom they expect to conciliate inti the support of a Northern Whig for the Pre sidency. Now, as much as we might wish theii friendship, we arc utterly opposed to a course |of cringing servility to maintain it lor w hile by such a measure we may avoid oni evil, we are creating others of greater magni tude, and forcing ourselves into a dilemma, from which we could be extricated with diffi culty. We do not believe the South will concede i particle to the north, or consent to the nomi nation of a northern man for the Presidency. They are wedded to slavery, and they are tie termini d that the vantage they have garnet shall not be voluntarily yielded up, and if the north choose to vole for their man, they arc united, and if not, they will support lnu alone. There is a largo j art of the Whig party who are opposed to the extension o! slavery, and their number is increasing and strengthening every day, and they are destined ere long to swallow up the Whig party, un less it shall cease its subserviency to southern men and southern measures for the perpetuity of their peculiar institutions, tor the southern votes, to the neglect of northern interests and j northern independence. The day has gone by when men will be ca joled by the professions of politicians of eitliei party, and if they wish to secure the co-oper ation of the mass of intelligent and indepeud ent freemen, they must act what they pro -1 less. The South cannot expect, when they thus attempt to run riot, that they will have the sympathy of ihe north. When a Presi dent can see a mob assemble night after night, to luuzzh the press, to attempt the destruction of property, bullying and threatening free cit izens, and contents himself by simply re questing the Clerks iu the Departments not to join the mob,” we think he winks at it.— When a southern judge encourages a inob to drag f ree men to jail, to be sold into bondage, to glut his vengeance, we are unwilling to tie guided by such council. The south create the issue of North and South, and we are forced to meet it, or bow in submission lo their guidance. Are we so craveu as to follow the blind lead of those whose rule is anarchy ■Shall we sutler the temple of liberty to be supped from the foundation, and penult our selves to be the willinginslruineulsuf our own degradation French Liberty nud American Mobs. The Pa. Freeman contains a report of the proceedings of a “French Sympathy Meeting of Abolitionists,” held in Philadelphia. Af ter some excellent resolutions had been pre sented, and remarks made upon them the re port goes on to say “At this stage of the nu-enug Thomas Earle introduced some as an amendment, or supplementary i titose before the meeting, which he defend* d m a speech highly laudatory of the American nation its forbearance, magnanimity, and Christian con duct. The resolutions elicited a very earnest debate, which bec-une uiloriual and general. At its close, Mary Grew brieily addressed the audience! “My friends We arc a great peopk*; we are a glorious people we are a model Repub lic we are the most forbearing, magnanimous Christian nation under Heaven. V\ e never have mobs; we never burn churches or fire Hulls. American mobs never throw printing presses into rivers, and shoot their owners through the heart. Go ask the slaves of the South if we are not forbearing go ask the red man of the western wilds if we are not magnanimous; go ask Mexico, weltering in her blood, mourning over her demolished churches and talkn altars, if we are uot a h Indian people. Why, the fervor of the piety of the nation was so deeply imprinted on our armies, that they used for wadding their instruments of death, the very page* til the Bible. Who says we ape not a f.'lmstiao nation, m the face of all these frets! My friend*, it i* not possible that ap intelli gent audience Deeds fact or argument to re fute ihe statement* which have been made by one of the speakers here to-night. In the early part of this meeting, when I heard f ranee hj-oken of, my thoughts were across the ocean to that sunny land wfw*rs men broken theii chains, and 1 saw in fancy the representative* of America sent luyiautr the r*>«,|utioi of sympathy uni Miijlau n re- rmtly adopted by this people; prcarntin them In the French people, in the present of La matt mo icd his colleagues, and bear ihens ask: What was yoor own govermnet l doing when these resolutions were adopte j whh acclamation by admitmg crowds l Wha was your Congress doing at that hour An what waa the answer l They spoke it mu for very shame but the voice of truth ar awered, that white the people were gn there in these enthusiastie assemblies to congTatii late France on her effort to obtain freedun our legislative halls were agitated with fierce debate upon the question whether c not slavery was in accordance with right, an ought to exist in the model Republic.” B« cause three bold men dared to stand up an assert the God-given right of all men to libel ty, how the Senate Chamber and Hall of K< piesentauvca were throw n into confusion What strife and tumult was there? Yes think w hat your legislators were doing whe VjKir masses were shouting paraits of praise t rance Standing up in balls consecrated t law, and justifying a mob! Oh, what spectacle was that for the vision of the Frenc! people to rest upon! Think of the seen which, at that time, was being enacted a your own loved Capital. Fifty slaves, pinini with the k»ve of Freedom, such as fired th breast ol the Frcneh, had attempted to tak their birthright and had been defeated. The w ere sold and chamed, and driven off to thei different destinations in the far ISouth. On ol your legislators stood by and witnessed th i parting scene, heard the temble cry of brokei hearts as they were sundered forever. Am this was done by law. Oh, are we not agio rious, Christian people? Those shouts of ac I ckmation and joy for France, as they ascend ed to the sky, mingled with the leuuer, deep er w ail ol those sundered spirits, made in tin image of our God and though you heard i not above those loud huzzas, it rose clear am j distinct to the cars of angels. And is it fo: us to congratulate France? Shall we extent our hands, all dripping with blood, across tin ocean, to grasp her in fraternal fellowship i Shall they speak words of encouragement am chedrtoher; whose lips are polluted will vows of allegiance to slavery “Do you love France l)o you love Free dom Then show your love by works.— Only those who are doing what they can t< j efface this stain from their country’s banner have any right to join in these congratulations i On any other lips, they are a bitter mockery and a burning rebuke. It matters little how these resolutions are disposed of, but it is a mailer of great importance to every one of us, on which side we are found,in this great con troversy between Oppression aud Libci ty n which cause we dedicate ourselves to-night, Therefore choose ye whom ye will serve, the god of this nation, and bow down at theslmne of slavery, or like men, women, Christians, stand ur> in your strength, to seek ils destruc tion. If you would be qualified to extend aid and sympathy to France, in her struggle, come and be baptized at the altar of Freedom and at her shrine consecrate yourselves to the work of abolishing American slavery.” The question was then taken on Thomas Earle's resolutions and they were lost. THE NORTH STAR. ROCHESTER',, JUNE i, 1848. Slaveholding and Methodism. That reverend gentlemen are, yr should be expected to be any better than other people, is jan article which is now well nigh exploded from the creed of all rationally thinking men. JJut as their professions are generally a degree higher, when vice and immorality are proved against them, they appear, in their case, so much the more heinous. The Rev. Mr. Sheer, in a letter published in the National Kra, at tempts to clear himself and the church with which he is connected from the imputation ol being connected with slavery. He aays, in reply to Mr. Slingerlaud's letter, which wc copied last week You first say that the owner of the slaves is the notorious slave dealer of Baltimore. and that hr. is a mnnbtr of the Methodist 'hvrch in good and regular standing. It is not my place here to discuss the nature of Mr. S.'s business, but to say plainly, for the infor mation ot the public, that he is not nor has he ever been, a member of the Methodist Church, so far as mv knowledge extends. And I say further, that I have never known or heard of a member of the Methodist Church being enga ged in the domestic slave trade, either here°or further south, until 1 heard it through yourlet ter and you sir, have the unenviable respon sibility of am :opting, solitary and alone,’ to cast this imputation upon the lamest de nomination of Christians in the United States, and not inferior to any other in piety, useful ness, and respectability.” It is not my place here to discuss the na ture of Mr. S.’s business.” Does Mr. Sh eer consider slave selling right or wrong If right, and the fact that he shook hands, as he himself allows, with one who lived by the fruits of slavedealing would naturally lead to this conclusion, it was not necessary or to be expected that he should “discuss the nature of Mr. S. s business.” His popularity even as a Methodist preacher ‘would not be greatly enhanced by the announcement of his appro val. But if lie believes slavery to be wrong —directly contrary to the genius and spirit of Christianity, what better time could he have chosen to give a fifll and explicit declaration of that belied, than this when he was directly accused ol lending the sanction of his name and influence in favor of a notorious slave dealer One would think that ho would ea gerly have availed himself of this opportuni ty- He has never known or heard of a mem ber of the Methodist Church being engaged in the domestic slave trade.” Where has he been for the last ten or twenty vears T It would not In.* dllicult to furnish him with a number of instances. Oae, however will suf fice for the present purpose. The Rev, C. S. Renshaw formerly of Quincy, 111. but now a missionary to t.*»e West Indies, in a letter vrtitten in l-ilirt or '3‘J to the author of .Sla very as it is” fur publication in that work, says A Mkthowst PiEirucß last fall took a load of produce down the river. Amongst other thtiigs he took down five slaves. He sold them at New Orleans—he came up to Natche*—tumulit seven there—and took them down and sold them also. I*ast inarch he came up to preach the Gospel again. A num ber of persons on board the steamboat (the I uscarora,) who had seen him in the slave* shambles in Matches and New Orleans, and now, for the first time, found him to be a preaches, had much sport at the expense of the fine old preacher who doalt in slaves,’ This will ba enough to refresh his memory tm that point. But are not all slaveholders also gjavedealors I)u they not .buy and sell and barter God's imago And are not many of them members of the Methodist church? Till Mr. Sheer or some other Metlmdui friend of slaveholders can prove that there are do slaveholders in 41 good and regular stand ing ’’with the Methodist church, it will be to little purpose, as a means of clearing the character of that ehureh, that Mr. Sheer, or any one else denies that the notorious Slatler i$ connected with it. His crime is of a dif- form! desfription, but it is not a whit mon criminal than that of the satire gang of slave holding am] dare breeding ’chivalry* and Sen atora, whose connection witliMethodist, Pres bytenan, and other churches is never deniev nor disputed. It is melancholy, hot not tb< less true, that the American church is lfw principal support of Slavery. If the chord had dooe its duty in this matter, slavery wouk long since have been abolished tHftwghou this professedly Christian country; and thi mere supposition that such a scoundrel as thi davcdealing Slattcr coukl be in any way coo nected with it, would now be scouted ai utterly absurd and impossible.—j. o. Abolition of Slavery in the French Colonies. The following decree has just been published by the Provisional Government o France. Lt American Republican slave holders and their abettors, read and uiwardh digest it, and they cannot fail to acquire a better understanding than they have hnhcrU had ot what is meant by the inalienable righ of every man to life, liberty, and the pur suit of happiness.” The Provisional Government, considering that slavery is an attempt against the diguitj of man that by destroying tl»e freedom o nun, it suppresses ihe natural principles o right anti duty that it is a flagrant violatioi ol tha Republican dogma of liberty, equality and fraternity that unless effective measure; follow closely the proclamation already madi of the principle of abolition, deplorable dis orders may arise in the colonies, decrees— Article 1. Slavery shall be entirely abolislied in all the colonies .and possessions o France, at the end of two months after thi promulgation of litis present decree in eacl of them. From the promulgation of thi: present decree in the colonies, all corpora punishment, all sales of iion-liberuted person! shall be absolutely interdicted. 2. The system of engagements for period: ol time, established at Senegal, is suppressed 3. Governors or conmussaries-g» -ucraJ o the Republic are charged with applying tin measuies suitable for insuring emancipatior at Martinique, Guadaloupe and its dejicnd encies, the island of Reutinn, Guiana, Sene gal, and the other French settlements on tin western coast of Africa, the Island of MayotU and its dependencies, and Algeria. 4. All slaves condemned to afflictive oi corrective punishments for acts which, it com nutted by free men, would not have beet visited wjjJi these punishments, are pardoned All individuals transported as an admim&trat ive measure, are recalled. 5. The National Assembly shall fix th< indemnity to lie granted to the colonists. 0. The colonies, purified from slavery, an< the possessions in the Indies, shall be rep re sente J at the National Assembly. 7. The principle, tluit the soil of Franc< emancipates the slave who touches it, is ap plied to the colonies and possessions of thi Kopublic. 8. In future, every Frenchman, even whei in a foreign country, is interdicted from pos sessing, purchasing, or selling slaves, an from participating, directly or indirectly, i any traffic ur dealing of this nature. Ever infraction of these provisions shall involve th loss of the quality of a French Citizei Nevertheless, Frenchmen who shall fin I themselves alfected by those provisions, sha be allowed three years to conform, from th j time of the promulgation of tins deeie* Those who may become possessors of slave by inheritance, gift, oi marriage, shall, unde the same penalty, emancipate or alienut j them within the same delay, from the day o which their possession shall have commenced Flie Minister of the Marine and colonic and the Minister of VVaf, are each, so far a concerns him, charged with the execution u the present decree. Done at Paris, in Council of Government this 27th of April. Slaves nre Happy and Contented Now and then a ease occurs, in which tin slave prefers bondage to freedom; and it doe not fail to be paraded throughout the Soull as testimony in favor of the patriarchal institution. Here is one stcli instance An aged slave, who had been reccnth lilierated in Virginia, and sent to Indiana whci he was too old to work, passed up the Ohi< river the other day, on the steamer Telegrapo alone, on his return to his old master, lfii heart was in “Old Virginny, ’and he had u< happiness, even with liberty, in the land o strangers.” Wonderful generosity When this negri was too old to work, he was turned adrif upon the world w hen he could not take cart of himself, he was sent among strangers This noble and generous master surely de serves immortality or—a halter. But here is another instance which speaks more plainly, and i:i a language not to lx misunderstood, the sentiments of the happ\ and contented bondmen A slave trader from the south purchased a negro man, wife and child, in Covington, Kentucky, and placed them in jail for sail keeping. On Thursday night, the woman, in the excitement of despair, murdered bei child, by cutting her throat, after which tin man cut the woman's, and then Ins own.— The former are dead —tin* letter was living at last accounts, with hut faint hopes of life re covery.” Instances such as this are of frequent oc currence, and we pass them by asa“ tale that is told." Ilieancient Romans, who disdained to live a life of ignominy, and preferred death to bondage, have been bold up to the world as character* worthy of applause; vet, wherein do they differ from this poor, name less slave, who, to escape the operation of a system which is sanctioned by the.laws ol this Christian Kcj übhc, committed this fear ful tragedy How hollow is the profession of Christianity, and how ridiculous is it to boast ol freedom ui a land w here such scenes occur! haute and infamy, burning and eternal, op those who sanction and uphold tin; commission of this outrage upon the rights of man p, IxFLCEHC* OP THE GosPEL l POS It u stated that in Liberty County, Georgia, where a joint mission is earned on by the Presbyterians and Baptists, among a colored population of 1,212, (more than one iburth) are members of some church, and are remarkably correct in all their moral habits.— Bustun Courier. bat can be more absurd than to *(«-ak of teaching comet and moral habits to a chattel, where mamagi i» sanctioned and disirv garded, anti a pr» iniura is set upon ignorance and debauchery Do the Presbyterians and Baptists of Georgia never think of the piopn ety of bringing the slaveowner* under the influence of the goapel”! Their labors would be contracted within much narrower limits, and would be pioducthre of much bet ter results’, if they would begin there. They night, as the slaveowners of Georgia cannot hut he excessively ignorant, begin at the be ginning, and teach them this gospel, thal man created in tiie image of God they might teach that he who su-afeth a man an 4 sclfeth him, should surely be put to death after that, they might fegw, but eautlmudy, ti affirm that 11 all mrn are brethren; might then read for tbeir especial benefit, se veral times in succession, the entire epiaile 01 James. When these hm prweipfr* are firm ly engrafted upon the slaveowners* minds, they might ascend, with at least some pro* pect of their being understood, and appreciated, to higher and more abstruse doctrines. Is it not possible to bring at least one fourth** of the few thousands of slaveholden under the influence of this gospel! Try j. t>. Cm Cm agrees Interfere with Insert i The United States Congrew either hare or hare not the power to legislate on slavery, If they hare not, why do they do it t and i( they hare, why do they not carry their legis lation further Mot many days since, a bill to pay for a slave, who left his master, in Prince George's county, in August, 1841, was discussed in the House. It this is not legislating on slavery, what is! If the North may be called upon to pay for runaway slaves, why may they not question the propriety of the South having slaves at all is a poor bargain in which all the advantages are on one side. Senator llutler, of South Carolina, lately expressed himself in the following emphatic manner on Southern slavery I feel that: the sentiment of the North against the institution of slavery is advanc ing with the certainty of the malaria from the. Pontine marshes—with the certainty of all progressive movements, and there is no dis guising it. f rom the time of the Missouri Compromise, tho spirit of fanaticism has gone on with accelerated rapidity, and it now forms one of the dangerous elements of sectional ambition. I declare solemnly heft re I leaven, that I believe we are in a doom, minority, and that it is the duty of the Suuili to take some measures to avert the evil. make the prediction, that should any part of Mexico come into tin* acquisition of this Union, there will be provision, to prohibit slavery.” The follo ing is probably tlie result of this wise Legislator's belief, and the means he would adopt to avert w hat he calls the threat ened evil”: Washington, May 3, 18-18. -4 Bill to compel the General Government to support Many —Protection to Colored Citizens of the Free States. A hill of vital importance to the States was presented to the Senate this morning, from the Judiciary Committee, by Mr. Duller ot South Carolina, to protect slaveholders, and aid them in reclaiming their fugitive slaves. Accompanying the bill was quite a lengthy report which Mr. 11. read; also a i report from the Kentucky legislature upon the same subject, which rei«»rt went to show that certain slaveholders in that Slate pursued some hall dozen slaves belonging to ihcin, to Marshall, in the State of Mieligian, where they were prevented from taking ihem by a large mob, their own persons exposed In violence, and they were ordered out of the Slate. 1 lie report of the Committee states that ('digress has no right to interfere to prevent slaveholders from reclaiming the liigittvefugitive slaves, hut on the other hand, they are bound hv express provisions of the Constitution to .ml in protecting them in holding this property —that some of the free states had passed laur- in direct violation ot these provisions of tho Constitution, and made tbeir public offi cers and citizens liable to heavy penalties in case they assist the master in obtaining his fugitive slaves. I They also claim that the law of 1703 is unjust, has been misconstrued, and they ask for its repeal. Jhe grievances contained in the report of the Judiciary Committee, and the report ot the legislature of Kentucky, accompanying it, are numerous. Ami sum ming up the whole matter, the Committee come to the cool, and deliberate decision, that their only safety—the safety of locomotive property*— is in Congress, anti hence ihe hill, vv hicli empowers all officers of the Federal Government, postmasters, clerks, attorneys, and al! who are in the employ of Uncle Sam, to aid the master in capturing his runaway slaves. These officers are, by the hill, em powered to act as magistrates, and the master or Ins agents or attorneys, can bring the lib erty-panting pilgrim liefore them, prove pro perty, make the government pay charges, and ihey can take him away. Furtlier, if anv person attempts to prevent the master or his agents from reclaiming their slaves, they are subject to a line of one thousand dollars, to be recovered in an action of debt, before any court having jurisdiction of the case.— Ihe reading ol the reports took nearly one hour, and when it closed a motion was made and carried to print ten thousand extra copies. Mr. Hale then submitted a resolution, which also passed, to instruct the Judiciary Committee to inquire into and report w hat ac tum is necessary to protect the colored citizens ol the iioii-siavebolding States. Thus yon see that the Judiciary Committee of the Sen ate of the United States have aimed a direct blow to the annihilation of on- of the most important principles of the Constitution, by subjecting and prostituting i-.,. Federal Government to the support ol slavery. Will the jxople of the free States submit to such a palpable violation of ibeir rights! Will they consent to pay their proportion of money to keep m being an institution abhorrent lo heaven and all good men More of this hereafter Huston Whig. 1 oor, mistaken Senator f even this will not do anything lo save your darling institution. It is doomed.” It is a great lie,” which all your buttresses ofe legislation cannot sup port. ihe “spirit of fanaticism,” as you are pleased to call it, which, iti other words, means the spirit ot truth,” is stronger than the spirit a slavery, ami all your u.eaaurea to avert the evil" will be vain and unavailing, —I. D. ShAVKks Cafti kkd—Two Brazilian slave schooners, one with four hundred siaves*oi\ board, and the other with only the crew, hut fitted up as a slaver, armed al Sierra Intone on the I6th of April, prizes to Hritish mett-of war. IT/* Tho lion. J. Crowell will please ac cept our thanks for a copy of the speech of Mr. [ridding* of O no, on the bill to pay the exec utrix of Benjamin Hodges, deceased, for a Slave who left hu master in Prince George's guilty, in August, 18l l,and was supposed to have escaped on board the British Feet. Nosth Stax, Noe. 2\ and SuL-In coo*s i}ucnce of a greater increase than war antic., pared to our subscription list, our issue of those two numhera has fallen short of the demand. V\ ill friends ftyror us by returning their spare copies. Dependence Perhaps there is no greater obstacle in the of Reform, than this everlasting dependence on society for a living. The merchant, the mechanic, the lawyer, the editor, and the minister, are all more or less deterred from Speaking out against popular sins and institutions, for by doing this, they fear to lose patronage, and thereby the means of living. At this moment I have those in my mind who Would be outspoken for reform and improvement, were they freed from this dependence and had a competence or living secured. It assuredly is a bad state of things that thus fetters a man's mind, and compels him to suppress his convictions of right, in order to obtain bread. Some of the more resolute, fearless and thoughtful, have risen superior t«i such things, and trampled them under f*»t, defying the frowns and contumely of the world, and the impending prospects of poverty and neglect. Such heroes are greater far than those who win that title on the battle field. The memory of the latter shall nol, w hile the former shall he held in everlasting remembrance. 1 be one is the hero of J ruth and Right—the other, of error and unnght «‘ousn as. 'Hi timid 1 and conservative, though many 4,f them, arc well-im uung mid amiable, lack it,.- moral heroism to identify themselves w ith any movement which thereby endangers their reputation or living. 1 have been frequently advised by mvne of my friends of this con native disposition, to cease my co-operation with abolitionists and refonneis. which ren red me obnoxious to the multitude, and that inv circumstances were such as to require the good opinion and patronage of all and that 1 muld not .Ilford to be a reformer! These councils have doubtless had their influence, as all ciieumstanees have and it is greatly to be regretted that wrong has so many advocates and truth so few, and that society is mean enough to stv to a man, 11 iieve as 1 do, or starve!" This it do.», virtually, by giving him a had name, withdrawing patronage, in juring liis character and crushing his influ ent"; and thus hundred 1 are alarmed, and are dumb for the right. They suppress their ruin j- tions, and succumb to a corrupt public sentiment and gory slavery and devouring war continue llieir riot on human hearts, uiusuidemncd by their dependants,who fear to speak. There aro those, however, who have no Midi excuse to plead, who are above want, who are comparatively secure from depend ence, and arc deterred, not from the fear of jHiverty, but from baser motives. With such men, money-making is the absorbing idea— the controlling thought—the paramount con sideration—the chief end of existence w hile truth, righteousness, Christianity, if at all thought of, are merely incidental. Money making first; everything else afterwards.— How infinitely demeaning is such a spirit, and vet how widely it prevails! Why should iliosc fear who have homes secured, and an ahuii lance at command ?—why should they lie forever grabbing, grasping, struggling, agonizing for more and more, and more why do they not li dp those to get homes, or a foothold on ih 1 earth, “who have not where to lay llieir heads?”—why do they not extend their baud to relieve the oppressed, and by this bless, and happily, and beautify the world, instead of monopolizing ihe gifts of God, and causing sorrow, and desolation, and poverty Alas! they are deterred from these noble acts by a spirit the most paltry and unworthy. Hut as a class, the clergy exert more influ ence than any other, in moulding the eliarac. ter of a nation, and are consequently the more ca|ablc for maintaining that silence which gives consent” to* the sins of the age. If any man more than another should possess an intrepidity of soul, an earnestness of pur pose, and an unwavering adherence to piinci ple—who should be daunted by no threats, tinawcd by no violence, who should go forth with high resolves, relying upon the power o* truth, and determined to speak that truth, ii should be he w ho professes to be a guide ant an instructor to the people. No fears of pov erty —no prospects of scorn and neglect—in scowl from the rich, nor cursings from tin aristocratic or conservative, would deter bin for a moment from decrying popular error and vices. But how few we see of this de seription They are almost universally look •ing for their reward in dollars and cents, ii winning a popular name, and securing wcaltl for themselves and families. They are no irut men, nor true ministers, or very difleren would he their course. MILO A. TOWNSEND. May 10, 1848. The Ohio ltl.u k Lnws.-->o. 2. 'When the t'(invention met that formed tlu t '(institution, abutting Ohio as one of tlu Stales uf this confederacy, it inserted in the preamble, to that instrument the following, it part as the declaration of principles tt|ton which should rest the superstructure of the State Government. •“We, the people of the Eastern division, of rtlit territory of the United States, North-east •vl the river Ohio, having admission into tlu (I nioji Ac., in order to establish justice, pro mote the welfare, and secure the blessings o liberty to ourselves, do ordain and establisi the following Constitution.” Then follow! fSiiiiorig the rest, an article prohibiting slavery <Vid involuntary servitude otherwise than foi the commission of crimes, the strong popula voice through their representatives assembled pronouncing in favor of free institutions. Ii order to understand vvliat that body is suppos -ed to have meant by the words justice arid thi tflcumgs oj tdxrty it w ill Ik- necessary to re fer to the bill of rights contained in Art. VIII Sec. 1, which goes on to say:—“That all mei are born equally free and independent, am Jiave certain natural inherent and unalienabli rights amongst w hich are the enjoying and de fending life snd liberty, acquiring, jxwsemng and protecting property and pursuing and ob taming happiness, and safety; and every frei republican government, being founded or llieir sole authority and organized for the grea purpose of protecting theit rights and liberties, and wcure their independence, to tlfoc these ends, they lure at all times a compleu power to alter, reform, or abolish their gov ernment whenever they may deem it neces sary.” Theoretically expressed, but pronoun«*H impracticable in their application; rhetorical flowers employed only to deck the expanding idem of the Fourth of July orators, who in their gnsai boncvoleocc, on sneb occasions ts pronounce bberty and equably as the universal birth-right «f en If these, which they tell us are the true principle* of just government amongst men were carried into practjcj, thro would be se cured to the whole people, all the righto that true republicanism demands but when as if in grave mockery to these very principle*, we find used the word kIuU as the only qualifica i lion necessary to posse* and enjoy the right* of citizenship, and color made the basts of distinction in free *offr3ge Ad in courts of law. then do justice, liberty. equality, and all the ennobling and dignified association* that eluster around such word*, fall as un meaning sounds upon the ear— an idea! with out its reality, as the slave who dream* pleas antly of liberty and freedom, but awakes to feel more keenly the blow from the driver's ln«di and the chains that bind him to his prison bouse. Therefore, when phraseologies like theae occur, they rr.u«t receive Uie practical endorsement of tlt. tr American meaning to be properly understood. W hea fe al! men then ate spoken of as being entitled to the same rights and privileges, of course the word all is to lx* understood in the abstract; an idiom in modern democracy signifying white, wfthoul reference to country or condition. Thus being the inference wc can inure r *adi!y appreciate the justice of the following, know n as one of the black law s of Ohio, winch says That no black or mulatto person or per sons, shall hereafter be permitted to lie sworn or give evidence in any court of record or else where in this State, in any cause depending, or matter of controversy, where either party t ih smte i-- a white person, or in any prose ention which shall lx* instituted in behalf ol this M 1 unst anv white person.” Ii v.->ii h; p rr u» >l. that this exclusion of c< u ,i t -mi.oijv. repulsive and huinili ati.ig to in eiii" a proper sense of justice i.-> virtually r. fusing to take cognisance of in juries, that colored citizens may suffer at the hands of the white. The most grevious out rages may be perjietrated upon their j»ersons and property —villanous frauds practiced— life threatened, and even taken —kidnapping vagabonds may enter the domicile of the col ored man ami with violent hands, drag him from his quiet home to a state of the most ab ject slavery—roberies and assass-i.iations can be committed upon them, with the fullest as surance of safety, without in fact the possibili ty of an arrest warrant being issued, unless the facts in such cases are first established by white testimony. Thus is every avenue for the administration of impartial justice to color ed citizens cltoaked, and their natural inherent and unalienable rights, to enjoy and defend life, acquire and possess property, are usurp ed and taken away by legislative enactments. In my last 1 mentioned such parts of the black laws, as relates to certificates and bonds mostly inoperative, being looked upon as dead letters in the statute book, but this clause \vit!» others, which I shall notice in roy next, lias and still remains in active force against every colored person in the Slate, excepting those mentioned in the recent decision cf the Supreme Court, where equality of privileges is granted to those only, whose bhtod approach es nearer the white than the African race. A. J. A. Eaton, Omo. Address to M. R. Delany. The following address was delivered on the l“th of May, 1818, by John I. Gaines, in response to eric delivered by Dr. Martin R. Delany to Friendship Division No. 2 of the philanthropic order of the Sons of Temper ance” and is published by request. Brother Martin It. Delany—Sir:—The agreeable t:u-k has been conferred upon me ol responding, in the presence of this gay, fash ionable and intelligent assemblage of our citizens, and members of our order, to the excellent, well-timed and eloquent address de livered by you on this occasion to the Sonsol I Temperance. And when the truthful words were falling from your lips, w e felt as though we could realize in your person the emphatic lutes of the poet The mind that would I* liappy, Must be great— Great in its wishes; great in its surveys, Extended views a narrow uiindextended.” .Sir, in this we think we see you exemplified and fully portrayed. Your aim is lofty your purpose is noble your prospect and hope are highly flattering. The idol of your soul is to elevate and dignify man and wherever you have fm.n a pen; le the most abject and mis crable. have \<n:r talent and genius foua<: '(«*sl a ivc.i; .id most of its enjoy ment. How w this agree with the iitimort.il, ne\oi-dj4.l ru< rmers of the six teenth century such as Mclancthon, and j Zwingle, and Erasmus, and Luther lJut O how it (brows into the shade the shallow hearted philanthropy of the reformers of the nineteenth century! They seek to please; you to instructthey to court the favor of the opulent and powerful, while every energy and impulse of your soul is w illed to the pro motion of that (‘lass of American citizens who are denied the most common-place privileges I and essential rights in the land of their birth. what a glorious position this! What col ored American can contemplate and tlnnk of j it without having his heart overflown with the I milk of human kindness Sir, w*c have watched for these last four 1 years the course you have put sued in refet er.ee to our rights—the proscribed of America J —and the best means of obtaining them, apd i we have found, and still find much to applaud, much to admire. You saw us in an abject, pour, despised condition, like the poor Bushmen of Southern Africa. Your eyes could not leave the scone, and your heart turned away from it m sorrow. You boldly stepped forward, being in Uie prime of your manhood, and grasped with a giant's power and a giant intellect, at the cause or causes which produced it. You were met at the thresh hold, and told that you w ere doing wrong, disturbing the harmony of society and all because you dared to tdl a world and a people who were |he special objects of its contempt that the cause of ibe mtM»ry, Ac., must be removed before us ef fects would cease to be felt. And who were they w iui thus cast your name out as etil? They were cokued men! Ye*, sir, the very men whose cause you alone have espoused. O, shame, where ist hy blush?” Rut u*ft thank God that tins dark dav and hoar have town hy, and a brighter *ky has began to dawn; and now wherever ooe can ip found possessing any tateUigeacr, and har ing one drop of African bfcmd running in bis reins, be in ready and eager to subscribe to the truths you had often taught and now teach—-that self-exertion is the mainspring to human action and human improvement. Sir, the spirit of the age in which yon and I bve, is progressive. It in moving slowly, but surely, to the great prize of man'* exist-! eoce. God d signed, in his infinite w isdom and providence, that man should be free—as free as the air we breathe, and enjoy and powsrus the highest degree of rivilwauoe, and nolwiihMaading it may be stayed for the time being, it must come, and will come. Sir, we feel proud that one like you, so well qualified, both by nature and education, should represent our cause; one who has not a drop of Anglo-Saxon blood nrnning in his veins. Not that we are prejudiced to color, —for this idea we spurn —not that we have any selfish or morbid appetites to gratify hot for the simple reason, that whenever a mind of a higher order is exhibited among us, some go -sip or goose is ready to attribute it to a little sj>cck of white blood which U said to be coursing through our veins. We hurl back the bastard charge into the teeth of those who make it, and declare here, in the face of heaven, that it is as foul as the black heart that conceived it. Sir, 1 regret, exceedingly regret, to inform you, ihat wc, of the Queen City, have greatly retrograded on the subject of temperance. Once upon a lime —for well do I remember the hour when alcohol dared not raise his hideous front among us—we looked upon him with contempt. He could find no shelter in our closets, no protection in our lle i was to all intents and purposes an outcast, among us. Now (I tell it in shame) he is caressed, cajoled, loved. The young ladiesi love him, and the gentlemen hug him close to their bosoms; indeed, he has become fashionable. How striking and applicable just here the following sentiment! O virtue! thou art fled to brutish beasts, And iih*ii have lost llieir reason.” But, O Temperance, thou art of God. Your heart is the scat of love, and gratitude, and affi ‘Ction, and hope, and prosperity; your sinews and nerves the gjrcat fountain stream from which emanate human happiness. One more remark, and I have done.—Ac cept Dr., this tribute of our respect and though you w ill soon part from us—part w ith the bustle and din of our city—part with many kind friends, whose affections you have 1 won—part, perhaps never again to meet upon this terrestial globe; yet, believe us truly, 1 that what wc have said is deeply engraven upon our hearts, and can never be erased. Cincinnati, 0., May 12, 1818. Notes by a Resident. To Richard Robert*, Esq., Edinburgh i Dear Sir, —When I saw you in Edin burgh, a few months since, you expressed a wish that I should write you some account of things in general in this model republic. My friend Mr. Douglass has kindly j)gr;niUed me to address you through the columns of the 1 North Star. I avail myself of his permission, though I api by no means certain that what I have to communicate will be either now or interesting. What I have to say will be written right on, just as it occurs to me, with j out any attempt at order or arrangement. will endeavor, however, to avoid repetition and verbosity. The first thing that strikes a stranger is the clear deep blue of the sky, and J he bril liant sunshine. One who lias never been out of our own little island, and to whom its almost perpetually misty atmosphere is a thing of course, can have no idea of the clear azure of a bright day in this country. The climate, in this respect, is similar to that of our neighbors on the other side of the channel. The [mst winter, which I have spent mostly in Western New York, has not been by any means so severe as I had beau led to expect; it was, however, as I was told, unusually mild for this country. There were frequent snow storms, and while they lasted, the weather was sufficiently cold and piercing; but after the storm ceased, the sky became I clear and bright as a day in summer—often I painfully so to the dazzled eye. Spring is i later here than in England but when vegetation does commence, it progresses with amazing rapidity. A very few weeks since, thq trees were bare, and the ground was covered with snow. Now, we seem to be far advaneed in the summer; and the birds are singing, and the flowers and trees are in full bloom and verdure, and the fragrant breeze wafts gently over the waving corn fields. j I will pass over New York and Boston, which have been so frequently described by travellers from your side of the Atlantic, simply remarking, that the description given by Dickens, of the holiday-looking aspect of New York, is that which best accords with my own first impressions of that city. lied bricks, bright sunshine, and green shutters, are nearly all that one can distinguish for the I first day or two after arriving there. A few days’ longer residence will open up before him many beauties which can compare not unfavorably even with the suburbs of London and other large cities in England. Boston is of much more sober exterior. The I green shutteis, and the red bricks, and the bright sunshine are there also; but their glare is in some degree moderated by the frequent admixture of unassuming but substantial looking buildings of grey granite*. It is altogether a more English-looking city I than New York. Boston, however, did not strike me very favorably. Many of the streets are excessively narrow and crooked— consequently not over clean; and it has the appearance of being altogether too much in the water. The suburbs of Boston are sufficiently handsome. It is in that respect like London, It may be pleasant enough fur the wealthy merchant, who is there only for a few hours during the day but is by no means to be recommended as a rosid -nee to the me chanic who properly estimates the importance of pure air for the preservation of health. But I must adhere to my i> rst resolution, and say nothing about these cities, though I am strongly tempted to say a good deal about the people of Boston. They, and the inhabitants of New England generally. Have many points of character in common with the Scotch—this one in particular, that they are shrewd bands at s In re sin- Bet. sfrer all, I did out get telw* fa Mdi, petted fawe f «f e* mate many parch—ee. Inarmed nuuij fa. •westing acquaintances fa tfagcily with p,. r sons of sterling character, I fatal] ever eutcrtaia a pieaafaf rafaflfaaoce aad arilh others whom you know, of bum it w nm sow needful to speak Most of the people ahe— one meets with fa Boston, come from a port of* the world which fa called Down East.'* Where that fa it fa tery hard to determine. When at New Turk, down cast r4tns to mean Boston, Rhode Island, &c.; when at Boston, it means Portland and other parts of Maine; wheft there, it possibly has same other meaning, though of that I know not. The probability fa, that down east fa bouoded soraewhete. It is a very rare thing to hod a Yankee living in the place where he was bora. The down casters more west; and the inhabitant* of the west move further west; the far west,” in this respect buing unlike the down east,” inasmuch as it has ahsolutdy no famadarv' The descendants of the first r.-ttlers of West ern New York have for the most part emi grated Vestw ard U> Ohio, Indiana, or Wis consin. Like the red man and the buffalo, they seem to be at home only in the foteat and the prairie. Travelling iu Britain fa a matter cither of necessity or pleasure; here it fa a habit, or perhaps some would even call it a law of nature; provision is therefore made on a very extensive scale, the thinness of population considered, for the supply of this want. From Boston westward to Albany, two hun dred miles, there is a railroad which fa well conducted. The fuie the entire distance is four dollars. 1 rorn New York again up the Hudson to Albany, during the summer mouths, steamboats run twice a-da?, charging sometimes only fifty cents. From Albany westward as far as Buffalo, the journey may be performed either by railroad or canal. The distance by railroad is nearly three hun dred miles. 1 he railroad is of course the most expeditious, and the canal the cheapest. It used to be said, some years since, that the most economical rootle in which a man could spend his time, was to travel by sailing vessel between London and Abeoleen. The same may now be said of these canal boats. The jacket-boats travel at the rate of about four miles an hour, the fare being rather undei three cents a mile, —not a very extravagant charge for board, lodging, and transportation. The line boats are cheaper and slow er. The canal packets in this country arc much largei and more commodious than those in Scotland. I was anxious to see the mode of travelling by these boats, and went a short excursion ol some thirty miles, a few days since. Pas sengers, if the w eather peimit, eongregateor the top of the boat, where, if they have no: acquired it before, they cannot fail to learn tin art of bowing. The bridges are so low tha: those sitting on the top of the boat nius either stoop or be carried overboard. The} generally prefer the former. Sometimes the} must kneel on their hands and knees, ant occasionally even lie down Hat. This neces sity of dodging the bridges very forcibly, impresses upon one s muid the propriety o wakefulness, but what odier good purpose i: serves I have not yet been able to discover Berths for sleeping are very ingenious]} erected in the cabin at night, aad cleared of in the murning. They are, however, to; confined to be comfortable. Travelling in this way is sufficiently tedious. The conductor are civil enough but you may get aboard o ashore the best way you can, as they rarelj stop for the accommodation of male passengers —scarcely for females. Whether or no the traveller who avails himself of that modi of conveyance effects his irausit between tin boat and tiro shore, or whether he has his neck broken or tumbles into the canal, seem: to be no concern of theirs. This may in th< day time be well enough; but at night it 1 risking too much to take a leap iu the darl for the gratification of mere Yankee impa tience. There is not, however, much danger and travelling in this way is not w ithout it! advantages. The object of my excursion was to visit t farmer to whom I had an introduction,residing near Palmyra. I was welcomed by himsti and his interesting and intelligent family with that frank hospitality w hich is a charac teristic of the people, especially of the far tners of Western New York. Ilis farm lici in a part of the country w hich is peculiar!} well cultivated. The scenery is rich an< picturesque, in many places reminding me lrom the frequent alternation of hill and dale of the county of Kent in England only th< glorious hedge-rows were awanting. Th< land is fertile, and sells at about one hundret dollars an acre. In this country, there are no old ruins o castles, or cathedrals, or monasteries, as ii all parts of England and Scotland; yet then are hero also objects of interest, The onlj thing I could hear of in the neighborhood oi Palmyra was the hill where the notorious Jot Smith is said to have found his gold Bible. It is in fact the birthplace of Jloroumism. The whole story of the Bible, which, ol course is too idle to be repeated, carries on its front the grossest imposture; and yet bv what numbers it has been believed BeUel in the incredibly is not confined eiiher to Ma hommedans or Papists. Many thousands ol the professed Christians of this civilized am! enlightened republic have contrived to swallow the preposterous nonsense which Joe Smitl delivered under the name of revelation. Th< hill of tliis famous miracle is from 150 to 20C feet high, steep and conical in shape, and or approaching it from one side, has something the appoarar.ee of North Berwick Law, fa Scotland, but fa in reality the commencement of a continuous ridge of low hills. Fruit trees of every description—quince, apple, pear, plum, pcaeh, apricot—ail grow and are very productive in this district ol country. The farm houses, which are gener ally of wood, two stones high, and painux white, with green shutters or colored window blinds, have a very cheerful and pictimwqu* appearance. They generally stand on sum alight eminence, aad may he seen at a con siderable distance, if they are not hidden it the deep foliage of the surrounding elm, cm cbetnut, or poplar, gbneing in the brigbi sunshine. The idea that fa entertained bj your citizens and Scotchmen in genera), abuu the fanners in this part of tha country, tha they are uncouth and uncultivated, fa verj erroneous. The reverse fa thecaae. Tbej ore not in that respert a very great bo hind the Ear* lawhisn ■‘SUoof f where a tofermbfe ethwwtiun can he uj. are established, with few except***, ia *l] the towas and Tillages. There m o*» doubt room for tnapcuvemrai ia this respect. I hare amt some teachers who veto totally oafit for their d sires. This defect ought to he UkaediMl, sad when the ardaoaa tenew of the teachers ate mre btw rally rewarded, it wiU be. Bat I mast stop. This letter is lengthen ing mtt heyotid my Kants. What 1 hare said has been chiefly about the bright side and the outside of this country. Would that I could always remain on the bright s;de It is to me, as to most others, fur the most pleasant. In some letters that may fellow this, 1 shall possibly ssy some things that may not be altoother gratifying to Americao s*.U-km\ But be that as it may, I hare set my mind upon speaking the troth as 1 find it, and whether it ulfends or pleases John Bull or Brother Jonathan, is r.one of my business. I ant, Sir, yours truly, R 1 HARD JONES. Rochester, May 30, IS4«. London, May 12th, IWB. Dear Sir.—The great depressim of busi ness umier which we have been suffering du ring this spring has given way considerably ■since the meeting of the French constituent assembly. They have been sitting upwards of a week, and so fir things have gone on well. The Provisional Government having resigned, the assembly has elected a temporary Govern ment consisting of Messrs Arago, Gamier Pages, Marie, Lamartine and Lodru Knllm. You will be surprised at the ordeT in which these names are put, but it is according to their position on the poll. The only way there is of accounting for Lamartine being so low, is that they weic offended at his refusd to ac cept a place in any government of which Le dru Rollin was not a member. These five are not to be ministers of partic ular departments, but a kind of presiding council having the ordinary Cabinet Ministers under them. War has been going on for some time be tween Denmark and Prussia, which has se verely inconvenienced our merchants and ship owners, in consequence of the Danes having established a strict blockade of the Prussian ports. LkJ Palmerston announced the other day that he had every hope tlat it would speedily be terminated by the mediation of this country. Whatever settlement they may come to, I hope that our G overnment will recognize the principle that it is not the interest of Den mark or of Prussia that is to be considered, but the wishes of the inhabitants of Holstein Schleswig. That they wish to be separate from Denmark seems from their elec ting the chevalier Bunsen the Prussian am- I C l bassador at this Court, their representative m the German Diet. The most interesting point at present is Rome. Many Romans had joined the cause j of the King of Sardinia and of the Lombards against Austria, but when any of them were taken prisoners, the Austrians treated them as mere bandits, war not having been declared i between Austria and Rome. It was at the sime time intimated to the Pope that if hede dared waragainst Austria, the German Church would renounce his spiritual authority. The Romans however were determined on war, and as the Pope refused, he was by tiro last account a prisoner in his own palace, aud had consented to place all political power in the hands of a ministry, from which priests were excluded. This ministry seems to have prom ised to declare war, but it is nevertheless ex pected that the Romans will insist upon the j Popes divesting himself of his temporal au i thority. This is quite right in itself and yet I one cannot help regretting tint the catastro phy sh hi! 1 come o i so good a pope. A general movement for parliamentary re- I foim has commenced in this country, headed i by Hume, Cobden, Bright, &c. I have no doubt that it will shortly be successful, though not in this sossjono of parliament. Yours truly, R. S. D. Jl»w to Give. At a missionary meeting held among the negr es in the West Indies, these three i resolutions were agreed upon:— 1. We will all give something, j 2. We will all give as God lias enabled us. 3. We will all give willingly. As soon as the meeting was over, a Icaal ing negro took his seat at a table, with pen and ink, to put down what ea*h came to give. Many came forward ami gave, some more and some less. Among those that came was a rich old negro, almost as rich as i all the others put together, who threw down j upon the table a small silver coin— Take dat back again,” said the negro who received the money. Dat may be according to de first resolu tion, but not according to de second. The rich old man accordingly took it up, and hobbled back to his seat in a great rage. One after another came forward, and almost all giving more lhau himself, he was fairly ashamed, and again threw down a piece of money on the table, saying, Dar! take dat! It was a valuable piece of gold but it was giveu so ljl-Umiperedly that the negro an swered again, No djt wont do yet. It may be according to de first and second resolution, hot not ac cording to de lastand he was obliged to take up his com again. Still angry at himself and all the rest, be sat a feiig tune, till nearly all were gone, and then eaiue to th table, and with a smite on his face, very willingly gave a large sum to the treasurer. Very said the negro, dat ac ourdmg to all de resolutions. The Right to appear as Attorney. To the Editor of the Tribune In your paper of this morning, under the title of “Interesting Decisions,” it is stated ihat Judge Morse decided at th Kings <!o. I Circuit, tnat Aaron Bradley, a man oi color, could not practice as attorney, iu., on a©- j count of his complexion. Such statement t» incorrect. The point w es raised on a motion which Mr. Bradley was opposing, that he (Bradley) never having beeu admitted as an; attorney, could not practise as such. Mi. Bradley, in opposition, cued the act amenda tory to' the Jodiewry act panned at the last Mscnuß of the Legislature, by which a provided that any person of full age may practice upon being especially authorized so to do by the patty to* whom he arts. The Judge decided that by the provision* iff th* f.kfostituttou any person wishing to practice must am only be of fell age ami of gw si moral character, but must aiuo pamem the requisite qualification* oi learning and ability, and that as so evidence was produced to foot either of Mr. Bradky’a good moral character or of bis qualifications, b_ could not promt him to practise. He however allowed him to uppaae th motion, which was a motion to s it nude a default, as there was an other pe*»« prrywt to power* th-'. pt waulT? ngfc*. TV defiwk was set aside, trmg desrty irrefttlaT. Nettling was ssm! about Mr. Bradley’s cwHir, on objection beum made to bun on that pro*, wl, •nd had such aa objection K-cn made, is l doobs that it would have h>v« porofdlv overruled hy the Judge. By ffri ing this an -r v"* J* u thither Urn <We of Troth Justice. New Ywaa, April R, I{L|B. fa out bumble njmitan. the Jb*tr* might to .be arerftuM for has tymnaieal and *W<| ikrueon, as reported shove. TV feet that he overruled it himself, in the particular case before bun, affords a p<iugt**t illustraiiim «ff. it* folly. The defendant s cfvde* of Mr. Bradley to eondoct his suit, ioffimafari* evi dence of B.‘* putareasto? the requisite charac ter and acquirements until retorted by coun ter evidence. So decreed tbr last legislature, an*l the Judge ha* taken a high-handed course in subverting a clear and u»;*>ruul pruvtotuu of law.— Ed. Triton*. _ I One of tha C'uriops Trait* of the pr.s-ot ag**, is, sending people to attci.d to tlic vice and igmuattce uf distant communities, wbib a hundred tunes ss much vie* and ignorance exist at home, and indeed, in every “civil ized” community. —Best on 'ourter. Address of Asti-Slavcry Women of West ern New York. Under a deep and abiding impression of the duty we owe to God and owr fellow beings, the Anti-Slavery women of Rochester feel constrained to continue to persevere in their efforts for the oppressed and suffering bond- j men who still remain toiling lit the Southern prison house. We are frequently brought painfully to remember that not only i 3 their labor w rested from them unremuaera ted not only do they siilfor from intense hun ger and cold; not only are the f males, mre sisters, subjected to the cruel and passionate outrages of thsir tyrannical masters and over seers but there are daily instances of sun dering the dearest ties in nature, thus sepa rating them forever. And can we expect any thing better—can we look for benevolence or fine feelings from a system so foul a id fiend ish as slavery? It would be unreasonable, because a corrupt tree cannot bring forth good fruit.” Therefore, knowing that with out associative action we canot render efficient aid to this holy cause, wvr affectionately invite the coperation of the citizens of Rochester and the public generally. We ask them to bear in mind the injunctions of Jesus, “All things whatsoever ye would inen should do to you, do ye even so to them.” Remember, also, the beautiful parable in which he calls our attention to the sick and to those who are in prison, and concludes by the forcible assertion, “Inasmuch os ye have done it tooneofthe least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me.” We feel assured all that have hearts to feel, and are careful to attend to the monitions of conscience—ail who are deter mined to live for the good of our race, instead of devoting all their time to their own personal ease—all who feel bound to improve the precious time allotted to them here, by promoting as much as possible the cause of truth j and righteousness in the earth, will come for ward in the work of laboring to banish forever the demon of slavery from our land and in so doing, instead of an example of corruption i and wickedness, we should be a light to the j world.” We hope no one will feel too poor, nor any i too rich, to enlist in this holy cause. The Christian’s influence, in whatever situation, is always salutary, and will certainly produce its good effects. We ask for the aid of* men and of women;-—we call on the old and the young, the farmer, the mechanic, and the merchant. We ask all and every one to give us their help to devote what they can spare, either of money or of the fruits of their la bor, to the work of restoring men and women j to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights and blessings with which thay were endowed by our Creator. For this object, we propose holding a Fair in December next. We ask the females in the adjoining towns and country around us, n> i get up sewing circles, and prepare such articles as will be most saleable, and to come, furnish tables, give us their company, and help us, not oidy in seliing those things thus prepared, but in convincing the public mind of the necessity of our perseverance and fidelity, and thus he helpers in hastening the day of emancipation. Abigail Bush, Rochester. Sarah D. Fish, do. Sarah L. Hallo vrri-L, do. Mary H. llallowell, do. Sarah A. Hurtis, do. Margaret A. Larson, do. Elizabeth Sully, do. Piiehb Treadwell, do. Charlotte S. Wilbur, do. Hulda Anthony, do. Rhoda De Garmo, do. Catharine G. Bhaithwaite, do. Sarah E. Thayer, do. Catharine A. F. Stebbins, do. Amy Post, do. Henrietta Platt, Bath. Susan R. Doty, Farmington. Maria Wilbur, do. Elizabeth Smith, do. Esther Hathaway, do, Caroline Halstead, Walworth. Julia Parker, do. Eliza Cooper, Williamson. Amy Mott, do. Rebecca M. C. Capron, Auburn. C. G. Hamblin, Port Byron. Margaret Prior, Waterloo. Mary Ann McClintoc*, do. Laura Murray, Victor. Mas. Mackintyre, Darien. EXTRACT From the Speech of Mr. Giddings of Ohio, on the Resolution of Mr. Palfrey to inquire qhether the members of Congress have been threated by a lawless mob. I wish to address few words to gentlemen in regard to the slave trade of this District. We all know the fate of slaves taken from this country to the i slave consuming regions, the Golgotha i of this nation. We are all conscious, that the fifty persons taken by Hope H. .Matter, from this city, last Friday, are doomed to cruelty, toiture, and premature graves. They have gone to painful and linger ing deaths; and the momentous ques tion comes home to each of our con sciences, on whom rests the deep damnation of their taking off? There is but one answer. All who have aided or lent their influence to sustain the law of Congress which authorizes such infernal deeds. Nor is that all; those of us who have failed to exert our powers to repeal these disgraceful laws are guilty for our neglect. I dare not claim to bo exempt jnysclf. We art; involved in the dread responsibility. History will record the fact, and trans mit to unborn Bges, that we, the mem bers of this House, at this age of light and knowledge, and of civil liberty, maintain and keep in force a law lor selling fathers aud children, mothers and tender babes, to torture and legal ized murder. In the day of retribu tion, will not their blood stain our garments Our guilt is daily increasing. Every victim of this barbarous law enhances our responsibility. The gentleman from North Carolina exults, that his State was not concerned in the import ation of slaves, and connects the hor rors of the middle passage with New England cupidity. Hut does that in any way relieve the gentleman from his own responsibility in supporting the t slave trade in this District? He, sir, I has constantly opposed the abolition of this infamous traffic, carried on here before our own eyes, and attended with greater mental suffering than was the African slave trade of the last century. He must answer for his own sins. I admit that a fearful responsibility rested upon those of our New England fathers, who encouraged or engaged in that execrable commerce. justify them not. I condemn them for it. There is but one excuse for them.They lived in a darker age than the present. The force of truth, the rights of man, and the claims of God, were not brought to bear upon the people of that age in the concentrated rays with which they have since pierced the intel lectual darkness which then locked up the sensibilities of our race. But, sir, New England has long since, not only abandoned the slave trade, but she has discarded the institution of slavery, and proclaimed her hostility to all oppression. The sin of our fathers ought not to be visited upon their children. But sir, would that gentleman cxtcuuatc the guilt of the present age, by showing that even greater crimes were committed by those who have gone before us? They must answer for the sins which they committed. We are responsible for our own acts. And when that gentleman boasts that North Carolina did not engage in the African slave trade, he should beer in mind, that his is a slave-breeding State; that one portion of her people get their wealth by raising and selling their follow-men; that the slaves thus reared in this Christian land must of necessity be far more intelligent than those of Africa, and capable of far greater suf fering; that the slave trade, now carried on in that Stale, actually in flicts more distress and heart-rending anguish, in proportion to the number of jts victims, than did the foreign slave trade at that period. Therefore would advise the gentleman not to boast of the moral purity of his people. They are now, at this time, engaged in crimes that would have shocked the humanity of the African slave-dealers of the last century. We have been assured repeatedly, during this debate, that if we continue thus to express our detestation of slavery, that the Southern States will secede from the Union. Now, I would advise gentlemen to spare us from those threats. During half a century, the slave power has controlled this government, holding Northern rights and Northern interests subject to the burtheu of Slavery, wkich has con stautly sat like an incubus upon the whole nation, paralysing our energies and retarding our prosperity. The Union of our fathers has long Since been abandoned, discarded, and trampled upon by the slave power. Texas has been forced upon us in violation and in total subversion of the Constitution. In direct a id palj able con flict with its obvious provisions, slave holding foreigners from Texas now sit in both houses of Congress, and vote in the enactment of laws to govern the rights and control the interest of North ern freemen. A war has been waged, an hundred millions ol dollars expend ed, and twenty thousand lives have been sacrificed, for the purpose of ex tending slavery, to confirm the slave power in its control of the government; and now we arc threatened with a separation of the slave States from our Union. Of such an event I have nei ther hopes nor fears. Dependent on us for protection, for support, indeed for the very existence of Slavery, 1 lja\e no expectation nor apprehension that lhej will abandon us to our best interests, and throw themselves upon the tender mercies of their slave popu lation, who for ages have received no thiog at their hand, but oppression and outrage. No, sir, when I shall see a condemned criminal u 4 lon the gallows, with the rope üboqt his neck, and fast ened to the beam above, become impa tient, and. in order to dissolve the uniou between himself and this world jump from the scaffold before the drop is permitted to fall, then sir, and not j then, may I believe that the slave Mates may hasten the terrible judg ments that aw a them l»y seceding tVorn the Union. N*»t till then will 1 believe that they can be driven from us. The gentleman from Virginia, tMr. Bavi v,) as he has often done before, has attempted to show that what be I calls the abolition movement,” ori giuated in England, and is now kep «p by British emissaries, both in thii Hall and through the countiy. Thi gentleman has not the merit of origin bating the charge. It was made ntam jyeara since hr a member from th« State. I suppose there can be no mi* understanding as to the terras he uses When he speaks of the abohtioi movement,” I presume he refers to thi efforts now making to extend humai liberty, to restore to mankind theii natural rights, to strike oIT the chaini of slavery from the limbs of its vie Minis, to stop the accursed traffic ii human flesh to which I have already alluded. That is what we all under stand by his language. It is diflicul to trace out the origin of these move ments in favor of liberty, home trace them back to the time when the sturdy barons of England extorted from King John the great charter of Englist (liberty; others to the revolution undei Cromwell; and others date it from the commencement of our own revolulior of 1770. If the gentleman, however, refers particularly to philanthropic efforts in behalf of the oppressed color cd people, 1 deny the correctness of his history. The first effort in favor of the equal rights of the colored man, pul forth in England, so far as my know ledge extends, was by Granville Sharp, in 1707, for the release of Jonathan .Strong, a slave to David Lisle. The slave was liberated on habeas corpus, and the owner, in true slaveholding spirit, challenged Sharp to mortal combat for thus daring to maintain I the rights of humanity. Sharp continued his efforts, until joined by Wilbcr force aud other distinguished philanthropists, w hose lobors did not cease until their final triumph. But long previous to that time—in deed as early as 1646, the good people of Massachusetts, in general court, had taken mearures to restore certain colored persons brought from Africa to this country, as slaves, and actually sent them back to their homes. If, therefore, the gentleman refers to ef forts in behalf of colored men, Massachusetts is entitled to the honor of first moving on the subject of abolition. The Legislature of that State was the first on this continent to give universal and equal liberty to all her people. Her Abolition act, I believe, dates as far back as 1780. The people of the other New England States, and of New York, New Jersey, and Pennsyl vania, soon became abolitionists, and repealed their slave laws, and gradu ally restored liberty to their slaves. All this, and much more, was done in this country during the last century; while the gentleman dates the move ment in England subsequent to 1824, and in this country as late as 1802. A few days since, the gentleman took occasion to speak snceringly of Ohio, and to extol the institutions of his own State. Now, could the liberties and oppression of the people of Vir ginia be brought into common stock, and then each were to draw out his aliquot proportion of slavery and of liberty, it would be pronounced at once the most barbarous and oppressive gov ernment upon earth. Suppose that gentleman, by such equal apportion ment, were to receive at the hands of an inhuman overseer or master, a 'scourging until his lacerated flesh should hang in quivering shreds, or to see his daughter torn from his embrace and sold at public auction for nameless purposes, should we, in such case, jextol the humanity of his native State? Were he to receive his share of the tor jture, misery, and oppression inflicted upon the slaves of that State, he would, fmethinks, be the last man hereafter to I advocate a system which has been dis carded by the Mahommedan barbarians of Algiers and Tunis. I would not have referred to Virginia, or her insti tutions, had not the gentleman dragged Uhein before the House, and forced them into debate. I The gentleman seems to think the slaves incapable of taking care of themselves, if manumitted. is a common remark. Slaveholders gener ally urge the necessity of slavery to prevent the slaves from suffering. This is now, and always has been the plea. Louis Philippe thought the people of France incapable of tak ing care of themselves, and he there fore desired to exercise a sort of fatherly love for them. So it was with the British Crown in 1775, and so it has always been with every opponent of freedom, from Nero down to the I gentleman from Virginia. Why, sir. the slaves of the South now support not only themselves, but they sustain their owners und families in a system of wasteful extravagance. But he insists that they are destitute of the intellectual ability to manage their own affairs. Sir, I shall not be doing that gentleman, nor any other Southern man, injustice, when I say, that one of the most talented and eloquent men I have ever met from the slave states, was a fugitive slave. Give them the advantages we enjoy, and they are our equals intellectually. The late experi ments iu the West India Islands have shown to the w orld the fallacy of the gentleman’s argument. The gentleman, however, says, that abolitionists look to the insurrection of the slaves. Sir, who does not look to that inevitable result, unless the slave States remove the heavy burdens w hich now rest upon the degraded and im poverished people whom they oppress? Is there a slaveholder w ho cun shut his eyes to this sure finale of slavery? And why should we not expect it? Were wc thus oppressed, outraged, and abused, would we not use alAlie means which God and nature have placed within our power, to remove such evils? Would .not duty to our selves. to our offspring, to God, and to humanity, demand that wc should rise with one accord, and hurl our oppres sors from us? Can we justify our fathers of the revolution in their pa triotic struggle for political freedom, and then turn round and condemn the slaves of the south for breaking the chains which hold them in physical bondage and in intellectual degrada tion? No, sir; no lover of justice no unbiassed mind, could blame them for asserting aud maintaining thei, inalien able rights. hen tbit time comes, as rotne it must, we shall say with Jeffer- AlmigJuy has jp attribute which will perauthuD to take side with 1 1 the slaveheOMilllf Thus spoke the 4 sage of MoaiEpo, and we are con i strained to aiflpthe truth and propri •!ety of the deefaration. I will merely add, that with ha* “1 tremble for my i country, when I reffoct that God is just, and that his justice cannot sleep >i forever.” i v THOIAS CAUIMiTO.X MAC At LEY. i Mr. Macauley, in his personal ap -1 pearance, and in the material and phsi cal part of his oratory, contradicts ai- I j together the ideal portrait one has form ed on reading his speeches. Every ‘man would, of course, have his own es- M pecial hallucination; but the chances ’j are ten to one that the majority would have associated with his subject every (physical attribute of the intellectual, investing him in the imagination with a I I voice fit to give utterance to those fine passages of declamation w ith which his speeches abound. The contrast ot4hc reality is, in many respects, very strik ing, And nature has grudged Mr. i Macauley, height and fine proportion, and his voice is one of the monotonous and least agreeable which usually be long to our countrymen north of the Tweed, a voice w ell adapted to give ut terance with precision to the conclu sions of the intellect, but in no way naturally formed to express feeling or passion. Mr. Macauley is short in stature, round, and w ith a growing ten dency to aldennanic disproportions.— His head has the same rotundity as his body, and seems stuck on it as firmly as a pin-head. This is nearly the sum of his personal defects, all else, except the voice, is certainly in his favor.— His face seems literally instinct with expression, the eye, above all, full of deep thought apd meaning. As he walks, or rather straggles, along the street, he seems as if in a state of total abstraction, unmindful of all that is go ing on around him, and solely occupied w ith his own working mind. You can- I not help thinking that literature is not! a mere profession- or pursuit, but that it has almost grown a part of himself, 1 as though historical problems or ana- lytical criticism were a part of his daily and regular intellectual food. j v In the House of Commons the same abstraction is still his chief character istic. He enters the House with a cer-j j tain pole-star to guide him to his seat, how he reaches it seems as it were a process unknown to him. Seated, he folds his arms and sits in silence, sel dom speaking to his colleagues, or ap-! pearing to notice what is going forward. If he has prepared himself for a speech, it will be remarked that he comes down much earlier than usual, being much addicted to speaking before the dinner hour, when of course his memory would be more likely to serve him than at a late hour in the night, after having en dured for hours the hot atmosphere of the house, and the disturbing influen ces of an animated debate. It is ob servable too, that, on such occasions, a greater number of members may be seen loitering about the House. An opening is made in the discussion, and he rises, or rather darts up from iiis scat, plunging at once into the very heart of his subject, without exordium i or apologetic preface. In fact, you! have for a few seconds heard a voice, pitched in alto, monotonous and rather shrill, pouring forth words with incon-i ceivablc velocity, ere you have become I aware that a new speaker, and- one of! no common order, lias broken in upon the debate. A few seconds more and cheers, perhaps from all parts of the I I louse, rouse you completely from your j apathy, compelling you to follow that; extremely voluble and nut very entic- ing voice in its rapid course through t ic subject on which the speaker is en tering with a resolute determination, as it seems, never to pause. You think I of an express train w liich docs not stop even at the chief stations. On, on he .speeds, in full reliance of his own uio-; mentum, never stopping for thoughts, never halting for an instant, even to. take breath, his intellect gathering new vigor as it proceeds,haling the subject after him, and all its possible attributes and illustrations, with the strength of a giant, leaving a line of light on the pathway his mind has trod, till, unex hausted, and apparently inexhaustible, he brings this remarkable effort to a i close by a peroration so highly sustain ed in its declamatory power, so abound ing in illustration, so admirably framed to crown and clench the whole oration, i that surprise, if it has ever begun to wear off, kindles anew and the hearer is left utterly prostrate and powerless by the whirlwind of ideas and emotions that has sw-ept over him.— Frazer's Magazine. I>K. MATHEIt RYLES. One of the most celebrated wits of j the olden time in’New England, was the odd clergyman whose name heads this paragraph. He was born in Bos ton, in 1703 and was the first pastor oL the church in Hollis street. He was an ardent lover of literature and cor responded with Pope, l.ansdowne, and; VV atts. Unlike most of his cotempora ries, he avoided politics in the pulpit— expressing always a mortal abhorrence of the John Owens and Hugh Peterses, the Kettledrumles, Poundtexts, and Macbriars, that so ofteu disgraced the sacred desk. He was a zealous Tory, however, and his sarcastic expressions of his opinions in piivatc excited much bitterness towards him. Many anec dotes arc told illustrating the quickness and sharpness of his w it. Tudor, yi his life of Otis, gives several which may be new to some of our readers.— Once, having been tried as an enemy to his country, he was sentenced to! confinement, and a guard placed over him. Afterwards he was set free, and then again placed under a sentinel, and finally freed again. In speaking of! these, transactions he said, he had been guarded, re-guarded, and disre-; garded.” Opposite to his bouse there was a very bad slough in wet weather. One day two of the selectmen, who had the care of the streets, driving in a chaise, stuck fast in this hole aud had 1 to gret out into tbl mud to extricate their vehicle. In the midst of their struggles, the waggish divine*ppeared f at and bowing profoiAidly cried Gentlemen, I hjMfeoften com plained to you of tbisMHMce, without my attention being it. I am verv glad to ffee you stirring in tkc mat ter mar During the famous ‘‘dark day” in 1780, a superstitious old ladjr, living near the Doctor, tent to inquire if he could account for the phenomenon, His answer was, my dear, you will give my compliments to your mamma, and tell her I am as much in the dark as she i*.” Once, however, the Doc tor met his match m wit. Having paid his addresses unsuccessfully to a lady, who afterwards married a Mr. (Quincy, the Doctor on meeting her, said. "So madam, you prefer a Quincy to Bytes," Yes, for if there had been anything worse than biles, Heaven would have afflicted Job with them.” TATTOOING. I beheld a man extended flat upon his back on the ground, and despite the j forced composure of his countenance, (it was evident that he was suffering agony. HU tormentor bent over him, working away for all the world like a stone-cutter with mallet and chisel. In one hand he held a short slender stick, pointed with a shark’s tooth, on j the upright end of which be tapped with a small hammer-like piece of wood, thus puncturing the skin, and charging it with the coloring matter in which the i instrument was dipped. A cocoa-nut shell containing this fluid was placed upon the ground. It is prepared by mixing with a vegetable juice the ashes of the ‘armor,’ or candle-nut, always preserved for the purpose. Beside the savage, and spread out upon a piece of soiled tappa, were a great number of] curious black-looking little implements of bone and wood used in the various divisions of his art. A few terminated in a single fine point, and, like very deli-1 cate pencils, were employed in giving the finishing touches, or in operating upon the more sensitive portions of the j body, as was the case in the present in stance. Others presented several points distributed in a line somewhat resem bling the teeth of a saw. These were j employed in the coarser parts of the work, and particularly in pricking in; straight marks. Some presented their points disposed in small figures, and be-| ing placed upon the body, were, by a single blow of the hammer, made to leave their indellible impression. lob-‘ servod a few, the handles of which were mysteriously curved, as if intended to be introduced into the orifice of the ear, with a view perhaps of beating the tat too upon the tympanum. Altogether, the sight of these strange instruments recalled to mind that display of cruel looking mother-of-pearl-handled things which one sees in their velvet-lined ca-: ses at the elbow of a dentist. The artist was not at this time en-> gaged on an original sketch, his ject being a venerable savage, whose! tattooing had become somewhat faded l with age and needed a few repairs, and accordingly lie was merely employed in touchi g up the works of some of the old masters of the Typee school, as de lineated upon the human canvass be fore him. The parts operated upon were the eyelids, where a longitudinal streak j like the one which adorned Kory-Kory,j crossed the countenance of the victim, j In spite of all the efforts of the pooio old man, sundry twitchings and screw-1 ings of the muscles of the face denoted i the exquisite sensibility of these shut-' ters to the windows of his soul, which he was now having repainted. But the artist, with a heart as callous as an ar my surgeon, continued his performance enlivening his labors with a wild chant, tapping away the while as merrily as a wood-pecker.— Millville's Typee. THE 3IODESTI' OF GOLDSMITII. Colonel O’Moorc, of Cloghan Castle in Ireland, told me an amusing instance of the mingled vanity and simplicity of Goldsmith, which (though perhaps col ored a little, as anecdotes too often are) is characteristic at least of the opinion which his best friends entertained of Goldsmith. One afternoon, as Colonel O’Moore and Mr. Burke were going to dine with Sir Joshua Reydolds, they observed Goldsmith, (also on his way to Sir Joshua’s) standing near a crowd of people, who were staring and shout ing at some foreign women in the win dows of one of the houses in Leicester Square. Observe Goldsmith,” said Mr. Burke to O’Moore, and mark w'hat passes between him and me by and by at Sir Joshua’s.” They passed on, and arrived before Goldsmith, who came sson after, and Mr. Burke affect ed to receive him very coolly. I his sfcemcd to vex poor Goldsmith, who begged Mr. Burke would tell him how he had had the misfortune to offend him. Burke appeared very reluctant to speak, hut, after a good deal of pressing, said, that he was really ashamed to keep up an intimacy with one who could be guilty of such mon strous indiscretions as Goldsmith had: just exhibited in the square.” Gold smith, with great earnestness, protested he was unconscious of what he meant. Why,” said Burke, “did you not ex claim, as you were looking up at those women, what stupid beasts the crowd must be for staring with such admira tion at those painted Jezebels, while a man of your talents passed by unno ticed?” Goldsmith was horror-struck. Surely, surely, my dear friend, I did not say so!” Nay,” replied Burke, i if you had not said so, how should I have known it?” That’s true,” an swered Goldsmith, with great humility, “I am very sorry—it was very foolish. I do reoollect that something of the kind passed through my mind, but 1 did j not think I had uttered it.”—.Vo/rs in Croker’i edition of Boswell's Johnson. Rr#SIAS MARRIAGEH. Marriages in Russia are curious.— The priest meets the parties at the door of the church. The relatives also enter, having received the benedic tion of the priest. They go with him to the altar, where he puts wax candles in their bauds —a crown is placed on the bridegroom's head. the priest puts a ring upon one of tbeir fingers, and it is passed round till it is placed on the finger of the bride. He goe# round the altar, followed by the friends and the couple—be gives them his ben edict inn. It takes place in the richest church in Russia. The same ceremo nies are performed on a marriage in the family of the Kmperor, except that -1 the crown is held above, not placed on t the head. Being present at a marriage ,I of the roval family, the crown wai l held up by boys, and it was amusina to see them stretching themselves tc 1 hold it up. The music was delightful, i 1 have frequently heard the choir of the i Pore, but it is nothing when comparcc with what 1 heard at that marriage. 1 I, never heard music so touching. Theii J dresses were beautiful. The bride hat a train It! feet long, made of rich vel ►l ret, and lined throughout with ermine *j»and it took five men to bear her train, I and as she moved round the ahar, fob lowed her. It was attached to bei dress below the shoulder. There were many things about it very imposing.— The Tc Drum was sung most bcauti fully. There are many singular filings j connected with private life. When making a dinner, the host and hostess do not sit, but like Abraham, serve their guests. The gentlemen go up to I the Indies and kiss their hands, and if ithey are intimate, the lady kisses his cheek. These arc Asiatic customs,but .j there is no doubt in a few years they j will pass away, and Kuropean be introduced in their place.— Dr. Baird. CHAPTER OFf FEMALES. Wc like to look upon a healthy wo man—she is a prodigy in the nineteenth century. Wherever you go, you sec scores and hundreds of splecny, sickly, feeble girls, who can hardly muster courage to make their beds, wash their faces, or drive an intruding cow from the yard. Tell them about early rising, fresh air, and healthy exercise, and they heave a sigh as long as the moral law, and about faint away. You ex pect them to get up before dav—to work in the kitchen—to breathe the fresh air of morning! Preposterous and absurd! They have never seen the sun rise, and would hardly know but the sun continues to shine forever, j if it were not for the almanacs and i their grandmothers. No wonder that every year sweeps to the grave so many young women, who have been sickly and etfeminate ever since they were born into the world; and death will continue to select them us his victims till they learn their duty, and pursue that course which in sures health, strength, aad king life.— ,Do you know the cause? It is found in listless idleness inactivity late hours—thin shoes, muslin dresses—a horror of the fresh morning air, anS in that detestable stuff, stitched in pink and yellow covers, which is flooding our country. If they will do ntfthing else, young ladies will sit and read from morning till night, that sickly, senti i mental, impure, and we will say licen tious,'trash, that is thrown in such abundance from the press. This shri vels the mind, warps the affections, j chills the better feelings, and makes the i liic wretched beyond description. Tel females look into this subject, and acl like reasonable beings, and we should soon see a different state of things.—* We should hear of no fainting away— no sickly constitution—no affection ol the lungs—no elopements, and no sui- I eides.— Colesicorlh. Woman’s influence.—Like the j olive tree—said to fertilize-the surrouu ding soil—there arc some few ministcr j ing angels in female guise among us all i and about our paths, who sweetly serve I to cheer and adorn life, our amuse ments are insipid unless they contribute to them; our efforts of noblest ambition feeble, unless they applaud—its re ward valueless, unless they shake them. There are, 100, some rude jspiiits in the world, whose bolder j nature female influence admirably serves to refine and temper; and, perhaps, it is not an extreme eulogium j of the poet —that, without that influ ence, many a man had been a brute indeed.” The concurrence of both sexes is as necessary to the perfection of our being, as to the existence of it. Man may uiake a fine melody, but wo man is also required to make up har mony. WARLIKE INFLUENCE* AAD IN CITEMENTS. Amongst the Romans, the love of war was kept up by constant exercise; and the social habits of the people en couraged by a ferocious disposition.— Their gladiatorial shows, and their ex hibitions of combats with wild beasts, had a more powerful effect in forming the character of their citizeus than the eloquence of their senators, or the la bors of their philosophers. Their poe try —one of the most powerful agents i in the formation of national character —contributed in no mean degree to tfic same results. Amongst ourselveg, while we have deplored the vices and rampant passions of the multitude, wc have neglected a close observation of the causes which form the character of nations. We have been decidedly a warlike people; every sea has borne our hostile flag, and ev£ry nation had to tremble before our arms. We have, since the year ICW), spent nearly one half of the time in war. Then our na tional amusements, which have been, in a great measure, patronized by the higher classes, have all gone to the mere cultivation of the animal propen sities. Our prize rings, bull-baitings, and a host of other ferocious amuse ments, as well as our songs, have all been powerful auxiliaries in producing the depravation of morals we see around us. It has been said, Let rne make the songs of a people, and let who will make their laws.” And there is great force in it: our national songs have been full of the praises of war, and wine, and sensuality; our theatres have resounded with the shouts of triumph over some victorious battle-held; and our cathedrals and churches have not only received the monuments of pur naval and military commander*,and the spoils of conquest, but have poured from their altars prayers for the success of our arms, and thanksgiving for the victories, purchased by the expenditure of thousands of lives and millions of treasure.— From Be*"*' Ledum on Ike Moral FIU ration of the PtopU." When a young man has acquired a love for reading, and of course a health ful relish for intellectual pleasures, he baa become possessed of ono of the best preservatives against dissipation. AJfuudoc** for low company and mteip perate pleasures is most generally to the consequence of ignorance and want of taste. 