the massachusetts spy, one of the moat powerful whig journals in the old bay state, thus nobly and boldly spurns the bloodhound and slaveholding and slavery propagating candidate of the whig party. there are others of the same sort in the old commonwealth. where is rochester? where is is the tribune? where is new york anti slavery whigery? our position in the midst of the disappointment and chagrin which was felt, on the first receipt of the nomination of gen. taylor, by the philadelphia convention, we felt that it would be most sale and prudent to form no determination •as to the course we should pursue in relation thereto, till we had taken time, deliberately, to survey the whole ground, and to see whether any new •developments might he made, whereby our dutv to our country, to the cause •of liberty,- and to our own convictions of right, might not, possibly, be recon ciled to what then seemed so repugnant to our feelings —the support ol the nomination. this course we have steadily pursued, regardless ol the earnest entreaties of lriends, on the one side or the other, or of the attempt, in a certain quarter, to browbeat us into an abandonment of it. we have endeavored, in view of the most solemn obligation which rests upon us, as pat riots and christians to come to a right conclusion, and we have been compel led to the conviction, that we cannot, under any probable state ol circum stances, yield our assent to the nomi nation, and give it our support. tl do so would, in our apprehension, belie the professions made by us and other whig papers, for years past. gen. taylor is hound by the strong est of all possible ties to the slave power of the country—by interest, bv family and social relations, and by all the habits and associations of his life. he holds hundreds of his fellow beings in the most cruel bondage, and he finds his warmest advocates am >ng the most ultra upholders of slavery—men who litnow bun well, and who tolerate no wart at i »n from their views on that ques iti ur should the whigs unite on him .and elect him to the otlice. they w >uld find the party hound to slavery by the most unyielding hands. if they should a&cmpt to sustain that relation, they wovld raise a tempest at the north which would sweep them from power, at ouo* aj)d forever. if they should attempt tu weak away from it, they would liud themselves precisely in the situation they u/cmx* jur.der j« hn tyler, responsible for having placed him in powev, but without any control above his acts or sympathy wirir them, hut under circumstances far more fatal to ttoetn, for th»*v would have placed them selves in the position with their eyes open, hither contingency would be death to the party—a death ural knows no resurrection. e might dwell on gen, taylor’s uil&r want of qualification for the otlice, and quote the savings of the whig pa pers on tins point on former occasions —on the danger, also, which the same papers have so often deprecated, ol putting merely military men mto civil office—and especially on the tremend ous danger at this time, of uniting am concentrating the military power anc spirit, and the slave power too, in the person of the executive magistrate but we have not time, nor is it nec esyary now. we shall have occasioi to speak of them hereafter. the question of the extension oi pon-txtension of slavery into all th< the north star. vast regions under our control, which must soon come into our union, as states, either under the bright folds of the banner of liberty, or under the black pirate flag of slavery, is now the gn at and absorbing political question 1 ol the day. it will override every other, because it is of more vital im portance than all others. the pre dominance of the slave power is the prolitic mother of nearly all our political evils, and now, when it seeks to plant itself, more securely than behind new entrenchments, built uroni free soil, is the tiinetomeet it, and firmly, as our fathers met their oppressors, and to drive it hack within its own heaven-accursed borders. the whigs of the north have, over and over, in their papers, in their popular assemblies, and in their legislative halls, proclaimed the nonexteusion of slavery, as a cardinal principle of their creed. the bone and muscle of the party, the rank and file, the men on w hom it depends for most of what it embodies of moral worth, of vitality, and of power, will he true as steel to that principle, and will carry it forward to that tiiuinph which us surely awaits it, as the rising of to-morrows’s sun. the supporters of gen. taylor dare not, because they cannot, go into the contest under the banner of free territory.” to put forth taylor and no extension of slavery” as a reliving cry would be an insult on the under standing of the people, an attempt to imp a nuinbug upon them so mon hii jus ;nu alhuid, us to ca*t that of 1 ik, 1 ahas, and the turitfof ltil’2,” into lie sonde of coinpaialive itisig miicancc. our course, then, is a plain one, and straight forward. we have no new principles to proclaim— no new path to mark out. here we have stood in years gone by, up to the present time, tirmly in defence of liberty and right, side by side with our country and all her cherished interests, there we shall still stand, sustaining and upholding those, and those only, politically, who 1 remain true to the same principles. if friends, with whom we have acted, bewildered by the mists of “expediency,’ and “availability,” are led aside into devious paths, much as we may feel the separation, we cannot go with i them. if such be tfie case, we trust that i fie political separation may be in mutual good will, and that no other ties which unite us, may he weakened ther. by. conceding to them the same purify of intention.which we claim for ourselves, we will cherish, with every* pulsation of our hsart, t!»c hope that we shall soon be aide to sec alike, and tiiat the time is not far distant, when we shall he cordially united, as we have been heretofore, and acting together in a united phalanx on the i same platform, in upholding the rights 'of humanity ami the liberties of our common country. from tlie new york llcral.l. speech of john c. caliioun, the oregon bill—extension of slavery.  mr. calhoun said: mr. president: the slaveholding and non-slaveholding states stand on very unequal grounds in regard to the question under consideration. the foimer ask for no laws, nn privilege but they are willing to concede to the latter; they ask for nothing hut that they may he permitted to remain on that equality with their sisters of the confederacy, which was established hy the constitution; while the non-slaveholing states ask for the enactment of such laws as will give them a monopoly of the terri tory belonging to the union, and which will have the effect of excluding the people o the southern states. mr. president, 1 will not ask from the north anything 1 will not yield front the south; nor will 1 yield anything from the s' uth which would not he yielded hy the north. 1 wish, sir, to argue this question dispassionately, mid not upon party grounds. 1 shall direct tny observation to ascertain the rights and maintain the rights of all parties, as the only way to put an end to this danger ous question. the constitution is to decide, and, on constitutional "rounds alone, i will look at it. with these preliminary remarks, mr. president, i c< ii to the qu minn- have the don s'.•« i.c.tkng mu' s the power to put d .wii in tiiv ‘slaveholding” states? ou hiul uo sv :i j i r m the constitu tion itself. titerc you will find that all states are common in lights; tliere is no disparity; so writers declare, and so all usages prove. can the fact that there is a slaveholding population among us affect the question of *our rights? the slave population was as neuily equal then as it is now, and that is the only d< script ion ol property re cognized hy tilt* constitution, strength ens the assumption that the constitution never intended that inequa hty should exist; and here, too, we find that the framers of the constitution nev er intended th'te should be a discrimination between these portions of the union and any other portions. mr. president, if the power then exists; if it is not to be found in tiie charter of our government; if it exists at all, it must then be found in the constitutional compacts; and if it exists not there, the power exists not at ail, unless you can show a positive, acknowledged power in the constitution upon this broad basis. i now ask, sir, where is the power to he found belonging to congress of admitting into territories of the union one portion of the people and their property, and for excluding another? it cannot be found. it does not exist. i contend that the constitution l clause giving power to congress l to dispose of, and make regulations re right is of no sex—truth is of no color—god is the father of us all, and all we are brethren. specting territories of the united states,! does not refer to the government ot| auch territories, but simply to the dis-| position or care of said territories. as' to the public lands of the union, not a word is said about population. the power of congress in exclusive legislation over this district, and over places occupied in the states for dock-yards, &.c., strengthens this construction ol the slave, respecting the territories;: and though congress has exclusive legislation over this district, the sover #ignty remains in maryland entire, and without the assent of maryland, slavery cannot be constitutionally abolished in this district. having thus shown that congress has no constitutional power over the question of slavery in the territory, the whole chain of authorities cited yesterday by the gentleman from ncv f york, (mr. dix,) from the basis upon which they are here erected,fall to the ground. mr. c. then gave a history of the ordinance of 1787. virginia coded the north-west territory in 1704, and mr. c. cited the attempts of every succeeding year to introduce as a fundamental law of this territory this principle of the proviso. they were all de fended till 1787, when a compromise was agreed to by the south assenting to the exclusion of slavery, and the north .agreeing to restore all fugitive slaves arrested within their bordeis.— it wus a compromise; there was no commitment by the south on the abstract question of the power of congress over this compromise; it was n compromise agreed upon before the adoption of the constitution, and under the last days of the old confederation, at a time when it was hardly composmentis. it could not be quoted as a power of the constitution; the south faithfully adhered to their pait of this ordinance. lam sorry to say that the north have not faithfully kept their part of this compromise. instead of re storing our slaves, all the noith-western stales, except illinois and wisconsin, have passed laws against the restoration of fugitive slaves. the north west have done more; they have given countenance to organized com panies, and permitted them to pilfer our slaves, and to run them off to c'anada. mr. hannegan—will the senator refer to any law of indiana? mr, calhoun—l gather my facts from the report of my colleague on this sub ject; nearly ail the states, north and north-west, have passed laws against the restoration of fugitive slaves. mr. hannegan —indiana has passed no such law. mr. butler explained that indiana and michgan were exceptions. mr. hannegan—lndiana assuredly is. mr. calhoun—l am glad to hear it. i should be happy to hear that there were no organized companies for running slaves i.i ohio and other states. mr. corwin—does the senator say there are incorporated companies of this sort in ohio? mr. calhoun—oh, no; i said organized companies. mr. butler—and if the senator from ohio wants evidence of this fact, i can procure it. we have proofs. mr. calhoun resumed—the south had acquiesced to the federal ordinance. they acquiesced to the missouri com promise. they have not acquiesced to the other side. mr. c. then defended mr. jefferson in his position on this question. he had the same apprehensions of this abo lition which we now entertain. in a letter to mr. adams, in 1819, he says, he fools no uneasiness in respect to the hank or bankrupt laws, or manufactories, or treaties: all these are billows that will pass under the ship; but the missouri question is greater than that bar; the* vessel of state may be strand ed and foundered.” this was in 1819. in is2o the compromise caine up. here mr. c. had a letter read from jefferson to john holmes, dated april *27, 1820, in which this missouri question is compared to a lire hell in tiie night, filling the mind with terror, sounding like a knell of the union, and as the question which cannot jie obliterated. we have the wolf by the ears, and can neither hold him or let him go,” &.c. such were the prophetic tears of mr. jefferson. mr. president, mark these prophetic words—mark the profound reasoning upon which it is louuded—mark the prophetic and mel ancholy impression which it made upon his mind. sir, there is evidence ol great foresight, deep patriotism, and profound melancholy, and yet the date of jefferson is used to organize sectional differences on this very question. he is not without blame; he made a great error in moving that short proposition to to the in st ordinance on the government. in consequence, however, in my opin ion, ol the state of the times, ai.d w hich i rnay explain in the course of my re marks, having show n there is no power m the government, and the missouri compromise and all other compromises fall to the ground, i come to the question—has congress any power to legislate? sir, it would be foolish and ideal to den/ it* power, while we are legislating here lor the establishment of a territory, when a session rises up, and moves to lay the bill on the table. yes, sir, congress ha* power, aud the only question is, first, lor whom it is done; secondly, what if 1 its honor? judge marshall states thal the power applies to that pf acquiring territory; aud i am more thoroughly t confirmed in this view, because, long before i was aware of judge marshall’i i opinion, 1 entertained the same opinion if you acquire territory, you do so lot some purpose; yon acquire to occupy to possess, to use, and control; to gov era and if not, this power would b< 1 rochester, n. y., friday, july 7, 1818. the most absurd and ridiculous thing in the world. i agree with the senator from new york to-day, that we have the right to acquire territory. it be longs to the war-making power; but, sir, if there be any gentleman who dif fers from me, i have not a word to say. i regard the agency as of no importance; let it be what it may, it does not exist as an absolute power. i recognize it as the sole power; but that is a very different thing from despotic pow er. all despotic powers are absolute; but it does not follow that all powers are absolute. sir, we are forbidden by the constitution to grant patents of nobility. can we do that in territories? we are not permitted, except in case ol war, to suspend the habeas corpus act. can we do so in territories.' all these are limitations, and being so, show that the power of congress is not absolute. but this is not all. we are the trustees of the people, we are the mere representatives to administer the territories for the benefit of all. we are merely invested with a trust power. we have no absolute power over the question. i appeal to all able lawyers on this floor, if trust power is not limited to keeping for the trustees to whom the property belong. now, i ask tu whom that property belongs to the people of the united states have vou a right, as security trust, to make a discrimination between one class ol citizens and another? have you a right to exclude one portion of citizens because they have slave property, by excluding their property no, sir, you have not. there are two other propositions which have been presented, it not here, elsewhere. it has been said that territories have the light to establish their own laws in this respect.— well, sir, we must be either bound by a constitution or by some other power. if the former, then all the arguments fall to the ground. if the latter, there, sir, the territories instead of being the territories of the united states, become the territory of the people occupying them, the very first half dozen or more squatters, who divest you of your terri tories. you conquer a territory of mexico; and the inhabitants of it, the mexicans, become the owners of it, and not you, according to this most absurd idta.— tim protestant religion cannot enter mexico until w’c have a law to allow it; for the mexican laws prohibit it.— would our people respect such a law? no, sir; it is qhsurd. well, sir, will you say that our cattle and citizens cannot go to california, until you have a law' passed to.repeal their law, foi their law prohibits it, and a law against slavery is just as absurd as these mr. president, i have now stated all the points 1 intend to put; and i have stated enough, i think; i may say 1 have made out my case, that no power exists which can prohibit any portion ol the citizens from equal rights; hut il sophistry could make this appear to he constitutional, it is not sufficient; you possess power to exercise it; you must show us your case, justly and rightly tc do so. the constitution may give you power; hut the next question is, can you rightfully and justly do so? sir, 1 put the question solemnly to the non slaveholding states, for i wish to do so in all solemnity—can they justly and rightfully do so? we are partners rightfully, we have given our shaie ol the common fund for the common good, and can you justly and rightfully exclude us? if you exclude us, you must approve of the principle that in a partnership of common rights, the stronger party can rightfully exclude the weaker from an equal share. but i come now to the question, how was the territory acquired? i think that we acquired it in consequence of the purchase of louisiana. from our purchases from spain next; by the discoveries of lewis and clark; and next in the jefferson negotiations. louisiana cost us fifteen millions; florida, five millions —com- ing out of a common fund. ihe explorations of lewis and clark were paid for out of a common fund —so that under every aspect w r e are lull contributors to all. now, sir, would it be proper, under all these aspects, to deprive us of equal rights? would you do it in private life? and why, if you would not do it to thirty men, should you do it to thirty states? well, i come to california and new mexico.— have the slaveholding states had an equal share in the war? in both ways fortune was so that a larger portion of military renown would tall to the share of the south than the north, w ell, shall territory thus acquired be exclusively the property of a party r sir, these are questions to heaits, not the heads. if a man decides them wrong, it is proof of malformation of deep seated prejudice. now, sir, i ask my fellow-citizens from non-slaveholding states, what are you prepared to dor ,\re you prepared to put at defiance all rights and justice." it so, vote against the amendment of my friend from mississippi, mr. j. havis. if that wont do, vote iu favor of the lili section, ami we shall know what is intended. il not, put us on your ground, where we can stand up and say we are equal.— we are here on common terms. now, sir, 1 turn to my friends on slaveholding. what are you to do, if neither the constitution nor justice will protect you? are vou prepared to smk down and acknowledge the justness of these acts? sirs, if that be the case, you j have woefully degenerated from youi sires. if you not, and the other side declines to do justice, what a spectacle will be exhibited! if i havt wished to push these questions now o* 1 the eve of the presidential election, it« because i saw it was the only time wbei j a reflection of events could bt attracted. well, mr. president, this brings us to the great question. how is this to be settled? the question can never be effectually settled but by leaving it to the constitution. let not the north say if left to itself, the constitution will be*excluded; for that is in my opinion a great error; for 1 give it as my opinion that slave territory would, on an average, not exceed 35 at one time may be a little north; sometime south; but that makes no difference; for danger lays in a strait line. leave it to circumstances, and i tell my friends from the north, that there was never a greater mistake than to suppose that slave labor excluded all other. for all classes of laborers, except two, there is no place where labor is so elevated as in the south. a southern man will not become either a body or a house servant. sir, there is not a laboring while man about me, who will not insist upon sitting at any table, and l am proud it is so. does such a state exist in the north? lam proud it does exist in the south; and i hope never to see the day when any southern man will permit a white man to brush his hat or clean his boots. the sooner this question is settled the better for all.— the sooner it reaches a certain point the better: and i solemnly believe that we are now near that point. mr. president, if this union is to share the fate of so many governments that have gone before us; if it is doomed to fall, the i torian who records the event, will .<»te his first chapter to the ordinance 1757- that will be set down as the origin of the deed of separation. his next chapter will he devoted to the missouri compromise, and the next to the provisool the present time. heth er there will be a chapter beyond this wc cannot tell. if the historian be ol a philosophic turn of mind, looking into remote and recondite causes, he will use the disaster to a proposition which is now understood as a most dangerous and fatal error, but which was original ly a tiuism. this fatal error is the idea that all men are born free and equal. now, sir, i purpose to examine this, and i am not afraid to meet the strong prejudices in its favor. there is not a word of truth in the proposition as commonly understood, all men are horn. no, sir, men are not born; infants are born, and they grow to be men. (laughter.) they are born free and equal; not so—they are horn subject to their parents and guardians; and so" they continue till they grow up to the free gentleman. may 1 ask, il this is not the language of the declaration of independence? no such thing; that in rp re simple terms, say htl men are created equal, but this is equally erroneous. according to the scriptures, only two of the human race were created—one man and one woman. (general laughter all round, the idea universally suggesting itself that the rest were propagated.) mr. c., unmoved, went on. we may trace this error of equality to locke and sydney. they claim that all men in a state of nature, are equal. this is a truism, hut it is of no great value. it is only hypothetically true; what is it? there are states and conditions of man. in the first, man lives as an individual, and partly independent of his fellow-man. 'i his is called a state of nature. in that state he is free, and every man is a sovereign; but it is a misnomer to say that they are all equal. the next is the social state. the philosopher, in this, will trace out all the rights belonging to both conditions; but equality is still further removed than in the first. the political blending the two, is the only state adapted to the wants, the progress and the developments of the powers ol man. his social state cannot exist without sovereignty; hence the neccessity of government in this state of na ture, man cannot exist at all, yet it is strange that the state in which man never did exist and can exist, should be called the natural state; while the only state in which he can exist, should he called the aitificial.— tiiis is the great misnomer. this only natural state is that in which he best exists with this false doctrine—that all men are born equal. then comes up the idea in the mind that these natural rights are the highest rights. that the rights of individuals are higher than those of society, and then society rests upon a false basis until those imaginary individual rights are restored. this is all false. political rights are the highest of all rights of the individual—but supplemental to the rights of the community. no man is entitled to any natural rights at the expense of the community. we make some import ant deduction from this. the rights ol the individual are ceded to, or taken by the government, according to necessity but government has no right to subtract more from the individual than is necessary for the general 'organization; hence the great distinction in governments, of which the people are ignorant and in a wild state, it is necessary that government should have an immense power to prevent the evils of anarchy. as we ascend in the scale of intelligence, we come, at leopth, to that point where every man poascane* the knowledge, and the readineaa to act under mutual conceaaion; and as we approach it, we find that government i relaxes more and more in the iibertiea of the individual, and lea* and ieaa ex ercises the supreme power of us original condition. instead, therefore, o a men being created equal, or all met being equally free, there is of necessitj the greatest disparity. what then be i coroes of the error that all men are ere i ated equal, or that they are horn fret i and equal? it vanishes. yet to thii error we may trace every *rugclt against government for individual righti however just, or however fallacious.— this error is the very organ of abolitionism and its dangerous offspring.— it is this error which threatens to give to the revolutions, which has excited in europe, a tendency to anarchy and all its confusion. this error of equality is all powerful to put down, but impo tent to build up. it can destroy fast enough, hut it cannot reproduce. it is an error under which, unless discard ed, all furope and all christendom may fall into hopeless anarchy, as the first result to be terminated in military despotism. christianity and the rights of man. the inpulse which the reformation gave to the improvement of society, was very great; but the rapidity of its march was ere long checked, for when lutheranism and calvinism triumphed, they embodied their doctrine in state laws, enforced conformity, and became as earnest persecutors as those who had persecuted them. protestantism did not really understand religious lib erty. the same spirit was brought bv a majority of the puritans to these shores; and so entirely had men lost sight of the free character of primitive christianity, it came to pass that when roger williams, one of themselves, proclaimed in boston and salem the great doctrine of liberty of conscience, it was execrated by some as a heresy, and hailed by others as a great discovery! he became an exile for his opinions; but his principle has practically triumphed in this commonwealth and in this country. long since it has begun to act on europe; yet for years past we have seen that in the protestant states of the continent, men, who avow the doctrines which we believe and preach, have been imprisoned for non-conformity. that struggle for religious freedom has now begun which will there shake society to its centre, and the example of this country will have an increasing influence, until the song of victory shall become universal. in view of facts like these, how' unspeakably important is it that there he maimained throughout this land a pro found and just sentiment of religious liberty; that in the first conceptions of our youth, and in the depth of all hearts, it should be cherished and revered, because it is an inalienable right of man as man. yet there is much to be done before this condition shall be attaine3. a principle adverse to it is still abroad in these states. it is involved in every argument that is uttered in behalf of the rightfulness of slavery, every plan in favor of the slave-system as being consistent with christianity. instead of regarding liberty as an iu -1 alienable gift of god to humanity, it treats that gift as the mere creature of a charter, the dowry of a constitution, a concession which government may grant, and which government has the right to take away. both at the south and at the north is is this fundamental and far-reaching er j ror avowed and maintained; both with j in the church and out of in, by ministers and by laymen. it was expressed in brief and clear terms by rev. dr. johnson, an eminent clergyman of the j baptist denomination, as may be seen by the following sentence: when, in any country, slavery has become a part of its settled policy, the inhabitants, even christians, may hold slaves with out crime. it was expressed by the methodist episcopal conference at baltimore, in 1840, when they passed the following resolution: “that it is inexpedient and unjustifiable for any preacher to permit colored persons to give testimony against white persons, in any state w here they are denied that privilege by luw.” it was expressed by rev. l)r. fisk, president of the wesleyan university, connecticut, when he said that “the general rule of christianity not only permits, but in supposable circumstances, enjoins a continuance of the master’s authority, and enjoins obedience upon the slave as an obligation due to a present rightful authority.” it was professed by prof. stewart, of andover, when he wrote that the precepts of the new testament to the masters of slaves, recognizes that the relation may still exist, salta jide el »alra tcclena; that is without injury to the christian faith or the church. these citations are only a few, taken from many, which indicate the wide extent of a defective sentiment respecting the true foundation of the rights of man. if the doctrine avowed in these ex tracts be admitted to be true, we must forever abjure that declaration of in dependence w hich our fathers put forth, asserting it to be a self-evident truth that all men are endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” he who holds that any man has a right, on tbe ground of civil law, or of “settled policy,” to hold his fellow-man in bondage, sub jecting bis education, his moral improvement, and the demands of his con science, to the will of another, cannot hove a true idea of human liberty as an inalienable right. in the presence ol one wbo utters such a doctrine, we may justly feel our humanity affronted; for, though he may appear to respect our personal liberty, yet be virtually takes our claim to liberty off from its true ba r sis, and founds on a piece of paper, a i parchment charter, as if it were a government-grant, rather than a um versa! heritage of mankind by the per feet gift of god himself. he who ad vocalea the right of any man to enslave i another, subverts the foundation ol s your liberty, reader, and also of mine, i; if he krva ponr tad property, tken, john dick, mtitatt. whole no—2b. between bis rapacity and our liberty, there stands no high reverence of a sacred, inherent right, but only want of might. a change of circumstance* could make us his slaves and leave hi* conscience quiet. reasonings which are now put forth by thousands ©f our countrymen would destroy the solid grounds of all freedom on earth except of those who could maintain it by force, and “if the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do?” if the colored race should ever become pre dominant at the sooth, and enslave the whites, they would find their justification in the arguments of those who now stand in the sanctuary and interpret the laws of christianity. it is impossible for an unprejudiced person to consider this subject careful ly without perceiving that among the american people throughout the length and breadth of these united states, there is needed a deeper and more thorough grounding of opinion on the great fundamental truth, not merely that christianity is consistent with freedom, but that universal freedom is essential to the full development of the power of christianity to reform, con vert, elevate and bless society to the wide extent of its capacities, and throughout all its diversities of class and ot character. this nation can never rise with strength to follow the beck of providence, and to fulfill its high mission in the cause of human liberty, until it shall be pervaded by a juster sentiment of liberty itself; and not until the truth thus makes us free shall we be free indeed,” nor qualified to lead the van in the glorious work which yet remains to be done upon the earth. —liijhtdor and ivalchman. r consolations*. >ly father, my work is fatiguing to day the spade rebounds upon the parched earth; the sun darts rays of fire; the dust raised by the south wind blows in whirlwinds over the plain. my son, he who sends the burning gales, sends also bedewed cloudlets.— to each belongs its pain and its hope, and after labor comes repose. my father, do you see these poor plants how they languish, and how their yellow leaves droop down their exhaust ed stalk? they will rise up again, my son; no blade of grass is forgotten; fruitful rains and fresh dews arc always provided for it amidst the-.celestial treasures. my father, the birds are silent "fh the foliage; the quail, immovable in* the furrow, does not even rccal its companion; the hieifer seeks the shade; and the ox, with his limbs folded'be neath his heavy body, his neck stretch ed aut, dilates his large nostrils, in order to respire the air which he is in need of. god, my son, w ill restore the birds their voices, and the oxen their strength exhausted by the extreme heat. the breeze which reanimates them, already glides over the sea. let us seat ourselves, my father, upon the fern that borders the pond, i near the old oak whose hanging branch [cs so gently touch the surface of the water. how calm and transparent it is! how gaily the fishes play there i some pursue their winged prey, poor gnats just entered into being; others, raising their heads, with their mouths half open, appear to be softly kissing the air. he who has made al) things, my son, has everywhere bestowed his inexhaustible gifts, life, and the joy of life evil consists only in appearance, ’tia the dark side of love, the similitude of good, its shadow. and yet, my father, you suffer.— what labor, what fatigue you endure, in order to provide for our wants! are you not poor? is not my mother poor? it is the sweat of your brow which has given me food; have you ever for one single day had the morrow provided for vv hat signifies the morrow to us, my son? the morrow belongs to god; let us confidin hirn. whoso rises in the morning, knows not whether he shall see the evening. why, then, trouble and disquiet one’s self about a time which will perhaps never arrive? we live here below like the swallow, seeking from day to day the bread of each day, and like her, when the winter approaches, a mysterious power draws ua to milder dimes. w'hat is this, mv father? it resembles a corpse wrapped in its shroud, or an infant rolled in clothes. my son, it was a crawling worm; it will soon be a living flower, an aerial form, which, decked in its brightest colors, will rise toward heaven.— from the french of lam mats. as issolest ai't tace boast.—a southern member once saul on the floor of congress— w’e do not govern them ('the peo ple of the north) by our black slaves, but by their own white slaves. we know what we are doing. we of the south are always united, from the j ohio to florida and we can always unite: but you of the north are begin ning to divide. we have conquered you once, and we can, and we will, conquer you agajn. aye, sir, we will drive you to the wall, and when we have you their once wore, we mean to keep you there, and nail you down .ike base money he probably forgot the three-fifths slave representation by which the balance of power may be secured to the south at any time.—down with the constitution then my we. avwerh warmer. early rising contributes as surely to personal beauty an the dawn tq the beamy of the world, notices. annual meeting. the 6th annual meeting of the western anti-slaved society will be held at salem, columbiana co., on wednesday, thursday, and friday, the 16th, 17th, and 18th of august, commencing at 10 ‘clock, a. m. j let a full repre*"«" on of the r,ar< friend* come up this occasion from all part* of the threat weal. 'lire political lead ers are n^mhailing their hosts for a conflict, *h»rlbllowem are raliyiug by hundreds of thousands to the support of tlicir party ban ner*. time, and money, and labor ate ex pended to secure their object. and shall the friends of freedom, whose faith should be strong in the power of truth, be lukewarm and indifferent while politicians are so ear nest ut their la’oors, so untiring in their xeal j the events of the past should encourage us to renewed effort, for every movement of importance which has been made, having any bearing upon the question of slavery, fore shadows the destruction of the system, and the oppressors (ad that it is »o. the political parties will make a desperate effort to sate themselves from the destruction their corruption has brought upon them; and the efforts of the abolitionists to maintain and enforce the right should be proportionably great.— arrangements should bo made at the coming meeting to continue the anti-slavery agitation by the lips of the living speaker, and to ex tend more widely the circulation of the so ciety’s paper—the anti-slavery bugle. ■one of the friends who can be there, absent themselves fur any light cause, fur the pre sence of all, and the couesel of all is desira ble. besides the friends of lilierty in the west who will ba present on the occasion, llenry c. wright and chas. c. burleigh are ex pected to bo in attendance, and perhaps oilier representatives of the east. lot holmes, recording sec'y. meetings in the west. henry c. wright, the apostle of pence, and charles c. burleigh, the eloquent anti slavery advocate, will hold meetings at the following places, viz: at pittsburgh, pa. june loth, 16th 17th new brighton, 19th 20th louisville ohio 22j youngstown, 21th a 2oth new lyme 27th painesville, 20th chagrin falls, july ist a2d cleveland, 4ih twinsburgh, 6th richfield, rth a 9th akron, 11th ravenna, l.'tth a 14th randolph, 15t!i 16th massillon, lslh the meetings at new lyme, cleveland,: and akron, will commence at ten o'clock, a. j m.; the others, on the first day of the meetings at two o'clock, p. m.; subsequent days at 10 a. m. the friends of anti-slavery and of peace j are requested to make all necessary arrangements for the meetings, and give as wide a notice as possible. now is the time to agitate. persons can avail themselves of this opportunity afforded by these meetings to pay lbr the* anti-slavery standard, to samuel- brooke. mexico—peace. for several w'eeks the most contradictory rumors have come to us from mexico, and in the midst of these conflicting reports, it has been impossible to form an intelligent opinion j upon the probable reception of the treaty, and the future relations of the two nations to each i other. the 1st accounts from that bleeding country inspire the hope that the shameful j war we have waged upon her is to cease, and j peace again be restored. the mexican congress has probably accepted tbc treaty with all the amendments of the senate, or without material alteration. other reports are also brought of a conspiracy to divide the nation! and form several of the states into a separate j government, and also of a plan to form a j mexican army of the discharged american soldiers, ostensibly for protection against the indians, but supposed to be really designed for the suppression of the contemplated revo lution. our joy at the probable approach of peace is seriously diminished by the. knowledge that, to purchase it, mexico is forced to submit to ho plundered of a large portion of her territory, and that this territory will undoubtedly be given by our government to slavery, fornew slave markets. another check upon our hopes is that the disbanding of the armv will turn back upon our country a horde of harden ed desperadoes, schooled in the war to the most degrading vices and revolting crimes. having lived for two years by land-piracy, j they will be very loth to reform, and live by 1 honest industry, on their return. thus, perhaps, will our nation be scourged for waging the war, but the guilty will not sufter alone the woe will fall on many an innocent head. the disregard of persona! rights and social order, and the recklessness of life which war always breeds in the soldier's mind, will be exhibited till this people is weary of the* con sequences of its own conduct, and bitterly rc- j pents its folly and mad ambition. still, if either nation must sutler from a profligate and blood-thirsty soldiery, it is bet ter that it should be tbe guilty than llie innocent; that on her who has hired and commis sioned these assassins, for their work of blood should fall its consequences reformers the friends of temperance, freedom, peace and purity—have need of poculiar devotion and zeal, to put forth special efforts to indoctrinate the people with their principle, to avert, or at least, mitigate these evils. —pa free/mm. central america.—accounts from central america state that there is a general revolt among the indians in fiuatemala. f'ar rera, the pre-idem of that couniry, had taken the field in person asainst the insurgents, arid defeated them in several engagements, though the savages fought fiercely no fur ther particulars were had. another slave case.—a gentleman from the south stopped at tbe m rehauts’ hotel in cinneiaati a few days sine-*, h tving tvro fomalc slaves irihis family.—o ic of them escaped from him. and ho could not find any police officer willing to pursue her. he left with tbc other. id* the vulitcrn patrmt, charleston, s. c. t hoists the flag of tren. taylor for prcstd ut, but refuses to .support mr. fill more for vice president, considering him uu •oond na tha question of the extension of slavery. serious accident. —a most s?rious aeei 4«mt occurred on moore's section of new york and new haven railroad, near nor walk, on friday last. an accidental explo sion from a quarry of rocks killed one laborer, literally tearing bun in pieces, and wounding two others so that tt feared iboy will not i mfvit c. inr we '•t7 fratefol pleasure, th follows ftn,cst 1 f «*p[*>rt to th yt**m star, from the bnttah burner—a lead tbd political journal in grea hr.tain. the article is own the pen of it abi« editor dr. campbkl. this appea from auch a quarter, is as unexpected as it t rheering, we hare fell, and do now feel that our british friends have done their shar toward establishing the north star, harm; afforded us the means of buying the types am the puss, upon which the paper is now printed. it is noble and exceedingly generous ii them, to manifest a disposition to do more.— the proposition of dr. cax max, if carrie into effect, wfll place the north star o«i a pet inanent basis—a “consummation devoutly t< be wished we contend that our humbl star thus far, has not had a fair chance t shine—we.have lived a sort oi amphibiou lite, partly in the lecturing field and partly i the editorial chair ever since the paper commenced, and this we have been compiled t do, in order to get the p»aper into circulation and the means of publishing. we lope th time will soon come, when we can devote on whole time or at least such a portion of ou time to it, as shall enable us to make it answe the expectations of its friends and patrons. newspaper mania—mr. frederick douglass. among the many extraordinary thing which have takeh place across the channel not the b*a*l is, the marvelous rage for net journals. since the twenty-fourth of febru ary, the incredible number of ninety-one nev journals is muted to have been started or pre jected some have never got beyond ih prosjiectus. a few perished in the first num her, others in the second, others in the third and others further on r.nd according to ap pearances. few, if any, w ill survive the r.ip ping frost of the corning autumn. in this, a in other things, zealous imitators have bee: found in the metropolis. within the last few weeks, five or six have appeared, and other are announced. of those which have actual ly started, some have already perished, an< among them, we regret to sav, is the voici of the people,” under the highly honorabh auspices of mr. charles knight. 'phis jour nal ceased with the fourth number, not fo want of much sterling merit, but solely frorr want of public support. the editor of tin voice of llie people, in his valedictory address, says, when our voice is no longei heard, we may be honored with the mos l consolatory regrets from those who were fault-finding or indifferent during the brie term of our existence. we may lie w eak tr acknowlcding that we cannot persevere against coldness and neglect. it is not jus tice to the eminent writers who have lent us their aid, to ho satisfied with presenting them to an audience “fit though few.”—we very sincerely lament the failure of this very praise worthy and well executed project; for such journals as the voice of the people cannot be too numerous; but this fact is another ad ded to the lengthened roll which experience has chronicled, illustrative of the extreme hazard connected with the periodical press, and the caution necessary before men embark their own property or that of others in so perl ms an enterprize. and yet there is scarcely inything cm which rash and restless men are noro prone to rush, although it may be at the expense of destruction to their present comfort uld future prospects. there are few things tgainst which a man's friends ought more ro- kdutely to slep forth, however thanklessly, o oiler their lion st advice, and enter their earnest protest. if they fall, their hands are dean and their conscience pure; if they suc ceed, they will save a friend, and perhaps, prevent the ruin of a family, as well as injury to printers, stationers, and other tradesmen. we confess to a strong, and inexpressible desire to see the entire empire converted into a reading community, and we are satisfied that multiplication of ail sorts of organs, conduct ed upon soun i principles, and with suitable ability, will much conduce to this consumma tion hut in attempts at this multiplication, discretion is indispensihle. it is to the want of tins discretion more than to the intrinsic deficiency to he found i:i journals themselves generally, or to the public apathy, that there is so much failure. if journals will rush up like mushrooms in clusters, it is no marvel they fade away with a corresponding rapidity. it is ol the first importance, wheooiiuu are bent on doing a good thing, to studywufi the proper time of setting about it, unless they have the control of instruments and agencies which may enable them to set at defiance the rules of common prudence. we cannot conclude this speculation with out adverting to the case of i rederick douglass, the great slave orator, whose recent visit to great britain is still pleasantly retuenibcr i*d by hundreds of thousands. this extraordinary man, in returning to his native country, ?ommcnrod a newspaper at rochester, state >f new york, with the special object of laboring for the emancipation of his fellow men of color. '1 his paper he has conducted for some six months with very superior abiltiy but, is might natijtally be supposed, it is not yet >v any means m a safe condition. the excellent editor, with his colleague, mr. delany, has had to struggle with severe pecuniary difficulties. of the pre-eminent ability of mr. douglass nothing need he said we doubt if there is a living man in the new world capable of bringing more power, either of spoken or of written language, to bear upon the question of the wrongs of three millions of men; and surely it is of the first moment that this power should be rendered permanently available, and in the highest degree efficient, for the great object to which its possessor has dedica ted himself. now, in regard to his jour nal, vve apprehend 1000 additional suberthers w ould place inin beyond the reach of danger, bringing ase to his now burdened mind, and confidence to h:s drooping heait. lot not the british philanthropists forget that mr. douglass is advocating the cause of no fewer than tluee millions of men! aud there is no possible way whereby he can further their ultimate deliverance so certainly efficient as by the instrumentality which he is now eniploy liu, aud consequently, no means whereby they can so cheaply, aud >ct so powerfully, further the grand work of american emancipation. we ask very little of th« in, but we ask that little very earnestly it is simply tins that they shall become, fin a time, subscribers to the north star the subscription for the year is only eight shillings and sixpence but to this must be added the postage. now an other eight and sixpence will cover the entire expense so that, for the paltry sum of •iev enuvn stallings and sixpence, the paper may be had, with all us multifarious and imperi al it contents by the successive ruatls which connect the two countries. but our recommendation is tins, that a thousand persons shall transmit to us, each, one pound which we will straightway forward, with their names and addresses, to mr. douglass. this will save them all further trouble, throughout the year. and shall we ask m vain’ is it really so, that the pbilinlhruphy of england cannot supply at least a thousand subscribers for such an object we cannot, we will nol isiieve it; but let the tlaug be done out and out at once we have nu leisure lor ienglti euod dwelling un li.t matter *ve shall allow our friends, therefore, a single month; and we earnestly call upoa some zealous poisons of either sex, among the multitudinous aimir ers of mr. douglass, m every locality, tn commence the subscription. i’nless some one every* lie re tike tha lead, nothing will be done. but if such is taken, success will be ;it once large and certain. now then, for a thousand pounds! j. fgjtlxoat i’owr*. the novelist, arrived ia this city on saturday last. v the north star. rochester, jt’ly 7, |ft«. northern wki|i aid dcnontla. i imminent peril of incurring (he displeasure and reproaches of our white fellow countrymen, and being denounced as ''taury" •nd “impudent, we shall now venture a i few remarks on these two contending parties. w e arc fully aware that it is thought by many vct j improper for a “negro” to entertain any opinion derogatory to the condurt orcharactei i of white men and know /till well thut we hare owr bemg in what is called a pure l white republic"—a republic in wtuch aw itite tkio is considered above the criticism or scrutiny of a black man. to such persons, we doubt not that most of all we have to aay on k this or other subjects, has the appearance of downright bad manners. for such unforton ales, we are not entirely without compassion. they are the victims of a deplorable habit, which has to them become confounded with their very natures. accustomed as they are r to esteem the colored man as something less r than a man, it is not surprising that when be, entirely forgetful of their estimate of hia character, and only mindful of his own hu inanity, duty and dignity as a child of a common creator, assumes the port and bearing of a man,.that they should regard him as the im personation of insolence. we are frequently _ i reminded by such persons, that we should j remember our station in life, our identity w ith a degraded and dependant people, and that we should be conciliatory and humble; all of which is very good, but comes from the wrong preacher. those who preach humility to the black man, should not feed and counte l| nance in the white men what they so readily condemn in us. ii by such persons, (and they are numerous,) our presence and deportment in this citv must be regarded .is a painful and grievous infliction, a trying evil, only to be borne with in consideration that a greater evil might spring up in our stead. now, w e confess it is nol the most agreeable thing in the world to live i where one is looked upon as having nothing in common with the community by whom he may be surrounded and such, though not our fault, is nevertheless our situation in this community. wo are not, however, without consolation. the high satisfaction which re j suits from a sense of being in the right, out weighs by far the temporary complaceney which may result from being with the multitude, and \vc rejoice at being able to stand j alone as an outcast from a pro-slavery community. in speaking on this subject we are not merely fulfilling a duty which we ow e to the slave, and to our colored fellow-countrymen, but one which we owe to our common country and our god. at such a time as the present, when the great body of the press have madly become the flood-gates of political profligacy, it is the duty of even the humblest to summon from the depths of his nature the most exalted sentiments of trutli and justice, and to send them forth to battle, that perad venture he may be to some extent instrument al in staying the putrid flood let loose upon the land. neither our dark complexion nor isolated condition releases us from ths high duty of rebuking corruption wherever, and whenever, and with whomsoever it may show itself. we may not b? silent to gratify either the pride or the prejudice of our w hite fellow countrymen. we desire our white contemporaries to remember this just sentiment,when instead of answering our statements respect ing them, they seek to evade their force by denouncing us impudent*,” “presumptive,” and out of our place. but enough. northern whigs and dfmocrats, we may be perhaps charged with having commit ted a misnomer in applying these terms to any class of persons in this country and we confess that a very ingenious case could be made out against us; for,properly speaking, there is no such thing amongst us, as a northern whig or democrat. they bothfc longto the south, and are the property of the slave interest. in proof of this, as respects! the democrats, very little need be said; they have gloried in the deep shame of being the j natural allies of the south. their leaders. i have gone beyond all others in bowing the' i knee and prostrating themselves before the j slave power. at the suggestion of theit' southern masters, they have spurned from them, as unworthy of consideration, all self-! 1 respect and the dearest rights and interests ofj the working classes of the north. have j i the slaveholders desired to gag to silence the j j voice of free speech within the hails of congress, northern democracy supplied the vile tool to its accomplishment. have they demanded new territory, over which to extendi the heaven daring curse of human bondage, 1 northern democrats have supplied it. have 1 j they demanded r.ew and stronger safe-guards j for their property in human flesh, northern, democrats have supplied those sate-guards. the black laws of ohio, indiana, illinois, are stauciug piools of the subserviency of northern democrats to lire slave power, for) these laws have bees enacted at the special i request of the slaveholders of kentucky and tennessee. the democrats have not bowed the knee to the slave power merely in respect to the enactment of laws to uphold slavery, but have shamelessly deserted and doomed to political destruction some of the brightest ornaments that ever adorned their party. j when thomas moms, the noble democratic j i senator of übio, dared to stand up lor freedom i in the united slates senate, and confront the blasphemous assertion of henry clay, that i what the law makes property, is property,” i he w as at once marked out for political decapitation. his murderers were of his own household and though they found no fault iu him, he was,l ike innocence of old, betrayed and murdered. for manifesting a slight hesitancy about carrying out the mad wishes of southern slaveholders 1:1 annexing texas to the union, mart.n van berea, the favorite sun of the empire state, was to the same way betrayed, deserted and deposed; and from his own professed friends he received the blow which leveled him in political death—(albeit not beyond resurrection john p. hale, a distinguished member of the democratic party, refused to stain his soul by voting for annexa tion of texas, well knowing the measure to be fraught w it h deplorable and innumerable wils, and was peremptorily and immediately expelled from the party. fro® the moment w|*r» u became known v: t l that silas wright was opposed to the extension of dxtttj, be »ss hunted sod persecuted by the leaders is the democratic party, till the day of his death. the feet in, aa deed of dishonor has been regarded too base ev tieach erous for northern democrat* to da at the bidding of slavery. they claim the diaboli cal merit of haring lived a life of consistent devotion to the infernal system of slavery.— to be charged with a dislike of slavery, has been regarded by them as the most seri ous charge that could be preferred against them, and they have repelled it with ail the energy is their power. they would rather be suspected of any crime denounc'd in the decalogue, than to be guilty of the slightest sympathy with three millions of enslaved and suffeiing bondmen. loyalty to the sooth seems to be their first doty; and should this require disloyalty to god, but little reluctance tocompliance is manifested. if a lie be needed to conceal some infernal design, or to mislead the simple as to the effect of some w icked scheme, northern democrats and presses tell it with alacrity. j when the south moved for the annexation of texas, for the well-known and unconcealed purpose of increasing the profits of the inter nal slavetrade, strengthening the slave power, and extending the curse of human bondage, wiih these facts before them, the northern democratic presses and platform declared the measure to be one to extei d ihe area of free dom. while waging a fierce and bloody war with mexico, by otr own motion, the demo crat c press and politicians persisted in saying that the war was forced upou us by the act of mexico. there is. it seems to us, no end to the political turpitude of this vile combination, under the specious name of democracy. its modern history, at least, is but a series of the basest betrayals of human rights. it has professed a deep and unchangeable regard for the interests <f the working man, and as an evidence of its sincerity, it has nominated a man for the presidency who was the fancier of louis philippe and the calumniator of the working men in france <>nd who is also at this moment io favor of extending the aw ful curs# of slavery over territory now free, w hile the inevitable and well-known effect of the measure must be to completely exclude the free laborer from all participation in the benefits of that territory, unless he goes there in the dishonorable and cruel capacity of a slave driver. now, the sooner this vile body j is changed or destroyed, the better. wc are glad to know that the working men at the north begin to understand its true character, and arc looking to other and wiser means for protecting their rights. but we must leave the democrats, aud turn to the whigs. their case is, if possible, worse than that of the democrats. we need not go into their past history; their present position is ample proof of their unprincipled character. it is possible that we do wrong in denominating their party the whig party.” it ought the lather be called the taylor party for as taylor is not, and docs not intend to le a whig, the party who supports him,**and ulicm he represents, cannot be big. nothing could more satisfactorily prove the utter w ant of principle in that party, than the readiness with which its press and its speakers have whirled into the ranks of the bloodhound candidate.” but a few weeks ago, it was truly refreshing to read the northern whig journals. their columns' fiatrn d with the most burning detestation of slavery and slavery extension. a remarka-i bio instance of this, is furnished in our neigh bor, the democrat.” its moral sense, hu-' inanity and religion, were all arrayed against any measure looking immediately or remotely i to ihe extension of slavery. butch! bow changed is its tore now the glorious up rising on the part of the independents, against i the slave power, slave rule, slavery extension.' and slave territory, though in perfect harmony with the views, feelings and professed principles of that paper, meets nothing but discouragementt from that quarter. the paper! that boasted itself freedom's friend, is now i freedom's foe. if anything could deej-en our j sense of the servility, meanness, falsehood j and corruption of ihe whig party north, it is the cowardly and contemptible manner in' which politicians and presses at the north have allowed themselves to be u hip ped into' the support of this same bloodhound,*’ gen. taylor. it would seem that the whig party is the grave of all independence, sel. -rt apect and decency. in the face of ail facts, they are at this moment attempting to make out a peace character for a war candidate, a slavery i hmitationist of a slavery propagandist, a friend of freedom of a vile slaveholder, and an honest man of a notorious robber. there is no language fitly expressive of such villany, or the man that will stoop to it. we conf ss to some loathing of a sheep-stealing dog: there is something in his gait a .d carnage which at cnee proclaims his guilt; but upon such an animal we ean look with ineflable complacency, compared with the loathing we feel w hen looking upon a traitor to freedom. the command to love our enemies can scarce ly include such a person and yet w e would not harm him, but would leave him to god and his conscience. the fourth of july. this anniversary of american hypocrisy passed off in this cay w trh every demonstra tion of enthusiasm. if the ringing of bells, waving of banners, irregular discharge of! fire-arms, burning powder on the most extravagant scale, confused and tumultuous explosion of crackers, furious driving about the streets in carnages, and the uproarious shouts of an apparently purposeless multitude? be an evidence 6f a love of the great principle* of human freedom, aa set forth in the american declaration of independence, then an* the people of rochester and vtctuiiy the most de voted of all the love of liberty. but out of all the thousands that congregated here, prob ably not more than one hundred desire to aee those principles triumphant in this country.— their’s is a white liberty. smith and lady passed through our city on wednesday, on their wav from michigan to peterboro. —ihe act of congress admit ting win-..: fcin into the union, provides that after the d'h ot march next, until the next apfortmnmc; t, she efta!| have thxae members of the fewer house of coegtuas. a negro, while undergoing aa examination at northampton, maas., on being asked if hts £n l »aa a christian, replied, no, sir, he's a member of coo john c. calk*»■ the speech of this high print of al*r**y and slaray propagandist!!, which we bate copied lbe ovicide of the present number of the north sur r is the weakest and most ahouid of out wweter remember to have lead from him. he hr evidently consciooo that hta game is almost up—that his race is run; and that his voice, once so potential in american affairs, has quite loot ils power. it must bare been profoundly mortifying r eren »o him, to have his logic laughed at by grave senators; yet we are told that be preserved his dignity through it all. in order to show the declaration of independence to be untrue, be said, that men 44 are hot rrt#f«c but propagated,— now, isn’t be a wise man f tbe time waa when a speech from mr. calhoun, solemnly warning the north against pressing the south to a dissolution of the union, would have excited some apprehen sion but the old cry has lost its power, and for this good reason nobody believes that the south could be hired to dissolve the union.— they know too well the strength ol the slave in their nudst, and their own weakness to suppress them should the slaves rebel, ever to sej ante from the north. the tribsse. this stout defender «<f the wiln.ot proviso, and resister ot the slave power, w hose filming words and burning thoughts have perha; s done more during the last few years toward stirring up a se. s. 1 of manly independence in the n<*rih ih it any other political journal m ihe land, is still at a dead stand. stunned b* the nomination of general taylor, it hesitates whether lo sene god or the devil. it vails fur an uprising of the north against the slave power, instead of creating or, we ought to say, cherishing the uprising at ihe north already in existence. we would respectfully ask, are forty-five whig papers, who have signified their deteimination not to support general taylor, no sign of an up rising if not, what w ould be and if it be, why does the tribune hesitate? we warn the tribune that it must speedily decide its grounds, or it will be of little consequence what stand it may take. to go into the sup port of taylor, would be a degradation intensified. he certainly cannot do it. his gorge must rise atthe thought or mention of it. how- can horace greeley consent to stand in the rear of conscience whigs, inde pendents, and the advancing hosts of barn burners and other opponents of the slave power it is a shame that he who, by nature and circumstances, is so w ell qualified to lead, should lack the necessary courage at this time to take the lead. but we wait to see. douglass and the leaguers. the chronotype says that several votes were cast in the league convention fur frederick dull glass ns the vice piesidential candidate of that party, and the editor—elizur wright —thinks that ddtoglass would hardly stand such a temptation to break his resolution touching an oath to the u. s. constitution.— v\ e are rot at all surprised at this suspicion of douglass integrity. the class of meu who mainly compose the liberty party —the editor of the chronotype is a fair specimen— hold that a nomination for office is the chief end of man, and that however convenient and desirable principles, morality, and all that sort of thing, may be on some occasions, they should never be allowed to stand in the way of the hope of an office v the chronotype has merely judged douglass by its own standard j of morality. the fact, however, that douglass was apparently willing to give his influence to further the objects ol the league, by appearing ami speaking at their meeting, wili very likely lead many p rsons to suppose that the chronotype is right in insinuating ih§t he might be bribed to go a step further. but frederick i douglass is no more a fool than he is a knave, and we are sure he will never abandon a principle for so equivocal an honor as a liberty league or liberty puity nomination. the above exquisitely gentle reproof of curst if, for attending a liberty convention at buffalo a tv\>' weeks since, is, we presume, from mr. gay, the senior editor of the na tional a: 1.-slavery standard. as mr. gav is no it.i rc a !00l than a knave, it is mat ter of surprise to os that any such inference as stems “apparent to him, should have been drawn fern i i.r jrestnee at list (on- vention. il he had mid the north s?ar s attentively as lie seems to have done tl t( hro notype, he would hare rci nlu v far v.e“g our influence to further the objects of ihe 1 league,” and saved h ir.stlf the trouble of writing this very diplomatic reproof. fourth of july. the friends cf freedom and humanity ir. henrietta celebrated this day in the best pos sible manner. they held a meeting in the prtsbytenan church of that place, for the purpose of considering the objects ol the declaration of independence; under which call quite a large meeting asseti lied, and were addressed in a very impressive and eloquent manner on the great question of human rights by mr. sperry, a venerable friend of the anti-slavery cause, and by the rev. mr. streeter, the minister of the congregation worshiping in the house in w hieh the meeting was held. we were kindly invited to make a few remarks, and responded, when the j meeting adjourned to a large room in which the ladies had prepared an elegant dotation, 1 of which all w ere cordially invited to paitake after the collation .several stirring anti-slat ery songs were sung, and anti-slavery speeches made, and the meeting adjourned,much gratified by the proceedings. we were sorry to see that a few rowdies were disposed to annoy the meeting, by frequently discharging a large gun near the meeting house door, showing, that with all their rejoic’ng over the declaration of independence, they had no regard for tbe rights which it set forth as belonging legitimately to all men. it is, however gratifying to know, this movement received no counteoane* from any class except a few of the hoset sort —the intelligence and i s;eculnuty of the town, are at least w ith the right of free speech. william s. robinson, who was dis charged from the editorship of the is>wd conner, because be would not support taylor, is about to start a free soil j paper in that city. ilf on saturday june 24, mr. hale pro-, seated a resolution instructing the commit- tee on the district of columbia to briug m a j hill abolishing slavery in said district. tbe resolution was lost,—6 yeas and 96 naff. d 7 mr. me u vane, of peon., reported a bdl from the committee on indian afiur*. in favor of organising indian territories west of the mississippi river, which was read twice and referred to tbe committee of the whole.' mutom, 0., june 18, 1848. dia» douglass i hare, knee ay last letter, held meetings m hamilton, dayton, springfield, troy, and milton, tbe place from which i now write, all of which, with the exception of one place, (springfield,) were well attended. in hamilton, by some mis take, my notice did not reach the persons to whom it was directed, hence no meeting was in readiness when i arrived but the colored citizens who had heard of my coming, al though it was sun-set when i arrived, imme mediately got up a good meeting, several of whom subscribed for the siar after the lees j ture. they are few in number, but ihe most intelligent, industrious, and spirited people, for the size of the place, of any with whom i hare met. their taste and style of living, is worthy of example—the neatness and clean liness of their handsome little cottages being &nx>ng the must prominent features of their praiseworthiness. of all things in this world, for heaven's sake, give me cleanliness. let citcunimanres be what they may, i g-e no good reason w hv people may not be clearly about tle ir horses and with their persons but it is a fact, much to be regretted and un sparingly reproved, that a gre..t many lanii flios, of humble pretensions, and 01 hers. too. j residing in many of those country towns and ullages, alu.(st entirely neglect the ob erv ar.ee of both. there are a number cf re spectable farmers in this neighlioihood, and some good mechanics round about the place. from hamihon, i went to dayton, which place i reached at sunset of the day that 1 was to speak. it will be scarcely necessary for me to state that this is a very pro-slaverv community, as it has been long known for the mobocratic spirit which in former days pre vailed in the place. i could not, though intimated by a friend from whom i received a letter previous to my going, have expected a i very general attendance. on tny arrival, i discovered handbills all through the streets, announcing the meeting, 1 to be held at the fniversalist church and on inquiring for the residence of dr. adams jewett, to niy astonishment, i found displayed on the centre column of the porch in front of j his house, a notice of the meeting. this, of course, in such a place as dayton, i did not expect, for the reason that dr. jewett is the same person against whom was directed the malignity of those infernal outrages, so frequent heretofore, perpetrated against the friends of freedom and the ami-slavery cause. the doctor was four or f,ve times mobbed— 1 having had his windows broken to atoms— the medicines and a great deal of the furniniture of his office and house destroyed hv this species of insulterable villany. like the gentlemanly ruffians who placed the rope around his neck, and dragged through the streets the non-resisting and lamb-like garrison, of boston, no doubt determined, had he r.ot been rescued front their fiend-like grasp, on bis destruction—so were those foremost in this work of infamy against dr. adams jewett, also a non-resistant, though a liberty party man, composed of well-dressed miscreants of property and standing.” i have it flora his own lips, that there was nothing more common, w hen passing through the streets, than for him to be stigmatized with the epithet of nigger"'—casting, if ij mistake not, frequently,aton es at him. not j content with this mischief and insult, but to j make ihc injury more compleic, although he being the most competent physician in the i place, the patronage of the artislo<ra<y was withdrawn from him. but notwithstanding all this, like a no!»l<>- hearted aod true philanthropist, ns he is, hr outlived lies long-continued contumely, ami they who in those days were the foremost i.; i their boasting of deeds which should h ive made the most relentless endeavor to con- ceal, cannot he found, who w:li admit thnt they even countenanced such insaiflbrubii* de-.ds of daring. dr. jewett, i.« tuithstandii.g the community in which he lives, is a practi cal as well as professing philanthropist, and earn', out ins principles, in every manner which duty demands. his family is equally excellent with himself, his lady being one of 1 the best of women, and the h r mist in almost all good and benevolent institutions among the ladies in this city. 1 hnv thus particularized dr. jewett a.id family, fur the reason that they have stood almost alone in the midst of a j large pro-slavery community, until, through their instrumentality, it is nearly prostrated, j dayton is an inland city, of above thirteen thousand inhabitants, and was originally set tied by wealthy kentuckian*, some of whom i even brought slaves with them hence, it was hard and difficult to overcome these human fitsh-moager*. t.'ie prepond.-ranee, how-' ever, of the population are descendants of pennsylvania dutch, who are infinitely worse than kentuckians. the interspersing of the population wilh new fnglandcrs and new yorkers, has ir dayton the place of civil ity that it now i hail a good in-. ling and attentive audience of ladies ami gentlemen on this evening, but in consequence of the anxiety of the peo ple to hi ar, the church being thought too small, the city hall was proposed for the next evening, which was al«o filled witli an attentive assemblage of intelligent listeners. i june hib.— lectured again m the city hall, j which was filed to the utmost capacity, v< j tibule and aisles, which, when thus filled, is said t» contain about eleven hundred eople. 1 lake tbe former, this meeting was equally listful and attentive, breaking up in theb'tst of order and apparent satisfaction. i have been since informed, that a very good impression has been produced in dayton. our good colaborer, henry bibb, lectured in dayton one week previous to my coming—a place where he has several tunes previously spo ken, and much admired but whatever merit there is io mr. bibb, they hare always found it very applicable to attribute it to hi* trat/e -rtflss—that is, they say that bis talents ema nate from the preponderance of tcfuu mood in him. this it will puzzle them to say of me on thursday afternoon and evening of the bth. i he! good meting* is the hall, the meeting in the evening being a very jam. on friday evening, i lectured to the colored etttseua is the true wesleyan chapel, the pastor of which, mr. w. oemenee, is sa amiable and intelligent gentleman, student of oberiin. flaring the usual few exceptions made in all cases where the general will is applied, among whom mr. cfemeaen in one, together with hie and mom other families, the colored people in this place tie farthest be hind the age of any i bare yet met in travels. this i much regret, and may jft bare much to any about them in future. saturday morning the 10th. left dayton for springfield, where i armed the same after f»«*on and finding, on inqeiring, that the people and clergy were rather too pro-*)it ef y to obtain a church, i applied to the sheng who rery readily granted permission for the court house; but the court being then in session, it could not be used, as the books records and documents were then deponed ia the court chamber. i remained here, en _ dearoring to get up a general meeting and obtain subscribers, holding t» 0 m relln|f among the colored inhabitants, four days, but without success, the court not adjourning un til the rooming i left tb« r l 3<v jere colored p«*ople, with some rx- ptions, aw suj j b hind those of dayton, br.ng most indifferent to matters pertaining to twtr welfare and de ration of any with whom it has been n.v f„ r tunc to meet. in and about this place i could i neither soe nor hear of colored mechanics nor tanners. this is sad, and i would that i could otherwise write, but it is even so.which w as not the case in dayton, as there wesoa* colored mechanics there, hovveter little use they may make of th »r trades. if i have misrepresented the go< d peoj !e of springfield, they will do me the favor to correct it. monday 14th.—lectured in troy to a good assemblage of ladies and gentlemen in t. e low n hail. 'i his hail stands near the court house, and on this, as is usual on such occa sions, the bell in the cupola of the court house was rung aw meevmg. but on the evening of tuesday, hating mentioned the name of gen. taylor in the course of my previous address, the sheriff prohibited the ringing of the bell. albeit, we had a large audience and a quiet meet hit in and about this place, reside a portion of the randolph people, driven bv mob t.oience from the land purchased for them near picka way. here resides the wife and daughter of the old and faithful groom of john randolph; juba taylor—known as juba. she is now married to a nephew of her former husband, juba, who calls himself rial randolph, and who is evidently several years younger than his wife and aunt, cecilia taylor, the wife of juba. she possesses that kind of intelligence that the wife of an illiterate slave, like juba, might be expected to possess. susan ia the nanieof juba's daughter, who is about 1g years of age, and said to bo the image of her father. if so, juha was a .pure guinean r small features and intelligent expression.— ills wife informed me that he has been dead some six or seven years, and denies that he could either read or write, and all say that john randolph w ould not permit a slave to be taught to read. these people generally are are very ignorant, though some of their child ren have learned to road during the shoit tnn« they have been in ohio, and that, too, under the most disadvantageous circumstances. i met here a rare genius in the person of e little boy, but fourteen years of age, by th* name of simon foreman laundrey, a natural phrenologist, who examines heads, reads out the organs, and delivers lectures on the science. he has had but comparatively little schooling, and w hat his qualifications are i do not know; but he speaks properly, and hia examinations compare well with experienced and competent professors of the science of phrenology. of course he is defective yet, but if care bu taken to give him an education, some day lie will he at the head of his profession. 'i he little genius lectures also rn dentistry the anatomy, jhysiolrgy -.rd disease of the teeth. lie informed rnc that h«* is preparing a work of some co 01 sixty pages, which he expects to bring out a »tc i.ai vest,’’ cn the geography ot the bruin," which ia to bo the title ot his work. if; otic ted his so mess to examine rny cranium, and pa. sod his little hands over the organs, it admg them with as much facility as fowler or melrose. 1 advised this child to iravel through the country, m company with nis mother or some other adult relative, which iruni ihe novelty ot his age and all the connecting circumstances, would secure him a patronage, from the proceeds of which, in a lew mouths, he would gam sufficient to edu cate h.maeli at obeiini, or some other literary institution. his father reside.-* at llarnsburg, 0., a poor man, a blacksmith by trade, having a family of several children, none of whom, *ays simon, save himself, appear inclined to literature, or manifest more than ordinary in tellect. on friday, i held a meeting in the m. e. church at milton, according to re ous no tice, which was full and attentive, i lectured again on saturday (yisterdiy) evening, ihe 17ih, to a good and ence. in the morning, i w ent out of milton about three miles, to a settlement of the other part of the randolph people, whom i addressed in a kind of bush meeting, in the woods, where a number of them, of all ages and both sexes, collected together with many of the white neighbors.— w e adapted our discourse and language to* their comprehension, speaking to them witk the most childlike simplicity. mr. c. h. lang-tun, a talented young colored gentleman, who volunteered his service* to travel with and assist me for a while, was in company, and also spoke to them. here i met with a brother and unci* of john white, the old aud faithful page of juh<t randolph, known as his man job*. juha white, becoming ducouraged—- a* welt bn might— at the outrages perpetrated against himself aud comrades in ohio, left the state and went back to virginia; bat the laws or ordinances nut perrtmuug him to remain in that state, hi* people infor.iun»,h* ha* removed to philadelphia, where, 1 have since been in formed by a gentleman, who say* he baa good authority for saving that he ia busily engaged narrating the life of john randolph, for some virginia historian, who is preparing to bring out the life of this singular man—the of ronnonk. what john is to receive for his service*, j have not beard, but hope he rs to be properly recompensed. these people generally appear much more intelligent than thoee at troy, and several cf their ch.utrcn also read. all, however, readily join i* saying that john randolph wan fond master,’ if these poor, ignorant, dejected and degraded people are—sod they »o*l surely **e sock—the evidence* of good master, or slave holder, in the name of heaven, what must be the condition of those generally who derm no such character for the mfe ter f. protect the pour bondman oi araer.ca! i am fearful that the agent of the executor or (he execu or himself, ie about to wronj theae people out of the mean* and propeitj left th *tn by john randolph. the land (run which they were driven by mob violence, u now refused them by the agent, on the au thonty of bee, the executor, a* 1 am inform-.i by respectable mtellige.it white farm ra neighbors to th *e people, except they agre to pay for it, although the land ia limr own already paid for, with money willed them b< the man w h im they served and wore out their strength with, and almost their lives. hr excuse for this unjust demand is, that he de sires to sell all the land, some thirty liiousam acres, then divide the money equally amonf them. nor is there a remedy for this w iu>l sale imposition, as 1 am informed that i holds a v arraniy deed of all the lan i*, rnadt to himself, liens, executors a.d assigns. now, where is the guarantee of these people in the event of th<* demine of mr. have they an security no, none at all none, iiemg themselves very ignorant, and km wing noli ting but w bat they are tuid by otners, tiipy ar easily unjs**. d upon and ever, nuw, under all the circumstances of the case, are wilting to believe that the executor and age..t are acting justly toward them. i heh how. v* r, tliat there are none but themselves w ho so bcheve. i'ney have been greatly imposed upon by people in ohio, in buying articles. 1 shall name one or two cases for instance, in the purchase of a tub, winch cost but one dollar, the store keeper from w hom the purchase was made, received a five dollar note, which he kept; but the man suspecting something, went to the gentleman from whom he had received the money, who looking over the balance, detected the fraud but then who dare accuse a respectable person with so mean an act another lost ten dollars in like man ner. this was in an<l alsmt troy. old horses, old plows, and other farming utensils, worn out and good for nothing, are frequently sold to them at high prices, all under the name of abolitionists, which,when the hand is discovered, tends very much to their discouragement. hence, some of them have been known to say, that they would rather be back in virginia again. these im postors “steal the livery of heaven to serve tbe devil in,” and richly deserve the execra tion of all just men. there is a school taught among the ran dolph people ip this settlement, by lucv coates, an amiable young lady of the denomi nation of friends. this 1 conceive to be quite self-sacrificing on the part of miss coates, as she could do much better by teach ing otb if schools. there are some few white children go to this school, it is true, but the greater part by far, are of the randolph peo ple, who are very poor, having been cheated out of the legacy left them by mr. randolph, they have nothing now but what they earn by hard labor this portion of them being bv far, if there can.bc* such a difference, the most intelligent and in the most comfortable cir cumstances those near troy, ten miles dis tant, appearing quite dissatisfied and dejected. and no wonder they should be so, as it ap pears to be familiar to all that at the death of randolph they were to obtain their liberty and fall heir to his estate. thus have they been robbed and cheated, and why should they not be dej**cted 1 would not appear uncharita ble, but i am disposed to believe, viewing all the circumstances, that there was collision between the parlies in tbe purchase and sale of this land fur the randolph people. it will be remember .id that after the putchaee, im msdixtel y at the instance of an attempt on the part of the people to s* tile on their land, bought and paid lor, the tool* was raised, composed of the very m n from whom the purchase was made ai d singular that during all this imposition and ouirage on the part u! these ohioans, we see neither executor noi agent enter litigation in the case, but likf good pear ml christians, told their atms, anc express ti. *ir regret at the occurrence. anc be it further r tneinbered, that so soon as the peopl are effectually repulsed, discourager and scattered, those who rejected them, im meiutely waive all objections, and invite then v com and settle on their lands. a‘d what then* why, no sooner is tlii: done, th.w the executor refuses them permit cion, for the reasons 1 have already slated!— what means art tins' remember what now predict—the secrets of this ncfarioui transaction will yet be reve u )ed. i am aware that i shall be subject io cen sure, by both friends and foes, for tbe coursi i have pursued in thus liberally expressing my opinion but as i have taken my stand bi one of the sentinels on the watch-tower o the liberties of our brethren, j never intern to leave the ramparts, nor suffer an approach of the enemy unmolested, until my colors first be grounded in the hands of the faller helpless victims, who dared, in the midst of s tempest ot oppression, such as now surrounds us, stand upon the citadel, and unfurl its proud drapery to the gaze and dismay of the enemies of our race, and the dearest rights ol man. i shall leave here to-day, in order to meet those two great conventions to assemble at columbus on the smst and 22d. the one, an independent gathering of all parties favorable to the nomination of a northern man, opposed to slavery, for the presidency; immediately after which a state liberty party convention meets. these are important mnvevents, and a» 1 am but a day and a half travel from the pouii of meeting, and shall rather gain than us* m ihe new route, i shall proceed thence; whence, shall proceed through the ,b„, gnin corn crop is great a na v w (jeured. p r mi *e *h tour*, for cod and humanity m.r.d. to corresf|s|~yj= l-s-. jordan, onondaga th. ityrcni p. oft re. j. u'. 8., albany.—tv paper i« refuurlj c. c., cioctnuati, o.—the paper will t* directed. li- b t —jyjje jq, received. a.al, wtuaißfto*, o.—-credited to no. 48. r. d., londo will yon send the no. ol tuan*" referred to. the other intelligence u •srrwwfd, h«t not mnftriid. communications. detroit, june 39,1948. fbcokiick doccuii: my deir sir, t j am on my return from a visit to my brutbet m-4aw. james g. biraey. hi* health ha j been much ira, -aired for several years, and i i was n<* probable that i should ever see him uni -aa i should vtstt him. i fiand him rcsid mg at ltwer saginau. it u now to th heart of a willtoess bat nt a tfcoen year it wiil be a towu of no little importance f i the commerce of the noble saginau and o its partially navigable tributaries, mill wak -1 it such. these stream* dram a country o rery great fertility, and abounding in goo< pine timber. many lumbermen in the stati of new york, have purchased land of me j they woo'd have done far better, had thej made iheir lumbering establishments a lover sairnau. b t i take up my pen to testify, in a few word;-, to the good character of the colom people <*f th;-> city. they number one thousand, and are as a ciass, industrious, frugal temperate, upright and intelligent. i hav< spent a sa'rbith with them. in the morning i attended their m rthodist, and in the after noon, their baptist church. mr. gardner is the pastor of the former, and mr. davis ol the latter. mr. davis is a neat, beautiful, and able w riter, lie formerly lived m buf falo. he is a native of maine. i and several acquaintances among the colored people of this city—namely, robert batiks, george r. symes, lewis iltydon, and henry bibb and his wife. banks and symes were members of the colored school, which was sustained for several years in my little village. they are very worthy men. mr. bibb is preparing to go to england this fail. ilis special employment there will be to advocate the disuse of the products of slave labor. his worthy wife will probably ac company him. among the most estimable colored men of this city is mr. george bap tist. i owe him much for his kind and use ful attention to me. the colored people of this city justify themselves for congregating heie, instead ol scattering in the interior, on the ground that they can thereby better protect themselves from men-stealers, and can thereby bettet protect from meo-stealers the almost daily arriving fugitives from the southern prison house. a large share of the colored people of this city are fugitive slaves. vv hat a land is this, in which the poor and the weak arc obliged to congregate them selves together in order to keep at bay tht rich and the strong, who would steal them you will perhaps say, what a constitutior cursed this land! i would rather sav j what a people cursed this land!” sue! a people, even though their constitution liar i been dropped down from heaven, would in terprel it in behalf of justifying the oppres sion and devouring the poor. they havi already in the bible a heaven-sent constitu tion and thus wickedly and blasphemously do they interpret it. with great r egard, your friend and brother, gerrit smith. on board the steamer baltic, june £6, 1848. friend douglass please send your paper for one year to kiloxi, miss. 1 enclose two dollars in payment ol the same. but thereby hang 3 a talc,” which will interest you, even more than the two dollars. i doubt not; and i'll draw it out for you.— you were not, i think, introduced to mr. willard burnham, who is my brut bur's near est neighbor, in cleveland, as well as a par ticular friend of mine. mr b. went to co lumbus th other day, to attend the conven tion of all s-.iris of p iple. to protest against the nominations of taylor and cass. ()i his wly thither, he travelled in company with several who were returning from uu philadelphia convention. among these wer< some three of four slaveholders. mr. burn ham, conversing with one of the latter, tool occasion to say, among other things, that i the slaves were liberated, he did not doub ihey would soon become intelligent, intellect j ,j al and respectable, like other men. that'i impossible; they are an inferior race voi never can make any of them intellectual,’ j said the slaveholder. but,” rejoined mr 8., “we have pne among us at the north w ho, escaping from your slavery some sevei or eight years ago, without scarce knowing the alphabet, is now one of the best speaker i we have has been to england, scotland ant ireland, where he was most favorably receivet i h classes of society, and where his elo quence excited general admiration and he now edits a paper. a ou’d better take it.”— i will, quickly responded the slaveholder i handed to mr. b. the enclosed ivvt dollars, which, at the latter's request, i havi the pleasure of transmitting to you. tin individual is a lawyer, and practises his pro iession at new orleans, but has a plautatior at the place to which i have requested vou u send your paper. i fancy you had bettor noi publish his name, for reasons w hich will lx obvious to you though mr. b. did not, think, that he enjoined any seerect in this resjreet. if you have any difficulty in decipheiinj this no»c, refer it—if that will be any satis faction to you—to my being obliged to write onboard the steamboat, which shakes so lhai 1 have hardly been able to spell right! yours* truly, geo. bradburn. dpfriend bradburn will, we are sure,cxcu« the liberty we take in making the above lettei public. it is matter of encouragement whet a slaveholder is induced, from any motive even the low one of curiosity—u> uke an anti-slaverv paper. rev. llenly 11. garnet, one of the ablest and most useful clergymen in troy, w-as dragged from the cars of the buffalo and niagara falls railroad on tuesday lasi, and so badly bruised that he bad to suspend hu journey and place himself under the care of i phvaician.— reason his forelathers werv stolen from africa.—jv. y. tribune. in the house of representatives, at con oord, new hampshire, on monday, a petition •a* presented requesting the legislature to instruct john p. hate to vacate hie eeat in the united states sanate, which was referred to a select commit!—, arbiv.a or tub atcai suit a m_ll_k i a. •ctc.l da i>umi non eibon the «fe*imercontlew left liverpool on the f*'t •f june. and armed at b>*tun an frhuy aftvi te«ml :>l*e bring* «jty» liter 6 jv.’-* ;ix* rm. pnom ployed capital tra* very alwualan*. fir .-lt~ tn i- wl-r*- b«e**arte.j at 5 per cent, an i th rank krtgi 4«*l reduced iu rule tmm 4 to a jur ivrrt. lire and [m**p«rt* ..f the we*l in-h -ugar planter* w jpv«t rt e tu aert-rai jiutwi meeting* m ragland «*n the aubjert. the thremtehel «leinun-tnitioii itf tlx* clwrti-t tn l>et<h>u mi the i2tli <»f june, proved even more signal buiure than the pm mhm ainur on u< h tu of ajmi, at ken-migtun c* <t inn--a. turn steele. lieud paciticatuf e li elan.l, un «k-r o’cnmafll n kejwaj a-wnatnm, died sn loti ■km ini tlie loth. a number u l'liartists in lunjiet have been iti inte l be #editi**t a;tarr* are inure quiet in ireland. tlie #ui <rijifni;i f<»r jlrv mitchell, *ih* uf do* exile, lia retched tile >ti li "f 1111*1. the n-jn-.tl agitata* declared to have come to a stand *tdl 11* “fratcrniz itmtt '*l wong iu»<l old irel.ui i e•!■, ur the taw rej**ai a-skiatiitiis. nut yet jiei iected. in t raiue 4re.lt excitement prevailed mi i tit fr«»in*r tlie lie public were much .t!.inm-d. 11 cun eqceineuf the jmpuhir ra!iiu.'bmn manifest ed fur i’filu'e l>«n- ronaparte. atm !u l*een clitag#n tu the national a*-e.iit4y, hy a tar.' vote, uhiafti''.l w.ihout an apintrem eftivt. lit flench vet wur-lup tiie tianie of nojmiieon. an> the popular revulsion thattu- just now occurre. ■n savor oi iln- puny member of the family laaotis ariurding fo the biigiidt pnjier*. to a re mm to a one-man jniwer with him to wield it. louis .najmieon, saya ci»e buro|»eaii tunc*, wa it iaie.-t accounts, expected liourijr m pari* to tak lus teat. after a long and exciting debate, in winch le jru ttnilm participated, the assembly, by a lurg na/vity, aumitled louts mu|hneon to bis seat. prince napoleon lias issued tlie following ad iretw “london, june ll.—fellow citizens—vuu 111 ft rages uii me wuh gratitude, inn. mark u »yui|htuiy is utore thiuermg u» me a? it was unso jened ihi my pail,aim readied me at a luonien ft hen 1 regretted being inactive, when tile country nan neeu ot all iter ctuaircii to extricate her iron the iluut tulles m winch *lre was vour euniiilence mqiuse* upon me duties -hall know how iu lunn. our inieie.-li ami ou -eutuneut* are the same. a dual ot i'ur», uuv 1 representative of me jieopie, 1 siiad urn us mj fnoi ls to those of my concagues to re-estalusi iiriier, credit ami laoor; to secure peace atuoao ittcon.-ulidate deiiiocratic uistnutions, and to recoil i'ile interests wliah how ap}veai liostue, uec.ius parties are struggling again 1 cadi other, uisioa. nf working one conuuon end —uie granueur am [ii oc-penty of uie country. “die peop.e have leen free since feb. 21. i liey can ouuiiu ad they want without rccour-i lo hrate force, uet us, wen, an rally round tin altar of oui' country under tlie ring 01 the kepub m, amt give to tlie vvond the gr.uid s|>tsct.wie o a jk-t.pie v, ho liave regenerated llieiiiaeives wilii mil violence, civil war. or anarchy. receive, i'euovv cuixcus, the assurances of nr de votedi less and sy mpaihy. lot is aarolgon bonacarte. from wi.aucr 6l siuilli's i'.unes. tliey who have counieti u,snt die perinanenc' of tlie r rem il itepuooc, aim tiia* lice repiesenui lion principles ban taken tool ni the he.irts oi un 1 reiii li ja-opie, wni lean oar pie.-cnt imuiot-r wib leelmgs ot us much inner ai.-uppomimenl, a those we our.-elves experience m re.orduig aiiotli er urstauce ot uie exir.a.rdnuiry vet saui.iy 01 ou neighbors. a re-aeuou iuu> taaen piaco .11 i’iu'is a spontaneous niubimi ol upuiiui has shewn it sen ni some of the province.-; bnt it is le-actioi not lending to ultra-tiepnbhcauisiu or even non ardi v, bui miavor oi in 1 penal uespotasm, an.l pet soiiulea in one ol its most flagrant forms, lii lvine beioie i'relelioer to ihe unone c malice, louis .’.apiaeon bon..parte. among-1 the ja->»jne 11 cahnoi be concealed tha there is a morbid feeling 111 lav or ot the luna paries, which lime lac- uoi ex linguistic. l a hod •t natiomd guards set 0.1 to ih.mi.ogue nistanoy, u irdcr, 11 is siijjpused, lo welcome boms a.ipo.eyi iu die shores oi r ram e. 'they even were >ll board a vessel, under the preteme of a se. ■x. ur-ion, but the nan or put a slop to their pro veilings, iu spite oi the vote 01 the nat.ona assembly, the people declare that louis aapo ■eon ithuii take his seat. ao doubt goid lias beet i- amongst the populace to a great ex ii- rut if me national guards taller in the: allegiance, what hope can be entertained oi liii ivgmar troops remaining iirul it is, indeed, a critical moment for tlie republic lamartine is a nn.u of peace, wholly unequal t< n. with all emergency uae tins. u e look t< 1 a.aign.ic as anno t die omy man who can savi malice lioiu ailaichy. 6iah was the |x» itam of axtairs iu pans 01 lue.-day. ihe excitement ut the j*e-op;e in lavo oi louts najsi.cou wa- iiicrea-'uig houriy. barn cade* were even utieiupled, unu it was only bj die ovtrwbeiuuug lorce of the military 111 even part ol the city, that a geuc-ral conliict was avoid c>l our readers wni aiurcely be prepared t< heal after ail tilts, liiat on the evening ol i ucwiay die .national assembly, by a large majority, stui tned dear vo eol s pievi. u y uan they coimi uied the c-a..e ol bxiais aajm.cou, ami tiov revoked it, and ueciared that he should be ud nutted a.- a member of tiie aadouai a-semolv. lc.ll u-ivoiun oppioscd ilus proceediug bui tiu majority prcvai.cu, and thus the door is opeuei tor a nvn war. it is said that bcdru-liolhn im mediately resigned, and tiiat bamartme would fol low his exainpie. but who can tell 011 c hour be fore another what event wni happen next t 1 is said hut a triumvirate ot ji.ur.ist, linauit, am uav.iiguac is being formed, bat this is mere con jiscture. it plainly appears that the i'ans uiol is stili absolute by its indirect pressue on the as -cuildy, ami llial its tendencies are nut ltupubu can but towarus de.-|m>dsin. at a rue ones a proc lama rn>n ha.- i sen issued calling ujioii tlie |>cupl< to rush to arms, and to place bairns aapxiieoii 01 the throne. however, before it conies to that there will t* a struggle for supremacy between the begitumst and the buoitaparusts. liners, oduioit ikarot lieitjer, and uuvergier de iliaranne voted m fa vor of louis najsiieou. on w euuesday, pari; was quiet, the people had triumphed. louis .\a |w»leon was expected imurly in paris to take hi seat lie will euect humuity, and buy goluei opinions from all men. \v iui tiie most oroiuarj prudence and cautiou the high road to imjieria i tower is straight ojien before him, and in tha case the splendid pageaulof a n rench repubiu will dissolve. aim, lae the baseless fabric o. 11 vision. i.kivr ikm a reck (m-ii.mu. proceciiluitv 01 lui-auiional an«;-u«bl> xji. ct ii at x avuupura. the president took the chair ou tlie l.’lii iiiaf after lire reviiug of the e* ctrotu, (he i’resi deut said tiiat at. bouiupane iiad asked perrnl sion to speak. m. t. bonaparte. —citizen*, i am much agitx ted aud aiuioj ed lo mount tins tribune lo oraij. before you a memo. 1 on.y ex^ax ten far-- to u cali ad yu to sjje.ik ou pi inciptca. 'i here is name #hich lias been ui every month, tiiat o! prince louis >a|<oicon m. iam his re uuoti, his friend but i uecoue here that i an. wholly a stranger to the previous pioceeumg- ol uiy cousin. x am here a represetitauve ot tht people. 1 should de.-pr.se certaui reperm ui tut journal* but the -e are leouwc »i »ud* nature tiiat a ciuaeu w m* jjos.-cs.-e.- hotair can m. longer keep si .mice, nv hence come these re t »>>rtv iun nut know, but «iiat you ail know is, ural tiiere exists at the imumut parties hostile to the republic, 'i hey are cooqiosed of a teethe mi nority and oi the icasl respeciahar of the couu try. what then c* uid be na«e probable— what more natural tiiaii u> see *uch a parity make use of iu* name, la that the reason lor uiargiug lotus bo impaale wuh the re-pu.isrulily ui lire or acta l vuu are aw are that ui urc ruaurrecuou oi tire laui oi may. hunoratde means have been unxed up wuh timjpe jirocveumgs, %bo have tar.y opposed coutetnpt to the araiaeuvnsa uf the factruax*. thrua you trot then that tire uliua lour# buaapurtc may be equally innocent ut what la ikanr m ku name f 1 his u a abort ataxeiuent of tact nrw gania my cun sin. 60 mum aa the republic wa< prudaimed at izajt ha came to pan* pubhdy ami antrouncml tu tha (iuvenriueut kua amval ui «yp* 1.4 at that mwncpt tiangv wen unaided tha proviamnal uurcnmrent informed him, positively, i rwuremher, that later it would but oppose hr* res*fence in franca, bat that at that tuna, m no •d him in am m» nqmtm tfe* to be repealed; in *4 hma* he re ton»«i t» load.*. and is eompiete «ran*wr tu all shat l«o* been ilmik is ju- name, tiavkc dadly rvfueati oerarai candabtwdttpa. jf ew i***k pure; un the evening lielrs die dat ui f %h »uf twk pfera. i did nut know wa*ai prupo-ejl if 1 bad kamra it lcuo lea 1 abuttal tu.e nittj f*r lou. 1 tu* tauvuuu ki- beeu 'unexpected it kn «nr -1 }sri «»i cvtr_, body,-—lorn* bonaparte uimc.f a e uaia-and re, arts were thvulale l t otoee be ha« bee# name i ui several deportment*. u*ctv uiiut bate let* a om-pirac/ un tin* theme 1 a ukm*«iki autteineuu bare foes hong—« ibmt w*nd absurdiue*, i*ai*h inure r.dicu.oj* >w uuicr. lave uvea *ct alkxu, the goveruaieni m ;-t bare proceeded tu an inquiry; it nu 4 now kn- <w "to* «kii>e it stioutd tone. aiwarg-4 these re r purta there u uue which. beyond all other*, baa excited ia_v sorrow. they hare dared tu caj *k»i fcreyu power* have euuirumitod mosey, j il> »f the luuiie. p ivcj through the haul* of luaia bo naparte. .»ever wa* ao inbuuuoa a etataaieut hoiurae*l du out iheu allow ao <xbm» a supposition to re-t m ioj luu'trmhi* and venerated a name: if die i’rmce lana* ts guilty, i will be the first to 1 aocu-e him; bat it numeeut, away wub the*? maruk*u report*. on g*»mg ye<tenl*y evemng to the ai.m-ter of the inter,or and the i“erfcc!. of i’vinx, to speaj; to thorn «i the subject, thu latter rejmed to i ut\ i’oar cousin u altogether a stran ger to whit ha* jat*sej. as we believe; anj a* 1 lor you, tour name lu not been merit i. me l 1 was at tile councn of the government to-day, and 1 can &*»ure you tint nothing has beeu’ done agnust your iruuve.* he-asaured bv tha-e w ords i was a-bundled when some of my friend* 1 informed me to-day llut a law era* intended hi be passed against uiy cousin now demand ol the government au expauiainu to tins.’ al riocoa, aiuiuter ol commerce, objected that tiie question was not iu order. the order of the day wai then called for. un the lath a scene of great interest and ex citement occurred ui tins national assembly.— ihe order of tile day was a bill for opening a credit of 25.uu0 frauc* a mouth for tlie use of government, and io,ubo franca for secret service money. 1 ins brought out an attack on the gov ernment, by al beratstres who duciared tiie exe cutive power laid toiany failed m the necessary energy for the conduct of public a: lairs. i ins attack brought lamartine upon the tri bune. and the following scene occurred. ai lauuirtuie mounted tiie tribune, lie ap peared much moved, and looked very pale. pass ing ny the questicniu deliberation, he applied him self at once to the defence of the adiumistrution. lie explained wliy and wherefore the government lia<j considered it its duty to proclaim a kcpuonc, but the republic they w t-hed was a kepub.ic ol order. ai. lamartine pronounced this word with emphasis. at una luonieut he was unabie to con ceal ills emotion, tuid was requested to re.-t for a moment. v* lieu he resumed ms countenance w<t. miore downcast than before, and ju>t then were rumors that shots |uul oeeu lived, and tliat an uni ter ol the national guard had oeen seriously woun ded. al lamartine himself announced the deplorable event, and mud tliat three -l*its had beeu ured at al c. 1 ticnias, tiie eumncuider of tiie national guard. 1 here the cry was heard ol v ive 1 caupe leur aajmncoti. re poiivled to o_. dies of” vi»e ia repubiique!’’ ive ia ftepnoiiquei but no pro scriptions 1’ cried al araoite. uou iderao.e .tgita tioii prevailed in the had. (one ui the uati-mai guard had received a sliot in the stomach, and the biood was seen to liow.) 1 am obliged, said di. lamartine, with considerable emotion, us interrupt the speech winch 1 proposed addressing to the assembly, ui order to submit a ilecree whu ll ought muuedlately to be passed in order to stop the moiemeut at present gomg oil a alember. bet us vote by acclamation, (cries of yes. je.*.) hie g tea test agitation arose here. 1 ai. lamartine. i have it here drawn up on the instant, it declares tliat, con-idering peace had beeu troubled andcivtl war iud oeen coiu ne.iced liioiigh perhap* mvo.uut.iruy, by lour* alapoieon liouapaiic, and that lie ilid aueady twice ma le attempts tor hi* own per-oiial ambition, consider ing tiie lxcciiuve vommittee could not take tiie lespousibiiity ol tiie uistui uuices caused, or tiie bm oi laid agauist the bonaparte ta.imy sliati remain in lorceuga.ust louis ivapueon if >n.iparte 1 remendous adpiauso.j 'lhe whole assemuiy riise with shout.* i t i e la ttejiubhq.ie!” (1 his appeal's to have beeu regarded equiva lent to a tote m luvor ol tbe decree tor tiie e.tp.h ■dun of ti.e boii.qiarte tiumiy; though the account is by do means dear, f ills vote, however, it will be seen by the next day 8 proceedings, was in effect stuumed bj a vote to allow louis bona parte to take in* seat tu the assembly on certain eouditionsj ai. liu.i.a t.lie then addressed the chamber on the enormity <*i the act just attempted outside. ai. i* erre bonaparte ascended the tribune an 1 *aid: livery one who bears my name wi!i be deeply aulicted at hearing what lias jii*t taken place, bhame ou those who liave cried, while shedding biood, v ive i’r.mjhjieur naiioieoii, the biiqieror who, to avoid civd war, sacriticed himself, ui lalu, and its family, fur my part, 1 cannot aupjnise that any suspicions can reach me. (cries of no, iio.j at the nr.*t cry of liberty, 1 ha-tcned from my exile and swore allegiance to the kepuclic; and never can 1 enlerta.ii any other convictions than wh t i feel at this moment idle tune for mats may arrive, and tho-e trials are the touch-stone ot palriousin. i shall know how to combat with reactionists or anarchists. 1 shall be found in the lirst rank ot the defenders of the republic. liberty has always be nmy idol, and 1 would rather die than see it infringed upon. [long and continued applause.] al napoleon bonaparte a|>puiuded with all hi* heart the words which had just beeu uttered by his relative, and which ilij been so well received by the assembly but he ajqieaied to their reason at such a terrible moment. ai. lamartine has, he said, eloquently toid you that the horrible crime which he lias denounced to us was committed to the city of a name which lias never been accused of fomenting discord, and it is under the feeling of execration against such an odious attempt that lie lias proposed to you a bili of proscription. (agi- i should be sorry to say any tlung to ex cite you in any way, but 1 consider it my duty to protest against a decree inspired by a crime to winch he w hom it is intended to proscribe is a stranger. tiie alitlister of commerce <4«erved that the decree was prepared beforehand, and al napoleon bonaparte ru e iuid said, what a moment, then, liave you chosen to pre-ent it! think on what you demand 1 ft win be enough for any wretclie* to make use of a name to cover their ernuuial de sign- ihe luipire! who wishes for it f it is a chimerical notiou; it wilf remain as a great ejmen in history, but can never be revived. (agitauotl, 1 conclude by protesting again-t the cmuiecuon w hich al de lamartine appears to estubli-h be tween this crime and die name of my relative. al d aeisward, anud*i loud cr.es of caiough enoug, strongly atuwked die policy of die gov eminent, and refermg to its c<si<iactoti die litiiol alay, declared tliat it w.l* perle tly |kiwei less to carry out die pian-* wmch u iia<i announced it ho-i adojhed. no one, liow ever, oould believe ui die sincerity of it* statement--* alter hamtig been several tunes called to order by dm ivenjeut, tiie h<hl deputy cimciu-leil lus speech uy declaring that lie would ante against the biil i iie v rate itepubmp. -ays dial die revolution is only beginning. thn* die paj*-r of liar lies, i’letie taa'oux, george j*aa.l uid boiuc, 4nu ac. at list accounts. lsiois napoleon renuune l in b» «i il in* re is nothing very important from other pai u ut die comment. slarerjr degrade* tbe free laborer. a correspondenl of the louuviib ex xxniacr" thus tosuiice ngaiuat the degrading influence of uie a.ste a. but the great thing which all feel, ia the degradation of u’arr. muiy ind -pea d nice and affirm tbit they are not as'iam ai to tml, but when pre*wd, will be compelled to adm l tnai aotne tbmga »re too degrading fit them a lady n atritsd to toe once, that i though tturruun lad bf •ixae-hnidcw, aba bad always had mdapeod -nee eaoagi* to d>* h-t own work, dts- *'oum you,” i asked, 44 ever take your bucket and go out oo the street* of l- -fl for water she best tatad a moment and a-iawerod, 44 no, i sever could do uni! vtby not,” md 1, 44 you say slavery has so influence over you.” 44 sir,” said she, l k*c* been. mummun, it km, (ml knew it sut.” she was a high minded woman,who thought and aetod for her self but there arc others who saable to resist the wflusso— about then# au (tor a double degradation. ml betsg compelled to labor, aad time raasrtfwg is aome trick toons- i “f" 1 kae* firmly so vntdwfli pour, in one of oar growing inland towns that they emld an* loro a w*» nan to do den ymmhtns, they did a themselves aft-r mgk awl hired a womau nxt mar 11x02 to hang *m the clothes to dry'! 1 k»tw n 4 bow th» tale mmx fa* i i j it a* *1 *r*i t-4-i to it is an extreme ms? perhaps, nevertheless i has some eery near relatives. the influence of slavery upon th* tseng permetoss in the extram?. i abhor the svsirra said a.i intelligent slave-holder in ikntrhoi count?, and especially because of us iufluene upon th? children. i have a large number o slaves, my children are indispos'd to work because it degrades them to the condition a slaves: my convictions o f right compel m to make them wait on themselves and faho as though 1 had nothing to give them. tht they enmphin of. and the more so, bccaus others do differently. this is only one sidi of lli* picture. what influence has the sys tern up<*ti the morals of the young l ever; man who has eyes to see, knows, and henci so many of our young m?n are sent \artk t im educated hence, too. so many parents n establishing their children, do it in a fre state. while all best ctuses are in opera tioa, there is another and more powerful one the growing conviction that ibe thing j icnmg—that it is stn. men may attempt t< justify it, but every man has an almost in tnitive conviction that it is wrong, contrary t th** law of g id, and it ts only by a system c special pleading that any man arrives at th conclusion that it is the best relation tin can exist between capital and labor.” th special pleas are being given up: the trutl long tefiised. is gaining admittance to th hearts of thousands, and as it comes, the are moved to do what they can to wipe ou the guilt of this deep transgression. thei welcome coworkers, iwidiff 'rence what motiv arms vou for the honest strife—welcome t the calm conflict between liberty and —clsos. atrocious outrage on henry 11. garnet the following statmisnt is from the pen o mr. g trust himself, and re nines all daub that his treatment on the niagara and bui falo railroad was solly on account of hii color. r‘a.l it and hang your head fo shame to think you are a man. llow infer nal is the soirit of persecution! ho.v villan ous are the m)n into whose huojs the coloret man fills! aid under whit a heavy loud oi i reproach and injury we have to staggei from div to diy. but com neat is tame i read t!ie statement. after having spent a week in vour hos pituble aid de nocratic city, endeavoring t. inculcate tlie principles of justice and human ity i det nnined to visit g tntda, and then present the claims of the temperance cause for this purpos r i att-mpt d to take the car; l tor niagara fulls this rn iruing. but ori entering a cur, i was ordered by james grab am, a conductor, to remove. without hesita tioa i was disposed to comply with hi: request, until i found that he was about tt lead me from the thir l car to the one neares the engine. t<. this i objected, and returner to the seat which iha first taken. the con doctor came back and insultingly ordered nit to leave the car. i obeyed the command and at the same time remonstrated against th unreasonableness of iiis course. but lie onl, replied, you shall go i <-h »ose it place you.” i asked him if i received sue! treatmmt on account of any indecon; a#? if slid, colored people cannot be permitted t< ride with the whites on this road, for south ern ladies and gentlemen will not toleratt it.” this was not a sufficient reason to in\ j mind; and not being accustomed to yield u*[ jmv right 3 without m iking at least a scin blancs of lawful resistance, i quietly return j towards my seat, when i was prevented b' the conductor, who seised me violently b the throat, and choked me severely. i have been for many years a cripple, made no resistance further than was necea sury to save myself from injury; but neverthe less, this conductor and another person whose name i do not know, continued t. choke and to assault me with the first. a part of the time my legs were under the car near the wheels, and several persons wen crying out—-‘don't kill him, don't kil him —an officer of the road, whose nam lan informed is win. a. bird, said thu they would put m; or a iy other person out whenever they pleas d, and that no law couli interfere, and that i might as well attempt t< sue the r?tute ol new ork, as to prosecuti that company. mr. bird, (if that is th. j person's name) is a man of grey hairs, an. i respectable appearance, but called me s fool,” and told me to ‘‘go to the devil.” i am suffering greatly from my wound) and bruises, so much so, that i called in t physician, who has kindly prescribed for nn case. my eyes, temples, and breasts ar. severely injured. slavery and the slave trade. at a meeting recently held in london, ol persons anxious to uphold the system of free labor in the british colonies, and to prevenl britain from being dependent for its supply ol sugar and coffee upon the produce of slave labor, the following resolution was proposed by samuel gurney. that this meeting, consisting of merchants, bankers; and others, of the city of loudon, 1 assembled, without regard to the political i views or private mieresis of any class of bet majesty's subjects, is of opinion that, while it is an object of greut importance to the peo i pie of this country to obtain an abundant and "heap supply of sugar an 1 cojee, it is no less desirable to combine with that object t..e omnihoaaee of a system of fre.) ia *>r which j has ot-en established at so great a sicnlice in toe british colonial possessions.” mr. gurney said, iu support of the resolu tion, he thought that, if the people of eng land tuoroughty understood the whole of tbs case, there would ba ninety-nuie out of every hundred of them who would tote against pro j tection in favor of slave-grown sugar. since id to, a great change has taken place on the i suojeet of tue »iuve-tra le. up to that time the slave trade iud oeen cheesed by the bril tsh aui other governments and (he brains and dpaiu, not by treaty, but by acts, wouiu nave auandou .-d the traffic if their sugar had oeen admitted to this country at that time.— l ae govera.iicrti of this eon.iiry had thrown away, then, a golden opportunuy, but oot, ne i h oped, so cuiopfteij as not to he gei it use*. fie would read them a tew statistics of the slave-trade ta reee.it years, iu loin, the number of slaves that crossed the atlantic was csu.uil.-d at 4o,(kh). in 1»17, the num ber was 60,000 by officio) reports, out by i private and well-authenticated aromnu it was 70,000. he would wish them to consider well what the sia.e-trade really was. lie would mention true or two cases by way of eiottdauua. one of our admirals within the present mouth ha-1 written to bis govtrumeni t.iat be bad a slaver tu tow. ol sixty burden, with 317 individuals on hoard. the system of packing tbuse individuals was such as to make them almost a solid iuuu ol human corruption. some few retaainee alive. ha knew eases m which nine out ten of the persons composing cargoes of slaves died on the voyage, if such vessels oi sixty j too* were employed to transport the 6q,ow •laves in 1547, toe meeting might form some calculation a» to the amount of deaths, lie only udd half the evils of the slave-trade when he meotmned the horror* and deaths during lb* auaoue voyage. wfcsi if be told them of the wan sad cruelties saeremed in a.nca—of the ruin commuted is that rtnsirj to gat possession of thorn uutoriusat* iadi nduajs—:f he told them ad, they woeii see that for every 70,003 exported from africa, an equal nomhar was destroyed. he believed that the consequence of the at neap stave. o aav earned cm, v» at lent 1/00 draihs it»y. id pounf out brief v the of the ease*, be would mt lb( leajiy aad truly a wuaulu* had bew given it by ceeetit lepialatwa. the honor*me gentleman t;»ea read eat net* of- eammmutcmu on* fro® fr,,ra 0»e bran's, showing that in 1>44 and l*ti» the planter* would bate made term* wuh the finiodi government w herebtr j the ought have born got nd of., but ihjl „nc. tb, kt of 134 b. .h, sm-tn<!« u'l «"w ™.hb t-mhle vigor. he abo read statements to lil ,nclt>me *l*tre-grown sugsr *;nr- i q* e ln reaße bad bees immenae in lm7. from havanas 100,000 boxes had i bp®” that tear to great bntam, and f«m” mitanaa 60,000 boxes. he also showed j that there *ai a deciea** in tbo exportation l °f mjsr from normrtj colonies, bcsot ft free j labor was not sufficiently protected. he wss the advocate nf the principles of free-trade, but it was wttb 'tens in except***, and he b/ljevcsl that there was no rxt—jhjon that would meet with greater fa\or at the hands of i the english people than the exception advo cated at that meeting.” the resolution w.u unanimously adopted. a mulatto named rush broad well was murdered at mansfield, ohio, a few days •ince, bv a negto waiter in one of the hotels j there. the reason given by the murderer for this outrage was. broad well had enticed hie wifj away from him. ll.* was immediately arrested and committed to jail. address of anti-slavery women of west ern new york. j t t nder a deep and abiding impression of the duty we owe to god and our fellow beings, the anti-slavery women of rochester feel constrained to continue to persevere iu then j effurif for the oppressed and suffering bond j men who aul! remain toiling unrequited iu the southern prison house. we are frequently brought painfully to remember that not only i 3 their labor wrested from them nnremunera tod; not only do they suffer from intense hun ger and cold not only are the females, our i sisters, subjected to uw cruel and passionate i outrages of their tyrannical masters and over seers but there are daily instances of si.n dering the dearest ties in nature, thus sepa rating them forever. and can we expect any -1 thing better—can we look for benevolence m line feelings from a system so foul and fiend j ish as slavery? it would be unreasonable, i because a corrupt tree cannot bring forth good fruit.” therefore, knowing that with* out associative action we cannot render effi cient aid to this holy cause, we affectionately invite th co-operation of the citizens of roch ester and the public generally. we ask their to hear in mind the injunctions of jesus, “ah things whatsoever ye would men should do t< you, do ye even so to them.” remember, also, the beautiful parable in which he calls our attention to the sick and to those who arc in prison, and concludes by the forcible asser tion, “inasmuch as ye have done it toone of the least of these, my brethren, ve have done it unto me.” we feel assured all that have hearts to feel, and are careful to attend to the monitions of conscience—all who are deter mined to live for the good of our race, instead of devoting all their time to their own per sonal ease—all who feel bound to improve the precious time allotted to them here, bv pro moting as much as possible the cause of truth and righteousness in the earth, will come for ward in the work of laboring to banish forever tire demon of slavery from our land and hi so doing, instead of an example of corruption and wickedness, we should be a light to the world.” we hope no one will feel too poor, nor any to<i rich, to enlist in this holy cause. the christian’s influence, in whatever situation, is always salutary, and will certainly produce its good effects. we ask for the aid of men and of wo.n m we call on the old and the young, the farmer, the mechanic, and th< merchant. we ask all and every one to giv< us their help to devote what they can spare either of money or of the fruits of their la bor, to the work of restoring men and womei to themselves, to their manhood, to the right: and blessings with winch they were endowei by our creator. for this object, we propose holding a fai in december next. we ask the females h the adjoining towns and country around us, u get up sewing circles, ami prepare such arii cles as will be most saleable, and to come, fur nish tables, give us their company, and help us, not only in selling those things thus pre pared, but in convincing the public mind o; the necessity of our perseverance and fidelity and thus be helpers in hastening the day o emancipation. a bio ail bush, rochester. sarah i). fish, do. sarah l. llallowell, do. mar/ if. llallowell, do. sarah a. burtis, do. margaret a. larson, do. elizabeth sully, do. phebe treadwell, do. charlotte s. wilbur, do. hilda anthony, do. rhoda dk garmit, do. catharine g. braitiivtaite, do. sarah e. thayer. do. catharine a. f. stebbins, do. amy post, do. henrietta platt, baih. susan r. doty, farmington. maria wilbur, do. elizabeth smith, do. esther hathaway, do. caroline halstead, walworth. julia parker, do. el[za cooper, williamson. amy mott, do. rebecca m. c. capron, auburn. c. g. hamblin, port byron. margaret prior, waterloo. mary ann mcclintock, do. laura murray, victor. mrs. mackintyre, darien. era new york. k'tvm the new york evssgeiwu inkl'it rei'tion ilf cl'ba. tfaranna march, 1818. their? have been lately some serious symptoms of insurrection discovered among the slaves of this island, and so serious, chat troops have been stationed on several plantations to be ready for immediate action in case of an out break. the timely discovery of these insurrectionary movements will proba bly postpone the danger; but the inhabitants are in constant apprehension, and past events show that there fears are not groundless. large numbers of the slaves, trained to war, and massacre in africa, arc ready to enlist in any scheme of plunder and blood shed, however small mav be the prospect of securing their freedom. they only need competent leaders to excite their pa-sions and direct their move ments. such leaders are found among the free negroes, who remember their sufferings while in bondage, and thirst for revenge. but the military force of the island is too great te allow the slightest hope to the slave of obtaining his liberty by insurrection, and the attempt is to be deprecated moie on account of the cruelties it will provoke from the whites, than on account of the dangers they may fear from the blacks. the scenes of november, 1843. be renacted. the character and consequences of that insurrection are probably little understood, as very few of the facts were ever published. in the first outbreak, which commen ced on the estate trintnvirabo, six white persons were killed, and proper ty to the amount of $bo,ooo was des troyed. a few days alter, don kste ban do oviedo discovered a plan for an insurrection in sabanilla, to which it is supposed that 40,000 slaves were accessory. the conspiracy was conducted by one valdes, a mulatto poet, who was supposed to have been instigated by turnbull, the british consul. lam j not aware, however, that there was any positive evidence of his agtncy in the alfair. the measures of the conspirators were so ill-concerted, that they could not act in concert, and before a decis i ivc blow' was struck, the ringleaders were arrested, and the infected dis tricts filled with soldiers' which put a speedy end to the disturbance. then j followed the work of retribution. a sort of civil inquisition was instituted, which was administered with a spirit of brutality and ferocity rarely exhibited by any civilized tribunal since the days oi the romish inquisition. free negroes were the chief objects of suspicion, and were arrested and put to the torture on no other evidence of guilt than the fact that they were 1 free. many who resided twenty or thirty miles from the scene of the out break, were seized and dragged with merciless cruelty from place to place,! and flogged till death by their wounds' or their own hands put an end to their sufferings. the case of a negro tailor at guiucs, was related to me by one of his neighbors. he had purchased his freedom, and accumulated property to the amount of about $lo,ooo. this fact made him a prominent mark for the inquisitors. he was seized, and confined for several days in the stocks, with scarcely food enough to sustain life. then he.was marched on foot forty-five miles to matanzas, where he was twice flogged almost to death, to extort from him information concerning the conspiracy, which he could not possibly have possessed. expecting that this torture would be continued, as he saw it in other cases, he opened an artery, and was found in his prison a corpse. his property was confiscated to the crown. a similar course was adopted with slaves. soldiers w ere sent to the plan tations, and hundreds of slaves were hunted through the cane fields, and shot like wild beasts. planters were compelled to surrender the in st intelligent and valuable of their slaves, to be taken to matanzas or cardenas for torture. the process is thus described by a gentleman from south carolina, who was residing in the neighborhood when these scenes occurred: "a thousand lashes w ere in many cases inflicted on a single negro a great number died under this continued torture, and still more from spasms, and gangrene of the wounds. con fessions thus obtained, especially when the prisoner was influenced by leading questions, could not be always relit d on, and not a few in their dying moments declared that all'they had said was false. a number of whites, both creoles and foreigners, were arrested on such testimony, and confidence in! the protection of the government was entirely lost. abandoned to the caprice of the sub-commissions that visited the plantations, the whole population, afraid to utter one word against tin ir acts, in despair saw their property sacrificed, and were compelled to witness the most revolting scenes of cruelty." these scenes are still fresh in the remembrance of the inhabitants, and there is no security that they may not be repeated at any hour. the tyranny of their foreign masters is n* t more grevieus than the tyranny of slavery, and between both, the white inhabitants of cuba are strangers to the sense of security. soon after the last insurrection, in order to prevent the recur rence of such scenes, they petitioned the captain-general for a prohibition of the slavtt rade. but this oulv brought upon their heads the wrath of gen. o'donnell, and many of the petitioners were compelled to leave the island. it will not be strange if am liter msurrect on shull be atteinptid. theyj have the example and the sympathy", and may expect the aid of the 800,000 fiee blanks in st. domingo, nnd the 40(1,000 in jamaica. the emancipation of the slaves m the french islands, and the terrible vengeance winch they are inflicting upon their former masters, j ate or will be known, notwithstanding the efforts used to prevent it. probably these events have occasioned the! present svmpt<ms of outbreak, and m«y yet produce more decisive effects us they become w< re genet ally known among the slaves. in short, the position of cuba, in this respect, is very] critical, and she may soon witness tragedies not less hlcodjr than those which resulted iu the asceadeccj of the blacks iu st, domingo. c. self-made me!!. these,as has been well said,are »erj frequently the best made men. in our country they are so me a hat numerous. without ibe separating- barrier* oi cartes, the avenues to wealth and hon or are here open to all who chose to enter them. l*hose most eager to em brace and most successful in the use ol the privileges granted in a land of free dom, are not always those who have been favored with prosperous circum stances--born, as the old saying is with silver spoons in their mouths, and among crow ds of friends to watch and aid them. tract* back the biographies of our richest, greatest and best men, and how humble the origin of many; from what low starting points of ignor ance and poverty have they risen to their nigh stations! there is something enervating in too much relief, in early davs, from personal exertion. a child with many hands ready to lead him or to prevent him from tailing, does not so soon learn to walk selt-sustained and with a firm step as one compelled to rely on his own muscles and courage. strength comes from contest with diffi culties; and although encouragement mav be needful to some, obstacles are fine stimulants to others. a determined spirit, to w horn there is a possibility ol success, will often in the end obtain more than one who has only to breathe a wish to have it gratified. e have seen this truth frequently exemplified, we have seen the children ol good for tune break down in the race of life-- become at manhood imbecile and faint hearted and without reputation; whilst urchins that started em the race ragged and bare-footed, have distanced their more favored competitors and won gold en prizes. it is good, although not in all cases absolutely necessary, for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth. if the boy lias anything in him the yoke will not prevent his growth. he will keep what lie gets by saciifice and bard toil: he will value t:ie knowledge which he is obliged to pay for with the sweat of his own brow. he will not play tru ant, or sit idle, or half-get his lessons at school, when he must foot his own quarter bills for tuition. a young rnan at college will hardly miss many recita tions, when he has to meet his expenses by his own labors. when we see one pursuing knowledge under difficulties, there need bo little fear that he will not be in the end victorious. with nil desperandum" for his motto, translated, as a friend of ours used to translate it at him again," he will make his way in tire world and make himself known among men. there is nothing like danger and des titution to develops a soul strong in native power. it grows under the oppression of circumstances: it finds out its own resources, in proportion to its deprivation of aid from without; it learns by hitter experience, what every boy and girl ought to be taught, be they rich or poor, that to a great extent we must depend, after all, upon ourselves and tread the wine press alone." some examples of self-made men have recently come to our knowledge, which we should be glad to describe if propri ety would permit. suffice it to say, they are proofs of the fact, that in this land no rnan who is willing to pay the price--w ho is w illing to toil and perse vere, need fear that h:s light will be forever hid. if, as the phrase is, he has got tire root of the matter in him," and will go resolutely to w or k, bo honest and diligent he can sooner or later win for himself name and fame. their excellencies the governors of some cf our states, honorable senators, re spect able lawyers, ministers and schoolmas ters, by regiments, began to hew their w ay to honorable stations, literally with the axe; and this is to their great credit. such men are not ashamed of their origin; and there is no reason why they should be. an oak might as well be ashamed that it was once an acorn. most honorable to self-made men is the fact that they have climbed as high from the ground by their own unaided efforts, as others who started from the should ers of tall lathers. they probably acted well the humble parts first asigned them in the great drama of life; and thus obtained promotion and became "stars." a good story is told of a late eminent merchant of boston, which we recommend all young men to remember. when mr. william gray was somewhat advanced in year.*;, he was one day superintending a piece of carpenters' work, and he had occasion to reprimand the man who was performing it, tor not doing his work tr ell. the carpenter turned upon him--he and billy having known each other in youth--and said, billy giay, what do you presume to scold me for? you arc a rich rnan 'tis true; hut didn't i know you when you were nothing but a drummer?" "well," said mr gray, didn't i drum ire//, eh: didn't 1 drum ire//?" if any lad who reads this hapens to lie drumming, let hitn be sure and drum trr//; and per haps, by and bvj he may rise to be a captain in the march ol intellect. tiie hero of the plague. when the plague raged violently at marseilles, every link ot affection was broken; the father turned from the chi'd --the child from the lather--cowardice and ingratitude no longer excited indig nation. misery is at its height when it thus destroys every generous feeling-- thus dissolves every tre of humanity. the city became a desert--grass grew in the streets-- a funeral rr.et you at every step. the physicians assembled iu a body at the hotel de ilie, to !u id a consultation cn the fearful disra-e, for which no remedy had yet been d s covered. after a long consultation, they decided, unanimously, that the malady bad a peculiar aud mysterious character,w hich opening a corpse might develop* --an operation which it was impossible to altr nipt, since the operator, must infallibly become a victim in a few hours, beyond the power of human art. to save him, asthe violence of tin attack would preclude their ndmi?r< i tug the customary remedies. a dead pam*e wrerdt d this fatal; decimation. suddenly a mrgeon, named guyon, in the prime of life, and of great celebrity in bn* profession, rose, j and said, firmly-- 'be it so--l devote mt we for the nfctf of my country. before this nu merous assembly 1 promise, in the name of humanity and religion,that tomorrow, at the break of day, 1 wih dissect a corpse, and write down, as i proceed, what 1 observe.* he left lhe assembly instantly. they admire him--lament his fate--and doubt whether he will persist in his design. the intrepid aod pious guy on, animated by all that sublime energy religion or patriotism can inspire, acted up to his word. he had married, and was rich; and he immediately made his will, dictated by justice and f.tety. a man had died in his house within twenty-four hours. guyou, at day break, shut himself up in the same room. full of enthusisam, never had lie felt more firm or collected. kneeling before the corpse, he wrote: 'mouldering tenement of an immortal soul, not only can i gaze on thee without horror, but even with joy and gratitude. thou open to me the gates of a glorious eternity. in discovering to me the secret cause of the terrible plague which destroys my native city, thou wilt render my sacrifice useful, oh, god! thou wilt bless the action thou thyself hast inspired!' he began--he finished--the dread ful operation; and recorded in detail his surgical observations. he then left the room--threw the papers into a vase of vinegar, and immediately sought the lazaretto, where he died in twelve hours: a death ten thousand times more glorious than that of the w arrior, who, to save his country, rushes on the enemy's ranks--since he advances with hope at least, and sustained, admired, and seconded, by a whole army. physicians, who remain firm in the discharge of their duties, while the fears of their fellow citizens are prompting them to fly from contagion, display that moral courage w hich is as far superior to the physical energy which sustains the soldier in buttle, as mind is superior to matter. eloctcemt thoughts. the rev. henry giles, in a lecture recently delivered in the city of philadelphia, thus eloquently describes the tarewell thoughts of an upright man, in the last hour of his liter o thou glorious sun--still pour down thy splendor to bless men's eyes and to gladden their hearts. many years have 1 rejoiced in thy light; with rapture have i watched it dawn upon the mountains'; with rapture have 1 lingered with its parting magnificence on the evening clouds. istill pour down thy beauty, and be the central lamp in the blue canopy of heaven for endless generations. shine on, ye stars, sweet and solemn as ye are, and though awful, lovely--with wings of fancy that no lower air could damp, 1 have risen to your dread sublimity and been lost in your measureless depths. i have felt a terr ible and a speechless joy-- still show to the lonely watchers ot the night, your everlasting harmony--still play on to mortals the music of your eternal spheres! roll on, thou mighty ocean, symbol as thou art, of mystery and power; unfathomable abyss, resist less strength--great binder of the nations. 1 have slept upon thy heaving breast; i have sported with thy shore kissing wavelets; 1 have listened to thy low, sad song in the calm, and thy chorus of fierce sounds in the tempest; but the hour draws nigh, when my eve shall no more see thee, anti my car shall no more hear thee. aud lliou, gentle earth! hospitable and comely home--beautiful tiicu art, beautiful exceedingly; and though sorrow and wrong, arid guilt and death be on thee, thou rernainest beautiful despite them all. soon i shall look my last upon your hills and valleys, and your fields --but lovingly; as iny senses fail, shall 1 think on thee, first dwelling place to the infancy of my immortality. human beings! leaving you, i bless you. i bless your sympathies. i arn grateful for every tie that bound me to you for every benefit you have done me. still let childhood bound in its innocence and youth rejoice in its strength, and man put forth his power, and woman he lovely in her purity, and age the bless edness of peace. i must quit this habitation, which must return to the dust out of which it was made, while niv spirit returns to god who gave it. j am at the end of my pilgrimage, and i am satisfied. lam at the portals of the invisible and mysterious future. i behold the stirring of the veil w hich is soon to he taken away--l see the shadow of the solemn messenger that is to aim mice my removal. let the veil be laised. lam prepared to enter --let the messenger approach--l am prepared to follow." how to move the world. one day a philosopher caine to ath ens, from a tar country, to learn the ways of the wonderful greeks, and perhaps to teach them the great love lie hud treasured in his heart. the men heard him, sought his company in the gardens, talked with him in private. ihe young men loved him. he passed for a wonder with the wonder-loving people. among those that followed him, was a son of sophroniscus, an ill-favored young man, a mechanic of humble sank. he was one of the few that understood the dark, orient doctrines of the age, when he sp«-kt» of tied, man, freedom, goodness, of f\e lift* that never dies. the younj ".an kgw these doctrines we*c pregnant tlb actions, aud would one day make a revolution iu the uflairs of men, disinheriting ma ny an ancient rin now held legitimate. so be said to himself, when he saw a man rich and famous, "uh, that 1 were *ilso rich aud iaiuous, i would move the world so soon! here are sins to be plucked up, and truths to he planted.-- oh, tiiat i could do it all! 1 would nieud the world right soon." vet he did nothing but wait for wealth aud fame. one day the wage heard him com plain with himself, and said, young man, thou speakest as one of the silly women. the gospel of god is writ lor all. let him that would move the world, mqgp first himself he that w ould dogood to men, begins w ith what tools god has given him, and gets more as the world gets on. it asks oei'bcr wealth nor fane to live out noble life; at the end of thy lane is athens. make thy lights thy life; thy thought action: others will come round. thou askest a place to staod on hereafter, and move the world. foolish young man, take it where thou standest, and begin now. so the work shall go forward, reform thy little self, and thou hast begun to reform thee world. fear not i thy work shall die!" the youth took the bint; reformed himself of his coarseness, his sneers, of all meanness that was in him. his idea became his life; and that blame less and lovely. his truth passed into the public mind as the sun into the air. his influence passes like morning from continent to continent, and the rich and the poor are blessed bv the light, and warmed by the life of socrates, though they know not his name. female influence. under god, i ow e my early educa tion, nay, all that 1 have been or am, to the counsel and tutelage of a pious mother. it was peace to her sainted spirit, it was her monitory voice, that first taught my young heart tiitfeel that there was danger in the intoxi eating cup, and that safety lay in absti nence. and as no one is more indebted than myself to the kind of influence in ques tion, so no one more fully realizes how decisively it bears upon the destiniesof others. l ull wjil, i know, that by woman came the upustacy of adam, and by woman, the tecovery, through jesus. it was woman that imbued the mind and formed the character of moses, israel's deliver. it was a woman that led the choir, and gave back the response of that triumphal procession, which went forth to celebrate with timbrels, on the banks of the red sea, the overthrow of pharaoh. it was a woman that put sisera to flight, and composed the song of deborah and barak, the son of abinoam, and judged in for years, the tribes of israel. it was a woman that defeat ed the wicked counsels of haman, delivered righteous mordecai, and saved a whole people from their utter desolation. and now to speak of semiramis, of babylon, of catharine, of russiaj or of those queens of england whose joy ous reigns con titutethe brightest peri ods of biitish history, or her, the young and lovely, the patron of learning and morals, who .now adorns the throne ot the sea-girt isles; not now to speak of these, there are others of more sacred i character, of whom it were adntissable i even now to speak. the sceptre of empire is not the sceptre that best befits the hand of wo man; n-if is the field of carnage hei field of glory. home, sweet home, is her theatre of action, h r pedestal o beauty, and throne of power. or i ■seen abroad, she is seen to the best ad vantage when on her errands of love and wearing her robe of mercy. it was not woman that slept during the agony of gethsemane; it was not woman that denied her lord at the palace of caiphas; it was not woman that deserted his cross on the hill ol calvary. but it was woman who dared to testify her respect for ids corpse,that procured spices for embalming it, and that was found last at night and first in the morning at his sepulchre. time has not impaired her kindness, shaken hei constancy, or changed her character. i now, as formerly, she is most read) to enter, and most reluctant to leave, the abode of misery. now, as-former ly, it is her ofiice, and well it has been sustained, to stay the fainting head, wipe from the dim eye the tear of an guish, and from the cold forehead the 'dew of death.-- dr. js'clf. afiectiov. we sometimes meet with men who seem to think that an) indulgence ir>au affectionate feeling is weakness. they will return from a journey and greet their families with a distant dignity, and move among their children with the cold and lofty splen dor of an iceberg surrounded by its broken fragments. there is hardly a more unnatural sight on earth than one of those families without a heart. a father had better extinguish his bov's eyes than take away his heart! who that has experienced the joys of friend ship, and values sympathy and affec tion, would not rather lose all that is beautiful in nature's scenery, than be robbed of the hidden treasure of his heart who would not rather bury his wife than bury his love for her?-- who would not rather follow his child to the grave, than entomb his parental affections? cherish, then, your heart's best affections. indulge in the warm and gushing emotions <>f filial, parental and fraternal love. think it not a weakness: god is love. love god, love everybody, and every thing that is lovely. teach your children to love, to love the rose, the robin; to love their parents; to love god. let it be the studied object of their domestic culture to give them warn* hearts, ardent affections. bind your whole family togeth er by these strong coids. you can not make them too strong. religion is love; i *ve to god, love to man.-- cktimbtr*' journal. the ocean. --how lovely on hie ocean is the hour of departing day ?how magnificent the spectacle ot theseiting sun apparently sinking into its depths, as if to ltd the world an eternal adieu and gilding as with burnished gold the varying surlace of the waters, the fleecy clouds,of every variety of coloing from the derpest crimson to the fain test tinge of ethenal blue, lie piled one above the other, as if from their lofty dwelling 1 in elaely repose, they acre vewing the tranquil scene benath. and now' perhaps, from some joyous band, on yonder gallant bark, music's sweetest strains come stealing o'er the sea; now it floats aroand su in majes tic fulness and harmony, and then, as the vesael rises and sinks with the bouy ant wave, we hear it in the distance, as it were the charmed melody of the ta bled nymphs of ocean. soon the silvary star of silent eve rises from the watery waste--and as night sways her sceptre o'er the world, brooding it in darkness the vault of heaven is spangled with its brilliant gems. now the music ceases, as the light hark speeds to her destined shore and all is still save the dashing billows as they roll unceasingly on. 
