from parker’s letter on slavery, conclusion. fellow citizens of america: you see some of the effects of slavery in your land. it costs you millions of dollars each year. if there had been no slaves in america for forty years, it is within bounds to say, your annual earnings would be three hundred million dollars more than now. it has cost you also millions of men. but for this curse, virginia had bccii as* populous as new york, as rich in wealth and intelligence; without this the free men of the south must have increased as rapidly as in the north, not at this day, perhaps five-and twenty million men would rejoice at their welfare in the united states.— slavery retards industry in all its forms; the education of the people in all its forms, intellectual moral and re ligious. it hinders the application of those great political ideas of america; hinjcrs the development of mankind, the organization of the rights of man in a worthy slate, society or church.— such effect* are the divine sentence against the cause thereof. it is not for me to. point out the re medy for the evil, and show how it can be applied; that is the work for those men you dignify with place and power. i pretend not to give you counsel here, only to tell the warning truth. will you say, that in the free slates also there is oppression, ignorance, and want and crime? ’tin true, llut an excuse, specious and popular, for its continuation, is this: that the evils ot slavery are so much worse, men will not meddle with the less till the greater is removed. men are so wonted to this monstrous wrong, they cannot see the little wrongs with which modern society is full; evils which are little only when compared to that. when this shame of the nation is wiped off, it will be easy, seeing more clearly, to redress the minor ills ot ignorance, want crime. but there is one bright thing connected with this wrong. i mean the heroism which wars against it with pure hands; historic times have seen no chivalry so heroic. not long ago, europe and the whole {christian world rung with indignation at the outrage said to he offered by the russian government to some polish nuns who were torn from their homes, driven from place to place, brutally beaten, and vexed with continual tor ments. be the story false or true, the ears of men tingled at the tale. but not one of the nuns was sold. those wrongs committed against a few de fenceless women are doubled, trebled iu america, and here continually ap plied to thousands of american women. i bis is no iiction; a plain fact, and no torious; but whose ears tingle? is it worse to übusc a few white women iu russia, than a nation of black women in america? is that worse for a euro pean than this for the democratic re publicans of america? the truth must be spoken; the voice of the bondman’s blood cries out to god against us; jiis justice shall make reply. how can america ask mercy, who has never ahowu it there? civilization extends everywhere: the russian aud the hotentot feel its influ ence. christian men send the bible to every island in the pacific sea. plenty becomes general; famine but rare.— the arts advance, the useful, the beau tiful,, with rapid steps. machines begin to dispense with human drudgery comforts get distributed through, their influence, more widely than ancient benefactors dared to dream. what *«rc luxuries to our fathers, attainable m"■ w- i***' >y frt _____ —j. the north star. only by the rich, now find their way t the humble home. war—the old de mon which once possessed each etroo| nation, making it deaf and blind, bu yet exceeding tierce, so that no feeble one could pass near and be safe—wa is losing his hold of the human race the devil getting cast out by the tinge of god. the nay of peace begins ti dawn upon mankind, wandering so in darkness, and watching for tha happy star. science, letters, religion break down the barriers betwixt mat and man, ’twixt class and class. tin obstacles which severed nations oncf now join them. trade mediates be tween land and land—the gold entering where steel could never force its way, new powers are developed to hasten the humanizing work; they post o’et land and ocean without rest, or serve our bidding while they stand and wait. the very lightning cornea down, is caught, and made the errand-boy of the nations. steamships are shooting across the ocean, weaving east and west in one united web. the soldier yields to the merchant. the man-child of the old world, young but strong, carries bread to his father in the hour of need. the ambassadors of science, letters and arts, come from the old world to reside near the court of the new, tell ing truth for the common welfare of all. the genius of america sends also its first fruits and a scion of its own green tree, a token of future blessings, to the parent land. these thiugs help the great synthesis of the human race, the reign of peace on earth, of good-will amongst all men. everywhere in the old world the poor, the ignorant, the oppressed, get looked after as never before. the hero of force is falling behind the times; the hero of thought, of love, is felt to de serve the homage of mankind. the pope of rome himself essays the re formation of italy; the king of den mark sets free the slaves in his domin ions, east and west; the russian em peror liberates his serfs from the milder bondage of the sclavonian race; his brother monarch oftuikeywill have no slave-market in the mahometan me tropolis, no shambles there for human flesh; the bey of tunis cannot hear a slave; it grieves his islamitish heart, swarthy african though he be. vet amid all this continual advance, america, the tirst of the foremost na tions to proclaim, equality and human rights inborn with all; the first con fessedly to form a state on nature’s law america restores barbarism; will hold slaves. more despotic than russia, more barbarous than laid of barbary, she establishes feroci ty by federal law softeriog i enough amongst the weak and poor in the cities of the free laborious north. england has her misery patent to the; eye, und ireland her looped and win dowed raggedness, her lean and brutal want. so it is everywhere; there is sadness amid all the splendors of mo dern science and civilization, though far less than ever before. but amidst the ills of christendom, the saddest and most ghastly spectacle on earth is american slavery. the misery of the old world grows less and less; the monster-vice of america, to make it self more awful yet, must drag your camion to invade new lauds. i have addressed you as citizens, members of the state. i cannot forget that you are men; are members of the great brotherhood of man, the one and blessed god, whose equal love has only made to bless us all, who will not softer wrong to pass without its due. think of the nation’s deed, done continually and afresh. god shall hear the voice of your brother’s blood, long crying from the ground; his jus tice asks you even uow, america,where is thy brother? this is the answer which america must give: lo, he is there in the rice swainps'df the south, in her fields teeming with cotton and the luxuriant cane. he was weak and i seized him; naked and i bound him; ignorant, poor and savage, and i over-: mastered him. i laid on his feebler' shoulders my grievous yoke. i have chained him with my fetters; beat him with my whip. other tyrants had do minion over him, but my finger was thicker than their loins. i have branded the mark of my power, with red-hot iron, upon his human flesh. i am fed with his toil; fat, voluptuous on his sweat, and tears, and blood. i stole the father, stole also the sons, and set them to toil; his wife and daughters are a i pleasant spoil to me. behold the children also of thy servant and his handmaidens —sons swarthier than their sire. askest thou for the afri can? i found him a barbarian. i have made him a beast. lo, there thou hftrt what is thine.” that voice shall speak again: america, why dost thou use him thus—thine equal, born with rights the i same as thine?” america may answer lord i! knew not that the negro had a right to* treedom. i rejoiced to eat the labors of the slave; my great men, north and south, they told me slavery was no wrong; 1 knew no better, but believed their word tor they are great, o lord, and excellent.” v the same voice may answer yet again, quoting the nation’s earliest and* most patriotic words: ‘“all men are! created equal, and endowed by their creator with unalienable rights —the right to life, to liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.’ america, what further falsehood wilt thou speak the nation may reply again: “true lord, ail that is writtea in the nation’s creed, writ by my greatest spirits in their greatest bour. but since then, why, holy men have come and told me in thy name that slavery was good' was right; thou thyself didst once wght is of wo sex—troth is of no coum-ood is the father of os all, and all we are brethren. r i t* lt ’i- establish it oa earth, and he who spoke tbjr wards, spoka naught against this thing. 1 have believed these men, for the/ are hoi/ men, o lord, and excel lent. then nnv the judge of all the earth take down the gospel from the pulpit's desk, and read these few plain words; thou shah love the lord thy god with alt thy heart and thou shah love thy neighbor us thyself whatso ever y« would that others should do to you, do also even so to them. further might be speak, and say: while the poor mussulman, whom thou call'st pagan and shuts’t oat from heaven—sets free all men, how much more art thou thyself condemned; yea, by the bible which thou sendee! to the outcasts of the world? across the stage of time the nations pass in the solemn pomp or their his torical procession; what kingly forms sweep by, leading the nations of the past, the present age! let them pass —their mingled good and ill. a great people now comes forth, the newest born of nations, the latest hope of man kind, the heir of sixty centuries— the bridegroom of the virgin west. first come those pilgrims, few and far be tween, who knelt on the sands of a wilderness, whose depth they knew not, nor yet its prophecy, who meekly trusting in a their god, in want and war, but wanting not in faith„laid with their prayers the deep foundation of the sfate and church. then follow more majes tic men, bringing great truths for all mankind, seized from the heaven of thought, or caught, ground-lightning, rushing from the earth; and on their banners have they writ these words: equality and inborn rights. then comes the one with venerable face,who ruled alike the senate and the camp, and at whose feet the attendant years spread garlands, laurel-wreaths, calling him first in war, and frst in peace, and first in his country’s heart, as it in his. then follow men bear ing tho first fruits of our toil, the wealth of sea and land, the labors of the loom, the stores of commerce and the arts.— a happy people comes, some with shut bibles in their hands, some with the nation's laws, some uttering those mighty truths which god has writ on man, and men have copied into golden words. then comes, to close this long historic pomp,—the panorama of the world—the negro slave, bought, brand ed, beat. i remain your fellow-citizen and friend, 'theodore parker. boston, dec. 22, 1847. u prejudice against color! pray tell us ir/i«< color? black? brown? copper color? yellow? tawny? or olive? nat ive americans of all these colors every where experience hourly indignities at the hands of persons claiming to be white. now, is all this for color's sake if so, which of these colo'rs ex cites such commotion in those sallow skinned americans who call themselves white? is it black? when did they begin to be so horrified at black? was it before black stocks came into fashion? black coats? black vests? mack hats? black walking canes? black reticules? black umbrellas? black-walnut tables? black ebony picture frames and sculp tural decorations? black eyes, hair and whiskers bright black shoes, and glos sy black horses? how this american colorphobia would have lashed itself into a foam at the sight of the celebrated black goddess diana, of ephesus! how it would have gnashed upon the old statue, and hacked away at it out of sheer spite at its color! what exem plary havoc it would have made of the most celebrated statues of antiquity. forsooth they were black! their color would have been their doom. these half-white americans owe the genius of sculpture a great grudge. she has so often crossed their path in the hated color, it would (are hard with her if she were to fall into their clutches. by the way, it would be well for marshall and other european sculptors to keep a keen look-out upon all americans visiting their collections. american colorphobia would be untrue to itself if it did not pitch battle with every black statue and bust that came in its way in going the rounds. a black apollo, whatever the symmetry of his proportions, the majesty of his attitude, or the divinity of his air, would meet with great good fortune if it es caped mutilation at its hands, or at least defilement from its spittle. if all foreign artists, whose collections are visited by americans, would fence off a corner of their galleries for a negro pew/' and straightway colonize in thither every specimen of ancient and modern art that is chisgelled or cast in black, it would be a wise precaution. the only tolerable substitute for such coloniza tion would be plenty of wkiteuxuh, which would avail little as a peace-offering to brother jonathan unless freshly put on: in that case a thick coat of it might sufficiently placate bis outraged sense of propriety to rescue the finest models of art form american lynch-law: but it would not he bast to presume too for, for colorphobia has no lucid intervals, uu fits on all the time. the anti-block feeling, being a law of nature, wut have want; and ml— h be provided, wherever it gone, with a sort of porta ble liberia to scrape the offensive color info it twitches and jerks in con vulsions directly. but stop—this pnti« black passion ul we are told, a law of nature,” and not to be trifled with prejudice against color” a law o! nature!” forsooth! what a sinnei against mm fare old homer was? he gees off in oertneiee is his description, zr t. d.l: ol mo ■smew- wowpins, praises intii rochester, n. y„ friday, may 5, 1848. beauty, calls them the favorites of the i gods, and represents all the ancient r divinities as selecting than from all the nations ef the world as their intimate comopamem, the objecuuf their pecu lmr complacency. if homer had o«iy s been indoctrinated into this lav ef i nature,” he would never have insulted his deities bjr representing them as t making negroes their ctesen associates. what impious trifling with this sacred i law** was perpetrated by the old greeks, who represented minerva, their favorite goddess at wisdom as an i •afncan princess, herodotus pro i nounces the ethiopians |he most majes tic and beautiful of men. the great father of history was fitted to live and die in the dark, as to this great law of nature!” why do so many greek and latin authors adorn with eulogy the beauty and graces of the black memnon who served at the siege of troy, styling him, in their eulogiums, the son of aurora? ignorsmuses! they knew nothing of this great law of na ture. how little reverence for this sublime “law” had solon, pythagoras, plato, and those other master spirits of ancient greece, who, in their pilgrim age after knowledge, went to ethiopia and egypt, and sat at the feet of black philosophers to drink in wisdom. alas for the multitudes who flocked from all parts of the world to the instructions of that negro, euclid, who three hundred years before christ, was at the head of the most celebrated mathematical school in the world. however learned in the mathematics, they were plainly num sculls in the law of nature!” how little had antiochus the great j the fear of this law of nature” before his eyes, when he welcomed to his court, with the most signal honors, the i black african hannibal; and what an impious perverter of this same law was i the greafeonquerot of hannibal, since he made the black poet terence one of his most intimate associates and con fidants. what heathenish darkness brooded over the early ages of chris tianity respecting this divine law ot nature,” when philip went up into the chariot of the ethiopian eunuch and sat with him, and when the spirit of god said to him, “go near and join thyself to this chariot.” both grossly outraged this law of nature.” what a sin of ignorance! the most cele brated fathers of the church, origen, cyprian, tertullian, augustine, cle mens alexandrinus, and cyril—why j were not these black african bishops colonized into a “negro pew,” when attending the ecclesiastical councils oi their day alas, though the sun of r|gh||oo^3a css. had risen on primitive ask the age of this law. a law ture, being a part of nature, must be as old as nature: hut perhaps human nature was created by piecemeal, and this part was overlooked in the early editions, hot supplied in a later revisal. well, what is the date of the revised edition wc will save our readers the trouble of fumbling for it, by just say ing, that this law of nature” was never heard of till long after the com mencement of the african slave trade; and that the feeling called prejudice against color,” has never existed in great britain, france, spain, portu gal, the italian states, prussia, austria, russia, or in any part of the world where colored persons have not been held as slaves. indeed, in many coun tries, where multitudes of africans and their descendants have been long held slaves, no prejudice against color has ever existed. this is the case in tur key, brazil, and persia. in brazil there are more than two millions of slaves. yet some of the highest offices' of state are filled by black men. some of the most distinguished officers in the brazilian army are blacks and mulat toes. colored lawyers and physicians are found in all parts of the country. besides this, hundreds of the roman catholic clergy are black and colored men, these minister to congregations made up indiscriminately of blacks and whites. a sketch from real life. on one of those calm moonlight nights in'the month of august, when the sun for a while had bid adieu to this side of the globe, the evening had! closed in all the calm serenity of a| summer’s night, the trembling had commenced her nightly task, and, was beautifully wending her way j through the still smiling firmament above; all was still, save the occa sional cry of the caty-dids, or the mournful croak of the old frogs. ex-j tending the eye over the field of na ture’s beauties, it rests upon a solitary hut, but almost covered with trees; and at a distance of a hundred yards is a stately mansion. striking is the con trast between the former and the latter, and equally different are the circum stances of both. in the former sat an aged man, and by bis side, the com panion of bis loneliness, bis wife. upon an old chest, for they had no table, stood a glimmering lamp. the only furniture they possessed was a mattra** of straw with a slight covering, one chair and an old bench, on which sat old susan, listening with profound, but painful attention to something related by her husband, not very pleasing to either. to he brief, old john and susan were riaves. for fifty-five long yearn they ted toiled on the very fiehb yrhirh surrounded them, and bv the sweat of tbetr brows they had' pur chased for the owner that elegant domain, and he, with his foimly, were, at the price of the tears, the groans, and the bloodshed of the poor africans, enjoying it. but john and susan were not alone in this scene ef tritetetk*. god ted bleated them with daughter, aa only daughter. unfortunately for her, the possessed a more than ordinary grace* fa laces of person, and comeliness of lace; aba had a tall easy figure; her feature* inclined much toward the eu ropean; hut her eye! her dark expres sive eye,• told the gaaer a lofty spirit dwelt within; but her aka was slightly tinged with the african, and this was enough for the prejudiced world, if she had an intellect like socrates, or a spark like joan of arc; still she was a slave, and therefore unworthy of notice. time passed on, and the girl was called from the field to the polished dressing-room of her mistress. her brain was of that kind which needs but little cukivatfrm, and in course of time, she managed to gather a good deal of what the world calls refine ment; and this improvement did not pass unnoticed by her mistress, and she began to dread that her maid might excel her. the consequence was, that envy, jealousy and hatred, took possession of her mistress' mind, and fell without mercy on the head of the unfortunate victim. i shaj! sell her,” said she in a 9tcm voice to her husband; she is en tirely too interesting for a nigger. i shall sell her, and let her take her chance in the southern market.” did the proud spirit of that girl quail under this awful sentence? not a nerve was unstrung, not a muscle distorted; but a tear gathered in her keen eye, and fell upon her work. she knew the face before her; she knew she must be torn from her aged parents, which was worse than death. this was a dreary prospect, a dark picture to look upon. all retired, and she to her lonely bed, but not to sleep; and before an other sun had risen, she had vowed she would be free. it was necessary to see the com panions of her suffering, her father and mother. could she leave them to the mercy of her enraged pursuers? could she bear the thought to have them sus pended between heaven and earth, with all the infirmities of old age, to endure the infliction of the cruel whip, for being accomplices in her flight? this was a test she could not stand. ‘twas past midnight, and all was still! site crept from her bed and slowly wended her way along the dark passage which led to the outer door. at last she reached it, and it was not long be fore she stood in the open air, and in a few moments more she stood at her father's door. mother,” said she in a low voice, trembling w.th emotion, mother, open the door,” and in trem- miog ike doorw* opened, but the young girt was unable to speak; feelings which no pen can write, choked her utterance, and she sank upon their bed of straw and wept aloud. the aged pair seemed panic struck, to see her at such an untimely hour; but when the young girl had gained her self-pos session she told them her determination to fly with them to some place of shel ter bef >re she should be separated from them forever. who would sooth your dying pillow when lam gone? no, my father, my mother, you shall not die in this, dark, damp hovel, but i will by the work of roy hands procure you comfort. finally, it was arranged; she should meet them at midnight, and a small boat would bear them on the bosom of the great waters at least a distance of 25 miles. she left them and reached once more her bed in safety. but no sleep closed her eyes till the signal for rising was given, and she heard the angry voice of her misstressgive her orders, but she heeded it not, and consoled herself with the idea that to-morrow she should be free. it was a dark cloudy day, unu sually so for that season of the year. night closed in with all the appear ance of a storm, but she was not dis couraged. accordingly she rose, took no clothing save those she wore; listen ed attentively, ail was still save the howling tempest; the hour had nearly come, when slowly and cautiously she descended the stairs, groped her way along the dark passage; a thousand apprehensions crossed her mind; would they expect her on such a night? would the little boat ever live on such a trou bled water? who would shelter them if they should ever reach the shore this was a trial, but she conquered it, and in a few moments more stood in the pelt ing rain, and she reached the but in safety. but what was her dismay when she found nothing prepared. they had never dreamed she would venture on such a night; but she urged and en couraged them, and in fifteen minutes they were on the beach. by the time the fugitives got a little distance from the land, the thunder reared louder tbau ever, sod the awful gleam mgs of lightning seemed to threaten ire at every stroke; every wave seemed to drive them nearer and nearer the shore. in vain labored their weary oars; the boat lay and suffered k rsetf to be toss ed to and fro at the pleasure of the rest less water. the inmates of the great house were aroused from their slumbers by the bowling of the tempest, and die mis tress of that house called her maid to bring a fight, but she answered not. she procured n kght, when to het amazement and hnrrur the gtrt lot fled. in flve minutes every sari is flu had hidden tram the rage of her mis treat. an instant search was made it the hovel of old john, bat they had fie< also, and the eye of the mistress w« instantly on the water, and by the belt of the vivid flashes offigbtniag espied feeble bent occupied by the three. there they art,** said she, k fiendish light now to the heal aa4 we shall sow slap their trouble some joui ocy fhre stout hearted men stood and trembled on the beach to enter that awfb! conflict. none dared to venture. the/ returned and told the at or/ it was impossible to take them. but the order was to bring them or perish with them—according!/ three in one boat aad two in another left the shore; the former straggled until within one hun dred feet of that little boat, and another plunge would blast all the hopes of that brave girl. but a strange commotion of the element shook aad shattered the armed boat till two of the persons sank to rise no more, and tbs rsinntn ing one left them to their fate. finally, the/ reach a shelter, sod that daughter, by her amiable dispo sition and industrious habits, found man/ friends, who enabled bar to sup port her aged parents, proved a bless ing to the society in which she stood, and will very likely, in the day of ac counts, stand among those who have come out of great tribulation. —.vctr jtrety freeman. a scene in congress. the cartured negroes. on sunday morning, the captain of a wood-boat, the pearl, left the wharf in this city, taking with him about eighty slaves belonging to persons in wash ington and georgetown, in this district. on monday morning at two o'clock, the fugitives, black and white, were captur ed at the mouth of the potomac, a hun dred and ten miles from the city; and this morning the steamer salem, which went in pursuit, brought them into port. they are now lodged in jail to await judicial proceedings. after the transaction of preliminary business, mr. giddings of ohio, arose, holding in his hand a resolution, which he was extremely anxious to offer.— “read it, for information," cried one; “no, no," said another, and “1 object," said mr. mead, of virginia. the clerk cleared his throat pre-i paratory to reading the resolution. the s|>eaker —the clerk will for-j hear until the house come to order.— members will be good enough to take their seats. (knock, knock.) mr. mead—l object to the resolution. mr. holmes, of south carolina— let’s hear it read. mr. mead—l don't want to hear it read. w'bat is it about the speaker—-the gentleman from virginia object*. he has a right to do this, in accordance with'a strict rule. by the uniform courtesy of the house, however, when a member has asked for permission to have a resolution read, general consent has been given, for in formation merely. but if the gentle man persists, the resolution cannot be read. mr. mead—lf the resolution has no relation to slavery (laughter), then it may be read. (ha! ha! and a voice, “oh! mead, let it be read.") the speaker—ls the objection with drawn? yes," no.") mr. mead—at the suggestion of friends, i will withdraw the objection, merely that the resolution may be read, nothing more. that's right.") the clerk then read as follows whereas, more than eighty men, woipen, and children are said to be now confined in the prison of the district of; columbia, without being charged with crime, or of any impropriety other thanj an attempt to enjoy that liberty for which i our fathers encountered toil, suffering, and death itself, and for which the peo-; pie of many european governments are now struggling.—apd whereas said prison was erected and is now sustained j by funds contributed by the free as well as the slave states, and is under the control of the laws and officers of the united states. and whereas such practice is derogatory (o oar national character, incompatible with the duty of a civilized and christian people, and unworthy of being sustained by an ame rican congress. therefore, be it resolved, that a select committee of five members of this body be appoint- ed to enquire into it and report to this house, by what authority said prison j is used for the purpose of confining per sons who have attempted to escape from slavery, with leave to report what leg islation is proper in regard to said prac tice. resolved, further, that said com mittee be authorised to send for per sons and papers." the speaker—unanimous consent isj asked to introduce the resolution. (“1! object.") mr. holmes, of south carolina, (was understood to say) l would propose an amendment, whether the scoundrels who helped the negroes to escape ought not to be hanged? oh, no.") mr. giddings^—mr. speaker— the speaker.—the gentleman from ohio is not in order. thus endetb the morning’s lesson on the charming boys. an hour was appropriated to reports fa™* rtunding committees.—a*. y. her law*stive's resemblance to bv «wr.—ln appearance, lamartine has something that recalls byron; the same beauty of feature aad expression, the sama habits of elegance and dandyism; carriage. if yen add to this, to com toe resemblance, the retinue of a hfivtifallrhiiisi qm^ ww g aaau!^* on> you will eoaelude, csustisimetbe epoch of tasso and cssmsss, times have svmewhm changed, aad that k m fea sible now a days, to he an eminent poet, without dying in the hospital.— text eg chmrmcurt of front*. william g. sell. pnuau. john dick. pftmtcft. whole no—xix. wo* old alt amo xt i j*»«hiagtoo saturday k«ai baa the following artier of a vary ia tercsrmg reke ot a past age: l>m»d, in this city, on the £2d teal., altamont, a colored man, in the mth year of his age. during the old man's long life, his character was proverbial for stern integrity and fidelity; and there is something romantic in bis his tory he was oiiginaily the property of lawrence washington, of kina george county, virgin, nephew 3 general washington. when the rev olution broke out, altamont was gives to colonel george washington, and wgs with bis young master ui ail tha leading battles in the south, ending with the scige of yorktown. subse quently be became the property of dr. barry, and went with that gentleman tc tennessee, where he was liberated foi his good conduct. having lost ht< wile and children, he expressed a de sire to go hack to virginia to see hit former friends and relations, from whoa he had been separated upwards of hall a century. the family of dr. barry gave the old man an outfit, and gen. jackson and other gentlemen of ten nessee gave him kind letters, certificates of moral worth, and with these ha sought the home of his childhood; hut when he reached it, he found himself like the poor prisoner liberated from the castile—there was not one human face, white or black, that recognized him, or whom he remembered. ha turned from there to visit mou t ver non, in whose halls he had been an in mate and attendant. there the scene was no less distressing. instead of familiar faces and joyous hilarity, that were wont to mark the spot, all was sad, dreary and desolate. the estate had gone to waste, and nothing seemed respected but the tomb of washington. this was a cruel blow to the old man, and his spirits sunk under the idea that he alone, of all he had ever known in his youth, was left alive. he next came to this city, where, by accident, he met with a grand-daughter of his old master, with whom he never tailed to spend one day in each week, to talk of auld lang syne—the only consola tion left him. until within the last few weeks, the old man might have beco seen sitting out at the base of the treasury building, with a basket of apples and cakes, by the sale of which he aided in eking out a scanty subsist ence; but then he had some staunch friends here and in tennessee, who appreciated his worth, and whose kindness lie remembered in his dying moments. “tribute tor the n o o.”— re ferring to the advertisement on last page of our cover, it affords us plea sure to learn, that so much interest has already been manifested in the work, as evinced by the numerous list of sub scribers which we have seen; many of them conspicuous characters in tha walks of benevolence and philanthropy. the esteemed author, we understand, has just received, in ms., for insertion, a very interesting account drawn up expressly for the work, by a friend in london, ot an african prince who sometime resided under h s roof, as also with another philanthropist in tha metropolis. it is written in a very interesting manner from notes made at the time of his visit. amidst tho various attempts which have been mado to depreciate the african character, by exhibiting it as incapbic of improve— itent, this narrative atfords a striking evidence of an opposite nature; aud ihows, that whether their influence be ;ood or evil, circumstances operate no ess powerfully on the sable inhabitants if a tropical clime, than on the natives if more temperate latitudes. he has ilso received a letter from captain wauchope, r. n., who, in 1«37, commanded the queen’s frigate, thalia, on the west coast of africa; tending for insertion in the tribute,” tome account of a negro of remarkable intelligence, whose conduct and coo vernation much surprised him. ten pears previous to tho time of captain wauchope’» seeing him, this very n’egro was in the hold tf a slater. captain w. concludes his letter by taying, i believe few european intel lects would have made such a stride, in to short a space of time.” we trust friends will promptly forward their names to the author, and tbercbv promote the success of his laudable effort to vindicate the negro chancier. british friend the tex hour bm..—this bill, which has been under discussion for some time in tlie legislature, was de feated in the house on thursday. as general thing, there should be in this, as in almost everything else, fret trade, letting the number of hours be a ape cial agreement between employer and workmen. there should, however be aoroe limit, where no such agreement is made, so that the needy may not be compelled to submit to the exactions of selfish taskmasters. ten hours' faith ful labor in the twenty-four is eoougb for any man; the remainder should be devoted to sleep and study. give our mechanics and working men geoerallv an opportunity of cultivating ike aw, as well as exercising the muuus, in in order that the nation may becease store virtuous end enlightened# no ms should be required to work more than ten bones, except to extraordinary cases.— b. d. alt. newspapers.—the newspaper as a law-book for the ignorant, a sermon for the thoughtless, a library for the poor; it may stimulate the most indifferent, and instruct the most learned. no union with slaveholders fourteenth anniversary of the american anti-slavery society. the fourteenth annual meeting of the american anti-slavery society. will be held, at the broadway tabernacle, new york, on tuesday, the ninth day of may, at 10 o’clock, a. m. the present aspect of public affairs in this' country. ehvuli make this meeting one ol r>>t3 thut i>nl importance sml interest. the ftoutbars boundary of american slavery,! w htdi, eljcu that society was formed has b>ea re naval from the sahtne to the nueces,' it is now proposed by tu guardians to nsmore s’.tli farther into the fata territory of a mster republic. w c hwo imlc re»*ou to expect a itw'3 favorable to the two years* war wag-jd> at an enormous expense of blood ntri treasure, fir thos*iie purpose of extending tit want system of human bondage by con ■vjusut. whrthir t‘l3 abolitionists of the nr^wat ry cm arrest the perpetration of this fctnpj.i lo is national crime, or not, it is no less thsir duty to mak; the effort. the last public protest th*y may have the opportunity it record agou&t it, should be earnest and ucav.mon*. 1 u moccssity of the moment should also om.aj go of how much of the work is still to •b) jj te, which this son *ty, fourteen years nr i. resolve 1 to do. since its formation, sla v,*r: has not been in a single stab* ot the futon. a million more of our coun try .ti': h ire h.oc.i b »rn to the lot of slaves.— cut t ut this 3 _>:;.oty aud its auxiliaries have xnusr.l, to a certain degree, a universal aiiti ?!av<jrv sentiment at ths north, and have male the to,.ic o.io of absorbing interest throughout the eouutry, is the best evidence of wisdom of th n ir measures, and should bj tit? strong jst incentive to still more strenu ous and self-denying toil. tin oil and triod finnds of the cause, and thoja who iriva but recently arousal to tin necessity of the overthrow of t'n felon system of american slavery, are tirged to make of this meeting a grand rally fcr freedom. wm. lloyd garrison, pres t. wendell phillips, 0 s. h. gay, socretinm. national convention of the liberty league* tin un brsigmd committee appointed at m ic io:i lacks in june last to call a na tional carve itioa some lime in the year 184 b,” do invite those who \yish to provide equal civil smiriiies for tin rights of all men,” to mj it in convention at the city of rochester, cm tii d ist day of may next, at 10 o'clock a. m., for me purpose of nominating a can dj ite for the vice presidency, and the trans jntio.i of such other business as may come bjf >re the convention. tite convention will be held two days. e. s. gilbert, w. d. babbitt, wm. 11. smith, a. penxel, llrtt vm pitts, national cam. of the liberty league. yloxecve, feb. -9, 1643. n irice. vgrenblyto the rccommenda tio i of th liberty party convention, held in auburn, january 12th and 13th, 1318, a na tion il lihjrt: party convention will be held thi city of 11 iffiio, on the hill and 15th do /s of j un 1316. tni-i convention, from the fact that it is ex ported to nominate candidates fi»r president *i i-l viec pr .sideot: and to take high and cf f*.nitre ground i.i behalf of personal liberty, i r i-tridu, fret-soil, exemption from the bur den an 1 cars j of war, and from other viola te* is of the equal rights of all men, will proba b; i attract a large concourse of persons and ba of a deeply interesting character. state league convention. a m iss convention fur the nomination of z. l. j o heirs, to he supported by the liberty lojgui at tho ensuing fall election, will be bold mi at roeii isteron the second day of june next, at 10 o‘cl'*ck a. m. lei our friends see to it that the various pans of the state are well represented. k. 3. gilbert, w. d. babbitt, wm. it. smith, hirvm pitts, a. penxel, cntr.rl com. of th liberty league. jlcneote, feb. 29th, 18-18. notice. —m *ssrs. e. r. dunlop and s. 11. dty, are not agents for the colored people of t r. >r can ula, as is generally supposed and :f: ;'-y h ive collected money in their name, it fas been done on tlieir own responsibility, a ai not of the british american abolition society in the city of toronto. mr. dunlop is dis’h’ssc'i from bis agency for said society, r i tuj first dry of december, 1847. mr. da tl.ip was sent out with mr. day, for the ea’.a purpose of getting signers to jcstablish a pa >?r in the city of toronto. inbthalfof the executive committee of the b. a. a. society, charles freeman, sec. april 21, 1317. lectures b> the editor. r.acas.tk k douglass w ill lecture on ame nuan slavery in the following places s n **a falls, thursday even. may 4. syra *use, friday, 5. pica, saturday, ti. a .bant, sunday, 7. the itunnwnv slaves. the following vivid description of the scenes attending the recapture of the un f ,rtraa*e seventy slave s is from the pan of thr washington corr. «j»ondcnt of the boston w’hig. h aj it amarieaus and remember your loai shouts for liberty, equality and frater nity. washington, april 18. geevi excitement—the smvw taken t o 3 violence tnaritenui. —it is as i ct lusted, thj po*>r uegror* are taken, with ,'.i srairi. cr 'w. vessel and all. 'j’hts morning. r»* i i •ft tuy boiniing bouse, i saw coming fra ii*jt>s sir et that leads lo ibe landing, a long proc 34»ion of colored people, ami quil> a na «»f «oulle«s looking white mon, marrh :,l tu tit 3 direction of the p.mnaylan.a ave .,av i i.xatuncd to meet them, and as tin y -a na in font of th» fnitcj states hotel, the r.v.ds 'vns srtd.-osc that it was ui*xt to i n t«si ilc for them to proceed. the captain ml ii.s crew were with tl«n. with then ■ui i.ls o.vudc.l. as noon o» the former hoca.;r.‘ -rally known to tiro erowd, the i iw i r :s exi’ilemmt was mantfestod by tii; :ii.’ t i'i.*. oatlts, that would have loajt j ;a d *u trembl'*. were poured fbutli, and jmg; se>-iu'vd to l»e 4e k *tr*ted upon their cviuau* ia ufi'is.—l)ras ium on/.'” cried eotur/ d brain* im:‘ cnad takcca r il/' 'v'* 1 *}iom (fa ft- u h'j,tnd lu h/atl a, cm til'll*ft? vvf k eo;la to the paigjfcll•#*» relief, aad ht was hasufrj ml iiho t carriage, and wn to tha jaili the prfifitenutt then went to hm«4a tha mill of the strict, find 1 haahmed in advaoceiol gti a fear view of the whole. th« »eo weyej tied together with n*pes, by couple*. some uf them wen fine looking fefiows, but their countenances wore aa npreahua of sadness. there were about thirty women hi the truia, but these were permitted to march in double file, with out being haodrufibd or tied. some of them carried baton, otbera lei children, and many were weeping over their sad fate, while eret and anon the bra tea who drove them would order «*»**q to jhttft their mindb mg; and to make their order more imposing, would raise their eodgeb over their beads aa if about to atrike. at they catered the gate that opcuo into the jad, 1 moated them, and found there wen in all eighty-five. some of them were whither than the wretches who lad them in custody, and looked hr more iniel lectunl and worthy of liberty. the throng around the jail was immense, and i could hear the moat bitter improrations against the abolitionists and the abolition paper (national era) of the district. the vessel in which they were taken, was boarded by the steamer at the mouth of the river, where she was lying at anchor for a favorable brrece to take them up the bay. as the steamboat hove in sight, the negroes wished to fight and defend themselves, hut ware not permitted to by the captain. they than suffered themselves to be quietly taken* and are in jail by virtue of lavra sanctioned by the american congress; and yoa, soos of ihe pilgrims, will be under the necessity of con tributing your might to sustain this system of oppression. oh! this is a glorious country. l?t the star spangled banner be flung to the breeze; let peals of victory rend the hea vens let cheers go up; for slavery has tri umphed over liberty, the oppressed are reta ken, and are now in chains to await their doom. it is said that most of them will be sent down the river. so let rt lie —the work of missions will thereby be promoted. many of tho downtrodden will to poiuted to the north star, and be bid god speed. mr giddinga this morning asked the un animous consent of the house, to introduce i the following preamble and resolutions, which i of course, was not granted, but they were read at the clerk's desk. mr. holmes, of south carolina, arose immediatly, and moved that they be amended, so that the rascals who i sympathized with those negroes, should be hung. the excitement was intense, but mr. g. weathered it, and gave them to understand that he feared not their threats. whereat, more than eighty men, women, and children, are said to be now confined in the prison of the district of columbia, with out being charged with crime, or of any impropriety, other than an attempt to enjoy that liberty for which our fathers encountered toil, suffering, and death itself, and for which the people of many europeau governments are now struggling;— and whereas, said prison was erected, and is now sustained by funds contributed by the free, as well as the slave states, and is under the control of the laws and officers of the united states; and w/ur-ms such practice is derogatory to our national character, incompatible with the duty of a civilized and christian people, and unworthy of being sustained by our american congress;—therefore. lie it resolved that a select committee, of five members of this body, be appointed to enquire into and report to this house, by what authority said prison is used for the pur pose of confining persons who have attempted to escape from slavery with leave to report what legislation is proper in regard to said practice. llr$olc«d, further, that said committee be! authorized to send for persons and papers.” after mr. holmes offered his amendment. mr. g. went over to his seat and asked him if he intended it is a pcisonal insult to him, and laughingly told him, that he had hoped t 0 gain his influence in the passage of the resolutions, as he had lalxircd so long' and ardently with him in the cause of slavery.. yours, north. i the iliot in washington. the follow ing will give our readers some idea of the spirit and proceedings of the cowardly and disgraceful mob in washington who attempted to destroy the era office, and compel dr. uaiky, its editor, to remove from the district. what a commentary on our free institutions the course of dr. hailey 1 in refusing to remove his press, was noble, and deserves great praise; though we are sorry to hear him making a show of respect for laws which assert property in man. such laws ought never to be respected or obeyed by anybody. the slaves had the law of god to justify them in tlieir flight, and no sin was committed in assisting them to escape. there is no more sin in aiding a slave to escape a slaveholder, than would be to aid a child out of the fangs of a tiger. v(from the new york herald.) i mr. lenox, the president of the board of aldermen, took a stand on one of the wings of the steps, and spoke to his fellow-citizens, lie told them he was reared in the district, that he had an interest in the city, (he is a large property holder,) and that, in his view, it would lie disreputable to accomplish by force what could be effected by law. it is i too late cried out a man in the crowd. ah, j replied mr. lenox, it is not too late to pre serve our character as good citizens. it is too late,” was exclaimed in the chamber of i deputies, w hen an attempt w as made to place the crown of france upon the head of the infant duke. it is not too late for us to i act as becomes freemen—as citizens of the metroopolis of the american union. j it is too late, shouted another of the sovereigns and there were responses t “ah! that's the sort!” down with the era!'’ mr. lenox said that the mayor of the city (mr. seaton, of the national intelli gencer,) was sick; and, after consultation with him, he had consented to address liis fellow-citizens. “down with the eia!” again went up with a shout, and thee cries for “bradley,” one of our most intelligent and influential citizens. mr. lenox contended i that no good could result from the demolition of the office and if tins w ere done, we would have to award damages. damn the ex jiense exclaimed a hard-fister, with a club 1 in his hand. thai s the sort!” that's the talk, &c., were expressions of frequent occurrence. kolunson robinson was loudly called for. “bull come out!” so mr. e. b. robinson took the rostrum. he said the feeluigs of the public had been outraged (“ay, ay an insult had been offered to the community. the public authorities had been derelict in duty. why did noi the trrond jury indict the era as a nuisance (“down with it!”) why didn't they treat it as they did garrison's paper here, years ago they made him pock up and be off. down with the era these moderate scoundrels are the worst kind of scoundrels. <‘ha! ha! that's it giro it to ’em!”) the press should not be suffered to exist. no, no!”) i’d give them fill to-morrow to decamp, now uow every feel ing has hern outraged. down with the i'm!”) if the law will not protect us, we must take the remedy into our own liands give it to ’em, bot!!” ha ha!) he concluded his remarks, and mr. u ufehffe, of the washington bar, in response to the loud caimor him. deiiverudaa fiddreas. every one knew that lie had always *-*.<*hf by the rights the south. he had tom m it* the wert—in olus. churrak!) •«t. geutlremn, wbat ctd you do (“lew it |»wt”) pi* fnt of mdact fuu 4c-; •pale wbv aifwitli sorb inale lrt» lijom now,. taf call meet inf to-womnr og* or rmly, and deliberate. it's too ihte! h»! ha!» wb«t will yoa do*— p‘ trar dawn the siuk-e wnr tear down me office under the uarkneas of night! (“no, ike mooa ia shining!” l!a! ha f) why do* wait uta lo wwtrtoarf meet in the daytime. now or never!”) 1 know you hare been acyrieved 1 knew that if the mad schemes of deluded people are persevered in, oar boooe* may be gives to the same*. (“ay, that** it; apply the dame to the em i wim meet you at another tune. (“now! now lei us reflect upon the matter. it is too late.” “do it oowt*!s weeaa meet to-morrow, or the day after, and appoint a committee to see what eaa he dnoe m the premises. let baker out!**) why, gentlemen, we voald entitle ourselves to n* credit. release ba ker!” who was taken ap far being drank be fore the era office, and placed in limbo.) let a*, i ref eit, go home, and isrembh. to-mor row, if yoo chouse, and take measures for the abatement of the nuisance. no!” “no!” “act now now! now! rung through the crowd.) at li<t it was decided that a committee should be appointed forthwithe, and five from each snud was auggrrted. 14 and georgetown!” said several voices. “agreed!” “agreed!” “and teunallytown!” ex claimed another. “agreed!” agreed! mr. radclise proceeded to read the names of (he committeemen. some of them were disagreed to, and the majority aeqaiesced in. finally, the committee was declared to he filled. “go now!” instanter and they left the scene for the residence of dr. bailey, the editor of the era, who lives near the general poet office department, and a stone’s throw' from the patent office. after a short absence, cries were heard, the com mittee ate coming here they are and the gentlemen resumed their place on the wing of the potent office steps. mr. rad cliffe reported tiiat they wai.ed upon dr. bai ley, and that the doctor was very respectful to them, and began to talk of constitutional rights. (hisses.) but the committee in formed the doctor that it was too late.— that's it!” the whole amount of the matter was, that the editor said that he would give oo pledges, or promise anything. (“down with the era!”) mr. rad cliffe endeavored to check the duqiosiiion, too evident to be mistaken, to tear down the office. we could not hear his remarks distinctly but we saw a sudden movement round the corner, towards the doomed establishment. we ran, to be in at the first smashing of forms, galleys, and power presses. we wanted to see how it could “be did.” a stone was thrown at (he window, and ting-el li.*.g went the glass. another strike, boys, and the day is ouis!” and bang went a brick bat at the door. fight fight!” tin; crowd began to retreat, and leave the com batants the field. it appeared that captain gitddard and his guard had rolled back the human tide that was setting in against the passage door, and were, like the spartans at tlie pass of thermopylae, disputing the way. bang, bang, again went the brickbats.— is there no one to lead?” cried out a man in a blouse. you’re nfeared who will follow me let's get in at the back way mr. key, the united states district attor ney, and the son of the deceased author of the star spangled banner,” ascended tlie horse-trough in front of a grocery, and asked the crowd what they were doing there, and what they wanted. sit down was it to destroy property —to attack an unoffending house? (“the press; we want to destroy the press!” gentlemen, fellow-citizens, you know that lam no abolitionist. you're a hypocrite—you are!”) i was raised here and i call upon you as freemen, as friends of law and order, to forego your designs. the law will remedy any existing evil. the con stitution' of your country will give you jus tice. it haaa’t done it!”) 1 wish to he heard. that's the right way to talk; we'll stand by you.”) this gentleman made an earnest appeal to the assembly to separate, and said that those who were instigating tlie disturbance were the least interested in the property of slaves. the north star. rochester, may 5, 1849. to the friends and readers of the north star. dear friends, —we arc reluctantly com pelled to call upon you for pecuniary assist ance. we have succeeded in publishing our paper nearly five monlhs, without running in debt to any man, and we desire to continue its publication free from such embarrass ments. but in order to do so, we are under the necessity of calling upon you for imme diate ]>eeuniary aid. it must be evident to all who have any knowledge of the expense of publishing a large weekly newspaper, that something more than the bare subscrip tion list is required to sustain it during the first year of its issue. we have exerted ourselves to obtain subscribers, and have suc ceeded to an encouraging extent; but it is impossible in our circumstances, commencing as we did with but a small number of sub scribers, to obtain a sufficient number to float unencumbered from week to week. in the confident hope that you will come to our assistance, we make uo further appeal. n. b. all donations in aid of the paper, will be most thankfully received, and prompt ly acknowledged through the oolumns of the north star. frederick douglass, m. r. delany. the captaii u 4 crew of the sckooner peart. we are informed, that an effort will be made to bail out captain sayres, chester english, and daniel drayton, the three white men on board the schooner pearl, the vessel in w hich the slaves attempted to escape; though the enormous sum of seventy thousand dollars is required for that purpose. with our whole heart we say let the money he rais ed, let it be raised at uoee—at least let the at tempt be made to raise it. let committees lie appointed, and men be at once selected who have the heart and the bead to make the people see and feel on the subject of this great outrage and to solicit subscription not only far the purpose ofbailing these generous, but unfurtnnate men out of priron but for the vastly more important matter of testing the law of slavery in the district of colombia.— such a trial in the sapreme court of the uni ted states, with the present power of the sa lt-ala very parse, the general aori-ehvery seoti- 1 meat at the north/had the great tide of moral influence setting ia apaa us (tom all parts o v the rivßmrd world, aright be made instrumen tal in the utter overthrow of slavery in the 1 district of colombia. sane of (he most in-j flucatxa! presses ia beat os are ia fever of the measure. we hope kwifl be carried oat.—! last it cammeocr breton, and (ha north. east oiml west, will terond the areoua. i a caoa i* the aau-m*very |»v«—|jw •lm a k 1 rtl wmna tw imfllf ll miß (vunvit|m ftmfflllv 1 and tehgioon, a» hssa than the paffitical flmto oomta, north and snath,* boa* and abroad, are studded with brilliant aod mart sigmflnnt indications, pointing directly to a aeuktneniot this au-coatmanding adject slavery m doomed to dertraetioa; and of this abve or encouraged, the grand movement far in overthrow ban, under god, attained a paint of pragma* when its devoted advocates may press its claims in the full assurance that sne> cess will aoos crown their righteous endeav ors. we have labored long and hard. the prospect has at tunes been gloomy, if not hopeless. at present, we feel hopeful. is our humble judgment, these is na power within reach of the slaveholder, with aji their arts, camring and depravity, which can uphold a system at once aa dark, fool and bloody as that of american slavery. the powei which they have derived from the unconrtilu tional and perfidious annexation of texaa to the united states; the vast territories which they may acquire by our atrocious war with distracted and enfeebled mexico; the sacrile gious support which they receive from a cor rupt church and degenerate priesthood; the character and position they secure by a slave holding president, are all transient, tempo rary and unavailing. they are powerful, j but must give way to a mightier power.— like huge trees in the bed of a mighty river, they only await the rising tide which, without effort, shall bear them away to the vortex of destruction. the spirit of liberty is sweep ing in majesty over the whole european con tinent, encountering and shattering dynasties, overcoming and subverting monarchies, caus ing thrones to crumble, courts to dissolve, and royally and despotism to vanish like shadows r before the morning sun. this spirit cannot be bound by geographical boundaries or na tional restrictions. it hath neither flesh nor bones; there is no way to chain it; swords and guns, armies and ramparts, are as impo tent to stay it as they would be if directed against tlie asiatic cholera. we cannot but ,be affected. these stupendous overturnings throughout iho world, proclaim in the ear of american slaveholders, with all the terrible energy of an earthquake, the downfall of sla very. they have heard the royal sound— witness their reluctance on the floor of con gress to pass resolutions congratulating the french on the downfall of royalty and the triumph of republicanism witness the course of that prince of tyrants, john c. calhoun witness the mean and heartless response given by the misnamed democrats of the country. these friends of 4he hell-born system of slavery are painfully aware that the cause of liberty and equality are one the world over; and that its triumph in any portion of the globe foreshadows and hastens the downfall of tyranny throughout the world. not among the least important and signifi cant signs of the times, are the recent debates and occurrences in washington. a combi nation of events has within a few days traus pi red there, which may well be regarded as a providential interference in behalf of the en slaved and plundered of our land. the bold attempt of more than seventy slaves to escape their chains their unfortunate arid mor lifying recapture —the wild clamor for the blood of the men who were willing to aid them in their escape—tlie mobocratic demon i strations against the era office—the violent and assassin speeches made in both branches of congress—their utter failure to intimidate the noble-heartd giddiug*, palfrey, and hale—the sovereign and increasing contempt with which these gentlemen treat the bullying speeches of these bowie-knife legislators, are not only signs,but facts,fixingattention on sin very, and progress in public opinion, directly pointing to the speedy over throw of slavery', or a dissolution of our un hallowed union. should the latter! coinc, the farmer must come; slavery is doomed in cither case. god speed the day nevei could there have been a better place, or more fitting opportunity for such facts, than at the place and time which they transpired. slaves escaping from the capital of the model re public what an idea! —running from the temple of liberty to be free! then, too, our slaveholding belshazzars were in the midst ot feasting and rejoicing over the down fall of louis philippe, and the establishment of a republic in france they were all pleasure and joyous delight; but pleasures are like poppies spread.” their joy was soon turned into moaning, their laughterinto fury. the hand-writing on the wall to these joy ous congratulationists, was the fact, that more than seventy thousand dollars’ worth of their human cattle had made a peaceful attempt to gain their liberty by flight. at once these thoughts of glorious liberty abroad gave way to the more urgent demands of slavery at home. these worthless” negroes are val uable. these miserable creatures, which we would gladly get rid of, must be brought back. and lo and behold these very men who had been rejoicing over french liberty, are now armed kidnappers, and even oo the sabbath day have gone forth on the delcctible business of man-hunting. well, they have succeeded in overtaking and throttling their victims; they have brought them back before the musket's mouth, and doabuesa most of them have been scourged for their temerity, and sold into louisiana and texas, where they will be worked to death in seven years; but as sure as there is a god, this will not be the last of it. slavery in the districtt of co lumbia will receive a shock from this simple event, which no earthly power can prevent or i cure. the broad eye of the nation will be opened upon slavery in the district as it has never before the north aod west will feel keenly the damning disgrace of their capita] being a slave mart, aad a deeper hatred of slavery will be ecgcrdeied in the popular mind throughout the union. id* a portion of one of the burial grounds ai nashville, t«m., is devoted to (he black population. one of their preachers, who was |a slave, is buried there, aad on a very aeat monument erected to his larenmy »this in scription “he was faithful in all things till his heavenly master snid, man* wp-’ a nrw^bsnxir.—at the last meeting of the council, aa ordinance was passed, upon petition being made fee the construct ioa of a bridge across the river en state street. it ia to ha coommctoa by property holders, and without expense in the cay. to a. satin*. tui coantry neenpfoe »w tb« rycooftlm gnpenf ihenm world aa euviabk i iwjfiwo. cforhbmy was inag mace achiered; waftm free femn the yoke of despot hm, and hate a gi*e»t>mciit»« would at change: wv atk ao fundammrtm ■huißinmsfiuai fout bn. —henrdmtl fib country, if iutaw* art «id| ijmiainrrrl, will mnm a higher p» mtioo ia the eyes of the people of europe than ever before. aa the jaeaarduee^e^ that of the united stanlawtaoiel repah fie, instead of being, an it was loaf termed aa experiment. it~p the above little extract ia fro* tb« iaerrai of this city. m eaviable pemtm!' liberty long since achieved!** no there tioo of the eoastitatioß u model repah he!** this b laerre brag, humbug and hfpoe nay. a model republic with eae sixth a iu people ia chains! shame oa the fie.- the tea thousand slave-whips which daily plough ap the kviag flesh of american wo mea, piodaim the hollow mockery of our re publican prafiemknw. go lean of france go and ha taught by aa iahot the first princi ples of rcpobfieanisni, before yon utter tin foul lie that our liberty is achieved, and thai this is a model republic. north star. the above compound of foul language h from the pen of frederick dougbaa, who cor tainly has no personal leasoo to assail this pa per with disgraceful abase. since the estab lishment of the north star, we have endeav ored to speak of it and its editor in terms o( respectful courtesy, snd with feelings not at mil influenced by that prejudice which too gen erally attaches to his race. so for as his la bors may tend to the destruction of slavery we wish them all success, even though we may not be able always to approve his pru dence or his spirit. the above extract fur nishes an additional argument against a sys tem which leaves a man incapable of the de cencies of language or the courtesies of life.— american. the reply to the above is, we are neither wood nor stone, and without any desire to he either personal or disrespectful, we must never theless speak out the sentiments of an outrag ed heart. we remember with emotions amounting to agony, that four endeared sisters and one brother ate now held in the horrible condition of slavery; that millions of our fel low countrymen are now toiling under a burn ing sun and a driver's lash, and their heart rending appeals for deliverence from chains, are answered on the part of northern men and presses with laudations- of the very instru ments and institutions which doom them to slavery. with such facts before us, and such emotions within us, we have little disposition to use any other than foul language. th« deeds which we characterize are foul and in fernal, and language is too weak to give anj adequate expression of our own feelings, 01 to convey a just idea of the enormity of th< crimes which we would with our whole hear condemn. we look upon the editor of th< american, as we do upon all others who g< for maintaining the constitution as it is ant the union as it is, to be by position if not per sonally our sworn enemy. our standing poin and that of the american, is essentially dif ferent. it is with the tyrant, wc are with tin slave. it is with the white, we are w ith th< black people of this country. he may tliinl this a “*model republic,” that no altcratior of the constitution is desirable,” that liber ty achieved,” and all lhat; but w< look on the other side—the side whicl we think all men ought to look upon; and he must not be surprised if we shall sec ant speak of things differently. we have no de nim to detract one jot from the statement 01 the editor, that since the establish ment of the north star, he has endeavored t< speak of it and its editor, in terms of respect ful courtesy.” on this score the rochestei press have shown a generosity and magna nimity far above the customs and sentiment; of tferir cotemporaries at large. what then shall we withhold a dree expression of our im pressions and convictions of the real charactei of america and american institutions, becaust we have been personally treated with respect ful courtesy by those who are upholding s system, that lives at the expense of the righti and liberties of millions of our enslaved breth ren? god forbid. we shall be as respectful u our cotemporaries as the nature of their posi tion and our relation to the cause of justici and liberty will allow us to be. sympathy demonstration. the meeting to congratulate france opoi revolution in that country, will take place ii this city, on monday, 2 o’clock, p. m. then will in all probability be a general “turn-out,’ and the meeting in point of numbers will be i grand one. we hope the demonstration wb be in reality all that it professes to be in form a meeting in full sympathy with the glori ous motto of franco—“ liberty, equality fraternity” —would be most grateful tooui own and the hearts of thousands in thiseoen uy, who arc every day proscribed and losultec for no other crime than that god has clothed os with a akin a few shades darker than moo of our feflow-cttiiena. we however regiel to sav that, judging from some appearances, we fear the meeting will be in much greatei sympathy with american slavery than with french liberty, and that it will be a for bettei exponent of american partiality than ol french equality. the courier, an old kvnka print ia this city, is already alarmed lest wc should appear on that occasion, and thereby give an nfiimatve coloring to the pure white sympathy which may be there expressed fin france. it seems to be greatly fearful ol seeing something dork on the occasion. vi t advise him not to be alarmed; he may meei with a personage several shades darker that ourself if he pursues the path at pnaenl ■narked out for his feet. ie? m. r. delajiy ia reqocned an l® shape his appointments as to reach rochestei by the let of june. the intense of tbs north btax will require his peceence by that resist axcr it a. blsyx.—-a start nl mr. matthew cnenßn, ef new orlmes. as mmm. while the idler wee attempting tc chastise mm. the sieve gashed mi. c.’i bee badly, and subsequently made aa oaeac cearful attempt to eel aa officer who was try ing to aneet him. he then cat ms owr threat with the mm which he diß hem is hie hand; hot* wan aufpnnad that bo wonld live leag weagh ta be fmngtad aeeowlmg is the statute ia tech ease made bad provided. wbr««e fir* earned tin thid claw oc •efarmeflr kad renohred «poa *•**t to brute jbree, tv matt the gweattinent of that •ountry, we went satisfied that the wild and tricked nmro wrreld be defeated. it was therefore a» expected as it erae gratifying, to lean by oar last advices, that they bad wisely abandoned the mischievous and useless pro ject. ia all circumstances, we are inflexibly opposed to a retort to violence, as a means of eftetug reform; and of all violence, we regard sene with more absolute horror, than that attending civil war. whatever may be the evils, sad however inveterate the forms of oppression and t> ranoy ia continental europe, and whatever pretexts may esfert these for assailing those farms of oppression with brute force, we are confident that no such causes or pretexts can be properly cited is grert britain, as justifying a resort to violence. while the liberty of speech is allowed—while the freedom of the press is permitted, and the right of petition is res pected, and while men are left free to origin ate refoana without, and members are foil free to propose and advocate them within the wafls'of parliament, —no excuse can be valid 1 for resorting to the fearful use of brute force and bloodshed. when words will accom plish, as they certainly will, all righteous measures, ft is wild,, irrational and wicked to resort to blows. under no government in the wide world is there more respect shown, or encouragement offered to reform, than underthat of england. during the last thirty years, some of the most important reforms ever achieved under! any form of government, have taken place in great britain; so that now, that country may be justly regarded as far in advance of all other european governments, and in some,! and very important particulars, for in advance of our own. the passage of the roform bill in ’33, tl»e emancipation act in '34, and the repeal of the com laws in '46, arc reforms which are still fresh in the memory of all, and afford ample proof that that coun try may be as effectually ruled by opinion as our own. no reform need fail there-with patient, earnest and persevering efforts for its success. within the walls of the house of commons—aye, the commons, the clearly expressed will of the people, through that body, whatever the lords spiritual and tem poral may be pleas.'d to say of it at the first,; is as certain to become the law of the realm, as that manhood follows infancy. on the floor of that house,, may b.* seen richard cobden, john brif*ui, dr. bowring, sharman crawford, w. j. fox, and the peerless orator aud philanthropist, george thompson, ready to advocate and defend justice and liberty, encouraged or assailed by whom urey j may be. with such advocates in p*.irliament, how absurd, monstrous and wicked it is fur chartists or any other class of reformers in that country, to dream of bloodshed as a means of furthering their cause! to do so is !to deserve defeat. wc are, if wc under-' stand chartism, a chartism; and we are even in favor of more radical reforms than they have yet proposed and still, for the time being, we rejoice that they have failed in their 10th of april demonstration. a victory gained by such means would be far worse in the sequel than all the pain and mortification they must have experienced in j their present signal failure. away widi all] i mobs and all violence as a means of reform we have experienced too much of this species l l of tyranny already. there is a more excel-! lent way. with free speech, an unshackled press, awl the right of petition, we can defy! error, whether in the church or in tire state— whether sustained by prescription, or defended by the sword—in any case truth shall tri umph. war, slavery, monopoly, aud the whole train of inequalities that spring from the demon selfishness, must fall and expire in the presence of those mighty agents. j the pen •u|>rriie<le the •word. and right n»t might shall be adored, in the good time coining.” jo* the looking glass a new anti-slavery i paper wiih this nfirrtivt title, has just been' started in newark, n. j. it aims to he the me- 1 dium of communicating to the public the views and sentiments of the newark anti-slavery society, in relation to the great questions which now have influence with the american people. communications and orders may be sent post paid to william larison, corresponding secretary of the newark anti-slavery socie- j *y- the black laws.—we understand that t the british charge d’affaires at washington 1 has, under instructions from his government, remonstrated in very decided terms, to the department of state, against the enforcement by the authorities of mobile, of the laws of this state, regulating the arrival of persons of color at this port —said laws having been enforced last january against free nog rocs brought here by the british ships queen and 1 portland. he pronounces such laws to he 1 1 gross viola!ions of the enmity of international i intercourse, iu conflict with the treaty stipu- j lations between the two nations, and subver sire of the harmony and commercial recipro -1 city which it is desirable to establish and maintain. we understand that the facts and cireum-! stances attending the cases referred to, are i j now undergoing investigation, and we are j confident they will be found to be lean lie mo us, than has been repressoted to the british j government. moreover, our state legislature 1 at the last session, modified the taws in! question to such a degree that we apprehend i the objectionable features are removed, and no cause of complaint will occur in future.— afcfcje tribune. western hew york anti-slavery society* i the executive committee will meet on tuesday evening next, may 9th, at the anti-slavery office, 95, buffalo street. attendance ia requested at 7 o'clock pre cisely. w. c. nell, rec. see. to cq&&ekfo.n uknts. w. it it, oukeothe —favor <i the 17th ah., •wired, lm too ime far this uoraur. 8. b. t wiim.»we m putld for ui cnatiit ■ed efforts. the direetoowi vo cawullj ob serve. w. h. o.r-vmmromhy deferred. a. i. a., betas, o.—we are sorry (hut nor firiead hm«ol nwetved us paper. wstre* the ntri ti< mmr part til hi hwt he ncmdu, t w., boefam.— 29th dt„ metisd. the «sw wih hs fesvrerded lo c\ c\, lo whole xe. stata <d mar arammm hes psewmed uesth that tee had ■■taeihi t fcr thfe i—h ir. gomtmtnuations. tie morning dawn* i the times are i’evoluthmary; bockit prgressirig the theme is freedom for all t t^e problem for nations to solve is, how shall republics become truly free the question of man's redemption, recently settled by france her almost bloodless struggle and triumphant victory; the consistent boon of liberty u, colonial subjects, blend in one noble offerin'* upon humanity’s altar, constituting a hopeful tribute for the negro. while tyrants the world o’er tremble m view of freedom’s advancing legion, let th« bondmen of republican america lull the freoch demonstration as a bright, emphatic omen of their complete enlargement. <;«*i is for the oppressed, and no human arm can withstand his potency. the struggle between freedom’s antes atm j freedom’s foes, is now waxing warm on the battle-ground, on american soil. the apical in rung out, shall republican america he<‘<l the lessons imparted by manarchical f.urape to the combatants m this moial warfare may be applied the terms of conservative and reformer. the first is satisfied with tilings as they are; the second is characterized by the freest investigation of all subjects con nected with the progress of humanity, and longs to make a practical application of ti t knowledge thus obtained to the various insti tutions of the community in which he lives.—* the conservative fails to appreciate the truth stamped on every page o! history, that re forms once begun among an injured but de termined people, have never retrograded and taking counsel of h s fears, instead of ins hopes, holds himself aloof from the labors of those who are actively engaged in the eleva tion of the weak to an equality with the strong while on the contrary, the reformer, animating his courage by a glance at the past, his heart encouraged by such a const (il lation of glorious examples, yields obedience to that inspiration, and despite the com bined influences of all- that would impede his progress, fearlessly pursues ins noble ca reer, making his life a mission of usefulness on earth* the surest hope of an immortal crown hereafter. thus inspired ars tbssc intrepid pioneers in the american congress—joshua r. (*id dings, john g. palfrey, and john p. halo all honor to the noble trio for their vigilance and devotion at this trial hour a turning point in the nation’s history. courage, fries* of freedom the fires of liberty now gleaming on the vine-clad hills of france, will not only shed light, but heat, o'er th*c frozen surface of american pro-sla very, animating the bleeding captive yet to hope, and impelling the reformer to press onward. colored men of america you wl o are the victims of southern despotism or northern treachery—be awake no man, or hotly of men, have a claim upon your liberty, but yourselves to god alene are you responsible lor the use or abuse of all your power. let no honorable means, then, be lost of reclaiming your just rights; for though tyrants may frown, "tis your father who smiles. so indeed thought those seventy-seven victims of this nation's wicked ness and hypocrisy, who vainly attempted a peaceful escape from their republican task masters. the papers tell us that many col. ored men and slaves assembled at the wash ington meeting of sympathy with the french. they heard quotations from hymn on liberty, and senators glorifying a revolutn n which had made all the people in france free; and in proof of their identity w ith the human fami ly, the spark of freedom ignited their hearts, and behold their declaration of independence but argus-eyed slavery, true to its own evil instincts, pounced uj>on them, dashing the cup of nectar from their grasp, even before a draught had passed their lips. colored americans have ever been readr to worship at freedom's shrine in every struggle for their country’s cause, hare they zealously engaged. they have contributed to the support of government as loyal citizens —sen ices, alas! which have been liquidated only by insult and persecution. the page of impartial history bears testi mony to the fact, that the first martyr in tho american revolution was a colored man by the name of attucks, who fell in king street, boston. the seven years’ conflict, and also the war of 1812, were both dotted by in stances of the loyalty of colored soldiers— a fact which is of at least significance enough to claim for their descendants treatment equal to those of a paler hue. it is recorded in the history of our country's independence, that on the memorable 10th of april, 1775, as the patriots hancock and adams were retiring from the dangers of tho field, the latter, enraptured whh joy, ex claimed, oh, what an cver-gloriousp.orning is this!” considering the contest at lexing ton a* the prelude of events that were destined to secure the happinecs of his country. so indeed may the late stirring scenes at wash ington be regarded as fraught with the ele ments of triumphant success to the cause of freedom. though john c. calhoun would award to the negro a tribute of chains, a symbol of hate, there is an increasing num ber extending the tribute of freedom, a token of human brotherhood and moa skill we rejoice, at the mumuml ruin we aer, ami million* freer, with heart and votes, the day of jubile*-!”—w, c. a. the ohio iliack laws. the recent agitations in the national le gislative bodies on the question of extending slavery over newly acquired territory, the dt velopmeuu made as to ita influence ou law and murals, its prejudicial effects upon the interests of the free white laborer, as well as the cruelty inflicted by it upon the helpless and unresisting black— a ward, m power over society and the general interest of the country, have all bad a tendency to arouse a spirit of inquiry in the minds of northern men as to what extent h has tainted the insti tutions of their own so-called free state*. in the pursuit of these investigations, they find in the present older of things, the doc trine no ofuimes advanced by slaveholders and their apologists, that certain races or classes ike exclusive and recognised right ux govern whilst other members of the same onsnsaity, hut of a different race or class, have those privileges withheld from litem. the stability of free institutions, it is said, nn ot be secured and perpetuated upon any other b*m*. strange idea to associate with republicanism! there w none among the free states more imbued with this intense selfishness than ohio. the laws that have been in fores ever since the vear* i*o4 and i*o7, unjustly oppress her eolored population almost beyond the point of endurance. in every way they stand a* checks to prevent them from doing anything for their own improvement, to discourage any attempts they may make to elevate themselves, to degrade them in every sense of the word. they are evidences of the presence of those cherished principles no peculiarly american in our systems of law— class favoritism. this was the aim in view when the famous lllaek lisws were established. a slight notice of their hearing, may give the reader an idea of justice in ohio. in the first place, persons of color coming into the state with the intention of settling, are re quired to produce certificates of freedom, and have them recorded in the office of the clerk, of the county in which they may settle. 'i o give the colored man employment just neces sary to aupplv the common want* of life, the employer, in so doing, is liable to a fine of* $5o, unless,” says the law, snrli black or mulatto person shall have one of the ccrti-; firates as aforesaid.” employment is also forbidden them, except they shall, within j twenty days, (after corning into the slate,) i ester into bonds with two or more freehold so- cun tics in the penal sum of five hundred dol- 1 lars that they may not become a township) charge, and that tlioy will always behave themselves. is a new balance required to j m°te out justice to the color.*d man? if not, why such a law do they secure any par- 1 t.rular advantages to the white citizen? yes, savs one, if these parts of the hlack laws were repealed, the door would he immediately opened so as to permit an influx of macks, driven by oppression from other states, and minumitted slaves, worn out in the service of their masters, would he sent here to be do jmmidcnts upon our public charitable institu-! tions. (iod help thorn, 1 .-av. the labor of* the black man, says another, would conflict with the interests of the white laboring 1 classes. lie is lazy, and went work at all, chim'-s in a third, and so on until a hundred just such frivolous objections arc raised every time the question of roi>eal is agitated. this kind of reasoning, however, docs not harmonize with tin? facts in the case. as a general tiling, the emigration of colored per j sons is not altectcd either wav by ihe exist ence of those laws. certificates of freedom are not often demanded before they are al lowed to settle. the question is seldom asked as to their being, or ever having been, a slave. ("olorrd persons may be employed without the employer running much risk of having to pay heavy fires for so doing. the bonds and other requirements mentioned in the statutes, are not complied with one time in a hundred. the w hole matter stands almost a dead letter, so fur as the precautionary fea- lures of it are concerned. then where stands the objection as to the importance of their be ing continued in iorce does justice require it 1 ou the other hand, th?v are ojiea to abuse?, without tending to any good results whatever. now, there arc not more than five hundred in a population of twenty thousand colored persons in ohio, without reference to rc-spect- abilty or condition, who? settlement can be looked upon as being legal. the remainder not haring complied with the law in reference to certificate* and bonds, what is the disad vantage to which they are exposed why, i. this: any white person filing a complaint, the law say*, it shall be the duty of the over seers-of the poor of township w here such ne gro or mulatto person maybe found, to remove immediately such black or mulatto person in the same manner as is required of paupers; j that is, upon the complaint of the lowest white vagabond in the coinninuitv, against any of the most respectable colored citizens, i no matter imw degraded the inform .'.r, or how w ealthy arid much thought of the latter—they must forthwith be expelled the stale. no time is given for the adjustment of business private affairs must be loft unsettled. “im- mediately,” is the inexorable sentence of the law. these arc but part of the many griev ances we complain of. we have asked our legislature to release us from the dangers of such euactmcnts, and grant us redress in their repeal. your readers will lie informed further on this subject in my next. a. j. a. 1 eaton, ohio. a little chapter for little children. “(ict money [place) honestly, if you cau; at all 1 events get it.”— chtsttrjirld. thf. babes in the wood. the follow ing conversation is said to hare taken place between a mother and her child when, where or how, is of no consequence j you have heard of the w icked uncle who carriim two innocent little children into the datk forest, and promising to come back, left them them there cold and hungry?” no, ma'.doteil nte wasn’t it very cruel?” yes and when you grow up to ire a man, you will not do anything so cruel and wicked—will you’” “no, ma’. were they cold and t hungry in the dark wood yes, very cold and very hungry.” and what did they do 1 ltule children, you know, can’t do much they only cried, and cried, and cried.” “did anybody hear them?” no, nobody or if they heard, they did not take any notice of them.” were the little children all alone in the dark wood, among the trees, and the wild beasts, and the birds?” yes, all alone.’ “v\ hat did they say, in the dark wood, among the trees, and the wild beasts, i and the birds' they put their little arms round each other’s necks, and cried to their' mam*- shall i tell you what they said to their mama oh, do—l should so love to hear!” “well, 1 had better first tell you who their mama was. she w-as a great lady, and lived at washington. i will show you washington on the inap, w hen you get a little older. this lady had a great many children, that were always very clamorous and very hungry. you have heard of the j •little old woman that lived in a shoe’?” i ob, ye*, ithe bad *o many children, she i did not know what to do.’ yes well, j i •his great lady at washington was just hkc 1 that huk old woman she did’nt know what to do with all her children.” she wouldn’t i cure much about the two that were lost in i tt.c woods. if she had to many left 7 no, i i much butt they war* rerj yomag am very belpieaa, tad an amm'i tot fed aorry fa there; and they cried, inn, pitiably/ “do tell ne wlrel they arid.** “i imi ahanst forgotten what they amid here it ia, in the rochester daily courier of t he 28th of april: btmjmthy wit* fiaxcc.—not baring witnessed the proceeding! of the meeting leaf evening on ths subject, we us not exactly as|.> u> speak of the complexion of the allair, but comcsb, that from the published account of it. there seem* to be some ground for the complaint, as set forth in the communication inserted below. we fro for a united hurrah for rtjmuirantsm in frmut and all earape, but we cannot be instrumental in giving any color to the pure elements of sympathy, that heaves the siph and draw** the tear for the oppressed of foreign lands. everything in its place.’ now, wasn't this quite a pretty little speech for a little child to make oh, the sly little rogue! if the alma mater of «h*»t little political babes at washington, had but heard how well this juvenile talked about the compu non of the affair,’—-• a united hurrah for republicanism,’—* giving a refer,* ac.; and how prettily he could foil about the pure elements of sympathy,* (oh, bow pore in this instance that heaves the sigh [hdighho!] and draws the tear for the oppressed of foreign lands,’ she would soon hatc had him out of the woods, and brought nearer home—per haps into her own white house. hear it, yc heartless abolitionists, who waste your sympathies on the worthless three millions of “niggers” at home! keep your tears for foreign lands! there is no use for tears of sympathy iri this glorious republic our three millions of slaves are all happy and contented. they are never tacked, nor chained, nor branded; they never think of running away from the kind, merciful, and generous, and chivalrous masters who only occasionally flog them to death how could they harbor the ungrateful thought! iliey have it, on the high authority of mr. haskell of tennessee, that the black man was made for the benefit of the white man.** who can doubt that he speaks the words of heaven-inspired wisdom! why, then, waste your tears upon these slaves. in this glorious republic there are no women overworked and >roken-hcarted, making shirts at four cents i-piece! there is no underpaid labor—no overpaid rascality there are no cunning, place-seeking politicians, who throw dust in [srople's eyes, nor any deluded voters, on whose shoulders they can foist themselves into power. bottle up your tears for exporta tion, for the white slaves of foreign lands! everything in its place.” now, my dear child, you are getting sleepy.” no, mi’; but that was such a long speech—l didn’t understand it at all. w hat is that color that the little babe in the woods was so terribly afraid of!” color is a very fearful thing—it means black there is no color but black.” oh, yes, there's red, and blue, and white, and, oh, ever so many more.’’ “3mne abolitionist must have told you that; but you know they be lieve in the good old-fashioned doctrine of the constitution, that all men are born equal, md have certain inalienable rights;’ but a rre.it many who imagine themselves repub lican* don’t think so. they think that men ivho have black faces have no rights.” couldn't black men paint their faces w liite, tnd then they would not he made slaves any norc “perhaps they would: it is not or their color only that the black men arc nade slaves. the spirit of slave-making is .a those who hold slaves. brave, generous, noble-minded men never oppress the weak md defenceless; while the mean and cow ardly are always tyrants. black men and women are mostly ignorant, and therefore weak and as those men who pretend to be so afraid of what they call color, are not iioble, and brave, and generous, it is quite natural for them to oppress those who launot defend themselves.” “is it not very wrong to make slaves of black men you must not talk so, child if john c. calhoun heard you, he would ‘take high and exalted ground,’ and call you a maniac from bedlam and mr. foote, of mississippi, would put a rope round your nock, and hang you up on a high tree.” “who is mr. foote—did i ever see him no, you never saw* him, and it is no mutter if you never do he is one of the wise men in the senate, who makes laws for the country. he quotes shake speare and byron, and talks nonsense.” “arc they all wise men that make laws neter mind that now; you will know* alli about that by and by. but you have for gotten about the babes in the wood.” oh! yes, do tell tne more about them. what did the other say—did he make as long a speech as the first one?” yes, it was longer.” f)h, i shall ncvei be able to understand it.” m ell, never mind 1 am not sure that he understood lumself. here it is our citizens are alive and enthusiastic in the expression of their sympathies for france uid the rest of europe, in the present posture >f their political affairs. thcv desire an >p port unity to manifest those feejii.gs in a jublic manner. they were invited to assent >le at the court house last evening, to make tome arrangements for such an object, but hey did not generally expect to lie eiiter atned by abolition speeches, or anything else hat had the appearauce of political bias. i have the charity to believe, that some if tot all of thoec who were active in getting up hat meeting, would regret to hav« the good tense of the patriotic and geueious of our aty, shocked by an exhibition of that kind viid no fear or affection should prevent their mming out and denouncing, w hat seems to jc the intention of many who attended the neetmg —to turn the whole thing, under the latuouc motto of liberty—equably fra ermtv,’ into what iu plain eughsli can be •ailed nothing else lhau abohlu>m« u brbid that we should so deiuean ourselves as countenance, on such an occasion, anything hat can in that manner give off nee j vive la hltubliqie." yes, “our citizens were alive and enthu liastic in their expression uf sympathy” m] y uh franoe, hut with truth every where. theirs was not that kind of ****_ washy iraahy apology for sympathy w hich manifests itself in mock hemic rejmemg, oter he triumphs of right in *hile frowning upon and opposing its pro-' fress at home. it was a manly generous ympathy with tie oppressed of a|| natiow, ind the wronged of every color. our otoh-n> •an bear to look troth in the face, and have earned (what many have not learned,} that 1 american republicanism ana perfection are! iot synonymous; that a “great lie” r.- ?w l ts head in this boasted land of freedom, which ou tbe rooted out, and that until it is rooted w vymmmm m fmf tlqr with th n wmn dum« a wu&utj a kmlmf everything m a* phm” afc,y«« m fcstt cbarhr/’ biw yo«? comaa rfcsrity la mi ou atauk. aw f*m wot imdcm, beanie* “eom aa charity”? if y*m ferant lo mi tl»t you resembled charity, probably no ow wiß dispute yow anenkm. “tie gooc aetwe of the patriotic and genera* shocked,' —yen, abocked that in the n oai abocked ”by abolition apnerhra! pool puling little juvenile! wbat da yon mean bj that? wonld yon be riwrfcad, if your m/m mmtr at washington meet to give y vtotm nwe place pie, which, bke a little jad 1 horner,” yoo might art m ymn comer,*’ and eat at yoor lriaoref ob, no, this would not shock you at all; ami atilt leas can the patriotic and genera* be 4 shocked” by an exhibition of abolition speeches. fear of what? affection for wbal? oh, huh' lost babes, wbat are. you afraid of? cling closer together—aomething may happen ui yon. liberty—kqnabty— fraternity do yon know the meaning of those words? f liberty means 44 freedom,” does ft not i a freeman is one who is not a slave—w he will have nothin* lo do with slavery—who thinks slavery wrong; if he did not, he mast allow that the day may come when he, free man as he is, may also be a dare, and a slave justly. is this abolitionism equality means, that every man should have the same rights aa every other man that no mao ori ginally has any claim upon the peraofi or pro perty of another, which that other has not upon his person and property; that no man can bind another to do his bidding unwillingly, without doing him an injustice. is this abolitionism fraternity,” brotherhood— helpful brotherhood. not only are all men to be free—to lie equal; the patriotic motto’’of the french republic, with which american republicans profess to sympathise, has more than all that. the motto iutimates also fraternal sympathy and aid. oh no, it is not fraternity among white men —it is simply 44 fraternity’’—fraternity among all mon. those who sympathise with the french motto, can subscribe to all this.—can yon subscribe to it? if the black man u weak and defenceless, you will protect him if he is ignorant, you will iustruct him if he is enslaved and oppressed, you will rescue him from the fangs of the tyrant. is this abolitionism yes; and nothing else. then is the 44 patriotic motto of france an aboli tionist motto; and all who profess to sympa thise with the french republic, yet neithci practise nor believe in 44 liberty—equality- fraternity,” and talk about being shocked with abolition speeches, are palpably nothing but the veriest hypocrites. yes, you arc pious,—you can lift up holy hands and eyes to heaven, and say, “god forbid!” 44 may it never be 44 how can we do this great wickedness? 1 “angels and ministers o( grace, defend us!” holy mary, pray foi us? holy peter, pray for us! oh, judas iscariot, thou prince and patron-saint of hy pocrites, we beseech thee to pray for us, that we may be preserved from giving counten ance to 44 anything that can in this manner give offence ah, here it is—“ give oftjnce offence to whom the alma nutter at washington to bo sure—the great lady who has the nice place pies to give to the good little jack horners. whom els(*does this babe in the woods,” who calls himself vive la republique,” care about offending k es, truly, let the republic live for, verily, is not this one of the people of whom job speaks, when lie says, 44 wisdom shall die with you “oh, ma’, i am getting so sleepy this is such a long speech, and i didn’t understand it at all. 44 well, don’t puzzle your little brains aliout it; it is not of the slightest consequence you would not be any wiser if you did.” 44 what became of the little balies that were left in the woods did the wicked uncle ever come back for them?” no, he never came back their cries grew weaker every day; and tlie great lady at washington never heard their pitiable wail ing and at last they died. yes, they soon stopped sending their petitions to wash ington by the rochester daily courier, for they found that he never took them there; and the little birds came carrying leaves in their beaks, and the birds and beasts assem bled to the funeral. 44 w ihj tolled the bell 1 4 1,’ said tlie bull, 4 because i can pul), i tolled the bell.’ and so the little babes died and were buried, and will soon pass into oblivion. everything in its place.”—j. d. i .foreign nctus. state of europe* europe continues disturbed and agitated. hostilities have seriously commenced between denmark and sieswick holstein. a battle was fought with great lose on both sides, the danes victors. the prussian army under orders to drive the danes out of slcswick. frajcce.—“ the news from the depart ments,” soys la prcsee, is deplorable.—- emeute at troyes; disorders at beziers in the landes; agitation everywhere. a re report is in circulation that the is again to he postponed. italy —by tiro last acoounts from italy, marshal radetsk had coneeutrated his forces on y-tooi aai mintua. he has an army of 40,000 in the field. the rt-suh of zb impending engagement between the italian and austrian armies, was looked forward to at paris, with considerable anxiety. the rest of continental europe is compara tively tranquil. the following letter from a loodon corre spondent win give same idea of the state of things in britain. lokdox, april 14, i*4b. dm s«,—bosinoaa eontieoes ri nnadif it dull on this aide the atlantic. the politi cal horizon in award-dad and threatening. we am in daily expectation of the breaking out of an irish rebellion. if die irish ate really- unanimous in favour of repeal, there seems to be no good reason why they should not have their dearie; for even a total separ ation would be no fojsry to thin country, though ilia to be found that it would bn dis astrous to the imb. cuimrr aottatkw. mr. fenryns o’connor, you ma y be awafe, is ii p for noftisgbaro, and leader of a are lim<f um chartisto ikkasgotapa oia mm idm reports mi correct, tlmftthm «rtk ami pwifcwaj nnim wi the abject of the convention h to tak<? charge of the national petition. the peti uon is excellent; hot i have bo mnmii im m the movement. it was to he presented last monday, and the coorentioo arranged, that i pony it to the door of the hooae of cam j common, to the number, day aid, of two or three hundred thoeaand. large bodies l wero to came op from the country, to join the procession. flags and tana were tocome up j fan the o'coadomlle estate, and rarerytbtag was said to hare been arranged fur a moot imposing demonstration. •otkksmkvt opposition. the government took alarm at these more men t?, and raked up an old act of the reign of chaika 11., which prohibit* more than ten persona to go to the house of commons with a petition, or mom than twenty to sign one.— oa the strength of this act, they issued nr ticca forbidding the meeting. the nonunion declared that they would bold it nevertheless, but at the same time issued a proclamation as suring the inhabitants that they would be peaceable. the gorernment persisted in saying that they would prerent aay attempt like that, which conm hare no other end hot to intimidate the house of commons. here there was war declared on both sides. the police offices, on friday and saturday, were crowded with people, swearing in as special constables. about 200,000 were sworn in. the queen went off to the isle of wight. preparations for defence. on sunday, barricades of wood and bags of sand, with loop-hole* for guns to fire through, were built on the top of the bank and tower cannons were placed in the post of fice, and a revolving battery erected in soni t erect house. fire-arms had been sent to i all the public offices, the bank and the private banking houses, all the clerks being sworn 'in as special constables, and informed that 1 they would have to remain to defend the premises all monday night. after such ex traordinary preparations and the bringing up of c or 8,000 military to london, for all the i available troops were brought up, even i windsor castle was deprived of its usual 1 guard, and plaeed undei the protection of the 1 buckinghamshire yeomanry, people began oven to talk of a revolution here. -the day appointed. j on monday morning the shops on the prin cipal roads into the city were all closed.— i small bodies of special constables were to be seen walking about in all directions. the gates of the bank w*rc guard-id by soldiers j with fixed bayonets. the exchange was closed all day; a fqw hundreds of special con stables and policemen being shut np inside, to j l»e called out if needed. ah the bridges were guarded by strong bodies of police and spe cials, who, however, did not object to the people going over to the south side of the j river. placards were posted about, forbidding carriages to stop in the streets, ancf some streets they were altogether prohibited from entering. all the park gates were closed.— hardly any business was done. almost all the shops were kept closed all day. at about two o’clock, i went to the stock exchange— (the members were singing god save the queen” all business being suspended, bv consent, until next day. the chartist meeting. about 3 o'clock, a second edition of the times" came out, announcing that the meeting had been held, and had dispersed qui -1 etly, and that feargus o'connor had taken the putitiou to the house of commons with out his army, which he ordered to disband.— j went up to the house of commons alxmt 0 o'clock, and found all london perfectly quiet. thus ended the most extraordinary day i have ever seen a day in which people had appa rcntly conspired to make fools of each other. the people in paris fully expected a revolu tion here, and it is evident from tho newspa pers that they are quite taken aback to find the whole pass off without a drop of blood being shed. the only place where anything like a riot occurred, was blackfriars br dge, which our sapient authorities cleared at 1 o’clock, and kept guarded by an immense number of 1 police and special constables. they formed i a compact mass of six deep right across both ends of the bridge, and so when the people came straggling hack from keuiiingtou com mon, they were stopped, and those in front could not return in consequence of the great numbers behind. at last, when they had ac cumulated sufficiently, they earned specials and all together ik*fare them, but not without a few hard blows of the batons. presentation of the petition. feargus o'connor presented the petition in the evening, and said that it bad 5,700,000 signatures. it was to have been taken into consideration to-night, but last night the petition committee reported that it bad only 1,tw0,000 signatures, and that many of these were forgeries. the queen and sir robert peel, and many other great men are made to sign it, and the duke of wellington figures on it seventeen times; besides, there are all kinds of nicknames, pug-nose, kmg-none, ac., passing for signatures. this disgraceful business naturally called forth strong lan guage. one of the member* of the hooae said he weald never believe o'connor again is his life. hereupon a scene got up, and mr. o'connor said that that expression must be explained elsewhere, sod left the house. a dun) was prevented by the interfere** of tho speaker, who sent the scrgeaut-airanns to an eat feargus. ha says that ha will not make the motion of wtech ha had frioa no tice, is fosav of urn pnactple* of ths charter. i four this affair has tojarai the emus rf pro :.nt:_ iniwj r s. d. »ib» i tfcmmmitm hemjtnwj* cfmmrncm m m*4iß**m cnmimm, •h* ytmn. i u jutn.tt thr mi ml. ct—twfc f«*t, at cubar*. cb—*i. mr.limam y«cfc, a colwcd ai uwn cv w- f, april im, ed*im 8. uatby, a *danl **a, hjfiial to ik v^jg.-yrr ww to wua wrt —n»lm»lip tor. «*f ipfernfinn from frua# ar nmk* «f tia toitanl bmv be left at toe oan c i the t-ica suf. 'in mn yi i duty mi mi jgy.? »*•^s^ s4 ,reft to cmhiiat to pmnew umm •shts for fee oppress.h aad sasms# bom*. *eo who stiff raniii tatfiag unrequited is dm swawd prim mm. we are frequently ie ram wire tint aot no jy ip* and fcwll, our sisters, subjected to the cruel aad prewmaate outrages ad their tyrannical master* aad over seen bat there are daily fnwlaacea of m< deriag tbe dearest tie* in nature, thus sepa rating there forever. and caa we expect any tbiap better can are leak far benevolence at fine footings from a syatna so foal sad ficnd ish as slavery it woau be aacaosooobio, because a corrupt troc csnaet bring forth good fruit-’’ therefore, knowing that with j out associative action we cannot render efi rient aid to this hbly cause, we affectionately 1 invite the co-operation of the citizens of ruch eater aad tbs poblis fenendhr. we ask them i to bear in mind tbe injunctions of jesus," ad things whatsoever ye would ws should do to i you, do ye even so to them.’’ remember, i also, the beautiful parable in which be culls i our attention to the sick and to those who are in prison, and cwduda by the forcible asser tion v inasmuch as ye hate done it loone of the leaaf of there, my brethren, ye have done it onto me.” we foci assured all that hare hearts to fed, sad are careful to attend to the monitions of conscience—ail who are deter mined to live for tbe good of our race, instead of devoting all their time to their own per sona! care—all who foci bound to improve the precious time allotted to them hero, by pro moting as moch as possible the cause of truth *od righteousness in the earth, will come for ward in the work of laboring to banish forever the demon of slavery from our laud and in jso doing, instead of an example of corruption and wickedness, we should be a light to tbe j world.” we hope no one will feel too poor, nor anv too rich, to enlist in this holy cause. the j christian’s influence, in whatever situation, is always salutary, and will certainly produce its j good effects. we ask for the aid of men and jof women we call on the old and the young, the farmer, the mechanic, and the merchant. a\ e ask all and every one to give us their help to devote what they can spare, cither of money or of the fruits of their la-’ hor, to the work of restoring men and women to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights and blessings with wliich they were endowed by our creator. for this object, we propose holding a fair in december next. we ask the females in the adjoining towns and country around us, to get up sewing circles, and prepare such arti cles as will be most saleable, and to come, fur nish tables, give us tlieir company, and help us, not only in selling those things thus pre pared, but in convincing the public mind of the necessity of our perseverance and fidelity, and thus be helpers in hastouiog the day of emancipation. ano ail busn, rochester. sarah d. fish, do. sarah l. hallowkll, do mary h. hai .lowell, do. sarah a. burtis, do. margaret a. larso.v, do. elizabeth sully, do. phebe treadwell, do. charlotte s. wilbur, do. hilda anthony, do. rhoda de garmo, do. catharine g. braithwaitk, do. sarah e. thayer, do. catharine a. f. stebbins, do. amy post, do. henrietta platt, bmh. susan r. doty,| farmington. maria wilbur, do. elizabeth smith, do. esther hathaway, do. caroline halstead, walworth. julia parker, do. eliza cooper, williamson. amy mott, do. rebecca m. c. capkon, auburn. mrs. hamlin, port bvron. margaret prior, waterloo. mauy ann mcclintock, do. laura murray, victor. alas. mackintyre, darien. from the national era. st. domingoa new element. the slaves had hitherto been perfectly tranquil. the struggle had not touched their rights; no claim was set up for them vbut now the noise of the conflict ail about them attracted their attention. their matters, too, apprehensive that their discussions about rights; and the general disorgani zations of society, might tempt them to revolt, doubled the pairoles. this ex- s cited the amazement of the negroes. one of the best works we hare con sulted, is that of brown, an american. his history seems to have been written without any design to sustain a theory; but his sympathies are with the plantr era. the amis dts aoirt” he styles fanatics, and the african, he says, is j more inclined to idleness and pillage than anything else. a quotation from his work will show the state of things at this time: the astonished slave, who had for a long time shamed his betters by con tinuing in peace to follow the routined his industry, now sought to learn the cause of this inquietude, and became every day more filled withr amazement, a :d an undefined restlessness; the whites might have discovered evidences of ap proaching rebellion; but this was not the real source of their anxiety. they had higher game in view; and, to counter act the designs and hopes of the mu lattoes, they were willing to incur the hazards of a servile war. though they despised the blacks too much to dread the utmost they could do, yet the outcry w as ceaselessly spread, that the natural operation of the decree tended to pro duce discontent and insubordination among the slaves. the petits blanct, in honest zeal to guard against danger, or w ith a recklessness of purpose truly di abolical, were more than ever lavish of their cruelty to the negroes, and of their insults and outrages toward the mul&ttoes.” is it wonderful that, when society appeared to be in a state of dissolution, and civil war raged on every side, the slaves being sometimes armed by their masters in their bloody conflicts, that the bonds of so unnatural a system as slavery began to give w r ay? in 1791, a few insurrectionary move ments took place in different sections, but were suppressed by measures of unheard-of cruelty. general lacroix gives an extract of a letter, characterizing caradeux, a desperado who had usurped the func tions of governor, as follows: si ton est embarasse par couper les tetes, on appelera le citoyen gene ral caradeux, (commandant des dis tricts du port-au-prince,) qui en a fait sautcr unc cinquantaine sur i’habitation aubay, et qui, afin qu’on n’en ignorat les fiche ait sur des piques le lang des hates de son habitation, cn gcncre de palmiere.” if any one be wanted to cut off heads, you can call for the citizen general caradeux, who caused fifty heads to fall on the abbaye plantation, t and, that no one might be ignorant of it, stuck them on poles along the hedg cs of the plantation, like palin trees! what could be expected? on the night of the 22d of august, 1791, the slaves in the northern province rose upon their masters, and in four days one-third of the province was a smoking heap of ruins. this was the beginning 'of the horrors of st. domingo. from that time till order was re-es itablished by touissaint, the island was a hell, in which all the furies seemed to be let loose. every man’s hand w r as against his brother. the petit blancs, the european residents, the creole t planters, the mulutloes, now turned j their weapons against each other, and i then united for a time in beating back the black hordes which pressed upon them. at first, the whites in cape francois began to murder the free peo ple of color, suspecting that they had 1 instigated the revolt, but at last accept ed their assistance in saving the town from the slaves. it was soon discovered that the movements of the insurrection ists, who styled themselves “gens du roi,” were influenced toa considerable extent by the french loyalists and i spanish emissaries, who were acting with them! this insurrection was chiefly con fined to the northern province, and, as the reader at once sees, emancipation had nothing to do with it. the strug gle between the colony and the home government had all turned upon the question of the political rights of the mulattoes, a large portion of whom were slaveholders; and no proposition, much less a decree, had been intro duced to emancipate the slaves. these revolted, not because they were eman cipated, but because they were en slaved; and their revolt was sustained and directed by french loyalists and the counsels of spain. the dreadful event tended to bring the white planters to terms in the west and south. october 23d, 1791, in these sections, the mulattoes were ad j niitted to the enjoyment of some politi cal rights; but, at this very moment, j intelligence arrived that the constituent assembly of france, on the 21th sep tember, had repealed its decree of 15th may. the old quarrel was at once re opened with more bitterness than ever; and the whites announced that they would not concede the privileges se cured by tire concordat lately formed w ith the colored party, until it had put i down revolt among the blacks. civil i war was the result; but commissioner! from france arriving at this moment, proclaimed a general amnesty. the i assembly at port-au-prince was infuri ated at this measure, and an order wai given to disarm the free people of color, who,” says a french historian, “had to that moment fought against the blacks with all the zeal that the inter ,ests of property can inspire.” the re sult was, that many of them, driven tc desperation, threw themselves into the negro camp, and the work of death wai resumed with new horrors. again the national assembly, whicl seemed to be laboring under absolute j derangement in regard to the colony, passed a decree, dated april 4th,j1792, j repealing that of september 24th, 1791 i this appeased the w>wt4 ptrtjr, fart grown incuiamf mraatfii) of the white*, whom (hoy saapoctcd of biofag procured the disfraaclising act of sep tember tilth, while nt the wry moment they were professing amity, it did sol manifest its asaal seal in warring against the black* it feared another act of treachery. the planters at capa francois were infatuated. by yielding in the decree of the national asaembly, and prompt ly recognizing the rights of the mu lattoes, they had it still in their powei to pot down the insurrection in the plain. but they were unrelenting, and those of the free people of color wbow they did not drive into the ranks of the insurgents, they alienated. amssu umbos. september 16, 17p2, arrived the three french commissioners, santho nax, polverel, and aimmude, with au thority to carry into effect the decree o april 4tb. and with general authority t< regulate the affairs of the colony.— the old white proprietors labored t< unite the mulattoes with them again* the commissioners, but they would d< nothing against a revolution that ac knowledged their rights. the patriots consisting chiefly of the lower classei of whites, of course affiliated with thi commissioners. jacobinical clubi were formed at the cape, in imitation o those in the mother country, and th< aristocrats were proscribed. san thonax stationed himself at cape fran ccis, polverel at port-au-prince, an< ailhaude at aux cayes. the last named commissioner soon abandonei his charge in despair, and returnee home. santhonax, by uniting the forces o all classes of freemen, was making head against the insurrection, when wai broke out between england and france this arrested his success, and, to ad< to his perplexity, a strife sprung uj between him and m. galbaud, lately arrived from france, with the appoint ment of governor. the commissioi was soon revoked, but he determined t< hold on to his authority. a civil wai was the result. the streets of cap< francois were drenched in blood.— sunthonax pressed hard, and, on tlx point of losing all, proclaimed liberty to the slaves in the city, (who had noi joined in the revolt of their brethren or the plain,) rallied them to his standard invited one of the insurgent bands t< come to his aid, and then let then loose upon galbaud and his sympa thizers. galbaud’s forces were routed: the city caught fire in the conflict; the forces of sathonax fell upon it anc pillaged it, and the citizens who es caped with their lives, took refuge aboard some ship in the harbor, which brought them to the united states, where the story of their sufferings com manded general sympathy. hundreds of millions* worth of pro perty was destroyed, and the loss ol life was enormous; and this second horror of st. domingo was attributed throughout this country, to emancipa tion we have given the true account; and what does it slow? that in s civil feud between the french commis sioner, the lawful authority, and gal baud, whose commission as governoi had been revoked, the former called ti his aid slaves whom he liberal d, am slaves who had liberated themselves mustered them as soldiers, and thei gave them the command to wage morta battle. we have seen the result; ant to attribute this to the abolition of sla very, argues unpardonable ignorance or something worse, in any publit man. the decree of emancipation. it will be observed that no decree o emancipation had yet been promulgated but the time was approaching when thii would become necessary. the insur gent blacks in the north, who were ii the pay and under the control of thi spaniards, were not to be appeased bj any offers of the french commissioner they were the allies of spain and o the king of france, they cried. th< spaniards w ere pressing upon the fron tiers. accounts were received of th< great preparations of england to maki a descent upon the colony. as a las resort, santhonax, by a solemn act august -jo, 1793, proclaimed the aboli tiun of slavery throughout st. domingo and the admission of the blacks to thi rights of citizenship. as the colonist! of the north could not be worse of than they were, it produced but litth effect upon them; but, in the south am west, where the slave had not gene rally revolted, the proclamation excitei extreme alarm and indignation. tki masters prepared to resist the act.— polverel opposed it, and drew up i plan of gradual emancipation, which however, was soon abandoned as im practicable. at length a grand council of th< commissioners and planters was heh at port-au-prince, and the latter wen persuaded to submit. the stern ne cessity of the time would admit of littl< reluctance in the planters,” says on< writer, to this spoliation of their for tunes—and the same people who a fei months before would jield no privilegi to the free colored people of the island now, goaded by hard necessity, wen forced to subscribe their consent to tin emancipation of their slaves.’* the hard necessity was, the certaii loss of the colony to the french, am its acquisition by the english, if sla very were not abolished; and the ob ject of the act was, to secure the co operation of the slaves in retainioj french sovereignty over the island.- how efficient was this co-operation w shall see presently. but what were th effects of this first act of immediat emancipation in st. domingo brown from whose work the foregoing extrac is taken, and who, throughout his work evidently leans to the planters, says j 44 the negroes of the sooth were ap peased by this graciousness in thei masters, and returned to their labors o the neglected plantations. they be gan to plant provisions for their suste nance—to relieve the distresses of fa mine which were beginning to pres heavily upon them, from the failure c importation from abroad.** there i not the record of a single ifnntu fin c«u«d by thi. .ct or enuukipalioiitli did not recall the insurgent* of th north to the plantations, because the had liberated themselves by force •hm, lad viva mow drilled li soldiers in the pey *f tk* spuithb. bat though thi liberated negroes were contested, the plant*** were sullen and imperiled against france. thi* disaffection extended to mmmjjtf the mulatto planters, who, like their white brethren, looked down spoe the blacks with biwer contempt. proposals which both classes had made to britain before hostilities betweea that cowrtry and france, were now eagerly accepted.— the planters agreed to aid the british ia taking possession, of lha island, and the british agreed to eaable them to reduce their negroes to thsis farmer slavery. the english invasion. the english armament at length made its appearance. jeremy was seized. the mole st. nicholas aad many other places fall into their bands, a large number of inulaltoes co-opera* ting with them for the restoration of slavery. the whole of the .western coast is occupied by the english.— meantime, the spaniards march upon the frontiers, and ft* conmrissionerspwe obliged to concentrate their forces in cape francois, port de pans, and port au-prince. they erect the guillotine at the latter place, and blood flows iu streams, until the emancipated negroes, mastered in the french army, horror stricken, made such an outcry against (his cruelty, that santbonax is obliged to remove it. pbrt-au-prince capitulates to* the english in 1794 the same year, the commissisners are arrested, sent home to france, tried by the constituent assembly, which fully acquits them, sustain* th*ir whole course, and ratifies too unconditional emancipation of the slaves of st. domingo. while the english are establishing themselves on the western coast, the spaniards and blacks are consolidating their power in the north. another horror is now brewing. the spaniards send out proclamations to the united states and all parts of the world, invi ting the fugitive planters to return and settle upon their estates, promising pro tection. eight hundred of them accept the invitation, and land at cape fran cois. the spanish troops, with their auxiliaries, the insurgents, march into the town, under the mask of friendship. the victims are deluded. high mass is celebrated. a low whistle is heard, the signal agreed upon, and, in an in stant, the knives of the spaniards and their allies are sheated in the hearts of the unsuspecting frenchmen, who are denounced as murderers and regicides. the whole plot had been laid by the diabolical cunning of the spanish priest vasquez. and yet this is one of the horrors ascribed to emancipation! the island seemed utterly god-for saken. aristocrats treacherously but chered patriots, and patriots guillotined aristocrats. in st. mark’s and port-au- prince, foul conspiracies to destroy the whole of the english forces at one blow were detected among the very planters who had been most urgent in invoking their assistance. the french were now driven to port de pai.v, their last foothold in the island, and their cause seemed desperate. but in 1795, the treaty of basle not only relieved them from the hostility of the spaniards, hut secured to them the title of the whole island, including the spanish part of it: at this.opportune moment, the celebrated touissaint l’ouverture, goes over to the commis sioners,and putting himselfat the head of the insurgent blacks, and the remnant of native troops,carries on the war against the english, until, in 1798, they are compelled to evacuate the island. before this, santhonax, having re turned from france, attempts, hastily and unwisely, to reduce the power of rigaud, at aux cayes, a mulatto chief tain, who, by his skill and daring, had long made head against the english in the south. this gave birth to an in surrection, august 38, 179(5, at aux cayes—another of the horrors o£ st. domingo—which was appeased the mo ment his delegates withdrew. may 5, 1797, touissaint was declared general-in-chief of the colony. his influence over the liberated blacks was omnipotent. all authorities concur in representing, that civil feuds disap peared under his wise measures— the blacks went to work order was re stored—the whites enjoyed perfect se curity-commerce began to flourish— and all the arts were again taking root. but the directory grew jealous of his power, and suspicious of his designs.— they gent agents to watch his course, and deprive him of hia office, but he baffled their cunning. he lived, he said, but for one purpose, the liberty ot his race; and though willing to ac knowledge the island as a dependency of france, be would not consent to measures looking towards the re-estab lishment of slavery. bonaparte, having been relieved by the treaty of amiens from his euro pean enemies, ambitious to bring back all the colonies to their original state, and stimulated by the representations of the refugees from st. domingo, fitted out a formidable expedition of 25,000 veteran soldiers, and gave the command to general lc clerc, who arrived at samana, january, 1802. the object of the expedition, although veiled by the habitiual dissimulation of napoleon, was to restore the old order of things, and re-enslave the blacks. these were deceived at first, and the general’s ef forts were crowned with partial suc cess. the black chiefs were divided. touissaint was entrapped, sent to france, and doomed to linger out the rest of his days in a dungeon. but the negres soon became apprized of the real design of the expedition. they rallied for liberty, and commenced the system of guerilla warfare disease helped them by decimating the french, who, on the 2wth of november, 1803, evacuated the bland, and left it under the sovereignty of those who bad res cued it from england, aad would have rejoiced at its continuance as a depend ency of france, bad not the despotic napoleon conceived the abominable de sign of repaying their services by re ducing than to slavery. we need not recapitulate the leading points in this brief sketch. our two propositions are sustained: 1. emancipation was not, in nay sense, the cause of the troubles and insurrections in bt. domingo. vkuhihmli emancipation, a* it ia cam. fm u* v«kly cmtlt. air btuim at a. db ujluu tub’s* 14 u j^rt 1 r. oa sunday imlog (the 19lk) f ac companied m. p. to ike hotel des capocinas, and wa» presented to m. and madame da lamartine. we ware received with cardial an> plicity, and an satire absence of slake or pretension* in a handsome* bat not particularly sumptuous drawing-room; in which some eight or ten persons were bssembfcd, talking of the news just received front vienna. madame da lamartine la an eng lishwoman, very unaffected, easy, and simple m her mannsm; much inter ested, of course, in (be situation, in the present embarrassments, and glorious prospects of the republic; above all, in the vast amount of individual suffer ing which so sudden a convulsion has necessarily entailed; and which she makes it her especial province to alle viate. she dwelt, without any sort oi reserve, on the existing distress; men tioning amongst other things, that the ourrieres of para ware one and alt out of employ; and that in a single aron disement (the first, if i remember rightly,) the application* for relief had exceeded hy upwards of 10*000 the average number. m. de lamartine is a tall spare man, with features somewhat worn and eager; the nose aquiline and promin ent; the lips rather thin, slightly com pressed, and nervous. his eye, as it rests on you, has that peculiar expres sion which 1 have observed in men whose vision is perpetually gazing be yond the actual, the individual—fixed on futurity—ranging in die ideal, the universal. had we been* talking in the open air, 1 should harve thought that he divided his attention between me and some star in the horizon. his utterance is rapid, his language fluent, his ideas ready, his imagery copious and striking. he is fond of walking up and down the room with his inter locutor; varying his pace with the varying current of his ideas. he speaks, i think, more than he listens; presenting, in this respect, the same contrast to our english statesmen, that the french initiative plan of govern ment bears to our cautious and merely regulative system. he apologised! for not speaking english, and asked* me, as an impartial observer, what 1 thought of their situation. 1 said that the financial difficulties were the knot of the question. yes, yes!” he replied, we have financial difficulties; but we shall gel through them perfectly well." “in time," no doubt, i rejoined; but ia six month*? in in a very short period,” he inter posed quickly. can you increase your production of food sufficiently to fulfil your pro mises—your guarantees to the work men?” i inquired. “we shall increase it very largely and very rapidly," he replied; we have great facilities for doing so, and we shall take full advantage of them.” “to an english apprehension,” i observed, “it seems dangerous for a government to descend into the arena of commerce, and initiate enterprises, such as banks, workshops, and 90 forth. we think that this tends to defeat pri vate calculation, and to damp the ardor of individual enterprise. in short, to us, centralisation—” “centralisation,” he cried, “is the sign of a «high and intense social life. in the animal kingdom, the lowest forms of life are the most diffuse; as you ascend through the scale of organ isms, you meet life in more and more centralised forms. it is the same with societies.” i think this is the snbstance of what he said; but he spoke very rapidly for several minutes; and, i own my atten tion was diverted by the secret care oi hunting up a suitable image ia support of my rejoinder. i accept your illustration,” said i, and 1 take the human body, gov erned by the brain, as the most per fect example of centralisation. now, when bile is wanted, does the brain undertake to secrete it? certainly not. it leaves that to the special organ appointed for the purpose. it stimulates the liver, if necessary, by sending it some vital impulse; and in 1 this manner, no doubt, it indirectly pro motes the secretion; but the brain itself never furnishes bile. the more j the brain is centralised in an animal, i the more centralised and independent of interference is each organ of the body. now, in the social body, take the banking system, and consider that i the aaalogue of the liver—the organ, so to speak, for the secretion of credit. we say, that the government, which is the brain, should never turn liver, and take to banking on its own account. it may stimulate, if necessaiy, the ela bo rat ion of credit through its natural organs; hot it should not assume the special functions of producing it. that is my objection to government compe titiou, and to discounts advanced by state. i should have preferred to oper ate through the hankers.” “but we applied to the beakers,” he returned, and found them inade quate to the crisis. we bad no choice but to act ourselves. besides, you overlook the essential difference be tween our character, our system, our antecedents, and yours. if you place yourself in an exclusively english point of view, yon will never under stand france, her peculiar questions, her distinctive merits sod defects, and her social requirements, we do not appeal to exactly the same motives; w« we do not respond to peocisely the same desiree; cannot govern by abeo lutely identical means. our material civilisation is lem advanced than yours; our commerce icm certain and me chanical in its operation; our aego eianta lem enterprising. our work ing population is animated by certain sympathies sad instincts on which ex perience shows that we can rely; sym pathies and iratiuola, jam regular, perhaps, ia their individual manifests tiou, but not lem real nor lem norma la their collective influence; than the m-nririir* principles on which your system h almost exclusively based. these are the qnamlies which give .france her pec-eminence as an initia tive people; and which respond, with sensitive vibration, to every well-timed appeal. neglect them, and france euflfiiu mm; trample on them, and thw result is explosion. they are accompanied, in the mam of our peo ple, w*h great patience, good sense, and drouwrt and their indications, conjointly with economical principles, util enable ns to work out the new destinie* of france.” here the conversation was inter rupted by the arrival of a messenger, whose news calledm. lamartine away; and i soon after took my leave. the above sketch readers, pretty accurately, the impression left on my mind by this conversation; i do not pretend to have retraced it phrase by phrase. ebenexer elliott and the aris tocracy.— i found ebenezer elliott standing at his porch, with his huge newfoundland dog beside him. 1 mere ly introduced myself as an admirer of bis poetry, who had a desire in passing to pay my respects to him. he gave me a very cordial welcome. we en tered his room, and were soon deep in conversation. and we were soon, too, high in conversation for our talk, amongst other things, turning on a cer tain class of society, 1 happened to say, ant “spite of all their faults as a class, many of them as individuals, were very amiable people.” this was a little too much for him. the latent fire of the cbwv-law rhymer blazed up; he start ed from his cßair, and, pacing to and fro with his hands at his back, exclaim ed, “amiable men! amiable robbers! thieves! and! murderers! sir, i do not kke to hear thieves, robbers and mur derers called amiable men! amiable men, indeed! who are they that have ruined trade, made bread dear, made murder wholesale, put poverty into prison, and' made crimes of ignorance and misery sir, ido not like to hear such terms used for such men!,’ i laughed, and said, well, mr. elliott, you and i shall certainly not quarrel about any such people; and 1 ought not to sit talking thus as a perfect stranger: it creates a false position and false conclusions.” i then mentioned my name. he sprang across the room, caught hold of iny offered hand with both his, gave it a great shake, and then hastened out to call mrs. elliott, howut's homes atui haunts of the poets. good advice to you.no women.— trust not to uncertain riches, but pre pare yourself for every emergency ii life. learn to work, and not to be de pendant upon servants to make you bread, sweep your floors and darnyoui own stockings. above all thing*, do no esteem too lightly those honorable young men who sustain themselves ant their aged parents by the work of theii hands, while you care for and receive into your company those lazy, idle pop injays who never lift a finger to help themselves as long as they can keep body and soul together, and get suffi cient to live in fashion. if you are wise you will look at the subject as we do—and when you are old enough to become wives, you will prefer the hon est mechanic, with not a cent to com mence life, to the fashionable loafer, with a capital of ten thousand dollars. whenever we hear remarked, such a young lady has married a fortune,’ 1 we always tremble for her future pros perity. riches left to children by wealthy parents often turn a curse in stead of a blessing. women, remember this; and instead of sounding the purses of your lovers, and examin ing the cuts of their coats, look into their habits and their hearts. mark if they trade, and can depend upon them selves; see if they have minds which will lead them to look above a butterfly existence. talk not of the beautiful cfoar skin, and the soft, delicate hand —the splendid form and the fine ap pearance of the young gentlemen. let not these foolish considerations engross your thoughts. arrest for murdering a slave. —the mobile herald of the 7th inst., states that in that city, a man named james paul, was arrested on wednes day, as a fugitive from justice in mis sisippi. he was committed to jail. it appears that some three years ago, the prisoner murdered his slave in lowndes county, miss. he was arrested, and before the examination was made, gave bail in the sum of $lo,ooo. he fled to texas, and returning to mobile, was arrested, as is stated above. the pri soner was formerly in business in that city, and is a man well to do in the world, as far a 3 property is concerned. the murder alleged against him, ac cording to the current story, was of a rare cruelty. after beating and other wise torturing his manservant to death, he cut the body into pieces and des troyed it by fire, for the purpose of concealing all evidence of his crime. eulogies ox john q. abams.— the great men of our land, of all par ties, have vied with each other in pro nouncing eulogies upon the illustrious ex-president, so lately deceased. they have recapitulated his public services i and honors—have said great and good things of him—have given him much and justly deserved praise; but among all the eulogies we have noticed, none 1 has been so well expressed, none so 1 well deserved, none so affecting, none that could be more grateful to the de parted, than what is contained in the following sentences the crowds who called to see mr. adams yester day and to-day, ware immense. many courtd awn came to aee him in his coffin, and uetd —my mtnmg. they begged earnestly for a mat sight of him.”— bmrriit’s christum citizen. tub pams* ix german r.—a greal change has come over the press ia berlin. being now (res, they are very interesting, a surprising trail in them. news boysfor the first time appear ic in the atraeb, and scatter tbepages oi intelligence over the city. the pre si once free, the rights of the poople an soon established* ißltnmc^j the wall of a building newly erected fell down daring tbo past week, crush ing four labormg men under an ava lanche of brick, stone, and mortar.— a gang of active laborers were immedi ately at work, with pickaxes, shovel* and crowbars, to dig them from beneath the immense mass of materials that con cealed them. the feet and hands of one man were discovered, knd he was soon raised and carried to the sidewalk. he gave no signs of life. another was extricated, horribly mangled and speechless; the other two, with broken limbs and bloody faces, were not yet dead. there they lay, for the passers by to gaze upon, until they could be carried to their desolate families. one said, poor fellows!” and passed on; another cast a furtive glance at the shocking sight, and hastened to hi* place of business; while a third ex claimed, with a vacant stare—“ why they are irish!” sure enough they were irishmen!— who else could they be, who were la boring with zeal for their daily bread r in aiding to erect our dwellings and shelter our homesteads? we reflected fora moment on the hard fate of ire land and ofths lrisboieu: the home visit ed by gaunt famine, and their wives and children perishing for bicad—a fine fruitful country, although misgoverned! —with landlords who were pinching and severe—with all those riots and o«a breaks which scarcity and want never fail to produce, and a legal commission sitting in every tow n to hang and trans port criminals who, driven to despera tion, have committed murder, arson* and other crimes! then we see them transported by the parish, and sent to america in emigrant ships, perishing with ship fever as they land on our shores. what as a people have they not endured, and do they not now en dure, and where are a people whose labor and whole services valua ble to the country? look at that grand specimen.of enterprise, perseverance, and labor, the canul which unites the waters of the hudson withjlake erie. see the millions of property, of provis ions, of brcad-stufls, which float over its four hundred miles of serene, placid and limpid streams! see its numerous locks, feeders and brunches! look at its immense revenue, and fleets of crafts which navigate its .waters! look at tho miles of deep cuttings through moun tains of giauite rocks. see the large vessels now moored at our wharves pass up the hudson into the canal, and debouche in the great inland sea at buf falo! whose labor has accomplished! that gigantic work? irishmen’s! theiir little shanties with their children, pigs„ cows, and potato garden, lined the j banks of the canal, between villages and hamlets. who grade our railroads, dig through tunnels, nail down the rails on sleepers, which enable us to travel from city to city with celerity and di?.- patch? irishmen! who plant the thousands of miles of posts, and suspend the wires which, like lightning, trans mit tidings of joy, sorrow, trade, com merce, and domestic affairs? irish men! who build our aqueducts, our high bridges, our churches and our dwellings? irishmen! who, when you ring the bell to bring in your meals —who cooks your dinner, nurses your child, makes your beds, and attends to all your domestic wants? irish-woincn! and in our late war, who marched up to the cannon’s mouth uud, amidst fire and balls, planted the star-spangled banner on the ramparts of the enemy? irishmen! in every position they arc the most valuable, and, when propci ly guided, advised, and tempeiutc, the most useful of any class of people in the country. we could not get on with out them. yet they arc but little cared’ for as a people. it’s only an irish man!” say the callous, on looking at the casualties which befal these valua ble people. about the time of election* it is true, they are very useful and sought alter. they have votes, and they plunge into the heated contest, get their heads broke and their coats torn to pieces to secure the election of some person who probably cares noth ing more about them than to secure their votes. look at the sunny parts of their char acter. see the poor servant girls sav ing up a few dollars of their wages to send to their friends at home! see them going to church early in the morn ing, in all weather, and how strong is their religious faith and abstemiousness! on land or water, in peace and in war, in useful employments, indomitable per severance, uniting industry and cheer ful willingness, they are a people above all others to be prized, and if their children are educated and brought up in temperance, aa an affirmative pre cept they will prove the most useful and valuable body of citizens that our re public can boast of. very k bench—y.—we have read nothing about the revolution so exceed ingly 1* rench as the following incident, narrated in a letter from paris, w ritten by a lady:— 1 am told that in the midst of the rush of the people into the palace of the tuileriee when they were so much ex cited, that on entering file saloon of the q.oeen, they found a piano, and that they forced a young man to sit down and play for them, and they all went to dancing the polka. this is *o french that i can believe it without snv trouble.” 7 eablv death.— we should never mourn for one who dies at fifteen.— there die the first dawning of love with the spring flowers in he little heart. i would visit the grave of such an one in to* »pruig, merely that 1 night be glad. resemblances.— some philosopher has remarked, that every aniinsl, when dressed in human apparel, resembles mankind very strikingly in features.— put a frock, bonnet and spectacles on a pig, and il looks like an old woman of a bull dressed in an overcost would resemble a lawyer. tie a few ribbons round a eat, put a fan in its paw, aadg boarding miss is repress ot «d. a cockrel in uniform is a general to the life. a hedgehog looks like a i miaer. dress a monkey in a frock-coat, cut off his tail, trim his whiskers, and 'you have a city dandy. donkeys resemble a good many persons.