communication. address to the four thousand coloured voters of the state of new york. fellow citizens: --you need no other apology for my addressing you, than the bare mention of the fact, that i am o.ic of your oppressed, insulted, rejected, despised and downtrodden number. i beg leave to call your, attention to what are my own hum ale views of the duties incumbent on us, as exhibited in the present aspect of political affairs i perceive that the northern star and colored farmerer," recommends to you, as a candidate for the presidency, hon. martin an horen. the north star," which, i believe, is, in a more extensive sense, your organ, eschews all political action. in tiiis communication, as in all my life here to fore, i feel compelled to differ from both of those journals, much as i respect thtfir editors. hut, while i know many of you to agree with the latter of these papers, and while i know, too, that many of you will feel inclined to take the advice of the former of them, i also know that but too many of you, for one reason and another, (you will pard »n ine for doubting the existence of any valid reason,) will d. ift d >wn stream in the support of general cass or general taylor. how you can reconcile such action as the support of these candidates, necessarily involves with a conscientious regard for the interests, rights and liberties of the three millions of our enslaved brethren, and the hallfmillion of the crippled, crushed, nominally free colored men, is to me, gentle men, utterly inexplicable. hut paradoxical as it is, i presume that it is too true. how deeply i lament it, words cannot express. language can convey to you but most imperfect ideas of  abhorrence of such treasonable deeds against our common cause. but the temptation to which, in my opinion, you will be most subjected this year, is to vote for .mr. van buren.-- that that gentleman is the nominee of the late buffalo convention, and the avowed representative of the wilinot proviso principle, and that a groat majority of the men heretofore known as members of the liberty party, will as cordially support him, as their delegate showed themselves eager to nominate him, will doubtless be among the plausible pretexts with which artful demagogues will seek to seduce you into mr. van buren's support. before entering upon an examination of these topics, let me r mind you. brethren, of the importance and the responsibility of your present position.-- you are voters. in spite of that tyrannical, despotic clause, common to the old and the iew constitution, which makes the enjoyment of the right of unrage, in ~ur casgj dependant upon property qualification, four thousand of us are voters. in a government  ours, retaining some vestiges of republicanism, a voter is, in the very best sense of the term, a ruler. to him is committed, under god, an integral part of that power, which in other countries is wielded but by a very few, and in some cases by but a single man, called emperor. now, if the one individual, in whose single hand the ruling power of a whole nation is concentrated,is umh rthe most solemn obligations to wield that powt r for the glory of god and the good of man, to "rule justly, in the fear of god," so is every one of the millions of wien, among whom this power is diffused, under such obligations. that this principle applies to the black man the north star. of new york state, as well as to all others, surely none of our number will for a moment question. would to god that we all felt the force of this truth as we ought to feel it! but when it is remembered that we are citizens of the largest, most populous, and therefore, in a political point of view, the most important state in the union, and that therefore our action will exert a much more certain and potent influence upon the nation, than it would ir 'm any other poiut, it seems to me, g«*ntlorn«»n. that we cannot fail to he iutpr v 'th the importance and the i v -ify of our position. you eann 't have fi rgotten that had our stite in isi4tr r t her electoral v**te in a dire ction t* that in- which she did cast it, the gentleman who is now president of this republic would have been permitted to remain in the quiet seclusion of private life, while the op posing candidate would have enjoyed the object of his long and ardent wishes. or can you have forgotten that but five thousand votes, all told, turned the scale of politics, and decided the fate of these two gentlemen? fellow- citizens, we possess four-fifths of the power which so resulted, and i beseech you to allow this tact to lead you to consider well your position. for my ow n part, i regard as the most important of my political acts, this which'l am now, according to my best ability, performing--addressing those colored voters who hold the balance of political power in the empire state. the question now arises, how shall we regard the political aspect of the times, and what are our duties in re gard to them? if you will receive, my humble opinions on this matter, fellow citizens, 1 will give them with all be coming deference. we all rejoice in the wilinot proviso movement, whether advocated by radical democrats or conscience whigs. we all rejoice in the grand demonstration made at the buffalo convention forfree soil. it is not at all an unfavorable omen, that men heretofore of opposite politics, so far forgot their ancient animosities, us to unite in the nomination and support of martin van buren. but can the colored voters of new york state support that nominee and join in that movement? i answer, no! ist. because the platform of the buffalo convention does not include the equal and inalienable rights of all men. you search in vain to find an enunciation of this principle among the many excellent doctrines contained in that document. the absence of this] corner-stone of the doctrine of true republicanism, to some, may seem the result of a mere oversight; to me, it has the* aonearance of studied and deliberate effort and desig i. whether it shall so appear to you or not, yourselves] can determine w lien you shall have considered certain facts. among them is i this, to which i invoke special attention, viz: many of the most distinguished leaders in the movement, plainly and practically deny the doctrine. gen.! dix, a senator from this state, is one of the most talented, and most influential, as well as one of the most aristocratic, of the barnburners of this state. in his recent speech in the senate, he alludes to you--to us--to all of us, in terms as truthless as they are reproachful--in terms w ii« h most plainly indi cate nix utter dis hi'-f in the equal and instil-* ta.de k.n»lits ol ill me.v. the same senator ,tas v.>t i against the reception of petitions, even since he has been in the senate, and but a few weeks since lie voted against mr. hale's bill for the abolition of sla very in the district of columbia. in these matters, general dix stands side by side with, and is not a whit better than daniel s. dickinson, his colleague. senator dix here proves, ist, by his speech,t hat so far is lie from believing in the equality of man, that he regards the blacks as an inferior race, and incapable of such improvement as will fit us, for a position of equality with the whites. such, be it remembered, are sentiments uttered by this barburning senator in a wilinot proviso speech, made june *2f>th, isib. 2d. by his] vote against petition and the abolition of federal slavery, mr. dix gives abundant evidence that a portion of the citizens of this country, in his opinion, ought not to enjoy the inalienable right of petition, when pleading for the downtrodden and the dumb. how could he vote against striking off* the yoke and the fetter from the neck and the limb of the slave in the federal district, had he at heart the least particle of practical regard for the inalienable rights of man? another leader in this new movement, is dr. lapham, of canandaigua, than whom, no man in the state fought harder, at the ballot box, in autumn, is4(>, against negro suffrage. as much can be said of another gentleman, an intimate friend of mr. van buren, who frankly told the  undersigned, recently, that he voted against equal suffrage in *4g, and that his views on that subject are now un changed. among the reasons he gave  for it is, that colored men are deprived of other rights! that mr. van buren occupies the very same position, there is not the slightest reason to doubt. is it strange, then, that the political creed adopted at buffalo, does not contain a declaration at* the equal rights of man? wos that doctrine omitted accidentally or by design had it been inserted, it would have been in direct opposition to the words, deeds, and character of the leading men of the free soil party in this slate, to say nothing of other states. it may be said, however, that liberty party inen belong to the new party, and that they will remain trustworthy in respect to the equal rights of man the reply is, no liberty party man right is op no sex--truth is op no color-- god is the father of us all, and all we are brethren. will go with this movement except those known heretofore as hale men. how trustworthy they are now, is to be judged from such facts as the following; in 1846, with a professed eagerness to hasten the day of our political redemption, they abandoned (in too many instances) our friends, and went over to our enemies. if this were an honest mistake, as it is believed it was, on the part of many, then why did they vote for a constitution which disfranchises us? why did they, in '47, leap over the bounds of their party to find a candidate belonging to another party?-- and why. with h*»t and burning haste, abandon that candidate in behalf of a mm pf? v j veto auy bui for the abolitions ol»*3; v in the federal district," against the consent of the slave holding states? they aided in the nomination of mr. van buren, in the absence of any other expression of his opinions on the subject of slavery than he made in 1836, '37 and '4o, which he was careful to repeat in 1848. yes, prominent inen among them, one a citizen of our own state, gave his first vote, on the informal ballot, for van buren. when desired to advocate other principles, immediately connected with, and legitimate deductions from, what they termed their one idea," they were too intent upon the abolition of slavery even to listen to the discussion of land reform, &.c., &c. it would be a respect of the poor slave, was their favorite plea. but now, with a sudden rush, they drop the abolition of slavery and go in for the mere wil mot proviso! let their present position suffice to indicate to us what they shall he in future. suppose, however, these professed friends of the friendless were all true to their professions, that is, as true as their new affiliations will admit of--sup pose that, unlike the nyes, the lap hams, the dixes, and the butlers, and the van burens, too, of the "free soil party," they maintained their ancient faith in respect to suffrage and other matters involving the equal rights ot man. they, being merged in this new party, become a mere minority of it.-- their voice is no longer the voice of a small but increasing party--it is now but the voice of an inconsiderable minority--of a great pro-slavery van buren party. let us not be seduce d by the professions of such men, however i smooth and plausible their words and arguments. they have abandoned us, and have gone over to our enemies.-- they have forsaken their own partiza s, their own principles, arid their own candidate,* for the pleasure and profit of forming a party presenting issues, of which the sinfulness of slavery is not one." in what light, i beseech you, fellow-citizens, can the members of the wiluiot liberty party be looked upon as being a whit better than their new political associates, and their new presidential nominee? 2d. we cannot support the free soil nomination, because the issue tendered by it is one savoring of some of the most odiously pro-slavery features. in 1841, a bill passed congress having for its object tlie adjustment of the pre emption rights of new settlers upon lands belonging to the general government. among its provisions, is one allowing the privilege of pre-emption to "free white male citizens," and to such only. if, therefore, black men stttle in any of that territory which is now or shall hereafter become the property of the government, white settlers can buy the lands upon which such blacks have settled at government price, and the blacks be ejected, because the latter are not "free white male citizens." no alteration of this abominable law, is sought or desired by the new free soil party. if, therefore, they should succeed in electing their candidate, and chattel slavery should be, as it ought to be, forever excluded from the territory recently acquired from mexico, free" as the soil would be, it would not be as "free" for us as for "white citizens." can we vote for a candidate, and with a party, whose free soilism is so limited, so contradictory, so partial, so pro-slavery? not unless we consent to, and aid in, our own degradation. 3d. to vote for a candidate, is to vote for his political principles. to vote for mr. van buren, therefore, is to vote for the continuance of slavery in the district of columbia, inasmuch as that is one of mr. van buren's "democratic free soil' principles. it is difficult to see how a man who gave his casting vote for the censorship of the press in '3j--who made his celebrated veto pledge in '37, and who exerted his utmost power to consign our brethren of the amltad to a cuban gibbet in 1810, can, without the least evidence of change in his sentiments-- without the least intimation that he would not do the same again, in like circumstances, be a fit candidate for any man, or set of inen, who believe such deeds of dark depravity to be either morally or politically wrong.-- to me it seems just as evident that mr. van buren is the representative and exponent of slavery in the federal district to-day, ai he was iu march, '*37, or as he avowed himself to be in his letter read to the utica convention of june, 1818. he is as much the friend of federal slavery, as he is the friend of free soil; and consequently to vote for him is just as certainly to vote for the former as the latter. tu the argument generally urged iu answer to this, that if at cannot get all we want, we roust take what we can get," "a half loaf is better than no bread," it is a sufficient reply, that god, in his providence, never places men in circumstances which demand the aacri tws e«uf--i-- mu mrhfjrmg; their ams w*w akhlbew. rochester, n. y., friday, september 1, 1848. ficing of a part of a principle to the whole of it, or some of our principles to others; in other words, we are not called upon to vote continued chains upon our brethren in the district of columbia, to prevent the spread of slavery in new mexico and california.-- we are bound to wield our ballots so as to do all within the range of our power to prevent the extension and to cause the extinction of slavery. it would not be invidious to add, perhaps, that he who can look complacently upon sla very, with all its horrors and abominations, at home, might be brought, under a pressure of circumstances, to give at least a reluctant consent to it abroad. in a word, a vote for the buffalo nominee, wr in position, not withstanding his "free soil" profession*, be a pro-slavery vote for a proslavery candidate, with a pro-slavery party. can any of us cast such a vote under any plea whatever? 4th. a consistent self-respect imposes an impassable barrier in the way of colored men's voting the buffalo ticket. many of its warmest advocates are as ready to rob black men of their rights now as ever they were. it is but fair to presume that mr. van buren is entirely with them in this. mr. dix and mr. butler we know to be approvers and fosterers of the bitterest prejudices against us. the former could not for bear to hurl insults at us from his high place in the u. 8. senate. to vote for mr. van buren, or to follow the lead of his new party, would be to endorse those insults, to declare ourselves worthy of them, or to manifest the most unmanly indifference in respect to them. every boy knows that before our paler face fellow-citizens will so respect us as to restore our rights to us, we must exhibit to them a proper respect for ourselves. in no way, certainly, have colored men shown themselves more wanting in sell-respect, than in their criminal readiness to vote according to the advice too frequently, but according to the dictation more frequently, of those who are our most ruthless oppressors. it is not to be doubted that this single fact had more to do than anything else with the rejection of the equad suffrage clause in the, present constitution. everywhere it was alleged, and with a truthfulness that was really heart-breaking, that colored men either did not care about political equality, or if they possessed it, they would barter it away for the smallest price to artful and designing demagogues. it was bilt another way of saying, wra tan trample upon these negroes as much as we please, for they have too little self-respect to appreciate their rights, or to rebuke thei9r oppressors." the very worst feature] of this assertion is, it is too true. e should be under a reproach, so deep and damning, no longer. our friends have not the power to take it from us; our enemies cannot fasten it upon us. i we must throw it off ourselves, by! acting as becomes men and freemen. one of the most potent and successful ways in which we can do this, is to refuse to vote for pro-slavery men, under  any pleas whatever, whether coming from the late hale party or the recently-formed van buren party, or the slavery-perpetuating and slavery-extending cass and taylor parties. when] our enemies and our pretended friends shall be made to understand that the four thousand black men who vote in the state of new york have too much self-respect to be bribed, cajoled,cheated or flattered into pro-slavery voting, they will speak and act differently  respect to our rights. do you ask what is the true and proper course for the colored freemen ol new york to pursue? allow ine to answer, vi>te according to your princi- 1 pies of abhorrence to slavery; vote in accordance with your desire tor the enfranchisement of all the colored men ob the state; vote against the extension ob slavery, by voting against its existence; vote with a party that is true to all the great interests of the crushed, poor,  black or white, bond or tree, a party that has not deserted us to rally around the standard of one of our most implacable foes; vote so as to maintain vonr own self-respect, so that your children shall not be ashamed to own you as fathers; vote, in a word, for that everywhere-known, outspoken, uncompromising, impartial and truly-practical philanthropist, gerrit smith. yes, turn your eyes from liudenwald to peterboro--from the little huckstering, w ire pulling, aristocratic, pro-slavery politician, to the great but simple-hearted man--from one who despises you, and, votes to rob you of your rights, to one who loves you, and gives his voice, his vote, his talent-, his influence, his pro perty, himself, to us and our cause if, fellow-citizens, you would rejoice in the ultimate triumph of the prtucipks of impartial, universal liberty--if>ou would share in bringing about "a con summation so devoutly to be wished"-- if >ou would maintain your own manly dignity of character --if you would faithfully welcome, meet and discharge the important responsibilities resting] upon you, he entreated to rote for smith, and equal rights. y >ur obedient servant, s. r. ward. co*tl**dviu.e aug. 16. loving oua exemiu.--a clergy man told an indian he should love his enemies, "me do love 'em,''replied the latter. "what enemies do you love most?" "rum and cider" m jgy. the farmer's cabunet says, if any person should he stung by a bee or other insect, rub some spirits of turpentine upon the place, and the pain will nearly cease in one minute. selections. (by m. ok l*«aiirtrf(.) the polity of reason. to tic director* of fl> ketce tcro riexri. chapter iv. whither go ire? the answer is aii entire in the actual fact we are going to one of the sublimest halting-places of humanity, to a progressive and complete organization of social order, on the principle of liberty of action and equality of rights. the children of our children we see a vista of a series of centuries--free, religious, moral,rational--an age of truth, of reason, of virtue, in the middle of ages; or else --fatal alternative !--we go to precipitate france and europe into one of those gulfs which often separates two epochs, as an abyss separates two continents; and we die, bequeathing to our sons a social order undone, new principles, doubtful, contested, blood-stained; power impossible, liberty impracticable, religion persecuted or degraded; a retrograde legislation, a universal european war, as fruitless as endless; the legalization of the scaffold, the civilization of the bivouac, the morality of the battle-field, the liberty of satraps, the equality of brigands; and, in the midst of all, an idea smothered in blood, mutilated by the sabre, taking root in a few generous breasts, here and there, like christianity in the catacombs, ex posed a hundred times to the hazard of events and catastrophes, and reflomishing upon earth, alter the lapse of two centuries of sterility, servitude, crimes and ruins. they are making an election at the moment i am writing to you! chapter v. what to do this word seems daring; it is not. god, who has given moral liberty to man, whom he has created to choose and to act, also gave him, the same day, a light to illumine his choice. politics, of which the ancients made a mastery, the moderns an art. is neither the one nor the other; there is in it neither ability, force, nor cunning. at the rational epoch of the world, in the true and divine acceptation of the word, policy is morality, reason and virtue. leave scepticism, then, to be satisfied in its impotence, and to deny social  truth, not taking the pains to discover or to defend it. let machiaveiism, that political knavery, take the human race for its dupe, and providence for its accomplice! let prejudice* and routine, too. wear out their force in the barren contemplation of a part they cannot re-animate; for it is already cold, and their breath has no life to give it! finally, leave fatalism to dream of crime for lack of strength, to decimate humanity, in place of enlightening it; and, from the heights of scaffolds, to cast terror and death to the people, the seed of vengeance and bloodf atrocious or insensate systems are products of weakness of mind and perversity of heart. mount higher, and you will see farther: and the light of truth itself, which is no other than tnoralily, will enlighten for you that horizon of dark ness, falsehood, illusions, they call politics. all parties will raise their 1 voices to accuse or to proscribe you;! all arc interested in this darkness, for; all have something to conceal, and some! one to deceive. your own even will inscribe itself the first against you!-- but the conscience of the just is of brass: it has, for itself, a voice louder than its age, which resounds juster and clearer above all these ephemeral clamours; and, lie you sure, that it is the only voice which has its echo in the future, and its applause in posterity your social theory will be simple and infallible; --taking god as the starting point and a goal, the most general weal of mankind as the object, morality as the torch, conscience as judge, liberty! for your road--you will run no risk of straying: you will have recovered politics from the systems, the illusions, the deceptions, in which passion or ignorance has enveloped them. you will have placed them where they should he, --in conscience. you will have seized, in fine, in the perpetual movement of the centuries, in the st »rmy instability of facts, of minds, and of doctrines, something fixed and solid, which will tremble no more under your hands. chapteb vi. four grand epochs govern the social couditien of the generations that have passed away, similar to those creative epochs the naturalist believes he recognizes in the secular developments of the globe. the theocratic age which commences with the world, issuing from the hands of the creator, and which terminates at the heroic period; the tyrannical age, or reign of brute force, more or less altered by commencing legislation, rising with the historic period, and falling before christ, with its polygamy and slavery; the monarchical *ge, mixed or tempered with oligarchy, aristocracy, feudality, sac re dotal power, opening at constantine, and ceasing w illi the tomb of louis xv 1., or on the rock of st. helena,whose captive titan bad so gloriously, but so vainly resuscitated it. we are on the verge of the epoch of right and action for all; an epoch always ascending, the justest, most moral, moat free of all those which have hitherto pervaded te h world; because it teada to elevate entire mankind to the same mo mi dignity, to consecrate the civil and political equality of all men before the state, as christ has consecrated their natural equality before god. this epoch may b« sty led the gospel epoch; for it will only be the logical deduction, the social realization, of the social principles laid join in the divine book, as in the i very nature of humanity--the moral 1 equality and dignity of man. at last recognised m the code of card society. bach of these epochs bad its proper i form, its work, its vital force and us j duration, before begetting another. at first, it is god, alt alone, revealing himself by nature, and speaking, by conscience, the holiest of oracles, had not the interpreter been roan; then the hero, or strong mans inning obedience through gratitude or fear then the tyrant, or the senate, many-headed ty rant, aristocracy, or priestly rule, imposing, with the aid of some, its will on all; then the king and his peers; then the king and his people, represented before him by election, and not by a right of fact and birth, and constituting him merely the organ and agent of the universal will: that form approximates more closely to a rational republic than the fictitious republic of the ancients; it is the present epoch, a real republic; we only dispute as to the name. the work of this great epoch, a work long, laborious, and contested, is to apply to human reason, or the divine word, or evangelical truth, to the political organization of modern societies, as the gospel truth was, from the be ginning, applied to civil legislation and to manners. mark it well! politics were thus far out of the pale of god's law. the policy of the christian people is still pagan! man, or humanity, is, in its eyes, only a veritable ancient slave, born to serve, pay, fight, and die. horrible falsehood, which sul lies, unknown to them, so many chris tian hearts, so many pious mouths!-- the social man ought to be,henceforth, to the eyes of the philosopher, in the eyes of the legislator, what the isolated man is in the eyes of the true christian --a child of god, having<he same titles and rights, the same duties, the same destiny before the state,his earthly father, as before god, his heavenly father. it is the form we seek, in the right apd action of all the form which the moderns have called democracy, by incorrect analogy with that to which the ancients gave the same name, and which was only the tyranny of the multitude. that name, democracy, sullied and recently ensanguined amongst us, in the saturnalia of the french revolution, is still repugnant to thought; although the philosopher washes words before using them, and purifies expression by idea, we shall name this form of government, by preference, the rational form, or the right of all. now the rational form, or. the right of all, cannot be anything else than liberty, where 'each is judge and guardian of his own right. then the modern epoch can only he the epoch of liberty; its mission is to organize the right and action of all, otherwise liberty, in a vital and durable manner. all organization is slow and painful; it is the work of more than a day, of more than an age, perhaps. man is man; he is disgusted, disheartened; he hurries to deny that which he cannot attain; his reactions against his own thought are prompt and terrible; they hurl him back a hundred times to his starting-point--as the vessel which re turns to dash itself against the shore, driven back by the same wave which ought to carry it to another coast.-- i'hcse reactions may be protracted look at bonaparte! sublime reaction against anarchy! he only lasted fif teen years, and might have lasted fifty! pile periods of the social work cannot he calculated within a few centuries; j hey are known to god alone. whilst: they are being accomplished, the individual man passes away--suffers, hopes, troinplains, and dies; but each individual life has ha work complete and independent of the social work; one day, one virtue, suffice to it. the social man, or humanity, survives, and advances itself towards a destiny higher und more unknown! already, perhaps, it is given to us to have an insight into the epoch which will succeed to ours; after the five or six centuries during which the age of liberty shall last, we shall pass to the age of virtue and pure religion, to the fulfilled promises of the divine legislator, to the epoch of charity, a thou sand times superior to the epoch of liberty; just as much as charity, love of others--divine sentiment, emanating from god--is above liberty, self-love, human sentiment, emanating from man. these principles laid down and ad mitted; their application to the actual crisis, the political deductions for our social theory as tor our private rule, or for onr public action, are clear and incontestible; we know where we are, we know whither we go, we know by w bat route we are to attain to the goal, near or distant, which providence, manifested by its deeds, incessantly places before us. these applications to the actual time, present themselves in the innumerable question* which a revolution raises, just as the wind raises rbe old dust of the desert when a stone from the pyramid of ages. revolution, dynasty, legitimacy, divine right, popular right, sovereignty it facto or de jure; power, liberty, form and aim of government; questions of worship or education, of peace or war; existence and inheritance of an aristocratic power, or the peerage; legislation, suffrage, extension or restriction of the powers of the communes, the municipalities, and the provinces--everything is classed, is enlightened, is ludged; political conscience has no more doubt, the present *o more ambiguity, and the future no more mystery; oil is raenlaed into these 4»swh *he most general good of humanity as object, moral reason as guide, conscieoeeas judge. by the aid of this grand jury, the heroan mind m*y cite the age before it, and fearlessly pronounce da infallible verdict. john dick, pmuhss. whole no--36.' fnm the lo«» *■*--ift-- a letter from the ho*. ax oft tick. i last winter it was made our duty while laboring in the anti-slavery) field ito circulate a petition for signatures, praying congress to repeal the slavo code of the distrct of columbia, destroy the national man-market, and abolish slavery therein; also, to prohibit, be constitutional action, the internal slave trade, and to step, like franklin, to ih« tery \erge of constitutional power not only to restrict but to abolish slavery. this petition was signed by about ($oo northern freemen, who earnestly prayed for the accomplishment of the objects therein specified. jl his memorial was forwarded to tbe dauntless friend of freedom, amos tack, who succeeded in performing all the despotic slave oligarchy would suffer, and then returned the reply given below we ask, in view of the treatment which this, and a thousand and one petitions ofa similar nature, have received during the 30th congress, what advance has been made since the passage of the infamous "gag law?" then the american people were forcibly gagged--now they are politically muzzled. then the goddess of liberty was attacked in open furious combat; now in artful triumph  stratagem. hen our memorials and remonstrances were treated with public contempt, and cast under the table, unknown, unread and unreferred now, forsooth, they are presented, and then referred to a committee which is known to be favorable to the peculiar institution, and which will cast them under the private table there to remain until the crack of doom." for ourself, we like the open manly course of opposition. this serpentine and polite method of gagging freemen we utterly abhor. but here is the letter: washington, july, 10, is4s. d m. kelsey sir--yours of the 21th marcfi, in closing a petition in regard to slavery, was duly received, and 1 took an early opportunity to present the petition to congress, and have the samo referred. it is impossible, under the present jealous rules of the house, to get a petition on the subject of slavery printed. i have not much to hope that tho committees having petitions, such as yours, referred to them, will tukc any action upon them. it is the policy of the south as you know, to muzzle the north and have no agitation on the subject of j their peculiar institution, except what j they themselves make. the comirfittecs arc so constituted that they will not take any action upon these petitions, be cause if n majority make a report one way; the minorty may then report an other way, discussion takes place, and the house be brought to a vote. we who hope for the abolition of slavery in the district, and its prohibition in tho territories, and wherever else congress can restrain it, are obliged to bo patient. 1 believe, however, thut correct principles are on the advance, and that irtan-slavery. which is the "root of all villanies," will clearly appear to be a doomed institution. i am very respectfully, your obt servant, amos tuck. sagacity or the dog.--a gentleman of the name of mclaffin, residing in rockingham county, new hamp shire, a few years ago, possessed a dog that was remarkable for his sagacity. he one day told the dog to go and find a handkerchief which his child had lost in a distant field while picking berries. the dog started.off with his usual alacrity, but in the coursa of an hour or two he returned without the handkerchief, looking as crest-fallen as though he had been caught in a neighbor's sheep-fold. the master cuffed his ears sharply, and told him to go and try again, and not come back until he found it. the dog started off a pain with ap parent reluctance, while the master fol lowed at a distance behind, and unperceivcd. the dog went towards the field where the child had picked the berries, and sat down on his haunches-- held down his head--and appeared to be in a deep brown study. he sat in this attitude for peibaps half an hour, when he suddenly jumped up with a peculiar yell of exultation, and started tor one corner of the field. here he stopped for a moment, and then commenced trotting around the field, going about three feet from tho fence the first time, about six the second, and thus continuing to near the middle at each succeeding circle. he went round the field about twenty times, when he jumped up into the air with a loud yell of triumph, picked up the handkerchief, and started forborne. the veracity of this narrative may be relied upon. we received it from mr. f a baptist clergyman of great respectability. now' did tiie dog reason mathematical)/? does this go to add proof that instinct is but another name i for reason ?--family visitor. the liteiutrae or hcwaintr. --whatever is most excellent in the literature of every country is precisely that which belongs to humanity and not to the nation.-- what is dearest and most prized at home, is exactly that which tes world-wide interest that which touches tiie sympathies of an men* are the bifheat truths national' fa their any trace of locality in tho purest and noblest sentimsntsr we invariably find that the same writers and the same passengers which are ad mired at home, are moat admired a broad. nationality one is sure to have wether desirable or net; and the great writers of every people, rre untjurstionrbly those who, without foregoing their nationsleharaeter, rise to he country own of the word. notices. tjik c vll, tiikgrf.vt n v iiovu. conven tion ok roumik.d hu.km kn ol the i*tuft'd state*. will it held in cleveland, i>au*. commencing mi wecnczdat, the sixth d,v of september next. i/>! t'jovviur *1 ft -.won ill rally to this trnportaini gathering. this is a crisis, and tomcthmg »e mi st and will do i \v« hone to see the east, north, south and weal, come up m one mighty, unbroken phalanx. to do battle for god and humanity signed, by request of illinois, indiana, michigan, and ohio, (the western parts of new york aod pennsylvania being readv.) m. h. oelany. hamilton, ohio, june 6,1648. u3f» mystery, and all friendly papers, please copy. meeting of colored citizens, the colored citizens, male and female, will meet this (friday) evening, at half-past seven o'clock, in union hall, south fitxhugh street, for the purpose of choosing delegates to tiie cleveland convention, to meet on the sixth of september. many. wisconsin--homestead exemption act. a bill to exempt a lioti)e*lra j from forced rale in t certain case*. tv ftnpk of the .s tau of lutaronam, ryretnxlul in senate and ass.mtdy, do enact as follows section 1. a homestead, consisting of any quantity of land not exceeding 40 acres, used tor agneultural purposes, and lhe dwell-, ing-house thereou and us appurtenances, to be s doctc 1 by th owner thereof, and not in cluded in any recorded town plot, or city, or village or inst *ad thereof, at the option ofj •he owner, a quantity of land not exceeding i t amount one-fourth of an acre, being within a refolded town plot, ctly or village, and the <1 welling-h -use thereon, and its appurtenances, owned and occupied by any resident of the fjuite, shall not be subject to forced sale o.i execution, or any other final process from a court, for any debt or liability contracted j after the first of january in the year eighteen hundred and forty-nine. *j. such exemption shall not extend to any mechanic's and laborer's lien, or any mortgage thereon lawfully obtained but such mortgage or other alienation of such land by, the owner thereof, if a married man, shall not be valid without the signature of the wife to the same. '.i. whenever levy shall be made upon tlie lands or tenements of a householder, whose hone stead has not been selected andi set apart by m tes and bounds, such householder in iy notify the officer at the time of making such levy of what lie regards as his 1 homestead, with a description thereof, within the limits above prescribed, and the remain- t der alone shall be subject to sale under such levy. j 1. if the plaintiff in execution shall be, f dissatisfied will, the quantity of land selected t and set apart as aforesaid, the officer making j the levy shall cause the same to be surveyed,  beginning at a point to be designated by the owner, and set off in a compact ibrin, including the dwelling-house and its appurtenances; j the amount specified in the first section of this, act, and the expenses of said survey, shall be chargeable on the execution and collected therefrom.  5. after the survey shall have been made,  the officer making the levy may sell the properly levied upon, and not included in the set- o f, in the same manner as provided in other  cases for the sale of real estate on execution a id in giving a deed of the same, he may describe it according to his original levy, excepting therefrom, by metes and bounds, ac cording to lhe certificates of survey, the quantity set off as aforesaid. any person owning and occupying  anv house-on land not his own, of which!, land he shall be in rightful possession by lease!  or authority, and claiming such house as his homestead, shall be entitled to the exemption afoiesaid. 7. nothing in this act shall be considered  as exempting any real estate from taxation or: sale for taxation. free sun. in maims --ln the maine house of r ■prcscutatives on monday, the following resolves relating to the extension of slavery in new ly-acquired territory were passed resolved, that maine duly appreciates the concessions and campromises which led to the adoption arid establishment of thie constilrinon of the united states: and she will cheerfully and honestly abide by the letter  and spirit of them, at the same time she will  firmly resist all demands for their enlargement or extension. resolved, that the sentiment of this state! is profound, sincere, and almost universal; that the influence of slavery upon productive' energy is like the blight of mildew that it is: deb .sing and degrading in its influence upon free mbor that it is a moral and social evil; that it dues violence to the rights ot man as a rational, thinking, and accountable being;-- influenced by these and other important considerations, ibis state will oppose the liuroduct.on of slavery into any territory acquired as an indemnity lor claims upon mexico. resolved, that it is the duty of congress to prevent, by the exetcise of all constitutional power, the intioduction of slavery into territories of the united states now free. resolved, that our senators in congress are hereby instructed, and our representatives requested, to support and carry out the principles of the foregoing resolutions. the ist resolve passed, yeas 85, nays 25 2d, yeas 93, nays 22; 31, yeas 10i, nays. 14 4th, yeas 71, nays 42. .several whigs' voted against the last resolve, on account ot its conflicting with their views in regard to the propriety of instructing. jr disappearance or mr. win ants. it is now two weeks bine? the mysterious disappearance of george myron wynants, and though the most diligent search has been made, and some of his iri-uds have travelled several hundred miles, not the least trace of ins whereabouts or ins fate have been ascertained. li appeals quite as mysterious as the disappearance of youug pierce some months cine?, and it is natural lint apprehensions should ba f;lt that his fate may have been as tngical a id cruc! dz.n-)zrot .lug. 23. the mayor has otercd a reward of despised and downtrodden number. i beg leave to call youroo fo; the discovery of his body. catch the minister!--s2so for catching a msthodtst p r ta fur s&}o rfward --ran away from the wbscriirer. living near jefferson, frederic county, mi., a negro man who calls hmiself lio.d smuthers, of about twenty-two years of a »e; he i* about five feet, tune or ten niche* high, of a yellow complexion; and has a down, alv look, a round face, and a short nose when spoken to, ha generally s.mle* b<?for< repiyiug, and speaks smoothly, he hid on when he 1011, blue oust, white iiat wiih a bjauk scarf on it, and a p 4 pant*, and took no clothing with him except what he had on, that is known. he to a methodist church, and pretends to be a pre \ciikr. he uok tin western stage from ms other side of middletown, on the 90ihs of november, and wa*ee#r. afurwardai n higaratuws. ns has a brother ,ui law hvj.ig near hamaburg, r.a snta ben russell thu *jove re word wilt us given if take:, out of uio sure, and eecured so that i dan got him, or 159 if taken within the sute. jacob rtooely, near jefferson, acting for rlth ridoclt. rrm ij mur loom ot t.--^counterfeit half eagles, mad* of copper :.r.d gu;vau.ted with gold, are said i.-. »'o **.•>*t. t ars.? 'jucabers the north star. rochester. september i, lets soninf lit h'iimi sad teaping the whirlwind. we were confident when the northern big* went down to philadelphia and sacri  6wjj ikoir cheri«hed pitnaple. on the al tar of availability ani ala very, that the time would come, when t*s«y tnusrt bitterly repent of the deed; but we had not supposed that the bitter frait of their a post icy won id so i soon be commended to their lips. we then supposed that after the election of taylor, whrn the whirlwind of excitement was over, and order gave place to calm sobriety, there would cottie the retribution of treachery, in (the shape of bitter remorse and shame--that general taylor would begin to practice as well as write letters; and here we supposed the difficulty with the whigs would coramenec. though long denuded of their principles, we thought they would not discover their utter nakedness until the fury of passion had subsided. hut our speculation* have been at fault a* to the day of retribution. it has come sooner than we anticipated. their sins have brought them to judgment beforehand, and already hare wailing and lamentation tommrnc.'d in the whig ranks. they have followed a "jack-o'-lantern," and day light finds them up to their necks in mud. the only response which wc have heard to their tale of woe, is, it served them right. they have de served all they have suifered. we will now inform our reatljrs of the ciuse of thi3 weeping and wailing. h general taylor has commenced to prove liimaelt, what he has jong professed to be. a no party man,*' --as much of a democrat as a whig, only more so, and has virtually spurned the whig nomination, and accepted one from the democrats of charleston, south carolina. this holy having sent him a letter informing him of his nomination he re turned them the following letter, which in point of its contents, shows "old zack'' as much attached to the democratic as to the whig party. the promptness with which he responds to this nomination, may well annoy j the whigs who had to wait a long six weeks for the general's letter of acceptance. and when it came, it told them, gentlemen, i have not the slightest objection to your voting for me, but i warn you before hand, that you are not to expect me to carry out your principles. now, putting that arid this together, it is easy to see what the liigs are to expect, should; general taylor be elected. but the most annoying thing about this nomination is, that the charleston meeting dropped fi.l nore from their ticket, and inserled that of wm.o. but ler, ot south carolina. thus, making the 1 whig nominees completely southern in form, as they were before in fact. but here is the letter. baton roige, la. aug. 9, 18-48. sir 1 have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 26th ultimo, officially announcing to me my nomi nation tor the presidency bv a large meeting of the democratic citizens of charleston, s. c., held at that city on the-26th ult., and over which you were the presiding officer. this deliberate expression of the friendly feeling existing toward me among a large and respectable portion of the citizens of your distinguished state, has been received by me with emotions ot profound gratitude; and though it be hut a poor return for such a high and unmerited honor, 1 beg them to accept ir.y heartfelt thanks. concluding that this nomination, like all others which i have had the honor of receiving from assemblages of my fellow citizens in various parts of the union, has been generally offered, without pledges of conditions, it is thankfully accepted and i beg you to assure mv friends, in whose behalf you are acting, that should it be my lot to fill the officeor which i have been nominated, it shall be my unceasing effort, in the discharge of its responsible duties, to give satisfaction to my count rvmer. with the assurance of my high esteem, 1 have the honor to be your obedient servent, z. taylor. to w. b. pringle, esq. uj* the ohio standard"' is the name of a large and very handsome free soil paper, published at columbus, 0., the first number of which is upon our table, mechanically, the standard is unsurpassed for beauty by any paper in the country. its selections are in refined taste, and to the editorial department the name of e. s hamlin, esq., editor, and j. c. aughan, esq., corresponding editor-- the first, recent editor of the true democrat, cleveland, and the latter, lately editor of the' louisville (ky.) examiner--are sufficient to warrant all that might be desired in the sup port of all the great principles of the buffalo platform, as far as they extend. we welcome the standard"' into the field as an efficient instrument in ibe great struggle for liberty, j henry bibb. --we have noticed a scandalous and libelous account of the history ot this anti-slavery lecturer, in the buffalo courier, copied from the washington union.-- the whole thing seems to us a villainous at tempt to injure the free soil movement, by damaging the character of mr. bibb. what ever may be the real facte in the history of mr. bibb, he has long been, and is now, esteemed as an upright and worthy citizen ol detroit. certainly this would not be the case if he were the desperate character which tl e union's correspondent would fain make him out to be. the pennsylvania freeman. it t« a source of grateful pleasure, to obaerte the friendly intetest this able and elegantly conducted ahjjt, co-morns to manifest in the success and prosperity of the north star.-- alluding to ths coatem/.atid visit of out thend and brother, delauy.to philadelphia, for the purpaa; of promoting tha circulation of the no rh star,---the e luor speaks as follows we are pleased to learn that a systematic effort is to ba mads to procure subscribers to the north star, to this cay. it u one of the best weekly papers m th 3 noon try, and deserves s large circulation. every anti-slavery man arho caa afford it, and particularly every colored-men, ought to become a subscriber to it. we hoe that mr. delany will!l be eminently successful x the object of his visit." id* due esteemed ifteod germ smith, esq., has our acknowlodgments for s copy of the proceedings of the national liberty coo-1 vent ion, held at buffalo on the ikb end 15th i of june ult. cj* k-*4 m. de lamartine's polity ofj res ->3," er c*:r oa'tsie. ir. r. ward. the a i<!rea» of thi* gentleman to the fom thousand colored tolars of tiiia stale, wilt bt found on liie first page of ibis week's pap r. the d-ep interest which is just dow fell on tb? subject whi h it discuascs, as well as the vouree fr «m which it emanates, will ensure for tt an atte:.tire reading. mr. ward ha* certamlj made out as strong a case against supporting the buffalo nominees for president and vice pres dent, as the facta upon which his argument is based will admit of. the past transgressions of mr. van boren, and the siaa of omission on the part of the buffalo contention, are eery distinctly sad forcibly brought out. the whole argument, it strikes u», would have answered very well a few years a?o; but considering present circum stances, we regard it as quite inconclusive, and to some extent uncharitable. the address complains, i*/, because the platform of the buffalo convention docs not include the f.pinl and inalienable rights of all men." mr. ward thinks this omission has the appearance of design. we think otherwise. the times create their own watch-words; and the watch-word of one generation may not always be appropriate to another. we would as willingly fight the battle of liberty and equality under the banner of free soil and free men," a* that of the declaration of american independence. deeds, not words," is our motto. the only question which we shoutl be disposed to ask, as a preliminary to giving our influence in favor of a political party, would relate to what that party proposed to do, rather than the doc trines they proposed to teach, and if these deeds commended themselves to our judgment as perfectly right in themselves, and involved no departure from moral principle in the means of accomplishing them, we should not hesitate to give our aid and vote to such a party. the address condemns the free soil party," because some of its leading men --such as senator dix--entertain wrong views and prejudices against the colored people, and voted against mr. ilale's motion for the abolition of slavery in the district of columbia. these objections would be quite pertinent if senator dix were a candidate, and the party called upon to vote for him.-- the views of senator dix, if we understand them, are quite similar to those of senator morris, of ohio, who was mr. ward's candidate for the vice-presidency up to 184-i. that gentleman was far from regarding the colored man as equally entitled to suffrage in tiiis country with the whites; and we know of but few, even among professed abolitionists, who have entirely triumphed over their long cherished prejudices against us. but sh ulcl we refuse to co-operate with them m securing 1 great good, because they may possess these prejudices? certainly not. one of the most successful modes of removing prejudice, is to act with such men just so far as we can with out a compromise of fundamental truths.-- the presence of such a man as mr. ward as a delegate to the buffalo convention, and the several able speeches which lie made there, was one of the most powerful blows ever dealt upon the thick skull of american prejudice against colored persons. thousands had an opportunity afforded them on that occasion of learning, for the first time in their lives, something of the manly energy of the black man's mind. we saw thousands listening to his eloquent words with astonishment, mingled with admiration, and all probably went home with a higher and more truthful estimate of our race than they ever entertained before. we think that, so far from prejudice and false views of our equality being a valid reason for not acting with a party, it is some times the most valid reason which can be given for such action. mr. ward's next objection to tin buffalo' nominees, is stated as follows in 1941, a bid passed congress having foi its object the adjustment of the pre-emption rights of new settlers upon lands belonging to j the general government. among its provisions, is one allowing the privilege of preeruption to 'free white male citizens,"' and to such only. if, therefore, black men settle in any of that territory which is now or shall hereafter becornj the property of the government, white settlers van buy the lands upon which such blacks have settled at government pnee, and the blacks be ejected because the latter are not "/ret white nude citizens no atteratiun of t/us abominable law is sought or dt- sired by the new free soil party.'' to us, all this appears far-fetched, and un- j just. it would oeeasy to condemn any party, if the justice of such reasoning be allowed.-- we think the statement, that no alteration of this abominable law is sought or desired by the new free soil party," is far from be ng j justified by the history, character, and com position of that party. from all that.we have observed of the spirit of the fiee soil party, i we should come to any other conclusion with respect to their future conduct and desires, thqn that at which mr. ward has atrived.-- we believe that the present free soil party would repeal with delight the infamous law in question. not to believe tins, is to regard as false and hypocritical nearly all the declarations made at the recent buffalo convention, j the very idea of free soil" would forbid their tolerating any such odious and unjust distinction as the one in question and we fear that prejudice, rather than candor, dictated the assertion that the free soil party neither sought nor desired the repeal of that wicked law. we should render to evety party its due, and in no case seek to aid one party, however good that party may be, to the injury of another. again mr. ward says 2b cote for mr. van buren, therefore, is to tote far the continuance of slac*ry tn the district of columbia, inasmuch as that is one of mr. van burens democratic free soil principles this was penned before mr. van buren's letter accepting his nomination was published, which aff rda tome excuse for its pslpab e un fairncm. mr. van boren has declared his willingness to sign a bill for the abolition of slavery in the district of columbia. we think the party should ha*e been judged of m the light of its plaifoim, at least until the candidates accepted or refused their noanoa uca. so judged, friend ward would never ba*v* supposed that voting for van buren could postihly be voting for slavery in the district of columbia. the neat and last objection which mr. ward urges against voting for the free soil nominees, relates to the action of the barn burner democrats of this su e with respect tf *b* p'ght of sofvogc. it is allege i 'fzi mare they did ant, tamt tint* mga, wunuin the hack roan's right to rut#, they cannot oov* be voted fat without an shsndomacnt ol self-respect on our part. te five this argument any force, it roust be shown that the free soil party stand just now oa uus question where the barnburners then stood, other wise the logic is just about ss good ss this gu*trit smith,in 1930. was in favor of sending black men out of this country to africa; therefore, black men cannot tote for gerrit smith, in 1849. without an abandonment of self-respect. with all deference to mr. ward, we see no force whatever in this reasoning. to reproach free soil men for what they once weie, is as bad as to reproach the apostle paul for sins coanmitt -d before bis conversion. the free soil party are not now what they once were. they have undergone a great change of mind if not in respect to abstract tight, they certainly have in regard to expediency, and it does seem to us that we are not accountable for the motives of men, and that it is unfair and uncharitable to be thus for ward to attach sinister motives to the good deeds of those with whom we diser. to make this case plain there is a man over board, and needs our help to save him from a i watery grave. is it our duty to refuse, be cause some with wlionuwe may be called upon to act, are auinfcated in what they do by j an improper ur sinful motive certainly not. you will say, and all other reasonable men would say in such a case, save the man! though the motives of all your associates should be wrong except your own. if thej act be good, do it, and leave the motives ofi your fellows to be disposed of by the searcher i of all hearts. it is certainly to be rcgrettej that mr. ward should have adopted his present policy.; we know him too well to suspect him of any desire to play into the hands of the cass andj taylor parties; but we know just as well that such will be the inevitable and almost only effect of his position. indeed, such has, already been the effect of his speeches on this; subject. the old slaveholding, negro-hating, and slavery-extending parties have almost j ceased to fight each other, and are rallying all their forces to defeat their common ene my--the free soil party and they hail with mueh pleasure the slightest aid which mr.! ward, or any other man possessing an anti slavery character, can render them. in proof; of this, we cut the following extract from a; letter published in the albany evening journal of last week, written in cortland, giving j an account of mr. ward s meeting on bis return from the late buffalo convention. the writer says: it had been whispered around, since the return of mr. ward, that he intended to take! ground against the buffalo nominations, and rumor had not disappointed us. after giving us a history of the proceedings of that body, he was requested by some of the audience to define his own position in reference to the nominations. this he did at considerable length, declaring his hostility to the nomination of martin van buren, and his ceteriuiuation to take the slump, and advise his abolition friends not to give the ex-president their votes, lie avowed himself in favor of the, election of gerrit smith, and declared that lie' was the only liberty party candidate who was or had been m the held. as lor john p. hale, he stated that he obtained a nomimtirn! fioin a liberty party convention, with the intention of selling out to some other candidate, and that by his letter to the butfaio convention he had accomplished his purpose, and had endeavored to hand over the liberty party to martin van buren. lie quoted largely from the letters, speeches and inaugural address of! mr. van buren, and claimed that in none of, his recent fetters on the subject oi free soil, had lie given any evidence of a change of heart," nor of sorrow anj contrition lor the [iast. mr. ward stated ttiai in a tew days he should address a letier to his colored brethren who were voters, and who numbered some four or five thousand in this state, advising* them to withhold their votes from mr. van buren. on the whole, the meeting had a good effect. a few whigs who had remained un decided whether to support general taylor,j came away from the meeting fully satisfied 1 with the claims of martin van bureu to the! support of northern men on the score of his auti-slavery opinions! they will now stive old zack" their hearty support, convinced, although he lives at the south, that the reins of government will he safer in his hands, than in those of either cass or van buren, the two northern faces.' now, if the only effect of mr. ward's ad dress was to drive men fiom ihe van buren ranks into those of gen. taylor, we think it becomes him to reconsider and abandon ins, course. certainly be cannot feel very comfortable in such companionship. the course of the colored voters should nut be determined by the past transgressions of the members of* the "free soil" party, but by what they now are, and what they are now aiming to accomplish. our own course is clear. we shall vote for neither of the candidates. with our views of the pro-slavery character of the american constitution, and ihe criminality of executmg its infernal provisions against the slave, we could as soon run out hands into a fiery furnace, as into the american ballot-box, if thereby a man was tr be elected who would swear to rjpjurt that accursed bund of union. we desire to see this union broken up, and a free republic established in the north, and to this end we sh 11 lend our energies, now and always, unless reasons stronger than those which have yet iwen presented shall determine us otherwise. the slave power can never be fully grappled with by northern men while they are under their present delusion about the advan age* of thro union.-- they must be made to count it a curse before they can meet this hoary-headed monster.-- the free soil men have followed slavery np to the ramparts of the constitution, and there they stop. they will do some good by thus hemming slavery in, but the bloody ramparts of the constitution must be scaled and batieted down before the millions within its compass can gain their freedom. we shall never rest while the northern people are sworn to return the fugitive slave to bondage, and to pui down the slave, should he nee u* str ke for freedom. these compromises make it im possible for os to vote under the american constitution. it would be violation of aou slavery principle f or m to vota. but here it may bonked, if these be views, are ydu a u inconsistent in advising men to vote for mr. van berea we rosy be, bet we think not. oor advice, properly speaking, dues m l extend to the voting.-- ttsit is a matter already settled in the minds m;hieh we address. our advice only extends to »he party to be oreftndd by *95 ▼is ore 1 already voters, and mean still to rots. we my to the multitude who are rushing to the ballot-bo*, sec t* it that you do not sdd to thasin of toting «t all, the great sin of ilave rule, slavery-extension, and the perpetuity of slavery in the district of columbia. tu deny that we hate this right, would be equal to saying that a man has not the tight to prat the rubber to spare bis life after be lias taken his purse. we hate now extended these comments ieyond the length wb ch we had allotted to this subject, and will therefore at ouce coo elude by saying, that w bile we would not be the means of diveiting a single tote from mr. gemt smith, we would not, as we desire the slate power oterthrown--the old slateholding parties broken up--the slate-trade between the states discontinued--slave u rriiory kepi out of the union--slavery in ihe distiifci ol columbia abolished--slavery limited, circurn srtebed, and humbled--be instrumental, di rectly or indirectly, in leading a single voter to cast his tote for the servile dough-face,, gen. cass, or the bloodhound candidate, gen. j taylor, each of whom we regard as among the most unscrupulous robbers in the world. "the crisis at hand." our southern masters are eridently dis- j pleased wiih the behayirt^ of their humble servants at the j*orth. calhoun, butler and j burt have gone to the palmetto state, as tired, hungry and wrathful as if they had been on a three days' negro hunt," without securing their prey. they have recently had an experience meeting in charleston, where they have one by one told over their many crosses and trials" during the last united stales congress. some of those re-; mind us of the story of the old lady in maine, who said in class meeting, that she had had many heavy trials during the week, but the heaviest of all was this: happening to stay out too late at meeting one night, i went home, and lo the door was shut. oh yes, my brethren, the door was shut; and i went round the house, and round th* house, and round the house till i thought of that beautiful little poem by dr. waits, 'goosey, goosey gander, whither shall i wander!' where shall we wander 7" is now the "solemn inquiry which mr. calhoun puts to the southern states. they have failed in their piratical attempt to plant ihe curse of slavery in the free soil of oregon. for once, the supple knees of the north have refused to bend before the moloch slavery, and this act of irreverence to the lords of the cot-i ton-bale," is to be punished to the fullest extent. the great state of south carolina will turn the whole of the northern states out of the union to perish of cold and hun ger i we warn the north to ponder over this matter, and count the cost of their present insubordinate course rev, peter gardiner. we have received a letter from the above gentleman, accompanied by another from a number of persons, none of whom we recollect seeing, who sign their names as trustees," requesting an insertion into our columns. e hold our paper as a medium of communication, and an organ of our people at all times, and upon all subjects. but such articles as ask a place in the pages of the north star must come to us couched in respectful language, void of low vulgarity, such as com pose the above communications. also, clear of abuse. these persons complain of the notice we took of the colored methodist church and pastoi, in our letter of correspondence to the star, alleging that we did him injustice, but do not attempt to show, except by an historical review of his life, and simple denial of our statement, lor an endorsement of which, he calls upon the trustees, whose names accompany the letters. we see no proof to the contrary of what we asserted concerning this gentleman, placed as he is, at the head of a church, a branch of a large and influential denomination, but who recently, as he states in hts letter, had charge of two slavehoiding congregations of the methodist order in kentucky, one of which is situated iu lexington, where he has been in vited back, to mingle his kindred spirit with theiis. that this gentleman, under the pretense of religion, clothed in the garb of a clergyman, is a mischievous man, highly capable of deceiving and gulling those among whom he has recently mingled as a preacher, we have *no 4 doubt. how is it, that leceot as he was] then from the north, the city of philadelphia, ihe scenes of anti-slavery excitement, tho' a colored preacher, could obtain favor in a slave holding conference of a slave state, and receive the charge over ddte ent congregations, if there were not some pledges, some assurances, avowed sentiments or principles to establish confidence and that too, alter the famous resolution, prohibiting colored testimony in cases of trial can the person who is iu- j competent as witness, ut a case of tnal, he per mitted to preside over the same body as their j head la nut there some ground for the position we have taken against this j inus-factd divine, when we assert that he is double tongued, and two faced," having a face for the north, and one for the s**u!h? the miserable cant and boasting of this chagrined old gentleman, backed by a few of our p»*or deluded, misguided brethren, over whom he exercises control, ufco anxious for clerical patronage, and pulpit favors, will stoop to any thing, shall not deter is from the great duty to which we are dedicated, that of a fearless and inflexible opposition to every species el oppression, physical, mental, moral or religious, whether emamajng from a white or a colored despotism. a black or white tyrant we eq tally detest, andshajl iebuke their infamy wherever w e a. ay find if. we much regret, tlat thro, gh some mis take, the conference t£ so large, respectable and influential adenotanauoa as the ihe a. m e. church, should revive into its connexion, especially as s preacher, such men as this gen tleman, has. peter gardner. our aim the enure extinction of nfyfeamun and ignorance, we care not by what delusion it may find fit- j vor. our relation to*his church is known,j and as we ars not parfeulsriy anxious to cater to tbe bigotry that wntld seem to desire it, we shall not tamper with such caprioes, but hold it to be a boundeo duty to defend the virtuous inclination of our people, fur elevation tad reform, now marking the footsteps in their aoju4>i» pathway to respectability. we ere i tauedto acknowledge that this great brdyie making great progreuk acrtictisf her ycuag candidates to the ministry, to certain qualifier lions, before they are permitted to assume th functioesof tbe mcred order it has been our pttrpose to fight against,  combat these errors, while this gentleman wi giving his strength and influence to a bona fid pro-slavery church, and we believe, woul not be in the connection be now is, were  less desirous for power ami authority. w repeat, that this person is exercising a tnos mischcvious and injurious edict among th people with w hom he is connected, as the lan guage of the letter of the trustees, as well a his own, will justify us in saying. the abu sive and vulgar language of the communica lions, preclude them from our columns. disagreeable breatb. what is more repulsive than a disagreeable breath nothing conceivable yet this pro ceeds entirely from an unclean mouth, or careless negligence of persons to keep their teeth clean. it is true, that in some cases where thrrre is a deep seated constitutional af f«*ction, disordered stomach; or some other i disease, the exhalations proceeding from the purest mouth may become tarnished. but there is no duty of cleanliness, among all classes of society, more neglected than that of attention to the teeth. frequently do we see persons, moving in the positions in society, who oiherwi** are affable, pleas ant and agreeable, and in every way prepo i aessing, who, the instant they open their mouth, awaken every feeling of disgust.-- there c:in scarcely be an excuse for such palpable violation of the law seven of personal pleasure, to say nothing more. the teeth are among the most ornamen.al as well as useful organs, susceptible of ap provement by care, disease by neglect.-- when thus reduced, the malady is frequently imparted to the general system, invading the constitution, which it seizes upon and takes possession of. decay of the teeth is mainly produced by decomposition of the substance. this decom position is actuated by an acid formed in the mouth from extraneous matter, such as food sticking between and around the neck of the teeth, at the edge of the gunibs. this food first becomes decomposed, (really putrijiid vitiates the secretions oi juices of the mouth, wbioh, from the pernicious influence exerted thereby, acts immediately upon the teeth. at every swallow we take, according to the animal economy, a portion of the saliva pass es into the stomach, entering into the offices of digestion, passing into vessels, infusing itsqjf into all the ramifications of the system, and thus again becomes part and parcel of the general circulation. it is plain, then, that in order to present health, the teeth and mouth should be ii the most healthy condition. aside from the dispeptic affections arising from diseased teetli and unclean mouths, inflammation from the gumbs is frequently conveyed to the throat, thus producing bronchitis, consump tion, and other affections. the pleasure, comfort and luxury enjoyed from a clean mouth, will amply compensate any one for the time required in obtaining it. were there nothing else to induce the use of the brush, personal pride should be suffi cient. a clean mouth is generally considered an index to our taste and breeding, and the contrary has a tendency to produce a contrary impression. the remedy is easy and con venient--the simple use of a tooth-brush and water. the water should never be used so cold as to excite the teeth, but hike-warm, as both heat and cold excite unhealthy action, which diseases the teeth. the brush should be used every day--on ri-ing in the morning, and after each meal. there should be a a brush for the children exclusively, until capable of using their own, when each should have a brush. the purchase of a brush may preserve health and save money. the convention. great interest is manifested for the ap proaching convention at cleveland, on the sixth of september next, where it is hoped a great and general rally of the injured free men will be found, equal to the emergency which demands their action. ere another issue of this paper reaches you, the contention will have met. rally! rally rally freedom's cause demands assistance--corne to the rescue the above was intended for last week's paper, but was crowded out. john c. calhoun. this sin corrupted old man, worn down and blasted in his unsuccessful effort* in the permanent establishment of slavery in recently figured as usual, in a meeting of slave holders in charleston, when he advised, in the event of the triumph of freedom, nullification and physical resistance to the north. on the arrival of this man's birth day, there surely must be a celebration in the lower regions, m honor of their patron fiend. scientific darkey laic*. --the negroes of the west indies have a method of »le*img rum, w hich involves a principle of pneuma tics. they take a bottle filled with water, invert it, and place the neck in the bung-bole of the barrel, so as to much the liquor; the water, being the beaviekt, sicks 1010 the liquor, leaving a vacuum in the b« tile, which is iben filhd wi*h the liquor forced up by the aimosj lane f retture. lx. pa^r. alter ati, there is a moral principle involved m the a!*ove, cast as it may appear. those who axe most oppressed and have the fewest pnv ueges, are generally tl»e most expert in schemes and tricks of cunning. this character is remarkable in the slaves of the south also, (sorry aie we of the necessity ol so disparaging woman as to say it, but upon the miserable heads of despotic men let tbe shame rest,) lemaikable in females, so much so, that among men it has become proverbial that nothing can equal the ivnwng of woman. we repeat, that wherever thrie is oppression ai d tyrannical restriction, it compels a resort to schemes, tricks and cunning. wam»t*(c).--it m some* tut amusing to *ee the interest man dotted pro-slavery pspers, at the uestfoent fteerved by mr. hale at the hands of hi*friends.'' he could have received v* petmr.suoa had his friend* stood by hurt; and then the tears stream down thetr faces, leaving a visible in prtssn n is tbe dough. the fact of the matter is, tbe nomi nation of van bureo and adams, t* the vereet stroke they eonld has* received. it lose** them writhing is very agony. ny at the meeting held lu aihany, oo seturdsy evening, lor the itjtof of the ftu&sren by the late lire, despised and downtrodden number. i beg leave to call yourooo wg* subectlbed oo the sbc* ~7 id* we will publish, next week, mr. j van huron's letter of accept »ne« to the buf j falo nomination. he has adopted the whole platform, with able comments. the eyes should be bathed well every mominf in dear cold water, which strength* cnsihe tight materially. the must convenient mode of doing this, is to keep them open, immersing of plunging the face into the water going to tra«h. by this mean*, the custom will become a certain daily pro cess. should there be a tendency to inflamnua* lion or weakness, a white linen handkerchief should be used in wiping them silk is inju rious. kf english, indicted with sayres and drayton in the pearl slave case, washington city, has been fully and finally acquitted.-- there could be found no cause for action against english, be having been a hireling on the pearl, acting as cook and steward of the vessel. the fate of sayres and drayton is doubtful. kt* the tckgrr/ph, of pittsburg, finds fault with us, simply for remarking that a young lady in the uman*s rights convention was talented! friend latke must have recently taken to himself a wife, or he would not dare betray such a want of gallantry. european correspondence. we have received this w r eek, from a special correspondent in london, an account of the ineffectual attempt and overthrow of the irish in the late struggle for independence, which will be read with interest. there are items in it not published elsewhere. a word of inquiry.-- since this time last year, how many colored people have commenced respectable business for themselves how many obtained lands how many gone to fanning i and j, (nv nja ny quit the hotels and other menial occupations, determined to better their condition, and thereby contribute to the elevation of their race, themselves and families thesc are important questions. some among our dominant fellow-citizens am con tinually making such changes, hence their continual progress. jet 3 the nmst important act of congress, alter a long and tedious session of nine months, was to pass the oregon free teiiiory bill; the second was the adjournment on the 14th lust. snuff chewing, is among the most pernicious and injurious habits one can he ;ut dieted to. among the consequences produced is. spinal a fleet ion, especially among females. what iady will continue this vulgar j ructiee 1 for health and decency's sake abstain from it. rather substitute ground ivffce, until the in diuation lor ns use is lost then cease to us the coffee. id 3 frequently bathing m cold water, rub ling the skin with a coatse linen* towel until dry, is more conducive to health than a whole sale drug store, with half a dozen practising physicians in it. i'rogress.--let each person ask him seit, "what have i dime during the past week for the improvement of myself, aud the benefit ol others.* in this way every person w ill be prompted to some aet of usefulness. ridiculous 1 lie tijg state convention for vermont, met and passed resolutions u> support taylor, and oppose slavery lxten sion! j mortality in london.-- the number of deat.is m ihe metropolis during the week end ing saturday, july 1, was 1100, being 'ji more than the week previous, and 157 above :ihe average ol the preceding five springs. jol the deaths, 3-17 were occasioned by epidemic and contagious uiseases. r l'he birth* in tliu week were 1552. i mummies. l he texss star states that a million of mummies have been discovered in the environs of durango m mexico. they are in a sitting posture, but have the sanuo wrappings, hau ls and oruaaieiits as the egyp. tians. chateaubriand. --the distinguished autho of "the genius of christianity," died in paris, on the 4th of july, in the 60th year ol his age. it is said that he has jell in manuscript ten volumes of memoirs, which i will probably be soon given to the public. id* 1 wo of the albany fre companies l ad a disgraceful fight in that city on saturday night.--one man was shot, and is not expect ed to recover, and another was severely wounded with a slung shot. several were more or leas wounded j a large parish.-- elder knapp is about to lake up his residence in the west. in an advertisement, offering his house for sale, he i says: the celebrated dwelling house of jacob knapp, in the village of hamilton, n, y .together with ten acres of land, on which the house stands, will be sold low, as he is about to locale his family in illinois, that he may be near the centre of his parish, which extends from the shorts of the atlantic to the shores of oregon and from the rivers to the ends of the earth!" lowell.--a quarter of a century agp lowell was not know. it was then almost uninhabited. now it contains 25.0c0 inhabi tants, 47 cotten and woolen mills, 1! i t mills, of inc<>rjx>rated capital, 280.000 spindles; and sboo looms. there are from u) to 15,€00 giri» employed in the mills. on f/ every side new buildings are being erected and improvement is the urber of the day. symfathy.-- a good deacon making a* official visit to a dying neighbor, who was very churlish and univ. rsally unpopular mao, put the usual question-- are you willing to go my friend v* oh, yes, said the nick, man i a»." well," said the simple-minded loceo i am glad you are, for all the uaghbars are vilung. a cbvrcm turned into a railroad the ancient cdk gute church of edinburgh, has been purchased by the north bn£h railway company for a wagon shed. the limbs of the scottish queens, which will have to he removed, will cost the company seventeen thousand pound*. stranoi tr true.--the medical times mentions a maniac who never slept, and vet uved is good health till his fe3d year. he had s kind of dosing fn t about s quarter of an out o, c which was all tae slumber he was ever known te take. (communications. the buur. 4. difc* fkibkds douglass a delasy pernni me,through the medium of your p& «er 10 »av lu the anti-slavery friends every where, that we are at work in rochester foi the cause of .he oppressed. we meet onc« t wtek to knit, read, and ulk for th< cause, and  »rsj«re for our bazaar, winch i to co na off the 20th of december next. tne pleasure of meeting oi.ee a week wnl the free and cheerful spirits of such men an< women as are engaged in this holy and un eifith cause, is sufficient recomper se for thi loss in our labors at home, without looking lo: a deeper and more enduring compensation which always follows right action. indeed i can scarcely wait fiom one thursday h another, without seeing the devoted lew «b( are in the habit of meeting on that day at th< anti-slavery rooms, so strongly have the tie) friendship become cemented. oh, tin blessedness of anti-slavery! --it not onlj makes fitends at home, but the veriest fneodi ef strangers. even tbc broad atlantic foimi •o harrier to un* expansive work of recipro cal righteousness; for we sec a noble band o: trans-atlantic women, warm friends of oui beloved and devoted frederick douglass, noi only sympathizing, but co-operating with ui in carrying out our intended plan for supplying articles for the rochester bazaar; verily their names have become dear to u 3. tht friends, too, in our own villages of henrietta darien and port byron, are at work, and trust in many other places from whom w< have not yet heard. let each of us seek t< aid in some way, and the gathering togethe: of our substance and handiwork in deceinboi w ill be highly beneficial to the cause. sis ters, remember the silent yet watchful throb bings ot each bondman's heart. they should touch responsively every soul, and lead us to re-dedicate ourselves to the work of their complete emancipation. yours faithfully, a. p. rochester, aug 22. to mr. prior foster and others engaged in the "woodstock institute." mr. editor --on the 30ih of may last, mr. j. w. loguen, of syracuse, received from "the trustees of the woodstock manual labor institute," by the hands of their gen eral agent, prior foster, a commission to travel, lecture, and collect funds for the prose cution of the benevolent object of the insti tute. mr. loguen came home, intending to prepare himself at once to execute the com mission. but he found it difficult and not advisable to sepirate himself from the church of which he has had tiie pastoral care. he therefore, by the ajviec of friends, con cluded to relinquish the commission he had received accordingly, early in july, he de posited with me the certificate of his appoint ment, and the instructions accompanying it. to he kept until called li.r by mr. foster. he requested me to make this statement imme diately in the north slar, but 1 have neglected lo do so until now. it is understood that mr. loguen intends to devote a part of his time to his parochial district m syracuse, and the residue to lectur ing upon temperance and anti-slavery, and the improvement of colored people, wherever he may be invited or find an opportunity. yours truly, samuel j. may. philadlchu, aug. 15, 1818. at a meeting, pursuant to public notice, of colored citizens, held on the 11th inst., at the philadelphia institute, for the purpose of hearing an anti-slavery lecture from win. w. brown, a fugitive slave from missouri, jas. carter was appointed chairman, and george w. goines secretary afier which mr. brown was introduced and took the stand, and entertained the audience with a speech, which, for earnest purpose, sound policy and faithful exposition, is rarely equalled. mr. brown does not abound in giddy or metaphy sical metaphor, hut enchains his audience with an eloquent and earnest array of matter of-fact argument. he spoke of our condi tion--insisted upon the stern necessity of a high standard of self-respect--urged uniter; action and determined purpose, to stem the torrent of popular prejudice. the colored church and clergy came in for their share ol rebuke, for their apathy and indifference in behalf of the toiling bondman, and charged home upon them their recreancy in refusing to open their churches for anti-slavery lec tures, and concluded by urging their impera tive obligation and christian duty. mr. charles lenox rernond was next in troduced, and proceeded at once, in his usual eloquent style, to speak of the pro-slavery position that our people occupy. he de manded, in the name ol justice, equity and humanity, that they open their churches, and receive the fugitive slave that had addressed them. his retnirks throughout were at once sound, searching and salutary. mr. robert purvis, bn being introduced, made a speech of great jswer, aril concluded by a respectful invite to those differing in sen timent to come forward and defend them, which brought the rev. daniel scott, a bap tist clergyman, to the platform,who attempted a refutation, when c. l. remond arose, and said he recognized the voice of his once friend si* ph'-n h gloucester, audibly endorsing the seniimentsot the last speaker, and would most respectfully invite hint to come forward and t end them. mr. gloucester being loudly calm k(r). ,o lb, and ir bul cha eng .r. e "und t 0 llin a[ a quent time, when h» .m w °u'd prove that the churches of rhda.feh.lil-. ajcl l»'na were anti-slavery that his course while abr..-.a anroid was justifiable and rtqiel the charm* of bacr mcing principle for filthy lucre ,n the tr tl h ur of 42 by art attempt to projmtat* the mobocracy by a false and cont -mptible commun.cauon ail «f which being accepted, and tuesday ,f' e 15tll mat at the little wesley church, the ne and place fixed for the discussion, the meeun adjourned. tuesday, aug. 15th.-at an eatly hour tbs church was well filled, but "the cry u soil they coins and multitudes oontin csd to coats until thsro was a literal jam.-- the excitement beggars all description. at langth the men and time amrad, and the ißjeung was organized by appointing dr. j. j. b* a president, and miflw w. gibbs secre tary. l uc president stated the qoestioa to bed;*- (tad g wifc resolved. that twenty minutes be the al lotted tone for each speaker. mr. gloucester then anwe, armd increasing excitement. he began by claiming an antislavery character for the church--endeavored to entrench himself b hind the aympathiea of church-members, by euuraeraung tbc good deeds of each specific church he was evidently embarassed. and he expressed bitter regret that he had taken the position.-- (laughing and ch-ering mr. gloucester did as well as men generally do when con tending against the right. mr. remond arose amidst great applause. he jqxtke of the pm-slarery position of a majority of the churches--the difficulty of obtaining churches for lectures--proved the negligence and apathy of them relative to the movement. to say the speech was powerful, eloquent and soul-thrilling, will not describe it. his opponent's points vanished before his magic touch like the early mist before the morning sun. the excitement became intense, and he was frequently interrupted by loud and continued applause. his time having expired, mr. gloucester reappe&ied, with 1 considerable checnng from his friends, but evidently worsted by the strife. he spoke within his previous trains of argument, but they w ere too much shattered to present in a tangible manner, and finally, concluded with out adverting to bis tour in the «ld world, and his identification with the free church of scotland, or the communication of '42. mr. remond closed the debate with a re joindet, which, throughout, was interspersed with the thundering plaudits of the assembled multitude. the question being put to the house, was decided in the negative, (that they were not anti-slavery.) mr. jones (one of mr. g.'s members (attempted his defence, with considerable sarcasm; when robert purvis obtained the floor, and portrayed in the most powerful manner mr. g.'s faithlessness in the old world, and his recreancy in the new-- with more of horrible and awful, which e'en to name would be unlawful!" it was excoriation to the fullest extent, with out compromise, without concealment." at the conclusion of mr. purvis' remarks, it was resolved to adjourn. the excitement is yet intense, but reno vating--awakening new views, and giving birth to new feelings, which, tho' born like the rainbow, 'mid thun ier and storm," will purify the moral atmosphere, and give a felicitous zest lo our common cause, for a; spirit of discussion has gone forth, unbolting i those doors which pro-da very has made fast, inviting the people to honest inquiry and earnest action. j. j. g. b. as, pres't. m. w. gills, sec'y. p. s.--l would have given you a sketch of a subsequent meeting held by friends brown and remond. at which time the claims of the north star were presented by mr. remond, and a number of subscriber obtained, which will be furthcoming through your agent, mr. geo. w. goines, but my limits are already exceeded. columbia, aug. 21, 1818. fuiends douglass delanv --ln my former letter noticing the meeting in the city of philadelphia, i .signified nay intention of! pursuing the subject of tlu pro-slavery portion of the colored churches. i will now proceed to the consideration of the subject, without the remotest intention of courting favor on the one hand or giving offence on the other. i appreciate the magnitude of the subject, and regret that i am unable to bring to its a d the logical powers and perspicuity of reasoning necessary to its elucidation. all ihat i am able to promise is, that i will follow in that channel where truth and my own convictions may lead. jt 1 err, it shall be on the side of conscience and humanity. i know, also, that those who oppose the present church organ izations, will find the attribute of tnercy ex tinct, and that they would, were it in their power, disj'ose of their adversaries in this world in the most summary manner, and hand them over to the king of perdition, to suffer everlasting torments in the world to come.-- but as no action of theirs can, a. t.iis enlight ened period ol the world, stop the free expression ol opinion on the rights of con science and humanity, i will assert what i believe to be true on tins point, viz: that the colored churches and clergy of these united states are both iheurelically and praeticallv j sustaining a pro-slavery position. in speak- 1ing of their position as a fixed fact, i am not charging them with being either dishonest or hypocritical; i am more inclined to believe that the majority are honest and conscientious, and thereloie are subjects ot p;tv and regard. it is the very nature of their theology and practice that places them in such an unnatural position and it is really astonishing that they should either deny it or leel offended at the cltarge. it augurs well for the future pros- pects of the cause of freedom, that the the ology of the sects is not based on natural} law, else those members and clergymen u ho have declared themselves for humanity, could not have risen above it, so as to come out and escape from then babylonish captivity. it is when church members become imbued with nobler, higher, and holier pnaciples for the welfare of the human family, that their lofty spirits burst the sectarian cords. it is also to be regretted that many remain in the churches that are obnoxious to it on accouut of their action and sympathy with the cause of the slave. the spir.tual st-uctures of such persons, like un ntu.ul m i ,»ter«, have overgrown ihe hat ihmeuts of iheir sact, aud are practically too go.nl to be assoeta'ed with the mass still, they confine their otherwise lolly spirits iu the grave-clothes of sect, rather! than walk abroad in ihe majesty of freedom, regenerating the world, and couquermg ear rounding evils. well, if they will re nain amongst them, let them not complain if oth-: era, by observing their aetiuns, recognise the image of the beast on their torches u. it i* a natural law that water cannot nae above its level, and it ia equally true that tho tacts can-, -ot rise above their own standard. if oertam individuals among them have climbed up the ladder of humanity to a lofuer sphere, the aect to whom they belong cannot lay any more claim or credit to their virtues, than to the crimes of the culprit or hsngmant hey have j 'it excommunicated. thousands sod tho..-; sand* of our oppressed brethren have lived 4 :z the f-;th valief that the rsh- gioo of the eecte, under god, would be the means of xnnihinnng slavery and oppression from the world, and thousand* yet live in blind adoration of the same faith. poor do-' iude d victims of a corrupt theology which is j wiihout parallel in the slave code itarif!-- they have imbibed thar views of religion j and the requirem *n'.s of god from man, and hta duties to lua fellow-creature* chiefly from the authorized exposition* of protestant com mentators, which, while tho different sects have disagreed on a multitudinous portion of points, there have been but two on which they could ground their weapons of rebellion, viz the existence of g-»d, and the natural degradation of the colored race. i therefore regard it a misfortune, not a crime, that we have imbibed and adopted a religion as much opposed lo our common interest, as it is to our ideas of the just and impartial administration of jehovah. our souls have fed by the scourgera of our bodies.' the lash of the driver and scourge of the overseer form a portion of our trinitarian powers, from which we have received nur religious, moral and l.unporal education. we need therefore not to be astonished that our religious orthf>doiv is pro-slatery, because it is perfectly natural that it should resemble its parentage. in my next, i shall notice the pro-slavery tendency of the orthodox sects, who form a part and parcel of the protestant rel gion. w. w. detroit, aug. 23, 1848. rally! rally!! yo colored americans, if possible, from the four corners of the american union, to do battle in freedom's cause for the cricis is at hand, when the great national convention of colored free men, from all parts of our country, and from british america, will take place in the city of cleveland, ohio, on the 6th of september next. this will doubtless be one of the lar gest and most important gatherings ever held by the oppressed of this nation, since the for mation of this government. i see no reason why it should not be so, when looking over the world, at the oppressed of all nations, gaining their liberty only in ptnportion to their own exertions, in their own cause. and sure y our liberties are as dear to us as if we were he proudest statesmen! human nature with her million tongue voices answers, y'es. and if so, we must evidently do w hat others have done, and are still doing to regain it. europe has long been moving slowly but permanently proximating to an impartial fteedoin for all.-- ireland is now making a mighty struggle for i human liberty and equal rights, and sl ne j holding france has set us a noble example by breaking chains, dethroning tyrants, and pru j claiming liberty to her crushed thousands of enslaved africans,and now liberty and frater nity is her motto, to be perpetuated through all coming time. in consideration of the above acts, colored freemen of america, has the time not come when we should begin to act imitedly upon the all-important subject of human freedom, and self elevation or shall we he silent and dumb u >on the subject, when we can all see the great la nj s of universal liberty lighting up the whole the wheels of eman cipation sailing acr£s the atlantic, with a ra pidity w hich would crush a proslaverv world if it stood in the way no, dear brethren, let us come together by thousands, fiom all parts of this slavs holding nation, and like the untiring sons of old ireland, kindle up the sacred fires of liberty upon the altars of our hearts, which shall never be extinguished un til the hist slave of america is free. i hope and expect to see the western slates well represented. michigan will be on hand cana da is making ready; wh.it s.ty you our sister states 1 come one, come all let us have a glorious revival in tiiec ausc of freedom! ever true to the causa uf humanity, 11. 8188. london, aug. 11, 1818. dear sir: political events arc following each other with such rapidity, that it is exceedingly difficult to keep tip a knowledge ol the actual state of affairs in the different coun tries of the continent. the committee appointed by the national assembly of france, to investigate the origin and causes of the late terrible insurrection have at last presented their report. their ex amination has been very searching, and they have brought to light a grrat many interesting details. the whole of the report and all the documents connected with it, are now in the press and will be published in a few davs.-- lamartine, i am happy to sav, and as i all along believed, is found to be in no way implicated, although he is not much admired at present for political sagacity. le.lru kollin is charged with abuse of power, and seems rather to have favored in some instances, the schemes of the enemies of order, but on the spur of the moment, just after the report was read, he delivered a very energetic defence, and the general opinion is tint he is not very culpable. louis blanc, however, and caussidiere, seem to be deeply implicated, and will have to undergo a regular taui, an 1 probably be sent to join alber t, barbes, and biunqui, iu their imprisonment. louis bianc is under stood to be a very benevolent aud well moan ing man, but it is a misfortune attending all violent revolutions, that however much there may be to justify them at first, some of the actors in them, if once successful, never know when to stop; so that plot tallows plot, uil the country is involved in anarchy, which leads to despotism. no doubt ilic ultimate result ul the last french revolution will be good, and perhaps it was absolutely decessaiy that france should p iss through th s tamale or deal; but in the m.*an tirni its lbicrti:* aie cur tailed. for instance, only the other day a bill pissed the national assembly, compel] ing ail parlies establishing a newspaper, tode posit in th s national treasury 100,uoo fiancs, as security for ths paytnaat ot any fines they might incur in consequence of political offen ces. under louts philipps, the deposit was only 60,000 francs. the difference is, that the one was intended to be permanent and for the security of a dynasty, the other, is the measure of s temporary emergency, and for the safety of the nation, and us own elected government. the state of france is very much dwelt upon here, as s laascu to aji re formers not to resort to violent measures for the purpose of gaining their ends. 1 1 oertaio ly loaches that, but it conveys also solemn warning to all rulers, what her monarch*, par liaments. or eleetoitl coasmueoctee, noi to bring upon themselves the awful responsibility of such calamities, by ths relusal of equal po ii-wel rjir to* will bs worry to b«sr that the austrian array in* gamed several successes ia lombardy. indeed, marshal rsdetxki ia sweeping the country before him, and has driven charles albert from one p at to another, until at length he has been compelled to fall hack uj*»a milan. rumms arrived b? r to day that milan itself has capitulated. these successes are the more to be deplored, as they involve an immense amount of cruelty and bloodshed without any poisihle result. to restore the austrian empire ia happily an impossibility. in vienna itself. tha austrian funds fsll on re ceipt of the intelligence of the success of their own army, because it was feared that if suc cessful in lombardy, it would be used for the purpose of wresting from the austrians them selves, their recently obtained liberties. one consequence which has already followed, is that the pope has been compelled openly to declare war against austria, and the other italian states are vigorously arming in defence of the lombards. ambassadors have been sent from venice and milan, to paris, to request the armed assistance of france. but as that would involve a european war, the french government has declined, but at the same time is actually engaged in conjunction with ours, in mediating between the parties. english and french envoys were sent ofl jin all poajibl* hast?, to endeavor to iuduce ißadetzki to pause in his victorious career, with tha view of closing the war at once, on just terms, but he would consent to nothing less than the surrendur of nearly all lombardy in the mean time, which charles albert would not agree to. it is generally expected however* that by the mediation of france and great britain, the war will be brought to a close without much more fighting. intelligence was received here lately, that in consequence of the liberation of the negroes in the french west indies, the governor of the danish island of st. croix, had been compelled for fear of a threatened insurrection, to emancipate them there also. so that i sup pose the only states protesting civilization, which are now guilty of the revoking crime of slaveh d ling, are the united states ot north america, and the free and enlightened monarchies of spain and portugal. the irish rebellion has been nipped in the bud. lin nediately upon the suspension of the habeas corpus act, l *rd clarendon proceeded to disarm all the disaffected pails of the country. a great .many arms have been taken, but it is supposed that large qu3ntiti s are still concealed. the nation," and felon" newspapers have been suppressed, and all par ties concern 'd in the editing and printing ot them arrested. smith o. brien, meagher, and the other leaders, went to the south of irelan 1, for the purpose of raising the people to insurrection, and for a few days succeeded in keeping together sine thousands of nten. b it the. power of the government brought suddenly to bearupjn them, was overwhelm ing there are upwards of 10.003 troops in ireland, under tha com oand of lord hard. inge, aid a fleet o.t the coajt, c a run mini b sir. c napi ;r. no actual battfp took place, except at a sin ill village called b mhgh, where a party of 60 policemen met mr. o brian at the head of two or thr :e thousand armed i peasants. the policemen firefi upon the peo ple, and killed three, the rest retired wiihout injuring the police, partly because of mr. o'- brien's reluctance to be engaged in bloodshed. proclamations were issued, offering x'soo re ward for the capture of o'brien, and .c3uo ;each for the other leaders. all persons har boring them were declared guilty of high trea son. many urrisis were made, the priests every where endeavored to dissuade the peo ple irom acts of revolt, arid at last, the people were so discouraged and panic stricken, that the leaders were obliged to hide in the most re tired* places they could find. mr. smith 0 brien, after sleeping under hedges three nights, came to the railway station at thurles, a town full of troops, and asked for a second class ticket to limerick. he was immediately re cognized by one of the railway guards, and arrested and taken prisoner to dublin. he is now in kutoaniham jail. the other leaders have not yet been taken, but it is understood that tu*y have sent a catholic priest to lord j clarendon, offering to sutrender if he will promise not to con iemn them to execution. 1 hope and b dieve, that there will be no execu tions, but it is not likely that lord clarenden will make terms. a special commission has been opened at dublin for the trial of the pris oners, and a true bill lias been brought against c. gavin duffy, the editor of the nation," for felony. the potato blight has appeared here again this yetr. some weeks ago, great alarm was felt in consequence, but now it is generally be lieved 'hat the potatoes are recovering, or thnt at all events, the disease is not very wide spread. an immense number of people are emi grating at present to our southern colonics. t.he trade in wool w ith these colonies has been progressively encouraging, and south australia sends us much wheat and other agricultural produce, beside being immensely rich in minerals earl gray made soma in teresting statements with regard to the colo nies la?t night. it appears that the popula tion of them is now greaier, and is increasing much raora rapidly than that of out north a uericin colonies were when they became independent. our trade with them a also in comparably gre iter. mr. bnkejy moved a resolution in the ii mse of common* in favor of vote by ballot in elections of member* of parliament. nut wiiiustandirig the opposition of laird juba russell, it was carried by a majority of 5 the number being 66 to 81. the house was small, but it consisted chiefly of thos: me:n -b rs who catn3 for the purpoae of seriously doing iheir duty. cholera is raging vrith great severity in russia, sad it i» said that four case* have ap jieared at berlin. it will come we»i ward by arid by, and the government m making preparation* to it, by the publi cation of directions to favor of clean i me**, ac. a kind of eagltah cholera :a eery pre valent here just sew, tr:d i* a soma cats* fita!, supposed to bs ooet*ien#d by tha dasf ss»s ~d ohajgeiblsns** of the wsaih*r. yours, r. 3. o. can't u*dcss7ans --w* eanaot un derstand how it is that delicate ynarg ladies, too cl .hcate to run cp and down suu f s in their own bouses, are able to d-ac, down the strongest men ia ths bail rno n. tisa phe nomenon of nature of which no ons e*«ms capable of giving an explanation." what yovrg girl tme gates! peat: at (hr? o'clock in tbs raorrrin# nn ibc score of being ti/rd i*-- is'usaita oau. [niy that the oasis sho fid remain to k«f in suspeose,--aft tbs while the those pwn? the ro«mds.* the in-door life of wo- into is monotonous 1 ver*; tbs is extremely susceptible of excitement; and every one bwiwe that w««n m on jot cxctietneet re cape-; bis of end trance bsyoud her actus! strength, n proportion the ball room differs tro-n doily scenes doea the excitemeat become rr?at?r; hence her strength.]-- prwaers, h7* what ever applies to woman, apples to man; bu; ib s is mere deception. a poses.-- a ciln. blae-eyed, sdf-com posed aod self-possessed young ledy ht a villa?*? down east," received a long call the other day from a prying old spinster, who, after prolonging her stay beyond even her own conception of the vouug lady's endurance, cam? to the miin question which bad brought her thither; "i've b-jen asked a good rainy times if yon was engaged to dr. c --now if folks inquire whether yon b? or not. what shall i tell'etn 1 //ii/uh" "tell them,'' answered the young lade, fixing her calm blue •yes hi unblushing steadiness upon tbc inquis itive features uf liar interrogator, tell them that you think you don't know, and you ars sure it is noaa of your business." --july knijserborkcr. rhode iklnui anti-slnver; fair. to the frie.vd3 of tbc oppiesseo. dear brethren and sisters fli not wsary m well-doing;"--your co-operation ia still needed to carry on the work oftelieving the p.»or and oppressed, fi iis slid, g.nl works by means --then certainly it does not become innn to discard instrument alities. i)o w.* not believe that this is god's work? then are we not ready to act as his agents --to hold whatever is entrusted to us, either of time, talent, or money, consecrate to his service who can doubt that liberty and human redemption are always objects of tender regard and especial blessing with the infinite good who can doubt that he is unsparing in the means to promote this glori ous end! who of us, then, will hesitate-- or rather will not hasten to be with the ali good a fellow-helper it is a glorious-- it is our glorious privilege. to do good is a blessed privilege--blessed to the agent and object; so blessed, that we could almost be theukful for the world's evil and wretchedness. then the patience and fortitude that come from the strife with evil, and from continued self-denial, arc they not above all price now, friends, for your good, and the good of our bicthren and sisters in bonds--for the good of the world, that the current of human sympathy and kindliness that is beginning to flow may be increased and hastened, we ask you to assist in preparations now making lor our annual fair. thanks to you for your 1 promptness and kindness in behalf of former efforts--be assured that many souls have been i comforted, and many distressed ones made to rejoice. defore you decide how much you will do, just review the numberless favors, blessings and privileges won enjoy--take a view, also, of the deprivation and distresses uf your fe!iow-m.;n. then call to mind that only article of the philanthropist's creed-- whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so to them." now de cide. and we fear not the result. we ask for anything tint you h ive to give --money, cloth, produce, groceries, cloth- mg, fancy articles, the handiwork of the m ichanic, contributions from the field, orch ard and garden--anything that ca i be turned to account, will be gladly received. our fairs heretofore have been eminently successful. as our resources increase, the field of operation enlarges, and to meet the demands of the present, the proceeds of tins should be larg;r than any former. books, papers, tracts, and the voice of ihe living preacher are demanded. will you help us send the n our next annual fair will beholden in this city, on wednesday, (commencement day.) september fill*. h iving sent us your contri butions, th in give us your bodily presence. contributions will he received at the anti- slavery o.liee, and by the undersigned.-- if sent to the anti-slavery office, please di rect "amarancy paine, anti-slavery office. provi ie ice, r. 1. s. r. harris, providence, i m iry r. clarke, mary steward, sarah r. smith, ahby thnrbet, lucretia francis, elizabeth h. brown, mary ii ithaway, parenlha p. janes, olive tiber, lunette harding, harriet n. prentice, sophia d. peek, anna m. scott, 11. b. s. red way, sirah r. b. foster, 44 elizabeth b. chase, valley falls. abby burgess, pawtucket. sarah gould, coventry. mary anthony, miry 11. adams, east greenwich. s irah j. brown, 44 mary w. greene, apponaug. rrhecca p. aldrich, greenville. betsey f. liwton, chepachet. joanna k. billo t, cumberland. sophia l. little, newport. caroline a. robbins, anne f. westcott, new providence. francis clark?, 4 priscilla coffin, olmyville. providence, r. 1 mtxic; \n abhorrence oe sla very extension. ejcr'c'flon-vn-s of th# t ilwn#. washington, ju'v, 12. !(r)l(r). public attention has not been suf ficiently called to the tact that in th* negotiations between mr. 'l'rist and the mexican commiasioners, the strongest rvpugnincc uas manifested by the mexican commissioners, to the cession of territory with a prospect oi the introduction of slavery therein the following is an extract from trial's letter to mr. buchanan, dated on sep tember the 4th. i*l7. among the points which came under discussion, was the exclusion ol slavery from all territory which should pass from mexico. in the course «>t tlicir remarks on the subject i was told that it u were proposed to the people of the lnitcd states to part with a portion of their territory in order that the inquisition should he therein estab lished the proposal could not excite i greater feelings of abhorrence than those awakened in mexico bv the pros pect of the introduction of slavery into any territory parted with bv them. our conversation on this was perfect ly frank. i concluded by n-suririg them that the hare mention of the subject in am treaty to which the united states was a party, was an absolute impossibility that no president of the united states would dare to present anv such treat' to the senate and that if it were in their power to offer me the whole ter ritory desciihcd in our project, in creased ten-fold in value, and in addition to ih it, covered a foot thick all over with pure gold, upon the single condition that slavery should be ox cluded therefrom, i could not for a moment entertain tlm offer nor think of cormmmieating it to washington.'* how will the american people stand in the estimation of the whole civilized world, if they shall extend the curse of slavery over territory thus acquired, and inflict its evils upon the mexicans, who have been transferred not onlv without their assent but also against the most earnest remonstrances that they made. b. scene in the senate. the following disgraceful scene oc i curred in tiie senate on saturday mr. butler rose with a copy of the new v ork herald in his hand, and called flu; attention of' the senate to the fact that that journal had published a report of the proceedings of the senate in executive session upon hen. jvear neys confirmation. the correspondent said that mr. benton furnished a copy ot the resolutions offered hy him, which mr. butler said was a gross violation ol the rules of that body, and he pro posed that the senate should proceed ito enquire into the fact in secret ses sion. mr. benton rose, pallid and quivering with rage, took up the senator's epi thets of dishonorable and disgraceful, i and shouted at the top of his voice, jthat the man who accused him of di.s -1 honorable conduct, lied in his throat!'" --this lie repeated more than once, i with increased vehemence, lie said he had never quarrelled in his life, though he had fought, and fought to the death. lie was ready to maintain i everywhere, that the senator lied in his throat. during all this time mr. benton was loudly called to order hy the president and hy many intelligent i members. i according to the correspondent of the journal of commerce, mr. ben ton said '1 never had a quarrel in my life. 1 have fought some sometimes--fought to a funeral--hut never had a quarrel. if any one accuses me of anything dishonorable, lie shall have the lie in his throat. i make no quarrel. that man shall have the lie in his throat. i will adjourn the matter to another place, 2kc. mr. butler arising and turning fierce ly to mr. benton, cried out i am ready to meet you anywhere. mr. ben tau repeated--you have the lie in your throat. luckily, though daggers were spoken, none were used. 2«0 sla> es.»» it is a fact worthy of remark, tha* every story circulated to the disparage ment of general taylor, turns out on examination to he an enormous exag geration of an utter falsehood. the charge that he had purchased a large tract of land on the rio grande, and was purchasing slaves in washington to wuik it. as ue showed the other day, belongs to the latter class; the one which asserts that he is the owner ol "t? 0 slaves belongs to the former. in a conversation the other duy with a gen tleman--himself a democrat--w ho had resided in the vicinity of baton rouge, he stated that he was well acquainted with the circumstances of general tay lor; that at but»m rouge, he owned but a very small tract of land with a very few slaves; that in mississippi, thirteen miles above bayou sura, he owned a large plantation for which he had paid yjo.ooo, and that the slaves thereon, did not exceed in tnnnber*ss field hands with a proportionate number cmnloved about the buddings, and that ail the slaves owned by general taylor did not exce< d 63. so akr all, it can only be said that general lay lor is a slaveholder, and just about such a slaveholder as henry *ay and i} this is a valid objection, it holds p *c'j against every prominent man in the whole south.' but even intelligent friend of the uniou knows flint tins is not au objection recognized by the constitution.-- herald. well done, mr. herald! so you have gotten the number of your candi date s human chattel* igwntto have you r tin one plantaiion*»n!y 45 men and wotnf'n are laboring in the cot ton fields bcuttuk the overseert huh. for the leuelit of gen. tavlor, the pres idential candidate fur whom freemen arc to vote. of course if that is the case general taylor is ju»t the umu for president he is without doubt op posed to the further extension of sla very, bemuse lie has only 6d human be ing*, and owns only a small plantation tl baton rouge, aud another at bayou sam. for which he paid £90.000 bat ma> there not he a slight mistake in thl-» matter here is further testiitt>>ny f also from a neighbor of the old gene ral. it is from the new orleans cou i rter i "the whiff* at the north univer •alltr affirm that general tavlor is in favor of the wilmot proviso. every b< dy in louisiana kuuws that the gen eral cannot be in favor of any doctrine ><r measure which would afford tire slightest c >untcnance to the machina ti'>n« of the abolitionists, became he is the oicm r of nl least two ml xdrkd sl y\ es tehich he works on hco planta tions, one m louisian i and the o'her in mississippi, uiid not ion *r since he added to their force hif purchassing a considera ble number of s't'jrocs from .wrr or leans. it would he strange indeed, if general taylor under such circumstan ces, could be so far forgetful of the safe ty of fits property and that of his fami ly, so to aid the enemies of tbe south. --c ur eland true democrat. am. ha i*. miss. union. the july number of the magazine contains the minutes of the second annual meeting of the union, and of meetings, of the old and new board, together with the annual report of the executive committee, itc. it is of great value, and should be carefully preserved for reference. much to our regret, we find that the report of the committee of nine on the third article of the constitution is omitted, the editor having failed, as he says, of obtaining a copy of it.-- we really hope this omission may be supplied in the next or some future number. the following analysis of the pres ent membership of the union, supplies some interesting facts i'he number of members now in the missionary union, constituted such by the payment of one hundred dollars i each, is i j.w; of whom g'il have been made members by churches 354 by associations, conventions and mission ary societies and 4*25 by their own contributions or those of their friends. of tlie whole number, 111 reside in maine, 50 in new hampshire, 33 in vermont, 325 in massachusetts, 7d in rhode island, 07 in connecticut, 111 in new york, 50 in new jersey, 9 in delaware, 143 in pennsylvania, 85 in ohio, 9 in indiana, 9 in iliin >o, -21 in michigan, 3in wisconsin, *2 in lowa, 18 in states not embra d in the home lirld of the union, and 43 in other counties, nearly all of whom are our missionaries." it will he observed that the whole number of members is less than 154)9. of the rest of the denomination, no individual, and no church or other religious body has any voice in the doings of the union, or in its assumed direction of the foreign missionary work. they retain no other connection with the missionary enterprise, as con ducted by that organization, than that of giving their money. and the great mass of the northern churches, with a membership of *285,009, submit to this! why? hoes it result from tho love of peace, or from moral cowardice and servility it may seem very amiable rn them, to yield up without a struggle the powesr which the fifteen hundred have seized and held by usurpation. but can they so dispose of their res ponsibilities or have they any light, by tamely bowing their necks to the yoke, to impose it upont eir successors for all corning time --ex. a terrible adventure. on thursday morning last, seeing a number of persons hurrying toward the chaudieie falls, we inquired the cause, and were informed that a crib oftimber, with two men upon it, had passed over the big kettle," and that one of them had been drowned, while the other was stuck on the table rock, upon this side of the river, immediately opposite the suspension bridge. having repaired to the scene of the accident, we found this melancholy tale verified. it appears that being unaccustomed to navigate the channel leading into the slide, which is perfectly simple and easy of access, they had neglected to keep close enough to the shore, until, too late, they found themselves drawn with gradually in creasing rapidity toward the tearful abyss, through which no man living has ever been known to pass, although ma ny have found in its deep w aters a grave. upon entering the rapid immediately approaching the fall, one of the men whose name we have since learned to have been baptiste beaudrau,) that ot the other paul filardeau, jumped off the crib toward the shore, since when no vestige of him has yet been seen. but amongst the anxious crowd gath ered upon the bearh, which could not have numbered less than 409 per son.-. sympathy for the unfortunate dead seemed almost wholly merged in the most intense and absorbing interest lor the salvation of the living. standing upon the small rocky island, upon which the miraculous intervention of a merci ful providence had placed him, with ''hell of waters roaring around him on all sides, his was a critical and fear tul situation. in comparative safety, save from the constant exp 3 ji eto the spray, some proposed tout he should remain until the water would fall suffi ciently to permit his passing; while oth ers. who understood the danger better, suggested that means should be adopt ed at once to convey ban to the main land. in pursuance ofthis determination, a stone having a suing attached to it, was alter several unsuccessful attempts thrown across the wat» r. a rope was then fastened to the string, which was passed over a high post, and drawn across by i ilardcau, and made fast to the rock; a large iron ring having been pot upon the hawser, a email rope was tied to it, a itw feet at one. end being allowed to hang dow n for the purpose of securing around ins body. this ulo passed over by a string as liefore. ibe arrangements being completed, the signal was given for him to prepare for bis precarious vovoge. this he did with a great deal of coolness, ar ranging the rope round his body with admirable skill. during the time thus occupied, the excitement became breathless. it arose to the highest possible pitch, when apparently misun derstanding signals made to him, to await 9 me further arrange meats upon the shore, be poised himselfwpoo por tion of the crib, which hsd lorwed a jam' upon tue rock,and launched off bold!/ wsth naught but the thin air be tween him and eternity. the moment was a thrilling one. a portion of his body dipped into the foaming w aters be low--we turned to look upon the effect produced upon the multitude around.-- .all seemed to hold their very breath, while with pallid cheeks, and eyes in tensely fixed, they gazed upon the sceue. a moment passed, which to many there doubtless seemed an age, the rocks resounded with one loud deep shout in which even the roaring of the torrent itself was lost. drawn swiftly along the hawser by the ring, in less time than we have taken to narrate it, the shore is reached in safety, and con gratulations arc poured upon the hero of this adventure, for his miraculous cs caj>e from sharing the untimely fate ol his unfortunate companion. long w ill his extraordinary passage be remem bered from this island, which may henceforth be appropriately designated, j filardeau's rock." --fhjtoicn gaz. bvtown is on the grand ottaway river, far in the interior of canada.-- the situation of mr. filardeau was one iof great peril; quite as much so as it he had been driven on one of the small islands directly above the falls of ni agara. font. jidv. awful sc cnf a day or two ago, (says the editor of 1 the albany daily express) we saw a j woman raving with the delirium tremens she was young, handsome, and a mo ther an uucontroiuble passion for intoxicating drinks soon made a hell of a once happy home, drove a kind hearted husband and fatli rto despair and death and brought t.ie wretched mother and her two young boys to the degradation of public shame and street beggary. her ravings were terrible. she fancied herself a fiend in perdition compelled by a superior power of dark ness to thrust her children into fierce flames, and hold them their till their bodies were burned to a crisp her descriptions of what she saw in her madness, and of what she fancied she was obliged to do were awful and indescribable. occasionally the wretch ed being would fly to the farthest corner of the room, uttering piercing screeches ot agony, and pressing the palms of her hands over her eves in a vain attempt to shut out the horrid spectacle presen ted to her disturbed vision. then, as if impelled by an irresistible power, she would rush forward, clutching wild ly at what she thought were her childrcr and with loud outcrie, plunge thou again and again into the furnace of lire mingling horrid curses and imprecations with the most touching and ferveni prayers. this hallucination haunted the mis erable creature long alter she was rendered powerless by tiie restraints o the straight jacket, and was succeeds by others, even more terrible in char acter, and too shocking for detail which continued until death closed the scene. lamartine's creed.--this is t matter of some interest at the presen moment to every friend of liberty ir genera! and of the french republic in particular. he says: "1 believe in christ, because he has introduced on the earth the most holy, the most fruitful, and the most divine doctrine that ever shed its beams ot human intelligence. christ has spo ken as reason speaks. the doctrine i: known by its morality, in the same manner tnat a tree is known by its fruits; the iruits.of christianity are in finite, perfect and divine, the author ol which is the divine word, as he s( styled himself." the true philosophy of bonnets j--the london herald talks like i bock on the subject of bonnets. a small bonnet, it says, for a lady is ai 1 emblem of gaiety or liberty. she cai see with the corners of her eyes ir j such a bonnet, and survey the whoit i semicircle of her nose in the centre 1 but in a quakeress's bonnet she car only see beyond her nose, and a few degrees on each side of it. if a gen tleman should look at her from the opposite side of the street she observ eth him not; if even a horse should make a snap at her arm as she passeth along the pavement, she doth not percieve it. she is imprisoned in a coal skuttle con trived on purpose both to prevent and to elude observation.--but with a nay little french boiyiet bu upon we back hair, like a hat upon a peg, the forehead all exposed, auu eyes at lull liberty to describe the whole semicircle of human vision, a lady is made up for conjugating the verb to see active and passive voice, in all its moods tenses and persuus. this is gay, and fore bodes the same sort of anarchical pro ceedings in the domestic sphere, that the bonnet rouge foreshadows in trie po litical world. nothing so quiet, and sober and matronly-looking tor a wo man, as a leghorn that lies round the chin and hangs down the back like a coalheaver's hut, or rolls up behind like a parson's shovel, not cocking up as it tne face w ere behind, in the nell gwynn style. a woman so attired is sure to be discreet, modest, subject, timorous, apt to scream, very much afraid of all strange people, and well armed with jealousy and suspicion of all evil-look ing persons, such as foreigners with hairy laces, or drab-colored moustaches hanging over their mouths, or natives wnose linen is nowhere visible, but whose manners, notwithstanding, affect the style of the court or the stage, or something very different from ordinary hfe; au atfectioiiate wife, a fund mother, an excellent economist, aud a seveie critic of all irregular living at home or abroad. such ladies, we fear, are going out of fashion, all owing to the smatl fr< nch bonnet, which makes them so very gad-about and unsettled at home. ft zj**life is a vast radway train, in wich we are compulsory passengers. on the outside is written--".vo stop~ j page by ike iroj.*' we get in at the cradle. an<f irfe* put ffowm at the grave; we have just time to change cloths in the rausit. a rich old fellow being asked why he did not marry, replied, '1 have uu incli nation for old women, aud young women' have no inclination forme."    
