HENRY Clay AND AFRICAN
COLONIZATION
We have given a sketch of the pro-
ceedings
of the American Colonization 1
.Society, at its late annual meeting, ami
of the speech ofllenry Clay, delivered
cor the occasion, as reported by tho
Washington correspondent of the Now;
York Journal of Commerce. Though
the Representatives’ Hall was obtained
tor the meeting, and an immense throng
tilled every part of it, it is frankly ac
knowledged by the reporter., that it was
not owing to the slightest interest lelt
either in the Society or its object, but
simple a desire to hear Mr. C lay. He
suvs. Nobodv seciued to care a but
ton for the civilization of Africa,”
“No one cared -about Mr. Clay as pre
sident of the Colonization Society,”—
the Colonization cause bad little to
do with this crowded auditory. It
was a philanthropic masquerade.
It appears that the arch Kentucky
compromiser, and the haughty despiser
of the colored race, (why, with his
brow of brass, and adamantine heart,
should he not hate those whom he has
so brutally despoiled?) was received
with an enthusiasm closely bordering
on insanity. The cheers were deafen
ing and multitudinous. It is a melan
choly illustration of the deep moral de
gradation of tho American people gen
erally. Had they who joined in these
profligate outbursts had any moral
v ision, or any fear «»t God, or regard
for man in their hearts, instead of giv
ing Mr. Clay their shouts of approba
tion, they would have listened to his
despicable and inhuman speech with
feelings of indignation and horror;
they would have seen in him the enemy
of bis country and bis race; they would
Lave substituted groans for cheers, and
tlie strongest e mdeiunation for the
loudest praise; his eloquent sorcery
would have had no power over them.
But a judicial blindness wan upon them,
so that tliev could discern nothing.—
T he wav of peace they know not, ant
there is no judgment in their goings.’
What though Mr. Clay is a ilavcholdei
and one of the strongest props ot tin
accursed slave system; what though h<
has d.»ue more than any other inun it
the nation t crush aud manacle uu in
olft n-i\«- rare what though, »U reguri
to three millions of people at the South
he has a<tiM-lv joined to take from then
every right, to place them utterly be
yond the protection of the law to forci
them to live without marriage, to de
prive them of all mental and mora
culture, to reduce them as near to tin
level of the brute creation as possible
to place them und< r the lash of tin
sinvedrivers, devoid of all feelings o
humanity, to make them marketahl*
commodities, along with cattle anc
swine: what though he scouts the doc
trine **f the Declaration of independ
ence. that all men are born equal, ant
endowed with an inalienable right It
liberty—and also the doctrine of thr
New Testament, that “God hath inadt
of om. iii.noti all nations of men;*
THE NORTH STAR
what though he is conspiring for tbej
banishment of the free colored inhabit
ant* to benighted on the ground
that they haie no right to remain here,
and that they can never be elevated in
tho Lnited States? All this but adds
to the jKipular enthusiasm at bis pre
sence! This wholesale and unmiti
gated villany only increases his popu- 1
larity! He is “that same old coon v ”j
—lie is “Harry of the west,” he is
“the eloquent orator, the distinguished
statesman, the bright particular star of
the country!” Alas, for the man! Alas,
for the people!
In the New' York Herald is a much
more full report of the Mr. Clay’s
speech, than in the Journal of Com
merce. When Mr. Clay rose, he was
“received with nine times nine, which(
were repeated. Indeed, we never j
heard a speake greeted by such tre-|
meridous applause; and although it was:
evident that at leant half of those present
were there merely for fun, the contagion
seemed infectious, and all screamed out
a w elcome at the top of their voices.”
L* t us sce how well he is entitled to'
such applause.
Of the Colonization Society he says, I
Far was it from the intention of the)
gentlemen who founded the Society, to j
deprive any of their property —to place i
it in any danger, or affect it in any aeveree
whatever Exactly so: their object
was to expatriate those whose presence
wits disagreeable to them, and to give
increased security and value to slave
property. Of this, no candid man who
has studied the doctrines and measures
of the Society, can entertain a doubt.
We did not stop,” says Mr. Clay,
to enquire whether Slavery was right
or wrong.” True—and for the all-suffi
cient reason, that if they had done so,
they might peradventure have been
found guilty of the meanest kind of
robbery, and of the most cruel oppres
sion. They shunned that inquiry, be
cause they knew that their hands were
stained with blood, and that their gold
and silver were cankered. But there
w r as no need of stopping to settle that
question. What is self-evident cannot
be doubtful. The witness was in the
breast of every one of these baseconspir
atois against the peace and liberty of
those who, haying been delivered from
the prison-house of slavery, are strug
gling to reach a more elevated position,
—and not in vain.
“We merely considered the fact,”]
continues Mr. Clay, “that black peo-t
pie could not live in a state of equality I
with w hite people, and upon that fact
we acted/’ Why can they not so live?
P:ipb, ihrn, th* immortal principle within,
Clianze with the casual color ol the shin!
Docs matter govern spirit! or is mind
Degraded by the form to which *tis joined!”
Let the amiable Cowpcr answer
these questions:
FI. cry locks ami dark complexion
Oumot alter nature's claim!
Sd.i is mac differ, I-lit aftortiuii
Dwells in black and white the same.”
The real truth is, Mr. Clay and his
expatriating associates found in the
land, all prevalent and all powerful, a
vulgar, unnatural, malevolent, fero*
cions prejudice against the free colored
(not against the slave) population; and,
instead of rebuking it as a daring im
peachment of the wisdom and goodness
of God, and a flagrant libel upon man’s
nature, they avowed themselves to he
animated by it—justified and advocated
it as a natural instinct—excited it w here
it was latent, and created it where it
it did not exist—and proclaimed the im
possibility of the colored people being
either free or happy, while they re
mained in this Christian country! Re
iterating the falsehood upon all occa
sions, and inducing almost every pulpit
and press in the land to re-echo it,
they produced a highly malignant state
of mind towards the objects of their
pseudo benevolence, and left nothing
undone to make them a wretched and
degraded class in every State in the
Union, especially at the South,
j It is as sound and sensible a proposi
tion to say, that fat people cannot live
i with lean, or that tall people cannot
i live with short people, in a state of
equality, as that persons of opposite
complexion cannot do so. The con
trust is not greater, and in fuct not
more unpleasant iu one case than in
the other.
All nature** difk-ieuce makes ail nature's peace.”
It Mr. Clay is offended at the sight of
a black skin, why does he keep slaves
around him—on his plantation, in his
kitchen, and even in his parlor? Why
has he, during the thirtv-onc years of
hi* support of the Colonization Society,
not emancipated a single slave, in order
I to procure for him liberty and equality
iu Liberia, and to get rid of a nuisancer
If tho practice of slaveholding had not
vulgarized his iniud, and destroyed his
moral sense, he would readily perceive
ibis simple truth—l hut every man is
entitled to be treated as a man, what
ever may be his bulk, height, or com
plexion, and that the rights of all are
‘equal.—But we cannot find room this
week, for all that we have written iu
review of this prejudice exciting, nau _
bating speech.
j From ilir l.ibentUr.
livrouusv I'SM.DKED,
I
j As precious a specimen of pharisai
cal hypocrisy and priestly insolence, as
flic age lias presented, may be found
on our last page, copied from the Ver
mont Chronicle into the New England
f Puritan, with comments. The long
i faced editors, of these devout papers
discovered, by its date, to the grief of
their pious souls,, that the letter of in
quiry, addressed by Mr. Palfrey to Mr.
Winthrop, iu regard to the course the
latter would pursue as Speaker of the
House of Representatives, respecting
Slavery and (lie-War, was written on
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR-GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
“the holjr Sabbath,” alias, the first
day of the week! Vigilant watchmen
upon the walls of Cant! Without a
moment's delay, they hare sounded
the alarm, as though a giant enemy ofj
God had made his appearance, and'
committed the worst cnmc in the long
category of human transgressions; as
though everything sacred in heaven, i
and precious on earth, was now in im
minent peril; as though all Christen-j
dom should be roused to prevent the j
repetition of an act so flagrant! “Are
there not six days on which a man may j
write letters?”
The insolence of all this is seen in
the fact—first, that there is no scrip-’
tural authority whatever either for de
signating or observing the first day of
the week as a Sabbath; secondly, that
Mr. Palfrey is not a believer in the
lioliness of any day as above another,:
but honors every day—consequently,;
lie has done nothing which he regards
as inconsistent with Christianity; and
thirdly, that conceding all that the,
Puritan and Chronicle claim, on the
score of sanctity, for the first day of
the week, the conduct of Mr. Palfrey
was worthy of the day, and as erm
mendable as were the acts of Jesus, in
healing the sick on the Sabbath, which
excited such a clamor among those
pattern knaves, the Jewish Scribes and
Pharisees. “It is law ful to do well on
the Sabbath,” said Jesus, meeting his
malicious accusers on their own ground;
and if a sheep, falling, on that day,
into a pit, may, without any breach of
the commandment, be lifted out, then
it cannot be wrong to aid a suffering
man. The object of Mr. Palfrey, in
writing his letter to Mr. Winthrop, was
to stop the effusion of blood in Mexico,
and to extricate, (as far as practicable,)
three millions of iiis countrymen who
had fallen into the pit of slavery. AVliat
could be more beneficent and holy, or
more pleasing in the sight of God?i
Now r we verily believe, that it is be- j
cause lie had this good object in view, j
and is in sympathy with the anti-slaver}
movement, that the editors of the Puri
tan and Chronicle have singled him
out, as one deserving of special re
probation. No marvel, that, accused by
such hypocrites, “Jesus looked round
on them with anger, [holy indigna
tion,] being grieved for the hardness of
their heaits.” If Mr. Palfrey had sig
nalized himself by his hostility to the,
humane and reformatory spirit of the
age, neither the Puritan nor Chronicle
would have taken any notice of any
letter he might have written on the j
Lord’s day s providing it had no refer
ence to the cause of suffering humanity.
But he has had slaves bequeathed to
him, and refused to hold them in bond
age. He broke every yoke, and let
the oppressed go free, not only without
extorting a farthing by way of compen
sation, but at much pecuniary sacrifice,
in addition to the market value of the
slaves. He exerted himself greatly to
prevent that dire catastrophe, the an
nexation of Texas. He has refused to
be a vassal of the cottonocracy of Bos
ton, and in spite of their machinations,
was chosen as an anti-slavery Whig
representative to Congress from popu
lous Middlesex. He voted against the
Whig candidate for Speaker, Mr. Win
throp, on principle, and thus showed
himself to be free from the bondage of
party, and true to his own independent
and conscientious opinions of duty, cost
what they might. Though a prodigious
outcry has been raised against him for
that vote, he has heard it calmly and
met it unshrinkingly. It is for reasons
like these, and not because they are
careful cither for the fourth or any
other commandment in itself, that the
editors of the Puritan and Chronicle
have pounced upon him, and are now
trying to injure his religious character,
for an act which, whether tried by the
Jew ish or Christian standard, is worthy
of the highest commendation.
There is one fact which H. C. Wright
and the editor of the Christian World
have overlooked in their animadversions
on this pharisaical attack on Mr. Pal
frey. It is, that the reply of JUr. ff in~
throp was also written on Sunday! But
of this fact the Puritan and Chronicle
find it convenient to discard all knowl
edge. The sin of Mr. Winthrop
was the same in kind and extent as that
committed by Mr. Palfrey; but for the
former there is not a breath of censure,
aud the reader is left to infer, that Mr.
I W. wrote his reply on Monday; while
for the latter, strong condemnation is
meted out, as if he alone was in the
transgression. A fact like this shows
the hypocrisy of the Puritan and Chron
icle in its strongest light conceivable.
Mr. Winthrop is an aristocratic con
servative, voted supplies for the war,
prevented any anti-slavery pledge be
ing given at the Springfield Whig Con
vention, has no sympathy for the slave,
is the choice of South Carolina for
i Speaker of the House, and the pet oi
the Boston cottonocracy—and there
fore the Chronicle and Puritan have nc
charge to bring against him of Sabbath
breaking!
N.B. Here is a glaring violation ol
the Sabbpth.” We w ait to see what
the Puritan or Chronicle will say about
it:—
Vr.UA Carz, Mexico, Dec. 99.
A portion of the Louisiana battallior
were drilled on Sunday morning last
opposite the palace, in the presence o;
Gen. Twigga.
1
Tacz—Dr. Franklin tells us that i
man as often gets two dollars for th«
one he spends in informing bis mind
,as he does for s dollar he laya out ii
i any other way. A man eats up a poem
iof sugar, and it is gone, and the infor
motion he gets from a newspaper u
treasured in the mind to be enjoye<
anew, and to be used whenever occa
mam or inclination call for H.
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1848.
CULTIVATION OF THE XI!fO.
It has sometimes been thought that
the cultivation of the mind would be an
injury to those who obtain their liveli
hood by manual labor; that supposing
every man, be his occupation what it
may, were to have his mind highly cul
tivated, it would render him uneasy in
his lot. Nothing can be wider from the
truth. A single word will explain it, —J
and that is, that as you raise men
towards equality in intellect and educa
tion, you bring them nearer actual
equality,—and the distinctions of prop
erty and occupation will sink away to
nothing. Was Washington any less
respected when he become a piactical j
Farmer, than when at the head of the'
Nation? No cultivated, intellectual
man can be degraded by his employ
ment. It is tne mind that makes the!
man, and that makes one man equal to!
another; aud if I were to solve the;
problem how to make a w hole commu- j
uity contented, I would raise them as
near to an equality in education as pos
sible. The two best educated nations
on the face of the earth are, it is sup
posed, Denmark and the United States.
The Government of one is a despotism,
and that of the other, is opposite, Re
publicanism. And yet the inhabitants
of these two countries are probably the t
best contented of any in the world.
An educated mind has so many re
sources within itself, that it has not to
depend upon outward circumstances for
happiness. A man with a cultivated.
intellect would feel neither disgrace nor
uneasiness to have you find him at the.
anvil; nor would you, if you had a
mind rightly educated, respect him any,
the less. I well recollect calling in iny 1
College days, to deliver a letter of in-j
troduction, to a gentleman whom I j
found cleaning out his barn-yard, w ith i
his leather apron girded round him, and;
his team his only helpers. I knew that;
he had led men in battle in other days,
and that then he was the honored Gov-j
ernor of one of the New' England:
States: and I received a lesson from
him by the call, which I trust I shall
never forget. The interview made a 1
deep impression on my heart. What i
must be the contentment of a commu
nity who needed so little of govern-i
inent that their Chief Magistrate might,
till his own little farm, and gain his
bread by the sweat of his brow!
A very great number of our most
valuable inventions and improvements
are to be traced to intelligent men i*»*
the common walks qf life, Aud .1 have
no doubt that in proportion to the intel
ligence of the mass of community will
be the advancement of the world to
w ards its final glory. J might occupy
a volume in illustration of what* 1
mean.
An intelligent manwasasoap-inakcr.
He noticed that after all the alkali had
been exhausted, the lye would rapidly
corrode his copper kettles. Unable to
explain the phenomenon, he took some
of it to an eminent chemist. On ana
lyzing it, the chemist discovered a new
substance, hitherto unknown, viz: the
metal called lodine. Further investi
gation traced this to the ashes, then to
the sea-weed from which the ashes had
been made, —then to the ocean, to salt
springs, and to all marine substances.
A physician in Germany reads the ac
count, and recollects that he had heard
that burned sponge had been know n to
cure the horrible, and till then incura
ble disease called the Gfoiire —which
afflicts whole districts in the South of
Europe. He conjectures that it is the
lodine in the sponge which effects the
cure, and he accordingly applies the
lodine to the Goitre, and it is found that
it is almost an infallible cure. Thus a
j world of misery is prevented by the
shrewdness of a soap-boiler.
A few years since, the scurvy was
the terror of the seas. Whole crews
were cut down, and more than one case
has been known in w hich the bodies of
the dead, sewed up in sail-cloth, have
lain rolling on the deck, day after day,
because the crew were too much with
ered to raise them over the nettings
and commit them to the deep. Ad
miral Hosetr, who sailed for the West
Indies, with seven ships of the
line, during the last century, lost all
his men twice over, during the single
i voyage, and himself died of a broken
heart before he reached home. hat
a blessing did that man bestow, who
informed the world that the simple acid
lof the lemon, taken daily, would
banish this fearful disease! It is now
almost unknown even in the most crowd
f ed ships.
i The discovery of Franklin, a man at
that time in common life, by w hich the
lightnings of heaven are brought under
the control of man, Ls an example in
point. In Fiaucc aud Germany, where
the lightnings are far more destructive
than with us, this discovery- is valued
as it ought to be.
I might lead you to look at the Light
house as it was, and as it now is, tn
see the immense improvements which
have been made, and in consequence
of which life is saved iu multitudes of
instances. I might point you to the
Life-boat, which will now shoot out in
the howling storm, and which will ride
over any raging of the deep, *bo»
you that it is to the intelligence of the
every day laboring mechanics, that we
‘owe this valuable machine for saving
human lite. I might take you over the
sections of Europe where the at mow
i! phere is poisoned by malarious exhaia-
J (tons, and show yon what an amount
sickness and death have been prevented
by Quinine, a simple discovery, hut one
I of immense value.
Once more, it was found that the
i i steel dost which was created by grinding
1 needles, and which ia inexpressibly mi
j mite, filled the atmosphere, filled thi
teye and the lungs, and invariably caus
•d consumption. Gauze veilaof th«
finest texture were tried, but all to n<
purpose. No veil could prevent it front
entering the cjre and the lungs. Al
last a workman notices a child playing
with "a magnet,—-drawing the needlci
and the steel-dust after it— as we have
all done in childhood. The discover}
is now made. A veil of tine magnetic
wire is drawn over the face, and the ait
is strained pure—all the dust of the
steel being attracted and held by the
wire, and the labor of grinding needles
is now hardly more dangerous than any
other business.
I have adduced these examples—
they might be greatly extender—and
wonders like those achieved by the
cottcn-gin, and by vaccination, might
he dwelt upon almost indefinitely—not
because they are of course new, but
because they show you that mind and
intelligence in the woik-shop are as
valuable, and of as much use to the
human family, as if they were em
ployed in writing folios. One single
fact brought into notice—one single
phenomenon brought into view, and its
explanation obtained, may be unmeas
ured in its results upon the world.—
Usefulness and respectability come from
the union of a good heart and an intel
ligent mind, and are to be monopolized
by no station or occupation. Seek,
then, to obtain these as your own.—
Todd's Hints to Young Men.
THE WOMEN OF SCOTLAND TO
THE FREE WOMEN OF THE UNI
TED STATES OF AMERICA.
Dear Sislers: -Enjoying freedom our
selves, our desire is, that its blessings
should be extended to every member o(
the human family. In your country
there are three millions of our fellow
inortals, descended from the same Pa
rent as ourselves, in whose veins run
the same blood as in our own—whose
visages bear the same divine impress—
whose hearts are susceptible of the
same impulses—whose souls must stand
before the same judgment-scat, and
inhabit the same eternity as our own—
w ho, notwithstanding their being under
a Government, the fundamental declara
tion of whose Constitution is, That
all are born free and equal,” have in
disregard of any principle of nature and
religion, been robbed of their most sa
cred rights —doomed by the laws of your
country to a perpetual and degrading
bondage—regarded as beasts of burden
—bought and sold as articles of mer
chandise—all the tics of social life dis
regarded—the husband and wife, the
parent and the child, subject to be for
ever separated deprived of every
means of instruction, intellectual and
moral—and, above all, denuded of that
liberty which is the right of every human
being breathing the vital air.
W e ask you to pause and reflect on
this unseemly and wicked state of things;
emancipate yourself from that bondage
of custom, or prejudice, or interest,
under which you may be laboring; con
template the horrors of the slave system
with an open and candid mind; realize
as far as you can, an adequate concep
tion of the realities of this evil; ascer
tain in what way you stand connected
with it; and, looking at that connection
in the light of a final reckoning, decide
at once whether Slavery is in future to
count upon you as friends or foes. Our
religion teaches that God is the Father
of us all, and that freedom is the sacred
birthright of all his children. We,
therefore, protest against any member of
this family robbing any other of this inal
ienable gilt, and call upon all who have
escaped the horrors of bondage to break
these fetters, and let the oppressed go
free.
It grieves us to learn that not a few
of you, who professedly recognize the
Christian religion as the rule of life, are
actually identified with the slave sys
tem of your country, living in the very
midst of it, surrounded by those whom
i God has endowed with tbs same gifts
as yourselves, and who, you cannot de
ny, are brothers and sisters of that
great family to which you belong.—
They arc kept in boudage for your
sakes; they are deprived of intellectual,
inoral and religious culture, that they
may the better serve your selfish purpo
ses. There is no necessity impelling
vou to hold longer over them the rod
of the oppressor; you may, if you
choose, wash your hands, at once clean
of this evil. Do not imagine that be
cause you have been born and educated
in the midst of Slavery, that you are
guiltless, or at least comparatively in
nocent, however much these unhappy
circumstances may have tended to
blunt your moral sensibilities, or to
mitigate your guilt w hen you lived (if it
were possible so to live) in ignorance of
your criminality; be assured that now,
when your attention has been called to
the sinfulness of yoor position, that if
you have left in your breasts one single
vestige of that moral perception which
distinguishes our nature, so long os you
stand in any degree identified with Slja
very, that you are unmitigated trans
gressors of the immutable laws of God’s
moral government.
We urge you once more humbly tore
view the principles of the Christian jre
-1 ligion. Ponder well that great com
mandment which includes all others.
Love the Lord thy God with all thy
I heart, and thy neighbor as thyself,**—
I learn again the spirit of that golden
maxim, Do onto others as ye would
rjthey should do unto you." Are you
I, willing to change conditions with those
t i who are held in bondage by yon, or for
you? Arc you willing to entrust your
future happiness to the caprice of the
task-master—at his will to be torn from
your husband or father, your child or
i sister, and separated forever? Are you
’prepared to abandon all your right,
civil and rrligiiHH—lo be deprived o
every means of instruction —to b
herded as cattle are—sold at the auc
tim block to the highest bidder —you
persona to be flogged, abused, or de
atroyed, as best suits the purposes
those into whose hands you may fall
If not, then love your neighbor as your
1 selves, do unto others as ye would thei
should do unto you— or at once honest 1j
renounce the professed service of i
Master whom you are not willing t*
obey;—far better for yourselves, am
for the cause of suffering humanity, tha
you boldly renounce a religion whirl
lays you under restrictions to ih
which you are resolved not to s\|jbnit
than that you should deceive the work
and your ownselves, by attempting t<
do what never can be done—serve botl
God and Mammon.
We would affectionately warn you
against attempting to defend your posi
tion, by appeals to the supposed prac
tices of Old Testament times. The
Bible is only an open book to those w ho
read it with honest hearts; to all others
its instructions arc sealed up; if your
desire in reading is to find an apology
for slavery, you will not leave your
task disappointed; but if your simple
desire is to know the truth and obey it,
then the truth shall make yours* Ives a?
well as your bondsmen free. Bear il
in mind, that our controversy is not
with the Slavery of by-gone times, but
with that slavery which exists at this
moment in your own land. Let it b<
tried on its own merits. The only le
gitimate Christian mode of settling thi:
matter, is to judge of it by its fruits
Shut yourPildes, then, till you havt
analyzed the slave system till yoi
have, as thoroughly as possible, be
come acquainted with its character; ant
then open the sacred volume, submi
slavery to its tribunal, and t* II us if i’
conics forth justified or condemned.
There are in your c untry a large
class, who, not being actually involvec
in the slave system, imagine thal
they occupy a neutral position, and are
therefore tree from the charge of sup
porting slavery. To such, we would
say, between right and wrong there is
no neutral ground. “He who is not
with us is against us,” is the language
of One who always spoke the truth; if
you are not protesting against slavery,
if you have not repudiated the fellowship
ofthose who live by its existence, then,
according to the statement of J* sus,
you are not with us, but with those who
are against us. There can he no greater
or wore fatal error than toimagino, thal
slavery depends lor its existence upon
the holders of slaves; it could not exist
a year if left solely to depend upon them
for support; they are the mere execu
tors of the religious sentiment of your
country on this matter, and would be
powerless under a correct public opin
ion. Your pro-slavery churches are
“the Bulwarks of Slavery;” they are
giving their mighty influence to perpet
uate the present state of things; they
have refrained from declaring the crim
inality of man attempting to hold prop
erty in his fellow man:—nay they de
fend such a state of things, as perfectly
consistent with the precepts and spirit
of Christianity They have received
into their most intimate fellowship the
slaveholders of your land, and thus en
dorsed the whole system as good; they
are not with us, but against us. The
Church has, in every age and in every
country, been the most powerful regu
lator of public sentiment, inasmuch as
it deals with the religious feelings of
the people; but the church is made up
of its individual members, sa its influ
ence is the combination of theirs, il
your influence, then, has been thrown
into the common stock of any church,
where slavery and its supporters are
not the subjects of separation and un
qualified condemnation, are you free
from the charge of perpetuating this
evil and prolonging its horrors? We
would remind you that onr guilt, in con
nection with any system of iniquity, can
only be measured by the amount of in
fluence we possess. —The more repu
tedly good men and women are, the
more dangerous do they become, when
they sanction that which is evil; slave
ry reaps a greater harvest from the
silcuce of such, than from the efforts of
all the slaveholders iu your land. Let
your churches give forth un unqualified
condemnation of this system, let your
ministers fearlessly declare from their
pulpits its true character, and slavery
with its attendant evils, will speedily
disappear; hut if they persist in per
petuating this fearful delusion, iniquity
will wax stronger and stronger, till
those virtues which are the only guar
antee of your country's preservation,
shall be bl«4ted out.
We would say, take decided action
let your creed be, no compromise with
slavery—no communion with slavehold
ers; if the church to which you belong
will not stand forth in vindication of the
rights of your colored countrymen, then
be faithful to your religion—“ Lome
out of her my people, that ye partake
i not of her sins, and that ye receive not
of her plagues.”
To that small, but ever increasing
i class, who, lor a long series of years
have, amid scorn and persecution, been
devoting their entire energies to the
work ofyour country’s emancipation,
I we look with feelings of the deepest
sympathy and the fondest hope; we
have not been inattentive observers of
the self-sacrificing course of W illiam
Lloyd Garrison and his devoted cour-
I peers. The countless attempts made
by the pro-slavery men of vour land to
blast their reputation, and tLe unbound
ed confidence placed in tbein by your
colored population, is to our muni* con
clusive evidence of their exalted worth,
of their growing success, and of our
own bounden duly to cheer and aid
them on by every means in our power.
WILLIAM C. .MIIX, Pvauaaia.
JOHN DK'K, Pai*r«a.
WHOLE NO—VII.
I
f| c have been privileged to meet here
*°m« of thow noble spirits—our
minds have been improved, our under
standings enlightened, our hearts wann
ed by their eloquent pleadings on be-
I half of the slave; and our appeals now
are but the result of their labors amongst
us, the echo of a voice from your shores
returning to rouse you to action.
bor Maria Weston Chapman, and
i our sisters who have so long and so
nobly struggled for the freedom of nth-
I ers, we would entreat your sympathy
l anti regard; and this request we make,
i not for their sakcs, but for the sake of
those whose deliverance from bondage
-is the object for which they live, and
for which, we doubt not, they are pre
pared to die.—They have navcr sought
to accomplish their work by pandering
to a corrupt public sentiment, or by
courting popular applause; but trust
ing to the righteousness of their cause,
they have put their trust in the God of
l the oppressed, and faithfully spoken
what they believed.
Though separated from their field of
labor by a boisterous ocean, yet our
hearts, and prayers, and labours are
one with their own. We know that
Scotland can do much to break the rod
of the oppressor. Although she has no
slaves treading her soil, yet she is not
without apologists for those who tread
yours; and, by the help of God, we
will not cease our agitation till every
j apologist has been silenced, and every
slave emancipated. How long we may
require to labor, we cannot tell, nor is
it needful we should; enough for us to
know that these exertions shall ultimute
ly be crowned w ith success, and that
j the more faithfully wc labor, the more
i speedily we triumph,
i Perhaps some may be ready to an
swer our appeals by pointing to tlie
men of America as those who must
work out its deliverance, —to such we
would say:—
We ask not woman to leave her “ap
propriate sphere.” Had its duties been
properly discharged, your country
would not now have been disgraced by
slavery. Mothers! there are none so
powerful as you. You have the educa
ting, may we not say the ruin or salva
tion of your country in your own hands.
If slavery is to be overthrown by the
exertions of the other sex, then they
must be qualified for that work; selfish
dispositions must be subdued; exalted
ideas of liberty, and sacred regard for
the rights of humanity, must be im
planted; and from where may we ex
pcct such a race of men, if not from the
nurseries of your land? Let your own
souls become filled with generous emo
tions; let your lullaby to your little in
fants be the song of liheity; let your
j fireside talk be of the wrongs of bond
age, and the blessings of freedom; by
your ow n lives impress upon the willing
j minds ol your offspring, lofty concep-
I tions ofduty, and create within them a
longing desire to vindicate the liberties
of your land; —be thus faithful to your
sacred trust, and soon may that spirit
which is inscribed on the escutcheon of
your country, that all are born freo
j and equal,” wake up from the slumber
of ages, breaking every yoke and letting
the oppressed go free.
_____
From Pttrker’* Letter on Slavery.
EFFECTS OF SLAVERY O.Y IX
DFfiTKY.
Let us examine the Effects of Sla
very on Industry in all its forms. In
the South manual labor is considered
menial and degrading; it is the business
of slaves. In the free States the ma
jority work with their hands, counting
it the natural business of a man, not
a reproach, but n duty and a dignity.
Thus in Boston—the richest city of its
population in America, and perhaps in
the world—out of 19,0-17 private fami
lies in 4H45, there were' 1.7,714 who
kept no servant, and only I.OtrO who
had more than one assistant to perform
their household labor. In the South,
the free man shuns labor; *‘lll a slaie
country every freeman is an aristo
crat,” and of course labor is avoided
by such. Where work is disgraceful,
men of spirit will not submit to it. So
the high-minded but independent free
men are continually getting worse off,
or emigrating nut of the slave States
into new free States, —not as the enter
prising adventurer goes from New Eng
land, because he wants more room,
hut because his condition is a re
proach.
Most of the productive work of the
South is done by slaves. But the slave
has no stimulus; the natural instinct of
production is materially checked. 'llia
master has the mouth which consumes,
the slave only the hand which earns.—
He labors not for himself, but for an
other; for another who continually
wrongs him. His aim, therefore, is to
do the least he can get along w ifh. lie
will practise no economy; no thrill; he
breaks his tools. He will not think for
his ma>ter; it is all hand-work, for bo
only gives what Ins master can force
from him, and he cannot conceal; there
i« no head-work. There is no inven
tion in the slave; little am* eg the
masters; Ibr their business is t*> art on
men, not directly on things. 'I his cir
rumstance may fit the slaveholder r
Politics—of a certain character; tt un
fits him for the great operation* of pro
ductile industry. They and all IsUn
saving contrivances come from the
North. In there were seventy
six patents granted by the nMionaJ of
fice for inventions made in fourteen
sHve States, with a population of
7,341.441, or one for each pen.
•on*; the same time there w ere MA
granted to the fire States,with e pecula
non of 9,7iS,lhfci, or one for each 17.249
persons. Maryland, by her p* «mon,
partakes more of the enarncter of tbs
free State* than most of her m-icis. and
accordingly made twenty-one inven
tions— more then a foarth part of all
Wade in the South. But Massachusetts
had made sixty-two; ami New York,
with a population of only
had received two hundred and forty-
Bcven patert rights—more thin three
times as- runny as toe whole South.
W ork* which rcqrire intelligence and
■kill require also the hind of* the free
man. The South can grow timber; it
is tin North which build? the ships.
The S >uth r:m rear cot*»n; it is the
free intelligence of the North must
weave it ini'* cloth.
In the X irth, the free man acts
directly upon things by his own will; in
the .South, only through the medium ol
mm reduced to the rank of things, and
they act on material objects against
their mil. Half the moral and intel
lectual effect of labor is thereby hart;
hall the productive power of the labor
itself. All the great movements of in
dustry decline where the aristocracy
";'n the bodies of the laboring class.
No fertility ot soil or loveliness of cli
mate can ever make up Ibr the want ol
industry, invention, and thrift, in the
laboring population itself. Agriculture
will not thrive as under the free manb
hand. Slave labor can only he prolit
ably employed hi t ie coarse operation
of field work. It was so in 1 t;ily tiddf
year.* ago; the rich gardens of Barium
Alba, r i UrfjCaay, were the work of free
men. YV hen their owners w*rc re
duced to Slavery by tin* Roman con
queror, th >se gardens became onh
pastures for buffaloes and swine. Onh
coarse staples, sugar, cott n, rice,
c »*n, tobacco, can be successfully
raised by the slave of America. Hi?
rude tillage impoverishes the soil; the
process of tilth “consists i:i killing the
laud.” They who will keep Slavery a?
a patriarchal institution,’" must adopt
tiie barbarism of the patriarchs, be
come nomadic, and wander from the
land they h ive exhausted, to s nnc vir
gin soil. i he free man's fertilizin']
hand enriches the land the longer Ik
labors.
In Maryland. Virginia, and the Car
oiinas, the soil is getting exhausted
the old land less valuable than the new
Ini 4 $7, said (jouvcrncur Morris in tin
National Convention, “Compare the
free regions of the Middle States
where a rich and n >bie cultivatior
marks the prosperity and happiness o
the people, with the misery and poverty
■which overspread the barren wastes o:
irginia’i Maryland, and the other states
having slaves. Travel through the
whole Continent, and you behold the
prospect continually varying with the
appearance and disappearance of Sla
very. The moment you leave the East
ern States, and enter New York, the
effects of the institution become visible.
Passing through the Jerseys and enter
ing Pennsylvania, evciy criterion of
superior improvement witnesses the
change. Proceed southwardly, and
every step you take through the great
regions of slaves, presents a descit in
creasing with the increasing proportion
of these wretched beings.” At this
diy, sixty years later, the contrast is
yet more striking, as will presently ap
pear. Slavery has wrought a r tcr its
way. Every tree bears its own fruit.
Slavery discourages the immigration
of able but p> *r men from the free
States. They go elsewhere to sell
their labor; ail the Southern States
aJford proof of this. The free man
from the Nor o will net put himself and
his intelligent industry on a level with
the clave, degraded and despised. In
the free Slates the farmer buys his land
and hi' cattle; hires men to aid him in
his work—he buys their labor. Both
parties are served—this with labor,
that with e mployment. There is no
degradation, hut reciprocal gain. In u
lew years, the men who at first sold
their labor, will themselves become
proprietors, and li re others desirous of
selling their services. It requires little
capital to start with. So the number
tff proprietors rapidly increases, and
the amount of cultivated land, of
wealth, of population, of comfort. In
the South, the proprietor must also buy
his workni 'u; the poor man who seeks
a market for his work, not his person,
must apply elsewhere.
T'iii s cause has 1 mg impeded the
Agriculture of the Smith; it will also
binder the advance of Manufactures.
At 1 mwell the manufacturer builds his
iniil. Uuvs his cotton, a id reserves a
sum for bis floating capit .l ho hires
five hundred men and women to work
his machinery, paving them from week
to week for the labor lie has bought,
k South Carolina lie must buy his
operatives also; five hundred Slaves at
st> >1) each, am -uut to SiIDiMKKI. This
addiiional sum is needed, before a
wheel can turn. To stat, it requires
large capital; but capital is what is not
go easily obtained in a slave State,
where there is no natural stimulus urg
ing the laboring mass to production.
Men of small capital are kept out ol
the field; business is mainly in the
hands of the rich; property tends to
accumulate in few hands.
Compare a Slave and a free State:
in the free popula'ion of the former,
there is less enterprise; less activity
of body and mind; less intelligence;
less production; less comfort, and less
welfare. In the free States, nn enter
prising man whose own hands are not
enough for him to work out his thoughts
with, can trade in human labor, buying
men's work, and seeing the result of
that work. That is the business of the
merchant-manufacturer in all depart
ments. in the present state of society,
both parties are gainers by the opeia
tion. In the South, su< h a man must
buy the la’norer* before lie can use
their work, but intelligent labor lie can
not thus buy.
Men are born with different tastes
and tendencies —some for agriculture,
others for commerce, navigation, man
ufactures, for science, letters, the arts,
useful or elegant. The master is able
to command the muscles, not to d<-
velop the mind. He directs labor
mainly to the coarser operations of hus
bandry, and makes work monotonous.
Uniformity of labor involves a great
loss. Political economists know well
the misery nh h happens to Ireland
from thi-> sour ..—not to mention others
and worse.
In ’omiccticut, every farmer and
day-laborer, in Ins family or person,
is a consumer not only of itn\ produc
tion* of Ikis own fas m or iutndiwork.
but alto of tap. coflee, w*» r c
tenac*, aah afti tpieet; of cotton, «*ol
tn ana ailk gtak, ribbona and bonnet*;
of *hoea and Itets; of Me and otfier
furniture; of l»rd-wara t and
cutlery; of mckery and gltss-warc;
of clocks and Jewelry v of books, paper,
add the like. Hie waste etinMdate the
mechanic and the merchant; they eti
inulatc him in return, all grow up
together; each has a market at Lonae,|
a market, continually enlarging and;
giving vent to superior wares. The'
young man can turn his hand to the art
he likes best. Industry., activity, intel
ligence, and comfort, are the result.
fn a slave population, the reverse of
all this takes place. The Southern
Planter thinks s*2o adequate for the;
yearly xupfiort of a slave. Add twen-
ty-five per cent, to his estimate, making j
the sum £25: then the 3,000,000 slaves j
arc consumers to the amount of £75,-,
(KW.OJO a year. In 1815, the annual,
earning* of the State of Massachusetts j
were $1 14,492,(135. This does not in- 1
elude the improvements made on the
soil, nor bridges, railroads, highways,,
house*, shops, stores and factories that
were built—these things forma perma-j
nent investment for future years. lt|
cannot reasonably be supposed that, in
addition, so large a sum as fourteen,
pcs cent, of the annual earnings is
sav&L and laid by. But on that sup
pi Motion, the 737,099 inhabitants of
Massachusetts are consumers to tliej
,am ••tint of 109,090,00-3 a year; that
i*, $25,099,030 more than four times
that number of slaves would consume.
'l'he amount of additional energy, com
fort, and happiuess, is but poorly indi
cated even by these figures.
In the present age, Slavery can com
pete successfully with free labor only
under rare circumstances. The popu
lation must be sparse; perhaps not ex
ceeding fifty persons to the square mile.
Hut in the nice labor and minute divi
sion of employment, in the economy
and the improved methods of cultiva
tion, consequent on a dense population.
Slavery ceases to he profitable; the
slave will not pay for rearing. It must
he on a soil extraordinarily fertile,
which the barbarous tillage of the slave
cannot exhaust. Some of the rich
lands of Georgia, Alabama, Louisiana,
and Mississippi, are of this character.
Then it must have the monopoly ot
some favorite staple, which cannot be
produced elsewhere. A combination
of those three conditions may render
Slavery profitable even at this day, yet
by no means so profitable as the work
of the free man. Mr. Rutledge was
not far from right in 1787, when he
contended that, in direct taxation, a
slave should pay but one-third as much
as a freeman, his labor being only of
one-third the value of a freeman’s. j
I
[to be continued.]
SPEECH or WENDELL PHILLIPS,!
At the Sixteenth Annual Meeting of the Mas
sachusetts Anii-Slartry Society held in Fan-
cuil Hall, Boston, Thursday evening Jan. i
27, 1818.
Wendell Phillips came upon the platform, j
amidst the warmest greeting of the audience, I
i w ith which the ample ball was now well filled,
i On the table by his side, lay partly opened,
the ponderous roll which contained the Ad
i dress of the Women of Scotland to the Wo
-1 men of America, on the subject of Slavery,
with its FORTY THOUSAND signatures.
I
Mr. Phillips commenced with a reference
j to this admirable Address, so powerfully re
commended to us, and in a few eloquent
words acknowledged the effective aid which
the Anti-Slavery cause has always received
from women. From a woman's lips, he said,
I the Abolitionists of the old world first heard the
doctrine and learned the lesson ot Immediate
i Emancipation. Their voices have ever been
dear and true in animating to the conflict, and
in pointing out the way. These same women
we have here to-night: forty thousand strong
i they come, and urge us not to cease in our
contest with Slavery. The blessing of God
'be upon them. Forty thousand name* closed
lira prisons of Massachusetts, at the Latimer
tim so that the Slaveholder should not use
1 them to hold his flying victim Forty thous
and, multiplied by ten, shall yet send Massa
chusetts swinging clear from that constellation
Jof despots, of which she now is one. And
as O'Connell, the friend of every sect, sex,
creed, color, and clime, the ocean of whose
i philanthropy knew no shore, oneesaidthat he
would !>e a proud man who should be able to
say to the women of England, Parliament has
done your bidding,—so shall Massachusetts
yet joyfully do the bidding of the noble and
Christian women on her soil, who demand of
h'T to cease from all partnership in the iniqui
ty of slaveholding. (Cheers.)
i Do you ask, why we do not trust parties,
and plans, and churches, and compromises,
but wish to rase all out, and begin anew
•j VVe answer, every thing that man could do,
united to the Constitution, has been done
to what effect, let the gloom of slavocraey, as
it steals over our country's horizon, answer.
We do not distrust the Union and political
j parties because they have failed once, but be
cause against slavery, they have always failed.
Let irn* explain in an anecdote of Henry Clay
on the stump. When some vote of lus had
i offended his neighbors, an old friend took him
t hy the hand, and said, 44 Harry, I've voted
for you always till now. I’m done forever.”
i Neighbor,” said Clav, “do you own a
rifle The best in Kentuck.” 14 Sup
pose it should once miss fire, what should you
do 44 Pick the flint, and trv again.” That's
it. my boy,” said Clay, clapping him on the
shoulder—“ do so with your friend, —jack
the flint, and try him again.”
That now was pood sense. Our ca*e is
jest the reverse. We've got a rifle that al
ways misse »—aie we to stand picking the
flint forever (Cheers Seventy year* all
i\ asted—the ho{»es of two generations cheated
—how long shall we w ait How long to
earn the reputation of patient men! moderate
men men of sound common sense The
fox turned back from the lion's cave when he
saw the tracks all inward, and none returned.
Wise boast Into the vast house of slave
holding despotism, the long procession of
hopes pnd promise*, church plans, and cun
ning compromise*, have been endlessly march
ing for seventy years. Who has ever seen
one glad traveller of them returning from that
Imurne 1 Shall we not be aa wise as the
fable
I wish to say a few words Of John P. Hale,
I
fur l find that l was not amfonood mwkstl
Bid of trnafiuro Isa night. I have aaaght to
ley b derogation of Ur. Hale's Hanna Ida
Barite detract team has Jwt Barits. Aa a
politician, Mr. Hate hasdeoe andEti^.
■exatkm and of the Extension of Slavery, he
has diatragmiabed hnaarif aranag the poKiirisas
of the day. fife ter, I have rot a word to ob
ject to him. Bat when haeomea to be pat forth
b a Representative of the anti-otevery idea of
this country, then are ad him, as we have a
right to ask, what he bettevea aa to theeon
nectioo of this Ouse lament with Slavery, aad
what ha will da in behalf of ths three adhens
of slaves now in the land what be will do
b to the abolition of slavery in the District of
Cofambix what he will do in regard to the
■lave trade in the Southern and South-West
ern States of this Union. On all these point*,
what has John P. Hale raid* Nothing that j
hundreds of Whigs have net already said, over
and over again nothing that John Van Bu
reo and Silas Wright have not said before
him. (Here Mr. Phillips read from the letter j
of Mr. llale, accepting the Domination of the
Liberty Party.]
Mr. Hate does not aay that he goes for the
immediate termination of slavery. Ah thatj
little word immediate. What an amount of
meaning it has, and how potent is it to show
the real character of a man's opposition to an
evil which he is combating Ido hot blame
Mr. Hate for not taking ground for immedi
ate emancipation: be has a right to his opin
ions. All me can ask of a man is, that be
shall be true to his own views and convictions, j
Mr. Hale did not seek a nomination from the
Lil*erty Party.—That nomination was his
misfortune, not his fault. He was sought
out by the Liberty Party they neither asked
him w hat lie believed or what be would do,
touching slavery. Liberty Party began by j
scouting llic okl plan of questioning a man
first, and nominating him afterwards. In this
instance, they have improved upon it—propos
ing to nominate first, and quest ion afterwards!
but ended in nominating, and then not quest
ioning at all. At the Buffalo Convention
Liberty Party stood up, balancing between
two candidates for their nomination on one
side John P. Hale, on the other Gerrit Smith.
And whatever may be said of the nineteen po
litical propositions, which are enough to sink
Gerrit Smith’s political hopes beyond recovery,
every one knows him foi an outspoken aboli
tionist, going the w hole length for immediate
emancipation. Yet upon him Liberty Party
turned its back—repudiated him And why!
Because he was not an available candidate
and took up John P. Hale, the Indepcnent
Democrat, never known as an abolitionist, be
cause it was hoped he would be available, and
44 save some.”
And what has followed? The Liberty
Party candidate sits silent in the Senate House
on the subject of slavery, and leaves it for
Joshua R. Giddings, the Whig, too rile for
44 Bible politics” to touch, to make the first
direct move w’hich has been made in Congress
this year against slavery. I said, to-day, to
a Liberty Party man, that John P. Hale had i
as yet made no war on slavery and he re
plied, 44 Mr. H., had not yet found an oppor
tunity.” I told him 1 knew a man named
Giddings, who made his opportunity. (Cheers)
I repeat, I find no fault with John P. Hale,
when tried by his own standard. Measured
by his own yard-stick, he is an honest man
enough, for what I know. But when put
forth as an anti-slavery maa, to represent the
anti-slavery mind and conscience of this peo
ple, I will hold him to a strict anti-slavery
account.
Mr. President, we hold ourselves a Grand
Inquest for Freedom —Inspectors-General,
may I say, of anti-slavery for old Massachu
setts. By the right which some years of
study and experience in thri matter give us,
we make this claim. We mean to hold our
selves free from all contamination of slavery
we mean to give it no countenance and sup
port and we mean to see it abolished before
we close our eyes in death, if we can. (Loud
and continued cheering.) Over all political
scheming, over all anti-slavery apostacy, over
all hypocrisy and pretence, will we hold our
selves vigilant. If we can help it, no man
shall go about in an anti-slavery garment,
without the anti-slavery heart in his bosom.
Liberty Party may work for her own ends.
She may join what others she pleases to ac
complish those ends. She may go for a
homestead to the w hite man, and land for
everybody, &c. &c. but she shan’t by put
ting on anti-slavery as a cloak, swallow up
the enthusiasm of the honest abolitionists of
the North. She shan't deceive, Sir, those
Scottish women, whose names are enrolled
there (turning to the table.) Those forty
thousand women are the Tenth Legion, of
which the Roman saying was, 44 defeat was
impossible—the Tenth Legion was in the
field and they shall not be deceived by any
false pretences.
I thought last night, as I listened to the
eloquent appeals and remonstrances of Wil
liam W. Brown, how powerless are the men
of Boston—wealthy and powerful though they
be—how utterly powerless they are to protect
that man here in their ow n city! There is
not, in all Massachusetts, the power which
can save Wra. W. Brown from his master's
grasp, should he come and demand him here.
(A voice, 44 Yes there is Yes there are
in Massachusetts, SCO,OOO beating hearts,
which, if they would utter the word DISSO
LITION, would bo omnipotent to shelter, to
protect, to save him. But that word is to
eome, not by mustering parties, or choosing
cunningly 44 available candidates,” but by
Massachusetts coming np, as of old, and
breaking her chains in Faneoil Ilall. ‘‘Trea
son some will cry— 44 the powers that be are
ordained of God.” 44 The powers of God are
the powers that shall be”—this I hold to be
the true doctrine, and this ought to be the
reading of the text. (Great applause.)
Old Sam Johnson, when, as long ago as
1780, he used to go doom to drink his port at
Oxfoid, was wont to give an n toast, Suc
cess to the next insurrection of blacks in Ja
maica and he was consistent mso doing,
for he believed to armed resists nr* to the
wrong. To this end »this country font ap
proaching, if it do not in good time avert the
ratatwphH by gfofog the teawrea their freedom.
If you would have freedom for the stares, you
must starve the mains or frieghlea them.
The Church wtH not free the slave—the State
cannot and wiD not.
No, Six, we may not trifle or daily with
this thing. What brought about Reform Bill
m England I What the Oihaha Fmnnripa
tteuf Tomt of the mamas. What aceum
pHahrl the fralrp radii nra if then* Stale*?—
A dlermtnadapuu of u.rofcitin»~« putgam
to put aa end to the existmg auteur thmfa
Bemlmtiam fcfire only thing, theauly pouter,
that ever wetked out freedom for any peopte.
The powers that have rated long, and learn
ed to love raliag, will never give up that pre
rogative tiM they find they aaal, till they eee
the certainty of overthrow aad destruction if
they do not!
And whea insurrection cornea—an come u
muet, erelong, antes* the nation by a
and thorough repentance save herself from
that doum—Urea, Sir, I want the North to
stand still, and let the contest between mas
ten and slaves go on. I would not have a
ingle word uttered by Northern lips to en
courage insurrection—l would not have one
Northern musket lifted to aid even the slave
in his bloody struggle for his liberty. But
God forbid that 1 should, in aay way, guaran
tee protection to the wife aad children of the
white man, that he may go forth with impu
nity to inflict violence, nod woes which are
worse than death, upon the wife and children
of his colored neigh tor. (Cheers.) I will
have no part in enabling the white man to
leave his own wife and children secure in his
dwelling, while be goes forth to riAe and ren
der desolate the humble hovel of his slave
(Great cheering.)
Oh, how degenerate we are? Our fathers,
in then comparative weakness, could separate
from Great Britain, their mother-country—
j their mother in religion, in laws, in literature,
with everything to attach them to her, —the
land of Shakespeare and Milton, of Chatham
and Howard, —the land: that gave us that
mother-tongue in which we read the Bible,
the source of that glorious common-law, jury,
habeas corpus, and all; endeared by that one
epithet, so universal in the colonies— 44 the
mother country,”—from all this they broke
j away, because they would not endure, even
from Aar, an oppressive tax on their tea-cups.
And *e we cannot separate from the land
|of the McDuffies aud the Calhouns, —of
whips and chains—from a land which has
i taught os nothing good in religion or in laws
'—a land which never had a poet—which, so
i far from sending us literatnre, has to send to
the north cvcajfor her wheelbarrows! (laugh
ter and cheers) wo cannot, oh, no! we can
not leave this glorious Union.” Wc can
not dissolve our connexion with the land of
women-whipping monsters, and Zachary Tay
lar! Alas! we are cowards and degenerate
enfeebled and overmastered by love- of ease
and hope of gain. Oh, that the spirit of the
earlier days of New England might come
upon her again Americans have never done
but two things to be noted. They wrung this
soil from the rude grasp of Nature—they
snatched it from the closing hand of Despot
ism. To plant—to revolutionize—these arc
the twin stars that have ruled our pathway.
What have wc, then, to dread, in the word
Revolution—we, the children, of rebels —il
runs in the blood. Our fathers sacrificed one
generation to plant this beautiful land, anothei
to redeem it.
Ultima Thule is reached; there are no new
worlds for us to sigh for. Let us imitate the
other of their great deeds—strive to model
our State to the highest idea of our age. If,
wearied with so many labors they sank tc
rest before the last head of the Hydra was
destroyed; if, tempted by immediate ease,
they left the keystone of the arch unplaced;
let us no longer dream life away in turning
proudly over the page of their history,but close
the book, and gird ourselves for the struggle—
till, with clear brow, in the face of Christen
dom, we can ask— 44 What our fathers left us
to do, have wc not done it? The atonement
which their only sin demanded, have we not
j made it? Have we not, too, proved ourselves
worthy of our race, by willingness to sacrifice
all the present to the welfare of the future?”
Amidst the most warm and general applause
Mr. Phillips took his scat.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, FEBRUARY 11, 1818
EDITORIAL CORRESPONDENCE.
Lynx, Mass., Feb. 5, 1848.
My Dear Nell :—ln accordance with my
promise, I will now 7 commence to keep your
self and the naders of the North Star in
formed of my irovements during my absence
from my post at Rochester. I very much re
gret the necessity which just at this time re
quires me to be absent from my editorial du
ties for though the North Star should grow
brighter as the night grows older and darker,
I deem it of considerable importance that it
appear bright at its very daw n. At this time 1
more than at any other period of our enter
prise, the Star will be subject to unfriendly as
well as friendly criticism. I however feel
confident that with the friendly aid which
surrounds you, the paper will lack nothing of
interest during my unavoidable absence. My
readers will also bear' with me, when they re
member that one of the most essential things
to a good paper, it a good subscription list;
and tins, it is no disparagement to our enter
prise to say, wc have yet for the
1 North Star. One of the objects of my short
tour is, to obtain subscribers for the North
Star, and especially to interest and enlist the
energies of our colored •fellow countrymen in
the important duties of sustaining the paper.
It may now be said, that the North Star is
the only permanently established periodical in
the bands of the oppressed and enslaved of
this land. It is the grand instrumentality for
I their improvement and elevation. The neces
sity for its existence is pressing and impera
tive, and the duty to sustain it ball-important.
I shall try to impress this view on my brethren
everywhere. I have done so already, with
much good effect, since I left Rochester. At
present, the subscription list of the North
Star exhibits the names of five white to one
colored person; and though this fact indicates
n most gratifying interest in our enterprise by
our white fneads, it reveals a palpable defi
ciency of interest oasbe oar enlaced
friends. I am swam that msay, and sums
•ary mitigating masons, aught he given
in explanation sf this meet angular disparity;
but none, I am sure, wiß entirely exculpate
our people from the ehsrge of reprehensible m
dUferenee to their ova cause, and the ir
of advancement. It is cxoacdiagly pleasant,
however, to meet with tree tad geaemmT
tliiin who know thdr righto,
ore resolved to am every rifhtfol t
to aboil thaw. BT oar nee nlrnawi,
neh race wffl he the maam of oar redsmp
tom. I bar# met. nee oa this tear, am
who hare taken every paper ever pakliihril
in this land by eokeed an, and who arew
thenaim determined to aaetaia aay and ev
ery effort of the aort which may ha made ia
behalf of oar oommoo came. It ia oa each
men that oar enterprise mast depend for see
eem. We moat look to such ae are wiUiaf to
make sacrifices hr behalf of the food of the
whole. There an some who, whale they if
for with me on many points, some of which I
deem most important, yet hare the candor to
confess that the North Star ia aa important
means against Slavery, and hare the magna
nimity to subscribe for the paper. Too wifi
be glad to learn that my meeting on Sunday j
evening, in Troy, was large aad spirited. It
was held in the Coart House, which was as
densely crowded as last foil when yon attended
a meeting at the same place., in company with
me. The hall was much better lighted on
this than on the former occasion, and gore to
the audience a life and brilliance quite impreo
sire. Of all the bores in this boring world,
there arc lew more afflicting to me than to
speak in a dimly lighted hall, where one has
literally to feel his way is the dark for his
audience. I may be singular in this, aad h
may be set down to a want of earnestness
and devotion to the cause. The confession,
however, is out, and 1 care not to recall it- 1
beg Anti-Slavery friends who invite persons
to lecture in their towns, if they wish to hare
a good impression made oo their townsmen, to
see that the house in which the lecture is to be
given be well lighted.
Mr. Henry Highland Garnet was present at
the meeting, and manifested a lively interest
in its proceedings. At the close of the lec
ture, lie rose, and in his usual frank and forci
ble maimer, recommended the North Star to
the favorable consideration of the audience.—
This unsolicited move I regard with pleasure,
as an important and significant step in the
right direction on the part of this distinguished
and highly esteemed gentleman I have long
regarded Mr.. Garnet as being quite liberal in
I his views, and profoundly patriotic in his feel-
I mgs. But considering his long and ardent
attachment to the Liberty Party, and his inti
mate connection with the orthodox church,
his manly of the North Star
i was as uuexpected and surprising, as it was
gratifying. Mr. Garnet was not ignorant of
the character of the paper he knows its po-
I sition to be that of entire separation from our
siaveholding government, as well as a slave
holding church, and coming to the support of
the paper in the circumstance, shows howevei
much he regards sect, and however highly he
may regard party, he esteems the holy cause
of which the North Star is the solemnly con
secrated advocate, to be dearer than either
and to be promoted, even though it should be
at the expense of both sect and party. I hope
our enterprise will share his permanent sym
pathy and support, and that he will feel per
fectly free to use its columns as a means oi
communicating with the public, as well when
he differs as when he agrees with the editor*
of the North Star. This paper is an organ
for the oppressed in this land, through which
all may speak, no matter how widely any
party may differ from the other. The editors
deem themselves only humble individuals
among the mass, and only ask for their opin
ions the respectful hearing which they are
ever willing to accord to those who may differ
from them. Regarding the North Star in
this light, 1 see not why all may not unite in
supporting it.
i On Tuesday evening, Ist Feb., I lectured
to a considerable audience in the Town Hall,
Springfield, Mass., but with very little appa
rent effect. I have lectured in the same place
j before, but from some cause or other, with lit
tie satisfaction to myself or advantage to the
cause. I am inclined to think the people toe
much under the influence of the “Arsenal'
and too “Evangelical” to be very Anti-Slavery.
J This, you arc aware, is the location of the
i Massachusetts “Arsenal,” and is also famoui
for Evangelical Churches—the one is ready tc
fight, and the otherto pray for slavery. I an
told that of all the churches in this town
m
there is not one that says aught against the
j “Arsenal.” It lives m perfect harmony will
the churches. The most interesting part o
my visit to Springfield, was a private inter
view with Mr. Brown, Mr. Van Rensseiaei
and Mr. Washington. The first of these
though a white gentleman, is in sympathy i
black man, and is as deeply interested in oui
cause, as though his own soul had beer
pierced with the iron of slavery. Aftei
shaking my hand with a grip peculiar to Anti
i Slavery men, Mr. Brown said that for man}
years he had been standing by the great set
of American bondmen, and anxiously watch
i jing for some true men to rise above its dark
I level, possessing the energy of head and bear
i j to demand freedom for their whole people
f and congratulated myself and the cause, tha
he now saw such men rising in all directions
-1 the result of which, he knew, m jst be Um
i downfall of slavery. Mr. Brown is one o
1 the most earnest and interesting men that
have met in a tong time. Mr. Washington k
from Hartford, Connecticut, and is the sail*
whose letter to the National Watchman las
1 1 summer had the happy effect to put an end U
i. the moat disagreeable and unprofitable coutro
i; versy which existed between that paper am
the Ram's Horn.” I found him an amiable
j educated, and talented young man, thoroughly
it imbued with the spirit of reform, aad de
r) termined to labor for the elevation of hk
nee. With a few such spirits as be, it wil
be impossible to keep the colored people a
this country long in their present condition.—
Mr. Washington has determined to do all 1m
can to sustain our national press. I am gist
i to see the young men of our country eom»|
i up to the work; the responsibility aadbuidet
i must rest most heavily open them.
The other member of our little eoafeteaa
i at Springfield, was the wefi-known Editor o
the Ram’s Horn”— as pnonlisr in his char
aeter as in the name of lus paper aad who
I though he Imn become hoary in the turn o
i freedom, ia yet, in his spirit, aa height am
i yaaay as the yimag—t I was aovry to laan
frem him, that he was keeping the Ram’.
Hava** afloat at oonaidmhla merifiee, am
that ißaeaa, or aeythieg requiring ha
i time, aaide from toe paper, even far i
week, would interrupt its puhficalioo, if an
cauac Ha anapanaion altogether. I dp haft
.torn tofarill tmt he tempted te pammwie in
toe pabfimfaa of his paper to Ida awn mjtr/,
aad cuatoer hamatof with an saabnmsmag
debt. Whan a mae fads tool ha eaa*t
mammd a p t yrisdem dmtolea that ha ahanld ha
dawn. I should regret to mttoa M Ram’s
Han’* disappear; but I should mush
mors regret the <ktocukies into which a aon
paytng enterprise must inevitably run Ha pro
jectacs. He can sever have s bettor opportu
nity than now for quitting the field; for
though he should qurt the field in form, he
■*°d not de so in fret; but perhaps aO this ia
premature.
I am to lecture ia Fsßriver to morrow eve
ning, aad on Saturday m New Bedford. The
latter is the only town ta which I have felt
myself really at home uuoe I left tha South
It was here I commenced my career aa a
fir r mas. Oa its wharves I earned my firm
dollar as a freeman. It waa here that 1 first
enjoyed the privilege of making an agree
mem to labor for so much mooey per day,
without the presence of a slaveholder to die-
Mte the terms, and to rob me of toe money.—
It was here I assumed the responsibility of a
husband and a father; and it was here that,
less than seven yean ago, I went forth to ad
vocate the cause of my brethren in bonds. I
have many dear friends in New Bedford, and
hope to have a profitable meeting among
them. lam now in the midst of preparations
for removing my family to Rochester, and
write in great haste.
Yours in the cause of Freedom,
F. D.
PtTTsav rgh January 98, 1848.
Du* Douglass Since I last wrote, 1
nothing of interest has transpired. Anti-
Slavery seems to be at a low ebb in this j
county; at least if present appearances are n
test of the reality. W« cannot get up a
meeting of any considerable number here;
nevertheless, the true and real friends of the
slave stand firmly to their integity. Of such,
there are many here, voters and non-voters; i
(but few of the latter, and many of the for
mer and strange and paradoxical as it may
appear, though the friends of the cause are
many, the cause itself suffers much.
There is, as you know, quite s libera]
feeling in this community; but the troth of
the matter ia, that every man is such a real
slave to his own business, that he has not
time to devote to the suffering slave to man.
Another influence appears to bear against
the cause of Anti-Slavery in this region.—
The Mississippi valley and its connecting riv
ers, are but the train of communication, or
the great telegraphic medium which binds
Pittsburgh, Now Oilcans and St. Lotiis to
gether in interest; merchants here, being in
terested in trade, vessels and shipping houses
there; families here being intermarried and
consanguineously allied to families there, un
til they have, although, in themselves, essen
tially three, become but one. They doubt
less now look upon themselves as one in
three; hence the absence of Anti-Slavery
action in Pittsburgh and Alleghany Co.
The Legislature of Pennsylvania, although
not as yet sufficiently enlightened to recommend
an alteration of the Constitution, so as to
amend the odious third clause, are beginning
to exhibit germs of civilization, by talking
about the death penalty, Sic. But while this
is going on, faithful to the biddings of the
South, some one of their number has intro
duced a bill to prohibit a panting.fugitive from
settling in Pennsylvania.
The scheme, now freely and openly dis
cussed, concerning the incorporation of Mexi
co with the United States, is a project the
most frightful and monstrous within the pale
of human conception. And even Dr. Bailey,
of the Era, and some others who call them
selves Abolitionists, favor and contend for a
consummation of this project. They argue
that it will facilitate the overthrow of Ameri
can Slavery, and forsooth, bring the Mexicans
under a more settled and stable government.
But what are the facts in the esse But
a glance will suffice to show the fallacy and
duplicity of this whole nefarious scheme.
Mexico is peopled by ten millions of inhab
itants but fifteen hundred thousand, or three
twentieths of whom are whites, the test, sev
enteen-twentieths, or seven and a half mill
ions, are Indians and mixed eolors—from the
black to the fairest quadroon. Aeeording to
the Christian usages, laws and customs of
this free republic, no colored person—that is
to say, black, mulatto, or Indian—is eligible
to the privileges secured to and enjoyed hy the
whites. Such being the case, should this
high-handed project succeed, while it might
in reality speed the overthrow of slavery, as
such, in the South, yet in doing so, would I
bring with it degradation and servility to near-
ty eight millions of freemen .heretofore enjoying
the rights and privileges of a free aad equal
people, common to all, of whatever origin;
while but one and a half million would retain
those rights, enjoyed in common heretofore by
all! And this is whst we sre asked to sub
scribe to! How superlatively devilish is this
whole scheme! Nay, rather than this, Ist
mil Mexico be engulfed in the honors of an
earthquake
President Polk is proving himself so abso
lute monarch, hy his peremptory refusal to
obey the National Legislature. But this is;
all right. Let the slaveoerats go oa, and the
pro slaveoerals at the North will learn, when j
too late, their nu*4 egrrgrious error, ia hav-
ing nothing to do with slavery.”
.Colored People! we want more business
men among ns; farmers, mechanics and;
tradesmen. We must, in order to be reaped- j
ed and gain our lost rights and privileges, use
the ncniaeemuj and adequate to the ac
complishment ef such a desirable end. Let
oar people pat then children—firs* to school,
next to trades. This mast be done.
The North Star comes, to toe pleasure aad
approbation ef aD who receive H. I am re
eeiving many letters from toe Weal, ia which
H hailed as a great beaeaa-hght, wherever
ithae east its refulgence. I hope soon to ha
oa my Western tour, and wish yoa to my to
ear Western friends, tost thsyjnsy aB be
rr"- 1 vimt. I aha# held at lea* ana
masttaf every piece I go, if I eae get aa
aatoceee, although I ahafl make my May navy
my long akaae waa ewtog to mfifepaattiee to
my family, whfeh tone lamfiMb pm
ptM rn WRUftfy mfcewi) widi nugtiM,
tha hatoada nf a tender and Ltottsting
child. Tea shell hear from am soon again.
Tears, to behalf ef ear ifpinssnJ aad
fi-a mfiie eeaetryam, R
ANTI-41 LA VERY MEETINGS#
Cirrus Lanai Roman and J. Hath'
awat, Agents sf the Western New York
Anti-Slavery Society, propone to held Ante-
Slavery Meetings at toe foilowng placae:
Geneva, Thun, aad Fri. Feb. 17 to If*
Vienna, Sat. aad Band. ft to
Farmington, Toes, aad Wad# ft to 91
Palmyra, Thors, end Fri. 94 to 95-
Wiibsmeou, Set. aad Sead. 96 to 97-
Ontario, Moa. aad Taee. 98 to 99-
The meetings will com area re on the after
aopa of the first day, at 9 o’clock.
/FREDERICK DOUGLASS has engaged
to attend nearly all these seeding*. The
Agents hope to have his aid at all of them-
Friends of ton Slave! will yea eases to
these meetings, prepared ta speak, to hear,
end to act This nation is to toe and* of a
mighty moral revolution—
And tore y* chorea, oh, mj pfplr,
to whom party J 9 sbsH aland,
Ere the Dorns from its worn madef
Shakes uk 6mt sqaia* oar lsndt’ r
By bold, united, and decisive action, all
may yet be well with our shve-enraed coun
try. At any rate, we can discharge our duty„
and thereby maintain our integrity. Angels
can do no mnrjf and we should do no less.
Means will be taken at the above meetings to
secure the active co-operation of toe friends of
the slave, during toe coming year. Never
was there a more auspicious moment to strike
a blow for freedom. Upward and onward!’*
is the motto.
The friends in the different localities are
expected to make all necessary arrangements-
Western N. Y. Anti-Slavery Socirtv
—The Committee will meet on Tuesday eve
ning next, Feb. 15th, at the house of John
Kedzie,No. 35, North Fitshugh st. Rochester
Punctual attendance is requested.
W. C. NELL,
Rec. Sec.
State or Education in England. —At
the last South Lancashire Assr/es, the calen
der contains the names o. 104 prisoners, of
whom only serin are set down as bring able
read and write well; and twenty-five can do
neither.
JET In merrie England,” not long since,
a poor man was incarcerated for the* non-pay
ment of five-pence church-rates! Verily, John
Bull, you set a high value on the rights of
the clergy
Abdication or Louis Philippic. —A let
ter from Paris, published in the Morning
Post, states that Louis Philippe will shoitiy
abdicate the throne In favor of his grandson,
the Count of Paris, that he may have the
benefit of the experience of the Due do
Nemours.
Improvement or Time. —The ladies attend
the Court of Common Pleas, at Dedham,
Maas., aad knit sway most industriously
while they listen to the law proceedings.
Thanksgiving Extraordinary. —lt is
said, that the Massachusetts regiment in
Mexico, true to the custom of New England,
kept up Thanksgiving.” Thanksgiving that
they had been permitted to slay the Mexicans l
Most noble regiment of heroes
Are these your pranks—
Ye murder men, and gie Gud thanks V*
ILr* Grace Greenwood is announced as the
editor of the Lady’s Newspaper, published at
Philadelphia.
lO* In our last number, in the article
headed, A word to Objectors,” some of our
readers may possibly have discovered a slight
mistake. In that article it ia said, that Gen.
Taylor proposed to the Senate the hunting of
runaway slaves by bloodhounds. There is no
evidence to show, that such is the case, or
that it was ever the subject of any definite
proposal before the senate. If it was, to some
miscreant, other than Zachary Taylor, must
be awaaded the infamy. The probability is„
that the Southern slaveholders simply pro
fited by his recommendation to adopt that me
thod of hunting the Indians during the Sem
inole war.
H7* Letter No. 1., on American Slavery,
published last week, was from our Brooklyn
correspondent.
H 7 The Mystery is of course rtlamtd
in our exchange list.
lO* In future, we shall credit subsetibers
to the amount of their money at par value.
ID* We have received from Washington,
Speech of John P. Hale os the Increase of
the Army in Mexico 4 Mr. Tuck on tiit
Reference uf the President m
“John C.Calhoun oo the War with Mexico;’
also Hon. Albert Gallatin document «u.
Peace with Mexico. For all of hich we are
indebted to Hon. John G. P-allrey.
Bewaek or Cowumif!*. New ami
well executed Ten Ikillar B !ls on Cayegu
County Bank and Cbeeromig 'anal Bank are
a circulation. The L'tica Herald says, tha:
the bills are admirably calculated to deceive.
TO CORREUFON IIE.NT9.
T. .1., lhn»j»fcw|,OWo.—Lnsn of Nov. Si)
January I*t and Mifc, »H r«oric«d. Ws bate t-i
-wnrded s pnrknfo of oar •peebosn soaker.
J. M. M.. PWksfelpkis.—Letter of Hmmry Slet
meeived. Tho won slsdsd is had lose credit*'
ood regnierty Moiled.
N- F< W., Borneo. Jeehss Coohitgo’e pop"*
boro base ratwsid from WobhoM. Cm Uuj ho
Misil.il
M. D., Heeeoyo Fell Pspore bod boos s»»W
to Pfcufcsd. Now al carnet.
W. 11., Bartin Caotss, Ohio.--.Wo were adject
so s but db—eat so bis meney. Ho is eiiditod to
Naahar ML
Fourier At Wefte, Now Yeefc.—Tbe paper bos
busufdMjfadbd is Ws Fbr mu logic d Joorssi,
per rrqoeot af Dec. U.
ft. W. H., BSeeilje—We are not ie iah
Si sod 4bh sobs eadeljr to boad.
C. C., West IWobwy, oil find dee both awoken
at the Besom Ftot OAoo.
W. Mfcheoar. Dmanmih, Ohio, b bfnsd,
dM bis papms boro base doomed, by mkm+o. to
T. D. Cash, of that post
AMERICAN Sundy SCHOOLS AND
AMERICAS SLAVERY THE ALLIES OF EACH OTHER.
Muhh Eorroas: —The friends and potrom
of our Sunday School*, are not onfrcqueoth
shocked, by the anti-slavery lecturer whr
dames The American Sunday Schoo
Union” with the other pro-slavery institutions
with which our land abounda, under the nam*
of benevolent, philanthropic, and religious
forgetting that aa a great whole, the name
men who control the political destinies of the
nation, and give us slaveholding presidents,
and slaveholding cabinets, and slaveholding
wars—arc the very same men, who control
not only the ecclesiastical and commercial re
lations of the North and the South, but give
character to those institutions which bare been
looked upon as ind tpensablc to the welfare of
the rising generation.
They seem to forget, that, man who
false in one relation of life, is untrustworthy
is every other and while they admit, that
the vilest slaveholders, and the most barbar
ous slavedrivers have emanated from North
ern Sunday Schools, they insist that those are
but exceptions to the general rule.
The American Sunday School Union is
slaveholding in its character and influence, as
I propose to show to the entire satisfaction of
every honest mind
First. The children who attend those
schools, are as a general thing, not taught
that slavery is a sin, and those passages ol
Scripture which bear upon the subject, are so
construed and w rested from their true mean
ing, as may be seen by reference to the Union
question-books, as not to condemn the perpe
trator of this horrible crime, or if they are in
some instances, taught to regard slavery as
sinful, they are at the same tune, taught both
by precept and example, that slaveholders art
yiot sinnir*, hut good Christian brethren to be
fellow-shipped by minister—superintendent—
Sund iV-srhool teacher and scholar; hence the
crime is transformed into an eril, which if they i
in after life choose to endure, they may w ith
out losing their Christian character and reputa
tion.
Secondly. The books published by the
Union, and which compose the sunday-school
libraries to a great extent, embracing several
thousand volumes, are with a single *rceptton,\
entirely acceptable to slaveholders, as contain- j
ing nothing which condemns their trading in
the bodeand souls of men.
W ben the t'hnrl s/o.i \f •vv/o; called atten- j
lion to the alarming fact, that one ot Use socie
ty s publications cmtauiiU an obnoxious pas
sage. hat was the result The ommitKe
of publication ol the American Sunday School
I nioii, dropped the objectionable boos from
their cat iioouc,*’and instructed one of their
Vice i’resid ,it> residing in Charleston, to re
cciv;- from ihe Dc p»*sitorv in that city, any
copi.-vi remaining unsold, and to return ihe
same. Of these facts, we are offo tally inform
ed by the Board of Managers of the South
Carolina Sunday School Union, who took up
the matter and brought it before the Parent;
Society. The following, is an extract from
the preamble, and the resolution adopted on
the occasion
Thus the Parent Society has given the
most substantial evidence of its disjwsition to j
circulate and publish no w ork that is excep-I
tionable in its character and spirit to the A me- 1
rican public. [American means slareholding.]
Therefore, —Resolved, that the confidence of
this Board in the American Sunday School
Union is undiminished and the recent action
of their Committee of publication, is sufficient
pledge, that nothing w ill at any time hcreaf- 1
ter, be issued from the press under their con
trol calculated to awaken sectarian feeling or
sectional jealousy.” [ln plain English, cal
culated to disturb the consciences of mni steal
ers or bring into disrepute women te/iijyp*rs.]
B. LANNEAU, President.
Wm. B. llerkiot, Rec. Secretary.
The obnoxious passage alluded to, is to be
found in a book entitled Jacob and his Sons,
or the Second Part of a Conversation between
Mary and her Mother;” published about twen
ty years ago, and is as follows
“What is a slave, Mother? asked Mary,
is it a servant?”
Yes, replied her mother; slaves are ser
vants, for they work for their masters, and
wait on them; but they are not hired servants
but are bought and sold, like beasts, and have
nothing but what their masters choose to give
them. They are obliged to work very hard
and sometimes their masters use them cruelly,
beat them, and starve them, and kill them
for they have nobody to help them. Some
times they are chained together, and driven
about like beasts.”
The book containing this passage, The
Committee of Publication of the Sunday
School Union, make haste to expunge and
expel the moment their attention is called to
the subject.
Thirdly. We shall ascertain by diligent
inquiry, that slaveholders m form and fact are
actualh and literally in Testing Northern Suu
day School.-- with their pestiferous breath and
pestilential presence.
I am credibly inform d, that the Supenn
tendaut of the Sunday School m Troy, con
nected with the Unitarian Church, is not only
an actual slaveholder, but that he openly and
iKildiy, impiously and blasphemously, defends
.slavery as a Cod ordained institution, ami
that if Christ \v< re m on earth and a resi
dent at the South, he would undoubtedly be
a slaveholder." I a-.n also credibly informed,
that these facts have ceuic to ih-> knowledge
of the minister am! members of that ehureh,
and the patron* of the seb.ioi, and that only
one member (a.id she aj n Widow) had >uf
ficiout uuhzotion to remove her child irom
the school. The evidences of fitness fur the
station. winch tins young man gives, consists
I ioa in ui tact that fits mother pays
tiUi. a year to support the church, and
i.as made a present of some books
to the Sgttday School.
It is known to some of your readers, that
tb« Rev. John Piejpont, is the Pastor of that
church, and u» many of them, that he has been
formerly considered friendly u> emancipation.
J girt publicity to these reports (which have
become in some localities, a matter of public
notoriety) so that if true, well merited infamy
may rest upon that school and church, and if
in any particular untrue or exaggerated, that
the anti-slavery public may be set right. If
Mr. Pierpont is not s subscriber to the North
fttar, witt yen phrase to forward turn the num
ber containing this letter, if you should see fit
fo publish it.
Jan. 2l», 1846. If. K. Y.
Boston.—The population of this city is
•ow 130,000.
COLD WATER for COLOR PHOBIA
It wots liAcufoOT if H wot e not melan
eboly,” to sm the absurdities into which met
Me betrayed, whan they attow themselves ti
he led away by a ptncnocebed idea or an us
i rim ~g prejudice. Aa rare an ffluntnuoi
of this remark, as eonU well he imagined
i occurred «dy n few days since, at n loco foci
I meeting «a Wyoming county. On this oecw
non, Prejudice task the shape of a resolution
and manifested itself as follows:
i Resolved, That we mpeetfutty suggest
to the colored gentlemen who are setting
J themselves up as editors, lecturers, reformer*,
and public tesebers, and arrogantly and impu
dently presuming to instruct us, f J the pro
priety of repairing to the land of tbeir fathers,
(as there is now a door open, and a pressing
call,) and there sympathize with their own
kin. and labor to raise them from their present
heathen and brutish degradation, to a level at
least with southern slaves.” —Albany Journal.
Is it possible to conceive of a more perfect
and speaking illustration of the influence of
the patriarchal institution,” upon the feel
inga and heart of the Northern States, than
J these few words present It is difficult to
know whether to admire most the supercilious
insolence, the despicable heart leanness, the
canting hypocrisy, or the utter irrationality of
this delectable production. In these respects
it Iks few equals, and no superior, in the
eutirp history of pro-slavery sentiment in this
or in any other country. Do the colored
gentlemen,’ who are netting themselves up as
editors, lecturers,” Ac., exercise any undue
influence over the free will and free action of
these loco-foco gentlemen, that they are led
to oflfer this resolution Do ihcv use anv
force to make them attend their teachings or
lectures, or to make them read their publica
tions or on what other ground do these re
doubtable reaolulionists claim to have any
right to interfere with the free action of their
fellow-citizens? Taking a very common-sense
view of the subject, one might imagine that
this matter, at least, might with all safety be
left to the discernment of the public. If these
colored gentlemen choose to lecture and
write, and there arc any who wish to attend
their lectures, or to read their publications, it
is utterly impossible to conceive, (if there
were no reasons other than the alleged.) w hy
a loco-foco or any other meeting should take
upon itself the gratuitous icsjvonsibiliiy of
suggesting a different course. Jf it cci.lt! be
shown that the color of the skin afreets the
qualities of the heart, and as a necessary con
sequence, the teachings of the lecturer and
the writings of the editor, there would then
lie a good and sufficient reason for getting rid
of these “colored gentlemen by all fair
means, if possible. And if it is show n that
the color does affect the heart in the deeper,
I it douu less must do so also in the lighter
shades; and this will bring us to the unavoid
able inici; nee that the man who has the fair
est face, must also have the purest heart.
How- very desirable is it, in some respects,
that such wc. -e the case!—albeit, how- very
convenient it would be We should then
know er*'* 4 all professions pretenc.es, and
protestai ons notwithstanding, what and what
manner ol .udi they were with whom w e met,
without going through the tedious and some
what doubtful process of acquiring this knowl
edge, on acquaintance. If the qualities of
the heart in all cases corresponded with the
shade of the skin, we should at once see
through everything in the shape of hypocrisy
and fraud; and possibly the faces of the
gentlemen who framed this resolution, would
be seen to be not of the whitest.
There is another suggestion which might
be offered, as an appendix to the above resolu
tion, without which it appears exceedingly
partial and incomplete, and of which the
Board of Education and all whose duty it is
to see that schools are supplied with properly
qualified teachers, must at once see the pro
priety. It is this—that the precise shade of
complexion which qualifies a man (the oracle
has not yet spoken on the subject of women,)
to be a teacher, ought to be very clearly stated,
as a very slight mistake might be fatal to the
morals of the rising race. Perhaps, also, as
j these loco-foco gentlemen may have some
conscientious opinion as to the precise height
or genera) appearance of the teacher, or lec
turer, or editor, it might be well to draw- up
a short set of rules, comprising all necessary
particulars. It might be stated, that they
shall not be over or under a certain height;
that they must not have red hair, or a crooked
nose, or a long chin. Or, perhajis, it might
be belter still that the whole matter should go
at once into the hands of Congress, and that
the united wisdom of the Senate should forth
with set to w-ork and divide the entire coun
try anew into states and counties, and have a
law passed that each slate and county should
be occupied by only one class of inhabitants.
For instance, there might be Redhair i oun
ty in Fair Slate; Crookednose County in
Crooked State Sixfoot County in Tall State,
Ac. Every man would then know exactly
where to find bis proper location and we
should not be annoyed with the continual tra
velling to and fro by railroads, and that con
stant unbelting of families, which ate now
so prevalent, and by which intelligence and
brotherly feeling amongst men, arc so rapidly
diffused, to the great danger and detriment of
all patriarchal institutions." j low Peaceful
and happy people might then l, c Many of
the causes of quarrel with which we are now
troubled, would be removed. No one would
t*e heard saying to his neighbor, How homely
you are how crooked you are as all who
lived together would be hmr.elv and crooked
alike. The fashions, too, those perpetual
iroublers of civilized life, would all be regu
lated, as sensible lueu say they ought to be,
by Nature. The thm would remain thin
without padding; the pale w ould remain pale
—without paint; and the beardless would be
saved the trouble and expense of buying
themselves false whtakers. The story of the
fox that lost his tail would be re-enacted, but
this tune with better success for every one
would have the same blemish or beauty as his
neighbor; and any one making his appearance
in any particular State, who was not in the
fcahton” of that State, would at once be de
tected to be out of hia place, and would of
J fc® "i* the derision and con
tamely which his unwonted appearance de
served. A very Utopia this would be for the
k*»-&co gentlemen who framed the resold
tioa above quoted. WiD not the Legislature,
during its preset twine, take this subject
into its most serious consideration Ob ye
loco-foco gentlemen of Wyoming county,
Petition! petition !I miTiw A mat
■•does, the well bring of the whole entry,
i should not he delayed an hour. What a fine
field it opens up for the display of sanatoria]
eloquence
It is to be hoped that these leeo-faeo gen
tlemen, when they take up cay new book,
1 hear any intelligence, do nut foil to inform
themselves, before perumng the hook ot
allowing their minds Is he enbgbtened by the
iatrlligeoee, whether the writer of the owe ot
the bearer of the other is of that precise shade
of color by which it U in accordance with
their creed that ibov should he instructed.
Are they quite sure that they are not indebted
to the Chaldeans, or perhaps to the Moon,
for some of their knowledge of astronomy!
And was not Galileo a degree darker than
altogether meets the views of the eolorocracy
Perhaps they may also have some twinges of
conscience, if they are consistent, as it is im
possible to entertain the slightest doubt that
men having their very exalted and correct
views must he, about rooming as a troth
Sir Isaac Newton’s discovery of the law of
gravitation, as the noer of the discoverer wan
possibly a degree too crooked and of course
electricity and the lightning-rod are all fudge
and nonsense to them, till they have learned
that Benjamin Franklin was of the precise
j height required by their code of prerequisites.
What a straight, and orderly, and heautifully
rectangular w orld it would be, were all these
tilings arranged after this most desirable plan 1
But these loco-foco gentlemen are withal
exceedingly philanthropic and benevolent.
They are anxious that colored gentlemen
should sympathize with their own kin, and
labor to raise, them, from their present heathen
and brutish degradation, to a level at least
with southern slaves.” What philanthropy?
w hat heavenly charity! what godlike bene
volence what a beautiful expression of true
Christian sentiment is in these words! How
must the heart of the writer have warmed
into a fervent glow' of brotherly affection for
the entire human family, as he penned
them! Bah! Well may we pray, with the
devout Episcopalian, in ihe form of his litany,
From all etu.t and hypocrisy Good Lord,
deliver us!” It maybe that travellers and
historians do not give a very correct or ex
j plicit account of the countries about w hich
i they write but some of us have yet to learn,
»\hat portion of the human family—the kin of
i these “colored gentlemen,"—it is, that is
more degraded than, and can he raised to a
I level with southern slaves.” Unless it be
i their brutal enslavers—those who inflict this
degradation upon them—or tlie northern bar
barian abettors of the slavemaker, it is diffi
cult to imagine to whom this resolution points.
Are there not those not a hundred miles from
Wyoming County, who, if they may be
judged of by their actions and sentiments,
may be raised to a considerably higher level
than that which they now occupy in the scale
of humanity, without making tham too an
j gelic for residence in this lower world If
there are any such, they will, doubtless, be
anxious to acquire knowledge, let it come
from what source it may. They will not ask
whether a black man or a white man—a tall
man or a short man, is to be their teacher.
However unenlightened they may be in other
respects, they will not choose to confess that
they arc ignorant of the very simple fact, that
thoughts are neither black nor white, nor tall
nor short; but that there arc only two kinds:
of thoughts—the true Uic false.
Come, now, gentlemen, ioco-focos of Wy
oming County, confess that you were fooling.
You do not suppose that people are so very
green as to believe that you could seri
ously propose such a resolution. A raving
maniac, in the fury of his full-moon hallu
cinations, would not be guilty of such an
absurdity. Say that it was all a jest. The
wisest of men will perpetrate a joke some
j times, and laugh at it too most heartily. Say
j that you arc even now convulsed with laugh
ter at this most brilliant witticism; that you
have not ceased to laugh over it, since the day
on which it was perpetrated.—Say this, and
many, at other times most sober men, will
join in your nurth. Well, it is a good joke,
ha, ha, ha!—a most excellent joke—ha, ha,
ha, ha!—j. d.
GLEANINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.
The Colored Sailors’ Home, kept by Wnf.
P. Powell, in Cherry street. This establish
ment is an Oasis in the desert, when compared
with the many houses where seamen usually
congregate. Here the Banner of Reform
floats conspicuous. Of course, one prominent
feature is Temperance. An excellent Libra
ry and other reading-room facilities, are at
the disposal of its inmates and at meal
time, and every occasion of interview, con
versations are introduced on the various ques
tions incidental to the elevation of man. It
will be readily seen that this modus operandi
exerts a most beneficial influence upon that
i important, though too oft neglected class.
The best seamen are hire always to be
found, and the mutual interests of themselves
and employers are thus promoted.
I visited liui Apothecary’s Hall of Dr.
James McCune Smith, in West Broadway,
is also the establishment of Mr. Philip J.
White, in Frankfurt street, both of whom are
practical men, and conduct their business, pre
paring medicines, etc., etc., wi*h as much
'readiness and skili as any oth r disciple of
Galen and Hippocrates: also Dr. Jinnings,
the Dentist. All are proving their capacity,
as I believe, to their pecuniary benefit, and aj
the same time thus elevating the character ofj
those with w hom they are identified by com
plexion. I had the satisfaction of being in
troduced to a colored carpenter—not a
fractional one, but a master workman and con
tra cl or for buildings.
It is a fault with many colored men, that
(hey do not aim at perfection in knowledge
of business—when indeed they should all as
pire to the pinnacle of merit—w hether Sdn-l
Teachers, Physicians, Laborer*, Musicians, or
Mechanics. As a friend once remarked to a
musical aspirant, You should strive to be
something more than a superficial scraper of
hoi sc-hair.” What ts worth the doing at all,
deserves being well done.
Policy and Principle alike demand Ibis at
the hands of colored An« nouns.
Elias South, in a letter, rr published in the
Standard froee the liberator, dnerribrs the as
tonishment of a North Carohniaa, wbeas ves
sel arrived in that Side fines Westport, in
IfaaoociHMctts, navigated by n onioned captain
and crew The Southerner co*M not bent
ten gm a spernaea «f thrir skill ia the was
of them. Thm M btet he evetsimed, N am
I w 9 w—eipete my afatveai for 1 believe they
am mea.”
By invnation of Dr. Smith, I vimted the
Public School in Duane St.; Teacher, Mr,
Charles L Reason (amaaled by two Ladies.)
The School appeared in a mote flourishing
the achofare with cheerful, inteUft
depattments of learning. I noticed among
the >bpo, for copies, the name of William
lioyd Gamma, a name and how noble enough
for the admiration of true hearts the wide
world o’er.”
Secured good cabin accommodation on board
the Floating Palace Isaac Newton, except for
eating. This important preliminary was dis
mmrd in company with a large colored dele
gation in the region of the cook's quartern.—
This Prejudice against color, ia somewhat ca
pricious, for on some boats, occasionally a man
ia treated m a man. On lire Steamer Wor
cester I should have had hard fare if a colored
chambermaid had not kindly interceded. In
many instances, the colored waiters are par
ties to this proscription.
At Albany, visited the Medical College and
State Geological Rooms. The Halls of the
former are indeed fit places for the contem
plation of those curious to observe the wisdom
and greatness of the Creator, as displayed iu
the mechanism of the human frame.
The Legislature being in seswos, I wended
my way to the Capitol, and while there, oc
cupying a seat usually allowed visitors, I was
colonized by some official upstart, who at
tempted to apologize, as if the task to him
was an unpleasant one. I learned subse
quently that he acted without authority in
the matter.” But little important business
was transacted —no other Bill than myself
having passed the House
Among the enterprising Albanians, may be
mentioned William H. Topp, a colored Mer
chant Tailor, a finished workman, and perfect
gentlemen, winning [golden opinions from all
who, through business or otherwise, become
acquainted with Inin. Ilia store in Broadway
will not suffer by comparison with those of
equal resources in any city Boston not ex
cepted. He has long been interested in the
ways and means” of elevating his oppressed
brethren, and in their heart’s best affections
evidently stands Topp of the fraternity.
Did space permit, I might essay some de
scription of the various objects of interest in
New York city, and, as in duty bound, would
have a word to say of the Battery and Castle
Garden. These rivalled each other so long
in their beauty, that to end all strife, a com
promise was effected, and to show the world
their determination of living in good fellow-j
ship with each other, they exchanged names, j
and what was 60 years ago the Battery, is
Castle Garden, and Castle Garden the Bat
ery. Thus we change as we go.
The Croton Fountain, having elicited admi
ration from every beholder, an t proved the
fruitful theme fer the giiwi genius of Lydia
Maria Child, leaves no niche for me to occu
py, further than an expression of hope that
Boston Water W orks will soon gladden the j
hearts of her citizens, and equal, if not sur
pass, even the magnificent Croton.
The beauties, also, of the North River
scenery, and on the road from Albany to
Troy; the view of the Grand Erie Canal,
which has immortalized the name of Dc Witt
Clinton; the beautiful cities of Schenectady,
Utica, Syracuse*, Auburn, and last, though
not least, Rochester, in itself combining the
variety of town and country,” always so
pleasing to one who has recently left a city
where brick and mortar monopolize alinos 1
the entire space; all. these deserve special
mention, but to do this in detail, requires the
turning over a new leaf.—w. c. n.
ANTI-SABBATI^CONVENTION.
To the Fticnds of Ciril and Rttigiovs Lib
erty
The right of every man to worship God
according to the dictates of his own con
science is inherent, inalienable, self-evident.—
Yet it is notorious, that in all States, except
ing Louisiana, there arc laws enforcing the
religious observance of the firsi day of the 1
week as the Sabbath, and punishing as crimi
nals such %s attempt to pursue their usual av
ocations on that day,—avocations which even
Sabbatarians recognize as innocent and lauda
ble on all other days. It is true, some excep
tions are made to the rigorous operation of
these laws, in favor of the Seventh Day Bap
tists, Jews, and others who keep the seventh
day of the week as the Sabbath; but this
freedom is granted in condescension to the
scruples of particular sects, as a privilege, and
not recognized as a natural right. Jor those,
and the number is large and steadily increas
ing, who believe that the Sabbath was exclu
sively a Jewish institution, a shadow ol
good things to come,” w hich vanished eigh
teen hundred years ago, before the light of the
Christiau dispensation, and therefore that it
constitutes no part of Christianity,— there is
no exenn non from the penalty oj the law but
should they venture to labor even for bread
oil that duv, or be guilty of what is called
Sabbath ti escalation,’ they are liable either
to fine or imprisonment! ases ot this kind
have occurred in Massachusetts, Vermont,
Pennsylvania and Ohm, within a comparative
ly short period, where conscientious and up
right persons have been thrust into prison, for
an act no more heinous than that
of gathering in a crop of hay, or selling mor
al or philanthropic publication*, 'i here is,
therefore, no liberty of conscience allowed to
the people of this country, utubr the laws
thereof in regard to the observance of a
Sabbath day.
In addition to these startling facts, within
the last five veare, Tehgious combination
lias been forced »hw itself
“The American and Foreign Sabbath l nion,”
whose specific object to unpuse the Sab
batical yoke yet more heavily on the neck* of
the American people. _ In a recent appeal
made for pecuniary umstatxe by the Execu
tive Committee of the that
the Secretary (Rev. Dr. Edwards) has vis
ited twenty of the United States, and travelled
more thirty thousand miles, addressing
public bodies of all description*, a.id preaem
nur reasons why, as a nation, we should keep
the Sabbath —all seculai bu&iucae, travelling
and amusement be confined to six da vs in a
week—and all people assembling on the Sab
bath, and woramp A “permanent
‘‘ilhbalh Document has bean prepared by
tbs Secretary; sod whalbasidread, been
ju— will pot a copy Of this document into
more thr** three honored thousand families.”
Stitt greater dfisrte he made by the
DnkA” for the furtherance of os abject,
That this nimthinr is aaiman df by the
the
Q—y«« to onprisonraeat sad death, in the
fiSta SIIStTS bmat-rd uSimrimS by
A® mam sfiritwltKfe ImminHt^niM
■ntfrf part kw* again* Sabbatfe-faeakiiMr,
(«H that Ae fwa jt tim og* »J| dkm,)
and like dapoatutm of the cotuUaalkm mawt
ifady a, if they ran mevemm thm fmr,
obtain the pnreupe of yet Mt Mringtxt ben
again* Aom *k« diaot 4< aiw aw 4a;
aiove aaether. 1 bat esteem “rttry day”—
who ere Mt trilling that may man *hail judge
them m respect to a holy day, or the new
moon, or the Solicth" —old wLe mean to
stand last in the liberty wheronrth Christ
hath made them free, and not to be calattgfcd
again with the yoke of bondage.” ha i»ifw
1 porters do a* rely aolely apon reaaoa, axgu
meat, persoaawm, bat alao brute force—upon
t penal law and thus, is atsvkmg to crush
by violence the rights of corjetence, and reli
gious liberty and equality, tl.eir real spirit is
1 revealed as at war with the genic* cf Repub
liranisni and the spirit of Chriatiantiy.
Believing that the efforts of this Sabbath
Union ought to be baffled by at least a corres
ponding energy on the port of the friends of
civil and religious liberty
That the Sabbath, according to the Jewish
Scriptures, was given “tothe ehildnn of Is
rael and to no other people, —as a Sign''
t between them and God, and terminated, with
all the other Mosaic rituals belonging to the
tnihistmfion of decth, written and tngrann
j on stones on the introduction of “/Ac mmts
j tration of the i*pirit” and the substitution of
a better covenant, which was established upon
better promises
That Christianity knows nothing of a holy
day, but only of a holy life,— the j<ossessioo
of a spirit which works no ill to any one, and
is “the fulfilling of the law;”
That the worship of God docs not pertain
to any particular day—is not a special, isolated
performance and cannot come by obser
vation”—but is purely spiritual m its nature,
and comprehended iu a cheerful obedience to
the will of the Father, so lar as it is made
known
That the distinction made between nered
and secular acts, by the advocates of Sabbath
keeping,—the sacred being the strict perform
ance t f religious observances, and the secular
such as undoing heavy burdens, letting the
oppressed go free, reclaiming the drunkard,
i laboring in the field or the workshop, public
travelling, transporting the United States
mail, —is a distinction not liased upon reason
or Christianity, but calculated to lower the tone
of individual and public morality, and to de
press the immutable standard of moral obliga
tiops
That the Sabbath, as now recognis'd and
enforced, is one of the main pillars of Priest
craft and Superstition, and the stronguold of a
merely ceremonial Religion
That, in the hands of a Sabbat rang clergy,
it is a mighty obstacle in the way of all the
reforms of the age—such as Anti-Slavery,
Peace, Temperance, Purity, Human Brother
hood, &c., Sic. —and rendered adamantine in
its aspect towards bleeding Humanity, whose
cause must not be pleaded, but whose cries
must be stifled, on its “sacred occurrence
and believing, especially,
That all penal laws respecting the religious
observance of any day as the Sabbath are
despotic and anti-christian, and ought to be im
mediately abrogated
That the interference of the State, in mat"
ters of religious faith and outward observan
ces, is not only unwarrantable,but a usurpation
not to be tolerated
That they who are for subjecting to
pains and penalties, all who do not construe
the Scriptures in their light, in regard to a
religious observance, arc actuated by a mis
taken or malevolent spirit, which is utterly at
variancy wilh the spirit of Christ, which in
various ages has resorted to the dungeon, the
rack, the gallows, and the stake, for the ac
complishment of its purpose, and which ought
to be boldly confronted and rebuked
We, the undersigned, therefore, invite all
who agree with us essentially is these views
of the Sabbath question, to meet IN CON
VENTION, in the city of Boston, on Thurs
day and Friday, the 23d and 34th of March
next, to confer together, and to decide upon
such measures for the dissemination of light
and knowledge, on this subject as may be
deemed expedient.
In publishing this call for au Anti-Sabbath
Convention,we desire to be clearly understood.
We have no objection either to the first or the
seventh day of the week as a day if rest from
bodily toil, both for man and beast. On the
contrary, siuh rest is not only desirable, but
indisprnsible. Neither man nor beast can
long endure unmitigated labor. But we do
not believe that it is in harmony with the will
of God, or the physical nature of man, that
mankind should be doomed to hard and wast
ing toil six days out of seven, to obtain a bare
subsistance. Reduced to such a pitiable con
dition. the rest of one day in the week is in
deed grateful, and must be regarded as a
blessing 5 but it is wholly inadequate to repair
the physical injury or the moral degradation
consequent on such protracted labor. It is
notin accordance with the law of life, that our
race should be thus worked, and only thus par
tially relieved from suffering and a premature
death. They need more, and must have more,
instead of less rest and it is only for them to
be enlightened and reclaimed —to put away
those things which now cause them to grind
in the prison-liouse of Toil, namely, idolatry,
priestcraft, sectarianism, slavery, war, intem
perance, licentiousness, monopoly, and the
like—in short, to live in peace, obey the eter
nal law' of being, strive for each other s wel
fare, and glorifiv God in their bodies ami
spirits w hich are His”—ami they will secure
the rest, not only of one day in seven, but of
a verv large portion of their earthly existence.
To them shall be granted the mastery over ev
ery day and every hour of time, as against
want and affliction; for the earth shall be filled
with abundance for all.
Nor do we deny the right of any number of
persons to oliserve a particular day of the
week as holy time, by such religious rites
and ceremonies as they may deem acceptable
to God. To their ow n master they stand or
fall. In regard to all such matters, it is for
everv one to be fully persuaded in his ow n
mind, and to obey the promptings of his own
conscience conceding to others the hberty he
claims for himself.
The sole and distinct ireue that we make is
this :—We maintain that the seventh-day .Sab
bath was exclusively Jewish iu its origin and
design that no holiness, in any sense, at
taches to the first day of the w eek, more than
to any other; and that the attempt to compel
the observance of any day *s theSahlath,”
especially by penal enactments, w unauthor
ized by scripture or reason, and a shameful
art of imposture and tyranny We claim for
ourselves, and for all mankind, the right to
worship God according to the dictates of our
own conscience. This right, inherent and
inalienable, is cloven down in the United
States; and we call upon all who desire
to preserve civil and religious liberty to rally
for its rescue.
By that infallible test of consciocs rectitude
which Jesus gave to his disciples What
soever a would that inen should do to you,
do ve even so to them,”— let those whp ,Sah
batize on the first day of the week Vroeas
vatd. At present, they constitute the maori
tv, we the minority, in this country;—hence,
the legislative power is in their hands, which
tbev do aot scruple to uae for the purpose of
tTt 4 coercing our consciences. Now
let the esse be reversed. Suppose this pow
er were ia the band of those who do not Sab
hatiae, and they should proceed to enact pe
nal laws, forbidding the observance of any
day as tbs Sabbath—would aot the Sukhaia
riaas cry oat against 'such laws as vexatious
and tvraaaical, destructive of the nghto
of enwsrif nrr. sad a disgrace to the statute
hook?
We are aware that we shall inevitably he
aeoned by the chief prison senheaaed Phar
iseea of the ureaenituae, aa waa Jeans by the
wav daas ia hie age, a mt of God,” be
cause we “de not keep the Sabbath day
bat ore are persuaded, that to expose the pop
ular delusion which prevails on this subject,
ia to adranez the tons* <f a furs Christianity,
a.*. __w~ m -J tMssiso aomm dho
<9 JPPHMPr wfWt iW WOWwRtJf wmm v
mmkat* street moral mmd nhgtmn accmmto
behty mall the eamerrms of life, on oil dtps of
the meeh mitLr. If we are “jofidels” er **bcr
tiee” for this belief, we ar? content to stand
this point, with
Utbrr. Calvin. Mcbnrthoo, Roger
Joha mum, Ptuu, Fox, Priestly,
Behham. I afey,Whitby, Arehtohop Wtate
of others, who are even where
bT tbe wuh wWh thev
are^ identified, ss among the heigh*** orna
ments rf the C hnrtiaw CJujtrh, Ztd who are
essentially agreed with ss ia the omnmi thm
the Sabbath was a Jewish iastitotioa.
WM. I*. GARRISON, Boston, Mass.
FRANCIS JACKSON,
THEODORE PARKER,
EDMUND JAC KSON,
CHARLES F. liOVEY,
JOHN W. BROWNE.
MARIA W. CHAPMAN,
HAS. k\ WHIPPLE
SAMUEL MAY, J*.
R F. WALLCUT,
Samuel philhrick, Brookline.
INCREASE S. SMITH, Durrester.
EDMI'ND QUINCY, Dutlham.
LORING MOODY, Lynn.
ANDREW ROBESON, New Ilerffonl.
•STEPHEN S. FOSTER, Worcester.
ABBY KBULLY FOSTER,
EVERETT, Princeton,
GEORGE W. BENSON, Northampton.
PARKER PILLSBURY, Concord, N. H.
LUTHER MELEIDY, Amherst,
JAMES MOTT, Philadelphia, Pa.
LUCRETIA MOTT,
EDWARD M. DAVIS,
CHAS. C. BURLEGII,
HENRY C. WRIGHT,
J. MILLER M< KIN,
THOMAS M< CLINTOCK. Waterloo, N Y.
JOS. C. HATH AW AY, Farmington, do.
JAMES EDDY, New York.
A TALK OF THE SOUTH.
1
er A WkCTHION.
j| If* reader, you hove never lived in a
slave-land, you can know nothing, coin-
I paratively, t»fthe terror which an insor
1 section creates.
All other perils are understood.—
Fire upon land, or storm at sea, wrap
ping mortals in a wild or watery shroud,
may he readily imagined. Pestilence,
walking abroad in tlie city, making the
sultry air noisome and heavy, hushing
the busy throng, awing into silence
heated avarice, and glooming the very
hati.its of civilization, as if they were
charnel-houses, can be quickly un
derstood. But the appalling terror
of a slave revolt, made instinct with
life, and stunning, as it pervades the
community—the nntlrscribed and inde
scribable horror which fills and sways
every bosom as the word is whispered
along the streets, or borne quickly from
hous<‘ to house, or speeded by fleetest
couriers from plantation to plantation—
“an insurrection!”—“an insurrec
tion!” must he fell and teen to be re
alized.
Nor is this strange. The blackest
ills arc associated with it. Hate, deep
anJ undying, to be gratified—revenge,
as bitter and fiendish as the heart can
feel, to be glutted over while indulged
—lust, unbridled and fierce, to be glut
ted—death, we know not how or where,
hut death in its basest and most agoni
zing form; or life, dishonored and
more horrible than most excruciating
death these are the essence of an in
surrection. Could worse forms of evil
be conjured up? Can any human ac
tions, —the very darkest that walk at
midnight,—excite equal terror? Wc
i pity slaveholders who are startled by
j the dread of it, and wonder at their
want of manhood in exposing the gen
tler sex to this human whirlwind of
fury, and revenge, and lust, and death.
But to our story. I remember, when
a hoy, going out one bright day on a
hunting excursion, and, on returning in
the evening, meeting at the bridge, a
mile or more from the town I live in, a
body of armed inen. The road turns
suddenly, as you approach the spot from
the south, and is skirted, on either side,
by deep swamps. I did not see them,
consequently, until I cainc directly up
on them.
Where have you been?” was the!
abrupt question put to me by the cap-|
1 tain, without offering the usual saluta
tion.
“I have been hunting,” I replied,
along the banks of the river, and up
by the old Hermitage.”
“Hid you see or meet any one con
tinued my questioner, no man else say
ing a word.
J “No one.”
“Go home, instantly,” he said im
peratively, “and keep up the main road.;
Don’t cross over by the swamp, or the'
old ford,” —two nearer footpaths to the!
j town, skirling heavily timbered land.
I cannot recollect now whether I had
heard before of an insurrection. I had 1
I not, certainly, thought much about it,
if at all. But I knew, instantly, why
these armed citizens were at the bridge.
The low, compressed, yet clear voice
of the captain, the silence of his men,
their audible breathing as they waited
for my replies to his questions, their,
military order, with sentries in advance*
—told me all, and I experienced a dread
which chilled me through; and the
deepening shade of the forest, under;
which I had so often whistled merrily, 1
served now to add to the gloom of the 1
hour. I asked no more questions.—
With quickened pace I pushed up the
main road, and was not long in reach
ing my father’s house. I wished to I
to know the worst, and to help in meet-
ing it.
I found all alarm at home. Guns
j were stacked in the passage, and men
were there ready to use them. Two
friends were in the parlor, informing
the household of the place of rendez
vous for the women and children, and
the signal which was to he given if the
I town should he “fired,” or an attack be
made upon it by the negroes. I in
quired, and learned here the cause and,
extent of the danger.
That morning, a negro had informed
his master of the plot, and had repre
sented to him that it reached plantations
an hundred miles off, and embraced
the thickest negro settlements in the
State
The first step taken Mas, to arrest
tile leaders named (some thirty in num
ber) by the informer. The second, to
inform town and county of the impend
ing danger. Armed patrols were start
ed out in every direction. Every
avenue to the towoi was guarded,
and every hous* in it made a sort of
military flirt. The apprehension was,
that the plantation negroes would rise,
an<t sweep all before them, with fire and
sword; and the white strength” was
prepared, in all its force, to meet this
contingency.
The master, if he be kind to his
bondmen, is apt to believe that they will
never turn ngninst him. We hear
planters say, “I would arm my slaves,”
whenever this subject is broached.—
This is a strong expression, and to be
received with grains of allowance,”
as the sequel will illustrate. Yet, hoy
like, I felt as it no soul, in our yard, 1
could strike a blow against one of the 1
family, and, in this temper, I went to;
1 the- servants’ quarters. Not one of them' 1
I was out a strange event aud not a
neighbor’s domestic was in a still
stranger circumstance! They were
silent as the grave. Even “Momma,”
privileged to say and do what she
pleased, and who would be heard amid
the laughter and tongue-clatter of the; 1
j rest, had nothing to tell me. 1 a-ked 1
a few questions; they were simply an- 1
sw'ered. It was evident that the ser
vants were frightened; they knew not,'
what they feared; hut they were spell-i 1
bound by an undefined dread of evil to|
(them, and harm tons. Indeed, this
was the case w ith the blacks generally, i
and while the excitement lasted, the I
pat sol did not arrest one slave away i
from his quarters! An honest Irishman i
remarked at the time, it was hard to t
tell which were most frightened, the
whites or the negroes!”
The proposed reroll, u rffards ter
ritory, was an extended otoe. It em
biteed a region haring over forty thou
sand male slave*. But the plot was
poorly arranged, and it was clear that
those who planned it. knew little of
nothing of the power they had to meet
and master. For six months the lead
ers of it had been brooding over theii
design, and two days before its con
summation they were in prison, and
virtually doomed as felons! Thru
seizure arrested the insurrection with
out bloodshed, —but not without a sac
rifice of lift! That was demanded bj
society and the law and made. Thirtect
of the negroes arrested were declared
guilty, and hung! They bad, accord
ing to all notions, then, a fair trial;
lawyers defended them, and did theii
best; an impartial and intelligent jun
determined their fate; and by the voic«
of man, not of Grid, this number of hu
man beings was legally” sent out o
existence!
The leader of the insurrection
Isaac I k/icw well. He was heat
man to a family intimate with mine.—
Implicit confidence was placed in him
not only by his master, but by the min
ister of the church, and everybody wh<
knew him. The boys called him “Un
cle Isaac,” and the severest patro
would take his word, and let him go hit
way.
lie was some forty yiars old when h«
first planned the revolt. His physica
development was fine. He was mus
cular and active, the very man a sculp
tor would select for a model. And yet
with all his great strength, he was kirn
and affectionate, and simple as a wo
man! He was never tired of “doing’
for others. In intellect, he was richly
gifted—no negro in the place couh
compare with him for clear-headednesi
and nobleness of will. He was born t<
make a figure, and, with equal advan
tages, would have been among the firs
in any throng. He had character r tha
concentration of religious, moral, ant
mental strength, which, when possesset
by high or low, gives man power ovei
his fellows, and imparts life to his act!
and name.
His superiority was shown on th<
trial. It was necessary to prove tha
he was the leader, and counsel wert
about taking this step. I am th<
man,” said Isaac. There was no hesi
in his manner, no treniulousnes!
in »i. voice; the words sounded nat
urally but so clear and distinct thai
the Court and audience knew it was so
and that it could not have been otliar
wisc.
An effort was made to persuade hin
to have counsel. His young masters
pressed the point. The Court urged
him. Slaveholders were anxious for it,
not only because they could not help li
king his bearing, but because they
wished to still every voice of censure,
far or near, by having a fair trial for
ill. But he was resolute. He made
10 set speeches; played no part.—
O’lear above all, and with the authori
ative tone of truth, he replied: “I am
the man, and am not afaid or ashamed
to confess it.”
Sentence of death was passed upon
him and twelve others!
The next step, before the last, was,
to ascertain all the negroes who had
entered into the plot. Isaac had man
aged this part wisely, kept his
own counsel, and, besides his brother,
as was supposed, no one knew who had
agreed to nelp him at home, or from a
distance. The testimony was abundanl
that he had the promise of such help.
His declaration to the colored inform
er, the bonfire of the town will raise
forty thousand armed men for us,”
was given in %idence. He admitted
the fact. But no ingenuity, no prom
ises, no threats, could induce or force
him to reveal a single name. You
have me,” he said; “not one othei
shall you get if I can prevent it. The
only pain I feel, is, that my life alont
is not to be taken. If these,” pointing
to his fellow captives, w r ere safe, i
should die triumphantly.”
The anxiety on this point, naturally,
was very deep, and when the usual ex
pedients had failed, the following
scheme was hit upon. Isaac loved his
minister, as everybody did who wor
shipped at his altar, and the minister
reciprocated heartily that love. “Isaac
will not resist him—he will get out oi
Isaac all we want to know”—this was
the general belief, and acting upon it,
a committee visited the pastor. An
explanation took place, and the good
rnan readily consented to do all he
:ould.
He went to the cell. The slave
ielon and the man of God confronted
each other!
I come, Isaac,” said the latter, “to
ind out from you everything about this
vicked insurrection, and you,”—“Mas
er,” hastily interrupted Isaac, “you
:ome for no such purpose. You may
lave been over-persuaded to do so, or
mthinkingly have given your consent,
lut will you, who first taught me reli
gion, who made me to know that my
fesus suffered and died in truth—will
'ou tell me to betray confidence sa
redly entrusted to me, and thus sacri
ice others’ lives, because my life is to
le forfeited? Cau you persuade me,
is a sufferer and strugglcr for freedom,
o turn traitor to the very men who
rere to help me Oh, master! let me
ove you;” and rising, as if uncertain
»f the influence of his appeal, to his
ull stature, and looking his minister di
ectly ia the face, he added, with
otnniandiug majesty you know
ae.”
I wish the r erg language of Isaac,
he slave, could be used. I wish I
ouldNrepeat the tale as I heard the old
uinistcr tell it. So minute, yet so nat
iral, so particular in detail, yet so life
ike! The jail, its inner cell, the look
tnd bearing of Isaac, his calmness, his
greatness of soul! It was touching in
he extreme. I have known sternest
lavehoiders to weep like children as
hey would listen to the story. But
can only narrate it as 1 remember it,
n briefest outline. The old divine coo
inued:
I could not proceed. I looked at
sane; uiy eye foil before his. I could
ot forget his rebuke. 1 acknowledged
iy sin. For the first time in my maniste
ial life, I had done a mean, a bane
ct, and standing by the side of a
hawed felon, I foil myself to be ike
rimiual.
A long rifonre ensued. The imnis-
I 1 4
ter was ia hopes that Isaac would bread
it? he did not. He made several ef
fist* to do so, b«( toiled. Recoverto|
from his shock at length, and reverting
in h a own mind, to the horrors whicl
the revolt would have occasioned,he re
sumed the conversation thus:
But, base, yoars was a wicket
plot; and, if you had succeeded, yot
would have made the very streets rut
blood. How could you think of this
How consent to kill your old mis
tress? How dream of slaying me am
mine?**
“Master,” Isaac quickly responded
I lore old master and mistress.
love you and yours. I would die t<
bless you any time. Master, I wouit
hurt no human being, no living thing
But you taught me that God was th*
God of black as well as white—that h<
was no respecter of persons—that ii
his eye all were alike equal,—and thtt
there was no religion unless we love*
him and our neighbor, and did tint*
others as we would they should do unti
us. Master, I was a slave. My wifi
and children were slaves. If equa
with others before Gt d, they should b*
equal among men. I saw my younj
masters learning, holding what thej
made, and making what they could—
But, master, my tace could make noth
ing, hold nothing. What they did thej
did for others, not for themselves. An*
they had to do it, whether they wishe*
it or not, for they were slaves. Mas
ter, this is not loving our neighbor, oi
i doing to others as we would have then
do to us. I knew there was and coul*
be no help for me, for wife or children
for my iace, except we were all free
and as the whites would not let this b<
so, and as God told me he could onlj
help those who helped themselves,
preached freedom to the slaves, and bit
'jthem strike for it like men. Master
we were betrayed But I tell you now
if we had succeeded, I should hav*
slain old master and mistress and yoi
first, to show my people that I coul*
sacrifice iny love, as I ordered them t<
sacrifice their hates, to have justice
justice for them—justice for mine—jus
tice for all. I should have been mis-
I erable and wretched for life. I coulc
not kill any human creature without be-
I ing so. But, master, God here”—point
ing with his chained hand to his heart—
“told me then, as he tells me now, that
I was right.
I don’t know how it was,” contin
ued the old minister, but I was over
powered. Isaac mastered me. It wai
not that his reasoning was conclusive;
that I could have answered easily; bul
my conduct had been so base, and his
honesty was so transparent, his look sc
earnest and sincere, his voice so com
manding, that I forgot everything in
sympathy for him. He was a hero,
and bore himself like one, without
knowing it! I knew, by that instinct
which ever accompanies goodness, that
the slave-felon’s conscience was un
stained by crime, even in thought; anc
grasping him by the hand, without
scarce knowing what I was going tc
do, I said, Isa&c, let us pray. And
prayed long, prayed earnestly. I did
not stop to think of my words. My
heart poured itself out, and I was re
lieved.”
i “And what,” I asked, “was the char
acter of your prayer?”
“What it ought to have been,” en
ergetically replied the old divine. I
prayed to God as our common Father.
I acknowledged that he would do jus
tice that it was hard for us poor mor
tals to say who was right and who wrong
ion earth; that the very best were sin
ners, and those deemed the worst by us
might be regarded the best by Him.—
I prayed for Isaac. I prayed God to
forgive him, if wrong; to forgive the
whites, if he was right; to forgive and
bless all. I was choked with tears. I
caught hold of Isaac’s hand and press
ed it warmly, received his warm
I pressure in return. And with a joy I
S never experienced before or since, 1
heard his earnest, solemn “Amen,” as
I closed.
“We stood together for some time
in silence. Isaac w r as deeply mov
ed. I saw it by the working of his
frame, and the muscle of his face, and
his eye. For the first time, tear-drops
stood on his eye-lids. But stilling ev
ery emotion, be began, as calmly as if
he were going to rest:
4 Master, I shall die in peace, and
I give you a dying man’s blessing. I
shall see you no more on earth. Give
my love to old master and mistress,
and’—for a moment he faltered, but
with concentrated energy choked down
instantly his deepest emotion, as he
continued, more solemnly that I ever
heard mortal speak— and, master, if
you love me, if you love Jesus, lead
my wife and children as you have led
me, to—heaven. God forever bless
you, master.*
We parted I saw him no more.—
I could not see him hung, or pray for
him, as requested to do by others, at
the last dying hour. I had been with
him long. For lour hotirs we were to
gether in his narrow, noisome cell.—
How indcllibly are the events which
occurred in them impressed upon my
memory! Oh, Slavery! Slavery!”
The citizens outside awaited anx
iously the good minister’s egress from
the jail, and, when he appeared, crowd
ed round him to know* the result. He
looked like' one jaded with a long jour
ney. He was worn down. “It is
useless—it is useless—let him die ini
peace,” was all be said; and seeing
that he was deeply moved, and taking
it for granted that he had been engaged
in devotional exercises with the dying,
silence pervaded the group, and he was
allowed to depart is peace. And never
in public or in a mixed audience, would
that minister refer to Isaac, or the hours
b« spent with him!
No other effort to elicit information
from the leader was made, and none
who promised him help, were discovered
through him.
The death-day came. A mighty
crowd gathered to witness the sad event
to which, in that place, it was to be de
voted; and the military, with gleaming
sword* and bright bayonets, stood un
der the gallows to guard against es
cape or difficulty. Six felons” were
upon the gallows—it could hold no more
—«*d Isaac was first on the list. “Be
men,** said he, when one of the num
ber showed some timidity, “and die
like men. 11l give you an example
then pbejr, wy brother.’* That brother
stood nest farm. Isaac gazed intently
upon the crowd—some thought he was
I looking for his wile and children—and
i j then spoke his farewell to his young
masters. A few words passed between
him and hts brother, when, saying an*
dibly, IH die a freeman,"he sprmne
up as high as he could, and fell heari
lr as the knotted rope cheeked his fidl.
Instantly bis ftaine was con raised, and
in its muscular action, his feet neared
the plank on which he bad stood, look
mg as if he thought to regain it. His
brother, turning his face to his com
rades, deliberately put his hand up
on his side, and leaning forward, held
I the body clear with his elbow, as he
said, let us die like him.*’
The authorities perceiving that the
i terrors tf the law would be lost, and
i none of 4, the good” they anticipated be
secured among the blacks, especially,
II who filled up the outer circle of the
dense crowds, if this lofty heroism were
(.witnessed. They proceeded rapidly
(j with the execution, and in a few mo
i meats, Isaac and his brother, and
their felon comrades, were asleep to
gether!
The bodies of the blacks, after
dangling in the air the usual time, as if
in mockery of heaven and earth, were
cut down, coffined, and carted away to
their burial-place. This was an out
ofi-the-way old field, with a stagnant
lagoon on three sides of it, and a bar
ren sand-waste, covered with a sparse
1 growth of short pines, on the other.
Beneath the shade of one of these
pines w'hich skirted the field, and not
far off from the felons’ graves, a col
ored woman, and a cluster of lit
tle ones, might have been seen.—
I These were Isaac’s wife and children.
They stood where the;* were, until all,
save one white man, had departed. He!
made a signal, and they approached
the burial spot. He pointed to a par-
J ticular spot, and left. None know, 1
save our Father, how long the widowed
one and the fatherless remained there,
or what were their emotions. But next
morning, a rough stake was found
driven into the earth, beneath which
Isaac lay, and ere the next Sabbath:
dawned, a pile of stones, with an np
right memorial, was placed at the head
of his grave. How these stones were
obtained—for none like them were to
be seen within thirty or forty miles—
no one could say, though all knew i cho
put them there. The rude me- j
morial still stands! The grave of Isaac
is yet known! And that widowed one
while she lived—for she, too, has de
parted—kept the lone burial-spot free
from weeds, and covered it with the
wild rose, as if the spirit which
once had animated the cold clay be
neath, loved a robe of beauty and
sweetness!
As not the least remarkable feature
in Isaac’s conduct was the course he
pursued towards his family, we cannot
close without referring to it. He was
an exemplary husband, and a wise as
well as kind father. His wife was not
superior, intellectually, but she was
affectionate, and he so moulded her,
character as to make her worthy of
him. His children were well-behaved,
and remarkable for their polite inan
ners. His very household gave evi
dence of this! Every thing was in
order; the furniture was neat; in all
the arrangements he had an intelligent!
eye to comfort and taste; he had a!
watch, and some tolerable scripture en
gravings; and his little garden was;
well stocked with the best vegetables, i
the best fruit, and the rarest flowers.
Of the plot Isaac’s wife knew noth
ing. He had evidently thought of his
failure, and committed no women, and
,as few married men as he could. He
meant, let what might happen to him,
that his partner should suffer no harm.
This was evident enough from his con
duct. For the first thing he did after
his arrest, was to desire an interview
with his old master. This was denied
him. Not that the old gentlemen was
I cruel or angry,—for he loved Isaac,
but hecase, as he said, he could not
stand it.” The next thing was, to send
for his young master, lie came, and
to hiai he said, Massa Thomas, I
have sent to you to say, that my wife
does not know anything about the in
surrection, or any of my actions. I
wanted to see old master to beg him
not to sell or separate her and the
children. I must get you to do that.—
And, Massa Thomas, when your father
dies, I want you to promise that you
will help them.” The young man
promised, (and we rejoice to say, his
word was kept,) and then Isaac, thei
felon, blessed him. Never again, un
til his last hour, when conversing with
his minister, did he refer to his family,
and the only message he sent them was
a torn Bible, with this sentence rudely)
writ down on one of the leaves. “We
shall live again, and be together.” So
deep was his affection for his family, j
and so careful was he to ward off every
suspicion of danger from them!
I met last summer the slaveholder—
an intelligent and humane mail—who
commanded the military the day Isaac
was hung.
I'referred to the scene. He spoke,
of it as one of the most moving that
he had ever and to my sur
prise, though very much to my gratifi
cation, remarked;
I never knew what true heroism
was, until I saw Isaac manifest it upon
his seizure, trial, and death. I felt my;
inferority to him every way, and I nev
er think of him without ranking him
among the best and bravest men that
ever lived.”
The record below tells of his crime;
and be will be remembered on earth as
a felon! but the record above will con
tain his virtues, and in Heaven the good
will know and love him—for Isaac was
a max. N
i AasiDriTY m Pnminsct— I The most
usual way aaumg young men who have no
resolution of their own, first to ask one
friend's advice, and follow it for sometime
then to ask advice of another, and turn to that;
m of a third still unsteady, always ehaagin*.
However, be aurrd that every rhafn of
this nature is for the worse. People may tell
vou of yoor being unfit for some peculiar oc
cupation |n life but heed them not whatever
employment yon follow with per severance
and aanduisy, wifi be found fit for yon: it will
be your support in voutii and war n—ifoft
oMafe.^^
THE rREM IJf SOUTHERN WDIA.
Those who are aware of the very
limited means of knowledge of any
kind in Southern India thirty-five years
ago, and who recollect that American
missionaries were at that period refused
a footing on the. coast, and forced to
take refuge in a neighboring island, will
be surprised to learn the number of
newspapers and periodicals bow pub
lished in Bombay. A missionary of
that region remarked to the writer,
some time since, that these Bombay
journals were fast coming into the habit
of copying religious intelligence from
the New ork and Boston secular pa
pers. The Missionary Herald tor this
month says:—
In the improving condition of educa
tion in that part cf India, the Press is
an instrument of great power; and Bom
bay seems likely to be the chief place
for printing and publislung books for
all the surrounding country. Rev. .Mr.
Hume mentions the singular fact that
fifteen periodicals, most of them weekly,
are printed at Bombay for the uativc
population.—N;t to speak of pii«ting[
offices, whether Ruropean or native, in
which type is employed, he says there
are forty-five or fifty lithograhpic press
es engaged in publishing native works,
which obtaiu considerable circulation.
The books issued by the missiou are
put in circulation more by sale, and less
gratuitously, than formerly.
It is a fact to he gratefully* noted,
that the entire Scriptures translated in
to the Mahrnita language are now in
a printed form. This work was com
pleted on the first of March last. All
the Scriptures which have been printed
in Mahratta, with the exception of n
single gospel issued years ago, have
been printed at the press belonging to
this Board; and the New Testament
and Old Testament as far as Chronicles
11, with the Psalms, were translated by!
members of our mission. The Scrip-!
tures have also been printed at our
press in the Goojrattce language.
From the Anti-Sls;Tery Record.
HENRY BOYD.
Henry Boyd* was born a slave in
Kentucky. Of imposing stature, well
knit muscles, and the countenance of
one of nature’s noblemen, at the age
of eighteen he had so far won the con
fidence of his master, that he not only
consented to sell him the right and title
to his freedom, but gave him his own
time to earn the money. With a gen
eral pass from his master, Henry made
his way to the Kanawha salt works,
celebrated as the place where Senator
Ewing, of Ohio, chopped out his educa
tion with his axe! And there, too, did
Henry Boyd chop out his liberty. By
performing double labor, he got double
wages. In the day-time he swung hi:
axe upon the wood, and for half the
night he tended tho boiling salt kettles,
sleeping the other half by their side.—
After having accumulated a suilicienl
sum, he returned to his master and paiti
it over for his freedom. He next ap
plied himself to learn the trade of a
carpenter and joiner. Such was his
readiness to acquire the use of tools,
that he soon qualified himselfto receive
the wages of a journeyman. In Ken
tucky, prejudice does not forbid master
mechanics to teach colored men their
trades.
He now resolved to quit the domin
ions of slavery and try his fortunes in
a free state, and accordingly directed
his steps to the city of Cincinnati. The
journey reduced his purse to the last
quarter of a dollar, but with hi 3 tools
on his back and a set of muscles that
well knew how to use them, he entered
the city with a light heart. Little did he
dream of the reception he was to meet.
There" was work enough to he dune in
his line, but no master-workman would
employ “a nigger Day alter day did
Henry Boyd olfer his services from
shop to shop, but as often was he re
pelled, generally with insult, and ouct*
with a kick! At last he found the shop
of an Englishman, too recently arrived
to understand the grand peculiarity of
American feeling. This man put a
plane in his hand and asked him to
make proof of his skill. This i.s in
had order,” said Boyd, and with that
he gave the instrument certain nice
professional knocks with his hammer,
till he brought it to suit his practised
eye. “Enough,” said the Englishman;
I see you can use tools.” Boyd,
however, proceeded to dress a board in
a very able and workmanlike manner,
while the journeymen from a long line
of benches gathered round with looks
that bespoke a deep personal intere.-t
in the matter. You inay go to work,”
said the master of the shop, right glad
to employ so good a workman. The
words had no sooner left his mouth,
than his American journeymen, unbut
toning their aprons, called, as one man,
‘for the settlement of their wages.—
What, what!” said the amazed Eng
lishman, what does this mean?” It
means that we will not work with a
nigger replied the journeyman. But
he is a first-rate workman.” But we
wont't stay in the same shop with a nig j
ger.” We are not in the habit of work
ing with niggers. Then I will build
a shanty outside, and he shall work in
that” “No, no; we won’t work for at
boss who employs niggers. Pay us i
up and we’ll be off.” The poor master:
of the shop turned with a despairing look
to Boyd—“ You see how it is my friend,
my workmen will all leave me. I am
sorry for it, but I can’t hire you.”—
Even at this repulse cur adventurer
did not despair. There might still be
mechanics in the outskirts of the city
who had too few journeymen to lie bound
by their prejudices. His quarter oi a
dollar had long since di.-apjH Uixd, but
by carrying a traveller’s trunk or turn
ing his hand to any chance job he con
trived to exist till he had made applica
tion to every carpenter and joiner in
the city and its suburbs. .Yof one wowM
employ him. By this time the iron of
prejudice, more galling than anything
he bad ever knows of slavery, bad en
tered bis soul. Ha walked down on
tho river 1 bank below tho cay, «nd
throwing himtrlf upon the ground, gave
way to an agony of despair. He had
found himself tho object of universal
contempt; bis plans were all frustrated,
•TW apaaont lg_ jsfcvw fr— <h Bp» «f frtend
mSI /tHOn* 1 &KT”
his hopes dashed, and his dear-bought
freedom made of no cfleet By such
trials weak minds are prostrated in ah
jeef and slavish serrdlty, stronger ones
are made the enemies and depredators
of society, and it is only the highest
class of moral heroes that come off
like gold from the furnace. Of this
class, however, was Henry Boyd. Re
covering, from hi* dejection, he sur
veyed the brawny muscle* that strung
hi* herculean limbs. A new design
rushed into hi* mind, and new rcsolur
tiou filled his heart, He sprang upon
his feet and walked firmly and rapidly
towards the city, doubtless with aspira
tions that might have fitted the words of
the poet
•«Tfiv spirit, fxnrrrsnrscr. fc*t me share,
tan) <4 die Ik* heart and rasft eve.”
The* first object which attracted hw
eagle eye,” on reaching the city, was
one of the huge river boats Jaden with
|>ig-iron. drawn up to the landing.-
The captain of the craft was just in
quiring of the merchant who owned its
contents for a hand to assist in unload
ing it. “I uni the very fellow for you,”
said Boyd, stripping offhis coat, rolling
up his sleeves, and laying hold of the
work. “Yes, sure enough,'that is the
very fellow for you,” said the merchant
The resolution and nlncritv ot Boyd
interested him exceedingly, and during
the foor or five days whilst a flotilla of
boats w ere discharging their cargoes ©I
pig-iron with unaccustomed despatch#
he became familiar with his history,
with the exception of all that pertained
to his trade, which Boyd thought proper
to keep to himself. In consequence,
our adventurer next found himself pro
moted to the portership of the mer
chant’s store, a post which he filled
to great satisfaction. He had a hand
and a head for everything, and an oc
casion was not long wanting to prove
it. A joiner was engaged to erect a
counter, but failing by a drunken Irol
lic, the merchant was disappointed and
vexed. Rather in passion than iu
earnest, he turned to his faithful porter.
I Here, Henry, you can do almost any
thing, why can’t you do this job?
“Perhaps I could, sir, if I had my
tools and the stuff,” was the reply.—
“Your tools!” exclaimed the merchant
in surprise, for till now he knew noth
ing of his trade. Boyd explained that
he'had learned the trade of a carpenter
and joiner, and had no objection to try
the job. The merchant handed him the
money, and told him to make as good
a counter as he could. Ihe work was
done with such promptitude, judgment
and finish, that his employer broke oft’
a contract for the erection of a largo
frame warehouse which he was about
closing with the same mechanic wlm
had disappointed him in the matter of
i the counter, and gave the job to Henry.
The money was furnished, and Boyd
was left to procure the materials and
boss the job at his ow n discretion. This
he found no difficulty in doing; and
what is remarkable, among the numer
ous journeymen whom he employed,
were some of the very men who took
off their aprons at his appearance in
the Englishman’s shop! The merchant
was so pleased with his new warehouse
that lie proceeded to set up the intelli
gent builder in the exercise of his trade
in the city. Thus Henry Boyd found
himself raised at once almost, beyond
the reach of the prejudice which had
well-nigh crushed him. He built
houses and accumulated property.
White journeymen and apprentices
were glad to be in his employment, and
to sit at his table. Ho is now n wealthy
mechanic, living in his own house in
Cincinnati, and his enemies who have
tried to supplant him have as good rea
son as his friends to kuow that he is a
man of sound judgment and a most vig
orous intellect.
W ithout having received a day's
schooling in his life, Henry Boyd is well
read in history, has an extensive and
accurate knowledge of geography, is
an excellent arithmetician, is well in
formed in politics, having been for sev
eral years a regular subscriber to sev
eral of the best newspapers published
at the west. He is truly public spir
ited, and is remarkable for hi* morality,
generosity, and all those trait* which
mark a noble character.
Mechanics, who we trust compose a
considerable part of our readers, will
understand what power of mind it re
quired to vault at once from the bottom
to the top of the ladder. Where is the
white man who can boast a more diffi
cult performance Where is the w hite
rnan, of this or any other age or coun
try, who has shown more decision or
energy of character? And let it be
observed that the narrative illustrate*
the vincildiity as well as the strength
of American prejudice against color.
Poetry, —Dr. Chunniug says, l\>-
Ertrv, far from injuring society, is one
>f the great instruments of its refine
ment and exaltation. It lifts the mind
ibove ordinary life, gives it a respite
from depressing care, and awakens
he consciousness of its aftinity with
shat is pura and noble. In its legitim
mate and highest efforts, it has th*»
mine tendency and aim with Christi
anity, that is, to spritualize our naUirc.
Poetry has a natural alliance with out
»est affections. Its great tendency am!
purpose is to carry the mind beyond and
ibove the beaten, do.-ly, weary, walk*
>f ordinary life, to lilt it into a purer
dement, and to breathe into it
vrofennd and generous emotion. It
•evea!* to u.« the loveliness of nature,,
irings back the freshness of early feei
ng, revives the relish of simple pica
wire, keeps uuquenched the enthusiasm
vbich warmed the spring-time of our
>eing, refines youthful love, strengthen*
>ur interest in human nature by vivid
leliueatioiis of its tenderest and loftiest
celing, spreads our sympathies over all
•lasses of society, kuit* us by new tics
srith universal being, and through the
brightness of its prophetic visions, kelps
aith to lay hold on the future life.
Polk a*d Burk.—The Louisville
Journal myi that:—
A little over forty year* ago, Aaron
Burr was brought to trial on a charge
of treason, for undertaking to
within the limit* of the United State*
the means of wresting Mexico from the
dominion of Spain. It was ir« a*oo then
to dream of the conquest of Mexico, hut
it ia now the height of patriotism to un
dertake if.**
