SIXTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF
TIIE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLA
VERY SOCIETY.
The Annual Meeting commenced in
Boston on Wednesday morning, Jan.
2(>th, at the Melodeon.
The Chair was taken by Francis
Jackson, President of the Society, at
ten and a half A. M., and it w as voted,
that the Society do now proceed to
business.
Opportunity for prayer being given,
prayer was offered by John M. Spear.
Voted, That Samuel May, Jr., and
Anne W. Weston be Assistant Secre
taries during the annual meeting.
Henry C, WFight, from the Com
mittee on Business, reported the follow
lowing Resolutions:
1. Resolved, That while we deeply
regret that the Slave Power should have
been able to find one of its most willing
and useful tools in the Pilgrim blood of
Massachusetts, we must still recognize
one virtue in Robert C. W inthrop, that,
unlike his fellow Whigs, he has never
been a hypocrite in politics; he has
never pretended to own himself, or
claimed to be anything but the mouth
piece of Cotton, whether in State street
or at the capitol; he cannot be accused
of getting ollice, like Briggs, under
false pretences; neither, like the Hon.
Mr. Facing-both-ways,” did he sig
nalize his youth by thunders against
slavery on Plymouth Rock, and then,
with the fame of many years upon his
brow, say his prayers backward before
the Capitol at Richmond; on the con
trary, we are hound to allow, that he has
glways gloried in being a Dough-face
from the beginning,at honfr and abroad,
in every sphere, “however bounded, i
nnd be the shame more or less,” —that]
lie has not sought for his bargain the
decent cover of secrecy, but his prosti
tution has been open, in the market
place, and ne has worn its w ages inso-
JcuiU aud without shame; that to guard
against suspicion of hypocrisy evt u ia
.p* ,-cripture, he took can- -to pul
11> fii-,.*ul record, beforehand, "in Fm»-
t nil la 11, a pledge t" remind the world
that i:i fiis ease, at least, there were
many things beside the Lord, which
make men to be of one mind in a
house.”
‘4- Resolved, That our deep regret
to find such a character linked w ith the
name of Winthrop is forgotten in the
sad reflection that,like w*ax beneath the
seal, he is but what the schools and
churches of Boston have made him, the
faithful representative of the opinions
of his native city; and that could we
succeed in changing those opinions, the
weathercocks upon our steeples would
be laggards, compared with him, in
shifting with the wind.
3. Resolved, That the re-election of
Geo. N. Briggs to office, with all the
sins of hi* peijured and treasonable
proclamation, places Massachusetts
among the active supporters of the Mex
ican war; that not all the resolutions
WTpch even her Legislature has passed,
THE NORTH STAR.
or can pa* l arc able to bide that fact;
and that if Geo. N. Briggs has,, as hi.«
friends claim, repented of that dis
graceful act, he should he as ready to
make as public proclamation” of his
repentance as he was of his servility—
and not leave hia friends to sacrifice
character in supporting one eonvieled
of treason out of his own mouth, with
nothing to justify their confidence but
chimney-corner confessions.
Whereas, the boast of the people of
these United States is, that they are the
freest people on earth, while they hold
and use one-sixth of their fellow coun
trymen as rlem, —that they are an en
lightened people, while they punish as
heavy crime, the acquisition of knowl
edg« jmrokp; three millions of their num
ber, —that they arc a civilized people,
while one-sixth of the inhabitants are
compelled, by law, to live in absolute
heathenigm, —that the blessings of liberty
and free institutions arc extended to
all, while three millions of their number
are outlawed, and hunted with blood
hounds and rifles, for attempting to
raise themselves fiVim the com'*' <n of
brutes to that of men fi a the
condition of slaves to that of freemen;
therefore,
4. Resolved, That this misnamed re
public is a wilful Liar and a shamelfst
Hypocrite, against which the friends of
freedom in Great Britain and through
out the world ought to he warned, as
against the deadliest cnerny of the hu
man race.
Wednesday Afternoon.
William W. Brown, who came for
ard, he raid, by request, to com
wment upon a letter received by E.
Quincy from Enoch Price, of St. Louis,
Missouri, and which letter he [Mr.
Brown] had now for the first time seen.
Tho write;r of it declared himself the
owner of Win. W. Brown, said lie had
seen aud read the Narrative which W.
W. B. has lately published, and which
he admitted to he true in the main, and
after setting forth several particulars as
to the manner in which he became pos
sessed of W. W. Brown, (then known
by another name,) offered to give him
free papers if he, or his friends, would
pay to his ogent in Boston, the sum of
three hundred and twenty-five dollars.
Mr Brown said, I have always felt
that I run a great risk in passing around
here, as I do, in Massachusetts; and
now I am more than.ever sensible of the
risk I run; for at an unguarded mo
ment I may be seized upon, even here,
and dragged back to slavery in St.
Louis.” Mr. Brown spoke with evident
agitation. The audience express
ed great sympathy with him, and
by loud responses testified that there
were many who would stand forth in his
defence tn any time of danger.
Wednesday Evening.
The Society assembled in Fancuil
Hall, according to adjournment, the
President in the Chair.
Resolutions I, 3 and 3, were again
read by the Secretary, and the large
audience present was eloquently ad
dressed in thtfir support, by Edmund
Quincy, Wendell Phillips, H. C.
Wright, Win. W. Brown and Stephen
S. Foster.
H. C. Wright offered the follow ing
resolutions:
5. Resolved, That while this Repub
lic exists in its present form as a Re
public that sanctions slavery, there car
be no reasonable hope that the miseries
and oppressions, inflicted upon the
masses by the despotisms of Europe,
can be removed; inasmuch as the might
of its example goes to strengthen the
hands of tyrants, and to weaken those
of the champions of freedom; there
fore we would earnestly entreat all whe
arc laboring for the freedom of inan ir
Great Britain and Ireland—in Austria
Italy, Russia, and in all lands—to unite
with us in our efforts to procure the
dissolution of this slaveholding Union
by a moral and peaceful agitation, ant
thus to rid the world of this gigantic foe
of liberty, aud of the inalienable righL
of man.
At 4 o’clock P. M. t adjourned tc
meet in the Melodeon, to-morrow morn
ing at 10 o’clock.
Note.—Fancuil Hall was well filled
during the evening, and by an audience
exceedingly attentive, evidently mucli
interested, and sympathizing heartily
with the resolutions and speeches; and
scarcely a dissenting voice or sound was
heard during the entire evening.
Tuursday Morning.
The Society met again in the Melo
deon, the President in the Chair.
The first four resolutions werc read
and unanimously adopted, iho Society
acting upon them separau iy.
Stephen S. Foster took the floor i*
behalf of the mea.-mr of going t«> tin
polls to vote for per- n> pu’-ii< K pledged
not to hold any office under'the existing
Constitution of the l*. S., if elected;
and offered a resolution on the subject
Voted, To defer, for the present, the
further consideration of tins subject.
Tlie fifth resolution was then called
up, James N. Buffum of Lynn, being
in the Chair, and spoken to bvJ. C
Cluer, H. Clapp. J r R. R Kovom
j Mr. Parker, (late of London, now ol
Providence, R. 1.,) J. McComb® oi
Georgetown, Levy of Lawreuce, Wm
Lloyd Garrison, aud a gentleman iron
Philadelphia, whose name was called foi
j but not given. After which, the otf
Resolution was unanimously adopted
Adjourned to ii 1-2 o’clock.
Thursday Afternoon.
Met Recording to adjournment, Dm
President in the Chair.
Henry Watson, n fugitive from Bt*
very, addressed theikrciety, kno
RIGHT IS Or NO SEX—TRUTH IS OP NO COLOH—GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL. AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
narrative of some circumstances in Ins
experience.
The f blowing resolution was then
read by S. May, Jr., who moved for its
adoption:
0. Resolved, That we pledge our
selves to the cause, and each other to
make every exertioa, «n our various
towns and spheres, to rouse Abolition
ists and Societies to their duty of con
trib iting liberally to the treasury of the
i American and Massachusetts Anti-S!a
verv Societies; and that wc will en
deavor to assemble the friends of the
anti-slavery cause, in the several towns,
where we live, as Boon ns practicable,
for the purpose of laying this subject'
before them, and devisina effectual
means of accomplishing the end in
view.
This resolution was supported by S. I
May, Jr., Wendell Phillips, Hiram 1
Wilson of Canada West, J. N. Buffuin, i
J. M. Fisk, P. Pillsbury, and W. L. j
Garrison,and was unanimously adopted.,
Edmund Quincy, from the Commit-,
tee on Nomination of Officers, reported j
a list of names, which report was ac- 1
cepted, and the follow ing persons there
by elected officers of the Society for the
ensuing year:
PRESIDENT.
FRANCIS JACKSON, Boston.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Andrew Robeson, New Bedford.
Nathaniel B. Borden, Fall River.
Stillman Lothrop, Cambridge.
Amos Farnsworth, Groton.
Adin Ballou, Milford.
John M. Fisk, West Brookfield.
Joshua T. Everett, Princeton.
Eflingham L. Capron, Worcester.
William B. Earle, Leicester.
Jefferson Church, Springfield.
William B. Stone, Gardner.
Oliver Gardner, Nantucket.
Nathan Webster, Haverhill.
George Hoyt* Athol.
John C. Gore, Roxbury.
Caroline Weston, Weymouth.
Zenas Rhoades, North Marlboro’.
Benjamin Snow, Fitchburg.
George Miles, Westminster.
James N. Buffum, Lynn.
Cyrus Pierce, Newton.
John T. Hilton, Cambridgcport.
Thomas T. Stone, Salem.
Bourne Spooner, Plymouth.
Charles L- Rcmond, Salem.
Charles F. Hwvey, Boston.
CORRESPONDING secretary,
Edmund Quincy, Dedham.
treasurer,
Samuel PhiTtJVick, Brookline.
auditor.
Edmund Jackson, Boston.
COUNSELLORS.
Wm. Lloyd Garrison.
Maria Weston Chapman,
Cornelius Bramhall,
Henry I. Bow'ditch,
John M. Spear,
James Russell Lowell,
Wendell Phillips,
John Rogers,
Anne Warren Weston,
Eliza Lee Follen,
Charles K. Whipple,
Samuel May, Jr.
W. L. Garrison, from the Committee
on Business, reported the follow ing res
olutions:
7. Resolved, That while we would
express our deep gratitude to all those
earnest men aud women, who find time
and strengh, amid their labors in behalf
of British reform, to study, understand,
and protest against American slavery,
to give us their sympathy and| aid by
munificent contributions, and by hold
ing our Union up to the contempt of
Europe—we feel that it would not be
invidious to mention William and Mary
Howitt, Henry Vincent and George
Thompson, as those to whose unabating
advocacy our cause is especially indebt
ed in this country, as well as for the
hold it has gained upon the hearts of the
British people.
S. Resolved, That the discriminating
sense of justice, the steadfast devoted
ness, the generous munificence, the
untiring zeal, the industry, skill, taste
and genius, with which British Aboli
i tionists have co-operated with us for
the extinction of slavery, commands
alike our gratitude and admiration;
cheering us under the discouragements,
strengthening us under the difficulties,
and consoling us in the afflictions of the
Cause; and shall ever be to us both an
incentive and an example in its sacrifi
ces and its labors.
Remarks upon these resolutions were
offered by S. S. Foster, W. L. Garri
son, El Quincy, D. Ricketson and W.
Phillips, affer which they were adopted,
without a dissenting voice.
At 5 1-2 o’clock, adjourned to hold
the closing session in Fancuil Hall, at
7 o’clock.
Thursday Evening.
j The Society met in Fancuil Hall, ac
cording to adjournment, Edmund Quin
cy in the Chair.
Win. L. Garrison, Chairman of Busi
ness Cormnitteo, reported the following
resolutions:
9. Resolved, that the Abolitionists ol
America hail with pleasure the irmve
meat of George Thompson and his
faithful coadjutors for the encourage
ment of the culture of cotton in British
India, in order to supply (he demand of
that staple in the British manufactures,
instead of importing their cotton, as at
present, from the slave States of this
country; believing, as we do, that the
success of his object will materially for
ward the anti-slavery enterprise.
10. Resolved,- That Henry Chtf, oi
Kentucky,* in hh hie speech at tho aa
naal mealing of the Aaaertcaa Coloni
9 9 4*
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1818.
that this country is only for the white,
and not fir the black man; that the free
colored native-born inhabitants cannot
and ought not to be admitted to equal
rights and cquajlD in the United States,
hut should troddm down as to
render existence intolerable here, and
banishment tojyfriea a desirable alter
native—dcingnprably proves that he is
the deadly Mo impartial liberty—that
his pretensions to philanthropy are hol
loar mockeries —and that the Coloniza
tion Seciety, of which he is the Presi
dent, is the the slave
holding villajiyspf tnvSouth, and of the
pro-slavery ruffianh-m of the North.
11. Resolved, Taat this Society
strongly syiApa bifces with the people of
Ireland, and the lovers of progress
throughout the world, in the deep sense
they entertain of the services of DAN
IEL O’CONNELL, as a champi >n of
human freedom, and especially as a
friend of the African slave; that we
gratefully recognize tiie faithfulness of
lus emphatic testimony against Ameri
can slavery’, of his indignant rebuke of
American slavehold rs, and of his cor
dial co-operation with American aboli
tionists; and that wc regard w ith pro
found sensibility the event of his death,
which has occurred during the last
year, as one in which wc have a com
mon interest with them, and with the
whole human race.
12. Resolved, That it becomes us, on
this our first meeting since the venera
ble presence of Seth Sprague has passed
away from our assembly and from the
earth, to recall to mind the clearness of
vision, the purity of purpose, the fideli
ty of principle, the freshness of enthu
siasm, which this Anti-Slavery Patri
arch, the connecting link between the
Elder and the Latter Dispensations of
Liberty, brought to the assistance of the
Slave; and to resolve that we will
show w hat reverence and love we bear
to his memory, by the earnestness of
our endeavors to live worthily of las
example.
13. Resolved, That while %ve are
willing to believe that many supporters
of the Wilmot Proviso rcallv consider
its passage sufficient to prevent the ex
tension of slavery, and while we rejoice
at every such dibit as evidence of awa
kening interest on the subject of slavery,
and tending, ever in its very failure to
throw light cn the path through which
alone safety can be found; still we regard
it as a matter of comparative indifference
whether receives the sanc
tion of Coftfgjrass or not, feeling that the
attempt to restrain slavery by laws and
imprecisely equivalent?o
damming up the Mississippi with bull
rushes, and the man who expects any
thing but failure from such a plan, has
still the ABC of his country’s history
to learn.
14. Resolved, That an instrument
which binds those who s.vcar to support
it to commit crimes of the blackest hue,
and sins of the most tremendous mag
nitude, is one that cannot be intelligent
ly sanctioned or executed without ag
gravated guilt, and ought to be rejected
with indignation and horror; that such
an instrument is the Constitution of the
United States, which pledges the whole
j physical force of the nation to keep se
curely in their chains three millions ol
slaves, makes the entire national do
mains slave-hunting ground, and pro
j vidcs for a slaveholding diarchy, in
comparably more despotic than any or
-1 der of nobility ever existing in any age
j of the world.
15. Resolved, That this is not a ques
tion that can he postponed, or eva
i ded, by any plea of policy or necessity
by the assertion that the powers that
be are ordained of God; by the ex
cusethat there must be a government;
by’ any disastrous consequences that
1 may be predicted to trade or property:
it is a question cf humanity—a question
of morals —-involving the highest re
sponsibilities, and relating to our obe
dience to God, and cur duties to each
other.
The meeting was addressed on the
different subjects embraced in these
resolutions by Dr. Grandin, of Boston,
1 Wm. L. Garrison, Wendell Phillips and
i Henry C. Wright.
Nahum Osgood, of Salisbury, a mem
ber of the Liberty party, then asked
leave to take the platform, which was
grauted, and he addressed the meeting
in defence of the Rofiiinatien of John
iP. Hale by the Liberty party. He was
much cheered by a delegation of his
party, which had just conic from a meet
ing which had been addressed by Mr.
Hale.
Wendell Phillips again took the floor
in reply to Mr. Osg ,,f >d, who afWw*ards
rejoined, and was then followed by S.
S. Foster, in a most searching exposi
tion of the nurrown* ss and iiliberaiity
of the no-cafled Liberty Party.
The Resolutions, which had been
under discussion during the evening,
were then taken up terudiut, aud
adopted.
I Tho following resolutions were pre
pared for pre*eniatien to the meeting,
but were accidentally mislaid and nu
I found until after the final adjournment,
j Undoubtedly, if offered, they would have
been adopted vr*th great unanimity.
Resolved, That we receive with deep
‘j gratitude the Address of tbrty thousand
Scottish women to the women of Ame
rica, on the subject of Slavery: sensi
ble of the vast amount of devoted la
bor requisite to embody so imposing a
testimony—of the striking example it
sets us to use with scrupulous fidelity all
the means in oor power lor the i*manci
pation of the slave, and the rebuke giv
e*» ta one lagg** l ze *>J untiring
j iutayest of these noble women in the
1 welfare of a race whom they hare nerei
seen.
Resolved, That we recognize, with
iuiiiJi ilwfisfiirit mf Hie sagacity of oni
oiilorri friend* in this city, lad their cor*
rect appreciation of their own position,
and the welfare of the slave, in refusing
to be made the tools of the Liberty par
ty on a late occasion.
I Resolved, That we deplore the con
-1 tinned degradation of our national
t character and purpose which find then
iincet and most welcome representative
and candidate for the nation’s highest
i office in that bloodhound of the Texan
war, Zachary Taylor,
j Resolved, That while we accord tc
J. P. Hale full honor for his magnani
mous opposition to Texan annexation
and the further extension of slavery,
and would not abate one t’lt e due
j him for his manly copra; in that mat
i ter, wc feel bound to point out to those
abolitionists whom the plausible pro
fessions of the late Liberty party have,
in times past, been able to delude, the
utter recreancy to anti-slavery charac
ter of a set of men who, with the claims
!of being aa abolition party continually
on their lips, hold up for their Presiden-
I tial candidate a man who has never been
willing to be known as an abolitionist,
aud whose principles on the subject no
one ha 3 yet thought it worth while to
find out; and call upon them to mark,
i that the event we have always prophe
sied has come to pass, namely, that the
party has bartered its profession for
votes, and sacriiicd the only principle it
ever claimed to have, to the availability
of its candidate.
Resolved, That we rejoice in the
firmness of purpose, integrity and sin
cere devotion to his idea of* anti-sla\’crv
duty, manifested by John G. Palfrey, in
refusing to put into the Speaker’s chair
one whose course had been sedulously
meddled to suit the slaveholders.
Resolved, That the choice of Robert
C. Winthrop for Speaker of the U. S.
House of Representatives, was a
grave insult to the people of this Com
monwealth; that, under the guise of re
spect for New England, his election was
the triumph of South Carolina, cun
ningly seizing, as a tool for her Own
purpose;*, a man xvhose only title to
preferment was treason 4o his birth
place, and whose only characteristic is
unbounded servility to the insolent as
sumptions of the basest diarchy that
ever crept into pow’er.
ResolVcd, That w hile we are rejoiced
to perceive (as indicative of the change
which is taking place in public senti
ment) a growing religious sympathy
with the anti-slavery movement, we are
still under the necessity of proclaiming
the deplorable fact, that the great body
of the American clergy and churches
are giving "aid and comfort'’ to the
Southern traffickers in human flesh, ei
ther by direct participancy in slavery,
by religious fellowship with those who
enslave their fellow-men, by using the
pulpit an 3 press as potent weapons w’ith
which to assail abolitionists, by silence
and indifference, or by treating the
question of emancipation as foreign tc
their calling;—a fact which proves their
claims, as the true embodiment and gen
nine representatives of Christianity, tc
be utterly spurious.
j Voted, On motion of H. C. Wright,
that the Society do now adjourn sine
die.
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
Samuel Mat, Jr.. Socrctaric3
Anne Weston,
i r
From the Liberty Herald.
SOUTHERN ODDITIES.
Notice. —The subscriber, living on
Carroway Lake, on Hoe’s Bayou, in
Carroll Parish, sixteen miles on the
road leading from Bayou Mason to
Lake Providence, is ready with a pack
of dogs to hunt runaway negroes at any
time. These dogs are well trained,
and are known throughout the parish.
Letters addressed to me at Providence
will secure immediate attention.
i My terms are P«*r day for hunting
the trail, whether the negro js caught
ior not. Where a twelve hours’ trail is
i shown, and the negro not taken, no
charge is made. For taking a negro,
£.25, and no charge made for hunting.
James W. Hall.
The above advertisement w’e cut
from tlie Madison Journal, published at
Richmond, Louisiana, Nov. *2 J, I*l7.
It appears in the business department
of the paper, surrounded by lawyers’
cards, tradesmen’s advertisements, no
tice* of legal business and patent me
dicine*, just as a house to let,” or
a carriage for sale,” would be pub
lished in a free and Christian country’.
In the same paper we find a morning
by run to the praise of God; a labored
essay in praise of John esley, and
an eloquent notice of a superior race
horse, in which there’s an appeal to the
Christian and philosopher, and to all
who would not be unmindful cf th if
duty to God and their country,” to
cherish the breed. The editor gives
no intimation of his political, religious,
or social opinion*, except w hat may be
gathered from these particulars.
There is buf one editorial article.
In that he apologizes ibr failing to issue
a paper the week before. The cause
assigned is, tljat his journeyman, who
had just returned fioin Mexico, one
tne immortal few who escaped the me
morable charge on the masked bat
lerie* of Cerro Gordo,” was too drunk
lo work. The paper is issued weekly,
when the fciaads are sober, at per
annum. W’e have given the spirit of
the Maddisaft Journal, and we presume
that gives the very “form and prrss
r ure of tho people and the times in.
Madison Parish* Louisian*. 4

Cost or Wax— Ges. Casa, a friend
of war in general, and of the present
war us particular, says: “A regiment of
Infantry costs annually $279,000.. A
’regiment of Dragoons, of whjcb we
I hsrre three, cost* jmuualTy $700,090.”*
Frmn thr Nr>ri..m*| Km.
j TnE VMESDE HONORABLE.”
A long abused and well-nigh obso
lete instrument, known as the Consti
tution of the l nited States, provuics
that the citizens of each State shall
be entitled to all the ptivtieges and im
munities of citizens of the several
States.”
Some years before this, instrument
was fiamed, Massachusetts tnen, irre
spective of color, were made citizens
,by virtue of the Bill of Rights and
Constitution of the State. Blacks
i stood upon equal footing with the
whites; voted at flections; and were
eligible as candidates for n!t ctKem in
the State, from Constable to Chi* t
Magistrate. Of course, in tin? court i
j tutional provision above referred to,
the citizens of Massachusetts, Llack as
well as white, were included, and cn
titled, wherever they went, to the
rights and immunities common to all
the citizens of the United States.
Notwithstanding all this, it is unhap
pily quite too notorious, that in seveial
of the poits of the -Southern States,
(that of Charleston, South Carolina, in
particular,) colored citizens of Massa
chusetts, scan.cn and officers of Massa
chusetts vessels, arriving thither, in
I pursuance of thiir lawful calling, are
seized upon, dragged from their decks,
and shut up in prison, until their ves
sels are ready for sea, when they arc
liberated only on condition of paying
the costs of their imprisonment. Fail
ing of this, they arc put upon the flesli
-1 seller’s auction block, und scld into
perpetual slavery.
Of course, ns her good and loyal
citizens, Massachusetts is bound to de
fend the rights of men. A w reng
done to one of them is a wrong done
to herself. Each colored citizen who
leaves hears with him the
sovereignty* of his State. The law of
South Carolina, which tramples luth
lessly on his rights, tramples also on
j that sovereignty. When, w ith the cry
i upon his lips, I am a citizen of Mas-
I sachusctts,” the Boston or New Bedford
seaman is dragged through the streets
of Charleston, to prison and the stand
of the slave auction, the honor, the
dignity, the glory of Massachusetts are
dragged with him. In the eloquent
words of another, “The deck cf
Massachusetts vessel is Massachusetts
territory. It should be as sacred as
the temple of God. The poorest
I fishing smack, that floaty under the
shadow of tm iceberg in the noTth-
I ern jscas, or hunts the whale in t'.e
southern ocean, should be encompassed
by her laws with comfort and protec
tion, as much ns within the arms el
Cape Ann and Cape Cod. If such
damnable outrages con be committed
j on the person of a citizen with impu
nity, let the Governor break the broad
seal ot the State; he bears the sword
in vain. The Governor of Massachu
setts is a triflcr; the State House in
i Boston is a play-house; the General
Court is a dishonored hody, if tin y
make laws which they cannot execute.
The great-hearted Puritans have left
no posterity. The rich men may walk
in State street, but they walk without
honor; and the farmers may brag ol
their Democracy and the country, but
l they are disgraced men.
Massachusetts has, of course, remon
strated against these outrages, iuliictcd
upon hcrseli through her colored sai
lors. In entering into the Federal
compact, she gave up her right to
avenge them by tbree, agreeing to sub
mit any disputes that might arise be
tween herself and her sister States to
the arbitrament of the Supreme Court.
Pursuant to this agreement, she sent,
an agent to present himself in the j
courts of South Carolina, for the pur-,
pose of having the mutter decided by j
the competent judicial authority. Her,
attorney was driven from the State by
a mob; a law was forthwith enacted, j
making it highly penal tor any one to j
enter into the State of South Carolina,
upon a similar errand; and the kid
napping, imprisonment, and sale of
Massachusetts citizens ha* been ever,
since going on w ithout let or hindrance.
But the whirling of time brings
about its revenges.” Daniel Webster,
of Massachusetts, goes into South Car-:
olina, and carefully avoiding the gaol.-*
and auction stand*, where he might
chance to meet w ith aomc of his own
colored townsmen, outs a dinner at the
expense of the contemners ol hi* State, j
makes a speech, and hears speeches
made at him. All goes ofi' very plea
santly, although the great Senator’s,
sable constituents can only look at the.
“distinguished guest,” through the
Lars ot their prison. The Boston news
papers chronicle the matter with much
i-at is fact ion; it was such an unexpected,
favor!
But this is not all. South Carolina, in
her magnanimity, spreads another poul
tice tor the wounded honor of Massa
chusetts. Another distinguished gentle-
man of Boston is a candidate lor the
Speaker’s clpur in the popular branch
of Congress. Like the great Senator,
he has no fanatical notions about t
northern rights. To secure bis elec- J
turn, it is found necessary ter one
South Carolina delegate, not indeed to.
vote for him, but to decline voting
against him. This is done; and the
Northern man, vouched for as “per
fectly safe in respect to Ribera in
terests,” is ciectevi tjyenircr.
Now, then, all scores are wiped out.
South arolina has made the avtmde
komrabte to Massachusetts,” says the
New York Tribune. The Boston
Atlas, while abusing one of the Massa
chusetts delegation, who has proved to
he, after election, just what he was re
presented to be before it, compliment*
*1 his expense, the magnanimity of the
South Carolina ooe-vclcr. A white
WIIXIAH C. MIL, I’siuista.
JOHN Dlt’K, ra«*T>R.
WHOLE NO.—VIII.
Massachusetts citizen is Speaker, by
the grace of Gcd, and the permrisn it
of South Carolina, and the wrong* of
scores ot her black citizens are am; ly
atoned for.
Seriously, did wo n< t hope for a
better day tor Massachusetts.* e should,
in view ol her present <u gradntw n,
deem it the part prudence »nd duty
Cor ail who respect their own rights aril
those ot their fellow-citizens, to pack
their household goods, and depart,
shaking off the dust of a State which,
failing to protect the rights end liber
ties ot a portion of its citiz.ens, mat
regard, ns full atonement for tie i?*
injuries nnd sufferings, such pnltn
mockeries of compliments from those
who have inflicted upon her the ih cm -t
wrong nnd grossest insult, which one
nation can receive at the hands of an
other. J. o. w.
George B. Vasiion.*—We noticed,
a few days since, the admission of ties
young gentleman—a colored man—n>
the courts of New York, lie under
went a rigorous examination I v Mi
Brady, Bos worth, nnd Warner, thr*
prominent men of New York city. A
letter from him to his father, has hern
shown to us, from which we cannot
help making an extract. After no
ticing his ndniissien, he says:
“Thus my simple affidavit has been
sulficient to obtain for me, in New
York, what my birth could not serine
for me in Pennsylvania—the rights ai d
privileges of a citizen of the I nitod
States. My native State, may clann
the honor of casting me off; l am per
fectly willing to accord it to her: and
with pleasure set down to the credit f
New York whatever mciit there may
be in receiving mo into her l oscm.
And now, panoplied in tbo priviicg* a
of ray professii n, I tun ready to hid
farewell to the land of my birth, tn ei
der to wotk out inv destiny in the glo
rious field which the Island Republic
tillers to inv labors.”— Com. Journal.
A Colored Graduate. —Another
colored man graduated at nMrdicnl
College recently, in spite of the* slave
holders. The facts are ihese:
‘ln August, !84(>, Henry Roberts, a
highly respectable and talented young
man, came to this county from Liberia
for the purpose of completing his med
ical studies. He made npplicntn n to
the Berkshire Medical Institutii n at
Pittsfield, Mass., and presented his let
ters of recommendation; but the Presi
dent told bun the matter ernot bo sub
mitted to the class, nnd if there should
be any objection, he cculd not enter.—
When the question came up in tho
class, there was oiu? slaveholder, by
the name of Cobb, from South Caroli
na, who objected on account of bis
color. The whole class (IfiO in num
ber) bowed down to the slaveh< Idrr,
and he was rejected. But soon there
was a re-action. The public press and
the people took up the matter, and
came down with an indignant rebuke
upon Cobb, as well as upon the Institu
tion. The result was, that Mr. Roberts
was admitted within three weeks after
his rejection, and afterwards gtaduntnl
with this seine Cobb and forty-four oth
ers. He is said to be well .-’killed in the
science of medicine, ar.d by his gi nfle
tnanly conduct has proved to the world
that color is but matter —that mind
makes the man. Hi mu Bids.
A Fearful Leap and Narrow TN
cape.—One of the most cxtiaoidinaiy
instances of preservation under circum
stances of imminent peril, occurred a
few days since in this vicinity. On Fii
day morning last, ut the Silk Factory of
the Northampton Association, n building
four s!orit» in height. Geo. Wasbingfi n
Sullivan,a young man connected with the
association, went out on to the roof for
the purpose of picking up a mine i i.I Lit h
he had accidentally dropped tin re while
standing in the belfry. To secure him
self from falling, he took ft his .-ho* s.
Notwithstanding tliri precaution, after
descending the roof a few steps, finding
himself slipping, he took off one of la a
stockings, but whilst a 1 temp ting to take
off the other, his motion became so much
accelerated, that farther efforts to ?n\o
himself from the fearful fall w ere* use
less. |ie then, with retnaikable pres
ence ofmim, 1 rolled himself ever u;on
the roof w*hi!st he was sliding, in order
to prevent falling upon tho piutfoim, and
when he reached the eav<», li’dving first
drawn m and held his breath, clenched
his teeth end hands, and contracted Ih
muscles, he leaped to the gerund, a dis
tance of 40 or 45 feet, and came down
on his feci! The concussion wag so great
as temporarily todeprive him of thepowx r
of standing. He was carried into the
house and placed in bed, and was so# n
after examined by a surgeon, who deci
ded that no bones w*cre broken otttl fio
joints dislocated, although there won
reason to apprehend serious injury to
Hie muscles about the spine, where there
appeared to be great sort in Tie
roung man's friends then wrapped him
in sheets wet in cold water,after the man
ner prescribed by the “va‘cr <ure
system, wbLh soon product d prr-pira
tioo. A cold bath *a* after* «id* admin
istered. In the aftermen oft he *rn*>
day, he walked out without assiswne*-;
ar.d he nej.t day waaruntur jr a* or.t with
his usual hilaniy, c jwplaisi* K 4,1 r,##
0«i haer.nt effect* from hi* l»d, excej t-
m\'uU* Itocset* in ol «i» ktl!
A remarkable fbtt, d with
this occurence, i», «hU symptoms of
serious disrate which he was previously
suffering, have trace in a great fuel suio
disapp e«m d. ft se< ms as if the change
of action which was m educed in 90 unu
sual a manner, has been mUtoty, and
that instead ol* so frightful an accident
being fatal in its effect* as might be
expected, it baa been the means o'*
rertoriug him to health!—The Northampton Democrat
Parkers Letters on slavery
The Effect of Slavery on Industry
[Continued]
In the Northern States, the freeman
C mites »lr«ctly in contact with the »na
feriat things whi .h he wishes to con
vert to hi.< purpose. To shorten his la
bor he makes his head save his hands.
Ho invents machines. The produclivr
capacity of the free States is extended
Wy their me of Wind. Water and Steam
fc>r the purpose of human labor. That
is a solid gain to mankind. W iod-mills,
water-,-ni!!.«, steam-engines, are the ser
vants of the North; Homebred Slaves
born in their house, the increase ol
fertile heads. These are an important
element in the power and wealth of s
nation. \V hile South Carolina ha?
taken men from Africa, and mad*
slaves, Now England has taken posses
•ion ol the Winds, of the Waters; sh<
has kidnapped the Merrimack, the Con
nectic.it, the Androscoggin, the Ken
nebcck, the Penobscot, and a hundrc<
dataller streams. She has caught th<
lakes of New Hampshire, and hold
them in thrall. She has seized Fir<
and Water, joined them with an iroi
yoke, and made an army of slaves
powerful, hut pliant. Consider the mn
chincry m >ved by such agents in Ncv
England, New York, Pennsylvania
e >mpare that w ith the human machine
of the South, and which is the bette
drudge? The Patriarchal Institutioi
of Slavery,” and the economic institu
tion of Machinery stand side by side,—
this representing the nineteenth centu
ry before Christ, and that the nincteentl
century alter Christ. They run for tin
same goal, though Slavery started firs
and had the smoother road. It is safi
to say, that the machinery of the free
States has greater productive ability
than the 3.099,090 bond, i of tht
South. While Slavery continues, the
machinery will n >t appear. Steam-en
gine.* and slaves come of a different
stock.
The foreign trade of the South con
sists mainly in the export of the produc
tions of the Farm and the Forest; the
domestic trade in collecting those sta
ples and distributing the articles to be
consumed at home. Much of the do
mestic trade is in the hands of North
ern men—though mainly with South
ern principles.” The foreign trade is
aim >st wholly in the hands of foreign
ers, or men from the North, and is con
ducted by their ships. In the South,
little is demanded for home consump
tion; so the great staples of Southern
production find their market chiefly in
the North, or in foreign ports. The
shipping is mainly owned by the North.
Of the Atlantic States seven have no
slaves: Maine, New Hampshire, Mas
sachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut,
New York, and New Jersey; in 1840,
they, with Pennsylvania, had *2,100,501
tons of shipping. In all the slave States
which He on the seaboard, there are
owned but 401 ,533 tons of shipping.—
In 1810, the young State of Ohio, two
thousand miles from the sea, had 30,917
tons; the State of South Carolina, 32,-
553. Even Virginia, full of bays and
harbors, hud but 53,411 tons. T.he
single district of the city of New York
had 572,522 tons, or 79,9:19 more that
nil the Southern States united.
E| The difference in the internal improve
nients of the two sections is quite as re
markable. In general, the public
highways in the slaveholdiug States arc
far inferior to those of tile North, botli
in extent and character. If the esti
mates made arc correct, in 1319 there
were, omitting the fractions, 5,602
miles of railroad actually in operatior
in the United States. In all the slave
States there were *2,099 miles. Taking]
the cost of such as are described ii
trustworthy sources, and estimating the
value of those not so described by tin
general cost per mile of railroads in tin
same state, then the slave States have
invested #43,910,183 in this property
In the free States there were 3,572
miles of railroad, which had cost #112,-
914,495. Thus the free States have
1,433 miles of railroad more than the
South, the value of which is #09,094,-
‘232 above the value of all the railroads
of the slave States. The railroads in
Pennsylvania have cost #13,42 >,335;
within less than a half a million of the
value of all the railroads ia all the
slave States. Maryland, from her po
sition, resembles the free Suites in
many respects. Besides those of this
State, all the railroads of the South are
worth Only #27,717,835, while those ol
Massachusetts alone have cost #39,-
311,414, and are now, on the average,
five or six per cent, above par. The
State of South Carolina has only paid
#5,671,452 for her raiiroad stock.
will not undertake to estimate its pres
ent value. Nor need I stop to enquire
how many miles of the Southern road*
have been planned by Northern skill,
paid for by the capital of the free States,
and are owned by their citizens!
Let us uo.vt consider the increase ol
the value of the landed property in the
Free and the Slave Slates. In 1798,
the value of all the houses and lands
in the eight slave States, that is, Dela
ware, Maryland, Virginia, North and
South Carolina, Georgia, Kentucky,
and Tennessee, w as estimated at #197,-
742,557; that of the houses and lands
in the eight free States—New Hamp
shire, Vermont,. Massachusetts, Con
necticut, Rhode Island, New Jersey
New York, and Pennsylvania—wa?
#122,-35,739. It is not easy to ascer
tain exactly the value of real property
in all these States at this moment. Bu
in 1831 -t>, the government of New York
a id in 1839, that of Virginia, made s
new valuation of all the real property
in their respective States. In 1708
all the real estate in Virginia, wu
worth #71.225,127; in 1839, 211,939,
533. In 1793, all the real property ii
the State of New York, was wort!
#199,3 39,797; i»* 1815, #139,751,273
In Virginia, there had been an increase
of 197.5 per cent, in forty-one years
i New York, an increase of 329.9 pe
cent, in thirty-seven years.
For convenience sake, letussuppos
ea h of the eight Southern States ha
gained as rapidly as Virginia, audeacl
of those eight N irtheru, in the sain'
ratio w.tU New York—-and what follows
la 1793, the real estate in South (.aro
jina was valued at #17,495,013; tlia
of Rh >de Island, ut #11,093,358. Bj
the above ratios, the real estate it
South Carolina was worth $51,9.33,39:
jo 1839; and in 1835, that of Rbod<
Island was woith Thus
the real property in the leading atare
State of the Union, with a population
of 594,394, waa worth but $4,344,105,
m'*re than the real property of Rhode
I -land, with a population of only 104,-
In 1410, the aggregate real pro
perty in the city of Ronton wa* valued
»t $30,424,200, and in 1417, at £07,-;
—545,271,130 n.ore thsn the;
computed value of all the real estate
in South Carolina. Iu 1)98, the value
id the aggregate real property of the
eight slave States was $197,74*2,557;
of the eight free, $422,235,740; in
1431), by the above ratios, the real es
tate of the Southern States would be
worth $584,240,107, and that of the
Northern, $1,715,201,618. Thus the
real property of these eight free States
would be almost three times more val
uable than the eight slave States, yet
the free contain hut 170,150 square
miles, while the slave States contain
212,923. Rut this, in part, is a mat
ter of calculation only, and liable to
some uncertainty as the ratio of Virgin
ia and New York may not represent
the increase of any either South or
North. Let us come to public and no
torious facta.
In IKK), the value of all the annual
agricultural products of the South, as
valued by the last census, was $312,-
340,151; that of the free States $312,-
097,443. Yet in the South there were
1,941,8)6 persons engaged in agricul
ture, and in the North only 1,735.046,
ami the South has the advantage of rais
ing tropical productions, which cannot
be grown in Europe. The agricultu
ral products ofthc South which find their
way to foreign lands, are mainly cotton,
sugar, rice and tobacco. The entire
value of these articles raised in the fif
teen slave States in that year, was $74,-
836,310; while the agricultural pro
ductions of the single. State of New
York amounted in that year to $104,-
275,241.
The value of articles manufactured
in the South, was $42,174,181; in the
free States $197,658,040. In the slave
States there were, in various manufac
tories, 240,601 spindles in Rhode
Island, the smallest of the free States,
518,817. The aggregate annual earn
ings of all the slave States, ivas $403,-
429,718; of the free, $654,705,109.-
The annual earnings of six slave States
—North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, and
Louisiana, amount to $149,321,719
those of the State of New York to $193,-
803,433, more than $4,000,000 above
the income of six famous States. The
annual earnings of Massachusetts alone
are more than $9,000,000 greater than
the united earning of three slave States,
—South Carolina, Georgia, and Flori
da. The earnings of South Carolina,
with her population of 594,304, about
equals that of the county of Essex, in
Massachusetts, with less than 95,000.
In 1839, in the South there were
built houses to the value of $14,421,-
141; and in the North, to the value of
$27,493,560. The ships built by the
South that year, were valued at $701,-
249; by the North, at $6,301,805.
In 1413, the absolute debt of all the
free States, was $109,176,527. The
actual productive State property of
those States, including the school fund,
was $94,633,245, —leaving the actual
indebtedness above their State-property
only $10,.516,212. The absolute debt
of the slave States was $55,914,373
their productive State-property, includ
ing their school funds, $33,294,424
leaving their actual indebtedness above
their State-property $25,053,945, more
than twice the corresponding indebted
ness of the North.
Besides this, it must be remembered
that in the free States there are 45,56 b
men engaged in the learned professions,
while in the slavi States there arc bul
20,292. In addition to that, in all the
free States there are many employed in
teaching common schools. Thus, in
1417, in Massachusetts, there were 7,-
543 engaged in the common schools.
In the slave States this class is much
smaller. Still more, in all the free
States there are many, not ranked in
the learned professions, who devote
themselves to Science, Literature, and
the Fine Arts; in the South but few.
In the South, the female slaves are oc
cupied in hard field-labor, which is
almost unheard of in the free States.—
Tims the difference in the earnings ol
the two, great ns it is, is not an ade
quate emblem of the actual difference
or productive capacity, or even of the
production, iu tho two sections of the
country.
Disgraceful Outrage in Hart
ford, Ct. —The Charter Oak of lasi
week contains a full statement of s
cowardly, mobocratic assault upon the
printing office of that paper, togethei
with the editor’s house, by a gang o
some three hundred ruffians, who evi
dently intended to do serious injury t<
person and property, as their revenge
upon the editor for some bitter anc
stinging truths which he had told them
of our national land piracies upon Mex
ico, and of the robber hordes which art
actively perpetrating them.
For two hours iu the middle of the
night, the enraged mob were howling
about his dwelling and office, am
|K>uring out their curses and threats
but the city police attempted no arrest
though they were present much of the
time. The Mayor harangued the law
less crowd advising them to disperse,
which they did after having
the Charter Oak sign, and dashed ir
the panels of the doors of both the lioust
and printing office. Further then that
they did not venture, as they were in
-1 formed that they would be met from
within by resistance, which they prob
ably were not expecting.
The immediate pretext for this dast
•nrdly outrage, was an article in thf
!Charter Oak, severely commenting
upon the reception given by the wai
patriots of Hartford, to a petty officei
j of the army who had recently returned
from Mexico. W ere it true, as wa*
alleged, that this article was personal)*
insulting to that blood-stained fighter,
the plea would not give the slightest ex
icuse for such an act of riot, and it is u
the lasting shame of the city of Hartford
that it was permitted. If there is no*
sufficient love of order and peace, oi
sense of justice among that people, t«
.prevent such lawless violence, the)
imight surely take warning from th<
consequences of the toleration of mobf
in other place*. A bloody lesson c«*uld
Philadelphia gtte them of the fruits of
that ertf policy. Even Kentucky has
become ashamed of gaffing a free
press, and in scarcely a city of thei
North is the largest liberty of discussion
restricted. Shall Hartford, with all its
churches and professions of piety, be
the only exception to this rule—the only J
imitator of the dark and bloody South
in the attempt to destroy a free press/]
In this case the mob mistook the man,
if they expected to silence or overawe:
him by threats or injury.—Their defeat j
will be as complete as their act was
base and wicked.— Pen*. Frtetma*. j
To Scmraiatas who do sot eeceitk
THLia rAreas.— We extract the
from a summing up of the whole matter, bfj
the Anti-slavery Standard, refciring'to a let-»
ter received at their office, as pertinent to our!
own case:—
This is the three hundred and sixty-fifth
specimen of the kind received every day forj
j the last three hundred and sixty-fire days and j
wo presume that there is not a newspaper'
publislier in the city, that could not produce
his daily letter, or letters of the same sort. j
Our correspondent has the good sense to
f believe the fault is not in this office we wish
all our subscribers were equally considerate.
The blame most frequently is imputed lo us.
L*t us show how little probability there is of
this being just. The name of each subscri
ber, whose paper goes in a single wrapper,
that is by itself—and tjic names of Post Offi-
ces w here more than one paper goes, are all j
transcribed carefully and systematically from
the mail books to their proper wrappers,!
j during days and hours set apart for this par
ticular duty, before the paper goes to press.
When the paper cotnes from the press, and is
folded, the single wrappers are pasted each up
on a single paper, and a clerk with the mail
book before him, transcribes, upon the margin
1 of the paper, the names of subscribers at post
offices where more than one paper is sent.—
These are folded, on tl»e spot, in the wrap-
I pers, addressed to their respective Post Offices, j
and pasted at once.
It is evident, that a mistake in our office,
in the mailing of papers, must be a rare thing.
A clerk with even ordinary habits of care and
order, must be almost uniformly correct. The
name of a subscriber, or a Post Office, may
occasionally be omitted, but it must he acci
dental, and is not likely to occur two weeks in j
succession iu the same case. We are confi
dent, that in our office, it is of very rare occur-
renee. It cannot, at all events, account for
the frequent miscarriages of which we receive
such very frequent complaints.
Our answer to this correspondent, is an an
swer to all our subscribers who are annoyed—
as much to our chagrin, we assure them, as
to theirs —in the same way. His paper goes
in a package with the rest to his Post Office,
and if it is not received so often as the others,
it must be because some person about the
Post Office, docs not choose that he shall have
it. It is by no means an uncommon thing for
a Postma-sior or a Postmaster's Clerk, to take
upon himself the direction of the reading of a
whole village.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, FEBRUARY 18, 1843.
ID 3 After an absence of two weeks, during
which I have attended and addressed numer
ous meetings, held several private interviews
with old and tried friends, obtained a number
of subscribers for the North Star, and suc
ceeded in removing my family from Lynn to
Rochester, I am again at my post, with health
and heart to pursue my editorial labors in the
cause of righteous liberty. My last meetings
were held in New Bedford, Massachusetts;
and the kindly greeting which I received at
the hands of my old friends, many of them,
like myself, fugitives from slavery, was truly
refreshing to my spirit. I shall welcome
with pleasure the day in which I may again
press their friendly hands. God bless them
and prosper them in their efforts to promote
the cause which lias bound our hearts so
firmly together f I give them my assurance
that I am one with them even unto the end.
F. D.
THE PIIILOMETIIEAN SOCIETY.
On Friday evening last, we had the privi
lege to attend a meeting of this useful Society
of colored persons, in Albany. In the present j
proscribed and isolated condition of our peo
ple,such institutions seem almost indispensible
to our social happiness, progress and eleva-:
tion. We however think that they should
always lie regarded as temporary institutions,
forced upon us by the unjust aud wicked pre
judice which excludes us from the like insti
tutions among the whites, and ready to be
given up whenever a sense of justice and
liberality shall assert its dominion in the Ame- j
ricun mind. The question which engaged the
attention of the society, and which was quite
fully discussed on this evening, related to the
subject of Colonization. A young man from
Liberia, now’ a student at the Medical Col
lege in Albany, submitted a resolution, aft;
firming it to be the duty of the free colored
people of tills country to emigrate to Liberia, 1
as the only means of elevating them among
the nations of the earth. He said that he
hoped all prejudice would be discarded, and
that the Society would discuss the subject
with the calmness and seriousness which it-,
importance demanded. He also hoped that
no reference should be made to the conduct of
the American Colonization Society, as hei
humbly conceived that the good or bad actions
of that Society had nothing to do with the
question before the meeting. Tbe principal
argument urged in support of the resolution,
was, the invincibility of prejudice against the
colored people in this country, and the duty
of our civilizing and evangelizing Africa.—
He said that Colonization is slw ays the
precursor of civilization, and that without it,
Africa must continue in ber pieeent barbarous
•ondition.” He urged that an individual was
.-expected according to the merits or demerits
if the nation to which he belonged and that
while Africa was uncivilized, it was utterly
ibsurd to suppose that her children would br
espeeted among mankind. These view*
were enforced with much apparent earnest
teas, and made quite an impression on the
'.udieorc. In reply, it was urged by Messrs.
Popp, Cutler, aad others, that prejudice war
tot invincible that the condition of the free,
■cloved people in this land was steadily im
woving; and that thus far, Colon nation had
mly served to retard the progress of this
roprovement; that it had fostered aad
strengthened prejudice, by declaring it to be
evincible; that individual emigration might
*e very weD, but that any general movement
n that direction must operate injuriously
that it vutkrkrty of the cul—d people to
stay here, and help to free Arir brethren,
rather than leave (bent hi their chains, te ge
and civilise Africa. We d* mot peetcad te do
fall justice te the irgi—li m either Mb
oat limited apace adl not permit this; betwr
have gives a fair repair ef the frhwipel argu
ments used on both aides.
The caly cohwmation which we recommend
to our people, is a moral sue. To change
our location, ia aot to attain true elevation.—
We must emigrate from Degradation to Re
spect ibtlitv, by quitting the shores of Igno
rance for thooe of Intelligence; by cutting off
the spirit of tadoleare, mi mi— mg that of
industry by dispelling the clouds of misan
thropic despair, and cheriahiaf a manly frith
in the power of truth aad seeking our social
advancement by the moat untiring perseve
rance in the path of moral rectitude. This
done, and all the or infernal,
shall be unavailing in repressing oar spwaid
tendency.
the sxrrif iShfD.
Advantage should be at ooce taken of this
generous and magnificent donation, on the
part of Get* Sqgh, to <eolored residents in
the State of Network. To prevent it from
becoming a curst* and to make it what it
should be—a blessing, such as will cheer the
heart of the generous donor, the land ought
to be immediately occupied. The sharp axe
of the sable-armed pioneer should be at once
uplifted over the soil of Franklin and Essex
counties, and the noise of falling trees pro
claim the glorious dawn of civilization
throughout theii borders. Let the work be
commenced at once. The day has come. The
spring is near at hand. Seed-time is near
and what a man soweth that shall he reap.
Companies of tens and of twenties should
be formed, and the woods at once invaded.
There should be as little delay as possible
about this. We should hail with delight tho
news of the arrival in those regions of the
first pioneers, and record their names to be
handed down, and read with grateful admir
ation by future generations. Come, breth
ren, let it not be said, that a people who,
under the lash, could level the forests of Vir
ginia, Maryland, and the whole Southern
States, that their oppressors might reap the
reward, lack the energy and manly ambitiou
to clear lands for themselves. Let us make
those who declare us incapable of taking care
of ourselves, slanderers before all the people.
We shall have more to say on this subject
soon.
ITT* Read the excellent and scholarlike
speech of Mr. Palfrey, and thank God, with
us, that, sunken and slavery-smitten as the
land has become, the voice of truth and free
dom may yet be heard in the councils of the
nation. Wc are glad to see this speech going
the rounds of the press, and being regarded
with such high interest by persons of all po
litical opinions. We hail it as the beginning
of a political crisis, which must soon give the
falling blow to the slave power of the laud,
or result in the severance of this most unhal
lowed Union. God speed the flay I
R fitly to Mb. Collins.— lt is a sufficient
answer to the letter of this gentleman, which
may be found among the correspondence
copied from the Springfield papers, to say,
that he is at this moment laboring to build up
a colored church in that town and that his j
reason for building up such a church, is, that
the white churches arc such respecters of
persons, and are so incurably and wickedly
pro-slavery, that the rights of colored mem
bers arc trampled upon, and their feelings
outraged, by being stowed away, like rubbish,
in the negro pew. Why such a man should
defend such a church, can only be explained
by the wisdom which makes friends of the
mammon uf unrighteousness, at the expense
of truth. Why does not Mr. Collins find
thoso good American churches, of which he
speaks, who have not defiled their garments,
and invite colored persons to join them, in
stead of building up at great expense, and
with injury to the cause of human equality, a
colored church in Springfield It must either
be, because no such churches exist, or that he
seeks to raise hmself to a soft seat on the hacks
of a few well disposed, hard-working colored
persons, who arc already too poor to give
their children a decent education. When he
shall cease calling upon colored persons to
come out from pro-slavery white churches, to
join his, we shall regard him as beiug much
more consistent and not less honest than he
now shows himself to be.
Er* We make no pretensions to infill-:
bility, and are far from being too proud to|
listen to the counsel and advice of men
devoted to the interests of our enslaved fellow- j
countrymen; we therefore cheerfully insert
the letter from Mr. Middleton, of Springfield,
which will be found on our third page. It is
evidently written in a commendable spirit,'
and designed to promote the cause of truth
and freedom. We hare but two objections to
it—those are, the vagueness of its charges;
and the indefinitcncss cf its advice. It ia the j
same old complaint of harsh language on the i
one hand, and exhortation to mildness on the
other. We have no doubt, that the writer is
sincerely grieved at what he thinks the exist
ence of the one, and the want of the other,
in our case. But we roust say, in all candor,
that if we ever reproach ourself for anything
connected with our public efforts more than
another, it ia that we can deal so gently with
the wicked slaveholders at the South, and
their guilty associates at the North. And
especially do wc feel our shortcomings, when
dealing with our manstealing ministry, and
our bloodstained church. Regarding them ns
the bulwarks of Slavery—aa justly charge
able with its continuance in the land, and
responsible for iu innumerable crimes and
cruelties, we would gladly concentrate the
whole truth into ene living thunderbolt,”
and hurl it at them, till their bloodstained
walls should be krrelkd to the ground. The
except too* to our charges will take eare of
themselves. They are with us, and an bid
ding os God-speed,
ID* W« gratefully acknowledge the receipt
of valuable public documents from Hen. John
P.Haie of the Senate; Hen John G. Palfrey
and Hon. Josh. R. Giddings, of the Henan of
Representatives.
k/ Our grateful are tendered to
L J-, for English papers. Manchester papers
are forwarded by another hind.
Tn HiTton* Em.—This jna—l,
Misfeed W iimn, mm tfeaa a year age
by the Bseratiro Caromittra af fee Amen*
Mi Foreign J|rt>Bhiify Sanity, hae feed
■■■■■llj li—firmf Tjlhsl rnwiilm li f*T
Bnley, ifenpreeenheditor; an that the Nations
organ of (fee Ltety Party is wo tha poo
petty of iadmdnal. No reasons an greet
for the transfer; not Cram the notion of thi
change, the pnbhr no left to infer, thnl tfe
heel understanding existed hetneon the edrto
and the former peoprirtow of the paper. IV
editor aays, that no change will take plnee h
the management of the paper. John G
Whittier wtfl aontinna to not an nrrnffef
editor, and L. P. Noble will be retained ti
the bnaincsa deportment. As a acwipapei
we value the Era highly; but aa aatj-aiarer]
aathority we bare no mapeet far it whatever
We may give onr reaaooa for this view, a
another time, or when they an called far.
EDITORIAL CORRESPONDENCE*
Pirrsacaeu, February 6, 1848.
Dm Doccun:—l am now a constant
recipient of our luminary, the North Star,
and find it all that I could de-ire—a paper of
vast interest and usefulness—and 1 pray yon,
as 1 know you will do, keep it so with its
present character as a liberal, high moral, aati
sectarian, independent, unyielding and uncom
promising eoemy to that moat blighting of all
curses, and abomination of abominations”—
Slavery. Whether shielded by the statutes
of despotism and tyranny, covered by the
sacerdotal garbs of a miserable and fabe re
ligion, or guarded by the point of the bayonet,
it must be a terror to the evil doers of
our land, and the beacon-hope of the bond
man.
The good people of this gloomy city, have
for the past two weeks, had the cloud and
darkness dispelled from their moral vision, by
the highly entertaining and edifying Reform
Lectures and Sermons of Mr. John Allen, a
friend and brother from the “Old Bay Stats,”
assisted several times by the heavenly and
divinely chaunting tones of the Eddy Family,
from the same State, who also have been en
tertaining the citizens with their almost inim
itable music. They are said to be not inferior
to the Hutchinson Family. Mr. Allen, though
a high-toned, land reformer,” takes the
highest Anti-Slavery ground, viewing the
one as co-essential with, and inseparable from
the other.
Church robberies are of frequent occurrence
in this place. Of the ninety-six churches
in the two cities and suburbs, nearly the
whole have been entered at different times,
and their collection, Sabbath school, and
missionary boxes, emptied of their contents.
In one instance, but fire cents were found, and
even that did not escape the sacrilegious
wretches! This will give you an idea of the
kind of material with which this community
is infested. Would it not be well if the
Colonizationists would find a Liberia for
them
There is a great religious revival at present
going on among the colored people, tinder
Rev. Thomas Lawrence. This is right and
good, taking the orthodox religious view of
the subject; but I could wish, as I know you
also do, that the temporal of our
people was asmuch cared for as the spiritual;
or, in other v r ords, we could wish that they
possessed as much of the earthly as they do of
the heavenly inheritance. In view of the lat
ter, they relinquish or neglect entirely their
right to the former. This is one among the
greatest errors with which reformers have to
contend. Our brethren seem to be insensible
to the fact, that the well-being of man, while
upon earth, is to God of as much importance
as his wcllfarc in heaven. Man is superior
to all earthly beings or tnings; he having
here but a temporal existence, therefore his
i temporal welfare should first be cared for.
There was held in this city, in the Lafayette
Assembly Rooms, on Tuesday last, a mass
Clay Meeting, of course to enter into mcas
ures preparatory to the nomination of the
Sage of Ashland.” It was a full meeting,
and you must not think strange to hear me so
express myself about Whiggery, when I
assure you that I never attended a meeting,
not even Anti-slavery, in which more con
sistent and greater truths were uttered, by
all speakers, concerning the character of their
favorite, than did the speakers at this meeting
express concerning Mr. Clay. Every oratoi
who mounted the rostrum, declared that he
is the embodiment of Whig principles. Ia
this not true to the letter Who dare dis
pute it
The Daily Post of this city, the sub-Gov*
j eminent organ, has become the Deputy
bloodhound,” and whining spaniel for ill
Southern masters. The editor has recently
been to Washington City, crouching at the
j feet of his Southern superiors, and has prob
ably received from them, or the hands of that
miserable old man, Ritrhie, of the Union, the
Privy Counsellor of James K. Polk, a right
to be the watch-dog and principal hound in
i this region, on the running trail after fugitive
men and women, fleeing from the cruelties ol
American slavery. This same Daily Post, in
the face of a ehurch-guing and professedly
religious community, in open daylight, under
a glaring noon-day sun, and the disapprobation
of high Heaven, dares to advertise in the
columns of his paper, a Reward for Runaway
Slaves! and these persons, too, having bees
brought into the Stale by the steamer Grey
Eagle, from which they escaped. There
were three of them, two of whom escaped
who, by a late net of Assembly, were free
the moment their foot touched Pennsylvanian
soil. But were they taken, justice to them
could not be expected, since it appears that
the Judges of the Pennsylvanian Courts, with
a few honorable exceptions, are but the
pledged minions of the slave power in thii
country. llow contemptibly servile bon
disgustingly crouching, is the conduct of these
men of the Pom, who have folly proved them
selves capable of lbs meanest and lowest ael
of pimping! They have consigned them
selves to that infamy which aM sneh ereatavei
merit, as nobly and fearlessly shown by the
respective notices of the daily papers, espe
cially the Dispatch, and Telegraph, of thi
city.
In this ammndvetaioo, yon any account m
severe but while the fart axMa that tin
are hut matt-fad cattle far foe market; that
the la—led pasmmef the female feflj
cahiMmd la the Baa them markets and public
i places; that the gtmsm and cries ef the de-
U nded millions are hourly sent up to Heaven
|pdeliverance; that one-cudhof the whole
Rmmam women are subject tn the brute
wiß and hist of five-sixths of American
man; and that the abject of these worse than
land pirates was to bring back ikons flying,
panting victims to this wretched condition;
enu I dire I—apeak in any other than thunder
tooes upon this subject! No, no!—not I.
Yon being my helper, and God the mainstay
of an both, I will sever erase to cry «loud,and
■P®* ®*til yon, and I, and every wronged
Md eppromed son and daughter of America
•■d the world, Maad up in the living image
and dignity of manhood, in the full pomesmoo
af all fern rights and privihges camaaan to
onr nature, made sacred by the God ef Love!
Tall me, when the ruthless slaveholder has
folly prostrated before him Iris struggling
vwtim in the person of my wife, mother, or
rioter, piteously crying, “Help! help that
I should stop to address him with a kind of
formal politeness or placid arguments, lest I
only aggravate him and foil in my eflort! Do
you subscribe to doctrine such an this Tell
this to others, but tell it not to me. Should 1
not arrest his outrageous grasp, by any eflect
hro means within my power, which the
laws of Nature’s God would justify me
I regret to see that rather wrong-spirited
allusion, concerning the North Star, which
appeared in the last number of the 44 Mys
tery there being no just caspe for such s
thing. I simply notice this matter, that it
may correct a wrong impression, which might
arise from it. One thing is, however, cer
tain. All -ho are acquainted with you
and me, certainly, if they know anything of
us at all, know us to bo incapable of meriting
that reflection.
Your 44 charge” upon the Mexican War,
and comments upon the Colonization speech of
Henry Clay, are a triumphant vindication of
right against wrong; truth against falsehood
and of the undefended against the vilest ma
lignity. To use a homely figure, you com
pletely 44 floored your man.” Do you know,
Douglass, that you have been grappling with
one who possesses attributes known to no other
human being attributes which render him
truly God-like,” as his admirers declare him
to be T This can be illustrated to a demon
stration, and the great embodiment proved to
be a Trinity. He i» the embodiment of Col
onization, the embodiment of Whiggery, and
the embodiment of Slavery. Is he not a
very Deity ?—and how little were yon aware
with whom veu struggled
I see that our good friend Joseph Cassey,
of Philadelphia, has gone the way of all
flesh. I concur with you in sympathy with
his amiable widow and interesting family for
the loss of so good a friend as he but his
relict and children have been left well pro
vided with the good things of this life. This,
Mrs. Cassey merited, as her name was al
ways among the first of those untiring friends
of the slave, who so assiduously labored for
the Anti-Slavery cause.
1 prefer thus to give you a summary of
passing events, than one long article on the
subject of Slavery as I know full well that
you will attend to that particular department,
and that, too, with the pen of a ready
writer.
Yours, in behalf of our oppressed and
down-trodden countrymen,
M. R. D.
BLACK AND WHITE VILLANY.
44 The richest man in St. Thomas, one of
the principal ports of the West Indies, is as
black as ebony. He is said to be worth not
less than three millions of dollars, and has
acquired his wealth by trafficking in persons
of his own color.”
We find the above floating about in the
whirlpool of American newspapers, as a case
of peculiar wickedness. To our minds it
only proves that villany may be perpetrated
by black as well as white, and shows the
identity of the human family. We copy the
following from Jay's 44 View,” aa an offset:
41 $lOO Reward.—Ran away from the sub
scriber a bright mulatto man slave, named
Sam. Light sandy hair blue eyes, ruddy
complexion —is so WHIT Eas very easily to
pass for a free WHITE MAN.
“Edwin Peci.
44 Mobile, April 22d, 1837.”
44 Ranaway from the subscriber, working
on the plantation cf Col. H. Tinker, a bright
mulatto bov, named Alfred. Alfred is about
18 years of age, pretty well grown, has Afar
3 is, light faxen hair, shin disposed to freckle.
e will try to pass as FREE BORN.
44 S. G. Stewabt.
44 Green County, Alabama.”
44 In the summer of 1835, a slaveholder
from Maryland arrested, as his fugitive, a
young woman in Philadelphia. A trial en
sued, when it was most conclusively proved,
that the alleged slave, Mary Gilmore, was the
child of poor Irish parents, and had not a
drop of African blood in her veins.”
Correction. —The name of Henry Collins
should have been inserted as a member of the
Executive Committee of the Western New
York Anti-Slavery Society.
Fare Letters. —The Postmaster General
estimates the number of free letters that passed
through the Pom Offices of the l ulled States
at about five millions every year.
Boswell and Dr. Johnson were convers
ing on the conduct of a planter who so flogged
bis slave that he died. The Doctor thun
dered savagely. 44 Well, hot,” said Boswell,
depreeatingly, 44 1 have always held the man
with the black face to be a connecting link
between a man and a brute.”
44 Sir,” said Dr. Johnson, rolling his huge
form from side to side, 44 and I have always
held the mnn with a lluk hart to be a con
necting link between a Irute ai d the uni.
Wit and lli uoa.—E. P. Whipple, Esq.
in a lecture delivered before the Mercantile
Library Association, of Boston, on W.t and
Humor, remarked that, 44 the first laughed at,
the other wUh. Old Fuller, the church his
torian, when he celled the negro 44 the image
ef God rat ia ebony,” was humorous. Hor
ace Smith, when he said that the negro's
latirniaster was 44 the inaje ef the devil eat
in i*«ry,” wan witty.
Wild Potatw. —Tke Santa Fe Repah
beaa of Nemaher IS, asps that the potato
pm wild la the aotatsM, near that place.
The largest an ahovt the rk of a hen’s egg,
is feapaaad that they ha aaod far seed ia those
diwrim of the eoaatrp that art aahjeet to the
potato rot,
MEETING OF COLOEED CITIZENS
OF BOSTON.
Parsnant tocatt, a crowded aocbence thronged
Belknap-st. Church, on Monday Eve., Jan.
84, 1848. The following resolutions were
offered by W. W. Brown, accepted, and de
ceased separately, at senaderahlc length, by
Moron. Charles H. Roberts, Henry Bibb,
Than. P. Smith, and Urary CaropbeD, in
the argative; and sustained by Robert Morris,
Jr., J. J. Debois, Wm. W. Brown, H.
Weeden.E. B. Lawton, sod J. T. HU ten
Resolved, That, ta the opinion of this meet
ing, k was* n assail ry to form aa rororiation
among us, for the purpose of acting politically
in regard to slavery.
This first rrooletkm was amended by Henry
Bibb, and passed, ae follows:
Resolved, That in the language of Wm.
Lloyd Garrison, ns contained in the Declara
tion of Anti-Slavery Sentiments, the people
are under the highest obligations to remove
Slavery by moral and political action.
The second resolve was passed by a large
majority, as follows:
Resolved, that as friends of onr enslaved
countrymen, we deprecate the foronatiaa of
anv society in the city of Boatan, calculated to
induce the people to joia any existing reli
gious sects or political partita, with the hope
or expectation that they will aid the cause of
the slave's emancipation.
otod, That the proeeediaga of this meeting
be signed by the President sad Secretaries,
and published in the Liberator and Emanci
pator.
J.T. HILTON, President.
Tnos. DaTton. Vicc Pr «»fcnts.
Robert Moaais, Jr., J n
E. B. Lawton, b€CTtUr es
Jonathan Walken and John L. Jacobs
have long been expected in this vicinity.
Any friend, by informing the latter that letters
remain for him at this office, may confer a
kindness.
Slavers. —lt is stated in late English
papers, that more than fifty slave vessels
have been taken on the const of Africa within
the last twelve months.
dr*The ColonizationSocicty have called fur
$50,000, in order to carry on the operations of
the Society vigorously during the present year.
Unrrlty l can inimon spirits from the vasty
deep.—
44 Hottpur. —But will they cornel
Peace oa War!—The Tribune of tho
sth instant says— 44 There seems no lorger
room for duubt that the Mexican government
has offered to make peace on the terms de
manded by our Government, through Mr.
Trist, just previous to the taking of the city
of Mexico, and that he has forwarded this
proposition to Mr. Polk at Washington.”
Thus it appeals* the President can i.ew have
all he asked for last summer. Will he accept
it, or will his demands increase, as the power
of Mexico to refuse diminishes.
NOTICES OF BOOKS.
Slateholdisg examined in the light
or THE Holt Bible. By William Henry
Brisbane.
This is a hook of 223 pages, bound in paper,
published by the American and Foreign Anti-
Slavery Society sold a* No. 3p*«co
Street, New York; price 25 cents. The
book may be very useful to those who need
the light of the Bible to distinguish a man
from a brute; and if all such will buy and
read it, few books will have a wider circula
tion among the religious denominations of
our republic. We extract the follow ing from
the author’s preface, which will give tho
reader some idea of the tone and object of the
book;
44 I know what are tho struggles in a con
scientious slaveholder’s mind. J know his
difficulties m an investigation of the subject
of slavery, and I know how it is he mistakes
the teachings of the Bible. 1 trust the fol
lowing pages w ill serve to open the eyes of
some to the sinfulness of slaveholding, and be
the means of emancipating many staves.”
For our part, though we have met to our
sorrow many slaveholders, we never met one
that appeared to 44 struggle” with any 44 con
scientious difficulties. We will not, how
ever, rashly assert ihat there ars nOne such
for there are undoubtedly many things which
we have not been permitted to see; and
among these may be classed a conscientious
slaveholder.
Nabbativb or rat Lira or Wittus
B*aw», s Fugitive Win. Written by himself.
An enlarged edition of this interesting
anti-slavery work is before us. In addition
to the highly instrnetive Narrative, the author
has rendered hie work doubly useful, by the
addition of numerous extracts from 44 Slava
Laws,” illustrating the horrible character of
Slavery. We have already commended this
book to the readers of the North Star; and
we are sere that no one who reads it will
think our commendation too strong. Mr.
Brown is fits! distinguishing himself, both as
a speaker and a writer in the cause of free,
dom and equality and if wa mistake not, ha
will yat become the moet powerful among hit
brethren ia the struggle for our rights. The
book may be had at 81, Cornbill, Boston,
price 85 cents.
A Citizen's Amu in Ki*i»* to tnb
Wan wren Mexico; a Lecture delivered at Ly.
ansi Hal, Lyaa, by Charles C. SbsckJbrd, Jan.
Id, 1848.
Tina is another able exposure of the pro.
sent diagiaocftil sod iniquitous war with
Mexieo. Mr. Shack ford has done himself
modi credit, and the cause of public morality
great service by the publication of tin* able
and eloquent le -ture. We k}**]l give our
re idor* coptoM* extracts from tlu* p«utphkt
in our next number.
OMMCKICiTIOiiS.
iVFRICAN SfiATBR\ ITS F<F»
FEUTR UPON ITS IMMEDIATE
VICTIMS.
LETTER SO. It.
The whole commerce between master
»n 4 slave, is a perpetual exercise of the most
boisterous passions, the moat unremitting des
potism on one part, and degrading submission
on th t other. The parent storms, the child
looks on and catches the lineaments of wrath,
puts on the same airs in circles of smaller
slaves, give* a lore to the worst of passions.
and thus nursed, educated, and daily exercised
in tyrnny, cannot but be stamped by odious
peculiarities.” J'jf>rson.
lie who has given the least consideration to
the institution of American Slavery', the ten
ure by which it exists, the character and
destiny of man. cannot be blind to the opera
tion of that system upon its immediate
victims.
It has been demonstrated to all intelligent
minds, that such title is only sustained by
physical force, violence to the nature of mar.,
and disobedience to the commands of God.
That all men are creat'd free and equal,
ne?d not be argued at this tune nor in this
place.
Th.s being universally admitted, he who
would reduce and retain his fellow man as
property, must becloud his mental faculties,
t-rush hb manhood, clos- all the avenues to
erudition against him, make him unmindful oi
his high character and destiny, teach him a
religion of superstition and idolatry’, disregard
the most sacred tics of our common hu
manity.
There is implanted in man's nature, a spirit
to rebel against tyranny and oppression; and
this becomes more active as the intellect be
comes more cultivated the mind more ex
panded, more capable of comprehending prin
ciples, feeling keenly wrongs inflicted. It was
this comprehensiveness of mind that enabled
the Adams's, Washingtons, and Jtffereor.s oi
the Continental Congress, in 1> to see that
the right of the mother country to tax them
3d. per jKjimJ oa lea, involved the right to
tax S 3 per pound 44 and rather than wear the
.paltry menace of a chain, offered up their
Jives, fortunes and honors upon the altar cl
liberty'.
To prevent similar results from the opera
tion of the minds of slaves, laws are enacted
in Southern States, making it penal to teach
slaves ,to read the name of the God that made
them. In several of these States, the death
penalty is inflicted for the second offence ol
teaching Slaves i:i Sabbath schools.*
What think you, pious Sabbath school
teachers of the North, (many of whom gath
er around your colored youth to teach them
the ways of salvation,) that if you should
commence your labor of love; in the Christian
city of New Orleans, the gallows would be
your reward, and this in the land of Liber
ty,” Bibles and Missionaries?
Why this filtering of the mind this inter
diction of Sabbath schools this spreading the
veil of mental darkness but to enable the
ruthless inanstcabr” to fetter the body and
restrain it from bursting ifs chain
Yet we hear much about religious instruc
tion of slaves of revivals on plantations at
the South. But is this the religion of Christ
that teaches man to 44 glorify God, by dis
charging his duty to Ins fellow man, —that
,places the word of God w ithin his reach, and
enables him to worship his Creator intelli
gently Or is it a religion of superstition
and idolatry, that teaches the victim of
oppression to look up to his oppressor as
God's own agent, and his commands as the
•commands of high Heaven? Bishop Meade,
in lus published sermons, to he used in the
promulgation of this same religious instruc
tion among slaves, says that 44 faults against
:their masters are faults against God, who
hath set their masters and mistresses over them
,in His own stead, and expects them to do ail
tferWce fur them as they uouki for Him.”—
And if as contcisusuf the revolting and blas
phemous character of these assertions, he
furthermore says 44 Pray do not think that 1
mean to deceive you, when 1 tell you that
your masters and mistresses are God's over
seers, and if you are faulty towards them,
God himself w ill punish you severely for it.
(Page 101.)
Could blasphemy, hypocrisy and impudence
go further than this? Was there ever a
clearer case of giving “stone for bread, a
serpent for meat?’’ Such are the idolatrous
teachings of the South
The system of slavery causes the enslaver
to disregard the most sacred ties of our com
mon humanity. The effect of possessing ir
responsible power, is to render callous the
heart, and sour the milk of human kindness.
The great mistake that has obtained in the
public mind is, that kindness is the rule, Mid
cruelty the exception w hereas cruelty is the
rule, and kindness the exception, in the treat
ment of masters tow ards their slaves. Said
the Presbyterian Synod of South srolina
and Georgia, in a Keport on Slavery, 1834
‘“Those only who have iTTe management of
servants, know what ihe hardening effect of
it is upon their owr. feelings toward them.
There is no necessity to dwell upon this point
ai a!I owners and managers fully understand
it. He who commences to manage them
with tenderness, and with a willingness to
favor them in every way, must he watchful,
otherwise he will settle down in indifference,
if notin severity.”
Said the late lamented General Win. 11.
Harrison, in a letter to General Bolivar:—
But trust me, sir, there is nothing more
corrupting—nothing more destructive of the
finest and noblest feelings of our nature, than
th- exorcise of unlimited power. The man
who, in tin- beginning of such a career, might
shudder at 1 lie idea of taking the life of a
fellow bung, might soon have his conscience
so seared tiy the repetition of crime, that the
agonies of his murdered victims might be
come music to his soul, and the drippings ol
the scaffold a third blood to swim in/’ Thcsr
testimonies and the daily records of the South,
are sufficient proofs of the cruelties that tht
slave is subject to.
Property w only valuable in consideration
of the right of the possessor to purchase w hen
he has a demand, and dispose of when he has
a surplus. If there be a deficiency of male
hands on one plantation, arid a surplus on an
other, they are transferred, regardless of the
Uea of relationship. Ho of the other sex,
*Wt hrve seen this statement denied. Will our
torr»*i*/ndc»»c give us the proof ?—tip.
and of children; thus severing husband
from wife, parent from child, leaving the
hearth desolate, and the hut vacant.” The
right of the fanner to pomeaa any kind of
stock, without the right to transfer when he
has a surplus, or to purchase when he has a
demand, would be a valueless, if not a bur
densome one.
Now, after a careful examination of the
natural results of “a cruel and unrelenting
system of oppression,” I would ask if there
can be an abuse of such a system Can sla
very exist (eiccpt in name) without the em
bargau m of the rays of intellectual light—
ihe crushing and degradation of manhood—
the disregard of the most sacred and endearing
ties of our nature without whips, chains,
rifles, bloodhounds, and all the horrid and
hellish pantpharnalia” that attend on the
patriarchal institution It was truly re
marked by the great Edmund Burke, that
when you have made a contented slave, you
have made a degraded man and whatever
degrades one man, is prejudicial to all men,
and retards the progress of humanity.
M,-n tlal fondly txja.*! that ye
Come of father* free and brave,
Tdl me, are ye truly free,
W'liiUi there lareathcs on earth a a!are 1
t« true Freedom lot to break
Fetter* for your on n dear sake 1
J. C. H.
Brooklyn, Feb, ft, 18-18.
tiii: Way to wealth in the
MODEL REPUBLIC.
Rkader! D;> you d-isire to l>c rieh? You
sec what honor and respect wealth can pur
chase what comfort; whit luxury; what
elegant house's and furniture even a seat in
the senate, and perhaps the Presidential chair.
The almighty dollar can do all things—
therefore spare no pains-in getting rich. But
consider the cost!
Get rich, and have your heart seared and
hatdened in the process. Never allow a
generous emotion to arise in your breast, that
is not stifled. Drive out every human sym
pathy, every pttre thought, every holy aspira
tion. Shut your eyes to the works of Nature
and of Genius. You must see no beauty in
the flower, no magnificence in the landscape,
no sublimity in the storm, no peace in the
calm—nothing grand in the forest, nothing
wonderful iu the sea. Look upon the entire
human race as fools, with whom you have
nothing to do, but to plunder. Lie, cheat,
swindle. Never think of such a vulgar and
common-place thing as a conscience. Grind
the face of the la!>orer oppress the poor and
the needy. Think no trick too vile—no fraud
too mean—no pretence too flimsy. Add cent
to cent and dollar to dollar. When you have
hv these means made yourself respectable, sub
scribe occasionally to some benevolent society
but be careful to have your name paraded on
the subscription list. Set yourself up as a
man to be loved for his virtue—honored for
his integrity—deferred to for his wisdom
and you will find a vulgar mob of money
worshippers, like yourself, ready to cringe
and fawn upon you, and how down before
their great Mammon-god, pouring the fulsome
flattery into your car, and according to you
every excellence in the catalogue of human
virtues.
With your money buy houses and lands at
a cheap rate be smart in your dealings; j
make the misfortunes of others your greatest!
gain; and your tens of dollars will become
hundreds.
With your money speculate in railroads
and government stock and buy up unoccu
pied land ar.d lend at interest; and your
hundreds will become thousands. And with
a haggard face, and sunken eye, and sunless
heart, you may walk the earth, bound up iu
your grovelling, grinding, earthly thoughts,
miserable, rich, wretched; and with a heart
hard enough for the next step in the down
ward rual to wealth and infamy.
"IV ith your money buy a Neoro —an ar
ticle of commerce in this land of inalienable
rights,” which some fanatics,” in the height
their credulity, are so unreasonable as to call
a Man, with thoughts, and feelings, and
affections, like other men—fed with the same
food, living the same life, and possessed of
the same immortal principle as other men.
W hich some others allow to be a kind of man
of an inferior order, that cannot take care of
himself.” But which you, by the time you
have gone through the process of money
getting, will be prepared to call a brute—
the uniting link between man and brute.”
Hire him out to work from early dawn to the
latest sun, as you would your horse or your
ass. Take the produce of his labor to your
self. I‘eed and clothe him as cheaply as
possible. Make him a sort of living and
thinking automaton, subject to your every
caprice—your every passion. Suffer him not t
to work his own works, or speak his own 1
thoughts, ll he attempt to do either, scourge
him. It he attempt again, as it is likely he
will, imprison, starve, sell him. And you'
w ill be a slaveholder, with the heart and
feelings of a slaveholder, prepared for greater
and worse wickedness.
With your money buy a few hundred acres
of the Calhoun-protected soil of South Car
olina. Buy a hundred Slaves, or more, male
and female. Buy chains, and whips, and
thumbscrews. Hire a driver. Feed, clothe,
and house your Slaves coarsely,” at $2O
a-vear each. Set them to work in your
rice swamps and sugar-fllds, driven, tasked,
scourged. Shut out from their minds all
light—all knowledge. Degrade and brutify
them. Hire a minister to teach them, under
the name of Christianity, that it is w rong and
wilful to disobey in aught the commands of
their master. If a sla\e attempts to escape,
hunt him with bloodhounds. Let him be
caught, torn, mangled, and bleeding, with*
their merciless fangs; brought back and
scourged till he faints at death's rcrec.'
A bust* and prostitute your female slaves, j
Breed for ihe market. Sell you* own
OiTsraiNG, with pigs, and horses, and cattle 1
And you will be wealthy and perhaps a
senator. Cursed of God, and a fit companion
lor fiends, ii there be any greater wicktdne**
that is not mentioned m this catalogue of hor
rors, you will be prepared to perpetrate it;!
and prepared for an eternity of Heaven
knows the rest.—j. d.
Oliver J oh.nook —The Anti-Slavery Stan
dard says, that Mr. Oliver Johnson, who has
so ably filled the post of atetstant editor in the
Tribune office for the last four yean, has
retired from that position, and about to esta
blish a weekly paper at Bfockstooe, Maas.
Chicago, Bh t Jan. 97, IM§.
Fusnicx Dove lam— Dear Sir Al*
£h I have not bad the pleasure of a per*
ißtmiea wah jog, jet I am nutmaivdy
nger to joov public character, and am
somewhat acquainted with the former peri
od of your fife, having read your narra
tive in a little hook which trad published, to
the beat of my knowledge, about three jean
•g®*
1 most eon few that I have felt a secret joy
ever since I first heard your name spoken of
in connection with the “North Star.” Tour
position is of great prominence, cod will call
into action all the power, energy and resour
ces of your mind. You are engaged in a no- 1
ble work; and, Wing a native of Ute same
State with yourself, I moat sincerely wish you
every success in ymrr new enterprise. The i
whole civiliaed world seem to have turned j
their attention somewhat towards the suhj'tt j
of human rights therefore you will not be j
entirely alone in your new undertaking.
I write very little, and never for the public j
press; therefore, I beg you will make a rea-
sonablc allowance -for my w ild and unconnect
ed manner of addressing you. But to the
subject.
On looking abroad over this land, and re
flecting on the impoverished condition of our
unfortunate and disfranchised countrymen; a
[dan has occurred to me, which, if it is worthy
of notice, I beg you or some one elae
will urge its claims, after putting it into a
favorable shape. The plan I allude to is
similar to those which are now in successful
operation in Canada. This plan (if it can be
made to work) would, I feel quite sure, have
a tendency to better our condition in the point
of wealth, and consequently improve our con
dition in several important respects. We are
all too poor, as a general thing, and we
must be awakened to every species of enter
prise.
I shall here present you with a general view
of the plan, which is, in its details, about the
same as tliat of the Building Societies in
Canada, with the exception of a difference
in the name, and a slight difference in the
object.
Suppose, for example, a Society is organ
ized with shares of $l2, and each shareholder
is a member of the Society. The instalments
on the shares are $2 per month, or fifty cents
per week but more can be paid by any one
who chooses. These funds are let to members
who may desire assistance in purchasing real
estate and for the improvement of the same, at
ten per cent, u year. This would make it an
object to those who would not wish to pur
chase,' (if there should be any,) to invest
their httc weekly savings at a good rate of
interest.
Let us, for instance, suppose there are 300
members. The monthly’-' receipts of the So
ciety are $OOO —this sum could be divided
between two onjoan of $3OO or less, each.—
If there are more than two applicants for a
loan, they draw for their chance of getting it.
The person who obtains it gives satisfactory
personal security, or otherwise; that the
funds are to be applied immediately in com
pleting the purchase for which it was ob
tained and as soon as possible after the title
shall have been made out and completed, a
mortgage shall be taken upon it, naming the
Trustees of the Society, if nut incorporated.
In this way, the Society would have abund
ant security, and the purchaser would be
enabled to pay cash for his property at the
lowest market prices the purchasers would
then generally occupy their own premises,
and their next ambition would be to reduce
their loan, by paying into the Society all they
could monthly spare from the support of their
families; and all good wives would use every
economy necessary to help their husbands pay
back the loan, so as to own clear of all incum
brance their own premises. The money paid
to the Society would be immediately re-let, to
assist some other member of the Society to
do the like again, &c &c.
I would now say to you, to urge our people
to push forward and make themselves owners
of the soil. This certainly can be brought
about by using great persevering industry,
joined to the most rigid economy. By making
use of the above means, no one need fear the
result; fur I tell you, that all attempts to
crush a whole people in their efforts to suc
ceed in a good cause, to cheek the favorable
progress of things, must fail. These princi
ples of human justice, which have been put on
foot, must strengthen with the advancement
of man and the progress of civilization. But
in the language of Jefferson, “I tremble for
my country when I reflect that God is just,
and that his justice cannot sleep forever.”
Since writing the above, I have seen the
first number of your paper; and being some
little of a Typo” myself, I am much pleased
with the workmanship of it, and also with the
general appearance, tone and spiriwwhich it
breathes.
I am a man of family, and am here, not
from any choice of my own, but from the
force of peculiar circumstances, and not know
ing how long I may .make Chicago my resi
dence but I will obtain subscribers for your
paper.
Very respectfully, &c. t
U. O. WAGONER.
r Syracuse, Feb. 8, 1848.
Mr. Frederick Doig lass—Dear Sir:—
I have for some Urae been taking as many
papers as my slender means would admit;
but I have been favored by our friend and
brother, Samuel J. May, with the perusal of
your excellent sheet, and come what may,—
poverty, the want of a full meal, or a well
covered back, or even the discontinuance of
other periodicals that I highly value, I am
determined to take the North Star. I regard
it as the star of promise to the millions of our
downtrodden brethren in tins miscalled land of
liberty, and can no longer hesitate to do what
I may, at any personal sacrifice, to keep it
high above the horizon. Never should it be
allowed to set, until the darkness of slavery
passes away from the land, and the sun
light of universal and impartial freedom ab
sorbs its rays.
I am myself a fugitive Croat the land of
whips and chains: and might never have
made my escape had there been no North
Star. For nearly a mouth, I desired no other
light than that which rarer by its rays. The
light of day was darkness to me. I wras
obliged to skulk and hide myself from the sun.
But when the North Starshooe span my path,
my spirit reeved, and I dared In poem os
towards a bwllf frvwdmn. tlftbrUod at
an ignt anthar, Mten aalbnAcn, who are
atffl, I presume, wearing the joke *f bond
age, dragging eat yentn of living death. And
what eaa Ido to relieve theta Nothing di
rectij. Indeed, the fet that I have escaped,
has probably mcteased the vigilance of their
keeper*. The thought* Uun, at tunes, em
farttrvs thi joy of my deliverance. My onlj
hope for them m in the Gd of Buttles, who
on the aide of the offTCumd," aad in the
farther diffusion of the nentunetrt and the love
of liberty. As a powerful instrument to the
production of this effect upon the public mind
and heart, I welcome your labors ss in editor,
aad bog to do ail 1 can to strengthen your
hands and encourage your heart.’' I knr
your paper because it forgets not Joseph,"
hot pleads for his deliverance, speaking bold
ly, pointedly do his behalf-daring even to say
to the mightiest slaveholder, thou art the
man." May God makn you a akilfU and
mighty potter, to remould all the clay in our
land.
|mL
I shall be happy to do what I may to pro
cure other subscribers to the North Star, if it
will not interfere with the arrangement of
your agencies.
Enclosed 1 send you mj subscription for
one year; and add my repeated assurances of
respect and affection.
Yours for the poor and crushed slave,
J. W. L.
SraiscriELO, Feb. sth, 1848.
I My Dear Sir —At a meeting held at the
i Town Hall in this place, on the evening of
i the first of this mouth, I, for the first time,
had the privilege of hearing you, air, express
your sentiments on the subject of Slavery
and it is in reference to what fell from your
lips on that occasion, that I now venture to
address you, and in so doing, (although 1
may intiuds somewhat upon your valuable
1 time,) I hope that it may not prove altogether
unprofitable.
That the subject of Slavery is one of, it
not the most important that can possibly occu
-1 py the public mind at the present time, is, to
my view, unquestionable, and therefore I can
readily -conceive that to yous it must indeed
be paramount: therefore, without adverting to
1 the melancholy facts that make it so, and
1 which have provoked so just an indignation in
your breast, I shall without further preface or
1 apology, proceed to offer a few remarks, and
r which, I sincerely hope, may be received hv
you in the same spirit of kindness as that iu
which they arc dictated and here permit me
to say that no spirit of controversy has sug
gested them, (for with this letter the matter
rests,) but they have been made with a view
rather to aid the cause of the oppressed, than
to retard it.
It has ever been a principle of belief with
me, that the most efficient advocacy of any
cause is mainly, if not wholly, attributable to
1 zeal, tempered with discretion. While 1 isten
tto your remarks, and witnessing the glowing
ardor which animated your features while de
scribing the feelings of the injured, and the
miseries of the oppressed, I felt a secret hope
jthat those feelings of just indignation, and
.that spirit of honest denunciation against the
t foul wrongs of so many millions of the hu
j man race, might never slumber until the cruel
fetters which bound the limbs of the last slave
should be broken oft', and the multitude ol
wretched victims rise in one body from their
loathsome darkness and despair, to the glori
ous and refulgent light cf freedom’s joyful
day. But, my dear sir, while occupied with
these hopeful feelings, I was much hurt to
hear (upon a question from one of the audi
dience, us to when and where the circumstan
jees alluded to had taken place) a most violenj
I and vituperative attack upon the main body oi
the Ministers of the Gospel, imputing to them
j motives most mean and dishonorable, and
1 which, as a body, upon sober reflection, you
i will, I think, feci, if you do not admit it, they
‘do not deserve yet while there are many
whose actions ai*c ill in accordance with the
j doctrines of that blessed gospel which pro
claims liberty to the captives and the opening
jof the prison to those that are bound, and
whose conduct is a reproach to the cause ol
their Master yet I trust there are unmbers
to be found whose characters are unimpeacha
ble, and whose whole lives have been devoted
to the good of mankind, and who are ever
found foremost in redressing the grievances ol
the wronged, and firmly and faithfully advoca
ting the liberty of the captive and the cause ol
the oppressed.
It is then to the unconditional and sweeping
censure, together w ith the contemptuous ridi
cule which you cast upon them, as a body
that I advert, as likely to do the cause an irre
parable injury for you well know, sir, that
in almost all public meetings, there are bul
too many who exult in a reproach brought
upon the ministers of religion, and are thereby
led to treat its sacred cause w ith scoffing and
contempt; and who are they generally Arc
they the individuals whom you expect to sym
pathize in the s-iffTerings of the poor slave, oi
aid him in gaining his freedom! I think tliey
do not. But let the answer as to who they
are, who both feel and do most, be fouod iu
the donations and subscriptions usually madt
in aid of the cause of emancipation. Now,
sir, permit me to say, that as the wisest policy;
is ever based upon truth, so I can conceive no
effort secure, even in the cause of truth, bul
that which is supported by discretion. Much,
sir, as I admire the undaunted boldness of a
Nathan, or the unflinching courage of a Paul,
yet imcomparaldy above these is the example
of Him who spake as never man spake
who, when he was reviled, reviled not again
hut amid all bis accumulated load of suffering,
even to the death, could, in the plenitude ol
his love, look even upon his murderers with
pity, and say, Father, forgre them, for
they know not what they do.
The cause of truth, whenever and wherever
presented, will, I feel, tooaer reach the hearts
of men, and win them to Hself, by mildness,
in an appeal to tbeir sympathies and their bet
ter natures, than will boisterous and vitupera
tive declamation.”
I will now no longer occupy your time anr
patience by further remarks, aid trust yot
wiU receive what I hnvemade, not in the waj
of diefttion tuifcui better judgment; fcrfroa
what yon sfifc, I ptmmeym are hot tot
sage to reject advice, p*oud n to diehu
it, or as from one eoM the noble ess*
which yoo, mi. hare the honor to advocate
hot simply as a few him* from a friend to Um
cmm of suffering humanity wherever a
IMS. Now, sir, with bm whk*» for the
prosperity of tin cause, and kind rrgmids to
immdf, wfler me tonbrnfoandt
M y Dear Sir,
Yoon, wry fahbfully,
THOMAS MIDDLETON.
lO* The following Correspondence ap
peared in tLe Springfield papers, in refrrmre
to Mt rectal rant to that city
From Ike Springfield RenJikaa.
M*. Editor
X wish, through the columns of your paper,
to MJ a few words regarding the a duress
made by Mr. Frederick Lkmgtosn, on Tuesday
evening of the Ist inst., at the Town lliill. 1
am aware of the disadvantage of one who
attempts to criticise the remarks* of one who is
the editor of a paper, as is the case with Mr.
D.; but I feel in some measure bound la duty
to that portion of th; eo.njKia.ty with
which Mr. Douglass and myself are identified,
to notice a tew of the remarks w bich were
made by him in his address.
In the fire-place, be, without qualification,
denounced the Church ami the Ministry, as
being utterly deaf to the crus of God s poor,
aud said if tlie I*l*4 it had spoken out Le need
not have been there to speak for them. Hut
that does not go to prove that the whole
Church deaf to the subject; and, for one, 1
am led to conclude that there are a few names
in Sanfis, who have not defiled tiieir gar
ments by the foul ain of Slavery, nor have
lliey faded to declare the whole coui.se] of
God. .Therefore, to make as sweeping a de
nudation as was made by Mr. Douglass, U
unwarrantable, and contrary to the spitit oi
Christianity.
'There are sins as old iu this country as
slavery and notwithstanding the denuncia
tion pronounced against them in the YV ord ol
God notwithstanding the application of rig
orous discipline to such as are guilty notwith
standing the civil authority punishes the guilty
—still these sins live iu communities, and
some in the Church.
Now, we believe there are many, both in
Church and State, who feel their individual
responsibility, and aro laboring to correct
those evils. Just so with regard to Slavery.
There are many in the American Church
that commiserate the condition of the
slave, and denounce slavery: many who
believe that there are redee.v.ina qualities
in the Church, and that there are indications
ef a reforming spirit manifesting themselves
every day.
Other portions of Mr. Douglass’ address, I
will notice in a future communication.
L. COLLINS.
From the Spring field Republican.
There was a large audience collected al th<
Town llall, on Tuesday evening, to listen t<
Frdsrick Douglass, the runaway slave. Th
writer was in the llall for a few moments du
ring the evcr’ ncr and although we profess t
be friendly every reasoiu'!e L‘ o, hnd o
freeing our country from the curse of slavery
we cannot approve of the course or languag
adopted by Frederick Douglass, lie de
nouueed the New York papers for calling hin
a liar and a scoundrel, and from what w
heard, we should judge that he labored hnr<
to make his titles clear and unquestionable. Fo
instance, he stigmatized the whole country
li as a slave hunting community,” an assertioi
which liis position in the Speaker's stand falsi
tied. We would like to ask of Douglass
friends, who cordially responded amen’’ t<
his assertions, if this town can be a siavi
bunting community, when Fredeiick Doug
lass, a runaway slave, on whose head rests s
price, dead or alive, is permitted to walk tht
streets and breathe the air, as free as ar»v
of liis auditors. Has the history of the
f»ast shown this community to be a slave
turning community?” Have any runaway
slaves been seized by their Southern mas
ters in this town, and forcibly bad
to servitude? These questions must be an
sweredin tlie affirmative before Douglass’ as
scrtifHi can be called true. So much for hi;
first title.
For his claims to the second, henr him:
would welcome the cause, ivhtibr it Ite an ait Oj
Htm .77t, or a thunderbolt from Jill, ichicJ
should break in pieces, and shatter this Unioi
of Zdates." And he further continued to ad
vise his auditors to redouble their eliurts t<
effect this object. Yes to dissolve the Un
ion to create civil war of unknown duration
to convert the now iron shackles of the slavt
to adamant to put back the great work ol
America, viz: the evangelizing of the world
to deluge the whole country in blood and
take forever away from the North what pow
er they have towards hastening emancipation,
—these are Mr. Douglass’ motives and those
of his friends. They would have all this and
more, for the purpose of breaking away from
the South, which would be all that could be
effected by disunion.
Fro:a thu Springfield Gazette.
We give place to the following corn l. ill lec
tion, which was refused an insertion in the
Republican, with no purpose of enlisting our
columns m any controversy on the subject,
(otherwise we should express oar dissent from
some of its doctrines,) but solely from a wil
lingness to see fair play in the matter. If we
recollect aright, the writer of the article in the
Republican asked sundry questions of the
friends of Douglass, an answer to which in
volved a point of veracity. We have taken
the liberty to omit a single sentence in refer
ence to Colonization, bseam3 it is opprobrious
in Us character, and irrrlccrnt to the matter at
issue
Friend Editor :—I noticed an article in the
Republican of the 3-J instant, from a pro
fessed friend of the slave, who appears to be
at his old trade of fostering the old prejudice
against him. As usual, if I mistake him not,
this professed friend has reckoned without his
host, in saying that his (Douglass') position
in the speaker’s stand falsified his assertion,
that the whole country was a slave huuiisg
community.” In proof of this assertion, the
Constitution, the fundamental law of the peo
ple, savs: “he shall be delivered »p,” and
the people say, amen id,the law* of 03, the
living expression of the people of Massachu
setts and of Springfield, v. hich provides! for
the re-capture of the slave, and makes it
penal ofthnee for any man to be merciful and
Christ-like towards the fugitive. And an
zandt went to Ina grave w ithin a rear
under a fine of SSCO and cost of court-'
amounting to $l7OO, for a violation of that
law, sentenced bv the L\ S. Court, the agent
of the people. Three men, one in Ohio and
two in Pennsylvania, bare recently been
mulcted in the sera of s2oho, fur a violation of
that slave-catching law. George Ashmen, of
Springfield, agent of the people, and every
Representative awl Senator from Mastacbu
icntls, in the State and Nation) Legislature.
t»ve sworn that the slave shall be delivered
up.” How long since George Latimer, the
slave of John B. Gray, could not find an inch
»f free soil ui Massachusetts, even under the
shadow of the old fradle of liberty, with
So th bands upon its aiur, where he could
stand and ba foee bat was and larked
ap in Leverctt-st. Jail, and ordered to be deiir- j
ered up by the Chief Justice of Muaauchusettj,
the agent of the people 1
How long since a professed wdignalion j
meeting was held in Boston, by those sworn j
to the Constitution and law of kO their
supreme law,at the head of which was J. Q. j
Adams, because of the recapture of a fugi
tive slave, who was seized and earned back
in a vessel owned by «e of the fiiwf nvr
rbaats in Boston. And the fact that Freder 1
rk Dough m bad any safety in the speak
er*’* stand,” Ibre in .Springfield, was owing
to Ins freedom having hero purchased by
British philanthropists, ftmn slave-holding
uid ibff’fifffciftg of Amcma;
not because t there was free enough in
Springfield foe him even to put hm foot
upon. And if the friend wi»h« for evidence
that slaves have btwt stand to tint vow*
and drmsrfH hark to ahsuir. there are eift»
sens enough in Spn&g& U who can furnish him
with it
Md. Frederick Douglass* mwertkwi that 14 he
would welcome the autre, whether it he a
thanderhoh from Hoarcn tar HeD, whrh
break iu piece* and shatter th» Dftion
of State*,” •e'fn* to hare hik'd thru pro*
tawed fhead «f tin alase wuh horror, there
by “ulufy mg bra great prufantotji about
froetag ibtscour-try from the eutsa 0 f sia-:
venr. Dunwg the rrr o ßuo«, when the
weiiaata tnA to ring (hy the of
lovere of liberty and Haim of ten mr) .t j
such a rectunem as UhicW*’. What js,wM
baee become of your corrwpoodeot, xft er 1
denouncing the ncuucwjrtt.wuli wli his tf
ration* about tiro curs* of llntisb tyrranny 1
Would he not have hern burg as a torv,
and his properly confiscated for being Icaginvi
with tyrants 1 Dum lt« say tW cares are
not paralM S« 1 aay. So suh! Thomas
JclFcrson that one hour ti alavehokiiug
tyrwjuiv was Ir wight with more ntiSiTy than
aces of Unush tyranny, which they had
rusi&ted,” and dissolved their union with. j
And yet 3 cur corrcspoodjut ts b<>mf;ed at the
idea of dissolving our union with such tv-j
rants. While God tv!ls vs that the ewe*
quenees o| doin<r right shall be Happy, your
correspondent, infidel like, thuddera about
imaginary civil wars,” end!- ss duratH 11 ol
shivery,’ 1 and the overthrow of the great
work of America, of evangelizing the world."
Doubtless ho regards the present bloody work
of America, in making bullet holt's through
Mexicans, to thrust their skm-hnkiing biblcs
in, to k'tcli the Mexicans of the tiinnt institu
tion of slavery as the way to ect-nizthze Iht
world
At the time J. Q. Adams presented a peti
tion from Mtihsachuteus, asking for a dissolu
tion of the Union with slaveholders, Messrs.
Underwood, of Kentucky, nnd Arnold, from
Tennessee, declared that a dissolution of
Ike Union would be the dissolution of sla
very, and that any man of common A rue
could see ltd'
Thus they are slaveholders and sdave
catchers who continue to support the Union,
the vital and animating spirit <f w hich, in
the language of J. Q. Adams, is the pro
tection, the [lerpetuation, and propagation ol
slavery.”
A Fhiksd or Frederick Douglass
EXTRACT FROM THE OF
MR. PaulfreyY ON THE POLITI
CAL Aspects OF THE SLAVE
QUESTION.
Mr. Chairman!—On the 2*l*l day of
December—a day consecrated to all
time by the ft rat pressure of the foot
steps of the martyr*of liberty cn the
of this eatem World, desecra
ted to all time by the constimmaSFn. at
the other end of the Capitol, cf the
measures taken by the champions of
Slavery for the admission of a foreign
nation into this Union, for the purpose
j of strengthening and perpetuating that
institution—the eenth*man from
Carolina (Mr. Clingman) addressed the
Committee on what, in the pamphlet
publication of his remarks, he has
called 1 the Political Aspect of the Slave
Question. He treated the subject with
great courtesy, fairness, rrutderation
i and dignity, i am not cure thr.t his
speech w ill not permanently connect yet
another class of associations with that
famous date. I see in it evidence that
the time has passed away when it was
thought necessary to banish this great
question from the deliberations of this
I Hall. I joyfully accept the omen. 1
see other indications of the same w’cl
rornre improvement in the state of feel
ing amund us. It is 1 ut a litt'e while
since I read two articles in the South
ern Review'* on this subject, of which
th* temper aad tone were as commend
hli) is the argument seemed to me fal
lr»ci*»us. I understand that there has
hern a plan for a newspaper in this
District, to he devoted to the interests
of Southern Slavery. And, on the oth
er hand, a plan has not only been pro
jected, hut executed, for the estahlish
ment of a paper witli the opposite design
—(The National Era.) It is conduct
ed with distinguished ability, and, I am
told, enjoys a w idc circulation. There
were some threats of violence, l be
lieve, at first, hut they came to nothing.
The friends of Liberty, it seems, have
at last a fair field. Give them that, and
they ask no favor.
I said that in my opini >n the gcntle
i men from North Carolina was right in
introducing the subject; and i am
struck with the propriety of the title
i which he gives to his published remarks j
—The Political Aspect of the Slave
Question. Sir, it is the great political
question of the country, and has been
f»om the beginning of this century,
though not hitherto so prominent as
j now. It is the question which under
lies all other great questions, and deter
mines their solution.
I must pass entirely over many
things, and lightly over many others.—
i As to this Political aspect of the Slave
Question, how r has it dealt withr our,
j Right of Petition, and our Freedom of
Speech and of the Press—the two lasi
belonging to the inheritance of our
Anglo Saxon manhood, the former com
monly recognized in the poorest vassal;
that crouches before a despot’s throne.
i For several years, the petitions of our
constituents for the redress of what they
feft to be offensive grievances were con
temptuously thrown back by a standing
regulation of this House; and now the
most that we have gained is, that they
may go into the hands of the Committee
i on the District, which Committee, it is
just as well understood as if it w’crc
formally set down and ordained in your
Rules and Orders, is to do its office by
simply burying them out of sight, and
taking care that they be no more heard j
of forever.
Liberty of Speech and Liberty ofthe
Press, what arc they worth in nearly
half of the States of this Union, if one
would exercise them in relation to the
great moral, social, and political ques
tion of the time? On that subject,
within those borders, who does not
know that a man is not to speak or print
his mind, except at peril of life and
limb Nor docs Personal Liberty, in
certain cirtumstances, fare better, By
the Constitution of Massachusetts, es
tablished in 1780, people of' color are
citizais of that Commonwealth, as
much as whites. And by the Federal
Constitution, which w ent into operation
in 1789, all “citizens of each State are
entitled to all privileges and immunities
of citizens in the several States.” By
the Constitution of Massachusetts, 1
say, freedom is universal within her
limits, and citizenship has nothing to do
with color. There was never an act
of Emancipation in that Comnion
wealtli. Emancipnti >n took place hy
force of the organic law Three years
after its adoption, a colored man pros
ecuted a white man for as.-au!t and bat
tery. The fact was admitted, hut jus
tified on the ground that the black w as
a slave, and that the assault was the
lawful chastisement of the master. The
court held, that under the dau-etf the
bill of rights declaring that ail men
an- born tiec and equal, and have cer
tain natural, essential and inalienable
rights, among which may be reckoned
the right of enjoying and defending their
lives and liberties,” (language almost
copied from that w ritten by a Yirginiau
pen in tlie Declaration of Independ
ence,) no such relations as those of
master and slave could subsist in Mas
saehusetts. The master was convicted
and lined, and slavery took its last leave
of her jurisdiction.
The colored citizen of Massachu
setts goes on his lawful occasions to a
Southern State, with just as good con
stitutional right to trend its soil in secu
rity and at will, as the heir of its own
longest and proudest lineage. But not
only is he forbidden by I lie pseudo-le
gislation of the place to land there in
freedom, he is not permitted even to
remain in freedom on braid the ship
that has conveyed him. He is forced
on shore to a prison; aud when he is
discharged and departs, it is on the
I payment of a ransom, ca!kd the ex
pense of his detention. If he comes a
second time, he is scourged. If a
third, he is sold into perpetual slavery.
So decrees the so-culh d law. Massa
chusctts was uneasy to have her unof
fending citizens treated thus. She re
monstrated, hut to no purpose, except
to draw down fresh insult. She could
not, nor did ehe desire to cscstce the*
responsibility of adopting all means in
her power tor their protection. She
sent one of her most respected citizens,
a man of admirable w isdom, discretion,
dignity, and purity of character, siirt
plv to try the question of the validity r#f
those provision* which South Carolina
persisted in affirming to be law, though
that ene of her most eminent aona,who
had cognizance of it on the supreme
tribunal of the nation, bad said; “On
i the tmconstitutionality of the law, it is
not too much to say, that it m ill not bear
argument.
A New Political Aspect of the Slave
question w as new tHselovrod. The Slave
Question had closed the doors of the
Federal Ccoits, to which it belonged
to extend the security that the Federal
Constitution liad assured. The Mas
saehusetts lawyer could not reach the
bench before which he woukl have
pleaded for the liberty and rights of
Ma-sarhnsetts freemen. Nor only so.
The Slave Question had yet further as
pects for himself. He was expelled,
and sent home w ith indignity, it it were
p ssihle for indignity to reach such a
ir.an. And laws, so-called, were forth
with enacted, making it liighly penal
henceforward to seek legal redress in
that region, under such circumstances,
for the extremest outrages offered to a
New England freeman,
j Mr. Chairman, we have no present
remedy, We cannot raise a regiment,
nor fit out a ship, for the inuintainance
of the rights of those to whom the
State owes protection, as much as they
owe allegiance to the State. We are
disarmed by those compromises of the
Constitution, which Massachusetts re
spects. I shudder while I refer to such
expedients; but in other times they
would have been resorted to. It may
be we ffiall sec hereafter that these
dismal transactions are not merely to
be deplored. It is such extravagances
that attract attention, arouse indo
lence, and excite to action. It is a
method of Providence, to provide for
the ultimate overthrow* of great evils,
by the practical development of their
enormity. The excess of an abuse
conducts it to its fate. I said to Mr.
Hoar, when I welcomed him back, that
I could not wholly regret the annoyance
he had endured, for they seemed to be
long to that blackest darkness that just
precedes the day. I believe it was so;
and that while the pen of history was
recording that shameful chapter, the
pen of Destiny was writing the certain
and not distant downfall of the oppres
sive and insolent institution.
Then came, for the strengthening and
perpetuation of Slavery, the disastrous
measure of the annexation of Texas,,
with its long train of Political Aspects
of the Slavery Questiqn, long enough
already, and still stretching far away
into the unknown and threatening fu
lure. The first fruit of that proceed
ing was the repeal of the Tariff act of
1812, a measure which took the bread
from the mouths of thousands of the
working men of the Free States, and a
measure carried hy two votes cast at
the other end of this building, by men
who had no more constitutional right to
come in and act upon cur affairs, than
any two who might have been brought
over from England, or France, or
Algiers. Tlie next blossoming of the
tree was the pending war with Mexico.
Gentlemen please themselves with ma
king distinctions between the occasion
and the cause of that war. But no
body, I take it, doubt that, if Texas
had not been annexed, war would not
have taken place. Mr. Calhoun,whose
sagacity all the newspapers extol,
thought he could set fire to a barrel of
gunpowder, and extinguish it when half
consumed. He has lived to rue the
failure of the hopeful experiment. We
have spent a hundred millions of dol
lars, and arc going on spending. No
matter for the money, if it had only been
buried in the deep blue sea, deeper
than did ever plummet sound,” instead
of being used to purchase so much dis
grace and mischief. But it has been
made to carry widowhood and orphan
age into thousands of the homes of a
sister Republic, the homes of men and
women who never injured us. It has
been made to carry widowhood and or
phanage into thousands of our own
American homes; to write a chapter in
our history for the execration and loath
ing ofthe civilized and Christian world,
and the bitter shame of our own wiser
posterity. t
Again: the gentleman urged to this
point the natural inferiority of the negro
race, (page 7.) He lias no doubt ex
amined, and knows how to expose, the
seeming paradox of those ingenious
men who have held that the balance of
power was iffiirt* d, and the sceptre of
the world passe d fU m the colored to the
white race, some 25 centuries ago,
at the capture of Babybn by the Per
sians; and I presume he decides that
question lightly. r Clinginan inter
rupted, ami w as understood to say he
had referred to tlie Egyptians, and re
lied on the formation cf the Egyptian
skull.] The gentleman speaks of the
Egyptians. Undoubtedly he has attend
ed to the curious hint in Herodotus,
bearing on that question. The gentle
man reads Apptan, a writer not com
monly in the hands of professed scho
lars. He is a reader cl' Polybius, and
has weighed his merits and fhcae ofthe
other great masters in that department
of composition in such exact critical
scales as to feel justified in placing him
at the head of the list'in respect to po
litical sagacity, (page 6.) He cannot
have overlooked that singular passage
in so common an author as Herodotus,
in which the old chronicler has been
thought to say, that the ancient Egyp
tians, ihe remote source perhaps of
Gjeck civilization, were woolly-headed
negroes. I will not defend that inter
pretnti n of his words. But it is no
invention cf any of ycur high-flying
Abolitionists of the present day; it has
been received by grave and plodding
Eng!Lh and German doctors, who
read, and pondered, and smoked, and
annotated, long before such a lusus
luiturtf as an American Abolitionist was
ever heard of. The gentleman has
ascertained the complexion of the great
captain of antiquity, the Carthagiuian
Hannibal, aud knows bow far it resem
bled that of the Lybians and Nubians
whom he led to twenty years’ triumphs
over the sharp-hc akeef eagles of Rome.
He sees how to dispose of the phenom
enon of the French mulatto, Alexandre
Du urns, that miracle of pmHfic genius.
He can show that no stress is to be laid
on such a case as that of the American
Frederick Doug lass, now of Rochester,
Opiiiim uf Jadg- iuhnwii, Augt*»i 7, 1H23, in
r.ijte ,4 Hear* w. frucii iKliiwilinc
of *rl
IP
New York, tea years ago wretched
slave, picking up scraps of leaves of
the Bible in the gutters of Baltimore
to teach himself to read, then working
three years on the wharves at New
Bedford, without a day’s schooling, 1
presume, in his fife, yet now speaking
and writing the English language with
s force and eloquence, which, I hesi
tate not to say, would do no discredit
to any gentleman oa this floor. But 1
do not discuss the question whether the
negro inferiority is to be traced to a
congenial incapacity, or to the depres
j sion and low culture of many geaera
j tions. It iis a great problem. I hare
r not tune for it. It is too intricate and
vast. Nor, determined either way,
would it have any material connection
1 with the main question I hive in hand,
or directly bear on any measure now
[i in the contemplation of this Committee.
I have been stepping aside a little way
in tlie gentleman’s track.
Again: he appealed to the “failure
of the emancipation of the negroes in
the West Indies, (page 8.) The gen
i tleman gets his views of this from the
English merchants who try the question
of success or failure by the amount of
their importations of coffee and sugar
from the Islands. [Mr. Clingman w as
j understood to sav that he had his infor
mation from those who had personally
visited the islands.] The statements
of visitors, Mr. Chairman, are con
i| dieting. I have statements different from
what have reached the gentleman, on
which I am disposed to rely. I am very
anxious to see the recent Parliament
-1 ary Reports, and have sent for them
for the purpose of being aided to clear
up the contradictions. I have before
me a table show ing the amount of sugar
exported from the British West Tndia
Islands in five successive years. It is as
follows:
In IMI 125.295 lmg*hea«l*. 12.225 tierres.
In 1«42 1354*10 154*5
In 1843 141,100 13.640
In 1844 138,150 16,395
In 1845 157,200 20,075
I 1
Showing, on the whole, a constant and
very gratifying increase of the exporta
tion. But, supposing it were other
wise, the gentleman, like myself, I be
lieve, is a friend to the Protective Sys
tem; and if so, he knows the worth of
the home market. Mr. Jefferson point
-1 ed it out long ago, and showed how, on
account of the saving of the cost of
transportation, and lor divers other
good and weighty reasons, it was better
than the Foreign. And if part of the
sugar and coffee winch used to be sent
abroad, is now consumed within the
islands, which is the case to a large ex
tent, in consequcnca of the negroes be
ing now in a condition bo indulge in
such luxuries, the decrease tn the
amount exported is little to the purpose.
And, supposing even that less of these
commodities were raised, the negroes
being disposed to turn more of their
industry to other productions—to rais
ing yams, bananas, plantains, pineap
ples, anything—for the market, or for
their families, what then? The better
the farmer can suit himself with his
farming, the more rent will he be wil
ling to pay; and, with the rise of rents,
of course comes the increase of the
i value of land and of the wealth of the
proprietors. Is it not so? And is that
failure even in an economical point of
view?
H But, Mr. Chairman, I am ashamed
to argue the question on such a basis.
The failure of West India emancipation!
Do the gentleman and I speak the same
language? Do I understand the gen
i tleman, and docs he understand himself?
i Failure when 809,000 human chatties
were quietly changed in a day to men
and women, endowed with the posses
sion and care of their own bodies and
souls, introduced to the relations of hu
manity, entitled to cull their children
their ow n, empowered to have husband
I and wife, brother and sister, in some
i intelligent sense 1 This, a failure!
And mark the decisive practical contra
diction given, and forever sealed, to all
that had been said, and nowhere more
loudly than in these islands, of the dan
ger of such a proceeding. Four hun
dred thousand negroes in Jamaica to
forty thousand whites, the whites would
have been but a mouthful for their vin
dictive maw, if vindictive passions had
had sway. But not one act of violence
sullied that magnificent triumph of
Christianity and Right; and, from that
day to this, a peace and good order
have prevailed, which would do honor
to any civilized community. If that is
a failure, will some one tell me w hat
wou!d have been triumphant and glori
ous success? I should be glad to be
informed. The idea has not yet dawned
upon me.
Once more the gentlemen took
ground against the pretty common
opinion that, as he expresses it, “the
continuance of slavery is injurious to
us as a nation,” (page 0.) He will ex
cuse me for saying, that rarely has it
been ray chance to fall in with so pal
pable a non ttxjitUur as that which lies
in the chasm between his premises and
his conclusion. It may be remem
bered,” he said, that the view derived
from the decennial census is well calcu
lated to deceive. More than one han
dred thousand foreigners annually ar
rive in the United States, who settle
dow n almost entirely in the Free States j
Do they? And why? Because in the
Free States the occupation of the la
borer does uot place him in a degraded
caste, and because in the Free
there are common schools for him to
send his children to, in which they can;
be trained undei the same advantages!
as the richest, and from which they can 1
start in an equal competition with the
sons ol the richest for all the prizes of
J society. Nor only is this the case with:
foreigners. Those who emigrate'
irom the old Northern States aluiott all
go to Hu nei r Free States, while, on the;
other hand, a very large proportion of
the emigration of the old Southern States
1 goes into the Free States of the North
west.” Indeed! And what is it that
sets the prodigious current of etnigra
-1 tion so determinately in that direction,
winning even the sons of the Sunny
South from the homes of their child
hood and the graves of tjieir tiyhers,
and all the associations of afadrefl and
of memory, to seek the hardships of an
untried condition and a Northern sky?!
Just the intense desire for that equality
and those social advantages w hich the
presence of slavery absolutely excludes.
Hus, I have observed myself,” the;
gentleman continued, is eminently
true of the North Carolina emigrants;
and I may add, too, that, buf for this
emigrmtion, population would increase
in that State as fast as it would in ilSf
country, there being an abundant sup
ply of the necessaries of life among the
entire population.’* Ah Mr. Chair
man, 44 much virtue is in” baft, as well
as in 44 if.” 44 But for this emigration,”
North Carolina would rapidly increase.
Because of this emigrnl ion, it does not
so increase. And what causes this
emigration? The gentleman told us
what does net cause it. It is no want
of a 44 supply of the necessaries of life,”
vulgarly,so called. Of them, he said
truly, they had abundance—plenty to
eat, drink, and wear. But of what are
equally 44 necessaries of life” to right
minded people—equality of social posi
tion, and opportunities for personal
improvement and advancement—the
non-slavcholding North Carolinians
have not cncugh, and therefore they go
elsewhere in search of them, keeping
down the population of the State, as
well as its wealth and consequence, of
which, in a well-organized community,
the industrious classes aro always the
support and strength. This remark on
the tendency of emigration to the Free
States, said the gentleman, was uii
nenily true of the North Carolina emi
grants.” 1 should expect it, from the
well-known sound sense and independ
ent character of the good old North
State. The free, tender, and open”
spirit which George Fox found among
the planters of Albemarle has not died
out there, and it is not satisfied with
inferiority and stagnation. Let them
get rid of slavery, and they can live at
home without either.
And when we have got at the cause
which keeps down the comparative pop
ulation, prosperity, and consequence of
North Carolina, we can answer the
same question in other applications.—
\Vc can tell why the growth of beauti
ful Kentucky keeps no better pace with
her sister Ohio across the river, not so
large and scarcely so fertile, yet the
latter, though starting later, now nearly
tripling the free population of the form
er. We can tell why Virginia, in the
first half century of the Federal Gov
ernment, increased her population from
about three quarters of a million to a
bout a million and a quarter, while New
York, on a much smaller territory, en
larged her numbers from about 340,000
to nearly two millions and a half, and
her estimated property had become
nearly three times as great as that of
the State the most favored by natare
of any in this Union. We can tell why
Maryland, most eligibly situated, has
27 free inhabitants to the square mile,
and bleak and barren Massachusetts,
98. We can explain how it came abou t
that Michigan, in ten years before 1810,
increased her free population 574 per
cent., and Arkansas, erected into a
State about the same time, only 200 per
cent. Washington saw the difference
between Pennsylvania and Virginia in
his day, and his infallible discernment
described the cause to be in the laws
for abolishing slavery, laws,” said he,
for once too hopefully, which there
i 3 nothing more certain than that Mary
land and Virginia must have, and that
at a period not remote.” And his au
gust wisdom pointed out the proper
method of relief, as well as the crying
need. There is only one proper and
effectual mode,” he wrote to Robert
Morris, by which it can be accom
plished, and that is, by legislative au
thority; and this, as far as my suffrage
will go, (mark it, George Washington’s
suffrage for abolition,} shall never be
wanting.”
An institution so salutary and benefi
cial to the body politic, the gentleman
from North Carolina would have ex
tended into Territories and States as
yet untouched by its influences, and he
offered bis own scheme for that purpose,
(page 5.) Upon that I will not now
detain the Committee with any of my
remarks. I may have an opportunity
to do so hereafter, when the question
of extending slavery into new territory
may come up. But as to two or three
things which he said about it, I must
briefly throw in my caveat at the pres
ent time.
The gentleman said, The supposi
tion that the States would exclude from
ail the Territories of the United States
an institution which prevailed so gen
erally among them, seems improbable
in itself, and those who maintain it may
well he required to furnish tire evidence.
There is not sir, in the whole Constitu
tion any one clause, which, either di
rectly or indirectly, favors the idea that
slavery w as to be limited to the States
where it then existed, or to be excluded
from any part of the territory of the
United States.” (page 5.) I think Mr.
Chairman, that the Constitution, had it
been faithfully executed, agreeably to
the sense of the Convention which
framed, and of the people w ho adopted
it, contains enough safeguards against
such a wrong, ami that construed in its
true meaning and spirit, it could never
have been used to extend the benefits
(if they were such) of the original com
promises— compromises bad enough,
any way, to the Free States—to new'
parties, not ewbiaced in the original
paitnership. The gentleman, it seems,
thinks otherwise, and, unfortunately,
he has recent constructions in his favor.
The past has come and gone. We
may have opportunity to look at the
question farther when further usurpa
tions, as I esteem them, shall he at
tempted upon the liberties which it was
expected to secure to the freeman to
ratify it. Enlightened by the dismal!
experience we have had, I own I could
now wish that the Constitution had ut
tered more positive and explicit prohi
bitions, though 1 have little belief that
even they would have at all availed
against such unscrupulous influences
as have been in action to nullify it in
all cases in which slavery was concern
ed. But that no farther precautions
were taken, is no matter of surprise.
The gentleman must read the debates
of the Convention which framed this in
strument, and of the State Conventions
that ratified it, w ith very different eyes
from urine, if he docs not see that the
statesmen of that day expected that the
discontinuance of the Slave Trade, af
ter twenty years, for which they made
provision, and the discontinuance of
slavery itself, would be pretty nearly
simultaneous events. Such, I think,
was the general expectation that pro
ii k
vailed everywhere, except in South
Carolina and Georgia, which, it must
be owned, clung to the evil with a te
nacious fondness. No, sir; the tree of
the Constitution which ©nr father!
planted, bore a natural fruit, salutary
and palatable. A noxious branch war
grafted upon it, which grew rankly and
overshadowed and poisoned the rest,
a mildewed ear, blasting its whole
some brother.” Prune that off, and
again in beneficent abundance it wil!
yield fruit 44 for the healing of the na
tions.”
F rtun tl»r Catholic THt-riph.
If EVER TOO OLD TO LEARN.
c extract the following from an
article which appeared some months
since in the Portland Orion, which
forcibly illustrates, by a reference to
well authenticated facts, that man is
never too old to learn.
Socrates, at an extreme old age,
learned to play on musical instruments.
T his would look ridiculous for sonic o|
the rich old men in our city; especially
if they should take into their heads to
thrum a guitar under a lady’s window;
which Socrates did not, but only learnt
to play upon some common instrument
of his time—not a guitar —for the pur
pose of resisting the fear of old age.
Cato, at eighty years of age, thought
proper to learn the Greek language
Many of our young men, at thirty anti
forty, have forgotten even the alphabet
of a language, the know ledge of whicl
was necessary to enter college. A fine
comment upon their love of letters,
truly!
Plutarch was between seventy anti
eighty, when lie commenced the study
of the Latin.
Boccaccio was thirty years of age
when he commenced his studies in
polite literature; yet he became one ol
the three great masters of the Tuscan
dialect, Dante and Petsarch being the
other two.
Sir Henry Spelman neglected the
sciences in his youth, but commenced
the study of them when he was between
fifty and sixty years old. After this
time, he became the most lerned anti
quarian and lawyer.
Colbert, the famous French Minister,
at sixty years of age, returned to his
Latin and Law studies.
Dr. Johnson applied himself to the
Dutch language but a few years before
his death.
Franklin did not fully commence his
philosophical pursuits, tilLhc liad reach
ed his fiftieth year.
Dryden, in his sixty-eighth year,
commenced the translation of his Iliad,
and his most pleasing productions were
written in his old age.
We could go on to cite thousands o
examples of men who commenced i
new study, and struck out into an cn
tirelv new pursuit, either for livelihood
or amusement, at an advanced age
i But everyone familiar with the biogra
phy of distinguished men, will rccollcc
individual cases enough to cdnvinc*
him that none but the sick and indolcn
will ever say, I am too old to learn.
TOUBSAIXT L’OUVERTritE.
This remarkable person was born n
slave in St. Domingo about 1745. Nol
a drop of any other than African blood
flowed in his veins. History may safely
be challenged for an example of higher
achievements from so low a beginning.
In all the elements of true greatness,
his character will bear a comparison
with that of any hero, ancient or mod
ern. lie was truly the Washington ol
Hayti; and if his final success did not
equal that of our own revolutionary
leader, it must not be attributed to any
lack oftaleuts on his part, but to the in
comparable lascness and perfidy of
his enemy. It is to that baseness we
mainly owe our ignorance of the life of
this extraordinary man. The results of
hb powerful intellect, undaunted cour
age, and generous philanthropy, could
not be hid; but the same tyranny which
meanly murdered him in a European
dungeon, blotted out all the best sources
of information as to the means by which
he accomplished them. But the facts
which are derived through this very
enemy, unsmothered by avalanches of
abuse, are quite sufficient for our pur
pose.
Toussaint was born on the plantation
Noe, managed by M. Bayou de Liber
tas. His early years are said to have
been marked with an extraordinary
evenness of temper and an enthusiastic
benevolence towards, and wonderful
control over, the brute animals, which
it was his business to tend. Though
his master’s name ought to have ensur
ed him full opportunity to cultivate his
mind, he seems to have been indebted
to his own unaided and clandestine ef
forts for his education. A French
writer reproaches M. Bayou de Liber
tas for his culpable negligence in not
being aware tjmt his sluve had learned
to read, till he Was familiar with the
writings of the Abbe Kaynal. His
master, however, lived to see good rea
sons for not repenting of any kindness
he had bestowed upon this slave. Tous
saint did not join the negroes w hen they
rose in 1791, till he had seen his mas
ter and family safely embarked for the
United States, with liberal supplies.
He then devoted himself to the cause
of his brethren w ith such zeal, activity,
and talents, that he ultimately secured
from them the most cordial and univer
sal obedience, and a respect little short
of adoration.
Complete emancipation was offered
by the French commissioners to all who
would take up arms against the British
invaders in 1793. It was with their
characteristic energy and perseverance
that the British attempted to wrert this
opulent colony from their old rivals,
acd re-establish the peace of that des
potism which they considered essential
to the safety of their own West Indian
possessions. And it was to the energy
and superior military skill of Toussaint
that his country men owed the preserva
tion of their newly acquired liberty.—
The British were not compelled to re
tire till he was made General-in-Chief
and Governor of the colony. After the
expulsion of the foreign foe, Toussaint
applied himself to the arts of peace not
leas successfully than he had d me to
those of war. We are assured by the
.roost respectable French authorities,
who were themselves planters and eye
witnesses, that the colony under hi*
government 44 marched as if by en
chantment towards its ancient splen
dor.” 44 The colony,”says Malenfnnt,
44 flourished under Toussaint. The
whites lived happtjy and in peace upon
their estates, and the ncgroc* continu' d
to work for them.” No one, who ha-;
not weighed the difficulties that lay be
fore him, can duly appreciate the fmnor
which these facts throw upon the char
acter of Toussaint. The field of his op
erations was a country desolated by
seven years of fierce and complicated
civil war, in w hich all the bad passions
'of human nature had burst into th«*
w'ildcst madness that oppression could
possibly drive to, and had been urged
l on in the work of destruction by the
most powerful foreign influence.—
Worse materials for the establishment
of peace, industry, and g«»od govern
ment could not well be imagined. Ycf,
Toussaint not only surcr« d< <1 in gov
erning the country, but he succeeded in
attaching to himself ail the parties ami
castes into which its distracted inhabi
tants were divided. It was this very
success which doubtless stirred up
against him the wrath of Napoleon,
leading to the suspicion, which was con
trary to tact, that it was his design to
make the country indepemh nt of
France.
The disgraceful expedition under I.e
Clerc is said to have been urged upon
Bonaparte by the whites who were dis
satisfied with the loss of their-laves: but
these whites it would seem, were chiet
ly those who had tied to France. Those,
who remained on the island till Tous
saint rose to the government u ore most
ly satisfied with the system ot 'free labor,
which under his administration wis
more profitable than the old slavery.
On this point we have the best testimo
ny that could be wished. The histori
an who w as employed to luil Ow- French
people, salve the wounded fame ami
pride of Bonaparte for the defeat of Le
Clerc andßochatnbcau, and drown the
cries of the widow s and orphans of GO,-
000 Frenchmen, assigns the disaffection
of the whites in the colony itself, as one
great reason of the failure. He says;
it would seem to have been the natural
course to organize into a national guard
the inhabitants who were found in the
towns on the arrival of the army; but
there was not a man in win m anv con
fidence could be placed. The majority
of the inhabitants of the ton ns lea d the
government of Toussaint, because he hud
gorged than xcith riches Again, in
excusing Rochainbcau for the same
failure to avail himself of the aid of the
colonial whites, he says, “It may be
said for him, that he could not, any
more than Captain-General LeClcre,
put confidence in the w hites, the ma
jority of the inhabitants of the towns
mourning, I repeat it, for the regime of
I Toussaint, which hud cmichul tin in.”
Toussaint is represented by those
who knew him well and bad no motive
to over-rate his powers or his virtues,
as a man of deep sagacity and untiring
activity, veracious to a proverb; hu
mane and affectionate; extremely tem
perate; and remarkably exalted above
the vanity which prejudice affirms to
be characteristic of his race. Jle slept
little, ate sparingly, drank nothing but
water, and habitually tired five secre
taries in the transaction of Ins official
business. In war he conquered by the
foresight ot his combinations and the
celerity ot hi. 4 movements. In pence
he repressed opposition by listening to
complaints, and making it the interest
of all parties to uphold the law. The
same author, to w hom we have already
referred, in- describing the system of
Toussaint in regard to the former
slaves, who were required by law to
work, says “they had a fourth part of
the produce, tehich teas too mm/i.” So
it seems he not only enriched the citi
zens of the towns, but the loborers.
Such was the man whom Bcnaparbr
resolved to crush. But mark, how lie
trusted to lying and treachery rather
tlwin to the valor ot his bravest v eterans.
LeC lerc invaded St. Domingo with
double the number of men Toussaint
had then at command.* Yet he gained
nothing in the field. At last by deceit
ful proclamations and French gold he
allayed apprehension and cut the nerves
of resistance, till Toussaint, too honest
to fathom the deceit of his foe, retired
from public life to his plantation, upon
the pledged faith of France that his
peace should not be disturbed. His
sword was no sooner sheathed than he
found himself a prisoner on the way to
France. If the treatment of Napoleon
at St. Helena showed how Europe fear
ed liis power, what are we to say oftho
confinement and starvation ot Toussaint
in the castle ofjoux?
I)*: I-attr~ liiinwH" flH»* Traoaint had
never more titan sixteen Umjumuml u.tu.
Go id ax Thoughts. I never yet
found pride in a noble nature, nor hu
mility in an unworthy mind. Of all
trees, I observe that God harh chosen
the vine—a low plant that creeps upon
the helpful wall; of ail beasts the soft
and patient lamb; of all fowls the mild
and guileless dove. W hen God ap
peared to Moses, it was not in tfcu*
lofty cedar, nor the spreading puiui;
but a bush, an humble, slender, abject
bush. As if he would, by these selec
tions, check the conceited arrogance
of mau. Nothing produceth love lik«
humility; uothieg hate like pride.—
Fe Ilham.
Fun SmiMK in Coxvcr tictt The
follow ing is the official vote ol the freemen ot
Connecticut cm the tjuttiou of no amending
the Constitution, as to extend the right ui
suffrage to colored citizens
Co’s. Yes. No
Hartford, 1,343 3.^;
New Haven, 1,045 3t)VI
New* London, 434 o
Fairfield, 30*2
VVmdliain; Gfio Jj'g
Litchfield,
Middlesex, flvi I'nj
Tolland, LW
5,553 I'i.T'rti
Majority against the amcodm* nt, 3,703.
to record *0 foul a disgrace a*
our n«uve State. Fretty hard cbmUans rauat
they be who would deprive a man of a voice
in the government on account of the color of
b*» Ain. Good Heavens 1 what is to become
of a Stats, which, with all the* schooling ai d
preaching of Connecticut, hu 1U.7U5 voters
who vote w ithout either magnanimity or rea
son, and to direct violation of the principle 011
which our form of govcruuieat is founded f
O tyto/ype.