THE FOURTEENTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY BAZAR.
Another, yet the same—the four
teenth return of this holy festival of
Freedom—-sent an impulse of hope and
joy through the hearts of the oppressed
of America—the slaves and the aboli
tionists. This new guaranty of perse
verance makes the first class more
hopeful and patient —the last, more
resolute and devoted.
God be thanked that the principles,
the object and the measures of this com
bination of persons of such various char
acters and conditions, being true, right
and wise at the begirtriing, have con
tinued unchanged for so many years,
through every stress of circumstance,
trial and temptation. To change from
good to evil, to fall away from right and
justice, is the great sin of man against
humanity.—What a subject then, lor
joyful congratulation, that these are
constant as tin* North t*tar,
Of whose truo lix<*l ami resting quality,
There is no fell nv in the firmament.’*
A mountain of national pretension
has been beaten to dust, and blown a
wav like chalF, to find a few persons
with heart, and head, and principle
enough conjoi.ied, to stand by the ever
lasting right together, through every
assault of the slaveholding community
around them. The calumny of the hos
tile —the apathy of the neutral —the
rage of the mob—the trait irons thrust
of the coward villany that fawns while
it stabs, and clings to its disguises and
pretensions as its best defence the pre
tended disapprobation of the selfish
Sivpocrite, whose practice belies bis
principles, while it tills his purse—the
tself-disgracing avoidance of
The timid good that Hand aloof,”
*dl these pass unrespected by them:
and still they re tint in identified with the
enslaved, and in opposition to the great
slaveholding majority that vainly brings
its very engine of force ami h and, flat
tery and abuse, bribery and persecu
tion, to bear upon their integrity. They
find themselves the chosen representa
tives of the worthiest Americans; and
they feel that confidence, like that re
post' in them, is the strongest possible
obligation to he, to do, and to suli’er.
all that fidelity in such a case com
mands.
Go on as you have begun—die as
you have lived executive of the
American and Massachusetts Anti-sla
very Societies!—and doubt not that you
/diall be sustained to your last hour in
ibis severe hut ennobling service, by
the ypswerving fidelity of those who lav
it upon your shoulders. Still agitate
the question of freedom for the slave,
at whißettir loss or hazard to your
selves; Still refuse a compromise with
the slaveholder; still deny to him your
religious sanction and political fellow
ship; stiji dishonesty, and strip
the mask from pretence; still stand, as
now, united for freedom; and you shall
never lack such help as your co-labor
From the Liljerator
THE NORTH STAR
t »*r* throughout the world can gi\e you
I hanks to vour own conccntiutin;
con.itanry, the pecuniary means ofagi
latino, to the full extent of th** oxistim
moral tneatiH, have never been writhhc!'
from you. Let the complete sucre*
I of this, the fourteenth annual effort o
the abolitionists to sustain you, as tin
impersonations of their principles, am
the servants of their enterprise, he t<
V<*l an assurance that the future shal
he as the past, and yet more abundant
ly!
Notwithstanding the severe money
pressure, and the detention of the ex
pected box of goods which the devoted
ness and exquisite taste of the Bristol
friends have always made So valuable,
the receipts of the Bazaar were FOtFK
THOUSAND THRKE HUKUfeEL)
DOLLARS; and from the amount ol
goods remaining and to arrive, we are
justified in the conclusion, that, before
the cl »se of the year, the sales contem
plated in various parts of the country,
will have enabled the committee of the
Bazaar to fulfil their wish of ultimately
placing TEN THOUSAND DOL
LARS at the disposition of the Ameri
can Society.
We are continually defeated in our
purpose of describing the glorious
ten days,” for the gratification of the
distant friends, by the perpetually
thronging crowd of grateful acknowl
edgements, for which our hearts de
mand expression.
But we will begin, however frequent
ly w’o must, in this manner, be inter
rupted. How to make I’aneuil Hall
look beautiful for a festal occasion, is a
problem before which even the city
government, with all its power of man
ufacturing money, and all its freedom
from scruples to use tiie United States
stripes and pennons as ornamental in
signia, might well shrink away in des
pair. How to clothe with beauty this
barren platform? How to screen from
view these hare barracks of galleries?
How to fill gracefully th? awkwardly
empty area? Howto hide that enor
mous painted brick-bat—the bird of
spoil, that threatens Freedom from
above the* entrance? llow to shut out
the sights of discolored walls and dirty
streets, without obscuring the light from
the windows r “Eureka!” They
have found it!—the hall shall become a
gothic cathedral. This work is our
worship—the most indeed
the only acceptable, that Americans can
offer to Hod; since w ithout it, —nothing.
For lack of it, all the Sabbath solemni
ties of our land are sin. As in Israel
of old, because of oppression, so here,;
in the United States, “it is iniquity,
even the solemn meeting.” We have i
an acceptable worsbiji—let us have a
temple for its exercise;—one whose;
ascending lines shall carry the soul up-,
ward, like the Mediaeval architecture;
not press it downward for elysium, like'
the transverse bars ol horizontal Greek.
Spring a ccdaiy” screen-work, (as:
Milton would have had us say,) along
tlu: galleries, from capital to capital of
their supporting pillars,—not forgetting i
to feather every pillar correspondingly, i
with the same aromatic growth. Run
a similar array of arches across the;
platform, far a chancel-screen:—behind
it, plant cedars tall enough to sweep
the roof, that the arches beneath their
lowest boughs may delude the eye by a
counterfeit perspective:—delineate a
trefoil in every arelied screen, by 1
means of wreaths of evergreen, and rep
resent the longitudinal bars more grace
fully than ever yet was done in stone,
by erecting a slender tree to represent
each, every spire of which shall show
like pencilling against the eastern light:
rear a tall arched shrine in the centre,
where sunlight shall touch its feathery
green with gold every morning, and
gas-light Hood it every night, and troops
of fairy-like children, laden w ith their
Christmas gifts, glance in nnd out at
every hour between; —let tile tables of
the lady-merchants surround, corres
ponding to the stalls of prebendaries
and knight-companions in old remains:
let white drapery fall smoothly from
each window-top, and line it lozenge
wise across, w ith cords, and so teach
light to counterfeit a gloom” like that
of diamond ground-glass:—trace in the
top of each window, a cross of ever
green, amt i:i each centre, by means of
China transparencies, framed in ruby,
sapphire and emerald glass, hang
Stem saint-- and tortured martyrs roua it”—
and the work is done. You have a de
lightful touch of Norman Gothic in vour
cathedral, which will do wonders for the
sales; for it shall raise men’s minds
above the small endeavors of the hour,
and make money seem of no value but
to serve the cause of Heaven w ithal.
Now thrust every scutcheon and
banner riven, (ymd riven to the centre
some of them are, with the severe ser
vice of many an anti-slavery field,) over
the galleries. Pshaw not fiat against
them; tkut is the dictate ol our meeting
house puritanism, which ceased to be a
model when it sanctioned slaveholding;
but transversely from tin m, ecclesias
tically, a> it wen-, so that every noble
motto can be lead, each under cacdi
from the entrance. AW the zrcal
Scottish remonstrance! Suspend the
stupendous scroll the scroll of doom”
to slavery) in a star of five points over
the whole hundred feet square of the
tuic old Cathedral; till every unbeliev
ing young merchant s "prentice, and
scoffing old merchant"* wife, shall wond
er, by way of alleviating their aw kwnrd
spasms of pro-slavery agonv, “how
many hundred lawyers’clerk’s it must
have taken to manufacture it!” In
dulge their labored vulgarities: they
are learning, lor the first time, in the
“land of Bibles, and Sabbaths, and
sanctuary privileges,'—the land of
inalienable human rights”—the land
of Bunker Ifill, and Trenton, and Ti
condcroga, and Valley Forge, and
RfGirr I* OF NO SEX-TRi ril IS OF NO 001/IK-OOD IS the FATIfEK Of I*9 ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN
t
Vorklovvn. that the freedom they tram
pie on id deemed a glorious cause, else
where; and that covenanted h'cotlam
in cheering onwerd it" trrimphrn
march.
AH this is easier said than done; ani
that it was done, and the whole
and country delighted with the effect, i
owing to the energy and activity o
Messrs. Smith and YVeston, cf Hcadinj
and Stoneham, Jenkins of Andover
Wellington of Lexington, Levy o
j Lowell, Brigham of Abington, Fair
banks of Providence, friends iu Nortl
Bridgewater, West Rcxbury, Lynn
and other places, who all combined ti
make Birnam Wood come to Bunsin
ane as meet, to the alarm of all pro
1 slavery Macbeths. A moving grove’
was needed, and a moving grove came.
To Messrs. r ellington, Jackson,f’ban
ning, May, and others, w ho so imlefati
gahly and tastefully arranged this ma
terial, so amply and generously furnish
ed, it is owing, that, after three days ol
strenuous exertion, all w as ready to re
ceive the representatives of the anti
slavery of thiitv towns and cities ol
America, co-operating with us on this
occasion.
The foremost of these were Boston,
Cambridge, Worcester, Lynn, Ply
moth, Dedham, New* Bedford, Salem,
Concord, Weymouth, Hingham, YVest
Brookfield.
But, as it is neither city, or town, nor
navy, nor palace, that constitutes a
State, so it is neither hall, nor decora
tion, nor rich d mations, nor beautiful
arrangements, nor even correct princi
ples that constitute a cause. No —men
only, wh live out such principles—
high mirr’erl men;
Men who their duties know.
lJul know their rights, and knowing dare main
tain;
Prevent the long aimed blow,
And crush the tyrant while yet they rend the
chain!”
Th cse constitute a cause. And none
could look on Garrison, and Wendell
Phillips, and Francis Jackson, and Ed
mund Quincy, and Henry C. Wright,
and Samuel May, and Pillshury, and
Foster, and Stone, and Douglass, and
Bufl’um, and Parker, and Channing, its
they sto.»d, marked men amid the
crowd—or listen to the glorious elo
quence that touched their lips with lire,
without feeling, also how true the
thought of Alcicus, that
These constitute a rotate.”
The union of freemen, which is to
supersede the American union of slave
holders, began when the American
Anti-Slavery Society was constituted of
souls like these. Long may they live
to shame the knavery that know s so
little of the power of high character,
that it unwittingly exposes itself, by
giving the name of bigotry and intoler
ance to their faithful rebuke of crime;
and the weak baseness that flinches
away from the fearless side of the only
practical exponents of its own professed
principles!
Other eyes than those of their own
countrymen were there to look upon
them. We rejoiced to welcome the
gifted and excellent Dr. Nichol. and his
highly esteemed countryman the late
editor of the London Inquirer, Mr.
Hincks, to both of .whom we owe a
tribute of special gratitude as friends of
our friends, and promoters of our cause.
But the list of towns represented was
not confined to Massachusetts. From
the State and city of New York came
effectual aid. The representatives of
the friends in Western New York were
there with contributions; while Ohio
friends, not personally present, w r cre
represented by their beautiful donations.
A new and beautiful feature in the
evening’s arrangements, was the occa
sional introduction of vocal and instru
mental music, from members ol'W. H.
Charming's congregation, through the
obliging exertions of Mr. Withington.
Our thanks are due to Mr. Chicker
ing, w ho sent from his celebrated manu
factory an admirable piano forte for the
occasion.
At the upper end of the Hall, hung a
subscription list of the new anti-slavery
paper. YY’e seize this earliest oppor
tunity to mention it:—The North Star,
published at Rochester, N. Y., at
per annum, by Frederick Douglass.—
May he make himself a tower of strength
in Western New York, to which the
friends of the cause in that w hole region
of country may gather, in perfect con
fidence and trust!—May he never toler
ate erirne, lest he be called a bigot; nor
fail to expose iniquity, lest he be called
intolerant nor stand aloof from the
good and true, lest the vicious and the
foolish call him a partisan; nor unite
with evil to avoid the imputation, from
the w eak and designing, of being quar
relsome; nor shrink from giving and
receiving help, for fear of being esteem
ed wanting in individuality by those
who have no esteem for the cause; nor
be injured by the gift that blindeth
the eyes;” nor be seduced by party or
sect to purchase popularity at the ex
pense of fidelity; nor to increase the
subscription to his paper by diminishing
its anti-slavery power; nordeein it pos
sible to be respected and sustained at
the same time, by things so opposite in
iheir nature and moving springs, as
Liberty party anti Liberty league, and
that earliest, and latest, aud purest
anti-slavery, which that party and league
scoff at as Garrisonism.” Let him
be, as heretofore, proof against every
form of temptation, and a long and glo
rious career, like that ot Clarkson,
(whose past is already sealed,) and
Garrison, (whom God preserve to a
like laie and faithful ending!) M be
fore him. More fortunately cir un
stanced thanToussaint —more correct
ly principled than Oge and C. bavanne
—may his success be made proportion
ate to his ability, by his devotedness
and perseverance to the end. Such
are the charges and the wishes by
ROCHESTER, X. Y., FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, ISIS.
w bkh the elder servants of the crush
ever manifest their deep interest in th<
welfare of their younger co-laborer*
’vhen entering upon trying and uitii-it
untried dcpaitmcnts of the cause.
For eight successive evenings, tht
codary arches of the Hall rang with the
truth andcl<c]uence of Frederick Doug
lass, Wendell Phillips, W. W. Brow n
j (like Douglass, a self-educated fugitive
able to take a moral and intellectual
rank far above the very men who re
proaehfullv ask us how the blacks arc
to take care of themselves!”) Theodore
Parker, H. C. Wright, Samuel May,
Parker Pillsbury, Stephen S. Foster,
Edmund Quiucy, W. H. Channing,
Thomas T. Stone, and E. H. Chapin.
Mr. Garrison's health, exhausted by
I his devoted labors at the West, permit
ted him to be present only occasionally,
and his voice was consequently heard
i but for a moment, introducing H. C.
Wright to the Assembly, on the presen
tation of the great Remonstrance of
j Scottish women, (published in the Lib
erator a few weeks since.) It was a
sublime sight to see this immense ar
ray of noble names—the same that have
brightened Scottish song and story
from age to age—now illustrating our
nineteenth century by their united tes
timony to liberty. The feeblest magi
nation must kindle at the sight as
i “In slow procession moves each shadowy file,”
of the spirits of this gathering FORTY
THOUSAND to take possession of the
old high places of our liberty! The
coldest heart must glow, to hear this
sound of the Women of Scotland, rising
in the majesty of their mercy, to waken
the slumbering womanhood of America
to the long forgotten claims of freedom
and humanity.
God bless the Women of Scotland
and make the Women of America
worthy of their noble companionship in
I a cause so grand and awful! They
have not sent us their voices alone
across the Atlantic to its aid. The ta
bles around arc covered with their valu
able gills. From Glasgow, and Edin
burgh, and Kirkuldy, and last, not least,
in beautiful offerings, Fair Perth,”
and a multitude of other places, the
Patons, and the Welshc-s, and the Wig
hams, and the Youngs, the Mortons,
and the Rcaddics, the Sineals, and their
friends, have united to bless and beau
tify this occasion, with a taste and mag
nificence incomprehensible to the souls
that have been dwarfed and hardened
by slavery. If afe w months of its in
fluence could dry up the springs of
freedom in the hearts of Cunningham
and Chalmers, —the representatives to
America of the very church of Freedom,
what must be its withering effect on a
whole life? Let us trust (hat these and
other precious influences L orn the lajul
of our fathers, may at length counteract
the horrid spell that binds our own: and
rejoice that every communication we
receive fr. in thence, is a pledge of the
continuance of the blessing of such
sympathy and aid.
Going southward with our list of con
tributors, we most gratefully acknow
ledge the valued contributions of the
friends in Carlisle the Carrs, the
Nicholsons, the Peiles, and others who
have helped us.
The name of Esther Blight, of Roch
dale, who forwards valuable donations
from that place, shall be cherished!
among slaves and abolitionists, as that
of her brother, John Bright, is by the
suffering classes of England.
To Mrs. Moore, Mrs. Cobden, Mrs.
Woolley, and others, whose energetic
sympathy has done so much in Man
chester for the Bazaar, we can present
but the po'or tribute of thanks; but it
is in behalf of a land, degraded by sla
very, that those labors may yet save—
in behalf of outraged humanity in bond
age—that we thank them; and the
blessing of those that are ready to
perish accompanies our acknowledg
ments.
The Browns and the Trends of
Bridgewater, with their friends, whose
exquisite taste added so much attraction
to the occasion, w ill rejoice to hear of
the safe arrival and successful sale of
their donations.
An interesting trait of unconquerable
peresverance cornea to mind, with the
mention of the box from Leeds, for
warded by Mr. Lupton. A similar one
was sent last year, which never reached
its destination, though every search
was made for it in the warehouses and
on the books of the steam transj»orta
tion company on both sides of the
Atlantic. Undiscouraged by this fail
ure, the second box was forwarded by
the same persons, and we rejoice to
sav, greatlv to the furtherance of the
cause. The rare and attractive con
signment of Elizabeth Pease, of Dar
lington, idso enclosed, was admired by
thousands, and added much to the
interest of the season.
We entreat our Bri-tol friends, the
Carpenter?, the Estlins, the James, and
numberless ethers whom they repre
sent, and to w hom they w ill know how
to make our grateful acknowledgments
acceptable, not to regret too deeply the
accident which compelled the return of"
their noble donation to Cork, and there
by prevented its seasonable arrival.
For we contemplate a sale as early in
the spring a? the state of the money
market wii.' permit, from which we hope
even more favorable results for the
cause, than would have ensued from
the timely reception lor the Bazaar, of
this choice collection.
The cause demands of us no common
expression of gratitude to those friends
in In land, whose judicious philan
thropy has made one and the same
operation the means of serving the
starving Irishman and the imbrued
American slave. They have employed
and paid their peasantry in the manu
facture of elegant little works of taste
(and fancy, for the Bazaar, and thus

discharge at once a dutv as citizens t
Inland and citizens of the acrid.
The qnalitv that S!»k**»f«-:»rr mnk*-«
15 him (tut in Kjm Uut i.ikr;-
The otctlitr of mercy—ben-
Is trebly blessed: the* think *itii cheer,
That every sarrifirr yum fare.
Hath hlesseJ y<wrselvrs—t!ie p.x»r—tbe slave
Letters from Ireland add, that cu
friends there send their contribution
in crateful testimony of their sense c
recent instances of American benefi
cence. To the Webbs, the Hatigh
tons, and the Allens of Dublin—th
i Jenningses, the Mannixcs, the Y'arinas
I the Roches, the Bcamishcs, the Whites
of Cork, and to the numerous othc
Irish friends, to whose constancy am
devotedness, and munificent geucrosity
the cause owes *so much, our most af
I feet ion ale acknowledgments are ten
dered for their welcome and well
chosen gifts.
I We would fain recapitulate them all
and for the sake of our absent friends
dwell with minute and merited descrip
tiori on everything curious and bcauti
ful, from the much admired sea mosse
and splendid table cover of Cork, t<
the Edinburgh Tartan shawls, and em
broidered Thibets, free trade table
cloths, books, and British Algse, am
Avon flowers, Rochdale and Manches
ter papier mache, the Coventry knittet
curtains, Dublin papeterie, the Bellas
knitting, the Perth cushions and othei
beautiful goods. But time and space
would fail; and to those who saw then
words would seem idle. One word
however, respecting the Cork table
cover. It was appraised at 50 dollars
a large sum for the times, though l>\
no means large in proportion to it)
beauty and attractiveness. The friend
gathered round it, and fifty of them uni
ted to raise that sum for the cause,
leaving it to chance which should re
ceive it. It fell to the lot of John T
Hilton and friends, a man of color, t
devoted abolitionist, and a member o
the executive hoard of the Massachu
setts Anti-Slavery Society from the
earliest days of the cause. He it was.
w hose interest in the cause, and confi
dence in its ardent advocate, led him
promptly and efficiently to aid Wm.
Lloyd Garrison at the commencement
of the Liberator. Those present on
the occasion of Garrison’s lecture to
the people of color in Boston, (to the m he
first addressed himself,) w ill never forget
the deep emotion with which they gath
ered round him at its close, hailing, as
the Israelites did the sight of Moses,
the appearance of one who chose to
suffer affliction with them, rather than
to enjoy the rewards of their oppress
ors; nor wonder at the liberal joy with
which theyiieiped him to lay the corner
stone, on which we are now r united,w ith
them, to build the new edifice of Free
dom.
This year’s Anti-Slavery Bazaar was
marked by an entire new feature, and
one that deserves special record and
cordial welcome.
But a few weeks before the time ap
pointed for the opening of the Bazaar,
the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Socie
ty held its annual meeting, and in view
of the manifestations of friendliness to
our principles and our enterprise, which
had been gratefully perceived on the
part of some of the ministers and con
gregations of the city, the Society re
solved to commend the approaching oc-i
casion to them, as one affording an cx
cellent opportunity to aid the cause.— I
To this invitation, members of the con
gregations of the Rev. James Freeman
Clarke and the Rev. Theodore Parker
responded so warmly, that a table from
each of these congregations was the re-'
suit; both Mr. Parker and Mr. Clarkei
cheering and encouraging the effort.—
When in after times, from every re-»j
pentant section of the great American
Church, now so hostile, shall come sim
ilar evidences of awakening to th
claims of freedom, it shall be remem
bered of these, that they did wnat they
could, and told as a memorial of them.
The Liberty Bell was thought to be
this year more than ever beneficial to
the cause. Notwithstanding the great!
disappointment felt, that the artist
should have been prevented, by illness;
and domestic calamity, from seasonably
completing the engraving of Francis
Jackson, still only a sufficient number
of copies are left to send to our friends
abroad, the bulk of the edition having
been disposed of at the Bazaar,
The table of contents is ulu-tratc-d
by the names of many who are widely
known and beloved, both in the literary
and philanthropic world. Is it not a
shame to America, and reason enough
for the existence ot the A. A. S. Soci
ety, that we may not speak the name of*
the distinguished Southern gentleman,
who is the author oF the first article,
“The Insurrection, and its Hero,”
lest we endanger his lifer The noble!
poem of Passion and of Power, by
Elizabeth Barrett Browning, will d>
more than scores of essays, to make
the hard-hearted and luxurious feel the
terrible nature of the evil on w hich
th"ir luxury is founded. The pages
written by and L’lnstant, «md
U\ W. Brown, fu iais R ill e~aniph 1? t
proof that the soul of the white man
reaches no height to which the soul ol
his darker brother mav not attain.—
Read tne interesting reminiscences of
Parker Pillsbury and Henry C. Wright,
if you would know w hat the soul and
the bod} have to struggle with in the
prosecution of the anti-slavery enter
prise. Would you learn the futility of
the customary charges against aboli
tionists? Read w hat is here said by Mr.
Garrison and Mrs. Folicu. Would you
see one 'of tbe best of them, and para
phrases of tbe Lord’s prayer—to the
God of Freedom? Read the poem of
1 Benjamin Jones.
TTie article entitled Abolitionism in
America, demands more than a parsing
notice, Because it is tbe production of
4
*°ne who has learned to look U |h
struggles like our* by the severe o*
nonces of hu o«n devoted land. Th*
Count Mohnski, exiled f| t m Poindt« i
his attachment to Freedom, cwrld n«>i
but sympathize with American Ah* h
tionists. A passage from ene of hi?
letters will show the depth ami consist
ency of the philosophy which experi
ence and observation have taught him
It is but just,” (we translate from hu
letter,) that every man, no niattei
what his nation, should express hi?
views ou slavery—for it is an incarnated
blasphemy against human nature.
feel that, as a native of Poland, I havr
a peculiar motive to exercise this right.
Never would iny country have become
the prey of Russia, Austria, and Prus
sia, if, instead oi opposing to these
three powers only a chivalrous nobility,
she had marshalled a whole people.—
But we had in our lands millions of serfs,
to whom the word independence was
utterly without significance—and we
succumbed.
If a hope now remains to us, it is
in the rational re-constitution of Eu
rope. The example offered by Ameri
ca would have hastened the" hour of
deliverance to her oppressed nations, if
America were not sullied by that mon
strous anomaly, which the enemies of
republican institutions point cut with
joy. A liberty that is smothered tin
der slavery, can never be contagious.
Speedily, then, may the day dawn when
abolitionism, triumphant, shall have de
stroyed the obstacle which prevents the
new world from influencing the old.”
The leading idea of Theodore Par
ker's article, Come and do better,”
is exactly such a one as the elder abo
litionists used to express in good faith,
before they learned that it was for their
best work—their main work—their in
dispensihlc labor—their cause itself—
that men stoned them; net for their er
rors, excesses or mistakes. It may be
suspected that Mr. Parker has learned
this already, and writes somewhat iron
ically The Lowells, Harriet Mar
tine au, (we fervently greet her return
to her country, and her restoration to
health,) J. K. Holdings, J. -Bayard
Taylor, and other names of literary and
political distinction, demand and reward
perusal. Mrs. Dali has exposed the
unavoidable evils of slavery in a mas
terly and “o’er true tale.” Seven
clergymen help to ring this year’s Bell.
We never hear from them that aboli
tionists are too severe upon the clergy.
Why not? For two reasons:—Ist,
they know their brother ministers to the
core; and 2d, their own withers are
unwrung.” Be sure to read among
these articles, the one written by Sam
uel May, Jr., wiiieh shows the reasons
for much of the opposition the cause
meets. Idiot Era,” by a backwoods
girl, may be considered, under the cir
cumstances, as an extraordinary pro
duction. The bentiful lines of Mary;
Carpenter, afford the best illustration
of the spirit in which this joint effort of
British and American abolitionists has
been made.
We regret that the lines from the
distinguished traveller. J. S. Bucking
ham, were received too late for inser
tion in the present number of the Li
berty Bell.
The purpose of this little annual
volume, commenced in IBJI9, and now
published for the ninth time, is, the
promotion of the cause through the pro
mulgation of its principles in an attract
ive form; and through the addition of
the receipts of the sale to our treasury.
It furnishes us, moreover, with a suit
able mode of expressing our sense of
services rendered to the cause, and of 1
conveying our sense of fraternity to
those whose course commands that 1
feeling on our part. Hence it is, that 1
io mere indifferent literati however in-1
ilcctually gifted, nor any known ene- l
nios of the cause or of its advocates, 1
lave ever been permitted to occupy i!
these pages. Hostility, however can-
tiously manifested or unwittingly be- 1
trayed, and treachery, however loudly 1
denied, are shut out from this joint 1
work of the friends of Freedom: while
every incidental expression of differ-: 1
ence in opinions and measures, in the 1
treatment of the subject, (the natural
result of the native difference in minds,
as wines always tc.-te of the soil which
produces the grape,) is gladly hailed/ 1
as giving zest and variety, and cherish
ing a liberality of feeling, and a sacred
respect for the rights of opinion.
With ali the cheering pecuniary de
monstrations of interest in our cause,
and sympathy with i s as its advocates,
came the most touching assurances f
affectionate confidence incur judgment,
as .shown in our past course, and reli- I
a nee on our fidelity, as evinced in the 1
various crises of the anti-slavery move-
mint. May we never disappoint this
sacred trust! Did space pi unit, we
should publish them all, f,r the comfort
and cheer of those whom they concern.
To enable the beloved who
have strengthened us l»v these valued
communications, to do all they wish foi
our cause in the way of explanati- n cl
our object, our principles, and our 1
measures, we will .-av, in conclusion, a
few words concerning them.
OeR Oejf.ct is the entire, unconditieu
al and bk odUss liberation of tiie Have.-
of this country.
Oca l*Kixciri.r.s are, that slavery is
not only a national calamity, but an
individual sin; and ought, as both of
these, to be immediately rebuked, abol
ished, and repented of:—that no man
has a right to enslave another—to bold
or acknowledge him one moment a-*
property: —that the right of liberty i»
inalienable:—that the color of the com
plexion should never be made a bar t*» 1
the enjoyment of any of the rights of
man.
Oca Messcaes consist in the pro- 1
molgation of our principles. In order i
W 111 ItW Mll.humi.
JtJffN l»| K. Tsi*»• s.
whom; xo.-y.
ro,l r l thm nation of it* *m. arul
rH c f* p* i 'ancr, «f erg i/r an*
tM* if t t ,1
S I4M I U j» I H
'ti-Mmn, »C lr. ttaters, rifrulaimg tract*
na.l |H-ra.f}K.il* *pi- lf church.
Mate, the ulpit. il,. pr.*., tho
and a omen everywhere,
Of rv« ry condition and preference.
hen it i* rrmrmtirrod that the A
niom an church sanctions »hverv, bv
1 elevating slaveholders to the highest
and holiest place—and that the Arne
-1 ncan government exact* a pledge of
I the citizen, of hi* physical force, to nut
down any attempt of the slaves to
achieve their liberty —provides for tho
perpetuation ol slavery, by authorizing
the slaveholder to vote on three-fifths
ot his slaves as property—rapports a
standing armv at the South for his pro
tectum—invades foreign nations f r an
addition to his territorv, and an exten
sion to his market— enacts that every
fugitive slave shall be returned to hit
master—it is not surprising that such
i an object, such principles, and such
measures, should bring us into direct
cc Union with almost every individuul
of a nation given over to such wicked
ness. To men in their civil capacity,
we say that their union with slave
holders is criminal and full of danger,
and must bo broken up. To men in
their ecclesiastical capacity, we pre
sent the highest moral standard, which
proclaims the slaveholder a'sinner, and
declares that a church that sanctions
slavery has Us overthrow registered on
the scroll of destiny.
Of course, every obstacle that hos
tility, treachery, calumny and upostaev
imply, will be thrown i:i cur path. To
overcome these obstacles, to promul
gate these principles, to convert by
such measures this nation to a sense of
its high duty, we ask for the aid cf all
who witness our conflict. For further
explanations and more minute details,
we refer to the LIBKRATOR, the
organ of our cause, published at Pos
ton, by L. Garrison, subscripti ii
per annum, in advance, and tho
National Anti-Slavery Standard, the
organ of the Society, published at New
York, Syducy Howard Gay, editor, Si
per annum. We also refer to cur
audited and published reports for tho
last sixteen years. Still there may be
those who desire at this moment a more
specific answer to the question, “How
do you menu to expend the money tl at
you ask us to help raise?” Wo reply:
It shall be spent wholly, only ar.d
directly, in awakening, informing and
influencing the individuals whose ag
gregate makes up the public mind, on
this primarily important question. It
shall not be put into the hands of the
political organizations, to promote |hc
the election of any candidate, but in
awakening the love of freedom, and the
hatred of slavery, in all; not in aiding
fugitives to escape, bat to save them
that painful and hazardous experiment
by abolishing the system which enslaves
them; not in sending them to Africa,
but in enabling them to become the free
and happy elements of national strength
and prosperity at home.
This money, will, in short, be spent
neither in compensation, colonization,
nor political partizanship; but solely hi
propagandism: and the result will" be
right action in every ramification of
society.
W'e, therefore, confidently appeal to
all in every land, to take part in this
holy cause. Frail, and suffering, and
short-lived, are all men; but a cause
iike this shall strengthen them in weak
ness, comfort in aifliction, and steel
igaint calamity. It shall save them
from the sin of living on the side of the
oppressor, and the ignominy of dying
n the silent support of wrong, lie
hey Americans? It shall secure their
’hildron from such an inheritance of
;ri» t and shame, as the remembrance
hat their parents were drawn by dis
graceful sympathy into the ranks of the
enslavers, when the moral battle was
fought out in tiie United States for the
freedom of a rare. Be they of other
lations Our country is the world;
»nd we gladly welcome to our frater
nity the children of every clime, and
most gratefully receive their help in the
prosecution ol our sacred muse. It
may, it must be, tliaf, in so doing, wo
welcome them to suffering. But tho
consolation of such a cause is propor
tionate to the renunciation; and in its
prosecution, as in the great cause of
hristiauity, of which its principles
form a fundamental part, we are able
o a-Mire such as einbiarc this cause,
'hat no mail shall kno friends, or house,
*r lands, for its sake, but he shall re
ceive an hundr< d Ibid of nobh r recom
pense in this world, and a sense of
spiritual life besides, to which the in
h fibre at frivolities of u selfish existence
unk into insignificance.
MAKIA WESTON CHATMAN.
Fr. 4« lie Hamper
DR. It! COM V WATER 11 Rl\
Mr. Kditor:—Permit a rtiar.ger,
pist leaving this lovely region ot the
Connecticut, in which your I»sutihil
Northampton is embosemed, to J« o'
behind him a concise statement of bi
very successful I I vor pathic cottrw, st
Hr. RuggltV *■•tab'isf.im nt; f" r
credit of those to w lean cr<<hi ut
aud the information of who in a>
*‘l'cnme lo the r l«r* fMirrljr ob«.
V..M. tixl l-r< f, m M lf f r he
a,.4 ir.rxpli.-aM.- |.li!:iltly t„ .hr
Neur .:athi<*. or Klectnc indication
I'rein the *kin. by the touch, he an
re urvcid to toe the rxU „t to my
liixase was developed internally, a*
well the general stitw wf tnv muscu
lar and nervous system*, and tisanes of
he vital organs; and moreover, tho
•eg*men and habit* of life under which
fliia state ot things hnd been induced
*«nd incorporated with my very betas;.
I'hese fact*, which lie'could have
knowh but through his experience
with that (acuity ot* feeling, Ibr th»*v
w ore mostly known only to myself, de
manded my onfiden-e in his capacity
I entered th'* course, which lie thought
would require from three to six months.
A chronic muciH inflammation nf thr
ytnrmnch, had been raoidly advancing
to nervous inflammation, confirming
dyspepsia of both species and had ex
tended to the liver, glandular sy»*ett
generally, an! brain, i.itching in the
di«nrder all the mental function*, will
thnse of sensation, sleep, and digestion
The co'aoeous development of the dix
ease from the mucus membrane, hither
to salutary and stl’.l sufficiently disa
greeable, %va* no longer sufficient r
•heck its internal progress. And, ti
nallv, the disorder, now making sac!
rapid devastation, had become ingrain
od through my constitution, durin,
years of active exercise, and rigid «>b
servanee of Physilogjcal laws in diet
bathing, etc. On one hand, medicine
drugs and poison had exhausted thei
efleets upon ine—and on the other, mil
means were mockery. Water, as her
applied to me, was neither. Vet si
weeks of packing, plunging, douching
drenching, sifz baths, dunking, and th
rest ot the bathing catalogue, with cor
responding exercise, and diet pure!
vegetable, seemed inefficient for gon
or ill. 1 hen the roused disease In
case became manifest, in reversed se
r;es of all former symptoms. It sough
the weakest point of the system wi*
violent concentration, aecompanied h
a re-development ot a forgotten tvphu
fever. By the skilful application of th'
same single agent, flic fever was a
once eradicated, and the accumulate!
inflammation dispelled in the desired di
rection; when the wet wrapper, won
during the course, began to take its le
gitnnate effect; and with it approaches
the first relief from my maladies.
circle of the body a foot in width wai
suppurated. After two weeks, this wa
succeeded by a series of boils, various
ly located, which for six weeks kept
constant drain upon inflammatory ac
lion, and morbific deposits within. Tie
enemy was now evacuating the citade
of life, with u!l his forces in motion: am
every inch lie abandnndcd was an
nounced by a joyous bound of the op
pressed vital functions, to their long los
sphere.
Where verdigris was 0 years ag<
absorbed into the system, from the sam<
point* it was now seen issuing in it:
uniform of bright green, contrasting
beautifully with the neighboring troop:
of the mercurial guard in the nationa
blue, always accompanied by the staf
of iodine, in regimentals of tenacioui
yellow, decked with white facings o!
arsenic. Nor was this parade all a
show; it was not without a smelt ol
Tartarean sulphur. At length the last
column wheeled, and turned the angle
of my chill in hot haste, issuing from a
huge mound it had thrown up there;
and the last vestige of disease had left
me. The inflammation meanwhile, in
retracing the steps of its advance, bad
revived an irritation of the lungs,
which, at a former time, had been sub
dued with difficulty, but now soon be
came extinct. The next step in the re
treat was n reproduction, for the first
lime, of the same “common cold’
by which this division of the invader
bad first entered, and with which it now
departed. A clean tongue and cuticle
returned after an absence of eight or
nine years. The torment of an insa
tiable and imperious appetite gave place
to a comparatively refined r-uti»...ciiou
of ease, moderation and content, in all
the digestive and gustatory functions.—
Dismal clouds of hypochondriasis, iras
cibility, and every discomfort from ce
rebral irritation, vanished in a smile of
sunshine, bursting over all the prospect.
A temperament, parched, as if by the
ardor of a Southern Sun,” had sub
sided to a calm composure', as if of our
own mild meridian. My entire physi
cal being was renovated and restored
to the integrity of pure nature. And
again was presented before me the
world’s, course of business, study and
life. Who, when life is the considera
tion, would hesitate, in the outset, at
least, to sequestrate an installment of
months of cold, drenching cold and
comfort, with the expense of a hundred
dollars or more, though those were yet
colder and time less licet. I this day
land from my eighteen weeks voyage of
water cure, which ha* not been alto
gether one of fair sailing, but often in
tile slough of despond, which none in
these travels escape. I now leave my
whole bundle of thugs and diseases be
hind, and none of my fellow travellers
have left here a bigger bundle. For
Dr. Haggles, let it be said, his skill and
acute perception have been sufficient at
every critical point, to direct the most
salutary course. His frame is sturdy
enough to bear the commingled infirmi
ties ot a multitude of shattered human
machines, including the croaking of
him who is well enough—is b-bil
ious,” the O, dear! what shall 1 do”
salutation of gout, the nervous never
could endure it! it’s awful!” the gen
eral grumbling of the iiispeptic’s dis
tress iu his stomach, hypochondriac
growls, etc., and the endless essays of
each upon—eatjm;. llis water is un
rivalled for purity, and the sparkle and
stimulus of carbon, as the appetite and
locomotion of many can utt< st. And
many more will d-mbth-s* contribute
their gratitude to those friends of Hy
dropathy, by nvhosc liberal aid the
Northampton Water Cure has been
promoted to its present flourishing con
dition. J. HrvriN«,To\.
Northampton, Nov. Ift, I^l7.
Fksklin.—Franklin was an o!»si rving and
sensible man, and bis cow-Icmohs were seldom
incorrect. 1!< said:
A new spaper and a Hible in every house;
and a good school m every district—all studied
and appreciated as they merit ar<* the priu
ciptl support of virtue, morality and civil lib
erty.”
PEACE PKINCTIM.ES.
W'n.r.tAM font) illestrales the principles of"
jea-e liy the following anecdoto*:
“I had,” said he, a fine field nf grain,
growing upHi an out-farm, sonic distant*’
from the homestead. Whenever 1 rode by, I
saw my iieighb ir Jbi!s:fer's sheep j n ih lot.
destroying inv hop--* of a harvest. These
slr-i-p ut re of fh° g i.m'. kmg-S- u'g* <1 kuid.
active tufspanicts; tbrv could spnnp over th
lugtv'st tVjcc. and no wall could keep ihcd
«ut. 1 emflftaincd to neighbor Pufcwfrr abou
th,*m—s-u* him frequent uv>«flfre«. but a]
without avail. Perhaps they touM be kep
out f*»r a dtr or two; but the leg* id" hi
*V-'p were Jo -g. and my grain rather nv»r
t<>:n ding than the adjoining pasture. 1 rod
In again: th sber*p were all there l boron
.ngry, a a I told the m n to act the dog* o
them, and if that would not do, 1 would pa
i! they would shoot them.
I r ide awar, much agitated; for 1 wa
th *n not »o much of a price man as 1 at
now nod I f-’t, literally, full of fight. A
at twice a light flashed upon me. f ask*
myself, U oul.l it not be well for vo»i to ti
i tri your cw n conduct, th" peace principle vti
arc preaching to others 1 I thought it a
oy.-m, and settled down my mind aa to tt
Ik**! course to I>* pursued.
The next d ly I rode over to ace nrighb*
PiiLofer. I found him chopping wood at h
i door. Good inoriiing, neighbor. No a:
nwer. Good morning, I repealed. He gat
i n kind of grunt like a bog, without kiokir
up. I came, continued I, to ikv you shot
the At this h? threw down bis an
and exclaimed, in a most ancrv manner,-
Now, aren't you a pretty neighbor, to ti
vour men to kill my sheep! 1 heard of i
A rich man, like you, to shoot a pour man
r, !»l»c?p!’
j 1 was wrong, neighbor, said 1; but it ivm
do to let your sheep eat up all that grain; i
I came over u i say, that I would take yoi
sheep to rny homestead pasture. and put the
with mine; and in the fall you m-ir take the
hick, and if any one of them is missing, yc
may take vour pick out of my whole flock.
Pulsifcr looked coufoundnd he did n<
j know how to take me. At last he stamraen
out:
Now. ’Squire, arc you in earnest
(Jertainly I am. I answered: it is better f
1 me to f.*ed vonr sht «p in my [msture on gras
i than to fi*ed them here on gram; and I si
the I'nco canuot keep them out.
Alter a moment's silence. Pulsifer c:
claimed
l 1 he sheep shan't trouble von any mor
I I "ill letter tlK*m all. Hut I'll let you knov
when any man talks of shooting, I can shoo
too; and when they are kind and neighbor!
i 1 can he kind, too.’
J he sheep never again trespassed on nr
lot. And, my friends, [he continued, addres
ing the audience,] remember that when yc
bilk of injuring your neighbors, th«»y talk
injuring you. When nations threaten to figh
other nations will be ready, too. Love wi
lieget love; a wish to be at peace will kei
i you in peace. You ran only overcome e\
with good there is no other way.”
1 THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, JANUARY 23, 1849.
HENRY CLAY.
This great American statesman and oratr
r l |as ttfTiin spoken the venerable sage of Asl
5 land has added another blot to his already to
sullied fame. He has again stooped to th
debasing meanness of giving tongue to Amc
i rican malignity against the free colored pec
pie. He has again exerted his magnificen
oratorical powers again* the feeble and help
less, and given the signal to their relcntles
persecutors for reviving their senseless preju
d:ee, and opening against us their inferna
batteries. Now, in the name of all that i
just and honorable, why is this 1 Why an
we thus pursued 1 What cause have w<
given him against us? What can be hi:
motive hy is that once firm and clea
voice, but now tremulous, shaken, and sub
dued, by the weight of age, still uplifte
against us? Why is that commanding fone
which must soon slumber with its mothe
dust, once more thrilled, animated, and elc
quent, in misrepresenting and slandering th
colored people? Again we ask, what evi
have we done him? In what have we in
jiired him, that he thus, while even leaning
over the grave, and on the verge of appearin'
before the Great Judge of all the earth, seize
a brief moment between life and death, ii
which to glower” upon us once more
savage and malignant frown? Oh! that w
could remedy the wrong, if wrong we hav
done.him; and, by repenting, receive forgive
ness—and allow our aged foe to die in peace
Hut, alas! we fear that this is impossible
The consummation so devotedly to be wishe<
is beyond our reach; and, as the leopar<
cannot change his sjiots, nor the Ethiopia!
his skin, Mr. Clay must leave the world will
liis heart yet bitter with malice, and givinj
grim and ghastly signs *lO posterity to eon
iauo the bitter and revengeful spirit which
through the American Colonization Society
he has maintained and cherished toward u
lor more than thirty years. Denmark"
murdered king, fresh from sulphurous purga
torial fires, was not more importunate am
eloquent in stirring up within the youthfu
bosom of Hamlet the murderous feelings o
hate and revenge, than is Mr. Clay in rousing
those same feelings in the American hear
against us; and now, if a vigorous crusade lx
not again revived against us, through state
press, and pulpit, it will only be l»eeausi
anti-slavery may opjioso an antidote common
surate with the leperous poison of this speech
W e have just finished perusing this speech
and confess to some excitement. We see ii
it a revival of that second enemy of the col
urod people, the Colonization Society, which
next to slavery, is the deadliest foe to tin
colored man, —unsettling his plans and im
proveinents, by teaching him to feel that thi;
is not l»is home disheartening and subduing
his enterprise, by causing him to feci that al
eflort at self-elevation is in vain that neithci
knowledge, temperance, patience, faith, no:
virtue, can avail him anything m this land.
O.i examining tins speech, we scarce!}
know what part of it most to condemn. It ii
diabolical, from beginning to end; abounding
in wilfully blind and false assumptions re
specting our character and condition as a
people; interwoven with a mock sympathy
and worse than sham philanthropy; linked
with plausible statements, sophistical reason
ing, and absurd conclusions; more than splin
t'd with open blasphemy; and the whole so
Glistened with the sanctimonious cant ol
p«ty, as to leave it without a rival in the
■catalogue of refined and complicated oratorical
wickedness. We might safely leave it to
-'•pi a.i tor iu*cif; but that silence might be
misinterpreted, and set down to a sense ol
inability to reply. We shall, tlierefore, say
a li w words on this great speech, and part
with Mr. Clay, as he parted with the coloni
zation meeting in Washington, never exjiect
mg to meet him again.
The speech, as a whole, leaves a much
better impression of Mr. Clay’s ability as an
orator, than di 1 his great speech at la-xing
ton. It has none of that cumbrous heaviness
almost the invariable result of too much pre
p liaison, w In* h weighed down Ins great
efliirt but fall. The lively and buoyant char
artef of this speech is somewhat owing to Hu
cirrwmstanccs which surrounded him. Hi
i wan one-’ more in die city of Washingtoo—
i the eipito! of the nation—the grand tfaeatn
and s-jone of his greatest efforts be was sur
rounded by old friends and admirers; an<
found hans 'lf hailed with an enthusiasm wd
f nigh bordering on fancy. This stirred hii
aged blood, and gave to his wrinkled brow i
vigo-au* and* youthful aspect,
y 1 We regard this speech as the most success
ful we ever heard or read on the subjret o
colonization. Its chief powr- to injure con
sists in its defensive sad conciliatory spirit
e It is amrther exampl? of the cat roiled in flou
—die wolf in a sheepskin. It is amiable
T almost to a fault. He give offence, to an]
B ione l No! not for the world. To eTen th<
h
s abolitionists, he would nut be denunciatory
I! far from it. His language is the language o
appeal, of admonition, delivered w ith all tfs
afTtlion of an aged parent to his lieloved, bu
U emng children, Then to the poor, despised
injured and maltreated blacks, he would no
14 j lie harsh; but would appear to respect tbei
t feelings and protect their nghts, and assutnei
0 much more the air of a friend toward them
r than that of an enemy. To be sure, with al
f> his regard for us, be would gladlv send ui
w-hen* he should never see us more but then
it is for our good that he makes this immenst
t sacrifice. Don't hurt the dear little kittens
I m y child; but take them down to the river
and drown them! They will be much bette
T off*, than now; for this is a hard world.”
i We did not intend to do anything mon
nor le*** than the establishment of a coloni
upon the coast of Africa, to which the frei
jieoplc of color, of ihcir own voluntary con
sent, might go. No restraint, no coercion
no compulsory process was contemplated t<
J»e employed with respect to them. Tht
hole was to be submitted to their free an<
unconstrained volition.”
r Indeed! What a merciful man is Mr
'by He would not drive the free coloret
P^pl B of this country from their hearths am
homes! \V hat noblo and unexpected mag
j nanimitv is this! lie would not force us, bu
p leave us to unconstrained volition
1 Mr <;la y says: He tell them the kind o
country to which tee wish them to go.” Yes
J0*. 10,1 us you wish us to go. You not onh
j LS h us to go, but you tell us you wish us t<
go. What right have you, or anybody else
’to tell us you wish us to go?” It is ai
j insult, an insolent and tyrannical assumptioi
on t^ lB P 3rt °f Mr. Clay or any one else, t<
j tell us, or any part of the colored people o
this country', that he wishes us to go anv
_ j here. W e arc at home here; and our stay
here is evidence that we wish to stai
j here and to tell us that he wishes us to go
i is an insult, which, if offered to Mr. Clay
instead of the despised blacks, would subjee
I I the perpetrator of the insult to the indignatior
of the community. Our right to stay here is
as good as that of Mr. Clay, or anv raan
stealer in the land and, God helping us, wt
will maintain this right before all the world,
We wish to assure Mr. Clay, and the Coloni
zation Society', w'c are not now situated ex
j actl "here that Society found us twenty-five
years ago we have kept pace with the age
and are now in a position, at least in the fret
States, where we have our presses, and peri-
I °dicals published, and read, as far as the Eng
lish language is spoken; and can tell oui
wishes without his, or the assistance of the
Colonization Society'. We beseecli this gen
i tletnan to give himself no uneasiness on oui
J account. W hen we wish to go to Liberia,
or elsewhere, we can go, without his telling
us that he wishes us to go.” We can di*
pense w ith all such arrogant impudence. Bui
*he whole was to be submitted to our un
constrained volition.” Gracious, very! Sup
pose we should go upon Mr. Clay's farm, and
wish him off from it We presume he would
scarcely answer us with words. We think
he is of a mettle which would lead him tc
adopt some very striking method for making
us acquainted with his wishes in return.—
Submitting to his unconstrained volition
would make us little less offensive to him.
The great central falsehood of Mr. Clay's
speech is the same that has been set forth in
colonization journals, and proclaimed by its
lecturers, for the last twenty years, the
assumption that white and colored people
cannot live together on lerms of equality. On
this hangs, not only Mr. CJav's speech, but
the whole structure of colonization. If we
j demonstrate the absurdity of this bold assump
tion, we have shattered the main pillar ol
colonization. This grand central idea is in
culcated throughout this most mischievous
speech. We will give his views the advan
taye of his language, that the reader may see
tho imposture in its first dress:
It is in vain to attempt to eradicate the
feelings which keep asunder the two colors.—
It is in vain for the office cf philosophy, of
humanity, of benevolence, or of any other
office to attempt to establish what is an im
praclihility—the bringing together of two ra
ces which God himself, by the difference of
color and other constitutional circumstan
ces, has declared, ought to be, perhajtt, sep
arate.

But, besides all these considerations,
recommending the separation between the
two incompatible and incongruous races,
which never can become one harmonious and
homogeneous people, there are others.

111 w hat state of this I T r.ion—if there be
one I have no recollection of it—it is possible
it may lie the case in Massachusetts —in w hat
state cf this Union does the black man, how
j ever free he may be, or from w hatever line of
ancestors he may be descended, enjoy political
rights l No where. Social rights are out of
ihe question. In no state of the Union, in no
city, town or handet, is the black man regard
'll as standing upon an equal social condition
with the w hite portion of the human race, in
this respect, the Free Slates are equally
chargeable with the rigor of the laws as the
Slates in which slavery is tolerated. Your
laws have inere:»sed in rigor against the black
population of the country.

Who can dr.ubt that, in a similar sense,
Africa is tlie real home of the black man, al
though there has boon an accidental birth—a
casual birth of Africans upon this continent?
There were they placed, there were they
found, until torn from their land by the hand
of lawless violence. Here they have been
brought—here they cannot remain ia peace
and contentment. 1 speak of the tree portion
of the race.”
The foregoing will give oar readers a fair
idea of the main feature of Mr. Clajr’a speech,
and of culo uxation in general.
Now, gran ting Mr. Clay's premises to h j
correct, which we do not, to what do they
pad 1 Why, to this that whenever there is
a '-onununity m which iherc is not perfect so-
rial equably among all the membstaof it, lb.
humbler dam ought either t 9 be pnifireri a
enslaved. W e nr enslaved; because Mr
Clay has no objection to black slaves remaiiurq
mm this land. We presume be would fa
their removal a great evil; especially thaw
I oo his own plantation, lie is pwtkularb
I guarded on this point. His portraitures o
misery and wretchedness are all drawn of fret
i colored—not of the slave. They of eottrsi
are contented and happv, fat and sleek.”
Mr. Clay might go to Boston, or to Lowell
T and say to the poor factory girls: It is u
vain to attempt to end reate the feeling whirl
i keeps the rick and poor asunder.’ It is if
r Tain for the office of humanity, benevolence
or of any other office, to establish what is at
r otter impracticability—the bringing togethe
'of the rith and the poor.’ Now all this ii
sure and certain. And seeing that you neve:
f have and never can enjoy the socirty of thus*
whom God, in his all-wise providence, hai
t blessed with riches. I, as your friend, submi
that it would be far better for you to be eolo
t nixed in some part of the world where yot
i can hve on terms of perfect equality and free
i dom. Besides, your presence here, while i
is a great evil to you, is also quite an an
I noyance to us. Your ignorance and degrada
tion are very offensive lo the rich and th<
learned of the land, who can never recogtiixt
you as equals. We therefore “wish you tc
go.’ In expressing this, our w ish, no fore*
is contemplated. We submit it to your unre
r strained volition.”
Now we wish to inform Mr. Clay thai
the condition of the free colored people has
been steadily improving. But the other day
a gentleman of color was regularly admitted
to the bar iu the city of New York, and it it
but a few months since, while seated bcsid<
the Governor of Massachusetts, he iuformcc
I us that he had just conferred the office o
Justice of the Peace on a colored young mat
in the city of Boston. We shall have occa-
I sion to refer to this subject again.
ABOLITIONISTS OF WESTERN NEW
'I YORK, AWAKE|
r _ _
Arouse from your slumbers—throw offyoui
apathy—put away your doubts and fears—
assume a manly faith The time has arrivee
for earnest and vigorous action in the sacrec
cause of Freedom. Not political action—no
1 carnal and bloody action, such as, to the cv
1 j eilasting infamy of our nation, is now heinj
displayed in the unhallowed cause of pride
f! ambition and slavery, on the ill-fated plains o
j Mexico. No a higher and holier warfare—
a broader and nobler battle field is ours
The glorious contest to which we are sum
i moned, is to be waged in the world-wide fiek
of thought The giant foes against which w<
i are to contend, are firmly united—they consis
of opinions and prejudices of long duration
1 and they confront us, armed in the triple stee
of press, pulpit, and proscription. His le
gions of darkness sally forth in front of ou:
camp, and now challenge us to the conflict.—
They must be met and vanquished, or th<
slave must continue to bleed and pine unde:
the tyrant's heel. It is against principalitiei
and powers—spiritual wickedness in high pla
ces—we are called upon to wage a vigorous
and unceasing warfare. Let us then look uj
for strength and courage for the contest; de
pending for victory on Him who stood ant
measured the earth—who beheld and drov<
asunder the nations relying for weapons or
the foolishness of preaching. Laying asidt
'every weight, let us put on the whole ar
mor of God. Come, friends cf Freedom, ha
ters of Slavery, men and women, old anc
young, let us to the work There is some'
thing for every one to do. Now, of all oth
ers, is no time for halting, or faltering. The
slave is still in his chains the galling fettei
i is still on his limbs; the knotted scourge is
st’ l wet with bicod the red-hot branding
irec is yet applied to human flesh. The ngo
nhing groans of heart-broken men still rend
the air, pierce heaven, and disturb the ear ol
God. The number of victims are increasing
I the slave power is augmenting and the ty
rant's prido is rising.
j We say this is no time for delay. Where
or to whom is the slave to look for relief, ii
not to those who know his wrongs and com
prehend his rights but to the hated and de
spised abolitionists—the only nien and women
in the land who do not hold the truth of God
in unrighteousness They cannct look to the
churches of our land with any hope of suc
cess. There is r.o help in them for the slaves.
They have thus far shown themselves the
servants of slavery. They have seen the
slave in chains for more than two hundred
i years they have heard with the most heart
less indifference his unceasing pica for Liber
ty they have looked out upon the field of
slavery unmoved; they have seen men and
women sold like beasts in the market—pa
rents sold from children* and husbands from
wives—and have lisped no rebuke in the ear
of the tyrant, or spoken a word of sympathy
in the ear of his slavery-smitten victim. To
the American churches the slave sonnet look
with any hope of success. These bodies are
not.expected to operate, but to be operated
upon. Instead of remembering those in bonds,
as being bound with them, they seem to re
member the slaveholder, as binding with him.
They are contented to talk of the souls, caring
little about the bodies of men; and thereby
show that they care nothing for either.—
Bought up by slavery, sold ur.tosin, they send
their sanctimonious minister forth, to uphold
crime, and defend slavery, in the awful name
cf God.
Ho! For the sake of God, and a pure gos
pel, iet us arouse from our slumbers, and re
buke these foul hypocrites. Let us unmask
these vile pretenders, and dispel the poison
ous error they are infusing and supporting in
the popular mind. Cone, friends, let us re
new our sacred covenant against oppremt n
iet us make a league against tyranny, and
rally for the immediate and unconditional
emancipation of our abused and perishing
fellow countrymen. We have a cause of
which none need to be ashamed— -one npon
which the smiles of an approving Heaven
must ever rest—one which require* the action
of the highest, bent, and noblest sentiments of
the human soul— on* affording ample field
fer the scope of all the magnificent powers
with w hich an all-wise and merciful God has
endowed his children—a cause which has borne
the names of Clarkson, Wilberforee, Sharpe,
Allen, Maeulev, and a host of others high
on the lisa of fame—a cause which secures
the humblest laborer a peaceful conscience, a
quiet mind, and Awm npon him all the
blfiags of tboae who are rti% Co perish.—
Come, oonw! and let us reaohe wlcmnl jto
unite and fire our brans to the cause of Uk
■lave!
It will be aorn in another column that the
WcaHern Now York Anti-Slavery Society
auxiliary to the American Anti-Slivery Soci
ety, has secured the sen ices of Caaaun
Lnox Risohd and Joseph C. Hathaway,
for one year. Of these two eloquent advo
cates little need be said. They are wideh
known and highly esteemed. Their name*
are already identified with the history of the
4 Anti-Slavery movement, as being among the
most laborious, persevering and indefatigable
friends of the slave to be found in the ranki
of freedom. We regard the selection of Mr
Hathaway as moat fortunate—a quiet, saga
cious. unassuming and gentlemanly person
well calculated te secure the respect and con
-1 fidencc of those with whom his duties ss Gener
al Agent must bring him in contact. He has
beside this, the very important advantage of a
most thorough knowledge of the most impor
tant towns in the State, and can, at a glance
1 point out the way, and map out the plans foi
carrying on our agitating operations. With
the skill and management of Hathaway, and
the firmness, devotion and fervid eloquence oi
Remond, and the assistance which outsell
j 1
and friend Deluny may be able to render then
during »hc year, the cause may receive an iro
j portant impulse in Western New York.
Will you co-operate with ns in this underta
-1 king Shall we have your countenance and
sympathy in this holy crusade against sla
very T
IC?* We were compelled for the want of
room, to omit some of the sayings at the Prin
ters’ Festival; but as there were many tear
j sentiments proposed, we insert the following
as an offset
By James P. Fogg—The war spirit as fos
tered by the press
Like Scotland’s war-cross, thrown from hand
hand,
To rouse the vilest paiiiniu of the land
False glory thus Hies swift, from ear to ear.
While virtue weeps; but weeping still mint hear.”
EUITOKUL CORRESPONDENCE.
Pittsburgh, January 14, 1848.
Dear Douglass :—I am still in Pittsburgh,
getting ready, as fast as possible, to start out
on my "Western tour for the North Star. I
have just begun to work here, and do some
thing for our paper, which, as far as it has
been seen, has met a cordial welcome.
The proprietors of the Mystery,” my old
paper, are, as you have seen, making indus
trious efforts to sustain their little favorite,
which they ought to do, and for which I
know you will readily join with me in com-
I mending them. This they can do, by making
the Mystery more of a home paper; because,
in Pittsburgh, there are, alone, sufficient col
ored people to sustain it, if each family but
do their duty.
The Saturday Visiter,” a new anti-sla
i very paper, recently commenced in this city,
edited, by the distinguished and eccentric Mrs.
i Swisshelm, with the wonted ability of that
i amiable lady, is at present engaging the at
tention of the anti-slavery community and
others here. There is scarcely aught else,
1 of interest, transpiring at present, to name to
i you. There is, on next Tuesday, the 18th,
a Levee to be held in Philo Hall, in this
city, for the benefit of the Mystery. This is
the divine work of the Ladies. God bless
them!
Steamboat explosions, as you have doubt
less ere this seen, arc most awfully and fear
fully frequent. This, I opine, must be the
j result of the sheerest and most reprehensible
carelessness, meriting the utmost severity of
the laws, which now' lie a dead letter. A
person, now-a-days, taking passage upon a
W cstem steamboat, might be viewed in the
light of a child thrown upon the Ganges—a
victim to the element. None of these boats,
however, I am proud to acknowledge, are of
Pittsburgh build, but belong below.” The
slaveholders make nothing good but slaves:
these they appear to be better at manufac
turing than anything else.
I was not aware, when I noticed the de-
Mr. George B. Vasiion, that he
had 1 ecn refused (e\ en on examination by the
committee) admittance to the bar. But, sir,
this was even so: although I am credibly in
formed, that his able and distinguished pre
ceptor, Hon. Walter Forward, made every
effort in his behalf; but all of no avail. The
infernal spirit of proscription and intolerance,
fostered among a certain class, found full
vent, being proven to have been nestled at the
Pittslvtgh bar and, like the lava bursting
from the crater of hell, they headed it forth
i in one damning eruption, sending its fire and
smoke hissing and foaming throughout the
neighborhood, until a vast portion of W estern
Pennsylvania has become tarnished by reason
thereof, "k cs, sir, this is true. The Judge,!
Walter H. Lowrie, Esq., of the District
Court, before whom application was made to
sue out a rule of court to show cause why'
Mr. "N ashon was not examined, assigned as
his reason, that Chief Justice Gibson, of
Pennsylvania, had decided against colored
people being citizens; therefore he would
never consent thereto. This, truly, was the
decision of Judge Gibson an insult upon our
manhood which all true men hold in utter
contempt.
Mr. Vashon, on his tour, stopped in the
city of New York; and, as I learn by a recent
letter, was on the eve of an examination be-,
fore the Supreme Court in that city and, ere
this, probably has been admitted to practice.
What a contrast between the smoky Iron
City, and ihc Gothic Metropolis of the Na
tion! A burning stigma, an indellible dis
grace, is this, upon the once liberal, but now
retrograding Pennsylvania! But to measure
Pittsburgh, or I may even say, the entire
State of Pennsylvania, by this miserable ex
ample, would be gross injustice.
The example of the medical faculty, alone,
would have been sufficient to have taught the
apostate disciples of Justin a lesson; and the
editorial eorpn, as well as many other respec
table professions I could mention, even here,
in oqr midst, all put, most palpably, there
cok>rpbobiie» of the Pittsburgh fare, to the
blush.
David J. Peck, M. D., in doing well in
Philadelphia, having n fine oAre in Institute
Buildings,” where he is receiving the calls
mid attention of the most polished pmetition
j era wd proimon «f the medical schools.—
Tbw i» as it should be, and stows m«i mn
cloaTrlr (hat Anr baa aa much to do with the
iudrow monster, slavery, as medicine, or anv
i other respectable best ocas. And it is a fart.
weß worthy of retamfc, that, other than that
of bw. any combination with slavery ts con
sidered a blighting disgrace to the partici
pants. How stand the bw, then, and law
yers, when favoring the oppressor T I know
tha* you will answer, They are supporters of
tyranny and despotism.
I will write you onec a week.
Yours, in behalf of our oppressed ami
down-:redden countrymen,
M. R. D.
PAWirracT Faiu. The Anti-Slavery
women of Pawtucket Rhode Island, w ill bold
their Twelfth Animal Fair, at the Hall of the
Pawtucket Hotel, on the 9th and 10th of
February, commencing at 10 o'clock, a. w.
It is hoped that a larger attendance than
ever, will favor this annual gathering of the
tried and true and that they will not fail to
find the tables covered, in tempting abundance,
with the usual supply of articles for use or
ornament, together with refreshments of every
desirable kind and quality.
The call is universal. Come, then, for the
slaves' sake!
Rebecca Mitchell, Elizabeth Shove,
Mary Peck, Maria Dexter,
Lydia Winn, 1. J. Adams,
Mary A. Kenyon, Ester Reed,
j Susan M. Shove, Abby Burgess,
Avis Sisson, Amy Dexter,
Alurn Crowningshield, Susan Sisson.
I Ruth Sisson,
Hj»W T e gratefully acknow ledge the receipt
of valuable documents from the Hon. J. G.
Palfrey, of the House of Representatives.
IP 3 Benjamin R. Foster, is our Authorized
ageut for Rochester and its vicinity.
Westers New York Anti-Slavery So
ciety.—At a meeting of the Executive Com
mittee, Jan. 19th, 1848, Joseph C. Hathaway
and Charles Lenox Rcmond, were appointed
agents for one year.
The Committee will meet on Tuesday eve
ning next, Feb. Ist., at the house of John
i Kedzie,No. 35, North Fitzhughst. Rochester.
Punctual attendance is requested.
W. C. NELL,
Ree. Sec.
ITT 3 The Liberty Minstrel by Geo. \V.
Clark. We have for sale at our office a few
copies of this collection of Anti-slavery music.
Price 50 cents.
___
IHPNorth Star No. 3, any friend far ot
j near having a spare ropy of this number, wtfl
confer a special favor by forwarding the same
to our office.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
W. P. (i., New Concord'Of*?*’. Encouraging It t
ter of lath inst. received, and uaincs added to our
I list.
l J. P. D., Economy, Indiana. Thanks to this inde
fatignhle friend, his name now stands with the ot’ er
agents.
j T. F. /Richmond, Ohio. Favor of Jan. 14th, grate
fully acknowledged. Copies have been mailed per
request.
S. H. G., New York. H.s answer i* all wc re
quested,-tltuugh little indefinite.
I
CON'HIMCATIO.'VS.
Northampton, Jan. 1, 18-18.
Dear Friends Douglass Delany
The specimen number of the North Star, is
just what it should be—a beacon light of liber
ty, to illuminate the pathway of the bleeding,
hunted fugitive of the South and to arouse
our disfranchised fellow countrymen and wo
men of the North, who are lulled to sleep by
the syren song of Liberty, while we are slaves
to all intents, purposes, and constructions, in
any State within this slaveholdi.vg Union.
Let it be seen and felt, that while our breth
ren and sisters of the South are slaves to
individuals, we, of the North, are slaves to
the mass. Let the whole truth in regard to
our real condition be so clearly shown, that
our colored brethren, who believe themselves
free, may understand, that in the United
States of America, there are no free colored
menand that there never can be, so long
as there is no concert of action; and our neu
trality continues to clog the wheels of the
car— emancipation. On this subject, may
the light of the North Star be like that of the
inflexible Sirius, that never waxes nor wanes,
until our brethren, who arc sleeping in calm
security, shall awake to the dangers which
surround them, and take such observations
from the beacon-light as shall point them to
the haven where they should be, in the full
enjoyment of freedom, not slavery; rights,
not privileges.
Since yours is a permanent press, and the
Star shines for all, the necessity of the Na
tional Press,” called for by the Troy Con
vention, is superseded; and, until it be
shown that there is a sincere devoted ness—
nay, a united effort, on tlie part of the whole
people, to MMtain the most able, fret, and in-
DEPKMDKirr nwss ever established and con
trolled by colored men, in this country, the
plea for a National Press can be made
only on sectarian grounds; and, since secta
rianism has made us all Ish/naehtes, the true
friends of humanity, at home oaabroad, can
never listen to such a plea.
W hen I reflect upon the tremendous influ
ence of the press in freedom's cause, since
W m. Lloyd Garrison sounded the first note
for immediate emancipation, and consider the
important position you occupy, and that the
destiny of enslaved millions depend* upon the
existence of a free and independent press, and
that every man sod woman, w hose complexion
bears the presumptive evidence of slavery, is
under a moral obligation to sustain such an
engine in our cause— my word to all is, Let
him who would be a stare, refuse to sustain
it!
Ever yours for Human Freedom,
DAVID HIGGLES.
GEOftGE B. VAfIIIOJV.
We are pleased to me from the following
street from the New York letter of the
Philadelphia inquirer, that our talented young
townmaan. Gee. B. Vashon, Esq., has
Mired that jmriee from the courts of New
iortt ary which wmt denied him by the
courts of his native county. The letter m
dated—
New Yore, J an. 13, 184#.
For the first time in the history of the
State of New York, and if I am not wrong,
for the first time m the history of the Tinted
Mates, a colored man was yesterday admitted
after due examination, as Attorney, Solicitor,
ami ounsellor of the Supreme Court of thin
State. On his examination he evinced a per
fect knowledge of (he rudiments of law, and
a familiar acquaintance with Coke, laitleton,
Black stone ar.d Kent.
Geo. B. Ynshon (his rame) does not,
-however, intend to practise hia profession
here he merely took out his credentials from
our courts, and intends to practise at Port
ffatyen. where they will act as a powerful
letter of recommendation, and w here he can
plead without being sneered at.”
The above intelligence, from the Pittohargh
'Telegraph, w indeed a gratifying evidence of
the change in public sentiment. The wnter
is, however, incorrect in his opinion that thin
is the first instance of a colored man's admis
sion to Legal practice in the United States
for in the Old Bay State—God bless her!—
two colored Lawyers have been pursuing the
even tenor of their wray, recipients of its
honor* and emoluments for the last two
years.
One of whom, Robert Morris, Jr., ac
quired his excellence of character and correct
1 business habits in the office of Kllis Gray
Loring, Esq., Master in Chancery. The
other, Macox B. Amxx, who successfully
passed the ordeal of a rigid examination at
the Cumberland bar, (Maine.) holds the offico
of Justice of the Peace for Middlesex county,
under the appointment of Governor Briggs.
To Massachusetts, then, belongs the honor
of first extending its hand of encouragement
to those colored young men, aspirants for
legal lore: ar.d in accordance with its de
served reputation for political equality, has
removed the barrier which, in the other States,
chills the noble prompting of spirits congenial
with Vasiion, Morris and Allkx.
But in order to render Massachusetts a
more perfect example, she must yet remove
from her cseutcehon w hat is now considered
-by many her last vestige of slavery,
and allow equal school privileges. In many
towns, white and colored children have
always met at school—without reference to
any accidental difference—and in Salem and,
we believe, Nantucket, the principle has been
recently established, and unattended, to the
present, with any but the legitimate favorable
j results.
In the city of Boston this question is vet to
jbe settled. God speed the right!
W. C. X.
STATESMAN AND SLAGERY.
It was said by Talleyrand, that words were
useful to conceal thought, but the public men
of this country, seem skilled by long expe
rience in the art of using fair words to divert
attcntifti from miserable deeds, or the misera
ble omission of good deeds that should be
done.
A slaveholding president, ready at any time
for the sake of gain, to separate husband and
wife, mother and daughter, and to sell hishu
i man chattels on the auction block without a
pang of remorse, and too, that the
j law sanctions and protects the traffic, said in
his inaugural address to the people, that the
I broad a?gis of national protection extended
I over the humblest individual in the Union.”
A Northern statesman standing beneath the
[shadow of the monument on Bunker Hill, a
1 few years since, uttered most glorious praises
I of this land of Liberty, and of the noble daring
of those, whose heart's blood, shed in the stern
struggle with kingly oppression, enriched the
soil beneath, and yet smiled blandly on the
tyrant standing near with his trembling slave
in attendance, nor said one word to the gath
ered thousands around, that would lead them
to tell that slave to claim his liberty in the
name of the slain heroes of Freedom's battle
field. Fair words, well-turned phrases, beau
tiful thoughts, have been and are plenty
enough, but manly actions, strong free words
uttered in the times and places where they
w ould hll, are like angels visits, few and far
between.
hat is now said or done in the Congres
sional Halls There is now and then, thaak
Heaven, a bold thought earnestly spoken; hut
talk enough Heaven know s, and men might
know too, were they not tlinded, that is full
of sound, (though not much fury) signifying
nothing. The Whigs are now in the majori
ty at the North they often claim to be anti
slavery. What are they at Washington
At home they talk of the Mexican war in such
a manner, that one might suppose from their
language, they would never in any way giro
aid and comfort to this scheme of slaveholding
aggrandizement. Daniel Webster, in Massa
chusetts, far away from the White House,”
ainid the hills of New England, once I believe,
spoke of impeaching the President; nay
more—by a vote in the House of Representa
tives, eighty-five members have declared that
the war was illegally and unconstitutionally
commenced by the act of the President.”
This really seems, bold, but it means noth
ing, as is well understood by the south The
large majority of these eighty-five member*
will vote supplies for the war, w ill oppose tho
re-call of the troops, in short will do nothing
practical in opposition to its continuance.
They have no courage the torpid influence
of slavery has crushed, deadened, their man
liness the presence of the slavholding mem
bers, and the consciousness that they most call
them (covered with crimes as they arc) hon
orable men, robs them of to give,
utterance, in burning words to their feelings.,
A lew days, sine*: Mr. Venable of South Caro
lina, a member of the House, called upon
those men wbo bad voted that the President
had violated the oustnuliMi, by declaring
war, to uapeach him. It seems a plain duty
of men, who lore their own rights and am in
favor of the supremacy of law, to do so. But
who among the great men in the Whig ranks
10 Congress or the Senate, will take the first
step! Will Daniel Webster! No, h»head
may be sagacious enough, his watch vigilant
enough to take care of banka, tariffs, and such
other matters aa pertain to the interests of
mammon, bat he has nut the heart to give hi*
mighty bat degraded intellect to the vindication
of great high principles, and to rebuke the
man a an effectual way, who as he well
known, has trampled upon Liberty and ngkt
at the bidding of the Slave power for the hn
eoat of purpose*. The great defender of the
Constitution, does all hia work of defence in
the whit cart. Robert C. Winthrop, has no
mrni for such a movement, hi* highest aim u
|0 tnm the hark of Sum?, that the allianct
the cotmn nulls of Lowell, and th.
r M n of South Carolina and Georgia
maT be as firm aa ever. If cov- Mentlv wttl
thl9 paramount object, he can utter some higt
Ending wools, can during a receae of Con
a glowing and beautiful nctitenc*
m Faneutl Hall in rebuke of slavery, bewii
roaT as gentlelv a* a sucking dove.” Bu
«mv-ter* know their man, and his prais<
r.:n from th*" 1 columns of the Sou til Carolin
j r saving,‘‘Mr. Wmtlurop has behave*
;l to the Southern members, lie is a pen
t;« man and a scholar.” Other mighty mci
of valor in the Whig Israel might be men
t;„ned, but they would be found wanting—
granting even that a few might b* found read*
t<* a- t up to their recorded vote*, they know
that the movement would fad from want 01
support hv those who resolve and re-resolve,
yet die the same.
.V short time sines, n resolution was intro
dneed to the House, in favor of withdrawing
the troops from Mexico, but it was 'ot-"d down
by a large majority. Meanwhile war if
waging, millions of money are being expend
ed, the columns of every pajier are filled wtili
accounts of new and frequent scenes of blood*
shed and rapine, and the great majority of the
Whigs an- voting aganfet it in the abstract,
and practically either by action or criminal
lack of aetion prosecuting it with terrible
vigour. While the distant din of slavery’s
battles comes walled on ihe soft South-west
ern breezes to the walls of the- apitol, the
greatest question to bn settled, seems to be
whether Zachary Taylor, the mercenary mur
derer. who leads the legions of the Tree Re
public m her base war, or Henry Clay the op
;l of emancipation gradual or immediate,
the wretched man who only lacks the much
coveted opportunity to slay a Mexican for the
honor of his country, shall be the next Presi
dent of the United States. Verily, gTeat is
canty glorious is hypocrisy! G. 13. S.
SAB RATH.
N IXI Bk It THREE.
To th o Editors of the Xorth Star:
Gentlemen 1 promised to inquire, how
far are we bound to keep the Sabbath, under
the Christian dispensation, or any other day
answering thereto?” I suppose none will
deny that the Jews believe themselves to be
bound to keep the Sabbath to the latest gen
eration as well, also, as they believe them
selves bound to keep the covenant of circum
cision, to separate and distinguish them from
oilier nations. (Kxo. xxxi. 13—Id Gen
xvn. 7—ll Lev. xii. 3 John vii. 23 Acts
x i. 3.) St. Paul said, that (Jesus Christ
v, hs a minister of the circumcision, for the
truth of God, to confirm the promises made
nto the fathers.” And Jesus himself said
1 am not sent but to the lost sheep of the
house of Israel.” And that there might be
no mistake in so important a matter, the
greatest possible care appears to have been
taken in the instructions given by Christ to
the apostles both to the seventy and the
twelve, that they should “not go into the way
of the Gentiles,” nor into any city of the i
Samaritans.” (Mat. x. 5; Luke x. 1.)
It was not until the personal mission of the
Saviour was finished, that the command was J
given, Go ye into all the world, and preach
the gospe) to every creature.” Thus wesee,
as St. Paul said, that Jesus Christ was a
minister of the circumcision.” Ilis mission
was peculiarly directed to his own people.—
The Jews, according to the law of Moses, i
were bound to listen to him and whatever
alterations or modifications he might make in
the law, they were hound to observe them.—
(Deut. xviii. 18—lib) It may also be ob
served here, that Jesus left the ritual law
j>erfeetly untouched, as far as His personal
ministry was concerned, with the exception of
the instructions he gave to his disciples, with
regard to the traditionary purifications of the
Pharisees. (Matt. v. 23, 24.)
Peter, and the rest of the apostles, appa
rently kept the law as strictly after the death
ot Christ as they hail previously done —(Acts
x\i. 20, 20) —not excepting St. Paul. We
find, nevertheless, in Paul's epistle to the
Hebrews, he shows, that the high priesthood
bong changed, there was of necessity a
change in the law and also minutely points
out that alteration. (Heb. vii. 12.) The great
mistake in this matter appears to be, the
supposition that the whole of the ritual law
was abolished, both to Jew and Gentile;
whereas, a greater mistake could not well be
made.
We have shown that all the apostles
kept the law, ;ls well as all the Jewish Chris
-tiaas, after the death of Christ; which could 1
not possibly have happened if they had tin- 1
rflerstood that the ritual law was abolished.—
Kven St. Paul, while lie preached uncircum
ciston to the Gentiles, circumcised Timothy,'
because one of his parents was a Jew. There j
can therefore be no doubt that the Jews re—
maiiied subject to a part of the ritual law and
although there may be no doubt that they will
acknowledge Christ, as the Messiah, before
tbur general return to Judea, they will yet
n*!*nld the temple and establish the lau r ac
cording to the prophecy of Ezekiel.
l*et us now inquire how the Gentiles are
afT-eted m this matter. All are aware tliaj
under the Mosaic dispensation, the Gentile
proselytes had to submit to the whole of the
ritual law as a matter of coutsc; and the
Jcu nJi Christians who submitted to it, could
not easily understand why the Gentiles should
not continue to do so. Acts xv. 1 Ist Tim.
b, 7.) This opinion was so prevalent
among t| K Jews of Asia, that Paul, Barna
bas ami others were obliged to go up to Jeru
salem to c onsult with the rest of the apostles,
to decide whether it ought to be so or not.—
And according to the testimony of the Holy
Ghost, it was decided that the Gentiles were
entirely free from the ritual; —not so w ith the
Jew*. (Arts xv. 10, 11 Rom. iii. 28 Gal.
ni. 1,8; Col, ii. 14.) Notwithstanding this
decision, either the apostles themselves did
not thoroughly understand ttieir jKitoiuon, or
were not permitted to explain it which at
limes rendered their actions liable to miscon
struction .and even caused disagreement among
themselves. (Ist Cor. xiu. ti—l 2; Gal. it.
11 15.)
We have now to bear in mind that Paul
was jceeuliarly the apostle of the Gen
tiles, arid was set apart for that purpose by
the Holy Ghost, from his conversion. (Aet*
i* J.», i,ii. 2 We have therefore to re
member, that in his epistles to the Gentiles
he naturally identifies himself with the partie
ti whom he is writing and we ought not t<
j treat him w orse than me would any other au
i tbor, by extending hi* dictum beyond th*
t point Mb intended it to reach. It appears fron
.1 St. Paul's ejnstle to the Galatians, that h
I preached seventeen yearn among the Gentiles
I without seeing any of the other apostles, ex
,1 eepting Peter and James and it eras seven
teen years before any explanation took plao
l between the apostles of tlie circumcision an
j himself, as to the difference of their dnetmien
when it was decided, as we have intimate*
above, that Paul and Bamabaa should go t*
the Gentiles and tell them, that they wen
free from the ritual law (Gal. ii. 0.) W*
need hardly say more upon this part of th*
subject, except we rrpeat the message shirt
P Paul and Barnabas had to deliver to the Gen
tiles For it scemcth good to the Holt
j Ghost and to u*. to lay upon you no greatei
i burden than these necessary things. Thai
ve abstain from meats off ‘red to idols, ant
from blood, and from things strangled, ant
from fornication, ftom which if you keep
yourselves, ye shall do well. Fare ye well.”
Here then w e have the subject made perfectly
J plain.
The Jews were the peculiar or chosen
people of God, who were to enforce and
spread the law. as far as it W 33 practicable in
such a state of things; and the changing ol
the dispensation did not entirely free them
from it. But as the Church was about to
pass from them to the Gentiles, at the destruc
tion of Jerusalem, the law was necessarily
abolished in their case.
Having now ascertained these important
facts, let us inquire what the apostle of the
Gentiles says in reference to the Sabbath. In
the 14th chapter of the epistle to the Ro
mans, w c find the following One man es
tecnieth one day above another: another es
teemeth every day alike. Let every man be
fully persuaded in his own mind.” He that
regardeth the day, regardeth it unto the Lord
and he that doth not regard a day, to the
G>rd he doth not regard it.” In speaking
again upon the same subject to the Colos
sians, he says Let no man therefore judge
you in meat or in drink, or in respect of an
holy day, or of the new moon, or of the Sab
davs.” This evidence is quite conclusive up
on the subject on which we are writing—the
Sabbath.”
The Gentiles are not bound to keep
it, or any other day of the week in its
stead. The custom w hich has generally ob
tained among professed Christians, of keeping
one day in the week partially as the Sabbath,
no doubt originated from the custom which
some of the early Gentile churches adopted,
of meeting every first day for the purposes of
exhortation and commemoration of the Sa
viour's death and there qan be no doubt that
this custom has been highly beneficial to so
ciety, and conducive to civilization. But it is
the loose and unequal manner of its adoption
w hich has chiefly caused it lo be so beneficial,
j If wc had been yoked and hampered like the
Jews, under the traditions of the Pharisees,
and as the Pharisees of the present day would
have us, how could civilization have pro
gressed llow could our ships sail to dis
tant jKirts, and mankind spread themselves
over the face of the earth And how* could
many other works of necessity be done,which
require continued application? On the other
hand, if we had had no periodical rest-day
no day of recreation and instruction, how
would the working part of mankind have at
tained to improvement and civilization?—
1 bus we believe that the custom of a rest-dav
in each week, which has grown tip in imita
tion of the Jewish Sabbath, is a highly ne
cessary and useful custom, and ought not to
be lightly abandoned. But it is not therefore
necessary that the law should interfere for its
continuance. The law never ought to inter
fere unnecessarily to curtail the liberties of
the mass, to suit the crotchets of the fanatical
and hypocritical few.
This subject may now be safely left to the
consciences and convenience of individuals.—
Mankind cannot be made religious by legisla
tive enactments. Above all, let us remember
that religion does not consist in outward forms
and ritual ordinances. St. Paul says: “All
the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this
I hou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.”—
And again, “Love is the fulfilling of the
law.”
Let us remember, also, that even under
the Mosaic dispensation, the Saviour said:
The Sabbath was made for man, and not
man for the Sabbath.” In view' of all these
lacts and circumstances, does our Pharisaical
and fanatical church believe that a little un
lawful and unnecessary stringency in regard
to the Sabbath, will palliate the crying sin of
American Slavery?
I am, gentlemen, yours,
RICHARD SULLEY.
WHAT PLACES ARE SACRED?
It is a summer eve, just as the season fades
into the sere and yellow leaf” of autumn.
The sky is clear and calm, wiih here and
there a white streaky cloud moving slowly
aloug, as if loth to lose sight of the setting
sun, which is gilding every object with a
shade of its own inexpressible brightness.
Not a sound is heard, save the scarcely per
ceptible rustling of the leaves, shaken bv the
soft breath of summer; or the gurgle of the
neighboring stream, as it leaps playfully from
stone, and then glides with an unruffled cur
rent, beneath the shade of the drooping
willow, whose white leaves are reflected on
its glassy surface. The birds are uttering
perhaps their last chirrup, before they nestle
down in calm security, assured of the kind
protection of Heaven. Everything around
fe calm, peaceful, and lovely, bearing the im
press of Him w ho is holy ar,d ineffably bene
ficent. The voice of God may 1« heard in
the dash of the hurricane, in the.rushing of
the whirlwind, in the roar of the thunder;
but neither of these nor all combined tell of
him in such heart-thrilling, soul-subduing
accent* as the still small voice of the summer
evening. Look around you—what do you
behold The temple of God! It w w
building, and worthy of the great Architect; I
and as you lustra to the w htspered j
in your soul, which tells you that it the
house of God, and conjures you to worship
him, love him, and obey him, —are you .not
constrained to acknowledge that be is present'
of a truth—that h« hears that he love*— that
he will listen to you
i
Now the scene is changed. It m winter.
The mow b hanging in while dusters on the
leafless branches. Silence reigns t round.
Every footstep (alb sofUy upon the ear. The
ground a white; the nry cbmbericg up the
aides of yonder rugged precipice- is clothed ip
the ssme pure garment; and ever, as the
passing breese stirs its scattered anna, the
snow-wreath fails, in soft and notselem clus
ters. to the ground below. The little moun
tain rivulet glides along in ha frost-bound
channel, at intervab entirely buried beneath a
white crust of ice and snow can again be
traced winding and turning in a aigxag course
along the bill-aide, till it is entirely lost in
one white unvarying mass in the fu* distance.
In yonder valley-, a body of men, the true
hearted covenanting sons of old Scotland, in
broad blue bonnets and huaeti gray,'* have
assembled. These arc men whose wrongs
and sufferings fill a dark page in the world s
history. It is the period when the tlavcr
houses, the Dalziels, and the Laudcrdales are
torturing, slaughtering and banishing the best
and bravest of Scotland's sons and daughters/’
Listen to that sound which swells upon the
gale in deep and heartfelt melody They
are singing their song of praise to that God
in whom they trust—
God i* our refuse and oitr atrength.
In atraita a pmml aid;
Tberrfore although the earth retnoTe,
We will not he afraid.”
They seem to gather firmness and confidence
with each succeeding stanza; and when, at
the close of the psalin, they think of the poet’s
beautiful words, The Lord of hosts is with
us, the God of Jacob is our refuge,”—the
calm, settled countenance, determined yet
subdued, and the glistening eye, turned up
ward, in devout adoration, clearly tell that
these words do indeed speak the thoughts
that are passing in the mind. The idea ex
pressed is to them a heartfelt reality and in
such a confidence, they are enabled, even in
the midst of dangers and sufferings, to par
take of that peace of mind which passeth
understanding.”
Turn yet once more to another feature in
the world s life. It is a winter's evening in
a city of the same land of ‘‘honest men;”
where, although there are many things with
which it is difficult to sympathise, the mani
festations of truth and sincerity which abound
there, must at all times command our respect.
We enter a quiet respectable
in one of the streets of that city. The doors
are shut; the curtains drawn; the hum and
bustle of the streets has nearly subsided;
solitary footsteps are passing at intervals; and
each cart or carriage can be heard, as it comes
rumbling along. Now the sound is softened
by the distance. Now it comes nearer!
nearer Now the jolting of the wheels from
stone is distinctly heard, as it passes the door.
Again, it softens, subsides, and dies away in
the distance. It is the beginning of winter,
damp—dreary—comfortless. The rain has
been coming down in cold, dripping, drizzling
showers during the whole day; and may still
be heard, as each gust of wind whistles
through the street, pattering against the win
dows. The family are gathered around a
cheerful blazing fire, talking of what has hap
pened to each during the day—or perhaps of
some brother, or friend, who is sojourning in
a strange land. The hour for family worship
arrives. The well-worn Bibles are produced
and the psalm is sung; and the portion of
God's word is read; and the father, whose
head is sprinkled with the frost of middle age,
kneels down and the mother, the partner of
his cares and sorrows—the cheerful sharer of
his joys, kneels down; and the sons—some
of them in the vigor of manly youth, kneel
down and the daughters, young, beautiful,
full of tender sensibilities, and pure* single
hearted devotion, kneel dow r n and they all,
by the mouth of him who is the rightful
priest in that household, commend themselves
and their distant friends and relatives to the
care of that God who careth for the n.
“In the year 1602, a small body of men
assembled on the sea-bcacli, at Delft, in Hol
land.” Let us look at these men!—thev are
worthy of a moment's attention. They are
men of quaint attire and slow' nasal speech
they.are men of sincere, earnest hearts, who,
not being permitted to worship God in the
way they think right, have fled from their
own country to the more liberty-loving shores
j°f a neighboring state. They have heard of
a far-off land in the new w orld, and are on the
eve of embarking for its unexplored shores.
Savage men are there! savage beasts are
there a wild and savage country is that to
to which they are going! Terrible things
are these, and hard to bear but not so diffi
cult of endurance as the destruction of their
faith and their liberty. There the earth, if
cultivated w ith diligence, will yield them food
and whatever else may befal, they will at
least be at liberty to worship God in the way
they consider the true way—to live well in
this world, and prepare for a coming eter
nity. In consideration of these things, they
i and the brethren whom they were to leave
behind, in their sincerity of faith and earnest
ness of purpose, kneel dowrn on the sea-beach,
the sound of the ocean rolling in their cars,
and the blue sky over their heads; and all
join in solemn prayer to God, that he would
bn merciful to them, his poor children, and
go with them to that far distant land that he
would be their protector and their gyide
there; for he had also made that land, as
well as the land which they were about to
leave. Stern, quaint, stiff-looking men
‘‘striving against sin,” within and without,
in your own odd fashion! Oh, there is no
thing more noble in this our world, than to be
engaged in such a conflict! We are poor
creatures all, ever sinning and repenting—
sometimes in tears and wretchedness Yours
was indeed a hard task of outward severities
and inward wrestlings; hut you performed it
nobly, and the never-ceasing gratitude of all
future ages will be yours.
On the 25th of November, (Thanksgiving
Day,) in the year 1847, in the city of
the congregation assembling in church,
met for divine worship; when a sermon
adapted to the occasion, was preached by the
minister.” The house referred to above is a
Urge and handsome 44 place of worship.” It
is substantially built and beautifully finished.
The seats sad seat-bocks are ak taahHmcd
one uniform color; the pews and sales are
all carpeted and a splendid mahogany desk,
occupying about one-thud the width of the
building is planed at one end. A woU-dreas
rd audience, some of than probably the de*
l
cendants of Uw oW puritan*, mot there on the
occasion shore mentioned. A. hyms wu
read by the minister; and when be had dime
reading, the deep solemn tones of the orgaa
discoursed excellent melody. Then a choir
of pceompbshed singers sang, with the organ
accompanying, the words which the minister
had read; a considerable portion of the audi
j.eisce, during this performance, looking au the
t wngers. or gaxmg listlessly atoned than, or
I perhaps observing the dress and demeanor of
their mnghliors. After this was finished, the
minister engaged in prayer; the people, fur
thff most part, sitting at ease in Zion,” on
their soft cushioned seats —their feet resting 5
on ottomans and apparently thinking of any
thing but the prayer in which they were sup
posed to he engaged. Then another hymn
was sung. Then a sermon was preached
w hich, if it might be judged of by the atten
tion paid to it, was neither very instructive
nor very interesting. Then, after a peribrm
-3,1 ice at the end, similar to that at the begin- j
niog> the congregation separated. Oh, how
hare the descendants of the ancient Pilgrim
Father* degenerated! Tell it not in Gath!” j
God is not confined to temples made with
hands.”-. They that worship God must'
worship him in spirit and in truth.” The;
grana gorgeousness and solemn ceremony of.
Homan Catholic worship, and the orthodox j
formalism of modern Presbyterianism and Con- j
gregalicnalism, he loves not —nay they arc
abomination in liis sight, compared w ith the 1
heartfelt devotion of those hill-side and sea-;
beach worshippers. What renders any place:
sacred? Not t!ie invocation of thousands of,
saints and angels, by a Roman Catholic,
priest, nor any of the varying services of mo
dern Protestantism. All such services are
vain, because there is no authority for them
in the law and testimony.” It is vain, also, i
to claim for any particular place any superior'
sanctity, for the same reason. God respects
neither persons nor placer. Wheresoever his
people are, there is he. In whatsoever place
his worship is observed, that is a holy place
during its observance but to attach any par
ticular sanctity to any patricular building, let
let it be used for what purpose it may, is
surely nothing better than a superstitious
veneration, ill suited to the professors of an;
enlightened Christianity. —j. d.
SELECTIONS.
From the New York Tribune.
FREEDOM OR SLAVERY IN
CONGRESS.
Washington, Jan., 17.
There was a struggle in the House this
morning, very characteristic of the Law ai*l
Justice which pervade this “area of Freedom”
which we are so zealously extending at a cost
of Fifty Millions a year. I presume the Tele
graph will not have described it fully, so T will
endeavor to add a word of illustration
Mr. Giddings of Ohio, moved a resolution
of inquiry setting forth that a colored man
long a resident of this District, a servant at
Mrs. Spring's where Mr. G., hoards, where
his wife is also a servant, had an agreement
with his legal owner, whereby he agreed to
'pay the latter 300 for his freedom, which
sum he had paid except $OO, when on Satur
day last, I believe, two men came iuto the
house, threw him down, bound him, gagged
him and carried him off to one of the slave
traders prisons’ in the city, (by virtue of a
sale by his villanous master, of course,)
whence he has since been shipped to New
Orleans, for sale. This was at once met by a
motion to lay on the table which was first vo
ted down—B6 to 84 but on a second trial
carried—94 to 88. So Congress, the sole
Legislature of the District, voted that such
an outrage is not worth even an inquiry, hut
all regular unexceptionable, and according to
the legal marolit of the “peculiar institution.”
I hope this will be the last we shall hear of
this atrocity.
Washington, Jan. 48.
The vote in the House yesterday on the
atrocious case of Slave Piracy, brought to its
notice by Mr. G*hidings, will doubtless have
been analyzed in the Tribune before this let
ter is received yet I am impelled to offer
some farther elucidation.
The outrage could not have been more a
bominabie if the Slave Coast of Africa had
i been its theatre and the most atrocious sava
ges its authora. The victim had made him
self respected by all who knew him, by his
quiet industry and diligence in his vocation.
He had fairly bargained for his freedom, and
had paid four-fifths of the stipulated purchase
money, as appears by receipts from his mis
creant owner on the books of his trustee but
his wife states that he had actually paid the
whole price except 11, (having made pay
ments when his trustee wash way and no cred
it could be recorded,) and had $6 of his little
balance in his pocket when the pirates jump
ed upon shackled and kidnapped him. Two
weeks more, aud lie would have been out of
the house of bondage now he is torn from
all he holds dear, and is on his way in chains
to wear out the w retched remnant of his life
in the caue-fields of Louisiana.
y Now’ the reason why Congress ought to
have acted on this case is this ;—this whole
drama of piracy and villany has Iren enacted
in strict accordance with, and under the erpress
protection of the laics of the United States.
The w oman who sold her Slave to himself,
pocketed almost the last dollar of her price
for him, and then sold him over again to the
owners of the slave-pen w’hich carried the
flag of Polk, Dallas Sc Texas” at its mast
i head during the last Presidential contest, has
done nothing which the laws of this “model
Republic” do not sanction and uphold she
has merely availed herself of the temptations
to piracy and seoumlrelism in general which
those laws create. Mr. GklJings, therefore,
projiosed a simple and very natural inquiry
1 into the character of these laws, and the
proper remedy for the outrages they author
ize. And this inquiry a House of Keprcscnt
atives, three-fifths of whom represent Free
j men only, have voted to stifle and put down
and among those Representatives of Free
States w ho voted thus inhumanly, are one
Wh i?» George A’. Erlarrt, of Pennsylvania;
the Native, Jyrin two numbers trom New
i York City-*- Mac/ay and A troll; cmc more
from our Stat e—Hirdsall, of Broome, who
represents D. S. Dickinson and Gen. Casa
three from Maine —F. (’lark, Hammons, and
Williams two more Locos from Peimsyiva-
I nia—Brodhcad and C. J. Ingersoli; four from
Ohid—Cummins, Kermon, Miller and Rich
ey and three from Illinois Ficklin. Rich
ardson, and Turner la all. serenteten Repre
sentatives of Freeman only turned then backs
upon Freedom, and voted that Rascality and
Piracy are not deserving of rebuke nor even
j invinstigation.
Of course, the Representatives of Slarc
holders, with the single exception of noble
i Delaware’s Houston, voted against any inqui
t ry—it would have been political destruction
to any of them to do otherwise. They can
j hardly be 1 darned as the world goes. Bat
how dude it, an honest reader will inquire,
that there were at least thirty absentees from 1
i Free States, and only twefrt from Slave
States when this important vote was taken ?j
j I answer, by the most despicable dodging. 1
lien who dated net vote against Freedom, j
I yet feared its triumph m the Yeas and Nays,
took care to be oat of their mats when the j
vote was taken. m. e.
Fr»* th* Chnatum World.
epitaph,
moj« llf old iciiu etorn or «o«coit»
**«AC*C*ETT*-
Tl»i« celebrated epitaph, which a),
thoagh often published before, will bear
to be published again, is understood to
have been written bv Daniel Bliss, Esq.
a lawyer at Concord, before the Revo*
lutionarv War. He was the bob of a
minister of that place, whose name and
history occupy a large space in the
ecclesiastical annals of the town. This
single production will secure to its au
thor forever the credit of taste, ingenu
ity and an enlightened aioral sense; and
proves that sound abolition sentiments
were cherished then, as strongly as at
the present day.
GOD
Will* im free.
NAN
Wlik (M Wave*.
1 will aa Gutl w:Ua.
God’* will be door
Here lie* the WyafJott!i Jack,* native Afi ico,
who die 1, March, 1773, *g**d duMt frO uw*.
Though burn in a ImJ J slaves,
He burn free.
Though he tired in a but u f liberty,
He lived a slave;
Till by bis honnt, though stubn iuburs,
He acquire! tike source of Sbveiy,
Which gave iiiui his freed*»tn.
Tlinigh nit long after,
Death—the grand tyrant
Gave him his final emancipation,
And act him on a footing-wlth kings.
Tfoxigh a skive to vice,
He practiced those virtues
Without which, kings are but slaves.
From the Courier Enquirer.
TIIE BRIDGE AT THE FALIS,
I have been intensely interested to-day in
listening to a description, from a well informed
l nnd competent source, of the great bridge over
the gorge that separates the dominions of the
Queen from those of the President. If any
thing could be wanted in tlie attraction of the
country about Niagara to turn thither the tour
ol the multitudes in the pleasure season, this
bridge will supply it. Its thousand of tons
weight of the strongest iron cord that the in
genuity of the iron-master can devise, find a
safe support in wrought iron anchors, built in
I the solid rock, one hundred feet b dow the
surface, so that, before it could yield, the very:
I rock-bound earth would forsake its tenacity,
i A large wooden frame work is to be placed,
j so that no undulating motion can he experi
enced. In full sight of the cataract —the surge
of angry waters far beneath the sullen,
storm-beaten rocks all round—the quick loco
motive will put forth all its quickness to rush
j beyond the peril of its journey. This glorious
work is already begun; the money for its cost
1 paid in and available; the excavations com
j ineneed; and the contractor is to cross on
i horseback by the middle of next June. Its
firmness is to he such that with all the burthen
of a powerful locomotive and a long attendant
train of cars, it is not to vibrate one inch in
1 the centre. The railway is to occupy the
centre two carriage ways on either side, and
two foot ways.
j What a magnificent spectacle this road in
i full use will present! A road of this kind
over the Menai Straits, in Wales, is famous,
for the daring displayed in its construction.
That over the Niagara will soon he world
fanrrd. It will be an iron link of civilization
between the two ruling powers of the world,
and will never he severed
One of the first though s that presents itself,
in reference to the const notion, is as to how
the wires are to he thprown across. The
steamboat now used below the falls is to take j
over two cables, to which strands of j ro n are!
affixed. These arc to be drawn over till two i
ropes of iron are drawn over, on which a tem
porary pathway is to be placed; ang when I!
inquired where workmen could he found that
had nerve enough to work effectually under
such circumstances, the answer so character
istic of American strength of action was, O,
there are always plenty of Yankees who’ have
both the courage to work the re and the inge
nuity to work well.”
The great railway in Canada, which is to
connect with this mighty wo r ]j, presents some
admirable features. Its grade is over twenty
feet, and a very large proportion of the dis
tance is on a straight line. On one line per
fectly straight, ninety miles are laid out. All
the highways of the country are to pass either
over or under the road, bv depression or ele
vation, as to Ike entirely'removed, so that
there will lie neither obstacle nor hindrance to j
to a fight which will put more life into the
provincial dominion of her Britannic Majesty j
than it has vet seen. “.That same” province
of Canada West has yet to see great days.
England expends millions on sections of her
great dominions, far less worthy of her notice 1
and fostering care. I
“The last link is” completed when this!
great bridge of the cataract shall have been
completed. From Boston and’New-York an
unbroken line is presented, and the day is 1
soon coming soma correspondent of yours will
delineate the incidents of a thirty hours’ jour-
ney from the metropolis to Detroit. Ssueh
are the movements and progresses in sup-
port of which all may unite, and which mark
our busy day. 1
A Colored Lawyer. —Robert Morris, Jr.
a colored man, admitted to the bar some time
since, appeared, on the 21st inst. as counsel in
in case before the Court of Common Pleas.
i f
ITT* We give below the official report of
Dr. Halstead's Medical Institution, from
January, 1847, to January, 1848. The re
port shows the Doctor to have been singu
larly successful in the treatment of the various
diseases which came under his care during
the year.
From Parker's Letters on Slavery.
CONDITION AnD TREATMENT OF
Slaves
 will next consider the General
Condition and Treatment of the Sla\ei
themselves. The slave is not. theoretic
ally considered, a Person; he is only
Thing—as much so as an or a
spade; accordingly, he is wboßjr sub
ject to his master, and has no rights,
which are an attribute of Persons only
not of Things. All that he enjoys
therefore, is but a privilege. He ina)
be damaged, but not wronged.! How
ever ill-treated, he cannot of himself
in his own name and right, bring s
formal action in any court; ho tnor»
than an axe or a spade, though hi;
master may bt ing an action for dam
ages. The slave cannot appear as i
i witness when a freeman is on trial. Hi
i master ean beat, maim, mutilate, o
mangle him, and the slave has, theor
etically, no complete and 1< gal redres
—practically, no redress at all. Th<
master may force him to marry or for
hid his marriage; can sell him awa;
from wife and children. He can fore
the lover to beat his beloved; the bus
band bus wile; the child his parent
A slave is one who is in the power c
j his master —to whom he belongs. Th
master may sell him, dispose of hi
person, his industry, and his laboi
life can do nothing, possess nothing
nor acquire am thing hut what mus
belong to his master.*’ No contrac
between master and slave, however so
Icmnly made and attested, is bindin;
on the master. Is the freeborn child c
the free man likewise theoretically sub
ject to his father r Natural and instinct
ive affection prevent the abuse of tha
power. The connection between fa
tiler and child is one of guardianshi
i and reciprocal love—a mutual gain
that of master and slave is founded onl
on the interest of the owner; the gai
is only on the master's side.
The relation of master and slav
begins in violence; it must be sustaine
by violence—the systematic violence e
general laws, or the irregular violcnc
of individual caprice. There is m
other mode of conquering and suhju
gating a man. Regarding the slave a
a thing, an instrument ofhusbandry,’
the master gives him the least, an
takes the most that is possible. H
takes all the result of the slave’s toil
leaving only enough to keep him ii
a profitable working condition. Hi
work is the most he can be made to do
his food, clothing, shelter, amusement
the least he can do with. A Southern
Planter,” in his “Notes on Politico
Economy as applicable to the Unitei
States,” says to his fellow-slaveholders
ou own this labor, can regulate it
work it many or few hours in the dav
accelerate it, stimulate it, control it
avoid turnouts and combinations, anc
pay no wages. You can dress it sim
ply, feed it coarsely and cheap, lodge
it, on simple forms, as the plantations
do, house it in cabins costing little.’
“The slaves live without beds 01
houses worth so calling, or family cares
or luxuries, or parade, or show; have
no relaxations, or whims, or frolics, 01
dissipations; instead of sun to sun ii
their hours, are worked from dayligh
to nine o’clock at night. Where tin
free man or laborer would require i
hundred dollars a year for food an<
clothing alone, the slave onn be sup
ported for twenty dollars a year, an<
often is.” Let us bestow upon them th<
worst, the most unhealthy and degrad
ing sort of duties and labor.” Bai<
Mr. Jefferson, the whole commerce
between master and slave is a perpe
tual exercise of the most boisteroui
passions, the most unremitting despot
ism on the one part, and degrading
submission cn the ether.”
The idea of Slavery is, to use a mar
as a thing, against his nature and ii
opposition to his interests. The con
sequences of such a principle it is im
possible to escape; the results of this
idea meet us at every step. Man i<
certainly not cruel by nature, even ir
the barbarous state. In cur presen
civilization man is far from bcins
brutal. There are many kind am
considerate slaveholders, w hose aim i<
to make their slaves as comfortabh
and happy as it is possible while thej
arc slaves; men who feel and know
that Slavery is wrong, and would gladh
be rid of it; who are not consisten
with the idea of Slavery. Let us sup
pose, in this argument* there are tei
thousand such who are heads of fum
dies in the Uuitcd States, and ninert
thousand of a different stamp, mei
who have at least the average of humai
1 selfishness.
Now, under the mildest and mos
humane of masters, Slavery con monh
1 brings intensity of suffering. Tin
slave feels that he is a °Man, j
I erson, his own Person, horn with ul
a man's unalienable rights; born witl
the right to life, to liberty, and the pur
I Ue sees himself cu
off lroru these rights, and that to<
amid the wealth, the refinement, anc
the culture of this country and this
age. He feels his degradation, born i
man, to he treated as" a thing, bough
and sold, beaten as a beast. Hen
and there is one with a feeble nature
j with affect ions disproportionately strong
attached to an owner who never claim
*ed all lue legal authority of master
and this man may not desire his
doui. Some hear of the actual suffer
mgs of the free blades, or exaggerated
reports thereof, and fear that by be
coming free in America, they rnidu
exchange a well-known evil f or B a
greater or a worse. Others have be
come sa debased by their condition
that the man is mainly silenced in theh
consciousness, the animal alone *nr
vivmg, contented if well fi d and not
overworked, and they do not wish to
be free Mipjose that these three
classes, the feeble-minded, the timid
and the men overw l.chncd and crushed
by their condition, are as numerous as
,luc humane portion of the masters are
mie-tentu of the whole, or J()0 000
I he rest are conscious of t},„ nna’u-es
“1 a,nan. They desire their freed..,,!
and are kept slavery only bv exter
nal force the systematic foi-ce'of j üb
,r„ M lhe ,rr *T ,J,ar force of private
will. Jhe number of this class will he
about *2,700,000, a greater number than
the whole population of the colonies
in 1770. 'J be condition of the urn
jority of the claves is indeed terri
ble. They have no rights, and are to
be treated not as men, bat only as
things this first principle involves
continual violence and oppression, with
all the subordmatctpastiealars of theif‘
condition, which shall now be touched
on as briefly as possible. A famous
man said in public, that his slaves weie
“sleek and fat;*’ the best thing he
j could say in defence of his keeping
men in bondage. But even this is not
always true. Take the mass of slaves
together, and an abundance of testi
mony compels the conviction, that they
are miserably clad, and suffer bitterly
from hunger So far as food, clothing,
and shelter are concerned, the physical
condition of the mass of field slaves, is
far worse* than that of comic mned crim
inals, in the worst prison of the United
States. House-slaves and mechanics
in large towns fare better; they are*
under the eye of the public. Farm
slaves feel most the; poignant smart.
The plantations are large, the dwell
ings distant, the ear of the public hears
not the oppressor’s violence. The
horse fattens on his master’s eye,”
says the proverb; but the farm-slaves
art* committed mainly to overseers, the
Swiss of Slavery, whom Mr, Wirt calls
“the most abject, degraded, and un
principled race.”
Let us pass over the matter of food,
clothing, shelter, and toil, to consider
other features of their condition. They
arc treated with cruelty; often branded
w ith a red hot iron on the breast, or the
shoulder, the arm, the forehead, or the
cheek, though the Roman law forbade
it fifteen centuries ago. They are dis
figured and mutilated, now by the mad
ness of .anger, then by the jealous
malice of revenge, their backs and
sides scored with the lash, or bruised
with the “paddle,” bear marks of the
violence needful to subdue manhood
still smouldering in the ashes of the
negro slave. JJrivc Nature out with
whips and brands—she will come hack.
These abuses can he proved from de
scriptions of run-aways. in the news
papers of the South.
[to be continued.]
A VOICE FROM ENGLAND.
The good causE is onward abroad. Man
are the ways by which the people of the oh
world may labor against our slave system: ar.c
they arc not slow in finding them cut. Th<
following is from a tractive presume,by thcpei
of Henry Richardson, one of the most con
1 scientious and devoted friends of the slav<
with whom we ever met. Slavery agitatcc
in any form, must serve to shorten its wicket
reign.
Reader we solicit your attention,
while we bring under your notice a case
of cruelty, in which, as a nation, we
are deeply implicated; not intentional
cruelty on our part, it is true, but equal
ly oppressive in its results, and evinc
ing, to say the least, a remarkable want
of consideration for the feelings of oth
ers. We allude to the consumption of
slave-grown produce, and the conse
quent stimulus given to slavery and the
Slave-trade. Were the misery we thus
occason only brought to our own doors,
we should start from it aghast, horrified
and self-condemned!
To illustrate our meaning, we will
suppose that a leading baker of the town
'vc live in, is an unprincipled trades
man. He is known to use dishonest
means in obtaining his supplies—he
keeps back the wages of his work peo
ple—he heats and half starves his ap
prentices—he allows them no time,
even to go to church, or to read the Bi
ble. Would any respectable house
holder choose to be seen in the shop of
such a man, while there is an honest
baker on the other side of the street?
Vet the lady who would not buy a loaf
of bread manufactured under such cir
cunistances, calls at the next shop and
buys a pound of sugar, the production
of which has been attended with human
misery ten times more intolerable. She
little thinks that to enable her to sweet
en her daily meal the African vil
lage may have been fired—the hor
rors of the .middle-passage inflicted—
human beings brought to the auction
block find sold into interminable sla
very, tire wife from the husband, and
the child from the parent —the gang,
male and female, driven to the cane
field with a cart-whip—herded together
at night like cattle—systematically kept
in heathen darkness and degradation!
Perhaps you are inclined to repudi
ate the charge of giving encourage
ment or support to such a wicked
system. Let us ccine then to the proof.
\on step into a shop, and purchase a
pound ot sugar from some slave-colony,
fur instance, Cuba. It may be that you
do not know that it is slave-grown, hut
this is no excuse; you ought to know.
The grocer takes your (id., and retain
ing a fraction as his profit, hands all
the remainder to the wholesale dealer,
the dealer hands it to the importer; the
importer to the Cuban merchant; the
merchant to the Slave-holder, to whom
it becomes a premium for the mainten
ance of Slavery. Thus a regular chan
nel for our gold is kept open between
the English consumer and the Cuban
planter. It is this that steels his heart
against the Slave, that pays the Slave
driver, and let ds the blood-hound. It
is not cruelty the planter loves, but gold;
and this we give in exchange lor sugar;
t» produce which, he flogs the Slave.—
Verily we are guilty concerning our
brother.”
The remedy is simple. We do not ask
you to give up the use of sugar, but
merely to avoid the slave-grown article
and use that of Jamaica, Bengal, or
some other British possessions, where
happily the lash is now unknown. Slave
groun sugar is no longer shut out by a
statute of the realm. What a noble
spectacle it would he, and how power
fully it would tell upon foreign nations
to see tiiis country in advance of its
laws,Slavery shut cut by the moral sense
of the community?
The Frcc-Church of Scotland has
been blamed, and justly, fl,r receiving
the contribution* of American Slave
holders. Wherein did her error con
sist?
Ist. In taking money which had been
unjustly obtained; being, in part, the
profit of stolen labor.
In the countenance given to
'davc-hrddera, and the encouragement
consequently afforded to Slavery by tbit
transaction.
But if the Free-Chusch were wrong
in taking the Slave-holders* money lor
religious purposes, is not every man in
England wrong, abo buys the Slave
holders’ sugar to gratily his own appe
tite? The sugar is obtained not less
unjustly; the encouragement to Slavery
is more palpable and direct; and the
motive is as inferior, as sensual is below
spiritual. The consequences, too, in
the latter case, are more disastrous; for
you encourage, not merely Slavery, but
the African Slave-trade, that atro
cious system, to which, according tc
high authority, 1,000 human beings are
sacrificed, on an average, every day
we live. Add to this, the temptation is
positively less; for you can have free
labor sugar anywhere, if you only ask
for it. What right have we to cismoi
against the Free-Church, or even
against Slavery itself, while we fee the
Slave-holder by putting gold into hb
pockets?
Englishmen are accustomed to pride
themselves on West India Emancipa
tion; and it was a noble feeling which
spent twenty millions in an act of jus
tice. But if, after abolishing Slavery
in our sugar islands, we transfer oui
orders to the foreign Slave-holder
where is the benefit? If we were de
termined, to use the produce of Slavery
why did we not keep the money in oui
coffers, and continue to employ Slaves
upon our own soil,w here we might have
watched o’ °r their interests, instead o
increasing the number of these in Cuba
and leaving them to the tender mercies
of Spanish Slave-drivers?
To prove that the evils we refer tc
are not imaginary, we give an abiidger
quotation from a letter to Lord Johr
Russell, published in the Times of Oc
tober27th, under the signature of “Ja
cob Omnium,” merely premising tha
the description it contains remarkably
agrees with that of Dr. Madden, am
other eye-witnesses:
I spent the beginning of this yeai
in Cuba, with a view of ascertaining
the preparations which were bein'
made in that island to meet the openin',
of our markets. To an Englishman
coming up from Grenada and Jamaica
the contrast between the paralysed am
decayed aspect of the trade of thos<
colonies, and the spirit and activity
which your measures had infused -intc
that of the Havannah, was most dL*
heartening.
The town was illuminated when
landed, in consequence of the news o
high prices in England. Three splen
did trains of De Rosne’s machinery
costing 40,000 dollars each, had jus
arrived from France, and were in pro
cess of erection; steam engines ant
engineers were coming over daily fron
America; new estates were forming
coffee plantations were being broke up
and their feeble gangs of old peoplt
and children, w ho had hitherto been se
lected for that light work, were formet
into task gangs, and hired out by th<
month to the new ingenws, then in ful
drive.
“It was crop time. The mills wen;
round night and day. On every estate
(I scarcely hope to be believed wher
I state the fact) every slave was work
ed under the whip eighteen hours oui
of the twenty-four, and, in the boiling
houses, from five to six r. m., and fron
eleven o’clock to midnight, when hall
the people were concluding their eight
een hours’ work; the sound of the
hellish lash was incessant; indeed, il
was necessary to keep the overtaskee
wretches aw ake.
“The six hours during which they
rested were spent in a barracoon— s
strong, foul, close stye,where they wal
lowed .without distinction of age 01
sex.
“There was no marrying among the
slaves on the plantations; breeding was
discouraged; it was cheaper and less
troublesome to buy than to breed.—
Religious instruction and medical aic
were not carried out generally beyonc
baptism and vaccination.
Whilst at work, the slaves w r erc
stimulated by drivers,armed with swords
and whips, and protected by magnifi
cent bloodhounds.
To afford you an idea of the lighl
in which negroes arc looked upon bv
the Cuban planters, I will mention that
I was present at a hiring bargain w hich
took place between an American and
a Frenchman, both men of unusually
good character. The American want
ed ten additional hands. *1 lie French
man only wished to let eight females.
“At last the latter said, I will teii
you what I’ll do; I’ve a lame house
boy he has never hern used tc
field labor certainly, but he is a very
spirited lad, and your mayoral may get
a deal of work out of him if he only
presses him a little; you shall have
him; that will make nine; arid then
I’ve got a magnificent wench. She
was confined three weeks ago. I’ll
yvean her baby at once, and she shall
he here, fit to go to work, on Sundry.’
The bargain was struck, the baby
weaned, and the wench put to work.—
Possibly your Lordship is at this mo
ment sweetening your tea with the re
sults of her exertions.
The Spaniards have always been
esteemed humane slave-owners, and 1
have no wish to make them worse than
they are; what 1 describe here I sate.
1 he lex scripta of Cuba, as regards the
negroes, indeed most humane; but
the corruption which pervades ev
ery branch of the public service in that
island renders it entirely a dead letter.”
Seeing that results so oppressive at
tend the consumption of slave produce,
it is surely the duty of every one who
lavs claim to a particle of humanity or
iiristian feeling, to abstain from it as
much as possible. We know that in a
country, circumstanced like this, it is
out ot our power to avoid the produc
tions of Slavery altogether, unless, in
deed, we betake ourselves to the woods
and live on roots and berries, like an
anchorite. But decs this absolve us
trorn giving a preference to free labor,
whenever we have the choice? Be
cause 1 and my household do not know
how to avoid rubbing off a few grains
annually of Slave-dug gold in our purs
es, or a few ounces of Slave-grown die
on our clothing, are we therefore justi
fied in consuming some hundred weight*
of Slave-grown sugar, or some scores
of pounds of Slave-grown coffeu, while
the same articles, in free produce, are
within our reach?
•It has been calculated that every fee
families who use Slave produce, iraploy
one slave. The most serious difficulty
we anticipate is in the article of cot
ton, so universal in its use, and so op
pressive in its culture. To meet this
cam*, some progress has been made in
obtaining Free-labor cotton from Trini
dad, and even from America itself, un
der proper guarantees. One cr two
mill ow ners have been iuduced to man
ufacture it, and the effort only waits en
couragement and co-operation to be
extended, and made to embrace a vari
ety of fabrics and qualities. It is a
significant fact, that Slaves have been
overheard on the plantations, praying
that cotton may be low,” so alive are
they to the prejudicial influence of ar
active dem&ud. From this also wc
may learn that, to encourage the growth
of Free-labor cotton in British India
and Australia, w ould confer a blessing
on both hemispheres.

AMERICAN BAPTIST FREE MIS
SION SOCIETY.
To the Baptists of the Vailed Slates anc
the Friends of a Pure Gospel every
irh ere G reeling:
Dear Brethren and Sisters:—At
a special meeting of the Board of Trus
tees of the American Baptist Free Mis
sion Society,held in Utica, N. Y., Dec
1 15, 1847, the undersigned was invitee
to prepare a full statement of the ori
gin, history, designs and principles o
the society for which they act; and la\
it before you, through such papers a:
he niiuht have access to, with a dcsiri
1 to solicit your candid and praverfal at
tendon to the reform in our henevoleni
operations, especially in missions, whicl
is now' rapidly progressing. We nect
not apprise you that we have had greai
difficulties in reaching your ear, oi
account of the fact that the most of oui
I denominational papers have maintainet
a studied silence on the subject of oui
operations, and m :st generally have
closed their columns against our com
inunications. While They have thus
refused us the opportunity of speaking
for ourselves, they have freely given t<
the winds their dark innuendoes againsi
i us, and have expressed freely theii
suspicions upon the motives and plans
upon which we have acted in carrying
forward the free missionary movement
Still our cause has been steadily pro
grossing, and striking its roots eleepci
and deeper into a rich virgin soil, enjoy
f ing the smiles of heaven, and gaining
the unqualified favor of the true ant
the good. We believe that our princi
ples only need to be known to be prizec
and loved. We have not room in this
I communication to present fully tiie po
i sition of the “American Baptist Mis
i sionary Union,” from which we dissen
on account of its aristocratic and pro
slavery character, and shall reserve t<
another the principal facts in its brie
I history, which stamp it with odious pe
culiarities and anti-Baptist features.
With reference to the Free Mission
i ary Organization, w-e would call youi
attention first to the history of our owr
movements.
I. ORIGIN' OF TIIE SOCIETY.
This society had its origin in the
growing anti-slavery sentiment of north
ern churches, and in the general desire
of anti-slavery Baptists to disconnect
themselves from the voluntary societies
of the denomination, which were sup
ported in common with slaveholders;
I and thereby become entirely separated
from the fellowship of slavery, in the
work of missions and general benevo
lence. The Triennial Convention, the
old organization of the denomination,
was always pro-slavery to the core
Tieenty-one years of its existence, its
presiding officer w as a slaveholder, ant
many ol its Board ot Managers were
slaveholders of the first water. And
yet its members were religiously fellow
shipped by our Northern brethren, ant
the known avails of slavery were read
ily received with which to support anc
carry forward the cause of missions
Tiie wicked maxim of olden times
seemed to guide the Convention ir
relation to funds:
Lu~ri odor b*?nus est, ex requalibct.”
i hie smell of money is good, come whence it may.’
In the spring of 1810, a National
Convention ot Baptists assembled in
the city of New York for the purpose
of considering the connection of the
denomination with slavery, and of in
quiring if something could not be done
by Baptists to relieve the benighted
and suffering slaves oi our country,
and to disconnect the anti-slavery por
i tion of the denomination from a practi
cal support of the slave system, in
which they conceived themselves to be
involved, through their church, and
various associations! relations. Baptist
anti-slavery conventions of a less im
portant character had previously been
held; and the Eastern Baptist, Chris
tian Reflector, and Vermont Telegraph,
Baptist papers, then strongly advocated
high anti-slavery action. Many mem
bers of the National Convention, which
j was held at New York, in Is4o, were,
I at that time, prepared for a new mis
sionary organization, and earnestly
wished its establishment. The meet
ing, however, after putting forth two
addresses, one to the churches of the
North, and the other to the churches
of the South, of a thrilling nature, ad
journed for one year. These addresses
I greatly alarmed the pro-slavery church
es and ministers of the North, and the
slave holding Baptists of the South,—
The convention recommended the with
drawal of felloe ship from slaveholders
at the communion table. This action
greatly exasperated the South. In
1841, therefore, when the Baptist Tri
ennial Convention met at Baltimore,
the Southern me mbers, by means of the
Northern pro-slavery men, many of
them members of the old board, adopted
a course which threw the abolitionists
off the board, and committed tire Con
vention, essentially, to the interests of
slavery. The Southern members re
joiced in the result; for they accom
plished ail they wished. They ruhd
the Convention
Mach excitement followed the
meeting of the Baptist General Con
vention in toll. It became Apparent
to abolitionists, generally, that a new
organization must soon lake place, or
the work of missions must bp aban
doned. Early in the spring of 1842, a
Provisional Foreign Missionary Com
mil tee was established, separate from
the Baptist General Convention, and
holding no connection with slarrhold
era. A communication was opened
with the heathen, through which our
benefactions might flow to the benighted
1 without being stained with the tears
or blood of the slave.
Its name, however, bespoke its
I design. AH hoped the Baptist General
j on vent ion would break off its connec
tion with slavery; when the occasion
for a provisional arrangement would
cease. The anti-slavery portion of the
denomination desired a union among
their brethren in the work of missions,
which had been sadlv disturbed by a
long continued union with slaveholders.
I Many, to be sure, from conscientious
views ol the sinful nature of religious
co-operation with oppressors, in bene
j volent institutions, felt compelled to
w ithhold their offerings from the mis
sionary cause. Others directed their
donations to the heathen through other
denominations.
Now, the Provisional Committee
1 was instituted by the American Baptist
Anti-Slavery Convention, as ati inci
pient organization; provisional only—
being designed to give place to perma
nent society, provided the Baptist Gen
eral Convention did not become discon
nected from slavery. Abundant evi
dence was given during the years
IBl*>-3, that the brethren at the hear
of the Triennial Convention did noi
design to change its relation to th<
South, or disconnect the missionary
enterprise from slavery.
“In May, therefore, of 1.84 3, the
Free Missionary Society was formed
I under the name of the American anr
Foreign Baptist Missionary Society.”’
Thi s name was changed subsequent!}
to that of the American Baptist Fret
Mission Society.” We were incorpo
rated in June, IB4G, by the Legislature
|of the State of Maine. The design n
the society was to effect a change ir
the denomination with relation to co
-1 operating and fraternizing with slave
holders in the work of missions anc
other benevolent operations in which
as American Baptists, we were gene
rally engaged, and to carry out the
commission of our blessed Lord, Gc
j ye into all the world, and preach tin
Gospel to every creature.” The Tri
ennial Convention and the other pop
ular voluntary societies were composed
in part, of slaveholders and the apolo
gists of slavery. In the new society r
radical change was introduced, viz
that the society “should be compose!
of Baptists of acknowledged Christiai
character, who believe that involuntary
i slavery under all circu.astances is sin
and treat it accordingly.”
Tliis provision of the Constitutioi
prevents slaveholders and their apolo
gists, and pro-slavery men in general
from becoming members of our society
But they are freely admitted to mem
bership in the American Baptist Mis
sionary Union, which organization i
but a continuation of the old Triennia
Convention, with a modified name am
Constitution.
11. MEMBERSHIP —HOW ACQUIRED.
Persons of the character above de
scribed may become annual members
by appointment of churches, or by pav
ing on'i dollar, or for life by the pay
ment f twenty dollars at one time
i Should they cease to be of acknowl
edged Christian character, they wil
I lose their connection with the* Fret
Mission Society. Thus does the con
stitution guard the Christian and tho
rough anti-slavery character of the or
ganization.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Seeing the common error of estab
i lishing a large Board of Managers, ir
most of benevolent societies, the new
organization has established a Board oj
Trustees, not to manage for the society
or for themselves, hut to take care o
and keep in trust the property of the
friends of benevolence, and disburse
their benefactions according to then
will and direction. The Board is coin
posed of the usual officers of the So
ciety and eleven Trustees, who have
i fong been known as the patrons o
every benevolent enterprise. They arc
i as follows:
PRESIDENT,
ELDER A. POST,
Montrose, Pa.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Dr. J. Trevor, Win. A. Tweed Dale,
Elder S. White, New York; Deacon
Wm. Goding, Massachusetts; Eldei
M. D. Miller, Vermont; Elder A. T.
Foss, New Hampshire; J. W. Saw
yer, 11. Hawes, Maine; George Ly
on, Connecticut; Eleler Win. If.
Brisbane, New Jersey Samuel
Aaron, Pennsylvania; Elder W.
Walker, Illinois Elder E. Mat
thews, Wisconsin.
TRUSTEES.
Elders XV. Tillinghast, S. S. Hayward,
L. It. arren, Brethren George
Cuitis, J. 11. Sterry, L. Lawrence,
Z. Brocket!, J. Prescott, J. T.
Q-uaifie, J. B. Price, Isaac S. Ford.
AUDITORS.
A. J. Stone, Francis Childs.
CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
Elder C. P. Grosvcnor, Utica, N. Y.
RECORDING SECRETARY.
Elder George F. Post, New Berlin, X.Y.
treasurer.
John N. Barbour, Boston, Mass.
ASSISTANT TREASURER.
George Curtiss, Utica, N. Y.
111. MISSIONARIES HOW' APPOINTED
AND SUPPORTED.
The society has as yet but one for
eign mission: that exists in the republic
ut Ilayti. V\e have two missionary
Eamiltcs established at Port-au-Prince,
die capital of the Island. These fami
lies consist of Elders \V*n. M. Jones,
'V m. L. Judd, and the ir wives, togeth
er with Misses P. T. Young, and E.
L. Lake. In the heme field, the? soci
ety is laboring efficiently. We aid, to
die extent of our means, nrnstongi
among the fugitives in Canada; sustain
lecturing agents and missionaries in
the West; and employ colporteurs in
the work of distributing tracts and Bi
bles. Churches, too, can transmit
unda through the treasury of this se>
Mr Wuftß» a Strws oa Bible SWios—
eiety for the support of missionaries
appointed by them, providing that the
said missionaries are members of Rap.
fist churches in good standing, and not
slaveholders or the advocates of sla
very. [See by-laws, art. 3d.J This
principle recognizes the church as
Christ's missionary body for giving the
Gospel to “every creature/’ and,
therefore, follows the primitive ar
rangement.
tv. COMPREHENSIVENESS OF OBJECTS
AIMED AT.
The Free Missionary Society com
prehends all the subjects of benevol
ence within itself. As foreign missions
cannot tlourish without efficient home*
operations, ours is a home society
as well as foreign. As our mission
aries can do nothing in the fields of
their lal»ors without Bibles, the Free
Missionary Society assumes the func
tions of a Bible Institution. \v*e send
out colporteurs for the distribution of
tracts; hence these departments are
provided for. Thus by comprehensive
ness of scope and simplicity of ma
chinery in our arrangements, we are
seeking to accomplish by one set of
agencies, and by one Board of Trus
tees, the objects now resting upon
several. Ibe object of this simphrtfv
ot machinery and comprehensiveness
ot design is to lessen the friction anil
save the immense expense of agents,
treasurers, secretaries, &.c., which i*
no inconsiderable amount in all thx?
great societies of this land.
V. AGGRESSIVE UPON SLAV RUT.
The Free Missionary Society acts
an aggressive agency upon slavery. It
purposes to send the Gospel to the mil
lions of American heathen in this land,
I now in bondage, as well as to the
heathen in other lands; and, especially,
does it propose to apply the upturning
principles of the Gospel to the heathen
izing system of American slavery and
war, that they may be destroyed “root
land branch.” Such we believe to be
the design of the Gospel of Jesus
Christ.
As a society, we do not co-operate
I with any voluntary organization which
fraternizes w ith slaveholders, or re
ceives the known avails of slavcrv, with
which to carry forward any of it's pur
poses. W e cannct send to the heathen
missionaries, or aid in the support of
those now in the field, unless they ap
ply the principles of Christianity to a/T
the organic- and social wrongs with
which the heathen arc oppressed, and
proclaim the anti-sin elements of the
Gospel. In tine, tho free missionary
I principle comprehends a thorough sepa
ration of Christianity from slavery, the
giving to the world a religion of purity
justice, and humanity, which springs
from the liberty-inspiring and peace
seeking blood of Jesus Christ, our Sa
viour.
CONCLUSION.
Before closing permit me to state
that the American Baptist Free Mis
sionary Society is the only free channel
of communication with the heathen in
I our denomination. The American Bap
tist Missionary Union, which has taken
the place of the Triennial Convention,
has adopted a constitution which admits
j of memberships w ithout regard to chan
acter or morality. The Union is open to
slaveholders, and is in close fellowship
m its operations, with the Southern'
Baptist I riennial Convention, with
which it cordially co-operates, by dis
missing to it some of its missionaries,
and by a cordial fraternization and ac
tive co-operation in its fields of foreign
missionary labor. The Union, at the
j time ot the adoption ot the new consti
refused to incorporate any or
ganic provision which should bear tes
timony against slavery. One amend
inent was voted down, limiting mem
bership to persons of acknowledged
Christian character, who were not
slaveholders;” also, another, limiting
the officers “to persons who were not
slaveholders.” These were test ques
tions. And the Union took the pro
slavery position from the first, and has
followed in the train of the old Conven
tion, hut possesses a constitution a thou
sand times more odious and aristocratic
than that which gave the weight of the
fellowship of the denomination to slave
li'-Mi rs i„ the General Convention
v\ e cannot, therefore, unite with the
Lmon, without surrendering the cause
ot the slave and abandoning ike benev
olent reforms which are now gathering
around them the true and the good and
are the glory of our age. Wc dare not
,t In tt,e lan k ,r **K« of the first ad
dress our society put forth, I will say:
“Our course, dear brethren, has been
dictated by no spirit of controversy, by
no wish to excite unnecessary divisions
by no feeling of pride or worldly ambil
tion. On the contrary, we are fully
aware, that, personally, we can reap
no benefit therefrom, but the consci
ousness of doing right, and the reward
tbit comes of grace. If wc know any
thing oi our own hearts, it is because
we love the Lord Jesus Christ, and
w ish to be engaged in sending the gos
pel of salvation to the destitute and the
benighted everywhere, that we havo
thus separated ourselves from those wo
fine as we love our own lives. And
we entreat you, brethren, for the sake
of His glory who died for us, and fop
the sake of a world sunk in covetous
ness, oppression and idolatry—for tho
sako of all who are perishing for tho
lack of the bread of life, to engage
heart and hand in this great and holy
work.” God, even ourr God, will bless
us, and the cause of religion and phi
lanthropy, in which wc are engaged.
Yours, for Freedom
and Righteousness
e. u. warren:
«e„. Ag’t Am. Free Mis. Soc\
Alba sir, Dec., IKI7. 7
Prohibition or .Slaver*..——The
House of Assembly of New York, re
solved on Monday last, by a vote of 108
to 4, that Congress ought to prohibit
Slavery in all territory that mav he re af
ter be acquired. Well done for New
York.
Slave STEAMERs.-Three large steam
ers, says the A*. Y. Evangelist, with
engines from 200 to 1100 horse power,
have been filled at Bahia, S. A., for the
•lave trade. One of them has already
arrived on the west coast of Africa,
where she embarked 900 slaves and es
caped from the brig-of-w ar Sea Lark,
by steaming away from her during a
calm.
