ADDRESS OF H. W. JOHNSON,
Delivered at the First of August Celebration.
rtt. President and Fellow-Citizens:
I da not expect to be heard with
any degree of patience, after the able
and eloquent address to which all have
listened with so much admiration; and
perhaps it is the highest degree of van
tty in me to claim your attention for one
m upent, especially while there are oth
era-upon this platform who can occupy
the tirtie allotted to me to a much better
advantage.
However this may be, all will admit
that,the occasion is one that command*
the respect and attention of every friend
«f human liberty; that should call forth
the earnest congratulations of those
who have long been laboring for the
downfall of tyranny, not only in this
land,-but throughout the entire world.
I am happy to say, we assemble here
to-day under auspices more favorable
than those under which wc have assem
bled upon former occasions. We not
only commemorate that grand event*
properly called Freedom’s Jubilee, the
birthday of liberty to 803,093 crushed
and bleeding victims of oppression, in
the British West India Isles; but also
rejoice over the progress of liberty
abroad—over the fall of thrones, and
the destruction of tyrann/ in other
lands.
Recent events proclaim that the march
of liberty is onward; that the mighty
struggle which for ages has been going
on between freedom and slavery, must
result in the ultimate triumph of the
former; that however faint the pros
pect —however dark and gloomy may
be the clouds that for a while obscure
the golden hues of the rainbow of hope,
the friends of liberty need not despair.
Those dark clouds of apprehension that
now cover with gloom tho fairest pros
pects of freemen, shall yet be pierced
by the broad flash and bright sunlight of
truth.
Such are the hopes with which the
events which we are this day assembled
to commemorate, inspire us. Who, I
ask, does not rejoice at the prospect?—
One of the events to which I allude, is
more particularly distinguished as a
great moral triumph—as a victory
achieved, not by the sword and the
bayonet, but by the force and power of
truth.
After the able and eloquent remarks
made upon this subject by the distin-:
guished gentleman who preceded me,
it may be superfluous for me to say one'
word in addition; but I ask your in-*
diligence for one moment, while I refer
to one or two important effects it had
upon the cause of liberty in other coun
tries, especially in our own. In the
first place, it swept away that miserable
subterfuge behind which the oppress >r
ao long found a safe retreat, viz: the
danger and impracticability of imme
diate emancipation. It proclaimed to
the world, what every one ought to
have known before, that there is no
danger in ceasing to do wrong, and
commencing immediately to do right;
that there u no danger in restoring to
right*, hot
that the peril consul in withholding
those rights from him. But there was
a time when, with the idea of immediate
emancipation, nothing WM associated
but images of the most frightful nature
of fields uncultivated— property devas
tated—cities desolated and in rums
inhabitants murdered, and the emanci
pated, actuated by a spirit of revenge,
rnxitmg in the blood of their former
masters. But this great experiment (if
to restore man to the condition in which
his Creator designed he should live, can
properly be called to experiment,) has
THE NORTH STAR
falsified the predictions of the enemies
of emancipation.
Be it lecollected, it was under cir
cumstances thd most disadvantageous
to the whites that slaveiy was abolished
in those islnnds—circumstances that
rendered it not only possible, but easy,
for the emancipated to have dug the
i grave of every white man upon those
islsnds. So far did the colored popula-
I tion exceed the white, that, la the lan
guage of Wendell Phillips, One mo
ment’s rushing recollection of a cen
tury’s oppression, would have swept
every w hite man from the face of those
islands forever.”
Startle not at this declaration, but
listen for a moment to a recital of the
facts upon which it is baped. Jamaica
had 339,009 colored t*habitants, to
i 37,000 w* rites; Barbadees,*B7,ooo col
-1 ored to 15,000 whites; Antigua, 33,-
000 colored, to 81,600 white; and in
one of the islands, only 800 white peo-1
j pie were to be found in a population of
j 5,000! It was under circumstances like
j these, in islands far distant from the
1 protecting arm of the mother country,
surrounded on all sides by the waters of
a blue and boundless ocean, that the
chains were severed from the limbs of
800.000 crushed and bleeding victims
of oppression, amid the wildest predic-|
lions of ruin, carnage and blood. And
yet none of those frightful evils—none
of those awful scenes of blood and
butchery, which we were told would be
the inevitable consequences of this
measure, have occurred; but experi
ence, even under such circumstances,
proves the safety and practicability of
immediate emancipation.
Again: this event is illustrative of
that great maxim, so cheering to the
heart of the reformer, Truth is omnipo
tent, and must ultimately prevail.— I
say ultimately prevail, for let us not
forget, fellow-citizens, that this great
victory was not achieved in a single
day. It was the result of years of
long-continued and arduous labors.
Mighty, indeed was the great struggle
that preceded this event. The enemies
of emancipation contested every inch
of ground—the subtle foes of liberty
resorted to every plan which human
ingenuity could suggest, in order to
prostrate the designs of the friends of
freedom. They even had the effront
ery to carry their cause before the peo
ple of Britain, and there defended sla
very with all the fore* 1 of an overpow
ering eloquence. The m >st frightful
stories were conjured up of the awful
consequences that would ensue if tsla-
Yery were abolished—the most foul
mouthed slanders were ejaculated a
gainst the friends of freedom—the vilest
epithets in the vocabulary of the Eng
lish language were applied to the un
daunted friends of liberty; and the
blackest designs that ever found a lodg
ment in the human breast,were imputed
to them.
But all these were of no avail. The
inarch of lib *rty was onward. The
public mind had begun to be enlighten
ed upon the great and all-absorbing
question of human liberty. The gath
ering storm of public opinion finally
overwhelmed all opposition. In vain
was every attempt to impede its pro
gress; they might as well have attempt
ed to chain old ocean’s waves—to stop
the resistless torrent of Niagara’s thun
dering cataract. It rolled over thfcm
like the huge waves of the broad At
lantic. It moved on its majestic cause,
until it had swept slavery from those
islands forevfer!
Fellow-citizens, that was a proud day
for liberty!—it was a proud day for the
world! It was a glorious day for that
noble band of noble-hearted philan
thropists who for years had breasted
the storms and tempests of an adverse
public opinion; it was a glorious con
summation of their long-continued and
arduous labors. Truth had triumphed
—the slave was free!
Fellow-citizens, we are not only here
to-day to commemorate the dawn of
liberty in the British West India la
lands; but also to rejoice over the pro
gress oi liberty in other lands—if you
please, over the birth of a new republic.
Yes, a new republic has sprung into
existence. France has demolished her
throne, and reared upon its ruins a new
republic. Liberty—Equality—Fra
ternity,” are the words emblazoned
upon her proud escutcheon. Her acts
seem to correspond with her profes
sions. She has struck off the fetters
that bound the limbs of her colonial
slaves. She could not consent to es
tablish a partial liberty. Liberty in
France could not be confined within
such narrow limits as to be based upon
(he color of the skin.
t What!” cried one of the members
of her late provisional government—
Slavery in a Republic!” The idea
could not be entertained for a moment.
“Slavery cannot exist on French
ground.” No, not a slave can clank
his chains on that *niJ of liberty. What
friend of impartial liberty does not hail
with joy the rising sun of such a repub
lic? France, will receive the
warmest aympathies of every true friend
of human liberty. He will extend to
her the right hand of fellowship; he will
kneel at the same shrine, and partake
of the same waters of liberty that spring
from the deep-gushing fountain of free
djm!
Here permit me to remark, the
1 world’s history furnishes but few, if
a nr, examples of a revolution of this
nature having been accomplished,
against sack fearful odds, and within
the same time. Apparently, never was
I tyranny entrenched behind stronger
bulwarks; its triumph over liberty
seemed almost complete. The liberty
of the press, that great safe-guard of a
nation’s freedom, was trampled in the
duet, and overshadowed by the bloedr
[throne of despotism. Guarded on «U
RIGHT IS Of' NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD Is THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND WE ARE BRETHREN.
side* by batteries, bristling with cannon
—surrounded by n wall of bayonets,
with one hundred thousand of the very
flower of the French army at his com
mand, the citixen king” imagined be
had triumphed over the liberties of
France. But the Genius of Liberty,
looking out from her dark dungeon,
sighed for a more extended field of oper
ation. Frenchmen heard the cry, and
rose, as one man, in defence of expir
ing liberty. Tbe iron bands of despot
ism withered, and snapped asunder like
the cords that bound the limbs of tbe
strong man of old.
True, France baa been engaged in
other great struggles for politicafrree
dom. Tbe world knows well tbe result
of those efforts. Upon former occa
sions, the sun of her liberties has risen
with great splendor, butws the wheels
of her revolution rolled onward, her
iiky became overcast with clouds, dark
and lowering. Too frequently true
and genuine liberty is confounded with
that which has been properly denomi
nated wild and savage ferocity. Such,
unfortunately, was once the case in
France. Persecution and intolerance
prevailed—a reign of terror was estab
lished—her noblest sons were cruelly
murdered, in the name of liberty, and
her sun went down in blood. But from
the dust of those murdered patriots rose
that great champion of freedom —La-
martine. Yes, Lamartine!—a name
not only dear to France, but dear in
every land where freedom finds a
friend.
As far as the great question of hu
man liberty is concerned, France, to
day, stands on a proud and command
ing eminence. The world mu|t look
with admiration upon the noble stand
she has taken in behalf of Liberty—
Equality—Fraternity.” She Mds fair
now to become all that her former rev
olutionary patriots desired; an 4 if the
eyes of such men‘arc ever turned back
upon their native country, thoseSof her
former defenders of liberty imjst now
be looking down from the battljfments
of heaven with pleasure and (flight,
upon the proud pinnacle upoijlwhich
their country this day reposes. Jjlf the
spirits of great and good men elr re
visit their native land, those wf her
former defenders of liberty nitft; now
be walking abroad among her £ople,
infusing into them the same dev ion to
principle, undying hatred of oppres
sion, and ardent love of liberty, that
once animated their own generous bo
som*.
Fellow-citizens, while we are rejoic
ing over the triumph of truth and jus
tice, and the march uf freedom in Atker
lands,-permit fine for one moment to call
your attention to our own country, and
see what progress liberty is making
here; for can it be that the despotic
governments of the old world are in
advance of us? Are they such apt
scholars that they have learned our
lessons of republicanism better than we
know them ourselves?
Freedom, having forages maintained
a noble struggle for existence in the
old world, finally sought a home in the
Western i emisphere. The American
people gave her a welcome reception.
They responded to her call for aid, and
ran to her relief; and can it be that she
only came here to find a grave in the
wilderness?
The war of the revolution was called
a fierce struggle in her defence. In
that contest they started out with the
broad declaration that “All men are
created equal; that they are endowed
by their Creator with certain inaliena
ble rights; that among these are life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.”
The American people were called upon
to support the principle* contained in
this declaration, at the very hazard of
their lives. They obeyed tbe solemn
call; they were induced to leave their
homes, to forego the pleasures of peace,
and sacrified their lives upon the great
altar of their country, in support of
these heaven-born principles. Attract
ed by the sublimity of these truths,
many brave foreigners, in whose bo
soms glowed the fires of liberty, crossed
the blue waters of the broad Atlantic,
and poured out their blood freely upon
the American soil, to fertilize a land of
liberty.
The struggle of the revolution finally
terminated in a blaze of glory and the
brilliant triumph of American arms.—
Many supposed that the great un
changing principles upon which it was
based, were also established upon a
permanent basis. But how sadly dis
appointed were they! The seeds of
oppression had been scattered broad
cast over this land—from these seeds
sprang up that great tree of oppres
sion” whose broad branches are ex
tended far and wide over our country,
shading out the bright sunbeams of lib
erty. Yes, this soil, once watered with
tbe life-blood of the martyrs of free
dom, is now saturated with the tears
and stained with tbe blood of the slave!
And yet this is called a free republic;
and Americans call themselves republi
cans Oh, is not this inconsistency
the most irreconcilable—guilt the most
abandoned —hypocrisy the most un
blushing! But, 1 repeat, American*
call themselves republicans, and firm
believers in the great principles con
tained in their Declaration of Inde
pendence, they profess to love liberty,
and glory in the rights of man. From
eAriiest infancy, they have been rocked
in the cradle of liberty, and trained in
the great school of republican freedom!
Almost the first sounds that awaken
emotions in their bosoms, and! create
gladness in their hearts, are the; spirit
stirring snogs of liberty, and tkn lead
cry a freedom end equal right* Not
withstanding all these things, they dm
fight te deaf in oppressing. Trampling
in the dust the great principles ouoiam
ed in their Declaration of ladeyaod
r mi:..
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, AUGUST 21 f 1848,
eaee, they countenance and sustain one
of the most grinding and crushing sys
tems of oppression that ever stained
the dark annals of crime, or shocked
tbe high majesty of heaven. After the
remarks made by my eloquent friend in
regard to the guilty and oppressive acts
of this nation, 1 shall not dwell long
upon this subject. I will not open the
black and bloody pages of my country’s
history, and look over that dark cata
logue of crime, oppression, outrage and
wrong, of which she has been guilty,
from the earliest stages of her existeuce
down to tbe present moment. Let it suf
fice to say, that to so great an extent
does slavery exist In this country—no
far does it extend, that in all this land
-—this broad load—this wide extent of
country, washed on one side bv the
waters of the broad Atlantic, on the
other by the waves of the Pacific—
there is not one spot upon which a col
ored man can rest his feet, and declare
that he is free. Even the nominally
free man of color is liable at any mo
ment, when away from home and among
strangers, to be seized by the tyrant’s
cold, withering grasp, and hurried off
to the land of slavery and of blood, to
drag out a miserable existence in a
state of unrequited toil. If a panting
fugitive, through the guidance of the
North star —that star of hope to the
flying bonrlman—that star which, like
the pillar of fire that guided the chil
dren of Israel through the wilderness
to the promised land—leads him safely
from republican slavery ts a land wheie
he can sit down and enjoy liberty be
neath the grateful shadow of a mon
arch’s throne—that star which slave
holders would gladly see plucked from
heaven’s bright constellation—if, thro’
the guidance of that star, he succeeds in
making his escape to what we some
times call the free hills of the North,
there is not one spot on free Columbia’s
soil where he can repose his weary
limbs in safety. No matter whether he
be one of the last-born patriots of ’76,
or one of the sacred veterans of 181*2,
he finds no protection upon American
soil, through the operation of American
law. He may go to every battle
ground of the revolution —to every
haunted spot where freedom weeps over
the f ull of her noblest sons—he may go
to New England—proud and glorious
New England—a land consecrated by
the graves of the pilgrim fathers, and
watered by the first blood that was shed
in the great struggle of the revolution
—he may stop at the greenr of Lexing
ton—he may* go to Faneuil Hall, that
old cradle of liberty, that once rocked
wj4h the loud about*, of freedom' aad,
equfH rights, where once was heard the
Voice of Adams and Hancock, and
their compatriots of revolutionary times
—that sacred spot from within whose
walls was borne away the mangled form
of that brave black man, Benjamin At
tucks, from whose veins flowed the first
drop of blood that mingled with Ameri
can soil, in defence of American liber
ty—even there he finds no protection.
He may go to Bunker Hill; as he gazes
upon that lofty monument, a smile
comes over his countenance, and he
thinks beneath its proud shadow he will
find that protection for which he has so
long searched in vain. But even here
he is doomed to be disappointed. The
tyrant’s stern voice demands him to be
given up. In vain tloes that proud
monument of liberty give a groan—in
vain do the shades of the revolutionary
heroes, whose blood watered the soil
upon which it stands, mingle their
voices with every shriek that comes
forth from that weeping monument, in
opposition to this mandate—-even then
he finds no protect* >l3.
Where, then, must he go? Ab!
whither shall this heart-broken fugitive
fly for refuge? As a last resort, he
escapes to tbe capital of his country—
the capital of the freest nation on the
face of tbe entire globe. There he
beholds the broad folds of his country’s
banner waring in triumph; our proud
eagle perching high above it, his golden
wings dazzling in the sunbeams as he
soars aloft, and screams of liberty Un
til our broad, deep forests ring with his
piercing cry. But does he there behold
the graceful form of the fair Goddess of
American Liberty, with her thousand
varied charms, beramUing countenance,
with outstretched arm*, welcoming him
to her embrace? No! but, on Lie con
trary, he there sees enthroned the iron
jawed, grim-viiaged, and bloody demoo
of American slavery, with his loaf
black robes dripping with the blood
which ages of grinding and crushing
despotism have wrung from tbe veins
of his bleeding victims. This is Ame
rican liberty! This is the equality that
exists in this land! Oh, this model re
public this boasted land of freedom,
upon which the heroes of tbe revolution
are ever looking down from heaves to
bless!
But notwithstanding all these things,
loud demonstrations are made in tbis
country in favor of freedom. The
American people exhaust the great
fountain of national sympathy for tbe
oppressed of other lands, but are care
ful t. keep nooe in reserve for the
downtrodden and oppressed of their
own country. They boost, long and
loud, of “virtuous liberty;” and we
are told, “whenever a human being
pines ia chaios, these Americans drop
their teara.”
If the oppressed of ether lends en
gage in a noble straggle for liberty, (if
they be white,) they receive the warm
est sympathies of the American people.
When Greece was straggling for lib
erty. not only did almost every palnit in
oar land resound with eloquent plead
ings to her behalf, hat the whole coun
try was iiled with innMmr tones of
sympathy fee the
thsir aside straggle
When the South American States
endeavored to throw off the yoke of
Spanish oppression, and from their en
crimsoned fields root the cry for sym
pathy and aid, again one spontaneous
burst of sympathy gushed forth from
our great national fountain.
When Poland attempted to atrike ofl
the fetters of tyranny, and the best
blood of her children mingled with bei
freen soil—when her patriotic aons
issed the statues of their heroes and
swore upon the green graves of their
venerated sires—Poland shall be free!
and when at last, through treachery,
•he sgaio sank beneath the cold iron
grasp of her despotic masters— -mark
again, how the tear of sympathy flowed
from every American aye.
When we received intelligence of the
late revolution in France, what great
rejoicing there was in this country,
Resolutions expressing the earnest
sympathies for France, were adopted in
almost every part of the land. Con
gress joined the nation in this generous
expression of sympathy and some ot
those men who, but a short time since,
were down upon their Southern planta
tions, flourishing their whips over the
shrinking form of the bleeding slave,
were the most eloquent upon that occa
sion. Well, some of those men who go
along with their heads bowed down to
the earth, whose tears have bedewed,
and whose sighs have embalmed the
soil of our national Capitol, having per
haps, heard some of those eloquent
speeches upon liberty—thought they
would revolutionize themselves—that
they would change their form of gov
ernment—that they would no longer
submit to that odious one-man power,
but that they would stand up with the
dignity of men. Accordingly one night
dark and dreary to them, they went on
board of a sloop lying in the river, and
started for a land of liberty! But their
“guardian angel slept.” They were
pursued and brought back by those
men, who have so much sympathy for
France. Aud to-day, fellow-citizens,
9orne of those unfortunate victims of
oppression, are dragging out a misera
ble existence among the cotton
fields and rice-swamps of the far South,
those dark and dismal abodes that have
been the grave of so many of our crush
ed and bleeding countrymen, there
they are left to linger and die a most
cruet death, while their sighs for free
dom are borne back over the floating
waters of the Mississippi, upon every
breeze that comes from that slavery
accursed region. But this scene does
not end here; these men, who but a
short time si :rce, Ji ad ao*> loach sympa
thy for France, were roused te the very
highest pitch of fury and madness, be
cause these persons endeavored to ob
tain their liberty. Members of Con
gress were threatened with assassina
tion—a mob was raised in the Capitol
of our country to put down the freedom
of the press; and, when a noble-mind
ed Senator, who having partaken freely
of those waters of liberty that spring up
among the Granite-hills of New Hamp
shire, could consent no longer to be a
slave; when that man presented a bill
in the Senate of the United States, for
the protection of property in the Dis
trict of Columbia, against the violence
of mobs, he was very politely told, if
he would only come into a neighboring
State in this Republic, his form would
soon grace the tallest tree in the forest.”
Great God! and has it come to this?—
Are now our liberties so far gone, that
our Representatives dare not stand up
upon the floor of tbe American Con
gress, and speak out one sentiment in
favor of liberty, without being threaten
ed with a felon’s death? Oh, liberty!
is thi9 all that is left thee here?
Fellow-citizens, freedom exists only
in name, in this country; its sacred re
ality U gone. Plough up those hallow
ed mounds, beneath which lie buried
the remains of those sainted martyrs of
the revolution, who perilled their all in
defence of freedom! Demolish those
proud monuments reared in the name
of liberty. That immortal banner of
freedont, that once animated the heart
and nerved up the arm of the patriot—
upon whose broad folds were inserted
the eternal truths contained ia our de
claration of independence; that banner
which was first unfurled to tbe breeze,
Upon the green of Lexington—that
waived in triumphed over the field of
Saratoga, and was encircled in a bright
hafo of glory upon the plains of York
town—is now trampled beneath the foot
of the despot—and in its stead, upon
the dark ronparta of oppression, floats
in triumph the flag of despotism; upon
whose black sod bloody folds, are in
scribed—down with liberty Slavery
for ever
American liberty, to-day lies be
fore us a braised aad mangled corpse,
and before me, seem to rise up tbe hate
ful forms of her bloody assassins.”
Tbe poet, has truly said, happy is it
for mankind, that
God h*a wiaety kid tram bn «ifb,
TtednkdMWMrbnfoc"
For could the fathers of tbe revolution
hive foreseen an event like this, the
great American arm would have been
paralyzed! Their spirits would have
sunken, and hope died within their bo
loms, without even a faint struggle on
their part to be free. They would never
have toiled so ardoosly—bleed so free
ly and died so willingly, in order to
transmit to posterity, the inestimable
blessings of liberty—-had they known or
even dreamed, that before a century
had rotted away—while their oocoflm
ed hones were yet bleaching upon die
American noil before ail the great
heroes of *76, bad departed from among
m—before the sound of the great con
flict had died open the Amend* ear,
mid while dm triumphant shoots of
victory mill broke the slumbers of ear
forests and lingered amoag the distant
bills of our country, the traitorous arms
of their degenerate sons, would be rear
ed up to crush that liberty, which (bey
endeavored to establish upon a perma
nent basis.
Fellow-citizens, if it be not literacy
true, that liberty to-day lies before us
a mangled corpse, I ash if it be not true,
that if there be a spark of life lingering
in her bosrm—if there be a drop of
Kfe’a-blood flowing in thiggreins of Ame
rican liberty, sheis a tendering fugi
tive in this country Has she not been
driven from her last entrenchments
within our borders? There is not a
spot in all this land, upon which the
genro of American liberty can stand
it as her own. She may go
and rest upon the grave of the immor
tal Washington, but soon your read
eagle, with long beak and sharp talous
comes screaming after her She may
go and stand on old Plymntn’s rock—
that sacred spot where she first landed
upon these shores, under the fostering
care of the Pilgrim fathers, but soon
your bloody clawed vultures of oppres
sion follow in pursuit. Where, then,
must she go? She must retrace her
steps—she must go back over the waves
and find a home among the sunny hills of
Italy, or among the liilies of France!
At the conclusion of my remarks, in
reference to France, I spoke of the
happy feelings that would animate the
bosoms of her patriots, could they come
hack and behold the present position of
their country upon the great question
of human liberty. Think you, fellow
citizens, that your fathers would be ani
mated by similar emotions, could they
come back among you and behold the
present position of their country upon
this question? No! If the shades of
your great-hearted ancestry, could
come back once more to their native
land, they would not contaminate their
sacred robes, by suffering them even
to touch the soil now stained with the
blood of the slave. They might con
sent for one moment, to* hover over
their country and drop a tear over her
fallen liberties and then bidding her a
long farewell, wing their way back to
their eternal homes.
Fenow-citizens, what a spectacle is
this for an American eye to behold—
what a theme for an American mind to
contemplate before a century has
rolled away, all the great bulwarks of
liberty have been battered down, and
that sacred inheritance, bequeathed to
us by the fathers of the revolution, has
been equally wrested from our grasp.
Talk no more of American freedom, but
cover with sack-cloth and ashes, the
pi,ace whe re W arren fell—■plant a wcep
'tng* wiflow by thn grave o£ the immor
tal Washington cover its branches
with crape, then call back your soaring
eagle—let him repose upon the branch
es of that drooping willow—darken his
plumage—cover his golden wings with
the pall of mourning—muzzle his beak
—let him not scream, oh, no, for he
will not scream of liberty, but proclaim
a deep and solemn requiem over the
grave of American freedom.
THE DECLINE OF THE SLAVE
POWER.
The following article, handed to u 9
by Freeman Hunt, the editor of Hunt’s
Merchants’ Magazine, will be read!
with interest. Its statistics seem to be
accurately stated, and the inferences
drawn from them by the writer perfect
ly legitimate. After the census of
1850, the number of Representatives
from the slave States, will be greatly
diminished. But the tactics of those in
the slave interest will be displayed in
manufacturing slave States. No matter
how much more the free States increase I
in population than the slave States, the
power of the slave interest will be per
petuated by the Senate, so long as slave
States are added as fast as free States
are. A few years will throw Delaware,
Maryland, Kentucky, and probably!
Virginia, among tbe free States: but the
Strong probability is that we may in a
few years have to add the entire ofMex- 1
ico; and should the Missouri compro
mise be added, and slavery be estab
lished throughout the whole of Mexico
there will then be a complete and per-j
manent triumph of tbe slave power. But
this will never be, if the people of the
free States prove true to themselves,to
Liberty, in the crisis now at hand. Let
us take a bold and determined stand,
and adhere to it, and the boundaries of!
slavery will never strech beyond their
present limits.— [A*. Y Globe
Ia respect to the population of the
United States, as distiguisbed by the
existence of slavery, and by it prohi
bition. The whole population of the
United States in 1790 was 3,929,897,0 f
whom 1,971,372 belonged to the slave
states and territories, and 1,909,525 to
the free, or only 7,!53|f00re in the free
than in the slave division. This trifling
excess of only 7,153 in 1790 in 50 years
had increased to 2,403,592 in I*4o. and
1 calculate that at this time (1848) it
amounts to 3,500,000 and in 1850 will
amount to 4.000,039, The natural in
crease in the free state*; and besides,
four-fifths of the immigrants from for
eign countries, go into the free stages.
The white population of the Untied
States in 1790 was 3,172,531, of whom
1,371,483 belonged to the slave di
vision, and 1,901,016 to the free. The
«*cess of 029,558 ia 1790 in tbe free
division, had increased in 50 yearn to
4,939,526 in 1843, when there were
only 4.032,640 white persona in the
slave division—which is nearly 300,-
900 less than this excess. The excess
•f white persons in tbe free Mates over
the number in the *lsve Mates w st ibis
time nearly 6,039.090. The difference
of population in the two divisions will,
wo believe, continue to ioereoso Here
after, even notwkheUodißg any efforts
which may ha mods to saetata the
•InvoheWiag portion of the V
John dick, mmata
WHOLE NO.—W.
I will no# apeak of tin representation
m Congress from the two divisions oft be
states:—From 1793 to 1309 the whole
number of representati*ee in Congress
*as 105, of whom 57 or 64.2 k per cent,
were from the free states, and 45 0r45-
71 per cent, were from the slave slates.
From 1543 to 186$. exclusive of new
states since admitted and represented,
the number i«223, of whom 135 or 60-
54 per cent, are from the free states,
and 88 or 30/40 per cent, art from the
slave states. During this period the
gain of the free states has been 6 I*4
per cent, of the whole representation,
tnd the loss of tbs slave states the
same; and the? together constitute a
difference of l 2 1-9 per cent, ia the
representation of the two divisions of
the states. The number of represent
atives from (he free states is now about
three-fifths of the Whole; and it is obvi
ous that the propertion will be constant
ly increasing at each decennial epoch,
for the natural increase of tile federal or
representative population in the free
states, is greater than in the slave
states, and at least four-fifths of the
immigrants from foreign countries, all
white persons, (and now their number
amounts to between three and four
hundred thousand annually,) go into
the free states to swell their population.
There has been almost a constant
decrease of the proportion of the rep
resentatives in congress from the slave
states in each decennial period from
1793 to 1853. And; even to sustain
this decreasing proportion, it has so
happened that there have been nearly
3,000, more voters and nearly 19,000
more free persons on an average, in
each representative or Congressional
district in the free states than in the
slave states, for each term during the
60 year* from 1793 to 1853.
And further, the numder of toters in
the United States in 1844, was about
3,000,000 —It now is nearly three and
a half millions. fy has been estimated
that the number of slaveholders is
about 300,000, or not more than a tenth
part of that of the voters. Some think
that of these slaveholders, only about
100,000 are voters—l will suppose the
number to be about 200,000, or one to
15 or 20 voters. It would seem that
the number of those who have an inter
est in this slave property, cannot be
more than four times that of the slave
holders, and six times that of the slave
holding voters, or 1,200,000. This
number is only ode-seventeenth part
of the whole the United
States, or fourteenth part of the white
population. The white popohdiofi o(
the slave states, at this tjsgfv in probe-
my k litffe more Unit ffJuffi.lMM); so
that we may suppose that only about
one-quarter of this population have a’
pecuniary interest in slavery. The
whole population of the slate states is
now probably less than 9,000,000—50
that those interested in slavery are only
about one-eighth of the whole population
of these states.
It may be here stated, that in the
choice of Presidential electors in 1836,
1840, andlS44, the number of votes
cast in the slave states, including the
probable number in South Carolina,
where the choice was made by the
Legislature, was only about 30 per
cent..of the whole number, while in the
free states it was about 70 per cent.
The number of white persons in the
two divisions of the states, was in 1840,
32 53 per cent., and 67.46 per cent,
respectively—the right Of suffrage
being more extended among the whites
in the free than in the slave states.
Let the above fact# be duly Consid
ered, and thobgh the time of emanci
pation may be delayed, the event can
hardly be postponed many years before
the constitutional potter of the General
Government will be exercised by those
who will seek to limit, and Will limit
slavery where it Is, and will check its
farther extension. —Jeete Ckickering.
Ah Old Settler. —Mr. Elina Bas
sett, of Hampden, exhibited to us
yesterday an old land turtle, of the
terrapin order, —who shuts himself up
in his own dignity, and expands at his
own discretion,-—which he found upon
his farm nearly forty years ago, and
marked him for his own.” He bore
the initials on his under shell E, B.”
with the date of 1809,” which are
very plain and distinct. He does not
seem to have varied in size since the
inscription, and hence it may he in
ferred that he was of age at bis baptism.
How old he is now can only be conjec
tured, but be has as bright an eye now
as an infant child, as sound a covering
as an iron roof, and an apparent pro
mise of ss long a life as Methuselah's.
Mr Bassett has given him free ten
antry, with in atractions to his descen
dants never to disturb him. We only
wish the old creature could talk, that be
might tell to posterity who his friend#
are. Yew Haven Palladium.
Something in Looks.— r% man's look
is the work of years. It is stamped on
l bis countenance by the events of hi#
whole life—nay more, the hand of na
ture, and it is not to begot rid of easily.
There is, as it has beea remarked re
peatedly, something in a psrsoa’s
appearance at first sight which we do
not like, sod which gives us sa odd
1 twinge but which is overlooked in a
multitude of other circumstances till
the mask is I shea off, and we sea this
lurking character verified in the plain
est manner m tbs sequel We are struck
st first, ky chance, With what in
peculiar and characteristic. Also with
permanent traits and general effectv
These afterwards go off in a scfof ua
meaning, common piano fetaila. Thin
sort of prune facm evidence, then,
shown what a man in, hotter than what
he says or docs—for it shows at fe
bab* of his mmd which is the seam
under ill circumstances and disguises.
The 6th Annual Meeting of the Western Anti-Slavery Society will be held at Salem, Columbiana Co., on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 16th, 17th, and 18th, of August, commencing at 10 A.M.
Let a full representation of the slaves
Friends come up on this occasion from all
parts of the Great World. The political leaders are marshalling their hosts for a conflict
Their followers are rallying by hundreds of
thousands to the support of their party banner. Time, and money, and labor are ex
pended to secure their object. And shall the
Friends of freedom, whose faith should be
Strong in the power of Truth, be lukewarm
and indifferent while politicians are so ear
nest in their labors, so untiring in their zeal
The events of the past year should encourage
us to renewed e libra, for every movement of
importance which has been made, having any
bearing upon the question of slavery, fore
shadows the destruction of the system, and
the oppressors feel that it is so. The political
parties will make a desperate effort to save
themselves from the destruction their corrup
tion has brought upon them; and the efforts
of the abolitionists to maintain and enforce
the Right should lie proportionably great.—
Arrangements should be made at the coming
meeting to continue the anti-slavery agitation
by the lips of the living speaker, and to ex
tend more widely the circulation of the So
ciety's paper—the Anti-Slavery Bugle. Let
none of the friends who can be there, absent
themselves for any light cause, for the pre
sence of all, and the couesel of all is desira
ble.
Besides the friends of liberty in the west who will be present on this occasion, Henry C. Wright and Chris C. Burleigh are expected to be in attendance, and perhaps other representatives of the East. Lot Holmes, Rec. Sec.
Till; CALL.
the great national conven
AN OF COLORED FREEMEN of th
r S; itr‘s, will he he’d in Flkvklasr
k conimeneing on Wednesday, the sixt
»v "f September next.
Lathe Colored Freemen all rally to tli:
..i ‘ftant gathering. This is a i risks, an
thing we must and wiki* do
hope to see the East, North, Soul
i i st, come nj> iri one mighty, unbroke
j'b cix, to do battle for Cod and humanity I
med, by request of Illinois, Indiana
i 'jaa, and Ohio, (the Western parts o
v York and IVimsvlvania being ready.)
M. R. DELANY.
II .Milton, Ohio, June 0, Id 18.
Mystery, and all friendly papers, pleasi
FI at form of the Ifuffulo Convention.
hereas. W e bate assembled in Conven
>a union of Freemen, for die sake ol
F .Join, forgetting all past political dif
(.•us in a eoiimioa resolve to maintain the
_.i iof Free Labor against the aggressions
t!. Slave Pouei, and to secure Five Soil
t -r -t Free People
I whereas, The political Convention?
i.ily assembled at Baltimore and Phila
i t .na, the one stilling the voice of a great
nuency entitled to be heard in its delib
ous, and the other abandoning its
ctive principles fur more availability,
dissolved the National party organisations
More existing hy nominating for the
o f -Magistracy of the Foiled States,
u. i r slave-holding dictation, candidates
is-i* cr of whom can be supported by the
opponent* -of slavery extension without a
ihcc of consistency, duty, and self respect:
id whereas, These nominations so made
•r.;~h the occasion and demonstrate the
;sshy of the Miiiup of the people undei
banner oMrrce' ltaniocniev, in a solemr
u formal declaration of their independence
’lie ISlavfc Power, and of their fixed de
.iimatioa to rescue the Federal Government
i 11. it? control;
I -solved, then-fore, Tlrnt we, the people
f. ass -mblcd, remembering the example ol
Fathers in t!ic days of t!ie first Deelara
••u of Tndepc’iidence, putting our trust i;i God
i :!ie tiiumph i/f our cause, and invoking
..s guidance in our endeavors to advance it,
1 i now plant ourselves upon the National
i I tiforiu of Freedom in opposition to the
cliontl Platfoim of Slavery.
Resolved, 'l'hat Slavery in the several
v cites of this Union which recognize its ex
’."lie depends State laws alone, whicl
vnnot be repealed or modified by the Federal
ivernnient, ai.d for which laws that Govern
•mu is not resjionsible. We therefore
i iouose no interference hy Congitas witii
ivery within the limits of any State.
Resolved, Tiiat the Proviso of Jefferson, tc
g-diibit the existence of slavery, after 1800,
•i all the territories of the United States,
outhern and Northern; the votes ol’ six
and sixteen delegates, in the Congress
•f ITal, for the pi aviso, to three states and
veu delegates against it the actual exclu
on of slavery, lroin the Northwestern territo
by the ordinance of 1787, unannoousl}
adopted by the States in Congress and the
entire history of that period, elcarlv show
t tat it was the s -ltled policy of the Nation
n it to extend, nationalize or encourage, bui
t limit, localize and discourage, slaveiy am
‘i in..s policy, whrn should never have bea
departed from, th. government ought to re
turn.
Resolved, That our Fathers ordained th<
butislitutioa of l.ie United States, in order
among other great national objects, to e&ta
dish justice, promote the general welf.re
r»d s-cup* the blessings of Liberty; bj
expressly denied to the Federal Govern merit
which tin y created, a'l constitutional power u
d-onvc any person ot life, liberty, cr property
v/.'Uio ;t doe legal proct-i>s.
Resolved, That in ihe judgment of this
Convention, Congress has no more power tc
mke a slave than to make a king no rnort
power to institut' 1 or establish slavery than t<
institute or estabh.-h a monarchy no sucf
i>ower can be foiird among those spec ficalh
onierred bv the constitution or derivect bi
just implication tr.uu the n.
Resolved, J Oat it tiie duty of liie federal
govermnent to re!i -vc. its If lrtra ail rc-s; outi
i-Jity tor the cx.rt'-nce or coutinuance o;
iav *rv wherever that govern n nt i <-ss_*ss -s
constitutional autlifrit: to leg.slate m tha 1
-mVact, aril is t.ius resj>on£rjle ior its tx:si
ence.
itosolvH, That the true, anj in the mdg
uient of this Convention, tbc only safe ineaoi
•if j-r< venting the exno.bioii ol rlavery ini*
t -rritory i.ew fee, k to proh.h.t us a tc: c.
ui all M-cli V.rr:t( ny l y an net ol Cot.giebS.
Revolted, That he acct pt the lt*at whte!
the fclave power lori*ed upon t.;, and t,
topir demand for more slave tt dcs and nmr
l ave Urriitories, <mr calm hut fir.nl answer is
lonian slave states at d i.o more >hm ter
r.ir L;l the soil of our exu-ntivc d ina n
c over kept free, fur the hardy j vneers y
ur own land, aia the oppressed u:d bam&fiei
f oiiier lands, seckuig homcfc of conillrt am
Kclds of iMhlks *ln the new world.
Re?,,hud.Thar tflq bill lately reported h;
ibe 'irr.mittee of Eight in the Senate of th
tilted hjLatos, was no eomprwsise, but at
aso cvaturrendi-r of the lights ol the r.on
amledhcr* of all the .vutc* and while w«
y o to know tuat, a inuasore whu'h, whlh
pr.tiug the doer for the introducMoti of slaverj
i:rto terrtorirs row free, would also have
i perted the door to iit!gat;on and &trife arnonf
the future iatiabwants thereof to the ruin o:
f Mir peacerand Vf was defeated ir
me linos- of Ilepres* ntautre*. its pat-iage, it
l 4-ftaste, by a m*jor.ty, embrsctitg several
uators, who voted m open vinlaimn of the
V mwn will of their con&tiUiunu, ahwaid wan,
ne People to se. to it, that their repretenta
vi he cot #tiff«red to betray them—There
...at be to more eompronruaes with Slavery
iD'i dt vr'l repealed
I<*%rtv»?d. T| >t sHmad Freedom arv
extablidievl tn*! tutiona fut our brethren u
Orejrjd, now e»|«*sed to peril an.
by the reckl*a hosnirry of th
SUve jvowef |n the establishment' of Fre
Gorettuneat W Free TarrHor.es, sod not onl
for them, hut for our new brethren in Cali
forma and New Mexico.
And W hereas, it u due, not only to thi
eco-iwnn, but to the who!# people of lb
l mted States, that we should also declar
ourselves on certain other questions of Na
tional policy, therefore.
Resolved, That we demand cheap poetag
for the people a retrenchment of the ex
penses and patronage of the Federal Govern
•t^nt; the sboimnv of si) annecesnry office
andsalar.es; and the election hv the pe*ip|
of all civil ofteeis in the wiviee of the Gov
crurncui, so Ur as the same mav be practica
ble.
Resolved, That River and ITarbor Improve
merits, when d manded by tbc Safety an
convenience of commerce »uh foreign nation
or among the several States, arc objects o
nat..inal cof.ceni. and that it is the dutv e
Congress, in exercise of its constuutrona
jiowt-rs. to provide therefor.
Resolved, That the free grant to actua
ret tiers, in of the expenses the;
incur in making seftlcmoijiM in the w ilderness
which ar usually fully liqual to their actua
e*»M. and of the public benefits resultinj
thereform, of reasonable portions of tin
public lands under suitable limitations, is i
wise and just measure ot public policy, whicl
will piomotc, in various ways, the interest
of all the States of this Union and wi
therefore recommend it to the favorabli
consideration of the Atfierkran People.
Resolved, 'l'hat oldigatioes of honft
and patnoimm require the earliest practicabli
payment of the national debt, and we an
therefore in favor of such a tanf of duties a:
will raise revenue adequate to defiay tin
necessity expenses of the Federal Govern
inent and to pay annual instalments of ou
debt and the interest then on.
Resolved, 'That we inscribe on onr banner
Free .Soil, Free Speech, Free Labor, am
Free Men,” and undt*r it will fight on and
fight ever, until a triumphant victory shal
reward our txertiuus.
THE NORTH STAR.
1 ROCHESTER, AUGUST 18, 1848.
i _
Free Soil Movement—Buffalo Con
vention.
This grand movement, so long desired and
so long maturing, has at last assumed a defi
nite and tangible form, and is now fairly
launched forth upon the storm tossed sea of
American polities. Barnburners, Conscience
and Independent Whigs, Land Reformers and
Liberty men, met, deliberated, frater
nized, and now stand before the world as one
body, with one heart, one creed, and one
leader. Thesff men, holding, as they did,
widely variant and conflicting opinions, in
meeting together as they have now done, and
solemnly resolving to lorget old differences—
to “let by-gones be by-gone,” andk,firmly
uniting in a common platform, new, broad and
strong.upon which all may stand and confront
the slave power and slavery extension, have
astonished themselves, as well as mortified
and disappointed their enemies. Our own
observation justifies us in saying, that every
member of the Convention gained more for
his cause and greater concessions to his opin
ions than he had ventured to hope or imagine
on leaving home for that Convention. For
our part, we ha'd vprn little expectation that
the Convention could b£ harmonized and
brought to act together. There were three
distinct elements of discord—Democrats and
Whigs, Liberty Party men and Land Re
formers—all having the strongest preferences
for candidates, and each wishing to shape the
Convention and platform, according in his own
mould—to harmonize and unite such persons,
required no little skill. The members of the
Convention, however, were evidently tho
roughly imbued with the spirit of freedom,
and in one noble desire to accomplish some
thing immediately for this cause—to rebuke
the slave power, and break up the old, cor
rupt and slaveholdmg parties of the land, they
were led willingly to merge old differences in
a common resolve to meet the present crisis.
Whatever may be said as to the best mode
of meeting this crisis, all anti-slavery men
must agree that the question of extending
slavery is one in which they, as friends of
freedom, are deeply interested. There was a
time when some abolitionists professed to
believe that the extension of slavery could in
no wise injure the cause of freedom, or
strengthen the arm of slavery. The doc
trine, however, that no more slaves can be
added to the number already existing, by their
diffusion over vast and fertile territories, is
now of no weight or in place. The fact that
the demand for such extensions comes from
tiie slave holders —that they insist upon it as
being their only means of escape from the
advancing steps of human freedom, and the
scorching rays of anti-slavery opinion, (with
out a knowledge, of w hat everybody, must by
this time very well know,that the introduction
of slave labor is necessarily the expulsion of
free labor from the territories.) ought to sat
isfy all men that that demand should be firmly
resisted.
This issue is now upon us, and fairly
before us. Slavery has rallied- its frteuds,
and is proudly marshaling its forces under
the leadership of Cass and Taylor. The one
is a cringing sycophant—a deserter from, and
traitor to, the very cause which he is now
aiming to destroy; the other, s swearing,
swaggering manstealer and raanslaver, whose
only claims to the Presidency are based upoa
his heflLh criorraitisjs in Mexico.
Around these infamous leaders, the corrupt
and plundering, the reckless and profligate,of
the old political parties have gathered. A
pro-slavery and tin-sustaining church and min
istry Itave also rallied, in the p -rsons of their
most prominent members and miuisters, to
uphold the foul and w nhering curse of sla
ry. and to discourage the friends of human
lu- dom and progress. To sustain tbiscryiog
sin—to prolong the I'oslavcp.ient of cur loug
■ibut d and plundered fellow-countrymen,
these wolves in sbet p‘s clothing are doing
their tmust to dupe and hoodwink the simple
.nto the support of these two snns of thtdevtl,
under tl.e idea that they will thereby promote
the cause of righteousness. General Taylor
I* represented, on the one hind, as being a
humane and b -nevoleat roxn, and tln.rougly
in favor of the Wiltnot Proviso; while Gea.
Csss, being a Northern man, u is said that be
will tespect Northern rights, and though he
may not be aiJ that ut wxut, or could wish,
he u but x slaveholder, and therefore to be
ptferred to General Taj lor, who is a slave
holder. It is also said, that one ot the other
of <h»se* esndiditee nvait be tbt Piesideni o*
the Failed State*,-and that good total are
Itauod to ebeutaj imt beet ooe of tbe two—all
tens of argtahent* asd appeals aJJma—d to
patriotism aid Hfinhtarn are resorted tows
means of aectmeg one or the other of these
guilty men to rule over this country, end to
extend the curse of human bondage to soil
now free, and to impart new strength and
vigor to tbe whole system of American bond
age—tbe worst system of bondage (by tbe
confessions and delmrattoos of slaveholders
themselves.) that ever saw the son.
It is in this state of facta that the Free
Soil party** has come into being, and boldly
arrayed itself against the policy of these old
slavebolding parties. The intelligence, moral
worth, and philanthropy, and naineheal
strength, and high ground assumed by this
new but powerful party, makes it our doty to
inquire what course those who stand forth ss
r the friends of the slave ought to pursue to
rn ards that party. Are they to give it their
influence and encouragement, or ought they
to oppose it Ought they to encourage it for
the progress it has already made, or condemn
jit for not having made more What is our
duty in the premises? is the question. Tbe
free soil movement has virtually adopted the
leading doctrines and purposes set forth by
the American Anti-Slavery Society at its
formation, as the duty of the government.—
They declare that Congress has no mote
power to make a slave, than it has to make a
king. They declare their purpose to be the
abolition of slavery w herever they possess the
constitutional power to do so; consequently
slavery in the District of Columbia and else
where would be abolished. They projiose to
i free the federal government from all res|»onsi’
bility for slavery; he internal slave trade,
with all its attendant horrors, must therefore
•he abolished. They declare that there shall
!>e no more slave States—no more territories.
And they have placed on their broad banner,
j Free Soil,” Free Men,” Free Labor,”
J Free Speech,” and Free Stateswhile
I on the black flag of their opponents is “Slave
States,” Slave Tetritory,” “Slave Labor,”
and Slavery propagandism. If success crown
the latter, the slave power will be sirenglh
j ened— slave Slates will he admitted—slave
representation will be increased, and the
slavetrade, with all its heart-rending horrors,
will be quickened, and carried on to an extent
shocking to humanity. If the former suc
ceed, slavery in the District of Columbia and
Territories will be forever abolished—the
slavetrade discontinued the slave power
hurled fr *m dominion, slavery circumscribed,
hemmed in, proscribed, and detested, will per
ish and die under the nation's reprobation. In
view of the circumstances, What course
ought we, the colored people, and our peculiar
fuends to pursue? There are ways open to
us. We may stand off and act the part of
fault-finders—pick flaw's in the Free Soil plat
form—expose the weakness of some persons
connected with it—suspect and criticise their
leaders, and in this way play into the hands of
our enemies—affording them sticks to break
our own heads. Or wc may consign our
selves to oblivion—consent to die, or live as if
the Almighty did wrong in placing us on the
earth at this particular period of the wot Id's
history—live in the past, or so far into the
future as to be witollv unknown to tbe present
generation remain silent as if we were
speechless, and let things take their own
course, and thus morally to commit suicide.—
In neither of these ways can we go. We j
feel it our duty to pursue that course which
will make us in some degree a terror to evil-
doers, aud a piaiee to all that do well—to “act
in the living present”—to be a worker on the
anvil now before us—that whatever influence 1
we may possess, it shall be given in the right
direction.
While we are as deeply convinced as ever j
of the slaveholding charaster of the Ameri- j
can Constitution, aud are satisfied that it is
the duty of the free Slates to separate from
the slaveholding States, and are disposed in j
no way to abate or modify our testimony on
that point, we feel no hesitancy in proclaiming j
our deep and sincere God-speed to this free
soil movement. It is a movement springing
legitimately out of the principles which the
i American Anti-Slavery Society and Liberty
Party have long been proclaiming; and al
though it is not all we could ask or wish, it is
nevertheless such a noble step in the right di
rection, that we have no doubt that the
I movement will bo a progressive one. In view
of this movement, we bid the toil-worn bond
man to lift up his head with hope slavery,
with its many ills, shall not much longer
reign. The people at the Convention wore
evidently in advance of their leaders, &nd
showed themselves ready to take higjier
i ground, if possible, than that laid down .by
the Convention in their platform. j
Republic of Liberia.
On our first page will be found rather copi
ous news from this infantile Republic,Libera,
to which we call special attention. We pro
test any sympathy whatever with the Aimi'i
can Colonization Society—an association,2in
our estimation, as ill-deaigQing as it has bibn
unsuccessful in the attempt to carry out thin
designs.
Whatever good may result from thiaeolo-y-,
we are little disposed to give credit to .e
Cdoiuzaiiomsu, as it is the result of accident,
jn-1 not of their will. We cannot regard the
new government or State as making much
progress onward—not even arespectahle sem
blance of progress, while its heads and
chief men, continue to the notice of Ame
rican Colonizationists end slaveholders, wiih
the senility manifested in their letters. It is
somewhat amusing to see the interest n-ani-
Tested by the Mayor of Now York for Presi
dent Robert*, talking loudly of a Sister Re
public.” white the Republic of Haiti, but a
lew days* sail from our shores, u never
thought of by these pseudo philanthropist*.
We shall continue to advise our reader*
with news from thi* quarter, however nnia
terecuog.
Wisconsin xnn Faxx TexaiToar.—The
Legislature of this new State hare just adopt
ed a aeries of strung reads:isos ut favor of
•tee territory, by an overwhelming vole.
There were but them negatives in the Senate
aod five ib the Assembly, sod these wets sU
Casa men.
Potxto Rot.—A German physician
■ays a ewe u effected by pinching off half
ui inch Irons tbe top of the plant when «k
or eight inches high and repeal it in to or 111
«-e?k* on all the stems i
Bl*lh 4 PMtf.
it is amunaf—if ooe can fe* amawd at
approaching so nearly to downright
agony—to behold the trouble and caalusion
i which tbe prtfceediiifs of the great Free Soil
Coareatkm, held at .Buffalo last week, has
1 brought upon the old slavebolding party edi-
I ton of this city. Wa say tlm/tkoMinf forty
editors, because there are now virtually bat two
parties in this coon try. Ia same, there are
three but, in fact, tl ere are but two. The
Cass and Taylor parties, tbeogh separate in
name, are yet one in object —one in heart, or
one in tbe ylace where a 14 heart ought to Ae.”
They belong to slavery. Their casdidates
are the candidates of slavery's own selection;
and they both look to slavery as their present
help in this their time of need. One of the
items set down against that Convention by tbe
Amerkan of this city, is, that President Mahan
told the following irreverent story, as illus
trating the feelings of the slaveholding parties
of our land. He said that tbe present pre
dicament of the old parties, reminded him of
the story of a nun who went borne to his
family after drinking a little too much. His
wife said to him, “John, why don’t you come
to bed What's the matter with you ?—are
you drunk John, after remaining silent
lor some time, said; No, lam not drunk,
but 1 feel almighty discouraged The ex
ception taken to this' stony, and the solemn
lesson read to tbe President on the subject, is
paltry enough as coming from any quarter,
hut coming from the American, tbe advocate
of the bloodhound candidate— a profane mur
derer, whose every word is accompanied by
some blood-chilling oath —the man who, when
on the fields of Mexico, when surrounded by
thousands of the dead and dying, could cry
out with the fury of a demon, Give 'em hell
site 'em hell is entitled to the respect due
to the meanest hypocrisy.
It is most too late in the nineteenth century
for slavery to find a secure shelter from at
tack by crawling behind the sacred altar of
religion. The time ia at hand when it will
not do to bring piety to the aid of a man
stealer, and to the support of manstealing.—
The fact that General Taylor is a well-known
robber and hired assassin, stamps those who
sustain him for the highest office in the gift
of the nation, as being anything else than fid
lowers of our meek and ever-blessed Re
deemer. We long to see the day when these
slaveholding sycophhnts of the North shall
find their pretended piety regarded as vile in
the eyes of all people. We cannot under
stand the nature of that conscience which can
sup[>ort a wretch like Gen. Taylor, and yet
bs horrified at a word which may be tortured
into irreverence.
Domestic Happiness.
Happiness is tliat earthly enjoyment which
cheers the spirits, and makes good the heart
of man, in every position in life. There can
not be true happiness, where it cannot be
found in the domestic circle—around the fire
side, in the mutual affections emanating from
the bosom of man and wife, patents and
children.
Moments of*joy, it is true, raay rush for an
instant upon us; an imaginary pleasure may
assuage for the time our feelings; but ere that
fleet deceiver intrudes itself upon us, a transit
of reflection will again depress the spirits, and
the gloom of despair hangs heavily around.
Neither possessions nor w ealth can create
happiness; they can facilitate or increase,
but cannot create it. Man and woman, to all
intents and purposes, are equal, and whatever
disparity there may appear, is the result of
education, and not a defect of nature. In this
we mainly refer to the moral and intellectua
bearing of the subject; though we might ad
duce an argument to prove it even physically.
Is man physically superior, it may be tbe
result of a long-continued education of man’s
physical system, while that of woman is re
strained. Even in childhood the boy is per
mitted and encouraged in exercises that the
girl ts prohibited and men pursue livelihoods
that woman is denied. When the contrary is 1
the case, a contrary result is the certain effect.
For example: the Indian woman, whose
duty it is, from childhood, to till the soil,
grind the corn, carry the game and other bur-1
dens; while that of man is to*hunt, fish, and
join In the chass, is much abler to .withstand j
the fatigues of labor than the Indian man.—
The same may be said of the Hindoos, and
other savage tribes, whose men sre given to
idleness, while the women labor. We have
digressed, and must resume.
In all things common to both, (and in what
can either engage that is not common to both*)
man and wife should consult each other, al
ways endeavoring to counsel to the best ad
vantage, to the interests of both. A seeming
opposition to the opinions of each should be
carefully avoided—both endeavoring to harmo
nize with—always observing, without mis
trust, the most entire reliance in each other's
word—tbe roost unshaken confidence in each
other's integrity. Let every word be an ex
pression of kindness and affection between
husband and wife, and fbiawiH follow, as a
■water of course, with Ac children; the par- i
entsso acting, will so instruct their children.
To realize happiness, first, it must begin in
our own household within the bounds of our
own domestic circle. Every man and woman
should endeavor to make their owa boms a
place of happiness; this being accomplished,
w baterer may be the scenes with which we
are sammnded, we cannot fail to realize hap
piness.
Equality.
Remember, brethren, ibis cannot be obtain
ed without self-exertion. Nature creates hu~
inanity, but character makes the man. Each
peraon must necessarily make his own char
acter—this cannot be jrivee, but acquired.—
Society, despite you and us, regulates itself;
like water, it finds its level. In urder, time,
t w into this element, oar specific gravity
i should be equal.
By this we mean to say, there are several
qualification* entering uno the combination or
materials which eompeee society. These
aonieriais, from their nature, have an affinity
fiir their like; hence, as attraction is mutual,
materials of opposite qualities cannot adhere.
Whatever qualifies and adorns society. must
adorn and qualify as. We w ant dducatioo.
trades, tespecuble employments, as mer
chants, farmers, and idumrs in general.
We eee never nee to sqsaiay with the
dommsnt dam, while eeteeted end rfnl
pith the situation of We shall
speak to yon frequently ujou this subject.
thm OH i flat Herald*
The first numbs t ef the above paper hai
reached aa, which bails hem Pittsburgh, ai
the orgm» of the African Methodist Episcopal
Church, Her. Augustus Richardson Green
Superintendent of the book concern, Editor
This, as its name implies, is a religious paper
iaaoed trom the ofiee formerly of the Mystery
which establishment has been told out to th<
Methodist Church Connexion. Some may
manifest a disposition to reflect on the forroei
coodactors uf that paper for the course they hart
pursued, but none who know the sacrifice*
those gentlemen have made—the money from
time to time lakea from their private means,
to sustain that paper, will so reflect.
At no period danng the existence of th«
Mystery, did its subscription come near tti
expenses, and nose know this better than the
writer of this article; and bad it not been foj
the generosity of the Pittsburghers, by the
assistance of the ladies, in holding the Firs)
of August Levees, the paper would long since
have stopped. The paper had subscribers
sufficient, but they did not pay—one of the
evils of receiving distant subscribers without
the cash. But the proprietors determined to
1 sustain an enterprise so well begun, as well as
the credit of those concerned, made continual
heavy sacrifices, which they continued till the
present period. Although there must be
nearly one thousand dollars due them, at a
distance, they aie ia all probability in debt to
subscribers for advance payment. When we
left the Mystery, we did it with reluctance,
but for the purpose of entering into a more
useful position of labor; as in our connection
with that paper, it cost us not only our ser
vices, which we gave gratuitously, but money
besides—a portion of our time only being de
voted to the paper, such as we could spare
while in our present position the whole of our
time is devoted to the enterprise, either in or
out of the office hence, our efforts must be
more available.
We heartily commend the gentlemen of the
Mystery for the course they have pursued, as
an opportunity ensued in which they could
withdraw with credit to themselves, and thus
relieve them of a heavy burden.
One thing we are certain of: we are not in
a condition yet in ihis country to sustain more
than one good efficient newspaper—we mean
secular paper, try it who may and our ex
perience and knowledge in these matters are
equal to the best. Having made an estimate,
we find that at least, among the colored peo
ple, the ratio of subscribers is but twenty
five to one thousand of a population. Two
things are necessary before our people will
become supporters and interested in newspa
pers—intelligence, that is, common education,
and means. At present, we have not ar
rived at that point. We welcome the Herald
to our table.
Lost, Strayed, or Stolen.
In our walk yesterday, we fell in company
with two Mexican boys, accompanied by one
of the returned volunteers. We felt a con
cern for the unfortunate lads, so far removed
from their naliveiand,and desired to converse,
but they could speak very little English. We
asked the volunteer who accompanied them
how be came by them and who had them in
care he said one of them was his, and the;
other belonged to one of the officers. He said
that hundred small boys were to be found
roving about the country in Mexico, apparent-1
ly without patents, and that any number
dfiulJ be had for the trouble of bringing them
away The pooi little fellows appeared in
fine spirits, and seemed proud that they had
protector.— Pittsburgh Gazette.
This is but one of those monstrous evils,
the legitimate fruits of that most heaven- 1
daring outrage, the invasion of the free terri-j
tory of Mexico by an army of slaveholders, or
what is equally bad. the subjects of a slave
holding dynasty, as the United Stales may
now be well termed.
Not content with the design of establishing
slavery in territory heretofore free, untarnished
by the foot of a slave, but by the above it
will readily be observed that kidnapping must
have been among the most common outrages
committed upon that defenceless people, and
none will doubt but there is at this time many
a hapless youth, doomed to drag out a life in
Southern bondage, and disconsolate Mexican
parents, mourning their loss to know,” if,
indeed, they were nut slain in the bloody
sieges which ensued.
Common and daring indeed must have been
the infernal custom of kidnapping Mexican
children, when a pauperized or upstart Penn
sylvania private will dare bring to the benevo
lent,free city of Pittsburgh, a child, and claim
him as belonging to him.
The Cause. We held on Wednesday
evening, the 9th, an interesting Anti-Slavery
meeting in Buffalo, where we acknowledge
many fine friends, arooog whom are our much
esteemed Abner H. Francis and lady, at
whose bouse and table, we always find a
hearty welcome. Such persons make the
path-way of the weary laborer in the cause of
humanity, however dreary, a delightful way
—a way of pleasantness.
The meeting on Sabbath last, at Farmingloa,
was fraught with inmsst furmsny reasons
If there bad been nothing else to contribute to
our pleasure, the company of Joseph C. Hatha
way, a faithful friend of the slave and co-la
borer in the cause of the oppressed, sod his
excellent wife (Esther Hathaway) sod family
of interesting children, added to whom, was
the noble hearted Anna Adams, —these of
themselves were sufficient.
Heney A. Wise, late a Virginia bragado
cio of iho House of Representatives of the U.
S. t sad recent Minister to Brand, we believe
has turned sutneraet from the Whig to the
Democratic party, and to *H appearances, is
if possible, tenfold meaner than before, which
in all conscience, was mean enough. Wise
is fooluh.
Bj* A negro house belonging in Gov. John
son of North Carolina, was lately horned,and
*0 negro children penabed m the flames.—
Wat. Chrutmn.
We should like to know hew homty child
ren came to he is on house. Is this the
ootafon with which wo are told by their apol
ogists, the slaveholders provide for their
slaves! Can the Obidp»tell* Twenty
oegro children perished in the flamesnod
this is mpressed with as much iadiflnreaea as
though they had bean that assay aheap m
calves! Had it base a single whim child
whoa precious life bad thus fallen n prey to
boon captioned by tbw, or torn ooefc ox pen
won, Dreadful Calamity!" O! bnmamty,
whither hast then flown 9
•fcaaiatfea Moral Heard*.
Jostles a solar System or a fixed eefttre,
wound which all attributes or priacrpldi re
volve. approaching or receding, attracted or
repelled,m according to the bars by which
they are regulated, they vary ia their several
orbits. Liberty is in perihelion; Slavery bon
the descending node; humanity bin perigee
to America there wil 1 this year, be a transit
of manly independence from the nib of op
preeeioo, crossing Mason and Dixon's line to
the North; and there will be a number of
odipoes visible in Europe and America; dee
pots and tyrants will be eclipsed by free men
and women these eclipses take place morn
ing, noon and night, duration—an indefinite
period, visible in all the northern part of the
United States, in Prance, Piussia, Austria, the
German States, Italy, the southern part of
Russia, the Northern part of Africa, Algeria,
sod perhaps Spain and Cuba; in which case,
it will then be visible in the southern States.
Here is now a phenomenon, quite visible to
all, in the political sky. The satellites, |«o-
Slavery and Servility, have left their orbits
around the cold, stenie, opaque moon Oppres
sion, and can now be seen among the most
brilliant planets, revolving around the sun of
Justice, from which they now receive their
light. Equality will be the morning, even
ing and day star, henceforth.
On the 2d Tuesday, the 14th day of Novem
ber next, there will be a great storm through
out the Union, which will sweep with the
greatest force over the northern States; but
the South w ill suffer in consequence of the
over flooding of their country, by the proceed
ings and doings of freemen.
The Mexican Girl. —There has been con
siderable talk in the city about the Mexican
young woman brought by the Duquesne
Grays. She was first noticed bv the mem
bers of the company at Puebla. She attract
ed their attention by her devotion to the sick
soldiers. She furnished provisions to the
Americans, and did every thing her strength
and circumstances enabled her to do. Her
conduct excited the tnmityof her relatives,
and she feared 6he might not be safe at home.
This being known to Capt. Herron and Lieut.
Mann, she vas invited to accept the protec
tion of the company, and has been in the
ranks eveT since. In appearance, 3he is en
tirely Mexican, quite feminine in manners and
conversation and the soldiers say she is pret
ty and intelligent. She is eighteen years of
age. Her name is Trinidad.— Pittsburg Post.
Another evidence of the evils of this cruel
and bloody crusade. The idea of a company
of volunteer soldiers having ia their charge,
thousands of miles from hooie, a young wo
man, is preposterous—and that too, one such
as Americans are wont to deride and insult,
as we are told she is entirely Mexican, which
is to be understood as yellow or copper color.
We are surprised at the indifference with
which these things are noticed by editors gen
erally.
Haiti. —The last accounts, which are to the
24th July, represent matters as being in a
quiescent state but not so settled, by any
means as to wariaut the expectation that the
quietude would long continue. The Presi
dent (So)oque) was at Jeremie, with his
troops, where he seeins to have been main
taming a terrific despotism. Two men of'
high standing had been recently arrested fnrj
alleged political offences, and tried and con-!
deained, and immediately shot. The Presi
dent was expected at Port au Prince about
the Ist of the pres nt month and bis pres
ence was anticipated with interest. No posi
tion that he could assume, it is said, would
make things worse.—* Et. Paper.
Newspapers are misled in matters respect
ing this Republic. Intelligence res|iectiug
Haiti, usually crn-mate from New Orleans,
from whence tne truth could not lie expected.
T.ijse mil of tin Cris.eat City Delta and!
Dee, are the principal channels through which
these foul slanders flow.
Retaliatory Postage. —lt is said that the
Postmaster General has issued instructions,
requiring the following rates of posiage to be
charged on all letters going out of the United
States to or through the Kingdom of Great
Britain or its colonies, into the UnitedSiates,
hy any foreign packet-ship or other vessel.—
On each letter nut exceeding half an ounce in
weight, conveyed between the two countries
by a foreign packet, 24 cents and for each
additional hall ounce or fraction under, 24
cents. On each letter weighing half an ounce
or under, conveyed between the twocountnes
by any foreign private ship or vessel, 16 cents;
and for each additional half ounce or fractions
under, 16 cents. Outgoing letters to be pre
paid.
Each newspaper, or sheet of other printed
matter, to be charged with a postage of 4
cents.
If the above statement proves to be correct,
we fear the arrangement wBI compel us to re
linquish some exchanges which we greatly
value. But we shall see.— West. Christum.
Will some of the knowing ones” give us
a little intelligent information on this Re
taliatory P.mtage.” Has the Postmaster
General the power to fix postage at bis will?
The people desire light on this subject. We
are fearful that this whole matter ia concealed
in a Cave.
Church Rates. —The people in and shout
the Parish of All-Saints, (Suffolk, England,)
ulk of forming an association for the separa
tion of Church aad State. Recently, nineteen
pcaunas have bed distrainor for church rates
made upon them, their property seized to
twice the amount named, and actually sold at
public outcry. We desire not the religion
that must he purchased at such a price.
Prior Footer.— We have received a let
ter from an esteemed friend in Boston, anxious
ly enquiring about the schemes of Prior Foster
of Woodstock Institute” notoriety. For
information on that subject, he m referred to
last week's Star.
Homestead —Wisconsin, has established
the Homestead in that Stale. In the country,
forty acres aw forever exempt from execution,
thereby seen nog t» each family a home in
villages, a quarter of aa acre, with ail sm-
Rrmaueablc Lonoeyitt. Old Phil,"
a tenant belonging to Mr. Jas. Brent, of
Charles county, Maryland, died on the sth
met., at the age of one hundred and fifteen
years. Up to the day of his death, the faith
ful old aacvaal enjoyed almost naw tempted
health. —f manner.
Qwry.—had he ast been oppressed by tbs
nttbleaa robber, who nattl the day af Me
death, held bam in piratical imprisonment
bow much longer would “OM Phil” have
Hood! Tbst seondrol. shall yet have Haro
ward.
Dsnociacy in Browne*.-—A tang and
Vm Bwm Mating han bwn
bold in tbn nity of Piuehwrgfc, at wbiob maw.
urns were tafcea fur a regular alam organa*
tun against Caw and Bote.
YMI ts Fftiaflitpfcfru
M. R. Diusv will visit Philadelphia ot
Wednesday, the tfttb of September, sad will
spend several days hi that fifty, holding pebHe
meetings and soliciting sobeeribere la tha
North Star. There ia a largo entered pops
latioa m Philadelphia. Their character and
cooditioa baa a wide-spread influence oa that
of the colored people throughout the Uaien.
Every means should therefore be taken to
improve the hearts aad alevate the suede of
this large and influential population. Oar
friend aad co-worker, Dalaay, ia a maa fitted,
both in head and heart, to this important
work. We eall upon oar friends in Phila
delphia to prepare the way, and render our
friend every assistance ia promoting our com
mon cause.
Antf-« la very Meetings.
Frederick JDoiglam and M. R. Del any
will hold Ami-Slavery meetings at Victor, no
Sabbath next, the 90th ins*., at half past tan
A. M and half past two P. M.
ID* Hoc. Mr. Crowell, M. C., has oar
thanks foT a copy of his able speech on Sla
very in the District of Colombia.
Haiti.—Our readers will be pleased te find
in the issue of this week another interesting
favor from the pen of our Haitian corre
spondent, who is ever welcome. .We d«**ire
a private letter freca.hira concerning the boss*
ness of a person aft Buffalo, N. T.
Colored Freemen !—Remember the great
National Gathering of the oppressed, at
Cleveland, Ohio, on Wednesday, the sixth
of September. “Come as the waves come!”
Canada Postage. —The following instruc
tions have been received from the Postmaster
General, by the Postmaster of this city
P. O. Department, Ist Aug. 1849.
Dear Sir. —Yotirs of June 93d has been
received. You will charge for each letter
brought in or sent to Canada in steamboats,
if employed as mail packets by the British or
Canadian authorities, 24 cts and if brought
in or taken out in private vessels, 16 cents.
If sent in the United States Mail, the inland
postage will be added.
Let’ers may be sent from yonr office to
Canada in foreign mail packets, prepaying
24 cents; if in private veasels, 16 cents.
1 am, respect tally, yonr obedient servant,
C. JOHNSON.
Mr. Campbell, P.M., Rochester,
ID* Keep it in Mind, that private enter-*
prise, if permitted so to do, would tiny let*
lets to Canada for one cent each every cent
charged more than that is a robbery. How
much more of such foolery, Mr. Cave John
son, do you imagine people will submit to?
Why is not some rational arrangement made
between the two countries l
ID 3 Hon. Daniel Weester, the Com
mercial announces, apparently by authority,
will give a cordial and hearty support to the
nomination of Gen. Taylor, and has never
meant to do anything else.
H7* A London journal says that the nnm
bei of law yets in Lnrnn is r.o less than 41? ft
and that the amount bf their costs in 1846
‘47, was jC16.210.165.
The Massachusetts Volunteers have
‘been paid off and discharged. Some menu
received $4O and some as much as $l4O in
money. The average was $-60 each. Beside*
this they have of land at the West
or in exchange, if they preler, IQO of gov
ernment scrip. Meat of them chose the
land.
Newspapers. are 218 newspaper*
published in Pennsylvania, exclusive of mis
cellaneous publications. This, we believe,
exceeds the number published in any other
State in the Union. Ohio boasts of 174, and
New York of about 200.
The Crops throughout Ohio are unprece
dented. It is estimated that Ohio wiN yiehf
this year, 34,000,000 bushels of wheat over
one-third more than ever before in one year.
The Potato Rot has appeared in Mont
gomery and Bucks counties, Pennsylvania.
Peaches are very abundant in Philadelphia
—sell at fifty cents a basket.
Death. —The N. ,Carolina papers announce
the sudden death, in Tyrell county, in that
Sutc, of Hon. Ebenezer' Pettigrew, formerly
a member of Congress from the Eighth Dis
trict.
Lansing, 4he new capital of Michigan,
now contains about 1000 inhabitants. In
1845, the enumeration was only 88.
The Hudson Bat Company hsve made a
proposition to ihe Government u» sell to the
United States all their rights and possessions
in Oregon, south of 40 deg. N. latitude.
Thk Export of domestic cotton goods from
the port of Boston, for the month ending July
31, 1348, was in value 967,829 11. Total
since the Ist of July, $1,333,809 95. Far
the largest portioo to the East Indies.
The Slave Case- —At Washington, the
Jury on the slave abduction case, after twen
four hours' deliberation, gave a verdict of
guilty against Drayton, on the charge of
stealing negroes.
Fire at Niagara Falls.—The Table
Rock House and Stair Case on the Canada
side at Niagara Falla, were horned down oa
the night of the 24tb ult. A stable in the
vicinity eon taming several horses and car
nages was burned also at the asase tune.
Wisconsin makes the thirtieth State of the
Confederacy. It contains some 90,900 square
miles ot territory—**•-»birds larger than all
New England, and full aa large as New
York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania com
bined.
A Great Countrt. —Oregon is said tax"
contain 218.635,320 scree; Califi»rm* sod
New Mexico contain 500.000 souaro nuleot
They and the other territories of the Dakar,
equal at least 1,600,000 square Ottlea, or
1,024,000,000 square acres.
Mr. Emerson's Lectures.— Our rtadara
will perceive, by so advertisement ia our par
per this week, that Mr. Emerson is shunt ts
deliver a coarse ef lectures at the Literary
Institution, Poftmaa-squire. This fc, ve ho
lieve, the eoly eccasioa on which this dis
tinguished thinker will lecture in Leaden, pre
vious to his departure for America^— London
/ufterur, June ft.
The Whig Candidate.— General Taylor
Is receiving a nearly $6,000 annual salary from the National Treasury, and rejects his letters to save the postage.
