Speech of the Honorable Edward L. Keyes at the close of the Worcester convention 
Mr. President, —I think it is not
an evidence of taste or judgment on the
part of this audience to call upon me
at this late hour when it would require
the eloquence of a Sumner or at least a
Cicero to speak here with success.
[Loud and prolonged cheering.]
By the few feeble attempts which I
have made on other occasions, I have
learned that the flowers of oratory nev
er bloomed for me; and that I am wi
ling to appear upon this platform at all
must he accepted as a proof that I am
disposed to sacrifice all, even the grace
of modesty itself, on the still nobler al
tars of right and liberty.
I rejoice that so much attention was
bestowed upon the remarks af the gen
tleman who preceded me, but I tear
we have not yet paid sufficient atten
tion to the Taylor party.
We are assembled, Mr. President,
in the heart ot the Commonwealth
we are under the guardianship ot hei
laws—we are assailed by no mobs
composed of gentlemen of property
and standing”—we feel no danger as
we walk the crowded streets, but we
cannot disguise from ourselves the fact,
that a large number of persons belong
ing to the two old parties, regard us
as intruders in the political field— as
poachers upon the lordly domains of
our betters—as stragglers and vaga
bonds stalking up the broad aisles and
disturbing the worship of the Whig and
Democratic Churches. Our first duty
is to teach them, as our lathers taught
the Royalists and Loyalists of the Rev
olution, that we ask no favors and will
suffer no dictation—that we know our
rights and dare maintain them, that,
not unmindful of the power of combi
ned wealth, we still have learned that
thrice is he armed who hath his quar
rel just and, what they will regard,
perhaps, of still greater importance,
that like the youthful Hannibal we have
sworn it on our country’s altar, that we
will not lay down our arms until
the victory is achieved. The despots
ofthe old world may succeed in stifling
the aspirations for freedom which are
•welling in the bosoms of their subjects,
but intelligent free-born men, repub
lican citizens of a free Commonwealth,
—-graduates of the free schools of New
England,— sons of Revolutionary sires,
ice regard the threatened indignant
frowns of our new slaveholding Chief
Magistrate, with indignation, largely
m ogled with contempt.
I am reminded by the presence of a
gentlei ,nan before me, that seventy-four
tears ag.**» a ou ng and ardent friend
of America Q independence, whose name
had been pla ed on the roll ofthe pro
scribed by the /oyal.st officers' of Bos
ton, came to this place and resumed
the publication of a new spaper, which
had already been, for several years,
the organ of American liberty in Bos
ton. The name of that paper was the
Massachusetts Spy.” [Cheers.]
And, considering the changing and un
stable nature of all earthly things, it
is a significant and cheering circum
stance, that after the lapse of three
quarters of a century, —with another
of its editors proscribed, not only by I
the royalist officers, but by the royal
family itself of Worcester, —it is still
ibt faithful and fearless advocate of the
doctriuen of the declaration of inde-
W nt(,
we assembled here a year
a B°, supposed that the great crisis,
uc w*t l 0 dotsnniue ths question of;
»very or Freedom in the tsrritoriee, j
M ftirtvtd w# were not mistaken, i
THE NORTH STAR.
The crisis hsd arrived, and as far ai
j human penetration can detect the op
eration of moral nod immaterial forces
it was owing, in some good part, to tba
Convention, that the vast Territoriei
of New Mexico and Califotnia, wen
preserved to Freedom a short time lon
ger—another year —and that we havt
a feeble hope they will be so preserve!
for all time to come.
Our proceedings had hardly been re
corded before that genuine Free Soil
Taylor Whig, John M. Clayton, intro
duced his motion—on the 12th of July
for the appointment of that more that
Janus faced committee, composed o
two northern and two southern Demo
crats,and two northern and two southern
Whigs, charged with the duty of de
vising some plan for the settlement o
the question. And here it would b<
proper, if! had time, to trace the pro
i gress of the Slaveholding movemen
i through that, and the succeeding sea
sion of Congress, that it might be seei
how narrowly we escaped, and hov
Clayton, Johnson, and Preston, mem
bers of Gen. Taylor’s cabinet—uni
formly battled on the side of Slavery
against the principle and measure o
the Wilmot Proviso. But 1 canno
now pursue the enquiry. “Go on,*
“go on.” No. The emotions whicl
already agitate you, inform me tha
you need no labored arguments t<
arouse you to a full comprehension o
i the importance of our movement
i Your thoughts, mounting upward ii
contemplation of the great and univer
sal principles which we seek to cstab
iish, disdain even the fetters of elocu
tion, and would rather circumnavigati
at random the wide empire of civiliza
tion and of mankind.
Mr. President, we are told that th<
Whig party is the only safeguan
against the extension of slavery an<
the encroachments of the slave-power
The brazen impudence of this state
meat has not been equalled since Sa
tan uttered his blasphemous counsel!
to the fallen host. The great gul
1 which leads to destruction lies conceal
ed under the hypocritical banners o:
Whiggery. The plans of Nationa
Locofocoism—ofthe Cass Democracy,
are as bold as they are infamous
They will entrap none but the willing
and the determined, while the Tayloi
party, with its slave-holding President
and slave-holding Cabinet fights for
slavery like the pirate, under the dove
like banners of innocence and peace.
I tell you, Mr. President, that the
Taylor party —the administration at
Washington—does not even promise
any assistance against the extension
of slavery, much less against the en
croachments of the slave-power. The
Washington Republic—the Taylor or
gan at the seat ofgovernment —founded
and to a great extent, supported by the
patronage of the general government,
says that the Whigs everywhere, north
es well as south —are in favor of with
drawing the slavery question from the
arena of party politics. This is true.
But suppose it was not so? Suppose
the Taylor party should put on a north
ern whited sepulchre face. What
then? It would not deceive us. It
has fed us on falsehoods from the com
mencment. The whole series of its
violated promises now hang like mill
stones about its neck. General Tay
lor, we are told, would not seek to in
fluence the action of Congress, yet he
had been scarcely a week among the
slave-pens of the capital, before his or
gan was called upon to excuse and jus
tify his interference. The decisions of
Congress he would obey in good faith.
Yet his minions are at this moment en
gaged in establishing a government in
California, directly in the face of a
vote of Congress refusing him authori
ty to do so. He would not proscribe,
yet the bodies of fallen office holders
proscribed for their political opinions,
are piled in hecatombs all around us.
In regard to the last, we do not so much
complain of the act as ofthe violation
of faith which led to it. General Tay
lor must proscribe. The Taylor vic
tory, without proscription, would be no
‘victory. The Praetorian Bands, the
Swiss mercenaries, the Hessian flies
who dragged him from his camp stool in
Mexico, and floated him on one unbro
ken tiamof falsehood to Washington,
must be paid. The laborer is worthy
of his hire. The Taylor administra
tion is upheld by the grand central pil
lar of proscription. Remove that and
it would sink—sink hoplessly where no
fathom line could reach it. But as
Lord Chatham once said in reference
to another administration laboring un
der embarrassments, it is a misera
ble condition wherein disgrace is pru
dence and wherein it is necessary to
be contemptible.” It is but prudence
in the Taylor party to court the dis
grace of falsifying all its promises, and
whenever it ceases to be contemptible,
its entire distinctive character will be
gone.
Mr. President, we were accused on
every stump during the last campaign,
not only of being factionists, but office
seekers —desiring nothing but our own
honor and profit. Where now are
those incorruptible patriots, whose lips
moved by the inspiration of their own
mercenary hearts, gave utterance to
these flaming falsehoods: Where are
the B. Hammett Nortons, the Lawren
ces the Charles W. Denisons, the
Hudson., the Lunts the Woodmans
and also the slaveholdiog Chandlers:
Where is that brace of beauties who,
renouncing all other u P. at ‘f na d
voted themself®* 4*y and night-body
and soul—to the cause of their suffer
ing country, a* sectaries of the Whig
State Committee? Where is that »r
-ginia born Anpollo—and I might ad«j
the nine Muses combined—who,
oo a former occaeion within the tiros*
honored will# of Fan#oil »od
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN
full view of the portrait* of some of the
Fathers ot the Republic, endeavored
in vain to lisp his uxorious love for our
venerable Commonwealth: Where
are the hopeful heirs of those two great
Worcester houses who became surety
for Taylorism in the heart of Massachu
set.s? Where are those twin cherubs,
who, tired of obscurity, and panting
for an opportunity to serve the Repub
lic, laid all they could of the State ol
Maine a willing sacrifice at the feet ot
the slave-driver? Where, too, are
those craven-hearted men, who, origi
nally affecting a disgust for Taylorism,
turned back to pliinge into its filthiest
pools? Where are they? Fattening
at the government crib. Haltered at
the government stalls, where, I trust,
they may have time and opportunity to
con over some ofthe contemptuous dia
tribes, which, in other days, they put
forth against Locofoco office-seekers,
and learn, in part, even from them
selves, something of that full measure
of contempt with which honest men re
gard traitors and hypocrites. These
are the men who trumpet the glories,
the virtues, and the patriotism of the
Whig party. These are the men who
have seized theory of “the one idea
party,” and have applied it to us, and
who have, to use a strong figure of Ed
mund Burke, fly-blown it into all the
weak and rotten parts of the country,
in hopes that when the insects shall
have taken wing, their importunate buz
zing may sound something like the
public voice.”
Mr. President, 1 have already de
tained you too long. [Go on, kc.] I
will only add a word or two in a more
serious strain.
Other parties promise, it belongs to
us to perform. The Whig party —if
promises and good resolutions were
effectual—might long ago, have scaled
the Empyrean height, but its ground
and lofty tumblings of late, have thrown
into the shade the Harlequins of the
stage. The principles which we advo
cate, are destined to triumph in this
country,whether our party shall triumph
or not.” Firm and unyielding minori
ties are always powerful—sometimes
almost omnipotent. Our strength at
this moment is immense. The coun
tenance of many a politician blanches
at our tread. The temples of Whig
and Democratic Hunkerism shake to
their foundations, at the echo of our
voices.
In eleven ofthe Free States we hold
the balance between the two factions,
and can elevate one or the other to vic
tory, or consign them to defeat. Two
Senators and eighteen Members of Con
gress now hold their seats by virtue of
our permission, and Hannegan, Allen,
Breese, Hudson, Rockwell, and others,
have ceased to play their fantastic
tricks before the nation, only because
tee have so ordered it.
Gentlemen, the path of our duty lies
plain before u». It is to summon to
gether the stout Armed Champions of
liberty, to drive the monster institution
of Slavery away from the home of Re
publicanism—to drive it, not through
the golden gates of the East into des
potic Turkey—not across the Mediter
ranean into those Barbary Slates, peo
pled by the descendants of Pirates and
Rohbers, for they would spurn the in
sulting invasion,—but into the deep,
dark, fathomless abyss of annihilation,
so that it shall be remembered only as
years of Earthquake, Pestilence, and
Famine, are remembered—so that in
the midst of the broad territories so
long desecrated by its presence, a mon
ument may arise to meet the sun in
his coming,” on whose sides, lookingi
to the North, South, East, and West,;
shall be inscibed, in golden characters,
Justice, Humanity, God and Lib
erty.
CIRCULAR
Of the Provisional Committee, for the
Promotion of Education among the
Colored People, in such of the Slave
States as are, or may be accessible.
The organization of this Committee,
is the work of necessity. It grew out
ofthe consideration, that the labors and
prayers of the friends of the slave had
been blessed in the deliverance of many
thousands from the fetters of legal bon
dage. But their condition, when thus
emancipated, suggests the important
inquiry, that how glorious soever may
be our success in the future, whether
the consummation we so ar%lently desire
would not be reft of half its interest and
importance if we were denied the rea
sonable anticipation, that a blow so well
aimed and effective, would be followed
by a ready zeal, fidelity and insight, in
ample preparations to impart the rudi
ments of sound knowledge, with health
ful moral discipline, to the youthful
masses just escaped from legal bondage.
What is true of our slaves and colot ed
people, is true of every people, long
outcast and degraded. Such can se
cure the recognition of their rights, only
through an intellectual and moral re
generation. They roust burst the fet
ters of ignorance, and vanquish the do
minion of low, sensual passions, or live
and die in a condition, in no way more
exalted, or worthy of a divine manhood,
than that of the veriest slaves!
The time has fully come in our judg
ment, when a well advised and effected
plan may be vigorously prosecuted for
the enlightenment and elevation of our
colored people, who are at least nomi
nally free, though in the Slave States.
In some of those States they are not
seriously interrupted in the pvnnit of
knowledge. They way be reached in
either of two w»ya, to wit: by establish
ing schools directly among them, or by
•electing young persons of good mor
tis, and* endowedfriih adit* Mroag
powers of mind, who, when sufficiently
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1849.
best social influences to be found at the
North, may return to labor in tbe de
partment of instruction, among their
friends and the people of their peculiar
class at the South. This latter is the
idea which strikes us forcibly, and
which, for the present, we shall seek to
make available by our efforts. Through
tbe events of Providence we have it in
our power, just now, in an easy, quiet
way, to make an experunent in the di
rection alluded to, and under lh3 most
agreeable and gratifying circumstances.
Tbe Edmondson Sisters, Mary and Em
ily, you know by reputation. Their
brief history is singular and affecting.
It is enough to say, that they were for
seven months in the hands of slave-tra
ders, in Washington, Baltimore, Alex
andria* and New Orleans —that their
virtuous and Christian character afford
ed them a shield of complete?defence
That by a rare impulse of social sym
pathy, twenty-two hundred and fifty
dollars were raised for their redemption!
They are of a good family —are now in
this neighborhood, uuder the most fa
vorable circumstances to be thoroughly
taught, possessing highly respectable
capacities, with most exemplary indus
try, and a rare deportment for proprie
ty; they are anxious to acquire infor
mation that will, in every way, render
them competent and effective, as teach
ers and examples among their people
in the District of Columbia. This Com
mittee propose to take charge of them
—to advise them, and to raise whatev
er means may be required in the course
of their education. Others of equal
promise will, no doubt, soon offer them
selves. Indeed, we are well informed,
that any number of persons adapted to
the object we have in view, can at any
time be selected at Washington or Bal
timore.
Allow us to say, that it is not our
purpose to make pets of our beneficia
ries—to spoil them by indulgence, or
by superficial, shallow views of the re
lations and duties of life. It shall be
our aim to foster and assist their own
exertions, and by no means to supersede
them. Nor is it our design, in any
way, to build up schools exclusively for
colored children. We shall place them
where the chances for sound instruc
tion, exact discipline, and real elevation
of character, are the most completely
satisfactory.
Our limits forbid addition to this has
ty outline of our plans. We wish to
regard you as a corresponding member
of our body, and to look to you con
stantly for counsel and support, as a
cordial and active laborer in a common
field of enterprise and responsibility.
Is it not a delightful thought, that by a
united effort, the women of New York
can, in a brief period, place in the Dis
trict of Columbia, or the State of Mary
iand, a dozen intelligent, well-trained
colored females, as teachors of schools
and models of manners, behavior and
character, to exert an influence among
those, who are most sadly in need of its
quickening power?.
You are left free to raise funds and
to bring this interesting subject before
the community around you, in such way
as seems to you most convenient, and
at the same time surest to reach a spee
dy and desirable result. The Commit
tee will take care that you receive fre
quently a full report of what they de
sign and accomplish, and especially of
the manner in which all the money and
resources put at their disposal are ap
plied. Your friends, truly.
P. S. Please to direct your commu
nications to our Secretary, C. G. Ham
blin, Farmington, Ontario Co., N. Y.
Hannah C. Smith,
Phebe Hathaway, j
Maria E. Wilbub, }Com.
Anna P. Adams, j
C. G. Hamblin, J
SLAVERY IX CUBA.
With respect to this foul curse, Mr.
Turnbull has the following rernancs:—
“As the experience of years had
taught me to believe that the Spaniards
are a kind of warm hearted race, and
as I had frequently been told that the
slave owners of the Havana were tbe
most indulgent masters in the world, I
was not a little surprised to find, as the
result of personal inquiry and minute
observation, that in this last particular
I had been must miserably deceived,
and that in no quarter, unless, perhaps,
in the Brazils, which I have not visited,
is the state of slavery so desperately
wretched as it is on the sugar planta
tions of the Q.ueen of the Indies, the
far-famed Island of Cuba. The same
error is commou among persons who
have never visted the island, and even
with those who have, but have not vis
ited the interior. To those who are
not wilfully blindfold, there are not
wanting even at the Havana, not to
speak ol the sugar, or even of the cof
fee plantations, a thousand palpable in
dications of the misery which attends
the curse of slavery, independent alto
gether of the horrors ofthe Slave Trade.
When a stranger visits the town resi
dences of a Cuba proprietor, be finds
the family surrounded by s little colony
of slaves, of every vanety of complex
ion, from ebony to alabaster. Most of
them have been born in the house, have
grown with Ihe growth of the family,
and are, perhaps, the foster brothers or
foster sisters of the roaster or his chil
dren. When these slaves are unwil
ling or disobedient, they are sent, in
order to save tune and labor, or per
haps to spare the too tender feeling* of
their masters or mistresses, to a build
ing, just outside the gates of ths forti
fied portion of the city, in the interior
of which are a aerie* of whipping ports.
But, although by the means of the par
apets, tbe authority®* soeceed in shut
ting oat the inquisitive glances of the
futtn b h wt «xelul* .ft*9 H*lie
view the streaming Mood and lacerated
flesh of the sufferers, they cannot shut
in their piercing screams and piteous
shrieks for mercy.”
Mr. Turnbull also says: “It is the
policy of the court of Madrid to keep
tbe Island of Cuba in her dependence;
and this, it is supposed, can only be
done effectually by the salutary terror
inspired by the presence of a numerous, j
half-savage negro population. The
existence of such a population seems at
mice to justify and require the presence
of a peninsular army, which under the
command of a Captain-General enjoy
ing the confidence of the court, and
zealously aided by a numerous train of
public functionaries and empleados, pro
jlgces such a pressure oo Creole inter
ests, as to have hitherto deterred the
native inhabitants mom any open at
tempt to assert their independence.—
These public functionaries, with scarce- 1
ly any exception, are Europeans by:
birth, and therefore decidedly opposed
to a separation which would instantly
deprive them of all their emoluments.”
THE PHILADELPHIA RIOTS AGAIN.
From the Philadelphia Inquirer.
THE SECOND RIOT;
Quiet continued until about 6 o’clock
this, Wednesday, rooming, when the
ominous 8 taps of the State House bell
announced another riot. This second
outbreak commenced about 6 o’clock,
when the hose of the Morris hose com
pany, which was doing service at the
scene of action, was cut. This was the
signal for the rioters to commence an
assault. Brickbats and 9tones were
hurled by them at the firemen, and fire
arms were used with considerable ef
fect, several persons being wounded.
The Mayor, sheriff and police were
soon on the ground, and succeeded in
restoring order. Mayor Swift himself,
who arrived before the military, arrest
ed two men.
Approach of the Military. —The
military, which had been down at the
scene of the first riot, had returned up
on the restoration of quiet, and it was
some time before they could be collect
ed again for the suppression of the re
newed disorders. About 6A. M.,
however, they began to assemble in In
dependence Square. Many delays oc
curred, and it was nearly nino o’clock
when a body of five or six companies,
with their ranks but partly filled, march
ed to the scene of action. The whole
were under command of Gen. Patterson
and Col. Bohlen. Their approach to
St. Mary street soon became known to
tbe rioters, and by the time they came
upon the ground these had disappeared
into their various haunts. The compa
nies were assigned positions at the va
rious avenues leading to the scene of
riot, so as to command every approach
completely. The military are provided
with ball cartridges, and have full au
thority to fire upon any renewal of the
lawless and outrageous proceedings by
the rioters.
Arrest of the Leader. —The lead
er in this, and indeed, in the former ri
ot, is said to be a black man, named
George Hosey, formerly a head dog
catcher in the city employ—a big, pow
erful negro. About noon to-day he
was arrested, after making a most des
perate resistance. In the struggle with
the police he was considerably bruised
and beaten before he could be secured, j
From tbe Philadelphia Ledger.
The Riots— Deplorable Results;
—The Killed and Wounded. —We
resume the details of the riot from the
point at which our account of yesterday
broke off.
The rioters ascertaining that the mil
itary forces had retired, recommenced
their lawless acts, and by davlight, the
disturbance was raging furiously.—
Some of the rioters jumped the fence
above the California House, and set
fire to the frame building in the rear of
the open space, between it and the
dwelling above. The colored papula-,
tion residing in the vicinity commenced
moving, when even the females were
pelted with stones by the rioters while
carrying off articles of furniture. The
flames spreading tbe meanwhile, bro’t
firemen again to the spot. They sallied
down the street, and the rioters retreat
ing before them, the Phcrnix was put in
service. In a short time, however, the;
rioters returned, and let fljf a volley of
bricks, with discharges of fire arms,
and the members of the Phcecix were
forced to fly from their carriage. The
firemen, however, were reinforced by
citizens, and returning again to the fire,
the Good-Will and Phcenix were put
into service, and prevented the further
spread of the fire, which at this time
had communicated to a row of court
houses, running west from Sixth street,
the roofs of which were all damaged.
The Robert Morris Hose Company
had laid their hose for tbe purpose of
assisting in extinguishing the fire, when
the members were beaten off the car
riage, and it was takeu possession of
by the rioters, who ran off the hose,
(which was cut by them) and then car
ried off the apparatus into Moyamen
sing. It was afterwards restored to
the company by John Kneass and some
other watchmen of that district. The
hose of the Diligent Fire Company was
hacked with koives so as to be useless.
The State House bell tbe
signal for tbe assembling of the milita
ry. At this time Sixth street from Wal
nut to Lombard street, sod from Lom
bard to South, tbe battle of bricks sod
buckshot was going on with occasional
intennisssoos. By half-part 8 o’clock
the tumult hsd cessed, the rietors bav
uqg nearly all dispersed, sad those re
maining could not be distinguished from
the spectators with whom they were
mingled. Several persons were wound
ed in the affray* of whom tbe following
wnt itaittfii wit Hoapiui;
James Beasley, a member of the Per
severance Hose Company, received a
bell in his breast. He was conveyed
to the Hospital, where he remains in a
critical condition. He lived in the vi
i cmity of Broad and Arch streets.
Lawrence McShanc, while looking
out of the window of a house in which
his sister livid, was struck in the tem
j pie with a chance shot, and received a
severe wound which will probably prove
fatal.
A young medical student received a
ball in his thigh while looking on the
affray.
The following colored men were also
taken to the Hospital R. Randall,
badly hurt, shot in the back of bis head;
Chas. Anderson, stabbed in the thigh;
and George Tillotson, in the
breast.
A colored boy, in the employ of She
-1 riff Lelar, had three shots extracted
from his leg, which w*ere received while
passing Sixth and Lombard streets.
A young man, the son of Capt. Wal
ker, the keeper of a tavern in Seventh
below South, was wounded during
Tuesday night. A marble fired from a
musket struck a rib, and glancing, in
dieted a severe flesh wound. The mar
ble was extracted by Mr. Rizer.
The following is the verdict of the
coroner’s inquest upon the body of
l Charles Himmelwright: “Charles Him
melwright came to his death by a wound
in his breast inflicted by a musket ball,
which perforated the heart at the jnne
tion of the main artery —the weapon
j being in the hands of some persons un
known to the jury, on the night of the
9th of October, while the deceased was
in the discharge of his duties as a fire
man, during the riot at Sixth and St.
Mary streets.”
The coroner also held an inquest up
on the body of John Griffith, the color
ed boy, mentioned yesterday, as having
died at the Hospital from a wound in
the head, inflicted by a musket ball.—
The following is the verdict of the jury:
“That John Griffith came to his death
from a wound in his head by a ball from
a musket, fired in the hands of some
person unknown to the jury, on the
night of the 9th of Oct., during the riots
at the corner of Sixth and St. Mary
streets.”
Cornelius Speed, one of the election
judges in Sixth Ward, Southwark, was
struck on the forehead with a spent
ball. The injury was not serious.
The colored church in Lombard st.
below 6th, and the old church edifice at
Fifth and Gaskill streets, have been
converted into barracks for the use of
the military.
With the exception of several dis
charges of fire-arms in Moyamensing,
apparently intended for signals by the
rioters, no disturbance occurred last
evening. In visiting the scene of the
late disturbance, we found the streets
in the vicinity completely deserted, the
rain having had the effect of driving the
rioters as well as the spectators to their
homes.
McShane died at the hospital last
evening about dark. This makes the
third fatal case. He had arrived in
this country but a few weeks since, and
was making preparations to return, in
tending to start the last of this week.
Arrest for Rioting. —During Tues
day night and yesterday, thirty men
and boys, black and white, were arrest
ed and committed to the city lock up,
on the charge of having been engaged
in the riots. Five of them were subse
quently discharged. Those in custody
will have a hearing to-day or to-morrow.
The outbreak was one of those sud
sudden explosions of brutal passions,
which could not have been foreseen,
and owing to the employment of the po
lice force on duties incident to the elec
tion, could not be guarded against.—
Still the public authorities ofthe coun
try are justly censurable for allowing a
lawless gang of ruffians to gain, by im
punity for former frequent outrages, the
audacity that showed itself in the resis
tance they made to the laws on Tuesday
night. The rioters have been guilty of
the highest crimes known to the laws—
arson and murder—and we suggest
whether it is not the duty of the Gover
nor to immediately offer a reward for
the arrest and conviction of every indi
vidual known to have had a hand in the
outrage.
From the N. H. Independent OeuK>rra(.
SLAVE HOLDING CHRINTIANN.
It is difficult here at the North to be
lieve that the writer of the following is
a Christian Minister,” or that he is
not jesting in what he says of the ho
ly, wise and beneficent” institution of
slavery. It is difficult to conceive how
any men upon whom ha* ever beamed
toe light of modern civilization, can
thus talk in earnest of an institution
which tramples on the most sacred af
fections of the human heart, and anni
hilates those domestic relations to which
Christianity and civilization owe all
their efficiency to redeem the world.—
It is, however, with slavery as with oth
er sins. Those who make a gain of
the bones, sinews and souls of their'
fellow men, are the most hopeless vic
tims of their own crimes against God
and their race. We take the following
extracts from a long address in the Au
gusta iGs.) Republic, to tbe editors of
the Christian Review. The writer pro
fesses to be a clergyman, whose soul is
grieved at the abolition fanaticism
of Northern Christians in denouncing
the God-ordained institution:”
“And what is yet mors alarming,
(says this writer,) this foul spirit has
not only fallen upso and warpod the
judgment of your most distinguished
politicians, who, in prospect of human
greatness hare sought honor, on* of
another* said not tbs honor which com
sth from God only, who through their
miliin. «Miaf
JOHN DICK, prausHia
WHOLE NO. 96.
ged mountain of fame, have found au
time to examine minutely the lively or*
teles, and make themselves acquainted
with the God of the Bible; but this ao~
olilion fanaiici*m has also thrown its
pestilentisl vapors into the departments
of religion; and infected and bliodsd
the minds of many who profess to M*k
for the truth as it is in Jesus. Evan
many among you who occupy the sa
cred desk, instead of feeding th«ir
flocks with tho sincere milk of tits
word, desecrate thr Sabbath and its
services, in hurling towards Southern
slaveholders the poisoned shafts of ab
olition agitation which hew ever, fall not
upon themselves and their ocagrega
tions, proving in truth, to be a savour
of death unto death. For the conss
qseace is, as might be expected, that
those who undertake against tks
God of the Bible, roust tail in the con
flict. Many of the strong alobtion
minisUrs of the North, forsaken by tk*
restraining grace of God hete been per
mitted to fall into gi'OJs si.iz, and others
into open apostacy, or into the adoption
of some one of the prevailing heresies
abounding in the land of Edwards and
Dwight, once distinguished for cherish
ing the orthodox faith of the gospel.
We invito any, whe arc not bimd-
Icd to madness, to look into this holy,
wise, and merciful uurk if a beneficent
Creator. And in defending the eburac
terjof the Christian’s God, as the Au
thor or Southern Slavery, we onl)
ask tiiat its history may be traced. Go
back, then, into the wilds of Africa,
and see two of her savage tribes en
gaged in the din of deadly battle. The
one, and perhaps not the aggressor,
proves victorious iu the conflict. And
now the brooding spirit of the God of
mercy says to the conquering party, Do
not butcherjyour captives, though they
may have unjustly assailed you, and, if
conquering.. might have put you to
death and paved their yards with your
skulls, as many savage tribes of your
country ofteu do with their captured en
emies; but do you act upon the princi
ple of mercy and benevolence. Make
them your servants turn tln m into your
money —and then they will be grateful
to you, and you will love and protect
them. The divine influence prevailed
over their savage minds, the poor cap
tives, destined to destruction, were
spared by their conquerors, and be
came their kind and submissive slaves.”
The writer warms with his glowing
subject and begins to prophesy. He
seems to see his favorite system Ailing
our whole continent with its moral and
political aromatic. Hear bun:
I have no pretension to prnphetio
vision, but upon the t-iiowing of your
correspondent, our slaves are greatly
prospering, and the God of Heaven
has placed not only New but Old Mex
ico in such geographical and ciiniatical
juxta-position to our sunny South, that I
know not but when enlargement for
our slaves may require, he who hits ever
favored those walking under the banner of
truth and righteousness may open the
way in peace and good will too, for mi
peculiar instituion of Slavery ta
carry its blessings still farther West.
Ah! why, we ask, should it not be
destined to pass over the battle
fields of Mexico to the Halls of the
Montezuma* bearing thither this glori
ous banner, whose motto is glory to
God in the highest, on earth peace and
good will toward man. There not on
ly to give to all access to the true re
ligion, to raise the jtoor Peoii to an equal
ity with our slares in point of religious
privileges, but to unehacklc his mind
fettered in superstition, and elevate
him as a descendant of Jspheth, to a
position in the scale of intellectuality
far above the point beyond wmch the
sons of Canaan cun evci rise, with
God’s prophetic doom stamped upon
their physical and intellectual organa.
A YOl NGHEI'.O
A lnend relator to u> the following
fact, which would give its subject a wide
fame but for nu crime of a colored skin:
A boy about fifteen years ot ige, who
was formerly a slave in Virginia, has
resided for about three year.. with his
“youug master” in Baltimore but,
for some trifling offence, the slavehold
er resolved to send him again to Vir
ginia. The boy knowing that it would
lessen his chances for freedom, refused
to go. He was seized, and forcibly
thrust on board the steamboat for Nor
folk, to be sent to i'etersburgb, and so
closely watched till the boat had left,that
he could not escape. But despair could
not quench his love of liberty. Watch
ing his opportunity, when the boat was
well under weigh, and some two or three
miles from shore, he leaped overboard,
resolved to swim while he could, and
then resign himself to hi fate, w elcom
ing death rather than slavery Fortu
nately for the brave hoy, he soon dis
covered a floating plunk, and seizing it,
he sustained himself upon it to the shore,
and started for a land of liberty. Ev
ery generous heart will rejoice with
hirn that he has gained the rich blessing
he has so nobly earned. But (be cheek
of every American should tingle with
shame to know that FIVE Hf'NDRED
DOLLARS has been offered by tbs
kidnapper for the recapture of his young
hero, and h»s return into slavery.—
Thanks to the free hearts of the North,
whose humanity is stronger than coo*
stitutioß* and law s, he is beyond the
reach of the man-thief. Who would
be so base or cowardly as to refuse a
welcome to this young freeman, to obey
either compact or statute, or tbo sol
emn teachings of the pulpit Let ev
ery true mao ask this question when
tempted to join a government which
makes mercy to a fugitive slave a crime.
From the Liberator.
Public Reception
On Thursday evening, September the 2Tth,
a public meeting was convened in the spacious
an 1 elegant concert-room in Store street, I>>n
don, for the purpose of greeting .\N
Brown on hut arrival in England, as the rep
resentative of the free jrersons of color in the
United States, and to afford that gentleman
an opportunity of gtving information relative
to the present position of the ami-slavery cause
hia native land.
The hali was crowded m every part by a
highly respeetahle audience. The Chair was
occupied by the venerable leader in the cause
of temperance in the metropolis, Dr. Oxlev,
of Hackney, who was supported by Georg*-
Thompson, Esq., M- i’., 'he Rev. \V Brock,
(the distinguished Baptist Minister,) H. 1.
Atkinson, E*q., the Honorary .Secretary o!
the National Reform Association, D. McDon
nell, an active.and influential member of the
Council of the Reform League VV H. Ash
hurst, Sen., of the Common Council of the
City,) the Rev. Mr. McCree, W. Ge**siu.
E-q., W. Farmer, Esq., Messrs. Gosbel!
Mollett, McElvilcy, Ac., Ac., Ac.
Dr. Oxley, in opening tiie proceedings
*a.d I'he ohj*-cl oi our meeting te-nlgh
will be fully stated by that warm, excelleu
and devoieil ftwnd of humanity, Gemg*
Thompson (loud aid prolonged cheering)
but before 1 call wpon that gentleman, I wisl
to make an nbservat on or two upon a aubjec
which has been lately brought to my notice
relative lo my excellent lnend I cai! him so
for I had the pleasure and honor oi being vs
sircialcd with him in London, and he has heei
an inmate of iny house —I allude to halite
Mathew. (liar, hear, and marks oi <Sisap
probation 1 am sorry to learn that he ha
not had the m< ral courage to stand lor war*
m America, and lift tip Ins voice against tin
cry nig national sin of slavery. (Cheers.)
in my estimation, such conduct is a blot upoi
the character ot Father Mathew, and it In
were here, 1 would teli him so. (Cheers.
1 love teeiotalisrn as dearly as father Math
CW does; but if he were present, and couf
hear inv voice, I, as a teetotaler, would tel
him that I considered his recent conduct a
the greatest hlot that could be affixed to hi
character, (Hear, hear.) Having been ill
companion of Father Mathew during his mis
Sion hi London, 1 have felt myself bound t
make ihis statement. (Loud cheers.)
Mr. Thompson then came fmwaid. H
begged to introduce Mr. Brown as a man i
every respect worthy of the confidence
that assembly, He (Mr Thompson) had fn
soiin- years marked, through the public papers
thccourse oi Mr. Brown in the foiled fetales
and had seen him devoting his energies lo tli
cause of ins enslaved brethren. On visiunj
England, Mr. Brown had brought with bin
a letter which he (Mr: T.) would shortly la;
before the meeting; it was from the Brest
dent of the Ametican Anti-Tlavery Societ;
Society—a :i an (said Mr. T.) of whom
can never speak but n terms of the highes
admiration, and for whom I have long cherish
ed an ardent and sincere affection, which
cannot imagine any circumstance will eve
have the power to diminish. 1 reler to tha
undaunted vindicator of the rights of humani
ty m America, William Lloyd Garrison—
(enthusiastic cheering)—a man v. ho, twent;
years ago, upon ins bended knees, devote
Ins powers and faculties to the cause of th
slave, and registered a vow,that while ii
could obtain biead and water, he would n*
cease to labor for the abolition of the uecurse
custom of man-stealing and slavery in his nc
live country. That vow lie has observed wit
a fidelity which has never been exceeded b
that of any reformer who evet appeared t
bless the world. He has labored on, throng
obloquy, peril and scorn, and lias now ill
satisfaction of knowing that the cause he t
early espoused is advocated by tens ol thou:
aads throughout! America. To Mr. Gun
son belongs the honor of having, to a grei
extent, revolutionized the public sentiment*
the free States of America. Hereafter h
name will appeal first among the benefacto
of ins country hut even now he comman*
the respect of all who admire incorruptible n
tegnt y and unbending principle, and rejoices
the love and affection oi those who hat
become associated with him in his works
mercy, and have witnessed the hourly cons*
ecralion of his talents to the good oi inai
kind. (Loud cheers.) Mr. Thompson lilt
read the teller ot Mr. Garrison, which spoli
very highly of the moral character and mte
lectual abilities of Mr. Brown. He (M
Thompson) knew too well the teelmgs oi
British audience to doubt for an instant the n
tore of the reception which that assemb
would give to Ins friend and brother when I
rose. (Cheers.) lie (Mr. B row ii) was tl
leg tinritc and national representative ot tl
saves arid the free people of color in tin I t
ted {states. Let your welcome to Mr. Brow
(said Mr. Thompson) be less an act ot kin
n and hospitality l<> him, than a public at
n&t onal recognition ol the claims ot thr*
millions ot slaves to their lost freedom a<
the rights ot humanity. Let the hand v.
gi>e to Mr. Brown, be given as to the GbO
000 free persons of color scattered over tl
Western, Northern and Eastern ISiai<», win
though not property, as are the slaves, ai
compelled to feel the weight ot a chain i
galling, almost, as that which is worn by th
bondmen of the South—l iefcr to the lettci
that are forged by prejudice. Belt* Id. tliei
in our friend, the representative of those i
America, who, no matter what tLeir virtues
their talents, or their piety, are the victims
a cruel, inhuman and unchristian pnjudic
against the color of their skin.
Mr. Thompson was litre interrupted b
loud cries of no, no,’ uttered Unto ihe t,od
of tire ball by a gentleman of somewhat ans
to ratic appearance ai d military bearing
weatmg a black moustache.
Mr. Thompson. I find there is a d-sen
tient in the hall. I wi'l therefore justify wha
I have asserted by facts of the most receu
date. We have a fugitive from slavery fieri
to-night of him I will say nothing he iiu
age and can speak for hims€;t, Some t.u*
ago there was another fugitive from Amen
can slavery amongst us a man who bad beei
horned by blood-hounds in the Southern {State
of America but who. animated by a buininj
detire for liberty, and guided by the poor
providence of God and the rays of the Nortf
Star, touched at last the son of Maosaehu
setts, where, thanks to the lieroic lab*rs ol
Mr. Garrison and his coadjutors, the slave
holder is now in more danger than the slave.
This man came to this country. Though
there is not an orator in England by whose
pads that man would appeal to disadvantage
—ihoujli richly endowed by nature, and hit
native tftlenia tnlttvatcd by practice since h»
scape from slavery—thoughwielding an at
most divine |MMBer for cbanfirig at once tb<
judgn«Mrt»* and feeling* of hi* bearer*—tba
man wan, even in the poHahed cuie* of th*
free State* of America, dragged from th*
railway car*—classed w ith hotae* and pig* or
I *ard steamboat-, and excluded from alliht
usual placet of public resort a* a proscribed
and hated negro. (Loud cries of Shame.*)
On hi* way to this country, he was subjected
|to ihc most brutal treatment at the hande ot
Ins white countrymen, who were his fellow
passengers and though while here he
entertained a* a distmguiahed guest by the
Mayors ot metropolitan cities, yet, no toonc
did he again come in contact with hi* pale
faced countrymen, though it was on ihe deck
of a British Mail Steamer, than he was rob
bed of the berth for which he had paid ;—ex
cluded from the table of the Saloon balush
ed fiom the quarter-deck, and seot, like a pa
riah or a leper, to live in solitude until the
veißil readied its destination. (Groans, his
ses, and cries of Shame.') But 1 will take
a still more recent case. Perhaps the honor
able gentleman who tntetrupted me has as
cended, as 1 have done, the magnificent Hud
son, in one of those floating palaces which
ply upon that river?
The gentleman. I hive.
Mr. Thompson. ery good; well, the
man of whom I have been speaking, and thai
man is Frederick Douglass—(loud cheers)
I perceive you have not forgotten my friend
i how could you 1 No one who has ever hsien
ed to the thrilling tones of his voice can evet
forget him. Did that man possess a white
skin, he would take Ins star.d by the side oi
the Clays, the Bentons, the Everetts and the
1 Wcbsters of his country and he is worthy
to do so. But God has chosen, w ithout leave
i asked and obtained from the President ot
J America, to give him a colored -complexion,
and for this lie was only a few short months
j ago, treated worse than a cur would have
i been treated, on board one ot the Hudson
steamers. Coming down from Albany to
h _ New York, in company with two English
friends—ladies of accomplished manners, and
i> high respectability in ibis city he was, from
six in the morning until the arrival of the
e boat at New York, compelled to fast, being de
nied, with insult and brutality, even a biscuit,
t by the stewards of the vessel. (Loudcriesol
r Shame.*) Yet, the gentleman now presr ni
denies the existence of a cruel and inhuman
p.ejudice against color. Has he never seen
b d boa id over the entrance to a place of public
l amusement in Ameiica with these words, No
i dogs nor negroes admitted Is not the col
ored man exiled to the Negro's pew,’ in the
building called the bouse of God? Has he
i never heard of the ‘Jim Crow Car, altache<l
I to the railway train. Is he ignorant of the
t paitial or entire exclusion of colored men
from the rights of citizenship in the ftee
I States? Will he assert that the schools of
i Massachusetts, supported by the taxes ot the
i people, are open to colored children as well as
i white I know not whether our dissentient
fm nd is or is not a citizen of the United
i Suites, but he tells me has been in that coun-
II try, and tie must therefore know full well,
e that there is not anything more notorious oi
e UU)re obvious than the existence and constant
,l manifestation of prejudice against color. 1
il 1 the gentleman still denies this fact, and wil
ascend this platform, and state the case as lit
ti views it, I will promise him an attentive hear
V ing, and will debale with him the question ai
o issue. He shall find in me a courteous anc
h honorable, though a fearless and uncomprom
e i s m g opponent. (Loud cheers and cries o
Oi‘Go to the platform.’) Let me now again re
i- refer to Mr. Brown, and ask you to prove, by
i- youi reception of him, your love for the causi
uof itmse he comes to represent. There car
if be nothing more effectual done to aid tha
is cause than to welcome fugitives from slavery
's amongst uk, and thus show to the America!
Is people that the very human beings whou
i- they place upon the auction block, and sell ai
ii cattle, whom they hunt with bloodhounds ant
e lacerate with cart-whips, and brand with ho
>f irons, and degrade belo.v the level of human
j iVi are recognized here as men and brethren
i- and their society preferred before that of tin
11 most intellectual and worthy of the oppress
e ors. (Loudcheers.)
*J,nud calls from all parts of the meeting fo
r. the American apologist to ascend the plattorm
a w Inch request he at first declined to accedi
to, Init ultimately, at the solicitation of th.
Chairman, the gentleman accepted the invi
taiion, and, amidst loud cheers, took his sea
ie near Mr. Thompson. Having been calle.
i t forward by the Chairman to address the meet
ing, he rose and slated that his name was
Geo. Jones—that he would yield to n<
man m eiihu-r hemisphere in his love of liber
tv in i’s most enlarged sense. He was ai
S- Englishman by birth, as his name certified
,i but bad lived m Boston, in America,for eight
ee i years. He there ore from that platforn
bad some right lo be considered as addressing
d t urn wilb truth as well as Mr. Thompson.—
u The negaiive wliich he (Mr. Jones) had giv
en to Mr. Thompson was on t matter of fact
and if he had misunderstood the honorabU
sp-aker, lie was soirv lor it; allpeisons wert
liable lu e*r in hearing as well as in speaking
e hut he had understood Mr. Thompson dis
s ic.clly to say, that in the Eastern States oi
Amer c-i, the prejudice against the colorec
people was as galling —that was the phras*
—as slavery itself; aud he made a eompaii
i, son between the slavery of the Sou then
States and the prejudice of the others.
Mi. Thompson. That is coned.
1 J
f Mr. Jones said, if so, he would deny it from
personal observation. Mr. Daniel Webslet
e was tns (Mi. Jones) personal Inend, and the
last glass of wine lie took the day before he
y ft America in the drawing-room of Mr.
Webster. He (Mr. Jones) said di9tmciiy,
tit it the coloied pdoplc nevet did pass through
the city of Boston meeting with frowns from
the Americans, and tie called on Mr. Brown,
—in testimony to whom tie (Mr. Jones)
would join hands with the meeting, —but he
called up*/n hnu to contradict the assertion.
1 The anniversary of Amencan Independence
i was on the 4th day of July, and the
anniversary of the abolition of slavery
in the State of Massachusetts was on
’lie 14th of July, and he would call upon Mr.
i Brown to state whether the colored people
mere bad not iheu pi occasion on that day h>r
i celebrating their emancipation, ten days after
’tic anniversary ot the Declaration of Inde
pendence. That fact tie would dare the gen
Berrien to negative in reply. He would alsu
I give another proof of the non-exutence of
prejudice against color, which Mr. Thomp-
Mjn, with all tua eloquence, could not gainsay
he alluded to the fact that ihe chaplain of the
-Senate ol M-maachuseit* was changed every
r non ill, and the minister* were taken in roia-
Utlon and the Rev. Mr. Paul, whom they,
must all koow, aince they vindicated the nc-’
gro, was a negro preacher in Boston, and 1
never desecrated hi* polpitby receiving a
vyhiut SMfi into h—ltttt that Vtdowd pram her j
had a seat io tire Senate of the coontry, *wi
op hit prater* to God in charily. H*
(Mr Jones) had beet attracted by the trow
‘Freedom’ at the 40or of the meeting, and
bad therefore entered It, and he declared that
the state of the negro in the East wa* not aa
gal'ing a-« in the South. He made that de
claration not only before that meeting, but be
fore his God. He aaaerted that the charge
was the meeting would pardon himi:
he would not utteT the word In* heart woulo
dictate, for lie te mem be rod be waa before a
public assembly. He had also
years in the South, in uginia, and had been
entertained there by gentlemen, although they,
knew he was oppoaed to slavery on pnnoiple-
He was not less happy in his residence there
slaves there had bought their freedom:
there woiked as mechanics they had Satur
day for tbetr overwork, and their time was
paid for in gold aod in the savings bank
ny ot them had enough to purchase their free
dom, but they would not do it. This was
the case of Col. Myer*s tobacco manufactory,
w hich had 300 colored people in it. He (Mr.
Jones) abbot red slavery on principle, but lie
objected to misrepresentation. When Mr.
Charles Dickens published lus wotk on Amer
ica, some years since, be had stated that it
w as a common practice of the slaveholders to
pod out the teeth of their slaves as a punish
ment for having stigmatized the Americans
in that manner, he (Mr. Jones) had refused
to give his hand to that excellent writer.
trusted the meeting would pardon him for
having expressed himself warmly; while be
was an Englishman here, he was also a citi
zen of the United States. Hi* public life
w as his pledge for him .that in England and
America, he had endeavored, on all occasions,
to defend the wronged and vindicate the op
pressed, and he was doing so at that time.—
He had come as a stranger to the meeting,
having no right to the platform. [Hear.]
He thanked Mr. Thompson for his courtesy,
and the Chairman for his fait play in having
given him an opportunity to make that speech.
He only rose to vindicate his negative to thej
statement made by Mr. Thompson relative to
the poiats he had refetred to with that ex
ception, he had given the same British hearty
applause which throughout they had given to
the noble sentiments of his opponent.
Mr. Thompson rose and said,he could neith
er retract nor modify a single word he had
i uttered respecting the prejudice against color
hi the United Slates. (Cheers.) Notwith
btanding what Mr. Jones had said of Boston,
e r Thompson) would arflira that even in
i that city, the colored man was the victim of a
pieiudice, which in its effect upon the mind of
a sensitive and educated person was .as gall
ing as slavery itself to one of less susceptible
mind. (Cheers.) Let us, he continued, try
Boston by a test which, better than any other,
perhaps, will decide the question between me
and my opponent. If there is a place on
which men should assemole as on a common
level; from winch pride and prejudice should
be banished; where conventional distinctions
should, tor the ume, be obliterated, that place
is the sanctuary —for there tve meet as the
children of one father, and as heirs of the
same promise. "VV heiher as sinners or saints,
we aie equal, and the consciousness of com
mon necessities and common hopes should
leaeh us to fling away the prejudices and pre
possessions w Inch we are prone to cherish in
ihe world. How stands the case in Boston I
Why, 1 will undertake to say, that there is
not a church in that city, unless one formed
tm anti-slavery principles, in which a colored
man can hold anduccupya pew in the body ol
the building erected for public worship. An
1 instance did once occur of a colored citizen
becoming the proprietor of a pew, but his ap
pearance in it threw the whites into conster
nation, and the man and his family were per
seemed until the property was relinquished.
Mr. Jones cannot point me to a religious de
nomination in Boston, that, as such, hai
opened ns doors to the colored man, and ad
mitted him on terms ot perfect social equality
Episcopalians, Presbyterians, Congregational
lsis, Methodists, Baptists, Unitarians, Swe
denborgians, and Uuiversahsts, are aliki
guilty in this matter. And if such is the ex
ample set by professing Christians, what cai
we expect from those who have no reverenci
for religion, and no respect for the principle!
of Christianity
Mr. Brown, on coming forward, was greet
ed with loud applause, which lor a lime pre
vented him from proceeding. He presume*
they had all heard something of the 4 pecu
liar institution’ of America, from which h
had so unceremoniously giaduated. (Laugh
ter.) In the first place, what was the slaver;
of the United States? So much was sail
about American democracy, American repub
licanism, American philanthropy, and Amer
ican Christianity, that when American slave
ry was spoken of, people generally suppose
that slavery, amid all those glorious institu
tions which they heard so much about, mut
be rather better than slavery in any other poi
tion of the world. But what was the fact
Was it so Why, the slave of the Unite
States w as a chattel a thing, a saleable cotr
mod itv, without any legal right to own him
self, oi to receive the avails of his labor; dt
pnved of the privilege of protecting bimsel]
bis wife or children. He spoke not from the
I ory or hearsay, but from actual experience
when he thus described the workings of th
j slave system in America. He was not onl
i an American slave, but the son ot an Amer
1 can slaveholder and they would see in th
latter fact another hideous feature of th
damning system of slavery. (Hear, hear.
The slave in the United States was unprotee
ed by law or public sentiment, and occupie
the same position as a man’s horse or dog.-
In Si. Louis, from which he had escaped, th
horse in fact received more protection than Ih
slave, lor if the quadruped was unmercifull
beaten, an action might be brought against th
man for the offence but it a slave was flog
1 ged with however much severity, a cry wj
j immediately raised among the bv-standert
'‘Give it the nigger! give it him!’ (Heai
hear.) If awlave feels that God has give
him a right to occupy a higher position tba
merely toiling for the man who claims to ow
both bis body and soul, aod attempts to mak
bis escape, ihe bloodhounds are put upon hi
track, and if caught, he is dragged back agai
into slavery, thrown into a dungeon, torturec
and finally aold from his wife and chiidrer
and sent lo be worked upon a cotton, sugai
nr rice planUi:on in Louisiana or Miasissipp
1 (Hear.) The Constitution of the Unite
States made a man in Boston a slaveholder i
common with John C. Calhoun of Sout
Carolina. Every citizen of the Unite
Stales was bound by the Constitution of th
country, in the event of the slaves atterap
ingto get their liberty, to take up the rauski
and shout down those poor slaves. The la<
of 1793 gave the slaveholders a right to g
mio the free States to catch slaves and dra
them back again to bondage. Why, as l
Boston, the citizens of that place, only si
vears ago, paid $4OO for the purchase
George Laitimer, as he was being dragge
away, within the very sight of Bunker Hil
t<> slavery in Virginia. Another law forbad
the men of Boston to feed escaped slaves ui
der a penally of 500, and the costs of ptm
t ecuiion. The Americans bad introduce
slavery into Mexico, w here it had before bee
abolished, and were at that time attempting!
get possession of Cuba, for the same parpoa
of extending the slave system. In Cuba, th
Americas prejudice against color dad notes
iat, and colored men were allowed to fill post
in the army and elsewhere. He had been re
fused a passport to come to Europe, whic
the American Secretary told him waa neve
granted except to the servants ot diplomat!
agents, while at the same time a regala
pasaport waa grantedao the boot-black of i
slaveholding Judge who was goiaf oat as Coe
aul to Naples.
Mr. Btrewn then narrated several fieri aj
instance* of prejudice against color, io eoofii
maima of Mr. Thumpaoo's assertion, wbici
Mr. Jones had denied. Io Rowe street cbntci
in Boston, which had not been bail! abovi
two years, it »n provided in the dead, that i
a paw waa apU to a soiorU mas, the mk
should be nail ted vdi. [A p
judico against color is that. Mr. J—f>.') Tbe
■sine exclusive, degrading and gm securing
system prevailed is repaid to edufominn, tbe
children of colored peraooa bt-ing exdodtd
from ibe common school*- enes
of ‘Shame'’ ‘Ns prejudice id that. Hr.
Jooeet*
Alluaion (acid Mr. Brown) was made a!
tbe commencement of tbe meeting to the la
mentable cooductof Father Matthew. [Hear,
bear. A voice—‘Give it him!’ Laughter.]
No one regrets more than I do that he should
have thrown his io(fiuei)ce into the scale of
American slavery. [Hear, bear.] The cir
cumstance proves, however, the baleful effect*
which slavery exeits over every individual
who cornea within tbe sphere of ha influence.
Here is a man who, in 1812, in conjunction
with Daniel O’Connell. **°l f° rl b an address
to America, signed by 70,000 Irishmen, cal
liog upoQ ikeir countrymen in the United
States to take sides with the abolitionists, and
have nothing at all to do with pro-alavery peo
ple, as far as their influence was concerned
telling them that the abolitionists were the
friends of the negro, and calling upon them to
join them bean and hand; and telling them,
moreover, that they must oot even keep neu
tral, for there was no neutral ground upon the
anti-slavery platform. (Hear.) That man
goes to America, breathes its corrupting air,
and mark! —in a moment he is paralyzed he
can do nothing whatever for the poor slave
whom he had before recommended to the zeal
ous support of his countrymen in the United
-States. (Hear.) He was called upon by the
slave, in the pernors of the Anti-Slavery
Committee, to attend a t irst of August meet
ing in celebration of that British West India
Emancipation which he himself had labored to
bring about. What aashis reply? ‘lcannot
commit myself while in Amenca.’ (Loud
groans, his&s, and marks of disapprobation.)
The slave comes upon his bended knees to
this Irish apostle, and tells him that his wife
has been torn from him and carried into the
most miserable bondage reminds him, ‘You
called upon your Irish brethren in America to
stand fast by the Abolitionists we now only
ask you to practice in America what you
preach in Ireland.’ He turns round and says,
he cannot have anything at all to do with
j anti-slavery in America! (Hear.) And why I
He had a few days before received an invita
tion from our slaveholding President to be
come his guest while visiting Washington.—
(Hear, hear, hear.) Yes, he had received
an invitation to the White House and he im
mediately throws himself and his influence in
to the of the elave power. Samson was
never more thoroughly shorn of his physical
strength by throwing himself into the lap o(
Delilah, than was Father Matthew shorn o!
his moral influence by his apostacy to the an
ti-slavery cause. (Loud cheers.) The man
who in Ireland, seven years ago, said thai
slavery was a high-handed sin, has found out,
since he has reached America, that there is
nothing in Scripture against slaveholding.—
(Cries of‘shame.’) It might not be just in
me to express my warm feelings upon that
point, and therefore 1 will quote your own
Cowper, who has said,
Of all the arts sagacious dupes invent.
To cheat themselves, and gain the world’s assent,
'1 he worst is Scripture warped from its intent.
Those men go wrong who with ingenious skill
Bend the straight rule to their own crooked will,
And will) a clear and shining light supplied,
First put it out, then take it for their guide.’
(Cheers.) He (Mr. Brown) had been asked
why he had come to England! His answer
was, in the first place, that he might, for the
the first time in his life, stand upon a soil that
was really Iree. (Cheers.) He wanted to
see the people who had knocked off the chains
from 800,000 of his brethren in slavery. Oh,
what a glorious atmosphere was England
Just tbe very breathing of it so expanded the
limbs of the slave that the chains that had
hound him for thirty years burst asunder He
wished that every slave and slaveholder in
America could see that meeting. Aoothei
reason why he came to England was to agi
tate the question, and endeavor to build up
public sentiment there so that Englishmen
would say to Americans, ‘lf you wish to be
1 thought ol as other nations, never again send
a slaveholder to represent you in the Court ol
1 St. James.’ He wanted a public sentiment
raised up in England, which should point the
finger of scorn at ev<-ry slaveholder who dared
to pollute its soil. The welcome which the
1 people of England had extended to him (Mr
Brown) would be appreciated by the 3,000,
i 000 slaves and the 600,000 colored freemer
as an honor done to them. All men had no l
t acted as Father Matthew had. There wa;
1 one man who, fifteen years ago, went fron
that country to America to agnate the ques
tion of slavery, and although he rose oru
morning and found, in the pious city of Bos
1 ton, a gallows erected before his door, as i
warning to him to stop agitation upon tha
t subject, yet he refused to close his lips upor
the question, and in the meeting that g;we hiir
(Mr. Brown) a farewell in Boston upon leav
1 ing America, three of the loudest, longest
and heartiest cheers that were given on tha
occasion, went up for that man —and that mar
was George Thompson! (Loud and prolong
ed cheering.)
Mr- Brown concluded a long and most elu
quent speech amidst reiterated cheers.
B The following resolutions, drawn up by
y Mr. Farmer—the first moved by H. T. Atkin
son, Esq-, and seconded by W H. Ashurst,
e Esq.; the second moved by D. McDonnell
e Esq., and seconded by William Geesin, Esq
—were adopted with cordial unanimity
Resolved, That this meeting tenders its
d warmest, and most cordial congratulations u,
Mr. William Wells Brown upon his arrival
e in England, bevond the reach of the American
e man-stealer. That, animated by the common
y feeling of Englishmen, they indignantly repu
e diate the doctrine of the inferiority of the Af
rican race, and on behalf of this nation public
s ly give to Mr. Brown, as a representative ol
f his oppressed people, an unreserved recogm
tion of his right to perfect social, political and
n religious equality a right received from the
n hands of his Creator, but of which he was
n impiously robbed by nominal Republicans and
e Christians in Amenca. That having, in the
providence of God, achieved his own deliver-
D ance from slavery, and resolved to consecrate
tbe emancipated energies of his mind, and the
influence of his moral character, to the cause
of the redemption of bis three million of breth
ren in bonds, this meeting welcomes him to
d the metropolis of England, and bids him God
n speed in bis holy mission on both aides of the
Atlantic.
Resolved, That in the deliberate and deci
e ded opinion of ibia meeting, the claim of pr«>p
erty in man, either as practically asserted in
the Slave Stales of the American Union, or
as conventionally abetted in the free, is a fear
-0 ful invasion of the prerogative* of God, and
E wholly incompatible with the religion ot
Christ, whether professed by individuals or
communities. That while anxiously desirous
'J of rendering a full and respectful acknow led 6
mem of whatever is honorable in tbe national
character of a people having a common origin
e with themselves, the lequirements of truth
h and justice demand from Englishmen a sor
r rowful but empbatie declaration, that ihe eon
d sttuiuonal aad legislative establishment ol
9 slavery, in any country, is a virtual deotruc
u tion of its claim to be regarded by the world
e as a really free, independent and enlightened
8 nation. That this meetiog cordially aympa
ibises with the self-sacrificing efforts of ihe
American Anti-Slavery Society, and ezpress
e* a fervent hope that ita exertions may speed
-1 ily issue in tbe removal of this national stigma
r from the American character.
E
r Aii Oajcuui. Wax.—The following is a
1 copy of a will left by a man who chose to bo
his own lawyer;
This is the last will of me, John Thomas.
1 give all my things to my relations, to
bo divided among them the beat way they
eaa.
i “N. B.—lf anybody lucks op a row, or
makes any fmm about it, ho iaa’t to have
“ffiSgwd hymn, Jo* Tmui n
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER. OCTOBER 26. 1849.
TW NaiMi Le»«w.
It is astonishing an 4 mortifying that the
people of all others under the broad canopy ol
beaten, who ought to be the moat united, pre
sent to the world the leant evidence of that
union. Smarting under wrongs, and denied
rights which should cause all bearta to throb
together, as the heart of one man, in a com
mon effort to redress those wrongs, and to
achieve those rights, we are yea a disunited,
separated, and scattered people, and we pre
sent to the world no grand movement, nor
comprehensire scheme fot bettering onr con
dition.
Without wishing to censure unjustly, or
to compare unwarrantably, we do think,
that a cause like ours, were it in the hands ol
any other people, would certainly rally
larger numbers, excite a deeper interest, and
obtain a belter sup|>ort than now falls to its
lot. It is always grievous to be compelled
to speak in disparagement of an oppressed
people: if we ever do so, it is with a view
of inciting them to make the needful exer
tions for their deliverance and this is the
only apology we deem necesary.
There is not an intelligent colored man in
the land who does not know that the colored
people in this country need organization and
it has been a cause of deep grief to the noble
minded among us that no efToit has been made
for a general organization, by which the mor
al power of our people could be made avail
able to our cause. Go where we will we
hear a general lament that we are a disuni
ted people yet how few there are who have
the energy and the will to remedy the evil of
which all su readily complain.
On the 10th of August last, we suggested
the rough outline of a Constitution, which
should serve as a landmark to those of our
people, who are desirous to secure an
union of the oppressedfor the sake of free
dom,” and although a few among u 3 have
readily and wholly responded to our sugges
tion, the overwhelming mass have remained
silent as the grave on the subject. The Im
partial Citizen,” e dited by a colored man. did
not even notice it. The Ram's Horn.” hau
been dumb over it. Very few of our public
men have, as yet, given to the idea the slight
est encouragement. Pittsburgh, that should
always be ready to speak, as she always has
an opinion, has been silent. Cincinnati!, con
taining a colored population as intelligent,
active, and wealthy as any in the country,
has not lisped a word, pro or con, on the sub
ject. New York, as usual, has nothing to
say.
What can be the cause of this apparent in
difference Can it be that the professions of
regret with which we meet, from time to
time, that there is not an union among the
colored people, are false and hypocritical
Can it be that the profession is put forth
merely as a cloak for indifference and indo
lence? We cannot believe it. The true rea
son of the apparent general apathy and uncon
cern with which the idea of a National League
has been received by the people, must be
lound in the fact, that the subject has not been
(airly brought before them. Our leading men
have not taken it up, nor pressed its impor
tance upon them. In addition to this, we
have reason to believe that sectarianism is
not among the least of the causes of the hes
itation and coldness with which the move
ment has been received. Colored people, m
common with white people, have their differ
ent religious creeds and sects to support—
nor are we disposed to quarrel with them on
that account; but when they allow their re
ligious differences to stand in the way of prop
er efforts for their enfranchisement, they, at
1 once, become suitable objects for exposure
and rebuke.
There isnothing, necssanly, in a difference
of religious opinions, to divide us on subjects
pertaining to our civil, social, and political
rights and relations but, in the causes that
separate us, there is something more difficult
and bitter than mere differences of religious
opinions —it is the bigotry of sect —so nar
row and neat-sighted that it can see good no
where beyond the limits of its own particular
communion. It is this ignorance and intole
rance that stand directly in the way of that
union so devoutly to be wished” for.
There is that among us, as among other peo
ple, which leads us to reject a thing, good tn
itself, merely because the person, or the par
ty bringing it forward may entertain opinions
on other subjects not stamped with orthodoxy.
We have among us, our little Popes and
Bishops, who claim and assume to decide lor
the colored people what shall be the religious
opinions of those who undertake to instruct
them. Such men love the uppermost seats
in the synagogue, and they will have tliem oi
they will have will have nothing. But it is
not our purpose to give an expose of the hin
drances with which oar ptoposed movement
must contend. We see no impediments but
what may be easily removed. It is impossible
to keep a people asunder for any long time,
wbo are so strongly and peculiarly identified
together, when there i* a vigorous effort nude
to unite them. We shall never despair of
our people—an union shall yet be effected
our ranks cannot always be divided. The in
juries which we mutually suffer —the con
tempt in whieh we are held —the wrongs
which we endure, together with a sense of
our own dignity as men, must, eventually
lead ua to combine. It will one day, become
obvious to all, that the evils that afflict ua all,
require the united strength of all for their xe
moval. At preseoi we as a people, do uot feel
nor see this. We have not yet learaed the j h
losophy of reform —nor the appreciation of
moral forces. There are many among us
who easily perceive the change going oo in
oar condition and eitcumetaneea, bo* wbo
have not the meat remote conception of the
means by whieh this change ia effected. Of
the action of mod upon mind they are whol
ly ignorant. Tell such persons that's well
written address, emanating from a colored
mao, setting forth the wrooga of his people,
aod pleading for their rights, serves to ele
vate and improve the condition of the whole
cobred population aod tbs thing ia so en
tirely above their eomprebenaioo, that it does
not avaa raw in their eaumauoa to the dignity
of an idle tala. TeU them that a grand con
vention of oolored persona, amamhlad frets
all quarters ef the Northern States, in one el
ear large cities, with its proceedings efcsr
■nterimd by imeftigence, canortaess, tad
vMMM tummaod a Infer share of re
|*b3L *»f m$ wkole people ihta is now ext wa
led m ufl; and they cannot understand it.
n*y pan tasilr see tint m man can be knock
►d do wo by brute force; that, if the saves
•me ibje to conquer the country they might
«c free; but they cannot comprehend that by
ihanging the moral sentiment of the nation,
»e change it* institutions.
Ot course in the formation of the National
league, it will be idle to iouk to this class
or co-operation. The success of th* nwvc
nent will drpend entirely upon the intelligent
uid philanthropic portion ofourpeopk. To
his class we shall look; —it is upon tlieit
norsl and intellectual power that the league
must rely ;—since it is they alone who can
?*ert any considerable influence upon the pub
lic mind. To this class, therefore, urc appeal.
Let us hear from th>m. Let no one hesitate
10 speak because he may think he sees insur
mountable difficulties in the way of the move
ment. We uant discussion —tee t cant ac
tion —ihe former must precede the latter.
We call upon Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, New
York and Boston, to hold public meetings,
and to express their opinions freely on the
wisdom and desirableness of such a combina
tion as that proposed under the title of the
Rational League.'' Philadelphia, Chicago,
Buffalo and Albany hare already spoken, and
will undoubtedly, stand ready to give the
measure their warmest and most energetic
support. A Grand Convention in which
these cities with others, are largely represen
ted by the wise and the good, would pruduce
a thrilling effect and a lasting impression on
the public mind.—/. d.
Education among the Coloied People.
One of the most gratifying and encoura
ging signs of the times is the interest at pres
ent manifested in the important work of ed
ucation among the colored people. The time
was when this subject scarcely excited any
attention among our white fellow country men.
When they could say the negro ought to he
tiee, they felt that they had uttered a radi
cal and philanthropic sentiment, but as the
cause of emancipation progresses, and human
rights and human duties become belter under
stood, something more than the mere act o
emancipation is now thought to be due to thii
jong neglected and deeply injured people.
Our attention has been directed to this sub
ject by a circular, emanating from a uumbe
of philanthropic ladies of Farmington, whicl
document the reader will find on the outsidt
of tikis week's North Star.”
With the object of this committee wemos
cordially sympathise; the work which the;
have undertaken is an important one. for o
all the people under the broad blue sky wh
stand in need of the advantages of educa
tion, the colored people of this couutr
are pre-eminent. Surrounded by a peopl
j possessing every facility for improvement, ih
disparity between us and them is, alone
j source of great pain and unhappiness; bu
when we add to this the fact that w e are com
pelled by a bitter prejudice to follow the mos
menial and the least lucrative employment
for a living, and that we are the constant ob
■jects of the scorn, contempt, and ridicule o
the community. Education which is ever es
jsei.tia! to all, becomes doubly important to ns
We are the competitors of persons.compara
lively well instructed, and were we even wel
'educated, we should still have difficulties tc
'struggle against, to which our oppressors art
strangers; but how great is the disparity, ano
how fearful are the odds, while education ii
common to the white people and denied to us
j Knowledge is power," said Bacon and it if
about the only power that can at present be
wielded by the colored people. Political pow
er they have not; the power of wealth they
cannot reach—our only hope in this country
at piesent, rests upon the improvement of oui
minds, and the elevation of our character.
Knowledge is the preliminary step to all pow
er, and for the want of this knowledge, the
colored man is killed all the day long. Out
ignorance is pleaded as a reason for withhold
ing our lights, while knowledge itself has
been locked up from us. This statement per-
I haps may be‘questioned, and we shall be
(pointed to the fact that in this State, School
privileges are extended to colored children;
i but the answer to this fact rnay be found in
the circumstance that colored people subjec
ted as they are to the most menial einploy
ment, have the hardest possible struggle to
i live. When bread and education are placed
before a hungry man, it i»ea»v to see which
will lie preferred. To educate the'colored
[>eople something more must be done than to
j admit us into schools, and this is the mountain
difficulty in the way of our progress,
j We have not the means (in many cases,)
requisite to enable us to send our childien to
tschool. As soon as they arrive at an age
suitable to commence service, they are put
'out; and in these circumstances they early
I learn to look upon themselves as inferiors, and
I as being marked out for a life of degradation,
j The ordinary incentives to the attainment of
knowledge are nipped in the bud they are
taught to feel that the onlyeducation necessary
'for theiT condition in life, is to know what is
'coming to them at the end of a month's work,
and w ith their energies thus crushed, their
example and ignorance are most cruelly and
unjustly used to feed the fLmeof American
prejudice.
Whatever serves to remove these difficul
ties, and to smooth the pathway to knowledge
is appopriate anti-slavery work. We there
lore, hail with a thrill of delight, this new ef
fort on the pan of the Ladies comjioaing the
Provisional Educational Committee. We
must however, express the belief that the
movement would wear a much more lmpar-
I nal aspect, and meet with greater encourage
1 rnent, if other colored persons besides those
l born south of Masoo and Dixon's line, were
included among the beneficiaries.
There are a great many colored persons at
the uorth who cannot understand why Fugi
tives from slavery, should be selected out as
the objects of special benevolence, and educa
ted as ladies, while they, in our uud*t are
never thought of. Having fled from slavery
ourselves, and been the objects of especial fa
vor as well as of marked hatred, we cannot
be suspected of a want of sympathy for fugi
tives, Ws must, also, dissent iron the prop
osition of sending colored teachers into the
State of Maryland. The Commutes may sot
be aware that therein a law w eitsieoce there
which makes it impomWe for colored persons
to veturo to that Skate, after having bstn eta
■teethe nbeaei frem it. The penalty fc* an*
a return, is, for the fir* offence, twenty <W
isrs— for the second, fire hundred dollars—
n*d :n case of inability to pay that sum, the
iransjjjressor of this barbarous law is liable to
be sold under the auctioneer’s hammer. The
existence of this law will prove, we think, an
insurmountable barrier to ooe of the import Ml
objects destined to be attained by Uus Profit'
lonal Committee.—r. o.
Slanderers.
If there be one j’«rs«>n m the wide world
w ho is more an embodiment of the spirit and
purpose of Satan than any other, and wbo
thould be despised, shunned, and detested, it
m lie or she who maliciously, (and without
even toe shadow of piovocauon,) artfully and
deliberately manufactures lies, and insidiously
circulate** them with no other motive than to
blast the fair fame of another. 9ueh an im
personation of malice, envy, and wickedness
ss incomparably worse thin the highway rob
ber for although the latter attempts to take
the life of another, he has the daring to run
the hazard of losing his own but the mali
cious, craven coward, who deals m slander,
stabs, and conceals himself in the dark— and
frequently under the mantle of friendship,
forges the most poisonous weapons with which
to deal death and destruction.
Such a person C3n stab and iw/r, and
s/rule and slab again." The toagwl the
tongue the tongue Well might uic “Pi
led apostle say, "It is set on firi of hell."
I For the bold and daring highwayman we
may feel a slight degree of compassion for
him who attacks us openly, how false soever
may be his accusations, we may have some
respect; but the guilty and base reptile who
can sneak through the community, with a
bland smile upon the cheek, and a lie upon
the lip—and who. with honied accents pour
ing the leprous distilment of slander upon an
innocent man or woman, is a creature for
whom reprobation itself is too lenient a pun
ishment.
It is not often that we meet with a charac
i tei so detestable as that which wd have now
denounced; but that there arc some such
within the range of our acquaintance we have
no question and we have, therefore, deemed
well to weave the present garment, leaving
the denuded personage whom it may fit to put
I it on.—r. d.
W. W. Brown.
We have given up a large part of this
week's paper to a Report of the Proceedings
of a grand meeting, held in London, to receive
W. W. Brown. That report will be read
with emotions of sincere gratification by our
readers at large. It is a source of intense
pleasure, especially to the proscribed colored
1 people of tins country, to w itness the cordial
and heart cheering reception extended to our
i colored brother. The manner in which Messrs.
Biown, Pennington, and Crummel have been
I teceived in Fiance as well as in England,
1 i should convince Americans that eolorphobia is
a di*ea e exclusively confined lo the Ameri
can It nate; that the colored man has but to
1 q jit the shores of this nominally Free Countr y,
1 and land on the shores of England, or on the
European continent, to have his manhood ac
knowledged—his rights protected—and his
person respected.
The speech of Mr. George Thompson, M.
P., like all the efforts of that gentleman, is
clear, forcible, eloquent, and to the point.—
Noue should fail to read it.— r. o.
Revival.
“The Ram’s Horn” is revived, published
in Philadelphia. It proposes to advocate the
enfranchisement of the colored peopleof Penn
sylvania. Mr. Vanrensellaer thinks that the
establishment of his paper in Philadelphia,
will cause “The North Star” to be read with
a keener relish. We hope that in this, his
judgment may prove correct. At sny late,
we w ish him success.— f. d.
“Rule of Faith and Practice.
Messrs. Editors: —Each of the religious
organizations of the present day, through the
medium of their creed books, and disciplines,
eay, ihat the Scripture “is the only rule, and
the sufficient rule, both of their faith and prac
tice.” And after having made this declara
tion before God and man, they then say, both
in theory “and practice,” that the Constitu
tion of the United States—the Constitution of
the State of New York, &c., is “the rule of
Practice," tf not of faith, for all the ciuzeoa
thereof. How can they reconcile theae points 1
The Liberty Party of the present day, it
composed mostly of those who believe that
the New Testament scriptures contain the only
rule for the government of Christ’s Church
or family, or household, here on earth. Al
low me to enquire, if Christ has given laws to
any but fus followersl Is there any other rule
for human conduct in any relation in life, ex
cept “the Gospel of Christ, which is the pow
er of God unto salvation lo every one that be
lieveth?” Is not the rule fui Christians, the
"only rule for human conduct l Can Christ
and Cotsar be partners in the management of
the affair? of this world*
It appears to me, that I am under the ne
cessity of admitting, not only m theory, but
practically, that Christ is “Lord of Lords, and
King of kings,” or adopt the sentiment which
procured the crucifixion of Christ, and expres
sed by his enemies, the chief prieete, vix;
We have no king but Casar."
The great majority of professed Christians
in this nation—with their creed-wise declara
tion, that the gospel of Christ is tbeir “only
rule of faith and practice;” are, nevertheless,
solemnly swearing upon the polluted political
altars of this war- making, slaveholding nation,
that ns consul utioo, sod statute books, shall
be their only rule; and exert themselves to
i the extent of their ability, to place at the bead
of the rule-making power, such men as Tay
lor, Case, Van Buren, die.
Even the *•Christian Citizen that advo
cate of “Peace” and love among mankind,
refused to publish a lew lines from me last
fall, in which I merely enquired, if to elevate
a man to the Presidency of this nation, who
was to favor of settling national dificehies by
the sword, wss not contrary to the principles
of the Pledge of universal brotherhood”—
and if Martin Van Bureu wae not such a ms®?
i wish to be a learaei in the school of Christ
—to “let love be without diseusuisueo—
abhor that w htch is evil—cleave to that which
is good-’*
Yours for humanity,
LYNDON KING
Genius, like the sun upon the dial, gives to the human heart both its shadow and its light.
Foreign News of the Week
The Niagara, (Ctpl. Rytie) which letf
Liverpool on ihe iih, with 146 peraengers
arrived *t Halifax on Wednesday, l?th inai
England. —W e find in the Standard oj
Freedom, an official Notice from the Admt
rally, which gives aome reason to hope that
the Arctic expedition, nnder the command oi
Sir John Franklin, it* safe. It is as follows
“Admiralty, Oct. 4, 1849.
“From communications made this day to
the Lords of the Admiralty by the editor ol
the Shipping and Mercantile Gazette evening
newspaper, some hopes are entertained that
the news brought hy Capt. Parker, of the
Trnelove, arrived at Hull, from Davis’ Straits,
of Sir John Franklin's ships having been seen
bv the natives, as late as March last, beset by
the tee, in Prince Regent’s Inlet, is not with
out foundation.
“h tom the same source reports have been
received that Sir James Ross's ships are in
the south of Prince Regent’s Inlet, snd that
the vessels ol both expedition# are safe.
“This hope is somewhat strengthened by
the telegraphic message to the Admiralty,
since received from the Mayor ol Hull, where
the Truelove arrived last night.
New York papers also give the corrobora
tive testimony of Capt. Chappell of the barque
MeLellat:, from Davis’ Straits. This infor
mation is still later, and even more satisfactory.
About the Ist of August, while the McLel-
Un lay in Pond’s Bay, an indentation of Bat
fin* Bay, in latitude 74 and longitude 72, the
natives of the coast come on board the Chief
tain. an Kr.ghsli whaleman, and gave infor
mation by signs that two large ships lay in
Punce Regent’s Inlet, and had been there fast
in the ice four seasons. On being asked in
regard to those on board whether they were
dead or alive, they replied in the same way,
that the crews were not asleep—that is, not
dead, but all well. It was considered by the
Englishmen, and hy Capt. Chappell, that the
ships of Sir John Franklin were clearly met.
This is certainly the latest news.
'lhe Englishman landed at Cape Hay, some
distance from Pond's Bay, a quantity of coal
and provisions, with which his ship was fur
nished by the British Government hr the use
of the long missing ship if they chanced to
come there, as they would lie obliged to do on
their return to England.”
The cholera is still on the decline in Lon
don, and all parts of England. It is hoped
that in a few weeks, it will entirely disappear
from the metropolis.
The Queen and suite have returned from
their highland home at Balmoral, to the royal
residence in the Isle of Wight.
A proposal of the government to open the
London Post-oflice on Sunday, has brought
down upon them quite a storm of indignation.
At a crowded meeting of merchants, hankers,
and others more particularly interested, a me
morial to the Lords Commissioners was agreed
to, deprecating the measure in the strongest
terms. In the face of such opposition, the
proposal will not be carried out.
The Financial Reform Association are car
rying on the work of agitation. We see no
tices of meetings at Sydenham and Norwich
At the latter place, Joseph Hume, M. P.,
Geo. Thompson, M. P., and Feargus O’Con
nor, M. P., were among the speakers. This
meeting is regarded as a proof of the general
fraternization which is going on amongst the
middle and working classes, and holds forth
the cheerful promise that a sure, if not a
apeedy, amelioration of some of lire various
political grievances under which the country
labors shall be accomplished.
The Standard of Freedom gives the follow
ing notice of a presentation, in Manchester, to
Elihu Burritt, on the eve of his returning to
this country
On Thursday evening, at the League
Rooms, Manchester, a number of the friends
of peace and financial reformers, admirers of
Elihu Burnt!, who is now about to return to
the United States, assembled to present to
that gentleman an address expressive of their
esteem. Amongst the gentlemen present,
were Mr. Joseph Sturge, Mr. Jonn Bright,
M. P.. Mr. Geoige Wilson, Mr. Kershaw,
M. P., Mr. J. B. Smith, M. P., Sir Eikanah
Armitage, Mr. EdrnundGrundv, of Park-hills,
and Mn W. Rawson. Mr. Burritt, was ac
companied by Mr. Amass Walker, a member
of the Massachusetts legislature. Mr. Wil
son having taken the chair, resolutions ac
knowledging the benevolent services of Mr.
Burritt in the cause of human improvement
were moved by Mr. Bright, seconded hy Sir
E. Armitage. and, having been carnod, wete
presented to Mr. Burriu, copied on vellum,
and inseited in a massive large gilt frame, in
closed in a handsome box to receive it.
Mr. Burritt spoke at some length in ac
knowledgment of the compliment.
In the same paper we find a full report of
the speeches delivered at the meeting to wel
come Win. Wells Brown to the metropolis.
A report of this meeting will be found in an.
other part of the paper. The hall was
crowded (says the Standard of Freedom) with
a highly respectable and enthusiastic audi
ence.”
A great Temperance demonstration, the
first of a series of aggregate meetings, in ad
vocacy of the principles of Temperance, took
place at Exeter Hall on Monday, the Ist inst.
Rev. J. W. C. Pennington was one of the
speakers.
A letter appeared in the Times, dated Oct.
4, over the signature of Wm. Crawshay, urg
ing upon Englishmen the importance of sup
porting the Turk in his Christian and benevo.
lent conduct, and offering XSOU towards a
fund to be handed over to the Sultan to defend
himself and his counLy against the hostility
of Russia, should any be shown in conse
quence of his humanity.
The prospect in Ireland looks gloomy. The
potato disease has re-appesied, and another
year of famine is apprehended. Such appre
hensions are probably as yet premature, since
the extent of failure of ihe potato crop has not
been ascertained.
The Iruh jonrnals are filled with accounts
of sanguinary conflicts between the tenantry
and the landlords for the possession of the
land and the long cherished feeling of hatred
between the occupier of the soil and the own
er, has now broken out with a degree of vio
lence which threatens very serious results.
Fsaiice. —The Legislative Assembly re
turned us sitting on ihe Ist mar. M. Dupin
having received the greatest number of votes,
was proclaimed Presideut of the Assembly,
until the Ist of January, 1»60.
The Budget for 1850 has been ptinted.
The expenses of the year will amount to 1,-
591,332,077 francs. The receipts are only
esuwaled al 1,270,953,84Uf., leaving a deficit
of about 320,000,000 f.
Cabinet Council was held on Tuesday,
kd mat. at the Klysee. The difference be
tween Turkey and Russia was supposed to be
subject of its deliberation*|
M. Napoleon Bonaparte baa presented a
motion to the Legislative Aaaetnblv, the effect
of which, if passed, trill be to allow the metn
bera of the Bourbon family la return to France.
Ita provisions are as follows.
“1. The taws of the 10th of April, 1839, and
of the 26th «l May, 1848, which exile the
family of the Boutbona.are abrogated. 3. The
decree of the Constituent Assembly of the
2?ih Judo, 1849, is revoked. The insurgents
of June, transported without trial, shall be set
at liberty."
This proposition is not wdll received by the
legitimist organs. They speak of it indig
nantly as an insult to the Bourbon family to
place them on the same level with the inaur
gents of June.
The suspension of intercourse between
F ranee and America caused some sensation in
Paris w hen first announced but a rumor hav.
mg gained general belief that England hid of
fered her mediation, that feeling considerably
subsided.
M. Cabet, the founder of the settlement
called Icaria, has been sentenced, by default,
by the police court of Paris, to imprisonment
for two years, to pay a fine of 50f. t and to be
deprived of his civil rights during five years,
for having, by false statements, induced a
number of persons to deposit various sums,
their hard-earned savings, with him, lor
which he made them no return, beyond initia
ting them in the mysteries of Socialism.
Italy.—lntelligence of the dale of the 25th
ult., slates that the people continue indignant
at the conduct of the Pope and Caxdinals, and
lose no opportunity of giving vagi to their
feelings.
The manifesto of the Pope had appeared
in an official form, and has been received with
feelings of deep disappointment, if not re
sentment, in all quarters. This feeling was
participated in by the French soldiers, several
of whom were put under arrest for having
torn down or defaced the copies of the mani
festo affixed to the walls. The amnesty, in
particular, is the subject of popular odium.
The Cardinals dare not walk the streets of
Rome, so unpopular have they become while
the victims marked out by their inquisitorial
decrees walk ahout without fear. Should
the French troops be withdrawn from the Pa
pal states, it is supposed that another revolu
tion would break forth.
The Pope, relying upon Austria or Spain,
or froth, and being promised funds from Rus
sia, seems to imagine that public opinion will
come over to his side.
Hungary and Austria. —The intelligence
of the surrender of Comorn, is confirmed.—
At least so says the Times. But the corres
pondent of the Daily News says, under date
Vienna, Sept. 26.
On the 23d inst. the council of war sitting
here resolved to comply with the demands of
the Magyars in Comorn, in so far as concerns
the amnesty, and the exchange of 200,000
florins in Kossuth's notes, lor which the offi
cers wiint gold and silver, that they may be
enabled to leave Austria. There is therefore
good reason to suppose that the fortress will
surrender in a day or two.
The foriress, strong as it was before, con
tinues to be fortified by the Magyars to such
a degree that experienced officers have de
clared it quite impossible to take a single
wall by assault."
The Breslaw Gazette states that in Rnssia
it is forbidden to expose in shops, or to have
in the houses, other images than those of
saints, the Emperor, the Imperial family,
Marshal Paskiewitch, and General Diebitsch.
But recently permission has been given to
have portraits of Gen. Gorgey.
Turkey and Russia.—The noble conduct
ol the Sultan, in refusing to give up the de
fenders of Hungarian liberty to the autocrat
of Russia, has had the effect of bringing out
the Czar in his true colors. Even the Times
ceases to have anything to say in his defence.
It appears, from the account of the matter,
as given by that paper, that the final decision
of the Ottoman Court was communicated at
the close of a cabinet council held in the
house of Mehemet Ali Pacha, on the eve
ning of the 16th ult. It was intimated, in a
note to the Russian ambassador, that the Tur
kish Government, seeing no reason to depart
from its previous resolution, ptesisted in its
refusal to grant the extradition of the Hunga
rian refugees demanded by the Czar." The
following day at five o'clock, the Prince Rad
zivil embarked on board a Russian steamer,
which immediately started for Odessa. The
same day, the Russian and Austrian Ambassa
sadors notified to the Porte the suspension of di
plomatic intercouse between their Courts and
that of the tviltan. This result having been
foreseen, caused no surprise. The reply of
the Emperors of Russia and Anstria is ex
pected in twenty or twenty-five days. Mean
while the Turks are not at all uneasy on the
subject. They cannot believe that war wjlj
j be declared against them simply because they
have hospitably received a few unfortunate
refugees. However, they are not idle; but
are dilligently making all possible prepara
tions foi defence. The people generally are
all resolved to support the government in a
question w hich all pious Mussulmen regard as
one of religious principles. It only remains
to be seen [concludes the correspondent ofihe
Times] what atutude will be assumed by the
Cabinets of London and Paris. The replies
to the despatches of Sir Stratford Canning are
awaited in Constioople with the most intense
1 anxiety. The ioterest, no less than the hon
-1 or, of England is involved in the issoeofthi:
affair for it shrewdly suspected in Tur
key that the Czar is desirous of foment
mg an European war, by which he may large
ly prefit in the southeast of Europe. Austria
ig regarded as an ignoble tool in his hands."
Burning of the Colored Church in Co
lumbia, Pa., Religious Apologists, Ac.
Friend Douglass—Our usually quiet town
w as throw n into a state of excitement on las
i Monday by the burning of the colored Church
and Sons of Temperance Hall. It was known
i that there was no fire in the siuves, or in the
I church on the evening ur day previous; tbt
burning must therefore have been the work ol
an incendiary, it was soon rumored aboul
town that a white man a few days previous to
the fire, had drawn up a paper with an oath
attached thereto. He said that he could not
get work and he be d d if he would
not burn out the d- d niggers and raise
a mob, and then see if be could not get work.
Tbe result has shown that be has fulfilled the
first part of bis hellish threat. It remains to
be seen whether the ciuieos" do not carry
out the latter part of his threat on his own
person. He could not complain at it, for be
richly deaervea ali be might get at their hands.
and I suppose 0* i» be found at all, i«
will be meted out to him is large dosee.
la connection with I m»J gi*«
a cooveramios that occurred between your
eorreepondeat and one of the**
on tbe morning after the fire. Heasemed to
exult much at the lees to the colored people.
He hallooed to me ecroae the street:
Did yea bear the oewa?"
What newer*
Wh f *ha nigger ehaieh a buie’t down.
and the son’s hall, Pad n glad of it
—ain’t yout"
I have beard of tbe lira, and sir. truly sor
ry for it."
You are not a btt better than they are.
They are all a set of thieves, an] Ism cer
tain Columbia would be better off if they were
all back ia slavery again, and the best way I
see to get them sway is to burn them out.”
I think they have just as good a right to
live and enjoy all the immunities of our town
as you or I."
They all ought to be slaves. They
were made to obey. The Bible says so; and
I am sure vou would not dare to deny the
commands of Jehovah!"
I am curious to know what part of the
Bible you get your authority from."
‘‘Hand me that Bible on the shelf; now
turn to Leviticns, 25th Chap, and 44th a
46th verses, and you will find these words.
You must recollect that this was s command
given by Almighty God himself:
‘Thy bondmen and thy bondwomen which
thou shall have, shall be of the heathen that
are around about you of them shall you buy
bond men and bondwomen, and ye shall tike
them as an inheritance for your children after
you tu inherit them for a possession; they
shall be your bondmen for ever.’
Now if you can show me where this ho
ly command has been abrogsted, why, then I
will listen to you, and not till then. And
moreover I think American Slavery is justi
fied by this one passage alone that I have just
read without referring to any more."
"Well,now let us see if the slavery spoken
of in the book is a quarter as bad as Ameri
can Slavery. Slaves in that day went free
in the 7th and sometimes in the 50th year of
their bondage. By turning back to Leviticus
25th, Chap. 10th verse, you will find these
words
And ye shall hallow the 50th year, and
proclaim liberty through all the laud, unto
all the inhabitants thereof; it shall be a jubi
lee unto you and ye shall return every man
unto his possession, and ye shall return every
man unto his family."
Thus you see that there was a limit in
those days to slavery, which is not the case
with American slavery. And more than that,
you cannot show me out of the Bible that
slaves under the Moasic laws were liable to
be sold at auction as they are in this country
—parents from their children—husbands from
their wives, and so on through the whole
family.”
I believe that God approves of Hu
man Slavery, and that the institution is of
divine appointment; and so 1 care not what
you may say to the contrary. You may turn
Fourierite and try to overthrow the word of
God, but all your efforts will be in vain; it
has withstood the Bhock of ages upon ages.
The blood-stained banner of Christianity will
continue to wave over the eternal battlements
for time untold yet to come."
My friend after delivering himself of this
pathetic appeal, vanished. He is an average
specimen of a man who considers himself a
first rate citizen, and goes to church once,
twice, and sometimes three times a week.
But this is not an uncommon case. In our
town are to be found, CAririians,that have a ho
ly horror of the negro. I could name some
who if asked to sit down at table to eat with
them, would turn away indignantly and leave
the house. But if you told them there was a
chance to win fifty or a hundred dollars off
them at a gaming table-, ten chances to one
they would jump at it without once turning up
their nose or making use of disparaging ex
pressions But it is the way of the world.
The man that does not feel that Christianity
andslaveiy are opposed to each other, seems
to me to be beyond the reach of reason or con
viction. The principles of universal justice
are gaining ground rapidly in our town, not
withstanding there are imported occasionally
from the South some professional hotspur or
a northern doughface—office holder.
I am a'ready extending this communication
to a too great a length. In drawing it to a
close, I cannot refrain from making some
mention of the kind friends of the oppressed
in this place}; and it we are to judge of the
past I have no hesitation in saying that the
Refugee will always find the string of the latch
hanging out, and a warm heart in the persons
Mrs. M. A. Cooper, Mr. S. W. Miffler,Mr.
Swaitz, Mrs. Alward, and Mrs. Bruner.
Sometime sirree a dear friend of the slave,
1 sent me the following lines. You may have
seen them before.
CLERICAL OPPRESSIONS.
In the reports of the celebrated pro-slavery meet
ing in Charleston, S. C. on the 4th of 9th month
1535, publialied in the Courier of that city, it is
stated: “The Clergy all attended in a body,lend
iag their sanction u> tbe proceedings, and adding by
their presence to the impressive character ot the
scene.
J
J ust God and these are they
Who minister at thine altar, God of right:
Men who their hands with prayer snd blessing lay
On Israel’s Ark of light
What! preach and kindap met
Give thanks —and rol*. Thy own afflicted poor,
Talk of thy glorious liberty, ahd then
Bolt hard the captive’s door.
What’ servants of Thy own
Merciful Sou, who came to seek aad save
The homeless and the outcast —fettering down
The tasked aad plundered slave.
Pi Late and Herod fi lends'
Chief priests aad rulers, as of old combine;
Just God and bohr* is that church which leads
Strength to the spoiler, Thine 1
Paid Hyptcnta'. who turn
Judgment aside, and rob the Holy Book
Of those bright words of truth which search aad bare
In warning and rebuke.
Feed fat, ye locusts, ted!
Aad ia your lease led pulpits thank the Lord
That from the toiliag bondman’s utter need
Ye pile pour own full board.
How long O Lord! how bag
Shall such a priesthood barter truth away,
Aad ia tby name, for robber and for wrung
At thy owa ahars pray 1
Columbia, October 14th, 1849. S. E.
Calhoun'* Dominion*.— lt is atatad in a
South Carolina paper that the census of South
Carolina shows that sixty thousand wkst 4
adult* ia that state, cannot vend nor write
Add to then the three fifths of bn population
—the slaves who are fcnbtdden by law to read
ot write, tod you haft tbe my hot meet
gin* wjiyp*9M» trim to to*.
Notices.
Frederick Douglass intends to deliver no
Anti-Slavery Address ia Henrietta, oo Sun
day, Oct. 38, comneociag at 7o'clock, r. m
precisely.
ID* Will friend* make arrangements.
The Sewug Circle
Of the Ladies of the Western New Yerk
An tv-Slavery Society, #tH meet at tbe house
of William Hallo will, Anne Street, oe
Wednesday next, Oet. 31st, at two o’clock,
r m. An early attendance ia requested.
Rhode Island Anti-Slavery Society—
Anneal Meeting.
The fourteenth annual meeting of the Rhode
Island Anti-Slavery Society, will be held at
Mechanic’s Hall, Providence, on Wednesday
and Thursday, Nov. 14th aad 15th, 1849.
Prominent advocates of emancipation etn
bracing several who have broken the chains of
slavery, and are brrathiag the free air of Heav
en, in defiance of Southern laws—have been
invited to be present, and will, it ia expected,
give valuable aid to our own earnest laborers,
in making the meeting an interesting and pro
fitable one to all who shall deem it worthy of
their piesence.
Much has been done fur our cause during
the past year, but much yet remains for such
to do as are not soon weary with (bring well.
The geographical boundaries of slavery in our
own country have been fixed by tbe public
voice, and cannot, it is confidently believed,
be carried turther from the centre of our ini
quity. But it remains to blot out the foul
stain where it already exists, and to hasten
the glad hour when tbe angel of Time shall
say, "Thus far hast thou come —but no far
ther.’’ To this end we invite the old and the
young, tbe strung, the feeble, tbe confident,
the desponding, and the faithless, to meet
with us, at our annual gathering, and
share in our hopes, our encouragements, our
joys, and our labors.
In behalf of the Rhode Island Anti-Slavery
Society.
JOHN BROWN, Pres’t.
Amarancy Paine, Sec’y.
Providence, Oct. 6th, 1849.
An Appeal in behalf of the Western
New York Anti-Slavery Fair.
Earnestly desiring the abolition of Slavery
in this land, and being deeply convinced that
this result can only be accomplished by renew
ed efforts to change our present corrupt moral
sentiment, the undersigned members and
f riends of the Western New York Anti-slavery
Society, again make their appeal to the
friends of the Slave in behalf of their annual
Bazaar, which will be held in Rochester in
December next.
Whiiewe have been cheered and gladdened
by the progress already made, and the good
already done, and while we rejoice to observe
that friends have been raised up to plead the
cause of the bondman among persons, and in
quarters where we had least expected them,
we still see the "harvest to be great and the
laborers to be few," and instead of relaxing
our efforts, we are impressed with a sense of
the r’uty of doubling our diligence, and ap
plying more closely our energy to the means
of advancing this holy cause.—We appeal the
more boldly to our friends because those for
whom we plead cannot plesd for themselves.
While we are surrounded by our domestic
circle, with none to molest or make us afraid,
there are three millions of men and women in
our own land, doomed to abject Slavery and
chains, robbed of every right—civil—social—
personal—and political. Remembering those
in bonds as bound with them, we desire to
plead their cause as though they were on our
own limbs, and the knotted lash were applied j
to our own backs.
While to obtain means for enlightening the
public mind, is the stiong motive for holding
our annual Fair, it is not the only one. A
great amount of good may be traced directly
to such occasions. Many who are now ac
tive workers in behalf of this holy movement j
became first interested in it through the in-:
strumeiitality of those annual exhibitions of]
anti-slavery industry, tact and skill.
The present object of the Rochester anti
slavery Bazaar is for the general enlighten-
ment of the public mind on the subject of sla- 1
very. Recognizing the North Star, (published
in this city) as an efficient Anti-Slavery in
strumentality, we propose that the funds raised
by the Sale of articles at tbe Bazaar (on
behalf of which we here appeal) shall be
mainly appropriated to the support of that
important paper.
We gaietully acknowledge the prompt as
sistance rendered to our last F air by our
friends and coadjutors in various parts of our
own State, Wisconsin, and Michigan, and we
earnestly solicit their continued co-operation
with us in the good work. That no time may
be lost, we especially recommend to them the
immediate formation of sewing circles in their
various towns with a view to making articles
for the Rochester Bazaar. We would also
in this connection render our heartfelt thanks
to our British friends for the valuable aid ex
tended by them to our last year’s Fair and
we would again warmly solicit their generous
assistance. It t 9 due to our trans-Atlantic
friends to say that for much of the interest felt
in our last Bazaar we were indebted to them,
and we are persuaded that their continued
co-operation will essentially piomote the suc
cess of our approaching December Bazaar,
and tbe advgDcement of the cause of the slave
in our land.
We hope that the foregoiog appeal will
commend itself to out philanthropic friend* on
both sides of the Atlantic, and that they will
cordially unite with us in the effort here pro
posed.
Signed on behalf of the Fair Committee,
AMY POST.
Appeal of Ike Philadelphia AmocUUm
The “Women's Association of Philadel
phia” appeal tu a benevolent public, sod to
the friends of tbe Slave everywhere, to aid
them in their approaching Fair, the ob
ject of which is to sustain the “North Star
To those who are familiar with the pages of
this paper it is onneeeaary to speak of its
ment To those who base not seen it we
may saj, that we regard it as ooe of the very
best anti-slavery instrumentalities now in u»e
field.
We are the more interested in it, because
the editor is one our oppressed race, and
adniiraolv qualified by histaleat* sad moral
word., lo rairnm tke wduM.
tuk gf mliuo*
tioo. We believe and treat that our friends
wilt' give us their liberal aid.
To our own people we look earnestly ank
bopefuMy. Swters, Brothers, shall we lood
in vaio 1 The iron has entered into year souls.
Ye so hssvilf. hewed down to the very du*,
Mon Ye bear the uaauof the enemy,
“Thee are so igw*aat sad unreined! They
J j 2kZ of ooe other! Y«u, they unite
b«. r»~tyto pg. iow.
intellect sal than the mam' rrove by tbe
uoernng laaguvge «f eeudnet that these ss
m nines so often throws is our (sees sre ma
licioos slanders- Oougl aa%
cause his taleota andcorrect^uiapj*
■id w«p«“ 2522
«sr
tky m aotkm will —■nilyWiy it iato jroar
Hm Fur will be beU oa ChrouM* week.
Dooeueoa for u any be test to
HARRIET SMITH, 319 Loaberi-eireet,
RACHEL LLOYD. 303 Pn»e-*tcet,
AMY M. CASSEY, 113 Lombard-atreet,
Or 10 mi member of the Amnaxixm.
Eutieni Am, Ltdia As* Birr ill,
Mast Bamott, Hatty Bcii,
Louisa Bristol, Hclh Josh son,
Hearns Bcstill, Eliza Joses,
Chaalottc Mills.
SARAH M. DOI*GLASS, Cor. Sec';.
No 54 Muiiberry st.
Philadelphia, 6th mo., 95. 1849
Wiitaß’s Balsas or WiloCbkbbt—Tst
Great Revedt ros Cojuesrrio*— ud the
best medic ioc kam to su far Asthma of twy
stage, Liver Complaints, Bronchitis, lafatao,
Coughs, Cold*, Bleeding of the Lams, Shortness ot
Breath, Pais* sad Weakness in the Side, Breast,
kc., sad ad other dise .ses ol the Pulmonary Organs.
Btßitl or Imposition The greater the
value of any discovery, the higher it a held in ihe
cstacw of the public, and so much in proportion is
that public sable to be imposed spun by the
imitations of igaoraat, d signing and dishonest men,
who, like the drone in the hive, have neither the
ability aor iacliaatiaa ta provide far tnewartves. hot
thrive aad luxuriate upon tbs earaiags of the deserv
ing. Now that this preparation is well known to
be n Bore certain ore far incipient Consumption,
flsihmn. Liver Complaint, Coughs, Bronchitis, and
ail similar affections, than any other remedy ever
known, there will be, mrt now arc found those so
villainously wicked as to concoct a spurious, aad
perhaps a poisonous mixture, aad try to palm it od
as tbe genuine Balsam.
This is to cautiou dealers and the public generally
against purchasing any other than that having th a
written bignaicre or 1. BUN'S on the
wrapper. Ihe rest merely imitate the name of tbe
orig nal, while they possess none of i.s virtues.
Originally prepared by Williams k Co., Phila
delphia, now prepared ami sold, wholesale and re
tail, only by SKTU W. FOWLE, Boston. Mass.,
to whom all order.- should be addressed, and for sale
by his agents throughout the country.
For sale by Post k Willis; also by Wm.
Pitkin.
Extract from th* Galena Northwest
ern Gazette. —By tbe use of Sloane’s Ointment
and Condition Powder, I have e itirely cuieda Fis
tula on my horse, and otherwise improved his con
dition more than 501 per cent, on the cost of the
medicine. And a cow which was so feeble as to be
considered worthless by myself and neighbors, was
restored to good health and strength by the use of
less than half a package of the powders, and is now
doing better than any other cow- 1 have.
Small Pox, May 13. WM. VINCEN V.
QtJ- See Agents’ names at the head of Sloan’s
Column. For further particulars and testimonials
get pamphlets of agents.
MARkIEV
On Monday, 22d inst., at Mount Morris, by the
Rev. Mr. Bacon, Mr. Robert B. Burtis, of
Rochester, to Miss Harriet A. Thompson, of
Mount Morris.
On Monday evening, Oct. 15, by Rev. J. For
ger, Mr. John Deming, of New Lyme, Ashta
bula county, Ohio, to Miss Angelina
adopted daughter of Benjamin and Sarah Brown, of
Pittsburgh.
Several hundred years ago, there liv
ed in Germany a very gifted and pious
artist, called George Surlin; he was es
pecially successful id the production oi
sacred pictures and images of saints,
to which branch of his art he had devo
ted himself with so much love aud en
thusiasm, that he could scarcely gel
enough to do in it. Yet he never want
ed work or orders, for his fame had
spread far and near, and there were
few large churches in the country which
did not possets a sacred picture by
Master George Surlin.
One day, as he was seated at work
in his studio, there came to him some
monks, emmisaries of the monastery nl
Blaubeuren, in Switzerland, and asked
him whether he would paint a large
and beautiful picture lor the altar ol
their cloister chapel. It was not, how
ever, to tie painted upon canvass, or up
on wood, but upon the wall back ol tbe
altar; and George Surlin, it he would
undertake the order, must therefore
prepare himself for the long journey to
Blaubeuren He concluded to go, not
so much on account of the great re
ward which the abbot of said cloister
had promised him, but because the rev
erend lather so valued the limner’s art,
and hud sent for him from afar. He
resolved to devote all his powers and
energies to that picture.
The abbot received the artist with
open arms, conducted him to a high,
airy, and beautiful chamber, the win
dows of which overlooked a most ex
quisite landscape, and only left his guest
to allow him time to rest and sleep, in
order to enable him to commence his
great work as soon as possible. W hen
the early morning sun cast, in its com
ing, a purple line upon the glaciers,
Master Surlin was already seated by
his window, drawing inspiration lrom
the glorious works ot nature, for his
forthcoming great work of art. As the
painting advanced and more and more
approached completion upon the white
walls of the altar, the artist himself be
came enamored ol his, handiwork, and
at last confessed in his own mind that
it was a masterwork of rare beauty and
perfection.
The monks, and the abbot himself,
who was a great connoisseur rejoiced
no little that George Surlin’s best pic
ture should adorn their chapel, and thus
make it an object of envy, as well as
admiration, of the neighboring cloisters.
They never tired of watching the
master at his work, and of loading him
with praise, presents, and marks of
approbation.
At last the painting was finished, and
a solemn service was held to inaugu
rate the noble work of art. The paint
er then kneeled at the foot of the altar,
and thanked and praised God, who had
allowed him to complete his great work.
And the collected people stared and
wondered at the glory of the picture,
and praised the master hand which hud
created it.
After the mass, the abbot addressed
the artist, and said: Master, you
have given us a most rare work of youi
beautiful art, and you yourself con
ceive it to be your masterpiece. Has
this labor exhausted your inner resour
ces of design, or do you think that you
might yet be able to produce even a
greater or still more beautiful painting.'
Give me an honest answer to my ques
tion, Master Surlin.”
The painter, who thought of nothing
except that the abbot would give him a
i new order, and who, like a true artist,
on the completion of a great work, fell
himself imbued with fresh courage and
energy for renewed labors, replied un
hesitatingly that he might venture to
make such a promise, as art was an in
exhaustible lountain, ever generating
new supplies to her earnest and indus
trious disciples. “Moreover,” confin
ed the artist, my gratitude to the
Lord, whose mighty arm has assisted
me in the work i have just finished, ur
ges ine on to attempt a greater and still
more perfect work to bis praise, honor
and glory.”
Tlie abbot listened to these words in
great displeasure, for it was not his in
tention to give the master another or
der, but he desired that Surlin should
never again commence so masterly a
1 work, in order that his cloister might
have the honor of possessing the best
picture by the great master. Now,
however, be heard, to his mortification
and anger, that Master Surlin was ca
pable of painting, not only an equally
good, but even a much superior pic
ture, and hi& foolish vanity revolted at
the thought. He resorted to a tiend-
like expedient, by which to remain m
f possession of George Surlin's last and
best painting.
On the following night, whilst the
painter was last asleep, the two monks
who had accompanied him to Switzer
land, crept to las couch, tied his arms
with cords, and with a sharp knife cut
out both his eyes, draining the sight,
that precious font of light and color,
forever. To kill him, much as tlie
wretched man begged for death as a fa
vor, they had not the courage. They
only circulated a report that the great
painter had died on his homeward jour
ney, and kept the poor man carefully
hidden in a remote cell.
And now the poor master was forev
er robbed of glorious light, and to the
sublime pictures, which still lived in
his soul, he could no longer give life
and color. Lost in mental misery, he
scarcely [noticed the physical tortures
and pams he had to undergo; it griev
ed his soul much more to be hencetorth
buried in night, and never again to be
able to distmguish lights and colors.
One of the monks, who was in the dai
ly habit of bringing him a jug of wine
and ihe necessary food, took pity on the
poor man.
a 1 d aDJr emce for your he
said, wnen he found the painter with
his arms open, seated by the latticed
window of bis cell, as iflongmg to rush
forth upon the beauteous landscape
which be could no longer behold.
Guide me once more to the altar
upon which 1 painted my laat picture,”
begged the unfortunate man, and the
pious brother could not refuse him that
reqaect. At midnight, when the iV
bot and the other monka were nelnnp,
he guided him to the chapel, led him to
i the foot of the ikar, end tkre left him
alone, promieing to return early in the
morning to conduct the painter back to
hia cell.
But the good monk awoke too late on
the folloming morning, and could not
venture to guide the blind men from the
church, as the other monks would hare
perceived it. He had barely sufficient
time to bide Suriiu in a deep wooden
confessional chair, which had stood un
used for a long time behind the altar.
There the artist had to remain during
the whole day, and listen to the religious
services of the monks. Secretly, his
I friend managed at noon to give him
some food, and promised him to return
at night, and conduct him back to his
cell. This he did, but the blind paint
or had marked the way which led to the
church, and aa the monks bad gradu
ally omitted to lock his cell (since they
believed that the poor blind man could
not leave his little room without aid)
he stole every evening to the church,
prayed in front of the altar, and then
passed a great part of the time in the
wooden confessional, where he worked
silently and mysteriously.
Upon his couch be had found the
kuile which the monks had used to blind
him, and iu the intenseness of his pains
and misery, the unhappy man was upon
the point of making that weapon the
instrument of suicide. But an invisi
ble hand restrained him from commit
ting this great sin, which would have
made him truly deserving of all the
misery he had endured. Heaven nev
er had given him the rare ability of
conceiving his glorious pictures to al
low him to commit a deadly sin, be
cause the power of representing his
fancies on canvas was lost to him for
ever.
He was frightened at his own cow
ardly intentions, and determined now to
make the instrument of death the in
strument of his future consolation. As
he could no longer represent his de
signs in colors, he began to cut them
in wood, and his sense of feeling
became a substitute for the sense oi
sight. With the sharp knife he had
obtained, and after an immense deal of
labor, he thus cut the whole history
of his misfortune upon the wooden side
of the confesional. He spent many
years upon this labor, and forgot his
misery in the employment. No one
discovered his nightly walks, nor hie
work in the church, and gradually the
monks felt so secure that they opened
the chiirch to any and every strangei
who desired to see George Surlin’s fas)
and bqst picture.
Often at these times, was the pool
blind artist a silent and unsuspected
witness of the admiration bestowed up
on his work by foreign artists, none oi
whom ever dreamed that the master,
whose genius was so warmly lauded by
them, whose rare talent they so envied,
was hidden, a blind and wretched old
man, behind the altar, working with in
defatigable patience upon a wooden pic
ture.
From the day when his carved pic
ture was finished, he remained silently
and patiently awaiting his end, which
came on the third day delivering hin
from all earthly pain and sorrow. Am
now, only, could the monks breatht
more freely, for the silent lunatic, —foi
such they believed him be, when the}
saw him so often, and without a mur
mur, seeming, with sightless eyes t<
stare upon vacancy,—that silent luna
tic now lay deep beneath the sod, anc
with him the fearful secret of theii
guilt was buried. Nor did they spar<
masses for his soul, to procure for the
poor artist, whom they had robbed o
all the good and beautiful in life, happi
ness in death, and heavenly rest, ai
they, in their mental blindness, though
their masses could do. The woodei
confessional, however, was never open
ed, and thus nobody discovered the las
work of the blind artist.
Meanwhile, the abbot had easily suc
ceeded in exciting the jealousy and en
vy of other monasteries, for the beau
titul painting that adorned the altar o
his; many foreign artists and high no
ble gentlemen came from far and near
to look upon this rare work of art, am
all regretted the early death of thi
great master.
It happened, that one day, a travel
ler visited the monastery, who coul<
scarcely leave the altar or stop gaziug
so great was his admiration of th<
painting. Nothing escaped his atten
tion or notice, and thus it chanced tha
he observed a beautifully carved rose
upon the pannel of the door of an ole
wooden confessional. The door am
the whole confessional chair were s<
dust-covered, that it was evident the}
had not been used by the monks for ma
ny years.
Besides the greatest painter, yoi
seem to’have had one of the greates;
carvers at work here,” he said, in i
tone of astonishment, to the monk wh<
accompanied him. The rose was in re
ality a masterpiece in its way. Hii
companion, however, assured him tha
there was no carved or sculpture-wort
any where in the church, and that tht
rose must have come there by some un
accountable accident.
This reply excited the stranger's cu
riositv still more, and he opened thi
door of the confessional to see whethei
he could find any more carved work b}
the same master-hand that had execu
ted the rose. At tirst the door wouk
not open, for the old hinges had rusted
but at last they yielded, sending a
creaking and ominous sound througl:
the chapel. The stranger entered tha
chair, and stepped upon a hard sub
stance, which rattled over the fiaga.—
Raising it, he observed that it was a
knife, which bore old blotches of Moos
upon its blade. The monk waagreatlj
frightened, for he it once recognizee
the knife as having been one of the twe
w hich had been used in the torture o:
the unfortunate artist. How could thal
knife have come to this place? Wau
it through a miracle, in order to bring
now, after so many years had elapsed,
that black deed to light and its perpe
trators to justice?
The length of time had loosed Ike
panels from the frame-work of the con
fessional, and as it seemed to the stran
ger that be copid, even in the dusk dis
cover some carving of merit than he
raiaed the paoel, took it owl and
brought it te the tight.
r -1 it u
And no# terror end Tear betel the
mk, who had already been horrified
at the Mffctwltfco knife, aod he ruabed
from the chapel, exclaiming
lbii>iGiittihfffa.”h<effwi
thegrave to acceeehiemurdereie!”
The at ranger now perceived that ic
hia hood be held the picture of a man,
who had been deprived of both eyes,
as drops of blood seemed to tall upon
the cheeks from the sightless sockets
His face wore the expression of intents
misery, sad seemed to implore mercy
of two monks who were standing before
him; one of theae atili held a knife in
hia band, wbilat tba other (whose face
expressed a fiendish triumph) wai
breaking his pallet and brushes.
There could not be s moment’s doubl
of the import and meaning of this pic
ture; nor was the master hand which
had painted the altar-piece, to be mis
taken in the grouping and formation ol
these carved figures. The strangei
needed not the additional evidence ol
the exclamations of the frightened
monk, to understand the connection ol
the whole terrible mystery.
Hastily he left the monastery, and
took the carved picture with him. Bui
he soon returned with a long train, and
the officers of justice, whom he had
sought, soon forced a confession of theii
fearful and wicked deed from the
monks. These were punished with the
utmost rigor of justice, and in memo
ry of their wickedness, the wonderfully
carved panel was inserted in the dooi
of the vestry, where it may be seen tc
this day.
From the Southern Christian Advocate.
AN ORIGINAL LETTER Of DR.
FRANKLIN.
Messrs. Editors:—ln my reading 1
have fallen upon the following original
letter from Dr. B. Franklin. The occa
sion of its production seems to be the
following After the emancipation oi
the North American States from the civi
and ecclesiastical power of the Britisli
Crown, the few remaining clergymen
of the Episcopal Church, wishing to
perpetuate the office of the Episcopate,
sent some of their brethren to England,
to obtain from the British King, Parlia
ment, and Archbishop of Canterbury,
Episcopal prerogatives. In this attempt
they met with many difficulties, and for
sympathy and help they wrote to Dr.
Franklin, the then American minister
at the court of France. The following
is his reply
To Messrs. Weems and Grant, citizens
of the United States in London.
Paris, 18th July, 1849.
Gentlemen, —On receipt of your let
ter acquainting me that the Archbishop
of Canterbury would not permit you tc
be ordained unless you took the oath ol
allegiance, I applied to a clergyman ol
my acquaintance for information on the
subject of your obtaining ordination
here. His opinion was that it could be
done and that if it were done, you
would be required to vow obedience tc
the Archbishop of Paris. I next inquir
ed of the Pope’s Nuncio whether you
might not be ordained by the Bishop ol
America, powers being sent him for the
purpose-r—if he had them not already.
The answer was, the thing is impossi
ble, unless the gentlemen become Cath
olics. This is an affair of which I know
but very little, and therefore I may ask
questions and propose means that are
improper or impracticable. But whal
is the necessity of your being connect
ed with the Church of England?—
Would it not do as well if you were
of the church of Ireland The religion
is the same, though there is a different
set of Bishops and Archbishops. Per
haps if you were to apply to the Bishop
of Derry, who is a man of liberal senti
ments, he might give you orders, as oi
that Church. If both Britain and Ire
land refuse you, (and I am not sure
that the Bishop of Denmark or Swe
den would ordain you, unless you be
came Lutherans) what is then to be
done? Next to becoming Presbyte
rians, the Episcopalian clergy of Ame
rica, in my humble opinion, cannot do
much better than to follow the exam
ple of the first clergy of Scotland soon
after the conversion of that country
to Christianity, when their King had
built the Cathedral of St. Andrew’s,
and requested the King of Northumber
land to lend his Bishops to ordain one
of them, that their clergy might not, as
heretofore, be obliged to go to North
umberland for orders and their re
quest was refuced. They assembled
in the Cathedral, and the mitre, crosier,
and robes of a Bishop being laid upon the
altar, they, after earnest prayers for
direction in their choice, elected one of
their own number, when the King
said to him, “Arise, go to the Altar,
and receive your office at the hand of
God.” His brethren led him to the al
tar, robed him, put the crosier in his
hand, and lie became the first Bishop o.'
Scotland. If the British Islands were
sunk in the sea (and the surfqpe of the
globe has suffered great changes,) you
would probably take some such method
as this and if they persist in denying
your ordination, it is the same thing.—
A hundred years hence, when people
are more enlightened, it will be wonder
ed at, that men in America, qualified
by their learning and piety to pray for
and instruct their neighbors should not
be permitted to do it, till they had made
a voyage of six thousand miles out and
home, to ask leave of a cross old gen
tleman at Canterbury, who seems by
your account to have as little regard
for the souls of the people of Maryland,
as King William’s Attorney, General
Seymour had for those of Virginia.-
The Rev. Commisaary who projected
the College of that province, and was in
England to solicit benefactions and a
charter, relates that the Queen, in the
King’a absence, having ordered Sey
mour to draw up the charter, which
waa to be given with $2,000 in money,
m opposed the grant, saying that the
Nation was engaged in an expensive
war, that the money was wanted for bet
tor purposes, and he did not see the
ieast occasion for a College in Virgin
,™r represented to him that its
intention waa to educate and qualify
young men to be ministers of the gospel,
much wanted there, and begged Mr.
Attorney would consider that the people
of Virginia had souls to be saved aa
well as those of England. *‘80010,”
said be your tools, —make to
bacco.
