THE AMERICAN RELIGION PRO
SLAVeRY.
Messrs. Editors My object iri di
recting the attention of your readers tc
the pro-slavery tendency of the Protes
tant religion ol this country, is to trace
its effect on the moral, intellectual, so
cial, and civil condition of the “colored
|*optilation, with the hope of divorc
ing from their minds the fatal impres
sion, that by embracing said religion
Abey are espousing the cause of human
freedom. If I can successfully demon
strate this truth, (in my opinion,) one
of the most formidable obstacles to oui
future advancement will he removed.—
Therefore I assert that the P rotes
tant religion, is note, and has been cvei
since the days of the reformation, op
posed to the religious, natural, civil ant
social equality of the colored peoplt
with the whites. It has assumed tlia
we were by nature, nml a law o
Providence, a distinct, and inferior peo
pic,” that ought to be subject to th<
rule and dominion of those wlion
(God in Ins wisdom had made superior
«nd assigned the duty ol a guurdianship
*ivcr us and our posterity, forever. Tie
Protestant sects have united in proinot
ing this doctrine for upwards ot a cen
tury; and it may now be regarded a
inseparable from their creed there
fore every individual that embraces sai
religion and lives in obedience to it
teachings, must, from the very natur
•of his education, and theological views
imbibe its spirit, and principles.—
Hence, I maintain that it ought not t
be a matter of surprise to find the col
•red people” religiously occupying
pro-slavery position. The kind of ed
ucation, and religion we have obtained
has placed us on our present platform.
Therefore, I cannot hurl denuncia
lory anathema’s against the colore
churches and clergy, as being hypo
critical, because they occupy a pro
slavery position. On the contrary, i
is to my mind a distinguished mark o
loyalty to the church, when I see it
members taking sides with our oppres
aors and if the term hypocrite, right
fully belongs to any class of our people
it is to those who arc sufficiently en
lightened to see the evil of their position
und still embrace it. For the majority
who cling to those ancient laud-marks
I entertain sentiments of regard fo
their welfare, whilst my pity for thei
ignorance is boundless, because the’
know not the evil they do.”
From the period of the America)
revolution to the present hour, hist or
asserts that the leaders in every inora
movement for the benefit of the liuinai
family, have been denounced as beinj
cither of fanatical temperament, or het
rodox in faith. The greut ruling idea
that gave birth to the Declaration o
American Independence, was oppose)
to the legitimate doctrine of the di
vine right ol Kings,” and would neve
have sprang from the church, or beei
nurtured by a spirit of loyalty to eithei
the civil or ecclesiastical government o
the mother country
I he pilgrim lathers crossed the oceai
lor the purpose of establishing a rcli
oon>0 on that would vindicate the ri 4, ht o
man to govern himself, free from thi
restraints of ecclesiastical intolerance
and governmental persecution. Impel I
cd by the dictates of our common na
tures, they directed their course west
ward, and after landing on the shore*
of this Paradiseal Eden,” they form
ed a standard of religion for tliernsHvi-,
and their posterity, ami a g« neratiot
cradled in the wilderness of the new
world, vindicated, sanctified, and adopt
ed it
The Convention of ’76, by adopting
THE NORTH STAR.
the bold infidel doctrine that all mei
were created tree and equal,” iiurlet
the keystone of divinity from the deca
logue of Protestantism, and with it thorn
magic charms that had for centurici
subjected the people of different nation)
to the despotic rule of Kings and Prin
ces. The pilgrim fathers have give!
us an illustrious example for gioriou:
imitation, by repudiating the religion o
their oppressors, and adopting one thai
was more congenial to their free spirits
but vindicated their interest and self re
spect, and if we ever adopt the princi
ples, and practice the spirit of freemen,
we will do likewise. They
forward to the mother church K|jk
modern Joshua, that would
j through the rocks and quicksMftlMifdenx
potiuo, iu the shores of freedom. Tjiey
based their right to life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness,” on authorities
that had existed antecedent to church
organizations—the rights of nature that
was imprinted on the heart of man
on the first mooring of his existence,
The same in all times, and in all
ages.” This revolution was not ac
complished by a reverential and wor
shipful obedience to the church its pi
oneers were not Bishops, Prelates,
Laymen, or those learned Lawyers in
the service of the crown it was per
formed by men professing higher and
holier aspirations for freedom, than evei
breathed through the nostrils of the
Knights of the Gown, or Garter.
It sprang from nature’s noblemen—
the Jclfersons, the Adams’s, the Paines,
the Franklins, and others who were the
infidels of their own times, and the or
thodox of coming generations. With
them, the motto was liberty first, now
and forever.” They made their reli
gion sanctify right to freedom, while
ours crucifies it.
This faithful adherence to the funda
mental right of man to exist on this
globe, brought them into a powerful
collision with the powers that be,’
and resulted in a prodigal expenditure ol
blood and treasure yet in this instance
1 victory perched upon the banner of the
faithful. In this conflict, Protestantism
after losing a portion ol her power,
made a base appeal to the avarice and
cupidity of our infant nati< n, (the first
born of the earth from a divine parent
age) yet wrapped in swaddling clothes,
and dictated a compromise that ought to
have been an insult to her virgin purity.
She was successful, and loathsome dis
grace, and dishonor followed the foul
embrace.
The substance of the compromise was
simply this, that the divine right of
Kings” should he abrogated on this con
tinent, and the divine l ight of complex
ion be substituted. \V. W.
Columbus, Sept. 10th, 1848.
Buffalo, Sep. 17, 1848.
Dear Douglass —When 1 last saw
you, 1 promised to notice some of the
doings of that notorious wolf in sheeps
clothing, Kcv. J. B. Pinney, who has at
intervals for many years, passed through
the country doing the dirty work ol
slavery’s bidding, under the garb ol
Philanthropy, as agent of the American
Colonization Society. He has finally
made his debut in a series of four lec
tures before an audience of from 7o to
IOU, a portion of which, were those that
do not sympathise with his darling
scheme. The base ingratitude mani
fested towards tlte colored peoplt
throughout his lectures, justly mer
its the disapprobation of every honesl
American. 1 would go at length tc
show up his false position, were I not
acquainted with the fact, that the menu
and demerits of the Colonization Socie
ty, have years since been analysed, anc
that it has received its everlasting quie
tus, so far as the realization of the end
in view is to be obtained.
He introduced himself by a mournful
appeal, with uplifted hand, to iieaven,
to assist the Colonization Society it;
doing something for the down trodden
and abused Negro. He made but very
little progress in his remarks, before he
got off the track of his unbounded be
nevolence, by appealing to the prejudi
ces of the people of the impossibility
of the colored man’s being elevated in
this country, and whether any of the
audience, or even the most humble
among the whites, would be willing thal
the most intelligent among the colored
men should marry their daughter; that
the slave holders could not emancipate
their slaves, and suffer them to remain
at the South; that as soon as they re
ceived education, they would demand
equal political privileges, and their
numbers being much greater than thal
of the whites, they w ould become the
law makers, and the whites subject tc
the blacks; that the whites would nev
er submit to black Judges, black law
yers, See., &.c.; that this government
was not responsibile for slavery, Eng
land was the guilty culprit, in forcing
it upon us, and never ceasing their traf
ic until the law was passed breaking up
the slave trade, and then they were
loudest in calling for emancipation.—
Then the abolitionists were complained
of for galling the slaveholders thieves
and robbers, and that they ought to be
paid for their slaves. irginia, be said
always deplored the system, and in her
early history more than 10,000 were
emancipated, and were on the eve ol
final emancipation, when the abolition
ists commenced, which turned back
the tide ol emancipation, and compelled
the South to enact laws prohibiting
emancipations on the soil; that the law
was just; the blacks were a poor de
graded, thievish set of beings, conse
quently, a law that would be considered
barbarous to inflict over an enlightened
people, would be a just oue over those
unenlightened—meaning the colored
people; that they were not fit for liber
ty unless educated. He also stated
that the Colonization society had no
idea ol tending ail the blacks out ol
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR-GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
I r ic r•* .-h
the country; that it was a scheme of
the purest benevolence ever started in
world; that no white laborers would
settle in a community cursed with slave
labor; that the rapid increase of white
emigrants in this country, would at
sotne future day so fill up the South that
they would outnumber the blacks, and
then they might legislate for their frec
dom. He said C. M. Clay, the great
abolitionist, told him in conversation,
last year, when he asked him what he
1 would do, or what would Kentucky do j
when her slaves were emancipated;—
and hit reply was, that he had not giv-j
en that idea of the subject any constd-,
jeration; no doubt said he, they would
become so debased and profligate, that
VKydd4»Q *dfa«>d become extinct.
BuFbc did not care for that, he was for
benefiting the white man. The next
hundred years, said he, without the
carrying out of his scheme of Coloni
zation, Would then be fotind not three
Garrisonian abolitionists across Mason
and Dixon’s line. But already had
the inhabitants of Liberia arisen to
equality with the whites, citing as proof
President Roberts and others, recently
in New York, and the attention paid
them by the Mayor &.c., of that city.
I will not quote further; these were
some of his prominent positions, as ta
ken in his different lectures. I will
1 now leave you to comment, if you deem
it necessary. Every careful reader can
sec the unreasonableness, and entire
contradiction of his own statements,
note two or three. He never can be
elevated with the whites. Already on
i an equality with those who arc in Afri
ca. Poor degraded and profligate; but
as soon as transported across the ocean
to Africa, a heathen country, the trans
ition produces all that is noble, refined, i
and cultivated. No white laborers
would settle in a country cursed with
slave labor; when the emigrants fill- 1
ed up the South so as to out number 1
the blacks, then it would answer to leg
islate for freedom. This is a sample ol
that man’s reasoning, who Dr. Bacon.l
editor of the Day Book says, that he
not only retains, but obtained from birth
some of that blood which he despises;
but that he can prove him, as well as
Roberts the President of the Republic
of Liberia, men of no principle, dishon
est. and much more of what constitutes!
bad men. 1 challenged him to a dis-j
cushion, but of course he refused. I;
leave him to bis own destruction, which
he is rapidly working out. I purpose
culling a public meeting next week, and
review his argument.
Yours for Justice,
A. 11. FRANCIS.
Muss its Editors According to your re
quest and our instructions, 1 herewith send
you a synopsis of the proceedings of the Na
tional Convention, which closed its sittings on
Friday evening, 7 o'clock, P. M.
Yours for God and Libertv,
WILLIAM 11. DAY.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE COLORED
CONVENTION.
Held at Cleveland, Ohio,
Sei*t. G, 1848.
The Delegates of the National Con
vention of Colored Freemen, met in the
Court House, Cleveland, 0., Wednes
day, Sept. 6th, 1848, 10 o’clock, A. M.
On motion of D. Jenkins of* Ohio,
Abner H. Francis of N. Y., was called
to the chair, and William H. Burnham
of Ohio, appointed Secretary.
The enrolling of Delegates was here
j gone through with, and on motion, a
committee of five on organization was
appointed by the Chair, viz :—J. Jones
of 111., F. Douglass of N. Y., Henry
Bibb of Mich., C. H. L angston and J.
L. Watson of Ohio. The Committee
reported
For President.
Frederick Douglass of New York.
For Vice President.
J. Jones of Illinoit.
For Secretary.
William H. Day of Ohio.
The report of the Committee was
adopted, and the Convention added as
Vice Presidents, one from each State
represented, viz:—
Allen Jones of Ohio, Thomas John
son of Michigan, and Abner H. Francis
of New York.
For Assistant Secretaries,
William H. Burnham and Justin Hol
land of Ohio.
A business Committee of seven was
then appointed. A point of order was
here raised by A. H. Francis of N. Y.,
as to appointing and rejecting gentle
men from the Committee who were not
regular delegates, which was settled
by passing a resolution, saying that all
colored persons present or who might
be present were delegates, and were
expected to participate as such.
The Business Committee, consisted
of the following persons:—Chairman,
M. R. Delany, M. D., New York; C.
H. Langston, and D. Jenkins, Ohio;
H. Bibb, and G. W. Tucker, Mich;
W. H. Topp, New York, and Thomas
Broun, Ohio; and on motion two were
added to that Committee, viz:—J. L.
Watson, and J. Maivin of Ohio.
On motion, a Committee on Rules
for the government of the Convention
was appointed, D. Jenkins of Ohio,
Chairman.
Also, Committee on Finance, G. W.
Tucker of Mich., Chairman.
The President was conducted to the
chair by A. H. Francis, and after an
able address from the President and the
appointing of the above Committees,
tiiu Convention adjourned to 2 1-2
o’clock, P. M.
Wednesday, 2 1-2 o’clock, P. M.,
Second S«s**oo.
The Convention met, President in
the Chair. After some remarks of the
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1818.
President as to ihe requisites to goo<
order, the Business Committee not be
ing ready to report, opportunity wni
given fur a volunteer speech or song.—
The time not being taken up. the Presi
dent sang with applause, a litierty song
Mr. Allan Jones of Ohio, spoke of th<
1 object of the Convention, and fhtlowei
with a narrative of his slave-life. lit
said he had earned for his master &10,
000, and after he had paid tor his liber
ty, $360, and yet some people wouh
say he was “not able to take careo
himself.”
The Committee on Rules here repor
ted, and alter the discussion of propos
ed amendment, the Report as a wholi
was adopted. Messrs. Cox and Day
were hereaniMottt to sing a Libert*
song.
F. Douglass then offered the follow
ing resolutions: —That this Conventioi
commends the conduct of Capt. Sayres
and Mr. Dayton, in their noble attemp
to rescue from cruel bondage 76 of ou
brethren in the Capital of this Repub
lic, and that we deeply sympathise witl
them in their present unjust and atro
cious imprisonment. F. Douglass madt
a few remarks in its support. A. II
Francis of N. Y., made a few remark
oa an article in the “Cleveland Plain
dealer,” abusive of Bibb and theßufia
lo Convention, asserting that the arti
cle was false in fact and t<
prejudice in principle. Henry Lott
supported the resolution. Fred eric I
Douglass followed, speaking of the prin
ciple involved, namely, the morality o
running away. After remarks in ac
cordance with the invitation of th<
President by Messrs. Patterson, Fitz
gerald, Lewis, J. M. Langston, Wat
son of Oberlin, and Jones of 111., th<
Business Committee reported a portioi
of the Declaration of Principles. [Sec
Resolutions 1, 5.]
The Pledge to sustain, was changet
in its position so as to come after the
Resolutions, and the preamble laid ot
the table for the purpose of first consid
ering the Resolutions, of which the Isi
was passed. The *Jd, was taken uj
and earnestly sustained by Dr. Delany.
W. H. Day, here obtained the floor,
when the President announced that the
hour of adjournment had arrived,
whereupon the Convention adjourned.
A crowded public meeting was belli
in the evening at the Court House.—
The exercises were conducted by
Messrs. Douglass, Bibb, and Delany,
and the enthusiastic cheering showed
how well the sentiments were received.
Thursday, 9 o’clock, A. M« Third
Session.
Convention was called to order by
the President. Prayer by the Rev,
John Lyle of N. Y.
The names of Delegates not present
and who had not been present in per
son but by credentials, were on motion
struck out from the Roll. The minutes
of the previous Session were then ap
proved.
William H. Day having the floor,
offered an amendment to the 2d, Reso
lution, namely, to insert the words,
and professional”—which amendment
was adopted.
J. D. Patterson, here obtained the
floor to object to some expressions used
by M. R. Delany in discussing the 2d,
Resolution. He argued that those whe
were in the editorial chair and others,
not in places of survants, must not casl
slurs upon those, who were in such pla
ces from necessity. He said, we know
our position and feel it, —but w r hen he
heard the Doctor that he would
rather receive a telegraphic despatch
that his wife and two childrtn had fall
en victims to a loathsome disease, then
to hear that they had become the ser
vants of any man, —he thought that he
must speak.
Dr. Delany replied: He meant not,
nor did the Resolution mean to cast a
slur upon any individual, and present
ing in a strong light the Resolution and
its reasonableness, closed with a hope,
that his brother (Patterson,) bad been
convinced, as he took him to be a minis
ter, or student for the ministry—and
ministers exert great influence.
John L. Watson of Cleveland, 0.,
remarked that we were aiming at the
same thing, but be had a different way
ot' getting at it. He understood Dr.
Delany, as having the day before, said,
that if we became the boot-blacks, the
white mechanics would look d >wn ou
us, but if we became mechanics, etc.
they would respect us. To this be took
exceptions.
The President suggested that the
discussion had taken a desultory turn,
and that it would be best to keep to the
question.
After remarks by several gentlemen,
D. Jenkins moved the previous ques
tion, was sustained, and the 2d Rc solu
tion’ adopted. The 3d, Resolution
adopted also.
The 4th Resolution was reatL and J.
L. Watson remarked upon iffPA. H.
Francis of N. Y., heartily supported the
Resolution. He might, he said, relate
an experience. He had been in nearly
all the avocation* named in the Resolu
tion. he had been waiter, etc., ami he
had been in a mercantile business ol
$20,000 or $30,000 a year, and was in
mercantile business now. He felt thal
we ought to take a stand in favor oQibe
Resolution.
David Jenkins of Ohio, was in favot
of the Resolution. He was a naintei
in the city of Columbus, and although,
when first he went there he was not
employed by others, he went to work
and employed himself, and was there
vet. Hq had succeeded in obtaining
contracts from the State and County in
which he resides.
Frederick Douglas# took the flo w.
He thought ‘ha* as far as speakers in
timated that any oseml labor was de
grading —they were wrong. He would
suggestt a Resolution so as to suit both
j parties, which he thought might be
clone. He had been a chimney-sweep,
and was probably the first that had ever
1 made the announcement fr *m the pub
lie stand. He had been a wood-saw
[yer. He wished not that it should
stand thus:—White Lawyer —Black
J Chimney-sweep; but White Lawyer,
Black Lawyer, as in Massachusetts;
White Domestic, Black Domestic.—
He said: Let us say what is necessary
ito be done, is honorable to do— and
leave situations in which we arc consid
ered degraded, as soon as necessity
ceases.
He was followed by several gentle
men, when Messrs. Patterson, Cope
land and Douglass, severally proposed
amendments, which wore on motion, re
jected.
The 4th Resolution was adopted with
but one dissenting vote.
The Business Committee reported
the remainder of the Declaration of
Principles. [Sec Resolutions 0, 10.]
The sth Resolution unanimously adopt
ed.
The oth Resolution was referred to
a Committee of five—Henry Bibb,
Chairman. The 7th Resolution was
adopted. The Bth Resolution was un
der discussion when the Convention’s
hour of adjournment arrived.
Thursday, 2 1-2 o’clock P. M.—
Fourth Session.
Convention met, President Douglass
in the Chair. Prayer by J. D. Patter
son. Report of morning Session read,
corrected and approved, and Conven
tion resumed the consideration of the
Bth Resolution.
William H. Topp ef N. Y., was op
posed to this Resolution passing, for
the reason, first that he wished to do
nothing that would commit himself
against the Buffalo nomination, for he
intended to give his support and influ
ence to Mr. Van Buren, but all who
voted in favor of the Resolution would
to be consistent, be compelled to oppose
the Buffalo nominees.
Henry Bib!) defended the entire
equality position of the Buffalo Conven
tion. J. D. Patterson agreed with Mr.
Bibb.
Mr. Day of Ohio, rose to a point of
order, as to the propriety of discussing
the merits cf the Buffalo Platform, un
der this Resolution.
The President decided that strictly
the point of order would obtain, but as
he supposed gentlemen to be giving
reasons for not supporting the Resolu
tion, a* they were in iavor of the Van
Buren Platform, he thourght they might
proceed. Mr. Patterson proceeded,
and was soon called to order by the
President for not speaking to the Reso
lution under consideration.
While this was pending, and after
earnest remarks by various gentlemen,
the Business Committee presented Res
olutions Pl—23 for the consideration of
the Convention.
Resolution No. 8 was then adopted;
Nos. 9 and 1(1 adopted.
A Committee of five was here ap
pointed to prepare an Address to the
Colored People of the United States—
that Committee to report to this Con
vention.
Eleventh resolution taken up and
adopted. F. Douglass was appointed
the Committee to carry out the spirit
of the 11th resolution. Resolution No.
21, with reference to time of final ad
journment, was on motion here taken
up and adopted.
Twelfth resolution taken up, and af
ter earnest remarks in its favor, adopted.
The 13th resolution, referring to the
Buffalo nominations, was on motion laid
over till morning. 14th adopted. Res
olution 15th was read, and the word
necessary” was substituted for the
word “justifiable,” and the resolution,
as amended, was adopted; when the
Convention adjourned.
Thuiday evening, the Public Meet
ing was held in the Tabernacle, which
was more than filled at an early hour;
and when at the close the audience
joined in singing “Come join the Abo
litionists,” and sent np three hearty
cheers for Liberty, Equality, Frater
nity,” the slaveocrat must have trem
bled.
Friday, 9 o’clock A. M. —Fifth Ses
sion. Convention was called to order
by Vice-President Jones, of Illinois.—
Prayer by Rev. Mr. Kenyon, of Cleve
land.
The 13th resolution was then taken
up. Messrs. Francis, of N. Y Brown
and Jenkins, of Ohio, and Light foot, of
Mich., spoke in its favor. C. H. Lang
ston thought the Bth and 13th resolu
tions conflicted, and was opposed to
this Convention’s saying that the Buf
falo Convention had for its object entire
equality. He was in favor of the new
movement, but would not be so incon
sistent as to pass this while the other
was on the records. The 13th, on mo
tion, was laid on the table, for the sake
of rescinding the Bth. The 8:h was
rescinded, and the 13th again taken up.
After remarks by many gentlemen, the
Committee on the Address reported that
they had wet, aod each had proposed a
written abstract of what such an ad
dress should be, aod that the Commit
tee had appointed one of their number
from the various abstracts to put to
gether an address. F. Douglass here
read the substance of the different ab
stracts,that the Convention might know
the substance of the address. The ac
tion of the Committee was approved.
M. R Delany here proposed a sub
stitute for the Bth resolution, as follows:
Resolved, That we recommend to oui
brethren throughout the several States,
to support such persons and partiei
alone as have a tendency to enhance
the liberty of the colored neople of ib«
United Stale*.
This substitute was adopted, and on
motion the 13th resolution wras adopted
also.
William H. Pay, Frederick Doug
lass, John Lyle, Sabram Cox, Richard
Copeland, and W. B. Depp, asked per
mission to enter their dissent from the
rote endorsing the 13th resolution on
the minutes.
The 14th resolution was so amended
as to read, “to obtain their liberty,''
instead of tho words, effecting their
escape,” as it was thought that the
slave might need to u- j c some other
means for liberty than running away.
Resolution 16 adopted. The 17th
resolution was read, when F. Douglass
took the floor ifc opposition to the pre
amble, inasmuch as it intimated that
slavery could not be abolished by moral
means alette. Henry Bibb sustained
the preamble and resolutions at length.
Frederick Douglass replied.
J. Jones, of 111., here proposed an
amendment to the preamble, as follows:
Whereas, American slavery is poli
tically, as well as morally, an evil of
which this country stands guilty; and
whereas, the two great political parties
of the Union have by their acts and
nominations betrayed the sacred cause
of human freedom; and whereas a
Convention,” he., which was accepted,
and the preamble, as amended, prefixed
to the 13th resolution.
The Secretaries were instructed to
prepare a synopsis of the proceedings
of the Convention, and forward it to
Mr. Harris, Editor of the Cleveland
Herald, and to the Editor of the North
Star, as they had said they would be
happy to publish them free of charge.
H. G. Turner, Editor of the Cleveland
True Democrat made a similar propo
sal.
It was also resolved to print 500 cop
ies of the proceedings in pamphlet form,
and the Secretaries were appointed a
committee of publication.
Convention then adjourned.
Friday, P M., 2 1-2 o’clock, Sixth
Session.
Convention assembled, Vice Pres
ident Jones in the Chair. Prayer by
Rev. William Ruth of Colchester, C.
W.
The 11th Rule was suspended, and 5
minutes voted as the allotted time for
speakers. No. 19 was called up for
reading,
When Frederick Douglass appeared
and Dr. Delaney asked that the Presi
dent might now have the attention of the
Convention as he was to leave at three
o’clock, and had a few parting words to
give.
The President’s valedictory was able,
eloquent and earnest, and a vote of
thanks was passed by acclamation.—
(See resolution, No. 20.)
No. 49, on motion, was recommended
to the consideration of the people of the
United States.
22d Resolution being the next in or
der, was on motion laid on the table.—
The 23d Resolution was about to be
amended so as to pass a vote of thanks
to the Sheriff having charge of the
Court House, and to all the citizens of
Cleveland for their hospitality, etc., as
well as to Judge Andrews and the
Cleveland Bar, when A. H. Francis,
who with his lady had just returned
from the Steamboat Saratoga, and had
brought hack with him Frederick Doug
lass, proposed that the resolution should
read, to all the citizens of Cleveland
exctpling one!” He proceeded to state
a fact. He went on the steamboat Sar
atoga, was asking for a cabin passage,
was refused by the Clerk, when a gen
tlcirfun, (God forbid, he would not say
gentleman,) a some one in the
audience said thing, in the
shape of a colored man, interfered, tell
i ing him that it was of no use for him to
try to obtain a cabin passage on those
boats, and intimating that colored men
had no business in the cabin.
The Resolution as amended was
adopted, and another as follows
That Alexander Bowman of the
Steamboat Saratoga and resident of
Cleveland, receive the burning repro
bation of this Convention, until he re
pents: and he did receive it, if a unan
imous shout against him is any evidence
of it. He was fairly ostracised.
Messrs. J. L. Watson, J Malvin and
J. Lott, were appointed a committee to
inform the parties in each resolution, of
the action of the Convention.
Dr. Delany, from the business com
mittee reported on No. 23, 24, 25,23,
24, and 24. No. 24 and .25 passed.
The Rules were then suspended, to
hear two resolutions presented by El
der Kenyon in behalf of the citizens of
Cleveland, and moved their adoption by j
O. i>. O’Brien They were adopted,
as follows, the citizens of Cleveland on
ly, voting on them.
Rcsolv^HtThat we hail as an omen
of vast good to the colored people of
this entire nation, the present Conven
tion held in this city; and that with
such examples of intelligence, elo
quence, wit, and power of argument, as
have been presented before us in the
sentiments and speeches of the various
members of said Convention, we are
confident of the ultimate elevation of
the colored populatim, to all the s icial,
intellectual, civil and religious rights
and immunities, of a republican and
Christian country.
Resolved. That we bid a hearty God
speed to these our brethren, the sons of
Africa, and citizens of Ainercia, in all
well-directed and legitimate efforts to
secure for themselves an honorable and
elevated position amongst men.
25 as adopted. 27
adopted also. No. 24 taken up, but
was almost immediately laid on the ü
bk. No. 30 adopted.
No. 29 as amended was adopted, as
aU* No. 31 and 3J Th* preamble to
the Declaration of Frtncipk* ete
taken from the table and adopted
On motion ofG. W. Tucks., No. m
JOHN DICK, P*sn*ne*.
WHOLE NO. —10.
w»s taken up, and after earnest discus*
*ion indefinitely postponed. No. 99
was here presented by M. R. Delaay,
as it had been rejected by the commit
tee. G W. Tucker moved its indefi
nite postponement. The Rule was
here suspended, and the time of ad
journment extended to 7 o’clock. Af
ter an animated discussion upon tire in
definite postponement, the Rules were
suspended to hear remarks from a lady
who wished to say something on thw
subject of the rights of Woman. The
President then introduced to gie audi
ence, jMrs. Santord, who made some el
oquent remarks, of which the following
is a specimen:
From tho birth-day of Ere, the
then prototype cf woman's destine, to
the flash of the star ef Bethlehem, eke
had been the slave sf power and pee*
sion. If raised by courage and ambi
tion to the proud trial of heroism, she
was still the marred model of her first
innocence; if throwti by beauty into
the ordeal of temptation, man lost hi#
own dignity in contemning her intellec
tual weight, and refusing the right to
exercise her moral powers; if led by
inclination to the penitential life of a
recluse, the celestial effulgence of m
virtuous innocence was lost, and she
only lived out woman's degradation!
j##*
But the day 'of her regeneration
j dawned. The Son of God had chosen
a mother from among the daughters of
Eve A- Saviour, who could have
coine into this a God-man, ready to act,
to stiller, and be crucified, came in the
helplessness of infancy, for woman to
cherish and direct. Her exaltation wag
consummated!
True, we ask for the Elective Fran
chise; fur right of property in the mar
riage covenant, whether earned or be
queathed. True, we pray to co-ope
rate in making the laws we obey; but
it is not to domineer, to dictate or as
sume. We ask it, for it is a right,
granted by a higher disposer of human
events, than man. We pray for it now,
for there arc duties around us, and wo
weep at our inability.
And to the delegates, officers, people
and spirit of this Convention, I would
say, God speed you in your efforts for
elevation and freedom; stop not; shrink
not; look not back, till you have just
ly secured an unqualified citizenship of
the United Slates and those inalienable
rights granted you by an impartial Cre
alor. ,y
Convention passed a vote of thank#
to Mrs. Sanford, and also requested
synopsis of her, from which the above
are extracts.
A vote of thanks was here passed to
John M. Sterling, Esq., of Cleveland,
for the presentation of a bundle of bock*
entitled Slavery as it is
Discussion wns resumed on the in
definite postponement of the Resolution
as to Woman’s Right. Objection was
made to the resolution, and in favor of
its postponement, by Messrs. Langston
and Day, on the ground that we had
passed one similar, making all colored
persons present, delegates to this Con
vention, and they considered teamen
persons.
Frcdciick Douglass moved to amend
the 33d Resolution, by saying that the
word persons used in the resolution
designating delegates, be understood to
include woman. On the call for the
previous question, the Resolution was
not indefinitely postponed. Mr. Doug
lass’s amendment was seconded and
carried, w ith three cheers for woman’#
rights.
No. 31 was passed.
The whole of the 6th Resolution wa#
referred to the next National Conven
tion.
The National Central Committee ap
pointed was—
Frederick Douglass, N. Y,
Charles H. Langston, Ohio,
J. Jones, Illinois,
Henry Bibs, Michigan,
J. G. Britton, Indiana,
John Peck, Pennsylvania?
George Day, Wisconsin,
J. P. Hilton, Massachusetts,
Josi Ail Conville, New Jersey.
On inquiry, it was found that tber
Convention was composed of
Printers, Carpenter*, Blacksmiths,
Shoemakers, Engineer, Dentist, Gur«
smith, Editors, Tailors, Merchants,
wheclrights, Painters, Farmers, Physi
cians, Plasterers, Masons, Students,
Clergymen, Barbers and Hair Dres
sers, Laborers, Coopers, Livery Stable
Keepers, Bath House Keepers, Groce
ry Keepers.
At 7 o’clock, the Convention adjourn
ed sine die, with three cheers for Eleva
tion—Liberty—Equality, and Frater
nity.
Resolutions, Ac., presented to tM
National Convention of Colored Free
men by the llnsiness Committee.
declaration or sentiments.
Whereas, in the present position of
the Colored people in the United Stales
of North America, they, as a class are
know n to the country and the intelligent
world alone as menials and domestic#
or servants and
Whereas, it is apparent, as th* his
tory of the world both ancient and
modem will testify, that no people thus
conditioned, from the Conventional
order of society can attain an equality
with the dominaol cl*** I
Whereas, an equality of persons
cannot be claimed, where there is not
an equality of attainments, —attain-
ments establishing character, and
character being that which is essen
tially necessary to make us equal to
our white fellow-ecuutrvmen;—
Resolved, that the following Declar
ation of Pfinciplcs we pledge ourselves
to maintain and carry out among the
coloted people of the United States to
the best of our ability.
i. Resolved, That we sbaU forever
oppose every action, emanating from
what source it uray, whether civil, po
litical. social *>r religious, in any man
ner derogat 't v t »the universal equality,
of man.—Adopted.
*i Unsolved, 1 hat whatever isnoces
sarv for the elevation of one class is
necessary for the h vation of another;
the respectable industrial occupations,
a< mechanical trades, farming or agri
culture, mercantile and professional
business, wealth and education, being
necessary for the elevation of the
whites; therein e those attainments are
for the elevation of us.—
Adopted
ii. Resolved, That wc impressively
K commend to eur brethren throughout
the country, the necessity of obtaining
a knowledge of mechanical trade,
farming, mercantile business, the learn
ed professions, ns well as the accumula
tion of wealth,* —as the essential means
of elevating us as a class.—Adopted
4. Resolved, That the occupation of
domestics and servants among our peo
ple is degrading to us ns a class, and
we deem it our bmindcn duty to dis
countenance such pursuits, except
where necessity compels the person to
resort thereto as a means of livelihood.
6. Resolved, That as Education is
necessary in all departments, we re
commend to our people, as far as in
their power lies, to give their children
especially, a business Education.
0. Resolved, That the better to unite
mid concentrate onr efforts as a people,
we recommend the formation of an
association, to be known as the
j Referred to a Committee, and subse
quently the whole Resolution referred
to the next Convention.]
7. Resolved, 'flint while our efforts
shall be entirely moral in their ten
dency, ii i-i no less the duty of this Con
vention to take Cognizance of the
Political action of our brethren, and
recommend to them that course which
shall best promote the cause of Liberty
and H umnnity.
N. Resolved, That wc recommend to
nur brethren throughout the several
states, to support no person or partv,
let the name or pretensions be what
they may, that shall not have for their
object the establishment of equal rights
and privileges, without distinction of
color, clime or condition.
R. Resolved, That holding Liberty
paramount to all earthly considerations,
we pledge ourselves, to resist properly,
every attempt to infringe upon our
rights.
It). Resolved, That Slavery is the
greatest curse ever inflicted on man,
being of hellish origin, the legitimate
offspring of the Devil, and we therefore
pledge ourselves, individually, to use
all justifiable means for its speedy and
immediate overthrow.
11. Whereas a knowledge of the
real moral, social, ami political condi
tion of out* people is not only desirable
but absolutely essential to the intelligent
prosecution of measures for our eleva
tion and improvement, and whereas our
present isolated condition makes the
attainment «b such knowledge exceed
ingly difficult, Therefore
Resolved, That this National Con
vention does hereby request the colored
miiustcYs and others persons through
out the Northern States, to collect, or
cause to he collected accurate statistics
of the condition of our people, during
the coming year, in the various stations
and circuits in which they may find i
themselves located, and that they he,
and hereby are requested to prepare
lists, stating—
-Ist. The number of colored persons
in the localities where they may be
stationed; their general moral and so
cial condition; and especially how
many are farmers and mechanics, how
many are merchants or storekeepers,
how tunny arc teachers, lawyers, doc
tors, ministers, and editors; how many
are known to take and pay for news
papers; how many literary, debating,
and other societies, for moral, mental,
and social improvement; arid that said
ministers he, and hereby are, respect
fully requested to forward all such
information to a Committee of one, who
shall he appointed for this purpose, and
that the said Committee of one he re
quired to make out a synopsis of
fuieli information and to report the same
to the next colored National Conven
tion.
1L Resolved, That Temperance is
another great lever for Elevation,
which we would urge upon our people
and all others to use, and earnestly
recommend the formation of societies
for its promotion.
Id. Resolved, That while we hcarti-i
l v engage in recommending to our peo
ple the Eree Soil movement, and the
support ot the Buffalo Convention,
nevertheless we claim and are deter-;
mined to maintain the higher standard
and more liberal views which have
heretofore characterized us as abo
litionists.
it. Resolved, That ns Liberty is a
right inherent in man, and cannot he
arrested without the most flagrant out
rage, wc recommend to our brethren
in bonds, to embrace every favorable'
opportunity ol effecting their escape.
Ib'Milvcd, that we pledge our
selves individually, to use all justifiable
means in aiding our enslaved brethren
m escaping tnmi tii Southern l’rison
i louse;of Bondage.
li». Resolved, tnat wv recommend to j
the c'f.red people every where, to*
ii'*' evt i-y just i Tort in getting their
children into schools, in common with
others in their sc vend locations.
t 7. Whereas, Arm i iem Slavery is
politically ami morally an c\il of which
this country stands guilty, and cannot
f>e abolished alone through tin* instru
mentality ol moral suasion and whereas
flic two great political parties of the
I uion have by their acts and nomina
tions betrayed the sacred cause of
human freedom, and
Whereas, a Convention recently
.i-.semblcd in the city of Buffalo having
for its object the c-tabli-huu at of a
party in support of free soil tor a free
people, ami Whereas said Convention
adopted lor its platform the follow ing
noble expression, viz; “Free Soil,
Free Speech, Free Labor and Free
Men,” and l»< lieving these expressions
well calculated to increase the interest
now felt in belwdf of the down-trodden
ami oppres-ed of this laud; therefore,
Res,Red, That we recommend to
ad colored persons ill possession ol the
light of Ihe elective Fiaiichisc, the'
of that body for their auf
fmge*, abd earnestly request all good
citizens to Use their united effort* to
.secure tl»*ir election to the chief offices
in the gift of the people.
Ttesolrcd, that the great fr’rrc Soil
1 arty ol the Lnited States, is bound
together hr a common sentiment ex
pressing the wish of a large portion ol
the people of this Union, and that we
iiail with delight this great morement
as the dawn of a bright and more aus
picious day. [The Resolutions were
rejected, hut the Preamble prefixed to
the 13th Resolution.]
IS. Resolved, That Love to God
and man, and Fidelity to ourselves
ought to be the great motto which we
will urge upon our people.
19. To the honorable members ol
the Convention of citizens of color of
the United States of America, greet
ing. 1 beg leave to report for your
consideration the result of my labors as
an Agent to promote a project of
home emigration to the State of Michi
gan. I was appointed on
October the 2llh, in the year 1845 by
an organization of gentlemen of color
in the Vicinity
The object of my agency was to explore
wild unsettled territory. 1 found
large and fertile tracts of government
land, in Kent and other counties, but in
Ocoaua and Mason counties there arc
peculiar facilities, which do not present
themselves in any of the other parts of
the State which I have visited. Oceana
and Mason are lake counties, with
about sixty miles seaboard. T here are
navigable rivers emptying into Lake
Michigan and affording at their mouths,
good harbors, delightful sites for cities
and villages, also with hydraulic pow
ers of every magnitude. Plenty of
land ready for the plow at $1,25 per
acie. Valuable Timber may be had
here in abuudance. Grass is now to be
found from knee high to the height of a
man. The surface of the meadows is
a deep vegetable mould, below which
in many places are lound beds of Lime.
Fruit, Fish, and Game in abundance.
Also, Salt Springs. Plaster of Paris
has been discovered there. During the
last spring a constant trade was kept
up between these lands and Chicago,
Milwaukee, and the ports on Lake
Michigan. There are four saw mills in
the two counties. Lumber is wanted
at £,7 per thousand on the lake shore.
Shingles, shingle bolts, staves, tan
Hark, Cedar Posts &.C., all bring a
liberal price, and demand Gold and
Silve r, and provisions during the season
af navigation. I now submit the sub
let 6cc. Imping that you will adopt
some feasible plan to arouse our people
o consider the importance of the
same. Jeki-ciiso.v Fitzgerald.”
20. Resolved, That the thanks of this
Jonvcntion be tendered to the Presi
lent for the able and impartial manner
n which he has presided over its dclib
rations.
21. Resolved, That this Convention
idjourn sine die on Friday, Sept. Bth,
i o’clock I*. M.
22. Whereas, we find ourselves far
behind the military tactics of the civ
ilized world, therefore,
Resolved, That this Convention re
commend to the Colored Freemen of
North America to use every means in
their power to obtain that science, so
as to enable them to measure arms with
assailants uilhout and invaders within;
therefore,
Resolved, That this Convention ap
point Committees in the different States
ns Vigilant Committees, to organize
is such where tho same may be deemed
practicable.
23. Resolved, That this Convention
return their sincere thunks to Judge
\ndrews and the Bar of Cleveland, in
ldjouruing the Court and tendering to
js the use of the Court House for the
sittings of the Convention. [See min
ites.J
Resolved, That among the means in
strumental in the elevation of a people,
here is none more effectual than a
veil-conducted and efficient newspaper;
ind believing the North Star, published
ind edited by Frederick Douglass and
>l. R. Delany at Rochester, fulty to
mswer all the ends and purposes of a
mtional press, we therefore recommend
ts support to the colored people thro’-
>ut North America.
21. Resolved, That the Convention
•ccommcnd to the colored citizens of
he several Free States, to assemble in
Vlass State Conventions annually, and
ictition the Legislatures thereof to re
teal the Black Laws, or all laws mili
ating against the interests of colored
tcople.
25. Whereas, we firmly believe with
he Fathers of *7O, that taxation and
*epresentation ought to go together;’
herefore,
Resolved, That wc arc very much in
1 >ubt as to the propriety of our paying
my tax upon w hich representation is
>ased, until wc are permitted to be re
i resented.
2d. Resolved, That, as a body, the
iroiesscd Christiau American Chruch
*s generally, by their support, defence,
ind participation in the damning sin of
\mcncan Slavery, as well as cruel pre
udicc and proscription of the nominally
ree colored people, have forfeited cv
rry claim of confidence on our pait,
ind therefore merit our severest repro
mtion.
27. Resolved, That Conventions of a
mnilar character to this are well calcu
atod to enhance the interest of suffer
ng humanity, and the colored people
'enrrally, and that we recommendsuch
isMunhlages to the favorable considera
ion of our people.
2«. Resolved, That the next Nation
tl Convention of Colored Freemen
dial I be held in Detroit, Michigan, or
it Pittsburgh, Pa., some time in the
ear I
2!f Resolved, I hat among the many
»|»prcs*iive schemes against the colored
>coplc in the United Slates, we view
he American Colonization Society as
he most deceptive and hypocritical—
‘clothed with the livery of heaven to
erve the devil in, with President
Itohcrts, of Liberia, a colored man, fof
ts leader.
30. Resolved, That wc tender to the
nti/.ens of Cleveland our unfeigned
hanks for the noble resolution passed
iy them in approval of the doings of
his Convention.
31. Resolved, That the prejudice
gainst color, so called, is vulgar, un
i.itural and wicked ill the sight of God,
and wholly unknown io any country
where slaver/ does not exist.
32. Resolved, That while we are en
gaged in the elevation of our people,
wc claim it to be our duty to inquire of
our public lecturers and agents an ex
planation in reference to the disburse
ment of funds they may have collected
from time to time for public purposes.
33. Whereas, we fully believe in the
equality of the sexes, therefore,
Resolved, That we hereby invite fe
males hereafter to take part in our de
liberations.
j 34. Whereas, a portion of those of
'our colored citizens called barbers, by
refusing to treat colored men on equali
ty with the whites, do encourage preju
dice among the whites of the several
States; therefore,
Resolved, That we recommend to
this class of men a change in tbeir
course of action relative to us; and if
this change is not immediately made,
we consider them base senriles, worthy
only of the condemnation, censure, and
defamation of all lovers of liberty,
I equality, and right.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, SEPTEMBER 29, 1849.
Correction.— A report Is in circulation,
whence originating It is easy enough to con
ceive, that several of the scholars at Seward
Seminary left the school, when they heard
that a colored child was about to be admitted
amongst them. This report is wholly with
out foundation. Not one of them left, or
thought of leaving on that account. The
facts of the case arc as stated by Mr. Doug-
lass in last week’s pa;>er —namely, that the
i pupils, instead of objecting, were most will
ing that his daughter should be admitted
and that one, only ONE of their parents, was
found unchristian enough, uncivilized enough
to oppose her admission, and that one was
11. G. Warner, editor of the Rochester!
Courier. And further, when it was) found j
that she was uot to be admitted, three left the
school, and*thrce more whom it was intended j
to send there, were sent to other achools:
where the teachers were not under the influ
ence of an ignorant and unreasoning pre
judice.—J. D.
Cause and Effect.
It is a law in physics, as it is in morals,
that every cause is followed by a fixed and I
unvarying effect. In the physical world, fire
is always hot ice is always cold. No one
in his senses ever thinks of going to an ice
house for warmth—to a fire for coolness.
So in the moral world, the effect does not
more certainly follow the cause. Expose a
man to evil influences—or rather, surround
him, from youth upwards, with all that is
calculated to debase and brutify—and what
else can be expected of him but that he will
be debased and brutal, and will so continue
until other motives are placed before him— j
until he is surrounded by other and better in-
influences? It would be a miracle were he j
otherwise, inasmuch as such a manifestation
would be contrary to all the known laws
of nature's operations. All. of course, are not
alike influenced by surrounding circumstances;
some have a greater—some a less affinity to
vice still the rule is sufficiently unvarying, j
as stated by the apoatle Paul—that otil i
communications corrupt good manners.” This
is not less certain than it is that fire gives out
warmth, and ice, coldness; yet a single)
glance at our mode of proceedure towards a
portion of the people of this country, will be
sufficient to show how far we are from a just j
appreciation of this truth.
In the Southern States of this Union, there
are three millions of human being* whom it is
criminal to instruct. No, it will not do to
instruct them,” say their masters; “if they
get intelligent, we cannot hold them in sla
very.” They say this, and they say it with
truth and to keep those three millions from
claiming what but a little instruction will en
able them to discover—namely, the inherent
right of every man to himself, and the means
of making good that right—their truly pious
and godly masters close against them, as far
as they have the ability, all the avenues to
knowledge and intelligence. They keep men
ignorant, make them debased, and then say
they are not fit for freedom Most satisfac
tory logic, truly The effect of this viola
i lion of moral law of course follows. Those
who are thus wickedly excluded from the
means of acquiring knowledge, are ignorant,
coarse, and, in too many instances, vicious;
and a universal demoralization and depraved
i state of public sentiment, are the retributive
results? And who is to blame for this?;
That the man should be ignorant w bo has not
been permitted to learu, is by no means won- j
derful; neither is it wonderful that he should
lie vicious, if exposed to dt basing influences.
The color of the skin makes no difference in
this respect. The Hack African, the red
Indian, and the w hite European, arc ail simi- I
larlv affected by being placed in such circum- 1
stances, 'i he crime and the shame of their
ignorance and debasement, attach, then, not
to those who are the victims of this wicked
ness, but to those who perpetrate it.
j Nor does this self-overreaching injustice of;
the dominant class end here. In the North,
we find colored men degraded and Injured.
j They are not provided with sufficient means
of education they are rubbed, as far as pos
sible, of the ability to procure education for
themselves. In some places they are admit
ted into the schools only on sufferance and
in others, they are altogether excluded. The
consequence of tlus is, that they are as a class
more ignorant and less useful than the major
ity of their while fellow-citizens; and they
are, it is probable, as vice is the necessary
concomitant of ignorance, also more vicious.
Who, again, is to blame for this* Not the I
innocent victims of the inflicted ignorance,
but those who inflict this ignorance upon
them, it is tidiculous—it is cruelly unjust j
first to force i goo ranee upon them, and then
to taunt them with mfenurtty first to
them vicious, and then to denounce them as
wicked and unfit for political privileges, when
oue of tfiptr number is guilty of a crime.
That the African race, when posaemvd
of equal advantages, are as cattily of im
prove me men t as their more favored white
brethren, a cloud of witnesses might bo
produced to prove. The following extract
from the examination of T, Jt. Thompson,
K.*q. before a Select Commutes of the House
of Commons, uu the Slave Trade, May 30th,
1818, mar be tiTcn as otnbonthi testi
mony
Wbat m the exte* to which you eoo
<»»e it poMtbii to introtkce colored or coun
try-born British subjects bio the naval eervk*
on the ooutjil Africa ?*V* I think it in only
limited by the means to brinjr them for
ward, because there ie an abundance of them.
That they would be (but»4 qualified I have not
a doubt, if thejr were aofficieaUj educated
and brought up fa r the ptrpoee.
Then you would not ample to fo to sea
in n British man of w» yoursdf,» which
all, with the creep*ini lemubly of few of
the leading officer*, wen colored subjects!”
I would not hesitate at all; 1 conceive
that they are capable of being brought for
ward for any purpose that we mny require/*
44 Then you have not formed any opinion
of an; inferiority existing in the colored man,
in anv of hie gradations, to the European!”
No; I think that be is capable of ruing
to almost any point in crrilizaiion; we may
judge from the people in the interior of Af
rica, who are essentially negro, and hare
wise institutions; they ha ve shown that if
they had more frequent communication with
civilized nations, they might have tiaen to
the highest point of civilization.”
44 Then you believe that the pore negro
from the intenor, b endowed with the same
faculties of progression, as the European
44 1 have come to that conclusion, after
looking at the subject carefully/*
One such statement will more than out
weigh a thousand and one metaphysical spe
culations.—j. n.
The HuteMeaoui.
The reception given to thb glorious 44 nest
of singers*’ by the citizens of Goncord, at
their concert last week, showed that, not
withstanding the many 44 singiug families”
which have sprung up to divide the popular
favor, the Ilotchinsons are still first in the
hearts of all lovers of the true poetry of mu
sic. They never had a better house, or a
more enthusiastic reception than on their last
visit, notwithstanding the croak mgs of a few
thin-skinned, thick-skulled parttzam, who
can't boar anything, just now, that savors of
freedom. Tiie people, thank heaven, howev
er, have no such instinct of slavery. They
like that music which is free, and whose free
strains are breathed in free words, from free,
wann hearts. Such is the music of the
Hutcbinsone. Long utay it he heard u> cheer
the spirits and strengthen the bands of the
friends of freedom. —Concord l)cm.
ID 3 Our readers will be glad to learn that
the Hutchinsons are now 7 on their way west,
and may be expected in this city in the course
of a few days. The citizens of Rochester
will give them a hearty welcome. With the
exception of here and there a Hunker,
they 44 like that music which is free—whose
strains are breathed from free, warm hearts.”
The Hutchinsons have done and are doing a
great work in behalf of the downtrodden—for
the cause of Free Mon, Free Soil, and Free
Speech. They propose in the present tour
to visit Buffalo, Cleveland, Oberlin, Detroit,
Chicago, Cincinnati, and the principal towns
on the Western Reserve.
The Peace Convention which was pro
posed to be held at Paris,; it ie now intended
in consequence of the sta|e of things in that
city, to hold at Brussels/ A letter from Eli
hu Burnt says 1 found it would be called
in spite of us, an English political demonstra
tion in Paris, to strengthen the French Gov
ernment against the French People.”
A Victory.—The city of Alton, 111., in
which Lovejoy was mobbed and murdered for
his defence and advocacy of the cause of the
slave, has given two hundred and eighty-two
majority for Freedom and Free Soil.
Rev Henry M. Wilson, Minhtir of the
Immanuel Church. N. Y., has written a letter
to the editor of the R »m's Horn, in which he
certifies to the good character borne by Prior
Foster, of the WooJstock Manual Labor
Institute. He says nothing new, however,
nor does he attempt, either on his own or
Mr. Fostei’s authority, to answer the
charges made in the North Star. Will Mr.
Foster reply to those charges, or is he content
to remain under the imputation of dishonesty!
The 44 full convictions” of Mr. Wilson, or
of any one else, are nq proof in favor of
Prior Foster. He cannot now be allowed to
pass muster on such slender grounds. Until
a full and satisfactory explanation is given,
Mr. Foster cannot blame those who think that
he has used money collected by him for other
purposes than those for which it was given.
His explanation will with much pleasure be
published in the North Star.-—j. d.
Illness of Mr. Phillips.
Many of our readers are aware of the se
vere and dangerous illness which has recently
threatened the life of Wendell Phillips, and
all will be rejoiced to hear that its violence is
abated, and his condition now considered safe
if no unfoitunate change takes place. He
was spending the summer at the house of
Loring Moody, when he was seized with the
epidemic dysentery, which has been so fatal
along the coast and in other places this sea
son. For ten day* or a fortnight hisease was
of the most critical kind, and his danger most
imminent.
Nothing but the most assiduous care which
strong affection only can produce, could have
saved him. Such care he had, and by its
means we trust that a life so valuable and so
dear is to be given yet longer to the hearts of
his friends and to the hopes of humanity.—
Liberator.
The Church Militant—What a privi
lege it is to have an established Church
People in this couutry cannot appreciate the
blessedness of paying church rales to an over
led and bloated rector or bishop, whom they
never saw. Those who have lived in Eng
land, especially if amongst dissenters (rum the
established form of faith, can bear testimony
to the pleasure they have seeo expressed on
their friend’s countenance when called upon
for a half-year's church rates. How readily
the $15,00 or $20,00 were forthcoming
Really, dear John Bull, we pray most fer
vently fpt your speedy deliverance front the
load of that nightmare. The London Pa
triot gives an instance of clerical rapacity and
injustice, the like of which it is to be hoped,
for the sake of our coin moo humanity, is but
rarely perpetrated, even by a lucre-loving
priesthood.
Church Spoliation.— The Rev. F. W.
Fraser, pastor of the Baptist Church, Regent
■ireet, Lambeth, has just been robbed by the
ecclesiastical authorities of h chair, which
coat him £4, to cover a rate of 12s. for the
new churches, Lambeth. The expenses
wire as follows: Rate, 12a.; expenses, 3s.
4d.; levy and man, sa. 6d,; auctioneer’s com
mission and cart hire, 3s total, 3s. lOd.
The chair was sold for 3s.
I have heard some in thb country, who I
suspect, are sot quite certain of their where
abouts, speak favorably of a.Sule guardianship
of religion. Would you Uke to have it oome to
thb, friends ?—j. o.
Every time a nun laughs he adds to the du*
rsiiofl of hb life.— Sterne.
ftenttocftrt Free-Tk Uiioi W—M
We find in on of oar exchanges the fol
lowing fctfor from Leslie Coomb*, Keniwky
Whig, ki reply to in in r Ration Iff peak
Chill icathe.
Lxxworox, Aug. Mi 184®.
Gentlemen Your* of the *6«h »*roceked.
I mi much urged to go to Indiana, u well ai
to Now York, but I wUh to bt wUk you, and
I think I will, on th« 6th.
From thence I go to New York, Ac. My
judgment is, that if we do not now succeed,
the experiment of free government has foiled.
If Cam be elected, we shall hare corruption
of the basest kind, and war and blood. If Van
Bureo sueeeod, the Umom wsif bodiomUmi,
and aril war, and anarchy, and despotism fol
low. God deliver os from both! We can
and will succeed, if we do our duty. I ufill
do mi nr, and if I had a voice aa loud as rat
tling thunder, I would wake op the people
(rum Maine to Texas.
Yours tmlv,
LESLIE COOMBS.
Pity it is this writer has not a better cause.
How this nation will be honored by the elec
tion of General Taylor for President f What
a sacred daty it is to labor for the election of
a manstealing slaveholder to that high office
If the t’nion were to be dissolved to-morrow,
who would be the losers? Not the North
for the slavrpower has contrived, bit by hit,
compromise after compromise, so to manage
matters that the North has little mare than a
ehadow of a share left in the government of
the nation. The nature of slavery jn to en
croach. As long as there is anything to be
gained, it never will be satisfied. Yes: dis
solve the Union What do freemen want
with slavery and slave States! They want
no share of either the sin, or the shame, or
the profit of the abominable system. Dis
solve the Union! Yes! welcome will bo the
day that the dissolution is consummated. It is
perhaps not the only nor the best way by
which to accomplish the deliverance of the
3,000,000 crushed and bleeding in bonds; but
Northern freemen, come what may, will not
much longer consent to be the bloodhounds
and watch-dogs of a slaveholding oligarchy.
This threat has lost its terrors !—j d.
Senator Foote and Abolitionism.
It would appear from the following epistle,
addressed to the editor of the Prisoners’
Friend, by the would-be hangman-Senator,
that at all events he is opposed to capital pun
ishments, when inflicted where he does not
himself officiate. Well, that is one step in
progress. Perhaps he will by and by discover
that the title of Jack Ketch does not add much
to his respectability, and be willing to “throw
up his commission.”
Senate Chamber, July 20, 1843.
Dear Sir:—When I formed my acquaint
ance with you here, I was impressed most
favorably by your demeanor and conversation.
Several weeks ago, (I think in your second
number received by rue,) I discovered some
tokens of the Abolition spirit, which so dis
satisfied me that 1 wrote you a letter, enclos
ing the offensive paper, and requested you to
send no other number of the same. I reflected
upon the philanthropic object of your paper,
and determined to tear up the letter, and wait
for fun her developments! The nnmbcr just
leceived satisfies me that I cannot longer, as
a Southern Senator, continue to take the
Prisoners' Friend. I beg leave, therefore, to
return the numlier now transmitted, with the
assurance that my conduct is dictated by no
personal ill-will. Be kind enough to send
your account for the numbers heretofore re
ceived. I will pay it promptly.
In great haste, t beg the honor to be, &e.
H. S. FOOTE.
To the Editor of the Prisoner's Friend, Bos
ton, Mass.
On the outside of the letter was the follow
ing, written in a bold hand
When I recognize Franklin as an abolition
ist in the present odious sense of the word, I
shall cease to respect him.
11. S. FOOTE.
Christian Slaveholders t
Is it possible No, it is not. The follow
ing extract from the Utica Christian Contrib
utor would give us to understand that a man
may at one and the same time be a Christian
and a slaveholder. Sorry indeed should we
be to entertain such a low estimate of Chris
tianity. It does not appear to ua more para
doxical or absurd to speak of a pious devil or
an honest rogue, than it doe* to speak of a
Christian slaveholder. Our present object,
however, is not to argue this question, but
simply to show', on the authority of the Con
tributor, to what an extent slavery is sustained
and practised by the different religious denom
inations—especially by the Methodists, Bap
tists and Presbyterians. Ichabod!
Christians and Slavery.—A published
calculation (how accurate we do not know)
stales that 250,000 slaves are held by Meth
odists, 226,000 by Baptists, and 80,000 by
Presbyterians. Add 45,000 to all other de
nominations, and you have 600,000 slaves
held by religious men. The average number
to each may be about ten, which will give us
60,000 religious men holding slaves. What
ought these religious slaveholders to do
Some will say, immediately, and at all haz
ards, Emancipate their slaves. Others will
any, Go to work immediately, and with earn
estness, as citizens of the country, to procure
the rep al of the laws. Others will cay,
Commence immediately and sincerely the
work of giving instruction to the slaves, to
prepare them for freedom. But will any in
telligent Christian say that these 600,000
slaveholders are discharging their duty, while
eating and wasting ibe earnings of their
slaves, aud making no effort in auy way to
give them their freedom
Since the above was written, we see that
the National Era estimates all the riavehold-:
era in the United States at 250,000, which
would give about the same proportion, be
tween slaves and slaveholders as the above
calculation. Think of the immense mischief
which these 250,000 slaveholders are doing in
the midst of a population of 20,000,000!
ID* The Blackstone Chronicle, a beauti
fully printed and ably edited paper, has been
discontinued for want of palionage. Wcare
sorry, for it was one of our best exchanges.!
The editor has a long, well-written valedic-j
tory, which lie closes with the following pithy
hints to printers:
To ail printers I have a word of advice,
and it shall be given with aa unction. If you
are asked to start a newspaper, don't rely on
verbal promises to obtain subscribers. Calcu
fota all the expenses of the enterprise, omit
ting no items that you can think of, aud then
multiply the aggregate by two. Then esti-
mate the probable income, setting down each!
item at the lowest point that may be named;
by the most esutious of all your friends. Di-!
vide the aggregate by two, and if the latter
product equals the first, go ahead otherwise
have no inure to do with the project than you 1
would with the small pox or the cholera. If!
my experieoee will enable me to keep others
from burning their fingers, I shall not be left
wholly without cunsolatioo.”
Hz' H«n. Frederick Hobmsoo has been
nominated by the Hunkers of the 4th District
of Massachusetts now so ably represented by i
Mr. Palfrey. r f
i
Liberia ul the Slnretmdr.
The e<htor of the Nnw York Day Book
has published several articles on Liberia and
Coloniaanon, from which extracts relating to
j the Retr. J. B. Pinney were made io a recent
number of the North Star. These articles
also furnish startling evidence of the fact that
the officers and agents of the colony have
been deeply implicated in the slave trade.—
True, it is some time since the occurrence of
the events which he relates; but up to the
present day, there is no evidence to show that
either the spirit or the practice of those con
cerned in that alfiur, are in any material de
gree improved. The revelations here made
are neither worse nor better than might have
been expected from a society, some of whose
most prominent men are slaveholders. Says
the editor of the Day Book
‘•The public will bo impressed with the
fact, that a prominent member of the Baptist
denomination in Liberia, was openly eng.iged
in the slavctrade, was in the employ of r» dro
I Bianco in 1837, and that this business was
frcclv tolerated in Liberia, without censure or
question from ain body, at the very time when
the Colonization agents in this country were
demanding money from the deceived benevo
lent public, on the ground that the Colony of
Liberia was the most efficient means for the
suppression of the African slavctrade All
tbw is admitted, and if it were denied, it could
habmsly proved.
■MMr of the delegation, Payne, states
thwpß was not engaged in the slave trade at
any 4me, and was not at New Sweaters in
1639. This is probably true, and he may be
exonerated from this particular charge. But
in correcting the Day Book’s crroi, why did
he not go on and show that it was his brother
that was in the employ of the siavetraders at
New Sesters? This Mr. Payne’s brother, a
little younger than he, and very strongly re
sembling hun in appearance, did, with the
knowledge and approval of his relatives, en
gage as an auxiliary to the slavctrade, and
was at New Sesters at the time specified.—
His mother’s house was the regular stopping
place for the Spanish and Portuguese slave
traders when they visited Monrovia,who were
i in fact the principal support of the family.—
If this Mr. Payne inherited, or even received
any money from his mother, he must have
partaken of the profits of the slavetrade.
The editor of the Day Book not being suffi
ciently familiar with the initials of the two
Paynes, had supposed that the brother whom
he knew at New Sesters was the person sub
sequently ordained as pastor. They were
both very good young men, nephews of the
pastor of the Baptist church, and most of ihe
family were quite religious, according to the
Liberian standard.
But now, will Mr. Pavne, or any of the
agents of the Colonization Society, who know
anything about the facts, venture to say that
church members in Liberia did not, at that
time, freely aid and promote the slavctrade
whenever they could find cmploytne .t from
the siavetraders? Will they contend tint it
was considered immoral or improper to do so,
or that there could have been any church cen
sure applied to a communicant who subsisted
entirely upon *he money made by him in the
slavetrade? There wes never a word of cm
sure uttered by any Liberian against those thus
employed. The pastor of the Baptist church
at that time, the Rev. Colin Teage, (uncle of
Mr. P avne,) was employed at the same time
j with John N. Lewis, to store cargoes for
I Pedro Blanco. His storehouse was also a
depot for siavetraders, and he received plenty
j of money from Blanco without hesitation.—
There were dozens and scores of Liberian
Christians actively and joyfully engagtd in
the slave trade, without any more compunc
tion than they would have felt about the palm
oil trade.
It is a notorious fact in Africa, that the
colony of Liberia was for two years an im
portant auxiliary to the slavctrade, and that
Ihe facilities and conveniencics of the sla
vers were vastly increased by it. The Span
1 ish and Portuguese siavetraders were al-j
ways heartily welcomed, and were ihe most
popular men that ever visited Liberia.
Their company was considered a great
honor and favor, and all were eager for their
notice.
It should be know n, too, by ihe people of
this country, that the Liberian colonists them
selves freely bought and owned slaves at that
time, and undoubtedly soM them to their .Span
ish and Portuguese visitors when they could
get a go*xl price in doubloons for thorn, espe
cially in the starving times so often occurring
there. Of the latter point, however, the w ri
ter has no posiiive proof. Of the fact that the
colonists (professed Christians) bought and
held slaves without scruple, there can be no
denial by any man of truth who has lived in
Liberia, and become familiar with the cus
toms, morals and habits of the people there.
The editor of the Day Book was advised and
strongly urged by a prominent and most re
spectable and religious Liberian, high in office,
to purchase two slaves for his household, on
account of the difficulty of retaining free na
tives for any considerable length of lime in one
steady employment.”
The Dr. also accuses President Roberts
of having been connected with tho slavetrade
while, residing in Liberia. To this Roberts
replies:
Bacon accuses me of being employed in
1937, as the agent, employee and factor of
Pedro Blanco, the greatest aiavetrader on the
coast,and that I was employed by him, Blanco,
to purchase vessels in Sierre Leone to be used
as slavers.
Now, sir, to be short, 1 emphatically do-!
elare that I never saw or corresponded with
Pedro Blanco in my life. I have never been
employed at any time by him or any other
slaver, either directly or indirectly, as an
agent, employee or factor, or in any oihei way
during my residence in Africa.”
To this defence Dr. Bacon thus responds:
He says he never corresponded with Pe
dro Blanco in his life. Uundouhtedly true.
he never saw him. If by corresponding, he
means that he never wrote a letter to him, or
received one from him, that rnay be true also.
But there arc other ways of corresponding
than by writing. It is very evident that a
letter from Pedro Blanco, who knew only the
Spanish language, could not have been read
by Joe Roberts, who knew no language but
the English and a letter to the latter would
be equally unintelligible!* the former. Their
transactions, therefore, must have been earned
on through some medium which the Gov
ernor docs not suppose to be included!
under the terra ‘‘correspondence.” There'
were some very peculiar and forcible rea
sons why he never taw or cone*(»onded with
Pedio Blanco, who never visited any place on
the whole coast except Galinhas, where was
the center of bis business and where hw power
uas irresistible. Joe Roberts could not nsk
himself at any such place, or put Mroself in
the power of the Spaniards on that coast, on
account of a certain affair in which he had
been engaged several years previous to the
lime referred to, as will be hereafter explained.
Still, these two worthies became necessary to
each other s advantage, and found means to
communicate and traffic without seeing each
other or writing letters.
Now to be short'—in the year 1637
Joseph J. Roberts (alias ‘‘Governor Roberts,”
President Roberts”) went from Mon
twvia (Liberia) to Sierra Leone, and there,
without money or credit of his own, bought a!
large schouiu r which had becu captured from
the siavetraders by the British cruizers, and
condemned by the mixed commission Court as
a slaver, pursuant to w hich condemnation the j
xem ?y Wa at auction, according to the
provisions of the British treaties for the sup- j
prrsstoo of the slavetrade. 'Phis same Rah-;
t-rls went to Sierra Leone, iu company with,
John N. L ‘«ris, (now Secretary <*f the C’ol
frfiy, and now in this city at one of the del-
rgation Cmm Liberia,”) who, it is confessed,
was an sgri.t, employee and storekeeper of
Pedro Blanco. The purchased schooner was
christened by the nominal purchasers, by the
hopeful appellation of the Monrovia,” out
of compliment to the chief Tillage of that
Coiooy, which was founded and supported by
the amiable Colon isationists of the Cm ted
States, for the purpose, amone others, of sup
pressing the slavelrade. The Monrovia lay at
anchor in the road-stead of Monrovia for a
few weeks, entirely unemployed, and utterly
useless to the seeming owner,who had neither
busioess sufficient to employ a vessel of that
size, nor the capital, nor the credit to make
business of such an amount. Hs never pos
sessed in his life money enough to buy half of
such a Tessc!, nor merchandize enough to fill
the half.
Hut the Monrovia did not lay idle Tory long.
About the beginning of July, the brig Ivan
hoe, brought from Galmhas to Monrovia, T.
Rodriguez Huron, heretofore described as the
principal factor and agent of I’edro Blanco.-
Establishing himself in the house and in the
storehouse of John X. Lewis, he soon took
possession of the schooner Monrovia, also
with very liitle ceremony, and sent her off to
Galinhas. whence she w as almost immediately
sent to. Havana, crowded with miserable
slaves destined to be worked and whipped to
death on the sugar plantations of Cuba. Of
course to spare the feelings of the Coloniaa-
Uonists and other friends of the slave,” and
enemies of slavery and the slave trade, tho
beautiful but inappropriate name of the “Mon
rovia” w as taken from the schooner wbensho
was taken from the keeping of her nominal
owncr into the service of her real owner. Of
course, the Governor,” or President” of
Liberia will say that he sold the Monrovia to
T. R. Buron. Undoubtedly that was tho
form of the transaction. Senor Huron told
the writer of this article that ho had bought
her. Hut the ysung Senor was no more able
to buy such a vessel fur himself than tho
Governor” was. He was merely Bianco'*
factor, agent, and representative; so that
there was no danger that the writer would
misunderstand him. Senor Bun>n did not
generally make the writer his particular con
tidant in regard to his transactions at Monro
via with Joseph J. Huberts and John X. Lewis,
though his business with the latter was no
secret. It happened that the captain of tho
brig Invanhoe (of which T. R. Huron was
acting supercargo at that time) was violently
attacked with the African fever on board of
his vessel then at anchor in the port of Mon
rovia. and the writer of course, was called to
attend him professionally, which he did, taking
along Senot Buron with him in his boat.—
After attending to the sick man and leaving
the brig to return to the village, the writer
was requested by Senor Buron to order the
boat's crew to pull alongside of schooner
Monrovia, which lay not far olf, as he wished
to give some directions to the captain (a mu
latto Liberian named Cooper) and to Teprovo
him for the negligent manner in w hich tho
rigging of the vessel was left. The writer
readily complied, without exactly understand
ing the relations of his Spanish companion to»
the Liberian vessel, and tho latter probably
noticing the surprise involuntarily manifested,
at once said in explanation—“ She is mine.”
Indeed Yes—l have bought her.”—-
As soon as the boat came w ithin hailing dis
tance, tho Senor gave his orders to the captain
accompanied with some sharp rebuke for Ins
carelessness, all which was humbly taken by:
ihe Liberian, and tho orders were submissive
ly obeyed. This was the first occasion on
which the writer knew that the transfer of the
vessel front Huberts to Illanco had aeri ally
taken place, though it was afterwards familiar
ly known iii the colony and talked of without
a word of ceusure from anybody.
It will he seen what eminent services were
m this way rendered to the s ave traders by
such men as Govt rnor” Roberts, him! w hat
peculiar facilities for carying oil the slave
trade were furnish'd by the C'olonv of Libe
ria. \Y hen the captured slave v« sscl» wertr
sold in Shire Leone, id ways at a bargain,
the Spaniards themselves could not go there
to bid for them. Neither could BlancoV
English ag< lit at S’crn: Ixouc do it without
detection in an offence puntshahle by the
British laws. But he c» uld furnish the money
to pay for them w hen Governor Roberts’’
became the nominal purchaser. The vcsaell
could then leave SierTe Intone under Ameri
can or Liberian colors, and could be transfer
red to the real purchasers in a place (then),
under the jurisdiction of the American Coloni
zation Society without rendering any body
liable to punishment or even to exposure un
der ordinary circumstances.
'Hits one instance is enough to show the*
relation of Governor” Roberts to the Slave'
Hade. When he has made his answer 10 this
distinct, specific, ami detailed charge, it will
be time to look farther into his commercial
history, to expose more completely the dishon
esty of the Colonizationists, in declaring that
the Colony operates for the suppression or
discouragement of the Slave trade.
So much for Liberia and its Agents. That
man must be mote than usually simple and
credulous, who can place any confidence in.
■nen and measures that have been thus tried
and found wanting. As a means, as it is po
litely called, of improving the condition of
the colored race,” or in'plain terms, ridding
the country of Africans, the scheme, it is suf
ficiently evident, is utterly abortive. Thank
Heaven, that wickedness it is not within the
power of the Colonization Society to perpe
trate. They havo managed, as their official
reports state, to transport during the last year,
just 110. How many years, at that rate,
would it take to tiarisport 3,500,000* Th<*
yearly increase is of course many times 410.
The whole scheme is hollow, hypocritical,
and valueless. It is worse than that; it is, as
I have before asserted, a scheme for the bene
fit of slaveholders—got op and fostered with
a view expressly to thoir advantage. There
is land enough and to spare in this vast conti
nent, w hich is w aiting for the plough; why
try to send Americans from the land of their
birth to seek a home on the sickly shores of
Liberia *—-j. d.
A Modern anniii.u,—“ Do you see that
fellow lounging there, doing nothing aaid
Owens to Jenks, the other day. liow doe*
he live* by his wits?” Ob, no he's
cannibal!” “A cannibal!’’ Yes, a can
nibal—he licet on other people
The Great West. —A gentleman who
has lately travelled extensively in tins South
western States, stated at a public meeting the
oilier day, that to his knowledge, there was
not a single bookstore in all the State of Ar
kansas.
Emigrants ihe number of emigrants
arriving and stopping in the city of Toronto
during the pa*t year was upwards of 30,000.
Ihe whole population of the city is only
*24,000. 7 7
Gen. Taylor's Pledges —An A 1 abama
correspondent the Albany Atlas writes
Ihe 1 aylor candidate for elector in this
district declared the other day, in a public
discussion in this county, (Green,) that the
people of the Sooth had THREE HI M
DRED PLEDGES—alluding to Gun. Tay*
lor a negroes—that he would veto the Wilawt
Proviso.
11/ Mr. Benjamin, one of tho Mg
electors for the State of I j«u«i»na, affirmed
m a speech at Baton Rouge, Geo. Taylui a
own residence, that the old General was "ml
right" upon the slavery question, adding, I
can assure my fellow-citizens here, that lay*
lor will promptly veto anything like the Wil
root Proviso. The interests of the South an
sale in his hands.*’
JO* The Indian Insurrection U Yucatan in
neatly at an cud.
I* etr nnmp"fctre Free !*ol! fttntc
onvmtion.
Of this Convention, the Omcord N. 11.
Dem«v'-at an»l Freeman bits
The Free Soil State Convention, held in
thu town last week, was the largest and most
enthusiastic Convention that has assembled
hem for years. It was emphatically a gath
ering of the people. Every part of the Rep
resentatives' Hall, floor, galleries ami all,
were crowded to overflowing through the en
ure day. It waa a gathering of men—true,
earnest men, who felt that great pun
ciple* were at stake, in the establishment or
overthrow of which arc involved the dearest
Interest* of their country and of their race.
We have attended many State Conventions;
hut never one breathing a better spirit or made
up of stronger and better men among whom
were not a few, who have always heretofore
acted with the old defunct parties w hich now
contain Casa and Taylor.
Hon. John P Hale was called for from all
part* of the hall, and as he stepped upon the
platform was welcomed with the most enthu
maatic applaud. Mr, Hale M reused the
Convention fin an hour and a half with even
more than his usual ability, and with great ef
tX}ic said he did not come there to speak
to Whigs or Democrats —a* such —hut
to Brn ami women, not to politician*. He
address'd himself to men whom God had
made. Whigs and Democrats being manu
factured bv other hands and elsewhere, lie
then took a brief review of the political ques
tion* w hich hail formerly occupied the atten
tion of the people —the sub-treasury, the bank,
the tariff, for instance —and demanded to know
how, or in what degree, the people of he*
Hampshire had been affected by their sett le
nient the one way or the oilier. (Much
cheering.) No one could tell what bearing
those former great questions had bad upon
their business or their interest, unless it were
the coterie of office-seekers —that set which
for thirty years pa.-t m New Hampshire, had
ever been willing to serve tlie State, tor tne
sake of the salaries. To them, indeed, the
question* might have been of moment. Hut
to the people generally they were of none at
all.
But there is now, Mr. Hale said, a question
of vast and surpassing moment before the
whole people a question w hich comes home
to every man’s individual responsibility, a
question on which every man is called on to
vote within the next sixty days. It is the
question whether slavery shall he permitted to
extend itself overall our conquered territories,
or whether it shall l>e confined within its pres
ent limits. And we arc now in a strange
state of things. Everybody in New England
and all the North is now in favor of Free Soil.
And in New Hampshire every body, of what
ever party, pravs for, writes for and talks for
Free Soil. Hut can they be depended upon 7
Are they sincere! Mr. Hale said he must
confess that he could noi credit both the intel
ligence and the integrity of many of these gen
th-men —because, while they piotessed to be
wholly devoted to the cause ol 1 ree ftoil,
limr action was diametrically opposed to their
profession.
Mr. Hale went on to trace the importance
of this question upon the intcrc.'-ls ot the mil
lions who arc to inherit those vast regions of
now unsettled territory, and concluded by ex
pressing luk deep sorrow at the delinquency
of the professed church of (Jod here at the
North on this great sin of human slavery, ll
the church would withdraw Christian fellow
ship from the slaveludders of the .South—and
her members, in consistency with their pray
ers for the coining of Christ's Kingdom, cease
\oinig lor men who are laboring with all their
might for the en itimionce of slavery, they
would exert a great influence for its over
throw.
Resolutions were passed, adopting the Buf
fdo Platform and nominees. i lie Hutcliin
soiis were present, and at dillerent limes du
ring the Convention, enlivened the proceed
ing', and warmed the hearts ol those present
with their spirit-stirring melody.
A Free Soil Convention of the Eighth
District ol Massachusetts, ass unbled at Ded
ham on Tuesday, Sept. l'Jtli, to nominate a
Representative for the District in Congress,
'rite Hon. lloaxeii Mann was nominated for
re-election. The following are the resolutions
passed in reference to that nomination
Resolved, That this Convention entertain
the fullest confidence in the integrity and
ability of the present Representative of this
District in Congress; and as wo believe him
to ire sound and true on the now paramount
question ol the extension ol slavery, and have
entire faith in his sagacity to perceive, his
courage to oppose, and Ins eloquence to illus
trate lire enormous moral evils of that institu
tion, and the intolerable political encroach
ments ot .the slave power 1 licrefore, we
unanimously nominate the Hon. Horace Mann
to the voters of the Eighth Congressional
District, as a candidate for re-election.
Resolved, That this Free Soil Convention
doe* not select Mr. Mann as the exponent ol
its opinions because of the support awarded
him by the Whig party, but in spite of it;
nor because of his present undefined posiiiou
with reference to the Presidential candidates,
hut tn spite of it; being convinced that, hold
ing the principles and sentiments proclaimed
in his recent speech in Congress, and of hi?
more recent letter to bis constituents, as well
upon the vast subject of human bondage, as
upoa the constitutionality of abolishing it in
the District of Columbia, and elsewhere—he
must and can only be found heartily co-opera
ting with us, in the pending struggle between
the antagonistic forces ot Frccdom and Sla
very.
Resolved, That apart from these demon
strations, and others, which might be enu
merated, we may safely deem the fact of a
past life devoted to the highest interests ol
humanity, as furnishing no mean pledge ol
the sincerity and earnestness of Mr. Mann’s
anti-slavery convictions; and that in view ol
all, we are left no room to doubt that he is
with us, and of us, and for us,*’ on the
right side of that broad line of principle!
winch separates, at a like distance, the sup
porters of Cass and Taylor from those of Var
Huron and Adams.
V*n Ik'ren in Alabama. —The New
York Post publishes a letter from Gainsviile
Alabama, inviting John Van Huron to a pub
lie dinner in that town, and expressing a de
termination on iho part of the writer to organ
ize a Free Soil party tn Alabama.
F RbE Soil in Washington.—The N. Y
Comtneirul of Thusday evening, says **W«
have a long letter from Washington, describ
rng the preliminary steps taken for lire forma
lion «d a Free S :Jl puiy at Washington.—
Mr. Hlair, the ex-official editor, is at the heat
of the movement.*’
Free .Soil in New Jkrsey.— A Fret
fSoil Stale °**V‘ aiiun m»-t at Trenton on Sal
unlay, a r i I notiiiitaied lecture at laryo* Join
an Huron and otU r diMuiguiblmd speaker)
addressed the Convention,
Free Soil in Pi NNsvLVAMA.-The North
eru counties ol 1 crtasyivaiaa (sas-the N. Y.
Five. Post) are in abloz- ol Ireodorn. Mr.
Wilmot is on the stump, m l doing
vice lor the 'cause. Large and enthusiastic
in ‘Cling* have r ■eenily been held 'lVoy.
Willardsburglr, and Tonawaiida, Hradford cm
The one at Toaaw.iuJa was attended by at
least 3,000 people.
lIJ* The lymisvtlle Journal *»*yi» tint tin
H i -k t ouuly Democrat,Janesville,\\ loeoiituu
ln-> repudiated <-aas, ami come <mt lor ai
Huron, and that the editor, in announcing tffi
change, te n irks that the desertions from
Caw m that region are so numerous, that the
parly hail b Uer abandon him.
A 1' iiu; Soil Mi*-* Meeting was held ai
Wampuat. Wisconsin, o;r Thursday the bill
mst., st wtiich i iluiion- were pitied m favor
of the HuflV.o pi itform.
V.xAio r. TkMtai Free f*oU.
The following *a the letter from Hon.
Francis Thomas, Ex-Goven»or of Maryland,
to which we referred in yesterdiy’s paper,
ll will be seen that it was addre*«*d to the
(’.nominee of Correspondence, aod of cmiree
it would have been read before the recent
Convention at fnioo Hall, had it been re
ceived in time. Coming from such s source,
at this extraordinary junctute of political
affairs, H will doubtless be perused w ith tn
t. re*t bv all classes of readers. We therefore
place it on record, a* a part of the history of
the times.—( Baltimore .Sun.
Alleghany Cob* tt, August *26,1848.
Gentlemen Your letter, dated the !9ih of
this month, inviting me to he present at a
Mass Slate Convention, st Union Hall,” in
the citv of Baltimore, on Wednesday next,
has been forwarded from my house in
Frederick to mv temporary residence in this
county, where 1 have been detained for more
than a month past in attending to private
business.
From your letter, I learn that the principal
object of"the pmiKJsrd convention will be the
formation of an electoral ticket, to be voted
for by the people of Maryland, favorable to
tire election of Van Buren for the Presidency.
1 have not particq»ated in the proceedings of
any political meeting, large or small, since
my canvass for the chief magistracy of Mary
land closed, at a public meeting in the town
of Cumberland, early in Uclobor, 1841. 1
am, therefore, under no obligation, express or
implied, to support or vote for either one of
the nominees of the National Coavcntions
held by the whig and democratic parties, rev
pectively. Br ing free to make* choice of a
candidate to be voted for from the three gen
tlemen #ho hare been brought before the
public through the agency of others, I shall
most certainly, if I live, and can attend the
I tolls, vote for that electoral ticket which
shall stand pledged to vote for Mr. Van Buren
for the Presidency, and Mr. Adams for the
Vice-Presidency.
Having neither leisure nor inclination at this
time, to elaborate my reasons for this deter
-Imi nation, I shall content myself with saying
that I have great confidence in Mr. Nan
Buren as a tried statesman, eminently qualified
i fur the duties imposed by the Constitution on
our Chief Magistrates, that in my opinion
the whole country owe to him much lor his
distinguished agency in giving proud predom
inance to those great measures of public
policy, to the success of yvhich my own po
litical life was, in a very small sphere, devo
ted; and that my preference for him arising
ft out these considerations, instead of being
diminished, is increased by the pledge he has
given, to follow in the footsteps of those
illustrious patriots and philanthropists, who,
by adopting the Federal Constitution, that
clothed Congress with power to prohibit the
African Slave trade, signified, distinctly, their
desire to have the farther extension of slavery
arrested, and who, by adopting the celebrated
Ordinance of 1787, forbidding the introduction
of slavery into all the territory then held by
the United States, set an example that ought
to have been followed by their posterity.
The opinions here indicated I have long
entertain'd, and know of no reason why 1
should not on this occasion give to them
distinct utterance. —Indeed, so far from feeling
any wish to conceal my opinions on this sub
j |<;ct, 1 know of no public question, to be
1 decided in the approaching Presidential
election, of so much moment as that particu
larly involved in the nominations at Huffilo,
or better calculated to awaken my decided
preference for the electoral ticket you propose
to have nominated.
Seeing that 1 cannot attend the sittings of
the Convention, to be held on Monday next,
I mu.t be content with tendering my best
wishes for success to your commendable
purposes, and am, very respectfully, your
fellow-citizen,
FRANCIS THOMAS.
Messrs. W. Gunnison, R. Gardiner, E. B.
Cunningham, T. 11. Stanford, and J. E.
Snodgrass. Committee, &c.
Candidates for Governor. Hamilton
Fish, Whig; Reuben C. Walworth, Hunker;
and John A. Dix, Barnburner, are the candi
dates for -Governor of the State of New
York. Of John A. Dix, the Tribune says;
His influence and vote would have stopped
Annexation. He had but to say,‘Gentlemen
of the South! half Texas must be Ftee
Soil,’ and he could have dictated his own
terms. Unhappily, he allowed himself to he
cajoled by Polk's unmeasured falsehoods. He
must live long to retrieve that blunder. Un
happily, he lived years before attempting to
retrieve it. lie voted, indeed, lbr the Wilmot
Proviso, and that was about all. His voice
was never raised to warn his constituents
against lire continual encroachments of the
Slavery Propaganda until the 11th hour.—
Even when the miscreant Foote ventured to
tell a Senator of the United States that he
would help hang him without judge or jury if
he had him in Mississippi—and this for merely
introducing a perfectly proper, unobjectionable
and urgently necessary bill to protect private
property in the District of Columbia from de
struction by molts—Mr. Dix sat silent, utter
ing no rebuke, evincing no indignant loath
ing Even the Baltimore outrage on the
representatives of the F'ree Democracr of
New York, failed visibly to move him and
he at last barely followed his friends in taking
the stand which had become inevitable.”
lO* The Worcester Spy says that in Marl
boro’, out of fire hundred voters, not more
than fifty can bo counted for Taylor and
Cass.
In Bad Odor.—Hon. Mr. o(
this city, remarked on Saturday, that he could
not pass a V” which he had, in a neighbor
ing town, because the name of the President
of the Bank happened to be Taylor. We
should think that rather a Rough reception
for the “Ready.” Chronotype.
Consoling to Office-holders.—lt is
rumored that a large number of Custom-house
and other United States officers will soon be
deposed from office for their political sins.—
Persecution for opinion’s sake it seems is ont
of the many virtues of the present day.
ITF Hon. Joseph M. Root, the Representa
tire from the Lonain (XXlst) District o!
Ohio, has been nominated by the Whig* foi
re-election to Congress. It will be remem
bored that Mr, R. some time since wrote
letter declaring his opposition to the elcctiot
of Gen. Taylor.
New York. —The Hunker State Conven
tion of this State met at Syracuse on the 51l
itist., and nominated without much opposition
Reuben 11. Walworth, late Chancellor of tin
State, for Governor, and Charles O'Connor
of New York, for Lieut. Gov.
ILF Go the lfith of August, Matarizis wai
visited by a terrible hurricane, by which tin
surrounding plantations were devastated, am
several persons killed.
Prospects in Illinois. The Chicago
Democrat, a Cass and Butler paper, says **l
cannot be denied that there is a oon&iilerabh
defection from the Democratic party in thn
city, and that Gen. Casa will not receive tx
large a majority as we have formerly given
at Presidential elections.”
Leaving Cass.—The Alton (111.) Monitor
heretofore a ’a» paper, has abandoned th<
support of that g anile man, and hoisted th<
Free Soil flag.
Charity. The Albany Kniekorbocke
say* that a manufacturer of that etly, imtne
d lately afte- the fire, sent in a donation to it it
committee, which wm of course duly em
blazoned forth by all tire paper*. So lar, s*
g<**d. But the very next Saturday night, hr
deducted front his men’s wages the day thei
lost in saving their furniture from the verj
flame* that his donation was sent to to alle
vrate
ITPTiiP Providence Transcript has droppet
Taylor and goes foi Van Buren and Adame
Torctgn Nttos.
The steamship Acadia, front Liverpool. 9th
inst., arrived at B>x*ton on Sunday morning.
bringing Ixmdmi and Liverpool papers up to;
date.
ENOLAHD.
Parliament was prorogued os Tuesday, fob
inst. to the 2>i of November. The following
is the Qoeeo’s Speech on the occasion. It is
more curious than interesting or instructive
and is just about as usual with such produc
tions—an attempt to find the most verlstne
phraseology possible in which to say nothing.
the queen’s speech.
My Lords and Gentlemen, —I am happy
to be able to rckmse you from the duties of a
laborious and protracted session.
Tbe act for the prevention of crime an-J
outrage in IrelauJ, which received my assent!
at the commencement of the session, was!
attended by the most beneficial effects. The!
open display of anus, intended for criminal i
purposes, was checked the course of justice I
w as no longer interrupted and several atroci-]
ous murderers, who had spread terror through j
the country, were apprehended, tried and
convicted. j
The distress in Ireland, consequent upon
successive failures in tire production of hx*d,
has been mitigated by the application of the
law for thn relief of the poor, and by the
amount of charitable contributions raised in
other pacts of the United Kingdom.
On lhaqßiyf Jutnd, organized Confederacies
took advantage of the existing pressure to
excite my subjects to tebellion. Hopes of
plunder and confiscation were held out to
tempt the distressed whilst the must vision
ary prospects were exhibited to tbe ambitious.
In this conjuncture I applied to your loyalty
and wisdom for increased powers; and
strengthened by your prompt concurrence,
my Government was enabled to defeat iu a
few days machinations which had been pre
pared during many mouths. Tbe energy and
decision shown by the Lord Lieutenant of
Ireland in this emergency deserves my warm
est approbation.
In the midst of these difficulties, you have
continued your labors for the improvement of
the laws. The act for facilitating the sales
of incumbered estates will, 1 think, gradually
remove an evil of great magnitude in the
social states of Ireland.
The system of perpetual entails of lands,
established in Scotland, produced very serious
evils both to heirs of entail and to the com
munity, and 1 have great satisfaction in seeing
it amended upon principles which have long
been found to operate beneficially iu this part
of the United Kingdom.
1 have given my cordial assent to the
measures which have in view the improve
ment of the public health, and I entertain an
earnest hope that a foundation has been laid
for continued advances in tins beneficial
work.
Gentlemen of the T fuuse of Commons —l
thank you for the re. .mess with which you
have granted us supplies necessary for the
public service. 1 shall avail myself of every
opportunity which the exigence of the State
may allow for enforcing economy.
My Lords and Gentlemen, —1 have renew
ed, in a formal manner, my diplomatic rela
tions with the Government of F’rance.—The
good understanding between the two countries
has continued wnhout the slightest interrup
tion.
Events of deep importance have disturbed
the internal tranquility of many of tbe Slates
of Europe, tnith in the north and in the south.
These events have led to hostilities between
neighboring countries.
1 am employing :ny good offices, in concert
with other friendly powers, to bring to an
amicable settlement these Uilieronces, and I
trust that our eiibrts may be successful.
1 am rejoiced to think that an increasing
sei.se of the value of peace encourages the
hope that the nations ol Europe may con
tinue in the enjoyment of us blessings.
Amidst these convulsions, 1 have had the
satisfaction ol being able to preserve peace
for my own dominions, and to maintain our
domestic tranquility. Tlte strength of our
institutions having been tried and lias not
been found wanting. I have studied to
preserre the people committed to my charge
in the enjoyment of that temperate freedom
which they so justly value. My people, on
their side, feel 100 s-nsibly the advantages of
order and security to allow the promoters ol
pillage and confusion any chauce of success
in their w icked designs.
1 acknowledge with grateful feelings the
many marks of loyalty and attachment which
I have received from all classes of my people,
it is my earnest hope by cultivating that res
pect to the law and obedience to Lite precepts
of religion, the liberties of the people may,
by the blessing of Almighty God, be per
petuated.
Then the Lord Chancellor, by her Majesty’s
command, said—
My Lords and Gentlemen —lt is her Maj
esty's royal will and pleasure that this Parlia
ment be prorogued to Thursday, the 3d day
of November next, to be then here holden
and this Parliament is accordingly prorogued
to Thursday, the 2d day of November next.
Arrests of chartists continue to take place.
Twenty-eight have been arrested at Ashton
and two in the city of Manchester.
IRELAND.
Ireland continues in a state of profound
tranquility. The visit of Lord John Russell
to Earl Clarendon seems to furnish almosn
the only theme fur speculation amongst the
Irish politicians. The Premier landed at
Kingstown on the afternoon of the Ist instant,
and was received with a certain degree ol
deference and respect. Demonstrations by
applause or disapprobation seem both to have
failed. His lordship, with the exception ol
occasional carnage recreation, arid a day’s
visit to the Duke of Bedford's estate at
Ardsillagh, in Meath county, has lived in the
1 greatest seclusion w ilhiti the precincts of the
I castle; and aa unrestricted personal inter
course with Lord Clarendon seems to have
been the sole immediate object of his lord-
I ship's visit. All the speculations of an
i amnesty, of payment to the Irish clergy, and
all the various schemes, w hich have been
asenbod as the cause of the Premier's visit,
have successively been laid aside, and wt
must wait tbe natural course of events befon
1 the state reasoiis w hich have influenced his
lordship to take this novel step shall be full)
j revealed.
The Special Commission is appointed foi
the 21st instant at Clonmel; and it is gen
erally believed that some of the tuferioi
instruments in the law insurrection will bv
first put upuu lltuir trial, and if it be found
that the juries evince the slightest hesitatun
to perforin their duties. Government haw
resolved not to place them any longer in such
a position of danger, but will defer the tria
1 of the principal leaders until alter the meet
ing of Parliament. However this may be,
w e are sure that any persistency in agitattor
I bv certain enthusiastic sympathisers in th<
Fluted State*, for objects wholly unattaina
ble, will tend to increase leu fold the dangci
i of their imprisoned frieuds on this side, am
as sincere well-wishers to the cause of lrut
freedom, we earnestly point our to tbe leaden
of that wild movement, that any rash taej
I taken will be likely to recoil with fearful veo
I gcancc upon the beads of those who art
already overwhelmed by tbe strong arm o
the law which they have outraged.
Bv our latent information we learn tha
i Gird John Ruwcll would quit Dublin thti
day, and would proceed direct to Scotland
The fleet under Sir Charkw Napier ba» re
turned to Cork. The weatlwi was raihei
unruled. All kind of political agiuuot
appears to have subsided.— European Tune*
The. Society tn promote the Annual Sit
Ungs of Parliament m Dubba *ull continue u
hold meeting* in that city.
The Europe in Tunc* gives details which
show that terrible destitution prevails in date.
One of the Poor-law inspectors lD gnu? his
round*, found a woman literally naked and
unable to move from utter exhaustion. Dep
redation* an* constantly tunic on the potato
gardens. Thoegb the Enuwtytnna work
house is full there no absence of craving
creatures from one’s door. The clearance
system is still earned on in this county
families are evicted rod the houses levelled to
the ground.—Last week twenty-three fami
lies, comprising one hundred human beings,
were dmeo from tbetr bouses. Tbe Lim
erick Examiner asks “In the name of the
God of merry will any atop be puj to these
deeds?”
On Friday evening. Sept. 1, a qnamity ot
anna were found in a box buried ta the yard
of the Fevei Hospital in the city of Water
ford.
France. —The continued state of siege in
Paris controls the angry passions which the
tevolution has evoked, and General Caraig
nac, by his republican firmness, ami the
presence of an immense military force, has
given a breathing time to his eouatry. The
National Assembly is now begteniug tu
occupy itself with the consideration of the
new constitution, but has come to the resolu
tion that it will prolong its sittings until after
the organic laws shall he passed. The vote
to prolong stood 586 to 154 against. It is not
expected that the constitution can be agreed
to until tbe second week m October, inasmuch
aa there are no fewer than 23 amendments tu
be proposed on the original scheme, so that
the Chamber cannot get through the funda
mental laws before tbe end of the next month.
The election for ffie president, and a
general election throughout France, will
probably revive all the latent feeling now
pent up.
The new journal, the People, just bioughi
out by M. Proudhon, tbe communist, war
seized on the 4th inst. at all the newsvendors
They also seized on the Bouche d'Acicr
which had replaced the Douche de Fer, suc
cessor of the Ijompitm.
The Bonapartists were again moving, boll
in Paris and the departments, with a view tc
the candidalesbip of Prince Louis Napoleor
for the Presidency.
The chief events of the week had been the
production of a pamphlet from the pen of M
Lamartine, in which he defends himself Iron
the various charges which have been beer
made against him.
Our advices from Paris, dated Thursday
evening, gives us tlie highly important inielli
gence that Austria has accepted the mediatinr
of France and England for tha settlemen
pacification of Northern Italy.
The othet European news is not of mucl
interest.
The accounts from Italy and Rome declan
the whole country to be in a most distrubei
and excited stale; at Genoa, Leghorn am
Rome, tumults had occurred, which were will
difficulty suppressed.
General Garrihaldi, who has lately beer
forced by the Austrians to fly from Italy, ha;
arrived at Besancon,on his way, it is thought
to Paris.
For the above wc are indebted to Willmei
Smith’s European Times.
The American papers who advocated thr
rebellion in Ireland, will be a curious stud)
when the full nothingness Ibbernire of tht
thing becomes traus-atlantically discuss-d.
One journ il appeals exultingly to a quotation
made by Meagher (once) of the Sword
“L;t Brit.ri’i bra.; Irer rn itley rag—
We’ll lilt tlie green more prou I an 1 airy:
Be mine tlie lot to b..-ar die dag,
Aikl liea I the boy* of Tipperary!”
The ho vs were not quite such children.—
Douglass Jcrrold.
Darino Attrajit to Kidnap.—We are
informed that on Thursday evening last, a
most daring attempt was made by a colored
man to kidnap a son of Mr. Geo. Esher, of
Morris City. The lad, who is about fourteen
years of age, was out with a number of other
fellows, near the Girard College, about eight
o'clock in the evening, when the colored man
approached him, and after offering him halt a
dollar if he would go with him to Shippen
street, which the laal refused, seized him and
ran with him to the woods. TLhe alarm was
immediately given by the other boys, and in
the course of an hour upwards of a hundred
citizens were out in search of the man, with
lanterns, und after a long search, finally dis
covered him about 11 o'clock, as he was
making his way to the city, near the Bushhill
Hospital, and pressed upon him so closelv
that lie was forced to let the lad escape. After
getting into the woods with the boy, he had
beaten him repeatedly and severely to prevenl
his making a noise, of which his body bore
strong evidence, and when he found he wa?
pursued, he concealed himself, pressing his
hand upon the boy’s mouth to prevent hits
crying. The occurrence caused much excite
ment, and parties were out all day on Fridaj
and Saturday in search of the villain. Phila
Views, Ath.
Pat,” said a Yankee to an Irishman, as
they passed a tree near Harlem with a rop«
hanging to one of its branches, where dc
you suppose you would be now if that rope hat
its deserts!” “Faith, and I’d be walking her<
all alone to New York
From the Rio Grande.—The N.O. Pica
yune of the 4th states that preparation* ar
actively going forward in all the detachment
of our army for a apeedy evacuation of th
country.
The Hydropathic treatment, orappli
cation of water ns a powerful and *uc
ceasful agent in the cure of many of tht
ills which flesh is heir to, seems lo b<
daily gaining ground in public conli
dencc. It was at first thought to bt
more fanciful than sound, hut it liai
wrought io much good that its reputatioi
is well established.
There arc r.ow in Northampton, threi
establishments where the Hydropathh
treatment is pursued, hut it is to tha
under the care of Doctor Kuggles a
Bcnsonville, that these remarks an
confined, because this practitioner wai
(it is believed the originator of a the
ory connected with hydropathic treat
rurul that at first subjected him to somi
degree of ridicule, but which has sinc<
been advocated by medical men o
i eminence both in this country and Eu
rope. Dr Ruggles does not profess tc
ho any other tiiaa a hydropathic prac
t itioncr, arid he uses no agent hut water:
he makes no claim to be an educatec
physician, and it does not appear to be
conceding him too much, to imagine
that having confined his attention to the
application of water, as a remedia
agent, lie may have at least attained
etjual skill with those who have yielded
to the pressure of public opinion or oth
er impulses, and cotnbiucd it with thcii
former system of practice. Dr Ruggles
is so nearly blind as to depend entirely,
in his primary examination of those who
seek his aid, on the sense of touch, and
it is hy that delicate preception of what
he terms the electrical state of the shin,
that he forms his opinion whether the
applicant would be benefited by* a
course of hydropathic treatment. In
the exercise of this mode of enquiry,
Dr Ruggles is most candid, and in the
cases of some who were very anxious to
put themselves under his care, he has
frankly told them that his treatment was
not calculated to do them good. Dr
Ruggles has maintained his theory for
upwards of four years, and has during
that time made it the successful basis oi
his treatment of a great number of in
dividuals. His establishment is capa
ble of accomodating between thirty and
forty patients, and is at present full; in
deed, he has been obliged for many
weeks past,almost daily to to turn away
applicants.
The establishment is very pleasantly
situated, and comprises all requisite
appliances for the most thorough course
of hydrophatic treatment. At about a
mile from the house is a copious stream
of pure water, which falls from a con
siderable height, and by the aid ol a
needful apparatus forms a Douche bath.
This is an important feature in the ad
vantages of this establisnmcnt, for it is
a privilege not always enjoyed in hydro
pathic institutions.
The medical gentlemen above alluded
to as having discovered the presence of
positive electricity in the skin, within the
past year, are Dr Means of the Medical
College of Georgia, and Dr llemmer
of England. To the credit of the for
mer, it may be mentioned that in his
address before the College at the open
ing of its annual session in August,
Nov. Bth, HIT, lie takes honorable no
tice of Dr Kuggles’remarkable and suc
cessful practice.
There is a passage in an article in the
British and Foreign Medical Review, by
Doctor John Forbes, Fellow of the
Royal and Geological .Societies, that
hears so immediately on this subject,
it may lie as well to insert it, particular
ly as it contains an admission that med
ical practitioners have not hitherto ad
dressed themselves as much as they
might to the deranged state of the skin
as a prolific source of disease, with a
view to remedial treatment.
The skin is a part through which
nature has arranged that a large amount
of matter should be removed from the
body during health, and a still larger
amount, of different u character, in the
process of recovery from many diseases.
It is well known that a deficient cuta
neous excretion is incompatible with
perfect health. Perhaps there is scarce
ly am/ disease in ichieh the function of the
shin is not to some extent, deranged. 7b
ic'iat extent physicians hare not bcsto'.ccd
sufficient pains to learn; —nor have they
been accustomed to give much attention
to thi> part in the practical investigation
of diseases. Still less has it acquired
an important position in the list ot parts
to which medical treatment is directed.
Therefore, ice possess little information,
in medical writers, us to the amount or
frequency of cutaneous disturbance in
general disease, as to the effect of thera
peutic means in correcting such disturb
ance, or as to the value of the correction
in the cure of disease.

An effective and innocuous incans of
increasing the excretion from the skin
being thus found 1 w hich appears to com
dinc with its own peculiar action the
indirect effect of a tonic, have w e not
reason to regard it as a promising in
strument of cure, in many disordered
states of the system? We fully believe
that we have. We know the utility of
augmenting the secretion of the mucous
membranes, the liver, the kidneys: we
recognize this in our constant practice.
It is by tins means that we combat a
large proportion of chronic as well as
acute maladies. should the shin
alone be neglected l Physiology teaches
us that it is the vehicle for conveying
out of the system a large amount of
matter, as well solid as liquid; and
practical experience exhibits it as the
channel through which the maftries inor
hi in many instances, and the burthen
of plethora generally, find their evil.
These facts indicate it as a legitimate
locality tor the same artificial measures
which are found serviceable on other
secreting organs.
It is a remarkable circumstance that
the privation of >!ght should in Dr. Rug
gles’s case ban* led t<> a more concern
lrated attention to the other faculties,
and thus made the sense ol touch the
vehicle by winch be acquired his val
uable secret. Cow per sa)«:
**lt>d fflfil'* Ifi 4 iig *1» i(K)*
ill* It** U.HiJri> l.* pci fate/*
And truly it is so. But why should
there be any iodisposition to -allow Dr
Kuggles the met it of his discovery
The color of his skin cannot operate
to his prejudice with the intelligent in
habitants of New England, while i
i physician of the slave holding State of
Georgia has volunteered him tbe meed
of praisa.
Those who are disposed to treat Dr
Rugglos contemptuously, or even un
courteously, should remember that all
I science is progressive, though perhaps
no department of it may owe any portion
of its progress to them. But the pio
nerrs in scientific research inay con
sole themselves with the reflection that
some of the most important discoveries
did not procure their authors immediate
fame, though their ultimate reward was
immortality. There was a time when
the circulation of the blood w as not
known. Ifarrcy discovered it; he was
ridiculed at the first promulgation of
his theory, but nobody laughs at him
now’. There was a period,—not very
remote—when the law of gravitatiou
was not understood, but no man is suf
ficiently prodigal of his reputation as
now’ to laugh at Sir Isaac Newton.
There was an era, still nearer our
own time, when the power of steam
was not known, but every one is now
ambitious to join the chorus in the praise
of Fulton. ‘Tis true that all these men
j had a skin somewhat paler than that of
the discoverer of cutaneous electricity,
but let it ho remembered that it was
i out of chaotic darkness God first cre
uled light* It is a prominent feature in
i the divine economy that the greatest
I effects are poduced from what appear
to be the smallest causes. It is one
of the processes by which the Almighty'
wisdom has determined to check the
arrogance of mao.
PERSECUTION FOR NEW IDEAS.
Harvey, who first discovered the cir
culation ofthe blood, was styled, “vaga
bond or quack,” and persecuted through
life.
Ambrose Parc, in the time of Fran
cis 1., introduced the ligature as a sub
stitute for the painful mode of stanching
the blood after the amputation of a limb
—namely, by applying boiling pitch to
the surface of the stump. lie was, in
consequence, persecuted with the most
remorseless rancor by the Faculty of
Physic, who ridiculed the idea of put
ting the life of a man upon a thread,
when boiling pitch had stood the test for
centuries.
Paracelsus introduced antimony as a
valuable medicine; he was persecuted
for the innovation, and the French par
liament passed an act, making it penal
to prescribe it; whereas it is now one
ofthe most important medicines in dai
ly use.
The Jesuits of Peru introduced into
Protestant England the Peruvian bark,
(invaluable medicine,) but, being a
remedy used by the Jesuits, the Protes
tant English at once rejected the drug
as the invention ofthe devil.
In 171)3, Dr. Greenuelt discovered
the curative power of canthurides in
dropsy. As soon as his cures began to
be noised abroad he was committed to
Newgate by warrant of the President
ofthe College of Physicians for pre
scribing eauthai ides internally.
Lady Montague first introduced into
England small pox inoculation, having
seen its success in Turkey in greatly
mitigating that terrible disease. The
faculty all rose in arms against its in
troduction, foretelling the most disas
trous consequences; yet it was in a
few years generally adopted- by the
most eminent members of the profes
sion.
Jenner, who introduced the still
greater discovery of vaccination, was
treated with ridicule and contempt, per
secuted and oppressed by the Royal
College of Physicians; yet he subse
quently received large pecuniary grants
from government for the benefit he had
conferred on his country, by making
known his valuable discovery; and at
the present tiino its observance is very
properly enjoined by the whole medical
profession and the legislature.
RIVER LIFE AT CANTON.
Boats, used for the rearing of ducks
and fowls, in which the proprietors,
with their whole families, kith, kin, and
generation, reside, line the hanks.—
Very curious is the mode of treating
these ducks. In the morning they are
turned out upon the banks to seek their
food; and in the evening the owner,
standing whip in hand, calls them, with
a peculiar cry, to their floating home.
The whip, experience tells them, will
be used without remorse upon the last
straggler* The quacking, waddling,
and scrambling crew obey, tumbling
rapidly for w ard, in their laudable anxie
ty to avoid the lash. No scene in na
ture can be more amusing.
These boats are from thirty to forty
feet in length, and fitted up as domestic
habitations. Over the deck is the
usual roof, made of bamboo, and thatch
ed with paddy (rice) straw, under which
the rowers sit upon stools, eight inch s
in height. The wife generally stands
at the stern, moving a very long oar,
which works u|»on an iron pivot, and
both steers and propels the boat with a
singular motion of her body aud wrists,
in one corner is their household Joss,
or deity, with joss sticks perpetually
burning before him. Inscriptions on
various-colored papers, together with
tinsel decorations, hang about the do
mestic shrine. Joss, always portly,
looks peculiarly contented and happy
in his arabesque abode. Night and
morning they “chin chin” Joss, as they
call it, honoring him by beating gongs,
and burning paper-offerings.
The wife, as she guides the boat, has
frequently an infant fastened to her
back, attached by a piece of cotton,
while children of various ages play
about the boat. The younger have
guards attached to their backs as life
buoys, lest they siioukl tall overboard.
Although such a precaution is t us ta
ken for the safety of their children,
yet the Chinese would not assist one
another in rescuing them from a watery
grave, owing to the sujierstitious feed
ing they entertain, in common with
Scandinavian tribes, that a person res
cued lrom drowning will inevitably in
jure his preserver.
To return to the boat; near its stem
they invariably place their tea and culi
nary uteuad*. A vegetable garden is fre
quently suspended over the side. The
frame is composed of bamboos, covered
with a layer of earth. The centre of
the boat is provided with a small tank,
in whiAh they keep and fatten their
fish, la a mat bag they keep th#tr
store* of rice. At night the/ sleep un
der their thitched roof upon mats, with
ratten, wooden, or earthen pillows.
DISPLAY OP COURAGE BY A LIT
TLE GIRL.
As two gentlemen were erasing
the suspension bridge below the FoMs
from the Ameriean side, on Frida/ eve
ning, when about two hundred /arda
from the Canada side, the/ heard a
noise like the falling of a hear/ bod/
over the precipice, a few rods above the
bridge, and immediately observed a lit
tle girl running toward* the bridge.—
She passed several men who were stand
ing in the vicinity, and hastened to the
lower side of the bridge, where she de
sccnded a ladder or stairway made by
pins being driven into a large pole 01
log placed in an upright position,. and
reaching from the lower side of the
bridge some 80 or 90 feet down the
precipice, to a short recess in the cliffs
When she arrived at the bottom o
the latter, she climcd with incrcasec
speed along the side of the hill, undei
the overhanging rocks, to the place fi on
above which she had started, and de
scending a few steps, she was observe*
trying to raise and carry some object
which the gentlemen who had watchc*
her movements with increasing interest
soon became satisfied was a child tha
had fallen over the precipice. The]
hastened to the end of the bridge, am
sent dow n some men who had not knowi
of the accident. The child, a little gir
seven or eight years of age, was lashe*
to the back of one of the men am
brought up, alive, although greatly in
jured, having one or both of its legs
broken, and one eye considerably bruis
ed, but it will probably recover. Tha
the child was not instantly killed, is tru
ly astonishing, as it must have faller
over 109 feet perpendicularly, without
anything to impede its progress, on the
broken stones below.
The coolness and intrepidity of the
little girl, perhaps ten or eleven years
of age, sister of the one who met with
the accident, was also astonishing.—
Buffalo Commercial Advertiser of Ike 14 th
ult.
Rationale of Climate. —Howevct
great may be the fluctuations of tem
perature in the same months and sea
sons—however sultry the summer or
cold,the winter, in any particular year,
its mean temperature varies but little
from the climate or average actual
mean of the locality, when once cor
rectly ascertained; and, even the
greatest variation between one year,
and any other the most opposite in
character, and extending over a long
period of time, when accurately ex
pressed in figures, appears so trivial
that except to the meteorologist it fails to
convey any adequate idea of the excess
or deficiency of heat, or of the absolute
difference in temperature between the
periods in question.— Jameson's Jour.
Spontaneous Combustion.—Spon
taneous combustion arises frequently
from cotton that has been saturated
with oil. A case of this kind occurred
at Boston on Thursday morning last, in
the spontaneous combustion of some
bales of cotton waste deposited in the
Worcester Railroad Depot. The fire
was extinguished with slight damage.
Peripatetic Philosophy In
walking the streets, the man who thinks
of the future looks upward—the man
who thinks of the past, downward.—lf
he looks straight before him, he is oc
cupied with the present; if he looks
right arid left, he thinks, poor man, of
nothing. If he cast frequent looks be
hind him, lay it down as an infallible
axiom, that lie is thinking then of his
creditors. The man who walks leisure
ly, is reflecting, meditating, calculating.
The man who projects, moves rapidly;
while he who runs is full of some an
ticipated success in money, ambition
or love.
Macklin and Johnson, disputing on a
literary subject, Johnson quotod
Greek. “I dont understand Greek,”
said Macklin. ‘‘A man who argues,
should understand every language,”re
plied Johnson. “Y'ery well,” said
Macklin, and gave him a quotation from
the Irish!
It is the characteristic of u wise man
to act on determined principles; and of
a good man to be assured they are con
formable to rectitude and virtue.
Thoughts Abolt Thinking. —Few
things are rarer than thinking. Many
think they think,” sa/s Leigh Hunt,
but, as the paradox implies, they are
mistaken. Nine-tenths of what they
call thought is only a vivid, involuntary
revival of what they have read or
seen.
Fine Amusement. Baron Rothschild
once said, Sometimes to amuse myself,
1 give a beggar a guinea. He thinks
it is a mistake, and, for fear 1 should
find it out off lie runs as hard as he can.
1 advise you to give a beggar a guinea
sometimes—it is very amusing.
Perseverance. —The greater the
difficulty, the in ire glory is there in
surmounting it. Skillful pilots gain
their reputation from storms and tem
pests.
Devtii by WhisxEY.—At Indianapo
lis, lad., the other day, one lad banter
ed another to drink all the liquor he
could buy. He was taken up at this
offer a hiskey ami brandy were
brought out, and the dainking com
menced. Dose* after d »se were taken,
until the drinking youth had swallowed
about a quart He then become insen
sible, aud lingered about thirty-six
hoars, and died
“I Jvc and let live/* is a true motto.
People who desire to live themselves, do
not always recognize the fact that they
would live better, if they were williug
that other folks should live too.
An auctioneer from the Emerald Isle,
while selling a stock of jewelry, in Great
George-street recently, and descibing
a pair of jet ear-rings to a very respect
able company of ladies, exclaimed very
earnestly,"lndeed ifmy wife was a wid
ow, I would positivtdy buy them for
her.**
IC/Jt is a fact that the members
of the House of Representatives ot the
F. S. in 1819, refused Robert Fulton the
use of their Hall to deliver a lecture on
steam navigation, upon the ground that
it was a visionary scheme.