THE ENGLISH WELCOME TO THE
AUSTRIAN BUTCHER.
We are anything but blind worship*
pers of England, or indiscriminate ad
mirers of the English character; but
every now and then a circumstance oc
curs which testifies most eloquently to
the largeness and generosity of the
English heart, which vividly arouses
our national pride, and makes us ex
claim, “There is no country like Eng
land there is no people like the Eng
lish!” We can recollect nomort re
markable occurrence of this welcome
nature than the reception which Mar
shal Haynau met with last Wednesday
from the workmen at Barclay’s Brew
ery. That interesting personage, at
present on his travels, condescended to
t'nvor England with his presence. Once
in London, he seemed to have set
about his duties as sight-seer in good
earnest, and, like most curious strang
ers, “illustrious” or otherwise, paid an
early visit to Messrs. Barclay’s Brew
ery, to make acquaintance with the
wonders of that enormous establish
ment. He was requested to enter his
name in the visiter’s book, end possi
bly as he complied with the request, he
speculated on the awe and admiration
with which so formidable and notorious
a name would inspire the clerks and
workmen around. And a most sudden
and marvellous effect it certainly did
produce, th ugh not exactly the effect
expected or desired. Like almost all
Englishmen, the workmeu of Messrs.
Barclay had heard of the struggle, the
woes, and the wrongs of Hungary, of
the murder of Bathyany, the massacre
at Arad, the whipping of women, the
hanging of clergymen, and all the fear
ful variety of sufferings which the Hun
garians had undergone. Like the im
mense majority of Englishmen, they
had thought much of these things, and
taken them deeply to heart—had felt
an intense interest in the sublime strug
?;le, and no common grief at its mourn
ul result; they had glowed with love
and pity for the noble sufferers, and
had burned with intense hate against
the savage oppressors.
And suddenlyAhe great criminal, the
chief oppressor, was before them.
They beheld in the midst of them the
woman-dogger, the’murderer of Bathy
nay, the shedder of the noble blood
poured forth at Arad, the Austrian
butcher, and the oppressor of Hungary.
The clerks left their desks; the dray
men quitted their drays; the workmen
gathered around. How could they tes
tify their indignation? How express
their abhorrence? They hissed, they
hooted, they execrated; they cast mud
over that illustrious form; they bran
dished brooms over that reverenced
bead; they battered those illustrious
sides with besoms; their rude hande
profanely pulled those formidable
whiskers, and dragged the Marshal
along the ground by the flowing mous
tache in which he glories. They tore
the clothes from off his honored back;
they drove him forth from the brewery,
and pursued him along Bank Side. O,
piteous spectacle! The illustrious
Field-marshal, tbs commander of migh
ty hosts, the prop of the Austrian em
pire, the wearer of countleaa stars and
orders fled along the dirtiest streets of
London before e furious crowd of dray
men and coal heavers. Truly the flog
ged Hungarian ladies were most ap
propriately avenged. At last he took
refuge in a public-house, into which the
crowd followed him; and no one can
aay what would have been bis ultimate
fate had not the police come to the res
cue, dispersed the crowd with some
difficulty, and s*nt the unfortunate
Haynau up the river in a police galley.
We are no admirers of furious mobs;
we ere no apologists for the attacks of
multitudes upon individuals, especially
upon strangers, whether illustrious or
otherwise. But there is something
nobly singular in this onslaught which
nines it above ell common cases of as
sault and battery, and exalts it into a
positive act of virtue, a generous vin
dication of national honor, a bnve as
sertion of humanity. This is no vulgar
outrage; there was no got-up mob, n<-
Hungarian prompter, no organised at
tack. it was exclusively English, en
tirely spontaneous, and wholly gener
ous-—a fierce expression of virtuou*
indignation—a brave trampling on tru
umpkani guilt—a grand chastisement
pf victorious oppression—a rude and
THE NORTH STAIR.
FIEDEKICK MdLASS, Miter ail Froprleter.
VOL 111. NO. 41.
outrageous net if you will—but an act
infinitely more respectable, and teo
fold more virtuous than any airoable
acquiescence in the presence of evil,
any mean cringing to prosperous wick
edness. We hope that there are few as
semblies of Englishmen, aye, of refined
and educated Englishmen, that would
not find some means of expressing
their loathing and abhorrence should
the Austrian butcher appear among
them.
It was justice too —rude, wild jus
tice, if you will—but Mill strict justice.
The gallant woman -ftogger was most
appropriately chastised. There was
so much degradation in the doom —Bo
much contemptuous bitterness in the
punishment. The bespattering mud,
the busy besoms, the rent gar
ments, and the profound moustache,
will not be very proud or agreeable re
collections for the woman wbipper.
The London drayman have most ex
actly avenged the Hungarian ladies.
The “illustrious foreigner” was hunted
aa the meanest criminal; the would-be
“star” was trampled upon like the
most noxious reptile.
Remarks.
The foiegoing is from “the Birmingham
Mercury,” and is a pretty full endorsement
of the oonduct of the Draymen and others
who took part in the assault upon the "Aus
trian Butcher For our part, we shudder at
the thought of giving the slightest encourage*
ment to mob violence in any circumstances
whatever. It is a dangerous and barbarous
mode of dealing with a supposed wrong doer.
Besides, we never divest s scene like the one
described of lust meanest of hnrnan wicked
ness, cowardice. Three or four hundred men
assaulting one man, (no matter how much
he may deserve the chastisement,) is never
grateful to our eyes. We have two often
suffered such rude violence ourselves to have
sympathy with its manifestations in any form
whatsoever. There is no question as to the
hateful character of Haynau. His deeds of
blood and shame are known to the whole
world, and humanity should find some appro
priate mode of expressing its sense of abhor
rence of such moral monsters. But away
with all mobs for this purpose. There are
other and better modes of punishment. Let
uch an enemy of the human rsoe, such a
cold-blooded hyena as is this Haynau, be
shunned and detested. Let him read in every
human face upon which he gazes, the deep
aversion with which he is tegarded. But let
no violent hand be laid upon him less the
murderer should for one moment fancy
himself a martyr.
We observe that the Americans are de
lighted with the London reception of this
whippet of Hungarian women. We bid
them beware, lest they plait a scourge frt
the backs of some of their own distinguished
countrymen. Haynau is not the only wo
msn-flogger in the world, nor is Austria the
only country where such monsters reside
There are American, as well as Austrian,
monsters of this continent. They hunt men
with blood-hounds, tear their flesh with the
claws of living eats, burn their flesh with but
irons, cut off the ears of living women, and i
otherwise torment, maltreat, and abuse them.
These are American slaveholders—democrat
icand Christian slaveholders. Now there is
not one word said above in justification of the
assault and ignominy, heaped upon this
Austrian maideter, that should not be said in
defence of extending similar treatment to any
American slaveholder who may dare to place
his foot on British soil.—r. o.
LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.
An Act to amend and supplemtary
to the act entitled “An act respecting
fugitives from justice and persons es
caping from the service of their mas
ters," approved February twelfth, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety
three.
Be it enacted by the Senate and
House of Representatives of the United
States of America, in Congress asaeun*
bled, That the persons who have beam
or may hereafter be appointed com
missioners, iu virtue of any act of Con
gress, by tbe circuit courts of the
United States, and who, in consequence
of such appointment, are authorised
to exercise the powers that any justice
of the peace, or other magistrates of
any of tbeUaited States, may exercise
in respect to offenders for any crime
or offence against the United States,
by arresting, imprisoning, or bailing
the same under and by virtue of the
thirty-third section of tbe act of the
twenty-fourth of September, seventeen
hundred and eighty-nine, entitled “An
act to establish the judicial courts of
the United States," shall be, and are
hereby, authorized and required to ex
ercise and discharge all the the powers
and duties conferred by this act.
§2. And be it further enacted, That
the superior court of each organized
Territory of the United States, shall
have the the same power to appoint
commissioners to take acknowledg
ments of bail and affidavits, and to
take depositions of witnesses in civil
causes, which is now possessed by the
circuit court of tbe United States; and
all commissioners who shall hereafter
be appointed for such purposes by the
superior court of any organised Terri
tory of the United States, shall possess
all the powers, and exercise all the
dntiee conferred by* law upon the com
missioners appointed by the United
States for the similar purposes, nod
shall moreover exercise and discharge
all the powers and duties conferred by
this set,
3. And be it further enacted, That
the circuit courts of tbe Unitpd States,
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR; GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN
and the superior courts of each or
gknfezed Territory of the United States,
shall ftoni tine to time enlarge th«
number of commissioners, with a vies
to afford reasonable facilities to reclain
fugitives from labor, and to the prompi
discharge of the dutioe imposed by thii
act.
4. And be it further enacted, Thai
the commissioners above named shal
have concurrent jurisdiction with th<
judges of the circuit and district court!
of the United States in tbei/resp—««v<
circuits and districts withirfthe severe
States, and the judge of the superioi
courts of the Territories, severally ami
1 collectively, in-term-time and vacation;
and shall grant certificates to sucti
claimants, upon satisfactory proofbe
ing made, with authority to take and
remove such fugitives from service 01
labor, under the restrictions herein
contained, to the State or Territory
from which such persons may have
escaped or fled.
5. And be it further enacted, Thai
it shall be the duty of ail marshals and
deputy marshals to obey, and execute
all warrants and precepts issued undei
the provisions of this act when to then
directed; and should any marshal oi
deputy marshal refuse to receive sucl
warrant or other process when ten
dered, or to use all proper means dili
gently to execute the same, he shall,
on conviction thereol, be fined in the
sum of one thousand dollars, to the
use of such claimant, on the motion oi
such claimant, by the circuit or districl
court for the district of such marshal;
and after arrest |of such fugitive bj
such marshal or his deputy, or whilsi
at any time in his custody under the
provisions under this act, should sucti
fugitive escape, whether with or with
out the assent of such marshal cr hit
deputy, such marshal shall be .liable on
his official. bond to be prosecuted for
the benefit of such claimant for the full
value of the service or labor, of said
fugitive, in the State, territory or dis
trict when he escaped; and the better
to enable the said commissioners, whe n
thus appointed, to execute their duties
faithfully and efficiently, in conformity
with the requirements of the Constitu
tion of the United States, and of this
act, they are hereby authorized and
empowered, within their countries re
spectively, to appoint, in writing under
their hands, any one or more suitable
persons, from time to time, to execute
all such warrants and other process as
may be issued by them in the lawful
performance of their respective duties;
with authority to such commissioners,
or the persons to be appointed by them,
to execute process as aforesaid, to
summon and call to their aid the by
standers, or posse comiiatus of the pro
per country, when necessary to ensure
•a faithful observance of the clause ol
the Constitution referred to, in con
formity with the provisions of this act;
and all good citizens are hereby com
manded to aid and assist in the prompt
and efficient execution of this law,
whenever tneir services may be re
quired, as aforesaid far that purpose;
and said warrants shall run, and b«
executed by said officers anywhere ic
the State within which they are issued
6. And be it further enacted, Thai
when a person held to service or laboi
in any State or Territory of the Unitet
States, has heretofore, shall hereaftei
escape into another State or Territory
of the United States, the person oi
persons to whom such service or laboi
may be due, or his, her, or their agen
or attorney, duly authorized by powei
of attorney, in writing, acknowledge!
and certified under the seal of somi
legal officer or court of the State -o
Territory in which the same may b<
executed, may pursue and reclaim sucl
fugitive person, either by procuring i
warrant from some one of th# courts
judges, or commissioners aforesaid, o
the proper circuit, district, or county
for the apprehension of such fugitive
from service or labor, or by seizing
and arresting such fugitive, where th«
same can be done without process, ant
by taking, or causing such person tc
be taken, forthwith before such court
judge, or commissioner, whose duty n
shall be to hear and determine the cast
of such claimant in a summary manner:
and upon satiafactsry proof being made,
by deposition or affidavit, in writing,
to be taken and certified by such court,
judge, or commissioner, or by othei
satisfactory testimony, duly taken anc
certified by some court, magistrate,
justice of the peace, or other legal
officer authorized to administer an oath
and take depositions under the laws ol
the State or Territory from which such
person owing service or labor may
have escaped, with a certificate ol
such' magistracy or other authority, as
aforesaid, with the seal of the proper
court or officer thereto attached, which
seal shall be sufficient to establish the
competency of the proof, and with
proof, also by affidavit, of the identity
‘of the person whose service or labor is
claimed to be due aa aforesaid, that the
person so arrested does in fact owe
service or labor to the person or per
sons claiming him or her, in the State
or Territory from which auch fugitive
may have escaped as aforesaid, and
that said person escaped, to make out
and deliver to auch claimant, his or
her agent or attorney, a sertificate set
ting forth the substantial facts as to the
service or labor due from auch fugitive
to the claimant, and of his or her es
cape from the State or Territory in
which such service or labor was due,
to the State or Territory in which he
or she was arrested, with authority to
such claimant, or hia or her agent or
attorney, to use such reasonable force
and restraint as my be neceeeary, no
ROCHESTER, N. Y., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1850.
der the circumstance* of the can, to
take and remove such fugitive person
back to the State or Territory whence
be or ahe may have escaped a* afore.
•aid. In no trial or knariog, under
thia act, shall the testimony of such
alleged fugitive be admitted in evi
dence; and the certificates in this, and
the first section .mentioned, shall be
conclusive of the right of the person or
persona m whose favor granted, to re
move such fugitive to the State or
Territory from which he escaped, and
shall prevent ail molestation of such
person or persons, b y any process
issued by any court, judge, magistrate,
or other person, womsoever.
Sec. 6. And be it further enacted,
That any person who shall knowingly
and willingly obstruct, hinder, or pre
vent such claimant, his agent or attor
ney, or any person or persona lawfully
assisting him, her, or them, from ar
resting such a fugitive from service or
labor, either with or without process
as aforesaid; or shall rescue or attempt
to rescue such fugitive from service or
labor, from the custody of such claim
ont, his or her agent or attorney, or
ather person or persons lawfully
ing as aforesaid, when so arrested,
pursuant to the authority herein given
and d dared; or shall aid, abet, or as-l
sist such person so owning service or
labor as aforesaid, directly or indirect
ly, to escape from such claimnnt, his
agent or attorney, or other person or
persons legally authorized asaforeaaid;
or shall harbor or conceal such fugi
tive, so as to prevent tbe discovery and
arrest of such person, after notice or
knowledge of the tact that such person
was a fugitive from service or labor as
aforesaid, shall, for either of said
offences, be subject to a fine not ex
ceeding one thousand dollars, and im
prisonment not exceeding six months,
by incident and conviction before the
district court of the Unitecf States for
the district in which such offence may
have been committed, or before the
proper court of criminal jurisdiction, if
committed within any one of the organ
ized territories of the United States;
and shall moreover forfeit and pay, by
way of civil damages to the party in
jured by such illegal conduct, the sum
of one thousand dollars, for such fugi
tive so lost aa aforesnid, to be recov
ered by action of debt, in any of the
districts or territorical courts aforesaid,
within whose jurisdiction the said
offence may have been committed.
Sec. 8. And be it further enacted,
That tbe marshals, their deputies, and
the clerks of the said district and terri
torial courts, shall be paid for their
services the like fees as may be allowed
to them for similar services in other
cases; and where such services are
rendered exclusively in the arrest,
custody, and delivery of the fugitive to
the claimant, his or her agent or at
torney, or where such supposed fugi
tive mas be discharged out of custody
for the want of sufficient proof as afore
said, then suen fees are to be paid in
the whole by such claimant, his agent
or attorney; and in all casea where the
proceedings are before a commissioner,
he shall be entitled to a fee of ten dol
lars in full for his services in each
case, upon the delivery of the said cer
tificate to the claimant, his or her
agent or attorney; or a fee of five dol
lars in cases where the proof shall not,
in the opinion of such commissioner,
warrant such certificate and delivery,
inclusive of all services incident to
such arrest and examination, to be
paid in either case, by the claimant,
his or her agent, or attorney. The
person or persons authorized to execute
the process to be issued by such com
missioners for the arrest and detention
of fugitives from services or labor as
aforesaid, shall also be entitled to a
fee of five dollars each for each person
he or they may arrest and take before
any sucb commissioner as aforesaid, at
the instance and request of such claim
ant, with such other fees as may be
deemed resonable by such commis
sioner for such other additional ser
vices as may be necessarily performed
by him or them; such as attending at
the examination, keeping the fugitive
in custody, and providing him with food
and lodging during his detention, and
until the final determination of such
commissioner; and in general for per
forming such other duties as may be
required by such claimant, his or her
attorney or agent, or commissioner in
the premises, such fees to be made up
io conformity with the fees usually
charged by tbe officers of tbe courts of
justice within the proper district or
county, as near as may be practicable,
and paid by such claimant*, their
ageata or attorneys, whether such sup
posed fugitives from service or labor
be ordered to be delivered to such
claimants by the final determination of
such commissioners or not.
Sec. 9. And be it further enacted,
That upon affidavit made by the claim
ant of auch fugitive, his agent or at
torney, after such certificate has been
issued, that he has reason to apprehend
that suck fugitive will be rescued by
force from bis or their possession be
fore be can be taken beyond (he limits
of the State in which tbe arrest is
made, it shall be the duty of the officer
making the arrest to retain such fugi
tive ia his custody, and to remove Kim
to the State from whence he fled, and
there to deliver him to said claimant,
hi* agent, or attorney. And to thia
end, the officer aforesaid is hereby au
thorized and required to employ so
many persons as he may deem neces
sary to overcome auch force, and to
retain them in his service so long as
circumstances may require.—The as Id
officer and bis assistants, white so ate*
terms— $2 per lull, liTirtiMj Ei Mraict.
ployed, to receive the same compen
sation, aod to be allowed the same ex
penses, as are now allowed by law for
transportation of criminals, to be cer
tified by the judge of the district with
in which the arrest is made, and paid
out of the treasury of the United
States.
Sec. 111. And be it further enacted,
That when any person held to service
or labor in any State or Territory, or
in Uut District of Goluaabia. shall es
cape therefrom, the party to whom
such service or labor shall be due, his,
her, or their agent or attorney, may
apply to any court of record therein,
or judge thereof in vacation, and make
satisfactory proof to such court, or
judge in vacation, of the escape afore
said, and that the person escaping
owed service or labor to such party.
Whereupon the court shall cause a
record to be made of the matters so
proved, and also a general description
of the person so escaping, with such
convenient certainty as may be; and a
transcript of such record, authenti
cated by the attestation of the clerk
and of the seal of the said court, being
produced in any other State, Territo
ry, or district in which the person so
escaping may be found, and, be*
ing exhibited to any judge, commis
sioner, or other officer authorized by
the law of the United States, to cause
persons escaping from service or labor
to be delived up, shall be held and
taken to be full and conclusive evi
dence of the fact of escape, and that
the service or labor of the person es
caping is due to the party in such
record mentioned. And upon the pro
duction by the saia party of other and
further evidence if necessary, either
oral or by affidavit, in addition to what
is contained in the said record of the
identity of the person escaping, he or
•he shall be delivered up t the claim
ant. And the said court, commission
er, judge, or other person authorized
by this act to grant certificates to
claimants of fugitives, shall, upon the
production of the record and other evi
dences aforesaid, grant to such claim
ant a certificate of his light to take any
such person identified jmd proved to
be owing service or labor as aforesaid,
which certificate shall authorize such
claimant to seize or arrest and trans
port such person to the State or Terri
tory from which he escaped: Provided,
That nothing herein contained shall he
construed as requiring the production
of a transcript of such record as evi
dence as aforesaid.—But in its ab
sence, the claim shall be heard and
determined upon other satisfactory
proofs, competent in law.
HOWELL COBB,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
WILLIAM R. KING.
President of the Senate pro tempore.
Approved Sep 18. 1850.
MILLARD FILLMORE.
WESTERN LIVE STOCK—HIGH
PRICES.
Matslick, Ky. f Sep. 14.
Mr. Horace Greeley —Dear Sir: At
a public sale held in this neighborhood,
Sept. 7, two black boys, belonging to
Benj. Ball’s estate, sold one for $B5O,
and the other for $640 —nineteen and
sixteen years old. The one sixteen
years old sold for $8 per lb. He
weighed eight) pounds net: sBoxs7
$640. Yours, &.c.,
DIDIMUS JONES.
1 send you this for your Northern
Abolitionists and fanatics to pick. 1
see your particular friend Frederick
Douglass has been cutting quite a
swell at the Battery in New-York, with
two.women of white complexion, for
w!i ch impudence he got thumped. Well
done and right!
fCJ* Mr Jones is assured that we
consider the above information cheap
at the ten cents it cost us, and if he
shall hear of any more 'transactions’
as interesting, we will thank him to
send them along. It is our effort and
pride to make The Tribune compre
hensive and comp lete in its Markets,
and, though we have not had much to
say of the Slave market, considering it
rather a "peculiar institution,” yet if
our Southern friends will furnish us
the data, we will give that feature of
our domestic commere all reesonable
attention.
As to Mr. Frederick Douglass, his
crime consisted in consenting to show
two English ladies, ignorant of the
prejudice of color prevailing among us,
their place of destination, they having
missed their way. For this three or
four of our white apostles of Democra
cy and ihe larg a libe y fell upon
him and beat lum severely. "Well
done and right!” says Mr. Jones.
Well*, if Jones’s visage is a villainous
as his sentiments, there can be no
danger that decent women will ever in
volve him in a beating by asking him
to show them their way. So he can
afford to exult in the beating of others
under like circumstances. Ed.
The above is from iheNew-Yo'k Tribune.
It is kind of Mr. Greeley to find some valid
excuse for the out rage commuted by me
of being in coropaoy with two ‘icAtle women'
on the Battery, at New York. YefT must
disclaim one tact generously designed to es
tablish my innocence and to vindicate me
in the public eye. Those lsdies bad not
oaed their way, I accompanied them jusi
as any man would accompany his friends any
where in broad day-light—not aa a servant or
alive, but aa a friendr. o.
Authorship in, according to the spir
it in which it is pursued, an infamy, a
pastime, a handicraft,aa art, a science,
a virtu#.— Slim Cook’* Ja*r**t.
WHOLE NO. 145.
AMUSEMENT.
There is a more profound meaning
in the word “Amusement” than most
people are disposed to admit. There
is a philosophy in amusement, as well
as in education; indeed, we have no
hesitation in averring that amusement
is a most important part of education.
Of course, there are many kinds oj
amusement, varying according to the
degree of moral and intellectual cnl
4k“** In I hem.
There are the low amusements of the
groes and uneducated, whom society
has allowed to grow up in in its midst,
with minds untrimed and uulaught,
with tastes unrefined by intercourse
with art or letters, who are narrowed
in all their sources of pleasure and
enjoyment. To these the butal exhibi
tion of a dog-fight is a saturnalia of
enjoyment— an enjoyment which is
level with the meanest capacity, and
no other.
How different the amusement of the
intelligent and refined—such an inter
course with the beauties of nature, a
ramble through a beautiful country
full of historic associations, a concert
of exquisite music, a picture exhibi
tion, a soiree, an agreeable book, or
an evening’s delightful conversation
with intelligent persons. Then there
are out of-doors amusements; the man
ly games, of which the healthful game
of cricket is one of the most cheerful
and exciting.
The occupations of a very large
portion of our town population are
sedentary and unwholesome, and re
quire, for health’s sake, a frequent re
laxation in game of this latter sort
which brings a man’s muscles into
action, and healthfully excites all It he
organic functions of the system. What
is better calculated to blow away the
vapors from the brain, and to give a
thorough fresh-airing to the blood, than
the breeze blowing across the heath,
while the cricket is actively engaged
in batting, balling, fielding, and the
other exercise of the game? Every
muscle is put into action; he mist run,
and play his limbs actively, the use ol
which, while sitting at his city desk,
he had well nigh forgotten. He must
be all alive—he makes the green car
pet of turf fly from under him, while
the welcome breeze plays around his
head. He is cheerful and full of good
humor; care and Anxiety are banish
ed; and lumbago, head-ache, or gout
is driven further from him in every
run that he takes. He goes to bed
well tired, and then enjoys the pro
found and refreshing slumber which he
has earned on the cricket ground;
rising in the morning clear beaded,
and renovated in health and strength.
It is a mistake to suppose that the
man who plays at cricket, or who
otherwise amuses himself in active ex
ercise during the intervals of business,
is wasting his time. Amusement is not
waste of time, but rather economy of
life. Relax frequently, if you would
en joy good health during a long period
of existence. If you relax not, and
take no amusement-—that is, if your
calling should not itself, be constant
exercise—then you will mentally suf
fer, in the pangs of indigestion, in
weak and unhealthy lungs, in cold and
rhumatisins, and in all the penalties
which attend confinement and sedenta
ry occupation.
Man has a strong natural appetite
for relaxation and amusement, and like
all other natural appetites, it has been
implanted in us for a wise purpose. It
is not to be repressed, but will break
out in one form or other. If we provide
not the opportunity for enjoying whole
.me amusements, men will certainly
find out vicious ones for themselves.
There are, we believe, some people
in the world who, under mistaken
notions, would if they had the pow r,
hang the heavens about with crape;
pick the bright stars from tee sky; veil
the sun with clouds, because of his
shining too merrily on the gay earth;
pluck the silver moon from her place
in the firmament, no more to brighten
the young wooers who laughed and
loved under her beams; throw a shroud
on the beautiful and lifeheaving bosom
of this fair planet; shut up our gardens
and fields, and all the sweet flowers
with which they are bedecked, and
doom eur world to an atmosphere of
gloom and chferlessness. Bnt there
is no reason or morality in this, and
still less religion. A benevolent Cre
ator has endowed man with an eminent
capacity for enjoyment, set him in a
fair and lovely world, surrouoded him
with things good and beautiful, and
given him the dispositon to love, to
sympathize, to produce, to co-operate,
to enjoy; and thus to become an
honorable and happy being, bringing
God’s work to perfection, and suiting
the divine creation in the midst of which
he lives.
Who knows not that the heart of
man is greatly influenced by the moral
atmosphere which he breathes; and
that he is disposed to an affinity with
the good, very much io proportion as
his spirits are kept in that genial tone
which their relaxation promotes. Make
a man happy, and his actions will be
happy too; but doom him to dismal
thoughts and miserable oircumstai*ces,
and you make him gloomy, discontent
ed, morose, and probably vicious.
Hence coarseness and crime aye
invariably found among those war
have been accustomed to be cheerful,
whose hearts have been shut against
the portfying influences of a happy
oesaraunion with nature, or an enlight
ened and cheerful intercourse with
And yet all, even the meanest of
tramaii beings, (if any human beings
csn be ness,} possess tbs sense to
SSfnattJ twa
g 5« W«|| ail ranks in tbs
W h 7 ehosW not this
MblT £f “nfoWmg the
nooio powersand affections of men?
,h
be thrown freely open to the classes
who now waste their long hours in
consuming toil, cut off fix*? all hisher
pleasures, and impelled too often by
the strong lore of excitement, to seek
a deceitful solace in sensual excess
•fter escaping from the burdee of their
d »»ly care and labor? —Eliza Cook,
Th* Secret of Good Writiko
Ihe grand secret of good writing
i seems to lie id this simple rrmtim ffg
9Ut€ Jfou kote on idea he fort you attempt
to express it. If you clearly compre
hend io your own mind itkat you wish
to communicate, nature and reason to
i aether, with a little practice, will roost
certainly teach you hou> to *ay K, and
ho 10 k 7 *n appropriate manner.
A single idea is fully sufficient for
one mind to manage at one time. And
I it may be added that if the idea is one
i »f importance, it would be roost
dignified by being honored with a pri
vate carriage.
Omar mm confer ts as vaiuaT.je a
rule in literary, as well as in military
tacncs The more extensive the theme
Which the writer proposes to himself to
discuss, the lets, usually, he has to say
upon it. Such subjects can be master
ed with ease only by descending from
generals to particulars, and treating
of the topics in their individual parts.
There is nothing more popular, es
pecially with young writers, than bril
liancy of style. f bis manner of wri
ting is certainly excellent in its proper
place, hut there are many topics which
do not require this quality, and many
indeed which are much injured by it.
The language of every dissertation
should be subservient to the thought
and should be that which is best cal
culated to express the thought in the
happiest manner.
As the rays of the sun will not en
kindle a blaze unless brought to a fo
cus, so the thoughts of a writer will
not set the hearts of his readers on fire
unless all ore made to converge to a
single point.
Some writers seem unable ever to
express themselves in a cool, calm, ra
tional manner on any subject. With
them every virtue is godlike, every
fault a felony, every breeze a tempest,
and every molehill a mountain. They
appear to think their manner of writing.
Sublimity; but their judicious readers
(if they have any such) call it Turgid
ity and Absurdity.
The design of language is to give
expression to thought—that style of
writing therefore must necessary be the
best which most rapidly, clearly, and
perfectly conveys to the reader’s mind
what the writer intended ho should un
derstand.— Goethe.
The Gourh block of English Char
acter.—But who aays the Engliah
peasant is dull and unvaried in his char
acter? To be sure, lie hns not the
wild wit, the voluble tongue, the reck
less fondness for laughing, dancing ca
rousing, ,„d the Irieh
peasant; nor the grave, plodding hab
its and intelligence of the Scotch one.
He may be said, in his own phraseolo
gy, to be “betwixt and between.” He
has wit enough when it is wanted; ho
can be merry enough when there is
occasion; he is ready fora row when
his blood is well up; and he will take
to his book, if you will give him a
schoolmaster. W hat is he, indeed,
but the rough block of English charac
ter Hew him out of the quarry of ig
norance; dig him out of the slough of
everlasting labor; chissel him, and pol
ish him; and he will come out whatev
er you please. What is the staff of
which your armies have been chiefly
made, but this English peasant? Who
won yourCressys, your Agincourts,
your Quebecs, your Indies, East and
West, and your Waterloos, but the
English peasant, trimmed and trained
into the game-cock of war? How
many of them have been carried off to
man your fleets, to win your Camper
downs and Trafalgars? and when they
come ashore again, were no longer the
simple, slouching Simons of the village;
but jolly tars, with rolling gait, quid in
mouth, glazed hats, with crowns of one
inch high, and brims of five wide, and
with as much glib slang, and glib
money to treat the girls with, as any
Jack of them all —William How it t.
The English Peasant. —ln the
north of England, where they give
him a cottage and his food, and keep
no more of his species than will just do
the work, letting all the rest march off
to the Tyne collieries, he is a very pa
tient creature; and if they did not show
him books, would not wince at ail. So
in the iens of Lincolnshire, Cambridge
shire, and Huntingdon, and on many a
fat and clayey level of England, where
there are no resident gentry, and but
here and there a farm-house, you may
meet the English peasant iq his most
sluggish and benumbed condition. He
is then a long-legged, staring creature,
considerably "lower than the angels,"
who, if you ask him a question, gapes
like an Indian frog, which, when its
mouth is open has its head half off;
and neither understands your language
nor if he did could grasp your ideas.
He is there a walking lump, a thing
with members, but verv little member
ship with the intellectual world; but
with a soul as stagnant as one of his
own dykes. All that has been want
ing in him has been cultivated, and ia
there—good sturdy limbs, to plow and
sow, reap and mow, and feed builocka;
and even in those operations, his sin
ews have been half superceded by
machinery. There never was any need
of his mind; and, therefare, it never
has been minded.— William Howitt.
PiTTMumGH, Sept. 2e. Great ex
citement prevails here among 0117 color
ed population, on account of the pas
sage of the Fugitive Slave Bill.—A
party of seventeen negroes, who had
previously been slaves, started on
Saturday, armed to the teeth with pis
tols and bowie-knives, en route to
Canada. Small parties are leaving
daily, 
The North Btaß w mtootime* teat to friend*
who do not take the paper, ia the hope that they
may «ee fit to subscribe for it, Subscriptions and
donatio A for the «u» mmy be safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederic* Doronss, Rochester,
N. Y.
(^■Wihtid —Several TitavKU.ua Aoksts,
to procare subscribers for the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None need apply
but such as can bring good recommendations for
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
erick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
To our Subscribers.-— ln several contem
porary anti-slavery journals, we have recently
seen a notice to “subscribers,” We shall
take the hint thus afforded us, and request all
subscribers in arrears for this paper to favor
ua by teaming the amounts due, through the
post. Let each friend of the cause exert
himself to increase the circulation of our pa
per hy obtaining one new subscriber.
The Anti-Slavery Sewing Circle will
meet at Mis. Isaac Post’s, 36 Sophia St.,
on Saturday next, October sth, at 2 o’clock.
All friends who are interested in the cause of
the oppressed and perishing slave are re
spectfully invited to attend. Punctuality is
paulvulaiTy requested.
We beg to call the attention of our benev
olent readers to the very unpretending appeal
which we have published for several weeks
past, issued by the “the Woman’s Associa
tion of Philadelphia.” The anti-slavery
Ladies’ whe comprise this association are
among the most intelligent, devoted, and
efficient promoters of the emancipation of
our enslaved brothers and sisters. Their
example, and their efforts speak trum
pet tongued in their behalf and pro
claim them highly deserving the warm
hearted sympathy and active co-operation of
all who earnestly strve for the abolition of sla
very, and the elevation of the nominally
Free colored people of this land.— f. d.
Fugitive Slaves. —We learn that Orlando
Hastings, Esq., has been appointed by
Judge Gtidley, a commissioner under the law
for the recapture of fugitive slaves.
The Rochester Democrat ia our authority fur
the above announcement. Whether Mr. Hast
ings has accepted the office thus conferred
upon him, we believe haa not yet transpired.
For the credit of the city of Rochester and
Western New York, it iq to be hoped that
Mr. Hastings will spurn with scotn and in
dignation the hell-created office, and treat the
proposal of Judge Gtidley, as an impudent
insult to his humanity. We shall forbeai fur
ther comments now. But when we know
who the blood-hound commissioner of this
county is, we shall give due warning to our
hunted people of the fact.— f. d.
Stage-Coach meanness in Rochester.—
Mrs. Williams, of Webster, (a town 12 miles
distant from this city,) has been twice refused
a passage in the stage that runs between
Rochester and Oswego, and has thus been
delayed three or four days beyond the time
she had allotted fur her visit. This mean
ness and cruelty of the stage company ate
additionally aggravated by the fact, that Mis.
William’s name had been regularly entered
on the company’s book, and her fare duly
paid, but in each instance, the driver when he
called and found that hts intended passenger
was a colored woman, took it upon himself
to refuse her a seat, and while in the act of
driving his hoises away from the door, he
threw her money conlemptously on the
giound. We hope that this will not be the
last that we shall hear of a transaction which
so justly requires legal tedress.—r. d.
The First Victim under the New Fu
gitive Slave Bill.— We have copied into
another column, (fiom“the Journal of. Co
mmerce,”) the proceeding# recenily had in the
case of James Hamlet, claimed as a slave of
Mrs. Brown of Baltimore. Our readers will
see, by that report, that the attrocions work
of slave-catching has already commenced.
That the success of this lemale kidnapper
will go far to encourage and sharpen the ap
petites of many other hungry human flseh
mnugers at the South, we have no doubt; and
that many other arrests and recaptures will
speadily lake place, we a«e equally certain.
We are, as a people, almost hopelessly un
protected. We are all at the mercy of a band
of blood-hound commissioners/' who by the
very act of taking upon themselves that office,
prove that they are as ready to enslave the
free, as to return the fugitive slave to bond
age.—r. d.
A Diacocasc, Delivered before the Historical
Society oj Pennsylvania by Thomas S.
Kami.
Without exception, this is one of the roost
entertaining, eloquent and exciting publica
tions with which it has recently been our
privilege to meet from the American press.
Mr. Kane has thrown light upon a trans
action of which very little was before known;
although that transaction involved the com
mission of outrages the most cruel and mon
strous against humanity, and strikingly illus
trates the feebleness of the American gov
ernment in protecting human rights, and the
hollowness of that boast of civil and religious
liberty which is so constantly and pertina
ciously insisted upon as peculiar to the United
States. The author of this address is entitled
to great praise for the fidelity and boldness
with which he has brought the case of the
Mormons before the American people and
unless the American press is entirely fettered
by the prejudice of the people against that
persecuted and hated community, he will
surely have that praise awarded him. Un
fortunately, however, for him, his fine powers
are devoted to a sect evetywhere spoken
against, and it is possible that this splendid
effort of his will share, to some extent, the
fate of the people whose sorrows and suffer
ings he l)8i so vividly and powerfully por
trayed.
The Mormons, or Latter Day Saints,”
as they are called, were the industrious build
ers and happy inhabitants of Nauvoo, a beau
tiful city on the upper Miteistippi. They ate
•akl to have numbered twenty thousand eoule,
and to have been remarkable for their activity,
skill, sobriety, frugality, and for the ardor of
their religious seal.
Their prosperity (which was great) fxcited
the envy and malice of their neighbors, who,
not possessing the virtue to copy the good ex
ample set them, meanly resolved upon the,
destruction of that example itself; and, to the
shame of the American government be it told,
a war was permitted to be waged against this
religious community, which resulted in their
final expulsion from their city, and their exile
into a far-off country, beyond the Rocky
Mountains.
The pamphlet before us presents a graphic
picture of Nauvoo, as it appeared immediately
after its desertion by its once happy and thriv
ing people. No one devoid of prejudice can
read this portraiture of desolation without
emotions of sympathy for the exiled Mor
mons, and the deepest detestation of the
guilty perpetrators of this moat wanton and
unprovoked cruelty.
Mr. Kane thus describee the appalling
scene of the depopulated city. The spin
ning wheel was idle the carpenter had gone
from his work-bench and shavings, his unfin
ished sash and casing; fresh bark was in the
tanner’s vat, and the freefa chopped light
wood stood piled against the baker’s oven
the blacksmith’s shop was cold, but his coal
heap and ladling pool and crooked water horn
wero all there. If 1 went into the gardens,
clicking the wicket latch loudly after me, to
pull the marigolds, heartease, and ladyslips,
and to draw a drink with the water-ladder
well bucket and its noisy chain, or knocking
off with my stick, the tall, heavy-headed
A-htico aim sumiowers, hunted over the beds
for cucumbers and love-apples, no one called
out to me from any open window, or dog
sprang forward to bark an alarm. I could
have supposed the people hidden in their
houses, but the doora were unfastened. I
found dead ashes white on the hearths, as
walking down the aisle of a country church,
to avoid rousing irreverent echoes from the
naked floors. Un the outskirts of the town
was the city graveyard but there was no
record of plague there, nor did it in auy wise
differ from any other American protestant
cemeteries. Some of the mounds were not
long sodded some of the stones were newly
set, their dates recent, and their black in
scriptions glossy in the mason’s hardly dried
lettering ink. Beyond the graveyard, out in
the fields, I saw in one spot hard by where
the fruitsd boughs of a young orchard had
been rudely torn down—the still smouldering
embers of a barbecue that had been construct
ed of rails of the fencing around it. It was
the latest sign of life there. Fields upon
fields of heavy-headed, yellow gram lay rot
ting ungathered upon the ground. No one
was at hand to take in their rich harvest.”
Baring the author’s long sentences and bad
grammar, (he will, we trust, pardon us,) the
above may be considered an excellent speci
men of his poetic tuin of mind and hia fine
powers of observation. Wo can easily fancy
his feelings as he threaded his lonesome way
through the doomed city.
They who would understand and appreciate
the chaiacter of the mysterious people under
considetation, and would learn a lesson of
perseverance and patience under discourage
ments the most disheaileuing, trials and hard
ships the most appalling, sufferings the most
intense and grievous, cannot do better than
read this brief sketch by Mr. Kane of the ex
pulsion and the final exile of the Mormon
people from their peaceful habitation on the
banks of the upper Mississippi to their pres
ent location beyond the Rocky Mountains,
upon the shores of Salt Lake.—r. n.
The Black-phobia in Rochester.
Though the inhabitant* of this city have
been mercifully preserved, almost wholly,
from the frightful ravages of cholera to which
Jthers have been exposed in our land, they
cannot claim exemption from our peculiarly
national epidemic, viz; madness at color."
While it cannot be faithfully said that this
malady exists here to such an extent as in
many other places—still, here it is and it is
fraught with *he same m schief here as else*
where. The manifestations of this disease
are different in different persons, but they are
all striking and unmistakable. One is never
at a loss to determine what the disease is
when the proper tests are applied, at least
such has been the experience of our whole
practice.
We propose, in the present brief investiga
tion, to give our readers the true method by
which they may asceitain to an absolute cer
tainty as to the presence of vhe" Black-phobia,"
either in communities or in individuals. It is
necessary to establish some general rule by
which quick and certain conclusions may be
arrived at in any and every given case. But
in order to do this, it is essential that we point
out the ineufficiency of some of the methods
by which the absence of the disease is often
attempted to be established.
First, then, the fact that a white man or
woman is willing to be waited upon at the
dining table by a person of sable hue, does
not necessarily prove that the white man or
white woman is fee from the loathsome disease
denominated above as black-phobia.” By
some inexplicable relation subsisting between
the two, the horrid virus seems soothed rather
than excited by the presence of black persons
in the act of serving white persons with food.
So fat from objecting to being served by col
ored servants, our white fellow-citizens admit
them to be among the most and
attentive waiters in the world. In proof of
this, we need only to point to the fact that
this class of persons may be found in the vo
cations of servants and waiters on board of
the moat popular steamers and in the moat
fashionable hotels of the United States.
This, therefore, is no test of the presence of
the vile plague.
Secoodly—The fact that a white man or
woman may be willing to be driven in a car
riage by a colored driver, and to have that
driver bold an umbrella over hia or her head,
in a rain-storm, is no evidence whatever that
such a person is free from the “black-phobia;”
fur these gentle aer vices, when tendered in
due menial obsequiousness, act as opiate*,
and lull the black madness into aeren* repose,
so that the disease is scarcely to be perceived
by the most experienced practitioner*.
Thirdly Nor must we be deceived into the
belief that a man is free from this grievous
distemper, simply because he will quietly «t
in the chair of a colored barber and give to
ihat baibet the entire freedom of bis face;
lor the fact is, (and this ends our (legations,)
that our mageanimous white fellow-citizens
are always perfectly wiUmg to have either
‘heir pride, their indolence, or their ioter
ests, subserved hy men, bo matter how bUck
they be. Hue Might be proved by a
boat of evidence, end illustrated by uj
amount of lieii.
The tree test of freedom from blaek
pbobia,” is to be found in to entire willing
ness to associate on terms of equality with all
men, irrespective of their complexion.' He
who varies from this view, be it but io the
estimation of single bair,” has the seeds of
the diaeaae within him, and will only require
a negro-hating atmosphere about him to make
him “a ease” at once.—r. o.
Incivility to Colored Persons In the
Street.
This is a spades of low brooding of which
we have bad very little to complain since our
residence in Rochester. t Our white fellow
citixena, for the most put, whatever may be
their private feelings on the subject of equal
ity or negro inferiority, are generally suffi
ciently mindful of the characteristics of gen
tlemen and ladies, to treat us with perfect ci
vility when they meet us in the street. But
theTe are other*, (by no mean* the beet look
ing put of our white community,) who have
adopted the custom of making their mouths
about as ugly as their hearts, the moment they
see us. These parties are usually of the
gentler sex, possessing a delectable tallow
candle complexion; and, we may also add, they
are generally ot lean and tallnw omD«
dimensions. Now, to be laughed at, or to
have months made at us by ladies who can
display a good set of teeth when they venture
to grin, or have some other mode of indicat
ing their emotion, may be patiently borne
with but to be laughed at, sneered at, and
sneezed it by creatures so devoid of all per
sonal charms as ere some of the lanky eras
ures who indulge in this sport with us, is
almost intolerable ar.d it would be quite so
were it not for the relief that any expression
affords to their cadaverous faces.—r. o.
Hutchinson Family.
This delightful band of aweet songsters,
children of the granite State, are to give a con
cert in Corrinthian Hall on Saturday evening
next. They come almost fresh from their
mountain home, with all the advantage of good
health and matured voicea. Abby, the Jenny
Lind of America, is coming with the brothers.
The contemplated concert will doubtless be
one of the most brilliant musical entertain
ment ever given in Rochester. Go and hear
them, and swim your souls in a aea of melo
dy.—r. v.
Letter No. V.
My Dear Mrs. Howitt You will, I
sm sure, be glad to hear that we have re
cently had the pleasure of an interview with
your friend, Miss Breaker. She passed
through Rochester, en rout* to Niagara Falls,
and although travelling rapidly, she did not
leave the homesof our friend, Frederick
Douglass, unvisited.
The acquaintance I long since formed with
the writings of Sweden's gifted authoress,
and the gratification and amusement derived
therefrom, had imbsed me with a strong desire
to look upon her;but as she was ever associated
in my mind with Norwegian and Swedish
visions, I little thought that my first introduc
tion to Frederika Bremer would take place
in this far-off Western world, and under the
roof of Frederick Douglass, once a slave, un
der this glorious republic. This is, however,
but another illustration of the adage that
“Truth is often— stranger than fiction.”
My interest in Sweden, its scenery and its
domestic life, was created by reading The
Neighbors,” and increased by all the works
that followed from the same pen. The
graphic sketch there given by Fransiska, o(
the sweet home in the beautiful valley o!
Roaenik, with its green woods, its crystal
lake, 1 and its grey mountains, seemed calcu
lated to allure the lover of nature thither;
while, as a matter of course, one’s imagina
tion would picture the tall and commanding
figure of “ma chert nere advancing at the
end of the long journey to receive the weary
traveller with the due rites of Swedish hos
pitality, and to press on him the bounties of
Swedish housewifery.
1 was once conversing with an impulsive
friend of mine about Norway and Sweden.
Together, we were lamenting that those
Northern regions are so lutle travelled in by
our adventurous cuuntrymeif; that the world
of wonders therein contained has shed its
lofty beauty but on the few and that, while
the foot-fall of the English traveller is
beard amid the highest passes of the Alps
and the Appenines, its sound rarely bieak*
the stillnestf of the stupendous Dovre range.
Our enthusiasm kindled as we discoursed; and
we half resolved to beat up recruits for a
Scandinavian excursion, when sudden.y my
friend was seized with a shivering fit, and our
airy castle fellas be exclaimed, Bnt it’s so
cold there!”
I am inclihed to think that many a roamer
has been stayed from experimenting upon
Sweden by similar icy anticipations. He has
perhaps become so enveloped in the die.ry
mantle of a Swedish winter, that he has failed
to discover tbe exquisitely lovely spring, re
luming thither, in youth and joyousness,
shedding beauty and warmth, song and fra
grance, upon all around. And then who can
picture all the loveliness of a Swedish sum
mer My Northern visions have, it is true,
been broken by many grand realities. I have
felt the roll of the Atlantic, heard the roar of
Niagara, and seen many of the wonders and
beauties of this New World;” |>ut I neve,
tdke up one of Frederika tiremfer’s works
without haviog an aspiration to glance into
Borland,” even at the riak of coming withm
the dominions of his majesty The Spirit of
the North Pole”
To you, who know this gifted authoress so
well, it is needless to desciibe hei. Person
ally, she is much whst i expected. Her
engaging frankness, and cordiality of manner,
won me at once; while her superior powers
of conversation enchained me, and caused
hours to pass, in her company, but aa
minutes. I discovered at once that she is a
woman of rare intellect, and possesses that
something still than beauty dearer.” She
conversed long aad earnestly with our friend,
Frederick Doug!aas, upon the alavery sub
ject and although she speaks good English,
yet, ever and anon, as she paused to find tbe
right word, 1 felt that our party was incom
plete without you, dear Mrs. Howitt, to be tbe
interpreter, sod to explainjthe various idioms
that presented themselves. lam convinced
that Mies Bremer is sincerely desirous of
being impartial in her investigations, and I
doubt not but that, if sb« write a book upon
thia country, it trill be remarkable for candor
generosity. It ia not, however, to be
coaonied that abe ia liaUe to many falae
bteeoe (aa well aa other travellers) in the
United States. The beat foot foremost,”
a proverb not entirely monopolised by
transatlantic nations. I aomeiirr.es think that
Americana are eveo more anxious than oth
ers to impress visitors from abroad favorably
with their institutions; and ms the traveller in
question is one of extraordinary distinction; it
is easy to see that her food opinion wHI be
eagerly sought after, and that more than
ordinary efforts will be made to throw out of
her view tbe enormous cruelties of slavery,
and thn bitter prejudices cherished by the
American people against the victims of their
oppression.
I was happy to find that Miss Bremer was
accompanied to the Falla by the young and
interesting American poet, James Russell
Lowell; of whose genius you are already
aware. He is one of the few in America
who has nobly sacrificed a large share ol
popular favor by his uncompromising hostility
to slavery; an<f he ia therefore well suited la
the office of travelling companion to Mist
Brpmer, for he may be able to explain away
many of the sophist-tea with which Ameri
cans often attempt to cover tbeir flagrant in
consistencies. Mr. Lowsll reminded roe in
appearance a good deal of our friend Mr
George Dawson; but the poet looks all sun
shine, and is quite devoid of that expressior
of deep melancholy that (in the opinion o
some) imparts so great an interest to the fee
tares of our talented English friend. Tht
visit of Miss Bremer and her companion af
forded us much pleasure, ani will long h
remembered, you may be sure.
Ever years sincerely,
J. G.
Rochester, Sept. 27th 1860.
The Greek Slave.
Douglass:—Having -seen that ex
quisite—almost celestial—product of Art, the
statue of a Greek Slave, by Powers, now
exhibiting in this city, will you allow me
a corner in your columns in reference thereto
The Greek Slave! what and whom is
thereby intended? Of the original inception,
in the artist’s mind, little is known; but the re
sult is before us: A statue, the size of life, of
a female human being, perfect in every linea
ment and limb—in every line and feature, and
almost breathing a prayer for mercy from the
beholder, as he gazes upon her semi-angelic
countenance, and listens for the clank of the
chain and l iter sees upon her lovely limbs!
Such an expression sf heart-riven, imploring
innocence and purity, would rob the savage
ness from a l&ar, and tears from- the least
sensitive of human eyes.
The soul is oppressed in her angelic pres
ence; sensualism leaves the heart at once,
if it had intiuded there before; and while the
eye is delighted with the triumph of a di
vine art, the living spirit feels abashed and
guilt stricken, that our race had evei
become so devilish as to furnish the origins
for such a copy! Chains chains !on ltmb«
so human! Tears from such an heavenlt
eye! and sighs of sorrow and shame from j
bosom the purity loveliness and majesty o
which, would challenge the admiration of be
ings of a purer sphere
Men become conscious of their own demer
it in her presence, and are awed into silence
or whispers, as they drink in the divine efful
gence—the halo of heaven—in which sin
seems to swim beforf the enraptured vision
There idle curiosity yields to self-reproach
and indifference to rapture, as the mind sur
veys the touching and exquisite creation befort
it; and the most enlightened feel the prompt
ings of that impulse which impels the lest
favored of our race to the worship of th<
works of their own hands. Indeed, is not tin
feeling with which we view so great a tri
umph of art, akin to that with which we an
overwhelmed when duly contemplating thi
great Architect of the universe, through hu
works We worship the creating spirit—
the godlike power, which calls being into ex
istence, and enables the eresture, thus per
fectly, to imitate the works of the Creator.
But other thoughts clamor for utterance
The Criex Slave Innocence, purity ant
loveliness torn from parental arms—the em
brace of kindness—the charms of home—tht
entire joys ot existence, and ruthlessly despoil
ed of robe and vesture, and, manacled ant
nude, exposed to the inspection and purchast
of the semi-brutal barbarian How perfec
the emblems of the divine and the devilish—
of the beautiful and the brutish in human na
ture, are thus presented! Whence thos<
manacles and chains! Selfishness and cruel
ty desired a slave.—Whence those tears—tha
unspoken anguish—that sadness of soul? Ar
angel has been snatched from her sphere, it
serve demon, to suffer for our instruction
Have we a latent sentiment of justice, a teai
for suffering innocence, an emotion of pity left!
The heart leaps to the rescue, and the arm it
outstretched, to avenge. “The divinity
within ur, is stirred,” and ready to combat
the sensual and criminal, and asaeit the su
premacy of mind over might, of tiuthand jus
tice, over wrong and selfishness.
Instead of pandering to the base and sensual
in our nature, this beautiful and lovely crea
tore appeals to all the noble and just senti
ments of the soul; and learns it to detest that
depravity in man, which suggests or tolerates
so great a crime, as is manifest in the slave
system. In the act of kncbaininq and de
grading to the brute level a being of which
this magnificent piece of statuary is but a
cold and lifeless resemblance. It makes us
pity suffering, bate wrong—and the wrong
doer; to love the right, and plead and pray,
wrestle and fight if need be, against oppres
sion. While, was that mere emblem of life
life itselt, (hose shrinking limbs, and that lof
ty brow, warm and glowing with the court,
ing blood, and the thinking braio, we would
sever the.ignominious chain, and clasp the
suffering Vfetior to oar bosom, in spite of
raessurelees peril, how doubly odious and
execrable the mooster who should stand by,
and under any reteoce of law, compact, or
religion, clam propxrtt in such a being!
That indignation would be holy indeed, which
could he appeased only by the instant banish
meat o| so great an enemy of virtue, to
regions beyond tbe ken of hope, and where
no ear could ever hear iti unanswered prayer.
This ia tbe thought natural to the eiroum-
outraged Greek slave-girl; and while we pity
mod lore her all the more for her chaise, Oh!
hpw heart and brain burn with hatred of the
who does thus violat* the see ted
rights of hgman nature; and piece his own
diabolical self between god aod his creature.
And to the feeling heart aod discerning eye,
aU slave girls are Oners, and all slave mun
g*r* Turks, wicked cruel and hateful; be their
names Hawaii, Selim, James, Judas or Hem-
RV; their country Algiers or Alabama Congo
or Carolina, the same. The lesson learned
at the led of this great creation of thought,
is of no country nor color, and has its boun
daries on the one hand in heaven where, jus
tice and meicy are met; and on the other, by
that dark chaos, where all order is lost, and
hfpjfof |[fl*ce to the wrangling* aod hatred
horn of an unlicensed selfishness. The mind,
coming in contact with ao vivid and unmistak
able an appeal to its moral sense, unaffected,
can never have felt the promptings* of con
science, and appteeiates too little of justice,
to be a safe commoner in a world of mutual
rights and interests. It lacks a great essen
tial of human nature; and should be placed in
a school of morals at once, or forever aban
doned as too idiotic for permanent reclama
tion.
In this effort of the artist, we see more than
mere art. is the embodiment of a oodliki
idea, a world s history considered, a whole
decalogue at a glance, written so plain thai
the unlettered and simple may read; a re
touching by a hand divine, of the tablets de
livered by God himself to a mortal on Moun
Sinai; all the “Thou shall nots” of the giea
Jehovah are traced in lines of light on th<
beatific yet sorrowing and lovely features o:
this beneficent gift of genius to man. H<
who hath wronged his fellow—or stifled the
monitor within hie own bosom, is confronted
here by a conscience—an exterior reproach,
that he cannot withstand. Its voice is,
am wronged by my brother man; witness
these chains! Decide ye now; hath justice
your sympathies—or go you with the oppres
sor to do violence!” Cover our crime as wc
will—shoulder it off, as a social or political
evil, distort God’s word, or Providence in pal
liation, as we may; still then is the fact-, In
nocence and loveliness—a human soul in
chains; our sister with all her affections as
pirations and high capacities, sold to the
beastial Turk, whoever he may be, and he
designs to cast her down from her god-given
estate, into the dominion of things. To that
conclusion we come at least, inevitably, and
always; choose we must the divine or the
divilish. There is no retreat. If we stifle
pity, and mock at calamity, we are damned.
There is nothing of us to save; and a world
of such beings would soon find a devil at its
head, and itself legitimately annexed to re
gions long since-appropriately named. While
there is a well, and an ill, in words, this
must be so; no sophistry can evade it; no
circumstances change the fact; no combina
tion or division of men, politically or other
wise, fransform virtue to vice, nor paint the
deformity of hell, into a thing loveable. Na
ture revolts at wrong.—We feel it, and know
it untaught. Hence the eloquence of this
voiceless marble. Its teachings are resistless;
and had Congress appropriated ten millions of
dollars to buy this silent moral mentor, and
giverUt a place in the halls where so much
crime has been legalized and ponrived at,
ours woul-l have been a wiser and a belter
nation.
Then no more territory would have been
polluted by the footprint of the fiend; no
money appropriated under any guise, fot the
purchase of those who were entrusted with
the people’s rights; no mockery of law. mak
ing it penal to feed the hungry, clothe the
naked, or relieve the oppressed; no fettered
Chaplins, nor fleeing bondsman; no degraded
statesman, nor muzzled presses; nor, s whole
people seeking some new way to escape the
ignominy and shame attendant on their wide
departure from that path to which this beau
tiful and divine .creature of the artist, ever
invite us with her manacled arm and sorrow
ing eye.
S. F.
W. Bloomfield, Sept. 25th 1850.
Canandaguia, Sept. 29, 1850.
F riend Douglass. —This has truly become
a land of oppression and slavery. My mind
was never so much convinced of that fact un
til after the fugitive slave bill became a law.
Formerly the poor panting slave had some
chance of escaping, even if his master did get
hold of him; (in tvhat is called a free State;)
now he has none. The oath of every vile man
stealer is considered sufficient evidence in
Court to deprive a man of his liberty for life.
This is American liberty—this American free
dom of the 19th century. We may talk of
oppressions in monarchical Europe as much
as we please, bu* they all fall to the ground
when compared to the slavery of republican
America, that boasted land of freedom where
hundreds of ministers of the gospel tell you
every Sabbath that in this happy land tvery
man can sit under bis own vine and Gg tree,
none daring to make him afraid, when at the
same time hundreds of men and women in the
Southern States are pursued with dogs and
guns, and shot down like wild cats if they do
not stand till their masters overtake them; and
while the bloody lash is continually cutting
up the flesh of poor suffering humanity, still
these ministers cry all is peace and happi
ness. O liberty what crimes are committed
in thy name!
Yours respectfully,
S. BROWN.
Nkw York, Sept. 28th 1850.
FRiKND Douglass. —I will do all I can for
the Star in this city, for it is the only paper,
edited by a colored man in this slaveholding
country, that will dare speak the senti
ments nl his soul. The crisis has come that
calls for ever) colored man and woman to do
something in their own defence. Meetings
should be held in every town and county
and the watch-word should be, Liberty or
death. The Southern slave-driver has be
come more bold and daring since the passage
of the slave bill. Every city and town in the
North is infested with these men, and the
colored people can no longer meet in religious
worship, without discovering the man-ateiler
in their midst.
Yours ibr liberty and truth,
L. TILMON.
Sisvaas.—Three Brsailian slavers, with
700 slaves, prties to an English man-of-war, i
•nived at St. Helena, Aug. 15th. i
ACMi.
M*. Editor:—The geaUsman in the West
to whom 1 have wrjttw, touching my inten
tion of publishing a volume owna-ning wU
•ions from the writings of colored men of the
West, some time ibis Foil,are herebyinform
ed that in consequence of circumstances which’
could not be foreman or avoided by me, the
publication will he defend for the present,
but will appear as soon as the requisite ar
rangement can bo made.
Respectfully,
C. H. LANGSTON.
Columbus, Sept. 22, 1850.
M*. Douglass:—At a meeting of the
Woman’s Association held Sept. 18th, 1860,
it was ou motion.
Resolved, that the thanks of the Associa
tioh be tendered iofjohnson’s Band for the
interest taken in burjhehatfand for their lib
erality in presenting the Association with ten
dollars, will you please publisfT this resolotiun
in the next number of the North Star.
LYDIA A. BUSTILL, Secy.
Philadelphia, Sept. 26th 1850.
First Case *nder the Fugitive Slave Bill.
IT. S. Commisioner’s Omca—Friday.—
Before ‘'om/nisMonei Gardiner. —James Ham
let, a colored man, tha slave of Mrs. Brown,
of Baltimore, who ran away from her about
two year* since, was this morning arrested
in this city, by the U. S. Marshal, on the
claim of Mrs. Brown’s agent, and in a few
hours after his arrest the case was examined,
and the following evidence adduced.
Thomas J. Clare, exatained—l reside in
Baltimore, State of Maryland; I am 39 yeata
old; am a clerk in a shot manufactory at
Baltimore; I know James Hamlet, he is the
slave of Mary Brown,my mother-in-law, w'ho
resides in Baltimore; I knew Hamlet about
20 years; he left his mistress about two
years ago; he left the premises where our
family reside at Baltimore. Mrs. Brown is
entitled to Hamlet’s services, as a slave, for
life; she never parted with him voluntarily;
she oame in possession of him by the will ol
John J. Brown, her deceased husband.
[An extract from Mr. Brown’s will was
here put iu evidence.]
Elimination continued—She held him
from the time she inherited him until he es
caped. The man present la the same James
Hamlet.
Guetavus Brown, examined—Reside in
New York; am 25 years old; I am a clerk in
this city. Resided at Baltimore before com
ing to this city. I know Hamlet since a boy;
he is the slave of my mother. She is entitled
to his services under the will of my father;
Hamlet left her some two years since, in
Baltimore; I saw him several times within
the last six months in this city; I saw him
first in April last; my mother is still entitled
to him, never having parted with him; the
mat present is the Jas. Hamlet of whom 1
speak.
Mr. Asa Child appeared at this stage of
the examination, to protect the rights of the
slave, and cross examined Messrs. Clare and
Brown; but elicited nothing to contiadict
their direct examination.
Mr. Child then said, he believed that all
the forms of law appertaining to the case,
had been complied with.
Mr. Gardiner then decided that the slave
should be given up to the claimant’s agent,
and signed the annexed certificate:
“To whom these presents may come:
Whereas complaint has been made before me,
Alexander Gardiner a commissioner duly ap
pointed by the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York,
in the second circuit, under and by virtue of
the Acts of Congress of February 20th,1812,
March Ist, 1817, and September 27ih, 1789,
on ihe oath of Thomas J. Clare, of the city
of Baltimore, charging that James Hamlet, a!
person held to service or labor in the Slate of 1
Maryland, did, on or about the month of Oc
tober, 1848, escipe into another State of the:
United States, firm the said State of Mary
land, and fiom Mary Brown, a resident of the
city of Baltimore in said State, to whom his
service or labor was due;
“And whereas, the said Thomas J. Clare
did produce before me a certain power of at
torney in writing, acknowledged and certified
under the seal of the Baltimore County:
Court, whereby he was duly authorized by
the said Mary Brown, the claimant of the
said fugitive person, to take possession of, I
Jas. and hold for her use and benefit,the said
Hamlet;
“And whereas, upon such charge being
made as aforesaid, J, ihe said Commissioner,
did issue my warrant, in due form of law, for
the arrest of the said James Hamlet; And
whereas, the said James Hamlet has been
brought before me, the said Commissioner,
and the case heard, in accordance with the
provisions of the statute:
“Now I do certify, that satisfactory proof
has been produced before me, by the deposi
sitinns of Thomas J. Clare, of the city of
Baltimore, and Gustavus Brown, of the city
of New York, and by an extract from the
will of John G. Brown of the city of Balti
more, duly authenticated, that the service or
labor of the said James Hamlet is due for life
unto the said Mary Brown of the city of Bal
timore, in the State of Maryland; that the
said James Hamlet escaped from the State
of Maryland, in which such service of labor
was due, to the State of New York, in which
he has been arrested; and that the petson in
regard to whom such testimony has been
produced in the said James Hamlet:
“And therefore, by virtue of the power in
me vested by the act of Congress in their be
half, I do authorize the said Mary Brown
or the satd Thomas J. Clare, her attorney, to
uae such reasonable force and restraint as
may be necessary, under the circumstances of
dte case, to take and temove the said Jamea
Hamlet, the fugitive person aforesaid, back
to the State of Maryland, whence he escaped
as aforesaid.
“In witness whereof, 1 have hereunto set
my hand and seal, thia seventh day of Sep
tember, one thousand eight hundred and fiftv
ALEX. GARDINER, U. S. Com.”
Mr, Clare, the slave owner .a agent then
demanded that the Commissioner would, in
accordance with the law, give him a sufficient
force tv. conduct the slave back to Maryland.
Mr. Gardiner informed him he most make
»n affidavit that he feared an attempt would be
made to rescue the slave while on his way
from this to Maryland; and that on his making
such affidavit, a sufficient force would be giv
en to prevent it.
Mr. Clare then made the necessary affida
vit, and the United States Commissioner or
dered the slave into the custody of the United
States Marshal, with directions to him to
provide a sufficient force to gcard the slav/>
»n his way back. The U. S. Marshal imme
diately deputed a sufficient number of his of.
Scwrs for the pm pose,accompanied hy whom
»nd his owner’s agent, the slave was immedi
stely taken from the city, on bis way to Ma
ryland.
The Fugitive Slave Law.
Weu,, the Compromisers have done up
heir work. The bill for enforcing the re
sapture of fugitive slave* has passed into s
strung penal law. All United States officer*
and all United States citizen* are uow ex
plicitly required to aid in this most inhumai
md damnable business, under pains and pen
.lues suited to the emergency of the case
Wo to the poor panting fugitive! Wo to sit
hat dare be his triends! Wo to all that re
use to help hunt him down, hold him law
>nd send him back to his bloody prison-boss*'
Wo to all the just and merciful in the land'
rtie alsveocrncy may pottiafnah humanity it
be dust with a resistless hand. It is eou-
MtuiMßal! It w lawful! It baa become the
rs
Fidelity to our “glorious Union’' require if
We shall soon see who will land themselves
to this meanest, vilest, mast detestable drud
gery ever imposed by slaveholders on tbair
Behold what Darnel Webster, Sensual A.
Eliot, Ac., have done for the descendants of
ths Puriisnu! What staieames? What pa-
What lovers of their eouittry* What
Christians' What elarators or human na
»n,re' o beo c t°Ts of the people! Let
Stuart, and such Doctors of Divinity,
Cmnoe henedtetfottt on them. Lex our
of the ledger; of the bank-vault, sod of
the loom, about hosannahs after them. Le
the common people make haste, like a well
broke team, to drag forth their car ot Jugger
naut in triumph over the ciuahed and mangled
slave. Let the sceptre of power be continu
ed in the hands of these godlike and mighty
men. Let the Deeraration of Independence
be obliterated. Let the memory cf the Rev
olution cease to haunt the dreams of tyrants.
I*;! the profession of Christianity become
more and mom a cloak fur inhumanity, out
rage and iniquity. And let the granite quar
ries of New England he converted into mon
uments, to tell tuture generations what great
things were schived for them by the leading
statesmen of the Model Republic in the year
1B60»
Peradventuie, be that sitteth ia the heavens
hath taken no account of these things! Or,
perhaps, the mighty hands that have joined*
themselves against His poor will be able to
avert the rettibutions of eternal justice. Wait
and see, ye prophesiers of smooth things.
Pursue your fugitives, ye Pharaohs,even into
the midst of the Red Sea. Go up to Ra
nsoth Gilead to battle, ye Ahabs, “and pros
per. Drink pioudly your wine out of the
holy vessels, Bahhazzir and all ye Nobles of
Babylon, till ye behold the handwriting on
the wall! But the lime coiueth when your
iniquities shall find you out. Then shall ye
know ihat the Lord God omnipotent reigneth,
that he is no respecter ot persons, and that
he rendereth to every man and every nation
the recompenses of equity. Then shall your
deliverance, O ye oppressed and persecuted,
break forth like the morning, and ve shall fill
the land with grateful rejoicing. Endure yet
awhile with patiendtryour grievous wrongs,
and hope on; for the year of Jubilee will sure
ly come, when “Liberty shall be proclaimed
through the whole laud to all the inhabitants
thereof.”
Fugitive Slave Bill.
‘in no trial or hearing under this act shall
the testimony of saidalleged fugitive be ad
mitted—and the certificate in this and the
first section mentioned, shall be conclusive of
the rigid of the ■person or persons in whose
favor granted to remove such fugitive to
the State or Territory from which he escaped
and shall prevent all molestation of suck per
son or persons byfony proc>ss issued by any
Court or Judge, Magistrate, or other person
whatsoever.
Who ever heard of bo atrocious a law! One
man, on his own deposition or affidavit, al-
lowed, by order of a commissioner, to claim
another man or woman, as his property!
forbid to repel the affidavit or deposition with
his own!—forbid any defence whatever, how
ever abundant his means of defence, and to
be delivered over by the warrant of such com
missioner to the claimant, whose character
and claims such commissioner may not allow
him, or her, to impeach in any manner what
ever!—given over, him, and his posterity for
ever, to eternal bondage! Will not God’s
curse smite the heartless villian who will at
tempt to execute such a law? Do we deserve
to be a free people—can we expect to escape
the anger of Heaven, if we do not smite the
law and its executors together in the dust!
The certificates referred' to in the above
paragraph, are, the ceriificate of the judge or
justice in the slave State or territory,that the
affidavit or deposition was in fact taken be
fore him, and which is sealed by him,thereby
giving it the force of Record, and unimpeach
able, and conclusive evidence- against the fu
gitive—also the certificate of the commission
er that the slave has been brought before him
on the former affidavit and certificate, and by
him aeliveied over to his tormentors. These
are the only certificates mentioned in this
act. It is apparent, therefore that there is
nothing like a trial, in the case. To know
that there is not, we need but revert to the
6th section, which gives the proceedings be
fore the commissioner, and compare them
with the proceedings auihoiized under the
10th section, before a court. In the latter
case, the claimant is requited to make satis
factory proof," —in the former, he presents
only the ceriificate of Ins own deposition,made
out by a judge or justice of a foreign State,
and in the latter he is required to resort to
common law proof, (because the courts may
make judgment, or act in no case whatever
hut upon common law proof.) The pioceed
ings under this statute are authorized, there
fore expressly, to evade common law reme
dies and rights, and give the victim over to
his demandant without common law protec
tion or remedy, (against every principle of
law or justice sanctioned by any jurisprudence
of any people whatever. The defendant is
expressly denied the right to prove that the
papers adduced against him are a forgery.
Liberty Party Paper.
Abolition of Slavery in Washington.
Mr. Preaton King slid that he had wished,
during the session, to introduce a bill for
the abolition of slavery in the Distiict of Co
lumbia: but he had had no opportunity to do
so, and he now asked the suspension of the
rule#, that he might introduce a bill for this
pu t pose.
The bill was then read. It provides that
all persons emancipated bv the act, are to be
paid for out of the Treasury of the United
States, and the value and amount of those
freed to be ascertained and determined by the
Judges of the District Coui4 of the District
of Colnmbia. The House refused to suspend
•he rules—yeas 52, nays 109.
Those who voied in the affirmative are
Messrs. Alexander, Andrews, Bingham,
Booth, Burrows, Cobb of Ohio, Calvin,
Chadler, Clark, Cleveland, Cole, Corwin,
Doty, Ducan, Durkee, Fitch, Fowler, Freed
ly, Goodenow, Gou, Gould, Grinell, Hallo
way, Harlan, Hebard, Henry, How, Hunter,
Kingof N. J., John A. King, PrestonjKing,
Horace Mann, Matteson, Meacham, Moore,
Ogle, Otis, Peck, Reed, Reynolds, RisJey,
Rockwell, Root, Rumsey, Sackett, School
craft, Silvester, Spaulding, Sprague, Stevens
of Pa., Van Dyke, Tintoo, Waldo and
White.
That is seven votes ahead of the Tariff'
questions. The noes will be published be
fore the election.
The House passed the Fortification bill,
106 to 66; and agreed to the Senate amend
ments of the Oregon land bill and the Poet
Routes. A motion that ihe Preaident com
mence a snit against sx-Secretary Crawfoid
to recovey the Galpliin interest, was laid on
the table, 142 to 20.
Nays— Bayly, Bisaell, Cable of Ohio,
Disney, Doty, Durkee, Fuller, Harris of 111.,
Johnson of Arkansas, Jones, Julian, Job
Mann, MeLsne of Md., Meade, Parker,
Peck, Root, Strong, Walden, and Waldo.
Chapmn’s Cask.—Chaplin was brought
before Judge Cranch on the 19ih inst., and
lischarged after giving bail for $7OOO. He
was immediately arrested and taken to Rock
ville, Md., on the requisition of the governor
»f that State. All was excitemeut. Bailor,
who was engaged as couusef, backed out,
md the judges were overawed.— Hob. R. 1.
Bowie was sent for as a volunteer counsel.
Re disputed the jurisdiction of the magia
rates, wd there was a long hearing in the
•sse. Finding 1 it impossible to bring the
nagistrat* to reasonable terms, Mr. Chaplin’s
K un^ e withdrew hit application, and Mr.
.haplm wm fully committde. The chance
Case of W. L. ChaipUa.
Chaplin Boded in Washing ton, hot Impris
oned m Maryland—Full account of th
whole process—a cojty of the Washington
Bond showing the working of Slavery No
ttonally.— The feelsng in the Maryland-
Prespect of bail Jurmfter, c\c. dfc.
Rockville Montgomery Co., Md.,
Saturday, Sept. 12.
My dispatches by telegraph will bare in
formed you of the f» ct of W. L. Chaplu
having been admitted to bail i» Washington
on the charge of aidii tg the escape of th<
slaves of Messrs. Ti wrabs and Stephens.
The moment the h. jariog was terminate*
there, I piocured a c« nveyanee to this plac<
in company with Dar del Ratcliffe, Esq., ol
Washington, and Asa Childs, Esq., of youi
City, counsel, and D. James C. Jackson, ol
the Glen haven Water Cure, E. S. Gilbert,
of Honeyove, who ha ve have on to befriend
Mr. Chaplin, with set eral other gentleman
friendly disposed. I had no time to write,
and was requested not to telepraph anything
until the result was kn own heie, for fear of
embarrassment or cir cumvention. After a
restless night of great sufiering from neural
gia on my face, 1 an i scarcely capable of
getting up a letter this morning; but I will
attempt a report of iht particulars of this in
tensely interesting case beginning at the be
ginning of the raoveme nt for release by bail.
“Arrangements ha' (ring been previously
made, through John 1 Jrewer, Esq., of this
place, for the release c >f Mr. Chaplin on bail
of 1,000, and math jrs being deemed all
ready here, the prison er was brought before
Judge Ciench, of th< t Circuit Court of the
District of Columbia, o n Wednesday, Messrs
William Blanchard, o f the well know firm of
Buel Blanchatd, pt inter, and Selby Park
er, a respectable met rchant and a worthy
citizen, who has given mauy proofs of a gen
erous heart, were off® .ed as bail in 3,000
each. The question of “sufficiency” was
raised, by the District Attorney, Philip P.
Fendall. The Judge thereupon postponed
the rnauer till 10 o’clo ek on Thursday, with
the understanding that proofs of the alleged
“insufficiency,” wonld be presented at that
time. The| parties re- assembled,(according
ly, after about an he >ur an a hrlfa delay,
proposed to offer an a dditional bailor, in the
person of David A. Hi ill, a lawyer of wealth,
as well as tespectsbili ty, and pretty widely
known as an extensiv e Claim Agent. But
the Marshall of the D istrict, (Richard Wal
lack, Esq., of whose singular interference
on the pro-s'avery aid e, I may take occasion
to speak particularly fc iereafter,) still insisted
on questioning on oat] i. Finally, the follow
ing recognisance wai i presented, duplicate,
by Jostph H. Bradley Esq., of Counsel for
Chaplin. 1 send a ct ipy io give an idea of
the machinery of our black laws:
“United States of America, District of
Columbia, to wit:—E e it remembeted, That
on ibe nineteenth da vof September, in the
year of our Lord, ore thousand eight hun
dred and fifty, before ime William Craneh,
Chief Judge of the Ci.rcuit Court of the Dis
trict of Columbia, pet sonally appealed Wil
liam L. Chaplin, Wf tliam Blanchard, Selby
Parker, and David iV. Hall, and severally
acknowledged ihemw -Ives to owe the United
States of America, that is say, the said
William L. Chaplin., in the sum of three
thousand dollars, ant 1 the said William Blan
chard, Se'by Parketr, and David A. Hall, in
the sum of one thousand dollars each, to be
respectively levied of their bodies, goods and
chattels, land and tenements, to, and for the
*us<* t>f the said United States, if the said
William L. Chaplin shall make default in the
performance of the condition.
The condition otf the above recognizance
is such. That ff th« above named William L.
Chaplin shall peiso nally appear in the Crimi
nal Court of the lhairict of Columbia, next
to be holden in ant! for the county of Wash
ington, in the said .District, on the First Mon
day of December n ext, then and there to
answer to the said lUnited States of and con
cerning the larceny of slave, the property
of Alexander A. Stevens, with the suspicion
whereof he, the sa id William L. Chaplin
stands charged, and to do and receive what
shall, by the said oourt, be then and there
•enjoined him, and sh all not depart the said
coin without license then the above written
jecognizance shall l>e void, otheiwise shall
reartata in full force l.nd virtue.
W. L. CHAPIN,
WM. BLANCHARD;
SB:LBY PARKER,
D. A. Hall.
Acknowledged before me, Sic.
To this Mr. objected, (the Mar
shal still pron on,he r nd thal Jid
not bind the so. w ‘W** _
Mr. Bradley co t ,a t 1 he had
the usual fonu. M claimed to in
troduce witnesses to ns officiency
of the bail, unless Mr. could be bound
for the entire amount. (sL~ thousand dollars
—three for Stemphens's ar dt. f orT« o nbs s
Slaves,) bv the introduction C* Ihe phrases
aforesaid. He threw out, as Mr. Bi*edfov
understood him, an unputation that he h*d
aned unfairly in drawing up the recog
nizance, winch called forth a s barj.' resent
ment. An explanation followed, and the in-'
vi at gallon was about to proceed, when Mr.
Hall generously interposed, with an expres
sion of his readiness to have the detired
changes, however unusual—anal it was un
usual—but then Chaplin had “-stolen” that
“peculiar” species ot “ptopeny” whose
“owners” always insist on corresponding
erra guards and guarantees! —The desired
phrase was then added, the bond was ao
cepted, and the prisoner, who had remained
a silent and wonderfully composed spectator,
was delivered into the custody of Capt. God
dard and nflicei Handy, the latter of whom
held the requisition of Gov. Thomas. So
soon aa Judge Craneh’s “return” and the
necessa.ry conveyances could be gotten ready,
the calracade proceeded to this place. The
counsel and friends of Mr. Chaplin preceded
ed the custodians of the law, with the prison
er, by at least two hours. They evidently
“tot k theiT tiijie,” the Teason of which will
probably appear hereafter.
When 1 arrived at this place, 1 found the
resident Counsel of Mr.Cbaplin, (Mr. Brew
er) and Mr. Child, Dr. Jackson, and others
in a state »r sad discouragement, and soon
leirned that the Magistrate who had agreeed
to lake bail on the charge of “assault anti
battery with intent to kill,” had been over
awed by the popular feeling (which had risen
high during the unfortunate delay in Wash
ington,) and ttad not only retreated from his
agreement as to inception and amount, (f 1-
000) but even refused to designate any high
ei sum, or to confer on the subect at all.
But, beside the bailor, with whom the
arrangement had been made, and to whom a
check foi the money had been given, re
canted, upon the warning of his father that
his business, as a merchant, would be ruined.
Thus stood the case when 1 arrived here.
A good deal of delay taking place, after
the arrival of the prisoner, I inquired the
cause, but could learn nothing except sur
mises. The delay was explained finally, (it
being now dark) by the arrival of Hon. Rich
ard J. Bowie, present Representative in Con
gress from this District, who voluntarily
left his post, and the business of the Nation,
to look after the interests of Slavery. Ac
cording to hit own statement be was an ex
proatcsjting Attorney, and entered into this
case without authority. He was joined by
Wut. H. Tuck, Esq., ol Prince George's
County, who, it is understood, is to be his
sueoessot in business. Mr. Tuck also stated,
in open Court, that he had “voluntered” at
the request ot several respectable eitkens.
The hearing now was proceeded with be
fore three Justices of the Peace, Messr.
Adamson, Spests and Braddock, who hold
office by appoiniiuentof Gov. Thomas, and
are all young men—young in appointment as
well as young in yea,., aa it struck me, and
therefore lacking that self-reliance tndtapen
•abte for such a case in. ,j„, holding Com
munity. Messrs. Goddard, Handy, Smitbit
igd Bulls ware examined by Messrs. Bowie
aod Tack, to prove an a»sauh with intent i
kill, and to show that the offence did not a]
low of jurisdiction below that of a Courtc
Record, meaning a Jodge’a Court in eiihe
trial or determination of bail. en
cited by Mum. Bowie whl Tiick, an<
apeecnes made in illustration of thia position
In the course of a speech by the latter. In
took ooesatoo to make an appeal to the Inca
prejudice, which waa not only in bad taste
but ungenerous in the extreme, aa I shouh
have charged, bad he not disclaimed any uii
fairness, after an interruption by long am
loud applause from the Pro-Slavery crowd
And here I will take occasion to say that, ir
thia aod another instance, Mr. Bowie die
himself great credit by rebuking the roobo
cratic spirit thus manifested, as well as hii
whole bearing in the case. But to proceed.
The counsel lor Mr. Chaplin (who sat calm
and resigned, as become him, though rudely
gaxed upon as a “criminal,”) severally cited
points of law, and replied lo the opposition,
to show that the case here should be separat
ed entirely from the charge of abduction in
Washington; that the officers who arrested
Mr. Chaplin had no official authority, by theii
own statements, to do so, even in the Dis
trict of Columbia, much less in this State;
aiid that the assault, if proved, would not b-;
of that aggravated character which attaches
to resistance of officers of the law in the dis
charge of their duty, as contended on the
other aide; and that the offence charged here
was only a misdemeanor, and not a felony at
common law—was bailable, therefore, by the
Justices of the Peace. Mr. Chaplm’s counsel
seted with firmness and decision, hut ihe\
had neglected to fortify themselves sufficient
ly with authorities—probably because not
foreseeing the difficulties that would be
thrown in the way. Indeed, there seemed U>
be a lack of books all round—the principal
authority appealed to being BJackatone, or
the iin potted Common Law of England, as
quoted in Latrobe’a Practice, a work intended
specially for the guidance of justices of the
Peace. Becoming considerably puzzled by
the position of the prisoner's counsel, Mr.
Bowie asked s postponement until this morn
ing st 8 o'clock. Finally, notwithstanding
the embarrassing circumstances sunoundiug
Mr. Chaplin and his counsel, as well as his
outside fttends, the Court so ordered.
Mr. Chaplin was then conveyed to the
jail, in spite of an application to the comraty,
and therein (and a miserable apology for a
priso iit is passed what must have been an
anxious night, indeed! However, it was
perhaps the safest for him, after all—
no thanks to the feeling which forced him to
accept it. The testimony of the witnesses
and the arguments of couusel had prolonged
the session until about 11 o’clock last night.
A crowd followed to the prison door, but
were excluded by the creaking door. I say
‘creaking,’ because there was but one prison
er in it, who is in for five hundred dollars fine
and three years for the ‘crime,’ as is charged,
of seeking help for Fugitive Slaves, He is
a German and waa drunk at the time a con
versation thus constructed was held with
some informant.
The excitement of the Court scene had
exhausted the steam of the outsiders in same
degree, and when 1 retired, at 12, I left the
villagers, save here and there a siraggler,
sleeping quietly.
This fnorning before the appointed hour
for the assembling of the Court, (8 o’clock,)
the counsel for Mr Chaplion conferred to
gether, and came to the conclusion that the
chances were altogether against success.
They could not get the amount of bjtl pre
determined, and the chances were that if the
outside pressuie would allow of success, the
amount would not only be fixed too high for
those friendly Marylanders on hand, but thai
their sufficiency also would be questioned,
and thus only additional excitement be pro
duced.—Hence they withdrew their applica
tion for hail for the present. Mr. Chapfin, of
course, now stood full committed on the as
sault and battery charge. His counsel and
friends saw him safe ia prison, made arrange
ments with the Sheriff (Mr. Thompson) and
the Jailor, who seemed kindly disposed, for
his bodily comfort and his intellectual wains,
and took their departure for Washington,
where Messrs. Child, Jackson and Gilbert
will take the evening cars Northward, to
make mote complete arrangements for bail,
nr final trial, if the application before some
Judge should fail. It is their intention, 1
learn to renew their efforts in a week or ten
days, by winch time ihe excitement at this
place will have subsided.
The excitement here has been great, as
Viur conespondent (Mrrylander though he
be,) had abundant reason to know this morn
ing—the appearance being too evident, at
one lime, that a party headed by a young
man who gave his name as John A. T. KiW
gore, contemplating making him the scape
goat of the occasion, by the perpetration of
that personal violence to the threatening of
which he is by no means a stranger, on ac
count of the assertion of principles for which
It is his glory to be assailed, if a- eailment
it ust come, be the peril what it may.— N. Y.
'rrihtmp
American Missionary Association.
The Fourth Annual Meeting of this Soci
-»aa held in this city on the 24th and 25th
the State-Street Congregational
Ph, "’u tr on William Jackson, of Mass.,
presiding. The* attendant, though not large
was highly respect* bol h "“‘V I*™ 1 a,ld
persona. The alter.** 08 of the 24,h w
copied, chiefly tn hea,. •-•«emeni of the
Receipts and 8 lbe nnua
Report ol the Executive Co.^ o,,M a P*
peared by the abstract read by ,e reasorer,
Lewis TAPFAN.that the receipte th’« past year
exceeded the receipts of the pievio'U* year.
$3,100: the aggiegate being $26,159
and that the sum has been wholly expended
in sustaining the different missions, in sus
taining the monthly paper, in compensation
to agentSjthe Secretary, the office, die. The
balance unexpended being only $22.
In the absence of the Corresponding Sec
retary, occasioned by recen* severe illness,
the Annual Report, the reading of which oc
cupied the close attention of the meeting for
two hours was read by Mr. Tsppan. It ap
pears that the number of Foreign Miss ons
now under the cate of the A. M. A. ia five;
the number of stations ten; the number of or
dained missionaries twelve; male assistants
eleven: female assistants twenty; number of
laborers sent out from this country forty-thiee;
number appointed last year ten; number of
missionaries under appointment seven; whole
number employed in the foreign fit-id, oi
about to go there, fifty one; aird the whole
number of churches gathered nine. One mis
sionary has died the past year, Mrs. Brooks,
in Africa.—Missions are established :it Kaw-
Mendi, Africa; Bangkok, Siam: Sand wich
Islands; Jamaica; and among the Ojibue In
dians at Cass and Winnepek Lakes.
Twenty-three missionaries have been sus
tained in whole or part in the Home fi.tld the
past year, vix: In Ohio, Wisconsin, IMinoie,
lowa, Michigan, Kentucky, and New York,
and one missionary to the colored population
of the city of New York. A missionary is
now on his way to New Mexico. Two col
porteurs have been employed in Kentucky,
alternately, to distribute the Bible to the
Slaves. Encouraging statements were made
respecting the good effected both in the for
eign and Horae fields; the churches formed;
the souls converted; the number of children in
Sabbath Schools, Sic.
In the evening the Annual Sermon was
preached by Rev. C. B. Boynton, of Cincin
nati!, in the First Bapliat Church, where s
!*rg* audience appeared to be much gratified.
be n xt was Mat. 10th ehap. 34th verse—
•‘Think not that I am come to send peace on
earth:] come not to aend peace,but a sword.”'
In introducing hit subject,Mr. B remarked,
that If a system of government or morala real
ly ex presaive of the character of God, ia in
troduced into thia world—a world which is
i be theatre of conflict between God and Sa
tan—while true harmooy will be the final,
agitation and war nut be the tmnwkait re
0 suit. This he ooow<lf»r«d the meaning of the
ie4t- Itt-enfoWing the idee which he had
f the* evolved, he proceeded by a coarse* of
r forcible argumentation, to show, Ist. That
whenever, in the past, a religion truly re
j fleeting the Divine character has been preach
«d. commotion and conflict have been the
most striking, and moral conquest and peace,
I though the ultimate, only the subsequent and
often the least obvious, results. The exam-
I pies and the preaching of the prophets, of
Christ, of the apostles and of .primitive Chris-
I Uaa Ministers, established this point.—9d
i That whenevet an impure Gospel, one fail
ing to express the Divine character in ail res-
I pecta, to oppose ait sin and maintain all right
eousness, has been declared, an amnesty from
violent hostilities has been the apparent, but
defeat the actual result. The histories of the
preaching of the Jesuits, of the efforts of a
time-serving church, since the Reformation,
and of the operations of Missionary Societies
which have hesitated to rebuke such eina as
Slavery, polygamy and caste, proved this po
sition.
In applying his subject, the gentleman
showed that this, though a period rife with
lime serving religion and temporising reli
f'ious instrumentalities, is yet a time eminent
y fit for the propagation of an uncompromi
sing Gospel, and that the present, though
stormy, is seed time for a glorious future.
The speaker considered the principles of
the society he was addressing, truthful expo
nents of the'Divine character, and its plans
just representatives of the true Gospel meth
od. In conclusion, he exhorted his brethren
of the society to maintain their organization,
because both of its principles and of its adap
tation to the necessilies of the times, assuring
them that to be steadfast was to succeed.
On Wednesday, the associations held two
sessions in the State Street Chuich, when a
set of Resolutions, presented by the commit
tee to whom the Report was committed, were
read and dt-cussed, These resolutions ac
knowledged the continued smiles of the Head
of the church upon the association and its
missionaries: alluded to its permanent char
acter, and declared that in similar principles is
die life and prosperity of all missionary ef
forts; that the missionary cause is not advan
cing relatively with the wealth, intelligence
and commercial enterprize of the nation; that
more pecuniary means are wanted, and yet,
without an application of the principles of the
Gospel in ail their fulness, no amount of
means and no number of missionaries will be
of any value; that there must be moie prayer,
self denial, non-conformity to ihe world, and
a greater regaid to the law of God before the
world will be converted; that there is a high
er law than human enactments, and that no
man is at liberty to obey laws that contravene
God’s laws; that our sympathies are due to
those who hazard their liberty oi lives in
obeying God and showing meicy to the poor;
uid that the Christianity of this nation is about
10 be tested in view of the recent act of Con
gress for making the whole free Siktes a
hunting ground for fugitive slaves, equally
opposed to the Constitution of the country
and the law of the living God.
The resolutions were adopted with greai
unanimity—officers fur the new year were
chosen—and the meeting was closed with sol- 1
emn prayer to the God of missions.
In the evening a public meeting was held 1
in the First Baptist church, wheie, after
prayer by Rev. S. W. Streeter, an attentive
audience listened for nearly three hours to
addresses by Mr Bardwell, geneial agent of
die Ojibue mission, Mr. Telft, who is about
lo join the Mendi mission, Messrs. Boynton,
Goodell and Miner. The meeting was closed 1
by singing the Missionary Hymn and ihe 1
Benediction. The most delightful harmony
prevailed throughout all the meetings, the
principles of the association were amply dis
cussed, and a spirit of brotherly love and of
faith in the lord Jesus Christ seemed to fill
all heaits: and a most marked determination
to sustain this organization established as the
uncompromising opponent to all “organic”
and other sins, was manifested.
The Chaplin Case.
The Republic furnishes the following intelli
gence respeciing Mr. Chaplin:
“A writ of habeas corpus wa9on Wednes
day issued by his honor Judge Cranch, Chiel
Justice of ihe Circuit Court for the District i
of Columbia, on the application of the coun
sel of this person, and he was yesterday
morning brought befoie Judge, C who re
quired bail in the amount of $6,000 for his
appearance at the fall term of ihe Criminal
Court. The counsel retained by the accused
we understood to be J. H. Bradley, Daniel
Ratcliff, aud Walter Jones, Esq.; but only
Messrs. Bradley and Katcliffe appeared for
him on this occasion. Tne United States
was represented by ihe District Attorney, P.
R. Fendal], Esq. Asa Childt, Esq., of the
city of New York, who is understood to have
come to Washington at the instance of cer
tain friends of the prisoner, was also present.
A band for the requisite amount of bail being
entered into jointly and severally, by General
Chaplin, David A. Hall, Selby Parker, and
William B ai.chard, the first named was dis
charged from the custody of the jailor of
Washington county, but held upon a warrant
issued by viitue pf the requisition of the
Governor of Man land, in compliance with
which he was in the afternoun conveyed to
Rockville by officer Goddard and Handy.”
“As we stated yesterday, Mr. Chaplin was
conveyed to Rrekville on Thursday evening
Soon after his arrival there, he was taken
before Squires Adamson. Spates, and Brad
dock. Here D. Ratcliff, J. Brev tr, and
Asa Childs, Esq’s, appeared in his defence;
and the Hon. R. J. Bowie and J. H. Tuck,
Esq’s., for the prosecution. The number of
persons assembled at the court-houee waß
unusually Inrge.
“Mi- Bowie remarked that he had tendered
his resignation of the office of Attorney for
ijie Commonwealth, but that it had not been
accepted; and he felt it to be his duty lo
comply with the call made upon him to attend
in the present case.
“Mr, Tuck stated that he was not a vol
unteer, but had been engaged by citizens of
Montgomery to appear for the prosecution.
He declared at some length upon the enormi
ty of ihe offence attempted by the accused.
]n the midst of his speech he was vehement
ly applauded. Mr. Bowie rebuked this ap
plause. Mr. Tack expressed his regret for
it. The magistrates commanded silence,
and ordered the arrest of any person offend
ing in thiswise. The applause was, however,
subsequent tepeated. We mention this as
showing the excited feelings of the people.
“There was some argument between the
counsel relative to the power of magistrates
to accept bail lor the prisoner’s appearance,
it being contended by ihe prosecution that a
court of record alone was competent.
“The case was finally adjourned till yester
day morning, when, upon the reassembling
of the court, the counsel for the prisoner an
nounced their determina ion to waive further
resistance for the present, and the accused
was accordingly committed to prison to await
his tnl upon the charge of a murderous as
sault.
“It may, perhaps, be well to explain, that
the charge is based upon the defence or as
sault made by himself or the two slaves of
Me.-sra. Toombs *nd Stephens, whom he
was aiding to escape from slavery some weeks
since, when the officers of police and others,
who had followed him from this city, beyond
the Mery land line, were about to arrest him
and Ids party.*’ —National Era.
IT~P French Journalist says of the Sable
Prints Door..’. Mudame Martinez that she is
a complete lypo of the beauty of her race.
Her eyes have a soft And lustrous expression,
and her pliability of features, postures, and
movements, show capabilities for a commedian
of a high order. Her voice has bnrsts ot
delectable vivacity—mockery, gaiety, melan
choly, succeeding each other with a delicacy
of transition like the color* of I prism. Study
sod culture seem to have modified, without
removing, the exuberances of her native
originality.
•w Slavery.
Tbe Strangest speeches that have been
made in Congress on tbe Southern side ol
the Terntorisi question have been made bp
those who claim that tbe rights of slavery
or slaveholding are inherent is the Constitu
tion, and a part of the fundamental law; and
strange to say, that this principle baa been
conceded in several instance* by Northern
statesmen. This is a correct opimoh, or it
ia incorrect, and a question that may yet have
to be decided by the Supreme Court of thf
United States. So far, it* decisions hare
not reached this point, although, on incidental
questions that have been decided, tbe opin
ions of tbe Court appear to be of an opposite
tendency.
If it L trne, that under the operation ol
the United States Constitution in the Territo
ries of the United States and elsewhere, the
right ol the slaveholder, in on* of the States,
to bis slave on removal Ui the Territories, is
equal to the clause in the Constitution which
says, "No person shall be deprived of life,
liberty, or property, without due process of
law," then it follows; that slavery is a part
of the fundamental law, and that State laws
and S'ate Constitutions are equal in authority
to the Constitution and the laws of the United
Stages.
1 hose that defend this doclriuce argue by
implication that because, in a few instances
and for particular reasons, the fundamental
law was suspended m its operations by that
very act, the fundamental law of liberty is
destroyed, and* the right of a man to his
liberty is no longer an inalinabte right, but
must rest on some legal decision or court of
record.
Again let the advocates of this doctrine con
sider; for, if it is true that slavery under the
Constitution has equal rights with Freedom,
under the fotce of Slate laws as well as by
inherent right in said Constitution, it follows
that the people of all the States are responsi
ble fonts existence in any particular State.
Our right to legislate on the subject be
comes inherent in Congress under the Con
stitution, and Congress may at any time
abolish slavery throughout the States when
ever the opponents of slavety have the
power.
The advocates for the fundamental law of
freedom, in all places where the United States
authority is exclusive, have never claimed to
exercise it in the States. Then, by Consti
tutional provisions, this fundamental law was
juspended as respects those held to service
er labor in such States according to the laws
thereof, but slavery received no new powers
jy this Constitution, nor had conceded to it
«ny extra-territorial force, except as by law
[>rovided for the return of fugitives from labor,
tut not any such law as that of P 93 either,
)r Buch a substitute as the bill of Mr. Ma
son proposes. That is not the pricj agreed
They both lack the' constitutional prot
rision—due process of law.
As the fundamental law of liberty is no
•uspended by constitutional provisions in the
District of Columbia or in the Territories of
he United States, therefore there is no legal
vay wheieby slavey can have a legal exts
ence under United States laws, nor can it be
tllowed by any authority without a violation
•1 canstitutional provisions.— National Era.
Lindiana.
The N. Y. Herald in giving an account of
enny Lind's fourth concert, says,—
the Sweedish melody, in which she imi
ates the voice of the mountaineer calling his
:attle, and then gives the mocking echoes of
nountain—each more distant and faint—and
o true to nature, that one can hardly believe
le does not hear a real echo, is perphaps the
greatest favorite with tbe majority of the au
lience.—Her laugh in this gem is worth the
irtce of admission. The dying away of the
tcho in the distance, with which she con
dudes this song, is perhaps the most beauti
ul of all her peiformances. There is only
*ne woman in the world who can sing the
'fieldsman’s Song," and that is Jenny
Lind.
She never sung it so well as last night.
—Mozart's aria of the "Queen of the night,"
Trum the opeia of the "Magic Flute,”) be
'inning with the words "Non paveutar,"
las always been considered one of the most
irduous task, for vocalists, reaching the limits
>f highest sos prano voice, F in alt. So
lifficult is it that it is seldom or never sung
it all, most of the allegro movement being
ibove tbe lines. To the glorious Swede it
s like a plaything—with such ease does she
naster it—singing it throughout without al
ering a single note, and with a fire and an
>nergy which show how thorouhgly she has
ntered into the spirit of the great composer.
The purity of tone, the beautiful vocaliza
ion, the dazzling brilliancy, and the truthful
j.xpression with which she executed the al
egro, and that without any apparent effort,
were fully appreciated by the audience, who
sere thrown into a phrenzy of excitement,
irid cheered with vehemence such as we have
lever witnessed at a concert.
The otcheslra stood aghast, the ladies
waved their handkerchiefs, the gentlemen
heir hats. A universal encoie brought her
lack m repeat this masterpiece of genius and
irl. The Nightingale, again carrolled her
leavenly music and her success was il possi
de, greater than before.—Duiing the wonder
ul cadanzi, at the close, women turned pale
with intense excitement, and men started to
heir feet in the most frantic manner, while
ithers might be heard exclaiming, "Oh,
jod!” Her triumph was complete. Other
lingers occasionally soar to these high notes,
iui quickly descend from a region 100 pure
or them. Jenny Lind is as much at home
>n the highest notes of her voice as the
warbling skylark is in the heavens.
Mr. Eliot and the Fugitive Slave
Jill —Last Spring the Atlas published Ma
ine's Bill. Mr. Eliot read it in his seat, in
he House, and after he had done so, he cal
ed the attention of a leading Whig to it.
iie said that it was an infamous measure,
md he did not think Mr. Webster meant to
isy that he would support it, as it then stood.
The Bill has now been passed, amended by
naking il more stringent by imposing upon
he officers gteaier obligations to be vigilant.
Vir. Eliot not only voted for it, but he voted
or the previous quest on upon it. This is
he independent man Free Boilers were asked
o vote for.
Until the Atlas can rebuke Eliot, Duncan,
Drinnel, Ashmun, and the men of Massa
chusetts who have basely betrayed tbe cause
jf liberty, we think it had better keep silence
nn the slavery question. People can no
longer be deluded and deceived. The mask
is off; the Whigs stand revealed before the
country, in all their baseness and tieachery.
The history of the world is full of the records
uf the violated pledges of men and parties,
but among all we can scarcely find a parallel
10 the stupendous treasons deceptions and
falsehoods of the Whig party. Boston Re
publican.
The Peace Congress Trvihg its Hand.—
The Schleswhig Holstein Parliament was to
meet on the 10th, at Kiel, for the purpose of
providing meant for carrying on the war dar
ing the winter, if it should be necessary.
Mr. Eiihu Banin and Mr. Richard and Mr.
Joseph Sturge have gone to Holstein, in or
der to investigate the claims and disputes of
the country on the spot. The three members
of the Peace Congress arrived at Kiel on the
3d. Should they succeed in inducing the
Schleswhig Holstein government, to.submit
the question in dispute to the judgment of a
Court of Arbitration they intend te go to Co
penhagen on a similar miaaion.
Rumored Assassination or the Emperor
Soloqu*.—The Steamer Philadelphia, from
Chagres via Kingston, Jam., Sept. 16th,
brings a statement, said to have been taken
from a St. Lueia paper of Aug. 16ih, that
Emperor Soloque of Hayti had been assassi
nated by bis Prime Minister. The statement
ia generally discredited her*.— EmemfOttr.
A»i T ATi<y..~Alwd y tbu Old Hunker p«-
P® ri poluimnt am gnmomg because ibe
•lire,, ItelLl, .b.~ s bl
iber hvl suppressed, will not com. Pdw
deluded fools! Did they sapysee that they
had by their treachery, smothered and stilled
the voice of humanity, liberty and Christiani
ty? Aa well might drey attempt to shut eul
the light of heaven. The recent acta of Con
gress wdl be about as effective in suppressing
agitstion as were the suppression of tfc*
AaAcaj corpus and the adoption of the six acu
in England in suppressing the reforms and
entitling tne reformers. Reforms and reform
ers will live sod triumph in spite of the
efforts of Louis Napoleons, Havnaus, Casses
Webaiersa, Foote, and their servile boothekm
Death of James Fulton, J*.-With
feelings of sincere regret we record
the sudden demise of our anti-alsvery
friend and brother, James Fulton, Jr.,
of Ercildoun, Chester Co., Pa. He
w 8 37 7® ars of age. and has fallen a
victim to over-exertion in behalf of the
cause he so deeply loved. Of late
years he hes been chiefly interested in
the political aspects of the slavery
question, but he had a warm anti-sla
very heart, and his loss will be deeply
felt by all who knew him.—Jinti-Sla
very Bugle.
The North Star Fair.
The Women's Association" of Philadel
phia intend holding their Second Annual
Fax*, for the snppon of the North Star, on
Christmas week.
We feel that no great work can be riglUfy
uoL»m moo and women co-operate.
To onr male friends, whom, we round
helps-mete” for our first Fair, we look
earnestly and confidently. Brothers; you will
not fail ti«
To cecure the Iwarty co-operation of breth
ren and friends, at home and abroad, we be
lieve it is only necessary to announce our
intention.
Donations of Paintings, Engravings, Fancy
Needlework, articles of food, Ac., will be
gratefully received by any member of the
Committee.
On behalf of the Association,
SARAH M. DOUGLASS.
The Life Ransom
Softly the west wind stole over the
sunny Lake, and welcome to us even
its low breath, as we sat in the deep
shadow of the forest trees in the sultry
hoar of sammer noon-tide. Before us
the broad Huron was flashing in the
sun rays, divided from the flower-gem
med bank by a belt of glittering sand,
while oq our right the bold headland
stretched far into the sleeping waters,
whereon rock, and tree, and grassy
m und were brightly mirrored.
Nothing of life stirred in the silent
wilderness save the brilliant butterflies
hovering around more gaily tinted blos
soms, and the bright hummingbirds,
with their emerald and ruby plumage,
glancing like jewels in the sunshine,
fluttering over the flowery shrubs, and
darting away across the honeycomb
quartz that gleamed between us and tbe
p<>int, with a low hum as though they
were murmuring tales of the gold
which slept below. But all the unsun
ned treat ures which the gnld-Uoom
might indicate, were in worth far be
lt w the priceless offering once laid up
on those stones; and many, many years
must pass away ere time, or change, the
foot of the stranger, or the hand of the
gold-seeker, shall banish the memories
which cling around the spot. Though
strange to us, they were familiar to
more thsa one of our companions, and
»s we sat there beneath the lofty syca
more*. with the noonday sun pouring
down light and beauty, on the fertile
earth and deep blue waves, the tale to
which we listened, gained, perchance, a
deeper interest from the scene of its re
lation.
The coming winter had breathed his
first frost-spell over the forest, turning
to crimson, and gold, and silver, its
garb of varied green, when one even
ing a girl sat on the grassy bank
watching the latest sunbeams fade from
the glowing sky and darkening lake.
The sunset hues had left tbe clouds,
and the stars were glancing forth to
mirror themselves in the blue waters,
hut still the girl kept her post; gazing
along the shore and afar in the dis
tance. She was alone, yet the line of
tall tr* e« bordering the forest conceal
ed an Indian encampment, and above
their heads several columns of grey
smoke were soaring up into the evening
sky, while the murmur of voices rose
on the air, and at times peals of laugh
ter echoed through the woods.
But Wabegwona cared not to join
in the merrimeot. She was watching
for the return of her nearest relative,
who had ever been to her as a brother,
and dreaming such dim visions as she
could dream of the scenes and the peo
ple among whom her mother had been
born. For though her hair was dark
as midnight, and her features those of
the race with whom she dwelt, there
was enough in the maiden’s fairer com
plexion and deep blue eyes to have won
her the name of Wabegwona (White
Lilly,) which was bestowed upon her
by her tribe.
Her father, long dead, had been a
great chief, but her mother had been
fo jnd as a child by the Ottowas among
the ruins of an American out-post
which another nation had destroyed;
and,carried away and adopted by them,
had become the wife of one of their bra
vest warriors.* Yet amid all the con
trasts of her wild forest life, the fair
haiied daughter of the pale-faces had
retained some faint recollection oi the
past to breathe into the wondering ear
ol her child, before she, also, was call
ed away, and Webegwona was left an
orphan—alone, save for Laguiab, the
son of her father's brother, who had ta
ken hpr to hit home, and bade his moth
er lo k upon her as a daughter. And
the young men, to whom her smile was
cold as sun-lit snow,and the o,‘d women
who were for ever whispering like the
forest leaves, said that Laguiab would
make her his wife. But 'ne maiden’s
heart was still in her mother’s grave,
and the boldest hunter and bravest
warrior of the Ottawas feared to draw
it theoee too rashly.lest it might shrink
away from his touch.
And now a dark speck glided among
the star-beami on the lake,and a canoe
came bounding forward eagerly, like a
wild deer to its favorite haunt. It was
for that which Wabegwona watched,
and a smile lit up her features as she
beheld it; and her thought, which had
been wandering far beyond the dark
threat and the gleaming waves, flew
back to the present.
“The rifle of Laguiab haa not been
idle,” said Wabegwona, who stood on
the shore to welcome her cousin. “He
has lingered long—his canoe is heavy.”
“'1 be rifld ot Laguiab has been his
enemy.” replied the hunter, mournful
ly. “Let my sister bid tbe young men
come hither, for the load in. his canoe
lies heavy at the heart of Laguiab.”
One glance had told the girl that a
stranger lay to all appearance lifeleas
in the canoe, and she hastened to sum
mon the hunters from tbe fires, around
which they were tailing of the past day’s
exploits. Then she went on to tell her
aunt of the guest they might expect.
How Wabegwona’* heart beat as
the Otto ways bore the wounded stran
ger into the lodge, and she saw that he
was not merely young and handsome,
for that was little then to her, but of
the* race her mother had always loved!
And when the medicine-men had done
their best, and, eo they said, charmed
•he bullet out of the wound, and apoken
the wise words which would make their
herb-potions drive away the evil apirit
of fever and call back health to the suf
ferer, then Laguiab came to her and
told her how a branch had caught the
trigger of his rifle, and, without his
touch, it had struck down the shite
hunter the moment he first beheld him.
“But Wabegwona will be a sister to
the pale face,” continued tbe young
Ottaway. “She will know that it is
the heart of Laguiab which lies woun
ded in hia lodge, and she will watch
over the stranger as tbe eagle watches
over her young one, until his wings ere
strong, and hia eyes can look boldly on
the aun.”
As the summer wind was Laguiab’*
voice, and tha maiden’s will waa the
rush which loved to bend before it; for
uo brother could be dearer than he
bad ever been to her. But the strong
grasp of sickness was on tbe stranger’s
mime, and it arms long ere all tbeir
earn coaid loom it: and often as she
sat beside bis coach, while spirits of
the past and of the absent seemed hov
ering around and in communion with
him, did Wabegwona fear that be
would pass away to the Happy Gar
dens of the pale-faces, and leave a
shadow on the soul of Laguiab. For
though the Ottoway bad slain many
foes on the war-path, until his fame
was on the earth, as the lights whose
name he bore were in the sky, and
shona in the sight of many nations,
and women trembled at its rushing
sound, and warriors mused on wbat it
might portend; still the youog chief sor
rowed for the aimless blow which had
struck down a tree whose fall might
crush many flowers but gave no place
for glory to spring up. But the sum
mons had not gone forth, and the Eng
lishman was left to find the life to which
bo awoke, a wilder dream than all his
ferer-risiono.
Weeks and months had glided by;
the snows which had not fallen when
Seyton was brought to the Ottawa's en
campment, had melted aw«) with the
hours forever vanished,and leaves were
bursting forth on tne trees, and flowers
were starting up among the bright fresh
grass with all the rapidity and vigor of
the vegetation in that region. But
spring aid not find the Ouawas where
the autumn left them,on the point be
side the gold- loom. Death had breath
ed on one of their fairest plants, and
when it withered and died, they, as si
frequent among the Indians, deserted the
•eene of the misfortune, and their lod
ges were now raised, and their fires
lighted on the shores of a quiet bay
several miles lower down the lake.
Again it was evening, and Wabeg
wona sat on the star-lit strand. But
this time she was not alone, for Seyton
was by her side, telling her of the
mighty river beside which dwelt her
mother’s people and his own. And of
the stately dwellings along its shores,
and down where the salt waves broke
in restless murmurs that were for ever
whispering of the distant island far to
wards the rising sun, moaning and
dashed around their forefathers’graves.
And he told her, too, of one who
would gladly bear away the fairest
flower of the forest to bloom within one
of those proud dwellings; and of a love
which would guard it against the tem
pest, and shelter it from the burning
sun-ray, and cheer it, if the breath of
sorrow, which wanders everywhere,
should bow it to the earth.
The maiden smiled as she listened,
but the Englishman wondered if it were
in pleasure or in scorn, for the faint
light revealed her face dimly.
“Has Wabegwona no words?” he
asked. "Say, must the pale-face re
gret that her voice called him back,
when his spirit was on the wing?”
There was a minute’s silence, and
then the low sweet voice of Wabegwo
na came like music on the ear. “Why
should an Ottawa girl speak?” was her
reply* “The pale-face are the stars;
the hefrt of Wabegwona is the lake
whereon they rest. Let them look
down and they will see no other light
reflected in it.”
A joyful exclamation was on Seyton
lips, but it was stayed, as a shadow
fell on the sand, and a form stood be
fore him—Laguiab; the starbeams
showed him deadly pale, and his arma
were folded, and his lips compressed,
while his glance was as though the true
Aurora Borealis had flashed upon them.
“Laguiab is a fool,” said he, bitter
ly. “His rifle was wise, but he wa9
angry with its wisdom. Are there no
blossoms beside the distant waters,
where the pale-faces build their lodges
so high up into the sky, that the stran
ger must come with a tongue keener
and brighter than the knives ofhis peo
ple, to steal away the only flower an
Indian loved to look upon? The heait
of Laguiab was spread before my sif
ter,” continued the warrior, reproach
fully, to Wabegwona. “Had the
While Lily looked into it she would
have seen but herself. But a white
mist has come her eyes, and she can
not—a stange wind has whispered in
in her ear, and the voice to which she
once listened is forgotten.”
The Ottawa paused; but, surprised
b the accusation of treachery,of which
he no thought of being guilty, Seyton
hesitated to reply. And V\ abegwona
bowed her head in silence, for love for
Laguiab was strong within her heart
but it was only as a brother that he had
always mingled in her thoughts, and
sue never dreamed of hearing such
words from his iips. After a moment,
he resumed more fiercely—
But why should that mist stay to
blind the eyes of Wabegwona? La
guiab’s arm is stronger than his voice,
and his arger is a mighty tempest,
which breaks down the forest as it
passes. It shall sweep the mist from
his path, and the eyes of the White
Lily can look once more on his face.”
As he spoke tne last words, Laguiab
drew the tomahawk from his belt. Sey
ton had risen to his feet, but not to fly;
though a strange thrill shot through bis
heart u he stood, fi»r moment de
fenceless before the enraged Indian,
like a fawn awaiting the panther’s
spring. The bright weapon gleamed
in the starbeams as the Ottaway rais
ed his arm; but the next instant it was
whirled far over the lak! to bury its
keen edge in the slumbering waters’
“No,” stud the Indian, in a low deep
voice, “the arm of Laguiab is strong,
but not strong enough to strike his
friend. The pale-face has slept in his
lodge, and hunted by his side, and an
Ottawa chief cannot take the life he
has watched over. Thare is a cloud
on Laguiab; but the stars are bright,
and the clouds cast uo shadow on the
lake. Let it bo so—“the paths of my
brother shall be open to »he great villa
ges of the people. But let not his glance
be ever dark towards the White Lily,
which his hand him torn from the home
where it was loved and sheltered in
the forest, to plant it afar where the
axe of the stranger has left no oranc hes
to cover the earth.
And uetore either had time to answer
Laguiab had plunged auud the dark
cedars which reared their lofty heads
near the shore; nor did he return-to
the encampment until the silence of
midnight rested on its bark-covered
lodges and smouldering fires. Tne
nextmorntag Seyton asked in vain for
his host; for, before the last star faded
irous the iky, the young chief, with
some half-dozen hunters, had gone in
to the wood* in quest of game. Had
they remained they would have found
more need of their rifles. But no
thought of danger was in the minds of
the Ottawa*.
It was the oft repeated* tale in those
regions,—the wild-cat stealing on her
prey while it slept. But this time in
the daylight. All was hushed and still
ss though the voice of paio or discord
had never echoed through the wilder
oess, when suddenly a youth rushed
into the centre of the lodges crying:—
“The Winnebagoes! the Wione
bagoes!” A wild ahriek of woman’s
terror was the reply, to be instantly
followed by a shriller cry of agony,
which told that the work of destruction
bad begun, and to be in its turn lost iu
the terrible.war-whoop of the Winne
bagoes, as they rushed upon the un
prepart d and unsuspecting Ottawa*
We will not the scene of
bloodshed and desolation. It is enough
that death and fi>e reigned everywhere
and that Wabegwnna, who had taktn
shelter beneath the brancnes of a fallen
tree, saw Seyton, stunned and bleeding
carried away alive to meet a darker
fate than had befallen her tribesmen.
When Laguiab and his hunters re
turned at sunset, they found their en
campment a heap of ruink, and those
they nad left in life claimed nothing at
their hands except a grave and re
venge; so said the sorrowing and in
dignant warriors when they heard the
tale which Wabegwona alone remained
to tell. But other thoughts were io
the young chiefs mind as he looked
upon the maiden’s face, and saw in it
the agony which rent her heart; and
his gaze lingered on her pale features
while his tribesmen spoke of seeking
another band of their nation, some
days’journey distant,-to join with them
in wreaking on their foes the vengeance
they were too weak to take alone.
Another chief will lead the young
men,’’ said he quietly; “Laguiab’s
path is over the water, but he must go
alone. Let no Wabegwona weep as
though the sun were gone forever. Day
will come back to pour sunshine on the
darkened lake, and the drooping Lily
will raise her head again.’’
The night had passed away, and the
morrow’s sun was shining gaily and
brilliantly on the scene we first de
scribed, and Seyton stood in the centre
of that spot of gleaming quartz, to take
his last farewell of life, and view calmly
as he enu'd the terrible preparations
for its close. How the thought of Wa
begwona, and of that distant home
whence the wod spirit of adventure
had lured hi u, came round him in that
moment when death in its most dreadful
aspect stood before him, and cruel
hands, and savage looks, and taunting
words, surrounded him in that lonely
and beautiful spot, where he must close
his eyes in agony, far away from all he
loved, with not one kind glance or
friendly voice to support him in the
fearful hour of trial!
Just as the signal for its commence
ment was to be given, a youth, who had
accompanied the war party to serve as
an unsuspicious looking scout, ap
proached the chiefs, and intimated that
a stranger claimed the privilege of en
tering and leaving the camp uum
tested. Safe conduct was accorded,
and in a few minutes a young Indian
advanced inf the circle of expectant
warriors, with the haughty step and
lofty air of one accustomed to be hon
ored and obeyed. Despite the usual
self-control of such assemblages, the
name of “Laguiab” ran in wondering
tones around the circle.
“The Winnebagoes looked for La
guiab,” said an old chief, with a hidden
sneer. Had he flown up into the sky,
or dived Irke an otter into the lake,
when the war-whoop was sounding
through the woods?”
“Laguiab has fo'lowed the Winne
bagoes,” said he coldly, to ask if they
ever heard his name.”
It is the name of a brave warrior,”
replied the Winnebago. “There is
no greater in his nation.”
The dirk eye of the Ottawa flashed
proudly.for a moment, then he said, as
cold!/ as before, Would the Winne
bagoes like to boast to their women that
they had slain that warrior.' or a pale
face whose name they never heard?”
The path of Laguiab is open,” re
plied the old chief. “The Winneba
goes will not keep what is not theirs.’’
Let the pale-face be free as the
wind which wanders over the lake,
said Laguiab, “and an Ottawa chief
will be the prisoner of his foes.”
The old chief waved his hand, and
in an instant a ready knite severed the
thongs.which bound Seyton to the stake.
“Laguiab! Laguiab! this must not
be!” exclaimed the Englishman, ad
vancing quickly to his side. What
have I done that you should die forme?’
A mournful smile flitted over the Ot
tawa’s face. He pressed Seyton’*
hand, and whispered in his ear: “There
is sorrow in the heart of Wabegwona,
and the eyes of Laguiab could not
look upon her tears. It is well—La
guiab is content. The voices of his
fathers are in his ears, calling him
away, and an Indian must follow to the
Land of Spirits. Why should he stay
The light of Laguiab will shine no
more upon the night of the Ottawa 9;
but the White Lily will be happy ift
the shelter that she loves.”
Then turning away, he spoke a few
words to his captors; and before the
Englishman well knew the purpose of
the Indians, who once more seized
him, he was speeding over the deep
waters, far away from the fatal spot
where the life of Laguiab was being
paid the fearful price of his liberty.
And there, on the gold-bloom, was
offered up the noble heart of the Ot
tawa chief, the sacrifice of a self-devo
tion, against which not all the w* alth
slumbering in the untouched mine comd
ever weigh. The next tempest swept
sway the traces of the sacrifice; and
when we heard the tale, and looked
upon the spot, all was calm and bright,
as though the passions of man had
never cast a shadow upon the earth,
though even the name of Laguiab was
still loved and' wept over in one dwel-
Sf far away on the banks of the St.
wrence. And many, many more
years must glide into the past, ere the
memory of that deed shall die away, or
it cease to be recounted to those who,
like ourselves, may chases to res* in
Ihst that wild and lovsly sc«»e»
Ihsir wanderings in the West.