ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN NEW
ENGLAND,
BY HENRY WARD BEECHER.
The slavery in New England never
was the Slavery of the South. The
slavery of the South in our day, adopts
the Roman civil law as the basis of its
code. This law is briefly explained,
and the fact of its adoption (with some
modifications toward severity rather
than lenity) in the Southern States is,
stated by the Court of South Caroli
na:
“A master made a devise to trus
tees,. for the benefit of his slave Bet
sey and her children. Devise held to
be yoid Per Cun. ‘The condition of
slaves in this country is analogous to
that of the ancient Greeks and Ro
mans, and not that of the feudal times.
They are considered not as persons
but as things. They can be sold or
transferred as goods or persona! estate
they are held to be pro nullis, pro inor
tuis. By the civil law, slaves could not
take property by decent or purchase;
and I apprehend this to be the law of
this country.”—[Dess. Rep. iv. 286.
South Carolina as quoted by Judge
Jay, to whose writings, and to Stroud’s
Sketches of the Laws relating to Sla
very, I am chiefly indebted for the le
gal references of this article.]
Now, New England never held a
slave on the basis of the Roman civil
law; but under a law which was ex
pressly enacted for the benefit of the
slave, and for the ultimate destruction
of slavery, viz. the Hebrew law of Sla
very.
As early as 1641, the following law
was passed by the General Court of
Massachusetts:—
“It is ordered by this Court and
the authority thereof that there shall
never be any bond slavery, villenage,
or captivity among us, unless it be
lawful captives taken in just war,
(such) as willingly sell themselves or
or are sold to us; and such shall have
the liberties and Christian usage
which the law of God, established in
Israel, concerning such persons mor
tally require.”
The Roman civil code and the He
brew code are not only different, but
the difference is such that the one will
make slavery utter and fatal, and the
other will alleviate it, make it less and
less valuable to the master, and cer
tainly abolish it, under the appearance
of regulating it.
Connecticut seems to have had the
largest number of slaves of any New
England State.—ln 1790, when Maine
and Massachusetts had none, New
Hampshire 158, Vermont 17, Rhode
Island 952, Connecticut 2,759, what
was slavery then in Connecticut?
Judge Tapping Reeve says:—
“The law, as heretofore practiced in
this State, respecting slaves, must
now be uninteresting. I will, however
lest the slavery which prevailed in this
State should be forgotton, mention some
things that show that slavery here was
very far from being of the absolute,
rigid kind. The master had no con
trol over the life of his slave. If he
killed him, he was liable to the same
punishment as if he killed a freeman.
The master as was liable to be sued by
the slave, in an action for beating or
wounding, or for immoderate chastise
ment, as he would be if he had thus
treated an apprentice. A slave was
capable of holding property, in char
acter of devise or legatee. If the mas
ter should take away such property,
his slave would be entitled to an action
against him by his prochein ami (next
friend.) From the whole, we see that
slaves had the same right of life and
property as apprentices; and that the
difference betwixt them was this: an
apprentice is a servant for time, and
the slave is a servant for life.”
How utterly different this slavery
was from that of the South. Judge Buf
fin of North Carolina shows when
speaking on this very point:—
“This (viz. slavery), has indeed,
been assimilated at the bar to the other
domestic relations; and arguments
drawn from the well established prin
ciples which confer and restrain au
thority of the parent over the child, the
tutor even the pupil, the master over
th« apprentice, have been pressed on
VOL. 111. NO. 28.
us. The Court does not recognize the
application. There is no likeness be
tween the cases. They are in oppo
sition to each other, and there is an
impassable gulf between them. The
difference is that which exists be
tween Freedom and Slavery; and a
greater could not be imagined.”
The very effect of the Hebrew law
of slavery was so to direct the master’s
attention to his fives’ comfort and re
ligious education, that, ere he was
aware of it, the slave stood in his view
so surrounded with the rights of man
and sanctious of religion, tha he could
not regard him as much less than an
equal fellow. And it is historically
true that the brief trial of the Hebrew
law of slavery in New England produ
ced the same effect there. Judge Par
sons of Mass., says:—“The treatmeni
of slaves was in general mild and hu
mane, and they suffered hardships nol
greater than hired servants.” And in
the same case he says that a discon
tented slave was worth little to his
master, insomuch that he sometimes
colluded with the slave, and allowed
him to sue for his liberty, that he might
get rid of him and the* burden of his
support. The Winchendon vs. Hat
field, 3 Mass. Rep. 128.) And if the
South, that perpetually refers to the
Old Testament to justify her system of
slavery, will consent to take that He
brew law of Slavery in exchange for
her Roman civil law, for one I should
regard the work of liberty as begun,
and calmly wait for time to complete
what God through Moses,* designed—
the utter extirpation of slavery!
3. But the worst feature of this
slanderous charge of the Journal ol
Commerce against the whole North is,
that they kept their slaves until they
were found “to be unprofitable, and
then sold them to the South.” There
cannot be an untruth more utter than
this, nor more insulting to New Eng
land.
Slavery was abolished in Vermont
July 2, 1777. After the Revolution,
some attempts were made to transport
out of the State negroes and mulattoes
and sell them in open violation of the
laws. But in 1786 the General As
sembly passed an Act making it penal
to £IOO to sell a colored man; the
same to be paid to a person sought to
be sold, together with the cost of
suit, &c.
Slavery was formally abolished in
Massachusetts by the adoption of the
Constitution, in 1780, the first article
of which declares that “all men are
born free and equal.” After that date,
this clause was, by the Courts, re
garded as settling the question of sla
very. The unexpected decision of the
Courts made it impossible for slaves to
be sold in anticipation of it.
New Hampshire abolished slavery
by the adoption of its Constitution, in
1784; and Connecticut in the same
manner at a later date.
But it is principally to New York, a
State with which the editor of the Jour
nal of Commerce surely ought to be
well acquainted, that we wish to direct
attention.
In 1790, there were 21,324 slaves in
the State of New York. Ten years
after, 1800, the number was 20,343,
diminishing in ten years but 881. In
1799, the act of Gradual Emancipation
was passed, declaring all children born
thereafter to be free, males when com
ing tq the age of 28, and females at
25. It is hardly possible to conceive
more humane and vigilant enactments
to prevent.any of these slaves being
sold to the South. A fine of $250 was
the penalty, and the freedom of the
slave was the result of an attempt to
sell him out of the State. Although
masters were allowed to travel with
their slaves, yet, under severe fanes,
they were obliged to return them; or,
under oath, to make proof that una
voidable accident prevented the return
ing. That some might have been smug
gled off, we do not deny, though we
have no evidence of it.
In 1817, we believe, another act was
passed, declaring all slaves to be free
in 1827, and on July 4th of that year,
the act took effect, and every slave,
nearly ten thousand, was manumitted,
without compensation to their owners.
It is high time for men to be held to
responsibility who defile history by de
claring that the North got rid of slavery
at a profit and for a profit; and we re
ply to Southern demands for Northern
help in this matter, We demand no
losses of you which we did not encoun
ter ourselves.
Let it be shown by whoever can,
that the increasing intelligence of the
people in respect to a practice which
the then civilized world tolerated, and
the growing perception that slavery
could not be enforced without a viola-
tion of religion and humanity, were
not the true causes of its disconinu-
*ance in New England and New York.
No system of slavery, in this land, can
be profitable, which does not put the
slave under a regimen which denies
him the rights of manhood. The North,
on the basis of the Hebrew Slavery
Law, lound it out; it refused to go fur
ther, and sacrifice its religious scru
ples. The South, on the basis of the
Roman Civil Law, imbibed its inhuman
spirit, put on the screws, and forced
the system into its present legal atti
tude; with a written code more infa
mous than the unwritten law of any
pirate’s deck! This is the very histori
cal difference between the North and
the South. Her religion made the
North unwilling to grow richer by hold
ing on to a system with all its growing
requisitions; and so she turned to her
granite and to the frozen seas, where
fish swarm, and to the loom and the
RIGHT 13 OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO C010R;
anvil. The South, generous upon im
pulse, but impatient of the restraints
of long-continued rigid principle, chose
the other alternative, drove the slaves
into the field, and grew rich on their
toil and debasemement. —Emancipator
fy Republican.
Richmond Va., May 13.
As I was conversing with some
Southerners in Washington upon Free
Soil, they expressed a desire that I
shoulJ go South and see slavey as
it exists there, and I would come back
freed of ail Free Soil notions. One
from Florida was particularly anxious
that I should go home with him and he
would show me a tame alligator, nine
feet long that he fed on terrapins and
deaa niggers. “Never costs me any
thing to bury a dead nigger,” said he,
I resolved to go as far South as this
place, to see if there existed so much
difference between the practice and
heory of slavery. As I sailed forth
his morning to see the place, almost
he first thing that met my view was a
arge house, surrounded by a very high
brick wall. Upon asking the first pas
ser by what it was, he informed me, it
was a nigger jail, where traders con
fined .their slaves preparatory to tak
ing them South, He very politely
offered to conduct me through it, which
I gladly accepted. I have here here
tofore supposed that the term “slaves
in chains,” as used in the newspapers,
vyas a figure of speech, used compara
tively. But here they were chained
together, sitting round on benches in
the most filthy and loathsome place I
ever saw. I questioned one too, why
he was chained. He said he had been
sold to go south, and he wanted to see
his wife again before we went, and had
ran away to go back to his old mas
ter’s for that purpose. My heart was
too full to question any of the others.
In the female department there was
a very pretty white woman with two
cnildren. By close inspection it might
be seen that she had a little African
blood in her veins, apparently not over
one tenth, but the children did not
show the least trace of it. I expressed
my surprise at this to my conductor, as
I had supposed slavery to be eon> ;ed
to the African race, when I was in
formed there was no limit of blood in
this State. So long as the mother is a
slave, the offspring is also, no rnattei
of what color. I have learned that
there are numerous slaves in this city
as white as their masters
My next move, was to attend a slave
auction.
The slaves of all colors, from sooty
black to perfect white, were brought
in -and seated on benches. Here they
were subjected to the most particular
examination. It was curious to see
the manner of the speculators in ex
amining their teeth. They would or
der them to open their mouth, then
press back their lips with their two
thumbs, just as a jockey would a horse.
On a window sill lay a large pile of
manacles, some were constructed of a
large rod of iron with handcuffs on
each side, so as to form a row. The
first lot soid was the white woman and
her children, that I before spoke of.
The auctioneer extolled her qualities
by representing her to be a first rate
seamstress, Stc. She was struck down
at $1,105.
The lackey of the place (himself a
slave) then lead up a man about 25;
“unharness yourself old boy,” says
he. The man trembling like a leaf all
the while, strips himself, with the assis
tance of the lackey, in full view of the
street and of female slaves. The
lackey asks him what he is shaking
for? as he is not going to be hurt. The
auctioneer announces no scars on his
back of any consequence, and the sale
proceeds: sold at $425. Next conies
a little girl of 18, about half white.
Then two twin brothers of 14; sold to
different masters, one I was told was a
Southern trader, so on to the end of the
sale, when the gentlemen were thanked
for their attention and attendance re
quested to-morrow, when they would
be shown something nice. During the
sale my attention was call to the door
by a string of slaves going past, chained
together, probably on their way to
some southern plantation*
Altogether, this was the most heart
sickening sight I ever saw. I invol
untarily exclaimed “is it possible that
this is permitted in our own native
country —the country I loved so well,
and whose institutions I have exulting
ly pointed to as an example for the
world.
I am confident that the most effective
way for Abolitionists to gain converts
to their cause is to send Northerners
as far South as this place, and let them
attend one of these slave auctions.
Hard, indeed must be the heart of one
who could look upon such a scene and
not blush for his country’s shame. I
remonstrated wit-h some of the inhabi
tants for permitting such a thing among
them. They all have their Bible and
Christianity at their tongue’s end, and
arc ready to point out passages to jus
tify and show that it is a God ordained
institution. “If this is Christianity” I
replied, “dont call me a Christian.”
iCp’The “Blue Hen’s Chicken”
says: President Taylor, we under
stand, has purchased the splendid sugar
plantation of Capt. Fullertou, situated
about fifty-two miles from the city, on
the right bank of the river. He paid,
we understand, $73,000 in cash.”
ROCHESTER, N. Y„ THURSDAY, JULY 4, 1850.
Correspondence of (lie Y. Tribune.
SOUTHJERNL??. VVERY, BY AN
eye-witness.
A. S. W.
yearly meeting of congre-
GATIONAL FRIENDS
By a letter from our much esteemed
friend Rhod a De Garmo, ofJ^pchester,
N. Y., we learn that the l&ariy Meet
ing of Congregational Fnclis of that
State was held at Waterloo, f.<>mmenc
ing on the 2d ana closing
The race;fag C'&s a v-ei'y satis
factory one, those present appearing to
participate in its proceedings with pe
culiar interest. The great'subjects of
War, Slavery, Sectarianism, the Posi
tion of Women, and some others, were
introduced and very ably discussed,
and addresses on various topics prepar
ed for publication, which, with the pro
ceedings, will in due time he presented
to the public. Our friend says: “I
think there were more in attendance
than there were last year, and the
greatest good feeling prevailed. Many
confessed that (heir expectations were
more than realized, and their feelings
enlisted in the objects of the meeting
far beyond any thing they had formed
an idea of before attending. Thus I
conceive there is nothing but encour
agement in prospect if we all adhere to
the great principles of Right so clearly
impressed on the minds of many able
advocates. It appears to me none could
have attended through that meeting
whose spirits were not rewarded anc
hearts enlarged towards the whole hu
man family; while all sectarian distinc
tions must have dwindled into mere in
significance, for the tide of sympathetic
feeling for the good of mankind rose
far above them all and covered every
rising mound of opposition.”
Joseph and RuthDugdale were pre
sent the first two days, but the illness
of the former deprived him of the priv
ilege of farther attendance and the
meeting of his valued services.—His
friends will be glad, however, to hear
ot his convalescence, and of the proba
bility of his speedy and entire recovery
Anti-Slavery Bugle.
Slavery thirty years ago, —The
Savannah Georgian publishes the fol
lowing hit at the North, We have
improved since then. Some thirty
ears ago the pious people of Rhode
Island, were shocked and outraged on
finding that a blacksmith was at work
on the Sabbath. The soo.n<l hir
j hammer and the reverberations'of his
anvil sorely annoyed the shepherd bfj
the village flock, and the more so a/j
the blacksmith was a pillar of the church I
and a bright and shining light of the I
congregation. Of course he was
“churched”—taken to task. In de-J
fence of himself he stated that one of'
the slavers, in getting ready to go to
sea, found she was deficient in hand-'
cuff’s, and he was obliged to work al!
Sunday to supply her! The good
shepherd of the flock decided it was a
work of necessity, justified by the gos
pel. and Deacon Hart was excused.
Fugitive Slave brought back.—
The schooner Consul, Capt. Falkert,
sailed from this port on the 29 April
for Norwich, Conn. On the sth May,
the mate having occasion to go down
the forward hatch, found a colored
man concealed there, who upon exam
ination proved to be a fugitive slave
of Commander Barron, of the U. S.
ship Pennsylvania. Capt Falkerk, on
arriving at New London, delivered him
into the custody of Capt. of the
schr. Harriet Smith, bound for the
Chesapeake, with directions to land
at Old Point, and place him in charge
of the authorities there. This was
done accordingly on the I2th May
and the fugitive was brought up to the
city immediately after and delivered to
his owner. —Norfolk Herald.
Logic of Slavery.— The Charles
ton (S. C.) Union Presbytery latelv
passed the following article of faith:
Resolved, That in the opinion of
this Presbytery, the holding of slaves,
so far from being a sin in the sight of
God, is nowhere condeinned in his holy
Word.”
This is like the parson in Fielding’s
novel, who justified his indulgence in a
favorite potation by declaring there
was nothing said in the Scriptures
against rack punch.— Syracuse Std.
The Negro Stampede in Missouri
and lowa.— We learn from the Bur
lington Telegraph, of the Bth, that
Elihu Frazier, Thomas Clarkson Fra
zier, William Johnson, Paul Way,
John Comer and John Pickering, im
pleaded with others, for aiding and
abetting in the flight of certain slaves
belonging to Mr. Daggs, of Missouri,
and for forcibly rescuing said slaves
Jrom the agent of the owner, who had
recaptured them in that State, were
convicted, on the previous day, in U. S.
District Court in session in that city,
and fined $2,900 for the offence. The
eounsel for the defence gave notice of a
motion for a new trial.
A Slight Mistake. —The Ledger
of Friday says:
Some twenty-five Free Negroes
petitioned the Convention now in ses
sion in Ohio for equal political privi
leges with the whites. The petition
was rejected by a vote of 76 to 26.”
All true—except as to the number of
the petitioners, which was several hun
dreds, and the disposition of the peti
tions, which were received and referred
the motion to reject them being “rejected
by a vote of 76 to 26.” Quite as near
the truth as some of the Ledger’s re
ports of the Anti-Slavery meetings in
New York and Boston.— Pennsylvania
Freeman.
GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
From the Rochester Democrat.
PROSPECTS AT WASHINGTON,
ihe Tribune of Monday says its last
advices from Vv ashington are adverse
to the passage of the Omnibus bill. It
was the intention of the friends of the
measure to have got through with al
the amendments on Tuesday last 1 bu
this was found to be impossible/ auc
nearly the whole of this week will be
used up in the accustomed way. Near
ly all the amendments have come from
Southern Senators, and although they
have suceeeded with several, they still
want more—whether they can get'them
remains to be seen.
Opinions are as contradictory as ever
in regard to the prospect of the fina
passage of the bill. It is evident how
ever that its chances have not improvei
for a few days past, and that its more
ardent mends feel an unexpressed fear
that it must fail. Even in the Senate,
it is suspended by a hair. Its fate rests
with those who are counted as doubt
ful. The Tribune learns that Messrs.
Berrien, Underwood, Morton and
Pearce, are not certain for the bill,
while the loss of any two of them
would inevitably defeat it.
In the House, if the bill ever gets
there, its oponents feel sure of nailing
it to the table as soon as a vote can
be obtained. Intelligent Southern
men frankly confess that they cannot
claim with the least confidence the
vote of a single Northern Whig; but
in the lace of this fact, we see the
Journal of Commerce and its Loco
foco allies constantly predicting that it
will pas 3 the House.—We feel entire
confidence that they are mistaken.
Meantime the patience of the public
is well nigh exhausted; and it is not
surprising that it should be. Congress
convened nearly seven months ago,
and yet scarcely work enough has been
done to justify the expense of a
month’s session. This difficulty arises
from no doubt in regard to the wish
and determination of a large majority
of the people upon the subject of Slave
ry. There is not a man in Congress
who can or will deny that a vast majori
ty of the people are opposed to its ex
tension; and the struggle to pass a bill
that comes far short of this, and which
allows slaveholders to “experiment”
bfor a number of years-upon the prac
icability of planting it in New Mexico,
has impeded all legislation upon other
great and suffering interests, and ac
tually threatens to block the wheels of
Government.—How much more con
sistent with the ordinary mode of legis
lation, how much more economical and
just, would have been the prompt ad
mission of California when her appli
cation was presented! However pure
may be the motives of some of those
who advocate the settlement of incon-
gruous questions in one bill, the fact is
not and cannot be disguised, that a
majority of those who are responsible
for this great waste of time and treas
ure, are hostile to Freedom. California
has repudiated Slavery, and that is the
secret of their opposition to her ad
mission. It is time that such expensive
folly should be abandoned. Even
should this bill pass to-morrow, does
not this long delay, and the endless
number of amendments offered, show
that nothing like a majority are really
in favor of its passage? Far better,
then, to abandon il at once, and begin
the transaction of business in the ac
customed manner. Try every issue
upon its own merits, and the verdict
will be much more likely to receive the
sanction of the tribunal before which
all the acts of our public servants are
reviewed.
RYNDERS AND PROF. STUART.
Rynders the renowned Apostle of the
New York Mob, ‘defender of the faith,’
Sic., is in trouble, having been accused
of the vulgar offence ofgambling, mere
ly because he won a few paltry dollars
from a man less skilful than himself
and left his family to suffer the conse
quences by being turned penniless into
the street. We suggest that this is a
case which appeals strongly to the sym
pathy and sense of justice of Prof Stu
art. We cannot helieve that he will
permit his associate in the work of -de
molishing the abolitionists to sink
under the denunciations of the fanatics
for an act nowhere expressly condemn
ed in the New Testament, and which
was virtually approved by the saints of
the Old Dispensation, who often settled
important questions by ‘casting lots,’
which, we take it, was a practice as
indentrcal with modern gambling as Pa
triarchal and Jewish sorvitude were like
the Slavery of the South. The learned
professor, we are sure, would find it as
easy a task to frame a Scriptural de
fence of Rynders as he did to accom
plish the same thing for Webster; and
since Moses has begun the good work
of defending our modern prophets,
(profits?) he should show no partiality.
Surely Isaiah is as worthy of a seat on
the soft cushion ofßiblical exegesis as
Daniel, for he has been neither less
zealous nor less courageous than the
latter in the defence of ‘our glorious
Union’ and still more glorous Christ.
Webster— Rynders Stuart! What
an illustrious trio!- Jl. S. Bugle.
Great Sale of Human Beings.—
The U. S. Marshal for the Eastern
District of Louisiana advertised to sell
at Public Sale in New Orleans, on the
20th ult., four hundred and ninety
three slaves, of both sexes, and of all
ages, from infants to old age. Among
the number is one old man called
Sampson,* aged 111 years, —Practical
Christian
WHOLE NO. 132.
From (he Lowell Ameircan.
BENTON’S SPEECH-MR, CLAY.
The effort of the great Missourian
against the Compromise or Omnibus
Bill is, like all his efforts, masterly. In
some respects, his arguments seem to
us conclusive; we should like to see
them met.
The personal in the speech is Ben
tonian. No sarcasm is more biting;
no irony more terrible. We regretted
in reading it, that it should be marred
by a spirit so narrow, and a purpose so
unbecoming the occasion. Good
haters of a certain class will find food
enough for their hatred in Benton’s
speech.
The effect of the speech was bad.
Mr. Clay embraced an occasion to
a letter—his good taste in doing it we
must condemn, while we question the
morality of the act—of a prive citizen
seeking to convict Mr. Benton of incon
sistency. This led to the angry pas
sage which is thus reported:
Mr. Benton followed in.reply to Mr-
Clay, reading as his text several pas
sages from the speech made by the
Senator from Kentucky on the 14th of
February last, in which he declared
the admission of California to be a
measure standing by itself, and de
manding immediate action. He (Mr.
Benton) hoped the Senator, when ac
cusing the minority with having all
aiong delayed the settlement of that
question, would deduct at least the
time during which he himself acted
with those who still contended for a dis
tinct consideration for California. Mr.
B. proceeded then to retort brck the
lecture which he conceived so gratui
tously given by Mr. Clay, as to the
waste of time.
Mr. Clay denied that he had attemp
ted to lecture the Senate. The office
of lecturer, to be successful, required
two qualifications: the ability on the
part of the lecturer to impart instruc
tion, and the capacity of the lectured
to receive instruction.—ln this case
both the qualifications were wanting.
He was in favor of the admission of
California, and if it had depended on
him alone, she would have been admit
ted long ago.—He professed to be a
practical man, and it was well known
that he had yielded his own predilec
tic and wishes because Tie became
satisfied that the speediest way of bring-
ing California in would be in combina- I
tiou with other measures.
Mr. Houston submitted some re
marks in defence of the title of Texas,
declaring that she knew her rights,
and was prepared to assert, defend and
maintain them at any cost.
Mr. Benton made some observations,
denying, as had been suggested by
Mr. Clay, that during last summer, in
Missouri, he had expressed himself
against the admission of California.
Mr. in apology for having
made the suggestion, read a letter from
a gentleman named Reed, at Indepen
dence, Missouri, evidently to Mr.
Foote, in which the writer says that
Mr. Benton, in conversation with him
on the subject, said she was not fit to
be admitted, and that the Executive,
looking to that end was a coward poli
cy, and that California should be
treated as other new States had been
in times past. He only read this letter
in vindication of himself. He did not
know the writer, or vouch ifor his ac
curacy. The Senator would know,
however, whether it was true or not.
Mr. Benton denied the right of the
Senator to arraign him thus in the
Senate, by reading a letter, and calling
upon him to say whether it was true or
not; but the Senator would not get off
in that way. He had nothing to do
with the Senator’s informant; but, as
he has produced the letter here and
published it, and thus made it a part of
the parliamentary history of the coun
try, he held him responsible as its
author. He pronounced it his (Clay’s)
letter, and as his letter, he branded it
as an infamous calumny from beginning
to end. [Loud calls to order.]
Mr. Clay—As to the Senator’s im
putations, L hurl them back with un
utterable scorn and indignation, and
suggest to him to put in his casket of
other calumnies, which here—[cries of
order and the rapping of the Vice-
President’s gavil interrupted the re
marks.
Mr. Webster expressed his regret
at such occurrences in the Senate, and
administered a well worded rebuke to
both. For himself he would not sit in
the Senate and witness such scenes.
Mr. Hale said, if the rebtrke just
given was to be considered as just, and
its suggestions to be followed in the
practise of the future, he must beg
that some rule be established by which
it might be understood how old a Sena
tor must be to entitle him to ememp
tion from having letters read against
him. [Laughter.] The other daya letter
of such a character was read against
one of the youngest members of the
Senate, (himself) and the Senator from
Massachusetts, and others, seemed to
enjoy it very much. [Renewed laugh
ter.]
Mr. Underwood took the floor and
the Senate adjourned.
A Bad Negro.— The Niles (Mich.)
Republican learns that the colored man
to whom was entrusted all the proper
ty of the colored settlement of Cass
county, has fled the .country with three
or four thousand dollars—leaving the
settlement quite destitute.
SCp*William Chambers, one of the
editors and proprietors of Chambers’
Journal, says he sustained himself in
early life, for five years, on a few shil
lings a week. He is now wealthy.
From the Lowell Courier.
CONGRESS.
On Saturday, in the Senate, Mr.
Soule of La. offered an important
amendment to the Compromise Bill,
providing that when Utah and New
Mexico shall be ready to come in as
States, they shall come as Free or
ave States as their people may in
(heir Constitution designate. This
"as intended to commit Senators
against all future opposition to Slave
States. Mr. Hale and Mr. Dayton op
posed the motion, on the ground that it
"as idle tor this Congress to say in
vvliat form a future Congress shall ad
mit new States. Mr. Clay and Mr.
F oote also opposed it as useless. Mr.
Berrien, Mr. Badger and Mr. Under
wood defended it as giving securitv to
the South.
On Monday, the question again came
up. Mr. Webster, whose slimy track
must be attentively watched, made a
speech which is thus reported in the
exclusive despatch of the Boston
Times:
Mr. Webster addressed the Senate.
He observed that on the 7th of March
last, he declared that there was not a
toot of territory belonging to the United
States, the character of which, as free
or slave territory, was not already
fixed by some irrepealable Jaw. He
bad not seen or heard anything, since
that time, to charge his views upon the
subject—that being his view of the
question. He had very cheerfully voted
against the Wilmot proviso, for the
purpose of excluding slavery from the
territories. He had now no more ap
prehension of the introduction of slave
ry into the territories under considera
tion, than he had of its introduction
into Massachusetts. He was now cal
led upon to vote for an amendment,
providing that when those territories
shall come "here as States, they shall
be admitted, either with or without
slavery. If he voted against that
amendment, it would leave him open
to the suspicion of desiring to do that,
by another process, which he refused
to do by the Wilmot proviso. He de
signed, then, to vote for the amend
ment, for the same reason as he voted
against the proviso. He voted against
that, because he thought all such reso
lutions wholly useless—because they
gave offence and dissatisfaction; and
as he desfred to avoid all dissatisfac
tion, therefore he would not vote for
the amendment pending, which would
have no effect one way or the other,
and yet give satisfaction. He also
submitted some remarks in favor of
the general features of the pending
bill, expressing his conviction of the
importance of securing its passage.—
When he looked around him, and saw
the course of gentlemen from his own
section of the country, acting, as he
well knew they did, conscientiously
and honestly, he was well aware of
the extent of the responsibility which
he assumed in differing from them so
widely. This had naturally led him to
reconsider and re-examine his own
position; rejudge his own judgment;
and aferhaving performed that work,
he was quite unable to change his first'
well-settled HLe referred to
the satisfaction which his course had
given rise to in some quarters, and to
the charges of inconsistency which had
been made, declaring his readiness, if
any one here was disposed to under
take the task of proving such incon
sistency, to vindicate the consistency
of his Newburyport letter, or his speech
of the 7th of March with his record
ed acts and declarations of the past.
He declared his object to be peace
and reconciliation; he did not desire
to make a case for the North or for
the South. It was not to continue a
useless and distracting controversy
He was against agitators of both North
and South—against local tests. He
was an American, and knew no coun
try but America—no locality in Ameri
ca, that is not my country. His heart’s
sentiment and judgment demanded that
he should pursue such a course as
shall promote the good harmony and
union of the whole country, and he
would do So, God willing, to the end of
the chapter. [Great applause in the
gallery, immediately checked by the
Chair.]
Mr. Norris said he should vote for
the amendment, though he thought it
useless and unnecessary. Mr. Seward,
of New York opposed it, but could not
vote against it because he had paired
off with his colleague, Mr Dickinson.
Just think of two Senators from free
States parting off at this crisis an on
such a question!
In the House, Mr. Bayly of Va.,
chairman of the Ways and Means,
moved to make the appropriation bills
the special order for next Monday. The
House refused to suspend the rules to
allow him to offer his resolution. Mr.
Stephens ofGa., also failed to get the
rules suspended on a notice to adjourn
on the 12th of August. Mr. Doty and
Mr; Wentworth tried'to get the frules
suspended so as to instruct the Com
mittee of the Whole to report the Cali
fornia Bill to the House alter the next
session. They failed by a vote of 121
to 77, two-thirds not voting for it. A
few Dough-face Democrats from Penn
sylvania and the West, voted with the
South.
The proceedings of yesterday were
not very important. Mr. Hale’s amend
ment to the Compromise Bill, offered
the day before, providing that two new
States may be hereafter formed out of
California, was withdrawn. Mr. Jef
ferson Davis offered an amendment
repealing all laws, usages, and cus
toms, pre-existing in the Territories,
in regard to abating or obstructing the
full enjoyment of the rights of persons
or property of citizens of the United
States, as recognized or guarantied by
the Constitution and laws of the United
States. A long debate ensued, in the
course of which all the slaveholders
held that the Mexican local law against
slavery was superseded by the Consti
tution. No vote was taken.
The House was engaged upon a
proposition for a Committee to investi
gate certain alleged misappropriations
of money by the Secretary of the Trea
sury. The House passed a resolve
asking the Secretary for information on
the subject.
ICP Williams, the slave dealer and
Maryland overseer, boasts that he has
cleared thirty thousand dollars within
the last six months, by his traffic in
human flesh. Such, lam informed and
believe, was his remark within a few
days past,—Cor. True Dm
From the National Era.
Fugitive Slave*—Letter of Daniel
Webster.
The Latin poet tells us that the descent to
the wicked place is easy. We are more
pained than surprised, therefore, to find the
great Massachusetts Senator taking another
step downward.
It seems that certain obsolete politicians
and clergymen in the town of Newburyport
have seen fit, in imitation of a similar class in
Boston and Andover, to address him a letter
of congratulation. To this letter he has pub
lished a very appropriate, and, we doubt not.
very satisfactory reply, consisting merely of
a grave argument in support of the legal,
moral, and religious obligation of slave-catch
ing on the part of law-abiding citizens and
Bible-loving Christians of the Free States
It is a literary monstrosity which will make
the fortune of the antiquarian who shall here
after bring it to light, when Christian slave
holding shall have become as difficult of com
prehension as Christian cannibalism.
If there is (as we may well question) any
considerable amount of State pride, manly
independence, or bonest patroitism, in those
citizens of Massachusetts whom Daniel Web-
ster addresses, they will rise from the per
usul of this letter, sslf-reproached, and cover
*ed wiih shame, at the consideration that they
volunteered their approbation of the course of
its author. The man upon whom Massachu
.g#Us has bestowed her highest honors and
richest gifts is seen in this letter vilifying her
character, contemptuously denouncing her
laws, ridiculing her cherished principles, and
making her love of freedom, and her in
terest in the welfare of humanity, a cause of
reproach and derision. The old Common
wealth is betrayed by our own trusted and
favorite representative. He, who should have
been the first to defend he deliberately takes
sides with her enemies. We know not how
far forbearance may be carried in this case by
his insulted constituency, but of one thing we
are quite certain, not even John C. Calhoun,
aim si idolized as he was by South Carolina,
could have called in question the legislation,
of his State on the subject of colored seamen,
as Webster has that of Massachusetts in re
lation to fugitives, and retained his plgLce as
one of her Senators.
We can now only call attention to a single
paragraph in this letter, which we have read
with°indignant astonishment. After what he
seems to regard as a very unfavorable con
'trast of his own State with Pennsylvania, re
presenting the former as a snivelling, hypoc
ritical symathiser with the reclaimed fugitive
slaves which the latter very willingly sends
back to bondage, he says:
“Mas.-achuseits tears fa l abundantly for
Pennsylvania sufferings; but which sufferings,
Pennsylvania herself knows little or nothing
of. No people are more opposed to slavery
than the people ef Pennsylvania. We knpw,
especially, that that great and respectable
part of her population, the Friends, have
borne their testimony against it from the
first. Yet they create no excitement; they
seek not to overthrow or undermine the
Constitution of their country. They know
that firmness, steadiness of principle, a just
moderation, and unconquerable perseverance
are the virtues, the practice of which is most
likely to correct whatever is wrong in the
constitution of the* social system. No doubt
there are sometimes to be found Friends sub
ject to the frailty of desiring to become con
spicuous, or to the influence of a false senti
mentality, or borne away into an atmosphere
flickering between light and darkness, by the
puffs of the transcendental philosophy. But
that is not a malady of the great body.
They remain of sound and disposing minds
and memories. I am misled by authority
which ought not to mislead, if it be not tiue
that great body approves the sentiments to
which I have given utterance on thefioor of the
Senate.’
Whai were those •entimeoto which the
Society of Friends are said to approve? Let
us look at them.
“My friend, Mr. Butler,” says the Massa
chusetts Senator, “has a bill on the subject,
(of delivering up fugitive slaves,) now before
the Senate, with some amendments to it,
which I propose to suppoit, with all its pro
visions, to the fullest extent.”
This bill provides that the judges of the
Courts, some seventeen thousand postmasters,
and all Government officers, collectors, &c.,
shall be tribunals for the delivery, without ap
peal, of anybody who is sworn by anybody,
anywhere/ to be a fugitive from slavery,
whether the said officials of Government re
side in the State where the fugitive is found,
or in that from which he has said to have es
caped. It is sufficient that they are anywhere
officers of Government. Thus, as Horace
Mann has well said:
“Mr. Butler or Mr. Mason, therefore, may
send the postmaster of his own city or village,
into Massachusetts, with an agent or attor
ney, who brings his affidavit from South Car
olina or Virgina in his pocket; the agent or
attorney may arrest anybody, at any time,
carrying him before his accomplice, go
through with the judicial forms, and hujry
him to the South; the officer, after his judical
functions are discharged, turned bailiff, pro
tecting the prey and speeding the flight!”
The bill denies the right of trial by jury to
the person suspected of being a fugitive.
The “amendments” of which Daniel Web
ster speaks, and which he avows himself
ready to support, provide—
-Ist. That all who knowingly obstructed or
hinder the claimant or litigant, or any person
assisting him, in securing fugitive slaves, or
shall aid or assist in their escape after arrest,
or shall harbor such fugitives after notice that
thev are claimed as slaves, “shall be fined one
thousand dollars, one half whereof shall be to
the use of the informer, and shall also be im
prisoned for the term of twelvemonths.” And
2d. That “in no trial or bearing shall the
testimony of the alleged fugitive be admitted
in evidence.”
These are the “sentiments,” embodied in
legal forms, which we are told, “that great
body (the Society of Friends) approves.”
Now, we undertake to say, that the.e is
not a member of the Society of Friends, in
free or slave States, who, whether acting as
a magistrate or a citizen, could carry out the
provisions of the most atrocious bill, without
rendering himself liable to immediate expul
sion fiom a Society whoso si .slacker would bo
disgraced, and whose discipline would be vio
lated, by snch action. It has been, in times
past, the misfortune of the Society of Friends
to be vilified, caricatured, and misrepresented,
but we remember nothing, even in the old
days of persecution, so hard to bear a 3 the
compliments of the Massachusetts Senator.
Whatever his “authority'” may have been,
we do not hesitate to pronounce it unqualifi
edly false to the last degree. J. G. W.
Dr. Richard Thompson.—This gentle
man, supposed to have belonged to New
York, was murdered on the road from Duran
go to Mazatlan on the 16th March, by four
Americans, viz: McAlcomb, Rodgers, Win
ters and Shirley. After robbing him, they
continued their way to Mazatlan, to embark
for California; the first then bought a launch
and left for Lower California. Shirley was
taken and delivered to the authorities in
Mazatlan, by Mr. Gains, now in this city.
On him was found SIOO in Mexican gold,
which he confessed was taken from the trunk
of the Doctor. He also stated that the mur
der was commitieed by McAlcomb, from
whom he received SIOO as his share of the
Doctor’s effects, consisting of S4OO, a gold
watch, one horse, four mules, and two trunks
of clothing. Among the Doctor’s papers
was found a memorandum stating that he
had married, in 1849, Miss Sarah Lyon of
Sing Sing, N. Y. who died in New Orleans;
also, that he had sent by sea four trunks,
consigned to a merchant in San Francisco,
and in case of accident he wished his effects
to be delivered to his sister in Alabama. Any
acquaintance of the Dr. may learn more by
applying at the office of this paper.— Alta
California,
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, JULY 4, 1850.
The North Star is sometimes sent to friends
who do not take the paper, in the hope that they
may see fit to subscribe for it. Subscriptions and
donations for the same may be safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederick Douglass, Rochester,
N. Y.
(JCJ-Wanted —Several Travelling Agents,
to procure subscribers for the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None need apply
but such as can bring good recommendations for
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
erick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
Our English friends who have not paid
their subscriptions to the North Star, foi the
year 1850, are requested to forward them, by
Post Office Order, to Mrs. Henry Richard
son, 5, Summerhill Grove, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.— f. d
British Opinion of the American An
tipathy against People of Color,
The brutal and cowardly outrage committed
upon us, by a band of ruffians, on the Battery,
a month since, has called forth an exipndp.d
notice from the ‘London Times,” the whole
of which we copy in another column of this
week’s paper. It is not a matter of slight en
couragement to the oppressed and persecuted
black man in this country, to be able to quote,
against his oppressors and persecutors, au
thority as influential and respectable as that
of the London Times. That paper is perhaps
the most wealthy and popular journal in the
world, and it may be said to represent fully
the national feeling of England. It is thor
oughly English even in its faults and its
lemarks on the subject of American prejudice
against colored people, may therefore be con
sidered a fair embodiment of the national
sentiment. Of course, there is a class oi
American people who are too ignorant and
inflated to receive much profit or instruction
from anything emanating from an English
source. This class is composed of the dupes
of political demagogues, whose patriotism is
only manifested in bitter invectives against
the mother country and yet there is not a
scamp among them all who is not proud of
being able to trace his ancestry to England,
and who does not boast of his English and
Saxon blood, while he is engaged in villifving
the land of his fathers!
But, setting aside this class of persons,
there are those in our land whose breadth of
intellect and common sense make them open
to the reception of right views and feelings,
although they may come from a source as
humble as the London Times. To these
persons, we commend the article to which we
have referred. It will show them that the
malevolent feelings entertained by the Ameri
cans towards the colored people, are unknown
and unsvmpathized with by the entire
British nation; and that the Americans, as
a people, stand infamously alone in the main
tenance of a cruel and unjust proscription
against the negro race.— F. d.
Pay your Postage I
We think a very little consideration will
satisfy eui ooi respondents of the justice of
this request. We are receiving sometimes
fifty and sixty letteis per week—the postage
on which would not average less than eight
dollars a week. It is therefore easy to see
that such a tax as this would speedily sink
the North Star and its proprietor together.—
We do not wish to he understood as having
to pay the postage on all the letters we re
ceive for, fortunately, the majority of our
correspondents wisely and kindly,consideting
our exposed situation, attend to the important
preliminary of paying their postage at the
time of sending their letters. We may say
to those of our correspondents who are in the
habit of sending long letters, exhorting us to
amiableness of temper, gentleness of spirit,
and a variety of other excellent virtues, that
their advice would be fai more likely to prove
efficacious, if they would take the precaution
to pay the postage on the letter containing it.
We have almost come to the resolution—
already adopted in some other quarters —of
attending only to the requests of those who
pay their postage. F. d.
Letter from Dr. William Marsh.
We insert, with pleasure, a brief extract
from a letter we have recently received from
that truly venerable and Christian man, Dr.
William Marsh, a clergyman of the Episcopal
Church in England. Would to God that
ministers of the same denomination in this
country, possessed the spirit of our excellent
friend for then slavery, with all its accumu
lated wrongs, might soon be utterly and for
ever abolished, But, unhappily for the Ame
rican bondman, the clergy of this country,
and especially those of the Episcopal Church,
tako little or no interest in the question of
emancipation and, for the most part, they
discourage and sneer at all anti-slavery move
ments. F. D.
Leamington, England, June 5.
Dear Mr. Douglass :—Tell me where I
ami pay ono pound, in London,
towards the printing of the North Star. I
shall be glad, if life be spared, to give a mite
again next year.
I must hope, by the blessing of Him who
made His people free, and who heard the
groanings of the children of Israel, that the
period is approaching when all men of com
mon sense, common humanity, and common
piety, must practically acknowledge the sin
and cruelty of slavery.
I hope your health continues. God prosper
your labors in the good cause
Yours, very truly,
Ice in the Atlantic.—lt is said that an
enormous field of ice, upwards of 150 miles
in length, has been found floating in the At
lantic, about the parallel of latitude 46.
This early drifting of ice from the Polar seas,
i 3 considered extremely favorable to the ex
peditions in search of Sir John Franklin and
his brave companions.
The Rodgers’ Slaves. Thirteen hun
dred dollars have been subscribed towards the
1800 necessaty to secure the freedom of
thirty slaves, emancipated by the will of the
late Timothy Rogers, of Bedford county, Va.,
on condition that the American Colonization
Society will remove them to Liberia—with
tfieir own consent, of course.
Anti-Slavery Convention at Geneva, N.
Y. July Fourth, 1850.
The friends of Impartial Freedom are in
vited to attend a MASS CONVENTION at
Geneva, on the 4th of July. Come, brethren,
rally around the banner of liberty The
dark spirit of slavery is aboad in the land.—
The liberty and the lives of thousands are
threatened by Clay’s Compromise, and Ma
son’s Fugitive Slave Bill. If these diabolical
acts shall pass Congress, we must and will
propose for Liberty or Deat.h
The Convention will meet at 10 o’clock
A- M. at the Second Baptist Church.
Refreshments will be prepared at, the giove,
for friends from abroad, without money and
without price.
Palmer’s Artificial Leg.
For thebdtaefit of all such as may have been
so unfortunate as to lose a limb, we beg to
direct attention to Palmer’s patent limb, which
is generally believed to be the bes, substitute
for the natural leg now extant. As the fol
lowing report sets forth the peculiar merits
of this invention, we copy it entiie.— f. d.
Report on Prof. Palmer’s Artificia
Leg.—The Committee on Science and the
Arts constituted by the Franklin Institute of
the State of Pennsylvania for the promotion
of the Mechanic Arts to whom was referred
for examination an Artificial Leg, invented by
Benjamin Franklin Palmer, report
That the peculiarities of this invention con
sist? in, First An ingenious arrangement of
springs and cords in the inside of the limb; by
which, when the wearer is in the erect posi
tion, the limb is extended and the foot flexed
so as to present a natural appearance.
Second By a second arrangement of cords
and springs in the inside of the limb, the foot
and toes are gradually and easily extended,
when the heel is placed in contact with the
ground.
Inconsequene of this arrangement, a limp
ing gait, and the unpleaseit noise made by the
sudden stroke of the call of the foot upon the
ground in walking, which is so obvious in the
ordinary leg, is avoided.
Third, By a peculiar arrangement of the
knee joint, it is rendered little liable to wear,
and all lateral or rotary motion is prevented.
It is hardly necessary to remark that any
such motion is undesirable in an artificial leg,
as it renders its support unstable.
The pressure of the artificial leg is made
uniformly upon the surface of the sides of the
stump, and not upon the end, by which ar
rangement the danger of ulceration and infla
mation ot the flaps, covering the end of the
bone, is in a great measure avoided. The
Committee have seen the artificial leg, worn
by the inventor himself. It is light, well
shaped, easily adjusted, ard of a surface
readily kept clean. The shape of the leg is
such as to represent, exactly, when clothed,
its natural fellow. He is enabled, by means
of his invention, to walk without a cane
in such a manner as readily to deceive one
not acquainted with the facts of the case.
All the natural movements of the limb,
except motion laterally (which is undesira
ble), are beatifully executed. He can throw
either leg over the other, and can mount a
height of five inches with either leg indiffer
ently without assistance. In conclusion, the
Committee would remark hat lire artificial leg
of Mr. Palmer is superior to any that has yet
come under their notice. It is light, strong,
beautifully shaped, apparently very durable,
self-acting in a greater degree than any ihing
they have ever met with; easy and natural in
its motion, and possessing apparently all the
qualities desirable or attainable in such an in
invention.
TheJ Committee would recommend the
award to the inventor of Scott’s Legacy
Medal and premium" to the most deserving
accompanied with $20,00), and also to the
Committee on Exhibitions, to award him the
first premium, for his model exhibited in the
late exhibition.
By Order of the Committee,
Wm. Hamilton, Actuary
[Messrs. B. F. Palmer Co., of this place,
are the only manufacturers of this useful and
beautiful invention.]
N. B. This leg is manufactured by Pal
mer and Hudsou, Springfield, Mass. See
advertisement.— ed. n. star.
Present to Henry Clay. —Thomas O.
Larkin, (says the Gem of the Prairie,) for
many years U. S. Consul at Monterey, Cali
fornia, has presented Henry Clay, through
J. R. Curtis, Mayor of San Francisco, with a
magnificent watch chain, formed of solid
lumps of native gold, as they were taken
from the mines. The largest lump, forming
the middle link, is shaped like a heart the
others gradually diminishing in size towards
the ends, to which are attached spring hooks,
also of native gold. The weight of the whole
chain is seven ounces, and its estimated value
is $250.
Resignation of Dr. Beecher. —We learn
from the N. Y. Evangelist tha} Dr. Beecher
has carried into effect a purpose he has long
entertained, of retiring from the active duties
ot his professorship in Lane Seminary, to de
vote his time to the preparation of his works
for the press. He was immediately elected
by the Trustees, Emeritus Professor, and
will retain the Presidency of the Institution,
and reside at W?luut Hills. Active measures
are in operation to fill the vacant professor
ships of the Seminary.
ILP The meeting of the association of the
Recipients of Gerrit Smith’s Land', was held
in New York on Monday evening. The re
port of Mr. Manning, was opened, and says:
“The land generally is good—the soil
deep, rich and black, the forest open, except
in the bottoms. There are no swamps worth
naming, and no land of any description that
cannot be made available. The timber on
the levels is pine, spruce, beach, fir and elm;
on the upland, maple, birch, spiuce and elni
—maple predominating. Timber brings a
good price, $6 per thousand.—Potash is
worth $6 per hundred: maple sugar, 10
cents per pound; wheat, $1 per bushel; oats,
37 1-2 cents and rye, 62 1-2 cents.” On
the whole, “he is satisfied that the country is
a great deal better than represented by Mr.
Smith. The winters are cold, it is true, but
not variable, and the summers are warm, and
vegetation is rapid, being only three weeks
later than on the Hudson River. The allot
ments donated are easy of access, within
five miles of a market town, and 12 miles
from the railroad, and the climate extremely
healthy.”
WM. MARSH
The Trouble with Portugal.—The
Pondon Times correspondent says that the
American ship-of-war Independence, beaiing
the flag of Commodore Morgan, was at Malta
on the"22d ult. en route for Gibraltar, whence
she vvas to proceed to Lisbon, to demand a
settlement of claims due by Portugal to the
United States,— N. Y. Tribune.
Henry W. Johnson, 4
John Moshier, Canandaigua.
Austin Stuart,
Henry Bradley, PennYan
J. F. Platt,
H H Garnet, Geneva.
J. W. Duffin, 5
Thomas M'Clintock, Waterloo
Samuel R. Ward, Syracuse.
And fifty other men and women.
Hall of the Franklin Institute,
Philadelphia, Jan. 11, 1849,
Nkwburg, June 24, 1850.
Frederick Douglass :—Since I last saw
you, I have visited and spoken in many of
the eastern towns and villages in your State,
and, through the co-operation of many warm
hearted friends, (of whom I shall speak more
at length hereafter.) I trust not altogether
without the desired effect.
Western New York, like other sections of
the country, is still suffering from the devas
tating effects of die Free Soil movement.—*
Very many of the hitherto staunch friends of
our cause, mistaking that Buffalo jack-o’lan
tern for the light-house nr haven of immediate
en ancipation, embarked on the frail craft of
‘availability,’ aid being polluted by soulless
politicians, they were soon wrecked upon the
rocks of ‘expediency;’ and now, disappointed
expectations, together with false pride, does
much towards rendering them indifferent to
the cause.
Yet the dissenination of the truths of anti-)
slavery in times past, has been instrumental]
in securing an agitation which, has settled
down, and is sf 11 settling down, upon many
honest hearts, iito 'an implacable hatred of
slavery, and a item determination to resist
the innovations the slave power.
I was much' pleased wTtli vhe articles in
your two last numbers on colonization, and
your triumphant refutation of the deliverance
of that serpent-brood of slanderers, whom
HoTae# Greeley, in his magnanimity and
toleration for negro-hatred, was pleased to
denominate the good men who glory in sla
very.’ The Tribune is evidently aping the
black-hearted Daniel Webster, who, while he
has no plan to offer for the emancipation of
the slave, no word of sympathy for the
millions who sigh night and day for deliver
ance, is willing to second a proposition that
any of his Southern masters may offer, and
vote for the appropriation of millions of the
public money, for the purpose of expatriating
free colored people, whose inalienable right
to remain and be the recipient of justice (even
should the lvghest evidences of enterprise
which the Tribune demands, should be want
ed, which, by he way, is altogether incom
patible with centuries of degradation and op
pression,) is more unquestionable than is the
most hoary-headed, rum-drinking, licentious,
pale-faced villains who clamor for their ex-
patriation. Tf '.he colored people of this
country have one foe more to be feared than
another, and against which a ceaseless war
fare should be waged, it may be seen in the
hellish features of the colonization movement.
Professing to be based on the principle of
philanthropy, it insinuates itself into the
hearts of the unsuspecting, that it may bias
their judgment and poison their minds, by
the mountain lie that thelawsof nature are in
opposition to the existence of the two classes
in harmony and concord in a common country.
But, in fact, the essence of their movement
the moving spring of their organization, can
be found in their deadly hate to the free col
ored people, and the desire to render slave
property more secure by removing the free
colored people from the couutry. That their
unjust policy may be carried out, they refuse
the colored people justice, in the land of their
birth. Ti.ey have no sympathy for the cru-
elties jperpetrajed against the slave, nor for
the outrage inflicted upoff the free colored
people.* They are willing to have them mob
bed, disfranchised and prosecuted, that they
may be able to sustain the monstrous false
hood, that such a state of things is in accord
ance with fixed laws, rather than protest
against them as the result of a sentiment ac
quired by a ceaseless repetition of wrong.
Yours for impartial justice,
Victor, June 27, 1850
Frienh Douglass :—There appears to me
to be a palpable inconsistency in our moral
percepticns, as well as in our legal distinc
tions, o' the different phases and circum
stances under which the. hellish abomination,
human slavery, presents itself. At this time,
all civilized governments, ours with the rest,
confess to consider the African slave trade as
one of the blackest of crimes, and punish it
with the heaviest penalties, when perpetrated
upon the benighted African on his own
shores, in a state of perfect barbarism, where
the ties of kindred affection can have but a
feeble existence, and whose physical circum
stances could hardly be considered worse
when torn from kindred and home, and
doomed to servitude, even among the half
civilized.
But we have a government capable of per
ceiving a broad difference between the slave
trade upon the two sides of the'Atlantic.
Cn the one side, we cannot purchase a
captive—even of a captive in whose hands
death might be his certain doom, but for our
buying him—and put him aboard a ship as a
slave, without violating one of the most sa
cred laws of Christendom, and incurring a
heavy penalty.
But we may go to our Capitol, and, under
eye and within the hearing of our rulers and
legislators, buy, even of our own rulers, a
human being, not in a state of barbarian ig
norance and savage customs, but a young
man or young woman of istelliger.ee and re
fined sensibilities, who may have a companion
and beloved children, to whom they may be
as much endeared as the purchaser to his wife
and children—tear him or her from an affec
tionate companion and loving children, who,
perhaps, are also to be separated from each
other, drag them away to a pen or a ship
•hold, for a Florida or Louisiana marker,
perhaps never more to behold his heart-broken
companion and bereaved children, or to know
their destination. I say all this can be and
often is done, under the sanction of our benign
laws, which secure equal rights to all!
I. W. PALMER.
Anti-Slavery in Missouri. —The Ben
ton war in Missouri appears to havo taken a
strong anti-slavery turn. The St. Louis
Union, which was recently recommended at
the St. Louis Benton county Convention as
the true Democratic organ of the State talks
in the folowing strain:
“And for what purpose is this sacrifice to
be made? Alas, we blush with shame to
say it, that the institution of slavery shall be
more firmly established. That is to say,
some 500,000 traffickers in human flesh and
blood threaten the perpetuity of this Union,
except they are permitted to have their own
way, and craven-hearted politicians succumb
to their demands, for .the sake, not of peace
and harmony, but of ephemeral popularity.
Come what will, we are opposed to such a
compromise; it is unrighteous —it is unwise—
it is impracticable.”
The great increase of the English race i n
America, living und?r the influence of insti
tutions which though republican, still bear
the impress of the English laws from which
they have derived their spirit and much of
their form, has, by all our liberal jurists,
statesmen, and philosophers, been deemed an
event fraught with beneficial consequences to
the whole great Anglo-Saxon family. It has
been thought that we should derive advan
tage from the varied experience to which our
race and their peculiar institutions would be
thus subjected,—that from America we might
receive useful lessons, while we, on the other
hand, might perhaps be able to reply this ob
ligation by beneficial suggestions to our
brethren, both with respect to their institu
tions, and their political and social relations
and conduct.' These suggestions, mutually
imparted, it has been thought would be useful
lessons which could not otherwise be learnt.
Now, there are two peculiarities in Ameri
can institutions, as compared with those of
England, which are daily producing effects
upon the general mind of America—which
to the people of America generally are evi
dently unknown, but which painfully affect
the mind of every class of Englishmen—and
we believe that by openly, but in a kind and
friendly spirit, expressing our opinions and
describing our feelings upon these subjects,
we are really rendering great and neighborly
service, not only to our Transatlantic breth
ren, but, to the whole commnnity of civilized
nations. The two-peculiarities gf which we
speak are slavery and the great and growing
weakness of the general-federal Government
of the United States. Both these causes
are at this moment producing startling effects
upon the social and national character of the
American people—essentially deteriorating
it in fact and lowering it also in the estima
tion, not, only of all thoughtful and right
minded men, but also of that general public
which is composed of the several nations
making together the civilized community of
mankind.
The effects produced by these apparently
unconnected causes have a remarkable and
combined affinity and similitude. The social
influence of the institution of slavery pro
duces a state of feeling among the various
classes of American citizens, which induces
them to seize upon the opportunity afforded,
them by the weakness of their national Gov
ernment to make aggressive inroads upon
neighboring nations. He who becomes ac
customed to brave the displeasure of mankind
upon one subject soon learns to be careless of
public opinion on others He who forgets
the great dictates of humanity, because of a
difference of color, will not long pay deference
to the rules of justice and light in his deal
ing with others who speak a different lan
guage, and form part of aforeign thouugh
friendly people. It behooves the statesmen
and philosophers of Ameiica to look well to
these consequences. If the evil continue,
the people of America will soon be like the
Ishmaelites of old—their hands will be against
every man, and the hands of every man will
be against them; and, great though they be
—powerful, wealthy, acute, and brave—the
right will prevail. The united civilized world,
battling for justice and humanity, will be in
vincible—and we may live to see the great
federal republic falling to pieces under the
combined influence of hostile aggression, in
ternal weakness resulting irom internal dis
cord, and the sense of injustice in the cause
they are sustaining.
On the present occasion, however, we de
sire in confine our attention and remarks to
the existing state of mind among the citizens
of the United States with respect to people
of color. Our general estimate of the Ameri
can national character and morality must be
formed upon a consideration of many differ
ent particulars. But we cannot avoid be
lieving that the circumstances to which we
are about to allude must form a most impor
tant item in the account. Little incidents
9Courrii*g in-Jprivate life otten afford evidence
respecting national habits and feeling far
more important and convincing than legisla
tive enactments. A paragraph extracted
from a New York newspaper into our
columns yesterday contains evidence which
is, in our own opinion, of this description.
For, although some of the southern States
have in their legislation respecting negroes
outraged every feeling of common sense,
common justice, and benevolence, the State
of New York has made laws on the subject
dictated as well by right feeling as by pru
dence and justice. These wise laws do not,
howeyer, really represent the sentiments of
the people of New York with respect to the
negroes*if the story told by the newspaper,
and the comments of the writer on it, fairly
M. W. GIBBS.
represent the popular creed and feeling. We
are convinced, from the tone of this story as
told by the indignant relator, that the public
to whom that story is addressed can have no
conception of the effect produced by it upon
the whole English people —not merely upon
Abolitionist writers and speakers—not mere
ly upon subscribers to the Anti-Slavery So
ciety—but upon every human being not
American in this country, man, woman, and
child, who may hear it read, and can under
stand its import. The effect will be one of
unbounded indignation, disgust, and astonish
ment.
Mr. Douglass, a negro gentleman, some
time since complained of the treatment he
had experienced from citizens of the United
States, because of his color. This proceed
ing on his part is thus described by an Ameri
can writer in the New York Globe:—“Fred
erick Douglass, the impudent “negro who
has of late taken on himself the privilege of
abusing our country, its patriots and consti
tution, without having that chastisement he
so richly merited at the hands of our Repub
licans, who would not condescend to notiee
his blasphemy and negroism, had the audacity
yesterday morning to walk down Broadway,
the principal promenade of our city, with
two white women resting on his arms.” It
however appears that, spite of the dreadful
and blashpemous conduct thus imputed to
Mr. Douglrss, the mildness and wonderful
self-control of the whole American popula
tion produced the marvellous effect above
described. The citizens, though deeply
moved, took no notice of. the blasphemy and
negroism. But there are limits to human
patience. Bad as may be the making a just
complaint by a negro against a white man,
black atrocity can go lurther, although white
imagination oan hardly, in American phrase,
realize the atrocity. What is this abomina
ble offence? Walking with two white wo
men down Broadway. The patience of the
citizens, their almost superhuman forbearance,
i at length gave way, and the mode of pro
ceeding consequent upon this venial succumb
ing of white virtue is eminently character
istic; and is, indeed, a touching evidence of
the delicacy and refinement of the high-mind
ed white man, even in the very fury and
paroxysm of his passion. “Several citizens
who noticed this disgraceful scene” (viz.,
of the quiet, unoffending negro, walking with
two white women, who willingly walked with
him) “followed the impudent scamp to the
Battery.” The negro was supposed to com
mit the additional offence of laughing; there
upon a white gentleman stepped up to the
white ladies, “and politely requested them to
retire, and leave their ebony companion, and
place themselves under the protection of a
(white) gentleman standing near by.” The
women obeyed, and the indignant and insulted
(white) gentleman (to us the person really
insulted was the black gentleman) adminis
tered a “d.essing” to the negro; so severe, it
appears, that he will not readily forget it.
“Maddened justice,” exclaims the white
editor, “forgets the dictates of law in a case
of this kind; and,personally, we see no rea
son why it should not.”
A few days since we published a letter, in
which an Englishman described a case of still
more atrocious wrong done to a poor respect
able negro, who was forcibly seized by a
band of armed men in the streets of Cincin
nati during bioad day, and carried off to a
slave State. This violence, though produc
ing to the individual more frightful evil than
From the London Times of June 14.
that of the insulted citizen of New York, is
less significant of the popular feeling. We
may suppose that the negro seized and carried
to Kentucky was a runaway, and the proper
ty of the person who pursued him, and that
the desire to obtain his property may have
incited the owner to this deed of violence.
But the feeling which led to the assault on
Mr Douglass was a geneial ungovernable
sense of insult pervading a whole population
at the sight of a negro man walking upon
equal and familiar terms with white women.
That the women were consenting to this in
timacy is clear; that their being so was, in
the opinion of the white gentlemen of New
York, no justification for Mr. Douglass, is
also evident; that such familiarity and equali
ty could lead to no dangerous or mischievous
consequences in the city or State of New
York, eveiy one must admit who knows the
relative numbers of the white and black popu
lation of the State. In fact, blind, unreason
ing antipathy, was the ca'use of the outrage,
and deemed by Americans a sufficient excuse
for it. We in England, who happily have
never been subjected to influences which
could lend us to a state of mind so unjust, or
likely to lead to acts thus flagrantly opposed
to the dictates of justice and benevolence, can
hardly find words that sufficiently expresss
our astonishment as well as sorrow on wit
nessing so strange a distortion of the moral
vision among a people justly celebrated for
their sagacity, and for the fervor of their
piety. We marvel indeed to see the dictates
of a religion which ihey as well as ourselves
belieye and obey utterly forgotten when this
wild and senseless antipathy into play;
and we arejrresistibly impelled to ask, what
command of morality or religon can be deem
ed sacred by these people, when those which
result from the first principles of their faith—
which are among the most imperative of
those enforced by their laws, and sanctioned
by the first precepts of their morality, are
thus scouted and contemptuously neglected
and opposed. The extraordinary increase of
the wealth, population, and territory of the
United Slates has raised her to the condition
of a first-rate Power among the nations of
the world. She has also suddenly become
smitten with a love.of conquest, and we have
now to learn whether she will allow’ this
passion to domineer over all sense of right—
whether, a lust of dominion,she will
forget the dictates of justice, law, and rea
son, or whether, in obedience to the advice of
the greatest of her sons, she will return to
the wise precepts of his peaceful policy, and
seek to be renowned for truth, wisdom,
honesty, and benevolence.
From the National Era.
The Black Law of South Carolina.
The subject of the imprisonment of colored
seamen in the port of Charleston has been
brought before the attention of the English
Government, by a recent suit, in the Thameg
Police Court, on the gart of the steward of a
British bark, for .his wages, paymert of
which the master of the bark refused, on the
ground that he had paid the expenses of the
steward for two months in the common jail at
Charleston. The master stated that the
steward, a respectable British subject, was
taken out of his vessel, by the constables of
Charleston, and dragged to the jail, from
whence he would have been sold as a slave
had not he (the master) paid SIOO expenses.
Lord Palmerston, on being questioned in
respeci to the matter in Parliament, stated
that, in 1747, her Majesty’s Government had
directed the British Minister at Washington
to remonstrate against the imprisonment of
British seamen, and the violation of the
Rritish flag, but that Mr. Buchanan had
verbally replied that the Federal Government
could not induce the Legislature, of Souih
Catolina to repeal the law, and if pressed on
the ground of the treaty of 1815, under which
all subjects and citizens of the two countries
were to be permitted freely to enter, freely
reside in, and freely quit the territories of
each, would be compelled to put an end to
that treaty, by giving the twelve months’
notice required for that purpose. His Lord
ship said that it had then been deemed unad
visable to press the matter to such an ex
tremity. The outrage was spoken 'of by the
member w’ho called Lord P.’s attention to it,
as “a scandalous violation of the principles
which regulated the intercourse of civilized
nations.” Lord Palmerston said that the law
grew out of the unfortunate institution of
slavery; and it was quite unnecessary for him
to express the opinion which all who heard
him must entertain with respect to it.
The matter will not, we think, end here.
A case similar to the one under consideration
was brought to the attention'of Lotd Aber
deen, when Foreign Minister; and, from the
correspondence which followed, it was under
stood that in future the personal freedom of
British subjects secured by the treaty of 1815
would be respected in American ports. In
the case of two colored British subjects from
the Bahamas, who were thus seized and im
prisoned some years ago, their jail fees not
being paid, they were sold as slaves. A
formal demand for them was made by the
British Government —one of them was found
and restored, the other could not be discov
ered.
The London Anti-Slavery Reporter of the
Ist ultimate calls upon the British press and
puhlic to demand from Government immediate
measures to prevent future outrages of this
kind. “We do not,” say the editors, “intend
that this case shall pass over lightly; it is too
important to be shuffled out o! sight, to suit
the convenience of any parties; and the ques
tion must receive a definitive'answer, whether
the colored population belonging to this coun
try and its various dependencies are to be
treated as felons and slaves in any ports of
the United States; and whether the British
Government is unable or unwilling to protect
them, when going thither on their lawful
business?”
As Massachusetts and the free States
generally have a stake in this controversy in
common with Great Britain, we shall look
with some degree of interest for its result.
J. G. W.
Letter from Gerrit Smith.
Who can help loving Gerrit Smith? In an
important sense it matters nothing whether
we agree with him in mere modes or meas
utes. We are free to acknowledge that here
in we differ; and we confess to an occasional
momentary alienation, by reason of the un
due severity of his language touching these
points of difference. But just reading the
letter which follows, all else is forgotten.
The spirit which dictated this belongs only to
a good man.—But it needs not this to estab
lish that fact. A personal acquaintance had
long since settled it beyond all'human contro
versy. His very looks—not a safe guide in
cases—are a sure index of the character both
of his mind and his heart.
We should want no better argument with
which to disarm his foes than to present the
man; not, perhaps, in public, on a subject of
all-absorbing interest in which the deepest
prejudices of men are stirred, though his
tone and temper even here are admirably; but
we would present him in private, in the so
cial circle, and every foe would at once be
converted to a friend.
Now when we hear professors of religion,
as occasionally we do, call Mr. Smith an in
fidel and a because, forsooth,
he has troubled some churches of the devil,
and because, failing to induce ministers of the
Gospel to follow their divine master and
“preach deliverance to the captive,” he has
essayed to do so himself on the Sabbath day,
we are strongly tempted to say to them what
now we will just whisper in their ears —Gen-
tlemen, God never gave you capacity to com
prehend the great subject which fills the
heart of Geriit Smith; we therefore place
your hostibility and your neglect to the account
ot ignorance. Or, addressing another class,
Gentlemen, your leligion is a hollow pre
tence; your “frames” are your sole depend
ence, while you refuse to “do justice and love
mercy.” —Portland Inquirer.
From the Liberty Party Paper.
The N. Y. Temperance Society, anp
Gerrit Smith
Gerrit Smith has withdrawn from the
IN. i. State lemperance Society. Below
is his letter to the treasurer thereof announ
cing the tact.—The cause of his doing so is
briefly this: He was chairman of the Busi
ness Committee, and reported the resolutions,
&c. Ihe following Resolution was the sec
ond of the series:
2J. Resolved, that it is a gross inconsisten
cy for the friends of temperance to belong to
political parties, which do not commit them
selves fully, openly, and heartily in their
newspapers, and meetings, and nominations,
to the doctrine that civil government is bound
to prohibit the sale of intoxicating drinks; and
Resolved further, That so Jong as they dobe
long to such parties, there is little probability
that civil government will permanently pro
urohibit such sale.
This resolution was smartly debated, and
very eloquently advocated by Mr. Smith. It
passed on the evening of the first day of the
session, and Mr. Smith returned to Peterboro.
Ihe Majority was decisive. On the next morn
ing, after Mr. Smith and others of his friends
had left, a motion was made by Abner Bates,
lreasurer of the Society, to revise and re
scind the above resolution. After a very
long debate, the resolution was rescinded,
and a substitute adopted.—The reasons given
for the rescisions of the Resolution,were, lhat
would implicate the society with the “Liber
ty Party;” for this reason, Mr. Smith the
next day, sends to Mr. Bates the following
letter, announcing his divorce 'from*#-"v>
Y. State Temperance Society:
Mr. Aimer Bates, Treasurer of N. Y.
State Temperance Society:
Dear Sir: —l learn this afternoon, that
the Society reconsidered and rescinded, yes
terday, the 2d in the series of Resolutions.,
which it had passed. I have no doubt that it
will be the gamer' thereby, on the score of
popularity, numbers and friends. Neverthe
less, is not the favor of Heaven, at the ex
pense at which it purchases these gains? I
cannot avoid the conclusion, that the Society
has made a bad bargain: an unprofitable ex
change.
When you asked for contributions, day be
fere yesterday, I gave my name for a hun
dred dollars. Enclosed is my draft for it.
This ends my connection with the Society.
I say not this with the least idea that the So
ciety will regret my withdiawal. No Soci
ety which studies to keep in the current of
the popular favor covets the membership of
one so odious as myself.
Respectfully vour friend,
GERRIT SMITH.
Peterboro, June 22, 1850
The Illinois Conference.
The Illinois Annual Conference closed its
session on Monday, May the 20th, having
convened, according to adjournment, on the
Wednesday previous.
The Conference, passed among others, the
following resolutions.
ON SLAVERY.
Resolved, Ist. That we are more than
ever convinced of the great evils of American
slavery, and are more than ever determined
to oppose i in all its forms, by the use of all
lawful means within* our reach, and in ali
places where it does now or where it may
hereafter exist.
Resolved, 2d, That it is our deliberate
opinion that all professed ministers of the
Gospel, who refuse or neglect to plead the
cause of God’s suffering poor, are not the
ministers of Jesus Chiist; and those churches
that allow their members to hold, or buy, or
sell men, women, or children, without re
buke, are not the churches of Jesus Christ,
and without information cannot, inherit the
kingdom of God.
Resolved, 3d, That should the bill of Mr.
Mason in the House of Representatives, vir
tually constituting ali United State’s officers
in the Free States, the aids, abettors, and
bloodhounds of Southern slaveholders and
kidnappers, in seizing their human prey; or
should any other bill of similar import, re
ceive the sanction of our National Legisla
tute, requiring Northern Freemen to become
the allies of the slave power, in enslaving
those who have quietly departed from the
Southern prison-house, we will consider such
enactment, a high-handed usurpation of
power, and a daring effort to nullify the Stat
ute of the Most High, and consequently null
and void from the beginning.—True Wesleyan.
Mr. Webster—The friends
It will be remembeied that Mr. Webster
asserted in his letter to his Newburyport
“Retainers,” that the Friends concurred with
him in his course concerning fugitive slaves,
and other matters touching the slavery ques
tiou. Every man of common intelligence
knew that the statement was false, in every
sense of the word. The Friends’ Weekly
Intelligencer of Philadelphia, empathaticallv
denies the statement, and disavows for the
Friends of Pennsylvania, any support of that
denomination of the views and opinions of
Mr. Webster. Mr. Whittier also denies Mr.
Webster’s assertion. He says:
“Now, we undertake to say that there is
not a member of the Society of Friends, in
free or slave States, who, whether acting as
a magistrate or a citizen, could carry out the
provisions of this most atrocious bill, without
rendering-himself liable to immediate expul
sion from a Society whose character would
be disgraced, and whose discipline would be
violated, by such action. It has been, in
times past, the misfortune of the Society of
Friends to be vilified, caricatured, and mis
represented. but we remember nothing, even
in the old days of persecution, so hand to bear
as the compliments of the Massachusetts
Senator. Whatever his “authority” may
have been, we do not hesitate to pronounce
it unqualifiedly false to the last degree.”—
Ernan. Republican.
Amalgamation.—A bill has been intro
duced into the Connecticut Legislature, pro
viding for the fine or impiisonment of clergy
men and magistrates, who shall unite white
with colored persons in matrimony. Ex
change paper.
There must be a terrible tendency to amal
gamation in Connecticut, of course, to pro
voke such a law. There must be a growing
and visible affetion between ihe two races. And
yet we don’t know that the magistrate or
minister may interfere, even if the law re
quires it.—“ What God hath joined, let not
man put assunder.” The Yankees will have
to put up with the evil, any way they can fix
it. We don’t think the Legislature has a
right to make laws to “prevent manage,” or
“impair the obligation of contracts.” —Liberty
Party Paper.
Freedom of the Press in Virginia. —ln
October last, we published a Review of W.
A. Smith’s pro-slavery address, by S. M
Jannev, for which he was presented by the
Grand Jury, on the pretence “that it was
calculated to incite colored persons to make
insurrection and rebellion.” That present
ment not being sustained by the Court, an
other was made in November, charging him
with maintaining the doctrine- that masters
had no right of property in their-slaves.”—
This presentment has also been quashed by
the Court in the present month, and we shall
give next week S. M. Janney’s defence sub
mitted to the Court. —National Era.
IO 3 Foote of Mississippi stated in the U.
S. Senate the other day that he would never
“think” of supporting the Clay Compromise
“were he not satisfied that slavery could and
would be extended into New Mexico under its
provisions.” Such is the position of every
Southern man who supports it. —John P.
Hale and other opponents of that miserable
concoction of slaveholders, as favoring the
extension of Slavery. Can baseness go far
ther?—lndependent Democrat
From the National Anti-Slavery Staudard.
Fugitive Slave Case.
The Journal of Commerce copies the fol
lowing report of a recent trial from the
Indiana State Journal of the 15th instant.
Announcing it with a triumphant declaration
of ‘The Constitution and Laws Vindicated.’
The decision, it will be seen, was based
upon that in the Prigg case, which establish
ed the monstrous doctrine that Slave law is
the paramount law all over the United States,
that the slaveholder has, under the Constitu
tion, the right to seize his fugitive slave
wherevei he can find him, and that he need
not unless he choose, give any evidence that
the man so seized is a slave, and if he does
choose to give such evidence his own oath to
the fact is sufficient. This is law in this Re
public and it exceeds in its tyrannical spirit
any claim ever yet set up in the worst of des
potisms in any age, for it leaves utterly un
protected—so far as the law is concerned—
the personal liberty of the citizen, and the
unknown and the humble may, at any time,
no matter what the hue of their complexion,
be claimed as slaves, and reduced without the
hope or possibility of redemption to the con
dition of slaves for life. It is this state of
things for which the Journal of Commerce is
striving, and for which Mr. \Vebster ‘retain
ers’ all over the country are thanking him for
aiding to produce:
Important decision.—The suit of John
Norris, of Broome county, Kentucky, vs.
Leander B Newton, E. B. Crocker, and
seven others, for the recovery of damages
for aiding and abetting the escape of slaves,
after more than a week’s investigation before!
the circuit court of the United States, was
determined on Wednesday last in favor of
the plaintiff. A verdict of two thousand eight
hundred and fifty-six dollars was given by the
jury against the defendants, as the value of
the slaves and other damages.
The Suit has elicited considerable interest,
and was decided mainly under a decision of
the Supreme Court of the United States in
the case of Prigg, where the court takes the
ground that the owner of a slave has the right,
under the constitution and act of Congress,
to capture his property in a free State, and
take it thence without going before a State
court and obtaining a certificate.
On this trial it was proved that four ne
groes, claimed by Norris, were captured in
the State of Michigan. They had absconded
from their master, in Boone county,Kentucky,
in Octobet, 1846. That he immediately,
on the next morning after their escape,
went in pursuit of them. He proved by two
or three witnesses that he was their owner,
and had been for a number of years. After
searching for his negroes between one and
two months, he abandoned the pursuit. He
traced them as far as Laurel, in Franklin
county, but could then obtain no further in
formation as to the rout they had taken. Last
fall he received information that they had fled
to Michigan, and settled in a neighborhood in
Cass county, where it is estimated by wit
nesses that about one thousand negroes re
side. He took some five or six persons with
him, and, in the night, captured his negroes
in Michigan, and immediately proceded on
his journey homeward to Kentucky. After i
passing through South Bend, and at a dis-
tance of axnile and a half from the town,
Norris and his party stoped on the roadside
for refreshments. While there a party came
from South Bend, accompanied by the dep ity
sheriff of the county, and make an arrest,
under a writ of habeas corpus. Norris and
his party returned with the negroes to South
Bend, and trial was had before the judge of
the probate court of St. Joseph county. Nor
ris made a return on the writ of habeas cor
pus, under oath, stating that the negroes
were his property, and that he was taking
them to tiia residence in Boone county,
whence they had escaped. The truth of
theis return was admitted by Crocker, who
appeared in behalf of the negres, but who
fiiad a demurrer, claiming the liberation of the
on the ground that they had been
captured in Michigan, and there was no cer
tificate of the sight, ofownership having been
proved in that State, The judge, deciding
that this was necessary,liberated the negroes.
Norris, anticipating thisdecisionhad procured
a writ to take the negroes, from the clerk of
the circuit court, and as soon as the decision
was pronounced, attempted to take them,
when a scene of great confusion ensued.
The Kentucky party were armed with pistols
and bowie-knives, and the crowd wiih canes
and clubs. After considerable excitement,
the negroes were taken to the jail of the
county, by the sheriff for safe keeping.
.Several criminal suits were then instituted
against the Kentucky party, which, it was
alledged by the plaintiff’s counsel, were for
the purpose of aiding in the ultimate rescue
of the negroes. The negroes were demand
ed of the Sheriff by Norris; but he was re
fused possession, as, in the mean time, a
second writ of habeas corpus had been issued,
on which the negroes were, in the end, dis
charged. Norris not appearing on the second
trial. The first trial was had on Friday after
noon, and the negroes were finally liberated
on the next Monday morning. During the
time intervening it was in evidence that from
seventy-five to two hundred negroes, from
Michigan were present in South Bend, armed
with guns and clubs, and a number of them
finally escorted the negroes out of town, when
they were discharged.
Judge McLean, in giving his charge to the
jury, said that the decision ofThe judge on
the first trial, on the writ of corpus,
was incorrect, under a decisidff of the Su
preme Court of the United States, in the case
above referred to; that the writ of habeas
corpus was proper, and was at all times allow
able; but the question under it in this case
was the right of ownership. That being ad
mitted, the slaves should have been remand
ed into the custody of Norris. The judge
said he had dissented from this decision of the
Supreme Court of the United States when it
was given; but he was now bound to carry
it out. On the part of the defence, a plea
was set up that Norris had given his negroes
liberty to come across the river at the time of
their escape; but this was not proven to the
satisfaction of the jury. Had this been the
case, Norrie could not have the advantage of
the act of Congress and the decision of the
Supreme Court in their capture.
Messrs. Liston and Smith acquitted them
selves with much credit on the part of the
plaintiff, and Messrs. Jernegan and Marshall
made a most able defence. Mr. Smith spoke
between six and seven hours [in the closing
speech.
Under this decison we can see no reasons
why the citizens of the South should com
plain of injustice being done them while in
pursuit of their fugitive slaves, at least so
far as Indiana is concerned. The law, as it
exists, will soon be understood, under a few
more, decisions liki the present, and all future
difficulty will he avoided. We have no boubt
that much of the excitement was occasioned,
on the part of many of the citizens ol South
Bend, in consequence of either misapprehend
ing the true nature of the case, or the law
under which they weie acting. All citizens,
occording to the decision of the judge, are
bound to know rhe law, and great pains will
hereafter no doubt be taken not to become
involved in difficulties like the present. The
cost of the present suit, in addition to the
damages awarded, will be very great.
A motion has been made by the defendants’
counsel for a new trial an arrest of judg
ment.
A Flying Machine.—The following cu
rious advertisement lately appeared in the
London Times:
“Rescue of Sir John Franklin;—To the
rich and chivalrous. A gentleman, whose
claims to common sense, respectability, and
talents, are corroborated by university dis
tinctions, honorary medals, and woiks of art
and literature, offers to construct for .£BOOO,
and in three months; a flying machine, able
to travel in the air at the rate af 100 miles
per hour. The expense of an experimental
trip would be j£3oo and one month’s time,”
Free Soil Meetings.
A meeting, reported as large and enthusias
tic'was lately held in Pittsburgh, to give ut
terance to the opinion of the People in favor
of the unconditional admission of California,
and against any extension ofslavery. James
Robb presided. The meeting was eloquent
ly addressed by George Mason and Dr. F.
J• Le Moyne. The Committee, through
their Chairman, John A. Wills, reported a
series of very spirited resolutions, which
were adopted. We subjoin a few of them:
“Resolved, that when we see the wheels
of the General Government arrested by the
pro-slavery propagandists of the South—
California refused admission into the Union—
dissolution of the Union threatened on the floor
of Congress—then we see traitors in the
ranks of both the great political parties of
the country hatching delusive projects of
compromise, whieh, while they give nothtng
substantial to the cause ot Freedom, surren
der everything to slavery—and when we
know that slavery is bounded by no lines of
physical geography, and that it has been and
is now profitably employed in mining as'in
other branches of industry, we are not to be
deluded by the deceptive suggestion that the
Wilmot Proviso is unnecessary—that slavery
will never enter the new Territories—that
the South is merely contending for an abstract
right which it has no disposition to exercise
and that therefore, in the spirit of compro
mise, we should forbear the exercise of a
well-established constitutional right.
“Resolved, That a crisis in the fate of the
Whig and Democrat parties at the North
has at length arrived, when they must either
dissolve their alliance with the Slave Power,
or the laboring men of the country, as sensi
ble men, seeking to piomote their own inter
ests, not less than to advance the great cause
of humanity, will be obliged to withdraw
from all political connection with them.”
In Syracuse: New York, the citizens, with
out distinction of party lately assembled in
town meeting. The Mayor, assisted by eight
Vice Presidents, presided. The Albany ’At
las says of it—
“The meeting held at Syracuse on Tues
day evening to speak on behalfof the admis
sion of California as a single question,
resented to have been one of the largest and
most exciting ever held in that city. The
officers were among the most intelligent and
influential citizens, and the meeting was al
most entirely composed of ihat poition of
that community—men who think and reason
and do not fear to speak.
“We call attention to the preamble and
resolutions, and to the character of the body
from which they emanate. They speak the
language of the men of all parties— the ex
pression of the unanimous sentiment of a
community which, in the centre of the State,
surroundedjby a large agricultural population,
remote from all influences of interest or pas
sion which might pervert soberjudgement on
this subject, may be taken as a fair type and
representative of the best portion of the peo
ple of the Northern States. They demand
that legislation shall return to its accustomed
channels, and that demagogues shall cease to
obstruct it. They demand the admission of
California, and reject the idea of coupling its
destiny with other questions. They declare
that in view of the aggressions and menaces
of the Slave Power, they ‘feel called upon to
declare their uncompromising hostility to the
passage of any laws which shall not contain a
provision forever forbidding the extension of
slavery therein.”
A public meeting, without distinction of
party, was lately held in Montgomery county
Pennsylvania. Joshua Place presided, James
Jacobs was appointed Secretary. The
meeting passed unanimous resolutions, armum
them the following:
“Resolved, Ihat the representative, of
whatever grade, who proves false to his God
and his country in the hour of peril and time
of need, upon the great question of human
freedom, will be a libel upon the name of
man, and the Benedict Arnold of the age.
“Resolved, that we feel deeply grateful to
freedom’s noble representatives, for their
manly, dignified, and heroic efforts to pre
serve inviolate the glorious sentiments of the
Declaration of Independence, and to maintain
unsullied the honor and integrity of our coun
try. The admiration of the present age awaits
them; the blessings of the future will keep
their memories green in the hearts of its
children.
Resolved; That California having com
plied with the terms prescribed by the Con
stitution, it is the duty of Congress to imme
diately provide for her admission with her
present boundaries, separated from all other
questions.”— National Era.
New Mexico a Free State.—-While the
American Congress has been wrangling about
California and New Mexico, the people of the
latter, following the example of the former,
have met in convention through their chosen
delegates, formed a Republican Constitution,
ratified it at the ballot box.* elected a State
Legislature, and have doubtless, ere this,
elected Senators and Representatives to Con
gress who will soon claim their seats at
Washington, and ask for the admission into
the Union of another Free and Sovereign
State, literally “born in a day.”
How striking do passing events illustrate
the sagacity and wisdom of the course of pol
icy pursued and recommended by Gen. Tay
lor touching the Territories acquired from
Mexico. In his Message to Congress of Jan.
21st, he briefly states the condition in which
he found California and New Mexico on com
ing into office, that he had sent certain offi
cers to those ‘err.tories charging with duties
particularly defined in lettets accompanying
the Message.— Dem.
Copper Mines on Lake Superior.—The
Montreal Pilot of the 6th says: Accounts
from the Sault state that the difficulty be
tween the Indians and the Quebec Mining
Company has been settled, and that a large
force of miners had arrived there. The agent
for the Quebec Mines arrived there lately
with a large number of men and miners on
his way to Point aux Mines, of Mica Bay, to
commence operations again, on the old
ground from which this company were driven
off.lasi Fall by the Indians. The Indian dif
ficulties have jbeen settled and the company
intended to drive their works with vigor.
The British soldiers that went up last Fall
to protect the miners of the Quebec mines
from further attack, are garrisoned at the
Hudson’s Bay Company’s post, on the oppo
site side of the river, where they had been
during the Winter, and it is said that a per
manent garrison will be located there.
IT? This year our Annual Fair, in honor
of the birth-day of John Howard, will be held
in Worcester, Mass. The plan will be, to
hold a meeting for two days, and to sell what
ever articles the friends may send in. On the
first day, in the afternoon, Sept. 2d, there
will be a festival for children, consisting of
songs and dances On that evening, there
will be addresses on the character of Howard
and his labors. We trust there will be a
general gathering of the friends of prison re
form, and that something may be accomplished
for the cause. Editors friendly to the object,
will please notice this meeting as early as
possible.— Pris. Friend.
]E? Rev. Henry Ward Beecher has not
preached for the last three Sundays, in his
Church, in consequence of illness. He is at
present in a fair way of recoyery, and will
probably soon return from Hartford, Conn,
where he is at present sojourning for the ben
efit of his health.— N Y. Tribune.
IE? What do you" think of all this?’
asked a man of his friend at the unrolling of
the mummy. “I think it must have been
rather binding at the time,” was the reply,
and reminds me of the mysterious rapping
of the present day.”— Boston Post.
Col. Benton’s Speech.
We publish to-day the c’osing portion of
Col. Benton’s great speech against the Com
promise bill. We would gladly give our
readers the whole of it. Want of room,
however, must be our apology for omitting
the first part. That which we publish re,
lates mainly to the question of slavery as af
fected by the Compromise; and a most com
plete dissection of that bill of abominations it
is. Full of that massiveness of thought and
that accuracy of historical and geographical
information, which distinguish the speeches
of the Missouri Senator abovfl his cotempora
ries, it will long live among the ablest, spi
ciest and most unswearable oratorical efforts
of the present age. Its blows fall upon Clay
and ilia Committee of Thirteen with a pon
derous power that is absolutely annihilating.
It shows the scheme to be a violation of all
parliamentary practice, illegal and unconsti
tutional-
The most valuable part of the speech,
however, is the part we publish, relating to
the Texas boundary and slavery. Mr. Ben
ton shows conclusively that the Compromise
bill actually surrenders 70,000 square miles
of the free territory of New Mexico to slave
ry. That is if gives up, a territory larger
than all ihe New England States to Texas,
and at the same time pays our sable sister of
the “lone star,” ten or twelve millions for
condescending to accept the gift! This is a
direct and positive extension ofslavery.
This, then, is the Compromise—the di
rect surrender to slavery to free territory lar
ger than New England—the payment often
or twelve millions to speculators in Texas
bonds—the virtual abolition of freedom in the
rest of New Mexico and Utah—the making
ot all the free States hunting grounds for the
slave-catchers the keeping California out
of the Union till all these schemes are per
fected. And this is the Grand Panacea
which is to still forever the tempest of agita
tion, and “settle” the great question of the
age! So it 3 concoctors tell ns and the coun
try. So apparently they believe.
No, Messrs Compromisers; we tell you
the thing can never be done by any such
means. The spirit of freedom and inquiry
that is envoked, can be laid by no such bas
tard specific. The eyes of of the people are
upon you. Their words have gone to you
and will go again, in tones that shall rever
berate from the Atlantic to the Pacific. The
vast question which now shakes this repub
lic cannot be “settled” by any action of any
men in Congress or out, unless it be in a way
which secures the free territory of the na
tion against the curse of human bondage.
Your compromise may pass, but instead*of
“settling,’ it will excite the sea of agitation
to a tempest, whose fury shall bury you
and your “agreement with hell” together.
But on this point, of the tendency of this
bill now before ihe Senate, and now sought
to be endorsed by the freemen of New
Hampshire, we ask every honest man to read
carefully the remarks of the Missouri Senator.
They ate the words of a man who knows
wkereof he speaks—who has lived his whole
life long in the midst of slavery—he is him
self a slaveholder, but still a haier of the
system whose evils no one better understands.
We ask the people of New Hampshire to
mark the men from the free States, who de
sert the noble standard of Old Bullion to fol
low the black slavery banner of CJay and
Webster and Foote.
Sons of Temperance. The National Divi
sion of the Sons of Tempgrance held its
seventeenth Annual Session at Cochituate
Hall, Boston, last week. In connexion with
it was a Grand Temperance Jubilee, which is
represented to have been a great affair. Pro
cessions were formed, of subordinate divi
sions from all parts of the country, carrying
flags bearing various devices, mottos, &c.,
emblematical of the cause and the occasion.
Addresses were made by Gen. Cary, Rev.
John Pierpont, Philip S. White, Charles
Jewett and others, whose illustrations, inci
dents and general remarks, says the Wash
ington, were of the most eloquent and pow
ful character.
We regret to add that the National Divi
sion on Thursday, before adjourning, passed
a vote that the future admission of colored
persons to the order is “improper and illegal.”
Such a vote is a disgrace to the Order and to
the age. If the object of that organization
is, as it claims to be, purely reformatory,
what justification can we offered for such a
vote? Are not “colored persons” men? Andit
men, are they not proper subjects of refor
mation? We repeat; the vote is disgraceful
to the Order and an insult to every principle
upon which it professes to be founded.
Negro Insurrecton ary Movements in
Virginia.—A correspondent of the Rich
mond Times, of the 13th'inst., says:—
'“Great excitement prevailes in Monroe
county at present, in consequence of the dis
covery of a contemplated servile insurrection
on the part of the negroes. It appears that
free negroes and slaves are alike implicated
in the plot. Last Saturday night had been
fixed upon as the time for commencing the
work of destruction; but the diabolical plot
was revealed on Saturday evening. Active
steps were at once taken to frustrate the plan
ef the insurgents. The county was fortunate*
ly visited by a thunder storm on Taturday
night, accompanied by a deluge of rain, which
no doubt had the affect of assisting to frus
trate the horrible designs of the plotters. On
Saturday, the sth inst., the citizens succeed
ed in arresting twelve or fifteen of the ring
leaders. They have been committed to the
county jail for examination, and I have no
doubt you will be apprised of all the particu
lars after the trial.
American Treatment of English Col
ored Seamen.— To the Editor of the Morn
ing Chronicle. —Sir: In the discussion now
going on respecting the conduct of South
Carolina towards colored seamen in the Brit
ish service, neither in Parliament nor out of
it has the worst feature of the American law
been noticed. If Captain Waddington, of
the Mary Ann, instead of paying the goal
fees for his colored steward, had sailed from
Charleston, leaving Bowers in prison, that
poor fellow, though a black subject of the
Queen of England, would have been put up
on the auction-block, sold as-as a slave, his
“blood-money” placed in the coffers of the
State of South Carolina, and himself sent to
pass the remainder of his days in the cotton
plantations or the rice swamps of the far South
I am, sir, your obedient servant, J. B. Est
lin —47, Park street, Bristol, April 30,1850.
Barbarity of Slave Laws.—We no
ticed a paragraph several days since, which
stated that while under the torture, a negro
nurse had confessed to the murder of a Mrs.
Allen, near St Louis, and implicated a negro
in the outrage. Both were lynched immedi
ately, and hung. It now appears that Mrs.
Allen is not dead, but likely to recover; and
that the person implicated by a slave nurse
was a white man. So that, contrary to law,
the testimony of a slave, while under the tor
ture, was received, and made the basis of two
executions for an assault which has not
proved fatal. All. Eve. Jour.
Suicide of a Slave.—Just before the
arrival of the mail boat yesterday, a colored
man was discovered on board under circum
stances which induced the Captain to believe
that he was a runaway slave. Upon ques
tioning him the captain became confirmed in
his suspicious, and had him conveyed across
the river in the yawl to Kentucky to be
lodged in jail, until the owner should be
found. Before the hands could make fast
the boat to the Covington wharf, the negro,
after declaring that he would die sooner than
return to his master, jumped from the stern
of the yawl, and was drowned. All effoite
to rescue him proved unavailing.— Cincinnati
Commercial.
Steamboat Burned—Over Two Hundred
Lives Lost.
The fine steamer Griffith, Capt. Roby,
while on the way up the Lake, took fire about
5 o’clock this morning, when about twenty
miles from Cleveland, and was burned to the
water’s edge.
The mate, who swam ashore from the
burning boat for help, has reached Cleveland,
and reports that only thirty of those on board
were saved, and these had to swim ashore,
there being no other vessel near to render
assistance.
Capt. Roby, with his wife and child are
among the lost. It is reported that there
were from 200 to 300 persons on board, most
of whom were emigrants on their way to the
West.
If this is a correct estimate, the number of
the lost may probably exceed two hundred.—
lhe scenes on the burning wreck are de
scribed as having been agonizing in the ex
treme. It is impossible, as yet, to ascertain
the cause of the disaster, or to give any fur
ther particulars. This is the greatest cala
mity that has occurred on Lake Erie since the
destruction of the steamer Erie, some years
ago.—S. Visitor.
Organized Band of Robbers on the
Overhand Route to California. —A tetter,
dated Durango, Mexico, May 7, furnishes
some information relative to a regularly or
ganized band of robbers on the overland route
to California through Mexico. It says:
There are many Indians on the road be
tween Saltillo and this place. They have
commmitted a great many depredations lately
on small parties of Californians, and also on
the Mexicans living on the road, but we were
unmolested by* them, although we saw
several strong band but a short distance from
us, all mounted and ready to attack us. There
is a large party of robbers between this place
end Mazatlan—the same one that the Gov
ernor of Durango hiied some six weeks ago
to go out tn fight the Indians, and furnished
them with fine horses, arms, ammunition,
&c. The first thing they did was to rob the
Government of a large cahallado of mules,
loaded with different kinds of produce and
some specie, which was intended to pay off
the Mexican army.
After this robbery they took to the moun
tains, where they have been murdering and
robbing the travelers passing between Mazal
lan and this place. About six days ago they
murdered two Americans, and took from
them over $40,000 is gold. Some of the
party who were robbed escaped, and arrived
at this place three days since. Two of the
robbers were arrested in this place, and are
now in prison awaiting their trial. This band
of robbers, I learn, are Texans, and were
originally 32 strong, but*have since recruited
to the number of 75 or more. The Governor
says they are better mounted and equipped
than any who have passed through Mexico.
—He has 1,800 soldiers at his command,
and is afraid to send them in the mountsins
after the robbers, for he says that, from the
position they occupy they could kill every one
of his soldiers without their effecting any
thing.
Music on the Pacific.—No one can be
in Monterey a single night, without bein°-
startled and awed by the deep, solemn
crashes of the surf as it breaks along the
shore. There is no continuous roar of the
waves, as we hear of the Atlantic sea-board;
the slow, regular swells—quick pulsations of
the great Pacific’s heart—roll inward in un
broken lines, and fall with single grand
crashes with intervals of dead sdence be
tween. They may be heard through the
day, it one listnes, like a solemn undertone
to all the shallow noises of the town: but at
midnight, when all else are still, those suc
cessive shocks fall upon the ear with a sensa
tion of inexpressible solemnity. All the
air, from the fine forests to the sea, is filled
with a light tremor, and the intermitting beats
of sound are strong enough to jar a delicate
ear. Their constant repetition at least pro
duces a feeling something like terror. A
spirit worn and weakened by some scathing
sorrow, could scarcely beat the reverberation
Taylor's California.
Poverty —Poverty, says Douglas Jerrold,
is a bitter draught, but mav, and sometimes
with advantage, be gulped down. Though
the drinker makes wry faces, there may, after
all, be wholesome goodness in the cup. But
debt, however courteously it be offered, is the
cup of a siren, and the wine, spiced and de
licious though it be, is an eating poison. The
man out of debt, though with a flaw in his
jerkin, a crack in his shoe leather, and hole
in his hat, is still the son of liberty, tree as
the singing krk above him; but the debtor,
though clothed in the utmost bravery, what
is'he but a serf upon a holiday—a slave, to
be reclaimed at any instant by his owner, the
creditor? My son, if poor, see wine in the
running spring; let thy mouth water at the
last week’s roll; think a threadbare coat the
“only wear;” and acknowledge a white
washed garret the fittest housing place for a
gentleman; do this, and flee debt. So shall
thy heart be at peace, and the sheriff be con
founded,
‘Where’s Dan Webster?’—At one of
the apothecaries’ stores at the West End, the
other day, a colored woman, who was a fugi
tive from slavery, entered, and rolling up the
white of her eyes, inquired: ‘Hab you de
paper?’ The clerk replied in the negative.
After pausing a few momenss, and staring
about as if expecting somebody to be after
her, she said, ‘Where is Dan Webster?’
‘What do you want to know that for?’ in
quired the attendant. ‘Dey hab tell me dat
he come to Boston to ketch fugitive slabe,
and carry him hack to slabery’ gin, and l’s
not slept for two weeks. I hab been tinking
’bout leabing town, and going into country;
what you think about it?’ After explaining
the matter fully, and convincing her that it
was a hoax had played upon her,
she left, believing that she would he as well
off in the city as in the country.— New Eng
lander. c. h. c.
I. B. Burbbayge’s Intellience Office and
General Agency-ten years established.—Want
ed, daily and for hire—Males and Fe
males in the city, country, on steam-boats,
to travel, &c.
Wanted and Agencies brought about, in
the line of Farms, Houses, Lots, Negrees,
Moneys, Steam-Boat, Stock, Bars, &c.
11? Postpaid letters with one dollar on
any business will receive a return answer.
IE? Office is at No. 52 Vine street, be
tween Second and Third. Address or apply
to I. B. Burbbayge, General Agent and Pro
prietor, St. Louis, Mo,
Slave Suit.—John Norris, of Boone
county, Ky., recovered a judgement of
S2BOO last week, in the U. S. Circuit Court
at Indianapolis, against Newlan, Crocker
and others, for slaves which it was alleged
they had abducted from Norris, at South
Bend, Ky. Norris had followed his negroes
to that place, and had them again in his pos
session, when they were taken from him by
force. The costs of the suit are apout S2OOO,
which added to the damages, makes S4BOO.
IE?Good! The New Englander says—
‘A section of colored boys brought up the
rear of the Cadets. Its banner was, ‘Wash
ington section Boston.’ This section looked
not a whit inferior to any that preceded it,
and in all that constituted neatness, good be
havior and promptness to the arrangements
of tl?& day, they were a pattern to many old
er and more experienced bodies.’
IE? D’lsraeli (according to Punch) says
Lord John Russell has the soul of an old
carpet: he doesn’t mind how often he is
beaten if he only occupies the floor of the
House of Commons.
French and Engitsh Policemen.—The
LngJisnman is ashconic as an elective tele
giaph s message. The Frenchman is as
lengthy ar.d as pompous as an American
President’s Message. Observe the difference
in the two following expressive examples:—
The English Policeman says, briefly and
sharply, “Move on there,”
The French Policeman takes off his hat
and says in the blandest manner, Messieurs
ilfaut queje vous prie de ne pas empeecher la
circulation.”
Buffalo, June 17.
Ihe above polite little order, or entreaty,
rather, will be found in Paris correspondence
of the Times on the occassionof the late Tree
of Liberty riofs. The infuriated mob took off
their hats, bowed and instantly retired.
Liberia.— We have received the following
through the politeness of Capt. Canfield, of
the schooner D. C. Foster, which arrived
yesterday morning from the coast of Africa.—
Tribune.
Monrovia, May 15.
The Colony of Liberia is perfectly healthy
and in a ptosperous condition. No slavers
had been taken on the coast for some time.—
The health of the American squadron at that
station is very good. The D. C. Foster was
boarded by H. M. brig Wolverine, and detain
ed some time under suspicion of being a sla
ver, but was released after a thorough search
had been made by the officers and crew.
The Debt of Nature. —No Englishman
dies exactly poor, for he leave his share in
the National‘jfl'ibt to liis children.— Funch.
Aurora and other Poems. By Mrs. H. R
Sandbach. London: 'V iliiam Pickering, 1850
I he materials for the inward history of this cen
tury will lie in completely arranged, till some one,
with a refined appreciation of the poetry of the af
fections, hts compiled an anthology out of the lyrics
scattered up and down in the many volumes pub
lished every year by our minor poets and poetesses,
and in the columns of magazines, like Blackwood’s
'and Tait’s which save from oblivion mfny grace
ful and some profound utterances. One or two of
the flowers in such a wreath might fitly be tak'm
from the I'ttle book of poems before us, marked as
it is by a spiritual tenderness, and purity of thought
and style, which many of our readers are accus
tomed to associate with the influences of those
“shades of Aderton,” to which its authoress refers
in her tasteful dedication to Gibson. The follow
ing, for instance, is true poetry:
“Dulcibel is singing low,
And her steps are soft and slow;
Softly, carefully they go,
Voice and step together.
Offlier brow the shining hair
Is thrown away; and pale and fair,
Parted locks, and forehead bare,
Woo the wind and weather.
Little gems like this ought not to be lost, but we
cannot suppress a wish that some of our authors
and authoresess would be their own anthologers.
Now, Mrs. Sandbach has published several vol
umes of poetry at different times. If she would go
on composing through along course of years and
then publish a selection, without caring to make
her volume of any given size we think she would
enlarge her circle of readers. Tennyson stands at
the head of such writers, and is a pre-eminent in
stance of the attainment of a place among great po
ets, without the production of any large poem on
which his fame can rest. Even his works might,
perhaps, bear curtailment.
boston: a walk and talk
ABOUT IT—ELIHU BURRITT.
“Our Country is the world; our countrymen are
all mankind.”— Anon.
A short time ago the friends of peace
called a meeting at the Park street
church for the purpose of appoint
ing delegates to attend the World’s
Convention on the banks of the Rhyne.
In consequence of the inclemency of
the weather, and the un-business like
manner in which the meeting was ad
vertised, there were but few persons
present but the distinguished gentle
men who were called upon to address
that audience might have consoled
themselves with the reflection that
what their assembly lucked in num
ber it made up in talent, learning, in
fluence and moral worth. Gov. Briggs
occupied the chair; the venerable Dr.
Sharp invoked the Divine blessing
Rev. A. E.Stone delivered an able and
interesting address, and was followed
by the Hon. Amasa Walker and oth
ers.
The chief object of attraction at this
meeting was Elihu Burritt, the “learn
ed blacksmith.” He sat on the first
seat opposite the pulpit, witn his hack
towards the audience, his head rest
ing on his hand, and his eyes clos
most of the time during the delivery of
the speeches. Thomas Drew,'Jr.,
immortalized as Burritt’s blower and
striker” at the forge hot anvil of re
form, was busy with pensil and paper
in one of the side pews. The hearers
waited peaceably but impatiently for
Mr. Burritt to take the rostrum, and
when it was announced that he would
speak, every countenanpe became ra
diant with joyful anticipation. Mr.
Burritt arose in a quiet, unpretending
manner, and modestly responded to
the invitation to speak. He stood on
the top-stair of the pulpit, and at first
seemed to shirink hack bashfully from
the gaze of the upturned faces be
fore him. Although he is no coward, I
have no doubt his heart beat as though
it would batter a breach through its
tenement when he first unsealed his
lips in the presence of that assembly.
In fact, the contour of his face, and the
tones of his voice are the tell-tales
which publish lack of self conceit.
Mr. Burritt is now in the meridian of
his manhood, but his premature bald
ness is his apology for wearing a wig.
He has a towering forehead, but,
owing to the large development of the
perceptive faculties, it appears to re
treat in the region of causality, whilst
in reality it does not. I think his eyes
are blue when they do not blaze. His
face indicates perseverance that will
not falter, and integrity that will not
disappoint. He speaks slowly, dis
tinctly and forcibly, without ever ut
tering a foolish thing. He has a pe
culiarity, of tone which is unreportable,
but which tells with thrilling effect on
the hearts of his hearers when he en
ters earnestly into the subject he dis
cusses. All who have heard him,
must acknowledge that his matter is
fill of thought as an egg is of meat.
He employs facts and statistics in his
speeches and editorials, but they have
the varied beauty of the rainbow and
the golden glow of sunlight when view
ed through the prism of his rich imag
ination.
The following extract from the Lon
don edition of the little volume entitled
“Sparks from the Anvil,” will give the
reader an idea of Mr. Burritt’s style of
writing. In an article on temperance
he alludes to the history of a distin
guished statesman who had been
snatched as a brand from the liquid
burning:—“And he was found, with
all the resuscitated vigor of his talents,
exhuming as it were, his fellow beings,
who, like him, had been buried before
they were dead. Massachusetts wel
comed him back to her embrace with
emotions of maternal joy, and invited
the returning pleiad to resume his
rank among the stars of her crown.
The doors of her halls and churches
were thrown open to the newly-return
ing prodigal, and many were touched
to life and salvation at the burning el
oquence which fell from his lips. Sis
ter States heard of this new Luther in
temperance, and he obeyed their call.
He stood up in their cities like Paul in
the midst of Mars Hill, and, with an
eloquence approaching inspiration, set
forth the strange doctrine of total ab
stinence.” That man, unfortunately,
was led astray by friends in human
form, but a band of Washingtonians
persuaded him to sign the pledge once
more, and, this time, it was an unviola
ted policy of ipsurance against the fires
of destruction. He concluded that
graphic sketch in the following words:
“That man is again a giant, and he is
broad; look out for him! Like Sam
son, he is feeling for the pillars of the
temple of Bacchus, and he will ere
long revenge the loss ofhis locks by a
mighty overthrow of that doomed edi
fice.”
It affords the writer no small degree
of pleasure to lift up the curtain which
hangs between the past and present,
and look back to the time when the
now eminent champion of peace first
put on his paper cap and leather apron
and made the forge blaze and the ham
mer ring. He did not dream, then,
that he one day would beat swords into
plough-shares and spears into pruning
hooks. His friends did not at that time
give him credit for any striking mani
festations of genius. To use his own
words, he was a “plodding, patient,
persevering” lad, gathering by “the
process ot accretion, which builds the
ant-heap, particle by particle, thought
by thought, fact by fact.” In this
way he worked and studied, night by
night, for years, with “blistered hands
and brightening hope,” at lessons
which have made him shine a star of
the first magnitude in the firmament of
fame.
In the summer of 1838, Governor
Everett, of Massachusetts, in an ad
dress to an association of mechanics in
Boston took occasion to mention that a
blacksmith of that State had, by his
unaided industry, made himself ac
quainted with fifty lajiguagesl Prior to
this announcement Mr. Burritt had
lived in obscurity, and the fame of his
acquirements did not extend beyond
the smoke of his workshop. When
Mr. Nelson called on Mr. B. at Wor*
cester, he found him at his anvil.
When told what the Governor had re
ported respecting him, “he modestly
replied that the Governor had done him
more than justice. It wa3 true,he said,
that he could read about fifty lan
guages, but he had not studied them
all critically. Yankee curiosity had
induced him to look at the Latin gram
mar; became interested in it, and per
severed, and finally acquired a thor
ough knowledge of that language. He
then studied the Greek with equal care.
An acquaintance with these languages
had enabled him to read with equal
facility the Italian, the French, the
Spanish the Portuguese. The Rus
sian, to which he was then devoting
his odd moments, he said, was the
most difficult of any he had underta
ken.” He went to Worcester to se
cure the advantages of an antiquarian
library, to which the trustees allowed
him free access. He spent eight
hours at the forge, eight hours in the
library, and the remaining eight hours
of each day in recreation and rest.
After he had studied Hebrew, and
made himself acquainted with its cog
nate languages, the Syraic, Chaldaic,
Arabic, Samaritan, Ethiopic, &.C., he
turned his attention to the languages-pr
Europe, and studied French, Spanish,
Italian and German, under native
teachers. He then pursued the Por
tuguese, Flemish, Danish, Swedish,
Norwegian, Icelandic, Welsh, Gselic,
Celtic, &c
It is somewhat remarkable that a
man who has devoted so much of his
time to the acqujsition of languages
that he is a living portable polyglott,
should have such mightv mathematical
powers. Figures tumble from his pen
like seeds from a sack when the string
is untwined from its throat. There are
but few men of past or present times
that can excel him in description.
Take the following graphic sketch of
the iron horse as a specimen of his
skill in that department of literature,
“I love to see one ofthese creatures
with sinews of brass and muscles of
iron, strut forth from his smoky table*
and, saluting the long train of cars
with a dozen sonorous puffs from his
iron nostrils, fall back gently into his
harness. There he stands, champing
and foaming upon the iron track, his
great heart a furnace of glowing coals
his lymphatic blood is boiling in his
veins, the strength of a thousand
horses is nerving his sinews—he pants
to be gone. He would ‘snake’ St.
Peter’s across the desert of Sahara, if
he could be fairly hitched to it, but
there is a little, sober-eyed, tobacco
chewing man in the saddle, who holds
him in with one finger, and can fake
away his breath in a moment, should
he grow restive or vicious. lam al
ways deeply interested in this man, for
begrimed as he may be with coal, di
luted in oil and steam, I regard him as
the genius of the whole machinery, as
the physical mind of that huge steam
horse.”
Mr. Burritt believes that God has
made of one blood all the nations of
the earth, and he aims to unite them
by the frateiua.l chain of
He looks upon war as an inexcusable
evil, and labors manfully for its extir
pation. He would dismantle the ar
senal, disband the army, spike the can
non and reforge the cutlass. He
would take our ships of war and “lade
them down to the water’s edge with
food and covering for human beings.”
“The ballast should be round clams,
or the real quahaugs, heavy as cast
iron, and capital for roasting. Then”
he “would build along up, filling every
square inch with well-cured provisions.
He would have a hogshead of bacon
mounted in every port-hole, each of
which should discharge fifty hams a
minute when the ship was brought in
to action; and the state-rooms should
be filled with well made garments, and
the taut cordage and the long tapering
spars should be festooned with boy’s
jackets and trowsers. Then, when
there should be no more room for
another codfish or herring, or sprig of
catnip,” he “would run up the white
flag of peace.” He “would throw as
many hams into the city in twenty-four
hours, as there were bomshelis and
cannon balls thrown intoKeil by the
besieging armies”; he “would barri
cade the low, narrow streets with
loaves of bread; would throw up a
breast-work, clear round the market
place of, barrels of flour, pork and
beef, and in the middle- raise a stack
of salmon and codfish as large as a
small Methodist meeting-house, with a
steeple to it, and a bell in the steeple,
and the bell shall ring to all the city
bells, and the city bells should ring to
all the people to come to market and
buy provisions, without money and
without price. And white flags should
everywhere wave m the breeze, on the
vanes of steeples, on mast-heads, on
flag-9tones along the embattled walls,
on the ends of willow sticks, borne by
the romping, laughing, trooping chil
dren. All the blood-colored drapery
of war should bow and blush before
the stainless standard of peace, and
generations of Anglo-Saxons should
remember with mutual felicitations,
the conquest of the white flag, or the
storming of Quebec.”
Mr. Burritt has made his mark upon
this age—a mark which ;ime will not
erase. His society is coirted by the
great men of Europe aid America.
He quietly suggests a world’s conven-
tion, and Senators, members of Par
liament, Baronets and crowned heads
hearken to his counsels. He is the
same great and good man, whether in
the smithy, talking with fhe hard-hand
ed nailers or in the magnificent forum
pleading for peace in tie presence of
the dignitaries of the land. He has no
idea that he is a great, man and would
not believe it if competent judges were
to give him a printed certificate to
prove the fact. He is a bachelor; not
a fussy, squeamish, nervously-fastidi
ous bachelor, but a generous, social,
free-and-easy, unostentatious bachelor
who ought to have been married long
ago, although he is just the right age
to become a married man now. His
paper needs no notice from my hum
ble pen. It is widely circulated, and
speaks for itself. The press in his
hand is like the hammer in the hand of
Thor, the thunder-god. He strives to
smite off the clanking manacles from
the uplifted hands of the bleeding
slave, and to strike down the monster
that wades in blood, and to build up
the temple of universal peace, and to
weld the world in an unbroken band
of eternal brotherhood. He sees a
spirit of selfishness abroad that would
rob earth of its flowers and heaven of
its lights, disinherit the angels, un
crown the Almighty, and sit upon the
throne of the universe. So he has un
furled the white banner, and is now
leading the crusaders of a good cause
to a battle where no blood will be shed
but where that evil, selfish spirit will
be subdued and peace shall triumph!
Crayon.
League Bazaar in London. —Mr.
Burritt had just time to inform us by
last mail that he had a pleasent voyage
across the ocean, and arrived in Lon
don in time to open the grand League
of Brotherhood Bazaar. It had com
menced with eclat. Mrs. Richard Cob
den presided at one stall, and Mrs. Mil
ner Gibson also took part it its man
agement. —The stalls are described by
the London Morning Advertiser as be
ing extreemly rich in articles of gen
eral use and tasteful beatuy.—One
unique feature was a table of beautiful
fossils. One thousand tickets of ad
mission were sold the first .day, and
about one thousand dollars worth of
articles disposed of.—We hope to pre
sent our readers with a full report next
week, Mr. Burritt will now also be
able to greet the citizen circle weeldy,
in propria persona. —Christian Citizen.
Texas and New Mexico.— By the
Congressional Journal, it will be seen
that the President sent a message to
the Senate on Monday, in reply to the
cal! of that body for information “whe
ther any orders had been issued to any
military officers at Santa Fe, to hold
possession against the authority of Tex
as, or in any way to embarrass the ex
ercise of her jurisdiction over that
country.” The President says that no
such orders have been given. He also
states that information has been receiv
ed that the Commissioner of Texas has
proceeded to Santa Fe with a view of
organizing counties in that District,
under the authority of Texas. This
territory, he says,was actually acquired
by the United States from Mexico,
and has since been actually held by the
United States, and, in his opinion,
ought so to remain, until the boundary
of Texas is settled by some competent
authority. Meanwhile, he thinks, there
is no reason for seriously apprehending
that Texas will practically interfere
with the possession of the U. S.
This latter conclusion of the message
may be founded on good cabinet logic,
for aught we know, but we confess it is
beyond our comprehension. We do
not see how that Texas can exer
cise jurisdiction, organize counties,
and do other sovereign acts within the
territory, without any hindrance or mo
lestation from the authorities, and not
thereby practically interfere with the
possession of the United States. We
fear that there is a settled purpose to
let Texas consummate her usurpation
over New Mexico, and thus afford an
other triumph to slavery, by extending
that atrocious system over a large ter
ritory now free.— Mass. Spy.
Another Plot.— The following let
ter from the Washington correspondent
of the Journal of Commerce, —who,
whatever else may be said of him, (says
the Massachusetts Spy,) is usually well
informed, foreshadows another buc
caneering expedition In the Western
Archipelago:
Washington, June 14.
The United States have become,
through the force of circumstances,
the arbiter of the future destiny of
Cuba and of St. Domingo. The con
dition of the latter Island—two-thirds
of it now under the control of the
Spanish population, and the other third
constituting the Haitien Government—
and the relentless warfare carried on
between the two communities—is now
such, that the Government of the
United States—by interference—must
decide the future political condition of
the Island.
If our people be suffered to take any
part in the conflict, it will be on the side
of the European race, and against the
black government. There is every
reason to believe that something is go
ing on in reference to this matter, and
that an expedition from the United
States will, at no distant day, strength
en the resources of the Dominicans.—
What this Government is to do, in the
event that the Island should be brought
under the subjection either of Spain or
of American adventurers, will become
a serious question.
I do not suppose that the U. S. will
undertake to bully the black Emperor,
Faustin I.—though some tendency that
way may have been supposed to exist.
But if, by resources which may, bjifcur
citizens, be furnished to the Domini
cans,' they shall subject the blacks to
their dominion, and perhaps to domes
tic slavery; and if the American and
Spanish masters of the Island ask for
annexation to the Union, and for a
Territorial or Colonial Government, or
for protection against Spain,or France,
or England—or all three—it will create
a new and dark-looking question—and
it will arise in time to take the place of
the present slavery conflict in Con
gress, should it be fortunately settled.”
Another Letter from Mr. Web
ster. —The Intelligencer of Wednes
day morning publishes a three-column
letter from Daniel Webster to certain
friends of his at Kennebec, Me. In it
Mr. Webster retorts severely on his
various reviewers, charging some of
them with a passion for misrepresenta
tion befitting devils. He quotes liber
ally and adroitly from his speeches, and
declares that slavery is just as like tp
be planted on Mars Hill, or on.the
White Mountains, as in New Mexico.
He indulges a hope, if not a confident
assurance, that a settlement ot the dif
ficulty will be arrived at. As to the
reclamation of fugitive slaves, he is
silent.— Mass. Spy,
iCJ 2 The Carlist refugee, Cabrera,
was married, on Wednesday, to an
heiress, Miss Richards, the only child
of the late R. Vaughn Richards, Q.C.
The ’ceremony took place first at the
Roman Catholic chapel, Manchester
square, and afterwards at St. George’s,
Hanover-square, London Inq.