THE POLITY OF REASON.
TO THE DIRECTORS OF The Reveue Eurpeanee
Chapter IX
The form of modern governments is
not submitted to discussion —all admit
it, or all bow to it; it is giv- n us by the
very fact of our civilization: it is the
free form, the critical government of
discussion, of common consent: it is
the republic, as we have seen before,
but the mixed republic with many
bodies, with one sole head; republic at
its base, monarchy at its summit. The
need of unity in action, and of a more
rapid and intense regulating power, in
our vast modern states, the necessity o(
avoiding the frequent commotions that
the conquest of the supreme power
would produce in the State, lias made
us for a long period, consecrate this
fictitious and conventional royalty in an
hereditary chief. Call him President,
or call him King, it matters little; he i<
no monarch, he has no sole, no person
al power: he lias a better—he has the
social power centred in him; he is
organ and agent; he is no more, he can
no more be the source and principle ol
authority. His rights over us, our du
ties towards him, thus change natures
and titles: we no longer adore power a?
aucred and divine; we discuss it as
logic, we respect it as law!
This accepted form—and we niusl
accept it or quit the world, or retro
grade in time, or revolt against civili
zation itself, and curse our own light:
in order to take refuge under the shad
ow of other’s rights, in slavery!—thi?
form, then, accepted, all which wil
tend to perfect and extend it, all dial
shall b e more confirmable »its nature,
whether liberty, discussion, common
consent, suffrage, equality of s icial and
private rights, will be true policy. It
is then we shall have to march onwards
with confidence and courage, sure that
the more we have conquered conse
quences ot a just and true principle,
Xhe more those consequences will pro
duce others, and the more fruit these
prolific social truths will produce to hu
manity.
Apply this intellectual rule to the fla
grant questions of the day, ami confront
them!
The Peerage, or hereditary aristo
cratic power? triple impossibility of
this epoch! impossible to find—for the
time and labor of ages have ruined,
dispersed, ground up, levelled its ele
ments; impossible to be made accepta
ble to manners, for the human mind,
like the material globe, by an obvious
faw ot nature, tends to levelling, that is
to say, to the equal repartition of poli
tical rights utni duties; impossible to
justify before reason, for it is an exclu
sion m the lorm of liberty, a gratuitous
privilege m an of equality, a con
stituting of social power into some fa
milies, to the profit of some, to the de
triment of all, a„ d n contempt of na
ture and the divme right of mankind,
which give to ail the right and sue
cetsive capacity Or ,t. Condcnncd by
juat.ee and m .rainy, which desire to
extend, in (dace of restraining the use
of what belongs to all men—right and
duty; condemned by reason, s mc e it
would be a constituted impossibility, a
creation without elements; condemned
by conscience, for it would be ravish
from all, what all should possess and
exercise, in order to invest a small
number with it! Posthumous tyranny,
which could neither serve nor hurt;
which could not maintain itself t«. n
years before the corrosive and rational
criticism of the press, that new jury of
humanity; tad which would only rue a
THE NORTH STAR.
moment from the arid dust of ages tc
alarm the present, by a shadow withou
Hubetance, mid serve tor a laughing
stock to the future.
Do not see in this more than a lons
and profound conviction of the impossi
bilitv of finding or creating an heredi
tary peerage, a real aristocracy, a no
bilitv of right. As for an aristocracy
in fact, real, hut tnoveable, like the
(mwer, merit.or virtue which produce it,
—as for that nobility which Hod write*
on the brow of a great man’s descend
ants, or of a benefactor of men, and
which the generations read theer de
i spite themselves —so long as that no
bility is not "1 itself effaced, I acknowl
edge and re-pect it. It is not man who
has made that, it is Nature; it has its
reason in human refr on. for we are in
reality a portion, an emanation, a con
tinuation of our ancestors: it has, too,
its empire and its influence, itidepend
-1 ent of all political laws. The name ol
a virtuous or illu-Uri us man, borne by
bis descendants, preserved to bis tanii
lv, is not that a privilege, think you?—
Yes, undoubtedly, and the most indeli
ble and incontestable of privileges.—
Then why respect it? Because it id
one of Nature’s, n .t man’s privileges;
because it is not exclusively anybody’s;
because it may successively, or at
the same time, belong to all! Be great,
virtuous, illustrious, and your sons will
be respected and influential! They will
bear the stamp of that virtue, ol that
illustrious character you bequeathed
them; they will be nobles of that nobil
ity which is not a right, but which is a
fact; esteem, admiration, gratitude.
Tiie Press? Necessarily free, foi
it is the voice of all, in an age, and ir
u social form, wherein all have the
right' of being heard; it is the very
speech of modern society; its silence
would be the death of liberty! Any
tyranny that meditates the murder o
an idea, commences by gagging the
i press. All our political paities have
j triumphed by it and have fallen by it
i after having turned against it. All ac
cuse it, and all have cause to complait
of it; for none of these parties have
taken the only means to brave and t<
conquer it—that of being always in the
right. The press, after a thousand vi
j cissitudes, after passing like* a weapon
sometimes murderous, sometime defen
i sive, from the conqueror to the con
quered, from the oppressor to the op
pressed, will finish by rendering ail de
ception impossible, all tyranny —of one
alone, or ot' the multitude—impractica
ble in the world; and will found what
wo already catch a glimpse of in the
far distance, the rational era, or the
government of public reason! Lot
victors accuse and pit>scrihe it; let vic
tims bless and cherish it, it is both tlmir
parts to do so; for it is divine justice,
l manifested bv human speech! Un
ceasingly, with its invisible finger, it
inscribes on the walls of all Belshaz
i zars, those three words, which make
all iniquities, all tyrannies, turn pale
j in the midst of their glory aud their sat
ellites.
1 Edfcation? Finrgo and liberal,
wide-spreading, multiplied, everywhere
abounding; aud, in particular, gratu
itous; whatever the economists, those
materialists of politics, may sav. He
who gives a truth to the people’s minds,
is bestowing au eternal alms on the
1 generations to come: civilization is only
light descending from the lulls into the
valleys, from the high places on the
masses: a government of discussion, ot
criticism, of election, presupposes m
j st met ion and its necessity. If, then,
liberty be a benefit, and if you wish to
render man capable of liberty, let him
be instructed—let him be instructed!—
i Not as you choose him to be, you sys
tematic powers, narrow-minded, intol
erant, often behind your epoch; but as
lie wishes to he, as his wants or neces
sities would have him! Do not close,
(1 not dry up the founts where the
generations will go to slake their thirst!
Lft every one drink at the w’aters, and
drink ins till. All restriction on liberty
of instruction, beyond that of simple
police, in a free country, is an attempt
on the inoral liberty of the human race;
a crime against the progressive truth
which manifests itself as it will, when
it will, in its own day, its hour, its own
form, its language, by its own and not
by your organs. If education had on) v
been free before this epoch of the
world, the world would now possess a
treasure of truth and of science which
would have augmented in equal propor
tion with its treasure of happiness and
virtue; for all truth fertilizes virtue by
its rays! The Divine Word itself,
Christian truth, the most social of all
truths, has only been taught in spite
of men, m the catacombs, upon the
cross, or at the stake. Had it been
free, that sublime teaching would, in a
few uges, have traversed the whole
earth, which it has nut yet traversed in
•-.MJiW years.
The Separation or Church and
State? Happy and incontestable ne
cessity of an epoch where the power
belongs to all and not to some! Incon
testable, for, under u free and univer
sal government, a worship cannot be
exclusive and privileged; happv, be
cause religion has force, and beauty,
and virtue, ouly in conscience; it is
beautiful, it is pure, it is holy, only be
tween man aud his God. Between the
faith and the priest, between the priest
and the faithful, nothing is wanted: if
the State interposes between man and
that divine ray which he should seek
only in heaven, it obscures or alter* it;
religion then becomes something palpa
ble and material for man, thrown to or
withheld from him at the caprice of all
tyrannies; it partakes of the love or
the hate which human power inspires,
varying or falling with it; it is the sa
cred fira of the altar, kept up with the
corruptions of courts mid the impurities'
right is of no st;x—truth is of no color— god is the fattier of us all, and all we are brethren.
of public places; it is the word of life
n a dead mouth; buying and selling in
the temple! This system makes hypo
rites when the State is Christian, un
believers when it is sceptical, Atheists
'or martyrs when it is persecuting. But
enough on tiiis subject. A voice is
suing from the temple, a voice which
has the double authority of priesthood
and o c genius, proffers to us every duy
1 that symbol lor men ot faith and of the
future. M. de Lamenriais has founded
his journal on this idea; he has suffi
cient confidence in truth, to biing it
face to face with liberty; he thinks that
God, who has given both, will moke
them increase and triumph. Murmurs
are raised against some bitter truths
that the illustrious writer has Hung,
without wanfMg. at h> party aud bi.>
age. Kxaggetatton «oni ludeneaa are
never justified by the truth, which is
only moderation and love; but this age
wants a word forte el dure. We do not
plant the tree which is to shadow ages,
without clearing the soil with the iron;
we do not graft the bough without tear
ing the bark!
Election? There is no truth in
in dern social or representative power,
unless there be truth in the election;
and there is no truth in the election un
less it be universal. However, if you
give suffrage to classes who compre
hend it not, or who cannot exercise it
with independence, you give a mere
figment; that is to say, you really re
fuse it. Several opinions, issuing from
opposite points, and wishing to attain a
contrary aim, are demanding in con
cert universal suffrage. One of the two
parties is assuredly mistaken: for both,
though demanding the same means, cer
tainly do not wish the same result. Is
there light? Is there bona fuies in both
of these opinions? Necessarily, one or
other is in error.
This is the gravest question in the
organization, at once free and vital,
w hich this century must establish. We
would solve it thus: universal suffrage
to be true, proportional suffrage to be
just. We have already seen, that an
hereditary peerage, or a moderate aris
tocracy, does not, and cannct, exist on
the levelled soil of the epoch and the
country. We went farther; —we proved
that it could not subsist, cither in logic
or morality. Society, throughout, has
in effect conservative interests, which
it has always been an object to consti
tute or to incorporate into a second
chamber. When the elements of this
second chamber are present, it is well;
but to-day, in France, vjhere these ele
ments are dissolved, you are invincibly
led to one sole national representation,
inasmuch a% a political power should be
a truth, and can only represent and re
alize what it is. Whether you make it
speak at two tribunes or at one, is of
little moment; your national represent
ation, necessarily one, should represent
at once social movement and stability
—great, middling, and small properties
—the interests of action and of repose;
it should represent them in their sincere
reality, proportion and combination.—
To attain this vigorous veraciousness, j
this rigorous justice, there is only one
means—the proportional suffrage. So
long as you do not arrive at that easy
realization, France will neither pro
gress nor repose; she will be agitated
without advancing—she will fall, she
will rise, to fall again.* Proportional
and universal suffrage—that is to say, a
suffrage which, starting at the lowest
steps of civic and landed lights, the
sole means of establishing the exist
ence—the rights, and interests, of the
citizen, will rise by degrees to the most
elevated steps in the ladder, and will
cause a real expression of his real po
litical importance to bo given to every
one by a vote, in the true measure and
exact proportion of his social exist
ence. Perfect veracity, rigorous jus
tice, complete democracy, and still,
aristocracy de facto also recognized:
suffrage in several sca'es al >ne resolves
this problem. All the political unities
would have their suffrage in it, eleva
ting, purifyng, enlightening themselves
in succession, until the supreme elec
tion. exact product of the forces, the
rights and the interests of the time and
the country. There is only one objec
tion to this system; the country of to
day objects to it, because it has once
made a ridiculous trial of it; and also,
let us say, because it is not sufficiently
fond of political truthfulness. But what
are antipathies, brought face to face
with truth? The one falls and is blotted
out, the other increases and survives:
we s all come to that.
The Slprp.me Power? It is the
root of every social question. Once
the principles admitted and the power
found, the social form is organized, it I
lives, it advances, it endures. To find
power iu the tuins ot a political convul
sion. which has created and destroyed
so much during a half century; before
that new immense, incalculable force,
ever young, ever agitating—the press
—before opinions, divergeut, fiery, sus
ceptible, irritated, often iniquitous, de
manding justice and strength, und re
fusing respect aud assistance: before
the enmities of a party which wishes no
power, and the jealousies of two other
parties who wish it not, unless on con
dition of its belonging to them intact:!
to take root where no soil is, exposed to
the wind of every storm:—indissoluble
problem!
The actual power,* with the appear
ances of usurpation, is aot, however,
born of itself, but of the faults and ca-
larnitics of others: all that is replaced
is not usurped. Springing forth as a
necessary dictatorship, more against
insurrection than through it; improvi
satory fortress between the Republic
and despotism, between civil war and
anarchy, between the shook, but for it,
n» Os ussiaial sf Usds Tblliy|>
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1848.
inevitable between Europe threatening
and France defence lees: *t seems tr
have in itself all the conditions of a long
dictatorship, rather than the condition*
of a peculiar and definitive existence
Instantaneousness, necessity, burro wee
and conventional strength, cominou
shelter in the tempest, neutral grouuc
where all parties meet, but where nont
settles, save on conditions. Since dic
tatorship is its nature, it has but one
means of living, of acting, of moving
—that is as dictatorship, otherwise it is
condemned to tyranny or inaction: ty
ranny is obnoxious to it, and inaction is
death. Flinching, if it rest on aughl
but itself, it tails; lame, if it rest upon
more than one party, it cannot take a
step: its mission was to found and tc
organize a free aud it can
not be free gorertuiieot, it it do nut
belong equally to all parties, if it be
comes the organ and the agent of ty
ranny, for any one over another.—
Forced thus to get itself sanctioned by
the reason of all; to be legitimatized at
all events temporarily for all: by the
very law that has created it, by the
necessity of its dictatorial existence, by
the breadth and sincerity of the future
institutions it is called to preside over,
by the confidence and gratitude it
should know how to inspire the nation
with, it ought every day, at every hour,
generously submit itself to inquiry:
none will then refuse it strength, none
will dispute the period with it. It has
years in store: the question of a dy
nasty and a prison is nothing before the
future, before the immense social ques
tion! And when its work is accom
plished—when opinions and facts shall
have pronounced the judgment of God;
whether it be established for ages,
whether it be effaced and retire before
another moral necessity, its share iu
posterity will still be great. Type ol
national order, dictatorship of the age,
if it do not attach a throne to a family,
it will have given its name to the insti
tutions of the modern epoch. To found
an era of liberty and justice, to organ
ize a new social principle, is finer in
the eyes of the future than to inherit a
throne, and to establish a dynasty! T
Government? It has not hitherto
fully comprehended either its basis, its
mission, or its path. Three ministers
have been appointed: the first saw in
the catastrophe of July a dynastic ac
cident only, of which the progressive
spirit of the epoch would take no ac
count: he thought he saw in it only men
to be changed, ciphers to be expunged,
escutcheons to be remodeled. Men of
merit, talent, and light, for fifteen years
of opposition, were taken unawares by
this great day: their system all made,
waa nst cut to ttae fttefcon of the age:
they have become great since their faff,
by eloquence and energy. The second
sought for unpopularity wild beast,
which caresses you so long as you have
men or principles to toss to it: that
minister fell powerless before that popu
larity, which was commencing to roar:
he made a generous movement against
it the day of the trial of Charles
the Tenth’s ministers, he offered his life
for theirs. That day does honor to him,
as he d ies lion r to France.
The third comprehended the Euro
pean crisis, foreign affairs, wonderfully;
in making treaties, those written ethics
of nations, respected, he prevented uni
versal war. To whomsoever that knotvs
the actual condition of Europe, univer
sal war is the final European cataclysm.
He who shall throw open the folds of its
cloak, will assume the responsibility of
an age of chaos, of murder, of blood,
and servitude; he will do what Belgium
and Holland would do were they to
overthrow their dvkes, and to open a
way to the ocean; nationalities and in
dividuals, liberties and principles,friends
and enemies—everything would be en
gulphed.
Now there was no sufficient need to
rush on these terrible risks. Belgium
was constituted more for than against
us; she is a dismantled and half en
feebled frontier of Europe. As to Po
land—sublime resurrection of a nation
ality which cSnnot be extinguished,
tardy but heroic protestation of right
sacrificed by Europe —France, shame
ful accomplice in her severance at an
other epoch; France, which has no
booty, but only blood to render back,
bad doubtless the right to recognize tbe
fact of her resurrection, for it is always
allowable to live again; the date of a
political crime does not constitute a
right against the victim. T here is no
prescription against a people who will
and can rise from their sepulchre; but
if France had this right of acknowledg
ment and succor, sho had also the right
and the duty to bide her own time!—
Her national sympathy for Polish hero-*
ism did not impose on her government
the necessity, probably inopportune, of
blindly precipitating her into the chan
ces of an universal collision. Govern
ments are the tutors of the people, the
tutors of Europe; in that capacity they
may have to resist even the most gen
erous of the passions—enthusiasm and
nity; even, too, while sharing in them
as men. Was tbe hour chosen by Po
land convenient for France, scarcely
reorganized r or for her government,
trembling to move on a basis not estab
lished? That is tbe question. We
cannot answer it. The government
alone has the elements of iu determi
nation, as it would alone support the
future responsibility of it. Right is a
great power; admiration and pity are
puissant auxiffisries. Wars of senti
ment are the finest and mo* heroic;
witness the Crusades, la Vendee, and
Spam. We a people rise
sgam with leaa lively sympathy, and
lees courageous imprudence. But,
placing ourselves is the point of view
>f July, and in the hypothesis of the
f Propbeoc 1> snsfki rf d»ku rfhw
actual gorertiment, Poland, perhaps
made a bad choice of her day; a yea
sooeer, three years later, she wouh
have been aided by Europe, and havt
triumphed. The Massacre of Warsaw
end tnc assassination of the generals
betray, even in this revolution, tba
Hideous hand of blind and sanguinary
demagoguism that defiles all it touches
From the day on which crime shows it
self in a popular cause, the cause per
ishes: that infernal genius, that Me
phistopheles of liberty, dis honors hero
ism, and discourages liberty itself.
The actual ministry brought into pla;
ft fine character, a man ot* heart, o
conscience, of talent;-a man who know
how- to brave the tempast, and to hob
firm to a principle; but he chooses hi:
men by chance. -Foreign affairs, s<
well grasped by hidki show, that be cat
see what is palpable, what is under hi:
eyes: the interior —above all, the aristo
cratic question, so iff analyzed, so bad
ly engaged—shows that he has not hor
izon enough in his mind. We pity him
but we honor him, and we regret tha
so fine a courage and so firm a con
viction are not fighting on a greatei
field.
Legislation? .Particularly crimina
legislation—to be entirely remad n<
longer on the principles of tbe Pagai
codes—principles of vengeance and re
taliation; but on that of the Gospel, oi
a Christian base; the spirit of justice
but of mildness, charity, indulgence
repentance, purification, and not o
vengeance and death: above all, t<
strike out the punishment of death,
do not think, with some who wish t<
banish it from our codes, that societj
has not the right of death, because i
cannot confer life: the existence of so
ciety being necessary, society has al
the rights necessary to that existence
But that brutal law of retaliation —just
so long as society was weak and im
perfectly constituted, and when an evi
dent, prompt, instantaneous vengeanci
was needed—has now survived its ne
cessity. Not only does it seem to mi
no longer necessary, but hurtful tc
modern society; it does not rendei
crime and the criminal less frequent
but it renders them more ferocious. A
bloody legislation renders manners
bloody; a mild legislation tempers ant
softens them. Fear is not a virtue.—
Christian legislation wishes virtues,anc
leaves terror to crime. Let us havt
the courage, at least, to try this
pression of blood iu our laws, and t<
offer, even imprudently, that subiimi
and generous challenge to Providence
to mankind, to the future!
But you will say to me here, *‘Wha
is tq be the bridle iu your logic? Ii
what proportion, in what measure, wil
the legislature, the people itself, leavi
to future generations, the liberties ant
institutions of which you have jus
been admitting the necessity or con
venience? W here will your family
your communal, your provincial, youi
national rights and liberties, stop?”—
T hey will stop where public reason anc
conscience show their abuse or excess;
they will extend in the proportion and
the measures of the country and the
time; public reason and conscience
show their abuse and excess; they will
extend in the proportion and the mea
sure of the morals of the country and
the time; public reason and conscience
cannot be deceived long; they have
only to confront them with morals.—
Morals, in effect, are the anly basis,
the indispensable condition of the laws:
a strict proportion is necessary be
tween the one and the other; and so
soon as this proportion is violated—so
soon as this harmony fails, legislation
will be abortive; it will bear no fruits,
or bear only fatal ones. This miscon
struction, this antagonism of laws and
morals, of Spartan severity and Sybar
ite effeminacy, kills a people. Exami
nation, reason, experience, and con
science, are here to declare, bona fide
what is instantly possible with us, or
what is only attainable with the aid of
habits, progress and time; the press
and speech, free, are there in
their place, carrying incessantly all
these questions before the national
grand jury—before opinion which pro
nounces, but not without appeal, in a
system of majority. Nay, more; when
a liberty is ripe, it will fall of course
from the tree, with a puff of popular
wind, upon a soil prepared to re
ceive it.
Here you will be astonished, perhaps,
not to hear ine condemn more that
which we caff Centralization, the com
mon abuse against which all parties
rise in concert, because all seek to de
stroy, none to establish; not to see me,
in mv turn, dislocate some member of
the national union. God and common
sense preserve me from buying popu
larity at such a price! To ask political
liberty, deliberative and elective, for
all opinions, for all interests, for all lo
calities, is in effect to destroy what
ought to be destroyed—political cen
tralization, the oppressive influence of
a capital, of a party, of a class, of a
man; the monopoly of liberty, in short,
despotism. Such is the right tendency
of a liberal and enlightened mind; Ibis
is tbe work of tbe day, and of the age;
but to destroy administrative and exec
utive centralization, to drive life and
thought back into the members, instead
of placing them strong and full in the
bead of tbe state, to break tbe ix-cc*-
iary #es of power mod action, to re
mote of France, so strong, because
the ismm, a provincial federation,weak,
crippled, disjointed, and vacillating,
xfter time and the genius of civilization
isve been wasted in making of these
incoherent parties a grand and vigorous
lational onion—that would be the wi«h
yf folly, or it would be the cry of de
ipair.
Administrative centralizati n, medi
ated bp all mt aNNurchical «tau«aca,
operated after all by the constituent
Assembly, ia the only monument that
the revolution founded nth all the rum?
it made! That intensity of strength, in
that uniformity of action, which enable?
social thought, once freely conceivcc
and become law, to be executed at thi
same moment with celerity, regularity,
control, and uniformity, in all th*
spheres of the administration of a vast
State, is the unity of those great bodies
j which we caff a nation! If you destroy
it, they perish, or that unity recon
structs itself in spite of you, for it h
i their life, and the dissolution of this
unity, or of this centralization, is death!
Let the soul of the social body, that
is to say, political thought and action,
be free, expansive, able to prove them
selves speaking and acting everywhere;
let them be no more enchained, as they
have been hitherto, to .ne caprice of a
tyrannical bureaucracy, to the delirium
of a capital in revolt, sport of a tribune
'or of a faction; let them have their
power and their point of support in
themselves and upon themselves—upon
the powers, the interests, the opinions,
of communes, aad of prov inces! but let
the natiou&l administration be one!—
one in its form, one in its action. Let
all the strings of the governmental ma
chine act on a single centre, where
they receive impulse, power and regu
larity! The relative power of nation!;
lies entirely in the perfection of this
i system of unity or centralization; the
I first duty of nations is to live, is to re
main independent; and to remain inde
pendent, they have but one way—to be
strong: to centralize administrative ac
j tion is not progress; it is decline.
STATISTICS OF TIIE WAR.
We take this appalling account ol
the awful mortality in Mexico by war
and pestilence, from the New Orleans
Bulletin of the 21st ult.
The whole number of Americans
that were killed in the recent war, in
eluding the line of the Rio Grande and
j that of Vera Cruz, is estimated at 201)0
1 and the wounded nt 4001). It is impos
sible to say how many of the latter have
died in consequence of their wounds,
but we should suppose not less than
one fourth, say 1000, making in all 3t)00
deaths from battle.
This, however, bears but a small pro
portion to the number who have sunk
under disease.
We state under the authority of sev
eral officers of rank, that on the left
flank of the Castle ofPerote, there are
2000 American graves, all victims ot
disease.
A still larger nurtiber perished at the
Capital—the deaths tbare for a consid
erable time were one thousand month
ly, und we learn that at no time did
they fall below from 3 to 400.
The first Mississippi regiment that
went out to the Rio Grande buried 135
on the banks of that river before it ever
went into battle, and finally brought
back less than one third of its number.
They suffered dreadfully at Buena
Vista.
The first and second Pennsylvania
regiments, recently returned, went out
1800 strong (900 each,) they brought
home about 000 of their original num
ber—about 220 fell in battle, nearly
400 died, and about 00J were discharg
ed as unfit for duty—how many of the
latter have since died is of course un
known.
The third and fourth Tennessee reg
iments, also recently returned, lost 300
by death—neither of these regiments
have been in action.
Capt Taylor, of Pennsylvania, took
down a company of 104 men; he brought
back seventeen—he entered the battle
of Contreras with 33 men, he brought
19 out of it.
The most frightful instance of mor
tality, however, that we have heard of,
was in that gallant corps, the Georgia
battalion, commanded by a gallant and
accomplished officer, Col. Seymour.
They were considered acclimated,
and actually suffered much less while
in the lower country than when march
ed into the interior on high land. The
battalion went to Mexico 419 strong; i
about 220 actually died; a large num
ber were discharged with broken down
and ruined constitutions; and many of
them, no doubt, have since gone to their
graves; and the battalion was reduced
to thirty-four men fit for duty! On one
parade, when a certain company was
called, that had mustered upwards of.
one hundred rnen, a single private an
swered to tbe call, and was its sole living
representative! The captain, the three j
lieutenants, the four sergeants, and the
four corporals (every commissioned
and non-conirai*»ioced officer; were
dead!
We have heard from officers of nianj
other regiments, detail* very similar to
those we have given above, which may i
be taken as about the fair average j
haises for all the volunteer regiments.,
The regulars did not suffer to the same
extent.
Such is war! And such are the re
sults over which we are called upon to
rejoice!
HarriNEss or W’as.— A letter fro re
Vera Cruz says, The shells from out
mortars, bursting in every direction,
scattered death and destruction within
the city; and it m fair to presume tha*
tbe round shot from oor batternes had
an equally happy effect.
Maxims,—A poor mechanic will tw
a poor man.
To postpone doing right is equivalent
to d oing wrong.
Intelligence to plan, Industry to exe
cute, and economy preserved, prosper i
ty follows.
Ignoranee, idleness ond woste, or*
followed close in rwar by distress, pou-
Mty sad *td
JOHN DICK, Pssmasa
WHOLE NO—3B.
THE CHOCTAW XATtOX.
The (?hoet»w Nation of Indians now
j 2°,000 souls, the majority
fwh. m emigrated to the westward of
the state of Mississippi in 1840. The
I remainder have since been following,
i l,ll ,low ihe whole tribe except 3.000 or
4,000. are permanently located in th«
teritory apportioned them bv «>ur Gov
ernment, between the Red and Arkan
sas Rivers, west of the State of Arkan
sas. Here, ocupying about 16,500
square miles of aiable land, diversified
in surface, and enjoying a salubrious
climate, thier numbers are increasing/
Their Government is thoroughly Re
i publican, being modelled ofter ours and
strictly local!’ Their constitution ia of
their framing, and their laws of their
own enactment, ami under them the
penalties of their violation are enforced/
This healthful state of affairs has
been brought about mainly through the
instrumentality- if northern Christains
i laboring among them, and chiefly con
nected with the American Board of mis
sions. For thirty years, Messrs.
Dwight, Kingsbury, Byington. aud
j Hotchkins have been among them, and
with such results, that it is not extrav
gance to say that these Indians exceed
the surrounding whites in morality, in
telligence, and skill in the mechanical
arts. The Choctaws are chiefly en
gaged in growing wool and the culture
of cotton, which they manufacture into
fabiics suitable for apparel. There are
six missionary stations among them,
having under their supervision ten large
boarding-schools, and three academies
(five ol the former female) in each of
which from 40 to 100 young persons are
preparing for usefulness. Six are study
ing theology. These institutions are
supported at an annual expense of
000 w hich is the product of a National
School Fund, made up from the an
nuities received from the United States,
f>r nearly *2O years past, but shortly to
be discontinued.
The publication of a newspaper is nowr
contemplated, and Mr. Dwight and Mr.
Wright (one of the tribe) are at present
in this Cit y, for the purpose of transla
ting the New’ Testament into the Choc
taw language. Several of our stan
dard works are already issued in that
language. The Testament is advanced
near to cornbletion at the American Bi
ble Society’s house.— Journal of Com.
This Dead Sea Expedition.—Wo
i are pleased to learn from private letters
that the Dead Sea exploring party have
successfully and satisfactorily comple
ted thier task, and returned to Jerusa
lem, where they were the 19th of May.
They have sounded the sea in all it*
parts, to the depth of *RIU fathoms, and
found the bottom crusted with crystal
led salt. The pestilential efforts attri
buted to the waters turn out to be fab
ulous. Ducks were seen skimming over
the surface, and partridges abounded
along the shore. The party were upon
the sea in their boats; or encamped
on its borders for some two months, and
their researches and estimates have
been of the most thorough and interest
ing character. All were in excellent
health and spirits, no sickness nor ac
cident having occurred. By the Aiabs
they had been received and uniform
ly treated with the utmost kindness
and attention. 7’he Syrians consider
the men of Jordan, as they call them,
the greatest heroes of the day. Lieu
tenants Lynch and Dale will visit under
the most favorable auspices all the pla
ces made memorable in sacred history;
and we nfay expect from them a highly
interesting account of their exploration*
of the Dead Sea and their adventures in
the Holy Land.— Trawurxpt.
Mail Robbers.—There arc many
robberies committed upon the mail,
which are never known, for the De
partment has a rule, a mistaken one we
think, to ke p them from the public.—
Wc learn that since the first of Janu
ary, the insurance office in our city has
paid for three packages of money re
mitted by mail at ditfeient time* by our
brokers, which must have been stolen
from some of the post offices, as there
have been no public robberies of the
mail; and one instance of four letters,
each containing money, weie put in
post office at the same time by one of
our brokers, two of which were ac
knowledged as having been received,
the other two never came to hand.
In consequence of the above losses,
an insurance agency in this city de
clines taking risks on bank note* by
mail, against private robbeties, but will
continue to insure against fire and
public robberies.” The Department at
Washington has been informed of the
depredations.— Mistouri Rep.
Hindoo BirrisM.—The baptismal
admonition of the Hindoo* is as impres
sive on the bystanders as it u beautiful
Little Labe, thou entered*! the world
weeping while ail around you sunled;
contrive so to live thst you may dt part
in smiles, whilst all around you are
weeping.”
How to Sfoil a Guild.—Above
all mistakes, is that of sujmosing that
the better nature of the fluid is to be
drawn out and raided into strength,
which we should drsire to see in the
man, by making fun to pase through a
cold and cbeeile** jouih. A system
of pettv restraints, or privations, of se
vere looks and incessant chiding, only
results in depraving the feelings and
oerverting the reason of a young per
son. He ia, under such circumstances,
entire)/ out of harmony with nature,*—
ffe is hke a flower, which require#
light and warmth, placed in a cellar
where it can never acquire ns proper
proportions, color or vigor. It »e quite
impuemble that a ehild so treated cao
ever attain to a proper characteristic of
i wall educated coin or wostaa
To the Liberty Party of the County of Madison:
Even. iL» »<>on, sr** our vr<>rsS furs realixed:
Iwo, in l*4'i, the Liberty Party of t!i
State rf New-Vork wri' prcpari-itf itself t
finite with the Whig* in a new or
Mitmi'm ind when, in the Mint year, tit
Li!*nv Party of the State of New Hamj
shire, b imtf It to tie better to get office tha
to a.there to principle, united with the Whig
a**i Independent Ih’tnocrats; there were
hi re aid there, faithful voices, that forctol
the rnin, wimrh must result to the Nations
Liberty Party from its approval of such et
raucous comiuct. Dot, even they, who ul
tered these prophecies, di«l not look for
I‘pe ‘dv n fulfilment of them. Little did the
think, that, so soon as the year 1847, th
National Liberty Party would have, for it
Presidential Candidate, a gentleman, wh
would scorn to belong to it, or to indorse it
distinguishing principles. Still less did the
think, ihat, so noon as thus Party would
openly, abandon its name and punciples
Such, however, is the accelerated motion u
thos-, who loosen their hold on truth.
Hut. the Liberty Party is not extinct.
few are left to hold up its standard, and pre
serve it* name, ami honor its principles. Sucl
of as reside in this State, have, as yoi
called a State Convention at Cauastota
2sth niHi mt. It is meant, that the Conventioi
should be held in the County, which, amonj
all the Counties of the laud, is the Banne
County" of the Liberty Party—a County
which, ere that Party corrupted itself, ha<
carried up its vote as high as eighteen hun
find—a County, too, in which the Hoods o
defection have, perhaps, swept off a less pro
portion of the members of the Liberty Party
than they have swept off in »ny othei
County.
'Piie proposed Slate Convention should b<
largely attended from this County. For th<
purpose of promoting such attendance, an<
of strengthening each other's hearts, let ui
hold a County Convention in Peterboro oi
Friday, the lofli instant, beginning at 10 A
M. We choose Peterboro, because it, like
Cauastota, is a place of interesting associa
tions to the abolitionists. It was in Canastota
that the Liberty Party resolved to erect
monument upon the grave of Myron Holley
its great founder: —and when, thirteen yean
ago, the friends of the slave were driven fron
1 tica by an infuriated mob, Peterboro wa?
the only place, truth-loving and brave enougl
to afford them a safe retreat. Peterboro is
also, the place, in which the Liberty Part)
first dared ro tell the slave, that he is a man
and has the rights of a man.
We hope for a large Convention the 15t!i
instant. We liojhj, that the friends of the
poor white man, as well as of the poor black
man—in a w ord, tin; friends of righteous Civil
Government—will attend it, in great numbers.
Among ihe speakers will be J. K. Kigali ol
New-York who will present the cause of the
Land Reform Parts.
Aside from the Liberty league and Land
Reform Party, which have the same Presi
dential candidate, that the Liberty Party has,
there are four political parties in the country.
Their real character on this subject of slavery
is to be ascertained, not by looking to their
professions and boasted platforms; but by
looking to their candidates.
Ist. The Presidential candidate of the
Whig Party is celebrated for nothing else than
recommending the use of bloodhounds in the
war of tiiis nation against the poor innocent
Florida Indians —for his success in butcher
ing the unoffending Mexicans; —for owning
and working, without wages, three hundred
of his fellow-men —for confessed utter igno
rance of Civil Government —and for having
never cast a vote.
2d. The Presidential candidate of the
Deinocatic Party is distinguished, as a dem
agogue, and as a tool of the slave power.
od. We come, now, to the Presidential
candidate of the. Free-Soil Party. Of his
horrid past we will not speak, since it is said,
(we fear only said,) that he lias repented ol
it. He is, indeed, opposed to the extension
of slavery into the regions of which we have
robbed Mexico. We arc happy that he is:
and, because he is, we warmly hope, that
Whigs and Democrats will vote lor linn, ra
ther than for Cass, or Taylor, llut, he will
not lift a linger in behalf of the three millions
of American slaves —and, though he says,
that lie would no longer veto a hill to deliver
the slaves of the District of Columbia, he still
thinks it inexpedient to deliver them. .Strange
candidate this lor Abolitionists! Abolitionists
may well rejoice in this Free-Soil movement
—for it is a part of the effect of their own
doings and it shows, that they have got the
anti-slavery load half way up the hill. Hut
to get it up the other half, or even to prevent
it rolling hack to the bottom, they must keep
on pulling. Let them pull, patiently, a year
or two longer, and the Fiee-Soilere also will
stand on the top of the lull, and will also he
Abolitionists. Hut, no more progress will
the Free-Soilers make, after the Abolitionists
shall have gone down to them. The locomo
tive is then d taehed ami both roll hack into
a common ruin.
4ih. U remains to say, that the Presidential
candidate of the Liberty Party is not such an
alMihtionist, as Zachary Taylor; nor such an
abolitionist, as ljcwis Cass; nor such an abo
litionist as Marlin Van Huron; —hut that he
is such an abolitionist, as Gerrit Sum It.
Riism'll Hall, Samuel Wells,
William iloud, Hiram P. Croricr,
Edwin l«e\\is, Titus Gilliert,
Sul 1 1 ran; Southfield;
Young Lewis, Ahishal Seolfield,
Harvey laois, U. T. Hooker,
Warren lark, Lewis Chappell,
George Ilixon, William Gardiner,
L A. Willson, Chailes li. Plumhly,
Willard Colton, Amusa I<ord,
Ambrose Hill, Orson Peck ham,
Stillman Spinner, Hamilton;
Washington Stiokney, A. L. Saunders,
Lima; lirookfield
Horace Stowcll, Otis Simmons,
Kara Campbell, G. M. L. Simmons,
!Annan William A. Simmons,
Eleaier Seymour, Seth Hitchcock,
Samuel Thomas, Jr. Samuel Brownell,
Allen Kingsbury, Sidney Tompkins,
hoi jo Madison
State or Parties in the Hoisr or Rs
mese.ntativts.—Tin.* inquiry is often mads
as to the result of the Presidential contest,
in the event ot its being carried into ths
House of Representatives. Although there
is but little i fiance of anv such thing, we
subjoin the political complexion of that Immlv,
I'V State* premising, what ever) one knows’
that if no one candidate shall have a majority
of all the F, kdor.il votes, ~n> of the thru
highest candidates voted fur hy the |>eo|i]e
hall Ik- selected by the House of Repre
sentatives—cacti State casting lint one vote
IVAtg. Tad.
Marne. Vermont. N. Hampslme,
Virginia, M.iKtarhu*clts, Rhode Island.
•S. Carolina, t onriecUrut, (Georgia—G
Alabama, Nww \<»rk,
Mississippi, Pennsylvania,
laoiisiaua, N« w Jersey,
Texv, I Via ware,
Arkansas, Maryland,
Missouri, N. t srolioa,
Tennessee, Horida,
Indiana, Ohio,
Illinois, Kentucky—l 2.
Michigan,
Wisconsin,
lowa -15.
iin re are not B irnburners enough in any
ef tin- Deiijociat Slates to effect tlm vote for
I' iss; vi that, if the People do not elect a
President, the Baltimore nominee will he
tery likclv to have eh-ar sailing in C digress.
Alt'omf Jooi tat
l iJ" W'JWII cslcuds from Lake Michi
gan to the Lake of the Wundt—a distance
of a thousand Uiih'B. Dividing the whole
terntoi) into two q tai pans ea« ii pait would
he Lig- u tii ;rc.4t State of New Voik
ff oanh Protectl#® t'lioa.
At a meeting held August 18th, 1848, a
the Hall of tHe Mechanica* Protect ten th<
following Preamble and Comtituioo wen
adopted, vht:
Whereas, These troth* are arif-evident
that all women a* well a* men, lore create*
equal—that they are endowed alike will
inherent and inalienable rights—that the lawi
of nature and nature** Chid, entitle then
equally with men to the product* of their iaboi
jor it* equivalent; and Whereas, the usages
and customs of society are soch at the pres
ent day a* to exert a prejudicial influence or
woman as a class—having a tendency to op
press and injure, rather than elevate and
benefit—to degrade and impoverish, rather
than enrich and enlighten-—to encroach upon
their right* and privilege*—to subvert their
l»cnt interests, making them subservient to the
will of man—to obstruct, if not entirely to
close all avenues leading to those stations of
honor and respectability to which nature and
right of equality so justly eatitle them —and
whereas, individual effort is found insufficient
to correct the existing evils of society in this
respect:
Therefore, We whose names are hereunto
annexed, do agree to associate ourselves to
gether for the purpose of our individual and
collective benefit and protection —and for the
purpose of securing harmonious action, we do
adopt the following.
CONSTITUTION
Article 1. The name of this Society shall
he Woman’s Protection I’nion,” of the city
of Rochester, and shall be composed of such
person* as will sign this Constitution.
Article 2. The officei* shall be a Presi
dent, Vice-President, Secretary and Trea
surer, who shall bold their offices for the term
|of six months. r
Article 3. Each woman on becoming a
member, shall pay the sum of five cents;
each man, the sum of twenty-five-cents but
when the time shall arrive that woman receive
an equality of remuneration for the aaroe la
bor performed as men—then this inequality of
assessment shall cease.
Article 4. The weekly dues shall be one
cent for women and twacents for men.
Article 5. The regular Meetings of the
Society, shall be held on Friday, semi-month
ly—and ten members may form a quorum.
I The officers of the Society for the present
term, are,
Mrs. ROBERTS, President.
Mrs. Cavan, Vice-President.
Miss S. C. Owens, Secretary.
Mrs. Amt Post, Treasurer.
The Regular Meeting will be held on Fri
day, September 15th, at halt past 6 P. M.,
at the Hall of the Mechanics’ Protection,!
where the friunds of the movement are res-j
pectfully invited to attend aud give such
counsel, assistance and support, as may be in
their power.
SARAH C. OWENS, Secretary.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, SEPTEMBER 15, 1848.
Steamboat Oregon,
Lake Erie, 9th Sept. 1848.
Mv Dear North Star I secure this,
my first opportunity of writing since our ab
rupt separation at midnight between Monday!
and 1 uesday 4th and sth of September. I
j propose now to tell you of a few of the
1 sights and scenes through which I have pass
ed since that parting. On taking the cars
from Rochester to Buffalo, I found them
densely crowded With passengers on their
way to the great State Fair, which opened on
Tuesday. The developments of character
among our passengers, during the whole
passage from Rochester to Buffalo, showed
conclusively that a large quantity of rare
caftle would be exhibited at the Fair,
j Dialogues of the following description might
i be heard after leaving some of the most prom
j inent watering stations
Out of Scat —Sir, you have got my seat.
In the S>/jt —You are mistaken, Sir I was
directed to this scat hy the conductor.
Out of Seal —Sir, 1 don’t care a d—n
j about that; I have paid twelve dollars for
this scat, and have held it ever since I left
Albany, and shall have it again d d quick
j too, and you had better leave it.
In the Seal —l shall do no such thing
when a seat is vacant it is as free for one
gentleman as another.
Out of Scat —l appeal to the gentleman on
the other side if I have not held this seat ever
since I left Auburn. (The gentleman on the
other side sits silent, evidently wishing to
avoid a row.)
In the Seat —A man’s right to a seat ceases
w hen he leaves it and there is nothing of his
left in it to show that lie intends to return to
it again. This scat was entirely vacant
when 1 took it.
Out of the Scat —Now Sir, you have two
things before you you must either come out
of that seat, or be dragged out, for have that j
1 scat I will.
In the Scat —Drag away as quick as you 1
please; but you may find you have got the
i wrong pig by the ear. (Loud laughter on
the part of the passengers, and cries of Hold.
on to your seat.)
The seated man having got the grin of the j
importunate upstander, and there being no 1
probability of gaining his seat, he marchesi
peaceably into another car amid the jeers of
the surrounding passengers.
Tuesday morning, sth Sept. 7 o'clock.—l
am in Buffalo; have met with brother Delany
and Mr. Langston, and m company with
ihetn and Mr. A. H. Francis of Buffalo, and
Wm. H. Topp, of Albany, proceed to the
steamlioat Pacific, destined up the lakes, and
[taking Cleveland in its course. This bw t
has the name of bring under the control of
slaveholders, and is said to have printed on
th** Iwck of its tickets—“ This boat is in
tended for the accommodation of southern
passengers.” I certainly expected rough fate
ou board this Imat, and was pleasantly sur
prised to find the opfioaite. Hie captain and
whole slop's company, as w<ll as Uie pass
engers, treats myself and company with tl e
ntiu«*t kindness and attenltoo during the
whole tup; and so far as I am myself con
''t rued, he passed me along without charge
N.rily, a great change is tiking pace m the
j public mind, and, as General Cass says, J
confess 1 Maud affected by that change.
I Du Wednesday morning, Gib Sept., w« were
•Mlcly lamb'd on the shores of beautiful
Cleveland. Delany and myself accepted the
kind hospitality of Gapt MnJvin, huusclf a
colored man, and n»«bly striving to elevate the
chataeier of colored men. At eleven o'clock
the (ouvcntitm meet in the (Vmrt I loose
There are delegates from various parts o<
Ohio, Illinois, Michigan, New York, and
Canada, and a fine looking set of men they
are, just the sort to take the lead to the great
cause of moral, aortal, aud mental elevation.
Here I shall skip the proceedings of the Con
vention. as I mean to *»y t- them
when I get under your own modcM beams in
Km liule room it borne where we took oo
Midnight parting.
lam now on the steamboat bound to Bdh
In, and for the first time during the lant few
rears find mv«el» almost cntirplr amoagstrsn
ge r», and therefore enjoy the happiness of a
temporary repose. The deportment of ofln
cen and men, is respectful tod polite, subject
ing roe to oo deeper degradation than prohibit*
j tag me from eating with the hungry herd at
whites who generally swarm the first table—
no great degradation alter all, hot still not
exactly as it ought to be. My Dear Mr.
Francis, who is on board in company with
Mr*. Francis, has just told a gentleman who
I am, aad they insist upon me to give theta
an Anti-slavery speech. A vote is takea,
by which 1 am unanimously invited to speak,
the Captain himself consenting. 1 am told
that this is the first trip of the Oregon"
when a colored man has been allowed a cabin
passage. Another Oregon” free soil victo
ry. Oh! the cause is rulliog oa; Believing
that this was s favorable opportunity for.influ
encing the popular mind, 1 accepted the invita
tion to make a speech. The audience listen
ed to me without the slightest manifestation
of approval on the one hand or dissent on the
other. The passengers were evidently stran
gers to each other's views, and the political
excitement now abroad and the breaking up
of the old parties made it still more difficult to
applaud or condemn, for you know our North
em people are very independent and are pecw
liarly careless of public opinion. During my
remarks, 1 convicted the slaveholder of thef
and robbery, and considering myself among
strangers to the anti-slavery subject, I font
tied myself on every hand and hemmed the
slaveholder in beyond the possibility of escape.
At the close of my remarks, I invited any
persons who might feel disposed to question
any of my positions, to avail themselves of
the opportunity of doing so, for 1 was ready
to submit my speech to the closest examina
tion. Here a scene transpired which would
require the pen of a Jcrrold to describe. A
man rose with the most contemptuous sneer
on his face, and said, If there are any slave
holders on board, he supposed they were
white gentlemen and it was not to be suppos
ed that any white man would condescend to
discuss this question with a nigger He
was himself a slaveholder, and I had called
him a thief and a robber, &c. At the close of
this little speech, finding the passengers pleas
ed with the verdancy of the slaveholding gen
tleman, I replied to his speech in a somewhat
facetious account of my gcncolagy. I inform
ed the gentleman that he was much mistaken
in supposing me to be a nigger, that I was but
a half negro—that my Dear father was as
white as himself, and if he could not conde
scend to reply to negro blood,to reply to the Eu
ropean blood. Here the “grin” wascompletc-
Jy on the poor slaveholder. I then went on
to show that he had sssumed a little too much
in presuming all slaveholders to be white,
and cited cases of black men, who were slave
holders—showing that though we may differ
widely in the complexion of our skins, we are
identical in the color of our morals, It was
easy to see that the slaveholder felt himself
losing favor with the passeugers. When I
sat down, he rose again as if in utter despera
tion, he stamped upon the deck and said that
he had travelled ia various parts of this nouo
try, that he thought he knew something of
the public sentiment of the country, and that
nothing but the actual knowledge which he
had that night acquired, could have made him
believe that such sentiments and impudence
as he had heard from my lips, could be tolera
ted and applauded by white men in any part
of this Union. The only effect produced by
tins exclamation of astonishment and chagrin,
was, to bring to his feet a Northern man who
whined out an apology for the slaveholder,
on the ground that almlitionists had not been
sufficiently careful of thefeelingsof slavehold
ers.—That bad as was the condition of the
slave, the poor slaveholder was in the most
unfortunate condition of the two. This open
ed up another view of the subject and induce
ed a comparison of the relative condition of
the slave and Uie slaveholder, and led to an
interesting discussion in which a number of
the passengers participated. The meeting
continued from about eight in the evening to
ten o'clock, and the meeting adjourned. The
whole affair showed the great change going
on in tire public mind on the subject of
slavery.
Yours for Freedom,
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
Initials. —ln compliance with the wishes
of numerous correspondents, we shall here
after append our own initials—F. D.—to all
articles from our pen published in the North
Star. Our friend and colaborer, M. R. De
lany, will probably append his initials to arti
cles written by himself. This arrangement is
adopted solely to gratify our readers, and not
because there is the slightest division of senti
ment between ourselves.
lEP We account to our readers for the
small anKMiot of editorial matter in our last
number, by our absence from home and at
tendance at the Colored National Convention
held last week in Cleveland. For much of
the interest given to that number, we are in
debted to the industry and devotedness of our
Publisher. We deem ourselves most fortun
ate in having in our office not only an experi
enced and practical printer, but one who holds
the pen of a ready writer, and whose heart is
deeply imbued with the spirit of freedom and
human Iwocherhood. We have had many
assurances from our readers that the articles
of J 1). are read with delight. We nope he
will often feel called upon to appear in our
columns.—r. D.
Noble Miss lhx recently visited the
Maryland Penitentiary, and presented the
convicts with 900 books, the nnelotts of a
Penitentiary Libiary.
Hon. Hokace Menu, of Mask., has writ
ten a letter declining to take sides fc*r either
candidate fur President. He also Mates that
lie w ill not he a eanduhtc for re-elerfftll

Tbk Montreal papers are hi led with rumor*
of the intended owieuatiop of Lord Ogw, the
Governor General.
Tua Lowell Era calls its neighbor U iht
Courier, The great Taylor Banjo," and
ays it has too mueh love of church music te
call it an organ
It is estimated that steam power effects w
Enclvnd a sanng of<n much labor as cnoM
be done by there hundred millions of men.
r Mini tattoatl c M n«tf m at dm-
We return (bn this Cwiieetina whfc a
r higher sense of tk exceltente of ebmctet
aai nental ability of oor people, then we
i hare ever entertained before. Cat off from
them far lew yean peat by the dutiesof oor
vocation u a lecturer, and aeldom ametiag
them when their characters and sentiments
r coold be well determined, we had almost
eome to think that they eared very little abont
the fettered bondman, and leas shoot their own
deration and improvement. No man with
soeh impressions eoold bare gone to a better
plan than the Colored National Convention
at Clerelaad, daring the last week, to hare;
soeh impressions entirely removed. He woald
hare witsemed an deration of sentiment, s
warm philanthropy, an ardent lore of free
dom, an earnestness of purpose, a bril-
Itaaee of talent, and a dignity of deportment,
which would hare done discredit to no
ddiberatire assembly ever held in this coun
try. We fed proud to be associated and
identified with these, our maligned and de
spised fellow-country men. The Conreotioo,
taken as a whole, was tbe most satisfactory
and unexceptionable of any colored conven
tion which we ever attended. Whilst there
wag manifested a variety of views, warmly
set forth and insisted upon by the various
speakers, there was a commendable toleration
and forbearance towards each other, as well
as an abnsnCe of party or Seetional feeling,
quite surpassing say convention which we
ever attended: There appeared te be but one
heart and one soul in tbe Convention, and that
was pervaded by one spirit. Every one
seemed to be deeply desirous of getting at the
best means for improving oar condition at the
North, and removing every hindrance to the
emancipation of our brethien at the South.
Having but just returned from this Conven
tion, and withal quite jaded out with our la
bors during the past week, we shall not be
able to give our readers that detailed account
of its proceedings which they might have ex
pected in this number of the North Star.—
They will, however, be content to" wait a
“little longer,” when we assure them that an
authenticated and carefully drawn up account
of those proceedings will be speedily pub
lished by the industrious and talented Secreta
ries, whose able and accurate discharge of the
duties incumbent upon them, commanded the
high respect and the warm gratitude of the
Convention that appointed them.
There was no feature of the Convention
more gratifying, than the spirit with which it
was regarded by the white citizens of Cleve
land. On these, the Convention exerted a
most cheering influence Our day meetings
were all largely attended by white poisons,
while our evening meetings were literally
thronged, many being compelled to leave the
Court House and the Tabernacle.(large rooms
where the Convention was alternately held,)
unable to gain admission. As an indication
of the change which has taken ptace in the
public mind in reference to our people, we
may state that the Court actually adjourned
several hours earlier in consequence of the
Court House hiving been previously engaged
to the Convention. This change in public
opinion, and its superiority to tbe law, was
frequently referred to during the interesting
discussions of the Cue vss toon. It will be re
raembeted that Ohio is disgraced by what are
called black laws, (and such they are.) One
of those laws forbids colored men to come
into her borders without giving bonds that
they will not become paupers and a public
expense, and all such persons are liable to
arrest if found in the State. But here such
is the change of public opinion, that we are
not only welcomed within her borders, but her
law administrators throw open the doors of
her public buildings for our accommodation.—
We call upon slaveholders and their abettors
to mark this fact, and we also call upon our
colored biethrcn to mark it, and hail it, as a
sign of the good time coming, when
worth, not complexion, shall be the test
of respectability and excellence. During the
whole three days of the Convention, we did
not hear of a single indignity offered by a
white citizen of Cleveland to a colored man.
It is true, when we entered tbe city and went
to the New Eifjgland Hotel, there was mani
fested on the part of the bar-keeper of that
house, a slight want of courtesy when ques
tioned to know if ho could accommodate us
but this treatment stopped at that hotel. The
delegates who went to the American Hotel,
and also those who put up at the Durham
House,” were treated with the respect and
attention commonly paid to other travellers,
and we have not beard of any of the white
inmates or boarders who raised the slightest
objection to this treatment of colored persons.
The Dunham House, one of the most orderly
and elegantly conducted hotels in the city .was
peculiarly free from skin aristocracy, and we
would especially recommend that house to the
attention of all the travelling friends of “free
■oil, free men, and free speech,'* who may
chance to pass through or stop any length of
time in Cleveland. We are sure that they
will find in that bouse a rare combination of
those excellencies of character in the propri
etor, and all connected with its management,
which make a temporerary home in a hotel
pleasant and agreeable.
We feel sure that the Convention, if its
influence shall not extend even beyond the
limits of Cleveland, has done a sufficient
amount of good to justify the bedding of it;
but its influence will not stop there. The
delegates in attendance from Illinois, Michi
gan, Ohio, and New York, will return to the
various circles who sent them, and carry to
them new zeal, an increased knowledge, a
firm determination to dedicate their energies
lo higher and holier objects than those to which
we, as a people, have been too long and too
deeply devoted. They will tell them that
they can only be free whom the truth makes
free; that in order to elevation, ihetr lives
ninst be in-harmony with the truth that they
must add to thetr faith virtue, knowledge,
brotherly kindness and charity that earth
and perdition cannot prevail against a eharac
ter made up of such heaven-dcaoended qual
ities.—r. o.
Htsav Clay iy nijiiu).—At a meet-
m Poughkeepsie, a few day* unce,
Clay *a» loainatnl m eMMrtm
whh Millard r&motm, with tbe design of
fon *u*« an electoral ticket on that basar A
ha» trace been held in New York,
at which a resolution wat> pasted, pledging
tboaa prebeat to vole for Henry Clay.
C. c. Baric Jgh.
The speech of the advocate of Human
at the rWkoo*e on Tuesday eve
i w*® of Wa ablest aflorts. For two
boom he enchained by h» invincible logic and
thrilliag eloqaence, a large and delighted audi
ence. The burden of h» speech, was a most
complete exposure of the exorbitant demands
of the Sooth, and the unmanly and mean sub
aemency of the North to the abre power,—
a theme peculiarly inteiesting at this ens’s.
The meeting closed by a unanimous rote of
thanks to Mr. Barlcigh, and a pressing invi
tation to him to remain in Monroe county and
lecture for some weeks. Mr. Burleigh
stated that his engagements were each as to
make it out of his power to remain in Monroe
county, his appointments being already made
east of Albany.—r. n.
B 7 We publish in another place an address
to the Liberty party of Madison county, New
York—not because we agree with its senti
ments, but because we desire that any class
of sbolitionists, sincerely laboring for the
overthrow of slavery and all its infernal train
of ills, should be fairly heard, especially at
this crisis. We do not sympathize with its
regrets that the old Liberty party ia over
thrown but, on the contrary, we believe
that, so far as the real and vital anti-slavery
sentiment of the country is concerned, that
sentiment will have a better field for its opera
tion now, than when subjected and hampered
by a political organization. The friends of the
slave may now press their cause upon popular
attention, without awakening the suspicion
that they are aiming to attain the loaves and
fishes—office. The spirit of fieedom now
swings free from the galling fetters of party
creeds, and may once more devote itself to its
legitimate work of enlightening the public
mind, purifying the national hearts, waging
its warfare against a slavery-sanctioning
church and dumb-dog ministry, and thus
hastening the jubilee to millions. We are,
however, far from feeling surprise that those
who have relied so implicitly on political ac
tion for the overthrow of slavery, should be
greatly aggrieved at the unceremonious swal
lowing up of the Liberty organization by the
Free Soil party. Nor are we disposed to cen
sure as much as admire their tenacity in
clinging to an instrumentality from which
they hope to gain such an important result as
that of dragging the Free Soil party to the
summit of the anti-slavery hill.— r. d.
Official Appointment. Charles 11.
Langston, Esq., has been duly appointed by
the Most Worthy Patriarch of the P. O. of
Sons of Temperance, Deputy Grand Worthy
Patriarch for the State of Ohio, and Deputy
Most Worthy Patriarch for the West, extend
ing into all the States West of the Allegha
nics, with full power to establish Divisions
and grant charters, which he is now well pre
pared to do. He requests that the Divisions
in Ohio and elsewhere will be prepared to
adjust their business on his visiting them.—
He succeeds Messrs. David Jenkins, of Co
lumbus, Ohio, and A. M. Sumner, formerly
of Cincinnati.
The Bangor Gazette comes to us this
week under a new name. “It was suggested
by our allies,” says the editor, as likely to
allay a prejudice which might be an objection
to it as the organ of a new party.” It wjl)
henceforth be called the Platform, and ad
vocate the Buffalo nominations and “no further
extension of slavery.”
As Interesting Fact. —Mr. I)yeT, one
of the publishers of the American Phono
graphic Journal,” in one of the numbers of
that work, replying to the question often put
to him Whether he ever reported a speech
or an address actually verbatim 7” replies, that
he has so reported the speeches of many of
the most distinguished speakers in the United
States and in Oanada, but that very few
speeches are published verbatim, being not
suitable for publication until revised and that
the only two speeches of all that he had
reported, which did noi need such revision,
were, one by the Governor-General of Can
ada, and the other by Frederick Douglass
Does a black man know anything?—Chris
tian Contributor.
American Literature Abroad. —Th
question which a British reviewer so arrogant
ly raised some years ago, Who reads a
American bookV has lately been answered i
a way not very flattering to the slareholdin
portion of our country-men. The eloquer
and touching narrative of Frederick Douglas*
who a few years ago was a field slave i
Maryland, has been translated into the Frenc
language, and is finding a rapid sale in th
new Republic.—J. G. W. —National Era.
Vie de Frederic Douglass, Esclave Ame
ricain &c. &c. Paris, 1848.
By the politeness of the Translator, w
have been favored with a copy of this transla
tion into French of Frederick Douglass’
Life. It makes a very neat 18 mo. volume
IU6 pages, and is beautifully printed.
Miss. Sarah K. Parses, of Bristol, En
gland, is the Translator, and she appears t
have executed the work with great fidelity
skill and good taste. Wo have enjoyed
new pleasure in reading in a new languagi
this admirable autobiography. We wish w<
could say the work ts for sale in this country
but we understand that only two copies of i
have been sent here. We hope that at leas
a few others may be spared for this side u
the water.
The translator has given an original Pre
face, introducing the work in a judicious am
appropriate manner to its French readers
We may perhaps give s translation of thii
Preface in a future number of the Liberator
In justice to Miss Parke* we must add thai
the Labor bestowed upon this translation war
wholly voluntary, a ftee-will offering to the
Anti- cause, and a pnxd of her zeal
ous attachment to it. Nowhere has the shvi
firmer or truer friends thao in Bristol.
We have observed, in reading the Narra
live, a few errors of the French printer u
giving some of the names of persons an<
places but they are of slight importance
—M .—Liberator.
Conxr Trapping*.—The uniform and
ornaments of the celebrated Mexican (General
Valencia, on whose bead the bUmn of the de
feat at Contreras was heaped by Santa Anna,
arc said to hare been worth 20,000 when
he was in full feather. Hejtaeewwed a tangle
jeweled sword which cost 10,000.
A writer in an Irish journal, in mentioning
tbc}wreck of a vessel, rejoices that all lh<-
crew were saved, except fear hogsheads of
tobacco.
A fellow had to erase a river, and entered
the bent on horseback being asked the cause
He replied, I must rale becaoso I aio in a
burry/*
ID* Those who wish to purchase Watches,
Clocks, Jeweliy, Stc will do well to cal! at
the store af John Kedzie it Co., N. I| t Sut*
street. See tdvctiiusg columns.
I State Liberty C*areattoa of Imm*
The Liberty Sute Conrcation met m the
MHodeou, Boston, on Wednesday the Olh
lost. Mr. Smith announced from the Com*
1 mjttee a set of Resolutions which were read

by Joshua lieatitt, as follows
Whereas, at the Free Soil Contention held
at Buffalo on the 9th of August, of llie
friends of freedom of all political parties, a
1 oordial union was effected, embracing a plat
form of the liberty patty, and candidates for
the offices of President and Vice-President,
were nominated to represent that platform—
Resol red, That we cordially adopt the plat
form of principles of said Convention, and are
Geparcd t« give our moat zealous support to
artin Tan Duren and Charles r rancis
Adams.
Resolved, That at 12 o’ckx* today, this
Convention will proceed to the Treroont
Temple, and there merge and mingle our
selves with the State Convention of the free
democracy, in forming a Stale organisation,
and recommending candidates for Slate officers
to support the Buffalo platform.
Resolved, That John P. Hale had onr
hearty confidence, when he was nominatod
for the Presidency he won our admiration
by his course in' the Senate, and he has
secured the first place in our heart of hearts,
by his magnanimous course in reference to 1
the late Buffido Convention.
Resolved, That the members of our State
Central Committee be requested to act here
after as a Provisional Anti-Slavery Com
mittee, to take such measures as they may
think proper to promote the anti-slavery
cause, especially in its moral aud general
aspects.
Hoy. Char Lies Francis Adams has writ
ten a letter to the editor of the Boston Repub
lican, explanatory of certain charges which
he made against Martin Van Buren, in a
pamphlet, the object of which was to rouse
the sluggish feelings of the people of the
free States against the slaveholding plot of
the annexation of Texassome passages
from which had been quoted by Mr. Ashman,
of Mass., with the view of damaging the Free
Soil movement. After referring to Mr. Van
Buren’s letter to Mr. Hammett of Miss., on
the annexation of Texas, which, he says,
cost Mr. Van Buren the nomination,” Mr.
Adams proceeds: m
u I need not say that my opinion of Mr.
Van Buren was changed from that day, and
throughout the canvass of 1814, as well as
since, wherever I addressed my fellow citi
zens, I took occasion to enlarge upon this
fact to the honor of that gentleman. For
much as 1 still disapproved of many of his
former acts, 1 became convinced that there
was a point beyond which he would not go,
and that point had been reached in the case of
Texas. Since that time I have watched his
course w ith anziety and not without appre
hension and occasional fluctuations of opinion
until the Buffalo Convention. And the result
of all my observation is, that he seems to me
to have done more to concentrate and rally
the friends of Liberty of all parties in the
Free States, than all the leading members
put together of the lata Whig party, who
now, by way of proving their zeal against
the extension of slavery, advocate the claims
to the Presidency of the only slaveholder in
the field.
A Free Soil Mass Meeting was held
in Fancuil Hall, Boston, on Wednesday,
Sept. 6th, when John Van Buren delivered
an address, in which he replied to Daniel
Webster’s Marshfield oration. An immense
crowd of enthusiastic Free Soil men were
present.
Free Soil in Westminster. At a meet
ing held in W'jstmins ar, Mass., the follow
ing, among other resolutions, was adopted
Resolved, That slavery being the sum of
all villanies,” should lie made disreputable
That to dignify slaveholders, we dignify the
accursed institution, and thereby prolong its
existence. Consequently, from this time
henceforth, we will regard all slaveholders
and all slavery extensionists as morally ineli
gible for any office within the gift of the
American people.
Ex-Governor Thomas of Maryland, has
written a letter, in which he goes for Free
Soil and the Free Soil candidates, Van Buren
and Adams.
It is said lhat Major Ileiss, one of ihc Edi
tors of the Washington Union, is in favor of
Free Soil.
ICpTlic Cincinnati Ifei'ald says that ten of
the members elect to the Indiana legislature,
1 six of them democrats, are pledged not to vote
fur any man for U. S. Senator, who is not op
j posed to both Taylor and Cass.
ir~pThc Ballston Democrat, published in
Saratoga County, has struck the name of
Cass and Butler from the head of the sheet
and put up Van iluren and Adams.
Tite Fulton I’atriot, the only Hunker paper
iu Oswego county, lias hauled down the Cass
flag, and will hereafter suppoit Van Buien
and Adams.
The Wisconsin Rock County Democrat”
strikes the Cass flag and runs up Van Buren.
The New York Express is defending Fill
more against the charges of Southerners,
that he is an Abolitionist."
The Government has given orders to offi
cers and other authorities on the frontier of
Mexico, to oppoae the Sierra Madre expedi
tion or Buffalo Hunt," by prompt andeflbe- i
tual means.
The seamstresses of New York, are about j
holding a public meeting for the purpose of
taking into consideration the low state of wa
ge*.
Ihe Cincinnati Riot has f>een quelled.
The outrage charged against lift soldiers lias
been found to he false. The physician who
lesiified to terrible injuries inflicted upon a
girl of eight years of age, has been arrested
on a etiarge of perjury. Some dozen (arsons
were wounded in the affray, by shots fired
from the jail. Three or four have since died.
Lite in Texah.—A difficulty lately oc
curred ui lie Wlit county, Texas, between
Messrs. Poinsett and BriaseU, partners ui
trade. Putruwu shot Bhsaett in the lliigh
with a revolving pistol, and the hater seized
a gun and A** Poinsett through tl»e head,
kilting him instantly.
lEJ’ land Ashburton so well known in the
negiHiation of the North-eastern Bouudry
Ueaty, died near Bath, England, May 14,
aged 75.
An Ocean Steamcn. —The New York
Journal of (bommeree notices the launching
at that city, on Saturday, of a largo steamer
called tl»e Oregon- of 1300 ton* burthen, be*
tng third and last vessel of Messrs Howland
and AspuiwalPs Pacific lane, (or the West
ern const of South America, as contracted for
by the Government The pioneer of the
Ime, the Cakfer nta, leaves Pn the Pacific oa
the first of October next, and the Panama
will follow la December or thereabout
Gei. Taylor a MavehuMer.
The friends of Gen. Taylor would like to
hare it believed that he owns no slaves; bat
that they are all the property of bis wife.—
The following disgraceful dtfCUftlCTft, hr which
men and women are coolly disponed of by
name on payment of a certain amount of the
dollars of this subbine candidate for the Pre
sidency of this free Republic, makes this
matter plain. It unfurnished by s Southern
correspondent of the Ohio Standard. Will
our unblushing Whig cotemporaries still per
sist in holding up t this corrupt soldier and
slaveholder before |he people, as second
Washington Such an uuolt to the memory
of Washingtoo, imperfect as even he was in
some respects, is enough to make his bones
start from the grave with indignation.
New Oitum, Aug. 4, 1848.
Dcxa S is I herewith transmit to yon a
copy of the Deed of sale from John Hagard,
senior, to General Taylor of a plantation,
horses, and slaves, Ac. jj incw
General Taylor's return from Mexico he has
also purchased slaves. In May last, he pur
chased in the name of his son, Richard Tay
lor, four slaves of W. M. Williams. On the
6th of June last he purchased of B. M.Camp
bell two slaves for the sum of $1500,00. He
inspected the negroes, and examined them to
see if they were sound. Gave his draft on
the Canal Bank of this city.
DEED OF SALE.
John Hazard. Sr.
to Deed
Zachary Taylor. lBlh eb 1843
This Indenture, made this 21st day ef
Apnl, 1842, between John Hagard, Sr. of
of the city of New Orleans, State of Louisi
ana, of one part, and Zachary Taylor, of the
other part, VI ttness, that the said Johu Hag
an!, Sr, fur and in consideration of the sum of
ninety-five thousand dollar* to him in And,
paid and secured to be paid, as herein stated
by the said Zachary Taylor, at and before the
sealing and delivering of these presents, has
this day bargained, sold, delivered, conveyed,
and confirmed, and by these presents does
bargain, sell, deliver and confirm unto the said
Zachary Taylor, his heirs and assigns, for
ever, all that plantation and tract of land:

ALSO, tho folhnring slaves
Nelsgn, Milley, Peggy, Pelden, Mason, Wil
lis, Rachael, Caroline, Lucinda, Randall,
v\jrma, Carson, Little Ann, Winna, Jane,
Tom, Sally, Gracia, Big Jane, I«nm, Maria,
Charles, Barnard, Mira, Sail/, Carson, Paul,
Sansford, Mansfield, Harry (Men, Harry Hur
ley, Carter, Henrietta, Ben, Charlotte, I)iek f
Henrietta, Clarissa, Ben, Anthony, Jacob,
Hamby, Jim, Gabriel, Kmehne, Arniistead,
George, Wilson, Chorry, Peggy, Wallace,
Bartlett, Manila, Ijetitta, Barbara, Matilda,
Lucy, John, Sarah, Big Ann, Allen, Tom
George, John, Dick, bidding, Nelson or
Isom,Winna, Shellod, Lidney, Little Cherry,
Sam, Hannah or Anna, Mary, Ellen, Henri
etta, and two small children Also, all tho
Horses, Mules, Cattle, Hogs, Farming Uten
sils now on said plantation—together with all
and singular, the hereditaments, appurtenan
ces, privileges, and advantages unto the said
lands and slaves belonging or appertaining.
To have and to hold the said plantation and
tract of land and slaves, and other pro|>erty
above described, unto the said Zachary Tay
lor, his heirs and assigns, forever, and to his
and their only proper use, benefits and be
hoofs, forever. And the said John Hagard,
senior, for himself, heiis, executors, ami ad
ministrators, docs covenant, promise and
agree to and with the said Zachary Taylor,
his heirs and assigns, that the aforesaid,
plantation and tract of land, and slaves, ami
other property, with the appurtenances, unto
the said Zachary Taylor, his heirs and as
signs, against the claim or claims of all per
sons whomsoever claiming or to claim tho
same, or any part or parcel thereof, shall and
will warrant, and by these presents forever
defend. And the said John Hagard, sr.,
hereby observes a special lien and mortgage of
all the before described lands, tenements, he
reditaments, slaves and other property, to se
cure the full and punctual payments of the
following promisory notes, to wit: Six protn
isory notes made by said Zachary Taylor, in
favor of and endoised by Maunsel White
Co., all dated at New Orleans, the 31st day
of December, 1841. Four of them for the
sum of four thousand six hundred and three
dollars, with ten per cent interest from date.
Two payable twelve months after dare. Two
other notes for eight thousand, two hundred
and ninety-four dollars, w ith ten per cent in
terest from date, one payable twelve months
afterdate, the other payable two years after
date. Now, if the said Zachary Taylor, hia
heirs, executors, or assigns, shall well and
truly pay said several sums of money in said
promissory notes specified, with all interest
which may be due thereon, to tho holder or
holders of said notes, then this lien or mort
gage is to cease and determine, and the estate
of the said Taylor in the said Land, planta
tion, Slaves and other property, shall become
absolute and unconditional.
In testimony whereof, the said John Hag
ard, Sr., has hereunto set his hand and seal,
ihe day aud year first above written.
State of Mississippi,
Jefferson County, ss. I, Edwin MeKey r
Clerk of the Probate Court in and for. said
County, do hereby certify that the within and
foregoing instrument of w riting is a true and
perfect copy taken from the Records, as Re
corded in my office in Book E. of Deeds, &c.
pages 220, 221, 222.
SK U J Given under my hand and Seal
{of office, this 24ui day of July*
A. I). 1848.
(Signed,) EDWIN McKEY, Clerk.
By A. W. Ford, 1). C.
Taxable property of Zachariah Taylor for
ihc year 1848, being in Jefferson county, Mis
sissippi, as estimated by the Tax Assessor of
said county.
Number of Slaves 114 Tax $lOO 41
acres of taxable land 2100 Tax 84 80
I Certify the foregoing estimate of the
Slate, County and School Tax on the above
mentioned property m Jefferson County, State
of Mississippi, for the year 1848, to be true
and correct.
(Signed.) O. S. MILES,
Tax Assessor, Jefferson Co.
ITT The name of the Boston Whig—the
paper established by Chaa. F. Adams—has
been changed to that of Boston Republican.
The editor in announcing this says, the
word Whig is quite as good as ever, but
i rh/U U Standi for is not so good as it ooro
was. There was a ttme when it stood for
opposition to war, opposition to slavery eiUii
won, opposition to Executive usurpations of
all kinds now it stands for Zachary Taylor
for No-Party ism; for slavery extension; for
military glory, and for humbug generally.
W e have bad serious thoughts of bringing an
aruon against the Philadelphia Convention,
for the pecuniary lona to us, consequent upon
the disgrace brought upon the name Whig, by
that body. But finally concluded tbit
we had better make the beat of and a*
•oon as possible, leave the name and wke
a better one.'*
Stkamhoat Bsaaeov— The steamer White
Ro*c. of Ctneianati, was totally destroyed
by fire at Catro, on the 25th ull. She had
tons of freight, nearly all of which
destroyed.
Til pod Mormon Temple Nauroo*
bat been purchased by Isaac Prower for a
Protestant college.
Canandaigua, Sept. 7.
Hoi to a of the North Star— Dear Sir
AM those portion* of my Address to the
Colored Voter* of thia State, which allude to
Mr. Van lhtren's former portion on the qoe»-
non of Slavery in the District of Gdumbia.
are hereby withdrawn. It u> perhaps no more
than jus* that I should add, that his present
position, while very different front what it
once waa, ia very far from being satisfactory.
S. R. WARD.
Gerril Smith and the Anti-Slavery
Standard.
Messrs. Editors I beg a small space i
the columns of your paper, in order that
may call the attention of your readers to ai
article from the pen of Mr. Sidney Howar
Gay, in the Standard of the 31st of August
The article to which I refer, is under th'
eaption of “Changes,” and principally relate
to Gerrit Smith, Esq and is highly seasonc,
with that disingenuousness and uncharitable
new for which Mr. Gay is so remarkable.—
The young gentleman s remarks comroeno
well, but end ungracefully. Hy perusing hii
article, you will perceive, that if for the sake
of a “change,” Mr. Gay raises a mortal t,
the skies,” it is for the purpose of dragging
him down again. But enough is said by wat
of introduction. Head for yourselves, am
compare what you read with the life of thii
great-hearted philanthropist. The Standau
admits that Mr. Smith is an abolitionist, ye
he cannot let the opportunity pass withoui
hawking at him. The vulture, when everso
much pressed with hunger, will not destroy
its own kind. Hear Mr. Gay
The tone of the first part of Mr. Gerrii
Smith’s letter refreshes an old abolitionist who
is not no far carried away by the new move
ment as to forget after all, even if successful,
it will leave the abolition of slavery in the
States a thing to lie contended for as much as
when Garrison first unfurled the banner of
Immediate Emancipation. Though we do
not agree with Mr. Smith in his view of the
Constitution, and therefore can only consider
his position as an absurd one, and his efforts
to establish a [m>lideal party upon tiie ground
of the unconstitiitioriality of slavery ns utterlt
futile, yet we cannot but respect the integrity
which still maintains a position so hopeless,
and the sincerity of which lie gives so strong
an evidence. But should he quite persuade
us that the hope of the slave rests only in him
and his party, we should indeed despair of tlic
Republic wiien, on reading the closing pas
sage of his letter, we learn that after all the
anti-slavery cause is quite a secondary matter,
and that the overthrow of that monoi>oly ol
which he is so distinguished a representative,
is the direct and real road to the destruction ol
the monopoly of laborers. If Mr. Smith
thinks himself a worse man than the slave
holder, his duty as a reformer is surely a plain
one, and his field of labor is not only at he
own door, but in Ins very land office.”
When did Mr. Smith place the destruction
of chattel slavery as a secondary thing to any
of the oppressions that afflict mankind In
fhe spirit of his Divine Master, he labors to
Ibreak every yoke. In the midst of all his ar
duous labtgs in the cause of true reform, he
(has ever looked to that measure as being cal
culated to remove all kinds of slavi ry. His
language is, I regard Land Monopoly, take
the world together as a far more abundant
source of suffering and debasement, than is
slavery.” Take the world together, and you
will find this remark to be true. In many
parts of the world, where there is no chattel
slavery, there do the iron heels of Land Mo
nopolists grind out the life of the suffering
poor. Behold Ireland her mournful history
records volumes. There is no slavery there,
but the oppressions of Land Monopolists have
engendered a lank and haggard famine, and
the famine has swept away its thousands.
Again let slavery be abolished in this
country, and let the land and the labor mo
nopolists have three or font hundred years the
start of the emancipated, and still the free
men will be heavy laden, with an up-hill
course before them. Herein lies the secret of
the trouble in the British West Indies. The
old slaveholders are the landholders, and such
they intend to be. The chains of the las)
slave on earth may be broken in twain, and
•till, while the unholy system of landlordism
prevails, nations and people will mourn. But
the moment that this wide-spread and mon
strous evil is destroyed, the dawn of the gos
pel day will break forth, and the world will
hare rest.
But Mr. Smith is called a a distinguished
representative of Land Monopoly.” This
charge is so utterly untrue, that it is not ne
cessary to ofTer a refutation. There are three
or four thousand poor men in this State who
have received the gift of homes from Mr.
Smith. These, and thousands of others, will
testify against the charge. The most of his
life has been spent in providing for the poor-
Long, long before Mr. Gay became the sala
ried editor of the Standard, did Mr. S. be
gin in his land office, and at his ow n door,” to
act in strict conformity with his principles.—
But few persons are found who will aecnse
Mr. Smith with inconsistency, llis motto is,
Justice, Equality and Love to all men. He
welcomes to his home men of all colors and
of all creeds. lie has but one talde in his
mansion, and that is spread as well for the
black man as for the white—for the rich and
the poor. Some of our loud-mouthed and
while-gloved philanthropists would do well to
imitate his example in this matter.
Mr. Smith is a laborious man. His con
c,rn is. how he shall make others happy, llis
office is ,».,t the theatre of speculation, but an
asylum for th.- opposed. He takes a Chris
tian view of (avi government, and he with
holds his Mifirage from those who will not do
thc 11. 11. GARNET.
I ktcrsoro, N. y., Sept. 7.
Harvkysbukgh, 9th uto. 4th, 1848.
Dcar Dotoj.ass n tht* rart of Ohio,
l.ke every other place f rom which we get
news, the foundation upon wllich b j avt ry
stands u> heaving a „j ru as |p crU(st
this earth dors in time of an earth, he,when
the lava is pul in violent motion beneath u
There never was a tunc when the public mind
wa» so ripe for receiving and umkrstandmg
the truths connected with everything which
thought either to injure or to benefit the race
The hue* are being drawn, and the js-ople
are failing into the routes of one or the other'
of the great divisions. One of these dm.
visions incorporates in its route men, women,
children, who, with a glowing and phi
lanthropic love of virtue and universal happi
ar going forward undaunted, fully ron
hdsnt that God .s oj their ade, and known,*
i
j that their toil e» not to be ki rain, thej
feel a renewing of Ofreoglh and teal
morning, noon and evening. The other di
vision, compos'd mainly of men who han
bee n unfortunately situated in youth, and wb»
consequently have the higher faculties of tbeii
nature hut faintly developed, whilst the bn
and animal are strongly marked. These
like the fox and the wolf, use what eapscii)
they have in gratifying their ruling propensi'
lies, sometimes devouring, at otiier tiniei
howling in lank, hungry despair. But then
ravenous daya are numbered, and a gkxiooi
opportunity is now offering for every fnend o!
the race to make the number leas. The da]
i» now at hand w hen human language, f ritter
or spoken, can hare a light and a brightneai
embodied within it which will melt fetters am
chains, and cause them to fall like soft wan
before the shining sun.
“.March to tbr Ia l tie -field,
Tlk- foe in now beCtre os,
Each heart ic freedom’* shield,
And heaven if smiling o'er tu.
Tlie woe* and [aim of slavery’* chains,
That l»iiv! t!ie miliioM under,
la protki disdain we’ll boret their chain.
And tear each link asutuler.”
Let the pen, the press, and the tongue ol
the orator, all be diligently employed in be
half of universal emancipation. Let no one
|be idle. Let no one wait for others to lead
the u ay. Let there be a aeries of meetings
iin every town and every village, and in
every school district in every State. Let the
Disunionista and non-voters encourage the
Free Soil Party, and the Free Soil folks will
1 soon pay back the work, with interest. I
attended a Taylor meeting in Green county, a
j few days ago, to hear Thomas Corwin, and
j other men of note, bray at the people in be
half of t the great hell-giver and damner of
mankind. Coiwin disgraced himself most
shamefully in order to dress up his new doll
lady, Taylor, in the white robes of peace and
purity,making him out the nation’s only hope
in this hour of its extreme danger. He made
a weak, silly speech. Two other speakers
followed him in the advocacy of Taylor's
claims. One of them, Green, of Chillicothe,
declared that Taylor was his first choice of
of all men for the Presidency, &c. The other
speaker was Carey, the great temperance
lecturer, from Cincinnftti. lie declared that
if the three parties had all put their wits
together, and had got the devil to help them,
they could not have selected three men more
odious to him than the three which they had
presented.” He also said: “Gentlemen, I
would rather vote for Henry Clay's old boots,
than to vote for General Taylor.” In the
evening at candlelight, the Free Soil folks
had a meeting in a large hall, which was
crowded full of listeners. They had three
most excellent speakers, and three soul-cheer
ing songs, accompanied by instrumental mu
sic. The speakers were Messrs. Mills, Brat
ncy and Shields, who all did good service in
behalf of human rights. In the course of his
remarks. Mr. Bratney, (who was the former
editor of the Xenia Torch Light, a Whig pa
per,) said We are accused of having left
the Whig party and gone off to the abolition
ists. But, gentlemen, I have never been
identified with the abolitionists, and I feel that
candor and honesty requires me to state the
reasons why I have not been, and they are as
follows: Because I have stifled my own con
victions of duty I have warred against my
own conscience, rebelled against my owm rea
son, and these are the only reasons why I am
not with the abolitionists, heart and soul, to
night.” The speeches of Corwin, Green
and Carey were dissected, so far as they
could be found to have any farts to them to
dissect; and to include the proceedings of
the day and evening together, I should count
it a most glorious tiiumph of the Free Soil
over the Slave Soil party. It is a wonder
with many peisons how Corwin could have
the knowledge of the tricks of slaveholders
which lus speeches in the Senate display, and
then kick the pail over and spill it all by
pleading with the Norih to still bow the sup
ple hinges of the knee, and choose a cruel
and vengeful slaveholder as their President.
1 his, however, is thought by many of Cor
win’s old friends in ibis region, to be attribu
table to the great fact long ago discovered,
that Money is the root of all evil.” There
are persons in this neighborhood who have
hoard Corwin candidly declare it as his opin
ion, that there was no man but what could be
bought at some price or other; and on the
same evening he declared that he distrusted
everybody, and distrusted himself. He has
6tood very high in the estimation of his friends
in this region heretofore, but it is painful now
to look upon him. lie doubtless feels bad,
and how could he expect any other feeling
when he has voluntarily jumped into the
great whirlpool of slavery, where he cannot
swim, and feels himself sinking to rise no
more. His own explanation of his abject
looks when I saw him at Xenia the other day,
was, that he was u< L —l understood to mean
really and physically sick, the same as we are
all liable to be, even if we have behaved the
best that we know how but whilst I did not
feel ai liberty to doubt his word in the least
in that matter, I could not help thinking that
his position would be enough to make some
folks sick. V. NICHOLSON.
UINGHAMPTON, N. Y., Aug. 30.
Friend Douglass I have often been
very much gratified with the light that has
been shed abroad ujkmi a corrupt public senti
ment, through the column* of the North Star.
The year |hlH of the nineteenth century, will
stand out prominent on the pages of history,
characterised by some of ib~ most important
events in the world: the casting down of
thrones in Europe, and upheaving of the old
foundations of society the great conflict that
is now taking phee between Liberty and Ty
ranny, shaking the continent from the Medi
terranean to the Arctic ocean, and from the
Atlantic to tho Fra! Mountains, which is
evincing to mankind that the day of the
world's political redemption l* at hand and
God grant that coutiuental Europe may soon
present the world's United .States.
Yet, wlule I have seen one of the most
powerful throne* go down before the working
men tif Paris in a day, and have t*va human
ity struggling for existence amid the crash
of empires, I have not been an indifferent
spectator of what was going an among the
American people.
The case of the prisoners of the Pearl, the
del, ~i of the sUwlioider*’ rdbi promise bill to
the iloto>c of Representative#, the pastajf of
tbe Oregou bill with the Wilmot Proviso, the
disorgantxing of the two great political par
ties, and the Buffalo Convention, all show that
the future at least is portentous,
i In view of the great work before os, theft
is still hope that liberty will be proclaimed
throughout this laod to all the inhabitants,—
The slave will come up from ins prison- house
tn tbe dignity of a man, the fetters writ fail
from his limbs, and, in the language of tbe
Eider Adams. Gieat is truth* great is liber
ty, great is humanity, and they must and will
i prevail.”
F I hare been spending the last few months
in the service of the Anti-Slavery cause, la
i boring principally in Eastern New York; and
i it seems to me that there never was a better
I time to present the claims of the poor slave
than at this crisis. The magic of party is
lost, and the party leaders cannot control tbe
people longer. They have been humbugged
by the vampires until they have become
weary of the burdens under which they hav®
so long groaned, and declared themselves free
from the rule of such contemptible beings. I
have been lecturing in Chenango Valley for
some time past, and there are many things
here that would answer well for the dark
ages—ignorance, caste, and oppression reign
predominant in this political perdition. Many
of the old political hacks here are loud in their
preferences fur Cass and Butler; and others
are delighted with the character of Rough and
Ready, and are forever harping upon that
vulgar expression, Old Zack while oth
ers delight to bawl nt the top of their voices,
“A little mere grape, Capt. Bragg I’* These
are the Whig principles of 1848, the old ones
being left at Philadelphia. There are a few
good Anti-Slavery men and women in this
inhospitable region, but the great mass are
completely dead to all that relates to humani
ty. In the village of Owego, a poor ignorant
numbskull refused to sit at the same table with
me, stating that he did not care about eating
with a nigger. He was politely informed
that no gentleman cared about sitting at a
table with loafers like him. We had two
meetings at Owego in the Baptist meeting
house.
Binghamton is one of the most pro-slavery
villages in central New York. 1). S. Dick
inson lives here, but he prefers the Old Do
minion to the Empire State. This*political
hypocrite and betrayer of Northern interests,
is soon expected to return to his adopted State.
A. Bird sail, the only representative in Con
gress from New York who was base enough
to vote in favor of perpetuating slavery in this
country, lives in this place likewise. I chal
lenge another village North of Mason and
Dixon s line to produce two such contempti
ble beings as Dickinson and his son-in-law,
Birdsall. The name of Arnold is honorable
beside them. Language is inadequate to por
tray their true character.
A miserable too] of ihe pro-slavery faction
here, by the name of Hall, is the proprietorof
the Phcenix Hotel. This corrupter of the
morals of youth and fiend in human shape,
ordered ire out of his bar-room, saying that
his boarders made remarks in relation to my
peacefully sitting there, and interfering with
the rights of no other person under the broad
canopy of heaven. The reason given for this
act of American barbarity was, that Provi
dence had given me a complexion different
from his Satanic landlonlship’s. Persona who
are travelling through this place, will be
hereby forewarned of this man's treatment
towards respectable colored people, and w’ould
do well to put this creature in the way of his
duty by patronizing other hotels. Oh, shame
where is thy blush
Notwithstanding that slavery has many in
this State to do her dirty w r ork, and oppress
the colored man, there is a good time com
ing, when from our hills, mountains, valleys
and plains, our united voiees shal ascend, and
that voice be, Liberty 1 For this great and
glorious object, let us labor, and America,
bad as she is, may yet terminate her bounda
ries by the ocean and her fame by the stars.
Yours most respectfully,
J. H. TOWNSEND.
Scraps from the Bench (Not Judicial.)
Messrs Editors :—lt is some time since I
last wrote you. I hare not written simply
because I have had nothing to write about of
interest occurring in this vicinity and your
own pens have reviewed the* movements of
the Free Soilers—of J. C. Calhoun and his
followers, and other stirring events, with far
more ability than I can presume to possess.
I shall at present proceed lo give a medley
of views and matters that have come within
my observation in this all-absorbing w hirlpool
of dollars and cents; for here the quality of
religious teachings is determined by the quan
tity of dollars and cents; the cause of liberty
is estimated, and the cause of humanity is
calculated, by dollars and cents; even poli
tics and politicians are advocated in accord
ance with their supposed relation to, and
bearing upon, dollars and cents, (id at the
loaves and fishes.)
The Free Soil movement and Buffalo ru m
inees are quite favorably received by the rot
ing freemen of this place. Thay have held
several spirited meetings, and are making ar
rangements foi holding a series o! them. A
number of individuals, late prominent leaders
tn the pro-slavery parties, are in the vanguard
of this movement; but the men that belong
to the Whig and Democratic parties, go it
strong for the regular nominees.” They
are rough” at thinking fur themselves, but
are 44 ready” to do the bidding of their South
ern masters. Their motto is, Open yuur
mouth, and shut your eyes, and swallow it
down.”
Whilst crossing the forry Saturday after
noon, I heard two gentleman, whose appear
ance and language indicated that ihey were
of the higher circle of society, conversing in
relation to Mr. Webster's rumored speech at
Marshfield, sustaining the regular nomina
tion—l say upper circle iff society, because,
be it known, reader, that in this commercial
emporium” and its environs, we have upper
and lower grades—circle*, not castes, because
the latter nre not ('Jirtsiian or Democratic.—
Hut to ibo conversation. Mr. A. said that it
was rumored that Mr. Webster had made a
tjntoh sustaining the Philadelphia nominees.
Mr. B. answered in the affirmative, when Mr.
A. said, h must have run against the
grata,*' to which Mr. B. aaseaied. This is
but a poor eomplioiMt to the Coo of the
North, and yet to have raid lew, would have
been to defood his Honest v at dm expense of
his godlik® intellect The max must he
a ninny who sappoees bin to be fart enough
to be honest.
By the hr, Mr. Webster seem* to be em
phatically a man of tbe past- lie delights to
dwell on tbe pant history of Martin Van
Buren, and assures us that when cotemperv
neota legislators, they mutually opposed every
measure presented to each other, and thinks
it must be ludicrous, if not contemptible, for
them to agree imiw. The lion and lamb may
he down together, hut tbe lion and fox cannot.
Well, he and John C. Calhoun ran agree m
opposing him.
Hereafter, when I wbb to make op my
mind what is my duty in relation to some meas
ure, I will (if my conscience allows mo) as
certain tbe views of some oae who has ma’trly
differed from me, and if they are in favor,
more especially if they are tbe embodiment* 1
will oppose it; it is a much handier way than
going through the mental process of investi
gating on its own merits. It will be god
like.”
I had occasion last week to go to Albany,
to transact some business. In returning, 1
went on board the Rip Van Winkle lo take
passage for New York. I called for a ticket,
but was handed one marked Deck. I
asked if they charged full price for that,.and
was answered in the affirmative, whereujton 1
returned it. and informed them that I would
prefer going on beard the. Isaac Newton, and
repaired on board that aquatip palace, which
is equal to any that the mos* poetic imagina
nation could picture in the shape of an ethe
real castle, where I was decently accommo
dated. Rip Van Winkle is a very appropriate
name for the first boat; for certainly all hands
of her rulers must have slept -until they are
half a century behind the age, like Rip of
old. Yours for Liberty and Reform,
J. C. H.
Buffalo, Sept. 11th, 1848
Editors of the North Star. —Dear
friends, peimit me through the columns of
your valuble paper, to call the attention of the
public to the steamboat Saratoga, on board of
which colorphobia was so virulent, that dele
gates from the Cleveland Convention of color
ed freemen were refused a cabin passage.—
The reason assigned by the Clerk, who I think
they call Merrell, (at all events he may be
easily known by his diminutive, sallow syco
phant expression of countenance, and much
sooner I should judge by his language,) was,
that colored persons could not be permitted in
the cabin among whites. Such a pitiable speci
men of humanity, and the officers who sup
port him in thus treating their superiors, are
certainly being 3 that every man should des
pise and abhor. I also found on board a hete
rogeneous mass of abomination, in the form of
a black servant named Bowman, who gave
countenance to their conduct by a public ex
pression of his feelings. He resides in Cleve
land. I simply mention these facts that
ladies and gentlemen of color, as well as white
who sympathise with the oppressed, may,
when travelling on our Western waters, use
their means among a more worthy set. The
company were compelled to lay over 24 hours
for the steamer Oregon, ou which a number
of the delegates took passage and received
all that was asked by them. The boat is of!
the first class in style and speeds—Capt. Chat
man, the Clerk Mr. Waldron,'the Steward,
and the balance of the grew)'do far as came
under our notice, are -jiist abdut, to say the
Jeast, what they ought to be. My friends
jointly with myself, feel safe in recommend
ing the steamboat Oregon, officers and crew
to the travelling public.
Yours for the right,
A. H. FRANCIS.
Froji our own Correspondent.
London, Aug. 24, 1848.
The report of the Committee appointed by
the National Assembly of France, to inquire
into the outbreak of June, is very alarming.
From it, it would appear, that Lcdru Rollin
and Lamartine were privy to it. Meetings
were held at the house of the former, at
which Caussidiere assembled, having for their
object tbe subversion of the. Executive, of
which Ledru Rollin and Lamartine were the
minority, and the establishment of a Commit- 1
tee of Public Safety, with Ledru Rollin for
President. At the recent monthly election
for President of the National Assembly,
Lamartine had but two votes. Aimand Ma
rast obtained 611 voles, and was elected by a
large majority. Paris is quiet at present, but
the public mind is in a very unsettled state,
and another outbreak may be expected.
In Italy, Charles Albert is beaten back into
his own country. Milan is comparatively a
desert, occupied chiefly by the Austrians. It
is possible that Austria may have cause to
regret the French and English mediation. It
is not known as yet wbethei Charles Albert
will accept the condition* proposed. They
are, Ist. The annexation of Lombardy to
Piedmont; 2d. The erect*®) of the Venetian
Provinces into a State like Hungary, subject
to Austria, but with au independent adminis
tration. On reaching .his own kingdom,
Charles Albert issued several proclamations,
one of which tends to explain the causes of
the late reverses. 41 Money, provisions, and
ammunition were wanting. His address
concludes thus People of the kingdom
show yourselves strong in first misfortune.
Employ the fiee institutions that have risen
among you. Itepaee confidence in your king.
The causH of Italian independence is not yet
lost.”
The Emperor of Austria has returned to
Vienna, and it is said he was received with
44 the grateful fove and unshaken hnalty of
his people.” He has since then issued an
address declaratory of his intention to conform
to the wishes of his people and to the new
order of things, 44 by reconstruct! n gtheState.”
A magnificent fete has lately bocn held at Co
logne, to celebrate the »!X-Lumliedih anm
Ternary of the foundation of the Cathedral
there. The Regent of the Empire (Arch
duke John) and the King of Prussia were
present, and also many of the most celebrated
men of Germany, the* Chevalier Biuisen,
and Von Humboldt inclusive. Tbe two firal
u uned great persooagea went in one carriage
to the ceremony of the consecration of the
cathedral, and together held a grand review
of the troupe. Then fcUowed a lordly ban
quet, at which near!x 1200 were present. In
the oourss of tire eufownwnm, the Regent
and Ktag pvopeeed cueh other's health, after
which they mutually embraced, aaudst the
enthusiastic applause aod desfeumg chorea of
nut- Thu ®rche*ua stiock up, “Whs*
it the German’* Falberbod J” tad tbr euen*-
iwml wan at it* jrmrtcwthevght. i vncnrU, t»-
lurnmatwjfw, aud »n?ful denwmairatwu* of «*v
try kind, took p4wv day* of th»«
of Unitt*! fl ltnjoT”
I To torn to Hume fur a moment. Too are
j doahtfcwa atraw that Srmth (FBriFU and
Meagher are captured am! a»ait trial. TVtv
is no satisfactory intelligence from Inbtef The
people are returning into pa&nre, hut by ne
means contented tranquility, and all seem*
dark and gloomy m that unhappy country
i O'Doueny has been tried twicp, but the
i jury not agreeing upon the verdict, has, in
I each case, lieen discharged, so that at present
ihe has escaped. WiH rt be so in other eases 1
or will not the government be comiielled tc
suspend trial by jury! John Martin, of the
I Irish Felon/’ is transported fot ten years
Here corn is rising, storks are falling. p**Lv
toes arc uuiversally diseased, amt there i;
great discontent. Ere this, yon will havt
j heard of the attempted insurrection of the
Chartists in London, made a week since.—
Numerous arrests have since then taken place,
t I*arge discoveries of arms and fireballs havt
been made by the police. These rt'perrteJ
disturbances indicate a dangemns state of feel
ing, and every one fears, asking, What veil)
come next?
No Parliament has talked mote and done
less than the present. The government has
but little strength, and seems unable to exert
what it does possess. The earth and all
the inhabitants thereof/* appear to be dissolv
ing. Who shall bear up the pillars of it
S, P, Q. R.
The Potato Rot again. —An English
paper, speaking of Irish affairs, says
In the meantime, an enemy of even more
appalling character than civil war has again
made its appearance in the form of the potato
disease. In Ireland, also in England and
Scotland, all the indications of destruction
which discovered themselves in the autumn of
1845, are now reappearing’, and a luxuriant
field of this essential esculent becomes in 24
hours a withered and blackened mass.
From a variety of well-authenticated quar
ters, we learn that the destruction is already
most extensive, and the pestilential effluvia
which salutes the passenger on the roadside,
indicates but too fatally the extent of the mis
chief under ground.”
More Colonization. —Proposals for col
onizing Vancouver's Island, accompanied by
a glowing account of the place and of the
benefits likely to result to the settlers, have
been extensively circulated throughout Great
Britain.
The Cherokee Chief. —John Ross, the
distinguished Chief of the Cherokee Nation,
is at present sojourning at Brandywine
Springs, Delaware. It may not be generally
known that the lady of Mr. Ross is a Qua
keress, and a native of Wilmington.
The Largest Building in America. —A
new freight depot is now iu process of erection
at East Albany, N. Y., for the Albany and
and Boston Rail Road Company, 750 feet in
length by 133 feet in width. It is supposed
1,300,000 bricks will lie required in its con
struction, and the cost will be $lOO,OOO. It
is to be completed in November, and will bt*
the largest building in America.
Served him right. —A boy in Portsmouth
N. H., has been convicted of writing obscene
words on a fence, and fined $9,63 therefor.
There was a a large gathering at the
Chinese Museum Thursday night. B.
W. Richard* Presided, assisted by
twenty-fire Vice-President* and fire
Secretaries. Col. Thomas L. Kane,
son of Hon. E. K. Kane, read the fol
lowing Resolution*, which were en
thusiastically adopted
Whereas, The recent accession of
large portions of California and Mexico
to the territory of the United States,
lias made it the duty of Congress to
provide rules aud regulations tor their
Government; and it has been sought
so to direct the action of Congress in
regard to those Territories us to au
thorize or permit the introduction w itb
m them of Domestic Slavery, thereby
giving National sanction to the exten
sion of that institutionwithin the con
tines of the Union and Whereas, the
question thus presented affects the
rights and honor and well-being of all
the citizens of the United States, more
directly and powerfully than any other
now pending before them, and the
principles which should determine it
are of broad, enduring and most mo
mentous import and, Whereas, it is
known that the candidates nominated
for the office of President of the United
States by the great political parties
which have divided the country, are
agreed in the purpose to recognize by
favoring legis.ation, the existence of
Slavery in the new' Territories and it
is incumbent, therefore, on all who
believe such legislation perilous to the
welfare, peace, stability and continued
happy influence of the Union, that they
should proclain their opposition to it in
advance, and unite iu efforts to avoid
1 the evil. Therefore,
Resolved, As the sense of the Free
men of the City and County of Phila
delphia, here assembled
1. That habitually inured to toil and
by it invigorated and sustained, we
recognize no honoring distinction in
that incapacity or reluctance for toil
which the languor of a Southern sky,
or the wrongful legislation of a former
age may have made congenial to others.
2. That the sense of personal inde
pendence, which is the offspring of
voluntary and self-directed toil, finds
its natural and just expansion in the
conscious equality of Political Rights
and that to degrade labor, therefore, is
to strike at the vital principle of our
institutions.
3. That the hand which is made
strong by free toil is the appropriate
and only safeguard of Free Govern
ments, since no Nation can long con
tinue to be free which has ceased to
depend for its freedom on the strength
of its own free people.
4. That a just recognition of the;
rights of others is implied in the just
perception of our ow n—that universal
intelligence is the best security of social j
order, as well as personal freedom
and that no institution, therefore, can!
be congenial to a Republic, which arro
gates an exclusive title to personal
rights in favor of a single class of men,
or which repels education, and finds
safety in ignorance.
5. That the broadly advancing fron
tier ol the United States, far removed
beyond the direct guardianship of the
National Power, and the controlling in
fluence of long-established laws, exacts
for its protection from hostile invasion,
and fur the peace of domestic right,
that the people who are to plant and
guard it, shall be energetic and intelli
gent Freemen, identified in interest,
knit together by common sympathies,
confiding in themselves and in each
other, all worthy to share in the res
ponsibilities of the common defence,
and to be rewarded alike by the gener
al advance of intelligence and happi
ness.
6. That the rapid extension of our
geographical limits, and their still un
faltering progess, admonish us that, as
the frontier region of a few’ years back
is now the compacted abode of a peo
ple free, intelligent, laborious, powerful
and happy, so the frontier of to-day
must soon be a centre of influence to
yet more extended regions—and it be
hoves us, therefore, to renew* and per
petuate, in behalf of posterity, that
wise legislation of our fathers, by which
freedom, and the blessings that attend
it, were made the equal birthright of
all within the territories of the United
States.
7. Resohed, That we assent, hold
and maintain, as clear and necessary
deductions from the principles thus
declared
The perpetual exemption of the soil
committed to our stewardshio from chat
tie Slavery
The appropriation of the Public Do
main in limited quantities to actual
settlers only and—
The Right of Education in its freest
sense, the Right of every community
to the best services of its citizens and
its duty to this end, to take all neces
sary measures to insure their highest
moral, physical and intellectual devel
opment.
And that, while we recognize the
Government of the United States, as
founded in the compromises of compact,!
and aim to cultivate the spirit of com
promise which has for its only just basis
the consciousness of possible error,
and a deference to the opinions of asso
ciates, we can recognize no compromise
ot principle, nor tolerate any abate
ment ot these, which we proclaim the
essential doctrines of the Free Demo
cracy of Pennsylvania.
8. R'solrcd, i hat regarding Slavery
within the States m which it exists, as
the creature ot their own local law,
we hold it as such, protected from inter
ference on the part of the General!
Government, by the compact entered'
into by the thirteen original States ati
the formation of the Union That we
hold, however, as a truth equally in
contesiible, that another part of that
compact invested the General Gov
ernment with power to restrain and I
prohibit it in the Territories and we
affirm that tfiis adjustment of the Sla\e-;
ry question, which at once established'
aud restrained the jurisdiction and res
ponsibility of the National aed State
Governments within the geographical
limits of their respective authorities, is
the only compromise in regard to it,'
whifh is either morally just of Irg^lb l
binding upon the Freemen of the Uni
ted States That, farther, tba obliga
tions of conscience, the liberties ot a
fellow-being, me rights of another, 01
bis own or another’s children, cau bv
no man be made the legitimate subject
of crinpromiee and that the won!
compromise ia a cheat and a mockery,
when it expresses the surrender of an
interest unlimited and absolute, foi
which no consideration is offered, and
for which no adequate consideration
can be received.
9. Resolved, That that right to ex
clude slavery from the Territories,
which is found in the words of the Con
stitution, to make all needful rule*
and regulations for the Government ol
the Territory of the United States,’
early recognixod by the Supreme Jud
iciary, exercised without question, foi
nearly threescore years, approved and
enforced by Presidents of the l niied
States, in acts of Congress that have
established the laws of no less than
Eleven Territories, since becoming
States—this Right, now for the first
time questioned, is so plain from the
letter and spirit of the instrument, that
we have no need to sesort to History
for its contemporaneous exposition and
it is only to exalt an honorable pride,
that wc commamorate the fact, that this
was the unanimous sentiment of the
patriots of the Revolution that it wa«
Thomas Jefferson who introduced in
1764 the first Wilinot Proviso, and
George Washington who, in 1789, gave
his Executive sanction to the first laws
carrying out the principles of the free
Soil Democrats of 1848.
10. Resolved, That however the ex
tension of territorial dominions may
be the necessary result of war, the
enlightened judgment of the age in
which we live, requires such dominion
to be exercised with a just regard to
the welfare of the conquered people;
that where social freedom has been the
right of every man, no conquest of ter
ritory can justify the subjection of its
inhabitants to personal boudage; and
that, to introduce Slavery, by virtue of
our laws, into a region where it did not
exist under a less enlightened and less
liberal rule, would insult that spirit of
Freedom which it is our boast among
nations to represent, and to be alike
without warrant from the organic law
of the United States, the law of Na
tions, of Nature, and of God.
11. Resolved That before the expir
ation of the next four years, the great
question will have been decided whe
ther the lands of Northern California
and Mexico shall remain free as they
arc now, inviting the free laborers of
the United States, and the laborers of
Europe, seeking emancipation among
us, to spread themselves out in honest
and friendly rivalry, on those vast re
gions, making them the homes of
energy, fertility, and freedom; or whe
ther Slavery, despoiling Labor of its
dignity and its fruits, shall, under pre
text of sharing in the occupation of the
soil, mark out a barrier region beyond
which the emigration of Free Labor
must refuse to penetrate; and wc be
lieve that this question, so obvious in
the answer which it must receive, and
yet so momentous in its character and
its consequences, does most justly and
earnestly invoke the united efforts and
influence of all good men; that the
time has come when a loftier appeal
tn »v be made than to passions and pre
judices, which had their origin in
ancient and now unavailing contro
versy—when party discipline and drill
must cease to be effective against prin-
I eiple and right—and when a higher
object may be legitimately sought and
toiled for and attained, than the eleva
tion of one or another of two men, both
of them boldly and fatally pledged in
support of this pernicious error.
12. Resolved, That in the doings of
j the Convention recently assembled in
I the City of Buffalo; in its intrepid and
unyielding assertion of principle; its
i ready and unreserved sacrifice of pri
vate feeling; in every feature of its
I upright, generous, and intelligent pa
triotism, we see embodied the best
characteristics of the American nation;
that we adopt and avow its declaration
of principles as our own, and that we
esteem the candidates offered by it for
the approval of the people, worthy to
i be the standard-bearers of the prin
ciples they represent; that while the
i name of Martin Van Buren can gain
no additional dignity by his elevation
to the Presidential chair, it must owe
its chief lustre in future history to his
self-denying championship of the prin
ciples of Free Soil; and that in Charles
Francis Adams we respect a scholar
and philanthropist, the whole tenor of
whose past life is a guaranty of his en
ergy and fidelity in the cause of Truth
and Freedom.
John Van Buren then appeared, and
made a very forcible and piquant
speech, which was received with great
applause. Mr. V. 8., was followed by
Hon. Joseph L. White of New York,
Dr. m. L. Elder and others.
1* requent attempts were made by op
ponents of the meeting to disturb its pro
ceedings.
The \N ilmot Proviso. ——The
Charlestown (South Carolina,) Mercu
ry, the organ which represents the
Southern States upon the subject of
the W ilmot Proviso, and which proper
ly represents it, as may be seen by ad
verting to the legislative resolutions of
Virginia and other States on this sub
jt»ct, says in one of its manifestoes:— j
ihe Y\ ilmot Proviso is abolitionism
in the roost dangerous form, it has ever
appeared, and if it is U ot now met, re
sisted and defeated by prompt compro
mise and settlement'on the Missouri
basis, it will end in the utter ruin of the
Slaveholders or compel than to residence
hereafter by the sword."
Hard to Choose. —The doughfaces
of both parties have now the choice be
tween Cass and Taylor, and it makes
very little difference which they rote
for. They are in the situation of the
traveller at the cross roads:—
Stranger where is the wav to
village?”
“There’s two roads,” responded the
fellow. i
Well, which is the best?”
Aint much difference; both on ’em
iery bad. Take which way you will 1
sfore you’ve got halfway, aou’tt wish
W'd tuck t'other." 31
iiKEuioresor A*i>-it*.u»Eß.
The following anecdote is currenl
j among the Arabs, sod if genuine, bear*
j witness to Abd-el Rader si presence ol
mind, sangfroid, and greatness «f soul.
In sprte of the vigilance of the guards,
a negro had socceeded in entering the
tent where the emir was holding his
council.—On finding himself tn the pres
ence of A bd~ei Kader,the negro, who had
come with the intention of assassinating
him, was suddenly sruck with remorse;
he broke the poignard lie hail in bis
hand, and failing prostrate, exclaimed;
“I had come to stab you, but I per
ceived the glory of the prophet around
your brow, and my heart failed me.
r Kill me for I have deserved to die!"
The son of Mahil-el-Din arose grave
ly, ad meed towards the negro, and
laying his hand upon the culprit's head,
“Arise, unhappy man," said lie; Allah
forgives tepentant sinners; and I, his
noble servant, can not condemn you.
Go, slave, and may the rest of thy
j life be devoted to deserve my pardon,
and bless the name of the Eternal!
One of the morocco chieftains defea
ted at laky, went to pay a visit to Abd
j el-Kader; and hearing he hnd a French
prisoner, requested to see him. Escof
tier, the French trumpeter, who fell into
l the hands of the enemy whilst endeav
oring to succor one of his officers, hav
ing been sent for, appeared wearing
his trumpet, and on being ordered to
play an air, he sounded a charge. The
chieftain inquired the meaning of those
martial notes.
Tell the captain, said Escoffier to
the interpreter, that when he hears that
tune, the best thing he c&n do is to turn
about and gallop away.
Abd-el-Rhaman’s officer, being of
fended at this reply, requested that the
Frenchman might receive a hundred
lashes of the bastinado; but Ahd-el
Kader refused, saying it was his duty
to behave generously towards the
French, who never ill-treated their
Arab prisoners.
On another occasion, Abd-el-Kader
made Escoffier an offer of three hand
some wives, together with horses and
the grade of an officer among his regu
lar troops, if he would consent to be
come a Mussulman.
I will never be false to my religion
and my country, replied the trumpeter;
you may cut off my head; but you will
never make me a renegade!
Abd-el-Kader replied with a smile:—
Be not alarmed; I hold your file sacred
and I like to hear you speak in this
manner.—You- show yourself a brave
man, and worthy of my esteem. Your
relusal is glorious, and jour apostacy
would be infamous.
A Great Steamer. A splendid
steamer is to be launched in New York
sometime next week. She is four hun
dred feet in length; an enormous size
even in this age «f monster boats. The
Herald gives the following description
of her:—
“She is the largest river steamer ev
er built, and will probably he the swift
est and most magnificent. She is to be
propelled by forty-six feet wheels, and
an engine of fifteen feet stroke. She is
sixteen hundred tons burthen, and will
carry, as a day boat, full twenty-five
hundred passengers! The first steam
er, compared to her, is like a cock-boat
tu one of our packet ships. This steam
er is to be fitted up in a novel style,with a
scries of splendid cabins, or parlors, so
that parties of ladies and gentlemen can
travel and have theirdinners served up
ala Francaist. There is to he no ta
ble d'hote. It is the intention to place
this boat on the Hudson River, to ply
between this city and Albany. It is ex
pected that she will make the trip in six
hours. This will enable her to go to Al
bany and return the same day. We
ad vise all fond of such sights to w itness
the launch of this monster.
The End Answered. —A priest in
a rich abbey in Florence, named Gru
idnoli, being a fisherman’s son, caused
a net to be spread every day on the ta
ble of his apartment, to put him, as he
said, in mind of his origin. The Abbot
dying, this dissembled humility procur
ed him to be chosen his successor, and
the net was used no more. Where’s
the net?" said a friend to him the day
afterwards, on entering his apartment.
"There is no further occasion for the
net," said Gruidnoli, when the fish is
caught.”.
Tarring and Feathering. —It was
one of the regulations formed by Rich
ard C'ceur de Lion for the government
o! his troops, when about to cuter upon
the second crusade—that if any one
should be discovered committing a rob
bery, he should be tarred and feathered.
This, says James, is the first mention
of this singular punishment made in
history.
Shakespear^.—The late Dr. Chal
mers, speaking of Shakespeare, said:!
"I dare say Shakespeare war the!
greatest man that ever lived. I think
he was a greater man than Sir Isaac
Newton."
Rich and Poor.—A miser gets rich
by seeming poor; an extravagant man
grow s poor by seeming rich.
Constant Occupation prevents temp
tation, and bege:s contentment; and
content is the true philosopher’s stone.
The Best Wav.—Give the devil
his due. Cejtaiuly, but it is better to
have no deal ngs with the devil, and
then there will be nothing due him.
The mechanic wh is ashamed of his
apron, or the farmer who is ashamed ol
his Irock, is himself a shame to his pro-1
fession. j
Business is like fishing—if you wish
to succeed you anchor once in a
while.— Tube c matantly changing is
to keep yourself out of change for ail
eternity. As Tom Hood observes,
the man that is always stirring must be
a spoon.
Good fortune is the ordeal by fire,
misfortune the ordeal by water.—Rich
ter.
Hard Wedding.—A Mr. Marble
married a Miss St >se. The marriage
ceremony took place in a small town in
ihc Granite state, and the nuptial knot
tied by Rev. Mr. Mint. Rather a
hard state mem—but a true one—they
lay J