From, the Philadelphia Republic.
SLAVE REPRESENTATION,
It is strictly correct to say, that the
slaveholders cast, in effect, votes
for every five slaves which they hold;
that is, the vote of a Southerner who
owns five slaves goes as far in the elec
tion of a member of Congress as the
ballots cast by four Northern men.—
This statement does notjnean that he
deposits four ballots in the box, nor
that bis one ballot is counted as four on
the tally list; but that in apportioning
the Congressional representation of
the Union, five slaves are counted as
three freemen, and the citizens of the
slave States have the advantage of this
addition to their own number in the
apportionment of the members of Con
gress to them.
South Carolina, with only five or six
(thousand more free white inhabitants
than Philadelphia city and county, in
I*lo, would have been entitled to the
same number of Congressmen, but by
the addition of three-fifths of her slaves
to the number of her free people, she
took seven members instead of tour,
and so enjoys the advantage of three
Congressmen over and above the equal
free population of our own four dis
tricts. The Southern slaveholder has
no advantage at the ballot-box over the
Southern non-'-daveholdcr, but he has it
.against the Northern freeman. Alto
gether, this three-filths rule gives the
fifteen slave States twenty-one mem
bers of the lower House, and as many
votes in the election of President and
Vice-President, for which the North
has no equivalent or compensation.
They have twenty-one members who
represent property merely; the North
has no representation of her property,
but only of her people. These twenty
#one votes are enough to decide almost
any question which greatly concefns
the welfare of the country.
The Northern Light states the mat
-ler in the following clear and striking
manner:
In I*4o, the number of slaves in the
United States was 2,4*7,355; in round
numbers, two millions and a half.
in apportioning the representatives in
Congress among the States, slaves are
counted; that is to say, every five slaves
((including both sexes ~nl ijiMPßll m r
counted equal to three wntre^ftgpjns;
and thus the 2,4*7,355
equal weight in determiuiMlfclß (tuner
of members of the alive
States, to 1,592,314 f
sons.
By the ratio of representation estab
lished in 1*42. founded on the census of
I*4o, every 70,0*0 persons are entitled
to one member in the House of Repre
sentatives. The slave States have,
therefore, on the strength of their
■laves, tweoty-one members of that
House.
This is equal to the entire represent
ation of the five States of Maine, New
Hampshire, Vermont, Rh e Island
and Connecticut.
It is equal to the whole representation
of the State ot Ohio, and nearly equal
to that ol Pennsylvania. It is nearly
two-thirds of the State of New York.
It is equal to the representation of Mas
sachusetts, New Jersey, Connecticut
and Rhode Island. It is greater than
that of the States of Indiana, Illinois
and Michigan.
It is just three times as great as that
of the young and vigorous States of
Wisconsin and lowa.
Again, South Carolina, by the cen
sus of I*2o, has a free population of
207,300; this entitles her to three mem
bers of the house of Representatives,
THE NORTH STAR
r with a fraction or of 55,321
people. It seems that fear member
were awarded to her on the basis of hei
1 white population. She has a slave pop
ulation of 327,538. Three-fifths of hei
slaves are 190,333; this divided bj
70,t*H0, (the ratio of representation,
would give her taro members, with
fraction or overplus of 54,862. Sh<
has in the House of Representatives
four members, on the basis of her free
population, and three on the basis o
her slaves. Hut the whole seven are
i elected by her free population, who arc
j the only constituents, and the only per
sons whose interests arc represented.
Divide the free population of 267,3fMJ
by the number of Representatives, (7,)
and it will be found that in South Caro
lina, every 22,291 free persons have a
member of the House of Representa
tives. But in the State of New York,
and in every free State, there is only
one member for every 79,580 free in
habitants. Thus the slaveholders have
nearly double the representation in that
House, that the same number of citi
i zens in New York have,
i This is unjust and unequal, if it be
regarded as a representation founded
on numbers. It is more unjust and
unequal if regarded as a representation
founded on property: because you may
select in the State of New York a por
tion of its population equal to the free
population of South Caiolina, who are
worth the whole Stale of South Caro
lina, counting every negro at his full
value, and all other property at the
same rate.
Nevertheless, the citizens of New
Y T ork have in the House of Represent
atives only a little over half the number
of members which the same number of
the free people of South Carolina
have.
Take another example: Florida, by
the census of 1840, contained 54,477
people, of whom 25,717 were slaves.—
The free population, therefore, was’only
28,760; and yet it had a representative
in Congress, and two Senators. In the
Senate of the United States l its political
power is equal to the State of New
York. But compare the representation
of the lower House with that of New
York. Take the census of 1840, and
give us a member for every 28,760 in
habitants, (the number of free people
in Florida,) and instead of sending
34 members, this State would send
eighty-four.
But the slaveholders are not satisfied
with this enormous disparity of political
power; they demand more, and threaten
to dissolve the Union if they do rtot ob
tain it.
KALE Ol? AW AMERICAN CITIZEN.
The following pithy article is written by
Mrs. Jane Swissheltn, of the Pittsburgh Sat
urday Visitor. The writer refers to Roberts,
the colored preacher, who was sold for one
year for $75, because he bad taken up his
residence in Kentucky, contrary to the bar
barous enactment of that State, which makes
it unlawful for colored men to remain there
over a limited period. I believe it lias since
been found that the sentence was uncon
stitutional, and Roberts will necessarily be
liberated but the mean arid miserable spirit
of the Kentuckians is not on that account the
less apparent. —j. d.
YVc call attention to the article from
the Gazette, about the sale of the
preacher in Louisville, who was ad
judged not to be a citizen of the United
States, and so not entitled to protection
under the Constitution. How will
Massachusetts, and the other States
which recognize the colored man’s
right of sulFrage, like this comment
upon their laws? A Kentucky judge
can tell them whom they may reckon
citizens, aud whom not! To us the
idea is novel, that a man born in a
country, free by the laws thereof, is
not a citizen of that country. This re
sort of this petty tyrant is about a match
for Calhoun’s position, that men are
born, and only one ever was created.—
The judge allows free negroes may be
born, but they cannot be born Ameri
cans! What next? Y\ T ill the insolent,
bragadocia, woman-whipping chivalry,
of Kentucky, who put ladies in the*
penitentiary for being-acquainted with*
folks who aid the spoiled to ascapej
from the hands of the spoiler, be*per
mitted to sell free citizens of the North
for the crime of going into one of their
polluted cities, to shave their impudent
faces for sixpence a piece? The State
that put Miss YY T ebster in the peniten
tiary for riding in the carriage with a
Methodist preacher, who was aiding
her slaves to regain their liberty, was
well employed in selling another Meth
odist preacher for acting barber for
them. In Kentucky, slavery exists in
its mildest form—it was there, in Louis
ville, we gained our ideas of slave
holders, and touud the utter impotence
of language to convey any impression j
of their meanness. Much has been
said about their cruelty and tvranny,
but their mean, lousy idleness was the
feature which struck us—the cowardice
which induced them to threaten us with j
a coat of tar and feathers, for telling
them they were not men, but woman
whippera —Ibr fear, as th'"* said, such
talk should overthrow tie .stitutions.
Just think of a set of Knows, calling]
themselves men, and living under the
institutions they are afraid some little
old woman will blow over—just think
of them breaking up a barber shop and
selling the barber, for fear that he
should subvert their glorious institu
tions, and teach their happy slaves to
run from their Eden. YVe were once
badly off for a girl when there, and Mr. I
S. mentioned it to a big loafer,who used!
to go swaggering through the streets all
day, in satin, broadcloth, fine linen and
gold chains, with a cigar in his teeth.—
flis lo&fcrstup informed him with a 1
4P
RIGHT IS O* NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COl/)R—GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
pompous swell, that he had a woman tc
hire, a first-rate servant, that we coulc
have for two hundred per annum, bul
i added, she would be of no use to thai
wife of /ours, unless you would horse
whip her twice a week yourself”! How
we felt to think such an animal had
dared to measure our abilities for wring
ing unpaid toil out of the sinews of an;
one of God s creatures, or had the iu
solence to propose that our husbsflNb
should horsewhip an old woman one
hundred and four times, to make her
earn two hundred dollars for any idler
to spend in cigars and debauchery.—
This is a specimen of their chivalry.
Thousands of fellows swagger round,
acting the dandy, while some poor crip
pled old man is sawing wood, or some
old wofpan wpshing to support them.—
if there is anything on God’s green
earth as mean as a Kentucky slave
holder, it must be a similar animal in
some other state. They have a cant
phrase there about the meanness of
stealing cents off a dead nigger’s
eyes,” but it is almost as clever to steal
them out of a living nigger’s pockets.—
This bounds our ideas of Gen. Taylor.
He hires a man, or a thing that looks
like one, to whip old men and women,
young ones and children, to make them
work for him. When he was away
hunting squaws and pappooses in Flor
ida, and killing women and children in
Mexico, his overseer was on the banks
of the Mississippi, whipping twelve
hundred bales of cotton per annum out
of the unpaid laborers, whom the “old
hero” claims to own, body and soul,
and who never were taught to read or
write, or cypher either. Well, well,
he is a beauty, and these preacher
selling chivalry are all beauties after
their kind. Every animal after its
kind. The name or thought of them
fills us with loathing, they are so mean,
so little, so contemptible.

From the Practical Christian.
THE POLITICAL SKIES.
“Watchman, what of the night?”—
Look up into the political skies. Read
the signs thereof. Let the constella
tions declare the coming future. Let
the grey streaks of early dawn proclaim
the approaching morning. Down-trod- j
den humanity, hll up thy head, for thy
redemption is foretokened in the firma
ment! “The Lord God omnipott'nt
reigneth.” “He frustrafeth the tokens
of the liars, and maketh diviners mad.
He taketh the wise in their own crafti
ness;and the counsel of the froward is
carried headlong. They meet with
darkness in the day-time, and grope in
the noon-day as in the night. So the
poor b*tW bivnr and uvtguily slop pet bt
tier mouth.”
Democratic pro-slavery has nomina
ted Lewis Cass, and Whig pro-slavery
has nominated Zachary Taylor, for
President of the United States. What
were these two great partizan assem
blages, at Baltimore and at Philadel
phia, essentially better than political
inobs? The most profligate and un
principled trampled underfoot the more
decent and well disposed members, and
impudently proclaimed the dictates of
slaveocratic despotism to be the su
preme law of their respective parties.
The whole of it is utterly abominable,
but we rejoice at it with devout thanks
giving to God. The cloven fool, which
the Seers have so long endeavored to
make the people see, now kicks out
from beneath the silken robes of deceit,
and unintentionally kicks thousands of
professed freemen into their senses.—
God he praised that the majority of the
Baltimore Convention were left to nomi
nate a most supple and servile North
ern man with Southern politics as their
candidate for the Presidency. And
thrice praised be his holy name that
the majority of the Philadelphia Con
vention were left to nominate a migh
ty hunter” and holder of slaves, distin
guished as a commander-in-chief of
both human and canine blood-hounds.
We have now fairly entered on the
“beginning of the end.” The two
great political parties which have so
long vied with each other which should
crouch lowest before the Juggernaut of
s|ayery, are now doing their last obeis-
And they are doing it in a quag-
which, if either of them ever
cdfcesout alive, it will come out a poor
bedaubed thing, so smutty as to require
at least a decent hath, and a clean suit
of clothes.
The great political disease of this
nation is hastening to its crisis. It is
this that rejoices us. We rejoice not
at the iniquities and profligacies of cor
rupt men in high places. But we do
rejoice that a wicked oligarchy is on
the eve of its final and everlasting over
throw. And at all the signs of the
times, which foretoken such a consum
mation, our heart becomes more and
more hopeful. We now behold the
two sets of political gamblers playing
their last game. They have become,
desperate. Their eyes are fatally fixed
on the grand stake. They go the
whole hog for slavery. They have de
livered themselves over body and soul
in a league with the devil. And when
they have got through he will jost pitch
them into the bottomless pit. But what
is taking place among the people of the
the North? They are waking up and
coming to their sense-. The stern out
cry and flaming sword of abolitionism
behind them, and the roar of the de
vouring monger in front of them, lap
ping his bloody jaws aud growling for
fresh blood, have roused thousands and
tens of thousands from their long slum
bers. Every where we hear of men,
formerly devoted to the two great po
litical parties, trampling their allegiance
under fool, denouncing the nominations
of Cass sad Taylor, and pledging them
selves to stand up manfully against the
Anther spread and domination of dare-
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1818.
1 ry. Hitherto the chains of party havi
been indissoluble. Now they are snap
ping asunder like the withes aboul
Sampson when he heard the shout—
The Philistines be upon thee. Samp
son
What then may we anticipate Tay
lor may possibly be elected by the
l united forces of ail the pro-slavery cle
i ments North aud South. If so, the
Whig party dies of pro-slavery infamy.
If not, it dies under the compound ef
fect of infamy and defeat. Henceforth
it may be considered incurable. 11
Taylor should be elected, the worst
elements of the old so-called Democrat
ic party will coalesce with the worst
elements of the other, and share with
them the spoils. For Sfocbary Taylor
will be pretty muchatch a Whig as
John Tyler proved Rramalf. Meantime,
whether Taylor or Casa succeeds, or
the election by the people fail, the New
York Barnburner Democrats will lead
off and consolidate around them a re
generated Democratic party, which
will ultimately combine in it the con
science Whigs, take the wind out ol
the sails of the Liberty Party, be
forced forward by the moral power
Abolitionists, draw into it the masses ol
the whole North, and not improbably
enough of the South to bring about the
formal abolition of slavery throughout
the Union, or else necessitate a disso
lution of the Union, which will soon be
followed by inevitable .abolition. This
will come step by step but the steps
will succeed each other much more
rapidly than many are now prepared to
anticipate. Is the process of these
political movements, the new and pow
erful Democratic party growing up will
lose nothing of that bold, determined
go-aheadativeness through thick aud
thin, which has given the old rotten
party all its successes, hut it will re
ceive such an infusion of moral stamina
from its new materials as to render it
altogether more rational, considerate
and just in its measures than any pre
ceding party. It will ultimately become
a party of moral and social progress.
It will at no distant day abolish ail po
litical and governmental oaths, and
every good man will be left at full lib
erty to vote, hold office and discharge
all his duties as a citizen, without com
promising his moral integrity, as is now
the case, by a wicked promise, express
ed or implied, to go for his country
right or wrong, to support the evil as
well as the good of the civil Constitu
tion, to execute human laws, however
contrary to divine law, audio be bound
by the will of majorities against the
dictates of a good conscience. All
this stuff must go by the board sooner
or later. The moral reformers, the
true ami-stavery people, Non-Resis
tants and Peace-men, are now exclud
ed from political action by these vile,
clap-trap oaths which being set at
the threshold of every governmental
office ensnare the simple, drive off the
upright, and focilitate the ingress ol
the unscrupulous, who dan swear to
any thing, and then act as they list.
When these oaths and engagements
are abolished, government will rapidly
advance to its perfection—its full Chris
tianization—its true moral excellency
and usefulness.
Such are our interpretations of the
signs in the present political skies, and'
such our anticipation of the progress
ot events in this country. Twenty-five
years will develop astonishing results.
Humanity will gain, directly or indi
rectly, by every overturn and modifica
tion of political affairs. But moral
forces are the controlling forces of the
power behind the throne greater than
the throne. Those who do most to
change the politics of this country are
the men of moral principle who stand
behind politics, and compel politicians
to raise their moral standard. Let these
continue faithful, bide their time, and
only enter into actual politics when
politics bow implicitly to principle.
THE NEW STATES.**
The following table wHI show the
time when the “New States,” or those
not included in the “Old Thirteen,
were admitted into the Union:
Vermont was originally a part of New
York, and was admitted into the Union
June 1, 1791.
Kentucky, formerly a part of ir
ginia, admitted into the Union June,
1792.
Tennessee, formed of territory ceded
to the United States by (the State of N.
Carolina, admitted into the Union June
1, 1796.
Ohio, formed out of part of the
territory North-west of the river Ohio,
admitted into the Union November
•29, 1796.
Louisiana, formed out of part of the
territory ceded to the United States by
France, received into the Union April
8, 1812
Indiana, formed out of part of the
North-west Territory, ceded to the U.
States by Virginia, admitted into the
Union December 11, 1816.
Mississippi, formed out of part of the
territory ceded to the United States by
South Carolina,admitted into the Union
December 10,1817.
Illinois, formed out of part of the
North-western Territory, admitted into
the Union December 3, 1818.
Alabama, formed* out of part of the
territory ceded to the United States by
South Carolina and Georgia, admitted
into the Union I December 15, 1818.
Maine, formed out of part of Massa
chusetts, admitted into the Union March
to, 1820.
Missouri, formed out of part of the
territory ceded by France by the treaty
of April 30, 1783, admitted into the
Union August 10, 1821; after the adop
tion of the noted compromise line ex
cluding slavery from at! territory North
of 36 deg. 90 min., west of the Missis-
*ipp*, saving States o* Territory already
formed.
Arkansas, formed of part of the same
territory, admitted June 15, 1833.
Michigan, formed of part of the ter
ritory ceded to the United States by
Virginia, admitted into the Union Jan.
36, 1837.
Florida, formed out of the territory
ceded to the United States by treaty of
i February 3, 1819, admitted into the
Union March 3, 1815.
Texas, an independent republic, ad
mitted into the United States by a joint
resolution of Congress,approved March
38, 1815.
lowa, admitted into the Union De
cember 36, 1846.
Wisconsin, an act was passed March
3, 1847, to admit this territory into the
Union, upon the condition that the peo
ple adopt .the constitution passed De
cember 16, 1816. The constitution
was rejected,.but the people have sub
sequently agreed upon a constitution,
and the State was admitted into the
Union by act of Congress of May *39th,
1818.
Territories. —Nebrasba; bill reported
to fix boundaries, Jan. 7, 1845, but no
action on the subject.
Oregon; bill to establish a Territo
rial Government passed House of Re
presentatives January 15, 1817—no fi
nal action on the Subject in the Senate
during that session, when in 1848 a bill
passed both bouses of Congress, and
was approved by the President on the
15th August, establishing a Territorial
Government.
Minesota; Bill to establish a Terri-
I torial Government passed the House
February 17, 1818, referred to Judi
ciary Committee in Senate, hut no
further action on the subject.— Jour, of
Commerce.
WARS ARE UNPROFITABLE.
War is usually a source of taxation
and oppression. Most of the European
nations are now ground down with
taxes to pay the interest on national
debts incurred in prosecuting unjust
and unnecessary wars.
England and Ireland are sorely op
pressed by taxation, the main purpose
of which is to pay the interest on her
vast war debt, much of which might
have been avoided if the government
had been wise, and desirous of remain
ing at peace, hut the folly of the rulers
in plunging the people into war has
caused the whole population to groan
for aces under the weight of heavy
taxation.
The unprofitableness of military con
quests is illustrated in the case of
France and Algiers. France under
took |o conquer Algiers cut easy job;
she succeeded at the cost of much
treasure and took possession of the
country, and reduced it to the condi
tion of a French province. But ever
since the conquest it has been found
necessary to keep 80,000 soldiers in
that region to keep the inhabitants in
subjection, and every year since the
conquest, the cost of occupation has
been more than one hundred millions of
dollars over and above all the taxes,
imposts and revenues that could be ex
acted or extorted from the people of
conquered Algiers. Thus the conquest
turns out to be a permanent loss, a
lasting evil. This is the case in the
occupation of a country that only ex
tends about two hundred miles from
the sea coast.
The United States undertook to make
war on Mexico, and many of our citi
zens supposed that it would he a very
light affair to conquer that country.
The Mexican war might have been
easily avoided if one-hundredth part
of the trouble that was taken to pre
vent war with Great Britain about
Oregon had been taken to preserve
peace with Mexico, but the government
was dazzled with the idea of national
aggrandizement and military conquest,
and acted so as to precipitate- a war.
The consequence has been that thirty
thousand of our citizens have fallen
victims to the sword, to sickness and
to the casualties of war, and the nation
has in prosecuting the convuest, ex
pended at least one hundred and fifty
millions of dollars but the end is not i
yet! Peace is made and an army of
occupation will have to be kept. To
occupy the conquered portion of Mexi- j
co, will require nearly as many men
and cost nearly as much money as the
occupancy of Algiers, bacause the
country is more extensive, more diffi
cult acid further distant, and the people
more restive, treacherous and turbu
lent.
If the idea of occupancy or of con
quest of Mexico be adhered to, we
must calculate that it may cost us one f
hundred millions of dollars every year; j
this in ten years, will make a thousand
millions and thus a huge debt will be'
accumulating that will press heavily j
upon the people for the next genera- j
non. This debt will cripple business,
paralyze enterprize, and hang as a f
heavy weight on all useful branches of j
business. The people engaged in agri
culture, commerce, manufactures, and
other useful branches of business will j
have to pay* for the folly of the politi-i
cians and for the glory of the military.
The office holders, the military officers,
the public agents and contractors, the
jobbers, speculators, party favorites,
and political loafers, may grow rich by
the war, and they will exert their influ
ence in favor of war, conquest, and
military occupation but the people
want peace, and must in every even*
be the sufferers by war. St. La.
Era.
Punch says that the milk of hu
man kindness is not to be found in the
pail of society.” If so, we think it is
time for all “hands” as Pat would say,
to “kkk the bucket.**
THE MERCHANT AND QUAKEM
A merchant of London bad a dispute
with a Quaker respecting the settle
ment of an accouat. The mere ban!
was determined to bring the question
into court, a proceeding which the Qua
ker deprecated,using every argument in
his power to convince the merchant ol
his error; but the latter was inflexible.
Desirous to make a last effort, the Qua
ker called at nia house one morning,
and inquired of the servant if his mas
ter was at home. The merchant hear
ing the inquiry, suid knowing the voice,
called aloud from the top of the stairs,
"Tell that rascal I’m not at home.”—
The Quaker, looking up towards him,
calmly said, Well, friend, God put
thee in a better mind.” The mer
chant, struck with the meekness of the
reply, and having more deliberately in
vestigated the matter, became convinc
ed that the Quaker was right and lie
was wrong. He requested to“see him,
and after acknowledging his error, he
said: I have one question to ask you,
How were you able,with such patience,
on various occasions, to bear mv
abuse?” Friend,” replied the Qua
ker, I will tell thee. I was naturally
as hot and violent as thou art; I knew
that to indulge this temper was sin, and
I found that it was imprudent. I ob
served that men in a passion always
spoke loud, and I thought that if I could
control my voice, I should suppress my
passion. I have therefore made it a
rule never to suffer my voice to rise
above a certain key, am! by a careful
observance of this rule, I have, with
the blessing of God, entirely mastered
my natural temper. The Quaker
reasoned philosophically, and the mer
chant, as every one else may be, was
benefilted by his example.
A Righteous Decision. —Some time
ago, a poor fugitive escaped from Ma
ryland, nnd, hotly followed by tiie pur
suer, on his way to safety beneath the
broad flag of old England, in Canada,
was overtaken and seized in Vermont.
The abolitionists iustantly got out a ha
beas corpus, and carried all parties be
fore the court, to see what warrant they
had to arrest any man in Vermont who
had committed no crime. Three judg
es were on t e bench, two of them
youug and energetic, one aged arid fee
ble, who came to his seat by habit ot
years, but seldom spoke, his eyes being
dim and his strength abated. The
counsel spoke—the defence wished to
know why the man was held in custody.
The lawyer for the slaveholder rose to
reply, and said he should move that the
offender was guilty of a breach of the
laws of Maryland state; he was a slvae
and had stolen himself. The other
lawyer thffl said he should require
proof that he was a slave. The slave
owner then stood up, and held forth a
document; this, he said, is a bill of sale
made in my favour, for this man, signed
by his original owner. The old judge
rose to his feet, and with a voice of
thunder, strangely loud for one so old,
demanded, “Who signed it, sir?’,
“John Williams,” replied the astonish
ed owner. “Take it away! take it away!’
said the old man, taising his hanbs to
heaven,“lt is not valid, sir; it is falsely
signed, sir; it is a blasphemous forgery
none can sign that bill of sale but God
Almighty.” The court was electrified;
the slaveholder slunk out, and Ver
mont awakened like a sleeper, gave
twenty thousand abolition votes at the
next election.— Erlrad of a Idler from
Troy, State of .Yew York, Oct., 1816,
Negroes ra. Horses.— The foilow
ing, sayes the Boston Reflector arid
Watchman, has been communicated to
one of the pastors of Boston, by a son
residing in Illinois, and may be relied
on as veritable: *To illustrate the diffi
culty of getting a slave back into bon
dage, let me give you a specimen of
the jurisprudence of our country, which
occurred yesterday at our country seat,
(Woodstock.) Two white men ap
peared in town, having in custody two
‘gentlemen of color,’ whom they had
taken in Wisconsin as their property—
escaped from Missouri, These were
brought before a magistrate in Wood-;
stock, and claimed as their slaves. The
Court decided that it had no jurisdiction
in the case, as the negroes were ille
gally taken by tbe plaintiffs out of the
State, whereupon the prisoners were
discharged. At the instance of the
white man, the men of color were then
taken up for stealing two horses when
they left Missouri, from plaint ill’s. De
fendants acknowledged having stolen
the horses, alleging that they were In
dian horses, not belonging to plaintiff*.
A long debate here arose between the
learned counsel, whether—ail being
property —the negroes stole tbe horses,
or, the horse* carried off, and conse
quently stole, the negroes. The pris
oners were again discharge d, and went
their way rejoicing in the blessing* of
liberty. But the cud was not yet. A
suit was immediately instituted against
plaintiffs, on behalf of the people of
the State, for kidnapping, and the Court
held them to bail in the sum of
which not being able to obtain, they
were obliged to pay the amount, and
then left. The horse*, I understand,
are to be tried to-morrow for stealing
the negroes.”
Death Serves or Kcmarkasee
Persons.— Mary, Scotland’s frail beau
ty, met the gloomy king” with a de
gree of resolution not to be expected
from her misfortunes, so n Jtnerou* were
they, deserted by every friend except
her little dog.
Sir T. Moore remarked to the exe
cutioner, by whose hands he was
perish, that tbe scaffold was extremely
weak. I pray you, friends, see me
up safe,” said he, and for my coming
down, let me shill for myaelt
i Clmgtr IrcttM IwiidttW*® o** 0
JOHN DICK, PtiiUßii.
WHOLE N 0.—44.
posm* a ballad. HU la* production it
called, *A ballad made bv Geoffrey
Chaucer <>n U»e death bed, laying tit
great pain. J
I could wi*«h this tragic scene wa*
o' cr said Quin, the actor, but I
diiTnitv g I} XK,S, with
Petrarch was found dead in his libra
*7- leaning over a book.
H isseau, when dying, ordered hU aV
tendants to remove him, and place him
before the window, that he might look
j upon lus garden, and gladden hU eye*
with the sight of nature. How ar
dent an admirer he was of nature is
poetically told in Zimmermans Sol
itude.”
Pope tells us he found Sir Godfrey
Kneller (when he visited him a few 1
day* prior to his end y sitting up, and
forming plans for his ffifaument.
His vanity was conspicuous even in
death!
Warren has remarked that Clicster
field’s good breeding only left him with
death. “Give Drysdale a chair,” said
he to his valet, when that person was
announced.
J'ayle, when dying, pointed to (her
place where his proof-sheet was de
posited.
Clarendon’s pen dropped from hi®
hand when he was seized with palsy,
which put an end to his existence.
Hede died while in the act of dic
tating.
Roscommon, when about expiring,
quoted from his own translation of Dice
Ira*.
Haller, feeling his pulse, said, the
artery ceases to beat,” and immediately
dittd.
V» hen the priest, whom A 1 fieri had
been prevailed on to see, came, he re
quested him to call to-morrow:
“Death, I trust, will tarry four-and
twenty hours.”
Nelson’s last words were, “Tell Col
lingwood to bring the licet to anchor.”
—Religious Herald.
The Wonders of the Western
World. New Orleans is about to
reap the first, and, wc fear, almost the
only good fruits of the Mexican war, in
a series of popular lectures on the sub
ject of American antiquities, to be de
livered by some of the most eloquent
writers at the South, and illustrated by
a large collection of curiosities recently
discovered by our intelligent officer®
and soldiers in Mexico. The curiosi
ties are to be collected into a museum,
j to which it is hoped that liberal addi
tions will be made by future explorers.
I’he proceeds of the lectures, and of
the museum, will bo devoted to laying
the foundation of an asylum for respect
nblo destitute females in New Orleans,
an institution which is very much needl
ed there, and which, we are happy to
learn, is now begun under the most fa
vorable auspices. Mav it be more than
successful.— Ere. Post.
Gen. Taylor’s Letters.- —Of tlto
numerous letters Taylor lias written,
can any man show one containing even
a single line, expressing his regret that
slavery should exist? Taylor men of
the city of Columbus have letters from
him they dare not show; do they con
tain anything in favor of freedom? one
word that even indicates the least lib-'
erality on the: subject? Has he ever
yet offered liberty to a single one of
those human beings, the fruit of whose
uncompensated labor he enjoys? Ha®
he ever done any one thing that would
recommend him to a Christian commu
nity of free people? No, he is a slave
trader, a sugar and cotton planter, with
all the interests arid prejudices of hi®
peculiar situation. In fine, lie stands
confessed un ignorant, slavelrading
soldier, owing his nomination to the
fraudulent acts of the Louisiana dele
gation, and trusting to concealment
and deception for success. Ohio
Standard.
Abolitionism in the District.—Tito
Washington (D. C.) Executive Free
Soil Committee, on the *2fith, reported
an ably-written address, which is cal
culated to make a stir in the District,
and caused not a little (Alteration. 11
advocates, among other things, the abo
lition of slavery, and says that the mas®
of the citi/.ens would find full compen
sation for the deprivation of slaves, in
the deliverance of the free while laborer
from contact and competition with a
degraded caste—in the filling up of tho
District with an energetic free popula
tion— in the introduction of manufac
tures, improvements, capital, fitc., S.c.
Thirty thousand copies of the address
were ordered to be printed. .V. Y.
Eeung.
Gen. Tavlor was nominated by the
Philadelphia Convention. That body
avowed no political creed; and its only
action with reference to principle, was
to vole dowm the Wilnrot Proviso.—
Gen. Taylor was nominated by a Con
vention of slaveholders at Charleston,
South Carolina. That assembly d*d
avow its principles—the leading one of
which was the doctrine of slavery ex
tension. This nomination he cordially
accepts. Is it not, under these circuits
stances, a Hale too barefaced for lho>
supporters of General Taylor to clams
that they are lire true free »o«l parly.—
Troy Budget.
5 W»nr Ge».T*vtoß i*.—Gen. Tay-
Lrt* is from birth, association, and coti
"i *o the Sooth, and
j l»er institution*; bring om of the most
ester****'* slaveholders in t./*ui»iana,and
supported by the slave holding interest
as opposed to the Wilmot Proviso, and
in fa* >r of securing the privilege to the
owners of slaves to remove with them
to newly acquired territory.—<V. Q.
Be*
Notices.
Rhode Inland Aati-tMavery Society
Annnnl Meeiiif-
The thirteenth annua! meeting of the Rhode
Inland Anti-Slavery Siieiety, will he h'-M in
Proridene-j, on Thursday and Friday, Nov
ember 16lh, and ITlh, I#4B.
The usual effort will bs mad to secure the
attendance of dwtinjruishcd friends of ernanci
pation fr.wn abroad, and it is confidently
hoped that the meeting will be rendered inter
esting to all who may be present.
Our earnest appeal to all the friends of Lib
ert in Rhode Island is, that they will once
again lend to ns and to the cause, their pre
sence, their warm sympathies and their gener
ous efforts. This surely is not a time when
the Pioneers of our cause in this Slate—the
earnest and true men and women of the home
of Roger Williams should falter in their work,
or lack fault in the ultimate triumph of ihcii
doctrines. The fires winch have been kindled,
and which are now Inirslmg forth, ever
amongst the old and long enslaved and slavery
shattered political (tartics, shonld be ke-yi
burning; and enquirers for the truth shook
be points to a higher duty and a more glnn
ous purjioso. Let us come together, then
with warm and determined hearts, and taking
courage from the past, resolve again to presi
forward w ith reoewed zeal and a closer friend
ship for uur timt, to the prise so dear to us
and so full otyiy to the enslaved.
In behalf of the, Rhode Island Anti-Slavery
Society,
JOHN BROWN, President,
Amauancv Paine, Secretary.
Providence, R. 1., Oct. 2, IWJB.
WomnnN Protective Union
Will in“f*t nl Protection Hall, corner of Main
and St. Paul Streets, on Friday, the 27tli
tnst., at 3 o'clock P. M. Friends of reform
arc respectfully invited to attend.
SARAH C. OWEN, Sec.
fork Ladies Anti-Slavery Society.
The following is the eighth report and
address of the above named Society
Wc address you again on behalf of 3,<H)0,-
0(MI of our fellow creatures, ground down and
hound by the cruel chains of slavery and bon
dage, w hose sighs and crying wrought by the
torture of oppression, ascend up on high,
before the throne of One in whose sight all
mortals arc of equal im|iortancc.
The claims of tlie slave upon the attention
of all, in a professedly Christian country, arc
great and jwiwcrful. No one with any spark
o( humanity nr Christian feeling in Ins breast,
will gainsay this; and if such Is? admitted,
the inference is plain, that every Irish heart
possessing these lnihieuccs should extend its
general sympathy, anil use every endeavour
towards snatching so many human beings
from captivity, its insults, stripes, and inven
tions of cruelly.
To all who are desirous of helping forward
the cause of Anti-Slavery, an opportunity is
again afforded of assisting those engaged in
the noble project, by contributing articles fur
the Fifteenth Annual Bazaar, to be held at
Boston, during Christinas week (in addition
to which, there will also be one at Rochester
for same purpose.)
The work of our Irish jioor has been on
former occasions much admired in America;
whether knitting, netting, crochet, or em
broidery, all have been much appreciated and
thankfully received it will therefore bo op
tional w ith such kind friends, as are desirous
of assisting the good work, either to contri
bute the labour of their own hands, or such
sums ns they may think fit towards purchas
ing materials cither for the Boston or Roches
ter Bazaar.
And now we hope that mention of these
circumstances is only requisite to ensure an
abundant and overflowing supply. Think ol
lhe cries ami groans from so many hundred
thousands of our race day by hay; while in a
country of pence we walk abroad, and go
whithersoever we will, no man making us
afraid, while we are educated, which they
cannot be, while we have freedom of remon
strance under even supposed injury, which
they cannot have under real and dreadful
bondage—and are we, with all the blessings
of a free country upon our heads, to make no
attempt to loosen the chains of the enslaved
and let the oppressed go free; perish the
thought, that Ireland’s daughters shall receive
the gifts of a generous and bounteous Provi
dence without using the energies and means
which they possess, towards the succour of
these in miserable captivity, both physical and
litoral. On the score even of common hu
manity, we are called upon to give our aid,
and il a national or patriotic motive were
wanting, the injurious and demoralising effect
which Slavery has upon Irish men and wo
men in America, ought to be deemed suf
ficient.
W e ask then, all of every class and denom
ination, to contribute bbeially if they can,
but at any rate to contribute and as extension
ol sympathy is much to Is; desired, wc would
prefer numerous small donations of work or
funds, rather than a few large.
We now leave the matter in your bands,
expecting that this appeal will not be in vain
and that every exertion may lie made hy those
who read il to forvvaid the cause of Anti-
Slavery truth, and strengthen the hands, and
cheer the hearts of those truly benevolent
individuals in the Toiled States, who have
devoted their wealth, their strenuous exer
tions, their own liberts, in short their lives,
to the great -and glorious cause of Freedom
from Slaves v.
CONTRIBUTIONS (ok DONATIONS) WILL lit Kt
KIVKi) BEFORE loTIt NOVEMBER, RV
Mrs Beamish, Beaumont, President,
Mrs Breinner. Lipp's Quay,
Mrs ('alllts, Wellington Lxfoe
Queen's Place,
Miss I Jennings, Brown St. Secretary.
•j' e Belmont, innusliannon,
Mrs Manly, Ferncy,
‘".l'y Parailo, Sw-rcttr.,
Mr Mart,,,, l-.tr,,* Str
Miss M. B. I uokey, Lancaster <Ju-iv
.Mi» n. K. wu.w, ISM*,
I reasurer,
Mis. J. Allliiant Bandnn,
Mis. Pembroke, Tralee,
M uts Rose, Limerick.
From i tic l.ilx-rator.
Trior I-’oster.
We are very willing to publish the follow
mg letter from Mr. Foster, and the certificates
accompanying it, signed bv several clergymen
and others of this city. We have no wish in* 1
regard to Mr. Foster, excepting that justice i
should be done to him ami to the Community.
But we would draw his attention, ami that ot
the geiiileinen who certify in his bell-if, t*<
the specific cliargrt made against him by tin
wrjtet m (Is- North Star, understood to be I)r.
Dclauy, one ol the editors. They are these.
I hat, three years ago, he (the writer) was
induced hy Mr. Foster to take a stationary
agency tor fos Institute, a:id to advertise it in
an authentic Circular, as in fuJl operation,
w^*'n Vi*’" Michigan, unexpectedly
to Mr. i osier, he found that there was no
house built, nor a School o( any description
ill existence. Also, that upon exainimng the i
books ol the concern he found th„t the dts- i
burseiueiit of two thousand dolLra was unac i
coastal for. These charg** m*y he tolfcep
lifrfc of explanation, and ore shall be very
happy to ho the medium of communicating it
to ibe Public. Hut he and hi* friend■ must
*cc that substantive allegation* like these,
roaring from responsiUe source, are not suf
ficiently m-»t by th* gty>«l opinion which any
gentlemen, however respectable, may enter
tain of him.— q.
To the Editor of ih* Ijtbrrntor
St*—ln reply to the remarks made about
me in your paper of the 29th of .Septemb r,
may I ask yon u» insert the following certifi
cates in y«wr next number 1 I should have
taken earlier notice of vouf charges against
me, but! have been waiting fur a reply to mv
last report to the Trustees of the Woodstock
Manual Ivihor Institute, forwarded from this
city a few weeks ago. I expect shortly to
receive an acknowledgement of the recriptand
approval of that report, which 1 shall also ask
you to publish. Until that arrives, 1 trust the
follow ing communication will be regarded by
the public a* a sufficient refutation of the
charges brought against me in your paper.
Through your columns I would, ask the editor
of the .North iSiar' to publish it also.
Re«p<-cUully vours
PRIOR FOSTER, General Agent.
Boston, Oct. 1848.
TO THE PUBLIC.
We. the undersigned, have examined all
the books, papers snd documents of Mr.
Prior Foster, Agent of tin* Woodstock Man
ual I<ahor School. Among these (tapers we
find his Annual Reports, as Agent, from his
first appointment up to the last year, 1847,
with the rotes of the Trustees accepting and
approving the same, with their signatures
attached. We find also a written copy of an
Act incorporating the Woodstock Manual
I*alior School, passed by the ol
Michigan last winter, —said copy being eerti-
I fied to by the Secretary of State, and addressed
j to *ud Foster in an envelope post-marked
Lansing, the capital of the State.
We find also, a certificate, dated April 17th,
1818, signed by the President and Secretary
of the Board of Trustees, appointing said
Foster Agent, to travel and collect funds for
the Institution and also another certificate,
signed by many of his ncighlmrs, citizens of
Woodstock, expressing their confidence in
his honesty and integrity, and their testimony
to his labors and sacrifices in behalf of the
Institution, and the education and elevation of
his colored brethren. We cannot doubt the
genuineness of these documents, and from
our examination of them we are led to believe
that the remarks made in a late number of
your paper about Mr. Foster arc unjust to
him, and that he is worthy of confidence as
an honest nun, and of encouragement and
sympathy in his present enterprise.
[Rev.l S. K. LOTH HOP.
F. I). HUNTINGTON,
EDWARD N. KIRK.
EDWARD BEECHER,
FRANCIS PARKMAN.
Boston October 6, 1818.
Boston, Oct. 8, 1848.
This is to certify that I have l»cen acquaint
ed with Mr. Prior Foster for sonic eight
years also know many who have been inter
ested with him in the same enterprise; also
the President of the Institution, who was a
few years since a settled minister of this city,
and is well known here. No one can fail to
be well satisfied of Mr. Foster's honesty, by
making a few inquiries in this city.
GEORGE N. FLETCHER,
14 Meichants’ Exchange, Boston.
October 9, 1848.
This may certify, that I have been ac
quainted with P. Foster for twelve years past
—have every reason to esteem him as an
upright rad strictly honest man, and was ex
tremely sorry to sec the cruel attack upon his
character in the Liberator, and hope it may be
immediately refuted. M. A. ADAMS,
42 Spring-street, Boston.
P. S. Since the above was prepared, 1
have received the following, alluded to in my
foregoing note P. F.
Jackson's Mills, OctT 2,184 H.
Bkothkh Foster
Our mass meeting came ofT yesterday in
good spirit, though our gathering was not
large, and the day previous was the meeting
of the Tiustees, and the following. In the
result, Win. P. Russell was elected Presi
dent, Wm. W. Jackson Secretary, Josaph
Hewit Treasurer; and the following persons
were added to the Board of Trustees John
Adams, Dea. Baldwin, Henry M. Wilson,
James W. C. Pennington, Asaer Ray. A*
Agents, Prior Foster, General Agent, James
\V. C. Pennington and Jason St. John, Trav
elling Agents. Whereupon, it was
Voted, That the $2OO on hand he appro
priated to the payment of Steer and othei
small debts, and Mr. Russell is to go and sec
Powers, and get the refusal for a time of said
land.
The following were the resolutions passed
by said Board
Resolved, That the Report of Prior Fos
ter, General Agent of the Woodstock Manual
Labor Institute, is entirely satisfactory to us
and as more funds are still needed for the ac
complishment of the good object for whiel
the Institution was established, therefore we
do hereby cordially recommend him to the
confidence of all who are interested ill the
education and elevation of our colored frieuds,
hoping that they will contribute freely for the
accomplishment of this good object.
2. Resolved, That as the W. M. L. Insti
tute has been established for the special bene
fit of the colored people, by their friends,
without reference to party or sect, we there
fore recommend that the views peculiar to
any one sect of Christians be not taught at
the Institution.
3d. Resolved, That we deeply regret the
course taken by one ol the editors of the
North Star in reference to Prior Foster,
Agent of the Woodstock Manual Labor In
stitute, because we balieve that it is calculat
ed to injure the cause w hich must lie near the
heart of every lover of humanity. We also
believe the statements made hv that paper ol
August 25 to be incorrect. We are person
ally acquainted with Prior Foster, and with
the Institution, and have entered into a
thorough examination of the books and ac
counts of the Institution, and of the doings ol
the Agent; no fraud or deception having
been discovered by us in the doings of the
Agent. We trust the frieuds of education
and of the colored people will not suffer their
minds to he massed by such statements; but
reposing confidence in thu General Agent,
w ill contribute freely, and thus assist in carry
ing forward the great and good work which
lias been commenced. The above resolutions
were unanimously adopted.
WM. P. RUSSELL,
JOSEPH HEWIT,
WM. W. J AGKSON,
JOSEPH FOSTER,
JASON ST. JOHN,
Tnatmt.
WM. P. RUSSELL,
President.
Signed bv order e»f the Trustees
WM. W. JACKSON, Nrrr/ary.
A National Convention of Colored
Men wa» m session at Uvrland, Ohm, dur
ing two or three day* of last week. The ob-
J**cl of l lie Convention was to ih-vi»e plans for
tb<- melioration of the condition of the Africa*
race m the United Sta L-s. The Herald says
til at it* proceedings were temperate, decorous
and harmonious. On the second day a discus
sion of marked interest took place, on a reso
lution declaring menial service* degrading to
ihc black* a« a class, and recommending all to
i>eek employment m agricultural, mechanical,
mercantile aud professional avocations. .Yu
’tonal Intrllignurr.
The Moon not inhabited— -The Man
‘ltcster Examiner proves th.*», by stating, on
he authority of a Bolton man, that no Scotcb
uau hid been known to visit it.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, OCTOBER 27, ISIS.
The 4Mrm to tie Colored People of
tie rolled State*.
This document continues to engage the at
tention of both the friends and enemies of our
people. Few papers emanating from colored
persons in this country, hare bad a wider cir
culation. It seems to be hailed as the com
mencement of noble results. Even our old
persecutors, the Colonization ims, speak of the
address in term* of complacency. The Colo
nization Herald, published in Philadelphia, re
views the address in a spirit of kindness rather
than candor. It says, *J»e address embodies
much good advice In spirit, tone and com
position, it is superior to most of the addresses
by abolitionists; and it will we dare say, com
mend itself accordingly, to a wider circle of
readers, and secure for the furtherance of its
objects, a larger and more influential body of
supporters among the benevolent in our land,
than has been obtained lor the more ardent—
not to say inflammatory and disorganizing ap
peals w hich have too often brought odium on
I the cause of abolitionism. As Coloniza
tionisis, we have ever held the same opinions,
and advocated the same means of practical
amelioration with those promulgated in the
address. We have appealed to the better
ambition of the colored people, and have urged
them to take a higher position in the acalo of
society than can be procured by continuing iu
the menial offices noticed in the address.”
If this were a true picture of Colonization
ists generally, or to any considerable extent,
much cause for hostility to that society would
be removed. Hut such unfortunately is not
the case. That society through its agents,
papers, pamphlets, tracts and books, has ever
held to the utter impossibility of colored per
sons occupying a higher position in the scale
of society.” It has invaribly taken the* facts
of our present condition, as fixed and final,
demonstrating, that we can never fill higher
stations in this country, than those which we
at present occupy. Whole volumes might be
adduced to prove this charge. If the altered
condition of things—the growing interest felt
in the cause of injured man, ourselves includ
ed—if a larger idea of Christianity and democ
racy is finding its way into the public mind,
and a general spirit recognizing in every man,
a brother, is pervading the heart of this great
nation, and Colonizationists arc in common
with others, feeling its genial influence; let
them come out and confess their error—their
great want of faith in the truth and their coun
trymen, and resolve to abandon their old and
hurtful errors, and none will mure readily for
get and forgive their former errors and mis
takes than we, the victims who have suffered
most by them. Let them take the course re
cently adopted by a large and influential class
of politicians in this country, many of whom,
like the Colonizationists, have been prominent
in their opposition to every thing like the col
ored man's elevation in this country, hut who
iow stand forth the undisguised advocates of
his rights. Now, we say, when the waters
Eire troubled, let the lame halt, and the blind
of all classes jump in and he healed.
Hut, after all, our Colonization cotempora
ry d.»es not even now, advocate the elevation
of the colored people while they remain in this
country—for he says, (*n a spirit which looks
somew hat boastful,) While abolitionists are
claiming for thrir colored brethren (iho italics
are our's) the full rights of citizenship, and
arguing that the latter ought to hold offices,
and he promoted to the social and political dis
tinctions Colonizationists now actually obtain
for them an extensive field, the full and entire
enjoyment of those rights, and a position and
distinction which cannot be taken from them
by popular caprice, tumult or party manage
ment of the w hites.” In armver to this, we
may sav, that had the same amount of money
which has been applied to purposes of Coloni
zation, been appropriated to the cause of ele
vation at home, we should now see results far
more happy and agreeable than a mere hand
full of people called a Republic in Liberia.—
F. D.
Colored Churches iu Philadelphia,
111 auother column will lie found a letter,
signed W. D.,” which will be read with
interest, especially by our readers in the city
of Philadelphia. We extend to the writer of
it a heartfelt welcome to the use of the col
umns of the North Star, and are exceedingly
glad that he has taken up his pen, and hope
that he may be induced to write often.—
In spirit and style his letter is admirable. In
grammatical accuracy and excellence of chi
rography, his letter may be called a model.—
Such talents and attainments under a sable
hue, are worthy of a better cause than that
which, in this instance, they are most unfor
tunately employed to defend.
The lateness in the week at which this
lengthy communication arrived, and the desire
to give it immediate publicity, and the neces
sity of passing it at once into the hands of the
printer, makes it impossible to give its con
tents such a review as some of our readers may
think they deserve.
The exceptions which W. D. takes to our
charges against Stephen 11. Gloucester’s
church, (“Large Bethel,”) arid St. Thomas’s
Church, we of course think unsupported, and
really ought not to require a length reply.—
Those charges are clear, specific, and strong,
and, as we thiuk, sustained by an array of
striking facts, which can neither be denied
nor explained away. To those facts we di
rect the attention of W. D. and all others.—
lie is too much of a student and a reisoner,not
to acknowledge that well-attested facts cannot
be set aside by a mere vague and general as
sumption. The theory that because colored
men are oppressed —that they must be, there
fore, necessarily the actict enemies of oppres
sion is disproved by the whole history of our
people. £upinencss, indifference and timidi
ty, have ever been the rule, while active oppo-
MUtm to oppression has been the exception to
our general conduct. To be in Uvur of the
Anti-Slavery movement, means something
more than a quiet l<*oker-on upon the struggle.
There is truly no neutral ground between
liberty and slavery. He who w not (or us,
is against us.” You are cither helpers or
hindrance*—either pressing us forward, or
holding us back. You cannot setve God and
Mammon at the same tnue. You are our
fnends or our enemies. You either belong to,
our ranks of to the ranks of there hostile"
to us. Where, then, are the three colored j
churches in Philadelphia Let the facta
show. Tans coots abb booted sabbed
AB AIN'T THOSE WHO ABE THE BJKHVX AND
ACKNOWLEDGED ADVOCATES OT LIBKHTT t AND
ABB WIDE OftOr TO THOSE WHO ABE EX OWN
AND DISTINGUISHED (FOB THEIB ADVOCACY Of
Slaveby. To view of this disgraceful end
Incontrovertible fact, can may ooe blame os
for speaking of such churches as pro-slavery,
and occupying a position Hostile to tbe anti
slavery cause T These churches are not only
shot against the anti-slavery cause, bat two of
them at least are in full Christian fellowship
with those who gain their fortune by the
blood of souls.**
What is the Anti-slavery movement in this
country It is a movement on tbe part of a
class of men and women, who believing sl< ve
ry to be a sin, are acting in hannooy with that
belief by proclaiming in the ear of
nation, the accumulated wrongs of tbe perish
ing slave, and exposing the many embarrass
ments under which the nominally free colored
people sutler, and are demanding in the name
of God and eternal justice, immediate, entire
and unconditional emancipation for the former,
and equal rights for the latter. This is the
Anti-slavery movement. It is a movement.
It is not standing still. Its motive power is
faith in God. Its wheels are tbe press and
the living speaker; and he who presumes to
obstruct tbe one wheel or the other, intention
ally or umntentiqjpUy, is thus (hr hostile to
the Anti-slavery mnTi mriif and deserves to
be branded thus by all who love the cause of
human freedom more than the narrow bigotry
of sectarianism.
But granting all this, W. D would hare
us mourn over it, rather than denounce it.—
This is matter of opinion. We will do both—
mourn over it and denounce it; but while
there are three millions of our brethren under
the galling chains of slavery—scarred by the
bloody lash—shutout from their fellow crea
tures—denied all rights—unable to tell their
wrongs, we may be pardoned if our tears
should How for those rather than those traitors
to the cause of righteous liberty, who to gain
the smiles of the oppressor, meanly turn their
backs upon the oppressed.— r. d.
The Hutchinson Family.—llnnkeiism.
The circumstances attending the visit paid
last week to our youthful and beautiful city,
by these mountain songsters, makes it deserv
ing of special notice. The pro-slavery and
narrow-souled demon had preceded them.—
Old Hunkcrism, filled with pride and selfish
ness, dreaded the presence of these high
souled mountaineers in Rochester. It had no
taste for their soul-enlargingand heart-melting
melody. To defeat what it could not enjoy,
was its first object. The Ilulehinsons were
described as poor performere; their popularity
was said to be on the wane; abolitionism had
ruined them, &c. Other modes were meanly
adopted to disparage them in the estimation of
the people of Rochester. In this mean work
of detraction, we scarcely need say that the
miserable dough-face who edits the Cass pa
per in this city, and through whom our daugh
ter was basely excluded from Seward Sem
inary,” on account of her complexion, very
appropriately took the lead. This self-elected
umpire of taste in the city of Rochester,
claims as much skill in matters relating to the
harmony of sounds, as he assumes with re
spcct to the harmony of colors. We warn
the good people of llocheater against attend
ing either seminaries or concerts, on pain of
being expelled from respectable and refined
society, should they venture to do so before
obtaining the opinion of this most learned
judge” whose word is sufficient to set at defi
ance and veto the wishes of seminary
of young ladies and misses.- Webelicve he does
not object to the Virginia Minslrels,
Christy’s Minstrels, the “Ethiopian Ser
enades," or any of the filthy scum of white
society, who have stolen from us a complexion
denied to them by nature, in which to make
money, and pander to the comipt taste of their
white fellow-citizens. Those performers are
undoubtedly in harmony with his refined and
elegant taste Then those beautiful and high
ly sentimental songs which they sing, such as
Ole Zip Coon” Jim Crow” “Ole Dan
Tucker Jim alone Josey, and a few
other of such specimens of American m usical
genius, must spread over his spirit a charm,
and awaken in his bosom a rapture only
equalled by that celestial transport which
thrills his noble heart on witnessing a tremen
dous squash
We ought perhaps to feel less indignation
than compassion for any man to whom the
aongs of our mountain warblers are disagrees,
ble. Such a fact betrays an unenviable state
of mind, more to be deplored than blamed.
It might not be an uninteresting investigation,
had we lime to pursue it, to ascertain whether
the fault really be in this man's organization;
or in oilier words, whether his tastes are
natural or acquired. But lor this we have no
time. We understand that he says that their
songs would do well enough, were there (to
use his own diction) less of nigger in
them. Poor soul! this tells the whole story.
We wonder what has excited within his
heart this intense and burning hatred of nig
gers. Has he ever been eclipsed by a nigger 7
Was he ever refused the society of niggers 7
Has lie ever beeu robbed by a nigger 7 Hid
a mgger ever steal and enslave a white man!
were his children ever excluded from school
by a nigger 1 If so, there may be some ex
tenuation of his burning hatred. We were
a little surprised to fiud so unhappy a speci
men of cuhirphobia seated in a room as large
as Minerva Hall, on equal terms with niggers.
It may be, after all, that he is repenting of
his old pro-slavery, and that this is the first
fruit of his repentance. We shall therefore
let him rest for the present, at least until we
shall have other developments from that
quarter.
At to tbe concerts, we doubt if two musical
entertainments were ever more successful in
Rochester than those given by the Hulchinsoo
Family on Thursday and Saturday evenings
of last week, in Mmema Hall. A more uo
propiuous evening thaa that of Thursday,
could not well have been selected. Tbe
streets were exceedingly muddy, and there
fore greatly against the attendance of ladies—
the night was cold, dark and rainy, and the
price of tickets of admission was just double
that asked by the most popular singers, and
yet l bey had a crowded house.
It is not, however, of their pecuniary §oc
cess that we would speak, but of the real
good done to their hearers. When we en
tered Minerva llall, there was evidently some
ill feclidg towa ids th e colored part of the au
diene* but as the glorious harmony pro
ceeded, easts stood abashed—the iron hearl
of prejudice, pride and acorn, seemed to melt
Stray, and the general expression of the audi
enee, aftong white and black, confessed the
truth of a common origin and a common
brotherhood. We all looked and felt alike.
Our hearts were touched and saddened by the
i SlaTe Mother's Lament —cheered and de
lighted with the 14 Good time coming
wrapped in admiration of 44 Excelsior
filled with indefinable associations by the
Old Church Bell”—softened to tears by the
Bridge of Sighs”—inspired with a daunt
less courage by the 44 Psalm of Life,” and
terror-stricken at the “Ship on Fire.” The
singing of this piece, by 44 John,” exceeded
aoything of the kind to which we ever listen
ed. Its value is not to be estimated by dollars
and cents. \V e thought we bad beard John
sing his best, but never did we bear anything
from him equal to the 4 Ship on Fire.” He
needed this song to call forth and bring into
«fercise his magnificent vocal powers. In a
w brief moments he dropped us in the midst
of 4 *the wide waste of waters,” and in sym
pathy thrilled our hearts with almost the hor
ror of the inmates of a ‘‘ship oo fire.” The
stilled cry of ‘‘Fire fire from the hold
of the ship, bursting up through smoke and
flame, and the wild screams of a frantic
mother, clinging to her sweet infant, the long
night spent on the shattered fragments of tho
ship, on the mad dashing billows, the grati
tude with which the light of day was hailed,
and the ecstacy of delight at the prospect of
deliveiance, were all most powerfully brought
out. This one perfonnance was worth more
than double the price of admission. They
sung, as usual, the family song, and brought
into it the cause of temperance and anti-sla
very, singing the latter in the spirit as well as
the understanding.
They have now left for the West. We
anticipate for them a brilliant career, great
success, and great good to those who may be
so fortunate as to hear their sweet mountain
warbling.—r- d
We think some of getting up a picture of
H. G. Warner, Editor of the Rochester Cou
rier, in the act of driving a colored child out
of Seward Seminary. As General Cass is
soon to be consigned to oblivion, the shades of
which will probably overcast all his dupes,
and our hero among them, we know of no
better mode of rescuing his memory, than by
availing ourselves of the pencil of the artist.
We should like to have his opinion of the
matter, as w ithout his will we would do noth
ing.—F. D.
A Blind Man’s Offering.
This is a neatly-printed and well-bound
book of four hundred and thirty-two pages, by
B. B. Bowen, himself a blind man. The ob
ject of the author in publishing his book, is
to excite in the public mind a deeper interest
in the condition and claims of the blind. The
preface assures us that the book was written
as it was delivered to, the amanuensis, without
even the slightest verbal alteration. We are
acquainted with the author, and know him to
bo a warm-hearted, philanthropic and cheer
ful spirited man, and if he has thrown into
this volume the thoughts and feelings natural
to his heart, the Offering will not fail of its
object. Mr. Bowen, though blind, can yet
tfrork. lie mingles in the biisicst current of
life, and though he feels keenly the loss f
outward light, he seams resolved to keep
burning the light within, lie says of him
self, that he is savad from one folly common
to the American people, and that is, prejudice
against color.* Of the book we should like
to say much, did our limits permit. For the
sake of its intrinsic value, imparting a knowl
edge of the thoughts and feelings of one,
though in the midst of us, is yet shut out
from the sights and scenes of the world, and
for the sake of humanity, this hook should find
a place on the table of every family in this
land.—f. o.
J. R. Giddiugs.
We take just interest enough in politics to
rejoice over the election of a good man, and
to deplore that of a had one. A want of
knowledge of the real character of Mr. Gid
dings's district, and well knowing the schemes
which would be resorted to to defeat his
election, gave us some apprehension that his
enemies might succeed against him. Thank
Heaven they have not succeeded. The good
man is strong at home he is elected against
all combination and treachery to principle,
and will go to Congress not only suppoited
by the mighty power of being in the right,
but also a consciousness of being backed up
by a large majority. His return to Congress
will bring joy to the heart of the slave.—r. o.
Cork Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society.—
It will be seen by reference to another col
umn, that these friends of the slave, ifflijrt
famine, revolution and rebellion, rem|flHp
in their adhesion to the cause of the
can bondman.
The Proceedings of the Philadelphia Con
vention have not yet arrived. Will our friend
and coadjutor, George W. Goines, see that
they are sent in time fur our next paper
F. D.
The Louisville Examiner. —It affords us
pleasure to publish the prospectus of this in
teresting and able Journal. It is the only
weekly periodical published ia the slave re
gion, which has for its avowed object the
defence of the rights of the colored people.
The prospect os will be found in our adver
tising columns.
Haiti.— The letter from our Haitian cor
respondent, which will be found in another
column, will be read with interest. We are
glad, tn the midst of the lies daily propagated
by the Southern tools of the slaveueracy, to
receive, and to furnish our readers with
reliable intelligence from the black republic-
Horace Greeley of the Tribune, has been
nominated by the Whigs of the Sixth Dis
trict, as a candidate to flB no existing vacancy
in the representation of that District in the
present Congress.
Mileage.— The Journal of Cormneree biois
that the mileage paid to Members of Con
gress is the cement of the Uoioo.
RraeiA and F nance.—lt is said that tba
Emperor Nicholas has declared to England,
that if a French array shook! pass ihe Alps,
he won hi natch at the bead of 200,000 mm
on the Rhine.
UeCßFtTtoxs or tit* Slats Powir.
Under this brad the Western CiUpen has a
very full article, from which the roOowing
facta are gathered, in rehmwv to the oompar
j ante number of years during which the
office* of President and Viee-President hare
i been held by Southern and by Northern men
From the year 1789 to March 1819 —I he
J cloae of James K. Polk's term —a period of
sixty years, the South has furnished seven
Presiddtfts, and the North five. With the
two exceptions of John Tyler and James K.
Polk, the Southern Presidents were re-elected;
while not one of the Northern held the office
for more than oue term. The result in years
j shows that the South held the office forty
j seven years eleven months, and the North
twelve years eleven months, showing a bal
noe hi f» T or of the South, (on dividing the
j *in»e n, two equal proportions,) of twenty
seven years. It must not be forgotten, be
sides, that one of the Northern Presidents,;
(Harrison of Ohio,) was a Virginian by birth,
and says of himself—“ I have done and suf
fered more to support Southern rights, than
any person north of Mason and Dixon's line.”
Ot the Ice-Presidents, during the same
period, the South furnished five* and the
North nine; the Southern were in office
twenty years, and the Northern forty—bal
ance in favor of the North twelve years. The
Northern Vice-Presidents i held the office;
chiefly previous to 1&25; atnoe then, only I
eight years. The Secretaries of State have
been chiefly Southerners. During the
same period, the South has held that office
thirty-nine, and the North twenty years.
It thus appears, that the South, besides
being, as is now generally allowed, a drag
upon the commercial prosperity and progress
of the non-slaveholiling States, has contrived
to hold the teins of Government for a large
proportion of the lime during which the
nation has had an independent existence.
The chief inequality, it will be observed, is f
in the office of President; and it is ip his
hands that the chief power of the Executive!
rests, having at his disposal not less than
40,000 office-holder*. Says the writer in the
Western Citizen, “Well might the South
afford to be just to the North in the Vice-
Presidency, after having taken the lion's!
share of forty-eight years of the Presidency j
to the North's twelve.” —j. d.
From the Democrat,
Prof. Rogers’ Experiments on Unman
Magnetism.”
Prof. Rogers has delivered over sixty lec
tures in this city, to public audiences and pri
vate classes, and magnetized nearly two hun
dred different individuals during the past four
weeks—persons of highly respectable charac
ter, and most of them incapable of using any
fraud or deception. Many interesting experi
ments have been made in Phreno-Magnetism,
such as exciting the different organs—acquisi
tiveness, benevolence, combativeness, time,
tune, language, &c.
Twenty-three teeth have been extracted
(nineteen of them by one of the Committee,
Dr. A. Clark) for different individuals, while
in the magnetic state, without causing any
pain or movement of a muscle. These ex
|ieriments and many others that have been
made by Professor Rogers, have convinced us
that amputation and other surgical operations
may be performed while in the mesmeric state
without any dread or pain to the individual,
and with more safety than they could be
under the influence of any of the differ
ent preparations of aether or any other agent
known.
Many persons laboring Tindnx disease of
long standing, have been very much bone
fitted, and some cored who have attended
Prof. Rogers’ private lectures and classes.
A vote was taken last Saturday evening, to
ascertain the minds of the audience relative
to Prof. Rogers continuing his lectures in this
city. It met with unanimous responses in the
affirmative. We cheerfully recommend Prof.
Rogers’ lectures and ex|)eritnents to all in
quirers after truth, and hope he may receive a
liberal patronage.
Glory —The Haverhill Gazette mentions
a returned volunteer, who went away with a
company of sixty-three men, only eleven of
whom are now living. He enlisted with a
company in Portland, and has himself lost
one eye, had a bayonet run into his body, and
a ball shot through his knee. When he went
away he left a wife-and two children, and has
returned to them “a used-up man,” shattered
iu health, and miserably poor.
Collcce in Africa. —A citizen of Missis
sippi has left 100.000 for the establishment
of a college iu Liberia, Africa.
A Prophecy Fulfilled.—John O. Cal
houn in his speech at- Charleston, said that
which ever party was defeated at this election,
would go over to the burn-burners. The
fulfilment of his prediction is already taking
place. Paul Dillingham, the Cass candidate
for Governor at the recent election, since his
defeat, has repudiated Cass, and now avows
his determination to support Mr. Van Buren.
So says the Bennington Yt.) Gazette.
Editorial Troubles.— The Victoria (Tex
as) Advocate, of July 27, apologizes for a lack
of matter in as columns, by saying that the
senior editor was shot arid badly wounded, the
junior editor had the chills and fever, and there
had been no mails there for two weeks
The Mormons. I hose poor, persecuted
Creatures are combating with all kinds of afflic
pons A plague of crickets has
visHctHpe Mormon plantations on the prairies,
and dcMVoyed the crops which the pioneer
emigrants had planted for their followers.—
The crickets have devouted the crop* like
locusts. In consequence of this calamity the
Mormons that had arrived at Sait Hike, find
ing themselves wuhout supplies, killed their
working cattle for food, and sent to the V. S.
Forts for bread. The party of Mormon emi
grants pn Platt River had plenty of provis
ions.
Preservation or Wheat by Chabrino.
—Mr. Branin of Trenton, N. J. has some
wheat taken from the hank of the river nearly
opposite Catskill, where it had remained
ever since the year 1777. The building in
which it had been stored was burned down
during that year, and several thousand bush
els of the grain, completely charred, were
suffered to remain on the spot. lly scratch
ing the bank with bis fingers, Mr. B. informed
us that the wheat rolled down, perfect in
size and form. Wagon loads of it have thus
remained for seventy-one years, incorporated
with the earth, and exposed to the action of
the elements, without showing any diwpotu-
Uou to modify iu principles.—{ Trenton Gaz.
Dubjcsfect.-— When a stranger treat*
me with want of sgepeet,” said a p«>or philo
sopher, 1 comfort rnvself with the reflection
that it m not myself be slights, but nsv old
and shabby coat and shabby hat, which, to
say truth, Lave no particular claim to adora
tion. So, if my hat and coat choose to fret
about it, let them but it is nothing to me.”
_ A Contrast. —The State Government of
South Carolina, where there are 34,000 slaves
to 960*00 free people, coals $347,000, or
1,33 per free head. Massachusetts gov
erns 800,000 free people for 67 ccuU per
bead.
Steamers have been Guilt in Wheeling,
Virginia, thin summer, to the amount el
$190,000.
Communications.
Philadelphia, Oct. 19,1#4#.
Massrs Editors The great leadin*
doctrines of Anti-Slavery, “That man cannot
hold pioperty in man that slaveholding is a
sin against God, and a gross outrage upon
the sacred rights of humanity, and like all
other sms should be immediately repented of,
the writer of this has long since heartily
subscribed to. lit embraced these truths,
not because he found himself identified with
the oppressed, but because they are so dear
in themselves, like all other obvious truths,
that they commended themselves at once to his
most hearty concurrence, when first announc
ed in his ears by the noble pioneers in this
good cause. As it regards those tried friends
of humanity who feel specially rooted to urge
onr guiltv nation to a speedy removal of the
crying sin of slavery, wc detpur not against
their denouncing it in terms of the most pun
gent reverity. Aside from those who have
derived from nature warm and ardent temper
aments, we cannot conceive how any man
with a well-balanced mind, unbiased by cruel
prejudice and heartless selfishness, can look
long enough at its odious features to delineate
only the out ines of the hideous monster,
withoot having the indignant feelings of bin
soul roused to the highest pitch of intensity';
and being thus aroused, if the language of re
buke used under such circumstances should
not be of the most pointed, keen, and wither
ing character, it would be universally regarded
ls a strange anomaly in the philosophy of tho
mind. This is a sin which richly deserves to
be sharply rebuked, as well as all its apolo
gists and abettors. Hut notwithstanding
these concessions are made, we mnst confess
that we are not a little puzzled to see how
such denunciations can justly apply even to a
considerable number of our people here, muchi
less the mass, sustaining, as they do, the'
mortified relations of the oppressed, perse
cuted and downtrodden. To charge them
with being hostile to the Anti-S/anry move
ment," in their feelings, sontimentsor actions,
to my mind, is both cruel and absurd in the
extreme. Mere we are, forced to brunt pre
judice, derision and contempt, as best we may,
in every part of this land of professedly lib
erty-loving people. Whether in following
our daily avocations, or in our leisure walks
through the towns and cities in which we may
dwell— whether we travel in steamboats,,
ja-kets, or Tuilroad cars—in all our relations
with the whites as men, citizens, and Chris
tians, wc are made to feel, though in the land
that gave us birth, like aliens and strangersy
having no common interest in the country
excrescences, useless appendages to the body
politic. Now, it this sketch of our condition
be true, imperfect as it is, it shows that it is
bad enough in all conscience. It is a condi
tion, very far from affording a subject calcu
lated to excite pleasing reflections in the bo
som for it is not in man to he plea.-ed with
the contumely and scorn of his ieHow-nutn.—
He is rafher ambitious to be highly cstecmedL
Hut the fact is undeniable, that we have to
encounter the prejudices to which wc have'
referred daily; and w e too well know, and too*
sensibly feel, the bitterness of it. Our cup of
misery is now well nigh full. Hut has the
time arrived when another gall-like ingredient
is to be added Have we henceforth not only
to bear the scorn of the oppressor, hut are.
we to lie odious and revolting to ourselves—to
be hated and forever bating one another
Are we to have enacted over again the sumo
heart-burnings, the same angry contentions
that have so long marked the history ofbleed
mg Africa, and which resulted in all the un
told miseries that have for centuries been en
dured by her unhappy descendants? Have
w e lost all powers of observation Have wo
closed our eyes to the thrilling events that are
transpiring around us? Are we deaf to the
warning voice, still echoing from the hills andi
rolling along the blood-stained valleys of ill
fated Mexico? Mexico, who saw a strong,,
powerful, and formidable enemy making in
roads upon her borders, instead of rallying*
all,and each,and every heart and hand around'
the standard of tbeir country, and with ona
united, determined and persevering effort,
drive back the proud aggressor—instead of
this, she paralyzed her own arm, by suffering
herself to be torn asunder by inward factions
and a party spirit. Thus she fell (1 like to
have said as she deserved) an easy prey to tho
common enemy. It is an old maxim, hot it is
nevertheless true in its application to Ell
classes and communities of men: “United
we stand, divided wc fall.” But if it he our
unfortunate ot to fall still lower, let us, for
the sake of humanity, fall by the hand of tho
oppressor—not by our own suicidal hands.
Let us look for a moment at the absurdity of
the charge. Hostility to the Anti-Slavery
movement,” is to be in favor of the slav* ry
movement pro-slavery” is the familiar
phrase. This is affirmed of several thousand
nominally free, church-going cohired persons
in the city of Philadelphia. Let the philan
thropists of the North hereafter close their
lips in silence, sit down, wrapt in the mantle
of darken pair; for their cause is hopeless.
cr ®*W^HP^f e '~k inhabitants of tho
your hitherto gloomy appre
heulHjpH ■now give place to the bright
hope. We proclaim, by
the tdiioiial seal, that
hencdMHppitu may bring our brothers sad
sisters, whom you have managed by a strange
perversion of ideas to tranafonu into a species
of property —henceforth you may bring them
by scoics and by hundreds into the City of
Brotherly Love, with perfect safety. You
need not fear any loss, only be careful to in
troduce them to a certain "trio" of churches,
and all will be well. .Should any of them
hereafter have the impudent danug to make
the attempt to take ihemaslves to themselves,
and should succeed—be it known unto you,
and all whom it may or doth concern, that rf
they should happen to come within the circle
of this triune hand of pro-slavery brothers, no
uneasiness about tbeir return back to service
need be indulged in for a single moment.
Now, suppose this announcement was posted
to-morrow, in huge capital letters, on tho
door of every slaveholder throughout tlie
Southern regions, eaa it be thought that asy
oee among them would belicv«»t r lhey
might sure at it; but believe it—never.
Now, if that dam, who arc the only persons
on earth to whom this would be cheering
news—if that clam could not believe it, who
could A proposition that nobody eaa he*
liere, must carry absurdity upon the TCTy fac*
of it.
If the charge were just, whichjwe deny
it would no* be subject properly calling fo
denunciation, but for lamentation, and conae
a different mode of treatment alto
pother Who can conceive of a more de
plorable spectacle than that of a downtroddci
people, warmly embracing the iron heel tha
proudly stand* upon their necks What bu
the dullest obtuseness imaginable, with a lota
absence of all the high and noble aspiration
of the human mind, could render a «peciacl<
like this even possible? What truly wi*
and generous heart would attempt to remedy
a case like this by applying the lash of Ac
nunciation? Would he not rather, under th«
promptings of his benevolent heart, remove
with s dexterous hand the scales from then
benighted minds and after the utterance oi
his lips was no longer choked at the doleful
Sight, would lie not speak to them in the ten
direst accents of sympathy and ]ove t Thii
tn *dc of treatment, we conceive, would Ik
both generous and philosophical, every way
adapted to meet such a case. Hut we deny
t ie charge preferred, and of course the neces
sity of the peculisr treatment. That there
are evils existing among the nominally free,
there is no question; but if hostility to the
anti-slavery movement be one of those evils,
we are very much deceived. In sustaining a
charge of this kind, it must be shown that our
people are more grossly stupid than any
among their ranks, we think, arc prepared to
admit. All the attempts, within our knowl
edge, that have hitherto been made to fix this
stigma upon them, appear to our mind to be
founded in erroneous views, which cannot
possibly result in any good whatever to our
people, but may be productive of some mis
chief. We have iio design to impugn any
vine’s motives who may differ from us on this
point. We charge none with evU intentions
tn their endeavors to sustain this charge.
We have heard several who take the affirma
tive side of this question, both in public and
private, disclaim all evil intentions, and we are
hound in honor to believe them, until other
wise convinced. Hut in every instance, we
could not help recollecting the man who is
represented in scriptures as scattering fire
brands, arrows and death, and then saying.
Am I not in sport? We repeat, that we do
not impugn the motives of any, but it does
appear to us that the charge of “hostility” is
founded altogether on erroneous views, having
a tendency to evil results. This we shall, if
n ‘cessary, endeavor to show in our next. We
shall at that time, however, attempt the ex
posure of those erroneous views, particularly
in their reference to that branch of the church
to which we have the honor to belong. In
bringing this article to a clo3C, the under
signed takes the liberty of informing a certain
frie id, without naming him, that nothwith
sUmling it may bu true that he has never yet
made himself wry useful;” he is neverthc-j
less nowise ambitious to signalize himself in
being very” almsioe of his race in this
their time of need.”
Yours ever,for the Improvement and Eleva
tion of our race, W. D.
A
Nkw Concord, 0., Out. 10, 1818.
FutEsa Douglass:— Nine years ago, 1
saw Frederick Douglass, the boy that w rote
his own pass to enable himself to escape the
blessings of the divine institution o( the South.
I sympathized with thu runaway, as he told
his unvarnished tale. I admired the orator
as he appealed to his audience, by all the
powers of eloquence, in behalf of his down
trodden race. In fine, 1 loved the colored
man as he stood before us, displaying his
manly intellect, unfolding truth in her native j
simplicity to an attentive multitude, and plead
ing for that mercy to lie given to his enslaved
brethren, which none but the determined foes
of God and man could or date refuse. Since
that time, I have watched the onward and up
ward march of the fugitive, as the star of hope
to those of his race doomed to unrequited toil
and suffering.
When the shoe, by his own efforts and the
assistance of kind triends ai home and abroad,
bad become the editor, I greeted with un
feigned joy the first number of the Noith
Star, as it rose with morning brightness
above the North-eastern horizon.
I receive your paper, and admire the spirit
in which it is conducted, as also the skill and
literary abilities of its editor at such a distin
guished post. God knows my earnest desire
that you may continue to stand forth as an
ornament to your friends, a noble representa
ative of the coloreJ race—not of Africa, but
of America, and a mighty instrument in the
hands of God for reforming the world, and
especially for hastening the overthrow of ty
ranny, and ushering in the happy day of lib
erty to the captive, and equal rights to the
poor and oppressed sons and daughters of the
United Slates.
Yet with all my liking, I have somewhat
against your paper. I understand it to advo
cate the Anti-Sabbath doctrine —that there is
uo difference in the days of the week, and
that the view that tha first day of the week
should !>e kept holy unto the Lord,” is an
old and exploded dogma.
If this be your it is certainly most 1
decidedly anti-scriptural. I hope I am ad-J
dressing one who receives the Uible as tli«
word of God. I may therefore show the au-!
thority of the scripture for the Sabbath. In
Exodus xx., 8, we have the express com
rnand, Remember the Sabbath day to keep
it holy.” Isa. lxi., 2. “Blessed is the man j
that doeth tins, and the son of man that lay-
eth hold on u; that keep the Sabbath from
polluting it, and keepeth his hand from doing
any evil.” \N heti a blessing is promised to*
the doer of anything, a curse follows him
that refuses to olrey. \ou may perhaps say
that this was m Old Testament days. Be it
no. Show roe when these laws were repeal
ed. I’hrist came not to destroy the laws, but
to fulfil.
In Luki, iv., 16—“ And he came to Naza
reth, where he had been brought up, and, as
tus custom was, he went into the Synag<»guc
on the Sabbath day, and stood up to read.” 1
forbear to quote further from sacred writ. It
ii becoming too common now to consider
the Bible of no more authority than any pro
fane historical rocord. 1 hope that i redertek
Douglass may not so look on the holy scrip
tures. 1 have spoken plainly because I am
your friend. I dislike to hear the Sabbath
lightly spoken of. I would be much pleased
to have your opinion plainly #xpres*ed“on that.
•abject; end I pray God he may direct you
in presenting troth to your reader*.
Go forward in your great work of reform.
Bn still more encouraged to plead fur your
oppressed countrymen. God time is com
ing. The stare shill ere long go free snd
the tvrant, unless ho speedily repent, shall
know the fierceness of the wrath of Almighty
God against him that oppresses the pOM and
reproaches his Maker. If you see It to in
sert this in the North Star, please give your
views on the Sabbath question.
Very truly yours, W. F. G.
Remarks on the foregoino.— -Regarding
the question as to the sacredness of one day
above another, purely a theological question,
having no necessary bearing whatever on the
cause w hich the North Star was established
to promote, we have never felt it our duty to
express any opinion with respect to it in this
paper. While wc hold no views on this sub
ject but such as are, in out judgment, per
fectly consistent with both the Old and the
New Testament, 3nd such as are in unison
w ith the obvious dictates of common Hense,
we yet feel it would he misappropriating an
important instrumentality, and abusing the
high trust confided to us by our friends, were
we to open such a discussion in the North j
Star, as that to which a compliance with our
friend’s request would inevitably lead. There
arc more important topics that claim, and
ought to claim, the attention of mankind just
now, than the question mooted by our kind
correspondent. We need moral rather than
theological light.— f. d.
Haitian Correspondence— No, V.
Friends Douglass Delany: —ln iny
last, I gave you some account of the fdcs
which, with their gaiety, serve to diversify
the current of Haitian existence. The sud-
Jenness of the vessel’s departure, prevented j
tie from speaking of them as fully as I could
lave wished, and subsequent events have
endered it unnecessary, since the splendor of
ill those which I have seen has been sur
passed, and their pomp more than equalled,
iy the festivities of which Port-au-Prince has
ately been the theatre. 1
The 20tli of August witnessed the return
>f H is Excellency, Faustin Soulouque, Pre- j
iident of the Republic of Haiti, to the espi
al. This event, which had been for several
veeks anticipated, was hailed with every
nanifestation of public rejoicing. At the
>ortal of Leoganc, the Southern entrance into
he city, a magnificent Triumphal Arch had
teen erected, decorated with a portrait of the
diicf who now controls the destinies of the
of the Antilles, an l adorned with vari
»us devices symbolical of measures, the
idoption of which promises her a bright arid
glorious future. Throughout the entire place,
die galleries of all the houses were adorned
with branches of the national tree of Haiti,
he majestic palm-tree, which, in its very ap
>C3ranee, speaks that language of victory,
riumph and rejoicing, which florists have
isually accorded to it. At about 8 o’clock on
he day above mentioned, the cortege entered
he city. First came the soldiery, returning
'rum the campaign, amounting to several
housands, and, in their laureled aspect, re
ninded one of the times when Jlirnam wood
ipproachcd to Dunsinane.” Then came Ilis
Excellency, attended by his stutF, the mem
bers of the cabinet, and the general officers of
die army. They were met at the gates by
L he councils of the city, who, in a brief ad
dress, presented the felicitations of the inhab
itants to their gallant compatriots on the -suc
cess which had attended their march. The
immense procession then proceeded to the
church, where a Te Dcum was sung, and
thanksgiving offered to the God of Nations
for the care which he had extended over the
Haitian Republic. That evening, and the
two following ones, the city fairly blazed forth
its joy in view of the triumph of order, and
the restoration of public tranquility. These
illuminations, of which the very sight was
pleasurable, were rendered still more pleasing
by their suggestions. There they gleamed,
the emblems of the dawning of a brighter and
a better time.
The President had gone forth on his expe
dition to the South at a moment when the po
litical horizon presented the aspect of a com
ing storm, the darkest and most fearful that a
nation can be called upon to encounter.
Fierce clouds, freighted with the dread ele
ments of civil war, hung lowering over this
unhappy country, threatening to deluge its
highlands and savannas with fraternal slaugh
ter. His stay in the disaffected legion had
the happy effect of tranquilizing the public
mind and his return was heralded by the re
establishment of national confidence, and glad
promises of an era of prosperity. Heaven
grant that they may not be futile, and that the
blessed lime they predict may be of long con
tinuance
The illuminations which gladdened the
streets of Port-au-Prince on the evenings o
which I speak, have been renewed on another
and yet more joyous occasion. The first of
September, in this city, was, by turns, a day
•f the profoundest grief, and of the loudest
exultation. Four persons, who had been tried
for political offences, and condemned to death,
were carried out to Last’aobas, a place on
the frontiers, to be shot. They were accom
panied for some distance by a large number of
persons, the greater portion of whom were
women. The loud shrieks and violent de
spair of the last mention, rendered the spec
tacle a very melancholy one, while ihey con
trasted strangely with the dignified hearing
and submissive composure of the unfortunate
prisoners. For some hours after their depar
ture, a deep gloom brooded over the place,
and sadness was depicted upon the counte
nances of all. About two o'clock in the af
ternoon, however, it was reported throughout
the town that His Excellency had pardoned
the condemned, sod had sent off menengers
to command their return. The news spread
like wildfire, and gave binh to a general re
joicing, as loud in its manifestation as was the
grief of the morning. Almost the entire
population flocked to the Portal of St. Jo
sephs, to congratulate the prisoners on their
escapu from execution and as they followed
them along the streets, caused the air to ring
with shouts of Vive le President! Vive ie
President Soulouque As before stated,
the city was brilliantly illuminated and on
the following morning, large number ot la
dies proceeded to the Palace, to present tbetr
respects to Hu Excellency, and return him
thanks for having seen proper to render the
condemned the sebjerte of the Executive
clemency. Since that time, quite a Urge
number of political prisoners hare been lther
a ted, and it is daily anticipated that more will
shortly he released,
I regret exceedingly that it was not per
mitted me to spend the first of August this
year in ray natire land. The unfortunate cir
cumstances in which this country has lately
been placed, prevented the Voice of philan
thropy here from joining in the hallelujah
which hailed the anniversary of the birthday
of eight hundred thousand freemen—that glo
rions event which set an example to the na
tions, in the progress of human liberty. Pre
vious to that time, oppressed humanity had
regained its rights by deeds of blood and vio
lence. Stem, indiscriminate war, or expa
triation equally fearful, had ordinarily marked
the restoration of the God-given gift of free
dom. Through the fierce deluge of inflamed
and unbridled passion, the ark, bearing the
elements destined for the construction of an
other and a brighter world, had been con
demned to float. But the Emancipation of
the British West Indies pointed out another i
mode for the redemption of a people. It told
that, henceforth, man was to resume his
wrested rights through more pleasing means;
and that Liberty, with strength gathered from
former conflicts, was to march on, henceforth,
with flaunting trophies and through triumphal
arches—a bloodless and joyous conqueror.—
The emancipation of Martinique and Guada
loupe, of St. Thomas and Santa Crux, has
declared that some of the nations of the earth
have profitted by the lesson. It is a sad re
flection, that the land of Washington is still
associated with Cuba, Porto Rico and the
Brazilian Empire, in eflbrts to annihilate the
inborn dignity of man. In the hope that this
may not long continue, and that before much
time has elapsed, we may be called to join in
a jubilee caused by the liberation of three
millions of Americans, I subscribe myself,
Truly youis, HAROLD.
From our own Correspondent.
London, Sept. 28, 1848.
Since my last, there has been anothet
outbreak in Ireland, in the neighborhood of
Cariick-on-Suir. The reports were in the
first instance very alarming; but there is
every reason to believe that these were highly
exaggerared. It was stated that four thousand
men were encamped on the mountains, under
Dohemy and O’Gounan—then the number
fell to four hundred, which may be conjec
tured as the more correct statement. This
demonstration, however, evidences that the
suppression of the “late rebellion” has done
hut little towards the permanent restoration of
order in that unhappy country. Doheny is
noV reported to have made his escape to
Paris. The state trials, at Clonmel, com
menced to-day. Five bills have been found
against O'Brien, Meagher and others. A
Dublin paper says that the letters discovered
in O'Brien’s portmanteau have disclosed the
fact, that a number of the Popish ecclesiasti
cal body are implicated in the late disturb
ances.
At home, nothing of importance has trans
pired of late but the death of one of the poli
tical leaders, Lord George Bcntinck, who ex
pired quite suddenly on Thursday last, in the
41st'year of his age. The Times, in
speaking of this event, says The curtain
has dropped on protection—its hero is no
more Our Queen is still in Scotland,
among her Highland subjects. She has lately
charmed them by attending divine service in
the parish kirk of Cratlive also, by being
present at a “gathering” of the clans, and by
ascending to the top of Lochnagair.
Europe is still convulsed. France is again
in a state of great excitement, partly owing
to the recent election for three vacancies in
the representation of Paris. There were 115
competitors, including Emile de Girandin,
Marshal Bugeaud, and other celebfated men.
The result has found Prince Louis Napoleon
at the head of the poll, where he has been
placed by an overwhelming majority. He is
retured by five different departments. The
numbers are as follows
Nopoleon, 110,752
Fould,’ 78,891
Rasp ail, 06,973
Fould is a Banket and a Conservative;
Raspail a Communist and a Destructive and
the return of a trio, differing so widely, evi
dences the drastic state of public opinion in
France.” The French papers arc filled with
allusions to Napoleon's election, which some
of them term the most important event since
the revolution of February,” as the election
of the Deputy is but the precursor of the
choice of the President. Cavaignac’s popu
larity seems still on the decline and the elec
tion of Prince Louis Napoleon will probably
occasion him and his colleagues considerable
difficulty in the preservation of peace and
order. One party propose to elect Cavaignac
at once to the Presidency, without waiting for
the final vote of the Constitution and the
Legitimist party, it is said, determined bring
forward General Lamoriciere as their candi
date, in preference to Cavaignac.
Messina has been taken by the Neapolitan
troops, after a bombardment. No authentic
details have vet been received, Ihe armis
tice between Charles ‘Albert and Austua has
been prolonged.
The recent news from Frankfort has been
very exciting. Riots have taken place there,
barricades have been raised, and the blood-red
flag has been hoisted. The ostensible cause
of all this, is the late Parliamentary resolution
on the Danish armistice. A faction, deputxl
in tl»* Assembly, urged ou a mob to attack
1 the hall of council. Inflammatory speeches
were made, and imprecations hurled not only
against the armistice, but against the Parlia
ment itself. Great excitement followed.—
Troops were summoned into the city; the
populace began to atone them, and to raise
barricades, The ministry wete fully prepared
for the intended attack; which took place
when the military attempted to remove the
barricades. The rioters re fused lo yield. A
slurp three hours’ eon tea* took place. Ihe
'soldiers acted with firmoem, bravery and for
bearance, and soon every point was in their
hands, and the rioters were defeated. One
grievous iocideui baaoccuired. Prince Lioh
iaowski and Major Vob Aoerewald were
murdered while out of the city to meet
the troops about to eoter. Too much pnuse
cannot bo gtvcu to the Arch Duke and hit
government, for the promptitude and energy
with which they acted out the emie. The
Regent has stoce fasned a proclamation, in
which be pledges bims.’lf to maintain the hb- j
ertj of the German peopb*. sad in which be
reminds them that they «"di toon be de
prived of their true indcp- ndence, if hw
lessoc— and anarchy were to grt the upper
hand in Germany.” The last accounts from
Frankfort state that order, to a great extent,]
is restored in that city, though troops mill a-
copy the streets. S. P. Q. H.
Cvxiocs.—C« Thursday, while digging,
a qiult, on the McGuire place, (White flail) i
opposite the foot of fifth street, the workmen
struck upon something which is calculated toi
excite the speculative fancies of antiquaries.
—At Ihe depth of thirteen beet from the
surface, in the primeval forest, and through
lime-stone rock ami tough soil, a knife anti a
chant were found! —both much corroded.— 1
[Gift. Com.
Passion for Tobacco. —Those who u e
tobacco know the strength of the habit. It
is as hard to break from it as it is to abandon
the use of intoxicating drinks—some say
•ten more difficult. The distinguished preach
er, Birchard, thus relates his own experi
ence in hb anti-tobacco war
1 was once, said he an inTerataie lover ol
tobacco, and l know how difficult it is to
break the habit of nsing it; still it can be
done. 1 indulged in the use of the weed to
a great exccess; I loved it; but knowing that
its effects were bad, and especially ill-become
a man of the gospel, I made one almighty
resolve *o quit it. With that resolution I
tood a tremendous ‘cud,’ which was to be my
wind off. I chewed it and chewed it, and
‘rolled it as a sweet norsel under my tongue,’
and from one cheek to the other, for three
weeks. It is certain tobacco never tasted so
good before; and I shed tears when I recol
lected that it was to be my last indulgence.
When its strength was all gone, I threw it
away: ‘There, Burehard,’ said I, ‘there
goes your last—yotr omega of quids!’ Well,
for a while it was very hard doing without it,
and I was often sorely tempted to try it again.
Old tobacco chewers would pull out their
rusty steelboxes, give them a scientific snap,
and say, ‘Burehard, have a chew!’ and for a
long time, whenever I heard the elick of [a
tobacco box, I involuntarily put my hand in
my trowsers to get hold of my pig-tail. In
fact I am afiaid 1 sometimes blundered dread
fully in my sermans, my thoughts being more
rrhaps on tobacco then upon the Lord. But
stuck to my resolution; and neither ‘cav
endish’ noi pig-tail’ hts ever been between
my teeth from that day to this!
In my youth,” says Horace Wapole, I
thought of writing a satire upon mankind
but now. in my old age,l think I should write
an apology for them.”
Selections.
AN ADVENTURE
The morning of July 10th, 1813
which had been settled on as the
which 1 was t«» take the boats op th<
river for water, was anything but prom
ising, a fresh breeze blowing from the
south-east, and a heavy swell setting or
the bar; and I ought to have bee
warned of the great risk 1 was about t«
run. but at that time I had to pass an
often without any accident, that I hac
become fool-hardy, and verv dcnrli
fought the experience which has sine*
made me much more prudent. Tin
captain had exchanged the jolly-boai
for a gig, sharp at both ends, but wit I
much less beam than a whale boat.—
Wc had raised her one streak, and be
ing anxious to try her, 1 took the leat
on shoving her off, having with me
Denman and Law but finding hei
on deep, I advised Denman and Lawl
to get into the pinnace or barge, and
put also two heavy bags into the latter;
when close to the bur, I hove to, t<i
bale out dry, and practise the men lot
crossing a surf. On entering the break
ers, I found them much heavier than 1
“had anticipated, and saw from the first
that it would be quite a mercy if wc
crossed safely. However, we got ovci
four breakers beautifully, the boiling
foam taking us with it at a most violent
rate; the fifth followed us like an over
hanging mountain, with its crest in the
act of curling, and w e rose to it just as
it broke, becoming, as it were, a com
ponent part of the foam. My feeling
was that of intense anxiety, and I one
time thought it would pass us, and had
an encouraging all right” upon upon
my tongue, when the angrv surf hoiled
up afresh. There was a crash, a cry,
and in an instant we were in the break
ers; and never wore men rescued from
a more hopeless situation. My first
impulse was to dive from under the
boat, and just as I rose to the surface,
I found myself grappled by a man who
could not swim, whom I endeavored to
shake oil’, but finding I could keep him
up, told him to keep his hand on my
shoulder, and took him to the boat,
which kept constantly turning round
and round like a cask, and the seas
constantly breaking over us, gave us
so little breathing time that nearly all
hope of being saved was taken away.
It was a most awful moment, and all
the places and things I had ever seen,
seemed concentrated and present at the
same instant to the mind’s eye with a
startling distinctness; then the misery
of being cut oft’ from nil, in rude
health, with succor close at hand,nerv
ed us all to make extraordinary exer
tions, and I mentally prayed for pres
ence of mind, for I felt that the safety
of the whole depended so entirely on,
me, that I used the whole of my breath-!
ing time in cheering up the three men
who could not swim. All eyes were
fixed on the barge close to us, and ap
proaching rapidly, hut every now and
then hid by the overhanging crest of a
wave, which engulfed us a second af
terwards, keeping us down longer and
longer as our strength failed us and we
tilled with water. She was almost
within our reach, when a furious
breaker swept her past us with the
speed of lightning, and buried us for
some seconds. How plainly I saw' the
faces of all in the barge as they passed
ns, pale as death, with eyes straining
with eager anxiety! but they were as
hopeless as ourselves, and half filled
their boat in endeavoring to round-to.
My men began to despair, and utter the
most piercing cries, and one of them
said, Hood bye, Mr. Barnard, I am
going down;” but I tapped him on the
shoulder, and told him to look at the
pinnace, then not fur from us, and we
held on by the keel of the boat with
the energy and despair of drowning
men. At ltust six times did the surf
wash me from one end of the boat to
the other, my hand grasping (lie keel
the whole length; still, on came our
rescuers, our only hope; some screech
ed and howled, others left the boat and
swam towards the approaching one,and
1 exerted my remaining strength in
calling out, luff, luir,” fearing she
would pass us like the barge; however,
we were all picked up but one poor
boy, named Crapwell, who was proba
bly taken down by a shark. I bad
grasped the bight of the jib-shcct, and
when hauled into tiie pinnace was quite
exhausted and black in the face, and
my men were mnch in the same plight.
Fortunately the Chipoli was at anchor
about three miles from us, and we re
ceived every attention and kindness
from the American officers;, and Dr.
Tuckeruiun soon restored us with bot
tles of hot water at our feet, and fric
tion of warm blankets, and 1 remained
on board, sending the boats on. Wc
all sullen d from an unquenchable thirst
and a great soreness in our hacks and
limbs. However, I was able to get to
woik the next day.— Barnard's Cruise
in ihe Mizauibiijiu’ Channel.
A CHINESE WEDDING.
'flic marriage ceremony is an im
perative lo every Chinese; not to have
a son to worship at his tomb is the
dread ot ail; and the sooner this ditli
cully is overcome, the better. The
terms honorable and illustrious are used
to the lather, while the bachelor is
looked upon with certain horror. Sons
are looked tijjpn as profitable and hou
orable, while daughters are almost the
contrary, and the rearing them is a
matter of question with the parents,
literally, whether it will pay or not;
according to the accomplishments of the
lady, so is her price or remuneration to
her parents. Bearing the same sur
name is about the only one liar to mar
riage in general; and u.though this
may appear but a trilling one, still,
troni the few surnames iu China, it is a
gi live impediment. Marriagable age is
from fifteen on either side. A go-be
tween, or puobc match-maker, frequent
ly arranges the affair, but more com- 1
!y it is settled by one of the parents.
Mothers not uncommonly, in conversa
tion, when in the happy state that those
who love their lords wish to be, mutual
ly promise that if of opposite sexes,
their offspring shall in due time be man
and wife. Love has not often a band
in the matter. The anxious parents of
the youth having, by one means or oth
er, procured a btide for him, presents
of geese, cakes, saiushoo, Uc., pass be
tween the families. I was present at
the wedding «f a worthy grocer at
Chusan, who, from time to time, during
our atav, had supplied our mess in the
general line. As soon as it was gives
out that he was going to marry, all
friend* of various grades sent congratu
lating card*, enclosing, each according
to his means, from a hundred to a thou
sand or moreLi (3d.) cash. This, he told
me, wn* purchasing a seat at the bridai
feast for the donor and his wife. Early
in the morning, the young female
friends attend to dress the bride and
weep—why the latter, I know not.—
When all is ready, the bride enters a
can ed and red gilt sedan, (to he hired
in all villages, and used for marriages
only.) First walk the hand, not very
emblematic of harmony, perhaps, but
that does not matter, followed by the
household goods and wearing apparel
of the bride, carried in red painted
boxes, attended by her relations and
friends. When arrived at the house of
the bridegroom, he opens the door ol
the sedan, and receiving his bride, steps
with her over a pan of charcoal, conve
niently placed on the threshold, then
entering the house, they eat rice and
drink tea together; which, with some
verbal promises, complete the nuptials.
On calling on the bridegroom at his
residence and expressing a wish to sec
the bride, I was ushered into a well
furnished apartment, about which were
strewn the newly arrived effects, and on
one side a new grand bedstead, orna
mented with red and gold; in front of it
arrayed in a dress of red silk, and
head-dress of gilt and silk, stood the
i bride, attended by her female friends;
this is the ceremonial costume, and of
ten hired, beneath which she is attired
in silks and satins. Having been pre
sented, and taken the liberty of present
ing to the lady a small English purse,
which was thankfully received, I made
my bow and took leave of her. I next
joined the bridegroom at an entertain
ment given to his friends, (i. e., all who
had sent cards and money.) Much
samshoo was drunk, and after feasting
was over a kind of game played: one
party threw out a number of lingers,
and called them, while at the same
time, the other anticipated and threw
out a similar number; the failure in
doing so incurred the obligation of
drinking oft'a cup of samshoo. In an
other apartment, at the same time, the
bride entertained her friends. In the
evening, a temporary theatre is erected
in front of the house, and performances,
fire-works, and the dm of gongs and
music, lasts till daylight, wdicn all dis
perse. On the following day, servants,
sedan bearers, performers, and all who
have waited the day before,are feasted;
and thus ends the ceremony.— Lieut.
Forbes's Fire Years ill China.
A WONDERFUL PHENOMENON,
A singular phenomenon was lately
discovered at Greenfield, near Detroit.
The facts noticed in the Detroit Adver
tiser, are as follows:
The Messrs. Grangers, in boring to
find water to supply their steam saw
mill, sunk a four inch hole to the depth
of 70 feet, when they struck a vein or
cavity. As they withdrew the augur,
from the hole, to their great surprise, it
was followed by a violent current of air,
that threw up stones as large as hen’s
eggs, 10 or 15 feet high.
P'or a few moments, when the hole
was first opened, the air was accom
panied by a stream of water, which
was throw n 10 or 12 feet high. The
water, however, soon ceased coming,
and the air rushed out with such vio
lence that the roar could he distinctly
heard 50 or (iO rods distant. On touch
ing fire to the air, it caught, and the
flames flashed 20 feet high, atd came
near burning the building, covering the
machinery in which it is located. They
finally succeeded, with considerable
difficulty, in stopping it, by forcing
down the blankets, and driving a spile
into the hole, which was their only
means of stopping the air or gas, and
extinguishing the flames.
For several moments after the hole
was stopped, the earth trembled and
shook for some distance around, as
though an eruption was about to take
place. The people, who by this time
had gathered to the number of about a
hundred, were greatly alarmed at
these symptoms, and scattered with ail
possible rapidity, supposing that Mil
lerisni” was about coming to a focus,
or that they were soon to be blown sky
high by an earthquake. From the
time it was opened till it was thus
closed, about six hours, the air gushed
out with unabated force. It has been
opened several times since, with the
same effect. The power and force of
the air does not seem to diminish in the
least. I'hc Messrs. Grangers are pto
po-ing to secure it w ith an apparatus,
so as to shoot it off and let it out a
leisure, and test its real qualities.—
The people in the vicinity arc all
confident now that it can be conveyed
here in pipes, and successfully used
for lighting the city with gas, from
this very natural, underground barom
eter. e learn that several scientific
gentlemen of this city intend visiting it
soon.”
FRENCHMAN AT IHS STUDIES.
I he difficulties w hich foreigners en
counter in their efforts to acquire the
English language, are neither few' nor
light. 1 lie following amusing dialogue
gives a good idea of some of them:
Frenchman —lla, my good friend, I
have met with one difficulty—one very
strange word, llow vou call H-o-u->»-h:
Tutor llufT.
Frenchman —Tres bien, Huff; and
Sniff you spell S-n-o-u-g-h, ha*!
1 ufor- Oh, no, no; Snuff is S-n-u
-double-f. Ihe fact is, words in o«gA
are a little irregular.
Frenchman Ah, ver’ good. Tis
beau Yu 1 language. H-o-u-g-h is Huff.
I will remember; and (.--o-u-2-h is
Cuff. I hare one bad Cuff, ha?" 5
1 u.or X>, that is wrong. We say
Kanf, not Cuff.
Frenchman Kiuj\ eh him. Huff
and k.nnj, and, pardonnez, moi, how;
you call D-o-u-g-hr Huff, ha?
Tu’or —No, not Duff
Frauhurnn—Si,t Duff Ah! oui; I
understand, it is Dauf, hew
1 ,ilor No, d-o-u-g-h spells Doe.
Frenchman—Dot! h is very fine,
wonderful language; it is Dae, and
l-o-u-g-h is To r, ccrt3inemcnt. My
beefsteak was very JW.
Tutor —Ob, no, no; you should sa
Dtff.
Frenchman Tuff? Lc Pisble! an
the thing the farmer uses, how you cal
him, P-I-o-u-g-h PI «J0 r b« !yo
smile; I see I am wrong, it is PlanJ
No! ah, then it is Plot, like Doe; it i
beauful language, vcr* fine— Plot f
Tulor —You are still wrong, m
friend. It is Plow.
Frenchman Plow! Wonderful lan
guage. 1 shall understand rer* soon
Pint, Dot Kauf; and no roore-
R-o-u-g-h, what you call General Tay
lor; Rnuf and Ready? No! ccrtainc
ment, it is Row and Ready?
Tutor —No; R-o-u-g-b spells Ruff.
Frenchman Ruff, ha! Let me no
forget. R-o-u-g-h is Ruff, and B-o-u-g-i
is Buff, ha!
Tutor —No, Bow.
Frenchman Ah’ ’tis ver’ simple
wonderful language, but I have lia<
what you call E-n-o-u-g-h, ha! wba
you call him?
Buhting Ai.ive. —A paper was rcai
before the French academy of Science
in which the following extraordinary
instance was adduced as a reason fo
abolishing the present custom of bury
ing too soon after death
A young female had been twice pro
nounced dead when only in a trance
but had recovered in both instances ii
time to prevent being buried alive. A
third trance came on, and in conse
quence of what had previously occurred
permission was obtained from the con
stkutcd authorities for the body to ro
main above ground as long as decoui'
position should not take place. A
week—ten days passed away—thert
was still no decomposition, but all the
1 medical men declared that she was
i dead, and at length she was laid in hei
coffin. Only a few minutes before the
coftin was to be nailed down, and while
I the bell of the village church was al-
I ready tolling for her funeral, a female
from an adjoining village, w ho had beer
the school-fellow of the supposed de
funct, came to take a last farewell. She
stooped to kiss the lips of her departed
friend, and remaining in that position
i for some time, the bystanders attemptec
to remove her, lest her emotion should
:be injurious to her. She waived them
with her hand, and remained with
her lips upon those of her friend, and
i breathing as it turned out afterwards,
the warm breath of life into her lungs.
At length she exclaims, “she lives
and rising from the body pointed out
unequivocal signs of life. She stated
that as she was kissing her friend, she
fancied she felt her breathe, and in a
few minutes was convinced of the fact.
The female was taken out of the coffin
and placed in a u'arni bed, and in the
course of a few hours, fully revived,
She stated that she was, during hei
trance, fully sensible to all that was
passing around, and that she even
heard the death-bell toll, but was utter
ly incapable of speech or sign to show
that she was not dead.
Definition ok Nothing.—At the
Donegal assizes, the following burner
ous cross examination of a w itness occa
sioned much merriment in the court:
“Mr. Doherty—‘What business da
you follow'‘l am a schoolmaster. 1
‘Did you turn oft your scholars, or did
they turn you oft? ‘I do not wish to an
swer irrelevant questions.’ (Laughter.';
‘Are you a great favorite with the pu
pils?, ‘Aye troth I am; a much greatei
favorite than you are wifi the public. 1
‘Where were you, sir, this night? 1
‘This night!’ said the witness; there is
a learned man for you—this night is not
come yet? I suppose you mean that
night.’ (Here the witness looked at the
Judge and winked his eye as if in tri
umph.) ‘I presume the schoolmaster
was abroad that night doing nothing?’
inquired the attorney. ‘Define nothing
said the witness. Mr. Doherty did not
comply. ‘Well,, said the learned school
master, I will define it—it is a foot
less stocking without any leg.’—(Roars
of laughter in which the judge joined.)
‘You in ay go down sir.’ ‘Faith, I well
believe your tired enough of me, but it
is my profession to enlighten the public,
and if you have any more questions to
ask I will answer them.
Too Neat by Half. There arc
some excellent housewives who seein to
be afflicted with the demon of tidiness.
Their love of cleanliness amounts to a
perfect mania. So atrociously neat are
they, that their houses, instead of being
in order, are always in a mess, from
the very fact of their being continually
cleaning them. A late writer thus
aptly describes one of these over-par
ticular women: Either the stairs were
wet and carpets up—or else all the fur
niture was wheeled out of one room
into another—or the beds were being
taken to pieces—or the paint was being
scrubbed down—or the windows were
being cleaned —or the floors being
scoured, so that it was almost impossi
ble to sit down in any room one wanted,
or to walk up stairs or along the pas
sage, without tumbling over a pailful of
water. The lady was as particular
with the boys, too, as she was with the
house. Every Saturday she was in
her glory, for it was “tub night,” and
then she made a point of hoping and
trusting that the maids would not spare
the soap. But with all her peculiari
ties she was a good, kind-hearted little
body, and an excellent wife.”
Njaga r a Outdone.— Among the
chfts of the Eastern Ghats, about mid
way between Bombay and Cape Como
nn rises the river Shirawati, which
alls into the Arabian Sea. The bed of
the river is one-fourth of a mile in di
rect breadth; but the edge of the fall is
el ipt.cal, with a sweep of half a mile.
A las body of water rushes at first, for
three hundred feet over a slope at an
angle ot 45 deg. in a sheet of white foam,
and is then precipitated to the depth of
eight hundred and fifty more, into a
black abyss with a thundering noise.
It has, therefore, a depth ofeleveu hun
dred and fifty feet! In the rainy sea
son the river appears to be about thirty
feet in depth at the fall; in the dry sea
son it is lower and is divided three cas
cades of varied beauty and astonishing
grandeur. Join our fall of the Genesee
to that of St. Lawrence, then treble the
two united and we have the distance of
the Shirawati cataract. While we al
low to Niagara a vast superiority in
hulk, yet in respect to distance of des
cent it is but a mountain rill compared
with its Indian rival!.