From Parker’s Letter on Slavery,
Effects of slavery on law and politics
[continued]
In some States it is a penal offense to 
teach slaves the elements of common
learning, Jly the recent code of Vir
ginia, any one who undertakes to teach
reading or w riting to slaves, or .even
free colored persons, may be lined jroin
sylll to frllK). The same is forbiilen
m Georgia. In Alabama, the punish
ment is a fine from ft'TSO to in
Mississippi, imprisonment for one year.
Louisiana forbids the teaching of slaves
to read or w rite, and prohibits any one
from using language in public discourse
or private conversation, having a ten
dency to produce discontent uinoug the
free colored population. The latter ol
fmice is “punishable with imprisonment
or death at the discretion of the
court.” This antipathy to the educa
tion of the colored race, extends even
lo the free States. It is not unknown
in New England. The State of Ohio
established schools in 1529 for “.the:
white youth of every class and grade
without distinction.”
According to the alleged precept of
Mahomet, slaves are supposed to be
bound by feebler, social and civil obli
gations than freemen, and thus common
offences receive but half the punish
ment of the free. Such it is said is the
Common Law of Mahometans in I ur
key and the East. In Virginia there
are six capital offences for a freeman,
seventy-one for a slave. In Mississip
pi there are thirty-eight offences for
which a slave must be punished with
Jeath—not one of which is a capital
crime in a free white tnan. In some
States the law is milder, but in none
does the Christian Republican of Anglo
Su\on descent imitate the humanity of
the Mussulman, and legally favor the
weaker part —correcting slaves as the
children of the State.
Many offences for which a slave is
#evorely punished, are not wrongs by
Nature, sins against the Universal and
Divme Law’, but only crimes by Stat
ute. Thus in Mississippi, if a slave
he found fire-huntiug,” he is punish
able w ith thirty-nine lashes, well laid
mi his bare back.” In the same State,
if a slave he found out of the limits of
the town, or off the plantation where,
lie usually works, any one may ap
[trehend and punish him wiih whipping
iiu the bare back, not exceeding twenty
lashes.” If he refuses to submit to the
fxmnination of any white person,;
‘.such white person may apprehend and
Moderately correct him, and if he should
Assault and strike sueh white person, j
te may be lawfully killed.” Louisiana,
tas a similar law, and also pun- j
ishes "any slave or free colored person
exercising the functions of a minister
rtf the Gospel, with thirty-nine lashes.
In Virginia a slave or free colored per
son may be beaten with twenty lashes
for being found at any school for,
caching reading and writing. In South
Carolina he is forbidden to wear any
i»ut the coarsest garments.
TUc Roman code allow ed etnancipa
ion; tho customs of England and Ger
nany favored it. The Christian church
iften favored and recommended it. In
he Roman Empire, the advance ofhu
nanity continually rendered it easy and
omnion. A alave sick, and derelict of
us master, recovering, claimed legally I
ns freedom for salvage of himself.—,
Jut in America the laws constantly
brow obstacles in its way. In South
Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Miss
ssippi, no matt can emancipate any
'lave, except by the authority of thej
gislututc.granted by a special enact-.
THE NORTH STAR.
mcnt conveying the power. In Georgi;
a Will, setting free a slave, is so fai
null and void, and any person attempt
ing to execute it, shall be fined $lOOO
In Kentucky, Missouri, Virginia, Ma
rviand, it is less difficult; but evei
there no man is allowed to emancipate
a slave to the prejudice of his creditors,
or in Virginia, Mississippi and Ken
tucky, to the lessening of his widow’i
dower, the Common Law favors thret
things—Life, Liberty and Dower; the
law of these three States sacrifices the
Liberty of Slaves to the Dower of c
widow. Emancipation must be made
with most formal and technical minute
ness, or the act is void. Does the mas
ter solemnly covenant with his slave t«
emancipate him? the contract can be
revoked at the master’s will. No ex
traordinary service of the slave, except
in North Carolina, would be held a
good consideration” and sufficient to
bind the bargain, In some States, as
Maryland and Virginia, in fact—no
person under thirty nor over five-and
forty can be emancipated.
Take all the slave-laws of the United
States together, consider the Race that
has made them, their Religion, the Po
litical ideas of their government, that it
is in the nineteenth century after
Christ, and they form the most revolting
work of legislation to be found in the
annals of any pacific people. The codes
of the Barbarians who sat on the ruins
of the Roman Empire—the Burgun
dians, Bavarians, the Ailcmanni, with
the Visgoths and their Northern kin—
have left enactments certainly more ter
rible in themselves. Rut the darkness
of that period shrouds all those bar
barian legislations in a general and
homogeneous gloom; and here, it is
“the freest and most enlightened na
tion of the world,” who keeps, ex
tends and intensifies the dreadful stat
utes which make men only things, binds
and sells them as brute cattle. In
110), the Council of London decreed,
that hereafter no one shall presume
to. carry on the nefarions business in
which, hitherto, men in England are
wont to be sold as brute beasts.” The
churches of America have no voice ol
rebuke—no word of entreaty when
Christian Clergymen sell their brothers
in the market. The flag of America and
the majesty of the law defends that
“business,” which the Anglo-Saxon
Bishops, seven hundred and forty-five
years ago, looked on as nefarious,”
JVt'farium A‘cgotinm. M. de Tocque
villc regarded the American slave-code
ijs Legislation stained by unparalleled
atrocities; Legislation which forbids the
slaves to be taught to read and
write, and which aims to sink them as
nearly as possible to the level of the
nines.”
The effect of slavery appears
general legislation of the South. In
iVisdom and Humanity it is far behind
he North. It is there that laws are
most bloody; punishments most bar
barous and vindictive; that irregular
violence takes most often the place of
legal procedure; that equity is least
<ure even for the free whites them
selves. One end of the slave’s chain
is round the master’s neck. “Justice,”
says the proverb, “has feet of wool,
but iron hands. The slave-driver’s
whip and the bowie-knife of the Ame
rican have a near relation.
Some of the Southern States have
enacted remarkable laws to this effect:
That when any free negro or person ol
color arrives in any vessel at a South
ern port, lie shall be shut up in prison
until the departure of the vessel, the
owner of the vessel paying the costs.—
By this law the free citizens of the free
States arc continually imprisoned in
South Carolina and Louisiana. ’Phis
is not only a violation of the Constitu
tion of the United States, but it is con
trary to the common customs of Chris
tian nations; a law without a parallel
in their codes; a result which Gouver
neur Morris did not anticipate in
1787, when he made his satirical cal
culation of the value of the Union to
the North.
The iniquity of the code of the slave
States has passed into some enactments
of the general government of the Union.
In 1793, a luw was made by Congress
to this effect: A fugitive slave escaping
into a free State—and consequently anv
man claimed to be such—may he seized
by the master or his agent, and carried
back to slavery without the intervention
of a Trial by Jury to determine whether
he man is a slave—simply by a trial
oefore any Judge of the circuit or
Jistrict courts of the United States re
dding or being within the State, or be
fore any magistrate of the county, city
or town corporate where such seizure
or arrest shall be made.” The proof
required that the man is a slave is by
oral testimony or affidavit” of the
parties interested in the man’s capture.
This is a departure from the Customs
of your Fathers; —a departure which
the Common Law of England would
not justify at any time since the Norman
conquest. The Trial by Jury has been
regarded the groat Safeguard of per
sonal Freedom; even in the dark ages
of English law it was the Right of ev
ery man, of every fugitive slave, when
his person was iu peril. Had n slave
escaped, with ins children, and remain
ed some time a freeman —slutu liber:
did the master find the children ami
not the father, he could not hold them
till he caught the father, and by a jury
trial proved his claim! In the United
States, the laws do not favor liberty in
case of men born with African blood in
their veins.
The power of the general govern
ment has been continually exercised
igainst this class of Americans. It
pursues them after they have taken
refuge with the Indians; it has sullied
[he American name by vainly asking
the Monarch of England to deliver up
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD IS THE FATHER OF OS AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
i! fugitive American litres who had fled
r j (o Canada and sought freedom under
her flag.
J The federal government established
J slavery in the District of Columbia, in
i various Territories, and approved the
constitutions of eight new States which
aim to perpetuate the institution.
J For a long time the House of Repre
sentatives refused to receive ell peti
S tions, memorials, resolutions and propo
»1 sitions relating in aoy way or to any
extent whatever to the subject of sla
l very.” Thus have the 4 unalienable
rights” of man been trampled under
foot by the government of the most
powerful Republic in the world. But
i last summer, in the city of Washing
ton, two women were sold as slaves,
on account of the United States of
America, by her marshal, at public
auction!
But let us look at the Political Effect*
of slaveiy. The existence of 3,000,-
000 slaves in the heart of the nation,
with interests hostile to their masters,
weaken the effective force of the nation
in time of war. It was found to be so
in the revolution and in the late war.
The slave States offer a most vulnera
ble point of attack. Let an enemy of
fer freedom to all the slaves who would
join the standard—they will And “in
every negro a decided friend,” and the
South could not stand with millions of
foes scattered through all parts of her
territory. Have the slaves no arms
I There are firebrands on every hearth.
During the revolution many thousands
escaped from South Carolina alone.—
At the conclusion of the last war with
England, she offered to pay $1,204,-
000 as the value of the slaves who, in
a brief period, had taken shelter be
neath her flag. What if England had
armed them as soldiers, to ravage the
country and burn the towns Will a
future enemy be so reluctant? The
feeling of the civilized world revolts at
our inhumanity. Tlte English, for
reasons no longer existing, took little
pains to avail themselves of the weapon
thus thrust in their hands. In the time
of our troubles with France, when war
was expected, General Washington had
serious apprehensions from this source.
Even in 1756, During the French war,
Governor Dinwiddie, of Virginia, did
not “dare venture to part with any
of our white men at any distance, as we
must have a wathful eye over our negro
slaves.”
The Revolutionary war showed the
respective military abilities of North
and South, and their respective devo
tion to their country’s cause. It is not
easy, perhaps not possible to ascertain
the sums of money furnished by the
particular States, for the purposes of
that war; the number of men it is easy
to learn. Taking the census of 1790
as the standard, the six slave States
had a free population of 1,852,504, or,
including Kentucky and Tennessee,
1,961,372. Let us suppose, that du
ring the Revolution,from 1775 to 1783,
the number was but two-thirds as great,
or 1,307,549. In those States, there
were 657,527 slaves, all the other
States had likewise slaves; hut in New
England there were but 3,888, their in
fluence quite inconsiderable in military
affairs. Let us therefore compare the
number of men furnished for the war
by New England and the six slave
States. In 1790 the population of New
England was 1,009,8*23. But let us
suppose, as before, that from 1775 to
1783, it was, on an average, but two
thirds as large, or 673,215. During
the nine years of the Revolutionary
war, New England furnished for the
continental army 119,305 men; while
the slave States, with a free population
of 1,307,549, furnished but 59,336 men
for the continental army. Besides that,
fhe slave States furnished 10,123 militia
men, and New England 29,324.
Let us compare a slave State and a
free one, of about equal population.—
In 1790, South Carolina contained
249,073 persons; Connecticut 238,141.
Supposing the population, during the
war, only two-thirds as great as in 1790,
then South Carolina contained 166,018,
and Connecticut 158,760 persons.
During the nine years of the war, S.
Carolina sent 6,417 soldiers to the
continental army, and Connecticut 32,-
D 39 In 1790, Massachusetts contained
175,257 souls; during the Revolution,
according to the above ratio, 316,838.
While the six slave States, with their
free population of 1,307,549, furnished
[>ut 59,336 soldiers for the continental
irmy, and 10,123 militia men, Massa
chusetts atone sent 68,007 soldiers to
he continental army and 15,155 militia,
rhus shoulder to shoulder Massachu
setts and South Carolina went through
he Revolution, and felt the great arm
>f Washington lean on them both for
tupport.
By the Constitution of the United
states, in the apportionment of repre
lentatives to Congress, five slaves
count the same os three freemen. This
s a provision unknown in former na
ional codes, resting on a principle un
lemocratic, detrimental to liberty, and
titherto unheard of: the principle of
dlowing parts of a nation political
►ower in proportion to the number of
nen which they hold in bondage. It
vould have astonished the Heathen
Jemocracry of Athens long centuries
igo. By this arrangement, from 1789
o 1792, (he South gained seven repre
sentatives in the first Congress; from
1795 to 1813 —fourteen; from 1813 to
1823 nineteen; from 10*23 to 1033
twenty-two from 1833 to 1013
-twenty-five. By the la* apportion
nent bill, one representative is allowed
or 70,600 freemen, or a proportionate
lumber of slaves. By this arrange
nent, in a House of only 225 members
he South gains 20 representatives on
iccount of her slave*—more than 1-12
»f the whole*
ROCHESTER, N. Y„ FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1848,
At present, the North ku 138 rspre
sentativee for 9,728,922 souls; or 9,-
727,893 free men; one representative
for each 70,492 free men. The South
has 87 representatives. There are
within the slave States, 4,818,195 tree
men; they have one representative for
I each 55,725 free persons.
In the next Presidential election, the
North will have 100 electoral voles:
the South 117. The North baa an
electoral vote for each5*2,576 free men;
the South one for each 41 t 436. Part
of this difference is due to the fact that
in the South there are several small
States. But twenty electoral votes are
given by the South on account of her
property in slaves. Bui if slaves are
merely property, there is no reason why
Southern Negroes should be represent
ed in Congress more than the Spindles
of the North.
But the South pays direct taxes for
her slaves in the same proportion. A
direct tax has been resorted to only four
times since 1789 by the general govern
ment, viz: in 1798, 1813, 1814, and
1816. The whole amount assessed is
$14,000,000. Of this about $12,750,-
000 was actually paid into the treasury
of the United States, though part in
depreciated currency. Of that the
South paid for her slaves, if the com
putation be correct, only $1,256,553.
In 1837, the surpttis revenue of the
Union, amounting to $37,468,859 97,
was distributed among the several
States in proportion to their electoral
votes. By the census of 1830, the
North had 7,009,451 free persons, and
the South but 3,823,289. The free
States received $21,410,777 12, and
the slave States $16,058,082 85.
Each free man of the North received
but $3 05, while each free man of the
South received $4 20 in that division.
At that time the South had one hun
dred and twenty-six electoral votes, of
which twenty-five were on account of
her slave representation. She there
fore received by that arrangement,
$3,186,127 59 on account of the repre
sentation of her slaves. JProm that, il
we deduct the $1,256,553 paid by her
her as direct taxes on her slaves, there
is left $1,929,574 50, as the bonus
which the South has received from the
treasury of the nation on account of the
representation of slaves—Southern pro
perty represented in Congress. To
this we must add $57,556, which the
South received ih 1812 from the sale of
public land on account of her slaves,
the sum is $1,987,130 50 Mr. Pinck
ney was right when he said the terms
were not bad for the South.
Slavery divei|s the freeman from In
dustry, from Science, from Letters and
the Elegant Arts. It has been said to
qualify him for politics. As political
matters have been managed in the Uni
ted States in this century, the remark
seems justified by the facts. Elections
are not accidents. Of the eight Presi
dents elected in the nineteenth century,
six were born in the South—children
of the slave States. No Northern mau
has ever twice been elected to the
highest office of the nation. A similar
result appears in the appointment of
important officers by the President him*
self. From 1789 to 1815, one hundred
and seventy appointments were made of
ministers and charges to foreign pow
ers; of these, seventy-eight were filled
from the North, 92 from the South.—
Of the seventy-four ministers plenipo
tentiary sent to Europe before 1846,
forty-three were from the slave States.
There have been fifteen judges of the
Supreme Court from the North; eigh
teen from the South. The office of
Attorney General has been four times
filled by Northern men, fourteen times
by men from the slave States. Out of
thirty Congresses, eleven only have
had a Speaker from the North. There
are significant facts, and plainly show
the aptitude of Southern men to manage
the political affairs of America. These
are pilots for fair weather; pilots also
only trusted in a storm.
EXTRACT,
From the Speerh of Gerrit SMITH, delivered in
Kyranue, Janu.try 26, 1648, on. Land Reform.
Happy, thrice happy, will it be,when
land shall be no more bought and sold
—w hen, like salvation, it shall be free,
without money and.without price! —and
when every person shall have his own
needed share, neither more nor less, of
his mother earth! How much more
equal than now will be the circum
stances of men and the wealth of men,
when the prophetically foretold happy
period shall have arrived, and every
man shall sit under his own vine and,
fig tree—or, in other words, have his
own home to dwell in. How much|
more common and honorable then, than
now, w’ill be manual toil! How much
less generalthe system of wages, w ith all
its attendant degradation and unhappy
bearings! How much more general,
then, than now, will be the spirit of
manly independence! How much weak
ened the feign of vice! How much j
strengthened the reign of virtue! How j
much more common will be early m&r-j
riages, when invited by a free soil,than
w hen delayed, as now, by the necessity
of earning money to pay for land!—j
Then, too, there will be no slavery.— j
Before the reduced-to-practice theories
of land-reform, slavery would disap- 1
pear as surely, and as speedily, as tJae j
mists of morning before the rising ana. j
Apportion the soil equally among its,
equal owners, and where would there!
be room for slavery. You could not'
work it in even edgewise. Often, within
the last few years, has ay heart ached,
when I have heard abolitionists speak
contemptuously of land-reform. They
know not what it t*of which they speak
contemptuously. They know not that
it is one of the moat effective anti-ala
very measures most effective, got
only to ovarthro# present rfwery, bat
to prevent, and make impossible, its
suscitation and re petition. And then, I
too, bow difficult it will be to carry on
war— t(y indeed, tbe ipirit of war shall;
bo able to survive such a demonstration
of practical justice, and such a recog
nition of the equality and brotherhood
of men, as the success of land-reform
will be. I say, bow difficult it will be
to carry on war! for then few will be
without homes: and you cannot draw
men from the substantial comforts of
home to the uohooored and poorly-paid
services of private soldiers. War finds
its recruits among tbe homeless
among vagabonds. Then, too, what a
victory for the cause of temperance!—
for intemperance, as well as war, finds j
its recruits among tbe homeless—;
among vagabonds. Then, too, what a
victory for Religion! when millions,
now robbed of homes by systems of
land-monopoly, shall have homes to
thank God for; and homes in which to
cultivate the home-bred virtues, and
the sweat and solid enjoyments of reli
gion.
One thing more ere I close. We all
love to perform the offices of every-day
charity. We ail love to feed the hungry
and clothe the naked; and none of us
can turn the destitute beggar empty
away. Nevertheless, such charity,
notwithstanding we cannot refrain from
indulging in it, is not free from the most
pernicious effects. It cures not, and it
often aggravates the disease to which
it ministers. Its temporary relief is but
too generally followed by permanent in
jury. How much better to provide the
poor with homes; or, to speak more
correctly, to let them provide them
selves with homes upon their own God
given shares of this goodly green earth,
than, by robbing them of these shares,
to keep them mendicants, and to hold
them in dependence upon our charity!
Delivered from this dependence, by
having —as they would have had they
homes—the means of subsistence within
themselves, they are no longer a burden
upon the community, and no longer a
shame to themselves, They are no
longer degraded, either in the eyes of
others or in their own eyes. The world
respects them. They respect them
selves. They are in circumstances to
be both useful and happy.
Deep and dependant poverty is a
great evil,’ if only because it is so de
structive of independence of spirit. I
think it is Doctor Franklin who says in
reference to the cringing, servile spirit,
which is so wont to characterize the
very poor man: How difficult it is to
make an empty hag stand up straight!”
Among the poorest of men, there are,
indeed, some of the noblest specimens
of manhood; for the very poor man,
who, amid the numerous and mighty
temptations to compromise his irme
pendence of spirit, yet maintains it, is,
assuredly, above all praise. Neverthe
less, it must he admitted, that the de
pendence created by deep poverty, is
much in the way, and very citen fatally
in the way, of the maintenance of an
independent spirit. How unhappy then
—how worthy of all condemnation—
are the laws, arrangements, usages,
which have the effect to multiply the
deeply poor!
Let, then, the soil be free!—be free,
as God made it free! This is the grand
remedy for poverty. For this, instead
of leaving the poor under the necessity
of being ever helped, and of, therefore,
being ever poor, enables them to help
themselves, and to emerge from their
poverty.
We are not doing our whole or even
our chief duty to the poor, when we
tielp the poor. Even proud aristocracy
mill consent to help the poor. Nay, it
abounds in self-complacent and gra
;ious condescensions to the poor. But
t will not let the poor come up by its
ride and help themselves. Our great
luty to the poor is to remove from their
vay the obstructions which false social
arrangements have thrown into it; and
o suffer them to rise to that one level of
nanhood from which they have been so
rruelly thrust down; and to welcome
hem into that brotherhood in which ev
;ry human being is entitled to a place,
md to an equal place with every other
turn an being.
THE EMPLOYMENT OF TIME.
Zrtraftfmmm hetun by Charles Scant* t
I have lost a day,” was the excla-j
nation of an Emperor of ancient Rome, I
‘for to-day I have done no good
hing.” The Arch of Titus still re-
nains a monument of his renown, but
he memorable words altered by him,
confer more lasting honor on fits name
han ail tbe high and glorious deeds
vhich tbe arch commemorates. The
lay was not lost on which the above,
ecorded words were spoken. They;
ire a lesson to all coining centuries
dike to the young and old, and should
le deeply pondered.
The subject of this lecture may be
teemed trite and homely, but it pos
esses a practical character. The value
*f time was one of tbe first lessons
aught us, on our mother’s knee. Tbe;
id vice of poor Richard was to be (band
•noted in almanacs, oa handkerchiefs j
-was furnished us as copy, whea
Baking oar first attempts with the pea
—it has passed into an exhortation
o all to a right employment of time—
t has also passed into a proverb, that
ime is money, inasmuch as a right em
doyment of time brings money-- so is
jm» knowledge, virtue, and ft is little
redd able to the world that the proverb
thotiid take so pecuniary a aomplexion.
ftnM is more than money. A right
tse of it reveals to as aU the knowl
edge of tbs past, which no gold can
wrehase, and shows to os tbe welfare
ind progress of our race. Time is op*
KMtunity, because it affords to ns the
Mas of doing good—it is the point
n which the philosopher %J«td rest his
lever, with which to move the world.—
The employment of tine to the best ad
vantage, the only exercise of trm
thrill. Take care of the cents and the
dollars will take care of themselves, h
has been said; with as much, if not
more truth, it may be said, take care
of the minutes and hours, and the days
aed weeks will take care of themselves.
Every moment that passes takes from
the future* and gives to the irrevocable
past, takes from our means of useful
ness—loss of time, then, is loss of life
—is partial suicide. A daily sacrifice
of one hour for a year, amounts to 38
days in that time. Let any one devote
these days to the prosecution of any fa
vorite work, and see what an acquisi
tion he will make in the month.
An eminent French jurist stated that
ha wrote one of his celebrated works in
the quarters of an hour between or
dering dinner and its being set before
him. Napoleon once ordered one of
hm generals to attack a point, observ
ing a reiuforceinent of the enemy ad
vancing to succor it—to the officer be
said, it w ill take them fifteen minutes
to reach the point, and 1 have often
found that it is these same fifteen min
utes that win the field.* 1
I will illustrate my remarks by call
ing to remembrance the lives of some
of the most eminent men of our own
time, who might be considered the re
presentative men of human industry.—
The lecturer here referred to some ol
the particulars of the life of Franklin,
in illustration of his untiring industry.
His talisman was industry: and his au
tobiography of his studies one of the
most remarkable of the productions ol
our language. It teaches an invalua
ble lesson to the young, in the en
couragement it affords to the student
struggling along the weary paths of
life. It is to be regretted that Frank
lin’s teachings did not exhibit a more
spiritual tendency they are too ma
terial—the love of the dollar is their
predominant characteristic. Edward
Gibbon, the cotemporary of Franklin,
furnishes another instance of what de
voted industry will accomplish. He
also has left an autobiography of his
studies, which furnishes a most useful
lesson of labor and study.
illiam Cobbett, of our own times,
who died in 1835, aged about seventy
three, has also left on record his testi
mony to the value of the right employ
ment of time. He was one of the most
remarkable men that England ever pro
duced. At the age of twenty he ran
away from his father, who was a farm
er, became a copying clerk, enlisted us
a private soldier in the army, came w'ith
his regiment from Nova Scotia, was
promoted for his. good conduct to the
rank of Corporal, finally to Sergeant
Major,—returned to England in 1792,
when he obtained his discharge. He
then came to the United States, be
came a bookseller, publisher, author,
and wholesale libeller—his writings, un
der the name of Peter Porcupine, are
well known to our countrymen. To
escape two heavy judgments hanging
over him, he fled to England, to com
mence again his career of libel. He
attached himself to the party of Pitt,
and was the worst tory of them all.
His letters on the Treaty of Amiens
were pronounced by a Swiss historian,
as among the most eloquent productions
extant. He established his Weekly
Register,” and from a furious Tory he
became a furious Radical, and wrote
with all the hardihood of a pirate. He
was convicted of libel, fined, and suf
fered two years’ imprisonment this
punishment he never forgot nor for
gave. He circulated the enormous
number of 100,000 copi sof his Re
gister.” In 1817, he withdrew to the
United States—returned again to Eng-:
land in 1819—as late as the year 1831, j
he was brought to the bar of court, for*
the eighth time, charged with libel—in
1832 he was elected to Parliament, and;
served till his death in 1835. He was
the most energetic of writers, the fore
most of haters, and the paragon of turn
coats. While in the army, and writing
a fair hand he was made copyist to the
commandant of the station—not know
ing anything of grammar, he made fre
quent mistakes. The officer, perceiv
ing that be possessed ability, advised
him to procure a grammar and study.
Cobbett procured his grammar and:
learned it by heart. He states that
when mounting guard, he made it a
rule io repeat liis grammar once while 1
on duty. If sentinels had nothing
worse to do than to repeat their gram
mars, they would not be unprofitable
employed. Place a grammar in tbei
hands of every soldier, and vtn would
become less frequent. “Terrible as
an army with banners,” would give 1
place to “terrible as an army with
grammars.” Cobbett said that nobody
or thing waited for him. If be was to
mount guard at 10, he was ready at 10
o’clock. He rose at 4A. M., dressed
himself even to placing his sword-belt 1
over his shoulder, with his sword on
the table before him. He then received
the reports of the company as
were ha ded to him, a ad had after- 1
wards some hour or so for reading and
study before the out-door duty of the
day commenced. After he left the
army, he was accustomed to rise at
daylight in summer, and at 4 A. M. iu
winter, read or study till 8, when he
breakfasted—he then employed him
self during the remainder of the day.
He rarely took bat two meals a day,
end seldom ate any meal after 1 P. M.
He retired at BP. M. He was one of
the most voluminous writers extant.
C übbett and Scott resembled each other
iin their industry, aad in their volutes
i nous product! ms, hut not in the objects
|fcv which they wrote.
Sit Welter Scott was, like Cobbett,
ooe of (he most striking instances of
•hat may be accomplished by regular
WILLUM C. >fXL,
JOHN DICK, Klimt.
WHOLE NO—XVII.
J of industry. writing*
•re now almost forgotten; and it i*
j“ ®7 P®»s*ble that the world which
haa dwwiifleed Cobbett, will long re
j ®**n»ber Scott. Life to one *»t a gala
*he other a stern reality. Scott
lived in the past, Cobbett in "the prea
ent; but on neither had hope scattered
the delights of an unborn period,
flow time is to be apportioned so as
jJ” the best results, it is nnpossi
hle to calculate; but in its employment
w ill be found a sure means of happi
ness, and in useful industry its own re
ward. The great duty is" the cultiva
tion of all the faculties, and the ar
rangement of time so that none shall bo
neglected. All the faculties arc given or
are all equally entitled to
cultivation. Tii the mere man of busi
ness, for instance, the man himself is
lost; he is not w hat he was intended to
be when stamped with the great seal of
hnmanity. We deride the pedant, and
Dominie Sampson affords a most ex
cellent beacon. There are, however,
many Dominic Samsons—the merchant,
who thinks of naught but his cottons
and sugars: the lawyer, whose mind is
only continent of w rits and contracts,the
fanner,w hose w hole soul is in his crops,
all are Dominie Sampsons in their way,
and in devoting their whole attention to
one thing, they lose the highest attri
butes ol man. The debt which a man
owes to his profession is not to be paid
to the exclusion of all others. Man is
not born w ith all his capacities to fol
low a profession or trade only. I would
by no means wish to weaken the at
tachment which we feel to the business
of our choice, but only to enliven and
elevate the man by attention to other
I pursuits. W ith industry the way is
easy.
ADDRESS
Of the Jnhnlitants of Carlisle, England, in 1541U14
Muting touumlltd, to their BrttUnn in Emmett
We, being convened for the purpose
of petitioning our legislature not to in
crease the Ai my, nor in any measure
to augment, but rather to diminish the
national expenditure, and also to settle
international disputes by the decision
of a court of arbitration, rather than
by an appeal to the sword, embrace
the present opportunity of expressing
our sympathy and brotherly feelings
with you under your present circum
stances.
The oppressive burden of taxation
for the maintenance of wnrtiors and for
the fortifications of War, have been felt
by both us and you. We therefore
entertain a growing conviction, that by
free communication and neighborly in- v
ter course, we fihall hasten tb* arrival
of the period when <bmp ruler* tftil Mr
longer sacrifice our Christianity to th*
imaginary possibility (tf invading each
others territory. Most deeply do wa
sympathise with you in your struggle
for righteous laws, and civil and reli
gious liberty; and we hope that all
attempts to sow the seeds of jealousy
between us w ill be regarded as the act
of a common enemy. Whilst the won
derful agencies of steam and electricity
are almost bringing our two countries
j within speaking distance, let our hearts
I also draw near to each other in tho
1 communion and fellowship of true
neighbors and friends, feeling the bond
of a universal brotherhood.
Brethren of France! If in past times
our forefathers forgot that they were
neighbors and brethren, now when a
generation of peace between us ha*
promoted the harmony and blessedness
of this relation; let no bitterness pain
us, no jealousy divide; but let us unite
in diffusing the blessings of knowledge
aud Christianity throughout the world.
Let us inscribe upon our banners tho
motto of the Prince of Peace. Let tho
eagle and the lion he replaced by the
dove and the lamb; aud for the future,
and for ever, let us eradicate from our
minds every feeling of bitterness which
would destroy the mutual faith and
confidence of international friendship.
Signed on behalf of the Meeting, by
JONATHAN D. CARR,
Chairman.
RICIXITH OF WOJttEN.
We observed with much pleasure
that a bill to protect women in the en
joyment of their own property, has pass
ed both Houses of oug Legislature.-
This measure is eminently just and
wise, and was loudly called for by pub
lic sentiment. The new law re ads
thus:—
I. The real atul personal property
of any female w ho may hereafter marry,
and w hich she shall own at the time of
marriage, and the rents, issues, and
profits thereof, shall not be subject to
the disposal of her hnsband, nor be lia
ble for hi* debts, and shall continue her
sole and separate property.
‘i. The real aud personal property,
and the rents, issues, and profits thereof,
of any female now married, shall not
l>e subject to the disposal other bus baud,
but shall be her sole and separate pro
perty, a* if she Were a single female,
except so far as the same may be liable
for the debts of her husband heretofore
contracted.
3. It shall be lawful for any mar
ried female to receive by gift, grant, de
vise or bequest, from any person other
than her husband, and hold to her whole
and separate use, as if she were
single female, real and personal proper
ty, and the rents, iseoes, and profits
thereof, and the same *ball not be sub
ject to the disposal of her husband, nor
be liftble for bin debts.
4 4. AM contracts made between,
persons in eoairmpJale** marriage 9
.hall remain in f*B
marriage shall take place.
Remember the slave at the Sotftfc,
and strive to free bun from hi* bou4»
Fourteenth Anniversary Of the American Anti-Slavery Society.
The Fourteenth Annual Meeting of the
American Anti-Slavery Society
h? Fourteenth Annual Meeting of
Am iricx.i Anti-Slavery Society, will be held
in the Broadway Tabernacle, New York, on
Tuesday, the Ninth Day of May, at 10
o’clock, A. M.
The present of public a (Taira in thi*
eoantry, should ttwke this meeting one of
marc than usual lisjwrtincc and interest. The
South *m boundary of American Slavery,
which, since Society was formed, haa
been removed from the Sabine to the Nueces,
it w now proposed by its gaardiam to remove
still further into the free territory of a sister
Republic. We hare httlc reason to expect
a more favorable termination to the two years*
war waged, at an enormous expense of blood
and treasure, for the sole purpose of extending
the worst system of human bondage by con
quest. Whether the Abolitionists of the
country can arrest the perpetration of thu
Stupendous national crime, or not, it is no lew
tluur duly to make the effort. The lasi
public protest they may have the opportunity
to record against it, should he earnest aw
unanimous.
The necessity of the moment should als<
remind us of how much of the work is still ti
hi* done, which this Society, fourteen year
ago, resolved to do. Since its formation, Sla
very has not been abolished in a single St at:
ol the Union. A nulUun mure of ourcoun
(ryin-ui have been bom to the lot of slaves.—
But that this Society and its auxiliaries havi
aroused, to a certain degree, a universal Anti
Slavery sentiment at the North, and havi
ainde the topic one of absorbing interns
throughout the country, is the best evidena
of the wisdom of their measures, and shouh
be the strongest incentive to still inure strenu
ous and self-denying toil.
3 The old and trieJ friends of the cause
and those who have been but recent!'
aroused to the necessity of the overthrow o
the felon system of American Slavery, an
urged to make of tins meeting a grand rail’
for freedom.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Prcs’t
Wendell Phillips,
S. 11. Gay, Secretaries.
(WESTER* NEW YORK ANTI
SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Executive Committee will meet 01
Tuesday evening next, April 25th, at tin
Anti-Slavery Office, 25, Buffalo Street.
Attendance is requested at 7 o'clock pre
cisely.
W, C. NELL, Rec. Sec.
National Convention of the Liberty
League.
The undersigned committee appointed at
Macedoa Locks in June last to call a Na
tional Convention some lime in the year 1848,”
do invite Those who wish to provide equal
civil securities for the rights of all men,” to
im?t in Convention at the city of Rochester,
on the 31st day of May next, at 10 o’clock
A. M., for the purpose of nominating a can
didate for the Vice Presidency, and the trans
action of such oilier business as may come
before the convention.
The convention will be held two days.
E. S. Gilbert,
W. D. Babbitt,
Wm. R. Smith,
A. Penn el,
Hiram Pitts,
National Com. of the Liberty League.
Honloye, Fob. 29, 1848.
State League Convention.
A mass convention for the nomination of
State o.beers, to he supported by the Liberty
League at the ensuing fall election, will be
bold *:i at Rochester on the second day of June
next, at 10o’clock A. M.
Let our friends see to it that the various
parts ol the State are well represented.
E. S. Gilbert,
W. D. Babbitt,
Wm. R. Smith,
Hiram Pitts,
A. Penn el.
Central Com. of the Liberty League.
lloneoye, Feb. 29tli, 1848.
Notice. —Messrs. E. R. Dunlop and S. 11.
Day, arc not agents for the Colored people of
Upper Canada, as is generally supposed and
if they have collected money in their name, it
has been done on their own resjKmsibility,
and not of the British American Abolition
Society in the city of Toronto. Mr. Dunlop
was dismissed from his agency for said society,
on the first day of December, 1847. Mr.
Dunlop was sent out with Mr. Day, for the,
sole purpose of getting signers to establish a
paper in the city of Turoato.
In behalf of the Executive Committee of
the D. A. A. Society,
CHARLES FREEMAN, See.
April 21, lbl7.
French Revolution.
The special meeting of the American Anti-
Slavery Society, was held in Boston on the
evening of the 6th April, at the Mdodoon.
At haH' past seven the chair was
taken by Win. Lloyd Garrison, President of
the Society.
Mr. Garrison stated the obj *ct of the meet
ing, and suiJ we had met to offer our con
gr.uuUlimis to the French nation, on the fact
that not a vestige of Royalty remained in their
land, (cheers,) and that among their very first
efforU iu behalf o*’liberty, was the Decree for
the A kiiitioa of Slavery in their Colouies.
(Renewed cheering from the large audience
which filbd the spacious building.)
The follow ing Resolutions were read to the
nueting by Edmund Q uuey, of Dedham.
1. Re?->!ved. 'Hut the magnanimous con
sistency of the French people in using the
first ino.nmt of their own lib-rty, to extend
to every human being within the limn* of the
Reputdic, the blessings winch they had just
gained for themselves, ts without a parallel in
the history of the world, and deserves the grate
ful admiration of ovary Lover of justice and
humanity.
Wr.2. R*S'»lved, That we especially rejoice
in this set, a» it frees the name of K’-pubbe
from the odium which the incousisteucy of
Awnca has heap' d upon it, aud Wf-sses the
world with the sight of a Republic without a
Slave; and are glad that th- humanity of a
gensroua p3op!« bo* stamj»ed with deserved
opprobrium the infamous dogma of human
slavery being the only com-r-stone of free trv
stipitions a id that European progress and
Itbar'y are no longer to be chillod by th- bale
ful influence of American hypocrisy, a Despo
tism in thu mask of a Republic but that note,
at I in, the friandsiof popular righto may dis
p/1 th -tr own doubts, and laugh to scorn the
uuuts of their opponents in the gful light ol
the n hleness and virtue of a true Republic.
3„ ttv*olr«d. Thw. a# American A bob
tionists, we reioim to assure the countrymen
of De BmgUc,j»*lnstaflt Bray, an 4
ette, that their Decree of Euttaeipatioo #tU
make rm the dk»nt of Caraftna lighter, hud
hasten the day »lw» *"il be untrod
den bv a slave, ami we too shall be worthy to
take ouf pbee RepgMfca, bafow those
m wheut see ought to hare Jboea am example
and modal.
4. Resolved, That the cold and reluct mat i
norioe taken of thia Decree against Slavery
hr the great body of the political journals of j
this country, and its entire sopprewios by
some of them, afford melancholly proof of the
decline of the spirit of Freedom amoogat us,
and of the fearful extent to which Slavery
has infected every part of the land.
5. Resolved, That remembtring the noble
Protest so frequently addressed by Fayette to
Clarkson, —“l never would have drawn my
sword in the cause of America if I could have
conceived I was helping to found a Govern
ment of Slavery,”—we recognize ia thia act
a fitting tribute to the memory of the most il
lustriously virtuous of Frenchmen, and ooe of
the earliest opponents of negro slavery that
wr a thank the rVench people for the silent re
buke their example gives to a nation which
has proved itiHf so unworthy of the generous
confidence of Fayette,—and invoke the influ
ence, not only of their example, but of their
national protest and remonstrance to aid ua in
a deadlier struggle than even that w hich his
impetuous enthusiasm rush ad to share.
C. R< solved, That, as Republicans, we
are prmid to remember that in France the
hour of popular triumph has always been the
hour of the Negro's hope, that with the peo
pie Ire has always prospered, and only with
the right# of the people thems/lt es have his
rights been stricken down.
7. Resolved, That, confident in the belief
that the b! rasing of Heaven rests on justice,
and that the stricter right is always the high
est expediency, we an: full of hope for a peo
f»le whose hour of victory was marked by
moderation and humanity, whom not eveu
broken pledges and outraged Constitutions
could anger to revenge, aud who in the hour
of triumph and strength have meted out to all
others the rights they had claimed for them
fj selves, recognizing the protection of the weak
as the first and highest duty of all Govern
menu.
I The meeting was addressed by W evdell
Phillips, Theodore Parker, and Willlam
11. Chanxi.no.
The following were appointed a Committee
to forward an Address of Thanks to the
j. French Government for their noble service
done to the cause of the slave.”
i 4
W. L. Garrison,
W. 11. Channing,
M. W. Chapman,
Edmund Quinrv,
Samuel G. Howe,'
Theodore Parker,
Wendell Phillips.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
S V U d P Secretaries.
Tribute to John Qnincjr Adams.
In addition to the meetings of Colored Amo
j ricaus in commemoration of Mr. Adams, al
ready published in the Star, there have been
similar demonstrations in New York city and
1 Detroit, Michigan but the crowded state of
the paper will not admit of their publication
i at length, a brief selection from the proceed
ings must suffice. Nothing need be said in
commendation of the sentiments uttered, or
the appropriate language in which they have
been expressed; they sjieak for themselves.—
Let no pro-slavery traducer of the colored
man, charge him with ingratitude toward j
those who in any degree have accelerated the j
car of Universal Freedom. Hear New York:
Whereas, We are participants of the glory
as well as of the shame of our country, it is
befitting and becoming in us to express oar
approval or disapprobation of whatever con
cerns or relates to the glow or shame of the
same and as the life of lion. John Quincy
Adams gives evidence of sincere patriotism— j
of a devotedness to the interests of his coun-
try—of a sincere desire for the eradication of j
its curse, Slavery—the acknowledgment ol
the right of petition—one of the most pre- j
cious rights of a people, and particularly pre-
cious to us the oppressed class—therefore, for
these and many other virtues of his, be it
Resolved, That the name of John Quincy
Adams, ex-president of these United States, j
shall ever be held dear in our memories—re- j
gardiug him not only as a friend of his coun
try, but of us the oppressed portion of his
countrymen.
Resolved, That in consideration of the po
sition which Mr. Adams occupied—the con
necting link between the past and the present
—the learned, the eloquent, tbe admired of
the nation—he rendered ail especial service in
the Arinistad case” by his influence, and
his able defence of the right of Cinques and
his associates in asserting and defending their
liberties.
Resolved, That as the firm, the untiring,
the successful advocate of the Right of Peti
tion in Congress, Mr. Adams earned the good
wishes and was entitled to the thanks of the
friends of Freedom.
Resolved, That a copy of theabove resolu
tions be sent to the family of the deceased,
signed by the officers of the meeting also
that they be published.
Here is the peroration of an address at De-
troit, by the Rev. Samuel 11. Davis, and reso
lutions adopted by the meeting:
But he lias gone llis work on earth ia
done he reposes in unbroken slamber, and
the praises of men are nothing to him now
They are lost on thecold,dullearofdeath.”
But his death, like every other event of the j
kind, furnishes admonitions to the living,
which ought not to be lost by them. We ate
again reminded of the vanity of human de-,
pendence—of the fully of putting confidence 1
in the wisdom of man, rather than in the
wisdom and all-powerful agency of God.— i
Adams is gone, and we must soon follow him f
to the world of spirits—to the bar of judg-
incut. Let the living example of feis life call j
forth our admiration and gratitude, prompt us
to action, and urge us to do quickly, what we
have to do for ourselves, our fcllow-racn, and 1
for our God. I-<et old and young live while j
they live, not to themselves alone, but for oth
era as well a* themselves; discharging ah the I
duties growing out of all the relations of life.:
Lvt us live prepared fur long life or sudden
death. Let u» listen to the warning voice i
which proceed# from the tomb of Adams.—
And like him, wheu the summons comes,
may be able to say,—“ Thu u the end s/’ 1
tarth —Jam composed.”
On morion, a vote of thanks was tendered
to the speaker fur the able address delivered, j
William H. Day, offered the following
Inasmuch as a great and good man has
fallen, a nation has cause to mourn and in
ctromon with our countrymm, wc reverently
kneel about the bier to pay a last tribute to a I
Nation's Father, —therefore, be it
Resolved, Hut though is* efogium of oars
will wake the sleeper, or add at all to his i
fain?, —mi th? death of the lloa. John Quincy 1
Adams, mankind has lust the true cosmopo
lite, the United States nation its head, the
cause of liberty tic* able advocate, tbe halls of
legislation their mock I, the poor the willing
couusellor, aud the right, tbe atera defender.
Rasolved, That though as a part of the
people we heartily join in tbe expression of
syuijiathj given by our National Ltsrialalurc,
yet we ourselves, personally, foel to drop a
tear in the ude of condolence gushing from a
nation's heart, by icnderrog to Mrs. Adams
ami family our most sincere sympathy in i
efibctivc U-reavtniKMil.
Resolved, That the lion. John Quincy
Adams, in his n tcumpioutiaing opposition to
oppression, waa our model mao—and praying
that tun mar.de may r -at upon ua. wc sweral-
rnk fe each,« Jua kfekma body,
.bv,, Sri"
StUKfrre,
The DvfSit Adraftwer, of SLn* MU,
111 calls alfentiop fe the above
\Ve invite attrotioa to the proceedtnga rf
the colored population of the city of Detroit, in:
relation to the death of John Quincy Adams
\lt will prove wo —igm gratification to the
friends of oar great suiesotaa to reflect that
hie name will not be forgotten until it shall
have ceased to he pronounced by that xaee
whose righto he as aeakmaly advocated.
A Trfbeie for the lfefiw.*
bex asks or ni itaa
Wc am gratified to announce the early pub
lication of a volume under thia deeignotioo;
and, especially, that it will emanate from the
pea we may add, also, Crum the heart—of a
Ktleman whose feelings and sympathies, no
than mental powers, so well fit him for
the task of preparing it. It will be embcl
j lished with seven steel engravings, and he en
-1 riehed by aa introductory poem by Mr. Ber
nard Barton; and the profits will be devoted
to the Anti-Slavery cause.— Untrtnc.
It is searqely needful to do more than read
the prospectus, to be convinced that the vol
ume is likely to be one of no common interest,
i both to the Christian and to tbe Philanthro
pist. Indeed, it seems to promise a high treat
to the Anti-Slavery public in particular; and,
from the great labor and cost tbe author has
bestowed on it, we trust an extensive sale
awaits its appearance. —British Friend.
From our acquaintance with (he author of
the Tribute for the Negro,” we feel ne
j hesitation in saying that it will be one of deep
research, as well as of intense interest, being
jon a subject most intimately connected with
the happiness or misery of n large portion ol
the human family. We recommend all oui
t readers to forward their names as subscribers
j immediately, by which they will effect a sav*
I ing of three shillings per volume. 'Tht
Citizen.
Extract of a latter from a friend in Massa
chusetts
j That Tribute for the Negro will be a
I good work. When I was in the Weal In
dies, I frequently heard of Richard Hill,Esq
jof Jamaica. He was considered the most
I
j talented lawyer in the colony. I also heart
much of a distinguished and eloquent colorec
'divine of the same island.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, APRIL 21, 1848.
Our Anti-Slavery Tour,
\Ye were reluctantly compelled, by press
ing and unavoidable duties at home, to forego
the pleasure of attending the meetings, as
announced last week, to be held at Ithaca.
They were, however, promptly atteuded by
our beloved friends Charles Lenox Remond
and Joseph C. Hathaway. The report which
I they bring from that quarter is quite as cheer
ing as that brought from most quarters which
we have recently visited. They spoke to
large and interested audiences, and without
the least disturbance. But a few years ago,
no people were more ready to mob anti
slavery lecturers, than those of Ithaca. We
were there about five years ago, and being
1 unable to get a house in which to speak—
meeting-houses and halls being all closed
against us, and were compelled, if we spoke
at all, to speak in the open air. Essaying to
do so, we were attacke J by a mob, and were
only protected from their bloody assaults, by
J a heroic brother fugitive, who interposed his
person between us and our moliocratic assail-1
1 ams. Those days have now passed, and the
people of Ithaca are said to be as ready to
hear on the subject of slavery, as the people;
j of most other towns.
Thursday and Friday, 13th and 14th.—We'
held meetings in the Congregational church
i at Springport, or Union Springs, as the place
is sometimes called. There are here many
Friends, and enough of them appeared at the
meeting to encourage tbe hope, that that
society retain among them a few who have
not defiled their garments, or forgotten the
early testimonies of their fathers against the
system of abominations, for the overthrow of
which we had met to plead. It Was cheering
to see the plain coat and bonnet dotting the
whole congregation. It reminded us of the
Peace and Anti-slavery meetings which we
have frequently addressed in Great Britain
and Ireland. In those countries, Friends lake
the lead in almost all benevolent and reforma
tory movements, and have no fears of being
mixed up with the world in doing good; but
here the case is far otherwise. What there,
'is the rule, is here the exception. It will not
always be so. Already we see a change for
the better in the branches of litis venerable
society.
Saturday evening, 15th, and Sunday morn
ing and evening, 16th.—We held meetings
]in Auburn. The meetings were held in the
spacious City Hall, and were attended by a
large and respectable audience. Saturday
evening, the meeting was addressed by C. L.
Remond and ourself. The audience remained
from seven till ten o’clock. Our meeting
commenced again Sunday moruiug at ten
o’clock, and continued till near one, and ad
{journed to meet again iu tbe evening. At the
hour appointed, the hall was densely crowded.
Mr. Remood and ourself severally addressed
the meeting. The address of the former was
truly a noble effort. The effect produced
was deep and thrilling. He called attention
to the many disadvantages and embarrass
ments against which nominally free colored
people have to struggle, in this country, ex
posed to the meanness, vulgarity, and ab
surdity of what is commonly called prejudice!
against color; stated the true criterion by
which the oofored man should be estimated,
to be that of merit; and enududed with an
appeal which seemed to stir every soul, and
warm every heart. We have never heard
lhe cause more eloquently sod successfully
pleaded. The audience were evidently borne
along in every statement, argument, and
rebuke, to which he gave utterance, and Ml
with an impression which will be lasting and
useful. We shall remember with high satis
faction oar visit to Auburn, and especially
the kind friends at whose hearth we were
made happily at home. It is the few and act
the many, to whom oar righteous cause i»
indebted for support and countenance. Oar
meeting* in Auburn would nst probably have
taken place, bat for the efforts of that ever
vigilant friend of freedom, E. W. Csproa.
Gmg tmy he five to succour and relieve the
suffering, to take in the stranger, sad to Tift
op tua vgwt for th« doph
mkST, kfe
toll he found a highly LsMWating fetter firafo;
the ever doqant pea of «ttf Uaylfen cotto
pendent. Tim letter is th» fcto eootmte
pitted series for the North Star; we antic*
ptte much from them. The people of this
country in general, and the colored people in
particular, are quite ignorant in regard to the
chamfer and i unit ill im rf this most interest
ing Republic. It is strange that than should
be so, considering the importance of her ex
ample—her proximity to oar slavery earned
Republic. The extent of her commerce, sod
treatment which has been meted out to her by
other natkms. Hayti should be an object of:
constant curiosity, especially to tire oppressed
ia this country. We regretted, somewhat,'
when our friend left this, for that country
believing that he could do more for his nee j
by remaining at home, than by going abroad.
Our regrets, however, oo this point, are coo-1
sMfcrably modified by tbe thought that he may
be able to enlighten the uuods of our brethren
here, and at the same tome be of great service
to the invincible Black Republic. Nothing
is mors annoying to American pride, or to j
i American eupidity, than the existence on our
i very borders, of this noble Republic of colored j
men. While American papers give column'
after column of praise to the two or three
thousand republic of Liberia; they seldom
speak in any other language than that of dm
paragement of this Republic of a million at
our doors. That ths slave-holders of this
country have a design to subvert this truly
brave Republic, is notorious. We hope our
correspondent will keep his eye on this de
sign, and by exposing to Haytians, this sinis
ter purpose on the part of our model Republic,
he mav be of invaluable am vice to the cause
of human freedom in that country, America
aud throughout the world. We hope our
correspondent will allow no opportunity to
porn, without sending us a letter.
Richard Dowd*.x Richard, whose letter
may be found in another column of this
week’s paper, is one of the most benevolent
and liberal gentlemen With whom it was our
fortune to meet during our sojourn in Ireland,
lie was Mayor of Cork at the time we visited
that good city, and the many attentions and
favors which he conferred upon us, can never
b? forgotten. His advice and warnings are
not reproachfully given. His regard for the
prosperity and perpetuity of our republic, is
deep, earnest and sincere. He speaks as a
lover, and not as a hater, of America. His
words, therefore, are entitled to high consid
eration. Wc thank him for his letter, and
solicit a continuance of his favors. A letter
from such a pen, and from such a place, will
always be interesting to our readers.

Slavery. —lu the city of Louisville, which
stands on the Kentucky side of the Ohio, not
a great ways from Cincinnati, and in a posi
tion where its inhabitants havo constantly
forced upon them the unpleasant comparison
between the prosperity of a slave and free J
population, was recently held a meeting at!
which the question of slavery was boldly dis-1
cussed. The Examiner tells us Mr. Charles
M. Thurston declared that the old questions
of Bank, Protection, &c., were all of second
ary importance to that of slavery. He spoke
of the evilsof slavery, and exclaimed, “Would i
to God we were rid of it One burst of!
enthusiastic applause followed this expression.
“We feel,” says the Examiner, that the
meeting pronounced the doom of slavery.—
Let no one say that our prospects are gloomv;
the voice of the people is the voice of God
The speaker hoped that a clause, emanci
pating the slaves, would be inserted in the j
constitution. Applause followed the expres
sion of this hope. Not a oice in the meet
ing was raised in favor of slavery.
Rights of Married Women. —An act
securing to married women their separate
estates, has passed both Houses of the Ala
bama Legislature, and was approved by the
Governor on the Ist inst. It provides that the
wife’s estate shall be held by the husband as
in trust. If the wife’s estate be equal to her
right of dower, on her husband's death, she
has no claim whatever to his property, and
otherwise only to the difference between her!
estate and the dower. At the death of his;
wife, the husband comes into absolute pos- j
session of har personal property, and for life,;
of her estate. The husband and wife are
jointly made liable for articles applied for
family use.
ILF One of the most eminent oriental scho-1
I are of the age is Professor Lee, of one of the
English universities, aud yet all his education
was acquired during the moments of leisure I
which he found while employed as a jouroey
neymao carpenter.
Napoleon's Prophecy. —The following is,
said to be a prophecy made by Bonaparte, after
his banishment to St. lleleoa. “In leas,
than twenty-five years from the present time,
the whole European system will be changed.
The French will east tbe Bourbons and their j
debts off, as my Arabian steed would any i
stranger who would dare to mount him. Then, 1
if my son be in existence, he will be seated on
tbe throne amid the acclamations of the peo
ple; if be be not, France will go back to a
republic; for no other hand will dare to seize
a sceptre which it cannot wield. The Or-1
leans branch though amiable, are too much,
like other Bourbons, and will share the same}
fate if they do not choose to live as simple j
citizens under whatever changes take place.
France once more a republic, other countries
will follow har example—Germans, Prus
sians, Poles, Italians, Danes, Swedes and!
Russians, will join in the crusade for liberty.
Illinois Negro Clause.— The dsose in
the new Constitution of Illinois giving negroes
the right of suffrage, has been adopted by
tbe people, by a vote of 6,313 to 751.— Buff.
Commercial.
If the Buffalo Commercial, instead of the
above, had arod that the people of Illinois had
refused the colored people permiaeitin to settle
in the State sS all, by a vote in the psopovtiea
of 8313 to 751, it would have approximated to
the truth. —Trm Democrat.
Th* Spread or Slavery.— Tbe Wash
ington National Era states that slaves now
xre held ia Oragoa; ia the Indian Territory
west of Missnsri, sod i» that protioq ef Texas
n«th of Ist. m dt*. At roia.
ID* In Georgia a will retting free a slave
is aofi sad void, and any person attempting to
execute it, may he fia«d $lOO6-
WSanaa Eicxumi.—Tin fin* aamberi
of |hw oeW sheet has come to band. We
it Andm pooccm. Fran the MU"
of mtpe who appear responsible for its puhb-1
eatM*, rramrehl hopes may be eutenawed
of ia seatpad ability ia the great cans* of hu-j
nuurity. Here is as extract from the «aluta
tory:
To-day, for the first time, we hare taken
our sea* u> the editorial chair actual. We
bare, long since, been in it ia protpertu.
whether the ia prospect* refer to the aauai
fine runner of a periodical—a prospect oa, or
to oar calculations growing out of such pro
spectus. Without particularamg, we would
say, wj have thus often been there, because
our friends thought and we were an wise or
fooksh, (as the case may be,) to believe that
in the position we now occupy we might do
good for out common cause.
As a people, ate have a cause to promote of
incalculable importance to us, bowtnocheoever
that cause may be sneered at by those who
bemg in a different position do no* appreciate

Our paper will be issued, as it ia to
day—when circumstances will justify ita pub
lication.
We arc then, tHr facto, in the presence of'
the people, and pledging ourselves anew to the
great principles of liberty—civil and religious
—fling our banner*' to the breeze, asking of
our enemies an honest consideration of the ar- 1
guments adduced, and from our friends that
charity’' wliich “never faileth.”
A Colored Lawyer.—A esse is to be
j tried at the approaching term of the Sessions
j of this county which we understand will;
involve some interesting points for the con
sideration of the community generally, and
the African race in particular. It is the trial
of A. Bradley, a colored atiorney of Williams
burgh, who claims a right to practice law
under the new Constitution, and who stands
indicted on a charge of maliciously com
mencing a prosecution. Bradley, we are told,
was formerly a slave ia Virginia, has been
educated, and displays rather mors ability
than his degraded race are supposed to pos- j
scss. If we rightly understand the matter,
the question will be mooted whether he his j
the right to practice law, and where or how
the rights of citizenship were conferred upon j
him. At the South, the manumission of a
slave does not make him a citizen and no
provision being made in the free States for the
naturalization of negroes, the question may
I with propriety be urged, whether the new
I Constitution allows of such latitude, though
j we believe that instrument does not expressly
prohibit it. It is expected that Bradley will
1 defend himself against the indictment.—
Brooklyn Eagle.
Interesting Decision.—Judge Morse of
the Supreme Colirt, on Friday decided that
I Aaron Bradley, a man of color, who had ap
peared as eounscl in a case before adjudicated
in another Court, whereon a motion to set
aside judgment was now made, was incom
petent to act as counsel on account of his
i complexion.— N. Y. Evangelist.
j And this in the Nineteenth Ccntuiy, in
Republican America! Hear it, yfe despots
who ooco flourished in the old world, and
learn that you are outdone in despotism.
Judge Morse of New York, has decided, that
complexion instead of the lack of merit or
capability, renders a man incompetent to act
as counsel. Whal more significant homage
could bo offered on the altar of Slavery, even
by Hanry Clay or John C. Calhoun. 1
know nothing of Mr. Bradley, pro or con, but
presume that he will “pick his flint, and try
again,’’ persevering even to a triumph, and
j earnestly hope Ire will prove equal to the
emergency. Macon B.- Allen and George B.
Vashon, while undergoing critical legal ex
aminations, were fortunate enough to receive
a tribute of praise from their judges. Col
ored men should have too much self-respect j
to look for favors; but remember that those
in authority will exact from them the whole j
pound of flesh their indulgence, if exercised, j
will be for the more favored aspirants. We j
must be wide awake.—w. c. n.
Capital Punishment.—The Christian
Citizen says— It is confidently hojted that j
the present parliament will abolish for ever
the death penalty in Great Britain.’
Cassius M. Clay, of Lexington has ob
tained a verdict of $2,500 and costs in the
State Circuit Court of Iveutucky, against
those loafers who tore down his printing
press, boxed up his type and other materials
and sent them off to Cincinnati, two years
ago-
Colored Actor. —Douglass Jerrold’s
paper says, Mr. Aldridge, a full blooded negro
is performing at the Surry Theatre, London,
and with good success. He has played in both
tragedy and comedy, but the editor deems the
latter bis forte. He has had excellent houses.
Corwin among the Yankees.—A gentle
man of New Havcc, Connecticut, in a letter to
a friend in this city, (says the Cincinnati
Gazette,) dated March 25, says:
Last evening I had the pleasure of
hearing Gov. Corwin, of Ohio, deliver a
political lecture in the Exchange, before a
larger audience than I ever saw eolllected
there before. The scats were all removed,
and all stood on their feet, except those in the 1
gallery. It was the best political speech J
ever heard —there was more Christianity in
it, than in any speech of the kind I ever
listened to. We sadly want more such men
at Washington men who have a proper view
of the infernal spirit of war and bloodshed,
and who will not bow the knee to the dark
spirit of slavery, but place themselves on the
side of God and Humanity.”
Case or Kidnapping. —We learn that a j
worthy and industnouns man by the name of
Henry Williams, while within a few rods of
his house on Wednesday evening, was
seized by a gang of men, and carried across
the river into Kentucky, and was lodged iu
the Covington jail as a runaway slave, He
was taken from a wife and family, who are
deeply afflicted at the brutal outrage that de
prives them of a husband and father. The
man has lived ia this city for some time— i
came from Pittsburgh, and is said never to
have been a skive. The responsibility of 1
these atrocities, by far too common, rests, in j
a great measure, upon the people of this State.
Their authorities provide no sufficient guards
to secure personal rights, while our Black
Laws, and the pro-slavery party connections
of a majority of the people, invite and sanctum
such aggressions. It is our business to set;
the example of justice to the colored mao.
Wa cannot otherwise expect to have the
peace and dignity of the dote respected.—!
Chr Herald.
DjT Our Transatlantic friends are informed
that pp—pains are takes to ensure the j
prompt mailing of their papers. i
TO CORREBPOX BENTS.
J. T. 8., Boston —Ussy tkanks far kts earner- j
agiug bum. We shall maieasly await s eommaai
catiea hr the Star.
H. t’., I'ptok-Udi mot., received■
i. M., QUsUa, Ohio —Received.
A- ll.,Oherhs,Obioi^—Thaahafisrhis mggeatna.
Subscription can he estreated to the Postmaster.—
We shall be gratefid, however, for the aid of say
friends at Obcrtia.
A. J. A., Eaton. Cuamwaiintioe m type.
Communications.
OajllaXS, 0., March 23, 1848.
Dui Ftcpcaict:—l too well ae-‘
with yaa to suppose that you
daare a pcflT from Me ia thie my first epistle i
to you and the Star jointly, and you too well
with me to expect it, even if you did desire,
it. The paper is not half aa good as I should
like to soe it, and expect to see it. and yet it
is quite as good aa any reasonable person
could anticipate. No man ia born an editor
any more than he is a philosopher or sage j
bat herewith you receive my best wishes for
your rapid and complete success in your new
career.
It ia painful to have occasion to record ap
parent retrogression, where all would natural
ly expect to witness advancement. You were
somewhat acquainted with the condition of
i public sentiment on the anti-slavery question
in this region four years ago, and may rccol-;
lect the good name then borne by Ilarveys
burgh, in Warren county. Some years si nee,
a pro-slavery acquaintance remarked to me,
be wondered the Almiglity did not sink Har
veysburgh, it was such an abolition hole.—
j That acquaintance has since greatly changed,
and so has the village of which he spoke.
You will have seen in the Anti-Slavery
Bugle and Cincinnati Herald, certain state
ments in relation to the dismissal from school
of a young lady in that place, solely on ac
count of the stain upon the complexions of
her ancestry, by some critical observers sup
posed to have been slightly imparted to ber
own v It gave occasion for some, standing
high in that community as intelligent and
i moral persons, to manifest the wickedness, the'
deep depravity they had covered up under a
fair profession. These wexi remonstrated
with and entreated in vain. A meeting was
called to consider the general subject of edu-
cation, and its bearings upon this particular,
case. The assemblage was addressed by the
i intrepid and eloquent Samuel Lewis, with a
truthfulness to humanity and a power worthy
of himself and his high theme. It was a
discourse soaMevso unanswerable, as to carry
with it both the intellect and the conscience,'
wherever these existed to be reached, in all
who heard. Time passed. The evil doers,
and their abettors, offering no ara-mls or
atonement, the immediate victim sought her
home in Highland county, there to mourn
over blighted hopes and prospects. The in
jured and proscribed Tace of which she hat!
thus been made the representative, submitted
silently, as usual, to the additional indignity
and injury heaped upon them by professed
friends. The pulpit resound* again, as here
tofore, with empty declamations and ridicu
lous prayers. The physician peddles abroad
his pills and potions, the lawyer deals around
his pettifogging opinions, the farmer draws
again his furrow to receive- the setnl of hope
and promise, the merchant vends his tape and
tea, the mechanic whistles merrily to the
sound of hammer and saw, and the mighty
march of human events urges onward, as it
no deed of wrong and outrage had been com
i nutted, no rights invaded, no sensibilities
crushed, no aspirations for advancement in
1 knowledge extinguished, by greedy and mere
cenary men Upon the surface of society
all seems smooth and serene, not a ripple
j discernible to indicate there has been a
disturbing event —a wreck of hopes and hap
j pine**! But is all calm and quiet as it seeni3
i I hope—l believe not. Iu the breast of each
I of each of these oppressors dwells an accusing
spirit, which renders the thought of Margaret
'Campbell, and her wrongs, an uneasy one, 1
i despite all his eflbrts to the contrary. He'
1 may try to lay the pi antotn by dwelling upon
j his own wrongs, by the accusation of sdan
!derous editorials” and false rumors” circu
lated against himself; but from these appli
ances he gains no ease. A guilty conscience
carves a memorial of itself upon the counte
nance of each so plainly, that he who runs
may read. Tha members implicated may be
trumpeted, as justification, before a work! as
guilty as themselves in humanity, destroying
prejudices, or venal worship of lucre; but
these serve not to drown the still small voice
within. Tosilcnce that, but one of two modes
is possible—a continual practice of the same
or guiltier deeds, or repentance and repa
ration.
But what docs the present calm portend, as
existing beneath the surface, with the other
class, the abolitionists, who have proved
themselves faithful and tree, in vindication of
the rights of the oppressed and rebuke of
their oppressors Do they give up the con
flict, weaiy and in despair? I trust not. Let
him do so who feels that in this contest be
has erred in principle. In the depths of their
souls, it is not lobe doubted, burns a zeal
against tyranny and oppression, stranger and
more enduring than before, which awaits in
silence for time to ripen opportunity, the more
effectually to disclose itself. The seed is but
buried, not destroyed, as we hope, and in due
season will be witnessed its gumiiuatkm and
justification.
My dear friend, who can measure the
length, and breadth, and depth of the unholy
prejudice against color of the American peo- j
pie He only whose instruments can grasp the
tenuity of conscience, and the all-devouring
appetite for wealth which characterizes them.
Not one of those who were audacious enough
to drive Miss Campbell from the srhooi, dare
show manly courage sufficient to avow that he
had any objection, so far as himself was con
cerned, to her continuing. Each one was
only afraid some others whom he had heard
of would object. Now, who is responsible
for the exlstir'g state of things 1 Some w ill
tell us, The priests; for they claim for them
selves power and opportunity to make public
sentiment what they wuh. I hold them bound
fur a fell share. They have in a great
measure the ears of the people, and they
hare set times and (daces wherein to teach
theca. But perhaps they overrate their own
power sod capability.
Unfortunately, by par,hum, they are a mar
ketabie commodity. Like tJie goods upon the
auction stand, for them the highest bidder is
the buyer, sod we are too keen traders to buy
what we do sot hke, er to keep the article if
we make a blunder in the selection. And aa
the people hare a choice in what shall be
preached to them, of course they lake cam to
have a supply suitable to the demand. It wifi
aot do, then, to lay the whole responsibility at
the door of the priest*. Like the moat of
their hcarera, they try to suit their wares to
ihc market, and as all maintain, boih preach.
ets and people, each for himself in his ow n
awe, this ia done through compulsion. A s
well blame the Yankee for vending wooden,
nutmegs, when tradir p in a region where peo
ple would buy no others.
I am disposed to lay Ihc burden on the
whole community, and bar; my shoulders for
their share. Inasmuch' as I have not done a fj
which I might have done, I acknowledge
portion of it. And how shall 1 discharge
obligation By opposing slavery through a!I
her forms apd disguises, with the whole of
my moral Influence. Her creatures, (or t}, e
minkmoof Mammon, whichever they be.) m
and around Haiveysburgh Academy, have not
yet to learn what art; my resolves upon this
subject. But the sense of my own short
comings, admonishes me to remember that
those who err arc my brothers and sisters in
fallibility, and in capacity far transcending the,
wrong. Let this thought control my inter
course with them, not to silence rebuke and
admonition, but to temper these with kind
ness.
Affectionately youis,
A. BROOK K.
Anti-Slavery Books.
Almost every person of even the most or
dinary mental culture reads a book now and
then. Scarce a family but what has its little
library. Books of voyages and trauds,
strange sights in distant lands, read with
eager eyes by old and yeung lives of great
men of our own and other lands stories of
wars and struggles against tyranny, especially
the bloody strife of our revolution poems,
wakening the love for the beautiful theologi
cal works, to confirm long-cherished attach
ments to a sect: poliucr 1 wor! a proving as do: r
as day-light that the policy of this, that, cr
the other party is the only one to save the
country. But few, very few books will be
found to stir up sympathy or lighteous indig
nation against chattel slavery —few' works
that speak out with free, hold words of its
exceeding sinfulness, its ruinoe.s influence on
national morals or national welfare. Yet this
is th great qtustwn of the age, the groat sin
of this land.
The Narrative of Frederick Douglass, a
voice coining up from the prison-house, speak
ing, like a thousand-voiced psalin, the feelings
of a gifted mind, while cabined, cribbed,
confiiel,’ and its d e,> yearnings for libertv
the simple story of Wm. W. Brown, full of
incideuts that tell volumes of w hat slavery is
that parting scone when his mother hade him
a heart-broken farewell on the deck of the
steamboat, broken off by the brutal violence
of the soul-driver, has a w ord of sad palhes
in it —the brief but moving talc of the suf
ferings of Henry Weston, telling of the ficml
like crwdtiea of the deepest dungeons, of the
prison, the etui e-fields of the far south-west—
these books should be read by all. None can
read them without loathing slavery.
Theodore Parker's Letter to the People,
touching Slavery,” a I took with a simple ti
tle, yet one cuntuiuing a fund of inf.rtnattoti
as to the ways in which the nation supports
the institution, and as a lit return, the institu
tion robs the nation of freedom, honor and
money.
Facts for the People,” a clear history of
the Mexican War—the last crusade, not to
the holy sepulchre, but to the Halls of the
Mot: fjzumas not fur the safety of tbesacicd
temple, but for the desecration of freedom's
holy shrines—facts, like Pelion upon Chsa,
that must satisfy every reasonable mind.
u Despotism in America,” that able philo
sophical cj/i ose of tho influence of the system
on the very foundations of American society,
manners aud morals, written with an elo
quence and power worthy the greatest minds
of the age. Slavery, illustrated by its
effects on woman,” a woik written in a pure,
faultless style, yet giving startling proofs of
the poisoning, corrupting effect.* of striking
down the holiest tie that hinds heart to heart
—these should all have a conspicuous place
in every household libraiy. “The Church
as it is, or the forlorn Hope of Slavery,” a
little book full of proofs of the sad fact that
the church is the bulwark of oppression.
Spooner and Wendell Phillips’ works on the
United States Constitution, efforts of two
ablo men—one to prove the Constitution to be
anti-slavery, the other pro-slavery, both able,
though, in my poor judgment, the pro-slavery
argument has the best, the true side of the
question. Jonathan Walker’s stoiy, telling
how slavery brands and imprisons the Anglo-
Saxon, as well as the African, and makes
United States officers do the deed in dcfunco
of constitutional nght. Many other valuable
works might bo named which ought to be
read, which would spread a flood of light
over minds now darkened by ignorance and
prejudice and with light must come action,
ceasing to do evil, learning to do well—-ceas
ing to support slavery, learning to support
liberty. Let there i>© light,” and with
light will come liberty for the captive, frec
frecdom for the nation such as it uever yet
knew—never can know, so long as slavery
exists. All these books, and many others aa
valuable, can bo found at the Auti-Slavery
Office in this city.
ill the people read, or will they be ig
norant, listless, negligent of duty and right?
G. B. 8.
Aj.sa.hy, April 11, 1848.
Mr. F. Douclass—My Dear Sir: You
will pardon the liberty I am taking in ad
dressing y<Ai these few lines, in proportion to
the importance of the subject they involve.—
You doubtless recollect a young man residing
in llua city by the name of John'S. Brown, a
Virginian by birth, and who had been por
tion of last summer or fall under the direction
of the friends of human rights in Bcwton, and
I believe also ui the town of Lynn, under tt*
protection of Mr. Buffum and others, and has,
since that time, been engaged tu lecturing
about the country. He having left home, w ith
tli* intention of returning in three or four
weeks, about the Ist of February, and his sot
having written or returned totbisdate, tfc*r«
s» great apprehension foft (or his safety by us
aU, and more so by his afflicted wife and
child. Should you, therefore, he to the I***
session ot any tnfotmaitun relative to lus
whereabouts, vow will confer a lav or not only
upon bis wife, bat your obliged and humbla
•errant,
JOHN G. STEWART.
Hr Aay inftrnnation respecting John S.
Brown, will be thankfully received at this of
fete."
The Hutchinsons
On the morning of the 3d of April, the Sun
shed its rays upon. Philadelphia and the neigh
borhood. Not the glorious Sun in beaten/
o| which the poet writes; not th? Sur
giving light, and he it, and vegetation to re
viving nature, in early spring cot the Sun
dispelling the mist, and dampness, and vapon
of night; not the Sun that shines bright anc
joyous m the deep azure. Probably thus Sur
shone too but it is not to this Sub that the
attention of the reader is a out to be directed
nor to a Son having any similarly Ireneficrn
results. It is to a Sun, which, instead o
light, sheds darkness upon the world—thick
murky, clammy, dismal darkness—“ dark
ness that might he felt a Sun which give?
no heat, quickens no life hut chills, and
numbs, and freezes a Sun which shines noi
in heaven, but is “of the earth, earthy, if n
have not even a lower origin; a Sun, in
short, which resembles the heavenh Sun in
nothing but the name. Header it is the
Daily Sun of PluJ-d Iph-a.
Tins dealer in darkness gives out, on the
morning in question, what he is pleased to call
A word of ad wee.’’ How amiable Who
diKis not see rise up before him, as the
writer the image of a lrencvolent old gentle
man with a bald head, and a smile on his
ruddv, fatherlv countenance. How very kind
it is of ibis writ r in the Daily Sun to put
himself to so much trouble it is not only a
“word of advice" either; the benevolent
old gentleman with the bald head is by far too
modest, as these benevolent old gentlemen
always are; instead of a “word/’ as he
humbly calls it, in his self-depieciating spirit,
it is at least seven or eight hundred words—
all words, too, that have a meaning—words
which Americans can well understand; all
this, too, for nothing! Unparalleled gener
osity! Howard-like philanthropy! Kind,
benevolent oM gentleman! when thy days
come to a close, will not many honorable men
follow thee to thy burial, and carve a monu
mental marble for thee in the halls of thy
fathers,” and cap the clunax of thy inscrip
tion with lie gave advice gratis
This word of advice is a b autiful illus
tration of the very prevailing malady yclept
colorphobia.” li is such a precious /nor
ccau—such a genuine specimen of cant, and
rant, and prejudice, conglomerated into a so
truly original dish, that the most illustrious
white d< la cu/si/u may well tremble fur his
fame, h is rich, and rare, and piqUante. Pity
it is that it is int[Mtssi!i!e to place the whole o<
it before the readers of the North Slur Here
is a small piece as a sample
Whave a serious charge to make against
the managers of the Hutchinson family/ fur
not hiving announced in their handbills and
ajvertisem-lit*, that no distinction of culm
would lie in ale in a knitting persons to thuii
concerts, it is well known that a distincrioi
is made on all ordinary oe -asioiis, and thai
there ,are m uiy p irsons in the community v. hr
would on no account, knowingly, place them
selves and their families in promiscuous asso
ciation with the colored race.”
Kind old gentleman! When you under
take to give advice, you should not make a
charge. It reminds one altogeth T too forcibly
of the old fishioii-ed mode of reforming a
criminal, by hanging him it is decidedly of
Irish extraction. Ilut benevolent tdd gentle
men are always rather eccentric in their
actions, and must not be criticised too severely
according to the strict standard of etiquette.
The Hutchinson family w ill doubtless appre
ciate this writer's kindly intentions, notwith
standing bis rather rough mode of going
about to seek their benefit and will in future
contrive to make the poor unhappy mortals
who are suffering in body and mind, from
the dreadful scourge of colorplw’jia, under
stand, that they are not expect <1 to attend
the concerts. The Hutchinson* know, as
every one else knows, that all diseases arc
more or less infectious. Perhaps they wil
buffer another word of advice,” and add t<
all their future handbills and advertisements
a note to the effect, that all who are afilictet
with the grievous and infectious malady o
colorphobia, inasmuch as they value tin
health and happiness of their fellow-citizens
arc particularly requested not to attend tin
concerts.” They will thus prevent the infer
tion from spreading into other families tha
are now free from it. It is just like thus:
benevolent old gentlemen. They are ulwayi
so thoughtful of the public welfare! Wlia
should we do without them?
Continuing his word of advice, the write
says:
The Ilutchinsons need not be told, at thi:
day, that the feeling against practical amal
gauiatiou is so strong with many persons tha
they would be very likely to resent in thi
most summary manner a trick by which they
and especially the female members of thei
families, had been subject to an associattoi
wluch they abhor.”
Oh,-the monstrous cruelly of these Hutch
iusons! How inhuman it was, thus, as tin
compassionate old gentleman with the bait
bead says, to entrap unsuspecting ladies am
gentlemen into a concert-room,” when thei
were laboring under such a desperate disor
der No wonder that lie was spirit-movei
to give a word of advice to the reprobate*
who wore guilty of such wickedness. Wha
else could be anticipated from such un
timely exposure, hut tits, and hysterics, am
perhaps worse evils 1 It would not be at al
surprising if the next arrival from Phtladelphi;
brings the intelligence, that some of the poo
entrapped unsuspecting females and ex
quisites are mnv subject to a fit of temporary
insanity. A voting lady, not long since tol<
the writer, that the first time she saw a blacl
man, she was well nigh thrown into convul
sums. She thought h‘ was the devil come v
lake lo r home. A pretty cogent reason
c -rtainlv, fur going into convulsions. Posh
bly some of the entrapped were in
similar predicament. They no doubt knev
that they had maqy sms unrepented of, an
feared that their tunc was come. Wha
heart of stone u there that does not pity thus
unauapecung female members of families
Are they not deserting of the deepest com
miseration 1 That even one of them sh&uli
have been subjected to the bunting uifani;
and eternal shame of being in the same con
cert-room with any of those horrid crca
tures” is truly appalling, kVital marlyrdou
can be compared to it 1 V\ hat refinement o
bar liar ism in ancient or modern times, bean
any resemblance Ur this fearful infliction
Such suffering must tnciU an eternal reward
Doubtless heaven mill be the portion of ibos*
who have come through this fiery trial. Bui
what if there should be Mach men and
j women there also, and no nigger pew
Oh, horrible thought! Ob, torture meufier
able Where can theee poor uasuepeeting
t female member* of families go! Will they
rather chooec to g« the other road Per hap*
they will.
i Further on, the Daily Sun aays:
It is really ume that some one should tell
these people, in a spirit of friendly candor,
that they are not apostle* and martyrs, en
trusted u ith a mission to reform the world,
but oidv a company of common song-singers,
whose performances sound very pleasingly to
ihc great mass of i*cople ignorant of real
music, and finding sn innocent gratification m
listening to melodious sound* w hich they are
capable of understanding.”
Kind, good, dear old gentleman and they
act vou to bell the cat! Perhaps you
know as much about music, and care a* much
about it as does your very respectable walk
ing staff. Perhaps you consider it your
iiu.^ion to make yourself look foolish at
least once a-year, and tliat oncc-a-ycar the
month of April, (a very appropriate lime,
doubtless,) fur the general amusement of the
public. Will not somebody undeceive you
It is really painful to think that you shonld
continue to suffer under such a delusion.
There is not the slightest necessity for it.
Pray, don’t do so any more. Every one is
perfectly satisfied of your benevolent inten
tions. No one who knows anything about
you can for one moment entertain the slightest
doubt about them. Put it is really too much
to expect of you, tliat you should be a How
ard, a Lutlur, and a llaydn all in one. If
you manage to be a Howard and a Luther,
even on an infinitesimally small scale, rest
you satisfied. Vou can still be a benevolent
old gentleman, even if you do not know du
fiorn or rc from and have never learned
to distinguish between a flat, a sharp and a
a natural. There are many other things
about which you might give “a word of ad
wee,” in your own kind, fatherly manner,
without making yourself so inexpressibly
ridiculous. What, in your estimation, may
J be the difference between melodious sounds”
and real music” 1 Most lexicographers give
melody as the meaning of the word mu
sic,” and music as the meaning of the
word melody;” and they are supposed
1 by the generality of readers to bo convertible
terms. The difference, at all events, must be
very triflipg, and such as an old gentleman
should not pretend Jo distinguish.
This Word of Advice” is, after all, a
very strange medley. There is still another
feature in it which is altogether too interest
ing to be passed over. It is this:
i No colored person of right views would
feel flattered bv the servility of a set of public
Mngeis who would condescend to take their
money, and smg to them.”
Poor old gentleman you must certainly
be i;i your dotage. If it be servility io take
tin: ‘‘colored person's” money, and give bun
in exchange that which he pays for, what do
you call it to take the colored person
himself, and give Lim nothing? Some peo
pfe who are nut in their dotage, call it the
foulest robbery, and the sura of all villanics.”
W hat despicable servility it is to sing to
men, and take their money. It is so,
to edit papers, and sell them to “colored per
sons to go to war, and ask colored per
sons to pay the taxes necessary to carry it
on to establish a government, and make
“colored persons” pay for its support.
Tbc benevolent old gentleman probably means
[that colored persons” ought not to pay for
any of these things—that they have paid
enough already. Perhaps he is right. There
can be no doubt, tliat the white Americans
owe the colored race much. But this is alto
gether a new and unexpected manifestation of
a stricken conscience. Colored persons,”
j —you will at least understand henceforth,
that this dear old soul will not take your
money you may have as many Daily Suns
as you like, without paying a cent. If you
think they are worth having, hasten to
avail yourselves of your opportunity. Per
haps he may repent.
Oh, Daily Sun of Philadelphia your light
is hut darkness and how great is that dark
ness —J. D.
Court, Ireland, Feb. 22, 1818.
Mr Di.au Sir: Your welcome remem
brance of us is noted by the numbers of your
paper. It is very pleasant to be able to con
vey what is considered the most intangible
thing, the mind of man, in as tangible a man
ner as by reading the thoughts.
You know that some of us here are Whig
Radicals, and have always looked with the
j kindliest sympathies at your Republican insti
tutions. The Whig-Radical school look upon
a Queen as President css of the Empire, and
do not much discuss the elective or hereditary
i succession. They kuow that the British is
what may be called in practiis; a monarchical
republic, or a re publican ized monarchy, and
of course they look to America with respect
I and fellmf-feeling. At times, however,
doubts arise here whether a practical com
monwealth is as fully worked out across the
Atlantic as the sincere friends of onward pro
gress could wish. bat concern have
i strangers with America? Every coucern.
America made her declaration of liberty;
she compiled her States constitutions; the
western winds speak her voice and detail her
i acts to all Europe she lias been made a city
placed on a lull her responsibility to an ob
sevant world is solemn; everywhere States
are struggling to be free it is not in Roman
history that Italy should now examine the
I working* of Republican institutions; that
records what is old and pagau it is to Ame
r.ca modern republicans look. She is modem
and Christian. Let her beware, then. A
dying mother whispered with energy in the
ear of her nearest relative, I)o nothing
i wrong! If you do, that boy will imitate
i you.” The Bntish are America's nearest rc-
I I alive. Language, habits, general morals,
t freedom in lehgion. and many noble links,
j make the w ide waters a slight separation.-^
We do not feel ourselves decaying, yet with
the solemnity which life or death cannot in-
I maso, we call on America to do nothing
wrong.” The young States of the world,
now bounding into freedom, are the boy
nations, who may imitate America if she docs
i wrong. Let her look to herself, therefore,
and speedily become the example of a strug
gling world. Ha* the great western republic
no absolutism to subdue at home l Can she
,«ndure slavery within her border* much
huger* 1 call oa every true-hearted rrpoWi
can to torn the ‘'Btintioe ef laik|ireri
eaee with its bee to the wall, ro long as
American outran of m Mood are oof few
J men. This is America's primal stain—
it is Mood on her cecainhoonj and while
it remaiiui darkly on xtm mmee, she can
tool boldly show it to the bee ef day, ass ex
pect it to strike terror into tyrannous rulers in
other hemispheres.
The avarice of territory, like the
avarice of mdtvtdual poorer, is a snare.-
Napnlcoo prostrated tyranny after tyranny,
tut he lust of empire prostrated the leveller
iof imperial dynasties. England, as s nation,
is kepi impoverished by her too extensive cm
pin*. The amount of beggary and civil war
which .distresses Ireland, is eattaed by s
reckless appet?te for territorial aggrandise
ment, which prostrates and enfeebles their
gentry. They are like Use people who are
said to have a wolf m their stomach; they
have a morbid rapacity which too much can
not satisfy. On this destructive spirit of mo
nopoly the peasants have made a guerilla war,
j and we arc in confusion and distress. Let
America beware of unpaid for territory—
Texas, Mexico. The common weal of the
republic is pawned to buy these States and
I what does America w ant of them In your
countryman's homely but applicable expres
sion, let her take care she does not pay
1 too much for her whistle.” Our national
debt and our enslaving taxes, are the tribute to
inordinate appetite for territory. Canada is a
I heavy loss to the British Empire, and it would
i be bard to find a state that Britannia rules,
and which is large enough to. take itself in
charge, which would not derive advantage
from being let alone ”by England. She
purchases all her dependencies too dearly.—
They are indeed mostly dependencies in the
strict sense, for England subsidizes them all,
u'hile she paralyzes them with her control as
well as her money. The vehement prayer of
Montgomery to England, may also be ad
dressed to America. Do you want to adopt the
prostrating vices of the old European States I
Beware,
For wealth is a phantom, and empire a snare.
O let not tliy birth-right be »»U,
For reprobate glory and gold.
Thy distant dominions like wild graftings shoot
Tliey w eigh dow n thy trunks—they w ill tear up thy
root.
Let ambition, the sin of the brave,
And avarice, the soul of the slave.
No longer seduce your affections to roam
From Liberty, Justice, Religion, at home.’*
You Americans are a proud people. The
criticisms of travellers on your habits and
manners provoke you. Contradict them by
your acts. You once won a glorious name—
-1 keep it or if it is sullied in any point eradi
cate the stain. Have courage to be great, and
bid all freemen again look to the glorious home
of liberty, the trails-Atlantic west.
Yours sincerely,
■RICHARD BOWDEN RICHARD.
f
Hayti in Correspondence.—No. I.
1 Friends Douglass and Delany :—Having
•proceeded thus far on my pilgnmrge, I hasten
to set about a corresj»ondence, the com
mencement of which has already been too
long deferred. This should not have hap
pened, had it not been for the many seduc
tions which the great commercial and fashion’
able metropolis of my native country threw
around me. Great, very great, indeed, was
the pleasure attendant upon my sojourn in the
city of New York—a pleasure which was
traceable not merely to the contemplation of
its gorgeous and stately edifices, or to the
daily wanderings I indulged in along its mag
nificent Broadway—that unrivalled queen of
thoroughfares—and her scarcely less princely
sisters, animated with the bustle and activity
of business-life, and glittering with every
manifestation of beauty and of taste. All
this, though sufficiently alluring in itself, was
only the j>ctalled splendor of tire rose, cn
closing a perfume, the fragrance of which
rendered the lovely conformation of the flower
hut a matter of secondary consideration. I
i found there many kind and warm-hearted
j friends, who shall ever live in my memory,
and the recollection of whose courtesies, so
freely extended to the stranger, shall ever
cheei the various phases of my uncertain fu
ture. Most fully shall I always appreciate
their efforts to make my two months’ stay in
their midst a delightful one; and so successful
were they therein, that I took my leave of
New A T ork as though I were departing from
a second home, filled writh regrets that I
could not render their abiding-place the termi
nation of my wanderings.
Not the least of these regrets was, that I
could not remain yet a day longer, in order
j that I might be able to attend a meeiiug of
colored citizens, to testify their regard for the
character, and sorrow for the loss’of the Sage
lof Quincy. Truly, that gTeat and good man,
who had spent more than half a century in
the service of his country, whose head had
been whitened by the frosts of eighty winters,
and who bad never suffered one moment of
his long life to aid in the advancement of op
pression, merited well such a manifestation of
respect. But he has gone to take
Ilis chamber in the silent hails of death;”
and highly momentous is the question, upon
I whose shoulders has his mantle fallen Alas!
in the insults heaped upon sister states, in the
sanguinary w T ar waged against a sistei repub
lic, and in the fierce efforts made to crush ev
ery measure that would tend to restrain sla
very within its present limits, we may readily
deem we read that the service once so heart
fully rendered to the spirit of liberty, exists
no longer sire in name, and that new altars
have been erected, lurid with strange fire, and
officiated at by an order of priesthood, which
the martyred heroes of the revolution would
disdain to recognize aa their offspring. The
departed statesman was one of the very few
remaining links which connected the present
with the past —the epoch in which the rhetoric
of the schools, the polished acumen of the
legislator, and the genius of diplomacy, re
fined by the experience of age, are all prosti
tuted in- the service of oppression, with that
one in which the honest country gentleman
left his plough-share to rest in the furrow
and the artisan suffered the instruments of bu
craft to lie idle on the bench, while they
hastened, with hearts on fire wrfth patriotism,
and Bps burning with eloquence, to pledge
their all in the sacred cause of freedom. And
among the proudest honors that will always
s glorious halo around the memory ef
John Quincy Adams, is, that he was ever
found sa Ahdiei amid the feiihless aad that,

m toe must m j »«u every
where surrounded him, he never forgot the
lemons tasght turn »ths sehoed of his esriy
training, nor ever faltered from the frith
and spirit inherited from tus revolutionary
she.
We sailed from New Yarik in the Wig
Hayti, oe the td umL, aad geiliag fairly lb
seaea the 3d, arrived here after quite a pleas
ant run ef twelve days, on the 15th. Oa the
morning of the day previous to that of my
arrival, 1 was aroused by the gratifying an*
Bowacesseut that Cape St. N nebulas, the
North-western point of the islaad, waa in
right. It woald be importable for me to de
scribe the rapture with which I beheld fee ths
first time, this land, unpolluted by the foul
stain ef slavery, and upon which the insult*
and the cruelties of the tyrant had been wash
ed oat in the blood of hiiroelf and bis chil
dren. During almost the entire day, 1 re
trained lost in silent contemplation of those
magnificent head-lands Nature’s own bul- j
warts, throw n up to hurl back the invader
from this soil of freedom. As the day drew
to its close, the scene was truly a most beau
tiful one. In the midst of these promitories,
clad in tho bright verdure of this region of
perpetual summer, appeared a vast pile of
limestone, known by the name of the Plat
form, and which, viewed from a distance, as
sumes the appearance of an enor.nous for
tress, From its mimic parapets—thanks to a
passing shower there floated, apparently,
like flaunting standards, two gorgeous rain
bows, throwing triumphal arches athwart the
course of our little vessel. Nor was the
scene less imposing in the opposite quarter of
the horizon,
Where, like a routed king, die sultan son
Still struggled on the fiery verge of heaven,”
pouring upon the intervening expanse of wa
ters the last treasures of his fading glory, un
til it flowed an ocean of mingled gold and
azure. It was a spectacle that’t were pity
j for any night t close over, tavc a moon-lit
j eve of the tropics, with its bright blue skies,
and its stars sparkling with a radiance that is
denied to those w hich glisten in the firmament
of our more northern clime.
On tho following day,wc entered the lovely
bay of Port au Prince, which, w ith its clear
waters calmly shining in tit rir hill-girt basin,
i and its beautiful Arcadins and other islets
i resting upon its bosom, like emerald clasps
upon vestments of azure, can well challenge
comparison with the far-famed one of Naples.
At 3 o’clock in the afternoon, wc came lo anch
or in the harbor,which I was rejoiced to find fill
ed with the shipping of many lands. After a
short detention consequent upon a visit
from the officers of the custom-house. I went
ashore in company w ith Captain Cutts, the
gentlemanly master of the Hayti, and was
introduced to a number of gentlemen resident
in the place. I found the wharves alive with
all the stir of a flourishing commerce, and
my ears were almost deafened with the wild
and discordant Babel produced by a thousand
tongues, each rattling away fluently in the
French language, or its corruptions, the Cre
ole. Everything around me wore the aspect
of novelty. The strange appearance of the j
houses—the manner and habits of the people,
so different from those to whieh a resident of j
the United States has been accustomed, that:
they obtrude themselves, on the instant, upon:
his attention—the soldiers on guard at the i
Port, or loitering at the corners, all bearing a;
skin, the color of which, at home, would sub
ject them to insult and degradation—all these,
and a thousand other things, told me plainly
that I was no longer in the land of my birth
—of all that had grown precious to me by
the endearing tics of association. Yet I have j
found here several American friends and lbr-i
mer associates of those who are dear to me;;
so that after six days have elapsed, I find myj
self still amused with the novelty cf my situ
ation, and withal contented.
In a short time—that is, when I have been
here sufficiently long to render you something
like an impartial account of matters and
things so exceedingly novel, I will write’
again. Until then, adieu.
HAROLD.
Conspiracy at St. Domingo. —A fearful
conspiracy was discovered at St. Domingo,
on the sth of February. The Minister of the
Interior, Gen Puello, had false keys made of
the Arsenal and Fort, and had won over to
him most of the military. They were to have
murdered the President, and hoisted the flagj
of Hayti. lie has been shot with two others, j
and there are several others to be tried.
The country is perfectly quiet, and good j
order is observed everywhere, without any
great pains taken that it be so.
Capital Punishment.— -The Select Com
mittee on Capital Punishment in the Senate
of the State of New’ York, have made an j
unanimous report in favor of its abolition. j
Economy. —A man who chews $l4 worth j
of tobacco annually, stops hia newspaper be-,
cause he cannot afford to take it.
MARRIED
On the 4th in#t., by Hie Rev. F. W. H.xlsrrian.
Mr. Asher Kent, of AoHierter, u» Mi»s Aver- j
Lis k Maria, only dsuijbusr of Mr. Stephen Sari.-', j
of Port Byron.
DIED
In Boston, Marrk 14th, of Itraia fever, Origin
Baciieler. widely known u a religious tuotru
v*r*iali«t, aged 48.
In Gr«enk*«t<J, Feb. 25. Mrs. Ona M. Staines,'
aged about 80. She ru fvnutrty a skive belonging
to General Washington, aad waitingawaid on
lady Washington, at ML 4 rfiwn. Between fifty
anil sixty years ago, in company with another final-
slave, the ra away, awl catae to Portuauttoh. Her
n -as discovered, atd Washington ha 1 her t
returned. Ona hid her». il aa 1 reanioed in Porte- j
mouth. She eunareted herself with the Baptist
rhurrh about forty-five years ago, aad waa ttimri.
She has resided at tireealaad for many yean, has;
led a good life, awl njtacad in her liberty, rvea in
poverty, more thaw m the howor of being a slave of
even the father of h*s cumuj.
In Washington, on the 22J sk., A hansom, a ret-'
oreJ man, m the 84th year of bis age. He was
proverbial for stem integrity aad fidelity. Wbe.ij
ibe Rev. Union fan** net. Akamai was given to
CV>LGeorge WashmfUm, bv h*s nephew, aad was)
»»U» hi* toea* Msslwdei ini
the Som£,twde«erih*fr»«*Senf TTmitow*.
The readers of newspapers lor toe kst twenty, and
even fifty ywm*. m—* hny* Imew stmt* at thr mam-
her afcwtwwd turret— wtmhwve hnew wwaad by, or i
iTve STfr ri- -ef** rfWmhiw*.;al;
of diem rove been prevwhml for sen integrity
wad idehtv.” The mTOtri lafrrtm is, that
nniiisH ssi rail at three*, wtto have had garni!
Mere, are tmmcmadnf thane teaito of charm**,
aad whew it m mid the rolored rare are iarapshlr of!
taking rere sf ihewmelvra* ate rekai and muesa
agrwUr, nm away ami ore whipped, hrewtoi. aad
•reread ia **riaraway*j* are* he a redaction apm j
those who hare had the trammg of them—s sad,
■*—rere of their masters.—
Brens Wig. 11
ti» Slew York.
duty vre ewe to GoA awt*nwr j
the Anti-Slavery women ef Ruchraaer feel
cuMtnned to continue to persevere la their
Marta fur the opprewrf and suffering (read
me* art* still rentaia toiMmr eweqatietiia tire i
SoatkMta prison hares. We are freqaaaiiy
brae giH pushOj Co narehn that aot ealy i
u thwr labor w rested from them ttarvcuuaerw
ted aot only da thej softer from ta tonne ban
ger sod cold; aot only are tire female*, ova
SI3TXBS, rebjected to the cruel aad passionate
outrages of their tyrannical masters and over
seers but there are daily instances of son-
during the dearest tiro m nature, thro sepa- 1
rating' them forever. And eaa we expoet any
thing bjtler— «m we look for besi vuicoce or
flue feelings from a system so foul and fiend
ish as slavery 1 It would be unreasonable,
because a corrupt tree cannot bring forth
good fruit.” Therefore, knowing that with
out associative action we cannot render effi
cient aid to this holy cause, wj affocthsuLdy
invite the co-operation of lire citizens of Roch
ester and the public generally. \V« ask there
to bear in mind the injunctions of Jesus, “Ail
things whatsoever ye would men should do to
you, do ye even so to them.” Remember,
also, the beautiful parable in which he calls
our attention to the sick and to those who are
in prison, mid concludes by the forcible asser
tion, “Inasmuch ms ye have done it to one of the
least of these, my brethren, ye hare done it
unto me.” Wo fe.il assured all that have
hearts to feel, artd are careful to attend to the
monitions of conscience—all who are deter
mined to live fur the good of our race, instead
of devoting all their time to thrir own per
sonal ease—all who feel bound to improve the
precious time allotted to them here, by pio
inoting as much as possible the cause of truth
and righteouanetw in the earth, will come for
ward in the work of laboring to banish forever
the demon of slavery from our laud; and in
so doing, instead of an example of corruption
and wickedness, we should be a lieht to the
world.”
\V e hope no one will feel too poor, nor any
l to Hi this holy cause. The
Christian's influence, in whatever situation, is
always salutary, and will certainly prodace its
good effects. Wo ask for the aid of men and
of women; —we call on the old and the
young, Uie farmer, tho mechanic, and the
merchant. W c ask all and every one to give
us their help to devote what they can spare,
cither of money or of the fruits of their la
bor, to the work of restoring men and w omen
to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights
and blessings with which they were endowed
by our Creator.
For this object, we propose holding a Fair
m December next. We ask the females in
the adjoining towns and country around us, to
get up sewing circles, and prepare such arti
cles as will be most saleable, and to come, fur
nish tables, give us their company, and help
us, not only in selling those things thus pre
pared, hut in convincing the public mind of
the necessity of our perseverance and fidelity,
and thus be helpers in hastening the day of
emancipation.
John Van Buren
This gentleman seems to possess a talent
Somewhat rare among politicians 
of perspicuity of style in
i speaking. Hia hearers can scarcely
raise a doubt as to what be means. He
apparently has not taste for throwing
dual into the eyes of his audience, and
leaving them, at the close of a speech,
in delightful uncertainty respecting his
reel sentiments on the subject on which
he has harangued them. In his speech
at the State Convention of the Rad
ical Democracy,’* held at Utica, N. Y.,
j he very clearly defines his position rela
i five to slavery in Mexico. His burning
words are a rebuke to many a cow
j ardly, servile Northerner, who dares
not speak above a whisper, respecting
the outrage which the slave power of
the nation is about to perpetrate. But
we are sorry to hear him say that he
jj would give slavery where it exists, “the
security which the Constitution has
given to it.*’ Will he help to sustain
wrong and injustice, from which hi*
soul revolts, because his fathers con-
traded to do so? Will he seize the'
fugitive, and restore him to his pursuer? j
Will he fight against insurgent slaves
who have heard that “resistance to;
tyrants is obedience to God,” and who,
feeling that death is preferable to bon
dage, have rushed to a wild
effort to obtain liberty? Yet the con
stitution requires this of the North. It
is in the bond. Will he consent to the;
compact? Does he not feel, in his;
inmost soul, that nak is more than;
Constitutions?” W f e arc sure that he
does. His bold words concerning
resistance to the oppression of Mexico, j
clearly show that he thinks there is a
higher treason than treason to one’s
country that the traitor to Hum aw.
I itv is the trator most accurst.” If he
will be true to his own better nature,
j and walk in the light already revealed,
to him, we'shall not much longer hear'
from his lips such language respecting
constitutional securities to slavery.
The following is an extract from the
speech alluded to.
Now I am free to say’for/my self,
and as I have already said to the inem-’
bers of this Convention, I say so with
the more freedom because it is of no j
kind of consequence what my action
may be that 7 have never entertained
but one opinion in regard to the traffic in
human flesh, and buying and selling lire
bodies, and that is an unqualified aver
sion and disgust for it and while I j
would give to those States where it ex- j
ists the security which the Constitu
tion has given to it, the moment they step
an inch beyond this, they attract the pub
lic attention and invite a discussion of
the evils of Slavery. They do so un
wisly, and I regrit it; but when they
do so, the free white people of this
state will discuss and condemn it. The
idea of marching, in the, 10th century, I
with the immense pow’er of this free
republic, upon, an enfeebled and half-;
civilzcd people, and forcing upon them
the institution of slavery which they,
rejebt, and making it a fundamental!
article of a treaty of peace that they j
shall be guarded against, is so repug
nant to my sense of what is due not
merely to the superior magnitude and
strength of our own country, but so
disgraceful to our free institutions, and
so pregnant with evil to the people of
both countries, that if I couid be satisfied
that this tear is prosecuted to plant hu
man Slavery in Mexico devoted though
I am to the glory, honor, welfare and
progress of these United States in every
breath of my life, in every fibre of my
system, so help me God, I would join
the Mexicans to-morrow in resisting
such oppression! (Applause.) Not
only this, but I would pledge myself to
recruit, among the freemen of this
State, armies, while the kingdom of
Polkdom was recruiting single men.”—
Penn Freeman.
EDUCATE THE PEOPLE.
Men of wealth—men of learning!
pour instruction .upon the heads of the
People—you owe them that baptism.
Look at the boy in the gutter! hatless,
shoeless, and almost naked, he is a
part of our king, a part of our sover
eignty. Should he not receive a
sovereign’s education? Should he not
be prepared for the throne our institu
tions have given him? There is a gem
in every human soul; let the diamond
be polished, and it will shine in truth
and beauty. There is still in the most
debased a beam ethereal, though
sullied and dishonored, still divine.”
And our motto-should be—Teach and
habituate the people to make a right
use of the faculties which God has
given them, and trust them fearlessly
to themselves. Give Democracies
education and freedom of action, and
then let them ulone.
Uneducated mind is educated vice,”
for God made man to know. He is
the creature of instruction; for, in a
right education there is a divine alche
my which turus all the baser parts
of man’s nature into gold. We are
told by the ancients that, as soon as
the first rays of the morning sun fell
on the statue of Memnon, it sent up
music. It is after the first rays
of knowledge fall upon man, that his
nature discourses harmony—-all before
is the hardness of barbarism.
All can see that wickedness leads to
misery; but very few find out that
which is equally certain, that ignor-;
ance in like manner, leads to nusery,
and misery to wretchedness. l)r.'
Johnson was once asked, Who is the
most miserable man?” aud the reply of
the sage was, That man who cannyt
read on a rainy day.” The writer!
was once passing through a park, and!
saw, nailed to oue of the trees, this
warning: M All dogs found in this park i
will be shot.” A friend who w»s with 1
us remarked, “Uulessdogs can read,i
they are pretty badly off here.” Now);
God has not only written his laws upon
the trees, but in the stars and in the'
flowers; his laws are above us and
beneath, on our right and on our left,
and, if a man is not able to read, he is;
pretty badly oflf here—worse off than
the dog, for the dog sns a master to'
read for him; but man has no master
between him and his God.
A maxim, of more truth and* force'
than any I remember to have seen was
thrown off by n British statesman—by
MM who was, in learning, vivid,
varied, and philosophical, and who, hi
conversation, threw oat non gems,
sparkling and brilliant as they came,
than any other man of bis age. His
profound apothegm wan, that Educa
tion is the cheap defence of nations.”—
And, it I might put n truism by tho side
of this, I would say it is cheaper to
educate the infant mind, than it is to
support the aged criminal. Bestow the
peace on common schools, and save
the pounds on prisons. Man was not
made to be sent to prison, but to be
educated; and the very worst use
you can pot a man to is to bang him.”
Neither is a man a human poor box,
into whose mouth we are to drop a few
cents daily. “The ignorant child, left
to grow up darkening into the deeper
ignorance of manhood, with all its jea
lousies, and narrow-mindedness, and
its superstitions, and its penury of en- 1
joy meats; poor amid the intellectual
and moral riches of the Universe;
blind in its splendid temples which God
has lighted up, and famishing amid the
profusions of Omnipotence.”
Oh, woe for tbooe trbn trample oa the mint!,
That fearful thin-! TV) kaow out hat they do i
Nor oka thnr dal with
They by rude head* upon God’s mysteries there."
—American Amaranth.
FAMILY AND SOCIAL READING.
The benefits of social reading are
manifold. Pleasure shared with others,
are increased by the partnership. A
book is tenfold a book when read in the
company of beloved friends, by the rud
dy tire, on the wintry evening; and
when our|intellectual pleasures are;
bathed in domestic affection. An ele
gant the practice
of reading aloud, says:—
Among a thousand means of
making home attractive—a main point
in ethics—this stands high. What is
more pleasing What more attractive
What more rational? He would be a
beneiactor indeed, who should devise a
plan lor redeeming our evenings; and
rallying the young men who scatter to
clubs, and taverns, and brawling as
semblies. Such a reformer and invent
or w'ould deserve a garland of heart's
ease, from the hands of slighted wo
man. Families which are in a state of 1
mutual repulsion have no evening to
gether over books or music. The mas
ter is at the frequented bar-room. The
boys are at some public room or place
of amusement. The girls are abroad
in full dress. The mother sits at home,
in spectacles. And the several par
ties straggle in, weary and sometimes
surly, at such hours as suit their whim j
and then only because nature demands
sleep. It is well even if this, at length
is not sought from home.
There is a higher reason still, in
favor of the practice here recommend-
cd. Written is the vehicle of a vast
body of truth relating to our spiritual
and immortal part, truth which we are
prone to neglect, and truth which is I
never without asocial reference. No
where is the volume of holy wisdom more
appropriate, than when read aloud in
the household assembly nowhere is
religion more sw*ectly intermingled with
the attachments of the heart. Heaven-1
ly counsels are not the less impressive
when conveyed in the winning tones of
the familiar and cherished voice.
I beg leave to add, this is a pleasure*
for the poor man’s house, and for this I
10% e it. man, if educated, is
placed almost on a level with the prince,
in respect to the best part of literary j
wealth. Let him ponder the suggestion 1
and enjoy the privilege.”
LADY HESTER STANHOPE’S
PREDICTION.
The following is taken from Lamar
tine’s Pilgrimage to the Holy Land,”
in 1832-3;
After Lady Hester’s reception of
Lamartine, she said, not knowing even
his name, “Sit down, and let us talk.
We are already friends.” How,
my lady,” said Lamartine, “can you
honor so soon with the appellation of a
friend, a man whose name and whose
life are entirely unknown to you? You
know not M ho ain.”
It is true,” she replied, I know
not what you are, according to the
world, nor what you have done, while
you lived amongst mankind; but I al
ready know what you are before God.
Do not take me for a madwoman, as
the world often calls me; but I cannot
resist the wish to open my heart to you.
There is a science at present lost to
your Europe—a science, which, cra
dled in the East, has never perished
here, but still exists unextinguised. I
possess it—l read in the stars; I have
only seen you for a few minutes, yet
you arc known to me as well as if I had
lived an age with you. Shall I reveal
you to yourself? Shall I predict your
destiny? Believe as you think
proper, you are not the less one of
those men whom I expected, whom
Providence sends to me, and w ho have
a great part to play in the drama which
is preparing. You will soon return to
Europe; but it is all over with Europe.
Prance alone has a great mission to
accomplish, in which you will partici
pate. I do not yet know how, but I
can tell you to-night, if you wish it,
when I have consulted your stars. I
do not know the names of all; I at
present see moi*c than three; I per
ceive four, perhaps five, and who
knows perhaps still more. One of
them is certainly Mercury, which gives
clearness and color to intelligence and
speech. You must be a poet. I read
it in your eyes and in the upper part of
your countenance. Lower down, you
are under the empire of wholly differ
ent and almost opposite stars. There
is the power apparent of energy and
action. Return thanks to God!'
There are lew men born under more j
than one star; few of whom that one,
is fortune; fewer still, whose star, even 1
wbeu favorable, is not counterbalanced
by the malignant influence of an oppo-'
site planet. You, however, have se
veral they alt combine to serve you,
and ail aid each other in your favor.!
What is your name?" I told her. “I I
never heard it before,** said she, with
accent of truth.
All this, be it remembered, took
place iu September, 1833, nearly six- 1
teen years age! The prediction wan
certainly remarkable. In the course
of thia routs i sal km, LimHm mlni
the following remarks to Lad/ Stan
hope, in reply to her expressing the
hope that he wee an aristocrat like
herself: I un neither an Aristocrat
nor Democrat; I have lived long
enough to have foond, on examining
both sides of the medal of human na
ture, that they are equally hollow; my
principles are as little aristocratic as
the reverse. I anr a man, and an ex
clusive advocate of any system that
may tend to improve and perfect the
whole man, whether he be born at the
top or the foot of the social scale. 1
neither espouse the cause of the peo
ple, nor of the great; but that of man
kind in general! Ido not believe that
aristocratic or democratic institutions
possess the exclusive virtue of render
ing human nature perfect: this virtue
is only to be found in a divine code of
morals, the fruit of a perfect religion;
faith is the key to the civilization of
nations. I belong to the
party who do not despise their inferiors
in the social scale, whilst they respect
those above them; whose wish, be it a
dream or not, is to raise all men, with
out regard to the place they hold in the
arbitrary hierarchies of politics, to the
same degree of knowledge, of liberty,
and of moral perfection.”
LIFE AND OPINIONS OF JULIUS
MELBOURN.
BY A LATE MEMBER OF CONGRESS.
This book was on our table many
weeks since, and would have been no
ticed long ago, had it not been mislaid.
It is a work of fiction, but purports
!to be the life of a Quadroon slave,
born on the plantation of a Major John
son, some ten miles from the city of
Raleigh, North Carolina, and by good
or ill fortune, educated, enriched, and
freed.
When five years old, the hero of the
story is bought by Mrs. Melbourn, of
Raleigh, the widow of a Lieutenant in
the English Navy, who was killed in
the engagement between Admiral
Graves and Count de Grasse—is sent
to a private school at the age of ten,
and obliged to leave on account of
color; falls in love, at seventeen, with
the young slave of a Colonel Boyd,
who promises to free her; is married
in 1811, when twenty-one, Mrs. Mel
bourn having died, leaving him his
freedom and some twenty-thousand
dollars.
Maria, his wife, is sold for the New
Orleans market, and Melbourn, while
in pursuit, is apprehended at Natchez,
and lodged in jail, as a vagrant slave.
Getting his free papers from Raleigh,
he is at last set at liberty—gets on the
j track of the slave-dealers, at New Or
leans, and finds that Maria has been
sold about filly miles up the river, and
after a few weeks melancholy, has
drowned herself in despair,
j Melbourn does not marry again. In
I 1835, his son, whom he had liberally
j educated, goes with him to visit the
spot of Maria’s death, preparatory to
their leaving to reside in England,
The Lund of Freedom. Entering a
Methodist chapel, Melbourn se?s a
lady, in the Quaker dress, who is so
much like his dead wife, that he fastens
his gaze on her, and is overwhelmed
with conflicting emotions. Mighty
God,” he exclaims, rushing to embrace
her, “t’f is, it is my Maria!” That
lady is his long lost wife, who, instead
of drowning herself, as her master
thought, had escaped, and here, some
twenty miles oft', had been kindly
received into a Quaker family, as a
nun, from Cuba her dark complexion,
her beauty and accomplishments, and
the fact that Mrs. Benson, her ben
efactor, had lost a sister -in the West
Indies, completely furthering the
benevolent deception.
The re-united and now happy family
sail from New-York for England, in
October, 1835. The son goes into
business in London, and the parents
are residing in Warwick, when the
story closes.
The book contains 239 pages, only
fifty-nine of which are devoted to the
Life, the rest being reminiscenees and
sketches of Thomas Jefferson, John-
Kandolph, John Quincy Adams,
William Wirt, etc., together with
rambling political disquisitions.
The Late Member of Congress
whoever he may be,(we imagine that
we could point out his residence not a
hundred miles from Pompey Hill) has
written quite an interesting book, not
withstanding he is so palpably ignorant
of artistic story-telling, lie is ev
idently a man of warm sympathies, in
telligence, refinement and wide famil
iarity with our national politics, up to
the present day, but has not cultivated
the tact of special pleading, so abso
lutely necessary to the story-writer who
would excel.— Boston Courier.
THE CONSCIENTIOUS SLATE.
Some time ago, I accidentally met at
the house of a farmer, in a remote coun
try town, a fugitive following the North
Star. He told me his story with great
simplicity, and a heavy heart. His
wife belonged to a lady who treated her
with great indulgence, and to whom she
was strongly attached. He was less
fortunate. He belonged to a tavein
keeper, who lived five miles from his
wile’s residence; an arbitrary, capri
cious and brutal man. The only time
he was allowed to visit his wife was on
Sunday night, after all the work of the
house and barn was completed. He
would seldom leave before 9 o’clock,
and oftentimes it was ten or eleven be
fore he could get permission to start.
He was required to return by daylight,
on pain of a severe flogging. Some
times wearied with his long walk, after
a week of excessive toil, he would oven*
sleep himself, and not arrire at the ap
pointed time. On sue t occasions, his
master would tie him up by his thumbs,
to a beam in the barn, and beat him
most cruelly. The white boys belong
ing to the family, of course, learned the
trick of violence; they would curse and
swear at him without provocation, and
often, for some fancied disrespect,
would hnri pitchforks or hummers at
him. The poor fellow carried away
proofs of this part of his story; for he
was covered w.th scars.
At last, life grew such an intolerable
burden, that be told his wife, oa one of
bis visits to her, that if ever one of
I those dreadful floggings occttnedacftio,
bo had determinedito run away. With
i aaojr teen, ahe begged bin not to in
i dulge such on idem; for it would kill
l her to be aeporated from him. He told
her that he wwpld bear almost anything,
rather than leave; for he had rather
die than go away from her. “But/'
said he, if he and his boys go on at
i the rate they have done, lately, 1 cao
not stand it.’* He then began to build
castles in the air, about the possibility
i of her following bine to the free States,
and of their finding some little cabin,
where they could live unmolested by
enemies. She sobbed and wept, be
seeching him not to talk about it; for
what would her poor mistress do with
out her? and she had always been such
a good mistress! It would break her
heart to think of leaving her alone; and
then they would sorely get caught, and
that would he so dreadful.
“Ah,” said William to me, “If I had
only had such a master aa she is a mis
tress, I never would have come away
from my poor wife. She was as good a
wife, as a man ever had. She Enit all
my stockings, and made all my clothes.
This suit I bare on is of her weaving,
every thread of it.”
1 asked him if they had children.—
He answered, with a good deal of fer
vor, No, I thank God, there is none
to blame me, that I brought them into
the world to be slaves. VVe had one
baby; and we loved it; but when it
died we praised God.”
After this conversation about running
away, his wife enjoyed hn visits but lit
tle. She would wake up a dozen times
in the night, for fear he would oversleep
himself, and get a whipping. At last
the event so much dreaded occurred.
He did oversleep himself, and was se
verely punished. His wife, with many
tears, wanted to know whether his re
solution had changed; and for her sake
he resolved to bear on. But soon after
cruel treatment for some slight cause
drove him to desperation, and he se
cretly made arrangement for departure.
He saw his wife once after his final reso
lution was taken; but, by a powerful
effort of self-control, was silent concern
ing his grievances and his plans. She
little dreamed that she was seeing him
for the last time.
“Oh, dear,” said he, “howl did
want to tell her! How my heart did
swell! I thought it would burst!”
I would have told her all my plans,
if I had been you,” said I; ‘-perhaps
she would have agreed to follow you.”
Oh, no, she would not,”he replied;
“if she could have brought herself to
leave her mistress, she would never get
the courage. She was never ten miles
from home in her life, aud w as afraid of
everything. If I had bid her farewell,
she would have cried, till she made me
tell her all my plans. They would i
have gone to her, the first thing, when
they missed me, and she w<?uld either
have been obliged to let out all my se
crets, or else to tell a lie; she would
not betray me, I know; and I could not
hear to have her tell a lie for me!”
On the night of his departure, poor
William had a dreadful struggle with
himself. Twice he turned back towards
his wife’s abode, and twice, with blind
ing tears, he retraced his steps. At
last, with forced bravery, he hurried
on, swallowing his grief.
He had wit enough to travel further
south, close hidden in woods and
swamp 3, during the daytime; for he!
w-cll knew they would naturally seek
for him toward the North.
It was enough to make any human 1
heart ache to hear him mourn for his
wife. I could not have been driven
away,” said he, except by very had
treatment; and now 1 sometimes wish
I had borne it all, and worse, rather
than have left Nancy. She was very
good to me—always good. We both
belonged to the Methodist church, and
we took a deal of comfort praying to
gether. She is praying for me now-, I
know. But how can I manage ever to
see her again? If my master was not
quite so bad, I would go hack; but that
would be dreadful. We used to hope
that he would sell me. He was offer
ed a thousand dollars for me once, but 1
he wouldn’t take it.”
I saw William in one of the interior
towns of New York, and I afterward i
heard of his arrival in Canada.
L. M. c. 1
INFLUENCE OF NATURE.
All men need sometimes to be alone
and to be quiet. It is good for one to
oj»en his eyes and heart to the in
fluences of the natural world. In the
solitudes of nature, man’s voice is
silent only that Divine voices may be
heard. There, it it is sometimes diffi-;
cult to do good actions, it is also diffi—
cult not to think good thoughts. What
we think of is determined very much
by what obtrudes itself on the senses.
On the wharf, or the exchange, with
the sights and sounds of business on
every side, one’s thoughts turn natur
ally into the channels in which flow the
thoughts of all around him. In the
country what one sees and hears sug
gests entirely different meditations’
The universal harmony stills his fretted j
passions. All the objects which the j
eye rests on speak of infinite wisdom
and providential care. The at mo- 1
sphere which he breathes is as healthy
for the soul as it is for the body. He
goes out *at eventide to meditate* and
heaven and earth transfigured as their l
true glories are revealed, he returns
feeling that he has been standing in
the temple of the Most High.
Chlosoform is recommended as ex
cellent for scolding wives. A husband
who has tried it says, “no family
should be without it. 1
Tims. —Time, is the preacher.—
Change is the tooe he harps on as he
hurries along. Change! he shouts as
he lays his band on the mountain peak
and powders it to dust. Change? he
thunders as be twists the hale oak up
by the roots. Change! as be scatters
the thistle-down to the wild. Change
he whispers as he turns the beaver of
the young man and points with n grin
to the tottering step of the aged.— j
Change! as he brushes the Vermillion
from the cheek ofbesuty—and Change!
he grumbles forth as be lays his band
on the shoulder of bio* of broad chest
and iron nerve, and points to the grave!
Change! is his last word to his emissn*
rice when he yds them forth on their
rounds to overturn and destroy.
oats without nights and
nights without days.
Dr. Baird, io bis lector* at the
Conferee* Room, gave some interest
ing fncu. There is nothing that strikes
a stranger more forcibly if be visits
Svebe at fbe season of the year when
the days are longest, than the absence
of night. Dr. B. bsd no conception of
it before bis arrival. He arrived at
Stockholm from Gottenburgh, 400
miles distant, in the morning, and in
the afternoon went to see some friends
—had not taken notes of time—and
returned about mid-night; it was as
light as it is here half an hour before
sun-down. You could see distinctly;
but all was quiet in the streets: it
seemed as if the inhabitants had gone
away or were dead. No signs of life
—Mores closed. The suit in June
goes down at Stockholm a little before
10 o ’clock. There is a great illumi
nation all night as the sun passes round
the earth towards the north pole, and
the refraction of its rays is such that
you can sec to read at midnight. Dr.
B. read a letter in the forest near
Stockholm, at midnight, without arti
ficial light. There is a mountain at
the head Of the Gulf of Bothnia, where
on the 21st of June, the sun docs not
go down at ail.—Travelers go up there
to see it. A steamboat goes from
Stockholm for the purpose of carrying
those who arc curious to witness the
phenomenon. It only occurs one night.
The sun goes down to the horizon, you
can see the whole face of it, and in five
minutes it begins to rise.
At the North Cape, lat. 72 deg, the
sun does not go down for several
weeks. In June it would.be about 25
degrees above the horizon at midnight.
The way the people there know it is
midnight, they see the sun rise.—The
changes in those high latitudes from
summer to winter, are so gacat, that
we can have no conception of them at
all. In the winter time the sun disap
pears and is not seen for six weeks.
Then it comes and shows its face.
Afterwards, it remains for 10 or 15
i minutes, and then descends and finally
it does not set at all, but makes almost
1 a circle around the heavens. D. Baird
was asked how they managed in regard
to hired persons—what they considered
a day? He could not say, hut supposed
they worked by the hour, and 12 hours
would be considered a day’s work.
Birds and animals take their‘accus
tomed rest at their usual hours. The
doctor did not know how they learn the
time, but they had, and go to rest
whether the sun goes down or not.
The hens take to the trees about 7 o’-
clock, P. M, and stay there till the sun
is w'ell up in the morning and the peo
ple get into the habit of late rising,
too. The first morning Di\ B. awoke
in Stockholm, he was surprised to see
the sun shining into his room. He
looked at his watch, and found it was
only 3 o’ clock, but there were no
persons in the streets. The people are
not in the habit of rising so soon. The
Swedes in the cities are not very in
dustrious, owing probably to the
climate. —Hartford Times.
“The Last Time.”— ln only one
situation can a man he placed where the
awful doubt is converted to a tremen
dous certainty—not the sick patient on
the bed of death, w hose pulse beats
faintly, and whose subsiding pain seems
i to announce the coming of release.—
He may linger for hours; he may rc-
I cover—the ray of hope beams, and
those who love him share its brightness.
His hours arc not numbered. The
sinking mariner clings to the last fi qg
ment of his ill-fated ship, and holds on
while nature gives him strength; and as
he mounts the toppling wave, strains
his anxious eyes in search of assist
ance. A vessel may heave in sight;
f lie may be drifted to some kindly shore;
his fate is not decided.
1 The unhappy wretch who alone lives
I his last day hopeless and in unmitiga
ted misery, is the sentenced convict on
the eve of execution; he sees and heats!
all that is passing round him with the I
terrible consciousness that it is for the
last time.”
He beholds the sun gleaming through
the bars of his cell, iu ail his parting
brightness, and knows he sees his gold
en rays for the last time;” he hears
the prison clock record the fleeting min
utes—how vastly fleeting to him!—
throughout the night each hour sounds
i to him for the “last time.” Seven
strikes upon the bell—at eight he dies! j
His wife, his children, his beloved
parents, come to him: he stands amidst j
his family in the full possession of his
bodily health and mental faculties. He
clasps them to his heart—they go; the j
door of his cell closes and shuts them
from his sight; he has seen them for j
the last time.* 4
He is summoned to the scaffold—the
engine of death stands ready he feels
the pure air of heaven blow upon his
j face—the summer sun shines brightly;
for the “fast time.” I le sees the green
field and the trees, and ten thousand
objects familiar to us all. The cap is
drawn over his tear-fraught eyes!—the
1 objects vanish, never, never to be seen
again by him! He hears for the “last 1
1 time” the sacred word of God from hu
man lips: in another moment the
death-struggle is on him, and he 1
breathes for the last time!”
To biin alone then is the exit from
this world of cares regular and certain:
in every other case, it is a mystery when
the last time” shall come.
ERECTION OP A BARRICADE.
All down the streets groups of men
were thundering at the doors, and 4c-
mandiug arms and powder. The doors
were opened ajar by the scared in
habitants, who handed out some a gun,
some a brace of pistols, bayonet*,dirk*. 1
Ac. One man threw a sheathed sword
from an upper window; it fell clashing
on the pavement—and was scrambled i
for with fierce merriment by the mob i
and 1 heard the quick strokes of several
heavy crow-bars ringing on the stones,
and in a few minutes a barricade began
to grow, as if by magic, out of the
groand. It was piled up with stones,
tubs, trucks, cart wheels, scaffolding
boards—everything that came to hand
—under the direction of a man with a
red cap on his head and a torch in his
hand, who directed the proceedings 1
with perfect m«£/retd, and whoa the
others seemed to regard with deference
,ms architect/ Py this time the work
had grown breast Ugh; the stones had
to he fetched from some fifteen or twen
ty feet off, and then the leader ranged
his men in lines, who passed the stones
from hand to hand as buckets are pass
ed at a fire. All this took place within
a stone’s throw of a detachment of w
fanlry, who looked on in silence, and
offered no opposition. Here, as els<*
where, the gamins performed prodigies
.of activity, dragging great stones and
'tubs twice their own weight, and
swarming over each other in their stum
bling haste. It wns a strange sight to
see these midnight workmen running to
.and fro between the torchlight and the
■darkness, and their uncouth building
lifting its rough battlements higher and
higher—hiding first the legs ot the men,
then their chests, and finally their
heads. When it was finished, the
leader stuck a red flag on the top, ai d
then stood contemplating the immense
heap with a grim smile. I went up to
hiiu and remarked that it was pretty
I strong. “Ah!” he returned, with a
sort of artistic pride; voila la bnrri
j cade la plus chouettc dans tout Paris—
h t them coinc now, the infernal hounds.
When they will!” All through Wednes
day night similar scenes were taking
place in several bundled points of the
town.
FAR IS AS IT IS.
From a long letter of Douglass Jer
rold’s from Paris to the Weekly News
paper, we extract the following:
But let us go on to Paris.
As I have already said, the city \0
perfectly calm; awaiting the elections.
In the meanwhile the Provisional Gov
ernment work almost day and night,—
No doubt they have committed their
mistakes; but how few, in comparison
with the difficulties that beset them.—
W hen we consider the load upon their
shoulders, let us wonder that they have
stood so unshrinkingly beneath it. Hut
there are folks, who, considering Atlas
himself, would wonder why he bent
quite so much—taking it lor nothing
that it was only the world upon his
baek.
A little more generous sympathy—a
little less readiness to be severe, or
scornful, or even humorous toward the
gentlemen w hose noble and no less dif
ficult task it is, to keep in harmony the
social elements of a mighty kingdom,
can be no hard or useless sact ilice ow
the part of Englishmen. For let us
for only a moment, consider what
France has accomplished by this, her
last—may it be her lust!—Revolution.
Has she n .t awakened all Europe?
From State to State, the torch of liee
dom—like the torch in the olden dunce
—ha3 passed on; the torch ‘lighted at
the blazing throne, consumed at the
Pastile. A few days ago, and the Em
perorof Austria—imperial hydrocepha
lus!—talked about using against his
I discontented subjects “the powers that
Providence had placed in his hands.”
Such powers of Providence—in the
dictionary of Kings—mean bayonets
ami attillcry. 'I he Divine right of roy
alty is always manufactured in the rmul
arsenal. Y\ cil, where is the Emperor
now.' Why abject before his lisen
people! Europe, drugged by despo
tism, uas tailing into torpor, whi n the.
tocsin ot Notre Dame, uwukeued her
to strength and liberty. Where is
Austria, where is Prussia, Saxony,
Bavaria Why, there is nut a guunu
ot Paris wh may not 111 b his hands,
and kick his heels, rejoicing at the tusk
that even he—small political school
master*—lias taught the imperial and
kingly dunces.
W hatever be the issue of the French
Republic, mankind must he its ever
lasting debtor. It has gloriously
worked out tLe liberation ol thought.
Ihe free intellect ot man is no longer
snipped and killed by the censor’s scis
sors: there is not a press throughout
Europe, whose untruriiineled working
is not an added voice to the choral burst
of Freedom.
And for us, what have Englishmen tt>
fear from the consolidation of the French
Republic W e have other means to
work out such reforms as the spiiit of
our times demands, and will have. Our
eineutes are public meetings, and our
barricades in the House of. Commons.
DOUGLASS JEIiROLD.
Paris, March
Companions fou Men.—Though wo
men were intended, in order of nature,
to be equally useful w ith the other sex,
they were never made merely for men's
use. 1 hey are his ordained compan
ions, superior to him in grace and beau
ty, his equal in every moral and social
quality, and his inferior only in physi
cal strength and stature. Some men,
even in this scrui-enlightcncd and half
Christian country, mistake the idea of
help-meet for simple help, and consider
wives as a sort ol convenient property,
which can be made to contribute won
derfully to their profit and comfort,
without entertaining the first thought oC
reciprocal advantages. They would
have a wife not only eminently domes
tic, hut a domesticated animal, whoso
whole world should be between Iho
kitchen and the garret, w hose only ccm
pnnions should he the children and the
cat, and whose whole round of dutiea
and enjoyments should consist in ad
ministering to the ease and pleasure,
and yielding uncomplainingly to the
whi ms of her lord and owner.
I he more woman is enlightened, edu
cated and elevated, the better fitted will
she he to discharge all her duties, do
mestic or social. The time will come,,
when her claims to equal, social, civil
and even political privileges will be ac
knowledged; when she will be deemed
competent in law to hold property, vote,
or fill the jury box. The part now a< I
ed by the females of this laud in the
relbnns of the day, in many of which
they are taking the lead,• clearly indi
cates a coming day when they will re
form the whole male sex, by asserting
and maintaining their own equality.
Such a triumph will tendtocicvate uni
versal humanity, therefore all parties,
the conquerors and conquered, will
have equal occasion to rejoice.
A Hrtrr to PtEAtuens.«-Mr. Wes
ley, in a fetter to one of the preachers
in connection with him, says: Scream
no more at the peril of your soul.
earnestly as you can, hut do not
scream. Speak with all your heart,
but with a moderate voice,”
