Speech OF MR, HALE.ON THE
TERRITORIAL QUESTION,
Delivered in the Senate of the United States,
Tuesday, March 19, 1850.
The Senate having under consider*-
ation the compromise resolutions sub
mitted tome time since by Mr. Clat—
Mr. Hale. Mr. President, it seems
to have been admitted by almost every
one who has addressed the Senate on
the subject which has some time past
engaged the attention of this body,
that the Stnate and the country at large
are divided into two classes—l will not
say two great classes,but one large and
one very small one; that that the
great body of the Senate and of the
country are patriotic; that they earn
estly and anxiously desire that the dis
tracting questions which divide and
harass the country may be settled up
on some just and patriotic grounds;
while on the other hand, there are a
few, designated as extremists, or ultra
ists, who do not desire to see any such
end effected; who desire, in other
words, to promote agitation; who are
anxious for nothing but trouble and dis
turbance; whose sole purpose is to in
crease the irritation that already ex
ists in the community— to keep the pub
lic mind sore, the public pulse throb
bing irregularly with feverish heat.
Nothing, it is said, is so strange as the
physical and moral organization of
these few gentlemen; agitation is the
aliment upon which they feed, and by
which they live: take away that, and
their life, their occupation, all which
furnishes them with a motive for living,
is gone.
Now, I have not a word to say per
sonally against this; I am glad, sir, that
these ultraists, if they do nothing more,
at least accomplish this much good
—that they afford this wholesome safe
ty-valve to these extra exhibitions of
patriotism on the part of those who are
in the habit of addressing the Senate.
Hardly any one seems to suppose that
be has discharged the duty which he
owes to the country, or done what he
ought to do to satiety his constituents,
unless he mingles with the suggestions
which he makes wholesale denuncia
tions against'those ultraists—those agi
tators; and even the calm and judical
mind of the Senator from North Carol
ina, who has just concluded his re
marks, is so infected with the prevail
ing mania, that even he, educated as
he has been upon the bench, where he
learned to sanction a line of safe pre
cedent, could not sit down satisfied
that he had discharged his duty, until
he bad relieved his conscience of a due
proportion of vituperation against these
miserable fanatics and agitators.
I think, then, it must be granted that
the.agitators do some good— at least by
affording a safe and wholesome channel
through which this extra exhibition of
patriotic indignation may find vent. 1
do hope that, if it be not conceded that
they do any other good, at least credit
wiH be accorded to them for this
much. I have not a word to say in
reference to the good taste or the truth
and candor which prompts such a
course. I make no appeal to gentle
men, who feel a consciousness in their
own breasts that they are governed by
high, pure, elevated motives, to con
sider how far it is consistent with a pro
per selfrespect to be continually em
ployed in depreciating and attacking
the motives of others.
When 1 obtained the floor, air, some
time smee, after the address that was
dcJ.vered by the distinguished Senator
from South Carolina, who is not now ia
his seat, I suggested that, according
to my reading of history, tho# account
which he has undertaken to give of
these agitations sounded to my mind
more like the romance than the troth
of history, and that 1 designed, upon
some occasion, when it suited the con
venience of the Senate, to set history
aann liiaftwiihi nttnrimUg JB
nun. And that is one of the objects
I proposed to myself to-day. I shall,
sir, be compelled to call the attention
ol the Senate to Ihe speech of Jhe Sen
ator from South Carolina somewhat in
detail; and, in devoting some few mo
ments to a preparation upon this sub
ject, I endeavored o make something of
au analysis of it. Before Ihad proceeded
very far in my examination, I found it
assumed the form of a regular cate
chism—questions and answers being
given. In the first place it commen
ced with a concession of the fact that
the Union was in great danger; then it
asks—
“l How can the Union be preserv
ed?
“Answer. —To give a satisfactory an
swer to this mighty question, it is indis
pensable to have an accurate and tbor
ough|knowledge of the nature and char
acter of the cause by which the Union
is endangered.
“2. What has endangered the Union?
“Answer.-To this question there can
be but one answer, that the immediate
cause is the almost universal discontent
which pervades all the States compos
ing the Southern section of the Union.
“3. What is the cause of this dis
content
“Answer. —It will be found in the be
lief of the people of the Southern
States, as prevalent as the discontent
itself, that they cannot remain, as
things now are, consistently with hon
or and salety, in the Union.
“4. What has caused this belief?
“Answer. —One of the causes is un
doubtedly, to be traced to the long
continued agitation of the slave ques
tion on the part of the North, and the
many aggressions which they have
made on the rights of the South dur
ing the time. I will not enumerate
them at present, as it will be done
hereafter in its proper place. There is
another lying back of it, with which
this is intimately connected, that may
b* an tbe great mud primary
cause. This is to be found in tbe rect
that the equilibrium between the two
sections in the Government, as it stood
when the Constitution was ratified and
the Government put in action, has been
destroyed.”
Now, sir, the first act of this Gov
ernment, in the series of these events
which has broken up this equilibrium
and caused this universal discontent,
the-honorable Senator says, is the Or
dinance of 1757. 1 shall not undertake
to go particularly into the history of
that Ordinance, because it is familiar
to the Senate and the country, and has
been frequently referred to by gentle
men who have already addressed ths
Senate on this subject. This, mark
you, is the first in the series of North
ern aggressions by which the equilib
rium which once existed, has been
destroyed.
Mr. Butler. The word aggres
sion does not occur in his speech, in
that eonnection at all.
Mr. Hale. I do not know exaetly
whether the Senator used tbe word
aggression,” or not; perhaps he did
not. i
Mr. Butler, (in his seat I know
he did not.
Mr. Hale.* At any rate, it is one
of the acts which has destroyed the
equilibrium. That is it. The equili
brium is spoken of by the Senator sev
eral times, and the Ordinance of 1787
was one of the great events which, he
claims, destroyed this equilibrium.
And, sir, it is curious that this first act
of Northern aggression—the Ordinance
of 1787, —was adopted in the Con
vention of 1887, with but a single dis
senting yote, and that was a Northern
vote. Yes, sir, the only vote in the
Convention of 1787, against this Or
dinance, which is said to have broken
up the equilibrium of the States that
originally existed, and which was to
be perpetuated between Northern and
Southern States, was a vote from a
Northern State—was a Northern State
—the State of New York; for the del
egates from every other State voted
unanimously for it—the delegates iron
South Carolina among the number.
Well, sir, what followed? I pro
pose to show now, if the Senate wili
give me their attention, that this fa
famous Ordinance of 1787, which hat
now got to be the Wilmot Proviso, and
which is deemed to be so insulting tc
the Southern States of the Confeder
acy, if it is retained in our Federal
legislation; that this Ordinance oi
1787, older than the Constitution, wai
re-enacted by the first Congress which
assembled under that Constitution, and
in the preamble to the act which re
cognised the Ordinance, it is expressly
recited that it is done in order that its
provisions shall be made conformable
to the Constitution of tbe United States
The act was approved the 7th August,
1780, and is to be found in chapter Btti
of the Isws of the United States. The
preamble I will read. It is as follows
Oo tbe|eecomi page of the speech of Mr
Cubopi ia tbe following miaatc “One af tin
enuaea ia, undoubtedly, lo be traced to tbe long-con
tinned agitation of rhea late cpnetiott on tbe part o
the North, and the mnuy aggrttmm* which tbe'
have made on die rights of the rsonth during thi
lime."
At another place on the same page, hegsays: “a
that time there waa a perfect equilibrium betweet
the two, which afforded ample mean* to each U
protect itself against ths afgrswMw of the other.”
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—
i Whereas, in ordet*that &e Ordin
ance of the Ujjjted States in Congres
i assembled, for the government of th<
I Territory northwest of the river Ohio
I may continue to have full effect, it ii
i requisite that cerfam provisions thoub
y be made, so as to adapt the same t<
the present Constitution of the Unite)
rf i nnjflm- f nr
first Congress that assembTeaunoe
the Federal Constitution; it re-enacte(
and re-established the provisions o
that Ordinance. Now, sir, we hav<
i been told to-day, as well as on pre
vious occasions, that, if this principle
is insisted on, it is an insult and sucl
a grievous wrong, that the Southerr
States, if they remain in the Confed
eracy, will remain not from any prin
ciple of attachment to the Union, bul
from fear of the bitter consequence*
which might follow secession. Now,
I undertake to say that I will prove tc
the satisfaction of every reasonable
man who can read the statutes of the
country, that the principle embodied in
that Ordinance of 1787, and re-enacted
by the first Congress under the Fed
eral Constitution—has been continued
to be re-enacted in substance, from the
time of Gen. Washington, who signed
the first act, down to James K. Folk,
who signed the same provision in the
Oregon bill; and that the talk which is
raised by gentlemen about making an
unequal and unjust discrimination
about property, has no foundation
which may not with equal justice be
alleged against every one of the acts
of the Federal Government organizing
Territories, which mark our history
from the adoption of the Constitution
down to the present time. I ask the
attention of the Senate to the subject.
It will be found that, as early as 1794,
on the 22d March, by an act of Con
gress, General Washington then being
President—whilst the foreign slave
trade was not ’prohibited, an d could
not be by the provisions of the Federal
Constitution, until 1808; while the
trade in foreign slaves was the subject
of legitimate commerce under the
Constitution; while every citizen of
the United States had a right, under
the laws of the Constitution, to go
from any port of the United States
to the coast of Africa, and take a cargo
of slaves and bring them to any port
in tbe United States—Congress, in
1794, made a discrimination against
this species of property, and prohibited
the building or fitting out of any vessel
for the purpose of carrying slaves to
any foreign country. They might
bring *hem here; but Congress thus
far discriminated against that species
of property as early as 1794, whilst it
was a subject of legal commerce under
the Constitution ol the United States.
Congress did not interfere, provided
the slaves were brought home; but
they did, and utterly destroyed that
species of property as an article of
commerce, when an attempt was made
to carry it to any foreign country.
That was an act passed under George
Washington. Its provisions were as
follows:
“An Act to prohibit the carrying on the
Slave Trade from the United States
to any foreign place or country
Sec. 1 prohibits building or fitting
out vessels for the purpose of carrying
slaves to any foreign country, or pro
curing them in any foreign country to
carr*' them to another. Vessels fitted
out for that purpose forfeited.
Sec. 2 imposes a penalty of $2,000
on any person aiding or abetting in
fitting out such a vessel.
Sec. 3. Any owner, master, or
factor of any vessel clearing for Africa,
or suspected of being intended for the
slave trade, are required to give bond
in substance not to violate the provis
ions of this act.
Sec. 4 imposes a penalty of $2OO
for every person received on board
any vessel in violation of this act.
“G. Washington.
“Approved, March 22, 1794.”
.That is an act passed in 1794. Well
sir, other acts of a similar character,
only more express and explicit in their
provisions, may be found. In the act
of 1798, for the settlement of the
limits of the State of Georgia, and the
establishment of a Government for the
Mississippi Territory, passed on the
7th April, 1798:
Sec. 3 establishes a government
for the Mississippi Territory, in all
respects similar to that now exercised
in the Territory northwest of the river
Ohio, excepting and excluding the last
article of the Ordinance made for the
government thereof by the late Con
gress, on the 13th of July, 1787, which
provides that there shall be neither
slavery nor involuntary servitude, oth
erwise than in the punishment of
crimes, &c.
Sec. 7 makes it unlawful to bring
slaves into Mississippi Territory from
any place without the United States,
imposes a penalty of $3OO for every
slave brought into the Territory in
violation of the provisions ot this act,
and gives every slave thus brought in,
bis or her freedom.
“Approved, April 7, 1798.”
Look at the provisions of that act.
Sl**®* might legally be imported into
the United States for ten years after
that act was passed; they might be
imported, and were as much and as
legally a subject of property as any
thing else, but Congress took occasion
to regulate that species of property
ten years before the prohibition to the
importation of slaves was to take ef
fect,, and declared that alavet should
not be carried into the Mississippi Ter.
ROCHESTER, Ni Y., THURSDAY, MAY 10, 1850.
ritory from atyr place without the
i United States, and that any slave car
ried there became free; and a penalty
was imposed on those who took them
I Slaves were at th|t time—in 1798
legal ofcommere Congress
I had powJPiyer uadm^^e^onstitiition
were, under the* 5 Constitution, as legi
timately articles of commerce as sugar
or molasses. Well, Congress did un
dertake that early in 1795, to say that
slaves, which were recognised as
articles of commerce in the States,
should not be carried into the Terri
tories. That fact establishes two
points. It shows that Congress legis
lated for the Territories, and it shows
that they legislated upon this particu
lar subject within the Territories.
Well, sir, there are other acts of a
similar character. In an act erecting
Louisana into two Territories, and
providing for the temporay government
thereof, approved the 2lst March,
1804, section 10 prohibits the bringing
into said Territory, from any place
without the United States, any slave or
slaves, and imposed a fine of three
hundred dollars for any slave so im
ported; and, act prohibited
the bringing into wp Territory any
slave or slaves which shall have been
imported to the United States since the
Ist day of May, 1795, or which shall
hereafter he imported. Under the pro
visions of this act, passed in 1804,
Congress undertook to say that slaves
which have been imported into one of
the slave States between 1768 and
1804, fair matters of commerce under
the Constitution, should not be carried
into the Territory, and imposed a pen
alty on any one so carrying them.
Here, then, is an express and explicit
recognition, on the part of Congress,
of the right and authority of Congress
thus to legislate upon this subject.
Under the provisions of this law, no
one could move from a slave State into j
the Louisana Territory in 1801, and
’2,and ’3. and carry with him slaves
imported from Africa into any State,
subsequently to 1798. Or if they did,,
they did, in violation of this law which,
prohibited it.
I will not weary the Senate by going
ow«r tk«* history of then* several acts.
They will, very roirtfioftbeim, be found i
in a speech delivered in this body on
the 20th June, 1848, by Mr. Dix, then;
a member from the State of New York,
and they come down to the very last
Congress—because the last Congress,
adhering to the legislation heretofore
practiced, passed the Oregon bili, con
taining this very same prohibition, and
it was signed by Mr. James K. Polk.
He certainly must have understood it
to be a constitutional prohibition, the
constitutional exercise of a right vested
in Congress, or he never would have
signed it.
The proposition was made in both
Houses to put the enactment of that
clause in the Oregon bill on the ground
that it was north of thirty-six degrees
thirty minutes. Both Houses refused
to do it. It went to Mr. Polk, and he|
signed it, and sent it back with a pa
per, tho substance of which, as I read
it, was, that it was constitutional then,
but never would be again. That, sir,
has been the legislation of Congress,
older than the Constitution, coming
down through successive Presidents—
Washington, Adams, Jackson, Van
Buren, and soon; and, in the organi
zation of Territorial Governments in
Mississippi, Louisana, Florida, and
Michigan, all in express terms recog
nising this right: sometimes limiting
slavery to a certain class of slaves, in
other instances excluding it altogeth
er.
And now we are told that if we ad
here to this long-established, well con
sidered construction of the Constitution;
if we continue to tread in the old path
which our fathers marked out for us,
that the sensibility, the sensitiveness of
the South, which has been sleeping for
more than fifty years, will be galvani
zed into such activity, as to endanger
the Union itself.
Well, sir, these arguments may be
all potent, but I want to put history
right. We are told that this agitation
of the subject of slavery here is some
thing new, and the Senator from South
Carolina gave it a date of fifteen years.
He said that it had commenced in 1835
and that as soon as it was introduced,
he saw the'mischief that was to ensue
from it. The honorable Senator from
South Carolina did not go back far
enough; agitating papers of the sort
complained of came here Unger a/o
than that. He ought to have gone
back to 1776, and he would havo found
one of the most "agitating” and "fa
natical” papers that he could well find,
beginning with the declaration that all
men are created equal. The agitation
of this question goes back as far as
that, and it shows what was the action
and understanding of the men of that
day. I wish to read, air, a petition
presented to the first Congress that ev
er assembled under the Federal Con
stitution, and signed by one of the
great minds that framed it. I allude, sir,
to Doctor Franklin; aot one of these
modern ‘agitators," not one of those
amphibious animats, that have been
described as flying about in the twi
light, between light and darkness.
On the 12th February, 1776, Benja
min Frpnklin, as president of the
Penney It ania Society Ur promoting the
abolition of slaver y, the relief of free
negroes unlawfully held in bondago,
and the improvement of the African
GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
race, presented a petition, which I
send to the Clerk’s table te be read:
February 12, 1780.
“A memorial of the Pennsylvania
Society for promoting the abolition of
slavery, the relief of free negroes un
lawfully held in bondage, and the m
provement of the African race, as
presented and read.
fcethdMW
“That, from a regard for the hap
piness of mankind, an association was
formed, several years since, in this
State by a number of her citzens of va
rious religious denominations, for pro
moting the abolition of slavery, and for
the relief of those unlawfully held in
bondage. A just and acute conception
ot the true principles of liberty, as it
spread through the land, produced ac
cessions to their numbers, many friends
to their cause, and a legislative co-op-v
eration with their views, which, by the
blessing ot Divine Providence,
been successtully directed to the re
lieving from bondage a large' number
of their fellow-creatures, of the African
race. They have also the satisfaction
to observe, that, in consequence of
that spirit of pbilanthrophy and genuine
liberty which is generally diffusing its
beneficial influence, similar V. institu
tions are forming at home and abroad.
That Mankind are all formed by
the same almighty Being, alike objects
of his care, and equally designed for
the enjoyment of happiness, the Chris
tian religion teaches us to believe, and
the political creed of America fully
coincides with the position.
“Vour memorialists, particularly en
gaged in attending to the distresses
arising from slavery, believe it to be
their indespensable duty to present
this subject to your notice. %They
have observed, with real satisfaction,
that many important and salutary pow
ers are vested in you* for ‘promoting
the welfare and recuring the blessings
of liberty to the people of the United
States;’ and, as they conceive that
these blessings ought rightfully to be
administered without distinction of col
or to all descriptions of people, sothe
indulge themselves in the pleasing ex
pectation that nothing which can be
done for the relief of the unhappy ob
jects of their care will be either omit
ted or delayed.
roin a pursua&ion that equal liber
ty was originally the portion and is
'till the birthright of all men, and in
fluenced by the strong ties of humani
ty and the principles of their institu
tions, your memorialists concieve them
selves bound to use all justifiable en
deavors to joosen the bonds of slavery,
and promote a general enjoyment of
the blessings of freedom.
“Under these impressions, they
earnestly entreat your serious atten
tion to the subject of slavery; that yoir
will be pleased to countenance to res
toration of liberty to those unhappy
men, who alone in this land of free
dom are degraded into perpetual bon
dage, and who, amidst the general joy
of surrounding freemen, are groaning
in servile subjection; and you will de
vise means for removing this inconsis
tency from the character of the Ameri
can people; that you will promote mer
cy and justice towards this distressed
race; and that you will step to the very
verge of the power vested in you, for
discouraging every species of traffic
in the persons of our fellow-men.
“Benj. Franklin, President.
“Philadelphia, February 3, 1780.”
Objection was made to the reception
of the petition, and a debate ensued,
when a motion to refer it to a commit
tee prevailed, by a vote of 43 ayes to 11
noes, it was considered in committee,
reported on, and the whole subject was
under debate on the sth, Bth, and
9tn of March, 1790 —the proceedings
of which action in Congress may be
found in the Journals, page 180. I
only refer to this history to show that
there were “fanatics,’ in earlier times
than the year 1835; that there were
men who were affected with this “ma
nia” long ago; and that amongst those
upoh whose grave must fall the denun
ciations that are so freely and fre
quently heard here, is the man who
alone of mortal man had vision enough
to answer the question proposed by the
Almighty to his servant long ago, when
he asked him it he “can discover the
way of the lightening of thunder?”
Well, sir, I have another document,
and a very curious one it is, too, refer
ring to the action on this subject later
in the history of Congress. It is to be
found in the fourth volume of the
House Journals, page 381 second ses
sion of seventh Congress, under date
of Tarch 2, 1803; and it is, air, a case
in point. The Territory of Indiana
then being under the provisions of the
Ordinance of 1787, the people of Indi
ana, through a public meeting of which
William Henry Harrison was Pjpsi
dent, petitioned that this article of the
Ordinance of ’B7, prohibiting slavery
in the Territory might be suspended
for a given number of years—about ten
I believe it was. The petition was re
ferred to a committee, of which the cel
ebrated John Randolph, of Virginia,
was chairman. I desire to read an ex
tract from his report, because it shows
what sentiments obtained iu Virginia
on this subject/ in 1803:
House Journal, Vol. 4. Page 381—2 d
Session 7th Congress—March 2 ,d
1803. j
“Mr. Randolph from the comm itme
to which were -referred a letter from
William Henry Harrison, President of
the Convention held at Vincennes, de
claring the consent of the people of
Indiana to the suspension of the sixth
article of comped between the United
States and the people of that Territory
made the following report:
“That the rapid population of the
State of Ohio sufficiently evinces, in
the opinion of yodr committee, that the
labor of slaves is sot Accessary to pro
mote the growth aod settlement of col
onies in that regies; that this labor,
dessowi—<h>y thw..4sigeatjpf any. can
only be employed to advantage m me
cultivation of products more valuable
than any known to that quarter of the
United States; that the committee
deem it highly dangerous and inexpedi
ent to impair a provision wisely calcu
lated to promote the happiness and
prosperity of the Northwestern country
and to give strength and security to
that extensive frontier. In the saluta
ry operation of this sagacious and be
nevolent restraint, it is believed that
the inhabitants of Indiana will, at no
very distant day, find ample remuner*
ation for a temporary privation of labor
and of emigration.
“From such a consideration as they
have been enabled to bestow on the
subject at this late period of the session
and under the pressure of accumula
ting business, they recommend the fol
lowing resolutions, which are respect
fully submitted to the judgement of the
House.
“1. Resolved., That it is inexpedi
ent to suspend, for a limited time, the
operation of the sixth article of compact
between the original States and the
people and States west of the Ohio.
“2. &c, &c,”
And, sir, is there a citizen of Indiana
to-day, who will not rise up and do
credit to the sagacity and philanthro
py of John Randolph, when he told
them that, in the wisdom and sagacity
of that exercise of power, they would
find ample remuneration for any tem
porary greivance they might be suffer
ing under, by the present application?
And, sir, here was a case stronger than
any which has been or can be present
ed here—a case of a Territory of the
United States, settled by freemen, with
slavery interdicted, who come forward
and ask Congress to relieve them from
that interdiction—to relieve them from
■hat prohibition—and Congress refused
;o do it. And they refused to do it up
jnthe report from which I have just read
—that ruadejjy Mr. John Randolph, of
V irginia. Now, sir, I think I may
imfeiy leave that part of the subject, the
Ordinance of 1787, having shown that
it was not imposed by a part, but that
it was the act of the whole country.
[t was impressed upon the legislation
)f the country at its earliest period; it
las continued there ever sioce, and it
remains there now. What do gentle
nen want? On the principles that they
:qptend for, that it is an insult, do they
ivant to repeal the bill establishing the
Oregon Territory? Do they want it
)bliterated from the history of our leg
slation? They can speak for them
lelves, sir, on that point.
The second matter which has dis
urbed the equilibrium, according to
he arguments of the Senator, is the
Missouri Compromise. Sir, the Miss
ouri Compromise disturbed the equili
brium of those Northern Representa
:ives that voted for it, more than any
:hing else that ever happened; and
;hat is the only equilibrium I ever
beard of as being disturbed by that
Compromise. Not only did it disturb
their equilibrium, Hut it threw them
entirely off it, and, with but very rare
exceptions, these politicians have not
yet recovered their equilibrium, and,
what is more, they never will. Well,
nr, if, according to the argument of
the Senator from South Carolina, the
Missouri Compromise was such an odi
ous measure, and has had such an in
jurious effect upon the South, is it not
singular that we find nearly every
Southern man voting for it, and every
Northern man voting against it, when
ever it is offered? At the last session,
when a motion was made to insert the
Missouri Compromise in a Territorial
bill, nearly every gentleman represen
ting a Southern State on this floor vo
ted for it, and the Northern men, as a
body were against it. Then, sir, it is
the South who were aggressive, and 1
who were destroying the equilibrium;
and it is the North who have resisted
it. And further, has not every other
Southern gentleman who has spoken
here of that Compromise characterized
it as a great healing measure, and as
one that gave quiet, peace, and secu
rity to the country, and will do it
again, if adopted? And is it not a cu
rious spectacle that they should thus
ask us to return and settle down on one
of the very measures that, in the opin
ion of the Senator from South Carolina
has been so potent and effectual in de
stroying the equilibrium?
Fes, sir. the Missouri Compromise,
which is designated by the Senator
from South Carolina as the givat
equilibrium-destroyer, has been lau
ded in our presence as a measure of,
peace and concord, and as one that
the South is willing to take and abide
by now. Yes, sir, this measure, which
Southern gentlemen now express their
readiness to receive and abide by, the
Senator from South Carolina puts sec
ond in bis ltsl of the measures which
have destroyed the equilibrium and pro
duced discontent in the South!
Well, sir, the third measure of which
the Senator speaks as destroying the
equilibrium between the sections, and
producing this great discontent in the
South, in the Oregon bill! if this be
so, it must, indeed, have had a won
derfully rapid influence, for it was on
y passed u> August, 1648, has been
JOHN SICK, p„,™
WHOLE NO. 124.
but about a year and a half ia opera
tion, and, indeed, Ido not know whe
ther any despatches hare bean receiv
ed by this Government, informing us
of the organise' ion of the Government
instituted at that time; if they have
been laid before Congress. Is it pos
sible, then—can the Senator from
South Carolina be serious, when he
mentions the Oregen bill ss one of the
three measures of the Government
t nirtiTinwii ■■■■h Mgapimldia...,
content at the South that tHWjF csn no
longer remain in the Union? What
possible influence can the Oregon bill
have had on the South within the brief
time that has transpired since its pas
sage? I will not spend more time on
this subject. The charge is prepos
terous.
I have another document to which I
will here refer, as it shows that there
was discontent and talk of disunion in
the South long before this Oregon bill
was thought of. The Senator from
South Carolina speaks of the abolition
fanatics in 1835, (which is the time, as
he says, they commenced their opera
tions,) as being small and contempti
ble, and as having no sort of influence
and consideration. Now, what was
the declaration of the Senator in 1835,
the very time when he states this frac
tion was so small and contemptible?
In Nile’s Register of 1832, 46th vol.,
46th page, is an extract of a letter
from John C. Calhoun to the editor of
the Washington Telegraph. Heaays:
"Since you passed through the
South, the excitement in relation to
the Northern fanatics has very greatly
increased. The indications are, that
the South will be unanimous—in their
resistance will be of the most determi
ned character, even to the extent of
disunion, if that should be necessary
to arrrst the evil. I trust, however,
it may be arrested far short of such ex
tremity.”
From this it appears that as long ago
as 1835, the South—all the South he
speaks for—had come to such a unan
imous determination to resist the
Northern fanatices, that, if they could
not put them down in any other way,
they were ready to dissolve the Union.
"Small and contemptible as this faction
then was, to use the language of the
Senator from South Carolina, it was
potent enough, it seems, to work up
the whole Southjo a determination to
dissolve tha Union if they were not put
down.
1 wish to call the attention of the
Senate to another view of this ques
tion of the equilibrium. The Senator
from Georgia, [Mr. Berrien,] in his
speech the other day, puts this signifi
cant question to Senators irom the
Northern States. He says:
“Now, sir, revert to the period when
this Constitution was entered into—
when thirteen Confederated States,
loosely connected together, mutually
grasping hands, drew more closely
the bond of union; and now tell me, do
you believe,does any man believe that it
consists with the spirit and intention of
the farmers of that instrument, with the
feelings ofthat moment, that you should
circumscribe slavery within limits with
in which, in process of time, it could
no longer exist? That were to deny
to us the privilege of exercising the
rights with which we came into the
Constitution, in the manner in which
we had exercised and were exercising
them when the Constitution was form
ed. It would be in effect to say to us,
we will allow you to hold slaves, if you
will keep them within your present
limits; but in the future acquisitions
which we make of territories, by our
joint and equal effofts, even of such as
are fitted to your peculiar kind of labor,
hands off —slavery shall never be ex
tended with our consent; the banner
of this free Republic shall never wave
over another slave State, whether it
were originally free or slave. If this
proposition had been made to our fa
thers in that Convention, what think
you would have been their answer? I
will not trust myself to express it. Do
you believe that this Constitution would
have been formed under such circum
stances?”
Now, sir, it seems to me that an all
sufficient answer to this question is to
be found in the fact that the Constitu
tion was formed under precisely the
circumstances on which he speculates.
Under what circumstances was the
Constitution formed, sir? Why, every
inch of territory which the states then
owned ,was subject to this very prohibi
tion! Every inch of territory by that
provision of the Continental Congress,
ratified by the first Congress under the
Federal Constitution, was subjected to
the inhibition of slavery.
In another part of his speech the Sen
ator from South Carolina savs, that,
next aAer the Ordinance of 1778, the
Missouri Compromise, and the Oregon
bill, among the causes which have pro
duced discontent at the South is the
system of revenue and disbursements
adopted by the Government. He says:
“The next is the system of revenue sod
disbursements which has been adopted by the
Government. It is well hnown that the Gov
ernment has derived its levenae roiislj from
duties on imports. I shall not undertake to
show that such duties must necessarily fall
mainly on the exporting States, and that the
South, as ft,e great exporting portion of the
Union, has in reality paid vastly more than
her due proportion of the revenue; because
I deem it unnecessary, ss tbs subject has on
so* many occasions been fully disscuased.
Nor shall I, for the same reason, undertake
to show that s far greater portion of the rev-
AnuA has b4o disbursed at the North, than
its due share; and that tbs joint effect of these
causes has been to transfer vast amounts form
South to North, which, under an equal sys
tem of revenue and disbursements, would
Have been lost to her. if to this be
that many of the duties were imposed, not for
retenne, but for protection—that is, intended
to put money, not in the treasury, but direct
ly into the pocket of the manufacture —some
conception may be formed of the immenes am
mount which, in the long course of sixty
years,.has been transferred from South to
North. There are no data bylwhich it can be
estimated with any certainty; but it is safe to
sayt at it amonnts to hundreds of millions of
dollar. Under the most moderate estimate,
it would be sufficient to add greatly ,lo the
wealth ofihe North, and thus greatly increase
her population, by attracting emigration from
all quarters to that section.
“This*.combined with the great and prim
ary cause, amply explains why the North has
acquired a preponderance over every depart
ment of the Government, by ita disproportion
ate increase of population and States.”
I think it well for the Senator that
he did not undertake to show thet, for
he knowa that the duties fall upon and
are paid by the consumers, be they
where they may. A State, therefore,
which hnaa population ten times great
er than that of another State, and con
aumes imports in that proportion, pays
ten times more revenue. No matter
where the imports go, those who con
sume them pay the duties upon them.
Go into the manufacturing towns and
villages, where they consume a large
amount of sugar and other dutiable
articles, do they not pay the duty on
their importation And is not the fact
true always, that it is the consumer,
wherever he may be, who pays the
duty Sir; the fact is undeniable.
The Senator undertakes to show
that by far the greater portion of our
revenue ’has been disbursed at the
North, or more than ita due share.
Now, Sir, that struck me as the most
bold assertion in the whole speech. Is
all history, sir, to be set at naught in
this matter? The disbursements great
er at the North than in the South!
Why, air, in the State in which I live,
aside from the expenses of collecting
the revenue, not $50,000 of the public
money has been spent in fifty years.
No, sir, the expenditures of the Gov
ernment are not made here; the offi
cers of the Government do not come
from the North, nor are the great con
tracts made there. What is it that
consumes ona-half, aye, three-fourths,
of your revenue, but the army and the
navy, and where is it expended Why,
where your Indian wars occur youi
Seminole and Creek wars —in the
Southern, and not in the Northern por*
tion of these States. Why, sir, the
idea that an undue proportion of the
money collected by the General Gov
ernment has been disbursed in the
Northern States, is, to say the least,
one in as direct opposition to the truth
of history as any statement which coulc
possibly be made. A friend has col
lected for me some statistics showing
the expenditures of the Government
one item of which I will refer to, which
is well calculated to show the propor
tion between the free and the slav<
States. By the returns of the Posi
Office Department for the year 1847
it appears that there was collected it
the fifteen-free States, by way of post
age, a sum exceeding the expenses o
the Department in these States for tha
year by $576,000, while there was t
deficiency to the same araouut in the
■lave States. Thus there was a direc
tax collected in small sums from the
North, to the amount of over $500,-
000 in one year, for that single Depart
ment of Government; and 1 apprehent
that if the other Departments were ex
amined, it would be found that the Pos
Office was in fact the one under whicl
the North suffered least. Why, in oui
little State of New Hampshire, then
is a direct tax for postage to the amoum
of over $15,000. The revenue col
lected there for postage in that yeai
was $40,680, and the expenditure;
$25,500, leaving us with a direct tai
of $15,180 for that year! And, sir, ii
cannot be said that these letters were
received from commercial correspon
dents, because we have no great com
mercial emporium in the State. No,
•ir, this tax is collected from those
manufacturing operatives of whom
mention is sometimes made here. It is
a tax on the affections of the human
heart, on filial love and reverence, on
correspondence with parents, children,
and friends, and it is collected from the
hard-working men and women of the
North, for the support of this Govern
ment. Yet we do not complain of it;
but in the face of all this it is rather
hard to be told that our prosperity is
all owing to the undue amount of Gov
ernment expenditures made in the
Northern States. Why, sir, it would
be a curiosity in the part *>f the coun
try in which 1 live to hear of the ex
penditure amongthem of a dollar of the
money of the General Government,
over and above just what is necessary
to collect the revenue to be spent else
where. So much for this subject.
Again, says the Senator from South
Carolina:
“If to this be added, that many of
the duties imposed, not for revenue,
but for protection—that is, intended to
put money, not in the treasury, but di
rectly into the pocket of the manufac
turer —some conception may be formed
of the immense amount which, in the
long course of sixty years, bus been
lruuf«rr«4 from to North. There
are no data by which it can be esti
mated with any certainty, but it is sale
to say that it amounts to hundreds of
millions of dollars. Under the most
moderate estimate, it would be suffi
cient to add greatly to the wealth of
the North, and thus greatly increase
her population by attracting emigration
from all quarters to that section.
Now, sir, let us examine this point.
It is the tariff, then, that has done in
jury to the South, and produced dis
content there. Now, 1 have been at
some little pains to examine the history
of the various tariffs, and our revenue
policy, and I find that the first tariff
act was passed on the 4th of July,
1780, and the preamble to it is in the
following words:
“Whereas it is necessary, for the
support of Government, for the dis
charge of the debts of the United States,
and for the encouragement and pro
tection of manufactures, that duties be
laid on goods, wares, and merchandise,
imported."
The yeas and nays were not taken
on the bill m either House. The next
year the duties were largely increased,
and I think in some instances that they
were doubled, and the bill for that put-
pose passed the House of Represen
tatives, yeas 40, nays 15; and as a
curiosity 1 will read the votes of the
States an that measure:
Yeas. Ways. Yeas. Nays
N.Hampsh. 2 1 Delaware 1 0
Massach. 0 8 Maryland 3 2
Connecticut 3 2 Virginia 7 0
New York 4 1 N. Carolina 5 0
New Jersey 20 S. Carolina 3 1
Pennsylvania? 0 Georgia 3 0
40 15
The tariff remained substantially as
it was established by the act of 1790
with the exception of the acts passed
during the war, which were considered
as war measures—until 1816. 1 have
not got the precise date when that act
was approved, but I think it was in
April, 1816. Then the war was over,
and it became necessary to abandon
the war acts passed during its prose
cution, and to Bettle down on some
thing like a permanent policy, and a
tariff act was passed. It passed the
House of Representatives, yeas 88,
nays 24; and as the yeas and nays up
on it are somewhat interesting, I will
rea'd them by States:
Yeas. Nays. Yeas. Nays.
N.Hampsh. 1 3 Maryland 2 8
Massachus. 7 4 Virginia 7 13
R. Island 1 0 N.CarolinaO 11
Connecticut 2 S.Carolina 4 1
Vermont 6 1 Georgia 8 1
New York 20 2 Kentucky 6 3
N. Jersey 5 0 Tennessee 3 3
Pennsylv. 17 3 Ohio 4 6
Delaware did not Louisiana 0 1
vote.
88 54
And among the yeas on the passage
of that bill stands recorded the name
of John C. Calhoun, one of the Re
presentatives from South Carolina.
That was in 1816. The tariff policy -of
the country continued without material
alteration until 1824, when another
bill on the subject passed the House,
yeas 107, nays 102. South Carolina
then changed front on the question.
But I wish to call the attention of the
Senate to the vote of New England on
the subject, because she has been con
sidered the greatest sinner in regard
to it. Her vote on the tariff was yeas
15, nays 23, as follows:
Yeas. Nays. Yeas. Nays.
Maine 4 6 Connecticut 5 1
N.Hampsh. 1 6 R. Island 2 0
Massachus. 1 1.1 Vermont 5 0
15 23
And such had been the uniform pol
icy of that portion of the country. But
the history of the tariff acts that have
been passed, show that the Northern
States have generally objected to them,
and that too, against the power and
the eloquence of the Senator trom
South Carolina, in 1816, in the House.
And when this policy was for6ed on
New England, and forced on her too
by Southern votes, against her own
wishes, then, sir, the genius, the en
terprise, and the industry of her people
began to accommodate themselves to
the state of things, and because she
flourished under it, it is made a charge
against her, and forms the next point
in the indictment against the North tor
disturbing the equilibrium between the
sections.
Another evil of which the Senator
complains, is as follows, to usa his own
I language:
But wbile these measures were
destroying the equilibrium between the
two sections, the action of the govern
ment was leading to a radical change
in its character, by concentrating all
the power of the system in itself. The
occasion will not permit me to trace
the measures by which this great
i change has been consummated. If it
did, it would not be difficult to show
that the process commenced at an
early period of the government; that
it proceeded, almost without interrup
tion, step by step, until it absorbed
virtually its entire powers; but without
going through the whole process to
establish the fact, it may be done satis
factorily by a very short statement.
That the Government claims, and
practically maintains the right to de
cide in the last resort, as to the extent
of its powers, will scarcely be denied
by any one conversant with the political
history of the country. That it also
claims the right to resort to force to
maintain whatever power she claims
against all opposition, is equally cer
tain.”
His charge is, that this government
has changed gradually from a federal
republic to a consolidated democracy.
Who has done it? From the very
adoption of the Constitution down to
the present time, what counsels have
prevailed? Northern or Southern?
Who have been the Presidents of the
United States? Northern men or
Southern men? Again, w th reference
to the action of the Supreme Court,
who have been on the bench of that
Court? History wilt show that there
there has been no ume when you would trust
Northern men there, so as to constitute a ma
jority. Though a man may have crept to the
foot of power in the most abject manner, the
North qpuld never be trusted bo far as to have
her citizens constitute a majority on the bench
of (hat court. There has been a majority pi
Southern men on that bench; and I say, air,
that the South has always controlled the pol
icy of this government. 1 think the honora
ble Senator from Kentucky was magnanimous
enough the other day, in his speech, to ac
knowledge thia. Not only the legislative but
the judicial power has always been in the
hands of the South. If the question was
asked to-day, of the most ordinary or the
most astute observer of passing events, who
it is of all men that has hfb the moat to do to
control and shape the policy of thia Govern
ment, and make it what it is, the answer
would be that it is the honorable Senator
from South Carolina, [Mr. Calhoun,] who
makes this charge. Did he not tell us, with
the modesty which always belongs to him,
with the honesty and truth which character
ize him, that hs more than any other man ef
fected the acquisition oi Texas to this coun
ryT He was then a private citizen. If he
could, in perfect consistency with historical
truth, say that he more than any one else ef
fected that great act, by which that country
was annexed and made a part and parcel of
our own, wbat must have been hia influence
while be occupied a seat in the ether House
in the pride ot his power, or when for eight
years he was at the head of the Department
of War, and for six years filled the chair
which yoturow occupy, if he could thus con
trol public policy in hit reiirment? No, sir,
great and commanding aa baa been the influ
ence of other gentlemen in the councils of
this nation, if there be any one man who has
stamped upon its character and features the
imprest orbit thought* and purposes, that
man-it the honorable Senator from South
Carolina, who addressed the Senate the other
day on this subject. But now he ooraea in
and files a bill of indictment against the North
for doing that which all along they have re
sisted and remonstrated against.
The next part of the speech to which’ I
wish to direct attention is the assertion that,
“Nevertheless, as small and contemptible
as the party then was, both of the great par
ties of the North dreaded them. They felt
that, though small, they were organised in
reference to a subject which had a great and
commanding influence over the Northern
mind. Each party, on that account feared to
oppose their petitions, lest the opposite party
should take advantage of the one who might
do so, by fsvormg tueir petitions. The ef
fect was that both united by insisting that the
petitions should be received, and that Con
gress should take jurisdiction of the subject
for which they prayed.”
And speaking on the subject in another
part of the speech, on the Bth page, he
says:
“And Congress is invoked to do all this
expressly with the view to the fins! abolition
of slavery in the States. Thst has been
avowed to be the ultimate object from the
beginning of the agitation until the present
time; and yet the great body of both parties
of the Nsrth, with the full knowledge of the
fact, although disavowing the abolitionists,
have co-operated with them in almost all their
measures.”
If 1 understand this, air, it is a distinct
avowal that the abolition movement has been
received with public favor from the com
mencement, by both parties, in both Houses
of Congress, from the North, and at home.
1 t undertake to say that a declaration more at
war with the truth of history could not pos
sibly be affirmed in language. The Aboli
tionists, instead of being received with public
favor at the North, by either party, have
been denounced in every possible form in
which language could denounce them. The
meetings which they have holden in public
places have been broken in upon by lawless
mobs. They have been driven from the
place where they had assembled for the ex
ercise of a constitutional right, and to such an
extent had this spirit progressed, that the
buildings in which they had assembled, and
had been peaceably exercising the rights of
citizens, under the Constitution, have been,
in at lepst one instance, burnt to the ground
by a mob. I don’t refer to these matters
for the purpose of re-opening any wounda
that may have been healed-up by the soothing
influence of time, but I do contend that, if
the Senate ineana to do justice, and the
country means to do justice, it is necessary
and right that the truth upon this subject
should be made known.
Sir, there never has been a aect that has
arisen since the Christian era, that has been
met at every turn, on every hand, on everv
I side, and by all parlies, with more bitter, vi
olent, unrelenting persecution, than these
same Abolitionists have been. Instead of
growing up by the public favor of the North,
I they have grown np in spite of the most de
termined opposition. They have lived upon
persecution; persecution and denunciation
have been everything which they have had.
1 And, sir, to show that upon this matter i
do not speak without book, I will refer in the
first place, to the proceedings of Congress
on this subject. I will show how far it is
i true, in refelf nee to the House of Represen
tatives, that both partiea fiom the North have
united in receiving their petitions and taking
jurisdiction of the subject. The year 1835
is the lime which is assigned as the com
-1 mencement of this agitation; the time at
which both parties at the North united in
giving them public favor; the time at which
both parties in Congress should sake juriadic
tion of the subject, and that the petitions of
the Abolitionists should be received. It will
be found, sir, thst in the House of Represen
t laltves. on the Bth day of February, 1836
Mr. Pinkney introduced the following resolu
tion:
“Resolved, That all the memorials which
r have been offered, or may hereafter be pie
santed to this House, praying for the abolition
of slavery in the District of Columbia, and
also the resolutions offered by an honorable
i member from Maine, (Mr. Jarvis.) with the
amendment thereto proposed by an honorable
.(member from Virginia, (Mr. Wise,) together
with every other paper or proposition that
j may be submitted in relation to the subject
be referred to s select committee, with in-
J structions to report:
“That Congress possesses no constitution-
I al authority to interfere in any way with the
t insitution of ajavery in any of the States of
r thft Confederacy; and
“Tint, in the opinion of this House, Con
gress ought not to interfere o any way wiih
slavery in the District of Columbia, because
it would be a violation of the public faith, un-
I wise, impolitic, and dangerous to the Union
t —assigning such reasons for these concln
i sions as, in the judgement of the committee,
may be best calculated to enlighten the pub.
lie mind, to allay excitement, to repress agita-
I tion, to secure and maintain the just rights oi
the slaveholding States and of the people ot
this District, and to restore harmony and
tranquility amongst the various tedious o!
this Union.”
That resolution passed the House*by a
vote of yeas 167, nays only 6. That com
miltee reported, and they reported three res
olutions:
1 1. “Resolved, That Congress possesses
no constitutional authority to interfere, in any
way, with the institution of slavery in any o!
the States of this Confederacy.
2. “Resolved, Thst Congress ought not
to interfere, in any way, with slavery in the
District of Columbia.
“And whereas it is extremely important
and desirable that the agitation of this sub
ject should be finally arrested, for the pur
pose of restoring tranquility to the public
mind, your committee respectfully recom
mend iht adoption of the following resolution
viz:
3. “Resolved, that all petitions, memori
als, resolutions, proposilioaa, or papers, rela
ting in any way or to any extent whatever to
the subject of slavery, or the abolition of sla
very shall, without being either printed or
referred, be laid upon the table, and that no
further action whatever shall be had there
on.”
1. Passed: Yeas 182, nays 9.
3. Passed: Yeas 132, nays 45.
3. Passed: Yeas 117, nays 68,
3d session, Milt Congress, page 837.
January 18, 1837.
Resol veil, That all petitions, memorials,
resolutions, propositions, or papers, relating
in any way, or to any extent whatever, to
the subject of slavery, or to the abolition ol
slavery, shall, without being printed or refer
ted, be laid upon the table, and that no fur
ther action shall be had thereon.”
Passed: Yeas 129, nays 69.
Mr. Patton’s Journal H. R., 2d session,
25th Cong., p 137.
Dxcembcr 31, 1837.
“Resolved, That all petitions, memorials,
and papers, touching the abolition of slavery
or the buying, selling, or transferring ol
slaves, in any State, District, or Territory ol
the United States, be laid upon the table,
without being debated, printed, read, or re
ferred, and that no further action shall be had
thereon.”
Passed: Yeas 123, nays 74.
3d session, 35th Congress 51.
Dkckmbki 11, 1838.
1. “Resolved, That thisGovernmeut is a
Government.of limited powers; and that, by
the Constitution of the United States, Con
gress, has no jurisdiction whatever over
the institution of slavery in the several States
of the Confederacy.
2. “Resolved, That petitions lor the aboli
tion of slavery in tne District of Columbia
and the Territories of the United States, and
against the removal of slaves Ron one State
to another, are a part of the plan of opera
tions set on foot to affect the institution rtf
slavery in the several States, awl thus indi*
racily to destroy that institution within tbeir
limits.
3. Resolved, That Congress has no right
1 to do that indirectly which it cannot do di
rectly; and that the agitation of the subject
of slavery in the district of Columbia or the
Teriitoiies, as a mesas and with a view of
disturbing or overthrowing that institution
in tbs several States, is against the true
spirit and meaning of the Constitution, an in
fringement of the right of the Statea affected
and a breach of the public faith on which
they entered into this Confederacy.
4. “Resolved, Thai the Constitution rests
upon the broad principle of equality among
the members of this Confederacy; and that
Congress, in the exercise of its acknowl
edged powers, has ae right to discriminate be
tween the institutions of ooe portion of the
States and another, with a view of abolish
ing the one and promoting the other.
“Resolved, therefore, that all attempts
on the part of Congress, to abolish slavery in
the District of Columbia or the Territories,
or to prohibit the removal of slaves from
State to State, or to discriminate between the
institutions of one portion of the country and
another, with the views aforesaid, are in vio
lation of the Constitution, destructive of the
fundamental principles on which the Union
of these stales reals, and beyond the jurisdic
tion of Congress; and that every petition,
memorial, resolution, proposition, or paper,
touching or relating in any way or to any ex
tent whatever to slavery, as aforesaid, or the
abolition thereof, ahall, on the presentation
theieof, without any farther action fnereon,
be laid on the table, without being debated,
printed or referred/^K
1„ Passed: nays 6.
8. Passed: Yesa 139, nays 65.
Ist member of 3d resolution passed: Yeas
170, naya 30,
2d member of 3d resolution passed: Yeas
164, naya 38,
Ist member of 4th resolution passed: Yeas
182. nays 29,
2d member of 4th resolution passed: Yeas
174, nays 26,
Ist member of sth resolution passed: Yea*
149, nays 52,
2d member of sth resolution passed: Y;as
128, nays 78,
Journal H. R., Ist session, 26th Cong,,
page 224.
January 28, 1840.
“No petition, memorial, resolution, or
other paper, praying the abolition of slavery
in the District of Columbia, cr any State or
Territory, or the slavs trade between the
States or Territories of the United States in
which it now exists, shall be received by this
House, or entertained in any way whatever.”
Rule adopted: Yeai 114, nays 108.
That is the action of ike House; the action
of the Senate has been, if possible, more de
cided, because they refused
to receive petitions addrefV to them upon
this subject to this day.
[TO BE CONTINUED-]
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, MAY 9, 1850.
The North Star is sometimes sent to friend*
who do not take tlie paper, in the hope tliat tliey
may see fit to subscribe for it. Subscriptions and
donations jor the same may lie safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederick Douglass, Rochester,
N. Y.
QC^"Wanted —Several Travelling Agents,
to procure subscribers for the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None need apply
but such as can bring good recommendations lor
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
erick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
NEW ENGLiNO
AMI-SLAVtKVCOWE.VTIOX.
The New England Anti-Slavery Conven
tion will hold its annual mooting in Boston, on
Tuesday, May 28th, commencing at 10
o'clock, A. M., and continuing in session,
day and evening, (as usual.) for three days.
Hitherto, unequalled among all the anniver
sary meetings, whatever their object or wher
ever held in this country, (in regard to the
interest awakened by it, and the absorbing
nature of its proceedings, there is every rea
son to believe its reputation will be heighten
ed anJ the attendance npon it augmented at
its approaching anniversary. Of the many
crises that have arisen since the anti-slavery
agitation was commenced, the present is obi
viously the most s'irring and momentous, and
therefore an unprecedented mustering of the
friends of Freedom and Emancipation should
be witnessed on that occasion.
In behalf tif the Board of Managers of the
Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
Edmund Quincy, Secretary,
Change or Day of Publication.—Our
paper is, this week, as we intend that it shall
always be in future, published on Thursday.
Much inconvenicncejha* been experienced,and
wo have been subject to much complaint, in
consequence of the non-apjiearauce of the
Star until the middle of the week following
publication, by our parcels being delayed in
the Post Office over Sunday. To remove this
difficulty, the present change is made and if
the Post Office authorities are not more than
usually negligent, all our subscribers, with the
exception of a lew ot the most distant, will
receive their papers, at iateat, on. Saturday
of each week. Tina change, we trust, will
be acceptable.to our readers, and also save us
from the infliction of some annoying corres
pondence.—.!. D.
Hon. Wm. 11. Sewakd will please accept
our thanks fur a copy of hit Speech on the
Admission of California. We are glad to
see this speech in pamphlet form, and| hope
uieasares will be taken by ike friend* of Free
Soil and Free Men to give 4 it a very extensive
circulation. The Speech is published and
for sale by Buel Blanchard, Sixth at.,
Washington, D. C.—j. d.
9
A largs portion of our space is'occupied
this week, by the very able and instructive
speech of Hon. John P. Hale, on slavery
extension The portion given in the present
number, is, as w<li be seen, chiefly a reply
to the speech of the late John C. Calhoun.
Mr. Hale is particularly happy in his expos
ure of the shallow sophism advanced by the
late Senator, that the South beiug the chief
exporter, pays a larger proportion of taxes
than the North, support of the gen
eral government. But we seed not particul
arise. The entire speech is well worthy of
s careful perusal. The remainder of the
speech will be given next week.—!, n.
0
Invasion or Cuba. The editor of the
New Orleans Bulletin, says all the doubts he
oace entertained concerning the rumored in
vasion of Cuba, are now dispelled. Very
recently, he has, from authentic sources be
soms possessed of information which convin
ces him that an effort is making to catty the
plan into operation and that the rash ittempt
will be made,
Doiftft CMfltM.
Nothing of very serious importance baa
transpired in Congreao daring the past week
—>not even a pistol or a lie in the threat
aeene, to vary ita dull monotony. The ah*
aenoe of the Committee deputed to attend
the remains of the late Mi\ Calhoun, seems
to have given the Senate, a short breathing
apace. One day, at least, was taken up with
discussion on a resolution presented by Mr.
Douglass, for a grant of land whereon to
construct an Illinois Central Mr.
Gunnell's proposal to send out two sfcipa in
search of Sir John Franklin, baa been ac
cepted. The Senate Committee on Postage
have introduced a very excellent and unex
pectedly liberal meaaure, by which it ia pio
posed materially to reduce the rates of letter
carriage. Among ila provisions are the fol
lowing
1. Two cent* per each half ounce pre-paid,
and five cents if not.
2. Drop Iteiets one cent pre-ptid, and two
cents if not.
3. Postmasters appointed by the President
are required to establish places of deposit
for the reception of Isttsra, and to employ
carriers to convey them to the post-office free
of any charge.
4. Letter carriers to receive only one cent
for the delivery of letters.
5. The charge on advertised letters to h«
only one one cent beside the regular posl

0. Postage on newspapers and other prin
ted matter the same as now charged, except
that circulars (and handbills are to be obsrgsd
letter postage.
7. Bound books may be sent by mail, to be
charged one cent per ounce.
8. The franking privilege to be totally
abolished, except to the persons who enjoy it
as a token of respect and honor.
9. Postage on Congressional documents,
speeches, &c., mailed during the session of
Congress, to be paid out of the contingent
funds of the respective Houses.
10. All communications to and trom the
Departments of the General Government,
properly chargeable to the public service, to
he marked as such, and the postage to be paid
like other contingent expresses of the Gov
ernment.
The attention of the House hat been occu
pied with the Public Printing, thu Sir John
Franklin Expedition, the Census Bill, the
Free Navigation of the River St. Lawrence,
and—that is all.
Mr. Rcmomo’s Lecture, —On Friday even
ing of laat week, Mr. C. L. Rkmond deliver
ed an addresa to hia colored brethren, in Ford
Street Baptist church. Hia audience was
not large. Pity it was not so. The lecturer
was eloquent and impressive, and evidently
arrested the attention of his hearers. He
took rather a dark view of the prospects of
the colored people in this country—referred
to the fugitive slave bill now before Congress
—the anticipated action of the Compromise
Committee—the probable annexation of Cuba
and of Canada, and the consequent accession
to the power of the South and greater inse
esrily of fugitives—the revival of the Colon
nation scheme, under a new and dangerous
phase. He then brought the matter home to
his hearers—urged them to bestir themselves
in this dark crisis—spoke of the inactivity
and indifference of the colored people gener
ally—showed that they did much to strength
en snd perpetuate their own degiadation. In
proof of this opinion, he instanced the fact,
that of the Ledger in Philadelphia, aud the
Herald and Sun in New York, three of the
■tost scurrilous snd pru-slartry prints in the
land, thousands were taken and paid for by
the colored people of those cities while the
number of readers of anti-slavery papers may
be counted by fifties.
A very mournful picture! Aye, verily,
what hope is there of the elevation of a peo
ple who thus succumb to their oppressors,
and administer to their own enslavement?
None! none! “They who would be free,
themselves must strike the blow This is
the perfect work of tyranny. It begins by
refusing men their rights, and ends by de
priving them of the power of appreciating
the value of what they have lost. However
■tuoh we may be alarmed at the exertions of
slaveholders for the continuance and exten
sion of their authority, and the lamentable
subserviency to the slave power of some who
heretofore have been loud in braggadocio
and declamation respecting their love of lib
erty,—we regard this apathy on the part of
the victims oi oppression as the most gloomy
feature of the caw; since, aa the surgeon
knowa, the most certain symptom of mortifi
cation having taken place, is the cessation of
pain on the part of the patient. The colored
people of this land must arouse themselves
from their lethargy—prove themselves men—
be up snd doing in their own cause—become
intelligent and useful, —or, there is reason to
fear, that in spite of all that anti-slavery so
'ietiea and anti-slavery newspapers can do or
tay in their behall, they will be doomed to
perpetual serfdom, barberdom and boot-black
ng. White men oannot afford to be ignorant
ind Poaferish. The prevailing prejudice
igainst color in this country, makes it dou
ily ruinous for oolored men to indulge either
n apathy, ignorance or vice.—j. j».
The pious and prophetic editor of the New
York Herald professes to be mightily alarmed
for the safety of the Union, and in order to
preserve it, in the paper of last week pours
forth a torrent of patriotic cackle on the sub
ject, describing what he conceives to be the
causes of the danger, and the best means to
be used for their removal. One of the arti
cles in the Herald purports to be an account
of the different Societies whose Anniversaries
were to be held in New York during the
present week, but is in reality a diabolical
tirade against abolitionists generally,* and in
particular against what it calls the amal
gamation meeting.”| If the faithful men who
perform their duty to their country, by de
nouncing this Union, and exposing the hol
lowness and hypocrisy of the American peo
ple, in their professions of a high regard for
liberty, while holding three millions of their
fellow-men in chains, —if these devoted few
are allowed to return to their homes unin
jured, it will not be because this vile papei
did not do all m its power to rouse the worst
passions of the multitude against them. We
should like to know what is the use of a
government, if not to take charge of each
ruffianly instigators to breaches of the peace.
Yet colored men are largely implicated in the
criminality of sustaining that and kindred
paper*! Aa well may they rear an anacon
da in their dwellings, and encourage their
children to approach and esraos it. More
rational would it be that they should fan the
flame which threatens to consume their
and their property. A portion of
article* retorted to, will be foand in another
colnnm. Our reader* will beer in mind, that
the paper from which tbeee extract* ere
taken, i* eoe of the moat widely circulated in
the United State*. Such a aaper ia a die
grace to the eif tliaed world-—* double aod
treble diagrace to the modal lead of re
form and progreaa, by whieh it ia auatained
in ka iufamoua career of profligate diabolism.
Let ao man—especially no colored man, of
oommoo respectability or morality, as he love*
the right, ditesta tyranny, and values hi*
liberty end bie man Mod, ever again touch
this unclean thing,”—much lew eubeeribe
for aod sustain it.— j. d.
The Rights or Woman.—We find, in
the New York Tribun* of a recent date,
a very copious report of the proceedings at a
gteat Women’s Convention, held in Salem,
Columbiana eo., Ohio. The report says, that
the Convention excited’intense interest in
the village and its vieinity. Little else was
talked about o* thought of, while it waa in
aession.” Letters were lead from Mrs. Lu
cretia Mott, Mis. E. C. Stanton, Miss Sarah
Pugh, Mrs. Swisshelm, Miss Lucy ..Stone,
and other well known female defenders of
the rights of woman. Men attended the
Convention in large numbers as spectators,
bat took no part in the pwwtoiingr. A
series of 22 well-drawn resolutions exposi
tive of the views of the Convention, was
adopted; also a M imorial to the Constitu
tional Convention of Ohio, in which a request
is presented, that in the new Constitution
about to be formed for that Slate, women
shall be secured not only the rights of suf
frage, but all the political and legal rights
guaranteed to men.”
As far as we are personally concerned, we
do not set a very high value upon political
lights, for their exercise merely. So long
as the political arena continues such a muddy
quagmire «s we now find it, we do not sup
pose thst a very large proportion of the
gentler sex would exercise their political
rights, were they in full and free possession
of them. Still, in onr opinion, it is a manifest
injustice and absurdity that one half the
people of these United States should be ex
cluded from political privileges, simply be
cause they are women. He who can arrive
at the irrational conclusion that this it right,
ought to be prepared to adopt the Turkish
custom of excluding woman from the social
circle, and to huddle her away, under
thick veils, .within the four walls of a
Harem. The arguments for both customs
are very nearly alike, and equally fallacious.
The proceedings of the Convention are said
to have been conducted with much dignity.
We du not doubt it. Of this, at all events,
we are very sure, that a certain honorable”
assemblage we wot of, which occasionally
indulges in a little pistol exercise, and other
gentlemanly accomplishments, might take an
example from this Woman’s Convention.
Among the resolutions adopted was ooe to
the effect that we, the women of Ohio,
will hereafter meet annually in convention, to
consider and adopt measures for the removal
of the various disabilities, political, social
and religious, to which women as a class are
subject.” If they peisevere in this spirit,
they must ultimately gain their object.— j. d.
Um Bf-rornrous Notsae.-These Strang
manifestations, whieh we had treated wouli
long ere this have been exposed and explod
ed, seem, (if we may credit what we find ii
print,) to be spreading in all directions, am
becoming more and more singular and difficul
of explanation. We find, in the Newbavei
Journal and Courier a long and very fabul
oua-looking story, respecting the doings o
the spirits,” in the house of the Rer. Dr
Phelps, of Stratford, Conn. We should ai
once set the matter down as a hoax, were il
not for the well-attested respectability of that
gentleman. As it is, we are sufficiently fat
from giving credence to the story. Those
unseen agents, by whom the Dr. is haunted,
be they matter ei spirit, are clearly a great
annoyance, and it is not at all wonderful that
he should be anxious to discover who or what
they are. They unlock and unbolt doors
hide hats, boots, gloves, &c.; rnd perform
other mischievous Harlequin tricks, sufficient
to throw into the shade the reputation of a
Chinese juggler. Eastern papers are just
now full of this subject. The Tribune has
a notice of it; the Sun devotes three long
columns to it; sod we must confess, with all
our hatred of imposture and unwillingness to
believe theae abourdities to be the work of
disembodied spirits, that it is much easier to
laugh at, deride and villify, than to explain
and account for them.— J. d.
Thk Galphin Claim.—lii the year 1773
a large track of land in the then colony of
Georgia, waa ceded by the Indiana, the pro
ceeds of which were to be devoted to the
payment of their debts to Indian traders,
among whom was Mr. Galphin. The heirs of
this person, or speculators, who bought
their claims, made frequent application to the
Legislature of Georgia for payment; but that
body repudiated the claim altogether.—Fail
ing to get the Senate to acknowledge the
claim an effort was made to pass through the
Legislature of Georgia of resolution to the ef
fect that the Senators and Representatives ot
Georgia in Congress be requested to urge
upon the United States government the pay
ment of the chum of George Galphin. The
resolutions was rejected by a vote of 96 to
153.
Ten years ago, the Galphin claiments
brought the matter before Coogiess, and, by
constant and laborious effort, succeeded in
getting their claim acknowledged. An se
was passed referring it to the Secretary of the
Treasury, during the term of Mr. Walker;
and the claim waa by him allowed shortly
betore the accession ofGea. Taylor. Subse
quently, emboldened by succoss, the claim
ante made a demand for interest. This elaim
Mr. Whittlesey, the Auditor, refused; but the
present Secretary of the Treasury under He
advice of the Attorney General, directed that
it should be allowed, audit was paid. The
original claim was a littia under $50,000.
The interest wan $192,000. It has never
been the custom of the government to pay
interest on cisims; and there seems no rea
son why an exception should have been mad
in favor of the Galphin claimants. With
much more reason might the French claim
mts previous to IBooj demand interest on
iheir claims.
This Galphin business is now before a
Committee of Congress undergoing inveatiga-
Heroic. —Jenny Lind bee been offered
£30,000 to aiog at the Imperial Concert* a.
the Court of Austria. Her teply to the
dexiting offer was Hungary!”
The cholera hae appeared at Camdem, Ark
and three death* occurred on the 91 nit.
E «w»M Affair,.
Ditriog the oowee of the pa weak, two
•teamen bsve arrived fnm England— tha
Cambria and the Canada. The latter arrived
at Halifax on Thursday last.
England. The Rueeell Cobnut had suf
fered aeverai defeats, and ere ibis have pro
bably given is their resignation. Very few,
we think, will be found to regret tueir die
mieeal. They have proved manifest!* in
competent for the position they oooepiod,
«d have retained it these three years and
epwarda simply because it wsa difficult to de
cide upon their successors. Sir Robsrt
vpoken of as the moot likely man to
take the lead in the incoming administration.
This conjecture is probably well-founded.
It is certain, however, that the Minister who
would govern England, be be Whig or Con
servative, must adopt reformatory measures,
and eschew for ever the old and worn-out
system et consulting only the interests of the
aristocracy, while the masses are doomed to
groan and labbr undet perpetual misery and
deprivation. The chief defeat sustained by
the Ministry, was on a portion of the Chan
cellor’s Budget, which proposed s reduction
of the duty on stamps from one-half per cent
to half a-crown on all engagements under
One of the Stanley Conservative party
moved an the dutj to
is. which was carriiJ ftnidat loud applause.
The excise duty on paper, stamps, Sic.,
gave rise to an animated debate, in the corns
of which the Chancellor said that he was rs
luetant to continue those taxes, but the state
of the finances would not permit their repeal.
A Bill bawbeen introduced by Government
prohibiting intramural interments.
Another expedition, under Sit Jamep Ross,
is fitting out for the Arctic regions, in search
of Sir John Franklin. The expedition was
expected to sail about the first of May.
In Ireland, the principal topics of discus
sion were the Lord Lieutenancy and the at
tempts of O'Connell to tevive 'the repeal
movement.
Fxancc. The public mind appears to be
engrossed with the approaching elections.
Ihe social 4 fabric is in a complete state' of
unrest in that country. One may most truly
•ay respecting it, that “we know not what a
day may bring forth.” That France can
long remain in its present position, under
such tyrannical and incompetent government,
is altogether unlikely. Some change either
to Imperialism or a differentlyj constructed
Republican system, may ere long be anticipa
ted. The Socialists are especially active at
ihe present time. At their meetings some of
them indulge in very irreligious and ruffian
ly language. The Abbe Chatel is reportsd
to have said that he “knew no God but tbe
Sun, and him only because he is visible.”
This fire-worshipper said also,that he thought
‘‘the Christian religion had made s great
mistake, in aetting bounds to the gratification
of the passions.” Heaven preserve France
and every other country from Socialiam! Ths
French funds are gradually receding in value.
A sign this that the merchants, are expect
ing some change. The President it is said,
has resolved to resign if he is not well auppor
ted by the Assembly. He can well be spared.
Italy. At last it seems that Rome is
about to be blessed with the presence of her
long-expected Pope. A triumphal arch
Which had been erected in honor af the re
turn of His Holiness, at a town some 18
miles from Rome, was one night burned
down. What this runaway and now return
ing Pope has done, that a triumphal arch
should be eteeted to his honor, the newspa
pers are not informed.
Russia. It would seem that notwithstand
ing all the jealousy and watchfulness of the
Russian Government, democratic sentiments
ara spreading rapidly throughout the Empire;
and a ohange of some description, if not s
violent revolution is not far distant. Some of
the wealthy merchants of Peterburg and else
where are sending their money to England
for safe-keeping; while some of the leading
man of Russia have taken refuge in foreign
lands, under the pretext of infirm health. It
is not possible to conceive that this country
can much longer submit to the dictation of
an Emperor—and he none of the best or
wisest. The sit of Printing and the school
master—those enemies of all tyrants and
wrong doers, have gone thither also, and will
ere long turn the Russian world upside down.
The cause of humanity can lose nothing by
chfcnge in Ruaaia, though it does not appear
likely that any thing can be effected without
bloodshed—certainly no vital and Constitu
tional change, without a violent convulsion—
perhaps a bloody civil war.
Affairs in European countries generally,
look gloomily unsettled—as if the slightest
spark might set the whole once more in x
blaze. Kings, they know not how or why,
feel their seats insecure and tottering be
neath them. The whole struoture of society,
seems infirm disordered, and lending seme
whither—though it is not possible to predi
cate at present with what result. The old
Latin proverb, if true respecting the days of
Cesar, is doubly so re*peeling ours—“ Times
change, and we change with them.”—J. 0.
The Cuban Expedition Again.—lt ia
positively asserted that 350 men, pretending
diet California was their destination, left the
port on the Martha Washington of late, des
tined for Cuba; and with full intention to join
the recent expedition said to be organizing for
an assault on the government of the Island.—
Csi». Com.
Within a day or two several men have left
this city, and many have passed through here
from above, who it is stated, have been en
listed for the proposed expedition against Cu
ba. We understand they have been enjaged
for one year, and large pay baa been prouue
thero. Nothing more than that their desti
nation ia Chagres has been imputed to them
so far as we can learn. —LouisviUd Cour
Terrible Tornaeo at Nassau, N. P.—
The Nassau, (New Providence) Gazette of
the 30th ult., contains aceount* of a destruct
ive tornado at that place, which destroyed an
immense amount of property, The rain pre
viously fell in torrents, accompanied with e
moat terrific thunde., which was almost inces
sant towards the South. About mid-dav
darkness reigned supreme, and st one o'clock
the tornado came sweeping past, destroying
over 100 buildings; and sad to relate, eight
lives—three men, two women, and this*
children. Had the tornado happened in the
night, the loss ot life would have been aw
ful. A meeting had been ealled to adopt
measures for the relief of the sufferers.
■A table ia published stating number of
persons killed on the Massachusetts railroads
last year st sixty four, injured, oae
rod two,
From the N.Y. Tribune 
Speech of Daniel Webster at Boston 
Mr. Webster rose in the carriage, and wa
received with loud cheers. After the train
bad iq some measure subsided, he proceeds*
to say that, it was with great pleaiure tha
be met so large an assemblage of his friendi
at a time when his private affairs had called
him from the seat of government to his Own
home. As you hav# said, air, said be, tht
duties of the winter in the public Council ol
the country htve been arduous. I am sorry
to say, those arduous duties are not done
with. 1 im sorry to say, that the public affairs
of the country have not yet made so much
progress towards satisfactory adjustment ai
to remove all the anxiety which haa beer
felt about the adjustment of the subjects un
der discussion; but I feel authorized now tt
ssy, there is raason to hope—reason to ex
pect, that further reflection—that a generow
comparison of various wishes where we die
agree, will bring about that improved stale o
publiic feeling, in the reproduction of whirl
all the expectations of useful discharge o
public duty—all our expectationa of usefu
legislation must depend. I cannot but feel
sir, that 1 stand in the presence of my friends
I must regard this gathering as the persona!
tribute of your welcome to me. You do noi
welcome the politician, and this is not an op
portunity for discussing those questions which
now agnate the community and the Govern
ment; questions which can leave little repost
in the mind of any intelligent man, till b«
can see some probability that from their dis
cussion an adjustment ipajr co-ne, in favtug
the prosperity, peacenappiness, ana conttlfVßV
Union of the country.
Gentlemen, I have felt it my duty on a law
occasion, to make an effort to bring abou
some amelioration of that excited feeling ot
this subjeot which pervades the people ot tht
country eveiywhere, North and South—l<
make an effort also to restore the Governmem
to its proper capacity for discharging the pro
per business of the country; let me say i
is unable to discharge that business; that i
may regain that capacity there is a necesai
ty for effort, both in Congress and out of Con
greas; neither you nor I shall see the Legis
lature of the country proceed in the old har
moniou# way until the discussion in Congress
and ij|f of Congress, upon the subject t<
which you have alluded shall be in some waj
suppressed; take that tralh home with you
and take it as truth until something can b<
done to allay the feeling now separating mer
of different sections, there can be no usefu
and satisfactory Legislation in house:
of Congress. Mr. Curtis, and gentlemen
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts ha:
done me the honor to place tue as represents
live, as one of her representatives in Congress
I have believed that she would approve m tn<
any honest, cautious and sincere effrota to al
lay the discussion which we see among thi
people of the country and to restore Congresi
to its constitutioual capacity for action, j
have believed that the Commonwealth of Mas
aachusetts would support her represenlatm
in that course. 1 have believed that the genera
aentiment of the whole courtry would favoi
and encourage their efforts in it, and I havt
the satisfaction now to believe, and in tha
belief I shall not be disappointed—(cheers)—
however that may be, that effort 1 shall re
pest —(renewed cheering) in that course o:
pacification I shall persevere, regardless ol
all personal consequences. (Three cheers.)
I shall minister to no local prejudices. I shall
auppoit no agitations, having their foundation
in mere ghostly abstraction. (Laughter and
•hears.) 1 shall say nothing which may fos
ter the unkind passions—separating the North
from the South—may my tongue cleave to
the roof of my mouth, before it may utter any
sentiment which thsll increase the agitation
in the publis tnind on such a subject.
(Cheer.) Sir, I have said that this is Dot an
occasion for politiaal discussion. I confess
that if the time and circumstances gave an
opportunity, 1 should not be indisposed to ad
dress the people of Massachusetts directly
upon the duty which the present exigencies
of affaiis bad devolved upon her, this great
and glorious Csramos wealth upon ibe
duty at least which it devolves upon us who
represent her in the national legislature—
this will not be such an opportunity. I have
an occasion in my seat in the Senate, to
which I shall immediately return, to give my
opinions upon some topics of an interesting
character —topics in regard to some of which
there exist both misstatements and misappre
hension the greatest misstatement, the
greatest misapprehension, especially so far as
I am concerned, 1 may simply mention one
of then tomes —the delivery of fugitives from
service. \V ith regard to that question there
exin the greatest prejudices, the greatest
misapprehensions. 1 do not wonder at the
misapprehensions. 1 am well aware that is
a topic which must excite prejudices. 1 can
very well feel what the prejudices are which
it must very naturally bung up in the minds
of the good people of this Commonwealth.
But, Mr. Cuitis, and gentlemen, there are, in
regard to that topic, duties absolutely incum
bent on the Commonwealth—duties imposed
by the Constitution—absolutely incumbent oh
every peison who holds office in Mas
sachusetts; under her ewn constitution and
laws, and those of the nation, she is bound,
and persons are bound, in the discharge of the
duty—a disagreeable duty—we call upon her
to discharge that duty, as an affair of high
morals and high principles—we show to her
and we ask her to resolve perfor
mance of duty, though i. be a disagreeable
duty. Any man can perform an agreeable
duty; but it is not every man who can per
form a disageesble duty. Any man can do
what is altogether pleasant.
The question now is whether Massachu
setts —whether the old State of Msssachu
setts* improved by two centuries of civiliza
tion, renowned for her intellectual character,
mighty in her moral power, conspicuous be
fore the world, a leading State in this count
ry ever since it was a country, a leading State
in the Union ever since it was a Unian—the
question is whether Massachusetts wiili shrink
from, or come to a fair and reasonable and
moderate performance, and no more than a
fair and reasonable and a moderate perfor
mance of ber sworn obligations. 1 think she
will—(eheeis.) Sir, the question la whether
Massachusetts will aland to the truth against
tonptauoa—whit ter she will be just against
temptation —whether she will defend herself
against her own prejudices. She lies con
quered eveiything else in her time, she has
conquered this ocean which was her shore,
she has conquered her inflexible climate, she
has fought her way to the universal respect
of the.woild,ahe has conquered every body’s
prejudices but her own—the question is,
whether she will conquer her own prejudices.
I shall return to the Senate to put that ques
tion to her, in presence of that common mo
ther who shall deal it to her heart—(cheers.)
In the meantime, let me repeat that I tread
no step backwards—(cheers. 1 am devoted
to the restoration of peace, haimony, concord,
out of Congress, and auch a degree of mutual
co-operation in Congress, as many enable u
to carry ou once more the legitimate business
of the Government. The Union, for the
preseivalion of which I strive—the union of
Mutes for which I strive—is not merely a
union of law, or constitution, of compact, but
while it is that, it is a union or brotherly re
gard, of fraternal feeling throughoulihe whole
country. 1 do not wish that any portion of
the people of this country shall feel held to
gether only by the boride of a legal corpora
tion, bonds which some of them may think
restrained their limbs, cramped their affec
tions, galled "and worried them; on the contra
ry, that they shall be bound together by
those unseen, soft, easy-sitting chains, that
rssult from generous affections, and from a
sense of common interest and common pride;
in short, fellow-citizens, my desire and my
labor is, to see that sute of things produced
in which, filling all bosoms with gratitude,
all hearu with joy—illuminating all faces,
spreading through all ranks of people, whe
ther rich or poor, whether north, south, east
ft treat, theft shell exist the balm of all our
•offering, the great solace of our politic*]
Ct]amma», in the great and glorious future,
and that i* a lore of an united gotrenmtent.
Mr. Webster dosed amidst voeiferoui
cheering, which lasted for aotne momenta,
i The meeting being in the open air, the treat
l crowd in their anxiety to see sad hear the
speaker, rushed upon the reporters tables
and antitely stopped the operations of moat
of them. In this dilemma, your reporter was
greatly indebted to Mr. Hale, of the Adver
tiser, for the report prepared for that paper.
The Voice of JHaaaachaaetta*
We publish below, the resolves concern
ing Slavery, which have been passed by the
Legislature of this Commonwealth. Several
weeks ago,the aeries passed the House of
Repreaentativest with only lour dissenting
voicea, and these were ostensibly given be
i cause the resolves were not stiong enough, or
on account of some patticular phraseology.
The resolves ware sent to the Senate, where
they were debated and amended, and passed
in their present hum, by a vote of 34 to 4.
On Saturday they came to the House again,
the amendments of the Senate were concurr
ed in, and the resolves passed to be engrossed
by s unanimous vote. We are therefore
justified in proclaiming them the “voice or
Massachusetts.” men of all parties voted
for them.— Boston Atlas.
Whereas, The people of Massachusetts,
acting under a solemn sense of duty, have
deliberately and repeatedly avowed their
purpose to resist the extension of slavery into
the national territories, or the admission of
1 irertnrrave Stutes tmo uw Union, e»r
these ends, to apply, in every practical mode,
the principles of the ordinance of 1787; also,
to seek the abolition, of slavery and the slave
trade in the District of Columbia, and the
withdrawal of the power and influence of the
general government from the support of sla
very, so far as the same may be constitution
ally done; and whereas, the important quea
nuns now before the country, make it desir
able that ther convictions snould be reaffirm
ed; therefore:
Resolved, That the people of Massachu
setts earnestly insist upon the application,
by Congress, of the Ordinance ol 1787, with
all possible sanctions and solemnities of law,
to the territorialall possessions of lh« Union,
in all parts of the Continent, and for all com
ing time.
Resolved, That the people ol Massachu
setts cherish the Union with unabated at
tachment; that they will support the Consti
tution; that appreciating the inestimable
benefits flowing from it, they believe it bel
ter for all parties and sections, with refer
ence to existing evils, to wait and work pa
tiently under and through the Constitution,
than to destroy it; and have no doubt
that they hold these sentiments in common
with overwhelming majorities of the people
of these United States; but, in any event,
they will follow their principles, deterred by
no threats of disunion, and no fear of conse
quences.
Resolved, That the integrity and perman
ence of American power on the Pacific
Ocean, the increase of our commerce and
wealth, the extension of our institutions, and
the cauae of human freedom oh this Contin
ent, require the immediate admission of Cali
fornia into this Union, with her present Con
stitution, without reference to any other ques
tion or measure whatever.
Resolved, That the sentiments of the peo
ple of Massachusetts, as expressed in their
legal enactments, in relation to the deliver
ing up of fugitive slaves, temains unchanged;
and, inasmuch ss the leg station relating to
this subjeet, is within the exclusive Ijurisdic
tion of Congress, we hold it to be the duty
of that body to pass such laws only, in re
gard thereto, as will be sustained by the pub
lic sentiment of the free States, where such
laws are to be enforced, and which shall es
pecially secure to all persons whose surrender
may be claimed, as having escaped from la
bor and service in other States, the right of
baviag the validity of such claim determined
by a jury in the State where such claim is
made.
Resolved that the people of Massachusetts,
in the maintenance of these, their well-known
and invincible principles, expect that all their
officers and representatives will adhere to
them, at all times, on all occassions, under
all circumstances.
Resolved, That his Excellency the Gov
ernor be requested to transmit a copy of these
resolutions to each of the Senators and Rep
resentatives of Massachusetts, in the Con
gress of the United States.
Mrs, Sviasholm’a opinion of Cal. Bentos,
Daniel Webstar, Clay, dec..
I tell you Benton ‘is a glorious old man.’
with the dignity of age and the vigor sod fire
of youth. Clay and Webster are pigmies
beside him, and their drivelling arguments
about compromises, and tear for the sately
of our glorious Union, just sound like twaddle
beside his sledge-hammer eloquence—his
plain, practical truths. I never dreamed he
was so great a man until 1 saw him.
The friends of California have reason to
remember him, for he has labored faithfully
to have her admitted without delay. From
the common reports of Congressional pro
ceedings, one has little ides of the earnestness
•f the efforts here on both sides. There is
no Whig and Democratic party in Congress.
Foote, Butler. Clay, and Csm, aland shoul
der to shoulder, and fight in a solid phalanx.
W hen Benton is likely to corner them with
his arguments, Mr. Clay will leave his seat,
glide over io Mr. Cass or Mr. Foote, and
exchange whispers. A consultation will be
held—heads nodded in token that that will
do, and he will return to bring up some fresh
amendment; or Mr Mangum, whig, will
come and whisper to one of them, then the
other, and sirange nutters for a vote, while
Messrs. Benton and Hsmlin, stand side by
side with Northern Whigs, or rather a littlo
in advance of most of them.— Since I have
been here, the burden appears to fall upon
Mr. Benton, and nobly he sustains it. The
warmest advocates of freedom appear as if
by mutual consent, to yield him the prece
dence. Hale and Chase every little while
step in and take an honorable part, buMfien
ton is the lion. 1 fear greaify
North is destined to defeat—disgraceful de
feat.
Gen. Taylor’s policy of non-inte{f*renee
with the territories, is the very outermost that
may be hoped; and so fat as 1 can juddge, ail
the Free Sutlers are ready to support this as
the best that can be done—leave th« territo
ries to form governments tor themselves; but
this, Heniy Clay am* the ultra. Southerners
will detest if possible. Clay is likely to have
his revenge on Gen. Tsyloi, by thwarting his
measures and embarrassing his administration.
—Webster, too, who never gave the old
General a very hearty support, has refused to
support his measures. Gen. Taylor here
stands very high as su honest man. It is a
common remark, from friends and enemies,
“He is an honest old gentleman, and haa a
great deal of good, sound sense.” He ap
peals to command the respect of all parties
for hia honesty and good sense, that is, so far
as these qualities are deemed respectable.
But very tew appear to think them of much
importance in a President. Diplomacy,
conning and skill are ine requisites for suc
cess in managing the sharpers who here do
congregate. “The old stagers” can baffle
and embarrass men of the strongest minds
who are not acquainted with their subteifuge
and tricks.
Nsw Mexico.— -Letters fiom Washington
state that intelligence has been received very
I recently from New Mexico, showing that the
people are about to provide (or the formation
I of a slate government. A regulaily organi
sed convention will soon be assembled there
as in California, the object of which will be to
adopt a constitution, and prepare, in proper
I form, sn application to Congress for admission
ss a state. There can be no reasonable doubt
i that this convention will establish a perpetual,
prohibition of Slavery within the border* of
INew Mexico, just as the people of California
have done for their state. The population of
the district which will probably seek admis
sion as a state, is estimated to be now little
under one hundred thousand.
The Nicarangna Treaty.
iCormpoadeace af the Baltimore Pa trie I.
Washington, April 27.
As it ia now beyond doubt that the Ni
caraugua treaty will be ratified by a full, if
not unanimous vote of the Senate, i am en
ab'ed to give you an authentic iynopsis of its
pi oris ions.
The treaty exempts the whole of Cen
tral America, including the states of Hon
durse, Guatemala, Sen Salvador, Nicaraugua
and the entire Mosquito coast, from the dom
inion and control of any foreign power. This
comprises the whole region extending through
the isthmus, which divides North from South
America—a distance of from ten to twelve
hundred miles.
It provides for the protection of the canal
from San Juan de Nicaraugua to such point
on the Pacific coast as the company may se
lect.
It invites the protection of all other nations
which.may be friendly to either ofthe two great
contracting powers, vjx: Gieat Britain and
the United States.
All nations shall enjoy the use of the canal
upon payment of the same lolls, and such
toils ahall be reasonable.
may be withdrawn in case of ex
tion or unjust discrimination in favor of one
natiou_uv(jyr another.
No natien shall be permitted the use of the
canal without'first joining in the guaranty
of piotection.
The local governments in the vicinity of
the canal upon the isthmus, are required to
join in ibis guaranty of protection.
Frick Ports are to be established at the
terminus upon either ocean—and no duties
may be collected by any nation upon merchan
dise threngh the canal, under anas pretence
whatever.
In time of war no vessal ahall be de
tained under blockade.
All other routes, including the Tehuan
tepec route, and other projects now in contem
plation, or whiah shall originate hereafter
under proper regulations, shall be protected
ind recognized by all nations on the same
erms.
The capitalists who may be engaged in any
>r all of these routes, shall be protected un
it their completion, and forever thereafter
>y all nations who are, or shall become,
parties to this international compact.
Thus the independence and peace of C'en
ral America ia guarantied forever, by all the
;reat leading powers known to civilization;
ind far this independence she is indebted to
he American Republic.
It will be rembered by all who know any
hing of the history of English policy in CeB
ITs! America, that great concessions from
that government were necessary to the for
mation of such a treaty as this.
Her poeseasory rights over different por
tions ot that large and, in many respects val
uable territory, (as it furnishes choice woods,
is mahogany and other kinds, as well as
Jther productions,) exteud back more then a
sentury. All of these rights, with the
exception of her little ancient colony of the
lielise, which is about 800 miles distant from
the proposed canal she has surrendered.
Ii will be recollected that Mr. Polk offered
sve hundred millions of dollaisfor the privil
ege ofthe Tehuantepec route, and was de
feated by English diplomacy from obtaining
n, even at that enormous price. Now we
iiave all these privileges without the coast of
single dollar, and we secure them partly,
ioo, by the co-operation of the veryj power
with which we were negotiating, and which
aolds a possession upon the Isthmus, while
we have not a tingle acre there. This most
remarkable treaty has no parallel, I will ven
ure to say, in the annals of English diplom
acy and yet the wisdom of this liberal policy
hi the part of that Government is apparent.
Emily Russell.
Our readers will recollect tha case of the
young woman who was sold at Alexandria,
ind the piteous letter which the victim wrote
o her mother, Mrs. Cartwright, of this city,
l'be whole case, if recited in detail, would
fill a volume; and such a volvme we hope will
be written, whenever the public mind of this
nation shall become propeily aroused to the
crimes and woes of slavery. It is announced,
on the authority of Bruin and Hill, the slave
dealer, that Emily Russell has been released
from the grasp of avarice and the touch of
polution, by the finger of the Almighty, who
has taken her to that land where the servant
is fiee from his master. She died in Georgia
on her way to the far South.
A gentleman in this city, who is intimate
ly acquainted with Mrs. Cartwright, has cal
led to mention a few facta in regard to the
effect of the reception of his news by the mo
ther of the victim. When she was finally
compelled to give up all hope of dedeeming
her beloved daughter from the dreadful doom
lo which she had been sold, and when she
learned that the eoffle had actually departed
for the South, the hapless molhor drooped
like a stricken woman; she no longer lifted
up her head, or took a part in the privileges
of life Her mind was with that daughter
—“gone, gone, aold and gone,”—on her
weary way to her dreadful destiny. At
'length, one day, our informant called on her.
“Have you heard anything from my daugh
ter!” “Yes, I have,” was ihe reply, Tet
ter from Bruin and Hill.” “And what is
the news!” The friend thought it best to
give a direct answer—“ Emily is dead.” Tha
mother immediately lifted up her eyes and
raised her hand toward heaven and exclaimed
—“Thank the Lord: this is what 1 have
prayed for, most earnestly, that if she could
not be liberated, she might die before she
reached the market.” She said she eonsid
ered it an answer to her prayers; and that
she had long felt a confidence that God would
not lay upon her a buidenshe could not bear.
He had been so good to her at all times, that
she had still trusted in him; and he did not
deceive her hope. Here she recounted some
of the leading events of her life to show
what God had done for her in eveiy exigen
cy. She is distinguished for the habit of re
ferring all event* to the band of God, “who
doeih ail things well.”
We aeuord this little memorandum because
many of our readers might not, at fitet thought
realize how s Christian slave mother views
slavery as the condition of her children; and
what are her feelings when they are emanci
pated by the stroke of death.— The lndpen
dent.
No Rrspkcter of Persons. —The “body
servant” (which means slave) of Mr. Calhoun
died on the same day with his master, a few
hours alter. They went, almost side by side
to that dread tribunal where the scourge and
the belter are known no more—where roaster
and slave stand on equal footing before a
tribunal not appointed by a slaveholding
President to declare slavery law—where no
solemn resolutions of Legislatures mystify
God’s eternal truth—where no fierce, unrea
soning, blood-thirsty mob can murder the
friend of freedom, nor drive out him who
would appeal to their own laws—where no
Nashville Convention shall threaten to dis
solve the Universe unless the crimes of hell
be enthroned instead of the Almighty—where
the fiendish sneer levelled in social life at him
who abhors the tyranny of slavery, shall
shrink abashed before the eye of omnipotent
goodness where no adulation of fellow
eriminals, no loud acclaim of insolent parti
sans no solemn words of mockery in death
can shield the tyrant from the penalty of bis
deeds.
Surely, when we think of these things,
we cannot wondering why the slave
ceraey do not mob death, for daring to re
duce the pride and dignity of the “first fami
lies of Qiigioia” toalevel with “body set
vaota.”—Burlington V f.) Courier,
DlatoUM*.
[From the New York Herald.]
In regard to these anniversaries, we canuoi
leave the subject without noticing it in a man
ner at once serious and impressive. Tb«
present is a moment when we stand almost,
as it wore, on the brink of a dissolution of tbs
Union—a separation of these States—and,
perhaps, a long and bloody civil war. What
has brought about this awful state of things!
What has excited the South almost to a pitch
of madness* We answer, in the main, the
action of these very societies. They gather
in Nsw Terk tie first and second weeks in
May, to compart notes, hold meetings, and
raise money. They are all of one side ol
thinking in regard to slavery. There is no
opposition. When they meet, they have
their own way, and no cheek. They come
from all sections, very much excited about
the institution of slavery in the South, and
the wrongs of their colored brethren sod
sisters. They mix with then*, eat, dnnk,
pray preach, bing, and, by the time the
week is over, they are ready to go home to
their various aeetiona, raving, nark, staring
mad on the topic, and diaaeminate their out
rageous and false sentiments all throngh the
length and breadth of the free States. The
South here of these raving, and fancy the
whole North are engaged in them, instead
of these few miserable fanatics. This sla
very question will not only shake the politics
elements of our Union to its fall, but tf so, the
Protestant Church of Christ, in this country,
will be engulphed in its rains. The chureh
of St. Paul and St Peter—the holy Catholic
Church—is governed by farseeing men, and
this churefe rofwhcs to iws or medriia fjUi
the institution, and, in consequence, it spread
ing in the South, and all over the land. The
Methodist Church in the South will not have
anything to do with their brethren in the
North; and the detestation of the Preabyte
ian is becoming as universal in the South as
hatred to an abolitionist, for the name is
but the same thing. The Presbyterian, as a
church, is the fountain head of abotitionism,.
and the day is not far distant when a Presby
terian minister in the South, or even a lay
man, if he continues in communication with
the North, will have to run for his life, or
elseruu for martyrdom or crucifixion.
The merchants, men of business, and men
of property, in this city, should frown down
the meetings of these mad people, if they
would save themselves. What right have
■II the religious lunatics of the free States to
gather in this commercial city for purposes,
which, carried into effect, would ruin and
iestroy its prosperity* Will the men of sense
illow meetings to be held in this city, which
■re calculated to make our country the arena
af blood and murder, and render our city an
abject of horror to the whole South* We
hope not. Public opinion should be regulated.
These abolitionists should not be allowed to
misrepresent New York. They are to hold
iVhree day’s meeting at the Tabernacle, com
mencing on May 7th. Tuesday morning next,
at 10, A. M. Here is where ail political fac
tions can unite. All who are opposed to
having our city disgraced, should go there,
speak their views, and prevent it Xet all
uf our honest citizens, who respect them
selves, their wives, their mothers, their sis
ters and daughters, and of comae, the honor
and dignity of the city in which they reside,
go on Tuesday morning to the Tabernaele.
and there look at the black and white breth
ren and sisters, fraternizing, slobbering over
each other, speaking, praying, singing, blas
pheming, and cursing the constitution of our
glorious Union, and then say whether these
things shall go forth to the South and the
world, as the the great city of New
York. Every citizen has a right, legally,
u;d more than morally, to have his say at the
imalgamatiou meeting on Tuetday. The
Union expects every man to do his duty, and
duty to the Union in the present crisis,
points out to us that we should tllow no
more fuel to be placed uj>on the fire of aboli
iouism in our midst, when we can prevent it
oy sound reasoning and calm remonstrances.
Anti-Slavery Protracted Meeting*.—
These meetings will commence to-day, and
willcieate a greater sensation than the pro
tracted meetings of Doctor Finney, in this
oily, ten or twelve years ago, or of the
jumpers in Wales, thirty years ago, when
three or four thousand in an hour fell to the
ground in fits, foaming at the mouth, and
mad as insanity could make them. The
anti-slavery delegates, of every hue and of
eveiy clime, will pour upon us by Monday,
and on Tuesday they wiH assemble to give
people a true notion of what free discussion
can accomplish. They will be full of all
kinds of assaults upon all kinds of decency
and upon liberty itself. They will assault
the people, the nation, the constitution, the
representatives and senators in Congress as
sembled, the President, the laws and the
press. Having dealt their blows upon these,
till the game is Stale, they will next attack
the church, then the clergy, then the Sab
bath, then the Bible, then everything di
vine and human, throughout the world, quar
relling among themselves at a fearful rats,
and possibly kicking up a disgraceful riot, in
order to become martyrs to their false pa
tnotism, false, pride, and sincere folly.
Such will he the plan, the plot; the scenes
can as yet scarcely be sketched. The house
will be an overflowing one; and if, in the
rush for places, the public should become in
terested and get upon the stage, and the
tables, by talking down and voting down the
actors, it would be a case of real free discus
sion —popular opinion rising superior to local
prejudice, and producing a good result out of
the most mischievous elements. We shall
he interested to know how this drama pro
ceeds, and whether or not it will be in one
act or more. A great deal can be done ta
three days. Three battles otay be won io
that time.
The fanatics, or ultras, of the North—the
Garrisons, the Abby Kellys, the Chases, the
Sewards, and so on—are equally sincere in
trying to do what the ultra Southern class
dread that the whole North are trying to do.
The abolitionists are sincere and honest.
They do not conceal their designs; they say
to the South.—“ God is with ns, and he is
down on you slaveholders. Abolish slavery,
fraternize with the negroes, ot backed by
Jehovah, we will make you do it, or you
must take the consequences. You shall see
your house* burned, your wives and your
daughters violated, your men—fathers, bro
thers, and sons—butchered before their eyes;
and thus, and so, God and we will restore
his negro children and (our colored brethren
to their equality and natural right*.” These
people are honest and above-board. They
don’t want any compromise. They, and
their repreaen la lives in Congreaa oppose it.
From California.—'The Sun has received
from its correspondent at Vera Cruz advices
from California to the 7th instant. These ac
countsgstate that the markets continue dull.—
Goods of all kinds were plenty. The rainy
season had nut completely passed over, and
was preventing the transportation of provis
ions to the miuee. Provisions, consequently,
were very scarce, and the miners were re
ported as su (Turing severely. The winter had
been severe and extended to the remote plsees,
and it was (Wared that from the scarcity of
food, much sickness might ensue among the
miners in some sections.
Gold is said to be found in gieater abund
ance than e* er; and that heavy quantities have
been lately worked out. The continuation of
the rainy season has prevented the gold being
brought down to San Franeisco for shipment
home, or to exchange for the necessaries of
life; but the merchants were anticipating tet
ter times as aeon as spring had fairly set in.
The Albany Journal states that a mechanic
in that city has invented iron morbie mantel
pieces, which are di siined to become popular.
A new paper is to be established at Wash
ington, in th« oltra slavery interest, of which
Elwood Fisher is to be editor,
Tm Break Dows Wbiimwi. Thi
“break-down whipping*, ’’as they are jfeor
e d on the plantations, ate usually di n
placing the slave with Ins face to a pout in
which is framed a cross-bar. An iron col
lar or ring is put round his neck and fastened
to the post. The arms are exteoded each
way and fastened to the cross-bar by ting*
around the wrist. They are then stripped
bare, and thus are whipped from twenty-fin
to fifty lashes and upwards, and sometimes
as long as a man can continue to use the
whip without being exhausted, and they often
die there under the lash. If a slave is brought
down from Kentucky or Virginia, and sold
to a planter at the South,and it is understood
that he has any pride, or occasionally as
sumes a degree of independence unbecoming
a slave, or shows any reluctance against be
ing driven beyond what is consistent and hu
mane, he is, as the drivers say, “getting 100
damned smart,,! and must have a small touch
of the “Mississippi break-down;” and with
out any further ceremony he is put on the
post and whipped untill the driver thinks he
“will not be quite so smart.” And in many
cases it is necessary to repeat this “break
down” operation a number of times before
the “smartness” will all pass out of them.—
Pract. Christian.
Slate Suits.—The following it from the
Cass Co. (Mich.) Advocate:
Mr. Pratt, cf Marshall, Attorney for the
Kentucky Plaintiffs in six separate suits
against seven of our citizens—cause of action,
for having a sympathetic heart, and for desir
ing u» see all men have their natural and
1 legal rights according to tha laws or ihe land
—is here taking testimony. Mr. Pratt
brought with him D. D. Hughes, a Com
misaioner. to take affidavits, who resides in
Marshall, who acted as Mr. Pratt's Clerk in
the Marshall Slave Case, in taking the testi
mony in, and perhaps out of Court. The
persons chosen defendants, from whom money
is demanded to satisfy the plaintiffs, not for
any violation of law, nor for any wrong
which they have done in the sight of God or
man, are among our best and most worthy
citizens. They all, except two belong to
the Society of Friends, who are universally
admitted to lie a quiet and law abiding people.
There is not one among the number who
would do a wrong, that good might come.
Wcman-Whippino of tub Plantations.
—The whipping of women on plantations is
in a different manner. Their frock is turned
up over their head, and they are made to lie
down with their face to the ground, their
arms extended and tied to a stake. A board
is then taken, which is prepared in shape
like a shovel. The wide part full
of small holes, and with this they are beaten
on the bare fleih, from twenty-five to two
hundred blows. After these blows are re
peated a few times, the skin tears away, and
the blood and flesh are driven through these
holes with grelt force and flies several feet
from them, and yet this is very modest and
“mederate correction.”
Females are required to do as much work
on a plantation a* men, and there are gene
rally about thirty women to seventy men.
The treatment of slave women is so severe,
and their labor so hard, that very few child
ren are raised on the sugar or cotton planta
tions; and if they are alive at birth, they grow
up feeble and puny, and from neglect and the
want of proper cleanliness and care very few
become men and women.
Vikuinia on thic Nashville Convention
—Out of nearly one hundred and forty coun
ties in the Slate of Virginia, only twelve are
known to have moved in favor of the proposed
Nashville Convention. Not a single county
in Virginia west of the Alleghanies is yet
known to have declared in favor of it.
“The only indications from the trans-Alle
ghany county [says the Richmond Whig]
consist iu strong resolutions of approvel of
Mr. Beale’s opposition to the Nashville Con
vention. Is all that region to be set down as
unsound? From the Blue Ridge to the Ohio
there has been profound silenoe or loud dis
sent; certainly not one word of approbation
has reached our ears.”— National Intelligen'
cer.
Slave Market.—Go to the slave market
New Orleans, in the Arcade, on days of auc
tion sales for slaves, and you will see and
learn what you cannot in any other in
the world but a slave market. For it is here
before you in unmistakable character, how
completly unfeeling, inhuman and brutalized
a man can become, and yet be a “gentleman”
and “respectable.”
The number of slaves sold here at auction
is very great. There is a large number
of traders’ pens, where slaves are received on
consignmant, and sold on commission. The
traders also buy for speculation. The laigest
of these establishments is in Esplenard street.
They are a long row of buildings, and on
the front step, on the side-walk, the Slaves
are made to stand for exhibition from 9 o’clock
in the morning till 4 o'clock in the afternoon.
There are often in these slaves-pens, arrang
ed in a line on the side-walk, from five to
eight hundred, and these are fine looking;
robust, stout, young men and girls, from the
age of sixteer to twenty-five. There are also
in rear of the public sale room in the Arcade,
a number of small rooms, occupied by negro
traders and speculators, who bring the ne
gros from their pens every day, and keep
them here for exhibition. This depot in the
Arcade is the largest slave maaket in New
Orleans.—“Neu? Orleans as it is
Sales of Slaves.—The New Orleans
Crescent of the 9ih instant has sundiy adver
tisements, in French and English, of Sher
iffs’ sales of property among which are four
lots of slaves, to wit: one lot containing 178
slaves, men, women and chiljren, ranging
from two years old to mature age; one, bf 114;
one, of 54; and one, of 147. They are to be
sold with the estates on which they work,
without reserve to the highest bidder—to
gether, four hundred and ninety-three persons
some of them infants, to be sold in New Or
leans market.THE WORLD OWES ME A LIVING!
BY-HORACE GREELEY.
“The world owes me a living, and
I’ll have it,” says some blackleg, as
he finishes a luxurious repast; “here,
landlord, another bottle of prime Ma
deria!” Half a dozen empty-headed
fops, who sit gazing on it by stealth in
silent admiration, hail the sentiment
with rapturous applause. “That’s it;
the world owes us a living and we’ll
have it! Landlord, more wine here!
we won’t go home till morning! Let’s
go it while we are young. Who cares
for expence?” The consequence of
this is, the pilfering ol money drawers,
the ignominious loss of employment,
genteel loaferism, &.c. 4 See., until one ol
these enterprising gentlemen, in eager
pursuit of the “good living” the world
owes him, puts the wrongjman’s name
to his cheek, or in some way gets a
ticket for the marble palace at Sing
Sing, where the State provides a “liv
ing” for those it considers deserving,
but not such a one as consorts with
their own estimate of their exalted
merits.
The great error in this case, is in
the original maxim. It is .false and
detestable. The world owes you a
living? Ho v owes? Have you earned
it by good service? If you have, whe
ther on the anvil, or in the pulpit, or as
a teacher, you have required a just
livelihood. But if you have earned,
or worse still, done little or no good,
the world owes you nothing. You may
be worth millions, and able to enjoy
every imaginable luxury without care
or effort, but if you have done nothing
to increase the sum of human comforts,
instead of the world owing you any
thing, as fools have babbled, you are
morally a bankrupt and a beggar.
Mankind are just awkening to con
sciousness of the duty resting on eve
ry man to be active and useful in his
day and in bis sphere. All are not
called to dig, or hew, or plough, or
plane- but every man has a sphere oi
usefulness allotted to him by Provi
dence, and is unfaithful to his trust if
he deserts it for idle pomp and heedless
luxury. Oue may be fitted by nature
and inclination for an artisan, another
for a sailor, but ho man ever born is
fitted for an idler and a drone. Those
who become such are the victims ol
perserve circumstances and a deplora
bly false education.
But has not the rich man the right to
enjoy his wealth Most certainly. We
would be the last to deprive him of it.
He has a natural and legal right to
possess and enjoy it in any manner not
injurious to others, but he has no moral
right to he useless because he has su
perior means of being useful. Let him
surround himself with all the true com
forts and luxuries of life; let the mas
terpieces of art smile upon him in his
galleries, and the mighty minds of all
ages speak to him from his library.
Let plenty deck his board, and the
faces of those he loves gather joyously
around. Let him possess in abundance
the means ot satisfying every pure and
just desire of his nature; and become
wiser, nobler, larger in soul, than his
less fortunate neighbor. But let him
never forget, and if he is properly
trained, he never can, that it is a sol
emn duty to be useful to his fellow
creatures, especially to the depressed
aud suffering—to labor for their bene
fit, and suffer, if need be for their ele
vation.
The servile idolatry with which igno
rance and vulgarity have looked to
power and wealth, the hosannahs which
the trampled millions have sung before
the ears of conquerers and other scour
ges of the earth—are fading, flitting
forever. In the twilight which suc
ceeds this gross darkness, there comes
a season of moral anarchy, when men,
having lost faith in the juggles which
once blinded and bound them, re
solved to believe nothing—to decry
and prostrate all that rises above its
lowest level.
WHAT I SAW ONE MORNING IN
INDIA.
A long but sleepless night in the
March of 1836, had fevered my blood,as
one morning, ere yet a single individual
was stirring about our quaiters, 1
strolled towards the mountain gorge,
and had stumbled almost to the top of
the stetep acclivity before the faint
flush of dawn had roused the sentinel,
whose call awoke the solitary pair of
musicians of our party, a drummer and
fifer, to sound the reveille. In ten
minutes more I stood panting on the
summit of the rock, gazing thirstily on
the scene beneath me, where Asiatic
beauty winded slowly before me, like a
glorious river, whose changeable wa
ters the eye tired not of drinking. I
had no fear of thief or thug, for a late
excursion in the district behind me
had assured me safety; but neverthe
less I started riolentlj when, from tha
branches of a stately peepul tree that
grew close by, a dark figure, that
seemed of human proportions, leaped
with a jibbering cry upon the ground.
I had no great reason to be alarmed,
for I saw not a man but a monkey—
one of those long-legged, brown mon
keys with white-streaked faces that
abound amongst these bights; and
which, probaby little less startled than
myself, receded as I advanced, jabber
ing its dissatisfaction at my intrusion.
At the foot of the peepul tree, throw
ing up its rich white petals, that shed
around a sweet but sickening odor,
grew a magnificent plant of the datura;
and as I stooped to pluck it* a rustle
in the underwood beyond, followed by
an acute, sharp scream, wmch I as
scribed to my (friend the monkey, ar
rested my hand. I had judged cor
rectly but I had underrated the num
ber of my early companions. With a
spring that brought to my feet,
making me in my turn retreat, the
monkey lay moaning, and as I thought,
violently convulsed among the grass;
nor did I at the moment perceive, wha
indeed I discovered with a degree of
horror, that round his body was twist
ed a gorgeous spotted snake the cobra
di-capello! I wish I could describe
the maddened contortioua of the mon
key, as, writhing beneath the straining
coils of the reptile, it rolled on the
grass in vain efforts to rid itself of its
deadly r '£ssailant. The piteous gaze of
its eyes, as they wistfully looked up in
to my face, was eloquent with a sum
mons for help "which I was by no means
inclined to resist. Whether the snake
bad bitten it or not, I could not guess,
for it seemed to me as if it were mere
ly playiug #ith the animal—that fatal
game which the cat plays with the
mouse! But I shouted, and threw a
stone, and then seizing a withered
branch that lay on the ground, I ad
vanced to the charge. The monkey,
which at another time would have, fled
at my approach, now remained perfect
ly motionleis, as if it. awaited certain
succor. But the serpent, aroused to
the cognisance of an assailant put its
horrid crest into that hood-like form
which renders it so appallingly hideous,
gave vent to a loud hiss that seemed
brimful of poison.
Again and again 1 struck at it: nor
was it without a cold thrill through my
veins that I beheld it disengage itself
from the monkey; but far from attempt
ing to make its escape, as I had conjec
hred it would do, it turned itself half
erect, towards me and with a fluttering
hobble—like the hop of a bird whose
wings have been broken—it leaped,
with forked tongue protruded, right in
to my very path! There was no time
for thought. My stick was neither
strong nor long. I could see the veno
mous eyes burn like fire, and the col
ors of its swelling neck glow more
deeply, as it prepared to spring again;
and I was fairly on the point of making
my retreat by plunging at all hazards
down the rock behind me, when a
shrill, chirrup cry, somewhat like that
of a guinea pig, was heard, and sud
denly an elegant little creature, which
at the moment I was well nigh ready
to spiritualize into a good genius,
sprung upon the serpent with a hound
of lightsome ferocity which reminded
me of the swoop of a kite upon a wa
ter-rat.
It was a mungoos! And now, in
deed, a combat took place which fixed
me to the spot in mute admiration; but
not for long. Once or twice it seemed
to me that the mungoos was bitten,
but it might not have been so; for the
velocity of their movements, as, cling
ing together, the snake and its foe rol
led over and over amongst the long
grass, prevented minute observation.
It is asserted that, when bitteff by a
snake, the ichneumon retires for a mo
ment to eat of some unknown plant,
capable of rendering null the viperine
venom; but on this occasion nothing
of the sort occurred. The mungoos
left not the conflict for a breathing
space; and at the end ofabeutten min
utes the cobra-di-capello lay dead torn
and mangled piecemeal by the little
animal, which frisked and danced about,
with a purring sound, in a perfect
frenzy of enjoyment.
As I held out my hand, actually be
lieving, in the enthusiasm of the mo
ment, that it would approach to receive
my caresses, the mungoos, giving a
bright, quiek look at me, stamped its
tiny hind-feet briskly on the relics of
the serpent, as if in scorn of its victim,
and disappeared amongst the brush
wood.
I had forgotten the poor rfronkey, I
found it stretched out, stiff and stark,
among the datura flowers. The mun
goos had come too late!
TIIE WORLD’S INDUSTRIAL
EXHIBITION.
The National Intelligencer, of Tues
day, has anhnteresting correspondence
between the Right Honorable Sir H.
L. Bulwer, the British Minister at
Washington, and the Hon. John M.
Clayton, Secretary of State, in respect
to the the World’s Exhibition to be
held in London in May, 1851.—Sir H.
L. Bulwer enclosed a copy of the Com
mission issued by the Queen, author
izing the Exhibition and also a copy of
a letter addressed to the Foreign of
ficers by the Board of Trade in Lon
don. He adds:
It is proposed that the exhibition in
question shall take place in London in
the early part of the year 1851, and
I have been instructed to express to
you the conviction, on the part of her
Majesty’s Government, that the United
States Government will be well dispos
ed to promote the success of this under
taking, and to request that you will
kindly enable me to comply with the
wishes expressed by the Board of
Trade on the part of the Commission
ers.
The above mentioned letter from the
English Board of Trade says:—
The exhibition will be divided into
four sections:
1. Raw materials and produce illus
trative of the natural productions on
which human industry is employed.
2. Machinery, for agricultural,
manufacturing, engineering and other
purposes, and mechanical inventions,
illustrative of the agents which human
ingenuity brings to bear upon the pro
ductions of nature.
3. Manufactures, illustrative of the
results produced by the operation of
human industry upon natural produc-
Jt>ns.
*-9*l. Sculpture, moulds, and the plastic
adi generally, illustrative of the taste
and skill displayed in such application
of human industry.
Mr. Clayton acknowledges in hand
some terms the reception of Sir H. L.
Bulwer’s communication and expresses
the belief that “citizens of this country
will, no doubt, be eager to show speci
mens of their ingenuity and skill upon
the occasion refered to, and to compete
for the prizes which the Commissioners
are authorized to award.”
Doctors on the Border.— When
the Great Unknown was at one time
travelling in Northumberland, his ser
vant was takeu ill, and the village
surgeon sent for; when this worthy
made his appearance, he at once
recognized as a quondam horse doctor
in Melrose, whose sole qualification to
cure the ills which human flesh is heir
to, consisted in his having crossed the
border. When rated by Sir Walter
for his presumption, he confessed that
he had killed a good many of his pati
ents, but he added, with a naivete which
must have won the heart of any Scotch
man, more especially so national a
man as Scott, “Ay, Sir but it'll belong
afore it mak’s up for Flodden.** We
have been reminded of this anecdote by
an occurrence which took place the
other day in a parish not very far from
Dumfries. A medical man was called
m to see a young girl suffering from
dieease, and, as is too oflen necessary,
be had to inform the mother that his
advice ought to have been previously
obtained, “Ay” said the dame, “but
we have had advice; we sent for
ye’ll may be ken him, he works at the
qurraies; an’ he bled the lassie.”
“And pray,” interposed the surprised
physician, “what qualifications does
this qoarryman possess?” “O,” was
the ready answer,“he drove Dr. ’s
carriage for twae years, an’ I thocht
he wad hae heard him talk skeelily.”—
Dumfries Courier.
Henry Clay. —Henry Clay is seven
ty-three years old to-day, having been
born on the 12th day of April, 1777.
He entered the national service as a
Senator more than forty-three years
ago, and, after many mutations and
vicissitudes, is a member of that body
on his seventy-third birth day. No
other statesman holding a prominent
position has been nearly so long before
the public, and the men who filled the
world’s eye when he came upon the
political stage have nearly or quite all
passadHo their long home. Napoleon
—then in the zenith of his power and
fame, the most powerful ruler that the
world had seen for a thousand years—
died a powerless prisoner and exile,
nearly thirty years ago. Alexander of
Russia, then a young man recently
crowned Emperor, died on a remote
frontier of his empire more than twenty
years ago; George 111. and all his
sons have been dead ten to twenty
years; the Adamses, father and son,
have passed away, with the Virginia
line of Presidents; also Burr, Jackson,
Livingston, Marshall, Pickering, Ru
fus King, the elder Quincy, and all the
men with whom Mr. Clay counseled
or struggled during the earlier portion
of his career. It may with general ac
curacy be said that, of the men who in
the forum, the council, or the field,
were actors before the close of the last
century, the only survivors known to
fame are Metternich, Wellington,Louis
Phillippe, and Henry Clay.— Tribune,
1 Wh.
The Prophetic Dew-Drop. A
delicate child, pale and prematurely
wise, and complaining on a hot morn
ing, that the*poor dew drops had been
too hastily snatched away, and not
allowed to glitter on the flowers like
other happier dew-drops, that lived the
whole night through, and sparkle in
the moonlight, and through the morn
ing onwards to noon-day. “The sun,”
said the child, “has chased them away
with his heat, or swallowed them up in
his wrath.” Soon after came rain and
a rainbow, whereupon hi slather point
ed upwards. “See,” sauftie, “there
stand the dew-drops gloriously reset—
a glittering jewellery—in the heavens;
and the clownish foot tramples on them
no more. By this, my child, thou art
taught that what withers upon earth
b ooms again in heaven.” Thus the
father spoke, and knew not that he had
spoken prefiguring words; for soon af
ter, the delicate child, with the mor
ning brightness of his early wisdom,
was exhaled, like a dew-drop, into hea
ven.—Jean Paul Richter,
The Sabbath in Norway. l found
that it is the custom over all Norway
to devote the Sunday evening to social
pleasures. Taking literally the text
“The evening and the morning was
the first day,” they consider the Sab
bath as commencing at six o’clock on
Saturday, and terminating at the same
hour on Sunday, a doctrine in which I
believe, they are countenanced by the
pilgrim fathers of America. Accord
ingly, in Norway, there is no public
entertainment, such as theatricals or
dancing, permitted by law on Saturday
evening; and the more strict class of
people will not see their friends even
privately at that time. Believing, how
ever, the day of rest and of devotion
to be at a close on the Sunday at six
o’clock, they feel themselves then at
liberty to enter upon any amusement or
enjoyment for which they may have an
inclination. Even in the houses of the
clergy there will be found both card
playing and dancing on this evening;
and this without the slightest scandal
to their flocks— Chambers' Edinburgh
Journal.
An Indian with a Great Heart,
—The following from the lowa State
Reporter, shows what the red man
really is, when uncontaminated by the
vices of the white man:
A Noble Act.—We are informed by
a letter from California, received last
evening from Capt. Geo. W. Hess,
that Mr. King, a German, who was a
member of the company that led this
city last Spring, became separated
from his party on the route, and they,
supposing that he had been killed or
capturssd.jiy the Indians, went on with
out him. Since then Capt. Hess has
learned that Mr. King after he became
separated from his party, wandered
about the country for twenty-three
days, living upon frogs and any thing
he could procure to appease the crav
ings of hunger.
On the 23d day he came across an
encampment belonging to the Snake
tribe of Indians, and by signs informed
them of bis distressed situation. They
humanely gave him to eat and to drink,
and showed him every kindness; and
after he expressed a wish by signs, to
join the emigrants again, one of them
took him upon bis mule and carried
him to Fort Hall, a distance of 130
miles. Mr. King had nothing where
with to reward the Indian for the kind
ness which he had shown him; but .upon
being informed of the circumstance,
some of the emigrants at Fort Hall
proffered to this noble son of the for
est, a valuable gun and some trinkets,
which he refused to accept. Such
a noble and disinterested act is seldom
recorded, even among the haunts of
civilization, and is worthy of the high
est meea of praise.
Pardon or Dr. Webster. —A peti
tion is now in circulation in the State
of Georgia praying the Governor of
Massachusetts to pardon Prof. Web
ster, “assn act of charity for the deep
conunseration of his afflicted family.