mn. chairman:—we have been
told, t’ver and over again, that slavery
is a local institution, with which we of
the free states have nothing to do.
sir, have we nothing to do with the
government under which we live? is,
it no concern of ours who constitute
that government? *ls it none of ourj
business what shall be the policy of its:
administration? these territories are:
in the course of time to become states? j
and in whatsoever state slavery exists,;
however small the minority ofslavehold- 1
ers, as compared with their non-slave
holding fellow-citizens from that state;
so insidious is the working of the
system —you may he all hut sure that
the representatives sent to both
branches of the national congress will
be slaveholders themselves; or if in
rare cases, not so, will at least be
representatives of the interests of slave
ry. there may he occasional excep
tions. i trust that, in future, there will
he not a few. but the rule is undoubt
edly as i have stated it. admit slave
ry within these territories now, and
they will by aud by be slave states,
represented by slaveholders in the
senate of the union, and helping to
uphold in that branch that same course
of caste legislation which has so long
excited so much reasonable discontent,
and which has done so much to arouse
the feeling of the present day. admit
slavery within them, and by an alto
gether unanticipated extension of the
great compromise of he constitution,
you promote the free citizens of new
mexico and california to a degree of
power not possessed by the citizen of
the free states in the constitution of
this body, and in the election of the
chief executive magistrate. for rea
sons deemed sufficient, it was agreed
that there should be a representation
here of three tilths of a papulation who
have no political rights, and whose
vote i* given by their masters, so that
if, under the present ratio of represen
tation, there should he a district in this
country with a population consisting of
ten thousand free people and a hun
dred thousand slaves, the ten thousand
freemen in that district would liuve as
much weight in the councils of the na
tion as seventy thousand freemen in
my district, or in any other of the free
states of the north.—and accordingly
it has come to pass that the state of
south carolina, with a free population
not so great as that of the state of new
hampshire or connecticut, and not
three quarters as great as the city of
new york, 1 tas seven representatives
on this lloor, while new hampshire,
connecticut, and new fork city have
but four each.—this was so nominated
in the bond, and we submit to it with
out complaint, though not without a
sense of the hardship.
but now you propose to us to agree,
<n lather you say it shall he, whether
we agree or not.—thut this singular,
und, on all abstract grounds indefensi
b!e arrangement, having no force or
reason ot any kind beyond the limits
w,l m, which it was originally applied,
be l x, k l t*. older coin in unities!
whose power, exerted in this way is to
be brought into the direction jf our
national atlairs. no sir, xecati agree
and we can submit to no such t|„„,/
except so fur as we have compromised
away our rights, we must insist on slid
having them. we must insist that no
section of this country shall have such
a political precedency over another.
we must insist that u freeman in mas
sachusetts shall weigh fur as much ia
the north star.
the political scale as a freeman at santa
fe or san francisco. we cannot
consent so to settle our conquered pro
vince that a freeman in them, because
he owns (as it is called) five slaves,
shall, in the administration of the gov
ernment which is over us both, have
four votes where we have but one.
this was not the entertainment to which
the constitution of our fathers invited
us. what we have stipulated to do,
in the surrender of our natural rights,
we will do, —sorrowfully it may be but
frightfully. beyond that line, it is idle
to expect us to go.
so much and more of the same kind,
have we of the free states to do with
the introduction of slavery in california
and new mexico, if we stay at home.
but suppose we wish to visit those re
gions if we keep them free, we can
go thither with the full privilege of
speaking and publishing our mind on
all matters of interest whatsoever. i.
we have allowed slavery to go thither
first we must go to a suspension of our
much valued freedom of speech, and
freedom of the press, as far as the great
question of the age is concerned. we
shall not then be able to speak or print
respecting slavery there, except at ex
treme peril of life and limb. with part
of us, it will fare worse yet. if we
allow slavery to get into these provinces
part of our number must give up tne
idea of going thither on any terms,
to be ever so silent, or ever so submis
sive. the men and women of south
carolina come to massachusetts, and we
welcome them to our simple hospitality.
we treat them as well as we know
how; —if it is not very well, their mag
nanimity will pardon something to the
scantiness of our means, and the home
liness of our breeding. men and wo
men of massachusetts go to south car
olina; —they are taken from the ship
before landing,—they are imprisoned,
—they are scourged,—they are sold,
they and theirs, into life long bondage.
admit slavery into california, and cal
ifornia as to this matter, will become
for us another carolina. when the
acquisition of it from mexico was talked
of as a desirable thing, we of new eng
land are addressed with the argument
what a convenience a few ports in
the\ o rth pacific would be to our whale
ships. they would he a convenience,
or not, ‘ccording to circumstances. i
think i ha\» undersood my friend and
colleague ai» r grinnell to say, that
there are not ltwer than fifteen hun
dred colored sean«n in the whale-ships
from his district, a«<j among them arc
some mates, and even masters, of
vessels. it is rather to jiuch to expect
of them, or of us, to consent to the
establishment of such a government in
california, that they would have to
meet at san francisco the reception
which now awaits them at charleston.
i think we shall hardly agree so to set
tle those territories that our state agents
shall he driven from them as from car
olina, or that in them, as in california,
we shall he despoiled of our right of a
hearing in the federal courts.
but, suppose we want not only to
visit, hut to emigrate; what then? sir,
gentlenen of the south talk of our ex
cluding slavery. the truth is, they
would exclude us, if they should be
allowed to introduce it.—they speak
of our designing to dispossess them of
their share in the common property;
their plan would be to absolutely de
fraud us of ours. let slavery get a
footing on the land, and we could not
go thither; tiiat is, we could not go,
remaining such persons as we are; we
could not go, retaining our identity.
in what capacity should we go? should
we go to join the class of slaveholders?
mr. chairman, let large allowance be
made for influences acting on the minds
of men born or educated in the midst ol
slavery, and by long fauyliarity blinded
to its character. so much .as that is
required by liberality—nay, by justice.
but as to the different case i am sup
posing, there are thousands in the free
north who would say,—that a son of
ours, born of a new england mother,
nourished at a new england bosom,
baptized in a new england church,
bred at a new england school, that he
should go from a new england home
to be a buyer and seller of men and
women; —there are thousands, yes,
tens, hundreds of thousands, who would
say, let us follow him to his grave
first!
shall we, then, and our sons and
brothers, when slavery has been es
tablished in california and new mexico
go thither to be non-slaveholders? that
would be to lose our identity just as
much. that would be to abandon the
character of the independent, well in
formed, self-respecting yeoman as we
see him in the north, for that of the
very different specimen of humanity
known as the mean white man, the
poor bucra, in the southern states.
the laboring man of new england is
any man s equal. his occupation is
esteemed honorable. llis mind is in
structed. his sober, methodical, in
dustrious habits are such as sustain
self-respect, and claim respect from
others. hile the estimation in which
his employment is held and the com
pensation which remunerates it give him
enough for contentmeut, there is no
public elevation to which lie tnav not
aspire for himself and his. the public
offers to his children an education,—
not as a boon, but as their birthright,
—such as enables them to start from
the same level as the richest in the
race for the high prizes of society.
will you ask such~a man to cast in big
lot with the poor, shiftless, lazy, unin
strutted, cowed non-slaveholder of the
south? a character, i am far from say
ing, universal with that class of men,
for there are happy nature# which are
able to rise above disadvantages of po
sition—but far too common for our peo
right is of no sex—truth is op no color—god is the father of us all, ann all we are brethren
i pic to take the chance of falling into it.
t will you propose to otfr northern
laboring farmer or mechanic to emigrate
to a region of which you have said that
because slavery exists there labor can
not be honorable, and there can be no
common schools? no, sir; let not
gentlemen say that we are designing to
i| banish them from the territories. ft is
1 we whom they propose to banish. we
and ours have a right to find new homes
there if we will. but h is utterly to
deprive us of that right to say that in
order to do so, we can do neither the
one nor the other. if we and ours in
cline to emigrate, we must do it, being
what we are. the right is ours and
we cannot consent to have it embar
rassed with conditions which would
make it wholly worthless, and the same
as if it wore not.
again, gentlemen are fond of charg
j ing us with raising a sectional question.
they say that we are pressing a con
troversy beteen north and south, and
they undertake to rebuke us in the
words of the father of the country in
j his farewell adress. this charge of
exciting sectional divisions makes the
great staple o r not a few speeches which
i have heard in this house, and it
covers the whole issue of the famous
i addresses recently put forth from the
secret nightly conclave in this capitol.
sir, i deny utterly the correctness ol
this representation. so far as i am
concerned, the abettors of slavery shall
have no advantage from a statement so
entirely unfounded. in point of fact,
this is no question between the north
and the south. it is a question between
i a comparatively small number of slave
holders living in the south and the
north. who are these gentlementhat
assume to put themselves in the place
of the southern section of the united
i states and to say, when they cannot
have their way, that the south is as
sailed do they constitue the greatest
part of it? how’many are there? the
t whole number of the free white popu
lation south of mason and dixon’s
line in 1840, was 4,809,187: the whole
number of slaveholders among them
cannot exceed three hundred thousand.
\v t ith what face does such a mere frac
tion of a population undertake to speak
for the whole, and to complain that a
sectional question is moved when only
the encroachments of one limited in
terest within that section are resisted?
no, sir, the slaveholders of the south
j are not the south. —far from it. and
not only are they not the south, but
they represent an interest absolutely
antagonistical and hostile to the interest
and welfare of that large majority of
the citizens of the south, that do not
hold slaves—an interest altogether more
opposed to the well being of southern
non-slaveholders, than to the well be
ing of citizens of the northern states.
we of the north have great reason to
complain of slavery. it has done and
does us great and grievous injustice.
but it does not control our btate gov
ernments, and to that extent make us
its slave. it does not by its presence
among us, make our honest industry
disreputable. it does not strike the
bread of knowledge from our lips. all
this it doss for the southern non-slave
holder. and yet. when we undertake
to resist some new impudent pretension
which it puts forth, we are to be com
plained of as raising a scectional ques
tion, and encroaching on the south, a
vast majoiity of whose citizens are for
more wronged by it than ourselves.
extracts
from, a pamphlet entitled, liberia the condition and
prospects oj that republic, made from actual ob
servation.” by eldlr s.s. ball.
[concluded]
condition of the colonitts. —l shall
speak now of the common people. as
a general thing, i found those who had
been there long enough, to have passed
through their acclimation, and had got
their lands cleared and under cultiva
tion, and had their houses built, to be
getting along very well, and se r med to
be contented; but those who had not
yet passed through the acclimation, and
had no lands under cultivation, or
houses built, were very much dissatis
fied, and many of them were in a dis
tressed condition, and would give any
thing in their posession, even their free
dom, to get back to the united states.
with respect to the propriety of our
removal to liberia, i give it as my de
liberate opinion, that, as to men of in
telligence and means, there is no bet
ter country to my knowledge than li
beria, for the following reasons:—first
—his learning will qualify him to fill
some of the most important stations in
the government; and secondly—his
means will enable him to engage in the
most lucrative trade, and thus enable
him and his family to live m luxury and
ease, and keep themselves entirely
from hardships and exposures. this is
the class of people that the liberians
invite to their shores; and they say
nothing has ever tended so much to re
tard their progress, as the importation
of such an unequal proportion of igno
rance and poverty.
as to the people going to that coun
try without means, i consider it one oj
the worst countries he can go to. a
comparison is sometimes attempted to
be drawn between the poor man in this
country and the poor man in that; but
i contend that there is no comparison.
the colonization society propose to
give to every applicant a free passage
from the seaboard to liberia, and six
months support after he gets there, and
five acres of land for himself and five
acres for bis wife. this they will
get. tins will induce a great many to
go; and on their arrival they are banded
over to the colonization agent there,
wbb sends them to the emigrant house,
where they remain for aix months, and
draw their rations from the public store.
these rations are all salt proviatona.
rochester, n. y., friday, april 20, 1849.
la about three weeks after they get
i there they are all taken with the alri*
i can fever, which holds them generally
t through their acclimation, which lasts
from twelve to eighteen months and
i even two years. while going through
t the fever, they cannot relish salt diet;
i and if they have no money of their own
i to purchase fresh provisions with, they
have to go without and suffer; and if
i they have a little money, it generally
goes before the six months are out, for
such nourishment as they can eat,
which costs as a general thing very
high. chickens cost 25 cents each;
ducks $1 00 per pair; eggs from 37 1-2
to 50 cents per dozen; sheep from $3
to $4 per head; goats the same; small
beef cattle are worth $3o; flour $2o
per barrel, by the retail; bacon from
18 to 20 cents per pound, and other
things in proportion. during their ac-
i climation so prostrated with
i the fever that they cannot labor. it
is the express orders of the doctor to
them, that they must not expose them
selves to the sun or rain; consequently
they cannot clear off their land, pitch a
j crop, or build a house, and no means
to have it done with. in this situation,
the six months run out; and the agent
goes to them and takes their receipt for
1 siximonths support from the coloniza-
i tion society. all farther support then
i ceases from that source, and they are
turned out. what are they to do now,
j i ask no house built, no land cleared,
no crop pitched, and no money to have
it done. can they go to work for those
that would employ them? i answer no.
j in the first place, their health will not
permit of it; and in the second place,
they cannot compete with native labor
ers who can be hired to almost any num
ber, for $2 per month and found; qr at
$3 per month and find themselves, and
the poor colonist laborer can get no
more. i saw a family of six while in
j monrovia, the rev. anthony bryant,
wife and four children, who were sent
from the state of illinois in the fall of
1847, by the rev. j. b. crist. they
were in a deplorable situation. the
i old gentleman told me that he left coles
j county, illinois, without means, with
i the promise that means would be raised
on the way to st. louis for him; but he
says he only received $9,00 from coles
county to new orleans, and that he
got in the colored church in st. louis.
every cent of this, of course, he had
to spend in new orleans for light stores,
to serve them on the passage across the
ocean: and they arrived in liberia
without one dollar. they were placed
on the outskirts of the town, and were
all going thrftugh the fever. they alll
shed tears on seeing me, and began to
represent their distress. they inform
ed me.that they had upon one occasion
sent all around monrovia to beg a chick
en, and could not get one; but were
told if they had the money they could
get one. the old gentleman wanted
the three kentucky delegates and my
self to try to raise as much money as
would bring him and his family back to
the uuited states, hut this we could not
do; he then wished us to bring him and
his little boy back; hut this was not in
our power. there was another man
there, with a wife and nine children in
the same condition, who offered to give
our captain a bill of sale on himself, if
he wouid carry him and his family back
to the united states.
education-north and south.
and so it must ever be. tear off
from labor the deadly associations which
slavery has entwined around it and let
it be associated with intelligence and
integrity, and it will enjoy the honor
with which the creator designed it
should be crowned. in the genial air
of freedom alone can labor breathe free
ly, and the laborer walk forth in the
dignity of manhood, respecting and re
spected by all.
but you will now say that, in spite of
all reasoning, you believe that the la
boring white man is more respected in
the slave than in the free states. let
facts answer. what is the test of re
gard paid to man? is it not the enjoy
ment of rights and privileges which
will enable him to stand on a level with
his fellow men, a mao among men?
and where are such rights aod privi
leges most fully enjoyed in reply, let
us compare two of the old states of the
union, massachusetts and north caro
lina. in 1840 they had nearly the same
population, not varying much in either
state from 700,000. in both states
there are poor white people; in which
are the poor and their children most
respected? massachusetts
poor, “intelligence is power. it is
right that your children should be edu
cated aud thus have a fair chance with
the children of the rich. i will build
school houses therefore, and educate
your sons and daughters.'* the prom
ise fulfilled, and out of her whole popu
lation, massachusetts had in 1840 about
4,000 men and women who could not
read, and those mostly foreigners. and
how does north carolina treat her poor r
flatters them, talks to them of the dig
nity of white people, and suffers their
children to grow up in grow ignorance,
without the power to spell a word in the
bible or decipher a hne of the consti
tution of the l nioo. in 1840 north
carolina had about 50,000 men and wo
men unable to read.
and now, reader, tell us in which of
the two states you think the poor mao
is most esteemed. in the one in which
his niiud is developed, and he is made
a man, or in the one in which he ia
doomed to perpetual childhood —low
itrille examiner.
pass made of boues are mow in use
in england, and sell at the rate of fifty
for twenty-fife cents. they are pro
nounced to be flexible a the and
far more durable.
t from rv new tati cmpte.
a mow ow slavery.
to the session of the presbyterian
church of amsterdam village,
j we, the undersigned members ol
this church, hereby declare to you oui
sentiments and intentions.
r during the past three years we have
the gratifying spectacle of nearly all
the nations of the civilised world rising
r op in the majesty of their political ana
moral power, to relieve themselves ol
the great sin and curse of mankind—
human slavery.
to this progress of righteous prin
ciple there is one melancholy exception
and that exception is our own country,
and particularly our own church. some
of the churches of this land have wasb
ed their hands clean of this defilement,
and have refused to “touch the unclean
thing.’* others have tolerated but not
t embraced it as a christian institution—
they have tndured but not endorsed it.
but the presbyterian church old
r school have welcomed it to their chris
t tian fellowship, by declaring in 1845
that “it is no bar to christian commun
ion as it is found in the southern portion
of our country.
whilst the spirit of the gospel and
advancing civilization are carrying the
nations forward to higher degrees of
freedom and holiness, our own denomi
nation, which coqjrols so many of our
institutions of learniug, is receding
from its long-established position, and
is moving in the opposite direction to
wards injustice and heathenism.
it is this melancholy retrogradation
from a fundamental point of christian
morals, which our church has held for
fifty years and up to 1845, that compels
us to take action on this subject.
separation from topen and allowed
sin we understand to be the distinctive
principle on which a christian church
is based. upon this principle our gen
eral assembly took strong action in
1818, affirming clearly the gospel rule
and enjoining on all their sessions to
exclude all voluntary slaveholders from
their communion. interpreting their
action in the light of their own princi
ples, they evidently intended that every
voluntary slaveholder should be exclud
ed from the church. their language
is, “the voluntary enslaving one part
of the human family by another, is a
gross violation of the most precious
and sacred rights of human nature, ut
terly inconsistent with the gospel of
christ and the law of god,” &c.
but instead of perishing under this
rebuke of the supreme judicature of the
supreme churdh, slavery has made it
self to be respected and feared, until in
1845, at cincinnati, it ascended unto
moses’ seat, and now controls the
church and claims to be in harmony
with the gospel of christ. according
to this decision of the general assem
bly, we are not able to see why a slave
holding member of the presbyerian
church from south carolina might not
claim a seat at our communion table,
although he held at the same time our
children in bondage, and the fruits of
their unpaid labor filled his pockets or
their blood stained his hands.
from such a gospel and from such a
church, we are constrained in the fear
of god to declare our separation.
we have endeavored to comply with
the gospel rule, and have admonished
and laboured with our brethren to in
duce them to terminate this partnership
in sin, and we are driven to this act of
separation as a last resort. we dare
not appear before god to render up our
account whilst we are partakers of
other men’s sins, or whilst we endorse
the characters of “whoremongers, or
them that defile themselves with man
kind, with menstealers, with liars, with
perjured persons, or if there be anything
that is contrary to sound doctrine,” by
continuing in christian fellowship with
them.
we then do solemnly avow that with
grief of mind, and, so far as we know
without any bitterness or personal ill
will towards the professing christians
in this place, we are compelled to come
out from among them and be separate,
until they can find in their hearts to
treat the sin of slavery as they would j
the sin of theft or duelling.
but we desire tbaf it miy be well,
understood that by this act we do not
withdraw ourselves from the presbyte
rian church. we only separate from
those who have already withdrawn from
it by denying its fundamental articles of
faith. we therefore forfeit no rights
and relinquish no privileges which
membership confers. but we shall no
longer acknowledge the authority of any
ecclesiastical body who have dared to
change the ancient kith of our church
or who consent to such change. and
as there can be no reviving or saving
influence in sin, we grieve to say that
we expect the dews of divine grace to
be withheld from our church as they
have been withheld, until both in prac
tice as well as principle it “puts a diffe
rence between the clean and the un
clean.
we have no desire to interrupt the
pease of the church—neither can we
consent to reverse the apostle’s rule,
by making it first peaceable then pure.
after three years of fruitless expost
ulation, we see no hope that either the
general assembly or this church will
dissolve their partnership with what
they themselves declare to he the great
est sin, and which by the verdict of the
whole christian world is polluting the
church and ruining souls.
we, thus, with a solemn appeal to
god for the rectitude of our motives,
withdraw eurseivas from your commun
ion end louve the responsibility of fel
lowshtping the greatest sin end the
greatest suutqfs to those who choose to
sustain it.
ws have only to add that our motives
in this matter are known to god, and
are, we hope, approved by him. but
we desire also that our children and
posterity may know the reasons that
have led us to this act, and therefore
request that this document may be en
tered on the church records. signed,
ellis clizbe, alex. fulton.
enos french, henry neff,
jas. brownson, nat. french.
amsterdam, march 1849.
meeting lit illinois,
the report of a meeting of the “free
democracy of washington co. 111.
says:
a mr. joy, called a methodist min
ister came forward and made a variety
of objections to our movements. he
said he was opposed to slavery but
thought the slaveholders should not be
denounced; for he knew good christian
slaveholders that would like to get
clear of the evil if they could do so
without reducing themselves to abject
poverty. he appeared to have a par
ticular interest in their welfare, but be
fore he got through, said—tbat should
the slaves rise to kill their masters, he
should have no sympathy for them. he
made a great many statements in favor
of colonization. rev. mr. luinery
was loudly called for, who replied show
ing in the most clear and forcible man
ner the inconcistencies of ttih-previous
speaker.
the committee repirted amongst
others, the following resolutions.
resolved, ist. that pro-slavery sen
timents are out of place and out of time
in america, and in the 19th century.
2nd. pro-slavery is very wicked and
inhuman—contrary to every correct
view of bible morality, but i 9 far more
wicked to cherish in the states called
free than in those called slave states.
3. that if the free states would all
take strong anti-slavery grounds and
carry out their anti-slavery principles,
slavery would soon be abolished.
4. that the promulgation of anti
slavery sentiments would be a benefit
to the slave states themselves.
5. colonization was never intended
to effect abolition, and never can effect
that object.— western citizen.
anti-slavery lecture in
auburn.
[from the cayuga chief.]
frederick douglass addressed the
people of this city last thursday even
ing, upon the subject of american
slavery. we listened to him for the
first time and with a gratification sel
dom felt. from the rep"'"'' the
man, as an able and campion
of the rights of the african race, we
were led to expect much. we were not
disappointed. and while so many are
heaping opprobrium upon an injured
people, we are glad to award the meed
of praise to so giffed a representative.
we do
not overate the african. he is a
swarthy ajax and with ponderous mace
|he springs into the midst of his wi itc
oppressors and crushes them at every
blow. with an air of scorn he hurls
his bolts on every hand. he feels his
wrongs and his herart is in every blow.
douglass is a master of every wea
pon—his powers of ridicule are great.
wo to the man or the church whose
hypocrisy passes in review.
his address was confined to the sub
ject of the prejudice against color. it
was sometimes very severe, especially
upon the churches while proclaiming
that of one flesh and blood god made
all nations, apd called upon ethiopia
to partake of free salvation of a god
who is no respecter of persons, and yet
rear around the communion of a com
mon savior a black and white table!
many complain that he ahuses
churches and politicians. all deserved, j
they do not remember that frederick,
douglass is one of a proscribed and.
degraded people—that his heart burns
under the wrongs heaped upon them
by a republic of christians and free
men—that the whites brand them as
inferior, ignorant and vicious—that
they have no voice in a government
which demands its pound of flesh of!
them—that they are outlawed, while
aliens from european despotisms are
flooded upon our shores and trans-!
formed into american citizens—that
they toil in slavery to enrich a nation
which grinds them in the dust—that
they are barricaded from the schools
of our land and deprived of educational
privileges and of every chance of moral
and intellectual improvement —that
every aspiration of honorable ambition
is crushed out of the soul by the re
morsless heel of hoary wrong—and that
society demands from them exemplary
and unblamable conduct while chaining
them in ignorance and hissingly point
ing them out as outlaws upon earth and
among men.
we wonder not that douglass is se
vere. we applaud him for his bold
ness. we like to see a man stand
erect and plead for himself, for his race
and for truth, though blood drip from
his blade. our own shoulders may
bleed, but we admire a fearless arm.
douglass is logical. his review of
clay’s letter upon emancipation, was
dose, sprere, and annihilating. not
one who beard it, could say otherwise.
frederick douglass.—this gentle
man gave an anti-slavery address at the
congregational church, on monday
evening. the home was crowded m
every part, with an attentuc and quiw
audience, composed in good part of lap
dies. mv d. as usual, spoke eloquent
ly, sensibly, and effectively though
somewhat troubled with hoarseness,
caused by a recent severe cold.
among other topics introduced f®®
discussed was the recent teiw
clay on emancipation. a more withp
•ring, scathing, crushing
john dick. pc*li*h*«-
whole no. 69.
never listened to, trom a public speak*
er. many thought it altogether too se
vere, while others pronounced it ospital.
d. made a favorable impression
upon his audience. he is no ordinary
man, as his history abnndautly shows.
as a speaker, he has few equals in the
united states.— syr reveille.
sleep a3d insanity.
hr. brigham, of the new york asy
lum for the insane, expresses the opin
ion, that the most frequent and imme
diate cause of insanity, and one of the
most important to guard against, is the
want of sleep. ‘so rarely,’ he says,
‘do we see a recent case of insanity,
that is not preceded by a want of sleep,
that we regard it as almost the sure
precursor of mental derangement.’
‘long continued wakefulness,’ con
tinues dr. b v disorders the whole sys
tem. the appetite becomes impaired,
the secretions diminished or changed,
the mind dejected, and soon waking
dreams occur and strange phantoms
appear, which at first may be transient,
but ultimately take possession of the
mind, and madness or death ensues.
the doctor adds:—
\ye wish we could impress npon all,
the vast importance of securing sound
and abundant sleep; if so we should
feel that we had done an immense good
to our fellow beings, not merely in pre
venting insanity, but other diseases al
so. vve are confident that the origin
of the much nervousness, and much im
paired health of individuals who are not
decidedly sick, is owing to a want of
sufficient and quiet rest. to procure
this should be the study of every one.
‘i have always taken care,’ said the
worthy dr. holyoke, after ho was
above 100 years of age, ‘to have a free
proportion of sleep, which 1 suppose
has contributed to my longevity.’ vve
fear that the great praise of early rising
has had this bad effect, to make some
believe sleep was of little consequence.
—though it may be well to rise with
the sun, or when it is light, not before,
however, yet this is of minor importance,
in comparison with retiring early to bed.
dr. brigham gives the following hints
for the procuring of sound sleep:
it is important, in the first place,
that the mind should not he disturbed
for several hours before retiring to rest.
2. retire early, and neither when
very warm or cold; sleep on a hair mat
trass, or on a bed not very solt. the
bed room should be large and well ven
tilated, and the bed should not be
placed near the wall or near the win
dow, as such an arrangement often ex
poses the person to currents of cold air.
3. there should be nothing tight
about the neck, and the chinese rule
of brushing the teeth before retiring is
a good one. tea or coffee taken jate
in the evening is apt to disturb sleep.
strive to banish thoughts, as much as
possible, on retiring to rest, or take up
the most dull objects. study during
the evening is improper.
facts in physiology. —a man is
taller in the morning than at night to
the extent of half an inch, owing to the
relaxation of the cartilages. the hu
man brain is the 28th of the body; but
in the horse only the 400th. ten days
per annum is the average sickness of
iiuman life. about the age of 30, the
lean man generally becomes fatter, and
he fat man leaner. ritcher enume
rates 000 distinct species of diseases in
he eye. the pulse of children is ifeo
n a minute; at puberty 80; and at 60
>nly 60. dr. letton ascribed health
ind wealth to water, happiness to small
[>eer, and diseases and crime to spirits.
iclephants live 200, 300, and even 400
rears. bats in india, are called flying
iixes, and measure six feet from tip to
ip of their wings. sheep, in wild pas
:ure, practice self defence by an array,
to which rains stand foremost in con
cert with ewes and lambs in the centre
of a hollow square. three hudson’s
bay dogs draw a sledge loaded with
300 lbs. fifteen miles in a day. one
pair of pigs will increase in six years
119, 160, taking the increase of four
teen times per annum. a pair of sheep
in the same time would be but 04. a
single house fly produces
eggs. the fl«t, grasshopper and lo
cust jump 200 times tin ir own length,
equal to a quarter of a mile for a man.
half-educated instructors. —lt is
a common mistake to suppose, that
those who know little suffice to inform
those who know less; that the master,
who is hut a stage before the pupil, can
as well as another, show him the way;
nay, that there may even be an advan
tage in this near approach between the
minds of the teacher and taught; since
the recollection of recent difficulties sod
the vividness of fresh acquisition, give
to the one a more lively interest in the
progress of the other. of all educa
tional errors, this ia one of the gravest
the approximation required between
the mind of teacher and of taught ia not
that of a common ignorance, but of
mutual sympathy; not a partnership m
narrowness of understanding, but that
of thorough insight of the one into the
other, that orderly analysis of the tan
gled skein of thought, that patient
masterly skill in developing conception
after conception with a constant new
to a result, which can only belong to
comprehensive knowledge and prompt
affections. with whatever accuracy
il.e recently “*j
new gloreef be
precise moth--* by which be made umm
hi* own; and will wan! that aatieiy and
fertility of resources, that command of
the several paths of access to a truth,
which are g»ven by thorough survey of
the whole field on which be stands.—
rev. jamut martimean.
mr. macaulay baa been installed
lord rector of the glasgow universitythe fifteenth anniversary of the
american anti-slavery society will lie heklj
in the tabernacle. broadway, new york, on
tuesday the «ih day of may next.
the anniversary at the tabernacle repre
sent* to the country at large the progress, the
efficiency, and even the existence, of the anti-
slavery cause. it is to vast numbers of peo
ple the only sign of the continued zeal and
spirit of the abolitionists, whose local meet
ing* they never hear of.
the business meetings of the society
have always brought together in counsel a
larger number of abolitionists from various
parts of the northern stales than is ever con
vened on any other occasion. the general
interests ol the cause command, at that time,
a consideration which at no othetcan he given
them.
it has never, since the formation of the
society, been more apparent than at this mo
ment, that the anti-slavery cause is left
where it ever has been, in the hand* of the
members of the american society. there is
as yet no reason to suppose that slavery will
ever be abolished except through its efforts.
the general importance of the annual
meeting, and the aspect of the cause at this
moment, which gives us every thing to hope
for if we persevere, —everything to fear if
we falter—appeal alike loudly to abolitionists,
all over the land, to make the ensuing annual
meeting of the american anti-slaverv socie
ty one that shall do more even than any pre
vious one has done to drive the south to
despair in defence of its felonious system of
aociety, and the north to a more determined
attitude than any portion of it has evei yet
ventured to assume in defence of its own
rights, and the assertion of the rights of the
■lave.
wm. lloyd garrison, prest.
wendell phillips, secy's
sh. gay. j v
western new york anti-slavery society.
the executive committee will meet on
wednesday next, april 25th, at the anti-
slavery office, 25, buffalo street.
attendance is requested at 1 o'clock p. m.
precisely.
w. c. nell, ltec. sec
coming up to the work.
the following resolutions upon the subject
of american slavery, passed at a iccent meet
ing of the orthodox congregational church j
in north brookfield, have been seat to us for!
publication. we rejoice to see such an indi
cation of progress as is manifested in these
resolves, and we hope that the time is not far
distant when all the churches, not only in
massachusetts, but throughout the free states,
will take and maintain the same high position,
and exclude from their pulpits and commun
ions the flesh mongers of the south, who,
professing faith in christianity trample upon
all its precepts. christian citizen.
resolutions on the subject of slavery.
whereas, the sin of slavery exists in the
united slates and is productive of immense
evils, moral, social, political, and ecclesiasti
cal, the brethern of the first congregational
church in north brookfield, mass., deem it
proper to embody and set forth their views of
it, and their duty respecting it in the follow
ing resolutions:
resolved, 1. that this church distinctly
admits and affirms that slave-holding is a
practice at war with god's law, with the
rights of man, and with the spirit of the gos
pel: that we will not countenance it by re
ceiving slave-holding ministers into our pul
pit, nor slave-holding professors to our
communion and that we will have no inter
course with it in any such way as in our judg
ment implies an approbation of it.
resolved, 2. that all persons who are not
slaveholders, but who voluntarily connect
themselves with slave-holding churches, do
countenance and uphold slavery while they
remain in communion with such churches
and we view the time near, when we can no
more fellowship this class of persons than we
do those who are slave-holders themselves.
resolved, 3. that as professed christians
it becomes us on all proper occasions to bear
testimony against the practice of holding hu
man beings as property, both in christian and
in heathen lands, and according to our best
judgment to resist the progress and continu
ance of the evil.
resolved. 4. that it is not our object in
these resolutions unnecessarily to grieve or
offend any man or body of men, but to assume
that position before the church and the world
which duty requrires, as well as to express
our unqualified disapprobation of slavery,
both in theory and practice, and our firm be
lief that it is diametrically opposed to christi
anity, and a burning curse both to the oppressor
and the oppressed.
voted, that the foregoing be offered by the
secretary for publication.
george h. ixiwe, sec'y of the meeting.
north brookfield march 26, lb-19.
protection of woman in missouri.—
the following is the bill to protect the proper
ty of married women recently patsed by the
legislature of missouri:
an act to amend an act to regulate executions.'
be it enected, dfc. sec 1. that in addition
to the properly now exempt from levy and
sale under execution by the 10th, 11th and 1
12lb sections of an act of which this is
amendatory, the property owned by a woman
before her marriage, and that which she may
acquire after her marriage by descent; gift, 1
grant, devise or otherwise, and the use and
profits thereof shall be exempt from all the
debts and liabilities of her husband contracted
or incurred by him previous to their manage,
or previous to the time the wife came into the
posse— ion of such property.
stc. 2. the property owned by a man be
fore his marriage, and that w hich lie may
acquire after his marriage, by descent gift,
grant or devise, and the use and profits there
of, shall be exempt from all debts and liabilities
cootracted or incurred by his wife before their
marriage.
sec. 3. the property owned by a woman
before her roairiage, and that which she may
poquire after her marriage, by descent, gift,
grant or devise, shall be exempt from levy and
tale to pay any debt contracted, or security or
liability incurred as security, by her husband
et any time oc under any circumstances what
ever. this act to be enforced from its pas
sage.
ot't last lxeislatube. this iramacu
lata body of solona was characterized by two
strong *nd predominating principle*— the
love of rum and the hate of nigger* neither
of which do we think very creditable to men
l>rofe**ing justice, republicanism, and chris
tianity. we observe that we occasionally
treed oe ibe toes of some of these law-givers,
wfce, set having the manliness to come out
over their own proper signatures, skulk be
hind tbe heae—d name# of “farmer,” “me
chanic,” »v., *nd like tbe savage indian,
hurl their poisoned arrows from a place of con
cealment. some of these fellows, who are
silks reprobates to republica-mn and chris
tianity, seem to be ready to eat a poor negro
—and indeed. very likdy they do sell tod
eat, and perhaps driok them too. there is
one manufacture which has always flourished
among elave-bolderi and negio*catchers, and
dealer*, and that is the manufsctare of malls-
if these skolking indian fighters will
answer us whether they are engaged in this
reputable branch of business, and give tueir
ow ti proper names, and not descend to low,
ungenllemanly abuse, we will answer their
questions. our methodist brethren, and in
deed alt true christians, are opposed to negro
oppression, and generally in tarot of emanci
pation. we go for the constitution, for jus
tice, for mercy, for humanity,for christianity,
and against nigger traders. we go against
extending the curse of of slavery, aod against
admitting any more wore states into this glo
rious union, if sure-holdcrs have always
ruled the union, in violation of the constitu
tion and laws, they ought to do it no longer.
the spirit of t 6 is abroad, to bring to light
the barbarous, dastardly wretch who would
traffic in human blood and bones, in defiance
of god and man.— vvi/. blue hen'* ctefcs.
trouble amosc the socthebs mbthod-
j rt b. —the troubles of the methodist chureb,
which caused a division of that body, bar#
appeared in the cherokee county. the church
north sent among the indians a minister to
represent the cause of freedom, and the con
v |.,e ee has been a riot. no religious meet
ings it is said, can now be held without a
not .—ledger.
this is another fact added to a mountain
pile of evidence, that no freedom can survive
where slavery eiists. free thought, nee
speech and the rights of conscience—which
are so sacred that any attempt by the govern
ment or church to suppress them in the person
of the poorest citzen or humblest emigrant,
within the borders of the north, would almost
produces revolution —have no existence is
the southern slates, and never will have,
the power of slavery is broken. how lung
will the northern churches shut their eyes te
this truth t how long will they succor and
patronize an institution which has no j 0 1
union with the teachings of jesus, than belial
has with christ they were long ago warned
that, in protecting the slaveholder by their
fellowship, they were planting thorns and
brambles in their own vineyards, and fields of
labor. now they may console theraselyee
that the wounds and lacerations they receive
are from their own folly. if the severe lesson
teaches them that the first step toward the
propagation of a pure gospel is the extermina
tion of slavery, or stirs their spirits up to mors
manly courage, their present afflictions will
not be useless. they may indeed count
them as blessings to themselves, however in
tended by the slaveholders. but if they con
tinue their unprincipled concessions to the
south, for the sake of union, we have no
pitv to spare them where they are thus in
sulted by the men they have fawned upon.
the signs of the times indicate that the union
j of northern freemen and southern slaveholders
m church and state is not to last forever.—
penn. freeman.
the north star,
rochester, april 20,1849.
domestic economy*
having previously shown that effects are
onlv equal to the causes that produce them,
and that ends can be equal only to the means
that are used for their attainment, and that all
human affairs are regulated or brought about
in accordance with some of the three regular
laws of deity, the spiritual mural and phy
sical, and that a compliance with or a violation
of either of these w* determines the result
of all human affano; we shall proceed to of
fer some practical common sense remarks on
the subject of business enterprizc and indus
try*
oppressed, enslaved, degraded, arid depriv
ed of all knowledge, consequently knowing
nothing but that which we learned from our
oppressors, we have been long wont to mourn
and sigh over our condition, unable to divine
the reason why it is that the slave and colored
people generally, with all their religion, moral
honesty, and goodness of heait, so far as they
know how and understood, strictly doing the
i will of god, and yet by him have been per
mitted to continue under the oppression of
those who in the majority of instances violate
every injunction and spiritual precept of the
divine will. this we say has been the great
barrier in out pathway, and the most difficult
1 point to pass in our effort* at sell-elevation.
such a wilderness did this open to our view
such an insurmountable obstacle did it appear
to place before us, that disheartened and dis
couraged by the way side, stopping short
the only, what seemed to us reasonable con
clusion we could come to was, instead of pres
sing onward, to “stand still, and see the sal
vation of god,” honestly believing that he
required this passiveness and indifference on
our part, llis declaration to us that “note is the
acciplcd time, to-day is the day of salvation,
is equally as imperative, and more forcibly
binding upon us, because the first was the in
junction of moses, a man given to the child
ren of israel moie than three thousand yean
ago, while the second is a divine admonition
given by christ-god himself for the guidanct
of man since moses xecorded his. w hois
shall we obey, christ or moses—god or man i
i decide foi yourselves.
we are anxious to remove those false im
pressions made by erroneous religious doctrine
at the instigation of our oppressors, and con
tinned by us through ignorance.
but why do the wicked slaveholders a mi
blasphemous oppressors of our race succeed
against those who are really righteous? why
are they intelligent, powerful, and wealthy,
having every necessary comfort of life, while
we, the colored people, the greater part ol
w hom though religious, arc ignorant, power
less, and poor, possessing but few of the
comforts of this life, scarcely enough to keep
body and soul together?
the reason is obvious; it is this, we make
use of heavenly means for the attainment of
earthly euds, while our oppreeaois make uae
of earthly means for the attainment of earthly
ends. the spiritual laws, as previously sug
gested, only pertain to the things of heaven,
and were never intended by their great au
thor for any other purpose. the physical
and moral laws pertain to earthly ends, and by
them only can all things temporal be effected.
however wicked or perverse may be the per.
son, does be conform to god's law, a favora
ble result roust be the consequence; hence,
the reason of the suoeess, frequently, of the
w icked over the righteous—the sinner over the
the saint—the infidel oppressor and alavebol
der over the religious colored slaves of amer
ica.
nothing can be accomplished without the
proper means being used, therefore all earthly
ends can only be obtained by earthly means.
let us then at ooce, get to business, brethren;
lei us cease to mourn over what we have been
taught to call the unll of providence, andmiae
up oar beads lik« mb, —km jpg tha nwaa
occupations of society catering into the
ri«rap enterprises, heaving o*y cßnaaqsesca,
let those b« what they may. out mmtlrrs
hare been so accustomed to teach u bow to live
in the world to come, that they have forgotten
to teach as how to live in this world; bat are
always totj careful to lead their owa ohi)>
droo and themselves, however rekgioes they
may be, how to make a living here, while in
in this world.
these things we most also learn and de
light in doing, and if yoe object is them as
unworthy of you as christians, than indeed
is this world unfit for your abiding place, your
creator having made a great mistake in piec
ing you here, when you mote fittingly should
have been uncreated angels. n
we want business mea andwomen among us
and must have them in every piece. we have
been heretofore taught that them things were
unfit for us, as they interfered with oar pros
pects of heaven. this oar oppressors taught
us to prevent us from competing with them in
business; and being ignorant, we believed it*
let this henceforth be no longer the ease. lo
dentry as much belongs to us, ss to them.
surely if we can work for them, and do their
drudgery—go at their bidding, and come at
their command—spend our money with them
in buying from them il they can advise with
us iu religion, in medicine, and law, then may
we also, if we oaly determine that it shall be
so, sell to them as well as buy from them;
give advice to them in matters religion,
medicine, and law, as well as receive advice
from them in all these matters. but we must
qualify ourselves for these various departments
first, which is comparatively an easy matter.
we must have farmers, mechanics, and shop
keepers generally among us. by these occu
pations we make money—these are the true
r sources of wealth. give us wealth, and we
can obtain all the rest.—m. r. d.
edocatiqp*
on contemplating the condition of the col-1
ored inhabitants of the united states, it mast
be admitted that as a class, they are less edu
cated than the whites. the causes of this dis
paragement are of course too well understood
to render an elaborate exposition necessary.
when we pronounce the word slavery the
problem is at once solved.
in proportion as the colored americans are
ignorant, they are degraded and oppressed.
the same means successfully employed by the
oppressed of other lands, will secure the same
results for those of america; as like causes
produce like effects. these means have been
the acquisition of knowledge, a rigid economy
in the expenditure of money, and the eleva
tion of a high standard of morality. this one
thing needful, and its means of attainment
has occupied the minds and enlisted the en
ergies of all among us who would aspire to a
more elevated position in society. the pa
triots hamilton and sipkens, two of the most
influential colored citizens of new york,
held the opinion, that the only hope of
extricating their brethren from a deep and
damning degradation, lay in the thorough
education of their children. dr. john brown,
another distinguished son of the empire state,
who was deeply versed in the sciences and
was for many years a prominent teacher of
youth, thus awarded his tribute to the impor
tance of education said he, “i conceive edi£
cation among us to be the moral lever which
applied to the juggernaut of slavery, would
hurl it to the ground and scatter its fragments
to tbe wind.” william uoyd garrison in
1831 delivered an address to the colored cit
izens of boston, new york and philadelphia.
placing himself in the condition ot a colored
man, remembering the disabilities heaped u pon
the parent and child, for want of an education,
1 spoke as follows:
“get as much education as possible for
f yourselves and your offspring; tod long and
i hard for it, as for a pearl of great price. ig
i norant people can never occupy any other than
a degraded station in society; they can never
be truly free, until they are intelligent.
1 the greatest gift which a parent can bestow
upon a clild, is the knowledge of the alphabet.
he who can read may feel that he is elevated
above all the kingly blockheads in the world.
sooner than my children should grow up in
ignorance, i would feed upon bread and water,
and repose on the cold earth; i would sell my
teeth, extract the blood from my veins.”
these words from the above eminent men,
should be treasured in the colored american’s
b cabinet, as incentives towards hie children’s
1 advancement.
b if a wise man had been asked by the peo
pie of england 300 years ago, how they could
f become free, he would have told them to edu
cate themselves. the colored people of this
i- land, unprotected by laws, and crushed by the
s iron heel of american despotism, are in just
n the condition of the english at that time,
e they were generally poor and uneducated,
n and as a matter of course were held subordi
nate to the aristocracy. we should never for
get that knowledge is power—tbe foundation
i* of a people’s prosperity. the age of books
e can never be the age of tyrants. the spirit
i* of the present day is improvetnert. all classes
and conditions of society are throwing off tbe
d tiammels of ignorance, and pluming tbsas
d selves for onward progress in the march ofrn
y form and education. colored men and wo
men, who in view of tbe circumstances sur
e rounding them, fail to appreciate tbe worth of
>f mind, and exert their best energies common
r- same with tbe means attainable, cannot be
e regarded as otherwise than enemies to thom
p selves, to the class with whom they tie identi
fied, and to the godjwho created them espe
e daily when the facility for obtaining koowl
»f edge are now in the reach of all who will but
e extend a hand to be filled. we should be
y eotae a reading people. a well furnished ft
brary should he regarded as an indiups—ms
article in out household economy. “the
ease with which books are now provided and
j dispensed makes ua readily mppass, that it
j was the same easy affair is all former times an
n tbe present.” but dr. middleton in hie
“free inquiry/' «te» s mam of ihets, showing
_ tbe enormous expense, sod various dimowltios
aueedmg the publication and spread of litera
t are in peat times. when a book wee
t bought, the eccasiau was deemed so im
portant that it was customary to aseamide per
sous of uunseqneura and character m smks a
formal record that they were pvoeoat on the
j spot. lang and violent shsrestitna and even
r law suits ssmatnnro took fines rotative so tho
disputed property a 4 a hook. an ehgkafc
bishop mado 4ve journeys to berne,to put-
i chase books, one sf which he sold to alfred
s for an estate of land aa much as eight
uo«m jill. the exorbitant prices tuu dmmn
ilnl m n r |r--r t 1 attempts of the power
dmm to obuin inttraetim. bat it the
glory of the present day tlmt the mmm ofir
tedeetoal improvement are almost unbounded.
for 85 cents a mao may now bare i® bw poe
aeaaioo moch more philosophy than new
ton ere* knew. we eaa user know loodon
without the trouble and expense of a voyage
across the atlantic. the periodicals of the
day bring the dty right before oa with its
spires and its bridges, its pslaces and crowded
streets, with ita million of wretched poor in
contrast with the wealthy arrayed in rostly
garments. for a trifle we can. obtain the
works of liebig on chemistry; the productions
of gliddoo, who spent 90 yean in egypt to
obtain the information imparted through bis
lectures; and macaulay’s recent edition of
english history; theoe with numberless other
valuable publications, are being cheaply and
widely diffused as food for the millions. we
learn the benefit of things by com pat moo:
for instance the sum of mooey required for an
evening visit to a concert, is sufficient to pur
chase reading matter enough to instruct aod
entertain a whole family. another important
and cheap source of information is the news
papers, and one too often neglected by those
who most need them. they are the winged
messengers ever ready to impart to willing
eyes and earn the events of every day life. per
haps you are engaged abouffyour business, and
unable to listen to a speech from some distin
guished and eloquent philanthropist, bat the
very next day for a cent or two you can fur
nish yourself with all that may have emanated
from such a gifted mind. thus we see tha*
a little labor in childhood in learning our let
ters and then the habit of making reading
agreeable to us confers this great means of
happiness. how much would we not have
sacrificed to spend an evening with the lament
ed john quincy adams, the "old man elm
quent,” with william ellery channing, or
with sir walter scott, dickens, or any other
in the class of distinguished sura in the intel
lectual horizon; and yet we can have access to
their choicest and most brilliant thoughts. the
scintillations of genius that have rendered cel
ebrated and renowned the world o’er those in
dividuals, can be obtained for a comparatively
small outlay of money. a prominent friend
of literature, one of the olden time, has left the
following on record, his tribute to the value
of leading. ‘‘lf i were to pray fora taste
which should stand me in stead uitder every
variety of circumstance, and be a source of
cheerfulness to me through life, and a shield
against its ills, however things might go amiss,
and the world frown upon me it would be a
taste for reading.” how many hours are
thrown away that might be most profitably
spent in storing the mind with useful knowl
edge. twenty pages a day, make up six
hundred in a month, or 7200 in a year. what
a vast amount of information might be gleaned
from so many judicously selected pages.
let all both parents and children aim to acquire
a knowledge of books. a basis will thus be laid
on which to erect the superstructure of rights
and privileges so long wilheld from colored
americans.—w c. n.
the southern movement.
the charleston mercury, in a recent num
ber, thus sums up the proceedings at the south,
in reference to the of the union,
and the extension of slavery:
we are gratified at perceiving the very
general response by the people of the south to
the address of the southern members of
congress. in addition to the unanimous ex
pression of sentiment in our own state, large
and influential meetings without distinction of
party, have been held in maryland, virginia,
georgia, alabama, florida, and tennessee,
and resolutions of the most decided charcter
adopted with entire unanimity. among these
we notice particularly a meeting in north
alabama, in which col. n. terry and hon.
c. c. clay, participated, which declared the
northern address “firm yet temporate in its
tone, just m its sentiments and patriotic in
its objects; and therefore cordially approved it,
and could not conceive what plausible reason
any southern senator or representative could
have for withholding his signature.’* another
meeting in perry county, exceeding in num
ber and influence any himilar assemblage ever
before collected in the county, unequivocally
condemned the course of eveiy southern mem
ber of congress, in failing to affix his name
to the address of the southern delegates to
their constituents."
in kentucky a large and respectable meet
ing was held at lexington, in which it was
“resolved, that the passage by congress of
the wilmot proviso, or any kindred measure
embodying the same unjust principles, will be
regarded as an outrage on the rights of the
south which must be checked by a “deter,
mined insistence, on our part, even if that re
sistence involves an appeal to arms and a
dissolution, of the union!*' and the governor
is recommended to call an extra session of the
legislature, should congress attempt to inter
fere with slavery in the district of colum
bia.’’
in memphis, tenn, at a whig meeting call,
ed for the purpose of choosing delegates to a
whig state convention, for the selection of a
candidate for governor, it was resolved to
support as candidates for state offices no man
who is not pledged against all of these ag
gressions upon southern rights, and willing to
co-operate in any measure of redress that the
people of the southern states may see fit to
adopt.
the leading democratic paper io mississ
ippi, in reference to the proceedings in the
surrounding states, remarks: “in the reports
and resolutions submitted to and adopted by
these meetings we find high grounds taken,
ia reference to the impend*®, duty of the
south to resist at all basard*, the insidious and
fatal encroach meals of lb® »orth, which have
been threatened upon #ur constitutional rights.
we know not, whether the people of our own,
•lain will deem ft necessary at primary meet
ings. te piss like formal expression to their
sen lime pm upon the important matters to
which public attention has been called by the
address, but whether they do so or sot, it may
bn taken for granted that upon all anti-slavery
questions we are now and will remain, “one
and iodmsaus,”aj»d randy to go as for as the
farthest in defending southern rights,
southern interests and southern honor.’’
just look at ihu mgmg up again—read
it ease more, and wk yourself, if you ever
rend anything aunt full of brasen-fettad effruo
tery. the writer would make it appear, that
the soeth ufgrisvoualy injured—that its rights
sre is danger—that k is foully belied sod
slandered. it is the old trick of the thief,
who whea he is accused of stealing, turns
•pun his accusers, sad in a paroxysm of vir
toons indignation, bespatters them with his
'•billingsgate.” “southern right®-*®®*®™
wmds |issd weeds; hat wont do. the
hy fores talk aad fane iir f~r~ “a
diaeolufae of the tjofoq"! is deed; aad yoe
hold that oat as a threat i our orfy fear is, that
when your .courage is put to the test, it will
tail considerably abort of that. it woow be
a time of gladness sad rejoicing far ah lotel
of treth and righteousness in (be no*there
states, were there any probability of the sooth
epeedily putting this threat into execution.
that was a noble sentiment of gen. wilson
—"let the union be dadred—aye let the
oareon ihemauliea melt away—but we will
have no mote slave territory; rather, he oogbt
to have said—and would heaven he and
northern men generally would any—" slav
ery must be abolished, or the union must be
dissolved.” when this is the alternative pre
sented for the acceptance of the southern
slave driven, the foal blot that bow darkens
the american escutcheon will speedily be
erased, and the groans of the bleeding captive,
be changed into songs of rejoicing.—i. o.
dea’t hu« hla.
washington goods, s colored man found
guilty of murder, in massachusetts, is sen
traced to be suing led to death leguoy, on the
35th of may next. there is said to be con
siderable doubt as to his being guilty of tbe
crime for the commission of which he is un
der sentence at all events a large portion of
tbe community who best know tbe circum
stances, believe that he is innocent. hanging
in any case, is a miserably barbarous pastime;
doubly barbarous, when tbe evidence against
the criminal is not clear and conclusive. a
large meeting was lately held in the tremont
temple, boston, amasa walker, esq. in the
chair. the meeting was eloquently addressed
by rev. wm. h. channing, wendell phil
lips, rev. james freeman clarke, rev. a.
a. miner, and john a. andrew, esq.
mr. channing showed that society, by its
neglect, prejudice, and injustice, had in fact
educated washington goode for murder, and
that it wa3 anything bnt christian justice to
hang him for bearing the fruits that were
proper to the seed which society had sown.
in the course of his remarks, wendell
phillips, said.
the notice that this execution was to
take place has taken the whole community hy
surprise. the evidence comes, most of it,
from prostitutes and men of the lowest char
acter. the killed was one who had threat
ened vengeance to goode and so far from
being a gross sinner against light and educa
tion, this poor man, in his whole life, has
been the victim of the worst social influences.
he belongs to that unfortunate class whom a
cruel and social prejudice banishes from all
those best influences which elevate and res
train man. do we select such a man as an
example? while others are pardoned, what
there in this case to demand the last dread
ful penalty of the laws? neither is he a
hardened villain. he never injured man,
woman or child before. lie was never ar
-1 raigned before any court except one, and that
was for an act for which rome would have
given him a civic crown lather than a prison,
for helping a slave to escape from missouri.”
the new england washingtonian’s report
of this meeting, from which i copy, says,
that about five hundred signed the petition
(dr "the prisoner's reprieve and large numbers
of petitions were called for and distributed.
i meetings similar to that held in boston, are
to be held in all the ptincipal towns through-
i out the state previous to the execution. may
the benevolent and philanthropic men who
have taken up the case of this poor friendless
victim of the debasing influence of southern
institutions, be successful in their efforts j. d.
henry clay’s birthday was celebrated
on thursday evening of last week, at the
apollo rooms, new york, by a large com
pany of faithful whigs, who still cling to the
ashland sage and his hell-invented scheme of
colonization. loud seems to have been the
talk on that evening, of his regard for freedom.
gen. leslie coombs, horace greeley, and
other prominent whigs made speeches on
the occasion. henry clay said in his speech
in the senate, feb. 1839—' "it is not true
and i rejoice that it is not true that either of
the great parties in this country has any designs
or aim at abolition is it for the expression
of such illiberal, unchristian sentiments as
this, or for his recent cold-blooded expatria
tion proposal, that the new york whigs
have been holding a glorification to his honor 1
the indians bow down before the idol jug
gernaut—-a bloody and revengeful monster
and call him their god the whigs (not all of
them) bow down before their idol—henry
clay, the high-priest of colonization—the
arch-enemy of the colored race, and call him
the friend of man —“the sentinel on the watch
tower of liberty.” alackaday! how falli
ble is man! t. o.
american democracy—what it is.
foreigners of dififerent nations in our city
are now circulating a paper for signatures re
questing the call ot a meeting fur the purpose
of considering the state and prospects of re
publicanism in europe, and of adopting such
means as may be best calculated to advance
the hopes and interests of european democ
racy, and especially the cause of italy.
there is a lukewarmness apparent with regard
to italy that ill becomes all, who should dem
onstrate to europe that the italian cause is
watched with interest in our country. path
finder-
psha! what a mockery it is for a people
who have juat elevated a slaveholder to the
office of chief magistrate—who hold three mil
lions of human beings in hopeless bondage—
who deny to some six hundred thousand the
rights of citizenship, simply because their skin
is somewhat darker than that of the majority
whose press and speech arc crushed under the
influence of a slaveholding oligarchy—what a
mockery for such a people to talk of “advanc
ing the hopes and interests of european de
mocracy the archbishop of baltimore has
addressed s letter to the clergy of of his dio
eeae, in which he much more truly expresses
the american sentiment on the subject of hu
man freedom. says he:—
“your earnest prayers will not be wanting
for his [the pope’s] speedy deliverance from his
persecutions, relentlessly waged against bis
sacred rights and august person by the enemies
the friends of liberty in italy, (on whose
behalf the editor quoted from above is plead
ing) the rev. aiehhiabop call* “the enemies
of god.” the protestant church and clergy
do exactly the seme thing, when they fellow
ship slaveholders, and shut their doors and
theh ears against the friend of the slave, sad
sou-slavery diseoamoo. a very singular mode
is that in which the model republic advances
the chgae of democracy. the blue hen’s
chicken, of wumingjpo, del. furnishes the
fallowing it is a common eese.
m-jr man v™
day. friends of liberty is italy, sod
ye poor op permed victims of european king
ed and despotism, read it and be grate*j for
the “advancement of your hopes and year in
tercets” by such manifestation of regs|d for
the cause of homo equality on the pert of
americas republicans'
runaway slates. joel thomas, ei-
sberift of queen ann’s couotv, maryland,
and a numbet of other marylanders, were in
our city on sunday evening last, looking for
two slaves, who had run away fiotn mr. perry
mr timer, of queen ann’s county, md. the
slaves made their escape on saturday night
last, and walking all night, when last heard of,
were passing over summit bridge, about three
hours before their pursuers, en-route for this
city. on sunday night last, strict watch was
being kept where the hare’s corner road en
ters the newcastle road, as it was supposed
they would probably enter the city in the night.
chasing runaway slaves, imprisoning and
tar-and-feathering those w ho help them to ee
cape—such is the choice employment of amer
ican democrats. 1 would recall to the memo
ry of all those who in this land of “stars and
stripes proudly talk of “advancing the hopes
of european democracy, the eloqueut lines of
whittier—
ami shall we scoff at erropc’s kings.
when frcetlom’i fiie is dim with os,
a lit i round our countn *s altar dings
tlic damning shade of slavery’s curse?
go—let us ask of constantine
to loose bis grasp at poland's throat
ami beg the ion) of mahmoud's line
to spare the struggling suiiote.
will not the scorching answer come
from turhaned turk, and fiery russ
go lose your fettered slaves at home,
then turn anti ask the like of us! —j. p.
a south era argument.
the anlislavery discussion now in progress
in kentucky, had the effect of imaging
up the subject of slavery in the southern
states, in a manner and to an extent, perhaps
never before experienced in those regions of
moral darkness.
the following is an argument against the
increase of slavery in georgia, from the au
gusta (ga chronicle. of course it is not
the highest gtound. we don't expect to hear
anything from georgia, approaching to a
moral argument for the abolition of slavery.
people in that state know nothing al>out the
rights of negroes as men. it would be like
“casting pearls before swine,” to offer such
an argument for their acceptance. probably
the moral sense of the writer in the chronicle
is just as low as that of those whom he ad
dresses; but whether the motive which led to
the use of this argument was good or bad, il
serves, like the straw, to show which way the
wind blows, and is significant of the feeling
and the policy by which the 'south is begin
ning to be actuated. as in the morning be
fore the sun appears above the horizon, ligh
is visible on the hill-top, giving promise of ap
proaching day; so may the fact that southen
writers use such arguments, partial and im
perfect though they are, be the harbinger o
the speedy dispelling of that worse than e
gyptian night, which for sixty long years ha>
1 rested like thick scales on the moral eyes#* ll
of american slaveholders. the bin* 1 raan
that was healed, first saw men as walk
ing; soon after that he saw “clearly*” the
most dangerous disease is no# utterly incura
able. the worst of men uot utterly be
yond redemption. anu-slavery truth will yet
reach, and soften, aiw subdue the hard heart
of the slaveholder* -did i oot believe that in
every human bring our heavenly bather has
implanted the germs of goodness, which re
quire only culture and care, to bring to matur
ity and fruitfulness, 1 should abandon my
faitbin god —progress —the ultimate triumph
of right, and turn atheist. hut i meant only
to introduce an extract from the augusta
chronicle, showing the progress of southern
sentiment. it is given below.— j. d.
“the caucasian race outnumbers the
african in the united states at this time, as
six to one. no more negroes are coming into
the country from abroad; whilst europe is
sending over a million of white laborers to
reside permanently, and multiply rapidly in
the american union, every four years. the
ceaseless progress of this ever-augmenting
disparity in the number of the two races,
and of two distinct classes of laborers, must
eventuate in changing the character, com
plexion, habits, customs and laws of society.
it cannot remain stationary; and it is the part
of sound, conservative statesinenship to ibre
see coining events, aud shape them so as to
1 advance the best interests of the community.
although we do not believe that the conveu
tion to term a new constitution in kentucky
will lake any action in favor of emancipation,
immediate or remote, nevertbe less, the time
will come when property in slaves will cease
to be desirable in that state.
as slavts can only be imported into georg
ia by exporting jfieir full value in productive
capital, would it nut be a wiser policy for this
state to keep its money at home, and invite
intelligent citizens to come here and settle,
who will create more wealth and taxable pjop
erty than an equal number of slaves, and cost
us nothing l one hundred thousand white la
borers wt ul 1 cost the commonwealth not a
single dollar; whilst they would be worth to
it an average of 750 each. we would not
only make the must of all the rural industry
which georgia now possesses, by employing
it to the best possible advantage; but we anxi
ously hope o see it, in truth and in reality,an
“empire state” in population, in wealth, and
in the full enjoyment of a ten-fold larger pro
ductive power.
in studying our own narrow personal inter
eats, vi are to apt to overlook the higher, the
broader, and more enduring interests of the
state. to build it up, we must keep all its
moveable property and citizens within its
bonnds. we must make it the beet state in
the union for europeans and the citizens of
other slates to settle in, with their capital,
their labor aud tbeir enterprise.
ohio— new constitution. —the atten
tion of our readers in ohio—especially our
colored readers—is requested to the letter
which will be found in another column, on
the subject of the new constitution for that
aiate. let the colored citizens of ohio see
to it, that no such clause as that restricting the
right to vote to the “free white male inhabi
tants or any other restriction baaed upon
color, finds its way into the contemplated
constitution. you have the power to do this,
if you will only bestir yourselves. let your
voices be distinctly beard throughout the state
demanding your rights, and your enemies
must yield—if not to justice —at least to shame.
call meetings, conventions —any thing—ooly
let your voices be heard, and that quickly.
begin to act at once—and do not cease to
net, till the proposed alteration is consum
mated. the proposal to call a convention is
agoodooe. itis the business of the stale
central committee to see to uus. let it bu
done.—j. d.
dkum umhiiew is the lon
don papers a sew work, twenty monthly
numbers, to be loramennrd on tbe first of may.
the tide is not yet known.
(•altfornin. -tlir; dark s*me.
the follow mg letter froui*a rfluinwl golj-
hunter applied m a late number of the n«w
\ork 1 nbrnii’. tin* writer weat out tu the
northerner tooirgiersnjtlwdre to panama.
w hat lie six a i 4 he-uj not 90 enuring,
but pert?aj>b 39 near the truth as many other
accounts from that quarter. he mentioned
also, in a previous communication, that lie
had met jt panama two british gentlemen
who had hcen to the mines. they thought
they could d as well working for a dollar
a-day, as in digging gold on the sacramento.
tlmy estimated the average yield to the hand
at $5,00 per day and the cost of living at
$6,00’ is it not a grand thing to he a gold
digger? there were many, however who
did better, but this was, in their judgment,
a fair average.
since the arrival of the crescent city from
the isthmus, several statements have appeared
in tbr public print*, so contrary to the truth
and to nv own recent experience, that i deem
it a duty incumbent on me to publish to the
world a faithful account.
in the early pan of this year, a party of
sixteen stout, hearty and intelligent youngmeii
of worcester, mass, organized themselves
into a company for the purpose of mining and
trading in california. we arrived m ncw-
vork 111 february, purchased our outfits, im
plements, ac. at an expense of several
thousand dollars, and sent goods around (he
horn to the value of several thousand dollars
more.
on the ist march, after having l»een strong
ly advised to take the isthmus route, and
informed that there were no passengers wail
ing at panama, w e left .new-york in the north
erner for chagres. we had a pleasant passage
of 12 da\s. the northerner anchored some
ten miles from chagres, at an anchorage
known as navy bay.—here we were trans
erred to the orus ami taken up to chagres,
and thence up the river as far as the orus
could go—say ten or twelve miles. next
day (6th of march) we were transferred
from the orus to canoes, and after two days
paddling were landed at gorgon a. whole ex
pense of passage from navy bay to gorgona,
12 per man. five feet of baggage allowed
to each person. every foot extra 60 cents.
it was the 18th of march when we arrived
at gorgona. pitched our tents and got ready
to turn in about midnight. next day visited
the tow n and found that consideiable sickness
prevailed, that several had died and man r
were dying of fevers at panama.
one the 20th march, at sunrise, mj ot
i tomly, a member of our company, ao/* 11 8
started on horseback for panama, which
elace we arrived about 8 o’clock ik bara e day.
distance 30 miles—road very
at panama we found a number of
americans say i,2oo— aumg a chance
lur|conveyance to calify^' 3 bey appeared
to be in great distress** 1 went around asking
one another what 8 done. some had
exhausted all tho' mean9 others were weak
ened and emac»* tet sickness and exposure
to the fatal estate of the isthmus, and num
bers were squally dying. they had found
to their some to their ruin, that the
1 represe 4,a, i° n 8 made to them in new-york
by invested parties about the facilities for
f from panama to california were ail
pise, and that they had been most grossly
deceived by individuals in new-york, of
whom they had expected belter things, and
who knew they were uttering untruths when
they stated that means of getting to california
from panama were abundant. no vessels of
any consequence stay at panama. it is many
hundred miles out of a vessel’s course. as
for british steamers going from panama to
san francisco it is a humbug. they don’t
goto san fianciscoat all. their route lies
exclusively between lima, valparaiso and
panama.
we waited at panama several days—quite
long enough to ascertain that there was no
chance at all for a passage to san francisco.
we had the benefit of the experience of hun
dreds of out fellow-ameiicans, many of whom
had been awaiting a passage for weeks and
months in vain. the california, due on the
13th march, had not arrived on the 23d. the
rainy season was about commencing, and,
taking all things into consideration, we
deemed it best to put about arid return home.
accordingly, we returned to gorgona to ad
vise our comrades, but found that they had
already started for panama. such of us (six)
as could gather our baggage in time for the
crescent city, returned to new-york in that
steamer. the rest will return by the first
opportunity.
this is a plain, unvarnished and disinterest
ed statement. in thus pultingjit forth i have
no other purpose to serve than to warn my
countrymen against the isthmus rout. my
company was composed of athletic and cour
ageous young men, able to endure any hard
ship and willing to face any danger, but
with no chance of a passage from panama to
san francisco they were averse to remaining
with no other prospect before them but 4 hope
deferred’ until death should cut them dow n.
a number of mercenary letter-writers, un
der good pay, reside at the isthmus and
discourse sweetly on the beauties of gorgona
and panama. but of all places in this wide
world—and i have been around and seen the
elephant in divers parts—save me and iny
friends, and god save you, good reader, from
the isthmus.— during the.day snn pours down
his heat in the most insufferable manner. 1
never knew anything about heat until i got
there. at night 1 had to sleep in the com
pany of lizards, ants, gallinippers, scorpions,
ac. ac. but i could have mood all this very
well. what wc complain of is being swin
dled by interested parties in new-york,
whose sole aim is to make money, regardless
of human life and human suffering.
while on the isthmus i made particular
inquiry and observation as to the number there
awaiting a passage to san francisco, and
can with safety say that at panama theie
were at least 1,200, at gorgona 500,and about
500 on their wav across the isihmus.
s. downes, of worcester, mas*.
ixivejoy’a hotel, new-york, april v, ih4*j.
the boston courier also publishes a letter
from a writer on hoard the ship capitol, com
plaining of the scarcity and had quality of the
provisions supplied to the passengers on hoard
that ship. the writer says 4 there was a
regular time on hoard, and if the individual
who fitted out the ship had sailed with the
crew it might have been the worse for him.”
discontent rose to such a height, that an
indignation meeting was held under tho
main hatch. a string of resolutions setting
forth their grievances was passed and signed
by 120 names. capt. proctor, received the
resolutions politely, and a sort of diplomatic
correspondence ensued, which does not seem
to have resulted in aaythiug satisfactory to
the passengers. here is a list of the dainties
furnished to the forecahto passengers, which,
moreover, they had to take “out of tin plates,
which they held on their knees and with
wooden spoons made by themselves.”
the first week, for breakfast, we were
favored with “lohecouse,” made of eiackers
and meat boiled together—that one dsy, and
the next morning, “dandy funk,” made of
crackers soaked, with a little molasses in it—
regular slope, not 6t for the hogs, h was no
uncommon thing to find a doien or so hairs
in u, and 10 one plate one of the cook’s teeth
was found. since the first week w« have
it*! made of “salt horse” and sour
potatoes.
so much for the disagreeables of the sea
voyage. travellers by land seem pel to for®
much better. a correspondent of tbe new
ark advertiser, writing from mexico, through
whn'h he travelled from era crux to san
pij*. remarks
1 would advise no one to come by this route.
i, .*vmle cannot be persuaded to stay at home,
.u had belter go round the horn, as by that
tl n oy will get to california just as soon
™!5 or.ieh more safely. for my part, if 1
w s going again—l would stay at home
h t !*ei ig thus far, 1 make the best of it, ant!
mil! go through.
th’ albany atlas contains letter* front
\fr t h van ilaren, a passenger on th«
imnr california, which give a deplotahh
x m oi the condition and fare of her passen
the following is from the letter date*
january 31
i'nu morning we left onr anchorage anc
«nih d down to taboga, an island situated ii
the bav of panama, some thirteen miles froir
11<> city. a small village is built upon th<
viiore, behind which rises a high and bok
mountain, covered with tropical truits in
abundance. we have lam here all day, tak
mg m water. many of the passengers wen
,-it shore to obtain whatever was purchasable
in the shape of fruit or other food, to he, f
k<* out the miserable existence of the coming
two or thiee weeks. i slept scarcely at a
i'he warm and nauseous stench together
with the hideous noiaesby our 8 -.insh neigh
bors, who occupy a large
before and on each side of- ne ~n
in our saloon, would ha’o kept the wearies
ac certainly have not
ever°y
arid if some different arrangements
made, an outbreak will lie the conse
quence: hir food is horrible.
have a sort of jerk-beef, cut in strings,
wluch lias been purchased from the natives.
it is boiled, and served up in small, dirty tubs.
this, with the addition of hard pilot bread,
ami an apology for cotree or tea, has been our
food to-day.
we are obliged to furnish our own plates,
knives and forks, and cat amid the filth where
and as we can. onr betths are composed of
a lew rough hoards, nailed together in the
cheapest manner —no beds or bedding—we
al>o furnish them. the whole arrangements
of this vessel, as respects the foward cabin,
are disgraceful m the extreme. i believe that
law has been violated. 1 know full well that
every principle of decency, honor, and obliga
tion. has been baselv disregarded and trodden
under foot, in the treatment of her passen
gers. our health ia jeopardied we are fed
with food not lit lor dogs, ami are lodged most
w retchedly indeed. we are in the midst of
dirt everywhere, and upon die whole are
treated in such a way as i should regret to
treat any criminal. i tie subject is disagree
able. i'postpone it to another day.
there are supposed to be now some fifteen
thousand afloat on the ocean, on their way to
california. asa general thing, they have
rushed on hoard, w ithout making anything like
necessary preparations for their long and
tedious voyage. the above is a specimen of
the consequences. much of this might be
avoided, by the exercise of a little, prudence
and forethought. perhaps, however the
land-traveller hits the right nail on the head—
‘‘lf i was going again—l would stay at
home— j. v.
pwinter's festival in boston.— on the
evening of the 11th inst., the printers ot bos
ton and vicinity, together with many other
ladies and gentlemen not connected with the
black art, assembled in tremont temple,
to listen to an address by mr. b. perley
poore, of the boston bee and pic-nic—to eat
oysters, ice-creams, &c., propose toasts, and
make speeches. the address by mr. poore
was learned and eloquent. 1 see the name of
my esteemed friend mr. t. r. marvin amongst
the speakers. his was the office in which
i was first initiated into the mysteries of am
erican typography. “live and let live,’ was
his motto on the occasion and to my know
ledge he acts upon it. 1 have gone a little
out of my way to say this; but there it is.—j. n.
daily national kra. —l)r. bailey con-j
suits his readers, in the last number of the;
kra, about the propriety of starting a daily;
paper, lie asks, can we find, 1,500 sub-j
scritx rs to begin with r the proposed daily
is to be $o,oo a-year.
the evening news is the name of a new
penny paper started in this city, independent
in politics. 1 have not yet seen a number
and therefore cannot speak of its merits but
the fact that mr. g. b. stebbins, (as 1 be
lieve) is to have a share in iis management,
is a sufficient guarantee that it will he radical
on the slavery question. may its days be
many and prosperous. —j. d.
elizabeth blackwell, m. 1).
in a recent number of the national era ap
peared an article from the pen of dr- elder,
giving some account of this very remarkable
young lady, who is the first medical doctor of
her sex, in the united states. not that it is
anything very great or remarkable to be a doc
tor for there is little great in allopathic
practice, except its darkness —or remarkable]
except its fallacy but miss blackwell is re
markable in that she has succeeded in getting
a diploma in spite of opposition from many of
the influential galens in this country. there
must be a large proportion of the right metal
in her composition, or she would never have
dared to make the attempt, in opposition to
sneers and jeers of the ignorant and self-con
eeited, about the “sphere,” the “proprieties”
the “decencies," and all that sort of fudge.
miss blackwell thinks, (and she is right) that
whatever a woman can do, that she may do.
if she can think, why should she not think l
if she has a mind capable of grasping the
most ab.'lruse science, what good reason can
he urged against her studying that science.
“miss 11.,(says dr. elder) is a woiker. just
so far as people are workers, the)’ are omni
potent, every one of them they need very
little help, and cannot he hindered by anybody.
she is one of those who cannot be hedged up
of turned aside, or defeated. she will not
stop to complam oj w rangle about proprieties
witli people who never do anything, either right
or wrong, and she won't fret. she is a wo
man, not oi words, but of deeds; and those
who only want to talk about it. may as well
give it up. filial i, her purpose is higher
pitched, her aim is broader, her idea deeper,
than appears, to those who only look at the
t*ur faces, and worry themselves with what
they call proprieties and practicabilities.”
miss b.,is twenty-eight years of age. she
vas born m the city of bristol, england, and
came with her father to this country, when
she was eleven years old. sin studied greek
and latin, and at the same time taught french
and music, and read medicine, with i)r. john
ihckson, at ashrille, n.c. two years ago,
she came to philadelphia and g-udied anatomy
ill the dlocklcy hospital. l>a*t winter she at
tended her second course at geneva, and gra
di a ted at the clone of the session. she has
defrayed the expenses of her medical educa
iion—-about eight-hundred dollars, out of the
proceeds of bet own industry. after study
ing in paris for a year or two, she will return
to this country, and intends to practice medi
cine in all its branches, in the city of new
york. there is no doubt of her success.
one who could solicit fifty medical men and a
dozen colleges, for the*privilege of study
ing medicine, and receive a rebuff from nearly
all of them, without flinching from her pur
pose, is not easily stopped. to uae her own
phrase “there is some place in the world for
her. and she will find it.” “thus far) (saya
i dr. elder,) the whole affair justifies itself, and
the future can also take care of itself.”— j.d.
communications.
an anti-slavery to«r.
frederic dot glass: —l feel it due to those
laboring in other departments of the antislavery
cause to report my experiences as a lecturer.
1 left rochester sunday march 18ib. monday
the 19th, i spoke at the universalist church
in clarendon, to a small but attentive audi
ence. tuesday the 20th, 1 went to southbarr,
at evening 1 attended a religious meeting held
in the school house, where i conversed with
mr gaston the presbyterian minister, who
told me there was a revival of religion in pro
gress at the centre, and for himself he was
opposed to the introduction of the subject of
slavery, peace, temperance, or anything cal
culated to draw off their minds from the im
portance of getting religion. i told him should
they have it seasoned with a little humanity
it would do them no harm; he admitted it
would do them no harm, but still refused to
give me a hearing.
i then said to him, mr. gaston suppose some
one should pass through this town, and steal
and carry off two or three children, and their
mothers with aching hearts and streaming
eyes should send their petition to your church
asking the prayers of the righteous which
avail much, in [behalf of the restoration of
their children to their fond arms, would you
treat their petition as you have treated the
muse of the slaves? he then declared that
he would object to the offering a prayer at
those meetings, for the deliverance of three
millions of his countrymen from chains and
slavery.
there was a mr. o. t. burns present, who
agreed with mr. gaston. mr. burns said he
had lived in kentucky, and knew that we
said some hard things of slaveholders that
they did not deserve; he said they were kind
and hospitable. what he meant was this—
they stole pigs and ducks from their slaves,
and stuffed him with them! here 1 am at a
loss, i do not know which is the most valueless
mr. burns’ idea of hospitality or mr. gaston’s
religion; the one will admit of robbing the
poor to feed the rich—the other of heathen
izing, and stealing men, women, and children
for the glory of god, and good of souls.
wednesday the 21st, i went to pinebill,
and from there to oakfield. here, too, they
were holding protracted meetings. the cause
of bleeding humanity finds but few friends at
protracted meetings and revivals of religion.
they are all so busy in trying to save that
invisible and undefined part of man called the
soul, that they will see his body, the image of
god, trampled in the dust unheeded.
thursday the 22nd, i returned to southbar
and made arrangements for a meeting to be
held at the school house, on friday evening
the 23rd, which was well attended. saturday
the 24th, i went to albion, the friends (if
there be any of them, and i sought dilligently
for them) had made no arrangements for a
meeting. the court house, the only public
building that is not barred against the cause
of the oppressed, had been newly painted.
a deacon of the presbyterian church tried to
get the vestry of the methodist church, but
mr. mehay the minister objected to my having
it. the deacon told me i would find friends
and an antislavery chuich at eagle harbour.
that is more than the deacon can say of his
church, or than i can say of the people of al
bion.
sunday the 25th, in the absence of the
wesleyan minister of eagle harbor, i 6poke
to a few friends of-the cause that had assem
bled for morning worship. the streets were so
muddy that the people could only get to the
meeting house in wagons.
monday the 26th, i went to west gaines,
but finding no arrangements had been made
for a meeting, 1 did not attempt to get up one,
judging from the appearance of things it
would be labor lost.
tuesday and wednesday, the 27th and
28th, i lectured at johnson's creek. my first
lecture was in the school house. after much
entreaty, and fifty cents in cash, which was
afterwaids made up to me. 1 got them to
allow me the privilege of opening the doors
of their church, and making a fire for them,
that they might sit there comfortably, while 1
spoke for the dumb. llow long people will
content themselves to sit in a little school house
to hear such lectures is for them to say. the
idea of a church being dedicated to god. that
bars its doors against humanity, is absurd.
‘god is not mocked, is not this the fast that 1
have chosen to loose the bands of wickedness,
and let the oppressed go free, and that ye
break every yoke
thursday and friday, the 29th, and 30th, i
lectured in ijockport; the meeting was slimly
attended, though i do not regret having gone
there. at dr. t’s house i saw an old man
fifty-one years of age, who had just ma le his
escape from the prison-house of american
slavery. there were many things connected
with his case that refreshed my mind, making
me feel more thankful for my own treedom,
and more anxious for others.
saturday the 31st, 1 lectured in the univer
salist church at ridgway corners. after the
meeting i made an appointment for sunday
afternoon, and then went to londonville to
make arrangements for one or more meetings
there, but 1 could not find a man in the village
to lend a helping band. 1 left these, who had
told roe i could not get the people to come
out) and went to the presbyteuan church and
saw the trustee®, who told me 1 could have
the church foi two evenings. i carried my
notice® to the churche®, for sunday and mon
day evenings, then left for the corner*, to my
afternoon appointment; the meeting was well
attended. i returned to lrodonville, and to
the astonishment of thoee inactive abolitionist*
whose doctrine ia “they are joined to idols let
them alone,” i had a full bouse; after the lec
ture, l invited the liukjchiklreo that had heard
roe to come again and bring their little friends.
i lent them tome little books to take borne
with them. monday the 2nd, this evening
most hare been one of deep interest to all pre
sent. i had acted somewhat imprudently, in
walking six or eight miles to get op a meet
ing forthe next day,and returned quite fatigu
ed and feverish, brought on by sbstioeoce
and disease. i entered the bouse at a very
early hour; tboee little girls were there ring
ing an antisjaveiy song. the cbsnge was so
great i soon felt like another mao, knowing 1
was aiming friends, though they were small
ones, i got them to open the meeting with an
antislaverv song, thetr choice was “i am an
abolitionist, i glory in the name,” ac,, their
fathers and mothers must hsve felt the force
of those words as they fell from the lips of
their children. i told thoee little gills how
little slaves were treated, i was heard with
apparent interest.
tuesday, april 3rd, i had a meeting in the
vestrv of the methodist church, in medina.
old zack has got many friends there deacon
cook, and brother snell made quite a speech
iu his defence, he was afraid i should injure
the cause by calling them theives and robbers
and taylor whig* pro-slavery; i hope the time
is not far distant, when pick-pockbets will
shun such men.
thursday the sth, i went to gaines, west
gaines, and albion, but could not get op a
meeting in either place. saturday the 7th, 1
icetured at the wesleyan chapel, eagle har
bor, the audience was quite disorderly, being
in part made up of some boatmen, whose
highest idea of manliness seemed to be dis
turbance. sunday the 6th, i lectured at the
baptist church in holley to a large audience.
here the arrangements had been made by our
friend morgan, and the presbyterian minister
kindly waived his evening meeting, that 1
might have a full house the meeting went off
well.
at no time during my laboring in the cause
as a lecturer, have i found so few friends, as
on the present occasion. in some of these
towns, it has been more than a year since the
•laves of this land have had any one to tell of
their wrongs.
your fellow laborer in the cause of human
ity, john s. jacobs.
first of august celebration at buffalo.
messrs. editors: —will you allow me,
through the columns of your valuable paper,
to communicate to your readers and freedom’s
friends throughout the country, that grand
and extensive preparations are now being made
in the city of buffalo to celebrate the com
memoration of that glorious morn, when far
away “amid the isles of the sea the tocsin of
liberty sounded,” and at the first peal of
those glad notes eight hundred thousand hu
man beings, bound by the despotic hoof of
oppression, were enabled to arise from their
bed of degradation and stand erect in all the
manhood with which god has endowed them.
and though fifteen years have passed away
since the first chronicling of this glorious event
yet in the recollection of our citizens, the de
lightful scenes attendant upon that occasion
are cherished with the deepest and liveliest
emotions and though we were npt eye wit
nesses upon the occasion, yet by the lies of
brotherhood and our identity with the human
family, we cherish with thertr the remem
brance of the pleasing prospect by which they
were surrounded.
and in view of this, buffalo intends man
fully to show to the world, her warm attach
ment to so holy and noble a cause. the ser
vices of some of the most able and talented
men in the country have been engaged as
speakers open the occasion, and every arrang
ment will be entered into to ensure the comfort
and happiness of all who may attend.
and i may but speak the sentiments of the
citizens generally, when i extend a most cor
dial invitation to the empire state to marshal
her sons nd daughters in innumerable hosts,
throughout the entire length and breadth of
her borders, and at the appointed time crowd
every avenue and thoroughfare that shall lead
safely to the queen city.
our brethren further east are also invited
to be present, the voice of the great west is
1 also expected to be heard; let ohio, michigan
indiana, and illinois, each be ably represented
and under god, we shall be enabled to fight a
valiant battle for freedom.
yours, as ever,
george weir, jr.
biftalo, april 14th, 1849.
free suffrage iu ohio. i
frederick douglass: —ln accordance with 1
an act passed during the last session of the
general assembly, the voters of the state of
ohio are called on to decide at the ballot box,
for or agaiust a convention to frame a new
constitution. doubtless this has been sprung
upon the people for the sole purpose of manu
facturing political capital; they never having
either by common agitation or petition, de
manded a change of that instrument, notwith
standing there are but few who will deny its
absolute necessity.
a little over forty years ago, ohio was ad
mitted into the union, with her present pro
scriptive, but in other respects, liberal consti
tution. under it, and without change, she
has from feeble infancy attained to her present
over-grown proportions, and now, with lofty
pride, ranks among the most flourishing slates
of this confedtaey. advancements in agti
culture, and the art* and sciences meet the
eve in every direction. dark and dreary
forests have been swept away, to give place
to her rapidly increasing cities and towns, all
teeming with an industrious and thrifty popu
lation. the whole surface of our country ex
hibits one vast net-work of rail-roads, canals,
and turnpikes, which of themselves speak
volumes in favor of her commercial and agri
cultural importance. yet notwithstanding
these evidences of greatness, the present con
stitution is inadequate to the wants and wishes
of the people, and the progressive spirit of
the limes.
a change is ptoposed, and in that change,
many important alterations are contemplated.
among the most preminent is the election of
united slates senator, judges of the courts,
and all officers hy the people. the stripping
of the legislative branch of our state govern
ment, of its corrupting patronage, is truly a
wholesome and sound reform. there is how
ever the suffrage question, of infinitely greater
importance than all the buboes pet together,
upon which there is little or nothing said, sod
i fear, the studied puwe on the port of lead-
iog papers advocating reform “oombs evo”
lo the cause of equal rights.
in oar present constitution, only ooe ward
disfranchises the colored ms. a voter most
he a free “while male inhabitant.” will this
restriction be applied in the expected alteratiea
of the great organic law of the state! ibis its
question that presents itself to every ooe fa
vorable to universal suffrage the bet ta in
controvertible, that the pablic mind la ohio
has undergone, and is still “undergoing a
change,” on this subject. so much is this
the case, that should the convention to frame
a new constitution, be held, my in 1855, the
doctrine recognising the political equality of
all men would doubtless be established.
the total indifference mamlested now oe all
hands goes to show that a convention held
earlier than tho period just mentioned, would
result without any particular alteration in this
particular feature of it, unless great exertions
are made to place the subject in its propev light
before the people. how can this be effected!
"they who would he free, themselves must
strike the blow.” the most feasible plan
that i can think of would be for tbe ohio state
central committee of colored people to call a
convention as early as possible, for tbe pur
pose of adopting measures the best calculated
to aid those who are laboring to promote their
rights, injthe accomplishment of this object.
they have reason to anticipate the worst re
sults, theaefore no effort should be left untried.
timely exertions on their own part are indis
pensible, in order to secure ultimate success.
yours, ac.,
a. j. anderson.
eaton, ohio.
cauda
correspondence of the courier and enquirer.
montral, thursday, april 5.
in the house of assembly last night, the
members voted themselves an allowance of
$4 per diem.
the university bill was past a first read
ing-—and is to have a seconed in a fortnigh*.
fifty soldiers have been discharged from
the various regiments and garrisons in conse
quence of the proposed military reduction in
the british army. information, how
ever, has since been received that the present
military force in canada is to be increased by
several regiments.
petitions against sanctioning the rebellion
losses bill weie presented to-day to the gov
ernor general from the township of packen
ham, sherbrooke and stranstead.
great distress prevails at gaspe. a meet
ing aga nst the rebellion losses bill has been
held at that place.
mr. galt, agent for the british american
loan company, has come foward as a candi
date for the representation of the county of
sherbrooke.
the ice in front of the city moved yester
day.—the weather is very mild.
montreal, monday, april 9.—the gov
ernment presented the draft of a new tarifl
on saturday, but met with much opposition.
—probably a higher scale will be adopted for
agricultural products and manufactures. the
chief argument of the opposition was the high
duties in the united states. the ministerial
scheme was to impose ten per cent, upoi al
most every article but groceries; grains to be
free. the protectionists desire no change in
present rates on grains and animals, and 25
per cent, on manufactures,and two-and-a-half
percent, on taw materials. tribune.
advices from toronto of a late date, say
that the political excitement in that region,
though nearly as high as it can be, is visibly
on the increase. only a spark is needed to
set the übt le province in a blase, and forci
ble collisions are barely avoided. the tory
parly is becoming every day sicker t f the
union of the two provinces, and more aliena
ted from the british crown. it is to be noted
that all the violence, riots, &c., of the last
month or so has proceeded from the conser
vative law and order party. the liberals
are quiet or act on the defensive.
a proposition has been made by the atlo:-
ney general to the canadian parliment to a
bolish the seignorial tenures in canada east.
these tenures are similar to the patrooner
ies of new york, which the attorney gene
ral has claimed on behalf of the people.
the tory party in canada, it is said, talk
of annexation to the united states, but we
have quite enough of toryism and landlord
ism now: when the people of canada shall
have achieved their independence, it will be
time enough to talk of annexation, and, judg
ing from our experience, it is hardly worth
while for them to rebel against the throne till
they aie prepared to rebel against the greater
power behind the throne, the power of land
monopoly.— young ameriaa.
from hayti. —the brig susan currier,
from cape haytien 24th ult., armed at this
port this morning. from letters received by
her we learn that soloque was busily engag
ed in levying forces for the invasion of st.
dumingo. the preparations are carried on
with as much secresy as jiossible, but soloque
evidently intends that his next step shall be
effectual. soloque has also got into trouble
with the french. he had refused to pay the
last instalment of the indemnity due that
country, on the ground that they had broken
the treaty by acknowledging the independence
of st. domingo, the spanish part of the
island. a misunderstanding has arisen be
tween the french consul and the haytien
government, on account of the letter repudi
ating its obligation. several slight skirmishes
had "taken place between the haytiens and
the dominicans, and a large number of troops
were being raised for a general movement
against the spanish part of the island.
boston traveler, 24 th.
the correspondent of the philadelphia led
ger says that mr. ewing is looking to the
presidency that mr. webster is “recommend
ing some person or other for almost every
office under the government,” and that gene
ral scott will not be permitted to reside official
ly at washington.
scicidb by slave.—- the nashville a
raerican says a negro girl belonging to mr l.
c. lisby hung berself last week. her mo
ther h»d ruo off, .id th. pri being thiwntnoed
with punishment if rfw <m not gi.e inform*
lion l to the whereabout of the rnniw.)
committed suicide.
had the two persons referred to above beet
white slaves in constantinople e* some othei
place the conduct of this self-sacrificm*
diughter would have been thought mo*
heroic, even by thore
chaodise of human deshand a.
they were only “oiggere »n r*p«bh«« a
menca, we presame the affair will be po
down as another md.cauot. of the natural nb
stmacy and stnpidtty of the african race.—
henrv cuy i» u> deliver the addrwa at thi
and honienuarel fair tt
be held at cincinnati next fen.
in abbied
"u brook port, th. hi i-« w c
dlw, mr- asthobt banaiaa to mw hammier
pataca, both of above pfeee-
abo, i-
mr. btijis.* g. paamim*. of bwate«, to mm
mama potted. of the hamrn phn.
boston, en bendaj ereniag april ftb, after a
jel** of hrainfcw. c«anta. pnllaa.
•on of william lloyd and hiuu eun
oaaatsoß, •frislsj ears »ren «w«ba.
the rescue
it was in the month of february,
1831, a bright moonlight night, and in
tensely cold, that the little brig 1 com
manded lay quietly at her anchors in
side of sandy hook.
e had a hard time of u. beating a
bout for eleven days oftthis coast, with
cuttiug north-easters blowing, and
snow and sleet falling for the most of
that time. forward, the vessel was
thickly coated with ice, and it was hard
work to handle her, as the rigging and
sails were stiff and yielded only when
the strength of the men was exerted to
the utmost. when at length we gained
the port, and hands worn down and ex
hausted, we could not have held out
two days longer without relief.
“a bitter cold night, mr. larkin,” 1
said to my mate, as i tarried for a mo
ment on deck to finish my cigar.
the worthy down-easter buttoned his
coat more tightly around him, looking
up to the moon—and felt for his red
i nose before he replied—
“lt’s a whistler, captain, as we used
to say on the kennebec. nothing lives
comfortably out of blankets in such a
night as this.”
“the tide is running out swift and
strong; it will be well to keep a sharp
look-out for this floating ice, mr. lark
in.”
“aye, aye, sir,” responded the mate,
and i went below.
two hours afterwards, i was aroused
from a sound sleep by the vigilant
officer.
“excuse me for disturbing you cap
tain,” said he, as he detected an ex
pression of vexation on my face; “but
i wish you would turn out and come on
deck as scon as possible.”
“why—what’s the matter, mr.
larkin?”
why sir, i have been watching a
cake of ice that swept by at a little dis
tance, a moment ago: 1 saw something
black upon it—something that i
thought moved. the moon’s under a
cloud, and i could not see distinctly;
but i do believe there’s a child floating
out at sea, in this freezing night, on
that cake of ice.”
we were on deck before either
spoke another word. the mate point
ed out, with no little difficulty, the cake
of ice floating off to leeward, and its
white glittering surface was broken by
a black spot —more i could not make
out.
“get me the glass, mr. larkin—the
moon will be out of the cloud in a mo
ment, and then we can see distinct
ly.”
i kept my eye upon the recediug
mass of ice, while the moon was slowly
working its way through a heavy bank
of clouds. the mate stood by with a
glass. when the full light fell at fast
upon the water with a brilliancy only
known in our northern latitudes, i put
the glass to my eye. one glance was
enough.
“forward, there!” i shouted at the
top of my voice, and with one. bound i
reached the main hatch, and began to
clear away the /s
mr. larkin had received the glass
from my hand, to take a look for him
self.
“my god?” he said in a whisper, as
he set to work to aid in getting out the
boat—“my god, there are two children
on that cake of ice.”
i two men answered my hail, and
walked lazily afl. in an incredibly
short space of time, we launched the
cutter, into which mr. larkin and my
self jumped, followed by the two men,
who took the oars. i rigged the tiller,
and the mate sat beside me in the stern
sheets.
“do you see that cake of ice with
something black upon it, lads?” i cried;
“put me along side of that, and i’ll
give you a bottle of rum each, to-n •ght,
and a month’s extra wages, when you
are paid off.
the men bent to their oars, but their
strokes were uneven and feeble. they
were used up by the hard duty of the
preceding fortnight, and though they
did their best; the boat made little
more way than the tide. this was a
long chase—and mr. larkin who was
suffering as he saw how little we gained,
cried out—
pull, lads—l’ll double the captain’s
prize: two bottles of rum and two
months’ pay. pull, lads, for the love
of god, pull!”
a convulsive effort of the oars told
i how willing the men were to obey, but
the strength of the strong man was
gone. one of the poor fellows washed
us twice in recovering his oar, and
then gave out; the other was nearly as
far gone. mr. larkin sprang forward
and seized the deserted oar.
“lay down in the bottom of the boat,
said he to the man; “and captain take
the other oar, we must roar for our
selves.”
i took the second man’s place; lar
kin had stripped to his gurnsey shirt;
as he pulled the bow, i waited the sig
nal stroke. it came gently, but firm,
and the next moment we were pulling a
long, steady stroke, gradually increas
ing in rapidity until the wood seemed
to smoke in the oar-locks. we kept
time each by a long, deep breathing of
the other. such a pull! we bent for
ward until our faces almost touched
our knees, and then throwing all our
strength into the backward movement,
until every inch of the space covered
by the sw’eep had been gained. at
every stroke the boat shot ahead like
an arrow discharged at the bow. thus
we worked at the oars for fifteen min
utes—it seemed to me as many hours.
the sweat rolled off me in great drops,
and 1 was enveloped in steam generated
from my own body.
“are we almost to it, mr. larkin?”
i gasped out.
“almost, captain—don’t give up; for
the love of our dear little ones at home
—dont give up, captain!”
i he oars flashed as the blades turned
up to the moonlight. the men who
plied them wore fathers’ hearts; the
strength which nerved them at that mo
ment was more than human.
suddenly mr. larkin stopped pull
ing, my heart for a moment almost
ceased its beating; for the terrible
thought that he bad given out crossed
my mind. but i was quickly re-assured
by bis voice:
“gently captain, gently—« stroke
or two more there, tint will do!”
mod the next mnmsui the boot’* nde
came in contact with something, and
larkin sprang from the boat with his
henry feet up on the ice. i started
up, and calling upon the men to make
fast the boat to the ice, followed.
we hastened to the spot and there
found two little boys —the bond of the
smaller nestling in the bosom of the
larger. both were fast asleep. the
lethargy which would hare been fetal
but for the timely rescue, had orercome
them. mr. larkin grasped one of the
lads, cut olf his shoes, tore off his jack'
et; and then loosing his own garments
to the skin, placed the chilled child in
contact with his own warm body, care
fully wrapping orer him his great coat,
which he procured from the boat. i
did the same with the other child: and
then we returned to the boat, and the
men, partially recovered, palled slowly
back.
the children as we learned when we
subsequently had the delight of restor
i mg them to their parents, were playing
ion the ice, and had rentored on the
cake, which had jammed into the bed of
the river, ten miles above new york.
a movement of the tide set the ice jp
motion, and the little fellows were borne
i away on that cold night, and would in
evitably have perished but for mr.
larkin spying them as the tide was
floating out to sea.
“how do you feel i said to the
mate the morning after this adventure.
“a little stiff in the arms, captain,”
the noble fellow replied, while the big
tears of grateful happiness gushed from
his eyes—“a little stiff in the arms,
captain, but very easy here,” and he
laid his hand on his manly heart. my
quaint, down-easter! he who lashes
the seas into fury, and lets loose the
tempests, will care for thee!—the
storm may rage without, but in thy
bosom peace and sunshine will abide.
—boston museum.
t. b. macaulay and thomas
carlyle.
macaulay’s sense of beauty is keen,
but not deep; his enthusiasm has no
central fire; his convictions want depth,
and, as a consequence, his eloquence,
with all its apparent earnestness, wants
force. the surface of his mind is large
and active; but its regions below remain
untroubled. the consequence is, that
he has no influence on his age. he
flatters the indolence of his readers;
he does not stimulate their minds. he
delights; he does not inspire. in read
ing him, we do not feel that his soul is
speaking from its depths to the depths
of ours. compare him with carlyle.
two more opposite men cannot be
named in the same breath. macaulay,
clear, definite, elegant, methodical;
crowding his pages with antitheses and
illustrations; more solicitous about the
fall of a period than about the accuracy
of his assertion; grouping details into
a picture; fond of paradox, yet never
probing beneath the surface; expert in
polemics, yet seldom fighting for great
truths; captivating by the grace, and
dazzling by the gorgeousnesa of his
diction, and leaving upon the reader’s
mind no more durable impression than
that which a splendid spectacle leaves
upon the mind of a theatrical audience.
carlyle—rugged, mystical abrupt, im
methodical, unmusical, vehement,
scornful, sarcastic, sardonic, and hu
merous; rich also in pictures; inordin
ately fond of paradox, but profoundly
serious; striving at all times to see into
the depths of things; disdainful of ordi
nary rules of composition, disdainful of
all elegancies, graces, and shams of
1 life and of literature; forever appealing
to the soul of man, and bidding him re
member that he is in the presence of
the infinite; sternly recalling those
i awful facts of life which frivolity en
deavors to gloss over; fiercely preach
ing the imperative nature of duty and
lof earnestness; speaking in prophet
tones to a heedless generation; mingling
the quaintest imagery and wildest buf
foonery with the saddest pathos and
the dreariest gloom; a sceptic, yet a
prophet; amidst alternate laughter and
alternate tears, alternate exhortation
j and alternate contempt; he does not
dazzle, he provokes; he does not capti
vate, he inspires; and the impression
he leaves upon the mind is various and
'abiding, as that left by a tragedy of
shakspeare. as specimens of literature,
in the limited sense of the word, ma
caulay’s writings are immeasurably
superior; but if literature be something
more than the amusement of cultivated
j intellects, something more than an in
jtellectual luxury, for the dissipation of
leisure hours, carlyle’s superiority is
unmistakable. macaulay has delighted
thousands. this is no slight thing,
and we should be the last to undervalue
it. but he has materially bettered no
one. he has deepened no man’s convic
tions, he has given fresh strength to no
1 human soul. his influence on his gen
eration has been null. carlyle, though
scorned by many for his offences against
j literary taste, and though dreaded by
‘others for his reckless treatment of
great questions, has, nevertheless, pro
duced a visible influence on the minds
(of his cotemporaies; he has given a
direction to their thoughts, and has
suggested so much thought that he is
rightfully regarded as a teacher. this
fact there is no gainsaying. think
what we may o! the influence, be it evil
or be it good, it is there. we could
name more than one distinguished or
nament of the church, whose rise has
been rendered impossible because of
the carlyle taint.” we— that is,
the present writer—feel called upon
here distinctly to declare, that with
scarcely any living author have we less
agreement than with carlyle; yet we
are, nevertholess, sensible of a great
benefit derived from his writings. there
is an indirect teaching not less valuable
than the direct teaching. no serious
thinker writes in vain. carlyle has
his affectations, his shams; but he has
his realities. had he not lived, some
of the moot active minds of our genera
tion would have been different; they
would assuredly have been as active,
it may be, wiser, but certainly different.
now, it is impoesible, we thiak, to say
that any human being would have been
otherwise bad macaulay never written.
some few might have written lean pic
turesquely and less elegantly, but no
human soul would have been poorer.—
the briiuk quarterly for february.
a tragedy •tk4r6i* thajt
fiction.
h 6 mv tn account of horrible
transaction at buenos ayres, wherein a
youthful priest who had broken hil
rows of celibeer, was shot together
with his wife. the brutality of the act
was so inconceivably atrocious, that we
attached little credit to the story. it is
however continued m a letter from
buenos ayres to the new york trib
une, which says:
“the execution took place at the
military encampment a few miles from
the city, on friday last. the poor
culprits had but one day’s notice. the
priests who were ordered to adsmnistor
the last sacred rights of the church,
were chosen from the highest dignita
ries. the unhappy couple were duly
confessed, and horrible as it rosy ap
pear the unborn child was baptized in
the bosom of its mother. gutinze
came out pale and shrinking—camilla
firm; at the first look he fainted; she
gave a cry so heart-rending that one of
the attending priests was carried off in
a swoon. she, however, soon roused
herself, and addressing her recovering
companion reminded him of their love,
ind though in the eyes of man it might
be sinful, she had faith in the goodness
and justice of god, and soon they would
meet in a better world never again to
be seperated. she urged him to be
firm, and the struggle would soon be
over. she refused to have her eyes
bandaged, but with a modesty belong
ing to her sex, requested her dress
might be fastened round her ancles, to
prevent any indecent exposure when
she fell. she was clad particularly
neat. throwing her beautiful tresses
over her face, she calmly seated her
self beside her lover, and their arms
were bound to the post. a tile of sol
i diers was advanced—the order given to
fire—not a trigger w’as drawn, in the
hearts of those wild men there still w*as
something human. they were with
drawn under arrest, and the guard of
pampa indians not so sensitive, advan
ced within five yards of the poor vic
tims, and fired. they both fell dead
without a groan. the captain of the
guard on whom devolved the service
of the day, stung by remorse or actua
ted by a more noble sentiment, formed
the troop into a square round the mu
tilated corpses, and addressing hss
comrades, said; “i have obeyed my
i orders, but my business is not to shoot
women”—then drew a pistol and blew
out his own brains.”
street scenes of turin.
the following is an extract of a letter
from an english gentleman, at turin,
dated 12th january, 1849.:—•
the inhabitants, as usual, abroad,
live out of doors; the streets on a
morning are like an english fair, and
no opera scene in masaniello is more
picturesque and interesting than what
one meets with here in one’s common
walks. priests, with their black
cloaks and long shovel hats, friars,
with their coarse giay and brown
gowns, cowls, downcast eyes, and
and stupid sensual expression, sa
voyard and piedmontese soldiers;
grounds of officers, of every hue and
variety of gay and graceful unirorm;
peasants and peasantesses, of many a
costume; lombard refugees, with a
not numerous sprinkling of dark-eyed
ladies; these actually crowd every
street you pass through.—what an in
fallible symptom of barbarism is this
vast proportion of priests and soldiers.
1 could almost pronounce upon the de
gree of civilisation a people has
reached, on hearing the number of
priests and soldiers to each thousand of
popnlation.—here, the gay and
thoughtless slaves of the sword, the
salaried slayers of their fellows, the
paid butchers of mankind, strut about
in their bright plumage, and are looked
upon with honor and reverence by the
unhappydupes who pay{them to be their
curse. to worship a golden calf is at
least a harmless folly; but to cherish
and feed a minotaur like this, to foster
so upas-like a class in the bosom of the
riation, is,—nay, with what words shall
i stigmatize the madness? it is worthy
of a people whose ignorant fears and
timorous credulity lead to maintain a
seconed army of priests and faiars.—
and yet, they live, and dance, and
flourish.
col. fremont. —we rejoice to learn
from later intelligence just reached this
city from santa fe, that the first
accounts of the loss of col. fremont’s
party was greatly exagerated. as it is
however, it is bad enough in all con
science sake. eleven of his comrades
have perished from fatigue and hunger,
and the sufferings of the aurvivers great&
er than was ever endured by man. to
sustain life they were compelled to feed
upon the bodies of their dead comrades,
a resort which nothiug but the extreme
of desperation would have driven them
to. to day or to morrow additional
and particular accounts will be recei
ved, from which some idea may be gath
ered of the hardships and the dreadful
suffering this band of hardy adven
turers have undergone in their daring
exploit of crossing the mountains in the
winter season.— st. louis era.
a learned doc. —on the third
avenue there is a house where one
family residing on the third floor, take
one of the morning papers, while an
other family, who occupy the second
floor, subscribe for two others. the
carriers throw the three papers in the
hall early each morning, and the family
on the third floor send down their large
dog for their copy. with the utmost
regularity, this sagacious quadruped,
who was reared on prince edward's
island, selects it from among the three
journals, carries it up stairs in his teeth,
and delivers it to bis mistress, never at
any time making a mistake as to the
paper*. although the dog’s movements
have been carefully watched, during
several mornings, no one has been able
to offer any reasonable conjectures as
to the means the dog uses to distinguish
the journal his mistress subscribes for
from others.—yv. y. tribune.
a country clergyman being opposed to the
ooe of the violin in the divine aenrice, was,
however, overruled by bis congregation, who
determined upon baring one. on the follow
ing sunday, the parson commenced the ser
viee by exclaiming in long drawn accents,
“yon may f-i-d-d-i-e and e-i-n-g the 40th
psalm”.