SPEECH OF MR. T. STEVENS,
OF PENNSYLVANIA,
In the House of Representatives, Wednesday February
20, 1850, in Committee of the Whole on the state
of the Union, on the reference of the President's
Annual Message.
Mr. STEVENS, of Pennsylvania,
said:
Mr. Chairman: I do not know that
I should have troubled the committee
at this* time, eo»W I »ee .nnv reasona
ble prospect that the House would de
vote its time to practical legislation.
But for a considerable time after our
meeting, the organization of the House
was obstructed; and siuce organized,
a large portion of its time has been oc
cupied by speeches on the subject of
slavery, mostly by southern gentlemen, I
when no practical question, to which i
they could apply, was before the com
mittee. There was no doubt a well
defined object in this, partly to intimi
date Congress, and partly to occupy
its time, so that no legislation couid be
matured obnoxious to southern gentle
men. Indeed we are not left to con
jecture on this point. The learned
gentlemen from North Carolina, [Mr. j
Cungman,] who was selected to open!
the debate in behalfof human bondage,
distinctly notified us, that unless Con
gress, as a condition precedent, sub
mitted to settle the slavery question,
according to southern demands, there
should be no legislation, even to the
passage of the ordinary appropriation
bills necessary to sustain the Govern
ment. And that such measures would
not he obstructed by meeting them in
manly debate, and voting on their
merits; but by incessantly calling the
yeas and nays, on repeated and frivo
lous motions to adjourn, until the end
of the session. Sir, I doubt not that
before he ventured on so high a threat
he had full assurances from a sufficient
number of southern gentlemen to carry
it into effect. For, if he had made it
upon his own hare authority, it would
degenerate into contemptible gasco
nade, which I am sure the disereet
gentlemen would not indulge in. The
scene of last Monday in this house ful
ly sustained him, and showed that they
had the will and the power to execute
it.
Here, then, we have a weli-defined
and palpable conspiracy of southern
members combined to stop the supplies
necessary to the existence of the Gov
ernment, disorganize and dissolve it,
until the bands that bind the Union to
gether are severed, and, as a gentle
men early in the session desired, “dis
cord.” Well might the gentlemen an
ticipate that the country and posterity
would pronounce this treason, rank
treason against the nation! Sir, I
doubt if there is another legislative
body in the world where such sedition
would not be followed by prosecution
and punishment. France has lately
exiled members of her Assembly for a
similar offence. But in this glorious
country, where nearly two-thirds of
the people are free, we can say any
thing within these walls or beyond
them with impunity, unless it be to ag
itate in favor of human liberty—that
is aggression!
Let us inquire, what is the grave
offence, the mighty wrong, which can
justify a threat big with such portentous
consequences? The refusal of Con
gress to propagate or to establish a
doubtful or even an admitted good
in the Territories would surely be no
cause for rebellion and revolution—
much less would the refusal to extend
an evil, an admitted evil, as unmitiga
ted wrong. Will an intelligent and
and free posterity believe it when im
partial history records that the only
cause for this high threat was the ap-
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—
prehension that the Congress of this
free Republic would not propagate,
nor permit to be propogated, the insti
tution ol human slavery into her vast
Territories now free? Yet such is the
simple fact. It is proper, then, to in
quire whether the thing sought to be
forced upon the Territories at the risk
of treason and rebellion be a good or
an evil. I think it is a great evil
which ought to be interdicted that we
should oppose it as statesmen, as phil
anthropists, and as rnaralists,*nßtwith
standing the extraordinary position ta
ken by the gentleman from Alabama
[Mr. Hilliard] to the contrary.
While I thus announce my unchange
able hostility to slavery in every form,
and in every place, I also avow my de
termination to stand by all the compro
mises of the Constitution, and carry
them into faithful effect. Some of
those compromises I greatly dislike;
and were they now open for considera
tion, they should never recieve my as
sent. But I find them in a constitution
formed in difficult times, and I would
not disturb them.
By those compromises Congress has
!no power over slavery in the States.
I greatly regret that it is so; for if it
j were our legitimate control, I would
go regardless of all threats, for some
just, safe, and certain mean* for its fi
nal extinction. But I know of no one
who claims the right, or desires to
touch it within the States. But when
we come to form governments for* ter
ritories acquired long since the forma
tion of the Constitution, and to admit
new Stales, whose only claim for ad
mission depends on the will of Con
gress, we are bound so to discharge
that duty, as shall best contribute to
the prosperity, the power, the perman
ency, and the glory of this nation.
Does slavery contribute to either of
these? Is it not rather subversive of
them all? Let us first view it in the
j low light of political economy. That
1 nation, I suppose, is always the most
prosperous, all other things being
i equal,that has the most industrious,and
the larger number of the producing
classes. Those who merely consume
the fruits of the earth, add nothing to
the strength or the wealth of a nation.
Slave countries never can have a large
j number of industrious freemen. Slave
j holders form an untitled aristocracy,
with numerous dependents. Individu
i als appropriate large tracts of territory
I to themselves, and thus prevent it Jroiii
I being thickly settled by freemen,
i Their laborers, having no ambition to
gratify, no love of gain to stimulate
them, no parental feelings to impel
them to action, are idle and wasteful.
When the lash is the only stimulant,
the spirit of man revolts from labor.
That republic must be feeble, both
in peace and war, that has not an in
telligent and industrious yeomanry,
equally removed from luxury and from
poverty. The middling classes who
own the soil, and work it with -their
own hands, are the main support of ev
ery free government. Despotism may
be powerful, and long sustained by a
mixed population of serfs and nobles.
But free representative republics, that
rely upon the voluntary action of the
people, never can. Under such gov
ernments those who defend and sup
port the country must have a stake in
1 the soil; must have interest to protect
and rights to defend.
Slave countries never can have such
a yeomanry; never can have a body of
small proprietors who own the soil and
till it with their own hands, and sit
down in conscious independence under
their own vine and fig-tree. There is
no sound connecting link between the
aristocrat and tho slave. True there
is a class of human beings between
them; but they are the most worthless
and miserable of mankind. The poor
white laborer is the scorn of the slave
himself. For slavery always degrades
labor. The white people who work
with their hands are ranked with the
other laborers—the slaves. They are
excluded from the society of the rich.
Their associations, if anywhere, are*
with the colored population. They
feel that they are degraded and despi
sed; and their minds and conduct gen
erally conform to their condition.
The soil occupied by slavery is much
less productive than a similar soil oc
cupied by freemen. Men who are to
1 receive none of the wages of their la-1
I bor do not care to multiply its fruits, j
i Sloth, negligence, improvidence, are
the consequence. The land being
neglected, becomes poor and barren;'
as it becomes exhausted it is thrown
out as waste, for slave labor never ren-|
ovates its strength. This applies par
ticularly to agricultural States. Take
j Virginia, the favorite example for the
South, which has been so triumphantly
referred to by the gentleman from
j North Carolina, [Mr. Clingman.]
Whence he drew his facts that she was
more prosperous, more populous, and
more rich than the free States, 1 know
not. lam sure it was not from perso
nal observation. He would not cer
tainly draw on his imagination in mat
ters of fact. I suppose he must have
been misled by the most miserable of
sophists, and most false of chroniclers,
Ellwood Fisher.
I admit that, by nature, Virginia has
capabilities equal, if not superior, to
any State in the Union. She has a
delightful climate; a soil naturally fer
tile. She is intersected, as was well
said by the gentleman from Virginia,
[Mr. Bayly,] by the noblest rivers.
Her hills and mountains are filled with
rich minerals and covered with valua
ble timber. She has the finest water,
l believe, in the nation, in the very
heart of her State; and her harbors
are among the best in ths worldr At
the time of the adoption of the Consti
tution she was the most powerful State
—her population was double that of>
New York. It was the boast of her
statesmen that she was pinma inter
puren. What is she now? The pop
ulation of New York is more than dou
ble—l think the next census will show
nearly treble hers. Her land, cultiva
ted by unwilling hands,is unproductive.
Travel through the adjouirhkyg States
of Ohio and Pennsylvania., and yon will;
see that the land produces more than!
double as much as the same kind of
land in Virginia. In the free States
new towns are everywhere springing
up and thriving; the land is becoming:
more productive; smiling habitations
are within hail of each other; the whole
country is dotted with school-houses
and churches almost within sight of j
each other; and except under peculiar)
circumstances, their manufactures and!
mechanic arts furnishing lucrative em
ployment to all their people; and their
population steadily and rapidly increas
ing. Turn again to Virginia. There
is scarcely a new town, except at one
or two points,within her whole borders.
Her ancient villages wear the appear
ance of mournful decay. Her miner
als and timber are unwrought Her
noble water-power is but partially oc
cupied. Her fine harbors are with
out ships, except from other ports; and
her sea-port towns are without com
merce, and failing to decay. Ask
yourself the cause, sir, and I will abide
the answer.
It is essential to the existence of re
publics that education should be gener
ally diffused among the people. Sla
very prevents this. Rich men employ
private tutors, or send their children
abroad. But the children of the people
generally cannot be educated without
the instrumentality of District Schools.
In slave States, where the plantations
are large, the population is too sparse
even to maintain them. Besides there
is another fatal obstacle to them, in the
aversion of the rich to associate'with
the poor. The poor white laborer’s
children could never be permitted to
mingle in the same schools, and sit
upon the same benches wfith the rich
men’s sons. That would be offensive.
Slavery enfeebles a nation in war as
well as in peace. It is impossible that
a nation of masters and slaves can be
p'JTTtjlnl txild fo< situ J Lit, Cnfici ll!
offensive or defensive war, a 3 a nation
of freemen. A large portion of her
population must remain at home, to
prevent the rebellien of those who are
constantly in a state of latent warfare
with their oppressors. I know, sir,
we have had a most alarming descrip
tion of the prowess of the South. We
have heard their eftnnon roar; seen
their bayonets bristle; heard the war
cry of the charging chivalry, and seen
their bowie-knives gleam w'ithin this
hall, in the vivid picture of the terrible*
gentleman from North Carolina, [Mr.
Clingmax.]
We have often been modestly re
minded of the blood and treasure,
and gallantry of the South.” This I
do not dispute. lam proud to admit
that she has furnished many gallant
sons, whose names will adorn the
brightest pages of our history, both for
the war of the revolution, the war of
1812, and the war which we lately as
sumed as the ally of Texas and of sla
very. I give her full credit for her
patriotism in furnishing most of the
men who have borne the official bur
dens of the government both in the
civil and the military list. I know, too,
that she has furnished the kind of men
for our armies, who are apt to be dis
tinguished when great deeds are done.
For it is only the officers and com
manders of armies who live in stoay.
The stout hearts and strong arms of
the common soldiers that fight the
battles and win the victories, are un
known to fame. Their birth-place is
not sought for; their graves are undis
tinguished. And the South has always
furnished officers for our armies; Pre
sidents for our Republic; most of our
foreign ambassadors; heads of depart
ments; chiefs of bureaus; and, some
times, in her proud humility, has con
sented that the younger sons of her
dilapidated houses should monopolize
the places of clerks and messengers to
the government. But whence are
drawn the common soldiery, the men
who peril their lives, and win victories
for your glory? Almost entirely from
i the free States, except in cases of sud
den emergency, when volunteers are
I called nearest the scene of danger.
The present Secretary of War, a
southern gentleman of great ability,
j and strenuous for southern rights, says
in his report:
“According to the practice which
has long prevailed, the great majority
i of enlistments is made in the northern
Atlantic cities and the adjacent interior
towns, whence the recruits are sent to
the general depot for instruction, and
finally distributed to the southern and
western posts, according to the wants
of the service.”
Yes, sir, our northern freemen have
always filled the ranks of the regular
army. The South has lent us the gen
tlemen to wear the epaulettes and the
sword; to take command of the troops,
and lead them to southern and south
western climates to fight the frontier
battles, and whiten your fields with
their bones.
I am opposed to the diffusion of sla
very, because confining it to its present
limits will bring the States themselves
to its gradual abolition. Let this dis
ease spread, and although it will render
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1850.
the whole body leprous and loathsome,
yet it will long survive. Confine it,
and like the cancer that is tending to
the heart, it must be eradicated or it
will eat out the vitals. The sooner
the patient is convinced of this, the
sooner ha will procure the healing
operation. The learned aad able gen
tleman from Virginia, [Mr. Meade,] in
a pamphlet which he laid upon the
table, takes the same view of it. He
says, Virginia has a.'drye population
of near half a million, wfift•% a'ue is
chieriy dependent on S> i\*-rn de
mand.” Let us pause a moment over
this humiliating confession. In plain
English, what-does it mean? That
Virginia is now fit only to be the
breeder, not the employer of slaves.
That she is reduced to the condition
that her proud chivalry are compelled
to turn slave-traders lor a livelihood!
Instead of attempting to renovate the
soil, and by their own honest labor
compelling the earth to yield her
abundance; instead of seeking for the
best breed of cattle and horses to feed
on her hills and valleys, and fertilize
the land, the sons of that great State
must devote their time to selecting and
grooming the most lusty sires and the
most fruitful wenches, to supply the j
slave barracoons of the South! And
the learned gentleman pathetically la
ments that the profits of this genteel
traffic will be greatly lessened by the
circumscription of slavery! This is
his picture, not mine.
The same gentleman says, in the
same speech, If we intend to submit
to the policy of confining the slaves
within their present limits, we should
commence torthwith the work of gra
dual emancipation; it is an easier task
for us, than for our children.” The
eloquent gentleman from Alabama [Mr.
Hilliard,] is of the same opinion.
He said: “We must make up our
minds either to resist the interdiction!
of the progress of slavery, or to sub
mit to an organic change in our insti
tutions.” Yes, sir; this admitted re
sult is, to my mind, one of the most!
agreeable consequences of the legiti-!
mate restriction of slavery. Confine
this malady within its present limits.
Surround it by a cordon of freemen
that it cannot spread, and in less than
twenty-five years every- slaveholding
State in this Union will have on its|
statute-books a law for the gradual and i
final extinction of slavery. Then will;
nave oevii j’ue
wishes of every patriot’s heart. Then
wil! our fair country be glorious in
deed; and be to posterity a bright
example of the true principles of gov
ernment —of universal freedom.
I am opposed to the extension of sla
very into territories now free, for still
graver reasons—because I am opposed
to despotism throughout the world. I
admit that this •Government cannot
preach a crusade of Liberty into other
States and nations, much as she abhors
tyrants and tyranny. There she can
only mourn over its existence. But
when the question of government is
within her own control, and she permits
despotism to exist and aids its diffusion,
she is responsible for it in the face of
the civilized world, and before tho God
ofLiberty. In my judgment, not only
the slave States but the General- Go
vernment, recognizing and aiding as it
does slavery, is a despotism. Ido not
use the word in a declamatory, but
strictly legal signification. That go
vernment is despotic where the rulers
govern subjects by their own mere will
—by decrees and laws emanating from
their uncontrolled will, in the enact
ment and extension of which the ruled
have no voice, and under which they
have no rights, except at the will of the
rulers. Despotism does not depend
upon the number of the rulers, or the
number of the subjects. It may have
one ruler or many. Rome was a des
potism under Nero; so she was under
the triumvirate. Athens was a despo
tism under her thirty tyrants; under
her four hundred tyrants;’ under her
three thousand tyrants. It has been
generally observed that despotism in
creases in severity with the number
of despots; the responsibility is more
divided, and the claims mflre numerous.
The triumvirs, each demanded his vic
tims. The smaller the- number oi' strb
jects in proportion to the^-tyrants the
more cruel the oppression, because the
less danger from rebellion. In this
Government, the free white citizens
are the rulers—the sovereigns as we de
light to be called. All others are sub
jects. There are perhaps, some sixteen
or seventeen millions of sovereigns,
and some four millions of subjects.
The rulers and the ruled are of all
colors, from the clear white of the
Caucasian tribes to the swarthy Eth
iopian. The former, by courtesy, are
all called white. The latter black.
In this Government the subject has no
rights, politic or personal. He has no
voice in the laws which govern him.
He can hold no property. His very
wife and children are not his. His
labor is another’s. He and all that
appertains to him, are the absolute
property of his rulers. He is governed,
bought, sold, executed by laws to
which he never gave his assent, and
by rulers whom he never chose. He
is not a serf, merely with half the rights
of men like the the subjects of despotic
Russia; but a naked slave, stripped of
every right which God and nature gave
him,and which the high spirit of our
revolution declared inalienable—which
he himself could not surrendrr, and
which man could not take from him.
Is he not then the subject of despotic
sway
The slaves of {Athens and of Rome
GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
j were free in comparison. They had
some rights—could acquire some pro
perty; could choose their own masters,
and purchase their own freedom; and
when (ree could rise in social and politi
cal life. The slaves of America then
lie under the most absolute and grind
ing despotism that the world ever saw.
But, who are the despots The rulers
of the country—the sovereign people!
Not merely the slaveholder who
cracks the lash. He is but the instru
ment of Despotism. That despotism is
,the government ofthe slave States, and
the United States, consisting of all its
rulers—all the free citizens. Do not
look upon this as a paradox because
you and I and the sixteen millions of
rulers are free. Nicholas, of Russia,
is free. The Grand Sultan of Turkey
is free. The butcher of Austria is free.
Augustus, Antony, and Lepidus, were
free while they drenched Rome in
blood. The Thirty Tyrants; the Four
Hundred; the Three Thousand, were
free while they bound their countrymen
in chanis. You, and I, and the six
teen millions, are free, while we fasten
iron chains, and rivet manacles on four
millions of our fellow men; tear their
wives and children from them; separate
them; sell them and’doom them to per
petual, eternal bondage. Are we not
then despots—despots such as history
will brand and God abhors.
But we are told that that is none of
our business. That southern slavery
is a matter between the slavelolders
and their own consiences. I trust it
may be so decided by impartial history,
and the unerring Judge, that we may
not be branded with that great stigma,
and that grievous burden may not
weigh upon our souls. But could we
hope for that justification, if now, when
we have the power to prevent It, we
should permit this evil to spread over
thousands of square leagues now free,
and settle upon unborn millions! Sir,
for myself, I should look upon any
northern man, enlightened by a north
ern education, who would directly or
indirectly, by omission or commission;
by basely voting or cowardly skulking,
permit it to spread over one rood of
God’s free earth, as a traitor to liberty
and recreant to his God!
Slavery tends to render the people
among whom it is planted, arrogant,
insolent, intolerant, and tyrannical to
wards the freemen of other parts of the
Union. The honorable member from
Virgin::-, whom I have ah\;ud.
quoted, [Mr. Meade,] says, speaking
of slavery, “Our past history testifies
to the fact that it elevates the charac
ter of the white man. Though we
have been in a numerical minority in
the Union for fifty years, vet during the
greatei part of that period we have
managed to control the destinies of the
Union. Whether on the battle-field
or in the council, the sons of the South
have taken the lead; and the records of
the nation afford ample testimony of
their superior energy and genius!”
Sir, I do not complain of this state
ment. The former part of it is both
candid and true. But I cannot listen
to the recital without feeling the burn
ing blush on my countenance, that the
North, with her over-shadowing- mil
lions of freemen, has, for half a cent
ury, been tame and servile enough to
submit to this arrogant rule.
The South imprison northern free
men when found within her borders, if
they happen to be guilty of a dark
skin, and carry it “between the wind
and their nobility.” And when a sov
ereign State sends a learned and
venerable agent to test the legality of
such imprisonment before their own
tribunals, he is driven with violence
and indignity from tneir shores. Massa
chusetts has sufferod, and, I trust, re
members the insult.
How often have these walls been
profaned and the North insulted by the
insolent threat, that if Cotigress legis
late against southern will, it should be
disregarded, resisted to extremity, and
the-Union destroyed. During the pre
sent session we have been more than
once told, amidst raving excitement,
that if we dared to legislate ?n a certain
way, the South would teach the North
a lesson! That their minds were made
up to extreme resistance! Is this the
pkre-© to use threats instead of argu-
ments? Are the Representatives of
freemen to be thus treated? True, you
are not wholly without justification in
the belief that it will be effectual. You
have too often intimidated Congress.
You have more than once frightened
the tame North from its propriety, and
found “doughfaces” enough to be your
tools. And when you lacked a given
number, I take no ride in saying, you
to find them m old Pennsyl
vania, who, in former years, has rank
ed a portion of her delegation among
your most submissive slaves. But I
hope, with some fears, that the race of
dough-faces is extinct. I do not see
how it could well be otherwise. Thoy
were an unmanly, an unvirile race, in
capable, according to the laws of na
ture, of reproduction. I hope they
have le-t no descendants. The old ones
are deep in political graves. For them
I am sure there is no resurrection, for
they were soulless. Now, when the
whole civilized world unites in de
nouncing slavery as a curse, a shame
and a crime, I trust that when the
great battle between liberty and slave
ry comes to be fought on this floor,
there will none be found hiding among
the stuff, no fraudulent concealments,
not one aceursed Achan in this whole
camp of the Representatives of free
men.
The eloquent gentleman from Vir
ginia, [Mr. Seddoi*,] the other day,
in his beautiful peroration, personated
the great States of Virginia, Kentucky,
and Louisiana, and in their name apos
trophized the good, and I will add, the
great man who now occupies the exe
cutive chair; and in their name be
sought him as he loved the place of his
birth, the place of his nature, and the
place of his residence, not to forsake
his northern brethren in this emergen
cy, but to stand by them in the defence
of human bondage. How' much more
effective, enduring, and hallowed would
that eloquence have been, had the ora
tor’s lips been touched with a coal
from the Altar of Freedom! Then
could he have gone with friendly anxie
ty to that noble, benevolent, and hero
ic man, and admonished him, that
although he had gathered all the earth
ly laurels that can be reaped by the
sickle of death, yet if he would have
his name descend to posterity with in
creasing lustre, he must, by one great,
just, and patriotic example, wipe out
the only spot that obscures the sun of
his glory. He might with propriety
have taken with him the learned gen
tleman from Alabama, [Mr. Hilliard,]
and together have pointed him to that
solemn Tiour, which to him, and to all
of us who are treading the down-hill
of life, must soon arrive, w'hen the
visions of ambition and of earthly
wealth shall have passed from before
his eyes, and left him nothing but a
gaping grave, and an eternal judge-!
ment.
The accomplished gentleman from
Alabama [Rev. Mr. Hilliard] might,
with peculiar propriety, do what, with
profane lips I dare not, go to his illus
trious friend, and with fervid piety and
eloquence more thrilling than that
which made Felix tremble, implore him
by a love deeper than that of birth
place, of nature, and of residence, by
the love of his own immortal soul, to
be warned in time by the awful, the
inexorable doom—“ Accursed is the
man-stealer.” He might, perhaps,
have pointed him to the gloomy jour
ney that leads through the dark shadow,
and shown him how ineffably brighter
are the glories of that Kingdom where
all are tree. Perchance, too, he would I
have noticed the thronging thousands!
traveling to that same dread tribunal,
summoned to give evidence of deeds
done in the body; some of them were
bondsmen and slaves on earth, but
whose disembodied spirits were then
failed, erect, tali the proudest
of earth's oppressors; and asked him
to inquire of his own conscience, who j
was most likely to meet a hearty wel- I
come there—he, whose cause was ad
vocated by the supplicating voices of
thousands with whom he had dealt
justly on earth, and made free indeed,
or he whose admission should be with
stood by myriads of crushed and lacera
ted souls, showing their chains, their
stripes, and their wounds to their Fa
ther, and to his Father; to their God,
and to his Judge.
When Mr. Stevens concluded his
speech, several southern members en
deavored to get the floor, and among
them Messrs. Seddon and Millson;
but the Chairman awarded it to Mr.
Buel of Michigan.
From the Christian Citizen.
SENATOR DOUGLASS.
This gentleman, in relation to
whose future political course upon the
slavery question some of our cotempo
raries had begun to entertain a favor
able opinion, has shown his hand in
the development of a scheme the sub
stance of which we presented in our
last week’s No., adapted to give the
whole of the remaining territory ac
quired from Mexico, to slavery.
While the former course of Mr.
Douglass has certainly given no just j
ground to expect that he would do any-]
thing favorable to the interests of Free-
dom, we had yet, in common with
others, hoped that a better acquaintance
with the feelings and sentiments of
northern men, his constituents, which
his past year’s residence in Chicago,
has enabled him to acquire, might in
duce him to take that stand in the pen-;
ding struggle, between Freedom and]
Slavery which his position as the sena-|
toi-ial re preae native of a free state, I
distinctly points out as his duty.
But it seems that he regards his
notorious pledge to the people of New
Orleans, as more binding than his obli
gations to his own state. Or rather
that there is more to be made political
ly by proving treacherous to the inter
ests of his own constituents than by
obeying their direct and positive mstruc
tions. No allowance can be made for
honesty of purpose in a case like the
one before us, where the will of the
people of a State has been clearly ex
pressed though their legislative assem
bly, and is thus deliberately violated.
Douglass must henceforth be classed
with Dickinson and Cass as utterly
traitorous and untrustworthy.
The time when such a compromise
as the one proposed by Mr. Douglass,
can be looked upon by northern men
with anything but the deepest abhor
rence has long since passed by. The
precedent, for a series of years acted
upon, of coupling a free and slave state
upon their admission into the confed
eracy, will no longer be respected.
Slavery is a doomed institution, and
doomed will be the man or class of men
who attempt by bolstering it up, and
i obstructing liberal legislation, to per
petuate the loathsome curse. The in
j effaceable brand of infamy will be
burned into the character of such men,
and they will be remembered by pos
terity, (if remembered at all,) only in]
JOHN DICK, p BI nter.
WHOLE NO. 115.
connection with Beneejct Arnold, the
traitor, as those w ho would sell all that
is promising and glorious in our free
institutions for sordid and ephemaral
popularity.
Oliver Johnson, of the Anti-Slavery Bu
gle, holds the following language on that
part ot Mr. Clay’s speech, and compromise
resolutions, which relates to the return of
fugitive slaves:
There is one part of Mr. G‘»y’s
speech which has excited in our breast
emotions of deepest indignation and
horror. It is diabolically cool, infer
nally atrocious. It proves conclusively
that Mr. Clay, in spite of his smooth
exterior and pious professions, has a
rotten heart. We allude to what
he says about the capture of Fugitive
Slaves. On this point he goes with him
who goes farthest. Witness his precise
words: “It is our duty to make the lair
more effective, ‘and I shall go with the
Senator from the South who goes far
thest in making penal laws, andfim
posing the HEAVIEST SANCTIONS
for the recovery of Fugitive Slaves,
and the restoration of them to their
owners.”
If a man who could utter a sentiment
like that, at this meridian of the
Nineteenth Centnry, and in a land
boasting of Liberty, is not a villain,
at heart, then let the word be banish
ed from the language, and Haynau.
the Austrian man-hunter and butcher,
be baptised- as a Christian. Suppose
Mr. Clay, for the sake of certain pecu
niary and commercial advantages prof
fered to us by Austria, had deliberate
ly proposed a treaty with that govern
ment, stipulating, among other things,
that an Austrian agent (Haynau, for
example,) might come here, and by the
help of our courts,‘jails and sheriffs,
drag from our shores the Hungarian
refugees, who have been the recipi
ents of so much American sympathy.
Would not the whole people have cried
out with horror against a proposal so
inhuman and monstrous? Would they
not have said, Perish commerce, per
ish property, perish every earthly in
terest, sooner than consent to perpe
trate such a crime?
Free Colored People of Louisi
ana.—The laws of Louisiana respect
ing the free people of color are more
liberal than in any other slaveholding
Stat*, or some free States. They con
stitute a class of citizens whom law
recognises and protects, and whose
social position is better than that of
free people of color in other sections.
The New Orleans Picayune of the
17th ultimo contains the report of a
case decided by the Supreme Court of
the State, which held that they were
competent witnesses in trials of white
persons, and also assigned the reason
therefor, as follows—Judge King de
livering the opinion:
“Our legislation and jurisprudence
upon this subject differs materially
from those of the slave States general
ly, in which the rule contended for
prevails. This difference of public
policy has no doubt arisen from the
different condition of that class of per
sons in this State. At the date of our
earliest legislation as a Territory, a*
well as at the present day, free persons
of color constituted a numerous class.
In some districts they are respectable
from their intelligence, industry, and
habits of good order. Many of them
are highly educated, and the instances
are by no means rare in which they are
large property holders. So far from
being in that degraded state which ren
ders them unworthy of belief they are
such persons as courts and juries w'ould
not hesitate to believe under oath.
Moreover, this numerous class is en
titled to the protection of our laws, but
that protection would in many cases be
illusory, and the greatest offences
againats their persons and property
might be committed with impunity by
white persons, if the rule of exclusion
contended for were recognised. They
are also included in article 2,260 of our
Civil Code as competent persons to
testify in civil matters.”
Sickness.— ln sickness the soul be
gins to dress herself for immortality.
First she unties the strings of vanity
that made her upper garment cleave to
the world, and sit uneasy. She puts off*
the light and fantastic robe of lust and
wanton appetite. Next to this, the
soul by the help of sickness knocks off
the fetters of pride and vainer compla
cencies. Then she draws the curtains
and stops the light from coming in, and
takes the picture down, those fantastic
images of self-love, and gay remem
brances of vain opinion and popular
noises. Then the spirit stoops into so
brieties of humble thoughts and feels
corruption chiding the frowardness of
factious opinions. Next to these, as
the soul is still undressing, she takes
off* the roughness of her great and lit
tle angers and animosities, and re
ceives the oil of mercies. She receives
the oil of mercies and smooth forgive
ness, fair interpretations and gentle
answers, designs of reconciliation and
Christian atonement in their places.—
Jeremy Taylor.
A Very Old Volume. —The oldest book
in the library of Congress, is an imperfect
copy of the second edition of“Higden’B Po
lyerironicon,” printed in black letter, by Wyn
ken de \V orde, 1495. The work consists of
346 folios. The first 7 folios, and all after
332 in this copy, are supplied by manuscript.
Ihe colophon leads as follows: “Thus en
ded the thirteenth daye of Apryll the tenth
year of the reign of King Henry VII and the
incarnation of our Lorde MCCCCLXXXXV.
Emprynted ot Westmestyre by Wynken de
Worde,"
The Slave Trade.
Our readers will recollect that we lately
a correspondence of William Har
med of New Aork, with Bruin Hill, deal
ers in men, women, and babies, in relation to
o beautiful white girl, named family Russel,
jfor whom the said soul traders demanded
EIGHTEEN HUNDRED DOLLARS.
Efforts have been made to purchase her, but
•without success. Reader, remember that
this young woman was imprisoned in Alex
andria, —for nearly fifty years a portion of
the District ofColumbia, —where slavery and
the slave trade existed by the permission of
the people of the Free States.
The following account of the matter is
from the Washington correspondent of the
True Democrat:
Washington, Feb. 9, 1850.
On Wednesday last, a friend of mine re
ceived a letter from New York, soliciting his
assistance in the purchase of a slave girl, who
has recently fallen into the hands of the soul
traders in Alexandria. My friend being pres
sed with business was anxious that I should
take the matter in hajid, and I accordingly
assented.
The letter strongly urged the purchase of
“the girl at a reasonable sum, which sum, kind
Triends in New York, who kindly esteemed
'the mother of the unfortunate slave, agreed
to raise.
Before starting for Alexandria yesterday
:morning, I was informed by Joshua Leavitt,
who had just arrived from New York, that
the friends, there had abandoned the idea ol
giving SIBOO, and if they would not take
Jess, the mother and her friends must endure
the calamity as we would any calamity by
•pirates. They were willing to give one thou
sand or twelve hundred, tosatisfy the capidity
of these inhuman flesh-dealers, and prevent a
separation of the girl from those whom she
Joved above all others on earth; but they
-were not disposed to yield further to the
imercenary demands of these monsters.
With these instructions, I proceeded upon
my mission. Anived at Alexandria, I went
in search of the pen, and found it in the rear
of the city, in a place dreary and deserted,
•which seemed marked by the frowns of
Omnipotence; a fit theatre for piratical opera
tion; a suitable dwelling place for penitentia
ry and gallows deserving ruffians.
The main building is of brick; joined to
-this are small wood buildings and the large
pen, which contained some hundred colored
people—or, in Southern parlance, “a drove,"
ready for the Southern market. The keeper
of the establishment —a whisky-bloated biped
admitted me, and upon making known my
■business, I was informed that Bruin had
gone to Alexandria.
I then asked if Mr. Hill was in
“No!” said the fellow, he has gone South,
with a drove.”
Upon my informing him that I came to
purchase Emily, he told me that Mr. Bruin
was waiting to hear from her mother, who
Jie expectfcd would give SIBOO for her.
I set his itlitfd at rest on that point, end de
sired to see her, and was flatly refused.
“I have strict oiders,” said he, “not to
admit any one.”
He then directed a smart-looking colored
>outh to go with me to the city and find
Bruin.
As I left the door, I caßt my eye through
She grating,and beheld an indiscriminate mass
of men, women, and children, whose counte
nances betokened the deep emotions of the
heart, all destined for the cotton and rice
fields of the South. Families broken up—
the strongest ties of humanity sundered—
weeping and lamentation—broken-hearted
and desolate, with no eye to pity, and no hand
to save. God of the oppressed how long
will thine arm be stayed!!
On my way to the city, I inquired of my
young sable companion about Emily.
Said I, Do you see her often
O yea, master, I secs her very often, and
carries her; meals to her.
Is site a smart gut
0 yes sa, she’s right smart, and she’s right
good lookin’’ too.
Is she black 1
No sa, she’s almost as white as any white
girl.
Does she want to go South 1
No sa, she cries a heap about, and wants
to live u:id her mother.
Do you belong to Mr. Bruin
Yes, sa, I belongs to him, and has got to
go South ivid de res, I expect.
Do you want to go?
No, sa! none of us wants to go.
At this answer, the words came to. my
lips, Then ivhy in the name of all that is
sacred to liberty, and dear to man's freedom,
don't you and your companions in bondage
tear doum the infernal pen, set it on fire, and
run away by the light of it?” But to give
utterance to such words would be treason in
this quarter, though glorious advice all over
the world to the white man held in durance
vile.
We found Bruin, and I was received by
him with a suavity of manner which would
eclipse even Lord Chesterfield himself. His
appearance wofully belies his profession. He
is a middle-aged man, all smiles and polite
ness, and very intelligent. But we all know
that Satan can “transform himself into an
angel of light,” and a “man may smile and
•mile, and be a villain still.”
I made known the object of my visit, and
informed him that our New York friends had
abandoned the idea of purchasing Emily at
SIBOO.
Said he, “I am glad of it, sir; I don’t want
to send her north—l prefer that she should
go South. I have a large lot that lam go
ing to take, of the most respectable class.
She is one of the best of the lot, besides, it
■will do us no good to let her go north.”
After attempting a negotiation in every
way that I could mustei, to no effect, I en
deavored to appeal to bis sympathy.
“Thete is her mother. She loves her
daughter. Can you not take less, to pre
vent their separation
“No sir!” said he; “she can’t go north for
a cent short of what I have named; but if some
gentleman (he laid much stress on the word
gentleman) here, wishes to purchase her lor
himself, he can hav e her for FIFTEEN
HUNDRED DOLLARS.”
In other words. I was made to understand
that the mother could have her daughter,
whom God had given her, and who was en
dowed with no ordinary qualities of person
and mind, for EIGHTEEN HUNDRED
DOLLARS, and “not a cent less:” but if
some “gentleman here” wished to purchase
her for himself—for puiposes too abhorrent to
name—he could have her for FIF TEEN
HUNDRED DOLLARS.
Great heaven! to what a depth of infamy
will not men descend! Setting a price upon
female virtue, beauty and innecence, and for
what! And these abominations, too, within
sight of the American Capitol, and by virtue
of American laws! Oh !if there is a sin
more damning in its effects than the entire
aggregate of others, it is the buying and
selling of virtuous females for purposes of
prostitution.
To raise the SIBOO was impossible. I
inew it, and told Bruin so; but it had no
effect. He would have that, or he would
sell her to “some gentleman” a number of
whom had already applied for her.
I saw before me a being in human form,
but an incarnate devil at heart —a wretch
abandoned of heaven and devoted to the al
mighty dollar, upon whom no words of sym
pathy, no considerations of humanity could
have effect, and I left him fully conscious that
the monster would one day meet with some
■awful doom.
If there is a wretch upon earth commission
ed by Satan to the performance of deeds from
which the spirit of darkness would shrink
with horror and dismay Bruin is one of them
Emily is doomed —she is white and beau
tiful, and hence her “market value.” She
may withstand the assaults of the fell destroy
er, but her mother, brothers, sisters, and
friends she will probably never see (more.
With her unfortunate companions she will be
taken down the river next week. You who
enjoy the comforts of home, the blessings of
the social circle, and the sweet smiles of
your children, think of Emily and the thou
sands who, like her, in this republican gov
ernment, are bought and sold lor puiposea so
abhorrent, so hell-deserving. \ours,
E. L. S.
Mass. Spy.
Yielding to the Slave Power.
If the mass of the People in the Free
States do not yield in the present crisis of our
political affairs to all the demands of the Slave
power, it will not be because their party lead
ers do not do all in their power) to accomplish
such a result. On Friday Evening of last
week, the great Democratic meeting, at Phil
adelphia, in favor of the extension of slavery,
was presided over by Hon. Chas. Brown, and
addressed by John Cadwallader, Col. Page,
Robert Tyler, Vincent L. Bradford, B. S.
Brewster, and Daniel Dougherty. Among
adopted were the following,
S which certainly take the shine off of all the
Igrovelling, cringing, begging testimonials
j that have yet been given, ot the willingness
!of a party to be the menials and slaves, ol
their Southern Masters. t. d.
Resolved, That the Constitution of the
United Slates, vests in Congress no power to
make laws for the people of the Territories
acquired by or annexed to the Union, but only
to dispose of and make needful rules and re
gulations respecting territory or other property
belonging to the United States.
Resolved, That the principle of the Wil
mot Proviso is not a harmless political specu
lation or abstraction, excused if erroneous, by
its alleged philanthropic intent, but is the same
ancient, aristocratic, pernicious and pestilent
political heresy, (ever repudiated and denoun
ced by the Democratic party of the Union,)
which seeks, by means of an implication ot
power of Congress, gradually to undermine
State sovereignty, destroy legislation in the
respective States, consolidate the Union, and
establish on the ruins of Stale Rights a cen
tral sovereignty, easily contiolled or managed
by the few at the expense of the many.
Resolved, That it is contrary to the spirit
in which the Constitution of the Union was
framed, and by which, alone it can be perpet
uated, to abolish, by act of Congress, the in
stitution of Slavery in the District of Colum
bia, without the consent of the people thereof,
and the consent of the Slates which ceded the
District for the use of the Government of the
United Ssates.
Resolved, That we cal) upon our State
Legislature to repeal all laws conflicting with
that section of the Constitution of the United
States in regard to the restitution of runaway
slaves, so that the fundamental obligation
binding upon every citizen of the Union, and
the law T of Congress passed to carry it into ef
fect, may no longer be set at defiance, and the
rights of our Southern brethren trampled un
der foot.
Resolved, That we rejoice at the votes in
the National House of Representatives, laying
the Wilmot Proviso upon the table, as an ap
propriate disposition of a measure which did so
much to procrastinate the War with Mexico,
and to embarrass the late illustrious Adminis
tration: and which events have sufficiently
proved to be without any practical importance,
except for purposes of irritation and insult;
and we rejoice also that Messrs. Gilmore,
Mann, Robbins, McLanahan, Ross and Dim
mick, six ot the eight Democrats from this
State in Congress, voted to extinguish the
firebrand wihch has been productive of so
much disaster and dissention.
In commenting upon these resolutions the
N. Y. Tribune very pithily exclaims:
—There; we defy Gen, Cass to drum up a
meeting in Michigan that will put the face of
the North down so deep in the gravel as
that! You may just as well stand quietly
back, General, and let Old Buck take the
next flogging.— Ch. Citizen,
Important Compromise in Embryo.—
Details, <fcc.
Washington, Feb. 24.
Within a few days past several distin
guished of the Senate, representing
different sectional interests, have conferred
together fot the purpose of contriving a mode
of settlement on the basis of the resolutions
annexing Texas, which, it will be remember
ed, contemplated the admission of four States
south of the parallel of 36deg 30m. The
plan is not entirely matured—such features
of it as have been roughly moulded have
been submitted to Mr. Webster and other
gentlemen from the free States, for their calm
consideration, and with a view of eliciting
such objections, if any exist, as mav lead to
the organization of a basis of compromise or
adjustment.
After a ptemable reciting the necessity for
harmony and union among the States, it pro
poses to instruct the Committee on Territo
ries to inquire into the expediency, with the
consent of.lhe Legislature of Texas, to pro
vide for three States within the limits of the
said State of Texas, as follows:
The first Slate to extend from the present
eastern boundary west to the Trinity River,
and north fiom the mouth of that river up its
course to the northern line of Cook county,
and along that line to the Red River.
The second State to extend from the west
line ot the first State, or eastern Texas, to
the Colorado, taking as its western boundary
the course of that river, from its mouth to
the Red Fork branch of the same, until it
reaches the 10th degree of West longitude to
the 34th degree of North latitude.
The third State to be formed out of that
poition of the territory of Texas lying west
of the Colorado to the Rio Grande, and ta
king the course of that river to the 34th deg.
of north latitude. This territory to remain
under the jurisdiction and to constitute a part
of the State of Western Texas, until she
has a sufficient population for admission into
the Union.
Instructions to the same Committee to in
quire into the expediency of purchasing all
the rest and residue of this territory of Texas
at a cost not exceeding millions of dollars,
extendingjfrom the 34ih to the 42d degree
of north latitude, along the line established
as the. boundary between the United States
and Mexico, that the same or part of the
same, may be added to New-Mexico to form
a State of suitable size and with propel
boundaries, which may hereafter be admitted
into the Union.
Instructions to the same Commitlee to in
quire into the expediency of providing by
law, when the people of Texas shall have
given their consent to the aforesaid divisions
of the territory (subject to such modifications
of boundary as they may require,) for the im
mediate admission of the two hew States ol
Eastern and Western Texas, and for the fur
ther admission of the third new State in
South-western Texas, when that territory
shall have acquired sufficient population to
entitle it to apply for admission.
Instructions to the same Committee to in
quire into the expediency of regulating by
law the form and mode by which the inhabi
tants of a Territory shall in all cases hereaftei
app(y in strict conformity with the provision.-
ol the Constitution of the United Stales, for
admission into the Union.
Instructions to the same Committee to in
quire into the expediency of incoiporating in
any bill that may be teported for the
foregoing objects, a declaratory clause, that
after Congress shall have given its consent to
the inhabitants of a territoiy to form'a Con
stitution preparatory to their admission, ii
•shall be alone'within the competency of the
nhabitants of said territoiy to establish and
orm such domestic institutions as may, in
heir opinion, be best fitted to their social con
dition.
Instructsons to the same Committee to
inquire into the expediency of authorizing the
Corporations of George-town and Washing
ton to regulate the sale of slaves in the dis
trict of Columbia.
The project further contemplates the ad
mission of California, with its present boun-
daries and Constitution, and the establish
ment of Territorial Government over the re
maining portion of the territory yjng eas o
that State, withont any restriction as to Sla
very _ Cor. Phil. North American.
the north star.
ROCHESTER, MARCH 8, 1850
Thf. North Star is sometimes sent to friends
who do not take the paper, in the hope that they
may see fit to subscribe for it. Subscript.' oll and
donations for the same may be safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederick Douglass, Rochester,
N. Y.
anted —Several Travelling Agents,
to procure subscribers for the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None need apply
but such as can bring good recommendations for
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
erick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
Notice.
An Anti-Slavery Convention composed of
all persons, and parties, favoring the Anti-
Slavery cause, will be holden in West Bloom
field, on Tuesday and Wednesday, March
19th and 20th.
F. Douglass. S, D. Porter. Esq. G. W.
Clark, of Rochester, M. W. Gibbs, and C.
L. REMOND,are expected to be present.
Let the present crisis in the affairs of our
country, produced by Slavery, bring thou
sands together, whose expression shall be
heard and regarded throughout the Slave-hold
ing dominion. Homes and hearts will be
open to all who attend from a distance.
Notice —We are requested to say that th e
meetings appointed in our last, for Messrs
Remond Gibbs at Jamestown and Busti,
will be postponed for two weeks in conse
quence of important engagements in another
direction.
Rochester, March 6th, 1850
Wxarehnppy to announce to our subscri
bers in Illinois that our esteemed friend Ilenty
O. Wagoner, of Chicago, will act as agent
for “the North Star” in that city.— F. D.
The Union.
If’we do not mistake the present appeal-1
ances, it is the purpose of the Northern part-j
ners to this bloody bond, to create and j
excitement about the safety of the Union.!
Whether intended or not, the tendency of
their course is to produce in the public mind;
a spirit of violent persecution against all who
say aught against the Constitution, or who
utter a syllable of condemnation upon the
vile system of slavery.
Meetings have been recently held in New
York, Philadelphia, and elsewhere, the na- j
tural tendency of whose proceedings is to!
arouse and to inflame the most malignant pas- j
sions of the populace, and to beget a blind j
and bagaless enthusiasm in favor of the ex
isting slaveholding Uniptj. fn character with I
the proceedings of these meetings, are the
tone and bearing of the Northern press.
Journals of all descriptions—Whig and Dem
i ocritic, religious and political—teem, from
week to week, with appeals ir? favor pf the
Union, and with high-wrought eulogies on
'he Constitution. Angry invectives and n?
vengeful threats, towards all who have (lie
manliness to ayow sentiments hostile to this
idol, are seen along the columns of rpany of
our influential newspapers while the lowest
grades of the press are openly and directly
attempting, under the vile pietence that the
Union is in danger, to raise a storm of mur
derous violence, and to afford a pretext to
mobocrats, for the commission of cruel and
wanton outrages upon the few who shall dare
to cali in question our unhallowed national
compact. In this view of passing events, it
becomes the men and women of our land,
whose high motto is, No Union with
Slaveholders,” and who mean to stand
firmly by the cause of Liberty at every haz
ard, to examine well the foundation of their
faith, and to be prepared for any danger or
hardship which they may be called to meet,
in the free utterance of their conscientious
convictions of duty.
The iniquitous and mischievous character
and tendency of this Union, and the duty
and necessity of its dissolution, were never
more solemnly impressed upon our mind than
at the present moment. Scarcoly a speech
from Congress, or an editorial from the press,
but comes laden with instruction on this point.
In the name, and at the demand of the Union,
the North is urgently required to sacrifice
freedom of speech, the liberty of the press,
the right of assembling and the right of peti
tion. We are called upon, in the name of
this unholy confederacy, to be deaf to the
voice of human woe; to extinguish, in our
hearts, the holiest sympathies of our nature
to abandon the very basis of all morality to
repudiate the religion of Jesus Christ, which
is full of mercy and good fruits virtually to
deny God, and to fall down before the Con
stitution, as the highest object of veneration
and regard. In its name, we must be ready
to extend the foul cyatQm of slavery over a
soil of almost incalculable dimensions to
hunt down our fellow men, in the Northern
States, like beasts of prey and in the event
of a struggle for freedom on the part of the
slaves, against their God-defyjng oppressors,
Northern men are required to shoulder arpis,
to march to the scene of conflict, and to pout
the deadly contents of their weapons, not
into the breast of the infernal oppressor, but
into the bosom of the rebellious slave. IntQ
such an Union, we say, in the name of the
living God, we can never enter. Perish the
Bond! It should be ground to powder, and
the whirlwinds of offended Heaven should
sweep away its dust forever. Yes we say,
the Union ought to be dissolved. How dare
any citizen of the State of New \ork, sol
emnly bind himself to shoot down ot hunt
down his fellow man? No man needs to be
told that such a pledge is wrong. It is self
evideEitly so and it only needs to be honest
ly a Hurried, to deepen conviction in the heart
of every honest man. We shall go on,
therefore, to oppose this wrong—to preach
hostility towards this guilty compact, trusting
to the righteousness of our capse, and rely
ing, for support and protection, upon the fa
vor of Heaven, in every trial and hardship
that may await us.— f. d,
The Black Laws Repealed. —Ohio has
repealed her black laws, and colored children
are now entitled to their full share of the
State school funds. Colored schools are to
be established by law.
Weekly Review oi Congress.
w e are unable to announce any signs of j
hor >e or of progress, from the proceedings of
Cf ingress, since our last issue. 1 here have
b'jen no rallyings in behalf of Liberty, in
e ither branch of the Legislature. Speech
making has been the order ot the day and
in this department, the South seems to have
everything its own way. W hat Northern
representatives will do, when the time for
words has passed, and the time for action
comps, it may be unwise to predict though
we must say, that the past history of the
men, as well as the present complexion of
political events, leaves us little ground to
hope for a bold stand on their pait against
the slave-power. The little resolution dis
played at the commencement of the session,
is now sicklied o’er by the pale cast of
thought.” Treachery to theJWilmot Proviso,
and to Free Soil principles, has shown itself
unmistakably throughout the Whig ranks
and the spirit, of compromise is rapidly doing
its work upon the Northern press and people.
Judging from these indications, we seem to
be shut up to the sad conclusion that, in the
present conflict, as in former ones where
Liberty and Slavery have been arrayed
against each other m» Congress, the slave
power will. k* victorious, and the North l
humbled &nd-defeated.
But to the proceedings
On the 30th-of Februaty, in Committee of
the whole House on the state of the Union,
Mr, W. V. N. Bay, of Missouri, made a
long speech, mainly <;n the subject of slavery.
He denied that the South was responsible for
the agitation affirmed that the North had
maJe war on southern institutions spoke of
slavery as a purely domestic institution
said that it existed prior to fhe adoption of
the Constitution contended that slaves were
property, and subject fo the laws which gov
ern and control property referred to the or
dinance of 1787, and especially to that part
relating to fugitive slaves. He then pro
ceeded to read the North a lecture on its
failure io comply with the 2d section of the
4th article of the Constitution. He admitted
that the article in question had been held,
sometimes, to refer to apprentices, or to per
sons bound to labor for a limited period but
he read a portion of the decision of the Su
preme Court, delivered by Judge Story, in
the case of Prigg vs. Pennsylvania and he
held the interpretation tlrere given to be the
only one which the clause can properly re
ceive. He paraded this decision before the
House, tyith the horrid law of 1793, both of
which, he contended, had been grossly viol
ated by the North.
After a long display of griefs and regrets
at the alleged perfidy of the North, he ad
dressed himself to the Territorial question.
His objection to the Wilmot Proviso, was,
that it proposed to legislate for a people who
are competent to legislate for themselves.
We have referred to this speech, and pre
sented some of its leading features, not be
cause Of its intrinsic vajue, but simply, to
allow all to be heard.
In the House, on the 21st, Mr. W. H.
Bissell, of Illinois, administered a most blis
tering rebuke .to the hot-heads of the South,
who were to -bully the North into
an abandonment of the Wilmot Proviso,
by threats of disunion. He quoted largely
from the speeches of Brown, Clingman and
Inge and laid bare their falsehood, violence,
and disunion designs. Mr. Bissell is not an
Abolitionist, and scarcely a Free Soil man
but we cannot but thank him for the keen
and powerful manner in which he has dis
posed of Southern braggadpcia and Southern
grievances. Boll], however, as he is, he
could not, we are sorry to say, allow the op
portunity to pass, while making this other
wise creditable speech, without consoling the
slaveholders by speaking of the Garrisons,
Tappans, and Smiths,” in the same category
with the Southern advocates of Pisunion
and by assuring the human flesh-mongeis,
that the North will stand by the South. I
assure you, Sir,” said he, that wc, the re
presentatives of the North, icill aid. you to pre
serve your Constitutional rights, as we have
ever done.” This, of course, means that the
Wilmot Proviso will not be insisted on that
slavery, in the District of Columbia, and in
the navy yards, will not be abolished and
that the horrid traffic in human souls will be
continued, undisturbed by the action of Nor
thern representatives. This pledge, coming
from Mr. Bissell, at such a lime, shows that
even a man with sufficient courage to fight a
duel, may lack the necessary moral courage
to declare, in lhe face of slaveholders a right
eous course of action and further proves
that even a duellist may be a doughface.
The speech of Mr. T. Stevens, which will
be found on the first page of this week’s
paper, has most thoroughly stirred up the
wrath of Mr. Millson, of Virginia. The
unenviable pictuie drawn by the former, of
the character and condition of the Old Do
minion, caused the chivalrous blood of the
latter to boil with rage. We give a speci
men of iliis gentleman's tsAquisiie taste,
refined setittbftHy, and manly indignation, in
the following
“I endeavored, Mr. Chairman, to get Jhe
floor immediately upon the close of the re
marks submitted by one of the Representa
tives from Pennsylvania, [Mr. Stevens.] 1
wished to give instant expression to the irri
tation occasioned by the gross and offensive
allusions to the State from which I come.
That irritation, however, was ljut momentary
and has since subsided into a quiet feciing
of loathing and indignation —a leeling more
fitting the accusation and the accuser. In
speaking of the slave population of my State
and of the employment of her citizens, that
member had the boldness to de.clare, that
Virginia was now so degraded, that but
I will not, I cannot repeat the gross lan
guage uttered by him. I could pof do so
without violating the decorum of this body
without outraging those proprieties which
should, at all tmes, be respected and obser
ved—without shocking the delicacy of that
portion of our auditors, who attend our delib
erations, in ihe confidence that they will hear
nothing to offend their modesty or wound
their sensibility.”
If the truth were known, this same Mill
son, whose delicate sensibility has been so
terribly shocked by the bare mention of the
occupation, is himself, like many other hon
orable gentlemen of his State, in vulgar par
lance, a slave-breeder; and perhaps the
money in his purse is the price of some girl
sold from her mother for no other cause than
to replenish that purse. Such abominable
hypocrisy and affectation as he evinces in the
above remarks, mav be met with in all the
circles of the South. Henry Clay treated us
to a dish of the same sort, in his late speech,
when he inveighed against the slave-trade in
the District of Columbia, and would, at the j
same time, have the horrible system of sla
very perpetuated in that District. Ihe at
tempt to disguise the gross and foul enormi-j
ties of slavery, with the gauze of a mockj
refinement, is a trick which has been too often
and too successfully played in this land bf
shams. But we leave Mr. Millson in the
hands of Mr. Stevens, who is abundantly
able, and, judging from his speech, (which
we hope no one will fail to read) is equally
willing to do the chivalrous Virginig#*? every
possible justice. f A
On the 25th February, Mr. Giddings, of
Ohio, with his characteristic promptitude and
bo’dness, presented a petition various
individuals in Pennsylvania and Delaware,
asking for a peaceful dissolution of the Union,
and accompanying the preservation with the
motion to refer them to a select Committee,
with instructions to inquire, firstly, whether
dissatisfaction with our Federal Union, exists
among the people of these States 2d. If so,
to what extent; and, 3d. From what has such
dissatisfaction arisen As is usual in the
case of such petitions, it created considerable
stir among honorable members; and they
rushed' upon it from all quarters,
guish its light. Of course it was rejected;
only 8 voting for, and 162 against it. Thus
anpther stab has been given to the right of
petition.
On Wednesday, 27th, Mr. Ashman, oi
Massachusetts, o%«ftned leave to introduce
his Bill for reducing the rate of postage, and
for abolishing the franking privilege. The
bill was read twice, and referred to the Com
mittee on the Post-office and Post roads.
That this bill may become a law. should be
the desire of every man who wishes well to
his country. We give here the first section
of the bill, as containing the important fea
tures of the whole
Section 1. Be it enacted by the Senate
and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled,
That from and after the first day of July next
the rates of postage upon letters, when pre
paid, fhal! be uniform; and all such letters,
passing through the mail, shall be charged
by weight as follows: Letters weighing not
more than half an ounce, two cents; more
than halt an ounce, and nut more than an
ounce and a half, six cents; more than an
ounce and a half, and not more than two
ounces, eight cents; and four cents additional
for every ounce of greater weight; all letters
jsooyeyed by mail-steamers between Oregon
or California, and ports of otner parts of the
United States, five times the above rates; and
on all letters which are not prepaid, the
postage shall remain as now established by
law.
Hr. Doty, on the same day, submitted k
proposition to the Committee of the House,
to admit California, \yith her present bound
aries, into the Union, on an equal footing
with the original States.
The subject of slavery again became the
theme; and the House was addressed by
Mr. Toombs, Mr. Baker and Mr. McLane.
The first and last are Southerners, and of the
ultra Southern stamp. We copy here a por
tion of the defense set up by Mr. McLane,
for slavery in Maryland
“He lived in a border state that could do i
very well without slavery, but which did not!
for that reason say that slavery was a moral I
wrong, a national disgrace. They did not
think so. Sickly spirits migt.t so clothe j
their philanthrophy; the people of his State
thought it an institution which was a moral;
necessity where it now existed: advantageous!
jn soqie States, but necessary in all the
States where it now had an existence. A
single view of this question: he did not care
one particle whether northern men on either
side of the House gave him their acquiescence
or not —it was a question which came nearer
home to him than to them. We could not
live in the midst of a large black population
the law of slavery. Jt was a law
as necessary to the discipline- of the free
black man as of the slave—a law which the
free States adopted, every one of them.
They had every one of them got their slave
ry; they had every one of them found it to
be necessary to enact their laws establishing
negro slavery. Cultivated men of the North
did not deny it. Beyond the political dis
tinction which they made against the blacks,
there was the social municipal distinction.
It was the social distinction of which he
spoke. It was bondage, bondage in degree.
It was necessary to them—he was not re
proaching them for it. ,They could not live
without it. It was thus limited in degree
with them on account of their free sparse
black population, and their overwhelming
proportion of whites. Now, in Maryland
the whites were not so overwhelming in
numbers as in Pennsylvania and the other
free States, and therefore they wanted a
more complete system of bondage than the
people of the free States—they wanted more
than a prohibition against blacks and whites
entering together into the sacred bonds of
matrimony and the other like municipal re
straints imposed upon the black population.
They required the law of slavery. Did not
every man know that in the revolutionary
war the black slave messed with the white
soldier, and no white soldier objected to it?
This was the case upon the battle fields of
North Carolina, m the gallant corps of
South Carolina, in Greene’s army, in the
corps of Washington at Yorktown—black
slaves messed with the white soldiers, and
the whites made no objection. Why? Be
cause thpre was a consciousness of moral
and legal superiority or the part of the white;
but the slave, though inferior, was called
there to defend his (the slave’s) fireside, his
wife, his children, as the white men were
defending theirs. And if there had been no
law recognizing slavery—if the blacks had
been free blacks, the white soldier would
not have messed with them.
Well! upon our humble word, if we cculd
not pick out a dozen of these inferior colored
men, of our own good city of Rochester, that
would put this incoherent and weak-minded
legislator to the blush, we would yield readily
to the imputation of moral arid intellectual
inferiority What bungling jargon what
ridiculous nonsense! and yet, nonsensical
and ridiculous as is is the foregoing, it is
about as rational and as worthy of respect, as
any defence which can be made for slavery.
In the Senate, Clay’s compromise resolu
tions have been the main topic. Mr. Foote,
of Mississippi, renewed and insisted on his
motion for the appointment ef a Committee of
thirteen, with instructions for ihe purpose of
maturing a scheme of compromise, for the
adjustment of all pending questions, growing
out of the subject of slavery. He accom
panied his proposal with the declaration, that
unless something of the kind he proposed
was done speedily, it would be impossible to
preserve the Union. A long debate ensued
upon the proposition of Mr. Foote, in which
Badger, Foote, Clemens, Dayton, Butler,
Berrien, Walker, Davis of Mississippi, and
others took part; and the Senate adjourned
before the motion tor a Committee was
voted on.
On ihe same day, (Feb. 27,) Mr. Chase,
of Ohio, presented a resolution of the legis
lature of Ohio, in favor of the acknowledg
ment of the independence of Liberia which
was referred to the Committee on Foreign
i Relations, and ordered to be printed. Mr.
Seward requested to present a memorial ol
the citizens and residents of the valley of the
Rio Grande, in which they represent that it
is their desire that all the section east of the
Rio Grande, and south of the line of New
Mexico, distinct from the province of Texas,
be erected into a new territory, to be called
the Territory of the Rio Grande.” The
petition was referred.
Mr. Benton, pending the consideration' of
Clay’s compromise, took occasion to deal an
annihilating blow on the heads of the small
babblers fiom the South, who have, from
time to time, exerted themselves, in their
little way, to establish the conviction that
slavery has never been legally abolished in
Mexico. This mischievous pretence, set
afloat by the propaga' dists of slavery, we
think will scarcely dare to make its appear
ance again in the Senate. Mr. Benton has
literally overwhelmed that body with evi
dence, demonstrating that slavery ha 3 not
only been legally, universally, and for ever
i abolished hut that even when it existed, it
was a system that whitened into purity, com
pared to the foul abomination which now
seeks admission into the new territories. Mr.
Benton, as every one expected, denounced
the Wilmot Proviso as useless, and look,
essentially, the ground of Cass, Clay, Taylor
and Co.—to wit, non-intervention.
The great speech of the present week, is
that of John C. Calhoun, of which yye have
but a telegraphic account, and that, is but
very meagie.—f. d.
New York, Feb. 23, 1850.
Dear Sir: The ladies of New York, anx
ious for the Emancipation of their oppressed
race, and being well assured that an organ
through which to make known their grie
vances and plead for their redress is necessa
ry; feeling convinced that the “North Star”
from the very able manner in which it is con
ducted, and its wide circulation, is one of the
most efficient instrunientalities for the accom
plishment of that end, purpose emulating the
noble example of their sisters in Philadelphia,
by holding a Fair for the benefit of said pa
per, during the anniversary week in May next,
and have formed an Association for the fur
therance of tfiat object.
You would confer a favor on the ladies by
making known their intentiop through the
cpluiqns o( yoqr valuable paper, by soliciting
for them the aid of all who are friendly to
their object, and by receiving for, and for
warding to them all contributions which may
be obtained from your section of country.
Very respectfully yours,
FANNY TOMPKINS, Sec'y
Remarks. We have readily and gratefully
given place in our columns, to the above an
nouncement. The intended effort to sustain
the North is evidence of an interest
in the cause of the slave, w hich we heartily
appreciate; and is worthy of the enlightened
ladies who propose to make it. We are
happy to learn, that the pioposition is taken
up with much earnestness, and that a large
Committee, consisting of twenty-five ladies,
has already been organised. Mrs. Emmeline
Bastien has been appointed First Directress
Miss Fanny Tompkins, (a lady well fitted for
the office,) appointed Secretary Mrs. J. M.
Forten, Treasurer. We also see among the
Committee, the names of Mrs. E. Benian,
Mrs. S. Downing, and Mrs. Rosetta Cowes.
Committees have also been appointed to pur
chase goods, select rooms, and solicit dona
tions in aid of the Fair. Judging from these
preparations, the ladies are resolved to do
something which shall be worthy of the in
telligence, activity and generosity of New
York.
A Box has already been received from
England, containing many valuable articles,
which will be displayed for sale at the con
templated Fair. We are authorised to ob
serve, in connection with this announcement,
that the contemplated Fair, like the paper
w hich it designs to support, will be conducted
on the broad principle of a common humani
ty. It is to be open to the co-operation of all
without distinction of cdlor. We make this
declaration, with a view to remove all ground
for alleging that this is to be a colored Fair,
as some were wont to that held in
Philadelphia, during Christmas week. We
see no earthly reason why a Fair, conducted
mainly by colored ladies, but which is open
to the co-operation of all, should be termed a
colored Fair.” It seems that we are never
to lead in anything, however good it be, and
however general its character, without at
taching to that good the odium which a bitter
and relentless prejudice has attached to our
effior. Abolitionists, at any rate, should
judge differently, and determine the worthi
ness of our actions by the motives and objects
in view, rather than by the complexion we
bear. There Uno more reason for calling a
Fair, conducted mainly by colored ladies, a
colored Fair,” than for calling a Fair, con
ducted by white ladies, a white Fair.”
Contributions for this Fair, will be grate
fully ieceived by F. Douglass, at the North
Star office, Rochester, N. Y. f. p.
Our friends Ward and Thomas are taxing
their ingenuity to ascertain who is a genuine
abolitionist. Friend Thomas, (with more
liberality than W T ard,) admits that W. L.
Garr isonand F. Douglass are genuine aboli
tionists. We cannot say that we think the
controversy, on this point, between these two
expert Editors, is of very great consequence.
In the Anti-Slavery field, (as in other
fields of labor,) the genuine workman will
be known by his fruits; and we think that the
labors of Wm. L- Garrison, if measured by
their results, will be found to be not inferior
to the labors of S. R. Ward.— f. d.
Liberated Slaves. —Fourteen slaves, lib
erated by Dr. John Casson, of Mississippi,
were brought to this city two or three days
ago, by their late master, to have their free
dom papers made out. J. Jolliff, Esq., who
takes great pleasure in acting as master of
ceremonies on occasions of this kind, untied
the knot of Slavery, and bade the bond go
fiee. We understand that Dr. Casson, who
came to this city with his people to see that
everything should be properly done, intends
to superintend their settlement himself some
where in Ohio. Cin, Gaz
Speech of James R. Whiting, at the great
Clay Demonstration in New Y r ork.
The next speaker was James R. Whiting, a
member of the bar of our citv, and at one
time District Attorney. There was much
noise when he got up, and it was some time
before he could get a heating. Fellow Citi
zens, said he, it is no ordinary occasion—
[Order! Whiting! Louder! Scott! Scott!
Go on Hiss Older We meet not as par
tizans. not as Democrats, not as Whigs, not
as Abolitionists, not as Fanatics—out as
Unionists. We are called to meet upon one
broad platform, upon which all the various
parties of the country except Abolitionists, can
meet and join hands and heart for the Union.
We meet for the Union, aye, and will die un
der the Union! A great black cloud hangs over
our Southern atmosphere, and its threatning
aspect denotes wide-spread ruin. It is carry
ing across the water the lamentable news that
this country of liberty, of equality, of Union,
is about to be dissevered and plunged into fra
tricidal strife and for whai? For somewhat
of injury done to the South. 1 stand here to
speak the word. The North has failed to do
her duty to the South. She has failed to ful
fil the provisions ol the Constitution. We
have not done justice to the South. I stand
here to ask even-handed justice, and if it be
done, the South will sit down with us under
our vine and fig tree, and through all time
worship the same idol of Liberty, We have
violated the Constitution and injured the South
by not returning their runaway slaves, when
they sought them among us. [Cries of no
no Cheers.] Fanaticism and Abolitionism
are but other names for burglary, robbery,
fraud and larceny It was a compromise on
the question of slavery tfiat brought the Fed
ral Onion together, and by that comptomise—
that Constitution —we are hound by our oaths,
by our fealty to our country, to render up their
fugitive property. I ask the question, have
we done so? [No! We nevet ought!] We
have not.
(Mr. W. then mentioned seveial cases that
had opeured in this city of suits to recover
chatties, in which the South, he contended,
had been wronged. He soundly rated the
Judge who would not permit the laws of
Maryland 10 appear in CouTt as the basis of a
slave claim.) I will gq as far as any one to
free a man frpm his bonds; but I will not go
so far as to break through the Constitution—
I will yield up the negroes. It is our duty to
yield them up, when they have run away
from their owners. I have, professionally,
defended several such cases, apd have found
ail these men—men from Maryland, Virginia,
Georgia—reasonable and disposed tu be just.
I defended one big negro, who stood 6 feet in
his stockings. He was claimed by a man
iiQin North Carolina, named Wilson; but it
mined out that the claimant was his own fath
er—that the negro was his child by one of his
t'emaie slaves—the Jury returned a verdict in
favor of the negro. Did North Carolina com
plain? No. Anti shp never will complain, if
strict justice be done. I tell you, our fanatics,
our Abolitionists, are the worst men I ever
saw. When Mr. Lee of Maryland—as hon
orable, fiigh-miuded, chivalrous a gentleman
qs I ever met—came here to claim a runaway
slave, a body-servant, and one in whom he bad
placed great confidence —one who. had always
fated better ihan tfie free negro here —he
(Mr. L found shameful treatment,
He found that the slave had been persuaded
|to run away by some free negroes; that he
never desired to leave his master, but the ne
groes and abolitionists would not allow him tu
go back. I made arrangements then to sell
the negro for one third of his value, and could
have done sc, and he might easily have earned
his freedom, hatj these fanatics and abolition
ists let him alone. Oh, ihese smooth, Qua
ker rascals, these fanatic villains, these scound
rel abolitionists, whose hypocrisy ought to
double-damn them; it is they who induce a
Judge to reverse his decisions and rob a man;
it is they who have got us to the very brink of
disunion. [Great confusion.] When we do
justics to the South, there will be no cause for
complaint; there will be no complaint. [The
noise was now so great that we could not
catch Mr. W’s remarks for some time.] The
South are as deeply interested in preserving
ihe Constitution intact as we are. They say
to the North, do us justice—simple justice.—
Let us begin, then, to do our duty, and the
cause of strife will be at an end. The Union
must not, cannot be dissolved. Nearly all
those before me have been nursed under the
Union. Protect the Union, then; and let it
stand, the glorious beacon to which all the
hopes of humanity in the Old World are anx
iously looking. Let it never be said that the
brilliant stars grew dim, and one by one, drop
ped from their sphere—that those stripes were
tarnished by internal strife—that this great
Union is shivered and scattered abroad. Let
us say to the South, We will do you justice
—our judiciary shall do you justice. Let us
say and do this, and the Union shall not be
dissolved.—The South shall be bound up with
the North in the .hopes of those who are to
come after us—who are to live in peace and
prosperity under our Union. Let us pledge
our lives, our fortunes and our sacred hot«
or” that not a star shall be obliterated, not a
stripe erased from the glorious flag that now
floats over our Union.
This speeeh speaks for itself, and shows
the low vulgar material which rally around
the standard of Clay and this slave-holding
Union. We might fill our columns, from
week to week, with just such vile blackguard
ism, and with just such appeals to the selfish,
inhuman, and brutal passion of the mob. It
is men of the class of this Whiting, that con
trol the action of Church and State at the
North; and make the liberty of the colored
man, in the country, but an empty name.—
The poor disappointed bloodhound, would,
no doubt, seize any free man of color and sell
him into bondage, if he could do so and escape
punishment.— f. d.
Elihu Burritt. —The Lecture of this
gentleman, before the Rochester Athenseum,
was attended by a large and highly respecta
ble audience, and was listened to with pro
found attention.
The glorious aim of the Lecturer’s life,
(which is no less than the establishment of
‘‘Peace on earth and good will to man,”)
shone conspicuously throughout his noble
address, and we doubt not that many return
ed to their homes with fewet prejudices, less
pride, and clearer apprehensions of the worth
and beauty of the doctrines of Peace and
Human Brotherhood.— f. d.
However Bounded.”— Mr. R. C. Win
throp can never lose the distinction of having
originated, in Faueuil flail, the however
bounded” sentiment; but Mr. H. B. Stan
ton, State Senator from Seneca County, hav
ing, to start with, something the advantage
of past Anti-Slavery position, is not far behind
the ex-Speaker in proving his title to a large
share of such honor as may be due the pat
riotic” thought. He has met with better suc
cess than usually falls to the lot of imitator?,
as witness the following toast given by him at
a public dinner at Troy on the 22d instant.
Wilmot Proviso, or no Wilmot Pro
viso—Slavery Prohibition, or Slavery
Extension—l go for the Union, the whole
Union, and nothing but the Union.”—
Anti-Slav try Standard.
Heath of the eldest Inhabitant.—
The Athens (Ga.) Banner announces the
death of Mr. Daniel Hale, of Franklin coun
ty, who died bn the 2nd of July last in the
one hundred and nineteenth year of his age',
leaving on the premises where he resided at
the time of his death a son seventy-six years
of age, a grand-daughter forty-four years of
age, and a great grand-daughter twenty-tWQ
years old.
European Affairs.
Since we last had an opportunity of chroni
cling the history of European States, nothing
of very startling impoit has transpired—no
profane hands have violated the sanctity of
thrones —nor have any sacrilegious mobs
peered curiously into the sacred precincts of
royalty. Kings, Princes and emperors, exer
cise their authority—some of them with be
coming and cautious lenity—others with an
arrogance and rigor, which testify to the con
fidence theyhave in their re-established securi
ty. The revolutions of 1848-49, are as
much as possible, glossed over, and attempted
to be forgotten. Still, all will not do. Under
the smooth exterior, there is a seething and
bubbling up of the popular cauldron, which in
due season, will again, if gradual reformatory
and ameliorative measures are not carried into
effect, burst out with terrible violence, tossing
aside, and tumbling into one headlong mass,
Kings, Popes, and Emperors, teaching them
and all oppressors, (America’s slave-breed
ing, women-whipping chivalry among the
number) the lesson, not to be again forgotten,
that what the world wants is not the gov
ernment of hereditary tyrants and political
gamblers, but the wise and happiness-pro
ducing leadership of virtuous philanthropy.
England. The steamship America is the
last arrival. She brought the Queen’s speech,
which was read by commission, at the oper.-
ning of Parliament, on the 31st of January.
It is not a very lengthy document, and does
not coniain much. It laments the decease of
Queen Adelaide; states that “Her Majesty
happily continues at peace with foreign pow
ers,” refers to the difficulty between Russia
and Turkey, and states that explanations
have taken place which fottunately remove
any danger to the peace of Europe, notices
th« relaxation of the navigation laws, and
the reciprocal movement in the same direc
tion, on the part of the United States and
Sweden. It then goes on to speak of home
affairs—especially Ireland; and after various
congratulations, hopes, and so forth, con
cludes thus
“It is Her Majesty’s hope and belief that
by combining liberty with order, by preserv
ing what is valuable, and amending what is
defective, you will sustain the fabric of our
institutions as the abode and the shelter of a
free and happy people.”
In the Lords, the Earl of Essex moved the
usual Address; to which the Protectionists,
moved an amendment to the effect that the
agricultural classes are laboring under severe
pressure, in consequence of the Free Trade
policy pursued by Government —in other
words, that under that policy there seemed
to be little prospect that landlords would
again be blessed with famine prices and ex
orbitant rents. The amendment was lost by
a large majority, in favor of Ministeis.
The Times of Feb. 7, has a long article,
setting forth a plan for a direct and perma
nent way, connecting Calais and Mooltan. It
first sight the proposal seems monstrous; but
on further consideration, it dwindles down
to more measurable proportions. The entire
distance, is after all, not much over 3,000
miles. The total cost of this enormous un
dertaking is estimated at j£3,050,000. After
stating some of the difficulties in the way of
this scheme, the Times concltules
“However, we have at least fairly beaten
the Americans in comprehensive surveys and
audacious speculation, and we have abundant
reasons for believing that the scheme which
we have here detailed has actually been con
sidered for years, has been digested with the
aid of all accessible information, and has
been devised with no other end than that of
promoting a great national good.”
France. There is little in the proceedings
of the French legislative Assembly that de
mands notice. The chief topic of discussion,
at the date of the departure of the mail,
was the Bill relating to conventions between
manufacturers and workmen in matters con
nected with weaving.
The prosecution of offending editors still
continues. The editor of La Liberte a so
cialist journal, has been sentenced to three
months’ imprisonment .and 4,000 f. fine.
The Legitimist journal, La Mode is also
to be prosecuted for an offence against
the President, and for exciting to haired
and contempt against the government of the
Republic. The Voix du Peuple, M. Proud
hon’s journal, has been seized, for containing
seditious articles. La Presse, also, (M. Gir
ardin’spaper) had been tried, and acquitted,
for the reproduction of an article which had
appeared in another paper. The numbers
seized were in consequence restored. The
Opinion Publique having accused M.Girardin
of being ambitious of the place of “Directing
and Centralizing Minister,” he (M. GiraTdin)
frankly replies that he “hasdone much more
than aspire to the functions of Directing
Minister, he has had the audacity to prepare
himself for them. Were he to be named di
recting [Minister this evening the expose of
his ideas would appear at length in to-mor
row morning’s Moniteur
Some rioting has taken place in Paris, in
consequence of the removal by government,
of the trees of liberty (some 800 in number.)
Ultimately, the troops were called out, and
tranquillity restored, bnt not until the whole
city had been much alarmed.
Rome. It is currently reported that the
loan to the Roman government of 33,000, 000
francs, has been taken by the Rothschilds.
Dr. Achilli who has for some months past
been confined in piison by the Papal authori
ties, has been at length set at liberty, and is at
present in Paris. According to a statement
forwarded to the daily papers by Sir Culling
Eardly, the release is in consequence of
“communications of an urgent character,”
proceeding from the Government of the
french Republic.
Turkey and Austria. Diplomatic rela
tions continue suspended between Turkey
and Austria. It is said the Riitish Govern
ment have given permission to the Poles to
be expelled to take up their abode at Malta,
and that a man-of-war steamer was to leave
for Varna, to convey them to their des
tination/' The Turkish Treasury is, at pres-
ent, very nearly empty. The resources of
the Turkish empire are immense; but pecu
lation is carried on to scuh a frightful extent
that a comparatively very small portion ot the
revenue finds its way into the coffers of the
State.
The Breslaucr Zeitung has letters from Vi
enna of the 18th, announcing the death of
Gen. Bern. It appears from letters from Sys
tow of the 2d mst. that Gen. Bern died sud
denly, and (it is asserted) from poison. The
pews of course requites confirmation.
11l tated Hungary still continues to be the
scene of the detestable Haynau’s atrocities.
He says that the Hungarians must be kept
down with a strong hand.
The news from Transylvania becomes ev
ery day more and more distressing. Klau
senburg, and the country round it, is given
up to the tender mercies of Col..Urban,whose
only idea of 'government seems to be the
plentiful applicatimjcf the knout.
Switzerland. It appears that from the
influx of refugees,some of the most important
Swiss towns are become the seats of power
ful associations:
Alarmed at the fact, Austria and Prussia
(backed it is said by Rusria) have presented
to the Federal Government their formal de
mand for the expulsion of the refugees. The
Federal Government has addressod itself to
the French Cabinet to know what couraeLouis
Napoleon would be disposed to adopt in the
event of an invasion of the rights or the terri
tory of the Federal Government; and the Ger
man Governments, anxious to identify the
policy of the French President with their own,
and to divest theii intended course of action of
all appearance of aggression on France, have
invited Louis Nepoleon to concur and partici
pate in the remonstrances and operations which
may become necessary. The question is
thus brought under the noticej of the head of
the republic on both sides.
This is a very delicate mattter, and the
French cabinet are in great embrrassment,
having to reply,so as not to offend the powers
without acceding to their demand.
That the peace of Europe can be for a
great while preserved, amidst all the dis
turbing and contradictory elements at woik,
seems extremely problematical. War is at
all times and in all circumstances a most de
plorable evil; but while opposed to all war,
we shall sti.l yield our sympathies to the op
pressed ot all lands in their struggle for lib
erty, and earnestly desire their success.— j.d.
We copy the following from “the Phila
delphia Leger.” It was doubtless, inserted
as an advertisement, by oui friends there as
an answer to the villanous attacks made upon
them by another Journal in that city.— f. d.
“Though we break our father’s'promise,
we have nobler duties first; the traitor to
humanity is the traitor most accurst; man is
more than Constitutions; -better rot beneath
the sod, than be true to Church and State,
while we are doubly false to God.”
Amemorial, of which the following is a
copy, is now at the Anti-Slavery Office, 31
N. Fifth St., for signatures. All citizens so
disposed are invited to call and attach to it
their names:
To the Senate and House of Representatives in
Congress ussembltd
The undersigned, inhabitants ot Philadel
phia, on behalf of themselves and of a large
and rapidly incieasing portion of the people
of Pennsylvania and other Northern States,
respectfully represent that the union at pre
sent subsisting between the slaveholding and
non-slaveholding portions of this confederacy
is a source of grievances so numerous and
oppressive as to call for immediate measures
on the part of those who have the power,
for their redress. Among these grievances,
they would respectfully enumerate the follow
ing, as the most pressing in their demand lor
correction
1. Despite the article of the Federal Con
stitution, which declares that “the citizens
of each State shal enjoy all the privileges
and immunities of citizens of the sevral
states,” a portion of the citizens of the north,
solely on account of their complexions, on
visiting southern states are seized, thrust into
prison, fined, condemned to work with felons
in the chain gang, and frequently sold on the
auction block as slaves.
11. Perfectly legal measures to bring those
eutrages to the notice of the Federal Courts
are forbidden by severe penal enactments, as
in the case |of the Hon. Samuel Hoar and
Hon. Henry Hubbard, who were appointed
for this especial purpose by the Legislature
of Massachusetts, but who were driven back
with insult and violence from the States to
which they were sent.
111. The most sacred of all rights, that of
freedom of speech and of the press, withoul
which there can be no true liberty under any
form of government, has been practically de
nied in a large portion of this country, and
to thousands of its most respectable as well
as some of its most distinguished inhabitants.
It is a notorious fact that there are but few
places south of Mason and Dixon’s Line
where the doctrine of the Declaration of In
dependence that “all men are created equal
and endowed with an inalienable right to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness” can be
publicly avowed and appropriately applied
without imminent personal hazard.
IV. The Union, between the slaveholding
and non-slaveholding States and the alleged
necessity of its perpetuation, is made the
pretext for l exorbitant and nnjust demands on
the part of the former, and the most degrading
concessions and humiliating self abasement on
the part of the latter, begetting a spirit on
the one hand of overbearing tyranny, and on
the other of slavish and grovelling submis
sion—both alike inconsistent with our theory
of republican equality, at vaiiance with the
best interests of a majority of the people, and
injurious to the cause ot freedom and free
institutions throughout the world.
V. The comproses of the Federal Con
stitution are felt to be especially burdensome,
because by them the people of the North are
obliged Ist. To fcid slaveholder, di
rectly or indirectly, in recapturing his fugitive
slaves. 2d. To assist, if in the judgment ot
the Executive it should ever become necessa
ry, to repress by force any uprising on the
part of the slaves for their liberty; and 3d.
To concede to the slaveholder extraordinary
.political power, in the privilege of repre
senting three-fifths of his slaves in the. Elec
toral College and in Congress—thus famish
ing him at the same moment the motive and
ability to perpetuate his system. By these
compromises the people of the North are in
volved as partners in the support of Slavery,
and made to share with the Suoth in all the
evils and responsibilities of its continuance.
To these facts, as constituting grievances
no longer tolerable, the undersigned invite
the attention of your honorable body, and res
pectfully ask that, if in your judgment there
be no other speedy means for their redress,
you will take immediate measures for the
peaceful Dissolution of the Union.
Increased Excitement at Washington.
Washington, Feb. 26, 1850.
Senator Foote’s statements have created
alarm. The events expected are a renewal
of the struggle between North and South
next Mouday, and the consequence, the break
ing up of the House by the Southern men,
who are coming armed for a contest.
That is the design and expectation. Mr.
Foote made his general assertion without par
ticulars* He, therefore urged the Senate to
do something by Saturday. Foote was un
questionably authorized to state what he did.
The affair between the Illinois and Mississ
ippi members is unsettled. Attempts will bt
made to arrange the matter. It is simply a
dispute as to historical facts.
The President stated in conversation this
mot ping that the parties referred to different
periods of the action.
Calhoun’s epeech will be read by Mr. But
ler on Thursday.— Corr. N. Y. Jour of Com
ICpThe most sensible duellist we ever
heard of, was one who chose pistols and a mile
as his wepons and distance.
Southern Caucus.
Washington, Feb. 26.
The Southern men have held a secret
caucus, and are acting in concert.
Extraordinary developments are expected—
there is a great excitement here.
Cols. Bissell and Davis are still correspond
ing upon the subject of the Buena Vista bat
tle, and the debate upon the Slavery question.
A duel at this time is much deprecated.
The present excitement in the Senate is re
garded as a desperate effort to force the
North to a compromise.— Corr. N. V. Ex
press.
The “Crisis” Apparently Approaching.
Washington, Feb. 25th.
A coup-de-main was attempted in the Sen
ate to-day by Senator Foote, or ratliei it was
led off by him. The Senate seemed more
deeply excited than I had imagined could be
possible during the enactment of this scene.
Foote proposed that a committee of twelve
should be elected by ballot, equally from free
and slave States, who should choose the thir
teenth, and to them should bejsubmitted all of
the matters in defence between the North and
South, and upon which they should report.
He remarked to the apparent astonishment
of the Senate that unless there was some
movement towards an adjustment of this kind,
events would occur, within a week or ten days
which must render any compromise impossible.
This was said with startling solemnity. But
ler of S. C. opposed such a movement now
as calculated to place them in an awkward
position if the proposition agieed upon in com
mittee should fail in the Senate. He took
occasion to say in the course of remark that
if we were to part he hoped to do so without
leaving behind him any personal ill feeling
with any Senator from the North.
This heightened the excitment, Walker of
Wisconsin deprecated the movement, Davis,
Badger, and Berrien in favor, Dayton of New
Jersey, in a cool sensible onslaught upon the
movement made sad havoc with the deep and
solemn impression of impending danger which
had been created. So it was postponed until
to-morrow.
It is almost impossible to judge of this
movement in the excitement of the moment.
W ithdrawalfrom Congress is,however, I doubt
not contemplated. As a majority constitutes a
quorum, however, it will be seen that enough
will remain |to do business. The ulimate
result must be that those who withdraw will
lose their seats and their pay, and the people
of the South will send others to their places.
I have within a day or two past chanced to
see some unmistakable evidences of Southern
attachment to the Union. The compromise,
too, some Southern States cousidered ultra.
This desperate move of Foote’s is regarded
as in consequence of the reaction. Juvenal.
The Chances of Disunion.
Washington, Feb. 24, 1850.
j t j s understood here that
thirty-four members from the Slave States
have signed an agreement to persevere in
staving off all transaction of business in the
House until the Slavery question shall be set
tled to their liking, by ealling the Yeas and
Naves, moving adjournment, calls of the
House. &o.&c. whenever there shall be an
effort to do anything. The Northern mem
bers are cogitating plans to baffle such man
oeuvres, and one proposition considered is that
of adjourning and having a special session
called, at the beginning of which such new
rules may be adopted as are adapted to the
state of things.
“H is alarmed and confident that
blood will be spilt on thefloor of the House be
fore the Session closes. He says he knows
many members who go to the House armed
every day in anticipation of a general fight.
W 'is confident that Disunion is now
inevitable. He knows intimately nearly all
the Southern members, is familiar with their
views, and sees the letters that reach them
from their constituents. He says the most
ultra are well backed up by advices from
home. What the end| is to be we§ cannot
imagine.”— Correspondent N. Y. Tribune,
Philadelphia, Feb- 25, 1850.
Frederick Douglass.—Mr. Griffiin lec- i
tured before the Philadelphia Lib. Co., and
elicited much applause. He successfully dem
onstrated the utility of commercial pursuits as
a means of diminishing existing prejudices.—
With a few peculiarities of language his lec
ture was, upon the whole, interesting and elo
quent—the usual debate was postponed to en
able him to occupy the whole evening, which
he did, and many would have been pleased to
have heard him again. Dr. Peck, who pur
poses visiting the West Indies, has lectured
twice before the P. L. C.,'on Mesmerism, to
the great satisfaction of his numerous hearers
Oneof them an English gentleman apparently,
after the Doctor had experimented upon him,
made a speech, in which he expressed the
great pleasure it gava him to find so many
persons so well employed, and complimented
them upon the effectual manner in which
they were refuting the slanderous accusations
of their enemies. It is rarely that any of our
city friends, i. e. les blancs,” honor us with
their presence, or encourage us in our efforts
for improvement. They believe they perform
their duty in contributing towards the aboli
tion of slavery and the slave trade, and in
encouraging the sale of Free Labor produce.
They care but little for the moral and in
tellectual elevation of the free people of color,
and believe them sufficiently happy if they
have become good cooks, and scullions, hew
ers of wood and drawers of water. Unlike
the quaint, powerful, but mean “Hero wor
shipper,” they would rather we were not un
der the rule of “beneficent whips,” at the
same time they believe that if we, whip in
hand, drive their horses,Tve are fulfilling our
destiny, and that there is no necessity for us
to progress and to develope our faculties, to
aspire to the learned professions, the fine arts
or mercantile persuits. Last week Mr.
Robert Purvis, lectured upon “Human
Rights,” before the P. L. C. His discourse
was brief but to the point, full of poetic fire,
and delivered with fiis characteristic energy
and enthusiam. He was quite severe upon
Secret Institutions, existing among the color
ed population, and set forth in glowing colors
the great good that might be accomplished,
if instead of applying such large sums of
money, to gewgaws, processions, &lc., they
were expended for the attainment of Equal
Rights proving his position by incontroverti
ble facts, one of which was, that while the
whites smiled approvingly upon extravagant
displays of costly regalia, &c., and encour
aged processions which diverted the oppres
sed from the object which should command
all their talents, they mobhed them when
in procession, they displayed Banners signifi
cant of Liberty and Equal Right?,
At the close of the lecture,"a warm dis
cussion took place with regard to secret In
stitutions. A white gentleman] Mr. W., de
fended Odd-Fellowship, &c., very ingenious
ly, but I thought erred in net taking a vie w
of it from tfie proper point. He should place
himself amid the same circumstances which
surround the colored man, when debating
this question. Mr. Purvis’s great argument
in opposition appealed to he that those
institutions absorbed too much of the means
and talents which would be rqore usefully em
ployed in rescuing as from the anomalous
position we occupy, and obtaining for us the
rights of freemen. Mr. W .’s difference of
opinion served to elicit all Mi- Purvis’s elo
quence which afforded the assembly a fine in
tellectual repast. In the course of the debate
Mr.Purvis administered a cutting rebuke to the
“venerable arch Compromiser” who ignorant
of that magnanimity of soul which should
be one of the principal characteristics of a
great mind, has so frequently slandered a weak
and persecuted portion ot the American Peo
ple. Would the Hon. gentleman could have
heard it. It would have enabled him for the
future to view us in a different light, and
caused perhaps a fresh spring of thought to
meander thiough his gigantic intellect. Before
the Phcenixonian, Dr. Bryan lectured upon
the anatomy of the age. He is one of the
ablest lecturers whom I have ever had the
pleasure of listening to. He complimented
the audience upon their attention, and con
gratulated them upon the instruction they
were receiving from different persons of emi
nence. Dr. Patterson also lectured before
this Institution, upon the circulation of the
Blood, illustrated by many beautiful engrav
ings and preparations. A paper read betore
this Institution by Mr. Townsend on t
habits and instincts of birds, abounded with
agreeable information. The lectures before
these two institutions are always well at
tended. The Phoenixonians charge 6I 2 cts.
for a single lecture and 25 cts. for the course.
The Phil. Lib. Co. give their lectures free
gratis and take up a collection. There has
been a “Barber’s Ball” since my last writing,
which I have been told w r a3 fully and fashion
ably attended. A Fancy Ball is in prepara
tion, and the ‘gay spirits’ are all on the qui
vive. A number of Concerts have also
taken place lately. One was given by the
Odd Fellows, in Franklin Hall. Great pre
parations were made for this entertainment.
Many who had purchased tickets, w’ere un
able to gain admittance, on account of the
large attendance. It is thought there were
between eight and nine hundred persons in
the hall. The performance went off in a
pleasing manner. Splendid wreaths were
presented to Miss. G. and to Mrs. B. whose
vocal abilities afforded the large audience so
much pleasure. The concert is to be re
peated. R. D.
We have not been able to publish the let
ters, to which friend Mabbitt refers. We
think, however, that the present one contains
the gist of his former ones
Women 6 Rights.
In my last article on this subject, I insist
ed that there was no good reason, why wo
men might not take at least an equal part,
with our sex in the professions of La w, Medi
cine, and the Christian Ministry.
In previous articles I have endeavoured to
show the inadequacy and futility of existing
law's and customs to render equal justice to
widow’s, and unmarried women. I wish to
say something more on this point:
A few years since the people of this State
were called upon to vote, in reference to the
license system—w’helher we should, or should
not, have licensed dram houses—whether men
could have the sanction and authority, of their
respective towns, to deal out the imoxicating
fluid to their fellow men 1 Sin meii-
ced this series of articles, our Legislature
have passed an act prohibiting the sale of
intoxicating drinks as a beverage, but which
will not become a law unless by the
legal voters of their state at our general elec
tion next fall. Now is there a reasonable
doubt, if all our tax paying citizens without
reference to color, or sex, could have the use
of the elective Franchise, that the shameless
monster, Intemperance could have a legal ex
istence? I think not. Too many of our
female citizens have felt the effects, not t°
avail themselves of the opportunity for the
removal of the cause.
Take the case of War. Suppose some
nation should insult our Countiy’s Flag, and
there should be a public expression through
the ballot box. calledj for—women being al
lowed to vote. Is there a doubt as to the
result of such an expression The reasoning
of our mother?, wives, sisters, daughters,
would be something like this—“ Pretty idea
truly! to think of going to war, and hazard
the loss of life, property, and public virtue
just to punish an entire nation because a few’
inconsiderate men had insulted our flag!”
And how have they insulted our flag
Why they have reminded us of the great
propriety of such a flag—that it represents by
its Stars, an exalted profession of Liberty;
and by its atiipes—the lash upon the backs of
Slaves—great reason this, for going to War!
No; our men shall not by our consent go to
war with their neighbors because they have
had sufficient courage to tell them the truth.
Acting in accordance with sentiments of this
kind, qur women wmuld save our country
from the ruinous consequences of War; and
without reproach to us as a people, since it is
no repioach to avoid the calamities of \Yar.
Again, take the subject pf Slavery.- could our
citizens of the other sex.of adult age be al
lowed an expression upon this subject through
the ballot box, there would |no chance for a
slave-holder as such to, occupy any other posi
tion than one of the lowest infamy— a nuis
ance to anything like Republicanism. There
are yet some men to be found in our land
who hesitate not to sell their own children
(shame on the creatures! they are not men,)
and such creatures are allowed to vote and to
be voted for, but, thank God, no American
woman has yet been guilty of that dark deed
—indeed it doe 3 not now occur to my mind
that the page of history is stained with a re
cord of any such crime. I am aware that
the records of Antiquityjafford precedents of
parents selling their children, but I have yet
to learn that a woman has beep found or
heprd from, thqt voluntarily, without fear or
compulsion, ever sold her own child. I think
my opinion is well founded when 1 say Give
the women of our country the use of the
Elective Franchise, and slavery would no
longer be tolerated.
L. MABBETT.
Collins Center, N. Y. 2mo 27th 1850.
California. —There are six steamers run
ning betw-een New York aud Chagres, as
follows: Howard Co’s. Line, Empire
City and Crescent Cityj George Law’s Line,
Ohio and Georgia; Howland &Aspmwall’s
Line, Cherokee and Philadelphia. The New
York Tribune gives the following informa
tion in regard to them: —The price of passage
by the Howland line is $65 in the steerage,
and SBO to $125 in the cabins. The steerage
passage includes mattresses and board. The
prices by the Law line are, state room berth,
$100; standee berth, S9O; steerage, SSO
also including bedding and board. By the
Aspinwall line, after saloons, $125; for
ward saloon, $100; lower cabin, S9O. The
prices by the Law line are lower then by the
othets, because those steamers do not go di
rect.
Between Panama and San Francisco there
are ten steamers now running, as will be seen
as follows:—Howland Aspinwall s Line,
Oregon, California, Unicorn, Panama, len
nessee, and Carolina;.-Howard Son s Line,
Sarah Sands and Jfew Orleans; M. O. Ro
bert’s Line, Colnmbus and Isthmus. The
prices on the Pacific are the same in all the
above steamers —first cabin, $200; second
cabin or steerage, 150. Passengers are
allowed ten cubic feet of baggage. Freight
in the Howard Line is taken at $2 per foot,
and we suppose in the others at the same
price. The Aspinwall steamers are full, on
the Pacific side, up to May. Tne Howard
steamers are also full to May, and it is doubt
ful if a steam passage could be obtained from
Panama until after April. We believe that
sailing vessels are running between Panama
and San Francisco, and passage can be ob
tained at from 150 to $200:
The Winter rN Europe. —While we
have been enjoying a rematkablv mild winter
on this side of the Atlantic, in Europe, both
at the North and South, the season appears to
have been one of unusual severity. Letters
from the frontier of Italy, state that the Con
tent of St. Bernard is entirely blocked up with
snow. The monks have been obliged to cut
a subterranean passage in order to extricate
themselves.
Miss Margaret Fuller writes to the Tribune,
from Florence, under date of Jan. 6th:
This winter, Italy is shrouded with snow.
Here in Florence tfie oil congeals iu the clo
set beside the fire—the water also in the
chambers —just as in our country houses of
New England, as yet uncomfortable by fur
naces. I was supposing this to be confined
to colder Florence, but a letter this day re
ceived from Rome, says the snow lies there
two feet deep, and water freezes instantly if
thrown upon the pavement. I hardly know
how to believe—l who never saw but one
slight powdering of snow all my two Roman
winters, scarce enough to cover a canary
bird’s wing.
Letters from Montpelier, state that the ex
cessive cold has caused serious injury to the
Olive plantation in that part of France.
More Kidnapping in Illinois. —A Spring
field, 111., corespondent of the Princetown
Advocate, gives a detailed account of the re
cent kidnapping operations in that section.
He says: “Some time ago there was a tele
graph report of fourteen persons having ran
away from St. Louis, describing a part, and
offering a reward of S3OO each to whoever
would take and retnrn them. The indivi
dual telegraphed to put the facts in posses
sion of a notable constable, S. L. Jones, w r ho
went to a Springfield Justice and got a writ
frsm him to seize and deliver said runaways
Eight colored persons had arrived there just
before this; they were immediately started
further North by their friends; traveled in the
night to elude the man-stealer in a free
State; were followed by Jones, with a party
of men w-ell-armed, who overtook them,
threatened their lives, bound them hand and
foot, and turned the horses’ heads towards
Petersburgh. Thev finally concluded to
part of the load to Springfield but when the
two waggons got near the town, concluded it
would not do to enter till after dark, and in
this situation held camp-meeting over the
prospect of the $2,400 —Jones remarking it
was aj big pile, and so easily made. The
prisoners, however, contrived to escape under
cover of the daikness.” Yhe Supreme court
have decided that the law of the State is un
constitutional and no man but the owner or
his legally authorized agent can stop a runa
way.
Juvenile Vagrancy.—According to pre
vlousnotice, Mr. Spear delivered an Ad
dress in the Stuyvesant Institute, on the
above subject, on Sunday afternoon. Mr.
Spear stated the many difficulties connhcted
with the wholegsubject. He alluded to the
astounding disclosures made in the late Police
Report. He thought that the public were
now prepared to do something; that society,
while it did not care much for the child, was
beginning to ask what might be done for its
own protection, and that one fact alone was
beginning to excite great attention, which was
that it was cheaper to prevent than punish
crime; cheaper to build the school-house than
the gallows; cheaper to pay the teacher than
the hangman. Mr. Spear said, according to
the report, their were three thousvnd children
in the city, (Boston) either begging or steal
ing.
Receipts
For the North Star, for the Week ending
March 6, 1850,
Calvin Gilmore 2,00
Dwelly Spalding don 10,00
E. W. Paysc.n 2,00
Talford Day 2,00
L. Tilmon 2,00
Hiram Wells 1,00
Alice Simms 1,00
S. S Mars 2,00
Lourin Jackson 2,00
Tappan Townsend 1,00
John. E Robinson 2,Q0
Ditto Donation 2,00
P. Cummings 2,00
L. Meirifield 2,00
I. Howland 1,00
Hi W. Hamlin 2,00
William Collins 2,00
J. W. Baldwin 2,00
Alamson A. Peck 1,00
Robert Paul 2,00
TESTIMONY FROM HIGH AUTHORITY.
[From the Editor of the N.Y.Mirror. Aug.9,1848.]
Cure and nq Mistake. —We
are about to write a voluntary statement of a cure
recently effected by Dr. Wistar’s Balsam of Wild
Cherry, which the editor of this paper is willing to
give under his own signature. We make it pro
hono publico, as we have never seen tfiej proprietor
of this invaluable medicine, and know nothing at
all about him. About four weeks since, one of the
compositors in this office was suffering 90 badly
from a cough that he was unable to sleep nights,
andj too weak to stand at hi? case. H,e became
pale and thin, and gave symptoms of falling a vic
tim io quick consumption,, \Ye recomended to him
various medicines which had no effect. Finally we
gave him one bottle of WISTAR’S BALSAM OF
WILD CHERRA it afforded him immediate re
lief, and he is now a well man, gaining in flesh*
with a ruddy|complexion and not the slightest symp
ptom of a cough. These are facts, and further par
ticulars may be learned at this offiice. We should
add ;ha. the cough was apooinpanied by profuse
spitting ofblood.
Look oih far Imitations andj counterfeits. Re
member, the original and only genuine artical al
wayslhears the written signature of I. BUTTS,up
on the outside wrapper.
Originaly prepared by Williams Co, Philadel
phia, now prepared and sold, wholesale and retail,
only-ffiy SETH W. FOWLE, Boston, Mass, to
whom all orders should be addressed, and for sale
by his agents everywhere.
For sale by Post Wii.lis; also by Wm.
Pit kin.
OLIVER GODSMITH.
[continued.]
We will give another instance of his
idiocy. Previous to the publication of
“The Deserted Village,” the book
seller gave him a note for the price
agreed upon—one hundred guineas.
As he was on his way home he met an
acquaintance, to whom he related the
circumstance. The gentleman thought
this a very large sum for so small a
poem. “In truth,” said Goldsmith,
"I think so too; it is much more than
the honest man can afford, or the piece
is worth. I have not been easy since
I received it.” The idiot actually re
turned the note to the bookseller, and
left him to graduate the payment ac
cording to the success of the work,
Such idiocy is not very common in the
world, and men were astounded at such
displays of it. As there is not much
danger- of »o great an increase in the
number of such idiots as to render them
a public burden, we should be glad to
have a few more of them. Goldsmith
was called “an inspired idiot”—we
wish his acquaintances had the grace
to consider such idiocy the gift of in
spiration.
We now come to the other charge
against Goldsmith —the charge of vani
ty. This charge was made particular
ly by that vainest of the vain, James
Boswell, whose jaundiced eye saw
everything in a yellow light. He
seems to have been an ardent believer
in the doctrine to which Carlyle refers
—that neediness and greediness and
vainglory are the chief qualities of
mankind, and that whatever cannot be
referred to the categories of need and
greed is without scruple ranged under
that of vainylory. Goldsmith had need
enough it is true; but as he was totally
destitute of greed, Boswell thought an
extraordinary number of his actions
was to be attributed to vainglory. The
peacock, who was so vain in regard to
dress that after having been at Court,
he went to the printing office with his
trappings, and summoned all the prin
ter’s devils to admire him, accuses
Goldsmith of displaying vanity in dress!
Mr. Irving, with kind-hearted good
sense, attributes his apparent vanity to
another feeling. “This proneness to
finery in dress,” savs he, “which
Boswell and others of (Goldsmith’s con
temporaries, who did not understand
the secret plies of his character, attri
buted to vanity, arose, we are convin
ced, from a widely different motive. It
was from a painful idea of his own
personal defects, which had been cruel
jly stamped upon his mind in his boy
hood by the sneers and jeers of his
playmates, and had been ground deep
er into it by rude speeches made to him
’in every step of his struggling career,
until it had become a constant cause of
awkwardness and
!he had experienced more sensibly since
his reputation had elevated him into
polite society; and he was constantly
endeavoring by the aid of dress to ac
quire that personal acceptability, if we
may use the phrase, which nature had
denied him. If ever he betrayed a
little self-complacency on first turning
out in a new suit, it may perhaps, have
been because he felt he had achieved a
triumph over his ugliness.” He goes
on to speak of circumstances existing
xt the time of which he is treating,
which may have rendered Goldsmith
more than usually attentive to his per
sonal appearance. He had become
acquainted with the beautiful, intelli
gent, sprightly, and agreeable Miss
Hornecks, and was inspired with tender
feelings towards the younger, who went
by the name of the Jessamy Bridt.
“Alas! poor Goldsmith!” exclaims Mr
laying, “how rauchofthis silken finery
was dictated, not by vanity, but by
humble consciousness of thy defects;
how much of it was to atone for the un
couthness of thy person, and to win
favor in the\eyes of the Jessamy
Bride!” A slight personal defect
caused Byron to hate his fellow-men;
in Goldsmith, the cofisciousnese of per
sonal defect led to a vPfell meant effort
to remove its effects. Yel Byron is ad
mired and Goldsmith is laughed at.
But Boswell represents Goldsmith as
“strutting about and bragging of his
dress.” It is easy to see that on the
occasion to which Boswell alludes,
Goldsmith was indulging his humor, ol
which he possessed a sreat share.
Such a fool as Boswell was incapable
of understanding Goldsmith.
We will give two other instances of
what the incorrigible dunce considers
displays of vanity. He went with the
Miss- Hornecks Jto France. While
stopping at a hotel in Lisle, they were
drawn to the windows by a military
parade in front. The extreme beauty
of the Miss Horrecks immediately at
tracted the attention of the officers,
who broke forth with enthusiastic
speeches and compliments intended for
their ears. Goldsmith was amused for
a while, but at length affected impati
ence at this exclusive admiration of his
beautiful companions, and exclaimed
with mock severity, “Elsewhere I also
would have my admirers.” It required
a Boswell to construe this into an evi
dence of mortified vanity. On another
occasion he went with Burke to wit
ness the performances of some puppets
When Burke praised the dexterity
wiih which one of them tossed a pike,
“Pshaw,” said Goldsmith, with some
warmth, according to Boswell, “I can
do it better myself.” “The same even
ing,” adds this prince of fools, “he
broke his shin by attempting to exhibit
to the company how much better he
could jump over a stick than ihe pup
pets. Well did Johnson describe Bos
well as a fellow who had missed his
only chance of immortality by not hav
ing been alive when the Dunciad was
written. It is true he gained immortaii
ty in a way not expected by Johnson;
but his work is like freason —we are
pleased with the thing itself, but des
pise the author. He was so anxious
to be down an ass,” that in
the absence of the sexton, Ije wrote it
down himself.
Croker, in his notes to Boswell, re
lates an occurrence which has been
considered a ludicrous display of Gold
smith’s vanity. It was related to
Croker by Col. O’Moore, of Cloghan
Castle, in Ireland, who was a party
concerned. The Colonel and Burke,
walking one day through Leicester
Square, on their way to Sir Joshua
Reynolds’s, wtih whom they were to
dine, observed Goldsmith, who was
likewise to be a guest, standing and
regarding a crowd which was staring
and shouting at some foreign ladies in
the window of a hotel. “Observe
Goldsmith,” said Bupke to O’Moore,
“and mark what passes between us at
Sir Joshua’s.” They passed on and ar
rived there before him. Burke receiv
ed Qoldsn)ith with affected reserve ard
coldness. Being pressed Ip explain
the reason, said he, “I am
ashamed to keep company with a per
son who could act as you have just done
in the Square.” Goldsmith protested
he was ignorant of what was meant.
“Why, said Burke, “Did you not ex
claim as you were looking up at those
women, what a stupid beast the crowd
must be for staring with such admira
tion at those painted Jezebels, while a
man of your talents passed py un
noticed?” “Surely, surely, my dear
friend,” cried Goldsmith, with alarm,
“surely I did not say so?” “Nay,”
rrpjied Kurke. “if you had not said so,
how should I have known it?” “That’s
true.” answered Goldsmith, “I am
very sorry—it was very foolish; Ido
recollect that something of the kind
passed through my mind, but I did not
think that I had uttered it.”
Now this proves nothing in the world
but Goldsmith’s childlike simplicity of
character. He was unsuspicious of a
trick and could be made to believe al
most anything. We do believe the
thoughts no more passed the mind than
the words passed from his lips. But his
mind, having no suspicion of decep
tion, was seeking a cause for the effect
before him, and could find no other
explanation than that he must have
spoken the words, and thought the
thoughts. When a man, in a very
earnest manner, insists that you cer
tainly do know some particular indivi
dual, you will begin to think you do
know him, though you have never seen
him in your life. If water is thrown in
the face of a sleeping man, his mind
goes to work to invent a cause. He
dreams that he sees clouds gathering
slowly in the west. They become
gradually thicker and darker. At last
they approach, the whole heaven is
oyerspread, and the rain pours down
in torrents upon his head. All this is
dreamed in the very moment of wak
ing. The sleeper dreams of a storm
to account for the water on his face.
We believe that Goldsmith’s thoughts
were as imaginary as the sprinkled
sleeper’s clouds. Burke threw water
in his face, and the rpind invented an
explanation.
The little peculiarities of Goldsmith
never impaired the affection of his
friends. The same Burke that had
amused himself with tricks upon his
simplicity, burst into tears when he
heard of his death. Sir Joshua Rey
nolds threw by his pencil and grieved
more than he had done in times ot great
family distres. Johnson felt the blow
deeply land gloomily. The object of
such affection must have had a noble
soul. We feel that we could have
clasped such a man to our bosom and
loved him with all his debts. A Gold
smith is not given to us every day.
Let us love his virtues and forget his
failings.
From Blackwood’s Magazine.
ROMANCE OF RUSSIAN HISTORY
The characters of few sovereigns
admit of being judged more variously
than that of Peter I. of Russia, sur
named the Great. According to the
point of view whence we contemplate
him, we behold the hero or the savage;
the wise legislator or the lawless ty
rant; the patient pursuer of sicence or
the dissolute and heartless debauchee.
A short time before his death, ac
cording to Mr. Blanc, although other
writers fix the date some years earlier,
Peter was violently smitten by the
charms of a young girl, named Ivan
owd. Although tenderly attached, and
about to be married to an officer of the
regiment of Schonvaioff, she dared
not oppose the Czar’s wisher, but be
came his mistress. Peter, who took
her repugnance for timidity, fancied
himself beioved and passed much of
his time in her society, in a charming
cottage in which he had installed her
at one of the extremities of St. Peters
burgh. Her had enriched her family,
who were ignorant, however, of her re
treat. He betrothed, whose name was
Demetrius Danilotf, was iivdespair at
her disappearance, and made uncea
sing efforts to discover her, but all in
vain, until Ivanowa, having made a
confidant of a Livonian slave, had him
conducted to her presence. The lovers’
meetings were then trequent, so much
so, that Peter received intelligence of
them. His anger was terrible; he
roared like a tiger.
“Betrayed! betrayed everywhere
and always!” cried he, striding wildly
about the room, and striking his brow
with his clenched fist. “Oh! revenge!
revenge!”
Before the close of the day he left
the palace, alone, wrapped in a coarse
cloak, his feet in mailed shoes whose
patches attested their long service, his
head covered with a fox-skin cap which
came down over his eyebrows and hall
concealed his eyes. He soon reached
Ivanowa’s house, where the lovers
deemed themselves perfently secure,
for the Czar had spread a report of
his departure for Moscow. Moreover,
the faithful Livonian slave kept watch
in. the antechamber, to give an alarm
at the least noise. Peter knew all this,
and had taken his measures according,
ly. Ooening an outer door with a key
of his own, he bounced into the ante
room, upon the slave, and with a kick
of his powerful foot burst the door that
separated him from the lovers. All
this occurred with the speed of light
ning. Daniloff and Ivanowa had scarce
time to rise from their seats, before the
Czar stood over them with a drawn
sword ip his hand. Ivanowa uttered a
cry of terror, fell on her knees and
fainted. Prompt as the Czar, Daniloff
bared his sabre and threvy himself bs
tweea his mistress and Peter. The
latter lowered his weapon.
“No,” he said, “the revenge were
too brief.”
He opened a wjnficny and erjea
hourral At this signal a hundred sol
diers crowded into the house. Master
ing his fury, the Czar ordered the
young officer to be taken to prison,
there to receive one hundred blows of
the hattoques or sticks. Ivanowa was
also confined until the senate should
decide on her fate. The next day
Daniloff received his terrible punish
ment. Before half of it had been in
flicted, his back, from the loins to the
shoulders, was one hideous wound,
&c.,' &c. We omit the reyolting de
tails. Nevertheless the executioners
strike, and the hundred
blows were* counted, without a com
plaint from the sufferer. The unfortu
nate Daniloff had not even fainted; he
got up aJope f when untied, and asked
to have hWwounds carefuily dressed/
“I have need to live a short time
longer,” he added.
Meanwhile, Ivanowa was brought
before the senate, and accused of high
treason, and of trying to discover state
secrets —a charge of Peter’s invention.
The supple senate, created by the
Czar, condemned her to receive twen
ty-two blows of the knot in the pres
ence of her accomplice Daniloff, al
ready punished by the emperor’s order.
—On the day appointed for the execu
tion, Peter stood upon the balcony of
his winter palace. Several batalions
of infantry marched past, escorting
the unfortunate Demetrius, who, in
spite of the frightful sufferings he still
endured, Walked with a steady step,
and with a firm and even joyful counte
nance. Surrounded by other escorts
was seen the young and lovely Ivan
owa, half dead with terror, supported j
on one side by a priest, and on the
other by a soldier, and letting her
beautiful head fall from one shoulder
to the other, according to the impulse
given it by her painful progress. Even
Peter’s heart melted at the sight. Re
entering his appartment, he put on the
ribbon of the order of St. Andred,
threw a cloak over his shoulders, left
the palace, sprang into a boat, and
reached the opposite side of the river;
at the same moment as the mournful j
procession which had crossed the j
bridge. Making his way through tho 1
crowd, he dropped his cloak, took Iva-|
nowa in his arms, and imprinted a kiss,
upon her brow. A murmur arose'
amongst the people, and suddenly cries;
of “pardon” were heard.
The knights of St. Andred then en
joyed the singular privilege that a kiss
given by them to a condemned person,;
deprived the executioner ot his victim.!
This privilege has endured even to
our day, but not withoy!. some modifi
cation.
Daniloff had recognised Peter. He
approached the Czar, whose every
movement he had anxiously watched,
stripped off his coat, and rent the
bloody shirt that covered his shoulders,
“The man who could thus suffer,”
he said, “knows how to die. Czar,
thy repentance comes top late! Iva
nowa,l go to wait for thee!” And draw
ing a concealed pionard, he stabbed
himself twice. His death was instan
taneous. Peter hurried back to his
palace, and the stupified crowd slowly
dispersed. Ivanowa died shortly after
wards im the convent to which she
had been permitted to retire.
B* kind to everybody. —There is
nothing like kindness—it sweetens ev
erything. A single look of love, a
grasp of the hand, has gained more
friends than both wealth and learning.
“Charity suffereth long and is kind.”
History shows us that all great principles,
however ardently espoused for a time, have a
tendeney to fade into tradition; to degenerate
into a hollow cant; to become words of little
impoit, and to remain for declamation when
their vital power is gone. At such a period,
every good citizen is called to do what in him
lies to restore their life and power.