Dear Sir, —Vou will have heard,
before this reaches you, of Father
Mathew’* decision to be silent, while in
tht9 country, on the subject of slavery.!
The Abolitionists have learned it with
deep regret. Being all of us, with
hardly an exception, teetotalers,
utaly acquainted with and deeply in
terested in Father Mathew’s labors,
grateful for the noble protest he sent
here against slavery in 1842, and tor
the welcome be has given to American
Abolitionists abroad—accustomed our-'
•elves to give a fair proportion of our
efforts to the temperance cause,
hoped for a cordial sympathy from the;
great teetotaller.
We did not expect, and you will oh-|
serve, we did not ask Father Mathew j
to take any prominent part, or give
any great amount of time to the anti
•lavery enterprise. We recognized, I
with the rest of the world, the peculiar
sphere which Providence seems to have
marked out for him, and approved, as!
W-ll as admired, his profound devo
ton to his'one idea.
But no one, much leas no one upon
whom the eyes of millions are fixed,
can be ao exclusively a teetotaller, or
anything else, that his opinions on oth
er points may not be known, and his
influence counted on. All .ve asked of
Father Mathew was, that he would em
brace “every suitable opportunity to
bear a clear and unequivocal testimo
ny, both in public and private, against
the enslavement of any portion of the)
human Family'; and again, “with noi
wish or design to divert him from his
great mission, we trusted that he would
occasionally find an opportunity to ad
monish his countrymen to be true to
liberty.”
Must a traveller do nothing but flat-!
ter? If he may be excused from this,
then, surely, the man who, onjanding,
had alluded, in every speech, in glow
ing terms, to the “free institutions” of‘
the soil' on which he trod—and pro-1
mtsed to carry back a faithful picture
of the “workings of our admirable
moral, social, industrial and education
al establishments”—who could dis
cuss, with his American admirers, his
relations with the British Government
is a pensioner, Su\ &c., might, we
thought, find time, in some of bis thou
sand speeches. for, now and then, a
word worthy of a Christian man, as to
those bloody laws which doom every
sixth person in this land to worse than
death—on that “sin against God and
rnan, of whose “horror,” “degrada
tion, “oppression,” and “withering
curse, had spoken to the Irish
here, eloquently, in 184*2.
We ventured, it is tiue, to ask his
presence, if he had tune to spare, at a
celebration of the great British Act of
Emancipation in 1834; deeming that to
be an occasion of such universal in
terest that a foreigner, and especially
an Irishman, might share in it.
Father Mathew replies thut he shall
uol “commit himself” on this subject
while in America Perhaps we ought
to have expected as much from one
who, years ago, declared that he
would rather the temperance cause
were lost, than that the Catholic order
should be injured.” But we hoped
better things. Ono thing we must
praise—the prudent Father's frank
ness. He vu no Juamt then. He
lairly confesses that, m his opinion no
one, however world-wide his repute,
cao bt of use in America, unless he.
THE NORTH STAR.
I
I consent* to be gagged on the subject ot
Slavery; and be contentedly puts tfu
gag on. A poor compliment, to be
sure, to the land he visits, to Saj?,
"Your freedom is so nominal, that no
man, however fenced about by good
deeds and the world’s love, can be al-
I lowed to speak his miod.” But suejb
is Father Mathew's declaration, in
i substance; and many of our papers en
dorse and applaud hits.
Perhaps you will say, I judge him
too harshly—that he tees the country
divided into two parties on this ques
tion, and chooses to side with neither,
Remember, then, that the
i.wuuuage, worse than murder,
according to Coleridge—-"the sum <gl
all villanies,” according to Wesley: thit
ou its side are many millions- against
it, a few* thousands. A Christian sword
would leap from its scabbard in such a
cause; and lips which God had touch
ed could not forbear speaking. "On
Slavery,” said Father Mathew himself,
in 1842, "no one can be neutral. He
who is not against it is for it.” This
excuse, therefore, dees not avail.
I Our opponents have sometimes
charged us, you will remember, with
j exaggerating the influence of the slave
system, and the servile corruption of
public opinion on the subject. Judge,
i now, which party is right. Father
Mathew, a world’s wonder, almost
sainted in the love of his contempora
ries, must keep silence on this dreaded
subject, if he w’ould retain his influ
ence! How’ heavy, then, do you judge,
j the burden must rest on more coinrnun
men? .If he cannot be allowed to
speak, W’ho can? Like the maiden in
Spenser, the philanthropy of his mis
sion had tamed into admiring silence,
religious bigotry, national antipathy,
and the bickerings of party. There was
one dragon whom no life of saint-like
devotion could appease, and Father
Mathew’ vails his crest to the slave
power of America, in order to retain
his influence!
Is is, 1 think, a fatal mistake. He
who in this way seeks to save his in
fluence shall lose it. Americans knew
Father Mathew to be an Anti-Slavery
man, and expected him to be himself
everywhere. They may profit by the
treason, but, as in ail other cases, will
despise the traitor.
What has he gained? He has lost
the confidence of reformers. Every
Northern Doughface sees the great
Teetotaller belittled to his own level.
Is that a gain? W’ould a frank ex
pression of his opinion on this subject,
“occasionally,” (oil wo ttj*ked,) liaro
injured him with the Irish? Of course,
he could never expect to have much
influence with slaveholders themselves.
Indeed, few native born Americans
dream of taking the pledge at his
hands; and a slaveholding teetotaller
finds no true description but the trite
one in Butler—compounding
f or sins he it inclined to
By dam.iing ihoae lie lias ro mind to.”
An Anti-Slavery teetotal saint promis
ing silence on Slavery, that he may
win such, —how far is he from the king
dom of the same condemnation? What,
then, has he gained? A noisy reception
wherever he goes, from wine drinkers
—civic feasts from the old foes of the
temperance cause—the hurras of the
newspapers! And thus he sells
the wide scope of his large honors
For so much trash as may be gra»ped thus!”
True, this glitter has its effect upon
the ignorant class he addresses; but to
injure the slave with one hand, as much
as he helps the Irish laborer with the
other, is but a poor claim to a world’s
gratitude. It was the boast of O'Con
nell, that he would never set foot on
American soil, while it was polluted
with slavery. Father Mathew not only
visits us, but consents to go padlock
ed that he may be feted!
The Reverend gentleman underrates
both his own importance and the ser
vile worship we gladly pay to rank.
When Lord Morpeth was in South
Carolina, he commented freely on
slavery. His tuft-loving hearers, re
membering ‘the blood of all the How
ards,’ ate their leeks in silence. Had
Father Mathew been true to his own
conscience and fame, we should have
recognized him as noble by the right of
an earlier creation, and submitted still
more respectfully to his rebuke.
You will observe, also, that he has
gone too far in his submission, even for
our latitude. All the papers which
criticise this matter, presume that the
interview must be misrepresented! No
attempt, however, worthy of notice,
has been made to impeach the accura
cy of Mr. Larrison’s account, and the
recent interview of Mr. Rogers with
1 Father Mathew fully confirms it. But
you will observe that, taking it for ac
curate, even our papera cannot defend
it. If so, why hasten to presume that
he did not say what he is stated to have
said? The Reverend Father has got
so humbly on hts knees before the
slave power, that even our editors, who
are ‘native here, and to the manor
born,’ cannot get low enough to be
level with him.
Each man chooses, according to his
taste *nd abilities, the particular sphere
to which he will devote himself; but,
above and beyond that choice, we owe
each our countenance, the ex
pression ol our opinion and testimony,
whenever that expression will relieve
suffering, or correct wrong? How else
i shall proud majorities be stay«d? Ire
land looks for aid to the public opinion
of Christendom given her incidentally
by those immersed in their own cares
and struggles. That is the fulcrum on
which she rests her efforts against the
cruel indifference of the British peo
ple. Slavery is in the same condition.
Laws and oceans interposed, cannot
break the brotherhood of the race;
and Father Mathew owes the eUre this
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRT'TH IS OF NO COLOR-OD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL. ANT) ALL WE ARE BRETHREN
testimony, in obedience to that fait
which both profess, which bids th
strong help the weak. He has n
right to sell his silence on Slavery, thai
with thirty pieces of silver, he ms
swell the treasury of Irish teetotalisn
Silence from such a visitor is most sig
mficant tuppori and no purpose, how
ever holy, can justify a visit to ou
I shores at the price of such a com
promise.
YVe arc aware that the eyes of th
world are fixed on Father Mathew, am
that whosoever censures his course
has the world fur .v--^
auioe its verdict on the issui
between us. A Christian minister, con
fessing that he can innocently stani
face to face w4h the sinner, and pre
mise not to rebuke him! A Catl«oli<
submitting the spiritual to the civil pow
er, in that he allows human laws to ex
cuse him from delivering his divide
message, “Do as you would be dont
by”—“Open thy mouth for the dumb,
in the cause of all such as are ap
pointed to destruction.” An Abolitionisl
coming to a land where humanity
wages her battle against such fearful
odds—to remain no neutral, but by
marked silence, in such circumstances,
give comfort to the foes of truth—
throw discredit on the slave’s friend:
—and lull into false security the half
awaking conscience of the oppressor!
A man, gathering into his hand more
influence than any other of the age can
boast, and cowering before a guilty
people, instead of rebuking them in
the majesty of his God-given power.
We deny the right of any man, es
pecially one of commanding influence,
to be silent on one question, that he
may enhance his weight on others.
W’e do not allow a foreign birth to ab
solve any one, whose position gives
him influence here, from speaking in
behalt of the American slave. If there
be anything in the character of the
temperance cause to break down na
tional distinctions, and allow interna
tional influence, there is tenfold as
much in the Anti-Slavery agitation.
The slave, a man, denied education,
robbed of the Bible, of his wife, his
:hildren, of himself hopelessly im
bruted—wnmam doomed almost of ne
cessity to licentiousness—marriage an
lihilated what stands between the
servant of Jesus Christ and such a
jicture to bar him from rebuking the
vretch who creates it? A law? It
he slaveholder made slaves, as he
Irinks wine, of his own free will, the
>rudent Father would feel at liberty to
teal with hirn. But he nas maae pro
ititution tawful —made murder lawful
—made the selling of his own children
it auction lawful —and so the true
apostolic successor of Peter and Paul
s disarmed, and cries out, “We ought
;o obey man rather than God.’, “No
aw can sanction slavery,” said O’Con
lell. What murder is on the pirate
deck, that precisely is slavery on the
American soil. Every lover of justice,
every Christian, is free, and is bound
to denounce it. A Christian minister,
hailing a pirate ship, and promising to
say nothing against their occupation, if
they would let him offer them the
pledge, would be a fit type of a teeto
taller bound to silence on slavery to
advance teetotalism. We consider
free speech no favor granted us by
man, but a right, the gilt of God, and
abjure the policy of yielding any por
tion of it to save the rest.
We hold the truth which God shows
us, as no play thing, or counter with
which to traffic; but to ne uttered, all
of it, indue time, and especially before
those whom it concerns.
We hold it to be the first mark of
goodness, and the highest privilege of
greatness, to speak what you think;
and especially in times when words are
deeds and mighty to work wonders.
Painful indeed would it he to a sincere
Abolitionist*, if God condemned him to
go up and down this land drying up the
sources of intemperance, and forbade
him, full of powers as he was, to lift
his little finger for the relief of that
hideous bondage he was daily doomed
to witness. Oil all these points at issue
between ourselves and Father Mathew
we shall cheerfully abide the verdict
of the world and posterity.
According to Father Mathew, while
Ireland is starving, all the world not
British born must keep silence on tho
cruel mistakes of Government which
have ruined her; and any great Briton
may be innocently still, if, so doing,
he can husband his influence for the
peace or the anti-state church cause!
Was it indeed so, when he saw the iron
entering the souls of hs countrymen?
Did he nut summon the world to her
rescue? The American Slave, a hun
gered, with none to give him bread—
athirst, with none to give him drink—
sick and in prison, with none to visit
hi, n> asks of the great Irishman the
bread of his testimony asks that he will
not allow his potent name to be added
to the list of those who justify silence,
in any circumstances, ot such a sin.
Father Mathew thanks us, Ameri
cans, that we have given the world the
doctrine of total abstinence. He would
fitly return the favor by holding to oui
lips the biller cup of Anti-Slavery.
God says to this nation, Let »ny peo
ple go"— but Father Mathew is so very
proper a ptiest, that God’s message
must be countersigned by the national
authorities, before he will consent to
deliver it—unless, indeed.it be to* a
people, like the Irish, who do not hold
slaves, and will not feel offended.
Father Mathew is so enthusiastic a
teetotaler meanwhile, that a man may
sell his own children at auction un
earned, if ha will but do it aober! Fa
ther Mathew is such a protestant, suen
a stickler for the right of private judg
ment on this question, that he can see
nothing specific in the Scriptures
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FJIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1819.
hi against Slavery; though successive
c| Popes infallible ha* denounced it as
o unchristian and a a!
Still, in 1842, Fiber Mathew could
exhort his poor, ueducated couutry
i, men, to exert “aI their influence''
agajnst Slavery—,-hen for them to
sp**ak was to sacrifie their daily bread,
r j Now, being here, biaingle word worth
all the influence of Jl the emigrants
who ever landed, ancto be spoken at
no cost—Fattier Matfew means to do
j nothing at ail in the premises.
We inigh t *pect he Jesu
..flying* j bat «od justiftp/f c/itr
means—that, as lies were allowable in
i mother church's cause, io winking at
II Slavery might be for temperance sake.
But then, hov* Xav er vould have
laughed at a Catholic Chriitian allow
ing human laws, or mtionfcl lines, to
stop the mouth of his rebjke? And
so he cannot be a Jesut, but is simply
Father Mathew Americanized! whe
ther for better or worse. Ireland will
determine.
Every Irishman, the victim of cen
turies ot oppression, woild, we should
suppose, sympathize with the oppres
sed; and when we have seen it other
wise, in the emigrants tfat crowd to
our shores, we have attributed it to ig
norance and degradation. But Father
Mathew, “the brignt consunmate flow
er of your Isles, seems too seal up the
lesson, and show your umappy race
s *de by side with the Saxor, the Pro-
I tesfant, the Puritan, Covenanter and
1 Baptist, ail races and all sexes, who
j have ever failed to learn, ii the school
I of their own persecution, sympathy for
,the persecuted.
But we shall never despair of Irc
i land while wc remembei the tried
fidelity of O’Connell. He never sacri
ficed the Hest Indian nr ,imerican
Slave even to Irelai}d.
Tow ell Buxton told me, and O’Con
nell himself has somewhere repeated
the story, that when he first went into
the House of Commons, the West
India party, then strong enojgh to car
ry or defeat any measure, offered him
support on his Irish question, if lie
would absent himself from anti-slavery:
meetings. His answer was, “Come;
liberty, come slavery to myself, I will
never countenance slavery at home or
abroad. 1 will take my part at anti-]
slavery meetings; and though it should,
be a blow against Ireland, it is a blow
in favor of human liberty, and I will
strike that blow'.” Again, when the
Repealers here threatened to withdraw
their contributions, unless he wmuld
denouncing mnerican slavehold
ers—what was his reply? “Let them
blame me—let me be execrated by
them—let their support be taken from
Ireland: Slavery, 1 denounce you.!
wherever you are. Come freedom,
come oppression to Ireland, let Ireland
be .as she may, I have my conscience
clear before my God. Come good or
evil, 1 am the enemy of slavery in eve
ry form.” And on another occasion—
“l enter into no compromise with
slavery.”
A different tone this, from the “non- 1
committal” of Ireland’s living idol,!
Spite of the proverb, I think the dead
lion the better of the two.
When Howatd was dining with the
English Ambassador at Vienna, he de-|
nounced in strong terms the prisons of
Austria.
“Hush,” said Sir Robeit Keith,,
“your words will be reported to the
Emperor.”
“What,” exclaimed the model Eng
lishman, “shall this tongue of mine be
tied from speaking truth by any King
or Emperor in the world? I repeal
what I asserted.”
God grant the world another How
ard, and may he visit these States.
Yours, truly,
WENDELL PHILLIPS, i
The Porscrjpli vf. Spirit. On
Thursday, the day after our election,!
the Rev. Howard Malcolm, D. D., who!
has so long and successfully occupied j
the Presidency at Georgetown College, j
felt compelled, by the violent excite-!
inent produced by his voting for the
Emancipation candidate, to hand in to
a called meeting of the trustees his
immediate resignation, which was ac
cepted.
Here is a manifestation of the pro
slavery spirit. It wishes to make
slaves of the white as well as of the
blacks. It lays its hand upon the white
man, and says, “Obey my bidding, or
you shall suffer the penalty! I am
your master, and you must not attempt
to resist me! Do so if you dare!”
j
Dr. Malcolm, for thesake of peace,
had yielded everything he could. Hej
had not subscribed for the Examiner— j
had not circulated handbills—had not
even conversed openly on the subject, i
But he was not wiiling to give up the!
last privilege of a freeman —that of!
voting according to his sentiments
—and the pro-slavery spirit said to him,
“Go! No man shall set himself up in
opposition to ine with impunity. I will
be obeyed! Don’t assume the airs ot
a freeman before me! VV hite and black
shall do as I bid!”
But this voice of the Pro-Slavery
spirit w ill w ake up a response different
from that which it expects. The spirit
of Freedom will be roused from its
sleep, and hill and valley will re-echo
with its voice. From the mountain
will be heaid the sound, “I will be
free!” and th* plain will answer, “I
will be free!” —Louisville Examiner.
Novel Decision Westetn Jus
tice.—A woman was convicted of
stealing a piece of linsey, in Randolph
County, la end the justice sentenced
her husband to jail for Uie offence. The
Boston Post is responsible for the truth
of the above.
From the Morning Star.
VICTIMS or LAND PIRATES—MAI
THEY BE SECRETED’—J. R
GIDDINGS.
A man is stolen from the shores o
Africa. He is planted a slave in ou
Southern States. With all the terror
of despotism constantly frowning ove
him, he toils hard on harder fare. Hi
thinks of the sunny hills and vales
fanned with the genial breezes whief
he is to drink no more! Every reflo
thought is a sting in his sensibility
Every nrpsneciiye L
arrow in hw ne-n. poisoning the soul
He is alive in a grave so deep that h«
cannot climb out. He pravs in vaii
for a kind hand to cover him, that he
may sleep away his sorrow’ in the bosoir
of his mother earth.
Time passes on.miseries multiply, in
tolerable evils thicken. Mind and both
both suffer, both erv out, both art
ready for any enterpr se. however haz
ardous, if, in the midst of a thousand
chances for failure, there he one foi
success. The victim becomes thought
ful, and though hemmed in with diffi
culties, insurmountable lo anything but
despair, resolves on one effort for free
dom, though su: ported by but one
taint gleam of hope. His plan is laid,
and either in his own person, or in the
person of one of his posterity, he is
midway between chains and freedom,
advertised and pursued, fainting with
fatigue, atjd half delirious with fear.
But knowing that liberty is before him
if anywhere, and that nothing but the
refined cruelties of slavery are behind
him, his resolution falters not, his feet
stumble not, so long as a nerve can
hold its tension, under the inspiration
of liberty and slavery, life and death,
hell and heaven. But his pursuers are
at hand. By day their voice and tread
are in his ear. But he lies still, pant
ing beneath the shelving sod, in the
rivet lie overhears them say,
as the turf above him candles beneath
their leet, that search is to be renewed
for him by a part of the company the
n°xt day, while the rest of the company
proceeded onward. Now who will not
say, that that refugee is a poor outraged
man? And whose sympathies will not
side with him, m this struggle, so dis
tressing on his part, and so diabolical
onjtlie part of his pursuers?
It is the still hour of midnight. The
sky is overhung with clouds. The
winds are chanting their most melan
choly nocturnal dirge. The imagi
nation of the wakeful is peopled with
strange un«i I'.u rn* while the sleen
er is revelling in dreams. Hark, a foot
fall on the back door step, followed by
a timid tap on the door, Who’s there.”
No answer. Again, “Who’s there?”
No reply, hut a low moan, and halt
suppressed “God bless you massa.”
I rise—l open tbe door. The form ot
a man is before me. It is a man. He
says, I’m starving, will you give me a
crust of biead, and God bless you.”
I strike a light and he stands confessed
before me, the emaciated, worn and
terror consumed fugitive slave! I give
him bread, I give him water. He is
thankful in every feature. But still he
looks around wildly .and I am ill at ease.
My humanity and Christianity are mo
ved to think his pursuers sleep in the
same neighborhood, and will cettainly
find him to-morrow. His enemies are
also ahead, and will effectually cut off
all hopes of his advancing in gaff-tv. I,
alone can save him. I can do this by
secreting him. Shall I do it and dis
appoint his pursuers? or ahall I shrink
from it and let hirn fall into their mer
ciless hand:? 11l d<* the former, he
will soon be free and happy. If the
latter, the triumph of his capture w ill
soon be celebrated in his torture.
What of mercy now “Shall I g:ve
or shall I not give r”
In lavor of interposing to save my
lone, trembling midnight guest aie
some weighty reasons, both negative
and positive. They who pursue him
have no just right to capture him.
Having already suffered much, unjust
ly, he deserves not the torments ot the
body and mind, which await his redoonr
to slavery. The aspiration for liberty
which he breathes, is of God! The
scriptures require us to “remember
those in bonds as bound with them.”
Reason says help him. Christianity
says help him. Humanity supplicate.-
for his aid. And I feel it my duty to
aid him under the great law of Chris
tian reciprocity. What shall l do? I
must not forget my relation to the gov
ernment under which I live.
This article is written in view of tit**
sentiments of the extract of a speech ot
that noble champion of liberty, J. R.
Giddirgs, published in the Star, No 14.
Referring to the decision o r the Sup
preme Court, on the obligation to de
liver up the fugitive slave, he says,
“These slaveholding judges do not
pretend that the government, or the
people of the free States, are bound to
encourage or sustain slavery; on the
contrary they solemnly declare that
our whole duty is to abstain from se
creting, defending, or rescuing the
slave. These obligations wc observe to
the very letter. They may have been
violated by individuals; but 1 have nev
er known an instance of the kind. 1
have heard and read of cases where
citizens of my own State have been
convicted of violating these stipula
tions, and have suffered the legal pen
alties attached to such violation. But
no such case has ever come under my
observation, nor have 1 heard of such
an instance in Northern Ohio.” In
another place he says, “We will lend
him (the slave) all the aid in our pow
er without violating the constitutions or
laws of the land.”
If these quotations mean anything,
and, most certainty, such a man as
Giddiugs does not speak to mean noth
ing, they mean that he would not a*«
sist my midnight petitioner to the extern
i of secreting him. For, he says the ob<
ligatioa to abstain from secreting, fee
we keep to the very* letter. Aud s*
vre intonates, do the people of Nortberc
1 Ohio. But he says that these Ohic
1 Northmen regard the slave pursuer as
a moral pestilence,a legalized pirate.'
But pirate though he be, they will
not, at least Giddings will not bless Ins
i victims with secrecy from him. Would
‘I he secrete a tender, harmless crafi
i from an Algerine Corsairr
he jgivc shelter to th* 4 c T!
i irom a thunderstorm of death ould
he have secreted a babe at Bethlehem,
his own, lor instance, from the infant
cut-throat Herod Why then not se
j crete the terror stricken innocent refu
gee against the “moral pestilence —the
legalized pirate,” that pursues him?
But will Giddings not do it? Does he
mean all that lie says? and does he
mean that the thousands who take him
for their Anti-Slavery Oracle, shall
feel themselves under no obligation to
secrete the refugee Or, at least under
a counter obligation so much sironger
j that they would leave him to perish
rather than to hide him. It is well
known that the aid of secrecy often
does more to defend the slave’s retreat
than any thing else. Is this most nrc
i essary atd to be withheld? We raise
no .constitutional question here. We
j know many differ from Giddings on its
j obligations. But the masses think with
him. And must it be believed, that,
from nil these no mercy shall come
for the refugee when his pursuers are
at hand, and he needs a hiding place?
O, tell it not in Gath, tell it not in Al
giers, tell it not in the Vatican, tell it
not to a Turk, tell it not where mercy
orhumanity or justice live. Tell it not
to the enlightened friends of mercy, lest
i they weep. Tell it not to her enemies
lest they rejoice!!
But no! Northern Ohio will secrete
the slave, and J. R Giddings will. But
we fear there arc some who would have
done it before reading Giddings’s
speech, who will not afterward. His
theory of the constitution is doubtless a
consistent one, hut it is so inconsistent
1 with humanity, Christianity and jus
tice, that it will do no more to restrain
the expansion of such a heart as w’e
think he has, than the parchment upon
which it is written. If we thought it
would,ue would direct the slave to shun
him as “a moral pestilence and land pi
rate!” Because, in that case, for the
refugee to fall under his auspices, when
salvation depends on secrecy, would be
tv.ii »i, A r v.
M. J. s.
ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE
PORTUGUESE COLONIES.
We arc gratified to learn that there
is now a fair prospect that a law will
soon he passed in Portugal for the Abo
j lition of Slavery in all the colonies of
that country. A hill for that purpose
was read in the Chamber of Peers ot
Lisbon on the of May last, and
I the Committee on Colonial Affairs, to
whom it was then referred, made their
report on the 15th of June, approving
the bill and recommending its adoption
;by the Chamber. The bill provides,
I. That the children of slaves born
after the date of the law shall he free
from the moment of their birth.
‘J. That all slaves who enter any ter
ritory or ship of Portugal, after the
date of the law*, from whatever motive,
shall he considered free from the mo
ment that they enter such territory or
ship.
This clause is thus qualified: In
those countries where Slavery is sanc
tioned by law, if slaves go on board a
Portuguese ship, while in any port of
1 such country, that they are of course
amenable to the laws of that country
while the ship is in port; but if they be
carried out of the port, they shall be
free from the moment the vessel is
clear of the port. The persons who
decoy them or tako them away, how
ever, are to he held responsible for
their value. Slaves accompanying the
embassies which African potentates
send to the Governors of Potuguese
colonies, may be held as slaves while
the embassy is in the country, but will
he set free if they remain after theem
bassy has left the Portuguese territory.
‘3. The transportation of slaves from,
one Portuguese port to another, oi
from a Portuguese port to a foreign
country, is strictly prohibited.
4. All slaves now belonging to the
State are declared to be immediately
free, on the publication of the law; and
all who may hereafter become its prop
erty are. at the moment they become
j so, declared free.
5. Every person throughout the
Portuguese empire, is to be considered
a freeman unless he can be legally
i proved to be a slave.
ti. In each Portuguese ultra-marine
•colony, there shall be kept books for
the registry of the slaves; and it shall
be the duty of every slaveholder to see
that the names of his slaves are enter
ed, with the descriptions necessary for
their identification. No person who is
not registered can be held as a slave
7. If a slaveholder shall cause to be
registered as a slave the name of a
person legally entitled to liberty, he
shall forfeit ail his slaves, who are to
he immediately declared tree; and he
himself is to suffer the penalty usually
imposed on the kidnapper.
Slaveholders are also required to re
port every half year any alterations
which may have occurred in relation
to their registered slaves; and if they
omit to make this report for three suc
cessive half-years, their slaves are all
to be forfeited and declared free.
8. The slave, or any of hie friends,
may demand hia emancipation at any
time by paying hia master the price
Axed by arhuratort, choten one Aetf bf
i j .-cjftdL 1H
JOHN HICK. PrpL!s»£R
WHOLE NO. 91.
the master and one-half by ihe civil au
j tborities.
9. Curators of slaves shall be ap
pointed m each of the ultra-marine
Colonies, whose duty it shall be to
superintend the execution of the law.
and to do all in their power to protect
the slave and promote emancipation,
j From this outline of the provision* of
the proposed law, it will be seen that
the triends of emancipation in Portu
gal are disposed to do. tiieir work tbor
■ujjniy. —it the passes. Slavery
will cease at no distant day in every
part ct the Portuguese empire. The
i number ot slaves m that empire, since
the separation of Brazil, is computed
at front 50,000 to 00,tHX>, nearly
000 of whom are in the settlement*
along the eastern coast of Africa; about
ft,ooo in the ape de Verde Islands;
and the remainder, chiefly in the mil
tlements and on the islands along the
westeru coast of Africa.—,V. Y. Ob*
AM Kim A,
“THE t.\M» OF Till. FRF E WD TUK
HOME OF THE HR WE.”

The bruised and burdened of every
elime have heard of America as the
land ol the free. The wan and wretch
ed victim of capricious tyranny, ironed
to the floor of eastern dungeons, has
heard of America, and lifted his shack
led hands to t tod in praver. for one
draught of that country’s air, which
whoever breathes, is free. The grey
headed exile, banished from his native
land, his Polish home, to the far soli
tudes of Siberian wastes, has heard ot
America, and while, by the sickly light
of the pale moon, he w aded back to his
dreary shelter beneath the shapeless
drills—he sighed for the pinions of the
swill winged dove to bear him to
our shore, beyond the reach of the ty
rant s arm. The oppressed of every
name and nation have heard of Ameri
ca, as a kind of heaven, lying beyond
the jurisdiction of despotism, where the
wicked cease from troubling, where ev
ery yoke is broken, and the captive is
free. But these have only heard the
melody of its jubilees. They never
listened to the half smothered wailings
of despair, which God hears both night
and day ascending to the throne from
human beings,bought, beat, and bound,
in the very capital ol‘this boasting na
tion. They uever saw the shambles
under the shade of our great Temple
of Liberty, where human souls nnd im
mortal destinies nrc bartered for the
merest merchandize ol the earth. They
never henrrl >*i'i
the little child, bought in its mother’s
arms, and torn forever from her em
brace. Tory never witnessed the fa
ther’s agony, as he held out his mana
cled hands to say a broken farewell to
his children, as they were led away to
some distant, unknown scene of bon
dage. They never fathomed the des
pair of the mother’s heart, when her
late weaned infant was knocked off bv
the sheriff’s hammer to some stranger,
who tore it from her arms. They nev
er witnessed the unavailing anguish of
that moment, when the strong ties in
terwoven with tho fibres sf every hu
man heart were torn asunder by the
sons ot those who fought and fell for
freedom. They never saw how human
nature, like a delericless, unmurmuring
lamb, bled on tho very steps of the
eapitol, while the appointed champion*
of liberty were speaking long and loud
of the sacredness of human rights.
They never witnessed the unavailing
night-scenes ot this modern Aceldama,
where, for years of disgraceful history,
Man, blood-redeemed man, has been
nailed to the uccursed tree of slavery
under the very dioppings of our great
sanctuary of liberty; under the statue
of that goddess, which like a shameless
harlot disguised in the immaculate
vestments of virtue, dares stand upon
the pinacle of that Temple which our
fathers built,and lift her brazen, un
blushing face to heaven, and say to
men and God —An. men are free axo
EQUAL. K. Bl P.RITT.
Slave Trade in Brazil.— The
slafe trade from all accounts, is car
ried on almost as actively as ever, be
tween Brazil and Africa. The dealer*
in Brazil first send a vessel with goods,
which the traders in Africa use in buy
ing slaves, or “black diamonds,” a*
they arc called. Small craft are uaed,
and a vessel of fifty tons often carries
as many as 150 slaves, at from $OO to
$BO each. A Baltimore clipper i* »aid
to have made eleven voyages to Bahia
(where there are a dozen vessels en
gaged in the business; in four years,
and cleared $lOO,OOO. The traffic i*
illegal, hut the Brazilian government
winks at this abuse of the laws. The
goods sent out to purchase slavea with
are generally of British manufacture,
and composed of munitions of war, rum
and things of like character.
Formerly, by Treaty with frreal
Britain, France and the Lnited States,
Brazilian vessels engaged in the trade
were lawful prize*, but that treaty ex
pired tome two years since, and ha*
not been renewed.
The English are charged with taking
slaves into Kio de Jauerio, and appren
ticing them out for a term of year*, at
so many pound* per bead.—Lika all
slave countrws, laboryn Brazil hi dis
reputable—,V. Y Erprea*.
Not bad.—.Mr being asked
by a correspondent Do what season of
of the year a gold hunter should rtart
hence for California, replies, gravely:
We consider of *f/m/ as good
a season as any!”
A California adventturer written from
Mazatl we all traveled through Mexico with passports and were treated very well - except that they stole from use everything they could put their hands on. 
From the London Enquirer
The Pece Conference in Paris
On Tuesday rooming the delegate* and
visitors, about seven hundred in number, left
London,and reached Pan* soon after midnight
having enjoyed in the passage, and through
out the day, the mo*t delightful weather.
On landing at Bou'ogne, the authorities pre
sented an addreaa of welcome, which was
briefly acknowledged by Messrs Ewart,*M P.
Sturge, and Fry.
OPENING OF THE SESSION
On Wednesday the Congress opener! at
Paria, in the Salle St. Cecil*, Rue de la
Chausseed’Antin, a large and handsome halt,
ordinarilv appropriated to the principal con
certo, and which, almost immediately after
the opening of tho doors, was filled ip every
psrt by delegates tnd visitor* from all parts
of the world Considerably upwards of a
thousand persona were present, the ladie* be-:
ing accommodated with seats in iheatdc-p-!
lenes and on the raised benches of the orches
tra. Fites representing the various coun i
tries of Furope were grouped around the
platform in which ihe leading members of'
the aaaociation were assembled The plat
form waa occupied by the gentlemen who
form the united committee, and each as he
appeared was received with applause. Mr.
CoOdcu pn-KiutJ u......ir u i k nnr
accompanied by the gentlemen who had,
come with him from England, and the mo-i
meet it was known that he was present the!
bon. gentleman jyas received with the most,
enthusiastic acclamations, men and women i
rising from then seats, and saluting the great
apoatle of Free-trade. The American gen
tlemen met also with an enthusiastic recep
tion.
Mr. H. Richards, one of the English sec
retaries, read the list of the principal English
members.
M. J. Garnier read the list of the French
members
M. Garnier read the list of the committee
President, M. V. Hugo, representant du
peuple. Vice presidents for France, M. P.
Appe Duguerry and M. Coquerel; for Eng
land, Messrs. Cobden and Hindley.for Amer
ica, Messrs. Buritt and Walker; for Belgium,
M. W lechers, &c.
The secretary then announced the nomina
tion of M. V. Hugo as president.
The Archbishop of Paris had been solici
ted to preside, but excused himself by a letter,
which in the course of the day was read to
the meeting.
M. Hugo then commenced an address to the
meeting. The speech was greatly applauded,
notwithstanding that the fact of reading it from
manuscript must have more or less diminish
ed its effect. It was however, an exquisite
piece of composition, and replete with the
moat benevolent sentiments. We give it en
tire.—
"Gentlemen, —Many of you have come
from the most distant points of the globe,
vour hearts full of glory and religious feelings.
You count in your ranks men of letters, phi
losophers, ministers of the Christian religion,
writers of eminence, and public men justly
popular for their talents. You, gentlemen,
nave wished to adopt Paria as the centre of
thia meeting, w hose sympathies, full of grav
ity and conviction, do not merely apply to one
nation, but to the whole world. You como
to add another principle of a still superior—
of a more august—kind to those that now di-i
rect statesmen, rulers, and legislators. You
turn over, as it were, the last page of the
Gospel—that page that imposes peace on the
children of the same God; and in this capital,
which has as yet only decreed fraternity
amongst citizens, you are about to proclaim
tho fraternity of men. Welcome, then, to
us' Gentlemen, this religious idea, univer
sal peace, all nations bound together in a
common bond, the Gospel lor their supreme
law, mediation substituted fur war—this re
it nracticablf* Can
it be realized’ Many practical men, many
public men grown old in the management of
affairs, answer in the negative. But I an
swer with you, and I answer without hesita
tion, Yes, ("bravo, bravo,") and I shall
shortly provelit 10 you. Igo still further. I
do not merely say it is capable of being put
into practice, but, I add that it is inevitable,
and iu execution is only a question of
and may be hastened or retarded The law
which rules the world cannot be different
from the law of God. But the divine law is
not one of war—it is peace—(applause.)
Men have commenced in conflict, as the cre
ation did in Chaos—(bravo') Whence do
they proceed’ From wars—that is evident.
But whither do they go 7 To peace—that is
equally evident. When you enunciate those
sublime truths, it is quite simple that your as
sertion should be met by the negative;
by incredulity; it is easy to understand that
faith is encountered by incredulity, it is evi
dent that at this period of trouble and dissen
sion the idea of universal peace must surprise
and shock, almost like something impossible,
and only ideal; it is quite clear that all will
talk of Utopias; but for me, who am but an
obscure laborer in this great work of the 19th
century, 1 accept this resistance without be
ing astonished or dismayed. Is it possible
that you can turn aside your head and shut
your eyes, at if in bewildermeut, when in the
midst of the darkness which as yet envelopes
you—(bravo!) you suddenly open the door
that let* in the light of the future 7 Gentle
men, if four coniuries ago, at the period
when war was made by one district against
the other, between cities, and provinces—if,
I say, some one had dared to predict to Lor
raine, to Picardy, to Normandy, to Brittany,
to Auvergne, to Provence, to Dauphiny, to
Burgundy, A day shall come when you will
no longer make wars—a day shall come when
it will no longer be said that the Normans
axe attacking the Prcardians, or that the peo
ple of Lorraine are repulsing the Burgundians,
you will still have many disputes to settle, in
terealft to contend for, difficulties to resolve;
but do you know' whom you will select in
stead of armed men, instead of cavalry, and
infantry, ol cannon,of falconets, lances, pikes,
aworda 7 You will select, instead of all this
destructive array, a small box of wood,
which you will term the ballot-box, and from
which shall issue—what 7 An assembly—an
assembly in which you shall all live —an as
sembly which shall be, as it were, the soul
of all—a supreme and popular council which
shall decide, judge, resolve everything—
which shall make the sword lab from
every hand, and excite the love of justice m
every heart—whch shall say to each, ‘Here
terminates your right, there commences your
duty. Lay down your arms—(great ap
plause,)—and in that day you will have one
common thought, common interests, a com
mon destiny; you will embrace each other as
children ol the same blood, and recognise
each other as of the same race: that day you
shall not be hostile tribes,you will be a people;
you will no longer lie merely Burgundy, Nor
mandy, Brittany, Provence—you will be
France —(bravo) —you will no longer make
appeals to war—you w ill do so to civilization
—(great applause);—if, at tho period 1
apeak of, some one had uttered these words,
all men of a serious and positive character, all
prudent and cautious men, all the great poli
ticians of the period, would have cued out,
‘what a dreamer' what a fantastic dream'
How little this pretended prophet is acquain
ted wuh the human heart! What ridiculous
folly! What absurdity', Y et, gentlemen,
time has gone on and on, and we find that
this dream, this folly, this absurdity has been
rsaliaed—(bravo!). And I insist upon this,
that the rnau who would have dared to utter
to sublime a prophecy would have been pro
nOufoed a mad man for having dated toprv in
to the design* of the Deity—(bravo'). Well,
theft, you at this moment say-- and I say n
with you,—we who are assembled here, say
to France, to England, to Prussia, to Austria,
to Spain, to Italy, to Russia,we say to them,
‘A day will come whoa from your hands al
so tho arms they have grasped shall fall. A
day will come when wax shall appear as im
possible, and will be as impossible, between
raris and Loudon, between Si. Petersburg!!
and Ber&n, between Vienna and Turin, aa it
is now between Rouen and Amiens, hetweoo
Boston and Philadelphia,—(applause). A
day will come when you, France—you, Rus
sia—you. Italy—, you, England—you, Ger
many—all of you, nations of the continent,
shall without losing your distinctive quali
ties and your glorious individuality, be blen
ded mto a superior unity, and shall consti
tute an European fraternity, just aa Norman
dy. Britunv. Burgundy, Lorraine, Alaace.
have been blended into France. A day will
come when bullet* *nd shells shall be replaced
by rotes, by the universal suffrage of nations,
bv the venerable arbitration of a great Sorer-!
cign Senate, which shall be to Europe what!
tbe Parliament is to England, what the Diet
is to Gerroany.what the legislative Assembly
is to France—(applause). A day will come
w hen a cannon shall be exhibited in public
museums just as an instrument of torture is
now—(applause)—and people shall be aston
ished how such a thing could have been A
day will come when those two immense groups j
the United Stales of America and the United j
States of Europe, shall be seen placed in
presence of each other, extending the hand
of fellowship across the ocean, exchanging!
their produce, their commerce, their industry,;
their arms, their genius, clearing the earth, j
peopleing the deserts, meliorating creation,
under the eyes of the Creator, and uniting,
c,r the good of all, these two irresistible and!
casary that four hundred years shall past;
aw ay for that day to come. Wo live in a j
rapid period, in the most impetuous current j
of events and ideas which has ever borne
awav humanity; and at the period in which,
we live a year suffices to do the work of a
century. But French, English, German*,
Russians, Sclaves, Europeans, Americans,
w hat have we to do in order to hasten the
great dav 7 To love each otner—(applause.)
To love each other is, in this immense labor 1
of pacification, the best manner of aiding God.'
God desires that this sublime object should be!
accomplished. And to arrive at it you are
yourselves witnesses of what the Deity does 1
on all sides. See w hat discoveries arc every
day issuing from human genius—discoveries
which all tend to the «ame object—Peace';
what immense progress' What simplifica
tion* How Nature is allowing herself to be
more and more subjugated by man' How
she every day becomes still more the hand
maid of intellect, and the auxiliary of civiliza
tion' How the causes of war vanish with the
causes of suffering! How people far separ
ated from each other so lately, now almost
touch! How distances become less; and this
rapid approach, what is it but the commence
ment of fraternity—(applause) 1 Thanks to
railroads, Europe will soon be not of more ex
tent than France in the Middle Ages.
Thanks to steam-ships, we traverse the
mighty ocean more easily than the Mediter
ranean was formerly crossed. Before long men
shall traverse the earth, as the gods of Homer
did the sky, in three paces' But yet a little
time, and the electric wireof concord shall
encircle the globe and embrace the world—
(great applause.)
And here, gentlemen, when I contemplate
this va9t amount of efforts and of events, all of
them marked by the finger of God, —when I
regard this sublime object, the well-being of
mankind—peace,—when I reflect on all that
Providence has done in favor of it, and human
policy against it, a sad and bitter thought
comes to my mind. It results from a com
parison of statistical accounts that the nations
of Europe expend each year for the mainten
ance of armies a sum amounting to 2,000 mil
lions of francs, and which, by adding the
expense of maintaining establishments of war,
amounts to 3,000 millions. Add to this the
lost produce of the days of work for more
than 2,000,000 of men—men the healthiest,
the most vigorous, the youngest, the chosen
of our population—a produce which you will
not estimate at less than 1,000 millions, and
vuu mm ot; convince*! uuu uie suniuing ar
mies of Europe cost annually more than 4,000
millions. Gentlemen, peace has now lasted
thirty-two years, and yet in thirty-two years
I the enormous sum of 128,000 millions has
i been expended during that peace on account
of war—(applause)! Suppose that the peo
ple of Europe, in place of mistrusting each
other, entertaining jealousy of each other,
hating each other, had become last friends—
suppose they said that before they were
French,or German, they were men, and that
if nations form countries, human kind forms a
laraily and that enormous sum of 128,000
millions, so madly and so vainly spent in con
sequence of such mistrust, let it be spent in
acts of mutual confidence—these 128,000
millions that have been lavished on haired, let
them be bestowed on love '—let them be
given to peace, instead of war—(applause)—
give them to labor, to intelligence, to indus
try, to commerce, to navigation, to agricul
ture, to science, to art; and then draw your
conclusions. If, lor the last thirty-two years,
j this enormous sum had been expended in this
manner, America in the meantime aiding Eu
rope, know you what would have happened 7
The lace of the world would have been
changed. Isthmuses would be cut through.
Railroads would cover the two continents;
the merchant-navy of the globe would have in
creased a hundred-fold. There would be no
j where barren plains, nor moors, nor marshes,
j Cities would now be found where there are
only deserts. Ports would be sunk where
j there are now only rocks. Asia would be
j rescued to civilization Africa would be res
i cued to man abundance would gush forth on
every side, from every vein of the earth at
the touch of man, like the living stieam from
the rock beneath the rod of Moses. Misery
j would be no longer found and with misery
what do you think would disappear 7 Revo
lutions—(great applause). Yes, the face of
the world would be changed In place of
mutually destroying each other, men would
pacifically extend themselves over the earth.
In place of conspiring for revolution, men
would combine to establish colonies In
place of introducing barbarism into civiliza
-1 tion, civilization would replace barbarism—
(great applause). You see, gentlemen, in
I what a state of blindness war has placed na
tions and rulers. If the 128,000 millions giv
en for the last thirty-two years by Europe to
j the war which was not waged had been given
to the peace w hich existed, wc positively de
clare that nothing of what is now passing in
Europe would have occurred. The continent,
in place of being a battle field, would have
become an universal workshop, and in place
l of this sad and terrible spectacle of Piedmont
I prostrated, of the Eternal City give.i up to the
miserable oscillations of human policy, of
Venice and noble Hungary struggling heroi
cally, France uneasy, poor, and sombre, mis
t cry, mourning, civil war, gloom in the future
—in place, 1 say, of so bad a spectacle, we
i should have betore our eyes hope, joy, be
nevolence, the efforts of all towards the com
mon good, and we should behold the mysteri
ous ray of universal concoid issue forth from
civilization—(great applause). And this
fact is worthy of meditation —that revolutions
have been owing to those very precautions a
gainsi war. All has been done—all this ex
jietuhture has been incurred, against an
imaginary danger. Misery, which was the
only real danger, has by these very means
been augmented. VV# have beea fortifying
ourselves against a chimerical peril; our eyes
have been turned to all sides except to the
one where the black spur was visible. We
have beeri looking out for wars when there
were none, and wo have not seen the revolu
tions that were coming on. Yet, gentlemen,
let us not despair. l*et us, on the contrary,
hope more enthusK. tically than ever. I -et us
not allow ourselves to be daunted by momen
tary commotions—convulsions which peimd
rentiirc are necessary for so mighty a produc
tion. us not be unjust to the unae in
w Inch wc live—let us not look upon it other
wise than as it is. It in a prodigious and ad
mirable epoch after all and the nineteenth
century will be, I do not hesitate to aay, the
greatest in the page of history. As 1 stated
a few minutes since, all kinds of progress be
come revealed and manifested almost simul
taneously, the one producing the other—U»
cessation of international animosities, th
effacing of frontiers on tbe map, and c
prejudices from tbe heart— tbe tendency Is
wards unity, tbe softening of the ‘manners
the advancement of education, tbe diminutio
of penalties, tbe domination of tbe mo*
literary languages—all is at work at the sam
time—political economy, science, industry
philosophy, legislation and tend to the saro
object—the creation of happiness and of good
will, that is to say,—and for my own part, i
is the object to which I shall always direc
myself,—the extinction of misery at home
and the extinction of war abroad—(great ap
plauae). Yes, tbe period of revolutions ii
drawing to a dose—that of amelioratioi
commences. The education of people is n<
longer of the violentUtmd it is now aasnminf
the peaceful kind. The time has come whet
Providence is about to substitute for the die
orderly action of the agitator the religious anc
quiet energv of the pacificator. Hencefortl
the object of all great and true policy shall be
this, —to cause all nationalities to be recog
nised, to restore the historic unity of people
and enlist this unity in the cause of tbe civili
zation of peace—to enlarge the sphere o!
civilization, to set a good example to people
who are still in a state of barbarism —to sub
stitute the system of arbitration for that ol
battles—and, in a word—and all is comprised
in this, —to make justice pronounce the lasi
u#ed to Pvonounce.by
that mankind are on thia providential course.
In our ancient Europe, England made the
first step, and by her example before us now
fur ages, she declared to the people, ‘You
are free France look the second step, and
announced to the people, ‘You are sover
eigns" Let us now make the third step
and all simultaneously, France, England
Germany, Italy, Europe, America —let us
proclaim to all nations, ‘You are brothers!
The he nor able speaker resumed his seat a
midst ihe most enthusiastic cheering.
A list of rules which are to be observer
during the session, one of which prohibit:
"any direct allusion to the political eventi
of tire day," were then unanimously agreec
to.
It was then proposed that the Archbishop
of Paris should be appointed Honorary Presi
dent of tho Congress, whieh was carrier
unanimously.
Several letters containing adhesions to th«
Congress from various persons were ther
lead.
A discussion then arose as to whether tht
lettei of the Archbishop of Paris should b<
read in English, and on its being decided on
Mr. Cobden undertook its translation. Or
introducing it to the meeting, he stated tha
he was about to read the letter m o( the Arch
bishop of “Canterbury," which excited con
siderable hilarity.
M. Yisschers, President of the Brussel
Peace Society, and of the last Congress a
Brussels, then addressed the meeting.
The President then delivered the prizes t<
the successful candidates for the essays, ant
announced that the Christian Moral Society o
France now offered a prize of a gold meda
of 509 francs to the author of the roost com
plete collection of peace sentiments—extract
not only from religious books of all sects, bu
also of books of profane antiquity, and of tht
works of tho most celebrated modern writer
of all nations. The essays may be written it
all languages, and must be deposited befort
the Ist of April, 1850, in the hands of M
Renzi, administrator of the Society of Chris
tian Morals, Rue St. Guillaume.
M. Bonnetier advocated the reference t<
arbitration by nations in lieu of an appeal t<
arm%.
The Rev. John Burnett made an address, ii
the course of which he said, “The large as
sembly of to-day is a practical refutation o
the slander that France and England ar<
natural enemies"—(immense applause).
4 fmr n «dilrpc«oH ftnm nthe
gentlemen present, the President put to thi
i Congress the first resolution, which will b<
found in the subjoined programme, which wa
adopted and the meeting was adjourned at i
o’clock.
Peace Congress, 1849.— Programme o
Resolutions.
"Recourse to arms being a usage condemn
ed alike by religion, moiality, reason, ant
humanity, it is the duty of all men to adop
measures calculated to bring about the aboli
tion of war and the following resolution!
will be submitted to the friends of universa
peace, assembled in Congress at Pari* on th<
22nd, 23d, 24th, and 25th, of Augu*t
1849
“1. As Peace alone can secure the mora
j and material interests of nations, it is the dut*
of all Governments to submit to arbitration al
1 differences that arise between them, and ti
respect the decisions of the arbitrators whon
they may choose.
"2. It is of the highest importance to cal
the attention of Governments to the necesai
ty of entering, by a general and simuitaneou
i measure, upon a system of disarmament, fo
I the purpose of reducing tbe national expendi
ture, and of removing at the same time a per
manent cause of disquietude and irritatioi
from among the nations.
"3 The Congress recommends all th
friends of Peace to prepare public opinion ii
their respective countties for the formation o
a Congress of Nations whose sole object i
should be to frame a code of internationa
laws, on just principles, "and to constitute i
Supreme Court, to which should besubmittei
j all questions relating to the reciprocal right
and duties of nations.
"4. The Congress condemns all loans an<
taxes intended for the prosecution of ware o
ambition and conquest.
"5. The Congress recommends its mem
bers to endeavor to eradicate from the mind:
of all, in their respective countries, both b;
means of a better education of youth, and b;
other practical methods, those political preju
dices and hereditary hatreds which have
i often been the cause of disastrous ware.
"6. The Congress addresses the same invi
tation to all ministers of religion, whose sa
cred mission it is to encourage feelings o
good-will among men; as well as to the vari
ous organs of the press, which exercise
powerlul an influence over the progress o
civilisation.
“7. The Congress earnestly hope* for th<
1 improvement of the means of internationa
i communication for the extension of posta
reform; for the universal adoption of the sam<
standard of weights, measures, and coinage
and for tbe multiplication of peace societies
which shall keep up a correspondence wit!
each other.
“8. The Congress decides that the com
mittee be instructed to draw up an address ti
all nations embodying the resolutions of thi
Congress, and that this address shall be pre
sen ted to the various Governments, and iha
special means be taken to bring it under th<
attention of the President of the French Re
public.”
The Free Democracy. —The Worcest*
Citizen gives a report of the proceedings of i
Convention ol the Free Democracy held ii
Worcester, on Wednesday, 12th inst
“Charles Sumner, Esq., of Boston," aayi
the Citizen "briefly addressed the audience,
in that graceful eloquence for which he is re
Downed. Mr. Sumner also read an addresi
to tbe people of the State, which showet
the blighting effects of slavery not only upon
the slaves themselves, but also upon theii
masters, upon the States, upon the nation an<
the world."
Among the resolutions adopted at thi*
Convention were the following
Resolved, That Liberty is the equal birth
right of all mankind, without distinction ol
color or rsce.
Resolved, That we repeat the language ol
Daniel Webster, at Plymouth in 1820 "Jj
any practices exist contrary to tbe principle
of justice sod homey- within the resehof
our laws or oor mflDce, we are INEXtI
SABLE, if we dot exert ourselves to res
train and abolish wm; that recognizing
Slavary as such a aetiee* **l! °P?° tb<?
people everywhere restrain aod abolish it.
Resolved, That is our special duty to
call upon tbe Ferel Government to use,
without delay, all constitutional powers for
Ibis purpose— -am<z which is the power t*
abolish Slavery id* District of Colombia,
in American vesae on tbe high seas, »n our
national territories nd in all places under the
exclusive juriwTicUi of Congress; to the end
that this Governmft may be divorced I roro
all support or ssncSn of this wrong, and we
may be absolved frn all responsibility there
fore.
Resolved, Tha*e are admonished by the
recent efforts of’laveholders to introduce
Slavery under th nationnl flag into New
Mexico and Calififia, and by tho wellknown
facts that Slaves large numbers have al
ready been earrieto one nr both of these
territories, to urgCipon Congress the imper
ative necessity of 'roistering these territories
against Slavery,-nd of refusing to receive
them at any tiraiinto the Union, except as
Free States.
Resolved, Tht no more Slave States
should be admittd into tho Union.
Resolved, Tht in determining what na
tive-born pei/ wa we citizens, and to whom
States know r o distinction of color; and any
auch diacrim nation by the Federal Govern
ment is unaucionzed and unjust.
Resolved, That the Post Office every
where throughout the country, like the
Press, muit be free from censorship, and that
all efforts to in.erfere with the freedom of
either, should meet with the indignant con
demnation of tb» Federal Government.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, SEPTEMBER 21, 1849.
Leter from the Editor’
I am now in Oswego, a handsome young
city on the banks of Lake Ontario, and at
the mouth )f the river from which it derives
its name, is finely located for trade and
manufacturing purposes. The w hole place
wears an ictive business like appearance.
There is a plank road all tha w ay from here
to Rome, a distance of sixty miles, and a;
Railroad aid Canal to Syracuse. These
great thoroughfares give Oswego great
and it will doubtless one day be
come a laige and influential city. The pop
ulation of the place is now twelve thousand,
and from present indication of prosperity, it
it will dotble that number in the space of ten
years. Like most of the young cities of the
west it'is largely stocked with newspapers, of
which there are four—one daily, and three
weeklies. Churches and ministers abound
here, and if the people are not what they
ought to be, it results from no lack of these.
There appears to be as much competition
among the ministers, as among the mill own
ers of the place every one wants to bring
grift to his own mill. Such is life. Method
ists, Baptists, Presbyterians,and Roman Catho
lics are all struggling for the mastery in sav
ing souls of men but neither Presbyterians,
Baptists, Methodists nor Roman Catholics seem
to have any special care for the bodies of
men. The soul is all important with them,
•they are anxious 10 save men iroiu nut ii C
after, but care nothing about saving men from
hell here on the earth. Among these soul
loving Christians, the slave stands no chance.
The Antislavery advocate is refused admis
sion into the Churches, and the Ministers,
elders and Deacons, like the priests and
Levitts of old, pass by on the other side; and
as in the days of Christ it is only the common
people who hear the truth gladly. When
my friends in this place heard of my intention
to visit them, they made an effort 10 obtain the
use of one of these houses of worship for me
to lecture in, but it was refused on the ground
that I would speak against the churches. My
meetings here have been held in the Market
Hall, and despite of the pro-slavery influence
of the Church and the Clergy, I have had
crowded meetings, and have been greatly
cheered by the kind and respectful manner
with which ray addresses have been received
by the public. The meeting last evening
was thronged. Many were cpmpelled to stand
during the evening, remaining till the last,
although may lecture occupied three hours.
At the close of the meeting six subscribers
were •btained to the North Star, and sixteen
copies of ray Narrative were sold. 1 am in
formed that many present heard the snbject
of slavery discussed on this occasion for the
first time.
Soon after my arrival hero on Thuisday,
Henry Clay passed through on his return
trip westward. I caught a glimpse of him
as he passed. He sat in a barouche drawn
by two black horses covered with white nets,
and was followed by an admiring crowd.
There was no black servant by his side. His
attitude in the carriage was erect and proud,
disputing the sway of old king Time.” His
face was red, but wrinkled, and careworn.
I did not follow him. I found myself facing
the crowd as who were all rushing the
other way, all anxious to touch
the hem of the slaveholder's garment, and to
obtain a smile from the great compromiser.
Poor man what will ail this applause and
adulation avail him at the bar of God T Of
what consequttoce will it be to him when the
tears of sundered families, and the scarred
hacks and broken hearts of his plundered
victims, shall confront him at the judgment
seat 1 As I looked upon him I felt differently
from what I expected I should do on seeing a
man who had done so much to injare my poor
despised people. My emotions were those of
deep sorrow that one so gifted, now on the
verge of another world, should have made so
bad use of his talents. But the time is past,
the hour is gone, the sand has nearly run out;
lamentation is vain. He, with all others like
him, are in the hands of a Power beyond and
above him, and eternal Justice must and will
be vindicated.
There are in this city about one hundred
colored persons.
My visit baa afforded me a good opportuni
ty of meeting with my suffering people. As
a mark of their esteem, and regard, they,
made a collation at the house of Mr. Gray,
where ail were invited to meet me and have a
friendly interview. They manifested much
interest in the subject of the proposed **.Ve
tional league,” and I have do doubt that a
branch of the League will be formed in this
plaee. Among those who are most active
and interested in the cause of elevation and
improvement are Messrs. Grsy, Grant, and
Dickens, all active^business men, and do bon
or to the character of oar pro*cnbed and in
jured people. I go fiora this place to “Ful
ton trille," thence to “Bed Creek,” thence
to Paltnevrille, and I on to my
appointment* as already announced.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
Oswego, 15th Sep. 1&49.
(olorphobin uw»| the Sob*.
We bare sometime* been in doubt as to
the precise object of the Sons of Temperance.
We hate supposed it to be the benevolent ooe
of promoting temperance in the community,
without inquiring whether those whom it ben
efitted were white or black—tail or short.—
We have the small consolation of knowing
now, as we did not before know, that we have
been considerably mistaken. This may be
one object; but it certainly is not the only aim
of these secret societies. There is another
purpose which they also answer; that is,
the building up of caste and prejudice. Here
at least, it might have been expected, where
the ostensible object is a purely benevolent
I one, and no theological mist can possibly be
brought to hear upon it, the colored man
would be admitted on equal terms. Is not
drunkenness as immoral in a colored, as it is
in a wmiv t« nt disgusting l la
it not to himself fraught with as ruinous con
sequences Why, then, shut him out from
the much-talked of benefjta said to be afforded
by these societies, of mutual counsel, en*
couragement and countenance 1 It is a fact,
and we are grieved to be compelled to the
conclusion that the assertion is most true, that
Sons of Temperance Lodges are the very
spawn of slavery.” After this, we shall not
be surprised to find that the hellish spirit of
American hate towards the colored man,
would, if possible, shut him out from heaven
itself, and condemn him to everlasting perdi
tion even the perdition of the orthodox,
rather than that he should share an eternity
of happiness in company with white men.—
Organized societies, political, scientific and
religious, in this land, do all they decently
can to effect this object. The doors of all are
as religiously barred against him, as if he bore
about with him an infectious leprosy. He
i cannot, with few exceptions, as an equal
man, enter the door of any of our large
churches, but must be stowed away like so
much lumber, in some far-distant loft in the
ceiling. He cannot at all, either as equal or
unequal, become a member of a literary so
ciety of white persons; and there is now pre
sented an illustration of the all-pervading
spirit of proscription in Temperance Lodges.
No matter what may be the color of their skin,
whether black, or white, or brown—we main
tain that men who can rise superior to such
degrading and demoralizing treatment, have
in their composition a large proportion of the
material of which heroes are made. There
are few white men who could go through this
ordeal, and come out unscathed. The treat
ment of the free colored people in the North
ern States, is only equalled in disgraceful and
disgusting atrocity by the odious slave system
of the South. The one is the natural off
spring of the other. It may be useful to re
mind Northern men that they have something
more to do than to shout, No more slave
Oiatoo," owutciliiiig more, oven, than to nhout
No more slavery.” After both of these
objects are secured, they have a task to ac
complish nearer home. They have to take
the spirit of slavery out of their own hearts,
and learn to acknowledge really not in
words only, but in deed and in practice, that
the colored man is a man. All the silly ha
berdash that can bo strung together about
man’s equality, is jnst so much idle wind, un-
I til they accomplish this. It will then mean
something, until then—nothing.
We do not intend, from these remarks, to
be understood to favor the destruction of all
order in society. Far from it. We know
full well, that so long as there are intelligent
and uninformed men in society—so long as
there are educated and illiterate men—so long
as there are men of low and men of refined
tastes—so long as there are sensuous men and
men of high intellect and morality, there must
be orders in society. These very differences
of mental progress of themselves, without
any of the supeiadded circumstances of
wealth, make these orders. The sensuous
man, though he inay have the wealth of
Croesus, is not at home in the company of the
refined and intellectual His proper place is
amongst the low loafers, whose tastes and
inclinations are similar to his own. What we
desire, and what all men desire, who are
really actuated by the true spirit of democ
racy, is that those orders in society should be
abolished not by mixing up uncongenial
elements, but by elevating the brutal, ignor
ant and sensuous to the level of the re
fined, educated and virtuous. One means of
doing this is, to put within the reach of all
the means ot moral and intellectual improve
ment. If the colored man is a little more de
ficient than his white neighbor, that seems to
us to ho only an additional reason why lus
requirements should be attended to with more
carefulness and assiduity, and he of all others
should be invited and encouraged to constant
and persevering effort after self improvement.
The very reverse of this is the case. He is as
far a? possible shut out of the schools, and then
abused for his ignorance. He is neglected,
and allowed to grow up destitute of all moral
training, and taunted with his vice. The first
wrong is made the excuse for the second; and
both of them clearly lie at the doors of the
respectable and the professedly religious in
this land. A change must be effected here,
before any great improvement can take place
in the organization of society. Will our so
cial reformers take this matter into their seri
ous consideration. This is oue of the ele
ments in social life which they are too apt to
lose sight of.
We have been led to reflect on this subject
by reading in a recent number of the Impar
tial Citizen, the correspondence between Rev.
S. R. Ward and Mr. Pinkerton, of Dundee,
m reference to the proceedings of the Sons
of Temperance in Mr. Ward’s own case.—
From this correspondence, it is abundantly
.evident that Temperance Lodges do not admit
colored men. Mr. Ward is well known to be
an intelligent and polished gentleman, and
even if admitted, his admission might not
have been considered a concluaive argument
in favor of the liberality and absence of pre
judice prevailing amongst tbe Sons. But as
if to make assurance doubly sure, and seal
their disgrace beyond the possibility of mis*
take, he was first admitted, and then expelled
The proceee "C will give in hta own words
Our Division sent oat a committee to in i
quit* whether it were contrary to rule to ad
mit black members. The committee repotted
that a resolution again *t the admission otj
blacks had been passed bv tbe Grand Division
Upon this, we dissolved, and threw up our
charter, for we were most of us believers in
the Bible. i
Note particularly a few facts
1- Mi. Deputy Land advised my expulsion.!
2. Special Deputy Cadv advised it in behalt
of the Grand Division.
3. The District Deputy who initiated,
me, was censured and remojed tor ini
tiating me
4. The Grand Division approved of and'
endorsed this removal of the District De-j
puty.
Capt. Cady paid the highest compliments to j
my character, and reported distinctly to the
Grand Division that niy complexion was the
sole objection against me. In reporting to the
Grand Division against the District Deputy. 1
he uses the following words, “having actually
initiated a colored man.”
The Grand Division. I repeat, endorsed the
whole of thw report, as you will see tn then
proceedings
One tact more. The Grand Division will'
not allow black men charfcts to form subor- 1
dinate Divisions under them. That was tried
in New York, and they refused. Hie black
Divisions are all independent of the G. D.,
having received their charters from the Calc
donia Division, a Division of Scotchmen.’’
After this, who will dare deny to the
LoflgCS OI UIC »;uu j xrt T-.-.j. »U/> ht
to arrogate to themselvea the title of benkvo
.LENT AND PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETIES 7 The
pass-woid, it seems, is not enough to admit a
man to their meetings. They also require
that his skin should be of a particular color.
W e have heard individual members of socie
ties assert that their Lodge would admit
colored men. They dare not do it. Their
charter would be taken from them, and their
Lodge dissolved, if they persisted in treating
their colored brother as a man. We pity those
respectable men who have got into the meshes
of such an inquisitorial and tyrannical despot
ism. For ourseives, we might be well content
to be forever excluded from such societies.—
jWe do not pietend to have any strong par
tiality for gew-gaws, ribbons and child's play.
There are many, however, who attach a high
value to these things. To such it must be
some deprivation to be shut out from them.—
The attempt to prove them mischievous, or
even useless, would perhaps cost more than
it comes to; so we will not try to disturb the
complacency of those who have a high opinion
of temperance lodges but let them not pre
tend to be benevolent societies, for the reclaim
ing of the drunkard and the debased, while
they pass by that class who, the Sons them
selves being judges, stand the most in need of
their aid and encouragement.— j. i>.
Address
To the Anti-Slavery Ladies of Hi eat Britain ami
Ireland from tiro Kniflish friends.
i
Through the medium of the columns of
the North Star, we earnestly desire to
solicit your aid and co-operation in the good
Anti-Slavery cause; and we would plead
with you more especially for assistance, on
behalf of the Western New York Anti Sla
very Society.
One of the objects of this Society is to
help to sustain the North Star newspaper,
which is, we believe, one of the best Anti-
Slavery instrumentalities now in operation.
The Annual Anti-Slavery Fair will be
held at Rochester towaids the close of the
year; and a series of Anti-Slavery Fairs are,
now being held in the towns and villages of
Western New York; consequently then* is
an unusual demand for useful and fancy arti-'
cles. We earnestly entreat our British!
friends to send us renewed help in the way
of contributions.
To our London friends, aud to those living
,n Birmingham, Coventry, Leeds, i
Sunderland and Bristol, we would suggest
that they forward their contributions, by the j
third week in October, to Miss Carpenter, of,
Bristol, who has this year kindlv consented
to forward the London box.
To the friends iri Carlisle and Manchester,
who sent boxes to Rochester last year, we
renew our appeal, hoping and believing that'
they will continue to give ua their aid and;
we trust that the Friends in Newcastle-on- 1
Tyne, Northampton, Colebrookdale, Edin
burgh, Belfast, and Cork, who then joined
them in this good work, will testify, on the
present occasion, that they are not weary in
well-doing.”
JULIA ELIZA GRIFFITHS.
Fairs! Fairs! Fairs!
The Ladies and Friends of the Western
j ew oik Anti-Slavery Society intend to
hold a i air at Mount Morris, on Friday, the
01st of December, at which a large assort
ment of elegant and useful articles will be
presented, the majority of which were made
in England, Ireland, and Scotland The
friends of the slave are urgently invited to
[attend.
f
j There will be a Refreshment Table, lor
which contribution* are earnestly requested,
fakes, Pies, Fruit, Collee, Tea, Sugar, &c.
will be most acceptable gifts.
Frederick Douglass will hold an Anti
j Slavery meeting at Mount Morris on Thurs
day evening, the 20th of September.
f There will also lie an Anti-Slavery Fair
held at Scottsvdle, on Tuesday, Sept. 25,
[which will bo preceded by a meeting on
Monday evening, Sept. 24.
An Anti-Slavery Fair will likewise be
held at Honeoye Falls, on Friday the 2fcth
September, which will be preceded by a
meeting on the evening of the 27th inst.
The meetings will commence at 7 o’clock.
The energetic co-operation of the Anti-
Slavery friends m these towns is earnestly
solicited.
Love and Politics. According to the;
correspondent of the Daily News, the artairs j
of the 1, niled States, in Chili, have been
somewhat complicated by a curious circum-i
stance in the private history el Colonel Bar-}
ton, the American minister to hili. It ap-1
pears, that gentlemen fell in love with a lady i
who was a member of the Roman Catholic j
Church; the archbishop refused to sanction
their marriage, because the minister would
not renounce the Protestant faith. The lady
consented to be married by the American
chaplain of the flagship. "The archbishop
immediately addressed Mr*. Barton a letter,
charging her with becoming the concubine of
a dissolute foreigner, threatening her with
the anathemas of the Church, Ac. Colonel
Barton then appealed to the Minister of For
eign AfFatis for the protection of the govern-j
merit, but was informed that it could not be
granted, because the archbishop was a roem-f
ber of the government. He then immediately
struck bta dag, and has retired from «he coun
try, leaving the difficulty to be settled here
after as it may. Thus we see that still——
“Love ntW< the cow*, «hs c*u»p, th« grove,
tt
Dfnocralic ('■ion.
As has been long expected by every or*
who thought at all about the matter, the
sections of tbo l>emocratic party hare seen fit
to unite It has been long evident that the
Free Soilcrs, the other political orgao.ra
uons of the dav, were oound together eolely bv
the tic of self-interest, and the expecut.on nt
political prefeiment. What each party cal:*
ii# “principles.” is merelv a sort of Shiboleth,
serving to distinguish the Whig from the
Democrat—the Free Soiler irombou.. There
are some units in all parties w ho are doubt;#**
atuai’tcd by puris impulses, and hire no eec
ondarv motive to subserve by the prevail ne
of the organization to which they hare Unk
ed themselves. hut, without their knowing
it, their political creed has become eo unbed
ded into their very being, and the? hare be
come so entangled in the racVhe* o{ in
fluence, that they will not, and dare not,
they will, presume to question the propriety
of the doings, oi the truth ot the
they have adopted. The few
mm who occasionally get mixed up with
lineal organizations are and must be ill at en*
in their position Like those of the cripple,
their motions are halting and irregu v hec
they would go forward tinder the guidance of
their better impulses, they find themself*
'""peded and dragged back again by l&*
rotten carcase ot their political necessities
One dav, you may imagine respecting on*
such politician, that he has broken loose,
is resolved to go forward in the strength of t
higher truth, even if he should have to go
alone. The next day, when he hears in*
more calculating and less impulsive taeocc
ates uttering on all hands their remonstrance#
you aru rash” “inconsiderate'' “will
you desert the party and hpars their plau
sible sophisms about the loss of influence,
and the ineffectiveness of divided eflbtt, the
bold innovator is fain to fall back again
amongst the ranks of his friends, or even to
sneak behind them, for protection from ths
shame ol retreat. Political parties advance,
it is true, but they advance in a body. When
one goes outot the beaten path, and resolves
to think for himself, and if possible carry the
mass along with h*sn, he must either lie re
jected by those with whom he has been iden
tified, as a rash and heedless projector, or a#
sometimes —perhaps once in a century happen#
—his idea will be adopted and carried ontbv b<
party. If the former of these alternatives bt
falls him, if he be a man of strong principle
as well as generous impulse, he forthwith
finds his position as a politican untenable, and
retires from the conflict, disheartened and
disgusted. If the latter alternative—hi#
i
praises are. forthwith heard in everv mouth,
and he becomes the leader —the great man ut
the party. In the one caso, he is the rebel,
in the other the hero of political life. This
is the chief difficulty in the way of the onward
progress of political organization#. Success
is the health of their existence. The fear or
the anticipation of failme makes failure cer
tain. The voter who places his confidence on
his political power and political action, very
speedily gets discouraged at the prospect of
using that power, and bringing to beat that
action, without their producing, so far as he
can discern, any tangible effect; aod he fa))#
back upon sotne more crowded platform, con
doling himself with the assurance that he u
at least doing something, and if he is not
getting all that he wants, he is getting a pirt,
and half a loaf is better than no bread.”|
Men must take higher ground than that W
any political organization whatever, it they
would act consistently and act honestly. W*
have thought that there were discernible
among the Free Soilers some symptoms of s
desire at least, if not a determination to stand
upon principle, let the result be what it would
But the evident incornpetency oi their number#
for the securing ot political power to carry
out their measures, taking the highest motive
ol action which politicans advance, and lear
ing out ol the question the lower one of so
curing the loavss of office, has had its effect
among them T hey have in several Stitei,
lost their first love, been discouraged, rad
laid themselves gently down on ths soft bosom
of Democracy, This is the alma mattr «t
their hopes, from hence a/one can they de
rive the sustenance necessary tot lb sit poliU*
cal existence.
It is only a few weeks since John Vin
Buren declared at Cleveland, that the “great
Democratic party was Jesolved." Sull later,
at the Rome Convention, he said, that he
“would henceforth hold the Democrats as
much his political opponent* as the Whigs
I Where is he now, and that party of whom
nc is the leader* The following resolution
1 passed in the ratification Mass meeting it
.Syracuse the other day, supplies the answer.
Some of our too good-natured and credulous
friends have been anxious to believe that Prince
John and his associates would at least hold
fast by the Wilmot Proviso. They did no*
much; but even those very limited
hopes have been disappointed.
Resolved, T hat Congress baa the constitu
tional power over slavery in the District oi
Columbia, and has no power over the subject
in the States That it possesses, in the opo
10a of this Convention, full power oyer *b*
subject in the territories ol the l s
should exert that power on ill t rcMlo f a
of attempts to establish it there, but, as t e
constitutional power is questioned, we art
willing to tolerate the free exercise ,J moiv.
dual opinion upon the <~n among men
hers of the democratic latmly, who ate wi -e
to rally under one standard, and sepport
ticket nominated by the action oi
Syracuse arid Ctica Conventions.
This, of course, coupled with ihe D 4
ledge of the way in which the old ifeewe**-*
party have always been in the habit «f shin
ing the question of human rights, u ,der cor* 4
of just such resolutions, is simply giving
the whole ground and the Free Soiiers l
New York State those of them at who
adhere to the ticket, may henceforth be con
sidered as forming part and parcel oi the
corrupt mass of Jlunkemm, ready at all
limes, to sacrifice the right* lh lf free
men for emolument and office. The Cleveland
True Democrat »aya, and this exhibition ut
political frailty gives pointjoit* remarks—
Name, if you can, reader, the leader* »r
Statesmen of any nation who have naked
popularity or place for Right. Mention,
you are able, a large party, m ali polmw
history,that ha# forgottenauccees, atm tro*d#y>
under-foot the very thought of ape,;*,, a*
labored earnestly, fearlessly, fox man They
have yielded, only, when they could uvt beV
yidding They have ju#ti'«, *h*
justice could be n/j longer denied Whater* 4
they have they have been fi>r*du> dj
b* Vue direct outetde pressure of «h« if ooll 46
true, or in ftoUcipuea of what
thf_v would demand. Are such men to be
bended forth a* Man’* best champions 1 Are
tbe» to be declaimed about, written and rang
about, as the real heroes of our race We
shall weaken Christianity, and impair true
morality, and lessen all true gteatneee, juat
in proportion as we seek thus to exalt the
false over the true
Moat true, and beyond contradiction Our
only wonder is, that one who can aee so clear
ly and express himself so pointedly, can be
found in the ranks of a political party. The
day of trial will perhaps come in Ohio. Will
the editor of the True Democrat and the Free
Soiiera of Ohio stand fast by their creed
then' We hope they will, or learn that
there is a higher and more prevailing power
than the ballot-box aid political action.—j. n.
“Colored Persons, in the eye or thi
I<AW, AND BY THE DECISIONS OF OUR CofRTS,
Ap.r NOT citizens.”— Boston Atlas.
'I he Emancipator and Republican replie*
to this assertion by asking the following
qriejrtions
1. What section of the Constitution ofth«
1 r.ited .States denies the citizenship of an in
habitant of Massachuaetts on account of coloi
—or which authorize? Congress to enact lawi
to that effect 7
2. Has Congress passed such laws—if so,
when T
3. When did the Supreme Court of th«
1. nited States decide that an inhabitant o
Massachusetts waa not a citizen on account o
color—and where can that decision be found
4. What section of the Constimtion of Mas
aachuaetta denies the citizenship of an inhabi
tant of the State on account of color—or au
thorizee the legislature to enact laws to that
effect 7
4' Has the legislature of Maesachuaetti
passed such laws—if so, when
6. W r hen did the Supreme Court of Massa
chuaetts decide that an inhabitant of the Stati
was not a citizen on account of color—ant
where can such decision be found 7
These questions, so far as we can judge,
seem to be scarcely germane to the cave,
ihere is a defat to as well as ad» jure view
of the subject, as w e believe lawyers express
themselves, or in other word* .the matter ol
fact as well as the matter of law, to be taken
into consideration. The one in some measure
throws light upon the other. As a matter of fact,
it is abundantly evident that colored persona
are not citizens of the United States. A chat
tie is not a citizen. A slave is not a citizen.
A person who is denied the right of citizen
ship, in despite of all that Massachusetts may
say to the contrary is not a citizen. United
Stales Jaw authorizes slavery, else, how is it
that slaves are held, and the perpetrators of
that wickedness are not brought to justice,
t nited States law, in one shape or another,
either by allowing the separate States to make
unjust laws for themselves, or by the direct
contract of confederation, allows New York
and other States to deny to the colored man
the rights of citizenship, unless he is possesses
of a certain number of dollars worth of real
estate. But what we arc particularly inter
ested in, is the fact of the matter. Colored
persons arc not citizens of thc United States.
Either according to law or against law, the
colored man is robbed of this light. If against
law ,of what value is the law 7 It may as
well have no existence. A law is of little
use unless the moral sense of the majority is
on a level with its requirements. Laws that
are either above or below the moral sense of
the community, as might be shown by num
berless illustrations, are mere waste parch
ment. Create in the community an incorrup
tible sense of justice, and what /ate says on the
subject will be a matter of very secondary im
portance.—J. D.
Williams's Panorama of the Biulf.—
This splended effort of genius was exhibited
in this city last week, and the week preced
ing, and we believe received a consideiabls
share of public patronage; though we are
very certain not rnoie than it deserved. It is
a work of great magnitude, and must have
cost the artist years of patient and enduring
labor. Some of the scenes in the painlin g
are beyond aM praise; and without pretend
ing to know how to talk learnedly about
tone and coloring—Raphael—( ’orreggio—the
old Masters, &c., wo may say, that we have
an idea of our ow n, and can tell as well as
another when a work of art comes up to our
standard. .Nature is the model by which the
painter is or ought to be guided, if a pain
ting is not natural, it is not good, let who
will affirm to the contrary. It is exceeding
ly difficult when looking at this picture, to di
vest one's self of the idea that the trees are
real; that the green lawns are real; and if
the sound of water were heard, the represen
tation of “the river that flowed fast by the ora
cle of God,” might be thought to be real also.
The artist s idea of paradise, however, is quite
too sensuous for our notion of things. For
that perhaps, he is in some measure indebted
to Milton. Happy, intelligent beings, as
our first patents are supposed to have been,
could have got along passably well, without
auch a profusion of sweets, and flowers,
and verdant lawns. But withal, it is very
beautiful, and one might be almost content,
under strong temptatioo, to compound for
a life of activity by dreaming away an exist
ence amid just auch scenes.
We heartily commend this work of art to
oui readers. The three evenings that we
spent in looking at it, we think were well dis
posed of. Let nofone wrho'hasan opportunity of
seeing the panorama fail to do so. Mr. Wil
liam's next stopping place will be Geneva.—
j. o.
Glba.—This island is 624 miles in extreme
length, wnh a width varying from 22 to 117
mile*, and covers an area of 37,000 square
milits, being about the size of the State of
Maine. It contains a population, at the pre
seibt time, of 1,400,000 of which about 610,-
iiim i nte are colored, and
OOU 000 slave*. lis imports, m 1847, were
$£2,380,119, of which $7,049,976 were
Jrrnn the Lnited States. It* exports during
the same period were $27,998,770, of which
'2,394,870 were to the United States. In
1647 the uumber of arrivals at its ports was
3740, and the number of clearances 3346,
lu principal harbors are the finest in the
woxld. The amount of American tonnage
employed in the trade with Cuba is 476,773
tons. It has 196 miles of railroad completed
and in successful operation, and 16 miles in
course of construction. It is well watered by
notu' wou a( l if* surface, except in
th« cei.' u P° r, on of iha island, diversified
wuh mou. n, I,i n >y two-fifths of its sur
face are culti*'** I®'' 1 Gf the remaining three
fifths, new uoua*N». on 13 ptobably worthless,
leaning one-half of agricultural resources
undeveloped. The cl‘**o genial, that
it yield two crops- in a y H l of many of its
productions, it also abounds in materials for
manufacturing purposes, snd Ms mountains
contain mines of copper, which ate worked
to coqtidejsbif advantage.— Volt, 'Frans,

Fore if* Newt of Ike Week.
The Europe arrived at her wharf in East
Boston, on Wedeneeday of laat week, eftei
an unusually short passage of eleven days,
and brings intelligence one write later from
Europe.
England. There is a total lack of newi
from England. English papers are for the
moat part filled op with matters of merely
local interest. The Hungarian defeat, the
Queen’s visit to Scotland, the Pease Cong
ress at Paris, and the cholera seem to sup
ply the chief topics of discussion. Sympa
thy with the Hungarians, if the papers may
be understood to represent the people, is the
almost universal feeling expressed by the
English public. The Peace Congress attract!
a large share of attention and if its mem
bers set upon the suggestion of Mr. Cobden,
to keep up an anti-loan agitation, it will at
tract still more attention. This is a phase ol
the subject, which probably has not occurred
to some who are loud in denunciations ol the
horrors of war, and eloquent in declamation
on the beauties of peace. Gentiles not lesi
than Jews, are willing to lend money t*
Governments, and receive the "consideration”
for it, asking no question*, for consciencr
sake, of the use made thereof. It is very
evident that war has been the chief, if noi
f the only cause why England and other nationi
1 of Europe, have had to borrow at all. Thc
prevention of war will undoubtedly pievem
the further extension of the loan system
We rather opine that thta new view of thc
Peace agitation will check the ardor of some
of its Jewish promoters. Bankers and stock
jobbers will now at all events, if they have
not before, eome to the conclusion that Mr
Cobden is a fool, a madman, a dangeroui
political demagogue, who ia aiming to tutt
the world up-aide down, and render property
insecure. The majority of the people wil
aee though their motives, and laugh at theii
pretended expreaeiona of fear; and the ohil
anthropic of all classes, whether interested oi
not, will, we trust, merge their individuality
in the welfare of the race, and join heart and
hand with Mr. Cobden in a crusade against
National Loans, as a most effective means, ol
checking war at the root, by cutting ofT its
supplies. No doubt there are many other
ways in which money-lenders may dispose
of their surplus funds, but this is one of the
most profitable and secure; and they know
well, that the greater the competition, the
richer their gains. The idea is a good one;
and in so far as it is successful, will be matter
of rejoicing. Even should it not effect all
that it proposes, if it only in eome degree takes
from Governments, the immense power for
mischief placed at their disposal by the loan
system, it will havo done something—much,
to bring about a better state of things for thc
suffering masses.
In London, the deaths from Cholera during
the week were 1,276, and from all diseases,
2,457; which is an increase of 228 on the
total mortality of the preceding week, and an
increase of 47 in the deaths by cholera.
A murder, committed under unusually atro
cious circumstances, has just been discovered
in London. The discovery and apprehension
of the murderer who was a woman, give a
lemarkable illustration not only of the unani
mity with which all parties in the government
service in that coantry lend their aid in pro
moting the ends of law, but also of tho won
derful practical advantages of steam and elec
tricity. The chief actor in the horrible tragedy
was the wife of a man named Manning. The
man himself had also a share in it, though
as a secondary actor. Patrick O’Connor,
their victim, was a guager in the London
Custom House, and had accumulated about
£‘3ooo, for which he was murdered. He
seems to have been intimate with Mrs. Man
ning and the last time he was seen slive,
was in her back parlor on the evening of
Thursday August 9th. The next morning
O’Connor was absent from his duty at the
Docks. The same for several days after, be
fore his friends expressed any alarm on his
account. On the Tnesday following, in
quiries were made for him at the house of
Mrs. Manning, which were answered by her
with coolness and composure. Suspicions
were thus lulled to sleep. Two days after,
the police paid a second visit to the house,
and found it deserted. They then com
menced searching the premises, and found the
body of the murdered man, under the floor of
the back kitchen, which was paved with flag
stones. Previous to her flight, Mrs. Man
ning had called at the lodgings of O’Connor,
and opening his drawers, carried off all their
valuable contents. There is nothing very re
markable in all this. It is simply a new
exhibition of an oft repeated tragedy. The
remarkable part of the story is the capture of
the murderer. Where the guilty parties had
gone, no one knew. It was at first rumored
that they had sailed for America by a vessel
fiom London. A communication was then
made to the Admiral of the Port, and he
immediately ordered out a steam Yacht, in
pursuit of the Victoria, the vessel in which
two persons bearing the name of the accused
had taken passage for New York. The flay
following, the steam-yacht came up with the
Victoria, but the objects of her search were
noion board, and she immediately beat back
to Southampton, where a steam-sloop was
getting teady to join in the chase. This at
tempt havmg failed, an officer was dispatched
to the continent, but coukl find no trace of the
fugitives; but the driver of the hackney
coach who conveyed Mrs. Manning to the
railway station, having been discovered, it
was ascertained that she had gone to Scotland.
A telegraphic message to this effect was in
stantly sent off to Edinburgh, tad before an
hour had elapsed, an answer was received,
communicating her appiehension. Mi. Man
ning was traced to the island of Jersey .where
he was trying to get to France. Thus is
British justice aided by .its two new auxilia
ries, steam and electricity.
Joseph Hume, M. P., elates in a letterthat
has been published, that he shall yearly, as
long as be has s seat in the House of Com
mons, bring forward the motion tor parlia
mentary reform, which he has placed on the
books of the House of Commons for the next
session.
Fiance. The question of Rome causes
great embarrassment to the French Govern
ment. A dispatch has been received from
Gen. Oudinot, in which he says that the
Cardinals act according to the inspirations of
the Austrian Minister, and that if they are
permitted to go oq w they wish, the blood in
the streets would be up to the ancles.” The
Cabinet, it ia said, are alarmed at these reac
tionary symptoms, and have sent orders to
Gen. Oudinot not to allow any political exe
cutions to take place while the French army
is at Rome. In an election for Members of
the Council General, M. Guizot, who was a
candidate, only obtained 310 votes, while his
competitor, M. Thirau. a notary, was elected
by a majority of 007.
Hungary. The intelligence from this quar
ter, which it was expected wonld clear np all
doubts, is still very unsatisfactory. Wilmer
It Smith’s Times says
We have very little to add to the un
toward news, communicated in our last, of the
unconditional surrender of the whole Hun-
Kian force* under the Dictator, Gorgey.—
e fact has been confirmed in a variety of
modes, bat ws seek in vain for any satisfac
tory explanation of the events which led to
the final catastrophe.’’
Comoro still holds out, undeT the protection
of the Hungarian garrison commanded by
Gen. Klapka. A letter has been addressed
by Gorgey, Jto Gen. Klapka, commanding
him to surrender the foitress of Comoro, and
put an end to the war. Of the terms on which
the war is concluded, the Cologne Gazette
says: “Hungary, with all its dependencies,
is independent of Austria. Nevertheless, the
title of King of Hungary remains to the Em
peror. The Hungarian Kingdom stands in
the same relation to Russia and Austria as the
Danubian principalities do to Russia and the
Sublime Porte. Accounts from Turkey
state that Bern and Kossuth had arrived at
Adrianople, where they have embarked in an
English ship.— J. d.
We have been requested to give publicity
to thc following Repudiation,’’ through the
columns of our paper. We do not at present
understand the merits of the case, and cannot
be expected to take sides with either party;
but, as we are informed by the Committee that
the A. M. E. Zion Church have no organ of
their own through which to defend themselves,
we shall be happy to publish such articles as
they may desire, if of reasonable length, and
of sufficient public interest to warrant their
insertion in the North Sar.— i. n.
Repudiation.
Mr. Editor: —lt is now pretty generally
conceded by those who have impartially inves
tigated the subject, that we, as a people, can
never become elevated in common w ith others
until we, like them, become united; so that
wherever a spirit of disorganization is mani
fested, whether in church or state, among the
laity or among the clergy, it is regarded as
being at war with the common interest of our
race.
We hold, therefore, that wherever a
church is found to be a party with those who
are united against our common good, she is
heterodox to the doctrines of the Bible, and
justly merits the appellation of hypocrite. As
the authorized representatives of that portion
of the colored people, composing one of the
grand divisions of the church, in this country,
we shall show that that party which, through
public periodicals, spoke loud and long on the
advantages of a union of the two connections,
was the first to throw obstacles in the way of
its consummation, and then, to conceal their
gyiilt, they falsely charge the innocent.
It is a well known fact, that the Rev. M.
M. Clark, Willis Nazarey, and Dr. J. J. G.
Bias, of the A. M. E. Connection, and Rev.
I. 1. Moor, Win. Jones, and Edward John
son, of the late A. M. E. Zion Connection,
met in convention, for the purpose of adopting
some means by which to effect a union of the
two connections. And it is our opinion, that
if the said contemplated union had been ef
fected, it would not only have proved a bless
ing to the two connections, but must have en
hanced the interest of the colored people in
the general. We cannot but believe that the
motives of the above named gentlemen were
pure. But, unfortunately for the interest of
the church, most unfortunately for the moral
as well as political interest of our race in
America, a spirit of a different nature mani
fested itself in an assertion emanating from a
minister occupying no low station in the A. M.
E„Church, the purport of which was, that the
A. M. E. Zion’s miaisters greatly rejoiced
at the idea of becoming connected with the
A. M. E. Church, and had expressed their
readiness to comply with and become subser
vient to, whatever plan the latter might adopt.
That the idea of a union of the two bodies
was to us a subject of rejoicing, is a fact, the
truth of which we are happy to admit. Bui
that we have ever manifested a disposition to
unite upon the principle of subserviency or
any other, aside from the strictest equality, is,
to say the least of it, a glaring absurdity.
An assertion so ungrounded and fallacious
had the unhappy effect of changing the senti*
ments of many who had truly and honestly
espoused the cause; and struck the fatal blow
to the long wished for union of the two con
nections. It may revive, and our united
prayer to GOD is, that it may revive speedily;
but the more recent transactions of the A. M.
E. Connection warrant us in saying, that
while their theory on this important question
seems to indicate no small degree of sincerity,
they are practically opposed to union upon any
other principle than that which will secure to
them the ruling povocr in thc church.
The following preamble and resolution show
the action of the Conference with regard to
the above, together with the sentiment of
that body in relation to the North Star:
Whereas, there exists a paper denominated
the North Star, edited by the talented Frede
rick Douglass, that staunch and tried friend
of his people; and whereas, that paper is de
voted to universal Liberty, Equality and Fra
ternity—believing that resistance to tyranny
is obedience to God—opposing alike oppres
sion, whether found in sacerdotal robes stolen
from heaven to serve the devil in, or in the
less crafty but more honest statesman there
foie,
Resolved, That we, the members of the
Allegheny Conference of the A. M. E. Zion
Connection, do highly approve and appreciate
said paper, and wish it success; and will do
all we can to sustain it, by subscribing our
selves, and fairly laying its claims before the
people wherever we go.
Yours tor Truth,
S. T. JONES,
G. H. GRAHAM, Com
Transient Newspapers.—lt may not be
understood by all, that transient paper*, drop
ped into the post-office, are not forwarded un
less the postage be pre-paid. This is in ac
cordance with the office regulations, and to a
void disappointment, those who wish to send
papers to their friends should bear it io mind.
Help for thc Psfttin.
Collins Centre, 8, bo. 231, 1849.
Dear Friends —Being left alone this af
ternoon I have concluded to transmit s fire
thoughts to paper with your supereeripoon.
A few hoars since Anns G. Msbbett was seen
upon one of our beck roads with a horse and
vrtgoo containing besides herself a fugitive
slave and his wife, all in woman’s suite.
The slave was a boot to commence attending
school on the Reservation with the Indiane,
when his friends learned that the base min
isters of Slaveocncy were on his track and
dose upon him but being pat upon this mate
to Canada—not in this instance the right
track—he is still safe. He is a noble speci
men of humanity, a mulatto, the|wn of hie
first master, and but a few months since the
body servant of a very distinguished citizen
of the Southern States. The is ap
parently an amiable free woman, the daughter
of a wealthy Irishman. He brought with
him letters of introduction to Fredensk Doug
lass and Gerrit S?mith. The people of this
place and vicinity are giving such indications
of their love of Liberty that we may safel y
cenclude the time is near, if not already at
hand, whea this region of Western New
York will be a safe retreat for the poor pant
ing fugitive. It is truly a cheering indication
when our young men deem it coirardly to suf
fer a recapture of the oppressed victim of the
slave power. Those individuals in the em
ploy of the slaveholder will soon receive a
mark by which they will be known as readily
as was the brother of Abel—not a mark of
tar and feathers, the whip or branding iron,
but the printers' ink. Let the names and oc
cupations of all such persons be properly ex
posed and they will be let alone in such a
manner as to render their situation rather un
comfortable, except to the south among their
own kith and kin.—There is an indignation
meeting appointed next 3d day eve, when it is
likely there will be some spirited Resolutions
adopted. Joseph Carter of Buffalo is sufficient
ly identified to be put upon the black list. Poor
fellow! let us pray that the like of him may
be few, and that he may live long enough to
repent and spurn the bribe.
For the rescue and final deliverance of
every Slave, Your Friend,
LORENZO MABBETT.
Notices.
Western New York Anti-Slavery Society*
Pursuant to adjournment at last meeting,
the Executive Committee of the Western
New York Anti-Slavery Society will meet at
the House of Isaac Post, 36, Sophia Street,
on Saturday, September 29, 1849. Attend
ance is requested at half past six p. m. punc
tually.
JOHN DICK, Sec.
Anti-Slavery Lectures and Fairs.
Frederick Dougl ass will visit and lecture,
and Fairs will be held, under the management
of the Ladies of the W. N. Y. A. S. Society,
at the following places in the course of next
month—namely:
West Walworth, lecture, Tuesd. Sep. 4th.
'Marion, Wednesd. 5 th.
Palmyra, Thursd. 6th.
Victor, Friday 7th.
Fair, Saturday Bth.
E. Bloomfield, Lecture, Sunday 9th.
Fair, Monday 10th.
Oswego, Lecture, Thursday and Friday,
Sept. 13th and 14th.
Fulton Village, I*ecture, Sunday and Mon
day, 16th and 17th.
Mount Morris, Lecture, Thursday, 20th.
Fair, Friday, 21st.
Caledonia, Lecture, Sunday, 23d.
Scottsville, Monday, 24th.
Fair, Tuesday, 25th.
Honeoyc Falls, Lecture, Thursday, 27th.
Fair, Friday, 28th.
l.ockport, I*eeture, Thursday, Oct. sth.
Fair, Friday, 6ih.
N.B. The lecture at each of the above
named places will commence at 7 p.m. pre
cisely, unless some other liout ia named in a
uture notice.
An Appeal in behalf of the Western
New York Anti-Slarery Fair.
Earnestly desiring the abolition of Slavery
in this land, and being deeply convinced that
this result can only be accomplished by renew
ed efforts to change our present corrupt moral
sentiment, the undersigned members and
friends of the Western New York Anti-slavery
Society, again make their appeal to the
friends of the Slave in behalf of their annual
Bazaar, which will be held in Rochester in
December next.
While we have been cheered and gladdened
by the progress already made, and the good
already done, and while we rejoice to observe
that friends have been raised up to plead the
cause of the bondman among persons, and in
quarters where we had least expected them,
we still see the “harvest to be great and the
laborers to be few,” and instead of relaxing
our efforts, we are impressed with a sense of
the duty of doubling our diligence, and ap
plying more closely our energy to the means
of advancing this holy cause.—We appeal the
more boldly to our friends because those for
whom we plead cannot plead for themselves.
W'hile we are surrounded by our domestic
circle, with none to molest or make us afraid,
there are three millions of men and women in
our own land, doomed to abject Slavery and
chains, robbed of every right—civil—social—
personal—and political. Remembering those
in bonds as bound with them, wc desire to
plead their cause as though they were on our
own limbs, and the knotted lash were applied
to our own backs.
While to obtain means for enlightening the
public mind, is the strong motive for holding
our annual Fair, it is not the only one. A
great amount of good may be traced directly
to such occasions. Many who are now ac
tive workers in behalf of this holy movement
became first interested in it through the in
strumentality of those annual exhibitions of
anti-slavery industry, tact and skill.
The present object of the Rochester anti
slavery Bazaar is for the general enlighten
ment of the public mind on the subject of sla
very. Recognizing the North Star, (published
in this city) as an efficient Anti-Slavery in
strumentality, we propose that the funds raised
by the Sale of articles at the Bazaar (on
behalf of which we here appeal) ahail be
mainly appropriated to the support of that
important paper.
We gatefully acknowledge the prompt as
sistance rendered to oar last Fair by our
fnends and coadjutors in various parts of our
own State, Wisconsin, and Michigan, and ire
earnestly solicit their continued co-operation
with us in the good wotk. That no time may
be lost, we especially recommend to them the
immediate formation of tewing circles in their
various towns with a view to making articles
for the Rochester Bazaar. W r e would also
in this connection render our heartfelt thanks
to oar British fnends for the valuable aid ex
tended by them to our last year's Fair ami
we would again warmly solicit their generous
assistance, it is due to oui tram-Atlantic
fri— fa to—y that far Mch of the iniemi fait
in oat bat Bazaar we warn todebied to than,
and Ira are paranaiiad that then cootiaoed
00-oparatioa trill r nan mil y promote the sue*
earn of oar approachiof December Bazaar,
and the advancement of the caoee of the slave
in oar laed.
We hope that the foregoing appeal will
commend itself to oat philanthropic friends on
both sides of the Atlantic, aod that they will
cordially unite with os in the effort here pro
posed.
Rest not—tagtanoci? rest
Straggle—’tn God’s behest*
Fill up Ufa’s little spaa
With God-like deeds it is the test—
Test of the high bore seal.
And lofty Sim;
The test ie history’s scroll
Oferery honored not:
None bat the Bnre shall win the goal*
Signed on behalf of the Fair Committee,
AMY POST.
Mkdical Uses or tic Wild Cherut.
—Ever sioce the settlement of America,
Wild Cherry has been known to possess very
important medicinal virtues. —Everybody
knew this fact, but nobody knew how ts ex
tract its essential properties. Every mother
give* Wild Cherry tea to her children for
worms, for colds, and for almost every dis
ease and adoita throughout our country are
in the habit of tnakiag a compound ef syrup
of Wild Cherry bark and other ingredients to
be used in spring as an antidote to complaints
incident to that changeful season. It is found
by experiment that the wild cherry possesses
even far more important qualities than was
ascribed to it. For the first stage of Con
sumption, Asthima, no matter how long
standing, Coughs, Liver Complaints, etc., it
is proved to be the bese medicine known to
man. Dr. Wistar’a Balsam of Wild Cherry
is a chemical extract, combined with a similar
extract from Tar, which enhanees its value.
Its success in curing pulmonary diseases, in
almost every stage, after our best physicians
could do no more, has astonished the faculty,
and led them to confess that Wistar’s Balsam
of Wild Cherry possesses a principal hereto
fore unknown among medical men.
None genuine, unless signed I. BUTTS,
on the wrsppet.
Testimony from Galena. —Fellow citi
zens:—l have used Sloan’s Ointment and
found it to be the best article that I have ever
used for injuries in horses and for a Family
Ointment. GEORGE RISEDORPH.
Galena, April l, 1848.
KP See Agents’ names at the head of
Sloan’a Column. For further particulars and
testimonials, get Pamphlets of agents.
ADELA.
I happened to be reaiding ml Naples
during the reaction and proscriptions
which succeeded the return of Ferdi
nand after the revolutionary crisis of
1799. Many of the victims were de
nounced by the priests as much for
their suspected heresy as for their trea- j
•onable practice. Father Don Alvez
was particularly active in this "pious
work." He was a younger member of
a Castilian house, aod had been bred
in the strictest discipline of the Jesuits.
He had spent his life in penances and
intrigues, the former, I presume, to
give him a keener relish for the latter,
and the latter to compensate for the
tedium of the former. At the time 1
knew him, he was past the middle age,
his features were already wrinkled with
years, but were marked by that haughty
and cruel expression so apt to be pro
duced by the indulgence of arbitrary
power- He had come to Naples with
high recommendations to the court, to
assist in purging the city of the disaf
fected. His diligence in this pursuit
was truly beyond parallel. 1 am yet
unable to conceive by what process he
became so minutely conversant with
the previous history of such an im
mense number of persons in so short a
time. His information was never at
fault, and his measures very rarely j
thwarted by miscalculation either in
design or e ecution. As soon as he
had made himself masterof a suspected
person, he did not at once act upon his
evidence to bring about an instant in
fliction of punishment, but used to give
the prisoner the benefit of a dogmatical
exposition of what he called “the sal
vation of the holy church.” If this had
the desired effect, after a little longer
confinement, the captive was liberated
on his good behavior. But if the here
tic persevered in his rejection of the
prescribed process, he was forthwith
I handed over to the headsman.
The society in which I moved made
me acquainted with Father Don Alvez.
I was then young and fond of adven
ture, and very naturally conceived a
strong desire of visiting with him some
of the unfortunates w..om the police
were constantly arresting by his orders.
By practising some courteous assidui
ties, as well as a little flattery, I ingra
tiated myself with him, and obtained
permission to accompany him on his
dismal visits to the prison.
After visiting one or two cells, in
which we found inmates quite willing
to believe any thing and every thing
which my guide thought proper to pro
pound, we entered a narrow, dismal
hole, surrounded by walls down which
the damp trickled almost ia a stream,
and with the floor composed of granite
of uneven surface and sharp edges.—
The torch carried by our attendant dis
covered a bundle of straw in the corner
farthest from the door, aud resting
upon it a young girl. Don Alvez mo
tioned to the jailor to withdraw. The
creaking of the hinges disturbed i he
prisoner. She started from her recum
bent posture, but her eyes had been
too long accustomed to darknes to en
dure the glare of the torchlight. She
arranged her disordered hair and cloth
ing as fast and as completely as she
could, and when at length she ventured
to scrutinise her visitors, 1 marked the
deep crimson that suffused her face
and bosom.
I had been accustomed to behold the
exceeding beauty of the women of
Spain aud Italy, but when I saw this
unfortunate captive, I felt at once that
I had never met with any one whose
loveliness was so perfect. When I say
that she was a Greek, and bore in
every lineament the impress of her
clime and nation, I need not attempt a
description.
Don Alvez told me, previous to en
tering the cell, that it contained a
heretic who had been some time under
confinement, and appeared resolved to
reject every chance of "salvation.”—
"This,” he added, "is the last oppor
tunity of repentance I shall give her.”
These words still echoed in my ear 9
as I contemplated the stern front of the
Jesuit and the pensive innocence of the
Greek maiden.
"Perverse child!” commenced Don
Alvez; "I have come once more to
offer thee liberty, and the favor of the
Virgin, if thou wilt embrace the holy
faith.”
Adela (so the jailer had whispered
ine she was called) had now sat down
on her coarse bed, and, with her hands
folded on her bosom, seemed prepared
for any calamity which might await her.
She returned no answer to the priest’s
observation.
What!” continued he; "dost thou
treat with contempt the servant of the
church? Mark me, perverse infidel!
Thy fate is in thy own hands. Thy
death, I swear by all the blessed saints,
shall be the penalty, if thou persistest
in thy unbelief; but if thou wilt listen
to the truth, not a hair on thy head
shall be injured. How sayest thou?
Caust thou endure death? or wilt thou
liver”
I am heedless of my fate,” replied
Adela, in a tone of melancholy, which
pierced my heart. Still not heed
less,” she added with animation, "so
long as I know not the fate of Conrade.
Tell m®, piicst, I conjure thee, is he in
thy power?”
Why is the fate of that young man
so dear to thee,” replied Don Alvez,
"that it is preferred to thine own sal
vation?”
Adela met the look of the Jesuit with
a calm and penetrating glance.
"Thou inayest be learned in thy
faith,” she said, but thou art a novice
here, [laying her hand upon her heart,]
if thou knowest not that a woman**
love, in dusting upon its object, forgets
all other interests.”
Then it is sinful, and deserves per
dition,” replied the priest.
Then it is impossible that 1 can be
saved,” quietly rejoined the youne
Greek.
What if I tel! thee,’* after a pause,
said Don Alvez, that Conrade is not
in my power, but hast left Naplee with
another paramour.”
Adels’s blood mounted to her cheeks
with indie nation, as she exclaimed*—
Then I till thee thou art a liar as
well ss a barbarian' Not for a moment
will 1 believe ao base a calumny!”
iuevleai bciettt I replied my com
panion; "I will for'the last time in
quire, dost thou refuse the mercy of the
church?”
"Do I refuse the mercy of the
church said Adela. Why, wretch
dost thou call these bolts and bars, thi'
dungeon, this darkness, my long impri-,
sonment, my wasted health, my tor-i
lured mind, my almost broken heart—
dost thou call these mercy? I know
not what is meant by the church, and I!
care not; I despise and reject both it;
and thee. You dragged me hither be
cause 1 worshipped according to the I
customs of my fathers and my nation;'
and you would have dragged hither
also one who was too noble, too gene- j
rous, all too worthy to commit the
smallest wrong. But he hss escaped
—thank Heaven, be has escaped. O,
Conrade!” she exclaimed, clasping her
ham's, "who shall love thee when
Adela is gone?”
For a short time, sobs convulsed her
beautiful form. She soon recovered,
and then added, with an emphasis I
shall never forget:
I do reject thee, thy mercy, and
thy church: 1 cannot believe that truth j
is allied to cruelty, or that Heaven has
given you power to destroy its own
creatures. I know not who is your
God, but I feel that the great and good
Intelligence, who rules the world, will
not punish me for serving him as I have
been taught, for believing as my simple
1 reason dictates, and, above all, for re
jecting your creed, so full of cruelty,
bloodshed, and oppression. Leave me
now; in an hour I will be ready to do
your bidding.”
Enough!” said Don Alvez, sternly,
and moved towaids the door. I took
advantage of his position to whisper to
Adela, Do not hope too much, but 1
will be your friend. Her lurge dark
eyes spoke a gratitude which I am
confldent I shall never again receive
from any human being.
The jailor fastened the heavy door,
and 1 followed Don Alvez, who was
hastening from the building. W hen 1
overtook him, I inquired his resolution
as to the fate of the young Greek.
She dies to-morrow, at noon,” was
the laconic reply.
It was then near evening. He was j
at first very unwilling to answer any j
questions concerning her, but, by dint
of close application, I extracted as
much intelligence as put ine on a track
by which I at length discovered Con
rade. 1 have not the abilty to describe
the gallant youth. There was the
genuine Attic stamp on his character
1 and frame. He entered eagerly into
my plan of rescue; it was sufficiently
perilous, but that to him was a recom
mendation rather than otherwise. The
design was to bribe the jailer to connive
at our admission to Adela’s cell, and
then to bring her away with us, and to
fight a passage through all opposition.
A friendly fisherman engaged to await
us in the bay w ith his skiff, at a point
trom which, fortunately, the prison was
not far distant. With some difficulty 1
obtained an interview with the jailor,
and for one hundred piasters received
his promise to admit us.
He was as good as his word. We
found Adela in a calm slumber. Per
haps she dreamed of Conrade, for the
instant ne stepped towards the couch
she sprang into his arms without a mo
ment’s doubt that it was any one but
him. She willingly resigned herself to
our direction. When we had emerged
from the cell, we gained the outer gate
before it was discovered that we had
with us the condemned captive. The
first and second assailants were laid at
Conrade’s feet by stabs from his rapier.
We were now in the street, fleeing for
our lives—Conrade first, with Adela on
his left arm. I defended the retreat.
The fate of the two men had a salutary
effect in checking the temerity of their,
companions. After some hard blows j
had been given and received, we gained
the beach. The fisherman placed A
dela in the boat, while Conrade and
myself stood at bay, and repulsed our
pursuers. I think another life was
sacrificed in the struggle. The case
was now desperate, for the number ol
enemies increased every moment.
threw ourselves into the boat, and the
first stroke shot us into deep water. A
volley of musket-balls whizzed over our
heads, without doing us any damage.
The night was daik, and we were row
ing with our utmost strength, two things
which every moment diminished our
danger. I cannot tell why no attempt
at a chase was made, but so it happen
ed that all our obstacles were at an
end when we left the shore.
Before daybreak we reached a con
trabandista in the offing; and when the
sun shone in full lustre on the city of
Naples, we were many leagues distant
down the Mediterranean.
My part of this adventure, of course,
exiled me from the Neapolitan metrop
lis for a time.
As the* excitement of the crisis died
away, Father Don Alvez found more
difficulties in procuring victims. His
zeal could not be satisfied with a soli
tary delinquent or two; so he retired to
Rome in a pique at the aversion of the
Neapolitans to undergo martyrdom.—
When he was gone. I had less difficul
ty in negotiating an indemnity. I was
attached to the locality, or I should not
have troubled myself to return.' But
now I regard Naples as the scene ol
the action which, of all others, I have
most occasion to look back upon with
pleasure.
Adela, I heard may years after from
an English captain, was the mother of
a numerous family. My informant had
visited her home; and, because he was
my countryman, had been treated with
the most distinguished respect.
Principle.—Never confide in the
principle of' a tiniid Iran. He who has
no courage cannot be said to have
principle; he may be disposed to virtue,
and uiav prefer pood to evil, but ht
is Hie sport of chance, and the slave of
circumstances. What avails the best
lucLumiulw, it ivauluiioii ue wanting to
put them in practice? A feeble and
irresolute man, who means well, is
more dangerous than an audacious aud
confirmed villain. You know the latter,
and are on your guard against him;
you rely upon the good intentions ol
the former, and discover too late, hk«
the son of Israel, that he is unstable a*
water, and shall not escel. A timid
man wan never become great; if he
possesses talent, he can never apply it;
he is trampled upon by the envious, and
awed by the staggering: he is thrust
from the direct path which alone leads
to honor and fame, by every aspirant
who possesses more spirit than himself.
DEFINITION OF “SNOBS
There is no way of defining this word
but by illustration.
The snob showed itself in Alexander
the Great, when he remarked, (lint
"were he not Alexander, he would
wish to be Diogenes,” alter s *me iuier- j
change of repartee between the vagrrnt
and himself, in which he (the Great)
had come off second best.
It was strongly developed in the con
duct of the Black Prince after the baitle i
of Poitiers, when he made his triumph
al entry into London, riding, bare
headed, on a very s-mall horse, meanly
caparisoned, while John of France, his
prisoner, who rode by his side, was os
tentatiously furnished with a splendid
charger.
It whs displayed in the behavior of
Cordelia, when she refused to humor
the whim of her already half-cracked,
doatmg, poor ola father, who wish'd
her (whom he had petted beyond Ins
other daughters) to say that she |«v* <1
him very dearly. An eminent divine
observes—How much of misery might
have been averted by a good spanking.
But a more familiar instance is af
forded in what may he called the "mer
chant prince snob,” of our own.day;
with a palace for a residence, lie oc
cupies but the basement, the patlors
being devoted to the four-times-a-year
reception of dinner or hall guests, un
less a domestic funeral should put in its
claim; with carriages and horses in
plenty, yet riding in an omnibus, the
fare of w hich, in the form of a sixpenny
piece, he geneially pulls from his
mouth, whfre he deposited it on enter
ing the vehicle, "that he might have it
handy;” lie pares and cleans his nails
with a sharp-pointed pen-knife during
the ride. With a library containing at
least a dictionary, he writes to his sad
dler for a self of harness—i hut all snobs
spell set with a double t) —and lie talks
to his tailor about pants.” lie stbp>
at the Wall street auction room in
company w ith another of the same spe
cies, and gazes through his hollow
hand at an "undoubted original,” in
the shape of a fouitli-rate copy of a
very had master, and talks over shoul
der of "tone” and "fore-shortening” to
his fellow, who pokes the ferule of his
cane against the stomach of one of the
figures in a brick-red cloak, and says
it "stands out.” He frequents wine
sales, and tastes every sample of Te
nerifi'e, Maderia, ami Honduras-port,
j until he "feels fine;” then he buys a
dozen of stuff that would he poison to
any hut his own set. He says lit
thinks he lias read all Scott’s novels.—
When he hears, and happily compre
hends, a witty remark, he approbates
by saying that it is "not so bad.” Hi
classical know ledge extends to the cull
ing of money "rocks;” for indeed ru
pees would have so signified vvijh the
Romans. His oricul facts are much
confined to Queen Anne farthings, ot
1 which, he states, there are but two
and the guillotine, by which he tell?
you the inventor was the first to perish,
j He carries his portmanteau from the
steamboat through Broadway, (pushing
aside the hungry hoy who applies foi
i the office) that the people u ay see that
j he is not proud—contriving, however,
to hold it in a very awkward manner,
j to indicate that he lias not been accus
tomed to such work; nor has he, for In?
father was u journeyman bricklayer,
and he hirnseii commenced by selling
old junk. He sometimes suffers In?
hair to grow on his upper lip, but is
discouraged on overlie wing a person
say lie looks like a billiard-maker. He
i tries on your glove, and considers it no
stretch of familiarity. He reads the
I newspapers silently, yet moving Ins
lips, and pours vinegar on his oysters.
When he goes to the country a week
in Ihe month of August, he assumes tin
neglige dress which looks sufficiently
well on a thorough bred, hut knocks
i him hack at once into the bricklayer’s
son, assisting him to an air of latliei
more dissipation, perhaps, than would
he likely to insure him an eligible situ
-1 alien as hodsmun. His salutation is,
1 Sir, your most.” He has a great
fund of humor in the barber’s shop, and
"rui s” the hoy he is putting much
grease on his hair. He computes
fineness of labric wan a brother snob,
who, like himself, has just "mounted a
I new pair of pants.” He quotes, and
says he is "a looker on in Venice.”
To sum up. his constant aim is to
"cut a figure,” which indeed lie does
—he is a vulgar fraction.— Lift for the
Lazy.
A Cool Operation. Hallo there,
capting,” said a brother Jonathan to a
captain on a canal packet on the Erie
Canal, "What do you charge for a
passage?”
Three cents per mile, and board
ed,” said the captain.
"Wall, I guess I’ll take passage,
capting, seein’ as how I’m kinder gin
eout walkin’ so far.”
Accord'ngly lie got on hoard ju*t as
the steward was ringing t'le hell for
dinner. Jonathan sat down and began
to demolish the "fixing” to the utter
consternation of the captain, until be
had cleaned the table of all shat was
eatable, when he got up and went Mi
deck picking his teeth very comfort
ably.
How far is it, capting, from here
to where 1 came aboard?”
Nearly one and a half miles,” said
the captain.
"Let’s see,” said Jonathan, "that
would be just four ao*i a half cents;
but never mind, capting, 1 won’t he
small; here’s five cents, which pays
my fare to here; I guess I’ll go ashore
now; I’m kinder rested.”
'I he captain vaunted for the cabin
and Jonathan went ashore. ihe cap
tain did not take anv more wav nas
«r»rnTr>” *Lr< Ti’i J Cl'
Js' ut *„e wiisuii.
Yankee Blade.
A young married lady being told
that St. Paul said (hat "they who mar
ried did well, but they who did not
marry did better,” replied, that "she
did not want to do any better than well
Tmk lioi%iil.!,,i .itaiia .Monk died at
the Alma House on Blackwell island,
a lew daya since