ARGUMENT
Of Charles Sumner, Esq., against the Con
stitutionality of Separate Colored Schools
in the case of Sarah C. Roberts vs. The
City of Boston. Before the Supreme Court
of Mass., Dec. 4, 1849.
[continued.]
VII. The Court will declare the by
law of the School Committee of Boston
making a discrimination of color among
Children of the Public Schools, to be
unconstitutional and illegal, although
there are no express words of prohibi
tion in the constitution and laws.
It is hardly necessary to say any
thing in support of this proposition.
Slavery was abolished in Massachu
setts, by virtue of the declaration of
rights in our constitution, without any
specific words of abolition in that in
strument, or in any subsequent legisla
tion. (Commonwealth vs. Aves, 18
Pick. R. 210.) The same words
which are potent to destroy slavery,
must be equally potent against any in
stitution founded on inequality or caste.
The case of Boston vs. Shaw, (Met
calf 130,) to which reference has been
al.'cady made, where a by-law of the
city was set aside as unequal and un
reasonable, and therefore void, affords
another example of the power which 1
oow invoke the Court to exercise.
But authorities are not needed The
words of the Constitution are plain,
and it will be the duty of the Court to
see that these are applied to the dis
crimination of color now in question.
la doing this, the Court might justly
feel great delicacy, if they were called
upon to revise a law of the legislature.
But it is simply the action of a local
committee that they are to overrule.
They may also be encouraged by the
fact, that if is only to the Schools of
Boston that their decision can be appli
cable. The other towns throughout
the Commonwealth have already vol
untarily banished Caste. In removing
it from the schools of Boston, the Court
will bring them into much-desired har
mony with the schools of other towns,
and with the whole system of Public
Schools in Massachusetts. 1 am un
willing to suppose that there can be any
hesitation or doubt tn coming to this
conclusion. But if any should arise,
there is a rule of interpretation which
may be our guide. It is according to
familiar practice that every interpreta
tion is made always in favor of life or
liberty. So here, the Court should in
cline in favor of Equality, that sacred
right which is the companion oi these
other rights. In proportion to the im
portance of this right will the Court be
solicitous to vindicate it and uphold it.
And in proportion to Ihe opposition
which it encountres from the predjudi
ces of society, will the Court brace
themselves iu this task. It has been
pointedly remarked by Rousseau that
it is precisely because the force
of things tends always to desToy
Equality, that the force of legislation
ought always to tend to maintain it."
(Central Social, iiv. 2, chap. 11.) In
similar spirit, and for the same rea
son, the Court should always tend to
Maintain it.
There are other matters not strictly
belonging to the juridical aspect ol the
case, ana yet of importance to its clear
comprehension, upon which I shall
touch briefly bofore l close.
It is sometimes said in extenuation
of the present system in Boston, that
the separation of the white aud black
children waa originally made at the re
quest of the colored parents. This is
substantially true. It appears from the
iatefeetiog letter of*Dr. Belknap, in re
ply to Judge Tucker’s queries respect
ing slavery in Massachusetts, written
tithe dose of the last century, (4 Masi
Hint. jCall. W 7,) that at that tima n<
RTGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—
discrimination on account of color was
made in the public schools of Boston.
“The same provision,” he says’ “is
made by the public for the education
of the children of the blacks, as for
those of the whites. In this town, the
Committee who superintend tho free
schools, have given in charge to the
schoolmasters to receive and instruct
black children as well as white.” Dr.
Belknap adds, however, that he has
not hoard of more than three or four
who have taken advantage of this priv
ilege, though the number of blacks in
Boston prooably exceeded one thou
sand. It is to he feared that the inhu
man bigotry of Caste—sad relic of the
servitude from which they had just es
caped!—was at this time too strong to
allow colored children a kindly wel
come in the free schools, and that from;
timidity and ignorance, they shrank
from taking their places on the same
benches with the white children. Per-,
haps the prejudice against them was
so inveterate that they could not ven
ture to assert their rights. It appears 1
that in 1800, a petition was presented
to the School Committee from sixty-six,
colored persons, praying for the estab
lishment of a school for their benefit.
Private munificence came to the aid of
the city,” and the present system of sep
arate schools was brought into be
ing-
These facts are interesting in the
history of the Boston Schools, but they
cannot in any way affect the rights of
the colored people, or the powers of the
Committee. These rights and these
powers stand on the Constitution and
laws of the Commonwealth. Without
adopting tho suggestion of Jefferson,
that one generation cannot by legisla
tion bind its successors, all must agree
that the assent of a few persons, nearly
a century ago—at the time when their
rights were imperfectly understood—
to an unconstitutional and illegal
course, cannot alter the Constitution
and the laws, and bind their descend
ants forever in the thrall of Caste.
Nor can the Committee derive from
this assent, or from any lapse of time
powers in derogation of the Constitu
tion and of the Rights of Man.
It is clear that the sentiments of the
colored people have now changed.
The present case, and the deep inter
est which they manifest in it, thronging
the court to hang on this discussion,
attest the change. With increasing,
knowledge, they have learned to know
their rights, and to (eel the degradation
to which they have been doomed.
Their present effort is the token of
manly character which this court will
cherish and respect. Tb« spirit ot
Paul now revives in them, even as
when he said, “I am a Roman citi
zen.”
But it is said that these separate
schools are for the mutual benefit of
children of both colors, and ofthe Pub
lic Schools. In similar spirit, slavery
is sometimes said to be for the mutual
benefit of master and slave, and of the
country where it exists. In one case
there is a mistake as great as ir the
ather. This is clear. Nothing unjust,
nothing ungenerous can be for the ben
efit of any person, or anything. Short
sighted mortals may hope to draw from
some seeming selfish superiority, or
from a gratified vanity of class, a per
manent good; but even-handed justice
rebukes these efforts, and with certain
power redresses the wrong. The
whites thernsel/esjare injured by the
separation. Who can doubt this?
With the law as their monitor, they
are taught to regard a portion of the
human family, children of God, created
in his image, co-equal in his love, as
a separate and degraded class—th?y
are taught practically to deny that
grand revelation of Christianity—the
Brotherhood ofMankind. Their hearts
while yet tender with childhood, are
necessarily hardened by this conduct,
and their subsequent lives, perhaps,
bear enduring testimony to this legali
zed uncharitablcness. Nursed in the
sentiment of Caste, receiving it with
the earliest food of knowledge, they
are unable to eradicate it from their
natures, and then weakly and impious
ly charge upon their Heavenly Father
the prejudice which they have derived
from an unchristian school, and which
they continue to embody and perpetu
ate in their institutions. Their char
acters are debased, and they become
less fit for the magnanimous duties of
a good citizen.
The Helots of Sparta were obliged to
intoxicate themselves, that they might
teach to the children of their masters
the deformity of intemperance. In
thus sacrificing one class to the other,
both were degraded—the imperious
Spartan and the abased Helot. But
it is with a similar double-edged injus
tice tout the School Committee of Bos
ton have acted, in sacrificing the col
ored children to the prejudice or fanci
ed advantage of the while.
It is fit that a child should be taught
to shun wickedness, and, as he is yet
plastic to receive impressions, to shun
wicked men. Horace was right, when,
speaking of a person morally wrong,
false and unjust, he called him black,
saying,
—hie niger wt, buac ta, Ron:unt, caf*to.
The Boston Committee adopt the
warning, but apply it, not to those
black in heart, but only black in skin
They forget the admonition addressei
I to the prophet: “But the Lord said on
to Samuel, look not on hi» countenance
for the Lord seelh not as man seeth
for man looketh on the outward ap
pearance, but the Lord looketh at Ik
Wt.” (I Samuel, chap 16, v, 7.)
Who can say, that this dew net io
jure the blacks? Theirs, in its best
estate, is an unhappy lot. Shut out by
a still lingering prejudice from many
social advantages, a despised class,
they feel this proscription from the
Public Schools as a peculiar brand.
Beyond this, it deprives them of those
healthful animating influences which
would come from a participation in the
studies of their white brethren. It
adds to their discouragements. It wi
dens their separation from the rest of
the community, and postpones that
great day of reconciliation which is sure
to come.
The whole system of public schools
suffers also. It is a narrow perception
of their high aim which teaches that
they are merely to furnish to all the
scholars an equal amount in knowledge,
and that, therefore, provided all be
taught, it is of little consequence where
and in what company it be done. The
law contemplated not only that they
shall all be taught, but that they shall
be taught all together. Tney are not
only to receive equal quantities ol
knowledge, but all are to receive it in
the same way. All are to approach
together the same common fountain;
nor can there be any exclusive scource
for any individual or any class. The
school is the little world in which the
child is trained for the larger world of
life. It must, therefore, cherish and
develop the virtues and the sympathies
which are employed in the larger world.
And since, according to our institutions
all classes meet, without distinction of
color, in the perfonnrnce of civil duties
so should they all meet, without dis
tinction of color, in the school, begin
ning there those relations of equality
which our Constitution and laws prom
ise to all.
As the State receives strength from
the unity and solidarity of its citizens,
without distinction of class, so tho
school receives new strength from the
unity and solidarity of all classes be
neath its root. In this way, the poor,
the humble, the neglected, share not
only the companionship of their more
favored brethren, but enjoy also the
protection of their presence, in drawing
towards the school a more watchful su
perintendence. A degraded or neg
lected class if left to themselves, will
become more degraded or neglected.
To him that hath shall be given; and
the world, true to these words, turns
from the poor and outcast to the rich
and fortunate. It is the aim of our
system of Public Schools, by the blend
ing of all classes, to draw upon the
whole school the attention which is too
apt to be given only to the favored few
and thus secure to the poor their por
tion of the fruitful sunshine. But the
colored children, placed apart by them
selves, are deprived of this blessing.
Nothing is more clear than that the
welfare of classes, as well as of indi
viduals, is promoted by mutual ac
quaintance. The French and English
or a long time regarded as natural en
emies, have at list, from amort inti
mats communion, found themselves to
be natural friends. Prejudice is the
child of ignorance. It is sure to pre
vail where people do not know each
other. Society and intercourse are
means established by Providence for
human improvement. They remove
antipathies, promote mutual adaptation
and conciliation, and establish relations
of reciprocal regard. Whoso sets up
barriers there, thwarts the ways ol
Providence, crosses the tendencies of
human nature, and directly interferes
with the laws of God.
May it please your Honors: Such
are some of the the things which it has
occured to me to say in this important
cause. I have occupied much ol vour
time, but I nave not yet exhausted the
topics. Still, which way soever we
tt rn, we are brought back to one sin
gle proposition —the equality of men be
fore the laic. This stands as the migh
ty guardian of the rights of the colored
children in this case. It is the con
stant, ever-present, tutelary genius of
this commonwealth, frowning upon ev
ery privilege of birth, upon every dis
tinction of race, upon every institution
ofsCaste. You cannot slight it, or
avoid it. You cannot restrain it. It
remains that you should welcome it.
Do this, and your words will be a
“charter and freehold of rejoicing” to
a race which has earned by much
suffering a title to much regard.
Your judgement will become a sacred
landmark, not in jurisprudence only,
but in the history of Freedom, giving
precious encouragement to alt the wea
ry and heavy-laden wayfarers in this
great cause. Massachusetts will then,
through you, have a fresh title to re
gard, and be once more, as in times
past, an example to the whole land.
You have already banished slavery
from this Commonwealth. I call upon
you now to obliterate the last of its
footprints, and to banish the lad
of the hateful spirits in its train, thal
can be reached by this Court. The
law interfering to prohibit marriagei
between blacks and whites, has beei
abolished by the Legislature. Th<
railroads, which, imitating the Bostoi
schools, placed colored people in I
ear by themselves, have been compel
led, under the influence of an awaden
ed public sentiment, to abandon thi
regulation, and to allow them to min
gle with other travellers. It is only re
cently that i have read that his Excel
lency the present Govenor of Msssa
chusetts, food his seat in a car by th
side of a negro. It is in the Cast
schools of Boston that the prejudice
t color has sought its final legal refugt
It is for you to drive it forth. You
will when yon rebuke end correct is
ROCHESTER, N. Y.,’ FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1850.
dividual offences; but it is a higher of
fice far to rebuke and correct a vicious
institution. Each individual is limited
in his influence; but an institution has
the influence of numbers organized by
law. The charity of one man may
counteract or remedy the uncharitable
ness of an established institution.
Against it private benevolence is pow
erless. It is a monster which mast be
hunted down by the public, and by it.*
constituted authorities. Arid suc'vljg,
the institution of Caste m the rublfc
Schools of Boston, w hich now awaits
its jnst condemnation from a just
Court.
The civilization of the age joins in
this appeal. It is well known that this
prejudice of color is peculiar to our
country. You have not forgotten that
two youth of African blood only recent
ly gained the highest honors in.the col
lege at Paris, and dined on the same
day with the king of France, the des
cendant of St. Louis, at the palace ol
the Tuilleries. And let me add, if 1
may refer to my own experience, that
in Paris, I have sat for weeks, at the
School of Law, on the same benches
with colored persons, listening, like
myself, to the learned lectures of Dt
grando and of Rossi—the last is ths
eminent minister who has unhappily
fallen beneath the dagger of a Roman
assassin; nor do I remember observing
in the throng of sensitive young men
by whom they were surrounded, any
feeling towards them except of com
panionship and respect. In Italy, at
the Convent of Pallazuola, on the
shores of the Alban Lake, and on the
site of the ancient Alba Longa, I have
seen, for several days, a native ot
Abyssinia, only recently conducted
from his torrid home, and ignorant of 1
the language that was spoken about
him, yet mingling with the Franciscan;
friars, whose guest and scholar he was,
in delightful and affectionate familial i-!
ty. In these examples may be dis
cerned the Christian spirit.
And, finally, it is this spirit that 1
invoke. Where this prevai/s, there is
neither Jew nor Gentile, Greek nor
barbarian, bond nor free; but all are
alike. It is from this that we derive
new and solemn assurance of the
equality of mankind, as an ordinance
of God.' The bodies of men may be
unequal in beauty or strength; these
mortal clouks of flesh inay differ, as!
do theg« worldly garments; theag in-j
tellectual faculties may vary,*\fc do!
the opportunities of action, and trie ad
vantages of position; but amidst all
unessential differences there isanes-j
sential agreement and equality. Dives
and Lazarus were equal in the sight j
of God. They must be equal in the
sight of all just institutions.
But this is not all. The vaunted
superiority of the white race imposes
upon it corresponding duties. The
faculties with which they are endowed,
and the advantages which they possess,
are to be exercised for the good of all.
If the colored people are ignorant, de
graded, and unhappy, then should they
be the especial objects of your care. l
From the abundance of your posses
sions you must seek to remedy their
lot. And this Court, which is as a
parent to all the unfortunate children of
the Commonwealth, will show ftsclf
most truly parental, when it reaches
down, and, with the strong arm of the
law, elevates, encourages, and protects
its colored fellow-citizens.
From tke Liberator.
Last autumn, when President
Taylor was making his tour at the
North, and his presence was daily ex
pected in Boston, the following cogent
appeal to his conscience was drawn up
in behalf of the Managers of the Mas
sachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and
designed to have been officially pre
sented to him on his arrival. As cir
cumstances prevented his contemplated
visit, of ccurse the letter was not deli
vered', but. its publication is now con
sidered desirable.
LETTER TO PRESIDENT TAYLOR.
Boston, Sept. 1, 1819.
To Zachary Taylor,
President of the United States.
Sir —ln behalf of the Massachusetts
Anti-Slavery Society, composed of the
friends of immediate and unconditional
emancipation, the undersigned feel
morally bound to lay before you some
of the reasons why they cannot unite
in any puolic or private manifeStatiojis
of pleasure at your presence in the
Commonwealth.
Standing aloof, as they do, from
every political party in the land, they
are not actuated by any partisan spirit,
but by the strongest moral convictions
of duty. They make no apology for
addressing you, as none is needed in
so strong)a case. They do not wish or
design to give offence, or to be lacking
in due respect; on the contrary, their
aim is to rouse y our conscience aud to
i soften your heart, in order that you
i may feel irresistibly impelled to the
performance of an act, demanded alike
i by the diotates of nature and the com
i inands of God—namely, the liberation
of all your staves.
You are the chief magistrate of a
i nation claiming to be free, republican,
Christian. The office ceases to de
serve respect, when the people dese
crate it by the election of a tyrant to
fill it. You do not owe your election
j to any virtues that adorn the human
s character, to any merits that give
f lustre to human life, to any deeds that
deserve human applauae. For your
o victories in a wantonly aggressive war
upon nation equally impotent and
god is the father of us all, and all men are brethren.
unoffending—a war haring for its prime
object the extension and perpetuation
of human slavery, by the conquest an<!
annexation of new territories foi
these, and for nothing else, were you
hurried from the camp into the Presi
dential chair. The real object of that
inglorious and iniquitous war, you
knew too well, to admit of the slightest
justification for your conduct. You
have been the successful perpetrator of
robbery, murder, and other atrocities,
on a"gigantic scale; and your reward
haa been found in the votes and the
applauses of a people laden with ini
quity,’—whose hands are full of blood,
whose hypocrisy and oppression sur
pass all that is recorded of the ancient
Jews, —and who glory in their shame.
But, aside from your deep participa
tion in a war urifcirpassed for the enor
mity of its object, you are holding in
slavery, for your sole benefit and as
absolute property, men, women and
children, created in the image of God,
and born with an inalienable right to
liberty. No language can describe
the cruelty and impiety of such an
act, in all its legitimate consequences.
Where is your justification Is it that
you gave a fair pecuniary equivalent
for your victims as marketable com
modities? But you knew that they
could rightly belong to no human pos
sessor, and that none but God could
truly say, ‘Those souls are mine.’
You could not rationally doubt that He
created them, like the rest of the hu
man race, a little lower than the
angels, and crowned them with glory
and honor. In one sense only are any
of the humau family legitimately
bought with a price,’ and then only
that they be not the servants of men,’
and that they may glorify God in their
bodies and spirits which are his,’ which
they cannot do while held in a state of
beastly servitude. In vain will you
try to shield yourself from condemna
tion as one guilty of the highest kind
of theft.’ You are a man-stealer;
honored, flattered, 'caressed and e\-
toiled, it is true, but still a man-steal
er; and the hire of the laborers who
have reaped -down your fields, which
is of you kept back by fraud, cries un
ceasingly to heaven.
It is said that you are an honest
man. This cannot be true, as you aie
daily plundering those whom you are
driving to unrequited toil under the
lash of brutal drivers. It is said that
you are a brave man. But a brave
man never yet struck down every bar
rier of womanly protection, and gave
her over to pollution and stripes. The
honesty that is current among a dis
honest people—the bravery that is ap
plauded by those who tread the weak
and helpless, like ashes, under their
feet—is assuredly spurious. It is said
that you are fatherly in your feelings
and affections. If this were so, you
could not steal from their cradles the
babes of slave mothers on your planta-
tions, nor sell those mothers at public
or private vendue. It is said that you
are not inflated with pride or vanity.
But what is that state of mind which
looks down upon human beings as
only fit to be registered with cattle and
swine, and aspires to be among the
largest proprietors of them? No mat
ter what sycophants may day of you—
the idol, the altar, the incense, the
worshippers, are all to be put in the
same category.
To be placed over a people, that re
duce to the condition of things three
millions of their number—at the head
of a nation, in which slave-holding,
slave-breeding and slave-trading are
lawful transactions—is not an honor
able distinction, but only to be conspi
cuous among the wicked. As you
make your presidential tour from State
to State, they may extend to you the
welcome hand, and shout at your ap
proach; but, high above their acclam
mations and the roar of cannon, the
shrieks and groans of crushed and fet
tered millions shall ascend, and pierce
the ear of Him who proclaims, Woe
unto the wicked! it shall be ill with
him; for the reward of his hands shall
be given him. 1
A Southern man by birth—an exten
sive slaveholder and planter you
know what slavery is, both in its legal
forms and practical bearings. Yost
know it is the quenching of intellectual
light, the barrier to moral growth, the
destruction of manhood, the abrogation
of the marriage institution, the hot-bed
of every species of immorality, the
climax of tyranny. You know it
curses the soil on which it rests, pul
lies the American character, exposes
the land to dire calamities and exter
minating judgments, and cansjb its
footsteps everywhere to be marked bj
pollution and blood. You know that it
dethrones the Almighty, and exalts the
slaveholder above ail that is called
God;' that it renders impossible among
Us victims, the sanctity of wedlock, the
protection of the sacred relations of
life, the growth of virtue, the cultiva
tion of mind; and that to slaves belong
neither homes nor firesides—neither
their bodies nor their souls. Yet
knowing all this, you connive at it all,
assent to it all, practise it all; and,
therefore, are unworthy of tbe coun
tenance of any but tbe most execrable
of mankiod.
Your parasites call you the second
Washington.’ In one particular, you
can surpass the first. He liberated
bis slaves only in the hour of death;
you can liberate yours in the vigor of
health, and thus exhibit greater moral
courage and ft higher sense of justice.
A» Pnaidont of th« Uoilod S»te.,
«a. “rrr:r.r c,p N‘:
U9O, by ÜbtrMing «I 1 /oar No
j matter what may be the immediate
j consequences of such an act to yotu
reputation, pecuniary interest, or per
sonal safety. It will be sure to bring
upon you the reproaches of the vile,
the sneers of the inhuman, the cursei
of the traffickers in human flesh; bui
it will also secure for you the grateful
offerings of the emancipated, the joys
of ap approving conscience, and the
smiles and benedictions of God.
In behalf of the Board of Managers
of the ManwirnnH* So
ciety,
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
Edmund Quincy, Secretary.
From the N. Y. Tribune.
BILLS FOR THE ADMISSION OF
CALIFORNIA.
In the House of Representatives on
the 17th ult. Mr. Doty submitted the
following Bill to admit the State of
California into the Union:
Whereas, the people of California
have formed for themselves a Constitu
tion and State Government, and applied
for admission into the Union as a
State, and whereas the said Constitu
tion has been officially communicated
to Congress, and is republican
Tnerefore,
Be it enacted, That the State of
California, with the boundaries describ
in the said Constitution, shall be one,
and is hereby declared to be one, of;
the United States of America, and ad
mitted into the Union on an equal foot
ing with the original States in all re
spects whatever.
Section 2. The said State of Cali
fornia shall never interfere with the
primary disposal of the soil within the
same by the United States, nor with j
any regulations Congress may make
for securing the title in such soil to
bona fide purchasers thereof; and no
tax shall be imposed on lands the pro
perty of the United States; which said
provisions are hereby declared to be
fundamental conditions upon which the
said State is admitted into the Union.
Mr. Gbeen submitted the following
as an amendment to the proposition of
Mr. Doty:
Provided, however, That the South
ern boundary of the State of California
shall be the parallel of latitude of
thirty-six degrees and thirty minutes:
And provided further, That the line of
thirty-six degrees and thirty minutes
of north latitude, known as the Missou
ri compromise line as defined by the
eighth section of an act entitled “An act
to authorize the people of the Missouri
Territory, to form a Constitution and
Slate Government, and for the admis
sion of such State into the Union on an
equal fooling with the original States,
and to prohibit Slavery in certain Ter
ritories,” approved March 6, 1820, be,
and the same is hereby, declared to ex
tend to the Pacific Ocean, and the said
eighth section,togetherwitfi the compro
mise therein effected, is hereby revived,
and declared to be in full force and
binding for the future organization of
the United States, in the same sense
and with the same understanding with
which it was originally adopted.
Mr. R. M. McLane submitted the
following as a substitute for the propo
sition of Mr. Doty:
Whereas, The people of a portion of
the Territory of California, did, on the
day of in the year one thou
sand eight hundred and forty-nine, by
a Convention of Delegates, called and
assembled for that purpose, form for
themselves a Constitution and State
Government, which Constitution and
State Government, so formed, is repub
lican; and whereas, the number of in
habitants within the said Territory be
ing citizens of the United States ex
ceeds one hundred thousand persons;
and whereas it is deemed expedient and
proper, that the ConstitutigA and State
Government which the have
formed for themselves be, and the same
is hereby, accepted, ratified, and con
firmed, except so much thereof as re
lates to and defines the boundaries of
said State,
Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the States
of America in Congress assembled, That
the State of California shall be oee,
and is hereby declared to be oop of
the foiled States of America, and ad
mitted into the Union on an equal foct
ing with thw original States, in all qjjg
spects whatever, and the said SlaH
shall consist of all territories acquired
by the United States from the republic
of Mexico by the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo, lyjhig west of the western
boundary of th* Territory of New-
Mexico, as laid down and defined oo
Disturuel’s map attached to said treaty;
and until otherwise provided for, the
jurisdiction of the State of Texas shall
be extended over the said Territory
of.New-Mexieo, aiw so much of the
same as lies west of the western fosnd
ary of Texas,as the exmting
laws and statutes of'Bhb, is hereby
ceded to the State ofreserving
to the United States alljmrar and aP
thority to sell, dispose 04, and regulate
the sale of the vacant unsold lands be
longing to the United States as Jrifras
the same right is herein
in the said State of California; IVbvid
ed always, That this admission is uporr
the express condition that the said Stat|
shall oonsist of and have jurisdiction
over all the said Territory, and over
none other: Jnd provided further That
a compliance with this fundamental con
dition ot admission shall be manifestd
by the assent ot a Convention of Dele
gates elected by the people of the said
Sut». for th, purpose of giving tho
sent herein required; and as soon as
the assent herein required shell be fit
WHOLE NO. 117.
J en, the President of the United States
•hall announce the same by proclama
tion; and thereupon, and without any
further proceedings on the part of Con
gress' the admission of the said State
into the Union as one of the United
States of America, on an equal footing
as aforesaid with the original Statss in
all respects whatever, shall be consid
ered as complete, and the Senators and
Representatives who may be elected
by the said state as its representation
frjhVgaMCTW Of “WtJSUIM
shall be jsituned to tm mail in
the Senate and House of Represents
tives respectively without further de
lay.
§2. And be it further enacted, That
nothing in this act contained or in the
admission of the said State into the
Union as one of the United States of
America upon an equal footing with the
original States in all respects whatever,
shall be constructed or understood as
to confer upon the people, Legislature,
or other authorities of the said State of
California, any authority or right to in
terfere with the sale or disposition by
the United States, and under their au
thority, of the vacant and unsold lands
within the limits of said State, hut that
the subject of the public lands, and the
interest which may be given to the said
State therein, shall be regulated by fu
ture action between Congress, on the
part of the United States, and the said
State, or the authorities thereof. And
the said State of California shall in no
case, and under no pretence whatso
ever, impose any tax, assessment, or
imposition of any description, upon any
of the lands of the United States within
its limits.
§3. And be it further enacted, That
until the next general census shall be
taken, the said State of California shall
be entitled to two Representatives in
:he United States.
§4. And be it further enacted, Tha
ill the laws of the United States, whice
ire not locally inapplicable shall havh
he same force and effect within the
said State of California as elsewhere
within the United States.
THEY SAY
Well what if they do? It may not be
true. A great many talse reports are
circulated, and the reputation of a
gltod man may be sadly sullied by a
baseless rumor. Have you any reason
to better e that what they say concern
ing your brother is true? If not, why
should you permit your name to be
included among the "they’* who circu
late a scandal
They say Who says? Is any
person responsible for the assertion?
Such phrases are frequently used to
conceal the point of a poignard, who
thus meanly strikes one whom he dare
not openly assail. Are you helping
the cowardly attack? If "they" means
nobody, then regard the rumor as no
hing.
They say Why do they say so?
Is any good purpose secured by the
circulation of the report? Will it bene
fit the individual to have it known; cr
will any interests of society be promo
ted by whispering it about? If not,
jrou had better employ time and speech
to some more worthy purpose.
They say .To whom do they
lay it To those who have no busi
ness with the affair? To those who
cannot help it or mend it, or prevent
any unpleasant results? That certainly
shows a tattling, scandal-loving spirit
that ought to be rebuked.
They say Well, do they say it
to him Or are they very careful to
whisper it in places where he cannot
hear, and to persons who are known
not to be his friends? Would they
dare to say it to him, as well as about
him? No one has a right to say that
concerning another which h« is|not
ready to speak in his own ear.
They say- Well, suppose it is
true. Are you not sorry for it; or do
you rejoice that a brother has been dis
covered erring. Oh, pity him, if he
has fallen into sin, and ptay for him
that he may be forgiven and restored.
If it should be true, don’t bruit k
aboad to his Mury. It will not benefit
you, nor hiwaor society, to
his faults. Hu are as liableHftbe
slandered, or to err, as your bnOpr,
and as you would that be should deiei'd,
er excuse, er forgive you, do you even
so to him.— Watchman <Sr Reflector.
JgLvmMW Slaves. •—Some five
jjypß ago,Hk Sampson Saunders, a
wealthy gei* Rufegt' virgin** made
preparatiomßHgffig|B establishment ot
his slaves, in Michigan.
Death prev«|HHEs from personaly
carrying it but he commit
ted it to the hanlrof his friends, and
with the deed of commission, the sum
of $15,000 to carry the settlement into
practice. Since then a place has been
purchased in Cassopolis, and 100
freed slaves have been located sers
Comfortably. Some Whf slav*Jr fcad
considerable sums in the hinds of Mr.
Saunders, one of them $l5OO, others
ofwhich haa been peltl eieele him.
Some ogrtion of thh wae used
Jor UHppurchaae oflllNßM#
to other
uioet instances the slaves *PP* t ®Pjl£ te
their earomp to free their mothers
from bondmm.
W
The Jaws irt Hecklenburg-Sch**-
jus. —The aci for the complete eman
cipation of the Jews of this duchy,
which was puhlished on the 15th ult.,
Uw of the land, Jewish Chronicle
the NORTH STAR.
I ROCHESTER, MARCH 22, 1850.
Tar North Star is sometimes *ent to friend*
who do not take the paper, in the hope that they
may tee fit to subscribe for it. Subscriptions and
donations for the same may be safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederics Douglass, Rochester,
N.Y.
09*Wakted Several Travellibg Agebts,
to procure subscribers for the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None need apply
but such as can bring good recommendations for
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to FRED
ERICK Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
We cheerfully yield our entire apace this
week to the publication of the very able and
manly apeech of Gov. Seward. We make
oo apology for pursuing this course, being
sore that it would be impossible for us to
preaent our readers with anything more im
portant or interesting upon the great and all
absorbing question of the dsy.—r. d.
Got* Seward's Speech oh the Slavery
Question,
Delivered in the United States Senate, Mar. 11.
Mr. Seward haying the floor, rose and
said:
Mr. President: Four years ago, California
•caTeely inhabited, and quite unexplored, wa:
unknown even to our usually immoderate de
sires, except by a harbor, capacious and tran
quit, which only statesmen then foresaw
would be useful in the Oriental commerce oi
a far distant, if not merely chimerical future
A year ago, California was merely a mill
tary dependency of ou? own, and we wen
celebrating with enthusiasm and unanimity
its acquisition, with its newly discoveied, bu
yet untold and untouched mineral wealth; at
the most auspicious of many and unparaller
achievements.
To-day, California is a State, more popu
lous than the least, and richer than several o
the greatest of our thirty States. The sami
California, thus rich and populous, is heri
asking admission into the Union, and finds u
debating the dissolution of the Union itself
No wonder if we are perplexed with ever
changing embarrassments; no wonder if w
are appalled by ever-increasing responsib:
lilies! No wonder if we are bewildered b
the ever-augmenting magnitude and rapidit
of national vicissitudes!
SHALL CALIFORNIA BE RECEIVED 1
For myself, upon my individual judgmei
and conscience, I answer. Yes For mysel
as an instructed Representatives of one of th
States—of that one, even, of the Statei
which is soonest and longest to he presse
into commercial and political rivalry by th
new Commonwealth, 1 answer, Yes! Lt
California come in. Everv new State, whe
ther she comes from the or from th
west, coming from whatever part of the cor
tinent she may, is always welcome. Bu
California, that comes from the clime wher
the West dies away into the rising East-
Caiifornia, which bounds at once the Ernpii
and the Continent—California, the youthfi
Queen of the Pacific, in her robes of Free
dom, gorgeously inlaid with gold, is doubl
welcome.
And now I inquire, First, Why shoul
California be rejected t All the objections ar
founded only in the circumstances of he
coming, and in the organic law which sh
piesenls for our confirmation.
First, California comes unceremoniously
without a preliminary consent of Congress
and therefore by usurpation. This allega
tion, I think is not quite true—at lea.*
not quite true in spirit. California is nc
here of her own pure volition. We tor
California violently from her place in th
confederation of Mexican States, flhd stipu
lated by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgi
that the territory should be admitted by State
into the American Union, as speedily as po;
aible.
But the letter of the objection still hold:
California did come without a preliminar
eonsent by Congress to form a Constitution
But Michigan and other States presente
themselves in the same unauthorized way
and Congress waived the irregularity, an
sanctioned the usurpation. California plead
these precedents. Is not the plea sufficient!
But it has been said by the honorabli
Senator from South Carolina, (Mr. Calhou
that the ordinance of 1787 secured to Michi
gan the right to become a State, when sh<
should have sixty thousand inhabitants. Ow
jng to some neglect. Congress delayed to tak<
the census and this is said in palliation o
the case of Michigan. But California, a
has been seen, had a treaty, and Congress
instead of giving previous consent, and in
stead of giving her the accustomed territoria
government, as they did to Michigan, failei
to do either, an! thus practically refused both
and so abandoned the new community, unde
most unpropitious circumstances, to anarchy
California then made a Constitution for her
self, but not unnecessarily and presumptuous
ly, as Michigan did. She made a Constitu
tton for herself, and came here under the lav
—the paramount law of self-preservation,
thiok she stands justified.
Indeed, California is more than justified
She was a colony —a military colony. A 1
colonies, especially military colonies, are in
congruous with our political system, and the)
are equally open to corruption, and exposer
to oppression. They are, therefore, not more
unfortunate iu their own proper condition
than fruitful in dangers to the parent Demo
cracy. California, then, acted well and
wisely in establishing self-government. She
deserves not rebuke, but praise and approba
tion.
Nor does this' objection come with good
grace from those who offer it. If California
were now content to receive only a Territoria!
Charter, we could not agree to grant it, with
out an inhibition of Slavery, which in that
case, being a federal act of federal authority,
would render the attitude of California, as a
Territory, even more offensive to those whe
bow repel her, than she is as a State, with
the same inhibition in the Constitution of hei
own voluntary choice.
The second objection is, that California has
assigned her own boundaries, without the
previous authority of Congress. But she
was left to organize heiaelf, without any
boundaries fixed by previous law or by pre
scription. She was obliged, tbeiefore, tc
assume boundaries, since without boundaries
ahe must have remained unorganized.
A third objection is, that California is too
large. 1 answer first, there is no common
standard of the size of States. California,
though greater than many, is less than one
of the States. Second, Califordta, if too
large, may be divided with her own consent,
and that is all the security we have fur re
ducing the magnitude, and averting the pre
ponderance of Texas. Thirdly, the bound
aries of California seem not at all unnatural.
The territory circumscribed is altogether con
tiguous and compact. Fourth, the bound
aries are convenient. They embrace only
inhibited portions of the country, connected
with the port of San Francisco. No one has
pretended to offer boundaries more in hai
mo»y with the physical outlines of the re*
gioo concerned, or more convenient for civil
admission.
But to d»w closer to the question. What
shall bo the boandaritw of s new State, con
cerns first, the Slate herself (and California
of course is content.) Seeoodly, adjacent
potmnumues. Oregon does not complain of
sod there is no o her adjacent
ootmuuu*' T c<Ma pl*in, Thirdly, the other
States in die P n Th* larger the Pmc£C
States, the smaii^. r wiu relative
power in the Senate. r". States now
Mrs, are Atlantic States ana Sttu*
and aurelv they may wall indulge California
in the largest liberty of boundaries.-
Thefouith objection to the admission of
California, is, that no previous census had
been taken, and no laws prescribing the qua
lification of suffrage, and the apporuontnen
of Representatives in Convention, existed.
I answer California was left to act ah tmtio.
She must begin sometime without s census,
and without such laws. Ths Pilgrim fa
thers began in the same way on board the
Mayflower; and since it ia objected that some
of the electors of California may have been
aliens, I add that all the Pilgrim Fatheta
were aliens and strangers to the Common
wealth of Plymouth.
Again, the objection may well be received
if the Constitution of California is satisfac
tory—first, to herself, and secondly to the
United Slates. As regards the first of these
not a murmur of discontent baa followed
California to this pbce; and as to ourselves,
we confine our inquiries about the Constitu
tion with a view to four things First, the
boundaries assumed; and I have considered
that point in this case already. Second,
that the domain in this State ia secured
to ua; and it ia admitted that this has
been done—properly done. Third, that the
Constitution should be republican, and not
aristocratic or monarchical. In this case, the
only objection is, that the Constitution, inas
much as it inhibits Slavery, is altogether too
republican. Fourth, that the Representation
claimed shall be just and equal. No one I
denies that the population of California is
sufficient to demaod two Representatives on
the Federal basis; and, secondly, a new
census is at hand, and the error, if there be
one, will be immediately corrected.
The fifth objection ia, that California comes
under Executive influences —first, in her
coming as a Free State, and second in her
coming at all’ The first charge rests on sus
picion only—is peremptorily denied, and the
denial is not controverted by proofs. 1 dis
miss it altogether. The second is true to the
extent that the present President advised the
People of California that, having been left
without any civil government, under the mil
itary government of the Executive, without
any authority of law whatever, the adoption
of a Constitution subject to the approval of
Congress, would be regarded favoiably by
the President.
Only ft year ago, it was complained, that
the exercise of the militsry power to main
tain law and order in California, was a feaiful
innovation; but now the wind has changed,
and blows even stronger from the opposite
quarter. May this Republic never have a
President commit a more serious or more dan
gerous usurpation of power, than the act ol
the present eminent Chief Magistrate in en
deavoring to induce the legislative authorities
to relieve him from the exercise of military
power, by establishing civil instituuons regu
lated by law, in distant provinces. Rome
would have been standing this day, if she had
had such generals and such magistrates.
But the objection, whether true in part or
even in the whole, is immaterial. The ques
tion is not what moved California to impress
any particular feature on her Constitution,
nor even what induced her to adopt a Consti
tution at all; but it is whether since she has
adopted a Constitution, she shall be admit
ted into the Union.
I have now reviewed all the objections
raised against the admission of California. Ii
is seen that they have no foundation in law
of nature and of nations. Nor are they found
in the Constitution for it prescribes no four
or manner of ptoceeding in the admission ol
new Stales, but leaves the whole to the dis
cretion of Congress. “Congress may admit
new States.” The objections are all merel)
formal and technical. They rest on precedent!
which have not always, nor even generallj
been observed.
But it is said that we ought now to estab
lish a safe precedent for the future; I anewei
it is too late to Beize this occasion for tha<
purpose, the irregularity complained of being
unfavorable. The caution should have beer
exercised, first when Texas was annexed
second, when we waged war against Mexico
third, when we ratified the Treaty of Gauda
lupe Hidalgo. Again: we may establish pie
cedents at pleasure. Our successors will ex
ercise their pleasure about lollowing them
just as we have done in such caves. Third
States, Nations and Empires are apt to be pe
culiarly capricious, nut only as to the time
but even as to the manner of their being bou
and as to their subsequent political changes
They are not accustomed to conform to pre
cedents. California sprung from the bead o
the nation; not only complete in proportion!
and fully armed, but ripe for affiliation with m
members.
I proceed now to state my reasons for the
opinion that California ought to be admitted.
The population of the United States consisti
of natives of Caucasian origin, and Exotics ol
the same derivation. The Native mass rap
idly assimilates to itself and absorbs the Exo
tic, and those therefore constitute one homo
genous people. The African race, bond and
free, and the Aborigines, savage and civili
zed, being incapable of such assimiliation
and absorption, remain distinct, and owing to
their peculiar condition constitute inferior
masses, and may be regarded as accidental,
if not disturbing political forces.
The ruling homogenous family was planted
at first on the Atlantic Shore, and following
an obvious law it seems continually and rap
idly spreading itself westward year by year,
subduing the wildernesses and the prairie,
and thus extending this gieat political com
munity, which as fast as it advances, breaks
into distinct States for municipal purposes
only, while; the whole constitutes one entire
compact nation.
Well established rules of political arithme
tic enable us to say that the aggregate popu
lation of the nation now is 22 millions, that
10 yeais hence it wili be 30 millions, 20 years
hence 38 millions, 30 years hence 50 millions
40 years hence 64 millions, 50 years hence
80 millions, and 100 years hence 200 millions!
But the advance of population on the Pacific
will far exceed what occurred on the Atlantic
Coast, while Emigration even here is out
stripping the calculation on which these eati
tidies are based. There are silver and gold
in the Mountains and Ravines of California.
The Granite of New Eugland is barren.
Allowing due consideration to the increas
ing density of the population, we are safe in
assuming that long before this mass shall
havv attained the maximum of numbers indi
cated, the entire width of our potsession,from
the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean, will be
covered by it and be brought into social matu
rity and complete political organization.
The question now arises, shall this one
great People, have common origin, s com
mon language, a common religion, common
sentiment, interests, sympathies snd hopes,
remaining one political State, one Nation,
one Republic! or shall it be broken in two
conflicting snd probably hostile Nations or
Republics? There cannot ultimately be
more than two; for the habit of association is
already formed, as the interests of mutual in
tercourse are forming and the centtal portions
if they cannot command aoceas to both Oceans
will not be obstructed in their approach to
that one which offers the greatest facilities to
their Commerce.
Shall the American people then be divided?
Before deciding on this question, let us con
sider our position, our powsr and capabilities.
The world contains no seat of Empire so
magnificent as this, which while it embraces
all the varying climates of the temperate
zone, and w traversed by wide expanding
Lakes and long branching Rivete, offers sup
plies on the Atlantic ahore to the overcrowd
ed nations of Europe, while on the Pacific
coast it intersects the commerce of the Indies.
The nation thus situated, and enjoying Cr
ests, mineral and agricultural tecources ms
equalled, if they are endowed also with mor
al energies adequate to the achievement of
tr teat enter prises, sod favored with aGo veto
-r* 1 *S“ dir
must command Jr 'r*.
which slime ii nal Empire, J,
we may claim to have inherited physical and
intellectaa] vigor, courage, invention and en
terprise, and the systems of Edoeation pre
vailing among us open to all the Mores of hu
man science and art.
The Old World and the Past, were allotted
by Providence to the pupilage of mankind, so
rter the violence of human passion. The
New World and the Future seems to have
been appointed for the maturity of mankind
with the develepment of self government,
opening to reason and judgement. We have
tried our mortal systems of Democratic Fede
ral Government with its complex yet harmo
nious and effective combinations of distinct lo
cal elective agencies lor the conduct of do
mestic affairs, and its common central elec
tive agencies for the regulation of internal in
terest*, and of intercourse with foreign na
trons, and we know that it is a system, equal
ly cohesive in its parts and capable of all de
siring expansion; and that it it is a system,
moreover perfectly adapted to secure domes
tic tranquility, while it brings into action all
the elements of national aggrandizement.
*The Atlantic States, through their com
mercial, social and political affinities and
sympathies, are steadily renovating the
Governments and the Social Constitutions of
Europe and of Africa. The Pacific States
must necessarily perform the same sublime
and beneficent functions in Asia. If, then
the American people shall remain one indivi
dual nation, the ripening civilization of the
West, after a separation growing wider fur
4,000 years, will in its circuit of the world,
meet again and mingle with the declining
civilization of the East, on our free soil, and
a new and more perfect civilization will arise
to bless the earth, under the sway of our ow'd
cherished and beneficent democratic institu
tions. We may then reasonably hope for
Greatness, Felicity and Renown excelling
any hitherto attained bv any nation, if stand
ing firmly on the Continent we loose not our
grasp on the shore of either ocean. Whe
ther a destiny so magnificent would be only
partially defeated or whether it would be al
together lost by a relaxation of that grasp it
passes our wisdom to determinate, and hap
pily is not important to be determined. It is
enough if we agree that expectations so
grand yet so reasonable and so just, ought
not to be in any degree disappointed.
And now it seems to me that the perpetu
al unity of our Empire hangs on the decision
of this dav and of this hour. California is
already a State—a complete and fully ap
pointed State—She never again can be less
than that. She can never again be a Pro
vince or a Colony. Nor can she be made to
shrink and shrive) into the proportions of a
f Federal dependent territory. California then
henceforth and forever, must be what she it
now—a State. The question, whether sh*
shall be one of the United States of America,
has depended on her and on us. Her elec
tion has been made.—Our consent alone re
mains suspended, and that consent must be
pronounced now or never. I aay now or nev
er! Nothing prevents it now but want ol
agreement among ourselves. Our harmony
cannot inciease while this question remain;
open. We shall never agree to admit Cali
fornia unless we agree now.
Nor will California abide delay. I do not
say that she contemplates independence; but
she does not anticipate rejection. Do yoti
say that she can have no motive! Consider
then, her attitude if rejected. She needs i
Capital, a Legislature and Magistrates; eh;
needs titles to that golden domain of oun
within her borders, good titles, too, and yoc
must give them on your own terms, or sh;
must take them without vour leave. Sh;
needs a Mint, a Custom House, Wharves
Hospitals, and Institutions of Learning
She needs fortifications,roads and railroads
She needs the protection of an army and i
navy. Eithci your stars and stripes niusi
wave over her ports and her fleets, or slu
must raise aloft a standard for herself. Sh;
needs at least to know whether you ar;
fiiends or enemies. And Anally, she needi
what no Ameiican community can live with
out —sovereignty and independence—either i
just and equal share of yours, or
and independence of her own.
Will you say that California could not ag
grandize herself by separation? Would i
then be a mean ambition tb set up within fifty
years, on the Pacific coast, monuments liki
those which we think 200 years have beei
well spent in establishing on the Atlantii
i coast? Will you say that California has nt
ability to become independent? She has thi
same moral ability for enterprise that inherei
in us, and that ability implies command of at
i physicel means. She has advantages ofpo
i sitton; she is practically further removed fron
you than England. You cannot reach he
by railioad or by unbroken steamboat naviga
tion. You can send no armies over the Prai
rie, the Mountain and the Desert; nor acroei
the remote and narrow Isthmus, without t
foreign jurisdiction; nor around the Cape o
Storms. You may send a navy there, bu
she has ooly to open her Mines and she car
reduce your marine and appropriate youi
floating bulwarks to her own defence. Le
her only seize your domain within her bor
ders, and your commerce in her port, and sh;
will have at once revenue and credit ade
qaate to all her necessities. Beside, are wt
so moderate and has the world become so jus
that we have no rivals and no enemies to len<
their sympathies and aid to compass the dis
memberment of our Empire? Try not tht
temper or the fidelity of California, at leas
not now, not yet. Cherish her and indulg;
her till you have extended your settlement;
to her borders aud bound her fast by railroads
canals and telegraphs to your interests; unti
her affinities of intercourse are established anc
habits of loyalty are fixed, and then she cat
never be disengaged.
California would not go alone; Oregon, s;
intimately allied to her, and as yet so loose])
attached to us, will go also; and then, ai
least the entire Pacific coast, with the wea
tern declivity of the Sierra Nevada would be
lost. It would not depend at all on us, not
even on tbe mere forbearance of California,
how far eastward the long line across the
temperate zone should be drawn which should
separate the Republic of the Pacific from the
Republic of tho Atlantic. Terminus haa
passed awsy with all the deities of the anci
ent Pantheon, but hie scepter remains,
Commerce is the God of Boundaries, and nc
man now living can foretell his ultimata de
cree.
But it is insisted that the admission ol
California shall be attended by a Compro
mise of questions which have arisen out ol
Slavery. I am opposed to any such Com
promise, in any and all the forms in which it
has been proposed. First: because while
admitting the purity and the patroitism of all
from whom it it is my misfortune to differ, I
think all Legislative Compromises essentially
and radically wrong and indefensible. They
involve the surrender of the exercise of judge
ment and conscience on distinct and separate
questions at distinct and separate times, with
the indispensable advantages it affords foi
ascertaining truth. They involve a relin
quishment of tbe tight to reconsider in Fu
ture the decisions of the Present on question;
prematurely antioipated, and they are an us
urpation, as to future questions of the pro
vince of future legislators.
Sir, it seems to me as if Slavery had laid
its paralysing hand upon myself, tnl the
blood were coursing leas fteely than it wonl
through my veins, when I endeavor to sup
pose that such a Compromise has been effect
ed, and my utterance forever is arrested upon
\l! the great questions, social, moral and po
litical, arising oat of a subject so important
and as yet so incomprehensible. What am 1
to receive in this compromise? Freedom in
California? It is well, It is e noble acquisi
tion. But what am I to give up as on equiva
lent! A recognition of the claim to perpetu
ate Slavery tn the District of Colombia! For
bearance toward more stringent laws con
cerning the arrest of persons suspected of be
ing Slaves, found in tbe Free Stales! For
uea<anoe from the Provjeo of Freedom, in the
chtneis of new Tm {foot of the
pUn* of Compromise ofierod, demand less than
two, and most of them insist on ail of these
conditions. The equivalent then is, some
portion of Liberty, some portion of Homan
Rights io one region, for Liberty in another
region. Bot California brings gold and com
merce as well as Freedom. I am then io sur
render some portion of Human Freedom in the
District of Colombia, in East California and
New Mexico for the mixed consideration of
Liberty, Gold and Power of the Pacific Coast!
This view of Legislative Compromises is
not new. It has widely prevailed, and many
of the State Constitution* interdict the intro
duction of more than one subject into one bill
submitted for legislative action.
Sir,lt was of such Compromises that Burke
said, in one of the loftiest bursts of even hiß
majestic Psrlimentary eloquence:
“Far, fat from the Commons' of Great
Britain, be all manner or real vice; but ten
thousand timet further from them, as far as
from pole to pole, be the whole tribe of apu
rious, affected, counterfeit and hypocritical
virtues. These are the things which are ten
thousand times mote at war with real duty
than any vice known by its name, and distin
guished by ita proper character.
“Far, far from ua be that false and affectad
Candor that is eternally in treaty with Crime
—that half virtue which, like the ambiguous
animal that plays about in the twilight of a
compromise between day and night, is to a
just man’s eye an odious and disgusting
thing. There is no middle point, my Lords,
in which the Commons of Great Biitain can
meet tyranny and oppression.”
But, sir, could 1 overcome my repugnance
to Compromise in general, I should object to
this on the ground of the inequality and in
congruity of the interests lo be compromised.
Why, sir, according to the views I have sub
mitted, California ought to come in and must
come in whether Slavery stands or falls in
the District of Columbia—whether Slavety
stands or falls in New Mexico and Eastern
California—and even whether Slavery stands
oi falls in the Slave States—California ought
to come in and must come in at all events.
It is an independent question. What then
are these questions arising out of Slavery
thus interposed,but collateral questions! They
are unnecessary and incongruous, and there
fore false issues, not introduced designedly,
indeed, to defend that great policy, yet una
voidably tending to the end.
jfc But consent on my part to the Compromise
would be disingenuous and fraudulent. It ii
now avowed b> the Hon. Senator from South
Catolina (Mr. Calhoun) that nothing will
'satisfy the Slave States but a Compromise
that will convince them that they can remain
in the Union consistently with their honoi
and safety. And what arc the concession!
which will have the effect! Here they are in
the words of the Senator:
“The’North must do justice by concding
to the South an equal right in the acquired
Territory, and do her duty by causing the
stipulations relative to fugitive slaves to b*
faithfully fulfilled; cease the agitation of the
slave question, and provide for the insertion
of a provision in the Constitution, by an a
mendment, which will restore to the South
in substance, the power she possessed of pro
tecting herself before the equilibrium betweer
the sections was destroyed by the action o
this Government.”
These terms amount to this—that the Fret
States, having already a majority of popula
tion, aid majorities in both Houses of Con
gress, shall concede to the Stave States, be
mg in a minority in both, the unequal advan
lage of as equality—that is, we shall altei
the Constitution so as to convert the Govern
ment from a National Democracy, controller
bv a Cnnstnutional majority of voices, into i
Federal Alliance, in which the minority shal
have a veto against the majority! and thus t<
return to tha original articles of Confedera
tion.
I will not stop to protest against the injus
lice and inexpediency of an innovation which
if it were practicable, would be so entire!}
subversive of the principle of Democratic in
stitqtions. It is enough to say that it is to
tally inpracticable. The Free States, North
ern and Western, have acquiesced io the huq
and nearly unbroken ascendancy of the Slavi
States under the Constitution. But the}
have honor and interests to preserve, am
there is, nothing in the nature or in the char
acier- of the people to induce an expectaior
that they, loyal as they are, are insensible U
(he duty of defending them.
But the scheme would still be impractic
able, if even this di ficulty were overcome
What is proposed is a political equilibrium
Every political equilibrum requires a physica
eqailibrum to rest upon, and is valuelesi
without it. To constitute a physical equil
ibrim between the Slave States and the Fret
States required first,an equality of temtoryjoi
some near approximation, and thia is alread)
I lost. But it requires much more than this
It requires an equality in the number ofslave)
and freemen, and this must be perpetual.
But the census of 1840 gives a slave basis
ot only two millions and a half, and a free
basis of fourteen millions and a half. The
population on the slave basis increases in the
ratio of 25 per cent for ten years, while that
on the free basis advances at the rate of 38
per cent. The accelerating movement of the
free population now complained of, will occu
i py the new Territory with pioneers, and
i every day increase the difficulty of forcing
and insinuating slavery into regions which
freeman have pie-occupied. And if this
were possible, the African Slave Trade ia
prohibited, and the domestic increase ia not
sufficient to supply the new Slave States
which are expected to maintain the equil
ibrunrr
The theory of a new political equilibrium
claima that it once existed and has been lost.
When lost, and how! It began to be lost in
1787, when preliminary arrangements were
made to admit five new States in the North
west Territory, two years before the Consti
tion was finally adopted:—that is, it began
to be lost two years before it began to exist!
Sib: The equilibrium if restored, would be
lost more rapidly than it was before. The
progress of the free population ia to be acceler
ated by emigration from Europe and Asia,
while that of the slaves is to be cheeked and
retarded by inevitable partial emancipation.
Nothing, says Montesquieu, reduces a man
so low as alwsys to see freemen, and yet
uot be free. Persons in that condition are na
tural enemies of the State, and their num
bers would be dangerous if increased too high!
Sir, the fugitive alsve Colonies in the Free
State, in Canada and Liberia, are the beat
guarantees South Corolina has for the perpe
tuity o( slavery.
Nor would success attend any of the details
of the Compromise. And first I advert to
the amendment of the law concerning fugitives
from service or labor. The Constitution con
tains only a compact which rests tor its exe
cution on the Statu—Not content wiih this,
the Slave States induced legislation by Coo-
Sress; and the Supreme Court of the United
tales have virtually decided that the whole
subject ia within the provinee of Congress,
and exclusive of State authority. Nay, they
have decided that slave* are to be regarded
not merely as persons to be claimed, but ss
property and chattels to be seized without any
legal authority or claim whatever.
The compact ia thus subverted by the pro
curement of the Slave States; with what rea
son, then, can they expect the States ex gra
tia to re-asaume the obligation from which
they caused those Statu to be diaehaiged!
I say, then, to the Slave Statu, you are en
titled to no more stringent law, sod such a
dm would be useless. The cause of the in
sufficiency of the present statute, is not at all
the leniency of its provisions. It i* a law
that deprives the alleged refugee from a legal
obligation pot assumed by him, but imposed
upon him by law* enacted before he was born,
of the writ of habtas corpus ,and of any certain
judical process of examination of :he claim
ret up by his pursuer,and finally degrades him
into a chat tie, which may be seixed and ear
ned away peaceably wherever found, eveo
ti though e*ww*wf the fight* and resjxmai
i bUMee of a free citizen of the CtraunonweaHh
i in which he reekiee, end of the United States;
i a law which denies to the citizen all the safe*
i guards of personal liberty, to render lees pos
sible the escape of i» bondman.
We deem its principle therefore unjust, un
constitutional and immoral; and thua, white
patriotism wit bolds ita approbation, the con
sciences of our people condemn it. You will
roy that these convictions of ours are disloyal.
Grant it, for argument’s sake; they are sev
en be] ess honest. And the law is to be exe
cuied among us, not among you; not by us,
but by the Federal authority. Has say Gov
ernment ever succeeded in changing the moral
convictions of its subjects by force? But these
convictions imply no disloyalty. We revere
the Constitution .although we perceive this de
fect, just as we acknowledge the splendor
and power of the aun, although ita surfact is
tarnished with here and there an opaque spot.
Your Constitution and Law converts hos
pitality to refugees from the most degrading
oppression on earth, into a crime. But all
mankind, except you, esteem that hospitality
a virtue. The right of extradilion, of even
fugitives from justice, is not admitted by the
law of Nature and of Nations, but rests on
voluntary compact.
Only two conjlpßs found in diplomatic His
tory admitted emMition of Slaves. Here ia
one of them. It is found in a treaty made
between Alexander Comnenus, the Greek
Emperor at Constantinople, and Oleg 11.
King of Russia, in the year -908, and ia in
these words:
If a Russian slave take flight from his
master, or if he shall be held under pretence
of having beet) bought, hia master may pur
sue him and take him wheresoever be may be
found and whosoever shall prevent his mas
ter from taking him, shall be guilty of offend
ing this Treaty, and shall be punished ac
cordingly.’*
This was in the year of Grace 902, in what
is called the Dark Ages, and the contracting
powers were Despotisms.
And here is the other:
No person held to service or labor in one
State under the laws thereof, escaping into
another, shall in consequence ot any laws or
regulations therein, be discharged from such
service or labor, but shall be delivered up on
claim of the party to whom such service or
labor is due.”
This is from the Constitution of the United
States in 1787, and the parties were the Re
publican States of this Union.
The Law of Nations disavows such com
pacts —the Law of Nations, written on the
hearts and consciences of freemen, repudiates
them. Armed powers conld not enforce them,
because there is no public conscience to sus
tain them. I know that there are laws of va
rious sorts that regulate the conduct of men.
There are constitutions and statutes, laws
mercantile and codes civil; but when we are
legislating for States, especially when we are
forming Stales, all these laws must be bro't
to the standard of the laws of God, and must
be tried by that standard, and stand or fall by
it. It is of this principle that an eminent po
litical philosopher of England, Burke, said:
There is but one law for all, namely—
that law which governs all—the law of our
Creator—the law of humanity, justice, equi
ty —the law of Nature and of Nations. So
far as any laws tortify this primeval law, and
give it more precision, more energy, more ef
fect by then declarations, such laws enter in
to the Sanctuary and participate in the sacred
ness of its character. But the man who
quotes as precedents, the abuses of tyrants
and robbers, pollutes the very fountains of
justice, destroys the foundations of all law,
and therefore removes the only safeguard
against evil men, whether governors or gov
erned, the guard which prevents governors
from becoming tyrants, and the governed
from becoming rebels.”
There was deep philosophy in the confes
sion of an eminent English judge. When he
had condemned a young woman to death, un
der the late sanguinary code of his country,
for her first petty theft, she fell dead at his
feet. I seem to myself,” said he, to have
been pronouncing sentence, not against the
prisoner, but against the law itself.”
To conclude on this point, we are not
Slaveholders we cannot in our judgment
be either true Christians or real Freemen, il
we impose on another a chain that we deny
all human power to fasten on ourselves. You
believe and think otherwise, and doubtless
with equal sincerity. We judge you not, and
He alone who ordained the conscience of man
and its laws of action, can judge us. Do we
then in this conflict demand of you an unrea
sonable thing in asking that, since you will
have property that can and will exercise hu
man power to make ita escape, you shall be
your own police; and that acting among ue
as such, you shall conform to principles in
dispensable to the security of admitted rights
of Freemen?
Another feature in moat of the plans of
compromise, is a Bill of Peace for Slavery
in the District of Columbia, and this Bill of
Peace we cannot grant. We of the Free
States are, equally with you of the Slave
States, responsible for the existence of Sla
very in tliis District—the field exclusively of
our common legislation. I regret that as yet
I see but little reason to hope that a majority
in favor of emancipation exists here. The
Legislature of New York—from whom, with
great deference,’ I dissent—seems willing to
accept now the extinction of the Slave trade,
and waive Emancipation.
But we shall assume the whole responsi
bility, if we stipulate not to exercise the pow
er heieafter when s majority shall be obtain
ed. Not will the plea with which you fur
nish us be of any avail. If I could under
stand myself, 1 should never be able to ex
plain to the direct understanding of the peo
ple whom I represent, how it was that an
absolute and express power to legislate in all
cases over the District of Columbia, was em
barrassed and defeated by an implied condi
tion not to legislate for the abolition of slave
ry in that District. Sir, I shall vote for that
measure, and am willing to appropriate any
means to cany it into execution. And if I
shall he a*ked what I did to embellish the
Capitol of my country, I will point to her
freed-tnen and say, These are the monu
ments of my munificence.” If I was willing
to advance a cause that I deemed sacred, by
disingenuous means, I would advise you to
adopt these measures of compromise which I
have thus examined. The echo is not quick
er in its response than would be that loud and
universal cry of Repeal! that would not die
away until the habeas corpus was secured to
the alleged fugitive from bondage, and the
symmetry of the Free Institutions of the
Capitol was perfected.
I apply the same observations to the propo
sition for i waiver of the Proviso of Freedom
in Territotial charters. Thus far you have
only direct popular action in favor of that
ordinance, and there seems even to be a par
tial disposition to await the action of the
people of the new territories, as we have
compulsorily waited for it in California. But
I must tell you, nevertheless, in all candor,
and in plainness, that the spirit of the people
in the Free Slates ia set upon a spring that
rises with the pressure put upon it. That
spring, if pressed too hard, will give a recoil
that will not leave here one servant who knew
hia master’s will and did it not. You will say
that this implies violence. Not at all—it im
plies only peaceful, lawful, constitutional cus
tomary action. I cannot too strongly express
toy surprise that those who insist that the
people of the Sieve States oanaot be held
back from remedies outside of lije Constitu
tion, should so far misunderstand us of the
Free States, as to suppose we would not ex
ercise our constitutions! rights to sustain the
policy which we deem just and beneficent.
I object ia the next place le ike compro
mise of the boundary between Texas and
New Mexico. Ttutt it a judicial question in
ita nature, or at team a question of legal right
and title. If it is to be compromised at all
it due to the two panics, to national digni
ty as well as to justice, that it be kept sepa
rate from compromises proceeding on the
V"--v
ground of expediency, and bo nuld by it
•elf alone.
I take ihia occasion to aa? that 1 do not in*
toad to disease the question which hu been
raiaed by the honorable and distinguished
Senator from Mace. (Mr. Webeter.) But I
am compelled to say that I have not the good
fortune to concur with him in the opinions
which he baa expressed in regard to the ad
mimion of new States to be formed out of the
Slate of Texas. There are various qseat ions
involved in that subject which I think this is
not the time to decide, and which I wiah to
reserve for future consideration. One is,
whether the article of Annexation does really
deprive Congress of the right to express its
voice in regard to the subdivision of the State
of Texas. 1 only say that to me it seems by
no means so plain a question as the Senator
assumes, and therefore wiih me it lemams a
question for future consideration—an open
qosslion, whether Congress is not a party
whose future nceessary to any di
vision of Texas.
Mr. Webster—Will the Senator allow me
to ask him one question
Mr. Seward—Certainly, air.
Mr. Webster—Supposing Congress to have
the authority to fix the number of States and
the time of election, and apportionment ol
representation, die., the question is, whether,
if new States are formed out of Texas, to
come into this Union, there is not a solemn
pledge by law that they have a right to come
in as Slave States.
Mr. Seward—The article ia in effect in
i these words: New States not exceeding fout
in number may be framed out of the Territory
of Texas, with the consent of Texas, and
shall be admitted into the Union t with or with
out Slavery, if they shall choose.
Mr. Webster —If they chooso they may
come in as Slave States.
Mr. Seward—l beg pardon of the Hon.
Senator, but it is with or without Slavery.
But 1 pass the question as the volume is not
at hand, and I fear I shall trespass on the
lime of the Senate by waiting for it. 1 am,
moreover, not unconstitutional. I find no au
thority in the Constitution of the U. Slates,
for the annexation of foteign States by reso
lution. What I mean now especially to in
sist upon is, that 1 must have time to delibe
rate until the occasion actually anives, before
I consent to any division ot the State of Tex
as so as to bring in any new State with a con
stitution maintaining Slavery. 1 must have
the point settled, that the aiticle of Annexa
tion is compulsory upon me, and also that it
is constitutional.
Mr. Foote—Did I not rightly understand
the Senator to say that he would have voted
to admit California as a Slave Stave, if she
had voluntarily inserted such a provision in
her Constitution?
Mr. Seward—Yes, sir, under these extra
ordinary circumstances of conquest, of a com
pact of abandonment, of impossibility to give
a Territorial government, of a Constitution
adopted by the people and of dismemberment
of the Empire if she was rejected,—under
these circumstances I would have received
California, though she had come to my pro
found regret as a Slave Slate. lam happy,
now, Mr. President, to understand that 1
agree with the Hon. member from Massachu
i setts, that it is not compulsory upon Cong Tess
hereafter to admit four new Slave States in
Texss—that they have reserved the right to
decide whether any new State shall be form
ed there. 1 shall vote for admitting no more
i Slave States, unless under circumstances ab
i solutely controlling and compulsory; and such
f cannot now be foreseen.
Mr. Webster—The Senator does not un-
I demand me. My proposition was that States
hereafter made out of Texas, with her con
i sent, if they choose to come in Slave States,
I have a right to do so.
Mr. Seward —My position is that they have
not a right to cotne in if Congress shall re
i fuse its consent. It is optional with both par
ties, Congress and Texas.
Mr. W ebaler—Does the Senator hold, that
i we may hereafter decide whether they shall
»be Slave States or Free Slates
Mr. Seward—No, sit; but that Congress
may decide that there shall be no Slates at ill
formed out of Texas,
t Another objection arises out of the princi
f pie on which the Compromise rests. That
principle is a classification of the Stales, as
i Northern and Southern Stales, as is express
i ed by the Hon. Senator from South Carolina,
I (Mr. Calhoun,) but into Slave States and Free
i Stales, as more directly expressed by the hon
orable Senator from Georgia, (Mr. Berrien.)
The argument is, that the States are several
i ly equal, and that these two classes were
equal, at the first, and that the Constitution
i was founded on that equilibrium; that the
States being equal and the classes of the
States being equal in rights, they are to kb
i regarded as constituting an association in
which each State and each, of the classes of
States respectively contribute in due propor
tion tbit the new territories are a common
acquisition, and that the people of these sev
eral States and classes of States have an
i equal right to participate in respectively;
'hat the right of the people of the slave
Slates to emigrate to the territories with
their slaves as property, is such a participa
tion in their part, inasmuch as the people of
the free States emigrate into the same terri
tories with their property. And the argu
ment deduces from this right the principle
that if Congress exclude slavery from any
part of this new domain, it would be only just
to set off a portion of the domain, (some say
south of 36 30, and others south of 34,) which
should be regarded at leaat aa open to slavery
and to be organized into alave States.
Argument, ingenious and subtle, declama
tion, earnest and bold, and persuasive, gen
tle and winning as the voiee of the tut tie
dove when it is heard in the land, all aitke
and all together have failed to convince me
of the soundness of this principle of the pro
posed Compromise, or of any one of the pro
positions ou which it is attempted to be es
tablished. How is the original equality of
the States proved? It testa on a syllogism,
as follows:
“AH men are equal by the law of Nature
and of Nations. But States are only lawful
aggregationa of individual men who individu
ally are equal. Therefore, States are equal
in natural rights.”
All this is just and sound. But assuming
the same premises, to wit: that all men are
equal by the law of Nature and of Nations,
the right of property in slaves falls to the
ground; for one who is equal to another can
not be the owner df property in that other.
But you answer that the Constitution recog
nizes property in slaves. It would be suffi
cient then to reply, that this constitutional
recognition must be void, because it is re
pugnant to the law of Nature and of Nations.
But I deny that the Constitution recognizes
property in man. I submit, on the other
baud, most respectfully, that the Constitution
not merely does not affirm that principle, but
on the contrary altogether excludes it. The
Constitution does not expressly affirm any
thing on the subject. All that it contains is
two incidental allusions to slaves. These
are, first in the provision establishing a {ratio
of representation and taxation; second, in the
provision relating to fugitives from labor. In
both cases the Constitution designedly men
tions slaves not as slaves, much less as chat
ties, but as persons. That this recognition
of them as persons was designed is histori
cally known, and I think never denied.
give only two of the manifold proofs.
John Jay, in the Federalist, aayn:
“Lei the case of the Slaves be considered,
as it is in truth, a peculiar one. Let the
sempiomising expedient ot the Constitution
be mutually adopted, which regards them as
nhabiiantty but aa debased below the equal
evai of free inhabitants,-r-whtefa regard* the
ilaves as divested of two-fiflbs of the mao.”
Ye», Sir, of t.o-fifth*, but of onlj two-
“Aug. 88, 1787.—Mr. Butlsr »nd Mr.
Pinckney moved to require fugitive slave*
tod servants to be delivered up like convict*.
Mr. Wilaoo—This would oblige the
eutive of the Stole to do it at public expense.
Mr. Sherman saw no more property in the
public seising end surrendering a or a
servant than s horse.
Mr. Butler withdrew hie proposition in
order that aome particular pro> ision might be
made, apart from this article.
Aug. 39th.—Mr. Butler moved to invert,
alter article IS, “If any petson bound to
seivtce or labor in any oi tne United Stolen,
aha escape into another Stole, h* Sf ahe
shall not be diachergad from saeh service or
labor in of any legoktion* sub
sisting in the State to vthich they eeeape,
but shall be delivered up to the person justly
claiming their service or labor.”
After the engrossment, Sept. 15, ••Article
TV, sec. 3, the 3d paragraph, the isrm
‘legally’ was struck out, and the words •un
der the laws thereof inserted after the word
‘States’ m compliance with toe wishce of
eoino wbodhought the term ‘legal’ equivocal
and favoring the idea that Slavery was legal
m a moral view.
1 deem it established then that the Consti
tution does not tecognixe property in mao,
but leaves that question as between the States
to the Law of Nature and of Nations. That
law as expounded by Vauel is founded in the
reason of things. When God had created
the earth with its wonderful adaptatieos, ho
gave dominion over it to Man—absolute hu
man dominion. The title thus bestowed
would have been incomplete if the lord of all
lenestrial things could hfinsalf have been the
property of his fellow lisa. The right to
nave a slave unphea the right in some one to
make the slave. That right must be eqoal
and mutual; and that would resolve society
into a state of perpetual war. But if we
grant the original equality of the States sad
grant also the constimtional recognition of
slaves as property, atm the argument we are
considering fails, because the States were not
parties to the Constitution as States. It is the
Constitution of the People of the United
Btatee. But even if the States continued as
States, they surrendered their equality as
States, and submitted themselves to the away
of ibe numerical majority, with qualities lions
or checks; first, of the representation of 3-stbs
of slaves in the ratio of representation and
taxation; and, secondly, of the equal repre
sentation of Slates in the Senate.
The proposition of an established classifi
cation of States as Slave Slates and Free
Stales as asserted by aome, and into North
ern and Southern as asserted by others,
seems to me purely imaginary, and of course
the supposed equilibria! of those classes a
mere conceit. This must be so; because
when the Constitution was adopted twelve of
the thuteen States were Slave States, and so
theie was no equtltbrim. And so as to the
classification ot States at Northern States
and Southern Stales. It is the maintenance
ot Slavery by law in a State, not parol'd* of
latitude that makes it a Southern Stale, and
the absence of this that makes it a Northern
State. And so, ail the States, save one,
were Southern States, and there was no equi
librium. But the Con&litutioo was made not
only for Southern and Northern States, but
for Staves neither one nor the other, but
Western States. Their coming in was f or
seen and provided for.
It needs little argument to show that Uta
idea of a joint stock association or a copart
nership as applicable even by its analogies to
the United States is err< neojs, with all the
consequence# fancifully •ut.uced from it. The
United States are a |»>f'ical Slate or organ
zed society, whose end is Government for
the secuiity, welfare and happiness of all
who live under its protection. The iheoiy I
am combating reduces the objects of Govern
ment to the mere spoils of conquest. On the
contrary ot a theory so debasing', the pream
ble of the Constitution not only asserts the
sovereignty to he not iu the Slates but in the
People, but also promulgates the objects of
the Constitution.
“We People of the United Stale*, in ordsr
to form a more perfect Union, establish justice,
ensure domestic tranquility, provide ibr the
common defense, piomote the general welfare
and secure the blessings of Liberty, do ordain
and establish this Constitution.”
Objects sublime and benevolent! They
exclude the very idea of conquesle to be
either divided among States or even enjoyed
by them for the purpose of securing, not the
blessings of liberty, but the evils of Slave
ry-
Theie is a novelty in the principle of this
Compromise, which condemns it. Simultane
ously with the establishment of the Constitu
tion, Virginia ceded her domain, which then
extended to the Mississippi, and was even
eiaimed to extend to the Pacific. Congress
accepted it and unanimously devoted the
domain to freedom, hi the laqggiage from
which the Ordinance now so severely con
demned, was borrow*!. .Five States have
already been organised on Mfe domain, from
irfl of which iu pursuance of that Ordinance,
Slavery is excluded. How jjid it happen
that this theory of the equality of ike State*,
of the classification of States, of the equiH
brim of the States, of the t£«pf the States
to common enjoyment of the cfomain. 4Pto an
equitable and just partition between them
was neuer promulgated, nor even dlUniml of
by the Slave States, which unanimously con
sented to this Ordinance r#
There is another aspect of the principle of
compromise which deserve* consideration. It
assumes that Slavery, if not the only insiitu
tion, is, in a Slave State, at least the ruling
institution, and that this characteristic was
lecognixed by the Constitution. But Slavery
is only one of many institutions there.
Freedom is equally an institution there.—
Slavery is only a temporary, accidental,
partial, incongruua one. Freedom, on the
'-ontxary, is a perpetual, organic, universal
one, in harmony with the Constitution of the
United States. The slaveholder himself
stands under the protection of the letter, is
common wtllsll the free citizens, of the state.
But the principle of the Compromise gives
complete ascendancy in the Slave States, and
in the Constitution of the United States, to
the suboidinate, accidental and incongruous
institution over its antagonist. To reduee
this claim for Slavery to an absurdity, it ia
only necessary to add that there are only twrj
States in which slaves are s majority, and
net one in which the slaveholders ar* g o i
very disproportionate minority.
But there is yet another aspect ia which
this principle must be examitied, regards
the domain only as a possession to be enjoyed
either in common or by partition by the citi
zens of the old States. It is true indeed that
the national domain is ours; true that it was
aeqnired by the powers and wealth of the
whole country; but we hold, nevertheless, do
arbitrary power over it. We hold no arbiirs
ry authority over anything, whether aeqnired
lawfully or by usurpation. The Cnastitutien
regulates our stewardship. The Constitution
devotes the domain to union, to justice, to
defense, to welfaie and liberty. But there ie
a higher law than the Constitution which
regulates our authority over the domain, and
devotes it to the same noble put pose. The
territory is a pait—no inconsiderable part—of
the common heritage of mankind, bestowed
upon thme by the Creator of the Universe.
We are hia stewards, and must so discharge
our trust as to secure in the highest attain,
able degree their happiness. How moment
ous that West is, we may I earn Jfiom the
instructions of the founder of modern pbiiose
phy;
“No man can, by caie-uking,” a* the
_ fiantA of Kwadamm arut f'/imnuvn
im f Ptlt Ttb2
aotobhOThd, but left totok?
We are an Estate and are deliberating for
the Commonwealth juat aa our fathera de
liberated in eatabliahing the inatitutiona we
enjoy- Whatever superiority there ia in our
condition and hopes over those of any other
“Kingdom” or “Estate” is due to the for
tunate circumstance that our ancestors did not
leave things to take their chance, but that
they added amplitude and greatness to onr
commonwealth, by introducing such ordi
nances, constitutions and cuatoms as were
wise.
We, in our time, have aucceeded to the
same responsibilities, and we cannot approach
the duty before us, wisely or justly, except
we raise ouiselves to the great consideration
of how we can most certainly sow greatness
to our posterity and successors. And now
the simple, bold, and awful question, which
presents itself to us, is this Shall we who
are founding institutions, social and political,
foT countless millions—shall we who know
by experience the wise and ihe just, and are
free to choose them, and to reject the ereone
oua and the unjust—shad we establish humau
bondage, or permit it by our sufferance to be
established Sir, our fathers would not have
hesitated an hour. They found Slavery ex
isting here, and they left it only because they
could not remove it. There is not only no
Free State which would now establish it, bnt
there is no S'ave Slate whi;h, if it had but
the free alternative, as we now have, would
have founded Sltvery. Indeed our revolu
tionary predecessors had precisely the same
question before them in establishing an organ
ic law under which the States of Ohio,
Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin and lowa have
lince come into the Union; and they solemnly
repudiated and excluded Slavery from those
States forever. 1 confess that the most alarm
ing evidence of our degeneracy which has yei
been given is found in the fact that we even
debate such a question.
Sir, there is no Chtistian nation that, free
to choose as we are, would establish Slavery.
I apeak on due consideration, because Britain,
France and Mexico have abolished Slavery,
and all other European States are preparing
to abolish it as rapidly as they can.
We cannot establish Slavery, because
there are certain elements of the security,
welfare and greatness of nations, w hich we
all admit, or ought to admit and lequire, as
essential; and these are—the security of
natural rights, the diffusion of knowledge,
and the freedom of industry. Slavery is in
compatible with all of these; and just in pro
portion to the extent that it prevails and con
trols in anv Republican State, just to that ex
tent it subverts the principle of Derouciacy,
and converts the State into an Aristocracy or
Despotism. I will not offend sensibilities by
drawing my proof from the Slave States, ex
isting among ourselves, but I will draw them
from the greatest of the European Slave
States. The population of Russia in Europe,
in 1844, was 54,251,000. Of these were
»erfa 53,500,000, the residue, nobles, clergy,
merchants, &c. 751,000. The liupenal
Government abandons the control over the
atty-lhree and a half millions to their owners,
and the residue, included in the 151,000 aie
thus a privileged class or aristocracy. If ever
the Government inteifeies at all with the
aetfs, who are the only laboring population,
it is by edicts, designed to abridge the op
portunities of education, and thus continue
their debasement. What was the origin of
Lhis system Conquest; in which the captivi
ty of the conqured was made perpetual and
hereditary.
This, it seems to me, is identical with
American Shveiy, only at one and the same
lime exaggerated by the greater disproportion
between the privileged classes and the Slaves
in theii respective numbers, and yet relieved
of the unhappiesi featurs of American Slave
ry—tbe distinction of caste. What but ibis
renders Russia at once the most arbitrary
Despotism, aud the most barbarous State in
Europe And what is its effect but industry
comparatively profitless, and sedition not oc
cassional and parmal, but chronic and pervad
ing tbe empire. With. Massachusetts and
4 »lno among us, shall we pass by their free
and beneficent examples, and select our insti
tutions from the dominions of the Czar
1 cannot slop to debate Jong with those
who maintain that Slavery is in itself practi
cally economical and humane. I might be
content with saving that there are some
axioms in political scince that a statesmen or
a founder of States may adopt especially in
tbe Congress of the United States, and that
among these axioms are these:
That all men are created equal and have
inalienable rights of life, liberty, and the
choice of pursuits of happiness;
That knowledge promotes virtue, and
righteousness exahelh a nation;
That Freedom is preferable to Slavery,
and that democratic governments, when they
can be maintained by acquiescence without
force, are preferable to institutions exercising
arbitrary and irrisponaible power.
It remains only to say, on this part of the
subject, that Slavery being incongruous and
repugnant, it dangerous to the safety of the
State. The conservative principle of the
State is the security of the voluntary acqui
esscoce of tbe people. That acquiescence is
obtained by universal suffrage, which de
mands, of course, equality of knowledge and
propeiiy, as far as that is practically attaina
ble without injustice or oppression. This
argument is sustained by our own experience.
There is no danger menacing the Union,
there never has been any that would have
menaced it, had Slavery had no shelter be
neatu its protection. If Slavery, confined as
it now is, threatens tbe invasion of the Con
stitution, how can we enlarge us boundaries
and increase its influence with increasing the
danger already existing
Whether, then, I regard merely the wel
fare t>f the future inhabitants of the new ter
ritories, nr the security and welfare of tbe
whole people of the United Stales or the
welfare of the whole family of mankind, 1
cannot consent t O introduce Slavery into any
part of this continent which is now exempt
from what seems to me to be so great an
evil.
These are my reasons for declining to com
promise the questions relating to Slavery as
a condition of the admission of California.
In acting upon an occasion so grave as this,
a respectful consideration is due to the argu
ments founded on extraneous considers:ions,
#f Senators wno eoonsel a course different
from that which 1 have preferred.
Tbe first of these arguments is that Con
gress has no power to legislate on the sub
ject of Slavery within the Territories. Sir,
Congress has power to admit new States;
and since Congress may admit, it follows that
Congress may reject new States. The dis
cretion of Congress in admitting it absolute,
except that when admitted the Stale must be
Republican State, and must be a State—
that is, it shall have the constitutional powers
uf a State. But the greater includes the less;
we may impose conditions not inconsistent
with those fundamental powers. Boundaries
are suck, tbe reservation of tbe public domain
is supb, tbe right to dtv.de is such, the ordi
nance excluding Slavery is such a condition.
Tbe organization of Territory is auxtiury or
preliminary. It is tbe inchoate, initiative
•cl ef ad mission, aud is performed under the
clause gianuog the power necessary to exe
cute tbe express powers of tbe Constitution.
This power comes from tbe treaty making
power also, and 1 think it is well traced to
tbe power to make needful rules and regula
tions concerning tbe public domain. But the
power is here to be exectsed, however de
rived, and tbe right to regulate property, to
administer justice in regard to property is as
•anted in every Territorial charter. If we
have power to legislate concerning property,
vt have concerning personal rights. Free
dom is a personal light. The Constitution
decs not sanction property in man, and Con
gress beiag tbe supreme legislature, has tbe
asae right in regard to property and rights
Ja Territories that the States would have if
•Igsniesd.
It is unused further that the inhibition is
I have Mfwt the less of abl#
and distinguished Senators who go with us
for the admission of California. Especially
do I regret the separation from ua of the able
and distinguished Senator from Missouri (Mr.
Benton When what Senator announced
that he should not sustain the Proviso of
Fieedom, 1 was induced to exclaim;
’Cur in tIM-atrum, Cato sivsre veaieti,
An ideo tantum veneraa ut exi-es.
B it that distinguished Senator is crowning a
life of eminent public service by bringing the
first State of the Pacific into the Union, and
grateful to him for that, I freely leave to him
to deteimine for himself what weight he will
give to the cause of human freedom in his
action on so gravo an occasion.
The argument is that the Proviso ia un
necessary. 1 answer, then there can be no
error in insisting upon it. But why is it un
necessary It is said, first by reason of the
climate. If this be so, why do not the Rep
resentatives of the Slave States yield to the
Proviso 1 They deny that climate prevents
the introduction of Slavery. Now, I will
leave nothing to contingency. But in truth,
I think that argument is against the proposi
tion. Is there any climate where Slavery
has not existed? It has prevailed all over
Europe, from sunny Italy to bleak England,
and ia existing now, stronger than in any
other land, in ice-bound Russia.
But it will be replied that this is not African
Slavery. 1 rejoin, that only makes the case
the stronger. If this vigorous Saxon race of
ours was reduced to Slavery while it retained
the courage of semi-barbarism, in its own
high Northern latitude, what security does
climate afford against the transplantation of
the more gentle, more docile, and already
enslaved and debased African, to the genial
Ci.m-r of New-Mexico and California Sir,
there is no climate uncongenial to Slavery.
It is true it is less productive than free labor
in many Northern countries; but so it is les&
productive than free while labor in even tropi
cal climates. Labor is hi quick demand in all
new countries. Slave labor is cheaper than
free labor and will go firat into new regions;
and wherever it goes it brings labor into dis
honor, and therefore free white labor avoids
competition with it. Sir, 1 might rely on cli
mate, if I had not been born in a laud w here
Slavery existed, and that land w’as all north
of lhe4oth parallel! of latitude, and if I did
not know the snuggle that it has cost and
which is yet going on, to get complete relief
from the institution and its baleful couse
quences.
But sir, it is said that Slavery ia prevented
by the laws of God from entering into the
Territory from which we propose to inhibit
it. 1 will look into that matter a little more
closely. I wish then, with the utmost res
pect to ask Senators whether the Ordrnauce
of 1787 was necessary or not? That Ordi
nance has been the subject of too many eulo
giums to be now prortonneed a vague and
tdle thing. That ordinance carried the pro
hibition of Slavery quite up to the 49th deg.
of North lal. and yet we are now told that
we can trust tbe laws of God without any
ordinance to exclude Slavery as far down as
36 deg. 30m. Unfortunately too, the ordi
nance of 1787 began on the 571 h parallel of
North latitude, so that there is no part of the
Territory which it covered, in which Slavery,
according to the present theory was not ex
cluded by tbe law of God. I know no better
authority as to the laws of God on this sub-i
ject than one from whom 1 have already had j
occasion to quote wiibsome freedom. And
it is the opinion of Montesquieu that it is only j
the indolence of mankind and not the climate
which cause the introduction of Slavery any
where. Theie is no climate where. Slavery
is necessary; there is none where it cannot
be established, if the customs and laws
permit.
1 shall dwell only very briefly on the argu
ment derived from the Mexican laws. The j
proposition that these laws must remain in
torce until altered by laws of our own is
satisfaciory; and so is the proposition that
those Mexican laws abolished and continue to
prohibit Slavery; and still 1 deem an enact
ment by ourselves wise and even necessary.
Both of the propositions I have stated are
denied with just as much confidence by South
ern Statesmen and Jurisis as they are affirm
ed by those of the Free States. The popu
lation of the new territories is rapidly becom
ing an American one to whom the Mexican
code w ill seem a foreign one entitled to little
deference or obedience. Slavery has never
obtained anywhere by express legislative au
thority, but always by trampling down laws
higher than any mere municipal laws—the
law of nature and ot nations. There can be
no oppression in 6upetadding the sanction of
Congress to the authority which is so weak
and so vehemently questioned. And there is
some possibility, if not a probability, that the
institution might obtain a foothold surreptiti
ously, if it should not be absolutely forbidden
by our own authority.
What is insisted upon, therefore, is not a
mere abstraction or a mete sentiment as is
contended by those who concur with us as to
admitting California, hut would waive the
Proviso. And what is conclusive on the sub
ject is that it is conceded on all hands that the
effect of insisting on it prevents the extension
of Slavery into the region to which it is pro
posed to apply it. Again, it is insisted that
the diffusion of Slavery does not increase its
evils. The argument seems to me merely
specious and quite unsound.
And this brings me to the great and all
absorbing argument that the Union is in dan
ger of being dissolved, and that it can only
be saved by Compromise.
I do not overlook the fact that the entire
delegation from the Slave States, although
they differ in the dealtl of compromise pro
posed, and perhaps also upon the exact cir
cumstances of the crisis, seem to concure in
the momentous warning. Nor do 1 doubt at
all the patriotic devotion to the Lnion which
iaexpreased by those from whom thia warn
ing proceeds. And yet, Sir, although these
warnings have been uttered with impassioned
solemnity in my hearing, every dav for near
three months, my confidence in the Union re
mains unshaken. 1 think they are to be re
ceived with no inconsiderabledialiuat, because
they are uttered under the influence of a con
trolling interest to lie secured, a paramount
object to be gained,—and ibai is, an equili
brium of power in the Republic. I think
they are to be received with even more dis
trust, because with the most profound res
pect they are uttered under an obviously
high excitement; nor is that excitement tin
unnatural one. It is a law of our nature,
that tbe passions disturb the reason and judg
ment just in proportion to the importance of
the occasion and the consequent necessity
for calmness and candor. I think they are to
be distrusted, because there is a diveisity ol
opinion in regard to the natute and operation
of this excitement. The Senators from some
States say that it has brought all parties in
that region into unanimity. TheSenatot from
Kentucky says that the danger lies in the
violeuce of party spit it, and refers us to the
difficulties which attended the organization of
the House of Representatives.
Sir, in my humble judgment, it ia not die
fierce conflict of Parties that we are seeing
and bearing; hut, on the contrary it ia the
agony of distracted parties, a convulsion re
sulting from the too narrow foundations of
both and of all patties—loundatioos laid in
compromises of natural justice and of human
liberty. A question—a moral question
transcending the too narrow creeds of parties
has arisen. The public concience expand#
with it, and the green withes of party asiio
ciations give way and break and tall off (root
it. No, Sir, it not the State that ia dying
of the fever of party spirit. It ia merely a
paialysia of parties, premonitory of tbeir
restoration with the new elements of health
and vigor imbibed from that spirit of the age
which ia so justly called Progress.
Nor ia the evil that of unlicensed,irregular,
and tdrblem faction. We are told that 90
legislatures are in session burning like fur
naces, heating and inflaming the popper
passions. But those twenty legislatures are
Constitutional frwaeea, They aw prorat
ing their customary functions imparting
healthful heart and vitality, while within
their Constitutional jurisdiction. If they rage
beyond its limits, the popular passions of
this country are not at all, 1 think, in danger
of being inflamed to excess. No, Sir, let
none of those fires be extinguished. For
ever let them burn and biaie. They are
neither ominous meteors nor baleful comets,
but planets, and bright and intense as their
heat many be, it is their native temperature,
and they must still obey the law which by
attraction toward the center bolds them in
their spheres.
I see nothing of that conflict between the
Southern nd the Northern States, or between
their Representative bodies, which seems to
be on all aides of me assomed. Not a word
of menace—not a word of anger, aot an in
temperate word hat been uttered in any
Northern Legislature. They firmly but calm
ly assert their convictions, but at the same
time they assert their unqualified purpose to
submit to the common arbiter, and for weal
or wo abide the fortunes of the Union.
What if there be leas of moderation in the
Legislatures of the South. It only indicates
on which aide the balance is inclining, and
that the decision of tbe Government is netr
at hand. 1 argue with those who say that
there can be no peaceful dissolution—no dis
solution of the Union by tbe secession of
States, but that disunion, dissolution, happen
when it may, will and must be Revolution.
I discover no omens of Revolution. The
predictions of the political astrologers do not
agree as to time, or manner in which it is to
occur. According to the authority of the
Hon. Senator from Alabama, (Mr. Clemens,)
the event has already happened, and the
Union ia now in ruins. According to the
horoscope of the Hon. Senator from Missis
sippi, (Mr. Foote,) it was to take place on a
day already past. According to the Hon.
and distinguished Senator from Soulh-Caro
lina, (Mr. Calhoun) it ia not to be immediate,
but to be developed by time.
[Mr. Foote here interpesed and disowned
the construction which had been put upon
his remarks, and made further explanations.]
Mr. Seward—l am very happy to have
given the Senator an opportunity to correct
the erroneous impression which the remark
which I have referred to had made. Now
the Hon. Senator will do me the justice to
allow that 1 am at liberty to subtract one pre
diction frem the political Almanac, and so the
predictions lose so much of impoitance.
I see no omens of Revolution. What ate
the omens to which our attention is directed?
1 see nothing but a broad difference of opinion
here, and the excitemen consequent upon it.
I have observed that Revolutions which
begin in that Palace, seldom gs beyond the
Palace Walls, and these affect only the
dynasty whieh reigns there. This Revolu
tion, if I understand it, began here in the
Senate Chamber a year ago, when the Rep
resentatives Irora Southern States assembled
here and addressed their constituents on what
was called the aggiesaions of the Northern
Slates. No revolution was designed at that
time, and all that lias happened since, ia the
return to Congiess of Legislative Resolutions
which seem to me to be conventional respon
ses to the address which emanated from the
Capital.
Sir, in any condition ot society there esn ha
no revolution without a cause —an adequate
cause.—What cause exists here? Wears
admitting a new State, but there is nothing
new in that—we have already admitted
seventeen before. But it is said that the
Slave Slates are in dinger of losing political
power by the admission of the new Slate.!
Well, sir, is there anything new in that? The
slave states have always been losing political!
power, and they always will be while they j
have any to lose. At first twelve of the
thirteen states were slave states. Now only
fit teen of the thirty are slave states. More
over, the change is constitutionally made,
and the Government was constructed so as
to permit changes o( the bolanceol power, in I
obedience to changes of the forces of the.
body politic. Danton used to say “It’s all
well while the People cry Dauton and Robes
pierre, but woe for me if ever the People
learn to say, Robespierre and Danton That
is all of it, sir. The People have been
accustomed to say, the South and North—
they ate beginning now to say, the North and
the South.
Sir, thGse who wou'd alarm us with the
terrors of revolution, have not well consideied
the structure of this Government and the or- j
ganization of its forces. It is a Democracy
of property and |*ersons, with a fair approxi
mation toward Universal Education, and oper
ating by means of Universal Suffrage. The
constituent members of this Democracy are
the only person# who could subvert it; and
they are not the citizens of a metropolis like,
Paris, or of a region subjected to the influ-!
ences of a metropolis, like France; but they j
are husbandmen dispersed over this broad l
land, on the mountain, and on the plain, and i
on the prairie, from the Ocean to the Rocky
Mountains, and from the Great Lakes to the j
Gulf. And this people are now, while we
are discussing their imaginary danger, at
peace and in their happy homes, and as un
concerned and even as uninformed of their
peril, as they are of events occurring in tbe
Moon. Nor have the alarmists made due al
lowance in their calculations for the influence
of conservative reaction—strong in any Gov
ernment, and irresistible in a rural Republic,
operating by universal suffrage. That prin
ciple of reaction ia due to the force of habits
of acquiescence and loyally among the peo
ple. No ruau better understood this principle
than Machiaveu.l, who has told us in regard
to factions, that no safe reliance can be
placed in the force of Nature and the bravery
of words, except it be corroborated by cus
tom.” Do the Alarmists remember that this
Government has stood sixty years already,
without exacting one drop of blood —that this
Government baa stood sixty years, and Trea
son is sn obsolete crime? That day, 1 trust,
ia lar off when the fountains of popular con
tentment aflaail be broken up—but whenever
it shall come it will bring forth a higher illus
tration than has ever yet been given, of tbe
excellence of the Democratic system. For
then it will be seen how calmly, how firmly,
how nobly a great people can act in preserv
ing thru* Constitution, when Love of couptiy
moveth Example uteehelb, Company cora
forteth, Emulation quickeneth, and Glory ex
aitetk.”
When the foanders of the new Republic
of tbe South, come to draw over the face of
this Empire, along or betweeo its parallels of
latitude or longitude, their ominous lines of
to be broadly and deeply
shaded with fraternal blood, they may come
to the discovery then, if not before, that tbe
national and even the political connections of
tbe region embraced, forbids such a partition;
that us possible divisions are not Northern
and Southern at all, but Eastern and West
ern— Atlantic and Pacific; and that Nature
and Commerce have allied indissolubly for
weal and woe the secedera and those from
whom they are to be separated; that while
they would rush into a pivij war, to restore
an imaginary equilibrium between the North
ern States and the Southern States, that a
new equilibrium had taken ita place, in which
HI those States are pn the one side, and the
boundless West waa on the other-
Sir, when the founders of tbe new Repub
lic of the South come to trace those fearful
tines, they will indicate what portion# of the
continent are to be broken off from their con
nection with the Atlatfftc through the St.
Lawrence, the Hudson, the Delaware, the
Potomac and the Mississippi—wbat portion
of this people are to be dented the use of the
lakes, the railroads and tbe canals, now con
stituting commoo and cuatgmary avenues of
travel, trade, and social intercourse—wbst
families and kindred are to be separated, and
convened into eoemtee, and what States are
to be the aoenef of perpetual border warfare,
aggravated by interminable horror# of inter
miniWf ioM)fffotisn When thou portent*
ous lines shall he drawn, they will daadfoee
what portion! of tbs modlo ia to ratih tbs
army and the navy, and tbe flag of*> manj
victories. And, on the other hind, whai
portion of this people is to be subjected u
new and Tuinous imposts, direct taxes, and
forced loans and conscriptioos, to maintain ao
opposing army and opposing navy, “d the
new and hateful banner of sedition- Then
ihe projectors of the new Republic ot the
South will meet the question—and wyaa;
well prepare now to answer it—” What is
all this for?—what intolerable wrong?—what
unfi sternal injustice hav# Tendered these cal
amities unavoidable ?—what gain will thii
unnatural revolution bring to us 1 The
answer will be— All thia is done to secure
the institution of African slavery.”
And then, if not before, the question will
be discussed—What is this Institution ol
Slavery that it should cause these unparallel
ed sacrifices and these disastrous afflictions?
And this will be the answer. When the
Spaniards, few in number, discovered the
Western Indies and the adjacent Continental
America, the needed labor to draw forth from
its virgin stores some speedy return to the cu
pidity of the Court and Bankers of Madrid,
they enslaved the indolent inoffensive and con
fiding patives who perished by thousands and
even by millions under that new and unnatu
ral bondage. A humane ecclesiastic advised
the substitution of Africans reduced to cap
tivity in their native wars, and a pious
Princess adopted the suggestion »ith a dis
pensation from the Head of the Church,
granted on the ground of the prescriptive
right of the Christian to enslave the heathen
to effect his conversion. The Colonists ol
North America, innocent in their uncon
sciousness of wrong, encouraged the Slays
Traffic, and thus the labor of subduing theii
territory devolved chiefly upon the African
race. A happy conjunction brought on an
awakening of tbe conscience of mankind tc
the injustice of slavery simuhaneasly with
the independence of the Colonies. Massa
chusetts, Connecticut, Rhode-Island, New-
Hampshire, Vermont, New York, New
Jersey and Pennsylvania welcomed and em
braced the spirit of universal emancipation;
renouncing luxury, they secured tnfluencr
and empire. But the states of ihe tsouth,mis
led by a new and profitable cultivation, elec
ted to maintain and perpetuate slavery, and
thus choosing luxury they lost power and
empire.
When this answer shall be given it will
appear that the question of dissolving the
Union is a complex question, —that it embra
ces the fearful issue whether the Union shall
stand, and slavery, under the steady, peace
ful action of moral, social and political causei
be removed by gradual voluntary effort and
compensation, or whether the Union shall
be dissolved, and civil wats ensue bringing
on violent but complete and immediate eman
cipation. We are now arrived at that stage
of our national progress when that crisis can
be foreseen, when we must foresee it It is
directly before us. Its shadow is upon us.
It datkens the| legislative halls, the temples
of worship, and the home and the hearth.
Every question political civil or ecclesiastical
however foreign to the subject,.slavery brings
up slavery, is an incident, and the incident
supplants the principal question. We hear
of nothing but slavery and we can talk of
nothing but slavery, And now it seems to me
that all our difficulties, embaraaaments and
dangers arise not of unlawful perversions
of ihe question of slavery as some suppose,
but out of the want of moral courage to
meet this question of emancipation as we
ought. Consequently we hear on one side
demands, absurd indeed but yet unceasing,
for an immediate and unconditional Abolition
of slavery, as if any power except the people
of the slave states could abolish it, and as if
they could be moved to abolish it by merely
sounding the trumpet violently and proclaim
ing emancipation, while the institution was
interwoven with all their social and political
interests, constitutions and customs.
On the other hand our statesmen say that
alvaery has always existed, and for aught
they know or can do tt always must exist.
God permitting it, and He only can indicate
the way to remove it, as if the supreme Crea
tor, after giving us the instructions of his
Providence ynd Revelation for the illumina
tion of our minds and consciences, did not
leave us in all human transactions with due
invocations of his Holy spirit to seek out hia
will, and execute it for ourselves.
Here then is the point of my separation
from both of theae parties. I feel assured
that Slavery will give way,and must give way
to the salutary instructions of economy, and
to the ripening influences ot humanity,— that
emancipation is inevitable, and is pear,—that
it mav be hastened or hindered, and that whe
ther it be peaceful or violent depends upon
the Government, whether it be hastened or
hindered,—that all measures which justify
Slavery ur extend it, tend to the consumma
tion of violence; —all that cheek its extension
and abate its strength, tend to its peaceful ex
tirpation. But I will adopt now none but
lawful, Constitutional and peaceful means to
secure even the er.d; and none auch can I or
will I forego.
Nor do 1 know any important or responsible
body that proposes to do inure than ihis, No
free Slate claims to extend its legislation into
a slave State. —None claims that Congress
shali usurp power to abolish Slavery in the
Slave States. None claims that any violent
unconstitutional or unlawful measures shall
be restored to. And on the other hand, if we
offtr no scheme or plan for the adoption of the
•lave states, with the assent and cooperation
of Congress, it is only because the slave
states are unwilling aa yet to receive auch
suggestion, or even to entertain the question
of emancipation in any state.
But, air. I will take this occasion to say,
that while 1 cannot agree with the Hon. Sen
ator from Massachusetts in proposing to de
mote $80,000,000 to remove the free colored
population from the states, and thus, as it
appears to me, fortify slavery—there ia (to
reasonable limit to which I am not willing to
go in applying the uational treasures to effect
the peaceful voluntary removal of slavery it
self.
1 have thus endeavored to show that there
is not now, and ia not likely to occur, any
adequate cause for revolution in regard to
slavery. But you reply that Mvertiieless,
you roust have guarantees. And tbe first
one is for tbe surrender of fugitives from lab
or. That guarantee you cannot have, aa I
have already shown, because you cannot roll
back the tide of social progress. You must
be content with what you have. If you wage
war against us, you can, at moot, only con
quer us, and. then all you can get will be a
treaty, and that you have already. But you
ioaiet on a guarantee against the Abolition
of slavery in tbe District of Columbia or war.
Well, wben you ahall bave declared war a
gainst us, wbat shall hinder ua from immed
iately decreeing that slavery ahall eeaae with
in tbe National Capital,
You say that you will not submit to the
exclusion of slaves from the new Territories.
What wilt you gain by resistance? Liberty
follows Ihe sword, although her away is one
of peace and beneficence. Can you propa
gate Slavery, then, by the sword
You insist that you cannot submit to the
freedom with which slavery ie diaeussed in
the Free states. Wilj war—a war for sla
very, crush or even moderate that discussion!
No, sir, that discussion will net cease.
War would only inflame it to a greater
heightb. It is a part of the eternal oonflict
betweeo truth sod error—between mind and
physics) fofee, the conflict of man against
the obstacles which oppose hit way to an ul
timate and glorious destiny. It will go on,
until yon sliall terminate in the only way in
which any state or nation has terminated it,
by yielding to it—yielding in yoor own time
and in your own manner, indeed, but never
theless yielding to the progress of tsftaaeip*
sou will do this sooner or later, whaterei
may be your opinion# now; bootee* nation*
which wore prudent and humane, and wise as
yon sat, have dons ao already.
SMm slave Statesh*** M reason Ie tar that
this inevitable change -rill go too far or too fast
for their safety or welfare. Itcanoot well go too
fast or too far, if the only alternative is a war
of races.
Bat itcanoot go 100 fart. Slavery has a reli
able and accommodating ally in a party in the
Free States, which, though it claims to be and
doubtless is, in many respects, a party of prog
ress, finds iu eol# security for its political po««r
in the support and aid of slavery in tbs slave
States. Of course I do not include in that party
tboee who are now co operating in maintaining
the cause of freedom against slavery. I am not
of this party of progress in the North which lends
its support to slavery. But it is only just and
candid that I should be a witness to their fidelity
to the interest* of slavery. Sis very has, more
over, a more natural alliance with the Aristocra
cy of the North and with the aristocracy of Europe
So long as slavery shall possess the cotton
fields, the sugar fields, and the rice fields of the
world, so long will commerce and capital yield
its toleration and sympathy. Emancipation is a
democratic revolatioo. It Is capital that arrests
all democratic rsvolutions. It was capital that
in a single year rolled back the tide of revolu
tion on the Use of the Carpathian mountains, a
cross the Danube and the Rhine, into the streets
of Paris. It is capital that is rapidly rolling back
the throne of Napoleon into the Chambers of the
Tniltortss
Slavery has a guarantee still stronger than
these in the prejudices of caste and color, wbieb
induce eveu lar „e majorities in all the free states
to regard sympathy with the slave as ao act of
unmanly humliatioo and self abasement.
Although philosophy meekly expresses her dis
trust oi the asserted natural superiority of the
white race, and confidently denies that such a
superiority, if justly claimed, could give a title to
oppression, there remains one more guarantee
one that has seldom failed you, aod will seldom
fail you hereafter. New States cling in ch eer re
liance than the olde ones to the federal power.
The concentration of the Slave power enables you
for long periods to control the Federal Govern
meot, with the aid of the New Stater. I do noi
know the sentiments of tue Representatives oi
California; but my word for it, if they should be
admitted on this floor to-day against your most
obstinate opposition, they would,on all questions
really affecting your interests, be found at your
side. With these allies and aids to break the
force of Emancipation, there will be no disunion
and no secession. J do not say that there may
no be disturbance, though I do not apprehend
even that. Absolute regularity and order in ad
ministration have not yet been established in any
Government, and unbroken popular tranquility
baa not yet been attained in even the most ad
vanced cordition of human society. The machi
oery of our system is necessarily complex. A
pivot may fall out here—a lever may be displac
ed there—tut the machinery will soon recover
its regularity and move on just as before, with
even better adaptation aod adjustment to over
come new obstructions.
There are many well disposed persons who are
alarmed at the occurrence ot any such disturbance
The future of a Legislative body to organise is
to their apprehension, a feariul omen, and an ex
tra Constitutional assemblage to consult upon
public affairs is with them cause for desperation.
Even Senators speak of the Union as if it exited
only by consent, and, as it seems to be implied,
by the assent of tee Legislatures of the States.
On the contrary, the Union was pot founded in
voluntary choice, nor does it exist by voluntary
consent.
A Union was proposed to the Colonies by
Frskklin and others in 1704; but 6uch was their
aversion to an abridgment of their own importance
respectively, that it was rejected even under the
pressure of a disastrous invasion by Fraoce.
A union of choice was proposed to the Colonies
in 1770 but so strong was their oppositiouthat
they went through the War of Independence
without having established more than a mere
Council of Confederation.
But with Independence came enlarged interests
of agriculture, absolutely new interests of manu
factures, interests of commerce, of fisheries, of
navigation, of a common domain, common debts,
of common revenues and taxation, of tbe admiuis
tration of justice, of public defense, of public hoo
or, in short, interests of common nationality and
sovereignty interests which at last compelled the
adoption of a more perfect union—a National
Government.
The genius, talent and learning of Hamilton,
of Jat, of Madison, surpassing, perhaps, the intel
lectual power ever excited before for the estab
lishment of a Government, combined with the
serene but mighty influence of W ashinqton, were
only sufficient to secure the reluctant adoption of
the Constitution that is now the object of all our
affections and of the hopes of mankind. No
wonder that ths conflicts in which that Constitu
tion was born, and the almost desponding solem
nity of Was ling ton in bis Farewell Address, im
pressed his countrymen and mankind with a
profound distrust of its perpetuity No wonder
that while tbe murmurs of that day are yet ring
ing iu our ears, we have cherished that distrust
with pious reverence as a national and patriotic
sentiment.
But it is time to prevent abases of that senti
ment. It is time to shako off t tat fear, for fear
is always weakness. It is time to remember
that Government, even when it arises by chance
or accident, and is administered capriciously and
oppressively, is ever tbe strongest of all human
institutions, surviving many social and ecclesias
tical changes and consuls ons, and that this Gov
ernment of ours has all the inherent strength
common to Governments, and added to them is
ths solidity aod firmness derived from broader
and deeper foundations in natural justice, and
from a better civil adaptation to promote the
welfare and happiness of mankind,
Ths Union, the creation of necessities physical,
moral, social and political, endures by virtue of
the same necessities, and these necessities are
stronger than when it was produced, and by tbe
greater amplitude of territory now covered by
it;—stronger by tbe six-fold increase of tbe soci
ety living under its benificent protection;—stron
ger by the augmentation ten thousand times of
the fields, the work shops, tbe mines and the ships
of that society, of its productions of the sea, of
ths plow, of tbs loom, aod of ths aovil, in their
coastaot circle of internal and international ex
changes {—stronger in tbs long rivers penetrating
regions before unknown; —stronger in all the ar
tificial roads, canals and otticr channels and ave
nues essential not only to trade but to defense
stronger iu steam navigation, in steam locomotion
oq tb«t land, and iu telegraph communication*
unknown when the Constitution wee adopted;—
stronger in the freedom and in the growing Em
pire of the ;—stronger iu the element of na
tional honor i» all lands, and stronger than all in
ths now settled habits of veneration and affec
tion for institutions so stupendous and useful.
The Union then IS, net because merely that
men choose that it shall be, bat because some
Government must exist here, aod no other Gov
ernment than this can. If it should be dashed to
itoms by the whirlwind, tbe lightning or the earth
quake to day, it would rise again in all itsjust and
magnificent proportions to morrow.
1 have heerd somewhat here, end almost for the
first time in my life, of divided allegiaoer—of al
legiance to the South and to the Union—of alle
giance to States severally, and to the Union. Sir,
if sympathies with State emulation and pride of
achievement could be aUov.ed to raise up another
Sovereign to divide the allegiance of a citizen ot
the United States, 1 might recognize the claims
ot tbe State to which by birth and gratitude I be
long—to tbe State of Hamilton ana Jay, of Sch
uyler, of (fie. Clintons tad of Fulton—the State
which, with less than 900 mites of neutral navi
gation connected with the ocean, ban, by her own
enterprise, secured to herself ths commerce of the
Continent, and in strsdily advancing to the com
mand ot the commerce of the world. Bat tor all
this, I know only one Country and one Sovereign
-e-the United States of America and the American
People.
And each as my allegiance is, is the loyalty of
every other citizen of the United Staten.
As I speak fie will speak when his time arrives;
ho knows no other country and no other sovere
ign he bns life, liberty, property, nnd precious
affections, and hopes for himself nnd for his pos
terity, treasured up ii the nrk of the Unieo he
know* well and feels ae strongly as 1 do, that
this Government is fits own Government that
be is a part of it that it was established for him,
and that it is maintained by him; that it is the on
ly true, wine, just, free, end equal Governmeat
that has ever existed; that no other Government
could bo wise, just, free nnd equal i. that >t it a
safer and more beneficent than any which time or
made, it has art been because that faction has not
always existed, aad has not always n
trial, hot because faction oortd find no fulcrum on
which le place lb* lever to snhvett the Union, ae
bnt I will not suffer a fear which 1 have not to
make me compromise one sentiment, one princi
ple of truth or j aerie*, to avert a danger that all ex
perience teaches me ia purely chimerical Let
those then who dismal tbe Union make Com
promises to save it. 1 rhafl not impeach ibeir
patriotism, but indulging ao mch apprehensions
myself, I shall vote for the admission of California
directly, without conditions, without qualifica
tion, and without Compromise. For the vindica
tion of that vote I look not to the verdict of the
passing i our, disturbed ae tbe public mind now i?
by conflicting interests and pamions, but to that
period, happily not for distent, when the vast re
gions over which we are low legislating, shall
have received their destined inhabitants.
While looking forward to that day, its countless
geneiations seem to me to be rising up and pAsa
lt gin dim and shadowy review be'ore us. And
the voice conies forth from their reviewed ranks,
saying, Waste jour treasures, and your armies,
if you witl, raze your fortifications to the ground,
sink ymr navies into the sea, transmit to ns even
a dishonored name, if you must, but the soil that
you hold ia trust for ns, give it to us free; you
found it free and conquered it to extend a better
and surer freedom over it. Whatever choice you
have made for yourselves, let us have uo partial
freedom, let us all be free, let the reversion of our
broad domain descend to us unincumbered and free
from the calamities and sorrows of human bon-1
dage.”
The Executive Committee
Of tha Western New York Anti-Slavery
Society, are requested to meet at the house of
Isaac Post, 36 Sophia street, on Saturday
March 39, at 3 o’ clock p. m. punctually.
JOHN DICK, Sec'y
PROCRASTINATION IS THE THIEF OF
TIME.
Delay is dangerous—neglect that cold cough a
few weeks, and tho hope of recovering will be lost
to you for ever. Let uot any pecuniary consideia
tion deter you from trying to save your life aod
health white there is a chance. Consumption is an
nually sweeping off thousands to' the tomb: no dis
ease has baffled the skill of physicians like it: no
physician, perhaps, has ever done more for this
large class of suffering humanity, than Dr. Wistar.
An ounce of preventive is woith a pound of cure:’
therefore,Jbefore your lungs become ulcerated, and
so diseased that do human means save you from an
early grave, try in season, try at once, a medicine
which has beeu of such infinite value to tliousands
—obtain a bottle of Dr. Wistar’s Balsam of Wild
1 Cherry, take it, get another iff necessary, persevere
in' using it until you have removed the disease en
tirely, which if neglected will terminate your life.
Pulmonary Consumption has until within a
few years, been ge erally considered incurable, al
though many medical men ol the highest standing,
among whom we might meution Laennee and his
friend Bayle— both distinguished authors, admit
that this much dreaded disease may lie cured, even
iu its advanced stages when tbe lungs are not com
pletely disorganized.
Tlie remedy which we now offer,
WISTAR’S BALSAM Of WILD CIIEEY,
not only emanates fiom a regular Physician, but
has been well tested in all the complaints for which
it is recommended,
BEWARE OF IMPOSITION.
9 Remember, the original and only genuine WIS
TAR'S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY always
bears the written signature of I. BUTTS on the
outside wrapper.
For sale by Post k Willis; also by Wm.
Pitkin.
ON HIS HANDS AND KNEES.
Dr. W. B. Sloan—Dear) Sir: I hereby certify
that my son Albert, eleven years of age, was afflic
ted in his feet from the time he first began to walk,
the bottoms of which were covered with a hard dry
skin full of cracks causing pain and much affliction,
many limes hn was obliged to go on his hands and
knees, and no time has been free from the sore af
fliction until now; baffling the skill of several
Physicians, but to our surprise his feet are now
perfectly smooth soft and free from cracks, all from
one application of your Osntment. I-would say
tlie boy put it an himself fit au experiment sf Ins
own, from hearing it recomended. Nothing more
was thought of it for three weeks, at which time
hi* feet were near about in a healthy state,aad are
now tlie same as though they never had been other-
Yours, Ac, ISAAC PADEN.
Gale-burgh, Knox co. 111., April 2,1849.
(JCJ-See Agents’ names at the head of Sloan’s
column. For further particulars and testimonials
get Pamphlets of Agents-
BACON.
The January number of the Chris
tian Parlor Magazine contains a valu
able article upon the religious charac
ter of Lord Bacon, by the Rev. Albert
Barnes, from which we select the fol
lowing beautiful and truthful para
ghaphs. [Christian Times.
It is not easy to form an estimate of
Bacon’s religious character. We are
favored with so few and imperfect de
tails of his private habits; we have so
little that tells us the true biography of
the man—his feelings, his usual de
portment, his private modes of action;
we are let so littfe into the interior ar
rangements of his life, that we cannot
easily pronounce on his personal char
acter. Charity would lead us to hepe,
notwithstanding his fondness for pre
ferment, and the great error of his
life, that he may have exemplified in
his private life the principles which he
has so ably and so constantly inculca
ted. On the subject of his religious
opinions he has left us no room to
doubt. There is scarcely to be found
in any language, or in any writer, so
constant a reference to the great religi
ous interest of man, as in the writings
of Bacon. There is no where to be
found a more profound defence to the
authority of the Bible. There is per
haps no where more caution displayed,
lest the profoundness, variety, com
pass, and originality of investigation
should lead the mind astray, than in
his investigations. It was one of his
recorded sentiments—one of the results
of his investigations, which he has ex
pressed without hesitancy or qualifica
tion, “that a little philosophy inclineth
a man to atheism: but depth in philoso
phy bringeth man’s minds about to re
ligion; for while the mind of man look
eth upon second causes scattered, it
may sometimes rest in them and go no
further; but when it beholdeth the chain
of them confederate and linked togeth
er, it must deeds fly to Providence and
Deity.’’ His belief he has left us in a
well-written confession of his faith,
embracing the usual articles of the
Christian religion. His prayers, which
are preserved, breathe a spirit of true
devotion, in a style and form which are
not surpassed by any compositions of
that period, in our language. It would
be easy to transcribe page after page
of his recorded sentiments; and we
might trace at every step of his life his
profound deference for the theology of
the Bible.
We do not believe that the Christian
religion depends for its evidence on
the suffrage of any one philosopher; or
on the bright constellation of names
which have expressed their profound
regard for the truths of revelation.
Still a Christian cannot but look with
deep interest on the fact that such men
as Bacon, and Boyle, and Newton,
bowed their mighty intellects to the au
thority of revelation; came and brought
all the rich and varied treasures of
their profound investigation, and laid
them at the foot of the cross; and spent
their lives increasingly impressed with
the belief that the God of nature is al
so the God of the Bible. While we do
not claim, that on their authority the
Scriptures should be accredited as the
word of God, we do claim that they
should be allowed to rebuke the flip
pancy of youthful aad unfledged infi
delity; that they should be permitted to
summon men to inquire, before they
pronounce; we claim that their authori
ty is sufficient to call on the youthful
skeptic to pause, and to suspect that
possibly he may be wrong. When
i mighty minds like those have left their
recorded assent to the truths of the
I Christian scheme, it is not too much
jto ask of minds of far lees power to
sit down and inquire, at least, whether
Christianity may not have come from
God. When Newton, after having
surveyed world on world and measured
the heavens, and placed himself for
profound inquiry at the head of man
kind, sat down in the full maturity* of
his days, and passed the vigor of his
life, and the serene evening of his
honored age in the contemplation of
the New Testament: when Bacon, after
having rescued science from the accu
mulated darkness and rubbish of two
thousand years; after having given
lessons to all mankind about the just
mode of investigating nature; and after
having traversed the circle of the sci
ences, and gained all that past genera
tions had to teach, and having carried
forward the inquiry far into nature,
bowed at every step to the authority'of
the Bible; when Hale, learned in the
law, not only believed Christianity to
be true, but adorned the Christian pro
fession by a most humble life; when
Boerhave, perfectly acquainted with
the human frame, and skilled in the
healing art, sat with the simplicity of a
child at the feet of Jesus Christ; when
Locke gave the testimony of his power
ful mind to the truth of the Christian
religion; when Davy, first of chemists,
came on this subject to the same results
as the analyzer’of light, the inventer
of fluxious, and the demonstrator of the
theory of gravitation; as the author of
the Novum Organum; and the writer
of the treatise on the Human Under
standing; when each science has thus
contributed its founder, its ornament,
and its head, as a witness to the truth
of the Christian religion, if is not too
much to conclude it may be something
different from priestcraft and impos
ture. When we turn from these lights
of men—these broad stars that spread
their beams over all the firmament of
science, and seek after the wandering
and dim luminaries of infidelity—when
we make a sober estimate of what the
high priests of unbelief have done for
the advancement of science, and the
welfare of mao, we are struck with
the prodigious advance we have made
into chilly and tenebrated regions. We
have passed amid spirits of another
order. We wander in climes' as re
mote almost from science, as from
Christianity. We should know where
we are as readily by their superficial,
but pompous pretensions; by dark, but
most confident scientific claims; by er
roneous, wandering, but most flippant
demands in science, as we do by their
infuriated and bitter raging against the
claims of the Christian religion. Who
are these men? Volney, Diderot,
D’Alembert, Voltaire, Paine; Herbert
—tbe best and greatest of them—Shat
tesbury, Tindal Morgan, Bolingbroke
Gibbon, Hume. What hare they eve
done for science? What advance
have they ever made So far aa wi
know not one of them has any preten
siona to what gives immortality to th<
names of Boyle, Locke Newton, Ba
con, Hale. What valuable fact hav<
they ever presented in science? Wha
new principle have they originated, 01
illustrated What department of sci
ence have they adorned. Not a mar
of them has ever trod the region that
constituted the glory of England, anc
of the world—the regions of profounc
science; ofdeep,and penetrating inves
tigation of the works of nature. In the
spirit of such men, science would stili
have slumbered in the regions of eter
nal night; and infidelity, but for Chris
tian men, might have swayed a sceptre
as she desired, over regions of pro
found and boundless shades of igno
rance and crime. When such have
been the apostles and high priests ol
unbelief—such the hosts which thej
have mustered, we feel that, apart from
all argument in th** case, we would ra
ther accord with the sentiments of the
great luminaries of mankind in science;
and that it is not unworthy of reason
and elevated thought to suppose, that
true religion may be found where we
have found every other valuable bles
sing for mankind; and that the system,
attended every where with science, re
finement and art, and that has shed
light on the intellect, and honor on the
names of Lock, and Boyle, and Bacon,
is the system with which God intended
in hi pa ft ntpvt
HORRIBLE SCENE IN A CREEK
CHURCH IN JERUSALEM
In Curzon’s visit to the Monasteries
of the Levant, the following instance
of gross deception and mummery on
the part of the patriarchs of the Greek
Church is related, which was attended
with the most tragic consequences.
Mr. Curzon, in company with Ibrahim
Pasha, at that time in full sway over
all Syria, proceeded to church to see
the portent of the holy fire. As soon
as the Great Turk was comfortuble in
the gallery which had been reserved
for him, the two patriarchs, who once
in the year condescended to act in the
same piece, performed the miracle, and
the church was instantly the scene of
the most hideous tumult; hundreds of
the pilgrims, from every quarter—
Greek, Armenian, Copt and Abyssi
anian—rushing pell mell to light their
lamps, with which all come provided,
at the holy flame just descended from
heaven at the prayer of those reverend
personages. The two miracle mongers
had not been above a minute in the
Holy Sepulchre when the glimmering
of the holy fire was seen, or imagined
to appear; and surely bedlam never
displayed such au unruly transport as
was produced in the mob at that sight.
But though there always is great dis
turbance and serious accidents have
often occurred, the miracle of 1834
was followed by horrors on a scale
wholly unaxampled; and it is fortunate
that for a scene so monstrous we have
the complete and living evidence of an
English gentleman.
Soon you saw the lights increasing
in all directions, every one having lit
his candle from the holy flame; the
chapels, the galleries, and every cor
ner where a candle could possibly be
displayed, immediately appeared to be
in a blaze. The people, in their fren
zy, pu'. the bunches of lighted tapers
to their faces, hand and breasts, to
purify themselves from their sins.
The patriarch was carried out of the
sepulchre in triumph, on the shoulders
of the people he had deceived, amid
the cries and exclamations of joy which
resounded from every nook of the im
mense pile of buildings. As he ap
peared in a hunting state, I supposed
that he was ill; but I found that it is
the uniform custom on these occasions
to feign insensibility, that the pilgrims
may imagine that he is overcome with
the glory of the Almighty, from whose
immediate presence they believe him
to have returned.
In a short time the smoke of the con
dles obscured everything in the place,
and I could see it rolling in great vol
umes out of the aperture at the top of
the dome. The smell was terrible;
and three unhappy wretches, overcome
by heat and bad air, fell from the up
per range of galleries, and were dash
ed to pieces on the heads of the people
below. One poor Armenian lady,
seventeen years of age, died where shs
sat, of heat, thirst and fatigue.
After a while, when he had seen all
that was to be seen, Ibrahim Pasha
got up and went away, his numerous
guards making a line for him by main
force throuth the dense mass of people
which filled the body of the church.
As the crowd was so immense, w«
waited for a little while,and then set out
all together to return to our convent.
I went first, and my friends followed
me, the soldiers making way for us
icross the church, I got as far as the
place where the Virgin is said to have
stood during the crucifixion, when I
law a number of people lying on one
mother all about this part ofthe church,
and as far as I could see towards the
cloor. I made my way between them
t well as I could, till they were so
thick that there was actually a great
lieap of bodies upon which trod. It
then suddenly struck me that they
were all dead! I had not perceived
this at first, for I thought they were
only very much fatigued with the cere
monies, and had Tain down to rest
themselves tjiere; but when I came to
so great a heap of bodies I looked
down at them, and saw that sharp,
hard appearance of the face which is
nover to be mistaken.—Many of them
were quite black with suffocation and
farther on were others all bloody and
covered with the brains and entrails of
those who bad been trodden to pieces
by the crowd.
At this time there was no crowd in
this part of the church, but«little far
ther on, round the corner toward the
great doer, the people, who were quite
panic-struck, continued to press for
ward, and every one was doing the
utmost to escape. The guards outside,
frightened at the rush from within,
thought that the Christians wished to
attack them, and the confusion soon
grew into a battle. The soldiers with
their bayonets killed numbers of faint
ing wretches, and the walls were spat
tered with blood and brains of men
who had been felled, like oxen, with
the butt-ends of the soldier’s muskets.
Every one struggled to defend himself,
or to get away, and all who fell were
immediately trampled to death by the
rest. So desperate and savage did
the fight become, that even the panic
struck pilgrims appeared at last to have
been more intent upon the destruction
of each other than desirous to save
themselves.
For my part, as soon as I perceived
the danger. I had cried out to my
companions to turn back, whicH they
had done; but I myself was carried on
by the press till l came near the door;
where all were fighting for their lives.
Here, seeing certain destruction be
fore me, I made every endeavor to get
back. An officer of the pasha’s who
by his star was a colonel or bin
bashee, equally alarmed with myself,
was also trying to return; he caught
hold of my cloak, or bournous, and
pulled me down on the body of an old
man who was breathing out his last
sigh. As the officer was pressing me
to the ground we wrestled together
among the dying and the dead with
the energy of despair. I struggled
with this man till 1 pulled him down,
and happily got again upon my legs—
(l afterwards found that he never rose
again)—and scrambling oyer a pile of
corpses, I made my way back into the
body of the church, where I found my
friends, and we succeeded in reaching
the sacristy of the Catholics and thence
the room which had been assigned to
us by the monks.
The dead were lying in heaps, even
upon the stone of unction; and I saw
full four hundred wretched people,
dead and living, heaped promiscuously
one upon another, in some places
above five feet high. Ibrahim Pasha
had left the church.only a few minutes
before me, and very narrowly escaped
with his life; he was so pressed upon
by the crowd on all sides, and it was
said attacked by several of them, that
it was only by the greatest exertions ol
his suite, several ot whom were killed,
that he gained the outer court. He
fainted more than once in the struggle,
and 1 was told that some of his atten
dants at last had to cut a way for him
with their swords through the dense
ranks of the frantic pilgrims. He re
mained outside, giving orders for the
removal of the corpses, and making
his men drag out the bodies of those
who appeared to be still alive, from
the heaps of the dead. He sent word
to us to remain in the convent till all
the bodies had been removed, and that
when we could come out in safety he
would again send to us.
We stayed in our room two hours
before we ventured to make another
attempt to escape from this scene oi
horror, and then, walking close toge
ther, with all our servants round us,
we made a bold push, and got out oi
the church By this time most of the
bodies were removed, but twenty or
thirty were still lying in distorted atti
tudes at the foot of Mount Calvary,
and fragments of. clothes, turbans,
shoes and handkerchief, clotted with
blood and dirt, were strewed all over
the pavement.
In the court in the front of the church
the sight was pitiable—mothers weep
ing over their children the sons
bending over the dead bodies of their
fathers—and one poor woman was
clinging to the hand of her husband,
whose body was fearfully mangled.
Most of the sufferers were pilgrims and
strangers. The pasha was greatly
moved by the scene of woe, and he
again and again commanded his offi
cers to give the poor people every as
sistance in their power, and very
many, by his humane efforts, were res
cued from death.
I was much struck by the sight of
two old men, with white beards, who
had beeu seeking for each other among
the dead; they met as I was passing
by, and it was affecting to see them
kiss and shake hands, and congratulate
each other on having escaped from
death.
When the bodies were removed,
many were discovered standing upright,
quito dead; and near the church door
one of the soldiers was found thus
standing, with bis musket shouldered,
among the bodies, which reached near
ly as high as his head; this was in a
corner near the great door on the right
side as you come in. It seems that
this door had been shut, so that many
who stood near it were suffocated in
the crowd; and when it was opened
the rush was so great that numbers
were thrown down and never rose
•gain, being trampled to death by the
press behind them. The whole court
before the entrance of the church was
covered with bodies laid in rows by the
pasha’s ordders, so that their friends
might find them and carry them away.
As we walked home we saw numbers
of people carried out, some dead, and
some horribly wounded and in a dying
state, for they had fought with their
heavy silver inkstands and daggers.
Fashionable Manners.— There is a
set of people whom I cannot bear—the
pinks of fashionable propriety—whose
every word is precise, and whose every
movement is unexceptionable; but
who, though versed in all the catego
ries of polite behavior, have not a
particle of soul or of cordiality about
them. We allow that their manners
may be abundantly correct. There
m*y be elegance in every gesture,'and
gracefulness in every position; not a
smile out of place, and not a step that
would not bear the measurement of
the severest scrutiny. This is all very
fine; but what I want is the heart and
the gaiety of social intercourse—the
frankness that spreads ease and ani
matiou around it—the eye that speaks
affability to all, that chases timidity
from every bosom, and tells every man
in the company to be confident and
happy. This is what I conceive to be
the virtue of the text, “Be courteous,”
and not the sickening formality of those
who walk by rule, and would reduce
the whole of human life to a wire
bound system of misery and constraint.
Dr. Cftalmert' scraon in Potthumou*
Work,.