AWrJIUCAX P;>!al;lCS SHPAIJAT-
I i> Ets.ll -lIOUAE LAW.
ijy hlv. :;:t. nusiiNr.LL.
It is roiinr!;aU!2 tiia} t!i,' urn-al sense
t.f the cim itjy is s> dn!!eJ, in refer-;
once to that c;m be called'
politics —moral distinctions are so far
subordinated to the iwer <»t pn’.'tv dis
cipline, tiiat a! n Ist n elect is pro
duced the a wit a: i >n on one side, or
the just reprobation it meets on tbc
oilier. A m >ss inelancli dy fright
ful evidence of' the extent to which
American p ditics have liec cue separa
ted from the law offi id and the control
of m uni princijil;
We are guilty as a nation of the;
m )sl glari'i r wr a:i 1 i! there be a
just (»*d, we have ivo-ei to tremble
for 1 fis judgments. We arc ceasing
ns a nation to have any conscience
about public matters, iv/en good men
and Christians, who h :s mist deplora
ble of all, are suT ring an allegiance
to party rule, which edoctually demol
ishes th hr personality under the claims
of principle, learning q liotly to ap
prove, a 1 i passively t<) follow in what
soever path their party leads. The
fear of find is perishing. The impulse
of political adventure bears dawn other
and better impulses. Numbers and
force are the iustruiu mts, success the
test, of all public measures, and the
amazing interests of our great country,
if we do unt retrace our steps, are soon
to lie at the mercy of irresponsible will,
instigated by a rapacity for office and
power, wdiieli no constitutions or bonds
of order can long restrain.
The neglect of (lie pulpit to assert
the dominion of moral principle over
what we do as citizens, has hastened
and aggravated the evil 1 complain ot
The false unti >n has taken possession
extensively of tie; public mind, and
received the practical assent, too gen
erally', of the ministers of religion
themselves, that they must not meddle
with p ditics. Nothing is made of the
obvious distiucti m between the moral
principles of politics and those ques
tions of election and of state policy
which are to he decided by our moral
tests, it is the s dean duty of the
ministers of reiigiou to make tlu-ir peo
ple feel the presence of (juu s law
every where—and especially here,
where s many of the dearest interests
ot life—nay, tip- interests of virtue
und >n are themselves at stake.—
This ts the manner of the I»i!>!e. There
is no one s ibj <-t on which it is more
full •m l a'j-mdu.it than it is in reference
to the moral dutv of rulers and citizens.
Command, re proof, warning, denun
ciation i'n t y t iNtrumeut is applied to
keep them under u s uise of obiigation
to <*od. Jinc ot the ministers ot
religion, am ab-ai 1, want the courage
to discha g«* th ir w.o dti duty in this
matter. I ie tr po-.ii in between two
fiery and imp' i ions torrents of party
feeling, is often one, 1 know of great
weakness, and they need to consider
when they put on tie tr armor, whether
they can meet alone one tit.it cornetli
against them with t.v.mty thousand.
I bit it cannot be neex-.ry that the
duties of the ministry in this tiehl,
h!> <uld be totally neglected, us they
have been in many places hitherto, or
it' it he, we may well despair of out
country.
Party discipline is so strtng and
perempior) am mg us, that m >rul con
wderatioi s and lostrailits, ure over
borne by it. Men are always irres
poueible, wlieu liiey act in masses
'oriseienee belongs to the individual,
ttnd when «U individuality is lost, con
THE NORTH STAR
science is lost tooC, I do not complain
that we have parties. It may be diffi
cult to devise any scheme by which it
could be avoided. Hut, in the name oi
God and of all that is sacred, I protesl
against the doctrine that every man
shall do what Ins party appoints, and
justify what his party does. It is the
worst form of papacy' ever invented
And how dreadfully evident is it that
the party discipline of our country,
irresponsible as it is and must be, sweeps
like a madstrom round the personality
of our people, engulfing inen and
churches in its dismal vortex. Pew
men have the nerve to resist it. Their
scruples arc overruled, they are con
vinced against their reason, the spirit
of the mulikdfce the spirit ol
God—it is their duty—their party is
most assuredly to be the salvation of the
country—the voices of the multitude
and tiie chief priests prevail, and
Christ is crucified
The preponderant influence of slave
ry, in the institutions of our country, is
a powerful cause of the result we are
deploring. With a population inferior
to that of the Free States and rapidly
decreasing, it is yet demonstrable thal
slavery has hitherto borne rule in the
nation. I saw, hut a few days ago, a
table of the Presidents and all the
chief Officers of State in our country,
since the adoption oi the Constitution,
showing that in the highest grades ol
office, at least live-sixths of the incum
bents have been from the slavcholding
States 1 laid the record down with
feelings of indignation, shame and grief,
that 1 cannot find words to express—
indignation that the lordship ol slavery
lias asserted so effectually the lordship
of oilice—shame that we have suffered
it to he so—grief at the discovery that
slavery is the characteristic and the
dominant power of our country. It
was no relief to remember that Virgin
ia, the breeder of slaves, a distinction
at once cruel and infamous, has also
been the chief breeder ol Presidents
—as little that the great slave market
of the nation—as little, nay less, that
northern leaders have there conspired,
for so many years to stifle the prayer ol
freedom in the halls consecrated tc
equal rights and human liberty. O, my
country hang thy head and blush
over this desecrated name I—a name
which thou hast emblazoned before
mankind, hut hast made a fiction at
home, in thy republican slavedom!
Slavery being thus predominant in
the politics of our country, they have
grown as irresponsible, as desti
tute of conscience, and remote from
the fear of God, as slavery would re
quire. The moral deterioration of
which I have complained here at the
North, has been visibly due, in no
small degree, to the assimilating power
of Southern influence. Slavery, as
such has no principle —it loosens all
the evil passions of human nature. Its
law human will. The style of south
ern politics has accordingly been sig
nalised by irresponsibility from the
first. And the south has been steadily
travelling northward, bringing its li
cense with it; expelling the ancient
time when merit reigned among us,
and making us familiar with the law
less spirit of political adventure and
rapacity. Their evil communications
have corrnpted our good manners, till
now the separation of politics from the
fear of God, and the constraints of
moral obligation, is become national in
our people.
From the Campaign of Freedom.
TIIE LABORING MEN.
Probably nine-tenths, at least, of the
voters of this State are laboring men,
in the common acceptation of the term;
that is, they earn their support foi
themselves and families by the labor ol
their hands. Have these men evei
considered the influence of slavery up
on labor—the aristocratic spirit it be
gets, and the consequent feeling of con
tempt with which the laboring man is
regarded? If not, we ask their atten
tion to the extracts which we annex
from tiie speeches and lectures o
slaveholding divines, jurists and politi
cians. l)o laboring men wish to spreac
an institution over California and Mex
ico, that fosters a spirit so anti-republi
can, and through the political powei
which it will confer, will keep the gov
ernment of this country in the band:
of those who would degrade honest
labor?
Chancellor Harper, of South Caro
lina, in an address delivered before n
literary society of his native State,says
It is the order of nature and o:
God, that the being of superior facul
ties and knowledge, and therefore ol
superior power, should control and dis
pose of those who are inferior. It i:
as much in the order of nature
men should enslave each other, as thai
animals should prey upon each other.’
Pr ifessor Dew, of the same State, it
a public discourse, holds the following
language:
Domestic slavery, such as ours, i;
the only institution that 1 know of tha
can secure the spirit of equality among
freemen, [i. e., among the aristocracy,
so necessary to the true and gcnuin<
fee!in<* of republicanism, without pro
pelling the body politic at the same tim«
into the various vices of agrarianism
The hirelings, who perform all the me
mat odices of life, will not aud caimo
he treated as equals by their ciu
ployers.”
Sir. Pickens, in a speech delivered
in Congress, in 1833, gave utterance t<
the followin'* atrocious sentiments.—
Mr. Pickens 3 hys swung hack uud for
ward between the Whig and Demo
cratie parties, like the pedulum of i
clock:
“All society settles down into a class
ideation of capitalists aud laborers.—
'Piic former will own the latter, etthai
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR-fcOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
collectively through*the Government
or individually in a state pf domestii
servitude, as exists in the Southeri
States of this confederacy. If Labor
ers ever obtain the political power of i
country, it is in fact in a state of revo
lution. The capitalists north of Masoi
and Dixon’s line have precisely tin
same interest in the country that thi
capitalists of England have in their la
bor. Hence it is, that they must hav<
a strong Federal Government ti
control the labor of the nation. But i
is precisely the reverse with us. W<
have already not only a right to the pro
ceeds of our laborers, but wc own i
/'.lass of laborers themscJvjas. But le
;me say to gentlemen who represent thi
great class of capitalists in the North
Beware that you do not drive us into i
separate system, for if you do, as cer
tain as the decrees of heaven, you wil
be compelled to appeal to the sword t<
maintain yourselves at home. It maj
not come in your day; but your child
ren’s children will be covered with th<
blood of domestic factions, and a plun
dering mob contending for power am
conquest.”
Gov. McDuffie, in his annual mes
sage to the Legislature of S. Carolina
said:
It will be fortunate for the non
slaveholding States if they are not ii
less than a quarter of a century drivei
to the adoption of a similar institution
[slavery,] or to take refuge from rob
bery and anarchy under a military des
potism. In a th<
institution of slavery supersedes tin
necessity of an order of nobility.”
Mr. McDuffie is one of the lights o
the Democratic party —a party that i:
continually prating about its love (or tin
laboring man.
We next give the opinions of Benja
min W. Leigh, a leading Whig of Vir
ginia:
There must be some peasantry
and as the country fills up, there mus
be more; that is, men who tend the
herds and dig the soil, who have ueithe]
real nor personal capital of their own
who earn their daily bread by the
of their brow. I ask gentlemen to sa)
whether they believe that thos whe
depend on their daily labor for subsist
ence, can or do ever enter into our po
litical affairs? They never do, never
will, never can.”
\Ve make but one extract more.—
Robert Wickliffe, Jr., of Kentucky,
a Whig, and son of probably the wealth
iest citizen and most extensive slave
holder of Kentucky, a speech pub
lished in the Louisville Advertiser, thus
discourseth:
Gentlemen want to drive out the
black population that they may obtain
white negroes in their place. White
negroes have this advantage over black
negroes, they can be converted into
voters; and the men who live upon the
sweat of their brow, and pay them but
a dependant and scanty subsistence,
can, if able to keep ten thousand ot
them in employment, come up to the
polls and change the destiny ol the
country. How improved will be our
condition when we have such white ne
groes as perform the servile labors of
Europe, of Old England, and he would
add now of New England.”
From the extracts which we have
given, it will be observed that it is the
condition, not color, that is the mark of
degradation in the eyes of slavehold
ers; that however honest, however in
telligent he may be, yet the man who
earns his bread by his daily labor,
should not he permitted to take part in
the affairs of the Government! We
again ask laboring men if they are wil
ling to yield the nation to the entire
control of such uicn by increasing their
power in the extension of slavery over
California and New Mexico?
MR. WHITESIDES SPEECH IX DE.
PIENCE OF SMITH O’HRIEX.
This speech, delivered at the recent trial ol
the Irish leader, is a great and successful ef
fort of eloquence. The conclusion, which is
given below, will be read with deep interest.
It may be doubled if there is anything in the
whole range of English literature mare touch
i ing and pathetic, than this appeal to the sym
pathies of the jury. O'Brien has been found
guilty of treason; but recommended tq the
mercy of the crown. The probability is, that
his life will be spared. For the sake o!
our common humanity, this is to be desired
However guilty O'Brien might be, and how-
I ever misjudged and mischievous the attempt
in which he was engaged, the taking awai
of I»is life would do notkihg to effect a reme
dy —J. d.
I have told you all, and it is for you
to say whether the charge preferred
1 against my client has been made out.—
I have explained to you the principles
of the law, and I have shown you thal
the fact of appearing in urms is nol
enough—that it must be treason within
the indictment, and that if that be nol
proved, you are bouud to acquit the
prisoner. I have observed upon the
evidence, and considered, so far as my
humble ability would permit, the great
l question involved in this sohnen trial-”-
uarnely, the guilty intent of the pris
oner.
Even although the explanation of his
conduct may be in some respect unsat
isfactory, yet if it fall short of the tre-
I mendous’ guilt of treason—that is, an
intent deliberately formed and put rote
execution to coinpass the Q.ueen’s death,
or levying war against the t-iucen, ac
quit him you must. Well do I know
and feel the weighty difficulties of hit
case. With some, prejudice has block
ed up the avenues to the understanding;
I in others, calumny has done its work.
The impracticable politician has been
i condemned to a fate he has provoked
and deserved. Driven to excesses he
did nut cootemplet®, P™
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1848.
t serve his personal liberty, he must pay
the forfeit of his presumption with his
life. Had he been a hypocrite who
assumed patriotism as the mask of
selfishness, he would ere now have re
ceived the rich reward of his political
baseness.
Had he been willing to sell his prin
ciples, he wonld have been promptly
paid his price. He find only to cheer
j on inconsistency when most flagrant, to
i applaud what he had condemned, and
to condemn what he had applauded—to
unsay what he had said, and to say what
he did not honestly believe, and the
attainted traitor have been a pa
triots placemen* He might have
flourished in individual prosperity after
he had traded with sufficient tact in the
miseries of his country. Obstinate,
perverse min; having adopted political
opinions sincerely, no matter how erro
neously, he has acted with rigid honesty
and consistency in an age of existing
tergiversation and deception. He is
now hoofed by all parties, fur he has
flattered and he has stooped to none.
1 This offence against party is worse
than his intent to lull the Q,ucven for
he has unmasked faction and exposed
meanness and corruption. Therefore,
1 let him die in his iinpiacticabie folly.—
J Whither can he turn for sympat iy?
i From whom expect justice? Slandered,
blackened, and villitied, his motives
maligned, his conduct misrepresented,
nicknamed traitor, anarchist, the foe
of social order, property and law—
whither can he look for refuge? A
i price was set upon his head; he has
been carricatured, hunted through his
native country —no epithet of abuse
was too gross to be applied to him.—
Where can he expect a temperate con
sideration ctf his motives and entire po
litical career? Nowhere but from you.
And yet the honorable prejudices of
your nature may be enlisted against
him—you may have been taught to
consider him the obstinate enemy of
your country,s peace. His hope ought
alone to be where the law has placed it
—in the honor, the integrity, the dis
cernment, the humanity of a jury.
A rampart of defence to accused
men, that jury was designed to he,
prosecuted for political conduct or poli
tical excesses, by the weight and power
of the Crown. Judges must be un
bending; juries may regard the frailty
of human nature. Juries—sprung from
the people—cast the ample shade of
their protection over,their fellow-sub
jects where they can-—believe his heart,
his motive, ami his purpose were not
guilty,equivocal although certain of his
acts may be. Such is the high task
and office designed for you in that fa
mous constitution, whose foundations
have been laid in the deepest wisdom,
and which has been through successive
ages cemented by the patriot’s blood,
and consecrated in the martyr’s tire.—
Your countryman, your fellow-mortal,
is in your power. Seek not, with se
vere anxiety for prools on which to send
him to a bloody death; rather regard
the evidence which enables merciful
men to save what may yet prove a use
ful life to his family and his country.
The boast of British law is, that it
abhors the shedding of human blood.
Yield to its benign principles, to the
generous impulses of your nature, and
stand between the prisoner and his
grave. A horrible death —a grave he
must not have—awaits him. Save him
by a humane verdict from a fate so
dismal. Review his life. From his
mother’s breast he drank in a love of
country —from the father’s patriotic ex
ample, the passion grew to a dangerous
height. He has indulged, perhaps, a
vision, to thq.pcril-of his life, that Ire
land might be a nation, and you her
guides to wealth and greatness. Is not
death upon the scaffold a terrible pun
ishment for the belief, although mis
guided, that Irishmen had intellect
enough to rule the country of their
birth? In his childhood he heard that
the Union with England was carried
by corruption. He heard from an Irish
Senator whom money could not pur
chase—whom “title” could not bribe
who gave his honest vote, and would
i have freely given his life, to save the
I perishing Constitution ot bis country.
1 That father recounted to my client
what Plunket, Bush and Grattan spoke
on the last memorable night of our na
tional existence. How he had been
persuaded by the gravity of their ar
"uinents, influenced by their ardor, and
transported by their eloquence! His
youthful imagination, fired by a sense
1 of Ireland’s wrongs dwelt on the days
j when we had a gentry and a Senate
with intense constancy, and the passion
I grew that he might restore a Parlia
ment to the land beloved This his
real crime, all his actions were directed
to this end, and he has been misled by
the too implicit reliance on doctruies
unfortunately argued by great lawyers,
in the heat of a debate, which they
could not recall, and which have misdi
rected many. Your; countryman fol
lowed up these, as he believed, consti
tutional opinions. He wished posterity
jto review the political transaction he
had been taught to condemn
Thia was the source of all his errors.
Ritter disappointment has crushed his
ardent hopes; but a preliminary consti
tution he wished and meant to hare
given to Ireland. No man’s property
would he have touched—no law of God
or man would he have broken He was
misled into the delusion U»t Ireland s
Gentry were qualified for freedom.—
Lned by those who knew him, gener
ous disinterested, utterly unselfish
through life, humane and tender-heart
ed—lie now stands at the bar of hu
country, to answer for having meant U
kill the Hueeo, and subvert the consti
i tut ion which in heart he adores.
true offence is, that he courted for rov
what is England's glory, and bleating,
land pride. Deeply he may hake erred
in pursuit of this darling object—will
you avenge his misdirected patriotism
by a dreadful death?
You may do so, and no earthly in
ducement will tempt me to say, if you
pronounce the awfbl sentence of guilty,
that you have not given the verdict con
science commanded. If his country
men condemn my client, he will be
ready to meet his fate with the faith of a
Christian, and with the firmness of a
man, (sensation.) The last accents of
his lips will breathe a prayer for Ire
land’s happiness, Ireland’*?constitution
al freedom. moment that
shall wHI be
consoled, if thra|Prais sufferings and
his sacrifice sotK ntem of Govern
ment shall arise* 'Wbtch I aver has
never existed—just, comprehensive, im
partial, and, above all, consistent,
which may conduct to wealth, prosperi
ty and greatues9, the country he has
loved, not wisely, perhaps, but too
well.
Would to God Mr. Smith O’Brien
were my only client. The future hap
piness of an honorable, ancient, loyal
family is here at stake—the Church,
the Bar, the Senate, can furnish rela
tives near and dear to this unhappy
gentleman, who, although they differ
in political opinion, have hastened to
give him brotherly consolation this mel
ancholy day. Ireland has been the
scene of their benevolent exertions—
the source of their joys, their pride;
her misery has been their affliction, her
gleams of prosperity their delight.—
With bolder hearts, should you consign
the prisoner to the scalFold, they must
henceforward struggle on through a
cheerless existence, laboring in sorrow
for the country they love.
A venerable lady, who has dwelt
amid an affectionate tenantry, spending
her income where it was raised, diffus
ing her charities and her blessings
around, awaits now, with trembling
heart, your verdict. If a verdict con
signing her beloved son to death—that
heart will quickly beat no more. Alas!
more dreadful still—six innocent child
ren will hear from your lips whether
they arc to be stripped of an indpend
ence which has descended in his family
for ages —whether they are to be driv
en, fatherless and beggared, upon the
world, by the rigor of of a barbarous
and cruel law—whether they are to be
restored to peace and joy or plunged
into the uttermost depths of black de
spair. There is another who cliug# to
hope—hope; may it be blessed,’ in you!
Hgr life’s blood would be glaily shed
to save the object of her youthful affec
tions—you will consign her to an un
timely grave!
[During the delivery of this passage,
the entire audience became visibly mov
ed, and for the first time since the trial,
Smith O’Brien’s lip quivered and his
eye filled, as the idea of a mother,
brother, children and wife mourning
over their possible loss was visibly pre
sented to his mind.]
In a case of doubt, at the very worst,
let father’s pity be awakened —a
husband’s love be moved. Let Justice
be administered —but Justice in Mercy.
In no pitiful strains do I seek compas-;
sion for my client, even in a case ol
blood. I ask it solemnly in the spirit of
our free Constitution —in accordance
with the rooted principles of our Com
mon Law. This is a cause between
the Subject and the Crown, wherein
these great principles might shine out
in glorious perfection. A verdjet of
acquittal in accordance with this divine
doctriue will not be a triumph over .the
Law, but the triumph of ihe Law.—-
When the Sovereign seals, by her cor-|
onation oath, the great compact between
the People and the Crown, she swears
to execute, in all her judgments, Jus
tice* in Mercy. [Sensation in Court.]
That same Justice you administer—no
rigorous, remorseless, sanguinary code,
but Justice in Mercy.
Where, as here, the crime consists
in the intent of the heart, and you can
believe that intent not treasonable, or
even doubtful, then, by the solemn ob
ligation even of coldest duty, you
should yield to mercy. (Great sensa
tion.) In nothing, though at an im
measurable distance still, do men on
earth so nearly approach the attribute
i of the Almighty as in the administration
of Justice —Divine Justice will be tem
pered with mercy, or dismal would be
our fate. As you hope for mercy from
the Great Judge, grant »t this day.—
The awlul issues of life and death are
in your hands —do justice in mercy.—
The last faint murmur on your quiver
ing lips will be for mercy, ere the im
mortal spirit shall wing its flight to, I
trust, a better and a brighter world.
[After a moment of deep emotion,
loud and long-continued applause fol
lowed the close of this magnificent ad
dress. The learned advocate had
thrown himself with such earnestness
into the case of his client, and felt so
profoundly the weight that was upon
I him, that he seemed quite exhausted as
he lay back rather than sat upon the
bench. After about three minutes, he
retired from Court, when the applause
was again renewed.]
fellle COHPE.XSA.TIOX,
We cut the following from an article
on this subject in the Woonsocket Pa
triot. It is from a statement made by
a gentleman connected with the press in
Xew York, in reference to prices paid
at the best establishment in that city.
It is further staled, that there are thirty
thousand females in that city, toiling
on, night and day, for this scanty
living:
Common cotton shirts and flannel
undershirts, six tem t» each. A good
seamstress can wn up Uo of then
*k*rt» per def; JBl even a swift hand
by working from sunrise to midoight,
cannot make more than fibre#—being 72
cents per week for the common hand*,
and $1,12 1-2 for the swiftest; of course
allowing nothing for holidays, sickness,
accidents, being out of work, &c., Sec.
Good cotton thirls, with linen bosoms,
ntatly stitched, are mad#*for twenty-fire
cents apiece. A good seamstress will
make one in a day, thus earning $1,50
per week, by constant labor. Fine
linen shirts, with plaited bosoms, which
cannot be made by the very best hands
short of fifteen to eighteen hours’
steady work, are fifty cents each. An
ordinary hand can make a garment of
|hi* kind in two days. Trowscrs over
mis, drawers, underships, stc., pay a
shilling apiece to the seamstress, who
can make one and perhaps two a day.—
Cloth pantaloons, vests, &c., pay IS to
50 cents —very seldom the latter price,
and a woman makes, on an average,
about one a day. Thus, not to prolong
t*ese details, it may he stated, in a
word, that the seamstress who is for
tunate enough to get steady work, earns
from 75 cents to $2 a week. Resides
these, it is necessary to state that the
dress-makers, or at any rate the great
majority of them, get absolutely noth
ing for their work. The way it is man
aged is this: The proprietors of the
large dress-making establishments re
ceive a great number of apprentices,
who remain six months for nothing,
boarding themselves the meantime, for
the privilege of learning the trade.—
They can already sew swiftly and well,
or they are not accepted. To them are
given out the dresses, and thw are at
work sewing—not learning anything new
—until the very day before their ap
prenticeship expires. Then a few
hours are spent in giving them some
general directions about cutting a
dress, and they are discharged—there
being no room for journey-women
on wages in an establishment where all
work is done by apprentices for nothing.
As fast as their education” is com- j
pleted, they are replaced by other ap
prentices, and so it goes —the dashing!
proprietress of the establishment grow-1
ing rich and aristocratic, and the poor
girls turned out upon the world to die
of starvation and despair, or sell them
selves to infamy.
Velocity of Electricity. —lt is
net unfrequently a subject of wonder
that the velocity of electricity has been
so accurately measured, when its speed
is so incredible; and many persons ex
press entire disbelief in the correctness
of any such measurement. It has nev
ertheless been accomplished, and that
by a contrivance so ingenious and yet
so simple as to he within the under
standing of a child, and at the same
time incapable of committing an error.
A small mirror, one inch long by half
an inch broad, is made to revolve on a
pivot, and attached to a spring and cog
work, which gives it a swift revolution.'
It is of course perfectly easy to regu
late this velocity to any required num
ber ot revolutions per second. Coils
of wires of various lengths are provi
ded. A coil is taken, say for example, j
twenty-five miles in length. The twoi
ends of this are brought near each other
and fastened on a board, on the Hat
surface of which is left a break in each
end of the wire, so at the passing!
electricity shall make a spark as it
crosses each brake. A Leyden jar is
charged, and a spark sent through the
coil. To the eve this appears to cross
both breaks at the same instant, altho’
there are twenty-five miles of wire be
tween. The experiment is made in aj
room which has an arched ceiling, in a
precise semi-circle, carefully measured
and divided into sections. If, then,
this board be so placed that the revolv
ing mirror may reflect the spark, and
(the room of course being darkened)
the mirror be put in motion and the
charge sent along the coils of wire, the.
first break in the wire will be marked;
by a reflection of the mirror on the
arch, and the spark at the second break
will be a little further along on the
arch. Thus, if the mirror be making
one hundred revolutions per second,,
and the reflections of the two sparks be
one-eightieth part of the circle distant
from one another, it is the
mirror has made one-eightieth part of a
revolution while the electricity was
passing twenty-five miles and the
time occupied is of course one-eight
thousandth pact of a scond, which
would give a velocity of 200,01)0 miles
per second.
After repeating the experiment with
coils of wire of variqp* lengths, from
five to a hundred miles, and finding the
distance between the reflection on the
arched wall to vary in precisely
the same ratio with the lengths of
wire, and the final result to he unvary
ing, it is evident that the problem has
been solved, and the velocity of elec
tricity ascertained.
Music.—Every woman who has an
aptitude for music or lor singing, should*
bless God for the gift, and cultivate it
with diligence; not that she may dazzle
strangers, or win applause from a
crowd, but that she may bring gladness
to her own fireside. The influence of
music in strengthening the affections is
far from being perceived by many of its
admirers, a sweet melody i binds all
hearts together, as it were, with a gold
en cord; it makes the pulses beat iu
unison, and the heart thrill with sympa
thy. Rut the music of the fireside must
be simple sod unpretending; it does
not require brilliancy of execution, but
tenderness of feehug— a merry tune for
the young—a more subdued strain for
the aged, but none of the noisy clap
trap which is s t popular in public. It
is a mistake to suppose that to enjoy
music requires great cultivation; the
degree of enjoyment will, of course,
vary with our power of appreciation,
but like all other great influences, it is
able to attract even the ignorant and
JOtIM DICK. PmiiHU
WHOLE NO—4s.
this is what the poet taught when they
made Orpheus and his brethren the civ
ilizers of the earth. In cases where
musical instruments are not within reach
we may modulate our own voices, and
make them give forth sweet sounds; we
may sing those simple strains which re
quire neither teaching nor shill, but
which, it they come from one heart, are
gure of finding their way to another.
Blcssf.p be the Hand which pre
rAßrs a Pleasure for a Child. —For
there is no saying where and when it
may again bloom' forth. Docs not al
most every body refhember some kind
hearted inan who showed him a kind
ness in the quiet days of his childhood?
The writer of this recollects himself at
this moment, as a barefooted lad stand
ing at the wooden fence of a poor littlo
garden in his native village; with long
ing eyes he gazed on the flowers which
were blooming there quietly in tho
brightness of a Sunday morning. Tho
possessor of the garden came forth fromr
his little cottage—he was a wood-cutter
by trade—and spent the whole week al
his work in the woods. He was come
iuto his garden to gather a flower to
slick in his coat when he went to*
church. He saw the boy, and break-’
ing otfthc most beautiful of his carna
tions—it was stricken with red ami
white—gave it to him. Neither tho
giver nor receiver spoke one word;
and with bounding steps the boy ran
home; and now here at a vast distance
from that home, alter so many eventsof
so many years, the feeling of gratitude
which agitated the breast of that boy
expresses itself on paper. The carna
tion has long since withered, but it now
blooms afresh.— Douglass Jtrrold.
Business first, tiiei* Pleasure.—
A man who is very rich now, was very
poor when he was a boy. When asked 1
how be got his riches, he replied: “My
father taught me never to play till all
my work lor the aay was finished, and
never to spend money tilt I had earned
it. 7 If I had hut half an hour's work to
do in a day, I must do that the first
thing, and in half an diour. Alter this
was done, I was allowed to play; and
1 could then play with much more plea
sure than if 1 had the thought of an un
finished task before my mind. I early
formed the habit of doing every thing
in its time, and it soon became perfcct
lyeasy to do so. It is to this habit
that I now owo my prosperity.” Lef
every hoy who reads this, go and do
likewise, and he will meet a similar re
ward.—Frankfort (Pa.) Herald.
Leisure Hours.— lt was a beautiful
observation of the lato William Jtazlit,
tliut there is room enough in human
lile to crowd almost every art and sci
ence in it. If we pass no day without
a line—visit no place without the com
pany of a hook—w e may w ith ease fill
libraries or empty them of their con
tents. The more we do the more we
can do; the more busy we are, thi/
more leisure we have.”
Genius. He is not the greatest man,,
who, w ith a giant intellect can, startle
the multitude as with sudden thunder-
Thc impression left behind is not agreer
able and lasting. He who would sti.
up the soul, must have a calm and sym
pathizing heart. It is this which vi
brates through the human heart, leaps
in the warm pulses, nnd urges to deeds
of mercy. They whose sympathies are
with common humanity whose heart is
moved by pure benevolence, create
that which wilt never die. Like the
silent dews,they descend into the bosom 1
to cheer, to bless and to save. The
breath of true life is thus felt in the heart.
Such a writer blends genius with hu
manity, and is destined to sway the
multitude and urge them on to deeds of
mercy and uueuded glory?
Rapid Reckoning.— Those who are
not acquainted with the rule have been 1
surprised to find with what facility
many dealers in merchandize can state
the dozen and single price, at the mo
ment’the gross price is given. A gen
tle man who has frequent occasion for
exercise, libs given us his rule which is
as fo.lows:
Halve the dollars which the article:
costs per gross, and this number ex
presses the amount in shillings per doz
en is the same as the number of |>ence’
which each article costs. For exam
ple:
An article costs nine dollars per
gross—halved it is'four and a half dol
lars which shows the dozen price to be
four shillings and six pence, and tire
single price to be four and a half
pence.
If an article costs three dollars and a
halt per gross the dozen price is one*
shilling and nine pence single one and
three fourth pence^
In some cases w here tho gross price
is not a regular fraction of a dollar, the
calculation is not so readily made—but
in nine cases out of ten it is the most
ready mode of reckoning.— Ports. Jour.
The Sword. —Let it ever be remem
bered that there is no wisdom in the
sword which is the mere symbol of
physical force, not of enlightened rea
son; of brute passion, not of solemn de
liberation; of proud ambition, not of
self-sacrifice and love of country*—
Thomas Clarkson.
Phenomenon. —A gentleman inform
the Newark Advertiser, that, while al
the Ocean House, all being ealm, wait
ing the rising of the moon, just as her
whole disc was visible above the ocean,
a ship far out at sea,** with all saila
spread, moved slowly across her face,
and apparently impressed upon it the
free and beautiful outline of every sail
and spar. Slowly indeed, it moved
along, too soon disappearing, hut nkUn
it lasted it was a most beautiful nfct*
Notice©.
Rhode Inland Anti-Slavery Society
Annual Meeting.
Tin thirteenth annual meeting of the Rhode
Khnd Anti-Slavery Society, will be held in
Providence, on Thursday and Friday, Nov
ember 16th, and l?th, 1848.
The usual eiFort will be made, to secure the
attendance* of distinguished friends of emanci
pation from abroad, and it w confidently
hoped that the mooting will be rendered inter
eating to all who may be present.
Our earnout appeal to all tliu friend* of Lib
ertj in Rhode Islam I is, that they will one*
again lend to us and to the cause, their pre
sence, their w arm sympathies and their gener
ous c.Tjrt*. Tins surely is not a time wher
the Pioneers of our cius in this State—tin
earnest and true men and women of the hom*
of Roger i! h ims should falter in their work
or lack faith in the ultimate, triumph of theii
doctrines. The fires v\hich have been If indlcd
and which arc now bursting forth, evei
amongst tin old and long enslaved and slavery
shattered political parties, should be kepi
burning; and enquirers for the truth shouh
be pointed to a higher duty and a more glori
ous purpose. Let us come together, then
with warm and determined hearts, ami taking
courage from the past, resolve again to presi
forward wilh renewed z -al and a closer friend
frhip for our cause, to the prize so dear to us
and so full of joy to the enslaved.
In behalf of the Rhode Island Anti-Slavcrj
Society,
JOHN BROWN, President,
Amacan* v Paink, Secretary.
Providence, R. 1., Oct. 2, 1818.
Woman's Protective Luton
Will meet at Protection Hall, corner of Mair
and St. Paul S.rccts, on Friday, the 3-;
inst., at 7 o'clock P. M. Friends of reforir
are respectfully invited to attend.
SARAH C. OWEN, Sec.
Convention at Rath.
The Anti-Slavery Convention met in Cor
inthian Hall, Bath, Sunday Oct. 1, and was
called to' order by N. T. Ellsworth, an<!
Charles Russell was chosen President, and
Robert Babb Secretary.
Parker Pillsbury then ofF.*red the following
resolutions, viz:
I. Resolved, That, if the Sabbath was
made for man, then it is to be used for the
benefit of man and if a man be better than
a sheep, ami it is right on the Sabbath to lift
a sheep out of a pit; then it is right, on that
day, to devise means to deliver the slaves from
their dreadful bondage.
2. Resolved, That we believe, with John
Wesley, that slavery is the sum of all vil-
lames,’ and with the General Assembly of;
the Presbyterian ffhurch, that it is opposed
to the lawsol God, and the spirit and precepts
of the gospel,’ and e*A sequent I y that the
slaveholder must lx: the **«/m of nil villains ,’i
a Iraiuplor on the law’ of God, and a despiser
of the spirit and precepts of the gospel.’
3. Resolved, That a religion which ac
knowledges slave-owners as Christians, or as
fit to be voted for. or united with, in a gov
ernment, any more than hands of robbers on
the land, or hordes of pirates on the sea, are
fit for such union, is a false religion, not fit to
be endured, nor safe to be allowed in any
community.
4. Resolved, That, under tbe Constitution
ami union of these States, slaveholders are
able to drive tbe Cherokees and other Indians
out of Georgia—to butcher and banish the
Seinmolcs of Florida—to purchase, at vast
expense to tin* North, the territories of Florida
and Louisiana for slave States—to snatch
Texas from Mexico, and annex it to the Fnion
for the same dia*>olical purpose—to invade
Mexico and drown her pcoplo in their own
blood, ami seize on their lands also for slave
States—to imprison in the jails of Washing
ton, and elsewhere, for life, Northern men,
whose only crime was, that they aided men
to escape from bondage worse than death—to
keep arge (military forces at enormous ex
pense, mainly if not entirely, to protect them
selves fiom the aggressiohs of their slaves
ami last, and worse than all, to degrade and
disgrace our whole nation, as the most invet
erate tyrant, tin.* bloodiest, deepest and most
deadly and dangerous foe, to mankind, to be
found among all the nations of the earth.
5. Resolved, That, all these and other
outrages of a similar character, have been
perpetrated by the American government, and
sanctioned ami sanctified by American re- 1
ltgion ami n becomes the friends of freedom
to seek the immediate overthrow of both, and
tbe establishment of a new order of tilings,
based on reason and righteousness, humanity
and justice, the love of man and the law of
God.
The resolutions were discussed by Mr.
Pilisbury of New Hampshire, Mr. Brooke of
Ohio, and Miss Stone of Massachusetts, until
the hour of adjournment.
Peace C ongress at Brussels.
This Congress was held on the 20th and
21st ult. in tli; Sills dr la (iramie Harmonic.
The number of delegates, in all, was about
30i»—mostly English and Belgian. The only
representative of the Unite 1 States, beside
Mr. B irritt, was Henry Clapp, Jr. of Mas
sachusetts.
The projections off red to the considera
tion ot lire /ongr -ss, and which were read in
both English and French, were as follows
E lb- irrational, inequitable, inhuman,
ami unchristian arbitrament of war
I lie expediency nl recommending to
the civilized. ami profess -dly Christian Gov
ernments ot Europe and America, the adoie
tionof an Arbitration t ’lausc in all international
Treaties, by w Inch questions of dispute which
may arise and which might possibly issue in
an appeal to the sword, shall be settled hv
mediation.
3. The propriety of convoking a Congress
of Nations, the object of winch shall h** to
form an international Code, in ordei. as far
as possible, to settle on a satisfactory Ikims
most question*, and generally to’ secure
peace.
4 The importance of recommending to t[,
several Gov* rnment* of Europe and A merica
mutual disarmament, and the interchange o|
good offices designed to promote and s*eur
pacific relations, and the general welfare of
mankind.
Essay* upon these proposition* w. r read to
the Congress, from the following per-om*
Elrtiuod Fry. of Plymouth, William Stokes,
of I/ondon, and lalihu Burritt. The tesult of
the d.scansions was tlie passage (two mem
bers dissenting) of the JolJowmg resolu
tions
That an appeal to arms for the purpose
of efibetiug a s*dotmn of diflerenees b**tw'e©ri
nations, i» a usage condemned alike by re
ligion, reason, justice, humanily, and the
interests of the people, and that, hi conse
quence, it was the duly ot ifie civilized world
to adopt proper measures to piotuulo the
entire abolition of w ar."
That it is of the most importance to insist
upon the Govertnn;nt introducing into all
liiernaluii a leultes a clause by w hich all
international d.ll renews may he settled b>
arbitrators or a supreme international court to
pronounce a decision as a last resort.”
hat w desirable to establish, as
speedily as possible, a congress of nations,
compil'd of representatives clioeen by each
amongst themselves, in order to draw up a
code regulating international relations, and
iliat the establishment of this congress, sod
the adoption of a code sanctioned with the
consent of all nations, would be the sure
means of arriving at universal peace.
1 hat the attention of the Government
should be called to the necessity of entering
into a general snd simultaneous measure of
disarmament, which, while it would reduce
ihe expenditure ol the state, would at thtj
same time remove one great cause of irriia
tion and alarm. That reciprocal confidence
and ihe exchange of good offices were equally
favorable to the peace and prosperity of all
nations.”

Gen. Taylor’s Purchase.
In reply to s letter, inquiring, for the sat
isfaction of Taylor Free Soil men, whether
it is Gen. Zachary Taylor that is meant in the
deed of pntchase, which was first published
in the Ohio Standard, and has been going the
rounds of the press, the National Era says
“Gen. Zachary Taylor is the man. Tbe
(Natchez Courier asks, 4 Who is the Southern
correspondent of the Ohio Standard? and
then proce ds:
i “It is important to know, for our property,
our rights and our lives, are threatened by
j such combinations, intended now to defeat
Gen. Taylor—calculated hereafter to destroy
the best interests of the South. Three appli
i cations, and only three, have been made at
t the office of the Probate Clerk of Jefferson
county, for transcripts of General Taylor's
deeds.
'The following statement, which will not
he contradicted, and defies contradiction, was
received by us a few days since, from a
gentleman of the highest resectability. This
statement speaks for itself:
4 To the Eli tor of the Natchez Courier
4 Dear sir I give below a full account of
the information received in relation to the per
sons who have been procuring copies of Gen.
Taylor’s deed to negroes, &c., in Jefferson
co., Mississippi.
4 I have already sent you a certified copy
of a fetter purporting to have been written bv
William Stamps, the handwriting of which
bears the strongest resemblance to that of
i Samuel Stamps, of Jackson, Mississippi.—
The original is on file in the Probate Clerk's
olficc Jefferson county. The Deputy
Clerk in that office informs me that he sent
the copy required to the address of Samuel
Stamps. Jackson, Mississippi.
‘About the first of this month, Richard
Edward, of Natchez, as the Clerk informs
me, applied in person for a copy of the deed
above mentioned, and urged upon said Clerk,]
who was then busily engaged in writing, the i
importance of his, Edward's, obtaining said i
c »Py-. Ihe Clerk proposed to prepare it and.
send it to Natchez by mail—Edward objected;!
and was furnished with the transcript, and
paid for it. lam further informed by the said
Clerk, that early in July fast a man, who said
he was from New Orleans, wliosj name was
not known, in company with a brother of Wil
liam M. Smyth, late of this State, applied to
bun -in Tayctte fur a like transcript of the
same deed—that this was prepared for them
and paid for—and that they then applied to
the assessor of that county for a copy of the
assessment of Gen. Taylor’s land and ne
groes, which was obtained by them, and that
neither of these men registered their names
at the F. ye le tavern.
44 4 Your?, truly,’
Here is the copy of the Stamps letter re
ferred lo iu the above statement:
Jackson, Miss., Aug. 24, 1848.
‘Efhcia Me Key, Esq
‘Dear Sir I wish you to send me at
this place a certified copy of the deed and
conveyance by some gentleman, to twenty-one
hundred acres of land, one hundred and seven
odd negroes, made some time in the year
1818 to Major General Zachary Taylor, now
on record in your office, as Clerk of the Pro
ba e Court in Jefferson county, and the fee
shall be forwarded you upon the receipt of
ihe record, by your sending the bill accompa
nying lire same. You will please make out
the transcript above desiied at your earliest
convenience. By so duing you will much
oblige me, besides paying you the money.
Very respectfully,
[Signed] 4 William Stamps.
1 J S. Direct the deed to Samuel
Stamps, Jackson, Mississippi. W. S.
The intention of the writer is evident, al
though lie attempts to avoid responsibility by
signing a nrme partly fictitious and partly
genuine. There is no tuc/i a man as William
Stamps in Jackson. We have known for
several years a young man living there by the
name of William H. Stamps, a near relative
of Samuel Stamps, to whom the clerk is di
rected to send ihe copy alluded to, and w ho is
Secretary of State for Mississippi, and an ar
dent supporter of Cass. Reader, what did
Mr. Stamps want with this transcript? Gen.
Taylor owes him nothing, and does not wish
to sell him any of his negroes, and Mr. Secre
tary of State has no interest in those negroes,
lie wanted it to pander to Northern fanati
cism, to Gen. ’Taylor's prejudice.
Richard Edward,, rekrred to in the state
ment, is a citizen of Natchez—a strong Cass
Democrat. Dr. Woodseu Wren, a consistent
Democrat, not in arrears to the Government,
a faithful officer, has just been displaced, and
Mr. Edward has succeeded him as Postmaster.
W hat has been done with tbe copy he pro
cured, we know not. Doubih'nw* at a time
w hen it can most injure Gen. I'aylor, it will
make its appearance, if it has not already
done so, in some abolition journal.
Tin? third copy spoken of in the state
ment, was procured by H Homer Smith, one
ot the Cleijts in the Custom House in New
Orleaus, and John Marshall, a Cleik in the
Treasury Department at Washington city.—
All ot these parties are Cuss office-holders,
and all appear to have been hound by one
common tic—the defeat of the Southern can
didate for the Presidency. To accomplish the
foul purpose, ihe aid of Noithern Abolition
ism was solicited, and it will doubtless be
rendered wit it as much alacrity as it was in
voked.”
Okrkit Smith.—The Rochester Daily Ad
vertiser (\au Uureu) thus speaks of Gerrit
Smith
ie of nature's noblemen, and among
the best and purest men, Gerrit Smith, having
ol late launched into ‘regions transcendental,'
the Liberty party (being of the practical sort)
could not well follow, and hence we have not
his valuable co-operation in this new move
ment although Is* it noticed that he says he
infinitely prefers' tin* election of Van Iluren
and Adams to 1 aylor and Cass, and adds
1 aylor and ass are pro slavery candidate*.
Umwt arc ‘he shameless tools of the
slave powe. the latter bravely resist it.’ So
ni".-h tor that noble heart, Genit Smith If
to* -morrai and the other hunker organs ear
.raw aid and comfort from the above, let
them draw and welcome.”
lc h (Miss.) Courier, Whig
pap- r Published almost u. General Taylor's
neighborhood, say* of the charge that be
would sign a j|, nul b,||.
This monstrous a»eni«Hi—so entirely
at war u ith the character of the man and the
intar oj his whole tyV-could only hate been
made by political leaders when in the last
stack Of Utsei:ration—when they saw that
everlasting Jrohfical rout and nun was ap
proaching them as fast a* ihe course of umc
would permit.”
Sot'THtuN Dkfbavitv.—The Picayune of
he 13th ult, contains reports of Court pro- 1
seeding* in nnfewer than five cases af murder, i
te?- j
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, NOVEMBER 3, IMB.
IVillian fcmil* O’Brien
The recent trial, conviction and sentence ol
death passed upon this most unhappy man,
for the crime of high treason, in Ireland, ha*
abided another of those opportunities al
ways eagerly embraced by the American
press and people, to vaunt the moral superi
ority, larger liberty, greater humanity and
higher civilisation of the United States, and
to denounce, in the moot bitter and unsparing
manner, what we are pleased to term the
savage barbarity of foul and bloody Old
England.” Such an opportunity as this can
not fail to be used very extensively. It will
serve to keep up a vivid impression of our
own excellence as a people, as well as to in
crease that always profitable material so use
ful to political demagogue*— hatred of Eng
land. This commodity would in all proba
bility become extinct in Ume, but for the oc
currence of such cases as those of Mitchell,
McManus and O'Brien. It is doubtless de
sirable for a naUan iiho ours, drunk on the
blood of three to forget our
own revolting atom In contemplating the
crimes of others. Misery loves company,”
and it may not always be proper to deny them
the poor consolation they derive from it. But
we cannot think it just at this time to allow
that part of the American mind within our
reach to rest in the iniquitous repose which
results from the common assertion that Eng
land, with all her boasted benevolence and
philanthropy, is more cruel than America.—
W hile the American mind is so alive to injus
tice—so shocked by barbarous cruelty, and is
devoutly thanking the most high God that
Christian America is not like unto that hoary
old transgressor across the water, it seems
in a prepared and suitable state to con
sider properly certain important and instruct
ive facts connected with our national history.
It may be far more pleasant, but it can never
be more wise, to forget our own sins by re
membering the sins of others. It is hardly
necessary to say, that we have no desire to
lessen in any mind a just and proper estimate
of the character and institutions of this coun
try, or to allay the feeling of horror with
which this dreadful sentence has thrilled all
minds. Those sentiments are natural, and
when rightly directed, must always be attend
ed with happy results. Our pretertsions,
however, to fiecdom and humanity over
England t have about the same foundation a?
the superiority claimed in the temple by the
self-righteous Pharisee over the publican.
Let us look at home, and see if we are in a
condition to pull the mote out of our brother’s
eye —let us see if we are in a condition to
first cast a stone at her.
“Shall \vc scoff at Europe’* King*,
While freedom’s fire is dim with us,
And round our country’s altar clings
Tlie damning shade* of slavery’s curse'?”
It is said that this last act of British injus
tice, fills to the brim the cup of her abomina
tions—that she has shocked the moral sense, I
outraged the humanity, and disgraced* the f
civilization of the nineteenth century —that a
verdict more unjust, and a sentence more;
cruel, was never presented to the considera
tion of mankind—that its execution will
cause indignalion, mingled with intense hor
ror, to flash like lightning around our land.—
That this will be the case, we have no doubt.
The patriotism, heroism and martyrdom ol
Mitchell, McManus and O'Brien, will long
continue the burning theme of American ora
tors and authors. The salt tear of American
sympathy must often start from its saddened
fountain, as the names of these brave men
are mentioned. Deep, loud and long will be
the curses pronounced against proud, bloody
and tyrannical England. In the names of
Mitchell, McManus and O'Brien, American
mothers will teach their children to hate
blood-thirsty England. Probabilities and con
sequences of this character are too grave to
be passed over lightly, or disposed of hastily.
Let us consider of these. Let us first ex-1
amine the cause of the sentence passed upon
Mitchell, and the dreadful fate to which
O’Brien and McManus are doomed, and in
the light of our present position and past
history, ascertain if we are the people to de
nounce England as a sinner above ourselves, j
The crimes of these men are the highest
known to kuman law, involving the sub
version of the whole frame-w ork of human
government, and fitting the land with all the
awful horrors of civil war. They could only
expect to gain their object by causing the
land to smoke with the w arm blood of slaugh
tered thousands. It appeared to be the pur
pose of these men to beget in the minds ol
their fellow-countrymen the highest eont .unpi
and most reckless disregard of human life.—
It is also true that these men weie sane, in
telligent beings. Mitchell was an educated
man; so was Smith O'Brien. The latter
was also a law-maker. They well understood
the nature of the solemn game which they
undertook to play, and the amount of the
stake to be lost or won. They have played
—they have lost, and must pay the forfeiture.
They have “sown the wind, and are reaping
the whirlwind.’’ 'lhey have been pierced by
their own swords, and consumed by a fire of
their own kiudhug.
We may lament over their misfortune, be
wail their sad lot, and mourn over their terri
ble doom and it may be proper to do so.—
But can any American say that the treatment
of these roeu would have been better had they
attempted against the American government
what they attempted against the British
throne? ibere is not the slightest reason to
suppose it would. Our government, like that
of England, is based oo the sword for its ex
istence, aud is no more merciful or less cruel
than the Brilish government. Governments
are governments the world over. Whether
lliey bo called monarchies, aristocracies, au
tocracies, or democracies, they are always
•he same bloody and remorseless nwwtten,
everywhere their authority is disputed by
force.
It may be, and doubtless is, a great outrage
against humanity to hang Smith OBuen by
the neck until be is dead, and then to sever
his head fnio his body, and to divide his body
into four quarters, and leave it to the disposal
of ibe Queen. But is U}j* vratse or more re
voking oo the part of Inland, than it was
for America to cause Nathaniel Turner, the
kero of the Southampton insurrection, to
feet long, and at the end of it to fiddle hia
body with a hand red bullets I la it worse for
England to transport Mitchell for fourteen
years, than it is fur os to impridli Drayton
for twenty?—the former plotting a bloody
revolution, and the latter merely, by peacea
ble means, removing aeventy-eeven human
beings from a land of ahvery to a land of lib
erty. Is it worse fi* England to hang
McManus, alter a lair trial, than it was for
America to burn the noble Mclntosh, in Mis
souri, without judge or jary And shall a
people who looked on tbat horrid apene with
composure and indifference, now affect horror
and hatred of England, because of her re
volting crimes William Smith O'Brien at
tempted to achieve for his country political
freedom. In the language of Thomas Jeffer
son, Nathaniel Turner attempted to redress
wrongs worse than ages of that which Ame
ricans rose in rebellion to oppose. Until the
prison doors at Washington shall be opened
for the release of Drayton, and we atone for
Torrey, and have struck the chains from
millions in our land, we may hold our peace
respecting the cruelty of England.— r. d.
Free, ts. Slave Labor.
What men wfl! got yield to justice, they
will concede to self-interest. The unprinci
pled tradesman would not cheat, were he
satisfied that an honest and straightforward
course would better forward Lis ends. Par
tisan demagogues are not necessarily liars, if
they can better advance the cause of their
patty, and their prespecls of preferment, by
speaking the truth. All men, even when they
care nothing about rectitude, for its own sake,
will do right, or endeavor to do right, if by so
doing they can either remedy an existing or
prevenf a prospective injustice towards them
selves.
Surely the time is not far distant when the
free working men of the north, who, it is to
be hoped, are not, as a class, either unprinci
pled or unscrupulous, will bestir themselves
in behalf of their enslaved fellow-citizens.—
Nothing but a want of discernment of their
own interests, can have kept them up to the
present time supporting one or other of the
great pro-slavery political parties who manage
the affairs of this country. If the working
man were aware that every time he goes to
the ballot-box, and gives his vote in favoi of
a slaveholder, or one who yields subserviency
to the slave power, he helps to perpetuate and
deepen his own degradation, he would long
ere this have severed himself from all conncc.
tion with the wicked compact which binds
him to use ail his energies, should they be
desired, in assisting the slaveholder to sup
press any attempt that might be made by
his victims to regain their God-given right to
liberty and self-po6session. Slavery degrades
labor. The freeman at the South will
scarcely perform any kind of manual labor.—
He feels himself above it. Slaves labor; and
any one who labors put? h nnelf on a level
with them. A slave is.a degraded and de
pendant being, subject to the will of another
his independent existence is destroyed he
lives only as a sort of adjunct to the man who
claims him as his property—deprived of the
power#sf motion—even almost of volition,
w ithout his consent. It is not to be wondered
at that the freeman shrinks and turns awav
from anything that seems to place him on
a level with the slave. It would rather be
matter of w onder, did he not try by all means
his power to widen the distance and make
plain the distinction between himself and a
being so abject and miserable. However
much, in his ignorance and shortsightedness,
he may rest satisfied that they are fit for
nothing else,” he sees with sufficient distinct
ness that he himself came into the world with
an independent existence, able to think and
act, and free to go and come at his own dis
cretion. Strange it i 3 that there should be
any, especially working-men, who can deny
that all are not equally entitled with them
selves to the same inalienable birthright of
humanity.
It is not only in the slave region that the
atrocious system degrades labor. That effect
is also sufficiently obvious upon the free
States of the Union. It is always found, in
spite of every obstruction and discouragement,
that where any kind of labor can be done
cheapest and to best advantage, there it will
be done, unless, indeed, the worn-out expe
dient of a tariff be resorted to, for the pro
tection, as it is said, of hotne industry,
which, in as for as it has any effect, other
than encouraging unproductive enterprise,
benefits a few, and is a robbery of the many.
It is the pnee paid for labor that regulates the
price of the article. Where labor is cheap
est, there, of necessity, the cost of production
must be lowest, and the price paid for labor
there must speedily regulate and become the
standard everywhere else. It is nothing but
the inefficiency of slave labor that preserves
the wages of the freeman from being reduced
to the sum that I Ik; Southerner pays to
provide a miserable subsistence for his slave.
Were the slaves intelligent, and were it pos
sible to keep intelligent men and women in
bondage, nothing could prevent this result.—
The South, instead of exporting, would
speedily manufacture its own produce. The
slave might be made to labor as well in
the machine-shop or manufactory, as on the
cotton or sugar plantations and the labor of
a freeman might be wrung out of him, at the
rate of from sixteen to twenty cents per day.
I* the Northern working-man prepared to
come down to this
Notwithstanding the ignorance of the slave,
his masters have discovered that hta labor
can be made productive in manufactories.
The Philadelphia Daily Republic publishes
some facts on this subject, from which the
following are extracts. These facts sliow,
says that paper, tbat f
Manufactures are practicable, safe and
w c ce*»ful in the South. Slave labor can and
employed ia them, and that labor ischeap
er than die labor of the free white man,
cheaper than the pauper labor of Great
Britain.
lxst the newspapers stated that
there were thirty-two cotton factories in oper
ation and in process of construction in Geor
gia, in which 2,000,000 are invested.—
from 16,000 u> 20,000 bales of cotton were
consumed last year, and the amount of mano
produced was equal ia value to
w 1,500,1)00.
'he most reliable source we learn
there are above 30 tobacco factories in
Kicamond Virginia, employing from fiftv to
ihrct; hundred hands eucn, all colored, and of
these about 00 per cent, are slaves, and 10
per cent, free colored persons; the latter chiefly
women. J
that
•acdft, Florida, worked by 400 colored girls,
and that another still larger to the same
neighborhood waa about being erected.
Daring the past two yean, as often at
least aa once a fortnight, we hare met with
paiagrappe stating the manufacture «f ma
chinery m the North to be used in the
Sooth.
Yesterday we republished an item, cat
from one of oar exchanges, stating that a
company of stockholders residing m Ken
fncky, Indiana, Arkansas, Louisiana, and
Mississippi, bate organized themselves for the
purpose of manufacturing cotton, at Can nel
son, about one hundred and twenty miles be
low Louisville. The capital stock of the
company is half million, of which $200,-
000 will now be pnt to use, and 10,000 spin
dles will be started.
•‘These are a few of the facts gathered by
accident, indicating the rapidly spreading po
licy of manufacturing at the South, and ex
hibiting its practicability there.
It is true that slaves are inferior laborers,
where, without motive, interest, or any feeling
of duty, they mnst be left to their discretion
and cannot be overseen, aa in small farming
and other solitary occupations, but wherever
they can be worked in gangs, and superin
tended as in the cotton field, the forge, fur
nace, and large cotton and woollen factories,
compulsion can easily be made to supply the
place of zeal and interest—at the loom, hun
dreds can be watched by a single man, as our
own factory children now are their work
can be inspected (>oth in quality and quantity,
and the lash applied to secure thatr industiy
and bring out their skill.
Now what shall we say to the prospect
which this view of our subject opens before
us Here is a competition preparing to dis
pute the market of the world with, not only
the free laborer of the North, but with the
paupers of Europe.”
It is evident, if it be true that the employ
ment of slave labor in manufactures is practi
cable. and these facts seem to indicate that it
is—that a reduction of wages must be the re
sult. The following extract from an eastern
paper seems to argue that such result is al
ready becoming apparent:
Reduction of Wages at Lowell.—
Notice has been given at Lowell that a reduc
tion of wages will soon take place. It is to
commence on the 20th of November on one
corporation, and probably at the same lime on
the others. The reduction is considerable—
-25 to 35 per cent. The speed is to be re
duced, artd the girls are to be made to tend
more looms. After they get broke in to this
work, the speed will no doubt be put at the
old rate.”
This is one branch of labor; others will
soon be tried if this is found successful.
Leaving out of the question for the present,
every dictate of justice and humanity; saying
nothing of the feai fully depraving effect of
slavery not only upon its immediate victims,
but upon all who come within reach of the
moral miasma that it generates; forgetting
the national dishonor and disgrace at
tach to the entire American people, in conse
quence of their connection with the atrocious
slave system passing all these by—each of
them a sufficient and all-conclusive reason why
justice should be done, and the bondman re- i
leased—is there not in the prospect here pre
sented, an argument that will serve to open
the eyes of the workingman, and of all other
men, to the fact that the interests of the free
and of the .slave laborer are identical De
grade labor, and you lower its remuneration.
In any portion of a country, tedime the la
borer to the condition of a slave, and hisNiree
fellow-citizens who are laborers, must de
scend and descend, till they also are slaves in
all but the name. This is the way in which
the affairs of the world are directed by its un
erring Governor. This is the way in which
Justice avenges all violations of its im
mutable laws. The innocent, it is true, are
frequently the greatest, and even the first suf
ferers at the hand of avenging Justice but
it is in only consequence of their connection
wuh, and sufferance of, those who commit
the crime.
It is not the color of the skin that *marks
the slave in the eye of the slave-ocracy.
They do not care whether the slave is
white or black, or what may be his com
plexion if they were to have their choice,
they Would, to use the sublime language of a
Kentucky slaveholder, prefer the white, for
white negroes have this advantage over
black negroes, they can be converted iuto
voters.”
There is an article on our outside, headed
‘‘The Laboring Men,” to which the attention
of all of that class is specially directed. The
reader will there learn what value is set upon
his rights by the manstealer. Let those who
choose preach about the overbearing and in
sulting demeanor, of a titled nobility in Eu
rope, ami they are welcome bat they might
search Europe over, and fail to find a% aris
tocracy one-half as regardless of the rights of
the laboring man as these American land pi
rates. The titled Cossack would be ashamed
to use such language ss that which is used by
those Republican (f f) leading Whigs and
lights of the Democratic party.” It is
doubtful even, or rather it is not doubtful,
whether the barbarian Tartar chief, who lives
by bis sword, has not a better appreciation of
what is meant by the rights of man.”—
Democrats indeed Call a shark a codfish,
and eat it; and it will be but a slight mis
nomer, compared with that of calling those
Perkins's and McDuffies Democrats. Let
the laboring man prove, even to the saitsfac
faction of Beojamin W. Leigh, of Virginia,
that those who depend upon their daily la
bor for subsistence, can and do understand
political affairs and that having learned the
disgrace and the atrocity of the slave system,
and the reckless disregard of the rights of la
bor manifested by the South, they have re
solved, now and forever, to have No union
with slaveholders j. o.
Reforming Uackwakds. —The Grand Jury
of Wayne county, Micb., have adopted a me
morial to the legislature, asking for the restor
ation of the death penalty, in consequence’*
says the Detroit Advertiser, of the accelera
ting increase of crime in that State, since the
abolition of capital punishment.” Can not
some other aad better reason be given for this
increase of crime? Boston, New Ysffcy—
towns, and villages, and country in all sec
tions where the life for life law has free course
and it practised, have the same report to make
—Crime ie fearfully on the increase.” A
mason must be found that applies not to Michi
gan alone, or to ooe county in Michigan, but
to all the States. Is it not s natural and ne
cessary result of the brutalising aad bloody
war spirit, which baa been so diligently infus
ed into the people fat years past, from the
preaa, the pulpit, aad the rostrum 1 We have
•M»P®ot any thing else. What a
maa sowdmr, th||gball ha also reap.”— 4. 0.
Aa aWalaakle Biaa4er.
It is amazing with what voracity our North
era papers devour every lie to the prejudice o
the colored race that finds its way into the*
latitudes. There would seem to be a perfec
rage for Massacres in Haiti”—“ Blood;
Revolutions in Haiti”—The muiattoes raur
dered in Haiti,” &c. &c. Such an abomina
lion as the following is quite a God-send fo
the editors of our country papers. It is lik«
the last speech and dying confession of j
to be sent forth and sold to tin
public at one cent a piece, garnished and beau
tified with the vigorous epithets and soul
thrilling adjectives of the eloquent editor, who
proves himself well versed in the lore ol
Sing-sing and Newgate colleges.
Horrible Massacre in Haiti. This
negro republic, so long the standing boast ol
immediate emancipationists, appears deter
mined to outdo in cold-blooded atrocity all pre
vious records of the proverbial cruelty of the
African race. It is said that an absolute ex
termination ot the whites and muiattoes is re
solved upon, and is in rapid progress, under
the orders o the President. We gather these
reports from a letter of an American merchant
there, to the Boston Traveller. Most bloody
details of executions are given.
None can abhor black slavery more intense
ly than we but black mastery seems to us
incomparably more abominable, and more to
lie guarded against, ll is not strange that
negroes, at once cknraded ami w ranged be
yond comparison, should be cruel:—but it is
strange that fanatics can be found eager to
clothe that cruelty with power and freedom.”
Brandon, (17.) Union Whig,
1 verily helieve the editor of this paper must
have sold at least, half a-dozen extra copies
on the strength of this elegant extract.”-
Did he not stop the press, to add another ex
pletive to his already grandly mellifluous para
graph? Cold-blooded atrocity,” absolute
extermination,” “proverbial cruelty,” “bloody
details,” and then the italics black slavery"
so beautifully contrasted w ith “black mastery,"
Oh it is irresistible Some animals there
are that will starve in the midst of dainties
but luxuriate and grow fat on gaibage.
It is in this way that the Northern dough
faces of both parties, strive to excite the preju
dices of the vulgar and unthinking against the
colored race. The idea of black mastery”
is terrible enough but when there are super
added the frightful features of that mastery as
presented by the graphic pen of the editor—
(“Oh horrible! horrible and it is consid
ered that those masters are, in the free States
about 500,000, who, on the authority of Sena
tor Dix, are people w ithout political impor
tance,” and “cannot take care of themselves!”
and in the Southern States about 3,000,000
who are not permitted to try to take care of
themselves —in all about 3,500,000 blacks,
taking the “mastery” of some twenty millions
of whites, the thought becomes past all endu
rance. May not this editor, with the celebra
ted Dogberry, urge the plea—“ Write me
down an”—genius.—j. d.
More Annexation.—The war of conquest
and annexation waged against the Mexicans,
by the deserters from the American army,
still continues to be prosecuted with vigor.
Query, Who is the General that leads these
brave fellows on to “death or victory?”
Have they a Zachary Taylor to urge them
to deeds of heroic daring with his chival
rous war-cry—“ Give ’em hell, d—n ’em
or a Capt. Bragg, with a little more grape?”
Doubtless these patriotic deserters and adven
turers have gone where glory wails them.”
Ignorant persons may not be able to distin
guish between this “glory” and what is
usually designated robbery and plunder.”
They must certainly be mistaken; for has
not the praise of the brave soldier” who
bombarded Monterey, and slew the Mexicans
at Buena Vista, and robbed them of their ter-
ritory, been lor years past in every one’s
mouth and has lie not been nominated as a
fit and available candidate for the Presidency
The Houston (Texas) Telegraph gives a
report of the progress of this miniature edition
of the Mexican war, aa under. Cheer on the'
bloodhounds!— i. d.
“We mentioned, a week or two since,
that a party of robbers had plundered several
of the Mexican towns east of the Sierra
Madre, retired into Texas. The Meta
mo ras Flag confirm* this statement, and says
that this party carried oIF property m t h e i
amount of $BO, Ihe Flag also states
that hundreds of deserter B from the American
arinv, and adventurers, have formed a league
like the banditti of other periods, and have
spread themselves all over the country east of
Sierra Madre. A large party of these rob
bers, supposed to number 250, it is said, have
been seen in the vicinity of Melamotas and
it was reported that they intended to enter
the city aftei nightfall, and plunder it.
Guards were placed round the city, and the
inhabitants were kept under arms several suc
cessive nights, to prevent the robbers from
entering the city. These banditti have strong
holds in the wild fastnesses of Sierra Madre,
and in the thickets along the Rio Grande,
and it is quiie doubtful whether the Mexican
government will ever he able to subdue them,
unless allied by our government. It was 1
reported at Metamoras that Gen. Bunsameutc!
was on the march to that place with 500 men.
Ihe presence ot this force in the cnv will
probably prevent the robbers from making
any attack on it.”
An Act or Justice. The case of Lewis
Pierce was tried in Philadelphia, in the Court
of Common Pleas, on Monday last. Pierce*
was a slave who had been brought from New j
Orleans by a wealthy slaveholder, to attend
bun as tus servant. On the 18th, Pierce left
hu master, and sued out a writ of habeas cor
pus, for the purpose of having a judicial de
cision that be was free. Judge King deliver
ed an opinio* in his favor and the Court
adjudged that Lewis Pierce is at liberty to*
go where he pleases.”
The decision was given under the new law
of 1817, which gives freedom to a slave vol
untarily brought by his master from another
State.— j. o.
0
Wants an Answer. The Chroootype
a*ks, Suppose some of the States should
take upon them to enslave and oppress the
white people within their limits, who bsd at
some Utne emigrated from other States, bow
long would the general government stand mill
and allow such injustice to triumph?” If the
power that bolds the reins of the general gov
ernment is the same power that enslaves and
oppresses—llow long f It is a hard question.
Tni Fast Soil men of this city, have
•dopted Elisha W. But ah, the National
Reform Candidate fa^Aaserobly.
The California Star, says that large numbers
of Chinese are preparing to emigrate to that
country, which is considered a favorable cli
mate for the aik-wgtm,
Srnato* Benton, of Missouri, has ad
dressed a U tter to the inhabitant* 0 f Cali
fornia and New Mexico, advuung them to
govern themselves as wisely, simply, and
quietly as possible, till the general Govero
i ment shall gt*e them suitable laws. On t he
subject of slavery he says—
You are apprised that the question of
extending slavery to California occupies, at
present the attention of Congress. I know
of nothing that you can do at this time that
can influence the decision of the question
here. W hen you become a Slate, the entire
and absolute decision of it will he in your
own hands. In your present condition, and
with your paucity of members, I would re
commend total abstinence from the agnation
of the question. Such agitation might dis
tract yourselves, w hell you might be united
as one man. doing harm where you are, and
no good here.”
This proclamation of the worthy Senator
is quite a remarkable production in its way.
It is written in a style of condescending
grandeur that would do credit to the Cx*r of
ail the Kussias. It is worthy of remark,
however, that His Imperial Highness never
even hint* at the possibility of slavery creep
ing in under cover of the silence which he
enjoins. Was that omission intentional, or
was it only an oversight?—j. d.
The Slave Trade. —We have heard, says
the United Service Gazette, that Lord hlmc>
ston is at the present moment negotiating an*
other treaty with the Brazilian government,
for the more effectual suppression of the slave
trade. His Lordship has proposed that the
Brazilian subjects captured in the act of con
veying African negroes for the purpose of sla
very, shall be delivered up to the Brazilian
authorities, to be tried by their own national
tribunals, and punished accordingly, if proved,
guilty.
W HAT HAS THE NoRTH TO DO WITH SLA
VERY 7 This question is continually being
asked by Northern men; their object being
to shift off their own shoulders the burden and
disgrace of that atrocity. The question is
thus answered by an exchange
Discussion and agitation are continually
bringing to light facts which help the people
of the North to a right answer to the question.
The last Expounder says, Drayton who stole
the negroes from the District of Columbia haa
been sentenced to ten years imprisonment in
the penitentiary.”
Who stole the neg Toes In what did
the theft consist As we understand it, in
conniving at their attempt to escape from the
Capital of the freest government on earth
when they were held in bondage by the law s
of that government! And that government,
Freemen of the North, is oms
South Carolina. —(Jen. Cass’s Southern
friends are in a state of great excitement.—
j They will doubtless do something astonishing
if the Wilniot Proviso is adopted. If the
j Northern States persist in opposing the furth
er extension of slavery, the fearful misfortune
may happen to them of being left to their
fate by John C. Calhoun’s brave little king
dom. At a Loco Foco masting held in
Charleston, on the 20th ult., the following
resolution, among othcis equally determined,,
was adopted
1 hat should the Ordinance of 1787, tU®
VNilmoi Proviso, or any like restriction be ap
plied to any Territory South of 36 5 30 min.
North latitude, or any other measure he
adopted, directly or indirectly unpaiimg the
equality of the slavcholding” Stales,' in our
opinion, the Senators and Representatives
lrom such iMates should, at once, vacate their
seats, return to the States they rcsjiectively
represent, and use their best efforts to bring
about a united resistance of the South to such
degrading legislation.”
I or Kiev Post auk. —Our readers—at least
those of them who have had to pay to the tune
of 31 cents lor every letter received from Eng
land, will be glad to learn that the reign of in
ternational postal craziness is now at an end.
Ihe Quebec Chronicle of Oct. 17, says
We were told yesterday by a gentleman
likely to he well informed on this subject, that
the British and American Governments had
again come to an understanding, by which the
English mails will, as heretofore, be brought
through the United States and tnat in 'all
probability the mail after the one now expect
ed, will come by that mote.
Cheap Postage in France. —The French
National Assembly have passed one practical
measure which entitles its member* to the
gratitude of that great people. It ha* passed
a bill for the reduction of postage on all inland
letters to-four sous, or cents. The same will
go into effect on the Ist January next. Rus
sia has also established a penny postage
throughout her great empire. Shall the Uni
ted States be long behind these countries in
this great reform which so vitally effects the
common good of the common people
Crime in Boston is said to have fearfully
increased within the last few years. The
Bostonians, of New England oiigin, declare
ih.it nearly all this additional crime comes
lrom the foreign population.
Salt Water Freshened. —Mr. Cross, of
London, has patented a method for freshening
salt water. The water is first distilled, and
then subjected to a galvanic process. The
invention will be very valuable to ships going
long voyages.
Rumor. —There is a rumor afloat that Mr.
Horace Greeley has sold out his interest in the
New York Tribune, and t* about settling on a
large tract of land in Wiscoosin. We do not
believe the rumor, yet it may be true.— Roane-
Whig.
The chap who imagined the above must
ten our opposition to any man own
mg a large tract of land Tribune.
We see no particular necessity for forget
ting the “oppositions” of the Tribune to any
thing, to induce one to believe m its advocscy
V Afo^^ror lhe, pWCe P I r
The Honest* Candidate.— AUson Utter
I have no concealment—
hold no optnion which would not readily
prodmm to my «a semhkd countrymen."
Me Lonkry Utter have laid it down as
a *ot to give my opinions upon the
various questions of policy now at issue be
tween the political parties of the country.”
Ip* The New Orleans Picayune, a journal
which warmly supports Gen. Tavumi, has
the following:
There is no man in the South more bitter
ly opposed to the H ilmot Proviso, and the
principles involved m it, than Gen. Taylor.
Habsmos Gaar Oris.—One of the sncieot
and honorable Hsrtfotd Convent locusts, ren
owned for bis participation in the pro-slavery
monocracy of Boston* the time \Vm. Lloyd
Garrison barely escaped with his Ufe— this
same octogenarian has come out for Tsylon***
and tho slavcocracy. The caase will ha
weakened by every such accession.
(Communications.
Chillicothe, Oct., 15, 1848.
Mewm Editors :—The few Free Soil men
of R<w« County, had a glorious time in Chilli
cothe yesterday. An impression was made
on our citizens in favor of human liberty, to
w hich they have heretofore been entire stran
ger*.
The Hon. J. R. Giddings, addressed alarge
assembly in this place yesterday, setting
forth the principles of the Buffalo Platform
and arguing with resistless eloquence, the im
portance and necessity of their support by all
Northern men. Strenuous efforts were made
by meanly designing individuals to d sparage
the meeting. They endeavored to induce the
more d< graded colored persons to attend, both
by persuasion and compensation. I am in
formed that a contemptible rum seller, in the
shape of a landlord, was hired to send all the
servants in his employ to the meeting; they
vainly hoped that by this means, their truck
ling editors and ..«tumj>ers might sav, with at
least some appearance of truth, that the meet
ing was composed of a few abolitionists and
negroes. But these hopes were soon blasted,
when at the hour of meeting the Court House'
was crowded to its utmost capacity by the
bone and sinew of the country,” determined
to hear for themselves.
Through a speech of some three hours in 1
length, Mr. Giddmgs was listened to with the
deepest intern t. This 1 may say, is the first
abolition speech ever delivered in Chillicothe,
and this was of course, entirely political, and
therefore far below that high stand taken by
the pioneers of abolitionism in this country.
The rein irks of the speaker touching the pro
slavery character of Gen. Taylor and the va
cillating course of the Whig parly, created j
great excitement and called forth many re
monstrances and interrogations from our lay- j
lor demagogues, all of which were answered
in that prompt and masterly manner which j
lias always characterized Mr. Giddiugs in the
Halls of the national councils. Thu burning
rebuke which he administered to those fawn
ing dough-faced jHihticians, was responded to
w ith loud and enthusiastic cheers from all par
ties in the assembly.
At the close of the meeting, one Gen. John J
L. Green, formerly a member of the Ohio leg
islature, and only distinguished for his unceas
ing and disgraceful hostility to the repeal ul
the black laws” of the State, and his gen
eral pro-slavery notoriety, gave notice that he
would address his fellow-citizens at 7 o’clock,
in the evening, at which time he would re
view the arguments and positions of Mr. Gid
dings. The speaker then requested the Gen
eral to state what points in his argument he
intended to attack. This lie refused to do.—
His Whig friends then called for him but he
.still declined.
At 7 o’clock the General's friends assent-'
ldid. He arose aa l after looking about for
some time among the benches to find bis bear-
•ers, commenced bis harangue, and after puf
iing aw iv for an hour, like a man in the last
l stages of desperation,” bis audience gave a
tfew dry, unmeaning and apparently extorted
cheers and yells, and dispersed with mournful
tqjeicing that they had vanquished an absent!
enemy. The meeting was what we call in;
the West, an entire failure. The evening of
this m ieting, Mr. Giddiugs addressed the peo
ple in Circleville.
Tne Whigs, since the State election, have
given up Ohio, and depend on the vote ol
New York to elect Taylor.
Respectfully, C. 11. L.
Golumbts, 0., Oct. 25, 1849.
Friends Douglass Dklany :—I take
the liberty of troubling you again with a few
lines abont our doings here. On Friday, the
iiOth, John Van liurcn delivered an address to
our citizens. At one b dock, before he had
arrived, the Hall of Representatives was filled
to overflowing and it was found necessary
fur the im uense crowd that had assembled to
adjourn tonhe public ground in the rear of the
.State House where the orator mounted the
stand, aud spoke for two hours with great
cloquenee and effect, on the subjeot of Free
Soil. The State Convention of the other
party was not half so large as this meeting.
Mr. Snodgrass, the editor of the Saturday
Visiter, arrived in this city on Sunday night,
and addressed the colored people at the Bap
tist Church. He spoke on the duty of the
colored people being active on the great re
forms of the day. His address made a deep,
and it is to be hoped an effective and lasting
impression. The house was crowded.
Yours for the oppressed,
D. JENKINS.
From our own Correspondent.
London, Oct. 12, 1949.
Ere this the news may have reached you
ithat Smith OTJrien’s trial is over, and that
.the jury have pronounced kirn guilty, llis
trial commenced on Thursday, Sept. 281 h.—
Much time was at first spent in technical con
tests, and a large number of witnesses were
-examined for the crown. The evidence elicit
ed from them was but a recapitulation of the
■previous rejnirts of the rebellion. Mr. hite
side, Q. C., was among the counsel for
(i’Brieti. He opened the defence on Thurs-
Oct. 4th, in a most brilliant speech,
which occupied two days, and w hich created
great interest and excitement amoifg the nu
merous and distinguished audience present.—
On Saturday last the trial The
jury were but an hour in deliberation. “The
Tunes’ reporter says, that as they re-entered
the Court, “they looked like men who had
discharged a painful and weighty duty.”—
Their verdict was accompanied with a most
emphatic recommendation to mercy. The
conduct of the prisoner throughout the trying
scene, has been the theme of universal admi
ration. Ihe l)aiiy News” correspondent
nays 1 here was one, and but one, in that
sorrow-stricken assembly, who flinched not.
His proud bearing bore the dignified impress
of his manly nature, lie stood erect, un
nerved, undaunted, his eye beaming with its
wonted fire, aud his aridfc folded across his
breast, in the full repose of an upright con
science. He slightly inclined his head to the
jury, tnd again resumed his erect and firm
bearing. A convulsive sob was heard for a
moment throughout the court, and again all
was still.” The Court adjourned unul Tues
day. All remained quiet in Clonmel. The
news has just reached us that sentence ol
death is pronounced on O'Brien, (hid gram
that this may not tie put into execution.
The Chartkt trials axe over in this country.
j laicey, Fay and Coffey are sentenced totrans
portation lor life. m
The whole continent of Europe remains in
a disturbed state. Since my last, France has
presented a scene of great turbulence, and
there has been a terrible riot in the National
Assembly itself. It appears that the ultra]
Democrats and the most violent Communists,
imagine that they coo overthrow the moderate
Republic, as it overthrew the monarchy—by
political banquets. Meetings of this kind
have been held, where most daring opinions
have been advocated. A short time sines, a
banquet of this nature took place at Toulouse,
at which everything was done to make the
real sentiments of its managers known. The
pillars of the hall were painted red—- a bust of
liberty was placed on a red pedestal, and the
“bonnet rnuge" was elevated oo a pole,
while Cavaignac and the Assembly were vio
lently hissed, and fiendish shouts of Fire
Marat," “.4 has F Assemblie National,'' Fire
la guillotine,” were raised by the madmen
present. These (acts were brought before
the llous3 by M. Denjoy, and it is not sur
prising that horror pervaded the minds of the
respectable part of the Assembly while listen
ing to them. M. Denjoy, being a man of
firmness and courage, proceeded to animad
vert on the disgraceful affair, when the ultra
party in the Chamber (known by the name of
the Montague) made a simultaneous rush at
him, striving to drag him from the tribune;
and had not the President interfered, and
commanded the ushers to form round him, he
would assuredly have fallen a sacrifice to
their fury. After a short scene of inde
scribable violence and confusion, order was to
some extent restored, and M. Denjoy contin
ued his observations.
Prince Louis Napoleon has taken his seat
in the National Assembly, and made his
opening speech, which was brief and modest.
The recent Paris papers are much occupied
with the important vote of the National As- j
seinldy, which virtually declares that the Pre- j
stdent of the Republic shall be elected by
universal suffrage. M. Lamartine made a
brilliant oration during the debate, in favor of
universal suffrage. On a division, there ap
peared,
For the election by N. Assembly, 211
Against 60*2 i
Majority, 391
This is thought to be tantamount to the
nomination of Prince Louis Napoleon for 1
although Cavaignac is held in universal re
spect hy every rational man, it is believed that
the mass of the people will vote for him who
bears the charmed name of Napoleon. The
candidates for the Presidency, however, wilj
he numerous; but in all probability the strug
gle will rest between Cavaignac and the
Prince.
Austria refuses to accept the mediation of
Fraifce and Englund between her and Italy.
The Emperor has published a manifesto, de
claring that it is his intention to organize the
Lombardo-Venetian Kingdom, with a nation
al representation of a complete and extensive
kind. Tranquility is restored in Frankfort.— I
It is clear that the march of insurrection in i
Germany dou* wot respond to the desires oft
the red Republicanism of France but things
are everywhere unsettled, -and society seems
to hang together by a very slight thread.
The cholera has reached us. Several cases
have occurred in Edinburgh, Sunderland,
Hull and Woolwich. S. P. Q. R.
From the Springfield Republican.
Caution.
Mr. Editor: —Will you allow me space
in the columns of your paper, to caution the
public against an impostor, calling himself
William Wilcox, of Princeton, Bureau Co.,
Illinois, lie has been for several weeks un
der treatment at the Northampton Water-
Cure, for bronchitis, liver complaint and dis
pepsia. After b ring nearly cured 6f his ail
ments, he resorted to false pretences, begging
indulgence in tlie payment of his bills. After
the lapse of a few weeks, he expressed much
regret that the expected remittance did not
arrive, while it has been ascertained that he
had means in his possession. Without paying
bis bills, or the money which he borrowed
from a fellow patient, Wilcox decamped from
my establishmment this morning, taking the
cars for Springfield, in company with one
Seth Marshal, of Painesville, Ohio, against
whom and Wilcox one of my neighbors has a
small bill for house hire. The latter has left
behind him an empty trunk, and a few worth
less articles of clothing, which await the or
der of Wilcox or Marshall.
D. RUGGLES.*
Northampton, Mass., Oct. 23, ’4B,
N. B. Editors of newspapers will serve
public justice by giving the above an insertion.
Boston Water Works. This highly
important undertaking has been completed,
and was celebrated with great rejoicing by the
citizens of Boston on the 25th inst. The
water is brought from Lake C’ochituate, 20
miles distant, and the entire expense of the
aqueduct and reservoirs, it is estimated, w ill
be about $4,000,000. The report of the
(Commissioners says:
The supply of pure water conducted to
the city from its secluded source, is not sim- j
ply poured into the public squares and market!
places, but it is conveyed through subterra- j
nean passages to the dwelling of every citi
zen; and if they dcsiie it, to every chamber j
and closet. It is not left to be boine by man-
ual labor, from deep vaults and stagnant cis-i
terns, but it ascends, in obedience to a mys- j
terious law of nature, to such part of every
mansion as its possessor may direct.
To obtain the power of distribution at all
times throughout the elevated parts of the
city, it was necessary to erect large reservoirs,
at an elevation above tlie sea nearly equal to
that of the original source. One of these,
situated on tlie nearest neighboring height be
yond the limits of the city, is capable of con
taining w ater sufficient for the uses of the city
tor a |*eriod of two weeks, should the supply
be interrupted by any accident for that period.
Into this reservoir the aqueduct is capable of
discharging more than 10,000,000 gallons ot
water per day, flowing by a gentle eimem—
traversing the 15 miles of iu course in 24
bouts—and falling at that distance about 4
feet from the level of its original source.”
Gab roa one I—Mr. 1 —Mr. Thomas Waugh, of
Berry Edge, publican, has a gasometer all Id
himself. I» ha® usually been concluded that
a man must dispense with the luxury of gas,
unless bis lot be cast in a good sized town:
but Mr. Waugh, thanks be to an ingen
ious pitman of Garresfield colliery, has ga*
works of bis own, which only cost him £*2s,
and he cao boast of having a more brilliant
light than the folks of Newcastle.
Whig Doc tune. —Uen. Taylor is fully
fledged not to reto the VVtlnxH Proviso.—
luil. Schouler’i tpe&k al Kattck.
Wun* Practice. —I rejoice that Geo.
Taylor w wholly unpledged upon any issue
whatever.— R. C. U'inthruf.
From (he Anti-Slavery Standard.
THE DAY OF SMALL THINGS.
r t. l. towiiL
P hi* limp alurvrard, ft wt* reported to me by
Ihr city oAcer*, lint t**T had fevretted oat the pnprr
and Hr rditor; tfial to* odaem war an otanire botr,
hui oak viMbk auxiliary a aeyro bat, and hit tap.
potWa few prison* of all colors.—
\JI. G. Otu'f Later.
In a small dmulrr, friMtHen and mmeeu,
TuiU-ti o'er lux type* a p**»r uul -ame t joonf ma;
The place mu dark, unfuruimred, and mean,
Yet there the freedom of a rare began.
Help came but slowly; sorely oo man yet
Put lerer to the heavy world with leas!
What need of help! He knew how types were set,
He had a dauotk»« .«p»r»t and a pre**.
N»-b earnrrt n itarr* are the fiery pith,
The compact nuclein* round which system* grow:
Maw after man become* inspired therewith,
Aad whirls impregnate with the central glow.
Oh, Troth! Oh, how are ye *tiU bora
In the role stable, in the manger turned'
What bumble hand* unbar those gates of morn
Thrinigh which the splen<k»r» of the New Day burst!
What! sliall ooe monk, scarce known beyond bis cell,
Front Rome’s far-rearbiny bobs, and scorn her
frown"!
Brave Lather answered, es! that thunder's swell
Rocked Europe, and disarmed the triple crown.
Whatever can be known of truth we know,
Sneered Europe’s wise men, is their snail-shells
curled;
No! said one man in Genoa, and that No
Out of the dark created this new world.

Who is it will not dare himself to trust!
Wlk» is it hath not strength to stand alone!
Who is it thwarts an 1 blinks the inward mist!
He and his works, like sand, arc blown.
Men of a thousand shifts and w iles, look here'
See one straight-forward conscience put in pawn
To win a world; see the obedient sphere
By bravery ’s simple gravitation drawn!
Shall we not heed the lesson taught of old,
And by t*>e present's lips repealed still,
In our own single manhood to be bold,
fortressed in conscience and impregnable Will!
We stride the river daily at its spring,
Nor, in our childish thoughtlessness foresee
W hat myriad vassal streams shall tribute bring—
How like an equal it shall greet the sea.
Oli! small liegionings, ye are great and strong,
Based on a faithful heart and weariless brain!
Ye build the future Ciir, ye couquer wrong,
Ye earn the crown, and wear it not in vain.
A Question. —If the Cass and Taylor men
are so strong in their opposition to slavery-ex
tension as they would have the people believe,
how* did it happen that the former got up a
candidate in opposition to Mr. Wilmol, and
the latter candidates against Messrs. Giddings
and Palfrey? No better non-extension men
than these can be named in the Union. Some
of our cotemporaries intimate that Mr. Palfrey
lost favor with the cottonocracy ol Massachu
setts on account of Ins having manumitted cer
tain slaves that fell to him, but we cannot
quite believe that. But undoubtedly his earn
est and consistent opposition to slavery lies at
the bottom of the opposition to him. The
same remark applies to the case of Mr. Gid
dings. If the Taylor men at the North w ere
really anxious, out of certain localities, to es
tablish an anti-slavery reputation, there is no
man who ever stood m their ranks who is en
titled to more honor than Mr. Giddings. But
he could not lie made to believe that the own
er and worker of 300 slaves was a fit repre
sentative of free principle. Hence a rival can
didate. Now' that he is elected, however, we
observe that lie is reckoned By the Taylor pa
pers as a pretty orthodox Whig.— Western
Citizen.
Ex-Govf.rncr Hammond for Gen. Tay
lor. —The following is an extract of a letter
of Ex-Governor Hammond of South Carolina,
in reply to an invitation to attend a public
meeting. After declinin'* the invitation from
considerations purely private, he says
I trust you will see in what I have said,
sufficient reasons to justify me in declining
most respectfully, your unexpected but sin
cerely appreciated invitation, without for a
moment supposing that I wish to shrink from
any responsibility, I might incur by accepting
it. I have already gone too far, 1 well know,
to lose anything by going farther. In fact I
have been anxious, not to share in the respon
sibility of those Southern men, who are op
posing Gen. Taylor, and have never failed,
when a proper opportunity offered, distinctly
and decidedly to avow myself in favor of his
election. How any slaveholder can hesitate
between him and Cass, is to tne not only a
matter of special wonder, but I think the worst
omen for the South that 1 have seen in my
time.”
Permit me to offer you my most ardent
wishes for ihe success of your efforts to carry
the vote of our State for this great and good
man, and to assure you of the high respect
with which I have the honor to be, very sin
cerely your obedient servant.”
J. H. HAMMOND.
Honest Types. —A western Taylor ex
change speaks of Old Zach as “the thief who
never surrenders.” Does that mean that he
will never surrender the men that he has
stolen, or was it a typographical error in using
a t for a c l Chronotype.
Gen. Cass and the Wilmot Proviso.—
Jn his Nicholson letter Gen. Cass Rays:
I am opposed to the exercise of any ju
risdiction by Congress over this matter; and I
am in favor of leaving the people of any ter
ritory w hich may be hereafter acquired, the
right to regulate it for themselves, under
the general principles of the Constitution.—
Because,
1. I do not see in the Constitution any
grant of the requisite power to Congress
and I am not disposed to extend a doubtful
precedent beyond its necessity—the establish
ment of territorial governments when needed
—leaving to the inhabitants all the rights
compatible with the relations they bear to the
confederation.”
The Washington Union, a paper which
speaks for the partVj holds the following lan
guage upon Gen. Cass and the Proviso :j
At all events, we are happy to under
stand, by private letters, that General Cass
firmly stands upon the ground which he has
taken. Being applied to formally by a man
or two of rhe Wiluaot stamp, he declared un
hesitatingly, that he adhered to hn» Nicholson
letter, and to the Baltimore platform; and
that if elected President, he should veto the
Wilmot Proviso.”
And again it says—
General Cass’s clear and palpable mean
ing, and we have felt astonished that any other
should have been given to it, was to deny to
both Congress and the territorial government,
or tlie people of those territories, the exercise
of this power.”
Africa. Carre ax or Slaters.—The
British hrig Bream, arrived yesterday, from
Sierra Leone, having left on the Ist uh. Mr.
Ketchum, her supercargo, informs us of the
capture ol four slavers, all Brazilians, which
were cor 1 inned and burnt at that place.
One of the vessel*, a brig, prize to the British
bng Alert, had oo board, w hen captured, 500
slaves. The schooner Water Witch had
472. The brig 2>ea Lark SGI. A Spanish
schooner, among the number, had not yet
received her cargo- N. Y. Jour. Com.
Ta* Samoa Jiao*a.—The Mayor of Liv
erpool has received a eowmunieaiiea from
Lord John Russell, uifmoing bun that her
Majesty baa directed that the sum of £M
should be paid to Frederick Jerome from the
Royal Bounty Fund, ia consequence of his
gallant conduct in saving lbs Uvsa of aa many
of the passengers.
W tflp
Sur«ct.Aß—A St. John’s (Newfoundland) j
paper publishes* the followh W extract of s'
letter from Duiutistt, dated £t>Ui September:
“On Sunday hst, between the hours of 3
sod 4 in the afternoon, a must strange phen
omenon (if it may be *o called) was observed
here, namely the sodden receding of the wa
ter in this harbor, to such a frightful extent
that some of the boats grounded at their moor
mgs oo the collars, and by a return or flow of
the watei ui a few minutes, to a considerable
extent, coveting the bedding or floor of the
fishing stages m the place.
•Another extract, 25th September, from the
same place, says
A most singular occurrence took place
here yesterday (.Sunday,) 24th. The wind
in the rooming was from Uie southward, a
light breeze with very heavy rain; about
twelve o'clock it veerwl suddenly round to
North-west and blew hard. One boat had
come in the evening before from the Bay,
with a load of timber, and was at her usual
place all at once the tide ran out of the har
oors. so that a person may walk out to the
stage beads.
Ooe boat lay aground on the collar, at
her moorings. In about ten minutes more it
ran in again, and rose so high that it ran up
Walkhaxn’s Brook into the pond, and con
tinued rising and fallingaltemately, every ten
miuutes or so nearly all the afternoon. Some
of the old people say it was something as it
was the year Lisbon was destroyed. I hear
a similar occurrence took place at Catalina,
and some damage sustained.”
We understand, says the Halifax R/xorJer,
that an equally sudden and unaccountable rise
of the tide was observed to take place in this
harbor on the same day; but no damage was
sustained in consequence of it.
In 1825, there was opened in Coclun-China
a canal 23 miles long, 8 feet wide, and 12
feet deep. It was begun and finished in six
weeks, although carried through large forests
and over extensive marshes. 10,(MX) men
worked upon it day and night, and it is slated
that 7,000 died of fatigue.
The Root of all Evil. —A five dollar bill
of the Fulton Bank passed through the hands
of the editor of the New York Journal of
Commerce on Tuesday, on the back of which
was the following inscription
This tsthe last of three thousand dollars
left to me by mv mother at her death, on the
27th day of August, 1847. Would to God
she had never left it to me, and that I had
been learned to work to have earned my liv
ing I would not be what I am.”
IP 3 The sale of public Lands for the year
ending June 20, 1848, amounted to $3,537,
038. The largest amount sold 'in any one
month, was in October, 18-17, reaching $llB,
520.
Emigrants for Texas. —A Dublin letter
in the London Chronicle announces the ap
proaching departure of an emigration body of
superior class for Texas, including some
persons in the rank of gentry,” one ge itle
man who has been a member of Parliament,
three Justices of the Peace, persons heretofore
connected with mercantile and hanking estab
lishments and a number of well-to-do farmers.
A clergyman of the established Church will
accompany the party, with the design to be
come their pastor in the new home to which
they are going, where the lands intended to
be occupied have already been purchased.
THE Dead Sea EXPEDITION
The September number of the South
ern Literary Messenger contains an
article of profound inter* st on this
subject, from the pen of Lieut M. F.
Maury.
Lieut. Maury gives a history of thb
expedition, brief but lucid, and which
will increase the anxiety of the public
to see the report of Lieut. Lynch, whe
has made a successful survey, and who,
we are glad to learn, is expected to re
turn soon to this country.
We learn from Lieut. Maury’s arti
cle that this expedition was planned by
Lieut. Lynch, and authorized by Secre
tary Mason. In the spring of 1847,
Lieut. Lynch first addressed the Secre
tary on the subject, recommending a
circumnai igation and exploration of the
Dead Sea, and its entire coast; statins
that the expense would be trifling, a*
our ships frequently touched at Acre,
in Syria, forty miles from Lake Tibe
rias, or Sea of Gallilee, from which the
river Jordan runs and debouches into
the first-named sea; that the frame ol
a boat, with crew and provisions, could
he transported from Acre to Tiberias,
and there put together again. Only
one traveller, Mr. Cortigan, had ever
circumnavigated the Dead Sea, and he
died at the termination of his voyage,
without leaving any journal or notes
behind. It was contended, also, that,
independent* of the eager curiosity ol
all Chi i-tcndoin in regard to this mys
terious lake, this expedition is of value
to the interests of navigation.
Tiie Secretary of the Navy received
favorably the proposition of Lt. Lynch;
and an opportunity soon occurred by
which it could be conveniently carried
into eiTect. It was necessary to send a
store-ship to the Mediterranean squad
ron, and as after her arrival she would
have no employment for months, the
Secretary determined to send Lieu
tenant Lynch and his party in her; so
that, after meeting the wants of the
squadron, she could proceed up the
Levant, and land Lieut. Lynch and his
companions.
This was done. The store-ship
Supply was provided with two me
tallic boats, one ol copper, the other ol
iron; the former named Fanny Ma
son,” and the latter Fanny Skinner.”
On their arrival at their destination,
their t roubles began; and in their march
to Lake Tiberias, their boats had to be
transported over the most formidable
mountain gorges and heights, and to he
lowered dow r n precipices with ropes.—
But these difficulties were surmounted
with true sailor skill and perseverance;
and on the Bth of April the two 18 Fan
nies,” each with the American ensign
flying, were afloat upon the beautiful
blue waters of the Sea of Gallilee.—
Emblematic of its Master, it alone of
all- things around them remained the
same. Just as the Apostles saw it,
when our Saviour said to it, ‘Peace, be
still,’ this little band of rovers now be
held it.”
The navigation of the Jordan was
found to be most diificult and danger
ous, from its frequent and fearful rapids.
Lt. Lynch solves the secret of the depres
sion between Lake Tiberias and Dead
Sea, by tlu\ tortuous course of the Jor
dan, which, in a distance/of (it) miles,
winds through a course of 2i)J miles.
Within this distance, Lieut. Lynch and
his party plunged down no less than *27
threatening rapids, besides many oth
ers of less descent. The difference of
level between the two seas is over a
thousand feet.
The water of the Jordan was sweet
to within a few hundred yards of its
mouth. The waters of the sea were
without smell, but hitter, salt and nau
seous. Upon entering it, the boats
were encountered by a gale, and it
seemed as if the bows, so dense was
the water, w T ere encountering the
sledge-hammers of the Titans, instead
of the opposing waves of an angry
sea.”
The party proceeded daily with their
explorations, making topographical
sketches as they went, until they reach
ed the southern extremity of the sea,
where the most wonderful sight that
they had yet seen awaited them.
In passing the mountain of Uzzont
(Sodom) we unexpectedly, and much
to our astonishment,” says Lt. Lynch,
“saw a large, rounded, turret-shaped
column, facing towards the southeast,
which proved to be of solid rock-salt,
capped with carbonnate of lime, one
mass of ciystalization. Mr. Dale took
a sketch of it, and Dr. Anderson and
I landed with much difficulty, and pro
cured specimens from it.”
The party circumnavigated the lake,
returned to their place of departure,
and brought hack their boats in as com
plete order as they received them at
New' \crk. They are all in fine health.
This is a specimen of the skill, system,
and discipline of the American navy.—
No nation in the world has done such a
service. The time is coining when it
"ill gL'e proof of that fact palpable to
the most dull understanding.
1 hanks to the good management of
Lieut. Lynch, the whole eo-t of this
scientific exploration to the Dead Sea,
(except ot course the cost of the equip
ago, and the maintenance of the crew
ot the ship,) was but seven hundred
dollars.
From the letters of Lieut. Lynch,
quoted by Lieut. Murray, we transcribe
•he lollowing tacts elicited by the ex
ploration:
1 *'o bottom of the northern half of
tiiis sea is almost an entire plain. Its
tneridianal lines, at a short distance
hoin the shore, scarce vary iu depth.
1 ho deepest soundings thus far, is Iris
fathoms, I !-isi feet. Near the shore,
Hi bottom is generally an incrustation
ot salt, but the intermediate o:,o is soft
mud with many rectangular crystals,
mostly cubes, of pure salt. At one
time, Stella ager’s lead brought up noth
ing but crystals.
I he southern hall of the sea is as
shallow' as the northern one is deep, 1
and for nbout one-fourth of its entire
length, the depth does not exceed three
fathoms, (18 feet.) Its southern bed
lins presented no crystals, but the shore
is lined with incrustations of #alt; and
when we land«-d at Uzzom, in the space
of an hour, our loot-prints wert* coated
with crystalizatton.
i
The opposite shores %f the penin
sula and the west coast, present evident
marks of disruption.
“There are unquestionably birds and
insects upon the shores, and ducks are
sometimes upon the sea, for we have
scon them—but cannot detect any liv
ing thin" within it, although the streams
flow ing into it contain salt fish. I feel
sure that the results of this survey will
fully sustain the scriptural account of
the cities of the plain/'
He thus speaks of Jordan: “The
Jordan, although rapid and impetuous,
is graceful in its windings and fringed
with luxuriance, while its waters are
sweet, clear, cool, and refreshing.”
After the survey of the sea, the party
proceeded to determine the height of
the mountains on its shores, and to run
a level thence, ria Jerusalem, to the
Medeitcrranean. They found the sum
mit of the west bank of the Dead Sea
more than 4,000 feet above its surface,
and very nearly on a level with the Me
i diterranean.
It is a curious fact,” says Lieut.
Maury, “that the distance from the top
to the bottom of the Dead Sea should
j measure the height of its banks, the
elevation of the Mediterranean, and the
difference of level between the bottom
of the two seas; and that the depth of
the Dead should be also an exact
multiple of the height of Jerusalem
i above it.”
Another not less singular fact, in the
opinion of Lieut. Lynch, is, that the
bottom of the Dead Sea forms two sub
i merged plains, ah elevated and a de
pressed one. The first, its southern
part, of slimy mud, by a shal
low bay; the last, its northern and
largest portion, of mud and incrusta
tions and rectangular crystals of salt—
at a great depth, with a narrow ravine
running through it, corresponding with
the bed of the river Jordan at one ex
tremity, and the Wad ‘el Jeib,’ or
wady within a wady, at the other.”
The slimy ooze,” saysT.t. Maury,
upon that plain at the bottom of the
Dead Sea, will not fail to remind the
sacred historian of the ‘.slime pits in
the vale, where we joined in battle ‘four
kings with five.’
VVe have given this condensed view
of Lieut. Maury’s instructive article,
with its extracts from Lieut. Lynch’s
letters, believing that the interest of the
subject will excuse us in the eyes of
our readers for abstracting so much
space from politics. Lieut. Lynch’s
report will be eagerly awaited by the
public.
From lhr> Rt»:leetor and Watchman.
tin: hidden treasure— a
FA lIIV TALE.
BY MRS. T. P. SMITH.
“A fairy tale, p mother!” exclaimed
several little voices at once, as Mrs. J
took her scat at the accostomed hour,
to tell the children a story.—“ Now
mother do tell us a fairy tale; every
body says they arc the most entertain
ing, and you know’ w hen Cousin M sent
i Mary How’itt’s fairy tales, she said
fairytales were quite fashionable.”—
“Well,” said the mother, “Iliad as
lief tell a fairy talc as any other, but
first tell me what you think is the mean
ing of “fairy.” One replied, a “beau
tiful being;” another “did not know:”
hut the eldest hoy said he thought
fairies were*imaginary beings.” Ta
king that for a definition, his mother
then began the fairy tale called
THE HIDDEN’ TREASURE.
One evening as a poor man and his
w’ife, with five or six children, were sit
ting at the door of their cottage, one of
the children said, “O, father how
poor we are! Ido wish a good lair/
1 would come and tell us where we might
find a great treasure. I guess I would
not sit all day idle any more, and have
so little to cat.” No sooner said than
done—a beautiful woman stood before
them, who said, “little boy, I heard
your wish, and if you will obey my di
rections, you may find a great treas
ure.” Then turning to the man, she
said, “A treasure lies hid in your
grounds; if you will seek for it, you
trill find, and may have it; it is not three
feet from the surface either; begin to
morrow In dig fur it.” —She then went
away. The children clapped their
hands for joy, and the man and his wife
could hardly credit their ears that they
had really heard such a thing; for they
were very poor indeed; though the man
had a large tract of land, it was uncul
tivated, and yielded nothing, barely suf
ficient pasturage for a poor cow, which
afiorded them almost the only nourish
ment they had. They were poor, idle,
discontented people, and the children
halt starved; so to be sure they were
glad enough to hi ar the fairy’s words,
and could hardly wait till the next
morning to Legin to dig. They were
up with the sun; those that could get
shovels dug with them,those that could
not, worked with their hands. In a
few days they had dug a considerable
of a place over, and several times they
thought they had come upon the treas
ure, but it was only stones: they went
on so for sev ei al weeks, but had not
found the treasure.
One night as they sat at the door, the
fairy again appeared. “Well,’’said she,
“you haven t tonnd the treasure vet!
No matter, dig away, you'll find it some
time or other; meantime, Mr.G Jodmun.
you must not let the*.- litlle ihlks starve;
get some corn, aud throw into phat
pate|t you have dug, and have feme
corn growing. I’ll come by and
by—dig away, you'll find the leisure;”
so site wcut away.
“That’* a capital idea,” said the fath
er, (Goodman,) “I'll get some corn,
and plant there to-morrow.” So he did
and as they dug for the tre*-ure, it
pleased them to see how soon the
corn ripened, and what a crop they
had; and the corn stalks made nice f,x,d
lor the cow, too.—The mother dug for
the treasure, sometimes, and having be
come accustomed to it, they all accom
plished together quite a large piece in
a short lime; and soon the good fairy
appeared again, She said "he knew
l lay had n«M found the treasure vet, but
she was afraid the young children had
become tired of digging, and she
thought they had better go into the
woods, and wild strawberries,
aud put into tt>sJP piece they had dug;
it was just (hMpilce to make straw
berries very large and it would please
tin in; but dig on said she jou will cer
tainly jind the treasure yet; 90 the next
day, the children went and brought
borne briskets of strawberry roots, and
planted a nice bed of them; tl»ey then
dug away again for the treasure.
One day they dug op a terrible hard
piece of the land, and had to pull up
some old tree-stumps ai*| stones, Btc.
round a large cherry tree behind the
house, and they were very tired. That
night a traveller came that way,and had
to stop overnight, they lived so tar from
any house. Aa they had no barn, he
tied his horse to this cherry tree, and
gave hirn his oats out of a bag he broufht
on his back. The traveller went away
next morning, but in a few day 9 they
found that the oats the horse had spilled
and scattered had sprung up in the
nicely-dug ground, and they had a
little field of oats. This pleased Mr.
Goodman very much, and when the
good fairy next appeared, he told her of
it. “Oh, yes she said, “it would be
a good plan to plant something in each
place as you dig it —she said the next
time she came she would bring some
seeds for them. So they had another
object for which to dig beside the find
ing of the treasure —to see the things
growing.
She was as good as her word, and
brought the seeds, and they had dug so
well they could plant a great many
melons and other nice things which they
had never before seen in their lives;
and the soil was so good, and had been
so nicely dug and turned over for the
treasure, that the plants grew so rapid
ly, and ripened so soon, that the next
time she came she told them they had
i better stop digging a while, just till they
could take care of the oats, and straw
berries, melons, and other things.
They had eaten as much of them as
they wanted all the season, and sold
some to the nearest houses, and now
Mr. Goodman said they would go next
week to the nearest market-tow n w ith
the rest. So they went. The market
people said the strawberries were the
largest they had ever seen, and their
melons brought the highest price; and
the mother surprised them all by show
ing a cheese she had made from the
milk of their cow, which had yielded
twice as innch, having better feed. The
three youngest children had carried
each two baskets of strawberries, (the
baskets they made of willow twigs,)
while the elder ones and their father
were loaded w ith melons, pears, beans,
corn, &c. and when they had sold them
and come out of the town on their way
home, a happier family were never
seen. They had all a handful of money
they had earned themselves! When
they got home they sat round a table,
and putting all their money upon it sat
looking in wonder and joy. They had
never seen so much in all their lives be
fore: they wer! so pleased, they had
quite forgotten the treasure they had
dug so hard and so long fur, till the fai
ry put her head in at the door.
How beautiful your farm looks!”
said she “and your cherry tree will
bear bushels of nice cherries next sea
son, now you have dug away all those
stones and stumps from the roots. See
how it is branching out! and what have
you hpre?” looking on tkc tafek.
'‘'•‘Moncyt silver! dollars! Ah!” said
she, Did I not toll you that there was
a hidden treasure in your ground, that
you would certainly find, if you dug for
it? This heap of money is the least
part of the treasure you have found by
digging.
Look how healthy you have all be
come! how industrious and useful your
children have become—how hopeful
and happy all are! Look at your
farm now Sphere was nothing but
stumps and stones before you dug, is
now a garden and fields!* Yes, you
have found more than one treasure;
and now, should you like to know my
name? 1 ain called ‘lndustry, or the
Poor Man’s Fairy.’ I always know
and tell where a treasure is, to all—
children even, if they will listen to my
voice and words; adieu, adieu;” and
she kissed her hands and disappeared,
leaving them still looking at the trea
sure they had found.
The children thought this was such
a nice fairy tale, and called so clamor
ously for another, that Mrs. S. told
them she would think of another for the
next evening, and if the young folks
who read this, like it, she will write
the next down for them to read in the
Rijleclor and Watchman.
Intrepidity of a Lady.—A remark
able instance of intrepidity and coolness
was exibited.at the Blue Lick Springs
a few days ago by Miss L., a belle of
Bourbon county in this State. Miss L.
and Mr.F.,a gentleman from the south,
on their return from an excursion on
horseback, were riding down the long
hill about a quarter of a mile from the
hotel at full speed, the lady being a
little ahead. At a sudden turn of-the
road, the gentleman’s saddle turned,
and he fell from his horse, but his foot
remainded in the stirrup, and the horse,
although his pace was somewhat slack
ened, kept on his way’ dragging the
tallen man upon the ground. The
young lady, seeing this, lotted in her
own horse by a sudden effort, leaped
Irorn him whilst he was still in rapid
motion, ran hack, seized the other horse
by the bridle, and released her gallant
ru,n bis perilous situation.
I his feat was witnessed bv hundreds
at tiie springs, who could find no words
strong enough to express their aduiira- 1
lion ot the daring courage of the beau
tiful young heroine —Louisville Jour.
Mitchell, the Patriot. —Mitchell,
the Irish Patriot, is employed at Ber
muda, in the convalescent ward for
sick officers, in consequence of an opin
ion ot his physician that he was suffer
ing from chronic disease, and was in
capable of out-door convict labor.—
Bait. Sun.
Law aoaimsi Betting ox Elec
tions.—-Section 15—“ No person shall
be permitted to vote at any election who
suail make any be| or wager, or bo di
rectly or indirectly interested in any bet
or wager depending upon the result of
any election at which such persons may
offer to vote.”
Katixo. —A man in perfect health
cugut always to rue from the table with
appetite. If either the body or
the mind be legs fit ior action aAer eat
ing than before, that is, if the man be
,e fit either for labor or study, he bath
