Gentlemen and Citizens of Massachusetts:
If my humble name has ever reached
vour ears, it is not in consequence of
my learning, my talents, or any dis
tinguished characteristic of my own
any further than a humble endeavor to
discharge my humble duties. Although
the hearty reception with which I have
met since 1 first entered your State has
been well calculated to inspire me with
Confidence in myself, it will never lead
me to claim any character, fame, or
reputation, further than those most
humble efforts. In that character J
appear before you this evening; and
when I look upon the audience around
me, and think of the intelligence and
learning which is here this evening, I
can promise you blit one thing, and
that is, that you will go away disap
pointed. I will, however, attempt to
meet your expectations as far as in me
lies, in my plain'and humble manner;
and in doing so, 1 now bespeak your
liberal indulgence.
All of us have our own peculiar cha
racteristics which attach to us on every
occasion. We have our habits. Mine
have been formed among Ihe people of
the West. We have characteristics of
our own. Some of us are accustomed
to address public assemblies, and in so
doing we have certain customs, one ot
which is, that we speak our thoughts
without much reserve, and sometimes
without much care as to the language
we use, provided we can be understood.
Another custom is, that in the audience
every man stands on the same level with
the speaker, and if anything is left un
explained, it is the privilege of anyone
in the audience to ask the speaker any
thing he pleases. Now, if 1 shall say
anything to-night which you do not be
lieve, if you will call for the testimony
on which I base my assertion, you will
cooler upon me this obligation, tiial you
4»ivc me a chance to satisfy you. You
understand me as 1 intended to he un
<lerst you represent me to-morrow
4* I wish to be represented, and justice
is done both to you and ine.
Before I commence any particular
train of argument, I desire to know
how my audience are affected towards
the great and fundamental principles
upon which 1 shall base my whole dis
course, and in order to do this, 1 snail
address you as 1 should my friends in
the backwoods of the Buckeye State,
exactly. 1 come not here to address
the Democrats, the Whigs, or the Lib
erty men, but to see whether you all
agree upon our Constitutional rights,
*nd if l g a y anything with which you
do not agree, 1 want you to 6ay so.—
Now be careful, for if you find your
,n a l, ght place by and by, 1 shall
hold you where you put yourselves.—
I will now lay down my positions, and
II there u a man no, j jj U( i U) y 4e jf 1Q
Boston, where there are some who say
wc have a right to abolish slavery in all
the States— but, from them, if
there is a man who dissents from me
let him say so at once.
At the formation of tl, e federal com
pact, when Massachusetts sent up her
delegate* to the Convention that framed
our Constitution, and when other dele
gates from the Free States went to that
Convention, it was with the hearty de
termination to abolish slavery. The
South refused to fulfil the pledge o!
17715, and giro »p alavery, and here
w was the question above all others that
created difficulty in tb* formation o
Must compact. The arrangement wai
THE NORTH STAR,
final!/ made that slavery should be left
precisely as il had been under tbe con
federation, and that the federal govern
ment should have no power over tbe
institution of slavery; that they should
iiave no more power to abolish slavery
in Virginia, than to establish it in Mas
sachusetts; that the rights and privi
leges of Virginia, South Carolina, and
Massachusetts should be perfectly re
ciprocal. It is now as much opposed
to your rights to be involved in the sup
port of slavery, as it would be opposed
to the rights of South Carolina to be
involved in its abolition. 1 lay this down
is a principle, and now I come right
borne to you; you, Democrats.!
Whigs, ai d Libti../ mew, unite upon
his proposition? If there is a man
srho denies this proposition, will he have
he kindness to say No? [No answer.] j
But, remember, if you go uway and find,
yourself cramped to-morrow iti this po
sition, don’t lay it to me.
Now, Dem ocrats, if you agree to
this proposition and vote for Cass, you
jo it inconristently; and 1 want 10 tell:
my Whig friends, if you agree to this
proposition and vote for Taylor. I will
say, Farewell to you as Whigs. I
iguin put the question, Do you believe
hat you have the clear and indisput- 1
ible right under the Constitution to he
entirely exempt from all participation in
he guilt, the crime, the expense, and
he disgrace of sustaining the institute >n j
slavery? (Vcs, yes, from the audi
?nce.) Then I take it for granted that
all parties, excepting those few gentle- 1
men referred to, agree to this.
I wish now to lay down one more
proposition; and that is, that if you suf-l
ier the federal government to involve
you in the support of slavery, you your
selves surrender, and basely surrender,
your constitutional rights; and upon
you, your children, and your children’s
children will the responsibility rest. I
know that the slaveholder’s interest and
feeling, and every fibre of his heart
and soul, are bound up in that institu
tion, and if he had the power he would
bring you into slavery and scourge you
as quick as the black man. I do not
blame him for this, for it is his princi
ple; hut if men in Massachusetts, un
der the shadow of Bunker Hill, sulfer
themselves to be enslaved, it is their
fault. If, then, you, knowing these
rights, permit yourselves to be led
blindfold to the polls, to be wheedfcd
into the support of any man, dia
metrically opposed to these rights, I
repeat that the fault and the guilt arc
yours.
I want to know if the commcicjal,
men of Boston ar*» here; for if these
commercial men voluntarily go and de
posit ther ballots tor a man who is for
the extension of slavery, so as to give
the holder of one hundred slaves in New
Mexico the same control over the com
mercial interests of Boston, with sixty
one educated, intelligent citizens of
Massachusetts—l was going to say it
was moral suicide—it is degradation of
t ic most damning d\e. I cannot con
ceive of a baser, ii; >;e degrading,more
self-sacrificing proposition that could
have entered into the heart of man, than
to place the slaveholder in power over
the interests of Boston. It seems to
me as if the people of the United
States had not entered into the consid
eration of the subject. I have been a
farmer; 1 can handle the spade, the
hoe, and the scythe, and shall I allow a
Southern farmer with five slaves to
have four times the power with myself,
when I verily believe before God that I
am better than the whole of them? I
say, fellow-citizens, that a man who will
do that, who will thus degrade himself,
deserves juft what he receives; he be
comes a himself.
Time would fail ine if I were to re
cur to what has transpired in years
past, when your rights have been dis
regarded, your interests sacrificed,
your honor trampled under foot, and
the Constitution vi dated, to render you
supporters of slavery. Allow me to
make the single remark, that the first
treaty ratifnd under the present exist
ing government was a treaty that made
you the upholders of slavery; and from
that day to this, the citizens of Boston
have contributed their dollars and
cents, their moral purity, character,
and ieputation, to uphold that institu
tion. The whole histor of the past is
the surrender of Northern rights, and
Southern encroachments. You and I,
fellow-citizens, have submitted to it.—
You will all of you recollect that the
Florida war, in which forty millions of
dollars were expended—bloodhounds,
General Taylor, and all—l do not mean
any disrespect to General Taylor, I do
not mean to say any more about him
than I can help—that sutu was paid for
the purpose of recapturing and return
ing to their owners five hundred and
forty-two negroes. They went into the
swamps, and in some instances shot
them down, because they loved free
dom, because they gave loose to the
feelings which the God of nature had
implanted in their breasts. And we, a
nation having a written constitution,
professing to be the only lovers of lib
erty upon earth, this nation waged a
war, sending our armies there to seize
them, men, women, and children, and
deliver them over to their owners.—
The power and influence of the nation
was lent to put down that love of free
dom, to smother the flame which God
had given them. And yet you and I
sat quietly. I don’t suppose you knew
anything about it; 1 didn't.
Look at the coastwise slave trade
upon our coast. In the 2tkh Congress
a report was made in favor of waging a
war— it was not directly recommended,
but intimated at —a war with Great
Britain, unless she would piy to tb«
slavedralers and slavetraders upon oui
coast the value in dollars and cents oi
those slaves which,when wrecked upon
EIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR-GOD 18 THE FATHER OF US ALL, ANI* ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
British Islands, became free by British
laws. When God ia his providence
had sent them upon that soil, and when'
by setting their leet upon free soil they i
were restored to their natural rights, j
this Committee on Foreign Affairs made
a report favoring the idea that this na
tion must wage a war, to shed their
blood and expend their wealth, to com
pel Great Britain to pay for the bodies j
of these slaves. On that Committee
was a representative from Massachu
setts it would not be parliamentary to
call names, but it was the gentleman, i
if I mistake not, who, on the fourth of
July last, in the Mexican camp, nomi-;
nated Gen Traylor for the Presidency, j
It was the gallant officer whose only!
wounds were received when walking
one evening with a beautiful Signorina;
a gentleman who, I believe, was once
a Democratic candidate for Governor
of Massachusetts. My friend intimates
to me that he was once a Whig Repre
sentative. I was there at that time,
and he belonged to what was then called
the Corporal’s Guard of John Tyler, j
That same Representative, when I in- J
troduced certain resolutions denying
the right of the federal government to
involve the federal government in the
support of slavery, pronounced my res
olutions treasonable. Because 1 dared
to assert what there is not now a man
in Congress, nor a jurist in the United
States, but says it was correct, he called
if treasonable. I say it not at all dis
respectfully to him, but to induce you
to look well to your own rights, and to
say to the slave power, “Thus far shaft
thou go, but no farther,” to maintain
the Constitution, and to stand forth in
the dignity of good old Massachusetts,
God bless her!
When this was advocated in the Sen
ate of the United States, and John C.
Calhoun, that Southern intellectual gi
ant, introduced a resolution declaring it
to be your duty to uphold, sustain and
perpetuate that coastwise slavetrade,
where w ere your Senators from the free
States that voted against it? Echo
answ-ers, Where? There was—shall 1
tell it—but one Whig Senator from the
Free States who voted upon that ques
tion, and that Senator voted for the
resolution. That will do our Demo
cratic friends some good but I will
tell them another story. Every Demo
cratic Senator in Congress voted for it.
The slave power constrained those men
thus to degrade themselves and the
North. Ohio Senators voted for it.—
Ohio citizens were disgraced. Not a
voice in that Senate Chamber was
raised in defence of our rights and our
honor. I couUl star'll here till to-mor
row’s sun should risfc, citing to you in
stances in which your constitutional'
rights have been violated, in ways with-'
out number, and times innumerable;
but I forbear.
Let us come down a little nearer
home. Who is it that now sustains that
traffic in flesb and blood in the District
of Columbia, of the horrors of which
you have read so much the last winter?
Do the people of Boston, the people of
Massachusetts, sustain it? Is there a
man here who is in favor of it? If
there is, let him stand forth and avow
it. I will tell you one thing. Every
man there votes against inquiry.
There are hundreds of thousands who
have sent their respectful petitions to
Congress praying to be exempt from
this crime, and you cannot make the
Committee say that the petitions ought
to be granted or ought to be refused.—
They are a great deal more dumb than
Balaam’s ass. You cannot provoke
them into speaking upon the subject,
because a report would affect the elec
tion. So to-day your hands are drip
ping with the blood of those slaves.aud
at the bar of final account you must
answer the unutterable suffering, ago
ny and grief, which the laws of Con
gress indict. 1 wish I could transport
you to the car when that man Slalter
brought back those slaves who had at
tempted to escape. A man who at
tempted to bid an affectionate farewell to
ihe partner of his bosom, was knocked
down in the car. Unutterable grief
and agony preying upon their very
heartstrings, were marked upon the fa
ces of the friends around. And that
was by your law. The guilt lies upon
you, iny friends of Massachusetts, and
Ohio, and all the Free States. You
are as responsible as the people of the
Slave States, and at the bar of final
account the guilt will rest upon you and
me, unless we atone for our fault by at
tempting to retrieve the injury we have
thus committed.
Now, to go back, there were certain
great issues to be tried in the election
of 1844. Abel P. Upshur had put forth
the new, startling, important doctrine,
that the people of the; Free States were
bound to extend slavery into Texas, to
render it firm, and to perpetuate it in
the slave States of this Union. Now,
says a Whig friend, that is democAuic
doctrine; aud I suppose (he Democrats
think so too. But that is a doctrine pul
forth by a President elected as a Whig,
who called himself a Whig as much as
Gen. Taylor. He was no Whig; there
is no doubt about that. To receive the
idea that you will extend slavery ia tc
overthrow the very elementa of the
Constitution itself. We proclaimed ii
such then. The Whig party declarec
that it was unconstitutional, inasmuch
as it led to a war for the purpose oPac
quiring foreign territory. Now let me
talk to my Democratic friends, for i
you are red Democrats, if yours is the
Democracy of Jefferson, here is m 3
heart and my band; 1 am with you.—
You may think 1 am a strange Whig,
but here is Martin Van Burea—no not
fought harder against him in 1840 that
I did—and when the proposition wai
made to him, lie rejected it with discus
and contempt,and never even lubmittri
lit to the Senate, or called a Cabine
ROCHESTER, N. Y. f FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1848.
council upon it. It it mr duty as aj
public mn, wherever i stand, to award;
to that gentleman what ia his just due; t
to apeak the truth, let it fail where it i
may. I applaud Martin Van Bureo for
his deference to the Con»titution, to
your rights and to mine. He did right,
and you have no cause to find fault with
me for sustaining him when he was ini
the right, for God knows it was seldom;
enough that he was ever caught there.
(Laughter.) But he vas right upon
this great transcendent issue now;
brought home upon the people of the
nation. When, in 1614, the question'
was put to bim.by a slaveholdiog inem-
her of Congress from Mississippi, whe
ther he was in favor of the annexation
of Texas, w hen Martin Van Buren'
wrote that letter declaring himself op-
posed to the extension of slavery aud;
the annexation of Texas, he spoke the
sentiments of my heart. I then did
him justice. I then pronounced it to be j
correct, and now pronounce it to be>
correct. It was in strict keeping with
his course in 1837. In his letter to Mr.;
Butler, when he called it an infraction
upon the Constitution to legislate for
the extension of slavery, he spoke the
sentiments of my heart, and you have'
no reason to find fault w ith me for ex-1
tending to him the right hand of fellow-'
ship upon that subject. And whoever!
you are, if you sustain the position as-;
sumed by Martin Van Buren in 1837, 1
in 1844, and again in 1848, then, sir, I
am with you upon that point. And such
were the doctrines of Henry Clay. In
the Lexington Observer, he declares,
first, that Congress has no power over
the institution of slavery, and secondly,
that the existence of that institution de
pends exclusively upon the States in
which it is situated, which is the very
doctrine laid down at the formation of
the Constitution. Now to iny Liberty!
friends at Boston; I wonder if some of
those editors are here to-night that op
posed me so, and berated me so then.
I sustained Henry Clay because he sus
tained my sentiments, because he sus
tained the Whig doctrine as I under
stood it A slaveholder as he was, it
was my duty to do him justice, and as
long as he sustained my doctrine, I
was ready to support him. My Liberty!
friends believed that he would violate
the Constitution. They did not believe
he would sustain the doctrine he laid;
down. I believed that he would.—
There was no difference between us in
principle; the difference was in evi-'
deuce. They were as honest as I was,
and allow me to say that 1 was just as
honest as they were.
Allow me to can your attention to the
fact that the letter of Martin Van Bu
’ren in 1844, aud the declaration of
Henry Clay in 1844, were the death
warrants of those gentlemen. They
signed their own death-warrants when;
they dared to come out and declare
their sentiments, w hen those sentiments
were in opposition to the wishes of the
slave power. There is a power which
raises up parties and puts them down.
It is the slave power of the nation. It
was that pow er which pronounced Mar
tin Van Buren’s political death and ex
ecution, when they saw his letter of
1844, refusing to extend slavery. They
used the same power, and pronounced
the doom of Henry Clay. I hat power
has driven both of those men to retire
ment and private life. Am I not right?
Ask your consciences; examine the
record; search the history, and then as
you shall answer God, say whether
these are not enduring truths.
Will you say we have nothing to do
with slavery? Would to God we had
not. 1 tel! you it has depressed the
free labor the North from the first.
Your inu it sis have been raised and
depress* ci exactly as the freaks of the
slave power have dictated; and they
will continue to do so, so long as you
continue to yield to the slave power,
your lights w ill he trampled under foot.
,Do you tell me about your Tariff." In
1846, John C. Calhoun was the great
advocate of the Tariff, for he thought
he could in that way extort from the
pockets of the freemen of the North
the whole amount necessary to pay otl
our indebtedness. He was for fixing
that tax upon free labor, and you, and
I, and our friends around us, submitted
to it. But when they saw we were
benefited by it, that same inexorable
power struck dow n the tariff duties and
repealed it. It han error which has
been impressed upon us from our in
infancv,as it were that the slavelubor of
the South and the freelahorof the North
are rccoucilable. It is a contradic
tion in terms. What! Can you recon
cile liberty and slavery 1 i»ey are di
rect opposite antagonisms. You might
as well talk of uuitiug light and dark
ness, vice and virtue, heaven and hell,
as to speak of uniting slavery and free
dom. It cannot be done. The law
that builds up the free labor of the
North oppresses the slave labor of the
South; and the law that sustains that,
puts down the free labor of the North,
i it is a contradiction in terms, to say
that the same law can benefit both.
But we were defeated in 1844; Texas
was annexed. Who was it that an
nexed Texas? I know we charged it
upon the Liberty men. I said that if
Liberty men had united with us, we
should have elected Henry Clay; but
thev did not. But who was it that in
troduced the resolution in Congress.—
You know that we had fought early and
late, but Henry Clay waa set aside, the
slave power had bid him retire, and he
had retired; and Miltoo Brown, who had
always stood by our side in opposition
to Texas, now introduced the resolution
lor the annexation of Texas, thus de
i i daring himself in the face of the nation
an apostate to the doctrines he had pro
fessed. Milton Brown, and seven other
t Whigs deserted us. John Tyler bad
to got these eight Whigs to rote for it
or it woeld not hare passed. And yet
those men sre bugged to tbs party as
Whigs to-day. though they bad in the
hour of need deserted their ranks, and
gone over to tbs enemy. Now, I tell
you if that man be e W hig, if that be
Whig doctrine to dcatrt our principles,
then lam not a Whig. It ought cer
tainly to be an article in the creed that
their memories should last three weeks,
but bis did not. 1 cannot change my
opinions in so short a time as that.—
Those eight men they went over to the
Democrats; they voted with them, sym
pathized with them, fraternized with
them, and.jet they are called Whigs!
I allude lo ‘these facts to show that
that issue was affected by our own par
tizans.
The next subject to which I allude
was the recognizing of Mr. Polk'S war.
Now, fellow-citizens, I may come near
er home than I have been, but you will
excuse me. W T hen that question—
fiaught with such transcendent conse
quences to this nation, the waging war
for the extension of slavery was
brought before us, and the Executive
declared that war already existed by
the act of Mexico, and that abominable
lie was placed before us, to say whether!
war did exist by the act of Mexico, I
ask you, fellow-citizens, what was our
response? Look at our professions dur
ing the entire campaign, when we fore-
told this war on every stump in the na
tion. I had foretold it in Ohio, and
asked my fellow-citizens there if they
desired to see the bones of our soldiers!
bleaching upon the plains of Mexico, or
their blood fattening Mexican soil. I
had pointed out the horrors of the war;
I had spoken of women and children
murdered by our troops. We had fore
told all that, and yet in that Hall who
went for it? I will tell you. Every
man w ho gave his vote for the war now
stands ready to give his vote for Gen.
Taylor for President. I cast no per
sonal imputations; I impugn no man's
motives; but it has been my lot to have
my public acts scanned and scrutinized,
and public acts are public property.
What is done in otheial capacity is
spread before the nation, and you are
hound to know it and act accordingly.
And nollr I turn to the record. Look at
those who called this an ungodly, pi
ratical, and murderous war, and see if
every man of them does not sustain
Gen. Taylor or Lewis Cass for the Pre
sidency. Is that Whig doctrine? I
don’t care whether you are cotton
Whigs or woollen Whigs; I want to
address myself to every man, Old
Hubkers, Democrat*, Barnburner* and
a!!: was this Whig doctrine? I stand
to-night, where I then stood. I have
labored*, and I call God to witness that
I haVe-lubqred honestly, with a sincere
desire to avoid the war, and yet all but
fourteen in the House of Representa
tives and two in the Senate, turned
round and went over to the enemy,
adopted their policy, and voted for the
war. They say it was under peculiar
circumstances, and it must have been
peculiar circumstances to compel a man
to vote against the whole course of his
life; but I saw nothing very peculiar
about the circumstances. Men thus
willing to yield up their consistency and
propriety, ought to have their public
acts spread before the people, and
it is your duty to scrutinize them, and
stand forth in the defence of your own
rights.
From that day to this the Whig party
has been dissolved. (Cheers.) It was
not at the Philadelphia Convention; it
was from that moment that our moral
power was gone. W e could not main
tain our consistency; we had no moral
power before the people of the nation.
Could I stand forth before you and ex
hort you to sustain the Whig party be
cause we had sustained our principles?
The countenance of an honest man
would be made to blush by such an at
tempt. From that moment, from the
11th of May, 1846, the Whig party
have ceased to have the characteristics
of a party. They have mingled with
the opposite party in all the great inter
ests of the nation. Now, I call upon
vou, gentlemen of the press, to speak
true; condemn me and consign me to
infamy if truth will do it; but do not
distort facts; do not betray the country;
do not sell the liberties efyour country
to the slave power. (Cheers.) Tell
the truth to the people, for it is their
right and your duty, and when truth is
laid before them, if they fail to main
tain their rights and the constitution, on
their heads, on their children, and
children’s children, be the responsibili
ty. You and I will discharge our duty.
Posterity will give us the honor; and it
will be said then that the people have
their just deserts.
But the people will not be blindfolded.
I dont believe it wdf take wine days to
get the eyes of the people open. 1 have
told you of the manner in which this
1 war was brought upon ns, and I never
felt so weighed down aud oppressed in
my life as upon that day. With tears,
and entreaties, and exhortations, I rnet
the members of the House on tliwt oc
casion, but to no purpose. Every one
lof those men had had all necessary
time for reflection, to ponder upon it
Upon their pillows, but sti# they voted
to send your frllow-ckiaens of Massa
chusetts and every Free State to ifeat
infernal war to leave their bodies hi
Mexican graves, and to leave then
blood upon themselves, and upon you
and me. They bad time for reflection,
•ud they did reflect; they pondered
upon ?f; they argued upon it publicly
and privately, and yet they voted and
continued to vote ia favor of that war.
I tell yotjr that when they Mad for years
r proclaimed their unutterable detestatrurt
of that war, aud then voted to support
and sustain it, it waa not Whig doc
trine. If it was whig doctrine, then I
I was nnwhig. Wbeartfce Whigs came
into power did they not carry out the j
precise doctrine and policy of the Loco-1
locos, to continue the warj Lid they i
not assume the very positions, the ver\
doctrines, the very policy with the!
Democrats? It was with these views,
that 1 said that the Whig putty ceased
to have its distinctive marks on the
UthofMay, 1846. I denounced that
war. 1 denounced every man who
sustained it; every man who would
wage war in Mexico to acquire territory j
upon which to establish the infamous
institution of slavery. The blood of
the women and children murdered m
Mexico at our bidding, instigation, and
expense rests upon you and me. Yourj
hands and mine are stained with it.
And yet we talked of the w hig party.
I still cherished the hope that w e might
bring them back.
(To bt conclmltd next u?eA.)
i
THE WILMOT PROVISO.
Debate in Congress, July lSftlr, 1848*
New Mexico.
Mr. Hale—l will only detain the Sen
ate a few moments. 1 am pleased to
be called to order by a gentleman who
sticks always so closely to the question
himself (Ha! ha!) Mr. Hale desired a
vote directly upon these amendments
before the Senate, whether Slavery
should or should not go into Oregon.—
He was opposed to any compromise on
this question; and referred to the com
promise in the Texas annexation as not
touching an inch of Texas, hut as run
ning across New Mexico, which did not
come into the occupation of the United
States till conquered by Gen. Kearney.
Mr. Rusk would answer all that at
the proper time.
Mr. Hale referred to the maps, and
to the conquest and Government estab
lished in New Mexico by Gen. Kearney,
as proof that that territory did not be
long to Texas; and even by running
the Missouri compromise through thnr
territory to Santo Fe and all the territo
ry worth anything, will be south of the j
line.
Mr. Rusk did not rely on the maps.
Texas had sounder claims. According
to the maps, all Texas, down to the
treaty, belonging to Mexico up to the
Sabine.
Mr. Hale—Well, then, I refer the
Senator to the President’s Messages.
Mr. Rusk—Our claims do not depend
either upon the mgps, or upon the
President’s Message.
Mr. Hale resumed, in opposition to
the committee and to the coiUPgUflUfc]
Mi. Buffer sppke*earnestly w. rarer
of the eommitfee and of the nccessityp
from the dangers to the Union, of set
tling this question at the present session
of Congress.
Mr. Hale one compro
mise to which he would assent. He
would agree to compromise the matter
by giving back to Mexico every inch of
territory we have acquired of her; let
us tell Mexico to take it all back forth
with, as it is but a bone of contention.
He was unwilling to a compromise
which contemplated the assent of this
Government to the extension of human
Slavery.
Mr. Foote replied, denouncing the'
idea of giving back the territory as ah-!
surd in the extreme; denouncing Mf.
Hale as affiliated with such men as
Henry C. Wright, whose avowed ob
ject was to break down this Constitu
tion and this Union. Surrender this
valuable territory! No, sir, never.—
He was decidedly in favor of the motion
for a committee, and argued in itssup
port.
Mr. Clayton defined his position to
he on the borders ofMason andDixou’s,
line—his great object to he an amica
ble adjustment of this difficulty—hence,
the motion he had made. He would he
glad if this question could be settled
now, hut thought it could be judicious
ly postponed till after the Presidential
election.
Mt. Hale rose again.
Mr. Westcot —l raise a point of or
der. No Senator shall speak more
than twice on the same day on the same
question, and the Senator from New
Hampshire has spoken three times.
Mr. Hale—Only twice, Sir.
Question put. Mr. Hale allowed to
go on.
Mr. Hale rose to answer the charge
that he affialited with that class of Abo
litionists who seek to destroy the Con
stitution and the Union.
Mr. Foote rose to explain.
Mr. Westcott (aside)— Fhere—tncre
we shall have it again.
Mr. Hotter, (amdc)—Can't you stop
them?
Mr. Westcott—No; I want to bare
a speech myself, by and by.
Mr. Hale—l am sorry if my remarks
give pain to the Senator from I 1 lorida.
Mr. Westcott—Very much, very
much, I assure you.
A Voice—l would like to have a
chance at him.
Mr. Hade—The aetmfiveners of the
Senator satisfies me that be is original
ly from the North. Going at length in
reply to Mr. Foote.
Mr. Foote asked if the gentleman
Was nut the Champion of the Abolition
ists in (he North, and does he not ex
pect to be nominated by the Buffalo
Convention? If he is, we ahall have a
Hate storm wiflf a vengeance. (Ha!
ha* he!)
Mr. Hale— That depend* altogether
Upon how it is footed ffp. He then pro
ceeded to ihow (ktft he did not be long
to (he Henry C. Wright faction, hut t<
dm Conservative Abolitionist*,
wished to preserve (be Union b> lalho*
back upon ffe old pidlform of dm Con
stitution.
With s«me further conversation be
tween Mr. Foote and Mr.
Mr. Wescot took dm floor. He had
wo fears of tbo Union. He Had no fears
JOHN DICK, Psausaaa
WHOLE NO.—Bl.
of th« Wiltno^Proviao—for, if
passed, we have a President who *ilf
give it the veto. Tht* etcitemeftt upon
the question would* waste itself to the
Presidential clecyofr. He we* in fnvor
of thb committe, end if nothing more
could be done, the President Would be
empowered, at in the cnee ol Florida,
to establish n temporary Government
over the he# territories till Cong ret*
should meet again.
Mr. Niles was glsd to hear the Union
waa safe. He wsa opposed to any
compromise on this question. He did
not beheve it wohld be settled this ten
sion. It c©6ld not be done by Ibis
congress. It must be nettled by the
people in the eiectioo of a new cong
ress. Let the people be heard on it.
If you pass this proposed compromise,
the members voting for it may be burnt,
in effigy when they go home; and the
act will not be binding, as in the case
of admitting Missouri as a state. These
are but territories, and they w ill still be
open to legislation. He wonld submit
to be voted down, but he would never
assent to an act by which one inch of
free territory shall ever be stained with
human Slavery. Alt that should be
done this session would be to give to the
President the temporary Government
for the new territories in the interval to
the next Congress, as was done in
iao3. u
Mr. Berrien advocated, in a lively
strain, the committee as the safest med
ium for a satisfactory settlement of this
question.
Mr. Downs congratulated the Sena
tor from Delaware on bis motion. Ihe
opposition from a certain quarter
pleased him. It was proof that if this
compromise be carried ont, Othello s
occupation’s gone.” (Ha I ha ha
They say the agitation will increase,
and the difficulty will rise again. No,
Sir; they know that the plan suggested
will kill this free soil abolition move
ment stone dead.
Messrs. Baldwin dnd Wcstcott, Day
fon and Calhoun, Bright, Foote, Clay
ton, John Davis and others, further
prolonged the general discussion till
five o’clock—Mr. Dayton contending
that Oregon was free and ought to re
main free, by express declaration, and
Mr. Calhoun insisting that Oregon
was derived from Spain qnd France,
was open to Slavery, and ought, as well
as New Mexjco and CaliTor/iia’ to
mam open the citizen* and their
property -from ’dll the State#
The «que»tto i wjfc tN lakes «o Me.,
Jwlayton’* motion for a committee of
m-amktafr wr. rnfflt>
suggestion ,ar& id catmnitfec giisM takq the
general* subject of Governments for thb
territories of Oregon, California, and
New Mexico ihto consideration, and
report thbreori—committee to be ap
poin.ed by ballot, four from the North,
and four from the South', two of each
party to each divivision. The result
on adopting all this, was 31 to 14, as
follows
Yeas—Atchison, of Mo. Atherton,
of N. H. Badger, of N. C. Bell, of
Tenn. Benton, of Mo. Cerrien, of
N. C.; Borland, of Ark.; Breese, of
III.; Bright of Ind.; Butler, of S. C.;
Calhoun, of S. C.; Clayton, of Del.;
Davis, of Miss.; Dayton, of N. J.;
DicMnsurt, of N. Y. Downs, of La.;
Foote, of Miss.; Hdnncgan, of Ind,;
Htrtrter, of Va. Johnson, of Md., John
son, of La.; Lewis, of Ala.; Mason,
of Va.; Metcalf, of Ky. Rusk, of Tex
as. Sebastian, of Ark.; Spruance, of
Del.; Turney, of Term.; Underwood,
of Ky.; Westcott, of Fa.; Yulee, of
Fa—3l.
Nays—Baldwin, Bradbury, of Me,
Clark, of K. I.; Corwin, ofO.. Davis,
of Mass, Dix of N. Y., Fitzgerald,
Mich, Green, of R. 1., Hale, of N. 11.
Hamlin, of Me., Mitter, of N. J., Niles,
of Ct. Uphain, of Vt'., Walker of W ise.
—l4.
IxFiMovs Law.—We fearn that
the Corporation of Washington, our
National Capital, have passed a new
edict, requiring all Free Colored per
sons in the city to give good White
sectrrity each in a thousand dollars,
lor their good behavior for one year
and to pay $3 each for a certificate
that they have given auch security.
This is an infamous act, and the
whole nation ought to ery shame up
on its authors. It is unconstitutional
also—that is, if anything can be
unconstitutional which is done by slave
holders against people of £oh»r and in
behalf of pcc -ihar institutions.' What
right has the Corporation of Washing
ton to require inen not convicted or
even accused of crime la give hoods
fortheir good behavior? Of all means
for raising the wind/ this is thn
moat cowardly and base, and to will
not allow ourselves to doubt that the
Coart# of the District, if appealed to,
would decide that the requirement is
rHeg*f.«*»Ara there no white loafer*
and villains la Washington who are
quite as likely to break the peace
the poor free men of color Why
then should the eomplewon of the skin
alone he held to rarr*e a preaomptiow
that crime is meditated ?—7Vihuar.
A awtfve of the Einwrald W«. oa
bearing of the regulation
and the establishment by the people ol a
I provisional government, exclaimed,—
I ‘By St. Patrick, and a not that just the
thing that aweet Ireland want*/ A
|proVi«onary government forever? By
tha power*, the only goveromefit ft*
has bos is a atarvatmoary cna.’
If if easier to make an iikpdeasion
upon sand than Upod mdrbfc but it ia
easier to make a jn«f one upon marble
The 6th Annual Meeting of the Western Anti-Slavery Society will be held at Salem, Columbiana Co., on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 16th, 17th, and 18th, of August, commencing at 10 A.M.
liet a full rcpr<?w»nt*tion of the slaves
fmnds come up on this occasion from a!
parts of the Great Woat. The political lead
ore are marshalling thetr hosts for a conflict
he*r followers are rallying by hundreds o
thousands to the support ol their party ban
tier*. Time, and money, and laboi aie ex
pended to secure their object. And shall tht
Viends of freedom, whose faith should hr
Mi.xig in the power of Truth, be lukenarn
and indifferent while politicians are so ear
nest ia their labors, so untiring in their zeal
The events of the past year should eacouragt
us to renewed e libra, for every movement o
inports&ce which has been made, having anj
bearing upon the question of slavery, fore
shadows the destruction of the system, am
the oppressors feel that it is so. The politica
parties will m ike a desperate effort to save
themselves from the destruction their corrup
tion has brought upon them; and the effoiti
of the abolitionists to maintain and enforct
the Right should lie proportionably great.—
Arrangements should be made at the cominja
meeting to continue the anti-slavery agitatioi
by thniips of the Jiving speaker, and to ex
tend more widely the circulation of ihe So
ciety's paper—the Anti-Slavery Bugle. Ix?l
none of the friends who can be there, absent
themselves for any light cause, for the pre
sence of all, and the couesel of all is desira
ble.
Besides the friends of Liberty in the West
who will be present on the occasion, Henry
C. Wright and Ciias. C. Burleigh are ex
pected to be in attendance, and perhaps other
representatives of the Last.
LOT HOLMES, Fee Sec.
THE CALL.
r
THE GREAT NATIONAL CONVEN
TION OF COLORED FREEMEN of the
United States, will be held in Cleveland,
Ohio, commencing on Wednesday, the sixth
div of September next.
Let the Colored Freemen all rally to this
important gathering. This is a crisis, and
something we west and will do
We hope to see the East, North, South
nd Weal, cornc up in one mighty, unbroken
phalanx, to do battle for God and humanity
Signed, by request of Illinois, Indiana,
Michigan, and Ohio, (the Western parts of
New York and Pennsylvania being readv.)
M. R. DELANY.
Hamilton, Ohio, June 6,1818.
IL7* Mystery, and all friendly papers, please
«®py.
Free Soil in Pittsburgh.—A meeting of
an Buren or Barnburmng Democrats was
held in Piltsburg on Friday evaning last. The
Gazette says, the meeting was large and
pood order pervaded.'’—Geo. \V. Jackson
Chairman.
Dr. E P. Gazzam, a gentlemen who has
held high position and great influence with
the Democratic party of old Alleghany, 4 re
ported a set of Resolution to the meeiing,
approving of the proceedings of the Utica
Conventien, and making various suggestions
to complete a full organization of the friends
of and a 4 free soil,’ throughout the
State. The resolutions were adopted by
acclamation. Mr. ills addressed the ineet
4pg at some length, and other gentlemen also
■poke.”
Slavery gn Trial.—The trial of Drav-1
ton, Sayers and English, charged with aiding
the attempted escape of 10 slaws irom i
Washington City winter, is set donw for
the 28th inst. District Attorney Key has
drawn three hundred and thirty indictments
against them, which, it is estimated will draw
from the U. S. Treasury and place in his
pocket the snug little sum of $3,300. What
has the North to do with supporting .Slave
ry?’) For the defence Gov. Seward and
Horace Mann, and several other eminent i
citizens have been engaged—all, we believe,!
serving without fee or reward.— Tribune.
This is a great Country !—The follow-I
ing is from the National Intelligencer, the
organ of the True Liberty Party,” publish
ed in the Capital of 44 the land of the free
and the home of the brave.”
BY T. M. &H. MILRURN, AUCTIONEETS. i
NEGRO BOY, Family Horse, Wagon, Cart,
Saddles, Bridles, Ac. at Auction. On Satur
day morning next, at ‘J o'clock, we shall sell
on Centre market space, a colored Bov, 18
years of age, for a term of years, and one of
the best family Horses in the District; as
also, a one horse Carriage, a small Market
wagon, one double Carriage, one Furniture j
Car, and a for of Saddles, Bridles, Martingals,
&e.
For boy and horse satisfactorily endorsed
notes, at sixty and ninety days bearing inter
est, witt he taken.
T. M. B. MILBURN, Auctioneers.
BT The Legislature of Wisconsin adjourn
ed on the 29th ult,, to attend a caravan which
happened to be in Madison. Most of the
members are young men who had never seen
‘‘the elephant.”
|T7* The following extract, from a reee nl
letter written by a young lady, in central New
York, we publish to show the spirit, w hich, j
in this cris s, animates the w omen of the
north.
44 The little that 1 hear and read about
these great conventions and public meetings,
shows me the meanness, the soul-selling craft,
of the many, with now and then, a redeeming j
member, a spirit of fire, that w ould fain purge
out the evil, and purify our country of the
baneful influences that are subverting the
republic, and destroying the confidence of the
people. Why are there not more Aliens, J
more Giddings, more honest men more who
dare come out openly, and take a noble stand
jn defence of right and truth' Why ate there
so many stagnant natures, that will not shake
off the fetters of party spirit and self aggran
dizement, and set as duty and conscience
dictate? It 1 were a man, I believe 1 would i
give up my whole tune and attention, and
•scrUice life, it need be, to set my country
right, lbr 1 think it is going wrong, very fast.
T his is Indeed a very exciting time, s great
crisis, men acting like mad. But great emer
gencies bnng forth great minds, they will
•pnng op y<*, I trust, and grasp the coming
danger sod grapple with it, ull they conquer 1
There will be lawarttnes in our own country
as well os in Fiance.”— Mass. S P'J-
The Compromise Committee in the Sen
ate has decided u> report the three bills for
for the eatablishmeiil mi Territorial govern
ment* California, New Mexico, and
Oregon, in one, leaving out both the W»lmot
Proviso and compromise, and everything con
nected with slavery. Thf* slavery question
will (tree be lefl ihe people ef the teiri
tories.
m* Congress has just I, by an unani
mens vote in each Hosi«e, .i. Iso amending
eur naturalization laws that anv immigrant
who has had a residence for fire years in this
country, and over two years past declared his
purpose to become a catzen, shall henceforth'
ho entitled to naturalization, although he way*
meantime have been once or uauty tunas eut
#f the country.
E7* 'IT* National Era fed* warranted in
asying* tfmt Mr. Hals 4 is fully in favor of
the mtSftnahtbty of the Homestead, and ilte
freedom of the Public Lauds to actual s* t
llers
THE NORTH STAR.
iOCHBSTER, mr 2* IR4B.
Bath Hrbool—F. irlttMon of Colored
V CbildiCß.
It w il! be Remembered by our readers thai
we, severs! months ago, called at lent too to i
proposed outrage upon the rights of colored
children in Bath, Steuben Co., J*\ Y. W«
I now call attention to its consummation.—
When in Bath, this Spring, we were inform
ed that a Union School-house was in procesi
of erectinti, to which all the children in town
were in go instead of going as they were, to
1 schools in different parts of the town thai
f this Union School-boose was built by a ux
i upon all lakable property in the town, and as
r colored men owned a considerable property in
the town, their proportion of taxes amounted
to a large sum. One colored man paid fifteen
dollars—another aeven —and some less.
The School-house is now completed, and is
an excellent building, quite commodious and
occupies a central position easily reached by
all persons in the tow n. When it was opened,
colored mothers though they had had intima
lion, that their children would probably be ex
cluded, took their children to the school—re
solved to know themselves, bow they were to
be disposed of. They found the doors of
that building closed against them. The house
built in part by their hard earnings, was shut
against their children and they were hooted
through the streets, with theory of “nigger,”
nigger,” nigger,” and other low black
guardism of which miserabla“ white trash”
are so prolific. Now we invite attention to
Bath, and submit that this treatment is a most
mean and cowardly outrage by the many upon
the few that highway robbery is not more
unjust than that of taking the colored man's
money to build a School-house exclusively for
white children. But the worst part of this
infamous treatment remains to be told. The
taxes imposed to build the Union School
i house, was to be collected at three different
times. The first and second had been collect
ed, which the colored people very readily
paid, but before the collector camo around
the third time, they became aware that their
children were to be excluded from this school
house, for the erection of which they were
about to be again called upon to pay. A
friend of ours being called upon, refused to
pay the remainder of his assessment, on the
ground that his children were to be excluded
while the children of white men, who had not
paid as much as he had already done, were to
be admitted. The collector persisted in de
manding his pay, but my friend nobly resisted
the demand as unjust and unreasonable—
whereupon, this collector by virtue of his au
thority levied upon a portion of the goods in
tiis store, and sold them at public out-cry 1
And this barefaced piece of atrocious villanv
received the sanction of a good methodist
irother, who, while others hesitated about
aking part in the robbery, came forward
making a meiit of his brazen audacity, and j
said I am not afraid to bid.” We should
like to know the name of this religious rogue, 1
and to ascertain his precise standing in thej‘
community, and especially if he has never
been an occupant of the large building ax Au
burn—whether he was not once caught Stealing
sheep, or which is worse, stealing colored
children and running them off South. We
should really like to know his history; I
will any of our readers in Bath, give us the
facts, that we may in future deal with this i
mean creature intelligently.
Meanwhile, we say, shame on Bath—shamel
on the community which can perpetrate such
mean and dastardly acts on any portion of
their fellow citizens, because they have not
the means to redress their wrongs. Wej
should have thought* that the fact of the
ored people being in the minority, would have
suggested to the w hites, the utmost scrupu
losity in dealing with them in regard to this
matter. There was an opportunity afforded
them to seem a little magnanimous, and we
had fondly hoped that they would embrace it,
well knowing that some of the most respecta
ble and intelligent persons in the town were
adverse to the present mean and proscriptive j
measure. But they have let it pass. We,
therefore, now call upon the press to hand
the gross injustice around.
We would say to our colored friends in l
Bath, be of good cheer they may iob you
of your money, and shut you out of schools—
exclude you from social and political rights, j
but they cannot rob you of the right to be
saber, honest, and industrious, nor can they ex
clude you from the throne of the Most High;
your prayers are as precious in the sight of a
God of justice, as those who boast their white
superiority over you.—Moreover, that God,
whose all-seeing eye the falling sparrow may
not escape, will not fail to see your wrongs
redressed. He will yet vindicate his cause
and destroy' all oppression.
Postage—sympathy for the Irish.
Keep it in mind, that for every letter you
receive from a distance of less than three
hundred miles, you pay three cents more than
you ought; fot every letter ovei three hun
dred and under six, you pay six cents more
than you ought; and so on for every sddilioual
three hundred. Keep it also in mint}, that a
miserable, savage act of retaliation upon the
English Po6t all ihose w ho re
ceive letters from the old world to a tax of 25
cents on each letter. Instead of blustering
about repeal, and helping In&hmen to 6hout
rebellion against those whom they call their
Saxon tyrants, let Americans begin heTe, and
rid them at once of this gross imposition. It j
would he an evidence that their sympathy for
the suffering Irish How s from a right motive I
and not, as there is too much reason to ftar,
from a feeling of envious rivalry towards the
English, or at least tlo* English Government, j
It is to little purpose) that we declaim against
foreign oppression, while we are ourselves
tyrants. Let us begin at home. —j. d.
E7' bailor’s Ad\orate arid Journal” is
the tale of a semi-monthly paper just started
in New York, by Jonathan Walker and Elias.
£>uuth. Mr. Smith is the principal Ed, tor,!
and brings to the discharge of Ins duties a J
warm and sympathetic bean, a good share of
talent and common sen*-, and an earnest de
votion to the welfare of thuae in whose behalf!
he is to labor. He will make a good paper,sad
we hope it may have a wide cireu lauua. j
liitid stone Chi on.
1C? The Cincinnati Gazette state*, that
Wilxjam Howitt, and hra accomplished
wife, M**r Howitt, contemplate leaving
England and taking up their residence to the
West. They have had relatives ut Ohio for
many yean.
Tb« Model Worker.**
This is tie proud tide r a large weekly
liberty Pety newspaper, recently i»u«d'frtm
t’tica. central Near York, by Samuel Green
formerly connected with the Albany Patrwi
—note no more. The Model worker proposer
to work for single subscribers at the low pticc
of two dollars per anrana—iaranably ia ad
vance—and may be obtained by addressing
8. W. Green, at Utica. It ia to cam moo to
speak of every newspaper emanating from
the A mer.can press, in -terms of admiration,
that we almost feel like falling in with the
cuatom, and write a neat puff—that would ap
ply as well to aa improved coffee mill aa to a
newspaper, and there let the matter rest.
But we do not think it would be quite deco
rous, to treat this model a* we would treat the
multitude of workmen, we therefore demote a
few momenta to a consideration of its charac
ter and objects. The Editor says in bis salu
tatory
May we, at the outset, explain a little
what we shall attempt, under the name and
motto we have chosen! There is a God.—
Not a mere rhetorical flourish—a figure of
speech —a sublime conception. Not that.—
There is a God. This world is his world.—
He made it, and preserves it, and has sever
yet lifted the w eight of a finger of his authori
ty from it. Whether men bow to this au
thority, or set themselvci up against it, he
always has, still does, and ever will, rule,
t over his friends and in the midst of his ene
mies. Tor ail Nature, in all its parts, from
the sand jrrain up to the tallest hero that ever
undertook the task of honoring human respon
sibilities—every thing aruund, above, beneath,
within us, is shut up to the operation of his
laws. These laws—expressions of the Om
nipotent Will—are all pervading, universal,
unchangeable. Silently or in the crash ofj
Empires, by day and by night, through the
earth, the air, the water, in things of time
and sense, and among the sublimer realities
we call spiritual, the inevitable laws are there,
and there as laws. Heaven and earth may
pass away, but they remain unchanged. The
grass withers, the flower fades, but these, the
words of a God, endure forever.”
Now, all this is very sublime, but very in
definite, and can scarcely be called an expla
nation of what is to be attempted by this
model worker.” If we did not know the
Editor of the Model Worker,” we should
be disposed to think this mere cant—intended
to ingratiate his paper among a class of per
sons, who never weary in talking about a
Supreme Being, but possessing no disposition
whatever, to consider the welfare of his crea
tures. The “Model Worker,” goes on to
say, that all will admit—w hat it expresses of
the Supreme Being, but that the masses of
mankind hold the “throne ofGod, a humbug.” j
A fter dwelling at length upon this idea, he
proceeds as follows;
But*if these laws are inevitable in their
operation—if God's very existence is pledged j
o their maintenance—if the universe is in
subjection to them, what can they accomplish
vho set themselves in opposition In a strict
sense the activity of wicked men cannot result,
n anything deserving the name of*deeds.—
Kor the word deed” implies somethingdone
—not undone, lie can not be a doer, who is
spending his resources in the vain attempt
,o resist the inevitable. lie can not accom
plish who busies himself w ith letting buckets
into empty wells and drawing nothing up, or
in blowing against the wind. Men may unite
in such attempts— a huzzaing mob, as they
draw their vessel of miasm and emptiness to
the surface, may sweaL.tney will slake their
thirst. An overwhelming, majority” may;
shout, that they have blown back the w ind.—
They have really done just what he has who
deludes himself into the notion that he has ac
complished any purpose on which he is intent,
w ithout conforming himself to the Creator's
laws. Every such one w ill find, sooner or
later, perhaps to confusion and everlasting
ruin, that it is hard to kick against the
pricks.”
This, too, sounds very well theological,
philosophical, and political—but not very di
rect or explanatory. We wade on through
nearly a whole column of such beauty and
sublimity, before meeting with any thing like
the objects of the paper. In these days of
juick travelling, quick printing, and quick read- j
ing, men w f ill not generally puzzle tbeir brains
iy such an effort to find out what a man is
driving at, as that required by this salutatory
if the Model Worker. We do not know how
it is with learned men, but we who have been
iccustomed to the unvarnished hardships and
stern realities of life, have a strong attach
ment to simplicity and directness of speech,
whether written or spoken. The Model
Worker” shall tell in its own language, all
that looks like an explanation of what he is
about to attempt, and our readers will have
the same means of knowing of what that ob
ject is—that we possess
In theenterprise before us, then, we would
make these laws the model of our activity.— j
We would put ourselves in harmony with
them, that so we may achieve success. Wei
would take our place, with iis lesponsibilitics
and privileges, and attempt to be u Model l
Worker.” Not a busy Idler—n >t a Destroyer
—but a Constructor, a Buiuer. With our
eye open to the great idea of a Government,!
we would solve problems in its light.”
“Not a destroyer!” Why not? Christ’
was a destroyer. He was revealed from
Heaven, to destroy the works of the devil.—
What harm can there be, in being a destioy-1
er of such works. There is, we think, in;
this, a slight fling at those w ho go for destroy- j
ing our present unholy union with slave-hold-
ers—and the destruction of our present blood
stained government. There is something of
putting of new wine into old bottles and
inending old garments with new elolh.
With our eye open to the great idea of
government we will solve all problems in its
light.”
We fear our friend has chosen a dark lan
tern to w ork by. We think be would do bet
ter to solve all problems in the light of truth
and justice. As our friend Green, evidently
jiosseescs a good degree of self-esteem, and
will not sink under these slight criticisms, we
w ill venture a word as to his past course, and
express the hope, that he will not adhere to
ihe views which too frequently disfigured the
columns of the Patriot when under but charge;
such aa defending the justice of the atrocious
war waged by the United States government
against Mexico—rebuking persons, for asso
ciating themselves with such evil dispose*
persons ss our humble self—and ail speaking
w ith a bitter tongue against any class of the
friends of freedom, because they may happen
to differ from him in bis sublime idea of gov
ernment. With these words of friendly ad
vice, we have wo hesitancy in welcoming the
Model W other into the great field of reform.
where we are sure he will find woik enough
to do.
CT The following bnef advertisement
appeared in the New York Tribune on the
Tih mat:
Daniel Webster!—You are wanted at
Waahmgtoo—to fight for FawroM.
Svr*«*i>sc. tih Julv. IFW.
The Ikitboldn'i latter*
Lest oar readers should daeftt the genuine
■ess of this letter, we will liMy ertf bon
it came into oar possession. We tnetjSeveTw
weeks sgn, our estimable friend, Samuel J
May, who informed us that b# had seen suck
s letter, and thought that the lady to whom ti
was addressed would consent to s publication
of its contents, provided that the name and
locality of the writer should be withheld.—
It appears that the letter is answer to om
addressed to kins by her, on the subject ol
Slavery.
With respect to the chdftcter of this letter,
there is nothing about it that eicites our sur
prise. We are familiar with the seatime&ta it
contains—cold, dark and infernal as it is, it ta
but a fair transcript of the heads and beans ol
slaveholders generally. It scarcely neces
sary to comment upon the letter. Its blas
phemous assertions and brazen falsehoods
have been repeatedly confronted -and over
thrown. To talk of the incapacity of the
negro at this day, may sene a purpose in the
dark pine forests of North Caroliua, where
every ray of moral and ii-ieiiectual light is
carefully shut out from the soul of the fetter
ed bondman—where to teach the reading of
the word of God is mads a» crime, and moder
ate punishment means the whipping of a slave
to death Such arguments may answer very
well; but we tell this slaveholder, that in
this region, where men have become enlight
ened—where to read the Bible is not consid
ered a crime—where labor is respectable—
where the colored man enjoys personal free
dom—and where we can point to wealthv
colored merchants, industrious mechanics of
nearly every trade, and professional men from
the bar to the pulpit, editors, and orators, &c.,
—hie arguments w ill be as unavailing as a bag
of feathers against a tornado.
We commend this letter to our colored
friends generally, that they may see in what
light they are regarded by this and other man
steaiera, and be able to meet their representa
tions with a character which will render them
perfectly harmless.
The Delevan Temperance Union.
We learn from a letter of Mr. George W.!
Clark, that the celebration of the
of the Delevan Temparance Union, at King-
ston, on the 7th of July, w as a spirited affair.
Speeches were made by Wilson, White, Mo
rell, and Rogers. Mr. Garnett, we are in
formed, made the ablest address on the occa
sion, making a deep impression on the assem
bled thousands. Ihe Temperance cause, we
are happy to learn, is making considerable
progress among colored people in the East.—
0 are sorry we cannot say so much for the
West, and especially of Rochester. \V r e are
now quite satisfied that one of the greatest j
htnderances to our elevation and improvement
in this city, is the too general use of ardent,
spirits. W hile the mass of colored persons
in this city are saber, upright, and intelligent,;
there are just a sufficient number of excep
tions to this rule, u ith the aid of the prejudice
against us, to make the inference in our favor
nugatory.
W e are about to celebrate the first of Au-
gust in this city, and there will probably be
thousands of colored persons present. For,
the sake of the great cause we shall meet to
promote, the character which we always,
ought to maintain, set your faces like adamant
against all intoxicating drinks, and all noisy
and unseemly demonstrations. Let there be
nothing said or done which shall in any wise
give a handle to our enemies. This is our
fourth of July; and though white men get
drunk on their s, let us keep sober on ours.—
A poor white man can better afford to get
drunk than a rich black man. liet us remem- J
bpr that every impropriety committed by one
of us, is charged to the account of our whole
people.
The Whig Candidate.
General Taylor is the owner of some
two hundred slaves—l been for forty
years a man of war and bl i. ujulls his abil
ity to fulfil the duties of Pr sident—conferees
his ignorance of political affairs—isconvicud,
by his bloodhound reputaticn, of crue’ty a: d
barbarity, that would disgrace a savage—savs
he is not a Whig,and refuses to be considered
the nominee of the Whig party; yet has been
nominated by a Convention of Whig politi- j
cians, as a fit and available candidate for the
Presidency! Such a barbarian would canvas
in vain for a single vote among the Fejee can
nibals; an iguorant Hottentot would spit upon
the man that should make the proposal to
him. Will civilized enlightened Americans of
the nineteenth century defile and disgiace
themselves by elevating to the Presidency this
bloodhound warrior and manslealer? Pray
Heaven No !—j. d.
A Black List.
The following are the names of the North- i
era Senators in Congress who voted against
incorporating the Wilmot Proviso into the
treaty with Mexico. They are all Democrats.
The dough-face candidate, LEWIS CASS,
is among the number. Let all who wish to
extend and perpetuate the curse and crime of
slavery, vote for LEWIS CASS.
J. W. Bradbury, Maine.
W. B. S. Moore, do.
Dan’l S. Dickinson, New York
Sivon Cameron, Pennsylvania.
Daniel Sturgeon, do.
LEWIS CASS, Michigan.
Alfheis FiTcn, do.
Willam Alln, Ohio.
Edward A. llannegan, do.
Sidney Breesz, Illinois.
Steuben A. Douglass, do.
E7* A meeuog to dtacuse the Rights of
W omen will be held in this city on Wednes
day, id August. The place of meeting will
be announced in the air papers. A meeting
preliminary to this will be held on the even- j
ing of the Ist, in Protection Hall, Slone’s
Buildings. We are happy to announce that
James and Lucretia Mott, with other persons
from abroad, will be present.
UJ" Hon. John P. Hale will please accept
onr thanks for a copy of Fremont’s Geo
graphical Memoir upon Upper California.
TO COWIESI’ON DE.VI B.
Prior Footer, Booths.—Cans'* visit Michigan
this Foil.
8. 8., M tori lon.—Papers wifi bo am, sad sob
•cripuooo credited.
J., X«w Bedfaodr Received- Kaow set
where the blame mu. The paperi are regvlarH j
awitad.
Detkoit, Michigan, July H, IMS.
PtAu 0oroLA«:«-I arrived here on tbfc
3d inst., from Saadcskv City, at which place
w« armed on the 29th ult., bat were unable
to leave sooner. At this place we held no
meeting, for tbo reason that every hour a
boat was expected up the lake, we holding
ourselves in readiness. At length on Sab
bath morning one came, the Pacific but as
we afterwards discovered, having it expressly
stated on their bill, Built expressly for the
accommodation of Southern passengers," I
and my friend Langston were, by the pitiful
Northern slaves to Southern masters, even on
the puTe and nncuntatuinated waters nf Lake
Erie, refused a eabin passage by the vassal
clerk of this meaner than slaver, Pacific.—
Although noted as was the clerk by that ex
tremely polite and humble demeanor which
ever chaiacterizes the mean and unprincipled;
yet so contemptuously indignant did we fee|
toward the w hole concern, that we even did
not inquire of the captain into the rules of the
boat. There is no doubt but this is the
established rule of ihe Pacific—a namS which
I desire the frienda of freedom to remember—
and neither captain n >r clerk had manliness
sufficient candidly to state their reasons for
the establishment of such odious rules. The
truth of the matter if, they srerfates—volun
tary slaves, and as such, ashamed to acknowl
edge it. We did not get passage until Mon
day morning, on the Gen. Scott, a Sandusky
and Detroit packet.
Sandusky has greatly improved. Not more
than four years since, the port consisted of
but one street, and a few scattered houses,
with scarcely a dock sufficient for the landing
of steamers. The place has now some six or
eight thousand inhabitants; and so rapidly
increasing that the demand for houses is by
far greater than the supply. At this time,
there are in progress of building not less than
150 houses, and doubtless there are as many
more under contract. The people of this
place are, in the main, quite civil and polite, 1
being principally Yankees.
There are several colored families in and j
about Sandusky City, and these are of the
most praiseworthy character. Those who
reside in the country are generally farmers,
and well doing, having land and stock of their
own, in a fine state of prosperity, themselves
being intelligent and industrious. Those of
the town are equally praiseworthy, the greater
part owning good houses and lots in the best
parts of the city; one young man having a
good grocery another and his wife keep a
confectionary and saloon all of them are
doing well. There are two others making
preparations for entering largely into the boat
store and grocery business.
On passing new buildings, I was much
gratified to see in them, busily engaged, col
ored carpenters, plasterers, painters, and oth
ers, all industriously and sociably working on
the same benches and scaffolds with other
workmen, though bearing a different hue, but
not probably a more skillful hand. With the
exception of a few, who belonged to the
steamers which lie in the bay, I did not see
an indifferent looking colored person in San
dusky. I conceive it to be ominous of good,
the dawning among oCr people of a better j
day, when Tin* can be fou d among the ar-
tisar.s, tradesmen, merchants, and property- j
holders, who first contribute to the establish
ment of new places.
In directing a letter to Sandusky, I would
remark, if intended fur the poit, one should
be careful to direct to Sandusky City, as there
are now four Sanduskies in ihe same State, I
(Ohio.) three of which are contiguous to the
same stream, Sandusky River. For the in
formation of those at a distance, I shall, in
this connection, name their geographical rela
tions. There is Sandusky City, or Portland, I
at the head of Sandusky Bay, below a river
of the same name Lower Sandusky, near
the mouth of the river; Upper Sandusky,
near the head and L'ttle Sandusky, two or
three miles from Sandusky River. You will
at once perceive, except letters be properly
directed, they may not reach their destination.
As intimated in my last, on arriving in this
city, wc found in session the Circuit Court of
the U. S., Judge John McLean, of Ohio, Pre
eident, and lion. Ross Wilkins, of the Dis
trict Court, assistant.
This was a suit brought at the instance of
Troutman, who is also a practicing lawyer in
Kentucky, Agent of Francis Giltner, of Car
roll county, Ky., for damages for payment by
the law of ’93, for loss of the Crosswait fam
ily of fugitives, who effected their escape on
the 9th day of August, 1843, and located near
Marshall, Calhoun county, Michigan, against
Chas. T. Gorham, Dr. Oliver C. Comstock,
Mr. Hurd, and three colored men—Charles
Bergen, Planter Moss, and Nelson Ilackett.
The investigation continued about four
weeks, and upwards of sixty witnesses were
examined.
On the 27th day of January, 1847, early is
the morning, about daylight, Troutmas, Da
vid Giltner, and Fiancis Lee, went to the
house of the Crosswait family, consisting of
the old man, his w ife and four children, forced
their way in, presented arms, asserting their
intention of taking them back to Kentucky
whereupon the old man or one of bis sons
cried out, Kidnappers! kidnappers
This had the desired effect of arousing the j
neighborhood. A colored man, one of the
defendants, was thq firtt who came to their
aid, upon whom Troutman instantly drew a
revolving pistol, commanding him for the life
to stand back. When the news got folly
spread, an old gentleman mounted his horse,
rode through the streets rnging a bell, crying
Kidnappers !—the Cnwawait family and
so forth, until the whole town was gathered
together about the house of the fugitives,
whom, up to this tune, it was not proven in
evidence, that the people of the peaceful vil
lage of Marshall knew to be fugitive*. The
family was very respectable, and well thought
of by all the people of Marshall.
Messrs. Gorham, Hurd, and Dr. Comstock
severally came upon the of whom
at different times endeavored to remonstrate
with Troutman and his fellows; during which
time they were swaggering and boasting of
what they intended doing, not only w tth the
gentlemen who attempted expostulation, fast
with all on the giound. Not satisfied with
this over bearing Southern insolence, Trout
man mounted a large stone, and commenced
a harangue of arrogance which, had the same
been attempted by a Northern man in Ken
tucky, would have cost him at leant his neek,
apor the highest stake m the neighborhood
af the conclusion of which, he offered i rtso
lotion, W hjch received a unanimous negative
elcept the four Kentuckians, who voted in
|faTor of their own resolution,
Mr. Gorham offered a resolution to thii
effect:
Resolved, That these Kentoekiana bt
prevented from taking away the Crosswail
family, by moral, legal, or physical force, and
that they leave the State in two bouis, or be
subject to a prosecution for breach of the
peace.”
This received a unanimous aye.
I Dr. Comstock, addressing Troutman, re
marked My good sir, you must see that
y° u cannot take these people by moral, legal,
or physical force.” Troutman insolently in
'quired, What! do you say I shall not take
them!'" To which replied Dr. Comstock,
No, sit, I do not say so but I say, accord
ing to the appearance of things, an excited
crowd aruund you, that you must see the im
possibility of taking them by moral, legal, or
physical force.” Messrs. Gorham and Hurd
made similar remarks. With a degree of
impudence which could emanate alone from
those accustomed to domineer over slaves,
Troutman demanded the names instantly of
Gorham, Comsti>ck, and Hurd, demanding of
the crowd to know whether or not they were
responsible men, answered in the
affirmative, he proceeded to write down. Mr.
Gorham, in giving his name, observed, My
name is Charles T. Gorham; write it in capi
tals, and bear it back with yoo to Kentucky. ”i
Dr. Comstock, also remarked, rw giving his i
My name is Oliver Comstock, Jr. Be sure
to write Junior, as I bear the name of my'
father, and do not wish bim to be responsible
for me.” There is no doubt but both of
these gentlemen, as well they might be, were
Somewhat irritated at the overbearing and
i
insolent demands of these Kentucky ruffians.
The Kentuckians had a wagon in which to
bear off their victims but failing of success,
as a last resort, endeavored to get them before
Esquire Sherman, a Justice of the Peace.—
To tins there was little objection but before
its accomplishment, the ever-vigilant colored
men, true to their trust, themselves, humanity
and their God, ‘‘spirited away the whole
family on the Underground.” This is a fair,
statement of the case.
Messrs. Pratt and Now ell appeared for the
plaintiffs; Messrs. Remain, Emmons, Wells!
and Clarke for defendants. Mr. Emmons did
justico to his cause, and credit to himself. He
assumed as his foundation an elevated posi
tion, manfully and fearlessly, in a strain of,
seven hours, (one and a half the first day,
and five and a half the second,) ably vindi
cated the right, the cause of humanity, and
the liberties of the North.
In his eloquent plea, he severely castigated
the serf-like servility of Dixon, the acting
Deputy Sheriff of Calhoun County, who, for
the sum of five dollars, dared, in the absence
of all legal injunction, undertake, at the bid
ding of Troutman, to arrest the Crosswait
family. It was admitted in his own testimo
ny that he knew he had no authority for so
doing but observed he, in justification of the;
act, Mr. Troutman insisted on my doing so,!
saying that he would be responsible for it.”
It will be gratifying to the friends of human-:
ity to learn that the High Sheriff of Calhoun.
county promptly discharged the wretch Dixon
from the services of his office. Mr. Wells,
w ho is quite a young man, acquitted himself
well and manfully—Mr. Romain, making the.
closing plea, which was summed up without J
fear, favor, ot affection with this exception,'
that lie did not take quite so high ground on
the subject of human rights as his col
league, the fearless and independent Mr.!
Emmons.
Mr. Norvell, U. S. Attorney, who opened
for the prosecution, made a blustering noise
about Southern Chivalry and gallantry, lib
erality and patriotism,” and all that. To
this Mr. Eininons dealt out the severest and
most blistering sarcasm.
The counsel,” said he, talks of chi
valry, gallantry, patriotism, and iiberahly
Yes, the Southerner is always chivalrie—
whom standing before the crouching slave,
who is taught that submission is of the Divine
will —he is always gallant, when his only
antagonist is the trembling bondman—he
might well be patriotic in lifting that artn in
defence of his country which has never been
nerved by toil—well may his heart he liberal,
as the prodigal son's is liberal, when lavishly j
casting away the meins and property of a
father, gained by years of care and labor; his
being wrung from the hopeless slave
Mr. Pratt, who readies at Marshall, closed
for the prosecution and in support of his po
sition, hieughj tin w ard a written argument
an old, lame, pro-slavery, colonisation argu
ment, long s.nce exploded— to prove that
•lavery was a Divine Institution, sanctioned;
by the Bible. He uiked about Jewish servi
lude, Joseph, in Egypt, Paul and Ouesunus,
rad the Lke; declaring that these things
were true —slavery wn# an institution sanc
tioned by Goff, or the Bible was not true, and
should immediately be abandoned as the guide j
sf our faith.
Adverting to bis antagonist, Mr. Emmons,;
tie observed that the counsel had brought in
books to prove certain positions in law,which,
Id not a student after six months studying
know, deserved to be discharged from the pro
fession.
To this, 1 base but to reply, that if any boy
of seres veers old knew no better than to
believe such silly stuff as that brought for
ward by Counsellor Pratt, which evidently
gained the approbation and sanction of many
pro-slavery votaries present, opposed as I am
to the corporeal punishment, I do think be
should he severely castigated for his ignor
ance. The position of Counsellor Pratt was
both mean and dastardly, and sever did a
slave more earnestly labor for bis master, than
Mi. Pratt for these slave catchers, by whom
be was employed.
Id several respects, the servility manifested
during the litigation, was in the extreme bu
miiiatiSg. It is true that there are few in
Detroit to he found quite ao debased but
there were several, and my attention was
called by a gentleman at my aide, while sit
ting in the Court room, to the fact that as the
insolent upstart young slaveholder. Troutman,
would swagger through the Court Chamber,
with hit curved staff banging on hu arm.
some persons present would smile sod bow
very obedience to him, although bis attention
waa turned in another direction. They ap
peared te receive it aa a compliment merely to
eaieh a glanee sf bis eye. Se aceswtemed w
the North to Southern mle, that it has become
wccwd nature. How exceedingly mortifying
,0 K Northern men thus beeely bbwmg
their necks to the dark spirit of alavery
rharge of Judge McLean to the Jotjt,
I look upon as decidedly partial, weighing
heavily hi the scale on the side of slavery
The course of the old gentleman throughout
the prosecution, I viewed in the same light.
It is true that he asserted th*» wrongs of sin*
eery in the abstract, declaring that it bad “no
existence, either in tb« national law, or law
lof nations.” It was hmited mHe eaist
j cr,< nd ,ocal 10 1,8 character,” deriving its
whole strength from municipal authority.”
He did not venture, after the Bible argument
of Mr. Pratt, who, to alt appearance, dared
1 him to the task, once make the declaration,
that slavery had no existence in the Law of
God 1 was much disappointed in Judge
McLean, and did not find him that mdepend*
exit and liberal-minded jurist that, from all I
had heard of him, I had a reason to expect.
During the charge he did not once express his
abhorrence of slavery, but modestly evaded
commitment on that point, by simply saying,
Whatever may be our feelings,” and so
forth, the law” is thus and so. Mr. Pratt,
a pro-slavery man, and attorney for the plain*
tiff, frequently during his pleading declared
that he was as much opposed to slavery as
anybody, while at the same time he used his
might to prove its scripture authority. The
anti-slaver/ references, also, of Judge Mc-
Lean prove nothing, so far as his sentiments
arc concerned.
It may be contended thai the law is directly
against the feelings of the Judge, and, of
bun wit, be can do nothing. This I readily
concede; and wQile so doing, alone hold him
responsible fee hts own opinions, independent
of Constitutional or State provisions. Suelk
opinions, when emanating from the bench,
become the actual law of the land, and
are so received and considered in oar Courts
of Judicature.
This extraordinary opinion of Judge Mfc-
Lean, to which I call your particular atten
tion, announced from the Bench as an essen
tial point in civil jurisprudence, is, to my
mind, w ithout precedence in the history of
modern—at least enlightened, judicial pro
cedure.
Indeed, in me it may be the result of ignor
ance of the law of the land, for to thinking
and expressing myself, for w hich I may even
be rebuked but if this is the law of the coun
try in which we live, then ts liberty but a by
word—litigation for protection a sham, andl
all judicial proceedings a farce, that should
immediately be abolished.
Unexpectedly to every one, either plain
tiffs, defendants, or their friends, in his charge
to the Jury, giving a definition of a etiminah
in this and all similar cases—the charge being
brought for “haiboring, concealing, hindering
and obstructing,” in the language of the act
of Congress, knowing them to be slaves,”
&e., “shall forfeit and pay for each slave,
the sum of five hundred dollars,” &c. une
quivocally asserted, repeatedly, that it was
not necessary to the offence that the person
interfering with the rights of the the slave
catcher should know that the person or per
sons so claimed were'"slaves. If thp slave
catcher did but assert his intention, declaring
that the persons so claimed were Ins property,
w hich declaration might be made m the ab
sence of any slave, save the persons claimed
it was sufficient.
The merest interference a ter this declara
tion, will suffice to criminate. To make this
plain, in reply to an interrogatory by one off
the counsel for defence, the Judge remarked
I wish the Jury to understand me. It i«
nut necessary that the persons interfering
should know that the persons claimed art
slaves. If the claimant has made, the declar
ation that they are such, though he should,
only assert it to the fugitives themselves—in
deed, it could nU be exacted that the claim
ant w ould he required the trouble of repeating
ihi% to persons who might be disposed to in
torfere-*-should any one interfere at all, after
the decl araiion of the claimant, he is liable
and responsible to the provisions of the law in
such cases.”
Here, then, is the decision of the highest
Judiciary rathe land, upon the subject of our
liberties; and that, 100, by one whom hi*
friends call s friend to humanity. To my
judgment, such a decision is neither in ac
cordance with philosophy nor common sense.
Moral philosophy teaches, as common sense
dictates, that no act can be considered crimi
nal, where there is not a criminal intention
hence the distinction between killing and
murder. A person, through mistake, under
the impression that he is aiming at a beast,
may shoot and kill a man in the bush though
he actually kills the man, he does not titers
fore commit murder, because there was no,
intention of murdering—the object shot at
being a beast and not a max.
Bui in the position assumed by Judge
McLeatv, common sen so is set at naught, and
philosophy at defiance. Though, says the
Judge, a person aims at the rescue of a free
man from the hands of a kidnapper, he rotist
be responsible for an unlawful interference
between master and slate! Nor did be make
any allowance for the presumption in favor o£
freedom, until the contrary is proven. It in
enough for one to know flat the slave-catcher
attempted to arrest his victim, and the pre
sumption must be in favor of the master l—%
Truly, this is the law of the land law by
which you and I must abide
There is now but one important view to be
taken of this matter. Previous to this de
cision, colored persons bad some slight sem
blance of liberty, but now every vestige has
beeo wrested from us—each sad all of us re
daeed to the mercy or diseretaon of say white
man in the country, and like the colored man
in the South without a Pase,” as it is term
ed, may at any moment be arrested as the
yroffrty of another»
Nay, more. While upon the coast of AJriv
ca, the senwe of a person in so considered,
4f,d treated in this country ns piracy. Kid*
napping, by the act ef Congress sad the de
c**o® of Amenta* Judges, has been legal*
•aed and nose dare, under the rt «st burden
some penalty, even utter a word of counsel,
or lend a helping hand! I call upon our op
pressed fellow-countrymen to look si this few
u it »ow stands; and ia so doing, I declare
that every colored men ia tbf nominally feet
States, under it, ia reduced to abject slavery;
because all slavery is but the arbitrary miU-ef
ooe pence ever another. Thin few ia nothing
mote aor lass.
To the above, personally, 1 have but one remark to make. In an attempt, under such pretext to seize upon the person of myself, I shall know no other law than that eoggented
bv the first impulse of my nature—self-pro
tection
The case rias submitted to the jury, in the
presence of a crowd of anxious spectator*,
who, after an aheence of several hours, re
mrned —disagreed t eleven for conviction, and
car against. Mr. Charles M. Humphrey, th«
Foreman, declared that he would, rather than
be instrumental in thus sacrificing Liberty on
the infamous shrine of slavery, bold out for
ever Worthy Freeman!
Aa a combat between Liberty and Slavery
in this country must always terminate in favor
of the latter, the slaveholder* determined not
to be outdone and taking courage by the re
sult of the Mttchell case in Pennsylvania,
have renewed the suit, to come on at the Oc
tober term and now Troutman is known to
boast about the city that he can bring to his
aid, if necessary, SoO,OQO. This case has
been made the subject of sjiecial action by the
Legislature of Kentucky, ami the Senate of
the U. S., in which the former appropriated
$2,000 to aid the prosecution, which money
was expended in the present litigation.
Mr. Haskett, one of the colored defend
ants, recovered, before a magistrate at Mar
shall, damages of one hundred dollars against
Troutman. This they also wish to recover.
The citixens of Detroit, at the renewal ol the
suit, raised instantly, by subscription, in one
afternoon, seven hundred dollars, to aid the
■defence, declaring that they shall lose noth
ing. In uiy next, I ahall notice Detroit
city.
The people call loudly for a National Con
-vention to sit on the sixth of September next,
in Cleveland, for which I sent you the call for
publication.
Many of the Mexican soldiers are return
ing. Several furniture wagon, cait, wagon,
and drav loads of them are continually pass
ing through the streets, all covered with
glory”—the most miserable-looking specimens
of freemen I ever beheld—the most perfect
specimen of the inmates of the hospital of
San Lazaro.”
My friend Langston here leaves me for the
East, via Rochester.
On the verge of closing, I received your
kind favor. You may look for me to a cer
tainty to celebrate with you the approaching
first of August. I shall write once more be
fore my return.
Yours, for God and Humanity,
M. R. D.
The Rights of Women.
One of the most interesting events of the
past week, was the holding of what is techni
cally styled a Woman's Rights Convention,
et Seneca Falls. The speaking, addresses,
and resolutions of this extraordinary meeting,
were almost wholly conducted by women
and although they evidently felt themselves in
a novel position, it is but simple justice to
mv, that their whole proceedings were char
acterized by marked ability and dignity. No
one present, we think, however much he
might be dispose 1 to differ from the views ad
vanced by the leading speakers on that occa
sion, will fail to give them credit for brilliant
talents and excellent dispositions. In this
meeting, as in other deliberative assemblies,
tharc were frequently differences of opinion
and animated discussion but iii nO case, was
there the slightest absence of good feeling
and decorum. Several interesting documents,
cutting forth the rights as well as the grievan
ces of woman, were read. Among these
was a declaration of sentiments, to be regard
ed ts the basis of a grand movement for at
taining all the civil, social, political and reli
gious rights of woman. As these documents
are soon to be published in pamphlet form,
under iheauibority of a Committee of women,
appointed by that meeting, wc will not mar
them by atttempting any, synopsis of their
contents. We should not, however, do jus
tice to our own convictions, or to the excel
lent persons connected with this infant move
ment, if we did not, in this connection, offer
a few remarks on the general subject which
the Convention met to consider, and the ob
jects they seek to attain.
In doing so, we are not insensible that the
bare mention of tins truly important subject
in any other than terms of contemptuous ridi
cule and scornful disfavor, is likely to excite
against us the fury of bigotry and the fully ol
prejudice. A discussion of the rights of ani
mals would be regarded with far more com
placency by many of whit are called the
arise and tli j good of our land, than would be
a discussion of the rights'of woman. It is,
in their estimation, to be guilty of evil
thoughts, to think that woman is entitled to
rights equal with man. Many who have at
last made the discovery that negroes have
same rights as well as other members of the
human family, have yet to he convinced that
woman is entitled to any. Eight years ago,
a number of persons of this description actual
ly abandoned the anti-slavery cause, lest bv
giving their influence in that direction, they
might possibly be giving countenance to the
dangerous heresy liiat woman, in respect to
rights, stands on an equal footing with man.
In the judgment of such jiersons, the Ameri
can slave system, with all its concomitant
horrors, is less to be deplored than this i ricked
idea. It is perhaps needless to say, that we
cherish little sympathy for such sentiments, or
«e#pect for such prejudices. Standing as we
do upon the watch-tower of human freedom,
we etnsot be deterred from an expression of
ippiobalioti of any movement, however
umble, u, unlove and elevate the character
and condition of any members of the human
aim y. Vhile it is impossible for us to go
lato Ibis subject at length, and dispose of the
Vtrreus objection* which are often urged
against such a ducuu* as that of female
equality, we are free to say, that resp ect
to political nghts, we hold woman u, be justly
entitled to all we claim for min We go
farther, «od expru* our conv lC tion that all
political rights which it ta expert for man
to exercise, jt is equally so for woman. All that
distinguishes man as an intelligent and ac
countable being, is equally true of woman
snd if that government is only just which
governs by the free consent of the governed
there can bo no reason in the world fur detiy
»g to woman the exercise of the elective
franchise, or a hand in making and sdminis
t*ru»g the law* of the land. Our doctrine is,
•hat Right is of no ■ex.” Wo therefor*
M the women engaged in this movement out
bumble God -speed
Jobs JfcLea*.
TVro has been some talk of Judge McLean
in certain quarters, as a fit nominee for the
i Buffalo Convention.
The People** Convention at Columbus,
panned the following resolution
Revived, That we repose full confidence
in the punty. wisdom, patriotism and firm
neM of John McLean. His opinions that
slavery can only exist by virtue of a special
law that the common law, national law
tand the law of nature are opposed to it;” that
the relation of m i«tter and slave is an un-
I natural a;.d artifu relation, created by the
muncipal law. i •nnequently cannot exist
beyond the binding influence of such law:”
and 41 Congress has no power to constitute
flavcry anywhere,” meet our warmest appro
r*J and heartiest concurcnce.
How do the sentiments that are here attri
buted to Judge Mcljean agree with his recent
manifestation of Dougb-faceism in tbeCross
i wait slave case 1 In his charge to the jury in
that case, he said 44 Should any one interfere
after a claimant has stated a person to be his
slave, whether in healing of the person who
so interferes or not, he is liable and responsi
ble to the provisions of the law in such cases.”
That is, he shall forfeit five hundred dollars
for each slave. The act of Congress says,
i knowing them to be slaves.” According
to Judge Mcl/ean, one may be ignorant that
the person, in w hose behalf he interferes, is a
slave, and yet he will be liable. The law is
bad enough,—disgraceful enough bat the
interpretation of the Judge is worse—much
1 more disgraceful. The Buffalo Convention, it
•isto be hoped, will not forget this.— J. D.
Cominunkations.
From our own Correspondent.
London*, July 7th, 1848.
Dear Douglass.—Since I last wrote to
you, blood has been running like water in the
kennels of Paris. A disturbed feeling had
been known to pervade the city, and appre
hensions were entertained that the outward
j semblance of tranquility then existing could
not remain for long, when a tremendous storm
.arose, which, as regards extent and intensity,
may be said to be utterly unforeseen. Paris
was quiet on the night of Thursday, June 22.
The promenades were as crowded, and the
cafes a 3 much frequented as at any time since
the lecent revolution. On Friday, a few
men dressed en blouses, and armed with mus
kets, began to traverse the streets, vociferat
ing for a red republic.” Their numbers
j rapidly increased; barricades began to rise
I on all side's and before night, forty or fifty
i thousand insurgents—some, workmen out of
employ—others, thieves—others again, re
turned convicts—in short, the very scum and
off-scouring of the city, were intrenched be
hind positions of enormous strength in one
quarter, with the all but coward object of
plundering the whole capital. The Execut
ive Government stood confessed unequal to
the crisis; at the desire of the National As
sembly, they resigned. Gen. Cavaignac,
late of the African army, was appointed to
command in chief. He was requested to take
measures for the restoration of the peace of
ihe city. He refused to act, if full powers
were not granted to him—if, in short, he was
not made dictator. The Assembly at once
accorded his wishes. The entire confidence
reposed la him he fully justified. He dis
posed fes (drees at immediate command
with cuasumni:/ and with them
[vigorously attack i,.e insurgents. He con
centrated with the utmost rapidity all the
forces, consisting of national guards, troops of
the line, gardes mobiles upon the capital. The
city was declared in a state of siege; the
well affected were requested to keep in-doors,
and full scope was given to the desperate
conflict which raged fur some time with
varying success. The citizens behaved most
bravely none fought better than the gardes
mobiles. Boys—almost children as some of
them are, they assaulted and carried barri
cade after barricade, under a deadly fire, to
sustain the effects of which would have done
honor to ihe old guard. The insurgents
height with the awful courage of despair. A
thousand troops fell before one barricade, the
defenders of w iiicli lost but two killed and
five wounded. The rebels will everlastingly
be remembered as the perpetrators of savage
cruelties which would have disgraced the
herukee Indians. They mutilated, with
every circumstance of revolting barbarity,
such ot their opponents as fell into their
power. omen came and assuaged the
thirst of the fevered troops with poisoned
w ine. There were even women who, w hen
the rebellion had been crushed, boasted of the
number of heads and hands they I ad cut off
from living victims. And all this for what
j That instead ol a tri-colored flag, they might
have a red one that the dry, painstaking
legislation, which has been attempted under
unparalleled difficulties, might be replaced by
the wild projects ot excited visionaries, or the
bloody decrees of devil-possessed madmen.
For once, however, might was with the
right. The National Guards of the pro
vinces poured in, stern and determined, and
j the rebels at last saw all the fortifications cap
tured. Many fled, others were taken pris
oners; some fought with an inveteracy which
1 could not dignity as enthusiasm, but rather
stigmatise as demoniac revenge. Order ulti
mately triumphed, but at an enormous sacri
fice. Fifteen thousand men, at the very
least, have perished many good, brave, and
great men among them. The archbishop of
Haris was treacherously and cruelly shot,
while parleying with a party of (lie rioters.
As soon as the city had assumed the appear
ance of a paralyzed, rather than a healthy
quiet, Cavaignac re-deposited in the hands of
the Assembly the extraordinary powers with
which, in their exticrue peril, they had in
vested him. They proceeded at once to elect
him President of the Council, in the place of
the Executive Committee, with the power of
nominating bis own ministers. In his hands,
as an agent, are placed fete destinies of
France. His conduct, as commander, seems
to have been always moderate and judicious,
and seems to have' obtained for him the
love of Ins soldiers, the respect of his officers,
and the willing co-operSTion of his lieuten
ants; add to this, that be is in the prune ol
life,—and I have fryer, y some grounds fot
hoping that he may b# equal to the task he
ha* reluctantly accepted. The origin of toe
insurrection has excited great speculation. It
u at present involved in profound mystery
AQ the rioters had money—some «f then
Hrgt scab; the question ts, Whence earn/
J u t Some my it wee distributed by the Le
gittmist agent* (the partizan* of the so-called
1 Henry V.) other*, that the Orleans faction has
j been at work o there, that the plot has been
concerted and assisted by the Buonapartists
I while others agsin confidently assert that the
1 Russian autocrat ha* been lavish of gold, to
subvert that which be has often insultingly
designated “the mud government of France.”
The examination of the prisoners, now being
urged on with extreme rapidity, will perhaps
elicit which, if any of these conjectures,
the truth. One thing I most subjoin. No
thing has vet been found to indicate the pre
cise object* of the insurgents—l mean, as
regards the government they intended to
constitute. One paper was discovered in
w hich a vigorous and systematic use of the
guillotine was asserted to be essentially ne
icessary to the preservation of the republic.
Another containing a programme for the cx
elusion from the rights of citizenship for ten
years, of every one paying two hundred
francs a-year and upwards in taxes. So
much for 44 liberty—equality—fraternity.”
S. P. Q. R.
Letter from a Slaveholder.
Dear S 1 have been as much prejudiced
against negro slavery as yourself, or almost
i any other person. But since the subject has
been so much agitated, I have read much, and
I examined it with great attention, w ith a view
to ascertain what was really best for the ne
gro, and I concur with our men of information
generally, that in all the hue and cry about
friendship for the negro, his only real friend
is his master; and that they aTe so well con
vinced of it that, were it left to their vote,
it would be so decided.
You can never make a white man of the
negro lie differs as much in mind as body.—
His rank smell, uncomely appearance, and
stupid intellect, make him disgusting to be
associated with whites on equal terms and
he feels this himself, and prefers his own so
ciety and color. And besides, the negro, as
well as the red man generally, is so consti
tuted that his nature must be entirely changed
before he can enjoy the same elevation of so
ciety with the white race. With the latter,
love, in its proper sense, is the purification
and elevation of the good affections,which are
perfected by marriage, and continue to be ad
vanced and matured through life—the mar
riage of Cana of Gallilee, in which the last
wine is better than the first. This is more
particularly the ca>e in this country, which is
considered the peculiar country for the eleva
tion of the woman, and where she is acknowl-
I edged the world over to be the most virtuous,
intelligent and beautiful, and therefore to re
quire no restraint, for she is above temptation,
and besides, her sons are sovereigns, and their
servants (our rulers) rank above the
and princes of the earth. Her desire is only
to her husband, and she delights that he
should rule over her; and on this account,
his heel is so bruised that he cannot leave her,
and there is no serpent in their Eden. Now,
dear friend, will such angels of affliction and
kindness ever yoke themselves with the unsa
vory and repulsive nigger, with whom love is
nothing but an animal passion, without affec
tion or constancy, and on whom God Almighty
has placed a mark of damning distinction,and
declared he shall ba the servant of servants
I he black and red women are alike destitute
of that affection necessary to insure their
j virtue. 'I hey are creatures of mere impulse
and passion, and the experience of the world
has decided that the only way to keep them
honest, is to lock them up, as is done through
out the East at present; and besides the races
will not amalgamate—it only embodies the
vices and diseases of both, and destroys them.
It is the very reverse of humanity to free
the negro, unless you can better his situation.
John Randolph was once attacked by a re
spectable Quaker about freeing his negroes.
Randolph offered him one hundred slaves, and
only required of him to place them in a better
situation, and gave the Quaker time to reflect
1 upon it, and upon reflection, he refused. And
I believe, in the height of abolition times, a
number of years ago, in Boston and Rhode
Island, the mobs were killing the free negroes
by wholesale, they were such nuisances.—
The project of sending them to Africa has
faded; and the free negro among us is lazy,
improvident, dissipated, profligate, dishonest,
and every way a nuisance, 3nd not one, I be
lieve, in a thousand can show a means by
which he* gets an honest living. On this ac
count, he is rambling from place to place, liv
j ing where and how he can and so depraved
they raise but few children. In Virginia, at
present, the Governor has twice recommended
to make them slaves, and there is considerable
probability that it will be done,
i You form no proper estimate of slavery.—
I Take persons in your country and make them
slaves; it would be a hardship, and if they
consented to live in slavery, they would de
serve killing. But the negro here is born
and raised in that situation, and sensible of
i his inferiority, he looks to his master to take
care of him and protect him. Indeed, it is
the negro who owns the master; his master's
friends and relatives are all his, and he rates
his own consequence according to their wealth
and respectability. He is the apprentice who
never serves out his time—the minor who
never becomes of age. He marries, and is
set up in housekeeping, and he and his family
are all provided for. Years of scarcity make
no difference with him he lives in plenty,
without any care on his part, and if sick, he
has the best medical attendance the country
affords, and the most careful nursing and
for all this he only does a moderate day’s
work every day—not more than half or two
thirds as much as is done by a while laborer
among you. If he is honest and moral, he is
reiq»ect«J, and indulged, and every way re
warded and if his conduct is not so, he is
corrected, an I every possible means used for
his reformation. Instead of exercising over
them the tyranny you suppose, the master re
gards them with compassion and kindness,
and treats them with liberality and kindness to
such a degree as often to be impoverished by
it, and then they are sold to another, and it is
nut rare that you find negroes that have ruined
three and four masters. This may appear
incredible to you, but a negro of good charac
ter is rarely sold, unless for the debts of his
master, and these debts with out planters gen
erally are occasioned by then indulgence to
their slaves; and you may perhaps ibtnk h.
fctrange that a man often fays $5O or $lOO to
a doctor for attending a negro in one spdl 61"
sickliest, when he would not hire for it in two
or three years, or perhaps is an old negro,
whose services are not worth a support. The
many thousands of negroes earned to the
South of us every year, may be generally
considered as' sold because their labor pro
duced no profit, or at least not sufficient to
enable their master to live m a plain and de
cent manner, clear of debt. At the South,
their labor is more profitable; but 1 can assure
vou that were it not lor slave labor, cotton
and other staples would be at lean five times the
price they are, for the white man can never do
much labor in those ctanates, and it can never
he done by the negro m a state of freedom.—
They are a thoughtless and improvident race,
and even as slaves, the master is a meritorious
person, who keeps theiri rabrzt and honest,
and makea them wotk enough' to produce en
income besides their support. Yet thtseen
be done with prudence and care, and in Ums
way both are greatly benefited. Yet the
mister who httr slaves never thinks himself
above labor, onless fas has enough to employ
his at tent rob in overseeing them, or fellows
some other pursuit.
The negro if turbulent, headstrong, sod
with bad propensities, sad constantly exor
cises the vigilance end patience of the mas
ter. leave negroes who are good mechanics,
and I get lor them oooixaiit employ and good
price; yet win I to net them free, they weald
be etnsanor* to fee pobhe. I have others,
who attend to my pUauuna affairs, and have
done ao for 30 years, yet they cannot get
along without ray direction. Other* manage
ray household affair*, clothing the whole fam-
Uv, giving me httle or no trouble, yet werf> I
ikH in piece, ttwy would soon be i* confusion.
Some who commit offences, run away and he
out in the woods for weeks, or even months;
but it is to keep clear of the punishment they
deserve, and which for their good is actually
necessary and besides, the negro knows it
1 himself, and actually despises a master who
will not correct him when he deserves it, and
thinks him of no account, because he can fool,
and cheat him, fee. But with all this run
i ntng away and lytag >o fee woods, and the
like, it is nut to get free, but to get clear of
I punishment; yet tnev do sometimes get off to
the free States, and are taught to lecture
about horrid sufferings and the like, to suit
l political purposes; yet their situation is always
made worse, and I often hear of bsggmg
letters they send to their masters to enable
them to get home.
Fred. Douglass ran away from this State.
I have not seen his book, nor do I suppose
i that he wrote it. We have had educated ne
groes here, graduates at college, bat in intel
lect they could scarcely attain to mediocrity,
with all advantages, and in obtnseness of
mind they were negroes still. The time has
been when the abolition subject gave us some
annoyance, made some insurrections, and cost
many lives but upon the whole I think it ha*
been an advantage to the South. It has con
vinced them that it is perfectly justifiable by
the scriptures, which they were inclined t«i
doubt, and that it is humane and not criminal,
and shown to the world that the slave of the
South eats about twice 39 much, and is much
better clothed, lodged and accommodated, and
does less work than the agricultural laborer ir
Europe, and one was never known to die ol
hunger. I believe that about 100,000 arc
expended yearly by the societies in Englanc
to agitate this subject among us. It had bet
ter be given to their poor at home. At pre&
ent, abolition excites no interest of couse
quence among us we look upon it as a poli
tical measure, altogether at the North, got uj
for party or sectional purposes but you musi
forgive me if 1 assure you that we sometimes
grieve and sometimes laugh that so many oi
the intelligent and refined ladies at the Non!
should be so zealously engaged in a subjeci
which has a tendency to give them black hus
bands and mulatto children. And I believe
the time has passed by when the Northern
lady will choose to be seen waited on in public
by a negro. For we are a white nation, and
the only one on earth, and as such, peculiat
people. No black person has authority among
us. A kind Providence has drove out the red
man, and given us their possessions. If we
amalgamate with the red or black, we may
expect the fate of Mexico, which is a mixed
raee, aud therefore become incapable of self
government. We may have bean made all
of one blood, that is, all mortal, I admit; bui
the red man is certainly more highly favoret
than the black, and the white vastly superior
to the red. Christ was the incarnation— the
carnation or white race, a new creation, and
we have no historical account of the white
race previousto this period, unless in Japheth,
vho now has the ascendancy; and among the
white race, the Americans are certainly of the
highest rank, foi we are the only nation capa
ble of self-government. Yours, &c.
Political Items.
New Y ork. —The following resolution was
passed at a Free Soil Meeting held iu New
York:
Resolved, Th:.t we view with scorn the miser
able contrivanc is of a few Northern dough
faces and their Southern taskmasters, designed
to cheat the people of this Union out of the
decision ol the great is sue of the present
time; that we uttirly reject and repudiate any
pretended “compromise” which surrenders e
single mile of the virgin soil of the mighty
Pacific region, as yet untrodden by the footol
a slave, all of which is required for the vasl
multitudes of landless laborers in our own
country, and the refugees from European
oppression, to the degrading contact of human
bondage, and insatiable avarice of monopoliz
ing slave owners; and that, if any such
fraudulent scheme is enacted by the present
Congress we pledge ourselves to raise im
mediately the banner of repeal, and to agitate
unceasingly until every provision abolishing
freedom is expunged from the statute-book.
New Hampshire.—The Concord (N. II)
Independent and Freeman says, A cor
respondent writing from Culdbrook, N. H.,
July 5, states: We have had a meeting to-day,
and elected a delegate to the Buffalo Conven
tion, to be held on the 9th of August next.
Ashtabula Moving.—A convention of all
who prefer free insurious to slavery, is to be
held at Jefferson Ashtabula Co., on the 31st
inst. The call is signed by many of the ster
ling and influential citizens of that county.
The Ball Moving. —A Free Soil” State
Convention has been called in Maine, to meet
at Portland on Wednesday the 26th inst.
The object of the Convention is stated to
be, to take such steps as the occasion shall
demand, to prevent the extension of slavery,
and to co-operate with the other Free States,
in the Convention to be held at Buffalo on the
9th of August, 1848.”
The Southern Whigs.—We have re
peatedly stated that Southern Whigs and
Southern Democrats occupy the same ground
in respect to the Extension of Slavery. Both
parties at the South are resolved to support
no man for President whose views do not ac
cord with their own on that subject. The
following is a resolution passed by the Whig
State Convention of Georgia, which ap
pointed the Delegates of that State to the
Whig National Convention;
Resolved, That the Nomination of Gen.
Zachary Taylor meets the hearty conrutrenccs
of a majority of this Convention, but in the
spirit of a just and liberal concession we stand
declared to support Henry Clay, or any other
Whig, Provided the views ol the nominee
concur with our own on the subject of the
Wihnot Proviso and Southern Rights.'— Out.
M*sx.
The Buffalo Convention. —The Hamp
shire Herald says in regard to the action of
the Convention;
Who will be the candidates* We know
not —The choice appears to He b'tween
Martin Van Buren aa*l John P. Hale. As at
present advised, w e do not think Mr. \an
Buren can receive the votes ot the Abolition
ists. We trust for the sake of union, be wdl
out receive the nomination, i urthermore,
we do not consider it sound policy to nominate
him. We cannot poll so larye a vote as John
P. Hale, with Joshua K. GiddmgS for Vice
President. Such a ticket would be fete best,
and, we think, the only one that can unite all
sect ions m thta election. Merer*. liale and
Giddings would come bpfore the people fresh
from their contest* with fee Slaveholder*,—
the fit representative* of the anti-slavery
sentiment of fee country. Hundreds of thou
sands of h&iest and trate-lfearted men have
witnesdhff, With adnortraUes, Mr. Hale's course
m the Senate, end are eager to attest their
gratitude and devotion to the Man for the
Hour, by giving him their vote*.
Col. Jcrrcasow Dayix. soh-in-law of Gee.
Taylor, a warm advucace of his. and one of
fee Southern allies, by whose aid his election
is hoped to be effected, has just made a speech
iri fee United States &naie, taking the most
extreme ground against fee Wilo** Prirrtso,
and in for or of extending the blessings of
Slavery to aH feb new wrilorie*.
Stats Convention*.— The Democrats
have fixed fee 30th of August for feetr Stale
Convention. The Whig* have not yet fixed
on a day —PiXUburgk Dispatch.
fCF The friends of Free Soil hi Maryland
have determined to appoint dslsgatsi re the
Buffalo CoaosMian, end re Mmptte taebo
toral tidfcet
Go. Title*.—He Sooth ad 14r, ud
under too. Born amid Slater?—reared amid,
Sl*rerr —living amtd Slater?—a Slave-SoU-j
er—a Slave hater—a Stave-killer—what n*flrj
eoatd the? ask The Sooth Carolina poll fort- 1
ana of all ctaeme, trill yield him aupoort. 1
Holmes baa given ta his adhesion, and Jobs I
C. Calhoen, who is ooly Sooth Carolioa coo
denied, wdl go bun en masse. The Taylor
argument at the South ta, that Taylor is for,
Slavery —that with him the peculiar institu
tion** is safe. CJrcHaed Dm Democrat.
Grs. Casa.—Supposed to be invincible
because he has so many assailable points that,
in attacking hun, human ingenuity will
become bewildered, and all efforts prove boot
less. His name is only all that is sycophancy
in politics reduced to significant brevity. He
has cringed and truckled to the Slave Power
till his reward is at hand. He will bo Presi
dent or remain nothing—nothing !—OevUmd
True Democrat.
Taylor Mas, Rcad!— Henry Clay made
a speech in Baltimore, from which the ltd
lowing is an extract
If indeed, we have incurred the divine
displeasure, and if it be neceesery to chastise
this people with a rod of vengeance, l would
humbly prostrate myself before Hun, and
implore Him, in His mercy, to visit our fa
vored land with war, with pestilence, with
famine, with any scourge other than Military
rule, or a blind and heedless enthusiasm for
mere military renown.”
Address of Anti-Slavery Women of West
ern New York.
Under a deep and abiding impression of the
duty we owe to God and our fellow beings,
the Anti-Slavery women of Rochester feel
constrained to continue to persevere in their
efforts for the oppressed and suffering bond
men who still remain toiling unrequited in the
Southern prison house. We are frequently
brought painfully to remember that not only
13 their labor wrested from them unremunera
ted not only do they suffer from intense hun
ger and cold not only are the females, our
sisters, subjected to the cruel and passionate
outrages of their tyrannical masters and over
seers but there are daily instances of sun
during the dearest ties in nature, thus sepa
rating them forever. And can we expect any
thing belter—can we look for benevolence or
fine feelings from a system so foul and fiend
ish as slavery It would be unreasanable,
because a corrupt tree cannot bring forth
good fruit/’ Therefore, knowing that with
out associative action we cannot render effi
cient aid to this holy cause, we affectionately
invite the co-operation of the citizens of Roch
ester and the public generally. We ask them
to bear in mind the injunctions of Jesus, “All
things whatsoever ye would men should do to
you, do ye even so to them.” Remember,
also, the beautiful parable in which he calls
our attention to the sick and to those who are
in prison, and concludes by tbe forcible asser
tion, “Inasmuch as ye have done it to one of the
least of these, my brethren, ye have done it
unto me.” We feel assured all that have
hearts to feel, and are careful to attend to the
monitions of conscience—all who are deter
mined to live for the good of our race, instead
of devoting all their time to their own per
sonal ease—all who feel bound to improve the
precious time allotted to them here, by pio
moting as much as possible the cause of truth
and righteousness in the earth, will come for
ward in the work of laboring to banish forever
the demon of slavery from our land and in
so doing, instead of an example of corruption
and wickedness, wc should be a light to the
world.”
We hope no one will feel too poor, nor any
too rich, to enlist in this holy cause. The
Christian’s influence, in whatever situation, is
always salutary, and will certainly produce its
good effects. We ask for the aid of men and
of women we call on the old and the
young, the farmer, the mechanic, and the
merchant. We ask all and every one to give
us their help to devote what they C3n spare,
either of money or of the fruits of their la
bor, to the work of restoring men and women
to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights
and blessings with which they were endowed
by our Creator.
For this object, we propose holding a Fair
in December next. We ask the females in
the adjoining towns and country around us, to
get up sewing circles, and prepare such arti
cles as will be most saleable, and to come, fur
nish tables, give us their company, and help
us, not only in selling those things thus pre
pared, but in convincing the public mind of
the necessity of our perseverance and fidelity,
and thus be helpers in hastening the day of
emancipation.
THE SHADOW OF SLAVERY,
Hitman slavery is Life ant! Labor ir
the state of total eclipse. Slavery ha:
brt n denominated “the sum of all villa*
nies; but there it a density and opaque*
nets about the huge iniquity, that dis
tinguishes it from all other corporate
depravities. When its great black,
solid cunc gets between human life
and the sun of freedom, which Gui
designed should light every man thal
came into the world, truly may it be
said, that the beings thus eclipsed tit ir
the region and shadow of death. Tc
their earthly hopes, to everything thal
is dear to this existence, to every righl
which inheres to man, to the whole
firmament of his expectations this side
of eternity, slavery is a total, cold, per
petual eclipse.—That is an awful fad
—that, in the midst of a country boast
ing of being the very home and throne
of Freedom’s Sun, millions come to th«
dark inheritance of slave-life, and lay
it down in the grave, without ever catch
ing one ray of that sun from behind the
black tinabating disk of that monstrous
luiquity w hich this nation seeks to qual
ify with the name of “peculiar institu*
tion.” The totality and darkness of this
eclipse to the slave are pretty well
recognized by those who live in the
mid-day light of freedom; but there ii
one quality of this overshadow ing curse
which has not been taken into due
estimation; a quality analagous to e
prominent feature of a solaa eclipse.
We mean its penumbra, or that cole
subtile shade which it casts over life anc
labor, beyond the territory proper o:
slavery. We invite all the working
men and women of Christendom tc
consider seriously this phase of that
great outrage upon humanity, which
many of them have perhaps thought tc
be perpetrated upon the African race
alone.—Who can tell how free laboi
j through the world has been depressed,
j degraded, robbed of its just rank and
reward, despised, rejected, thrown into
i the gutter, shut up in fever, breeding
j garrets, in consequence of that sum ol
all villanies concentrated upon the Afri
-1 can slave? If there be any man or
woman in this world, whose cheek red
j dens w ith virtuous indignation, above all
others, at the sin of slavery, it should be
I the great democracy of free laborers.
To what may be ascribed the ascenden
cy, wealth, power and perpetuity of the
aristocracy of Europe, but the unani
mous determination in all ages, of every
one of its titled constituents, “to stand
by his order;” to uphold its dignity a
mid the wreck of revolution of all other
human interests. The democracy of
labor is older than all tiie “orders/
that have been created upon earth since
man was made. The earth and all tire
treasures deeply hid in its heart; its
mines of gold, silver and iron; the pre
cious things that glitter upon the bed of
the deep blue seas, all, all were given
to enhance the rank and reward of
this ancient order to shine in the diadem
of human industry.—Then how can
those who w’ear about them the badge of
this God-ordained order, whose moist
ened foreheads glitter beneath the sun
with the tiara of their profession; whose
red hard hands are marked with the
signet which Adam wore in his—how
can they so desert their order as to
brook the existence of slavery, which
degrades the reputation of labor through
the world? Suppose one-sixth of all
the Dukes, Earls, and Lords in Eng
land were to-morrow- to be reduced to
hod-carriers, and compelled t mount
buildings with brick and mortar upon
their shoulders, in sight of the world,
with the badges of their nobility upon
their coarse blouses, think you that the
English aristocracy would not feel that
their “order” was degraded by such a
spectacle? But what would this humili
ation be in comparison w ith the disgrace
which our ancient and honorable order
incurs from the existence of slavery?
One sixth of our order in the United
States are reduced to the deepest deg
radation of condition to w hich human
beings can be forced. They wear into
the prison house of their bondage the
common badge* of our nobility. Every
drop of perspiration that comes to their
foreheads, every ridge raised by hope
less toil in their sable hands, is one of
labor’s pearls, one of the signets of her
nobility, trampled under the feet of
profane conspirators against the honor,
rights and rank of the great industrial
democracy of the world. What the
English aristocracy would feel in view
of one sixth of their number reduced
to hod-carriers, and compelled to wear
at their work the badges of their former
rank, we should feel, and more abund
antly and virtously, in view of one-sixth
of our order reduced to slaves. If we
could come to this great sentiment of
virtuous indignation at the outrage per
petrated by slavery upon our brother
hood, the products of the slave’s labor
would crimson before our eyes with the
reddest guilt of sin and oppression.—
E. B. —Christian Citizen.
INJUDICIOUS PATRONAGE.
It is very well to encourage young
artists and young poets, provided that
I the encouragement be judiciously and
(temperately rendered; but knowingly
to raise hopes which can never be re-
alized, ia, at the beat, wanton mockery.
To extol beyond reason, is often, in
j effect, to weaken the motives for im
provement. How frequently are men
I spoiled by a false estimation of their
own abilities! We could point out in
stances in the present day of personal
refusing to work because they have been
dubbed poets; we have known men who
would never handle the hoe, nor wield
the hammer, nor throw the shuttle, be
cause they could spin rhynes; and we
have seen the hand that could pen a
sonnet withheld ia contempt from the
recording ol a transaction in business.
These individuals revile the world for
troubles which they briug upon tbem-i
selves; and their own drivelling con
duct entirely hinders their advance
ment. They are not alone to blame
for their uniortunate position; for they
have each in turn been injured bv adu
lation. To versify wnb facility' is ao
elegant accomplishment; tu try to be a
true poet, is a noble ambition; but the
sweetest songs, and the loftiest ttnagm
ipgs, are not incompatible with hard
work performed by either bands nr
brains. As a recreation, literature adds
t
grace Wd dignity to honest, independ
i ent industry; and as a profession i
I offers a career which may be success
fully pursued by those who bare tfw
requisite intellectual aptitude, and uo
tiring perseverance. But to make tb«
lore of literature a pretext for eating
the bread of idleness is a moral wrong,
which deserves unsparing censure.—
I Shtjfxdd and Rotherham Independent.
THE OUTSIDE PASSENGER
j Some years ago, a young lady, whr
was going into a county,
took a seat in the stage-coach. For
mauy miles site rode alone; but there
was enough to amuse her in the sce
nery through which she passed, and in
the pleasing anticipations that occupied
her mind. She had bceu engaged as
governess for the grandchildren of an
earl, and was now travelling to his seat.
At midday the coach stopped at an inn,
at which dinner was provided, and she
alighted and sat down at the table. An
elderly man followed, and sat down
also. The young lady arose, rang the
bell, and addressing the waiter, said,
Here is an outside passenger. I can
not dine with an outside passenger”—
i The stranger bowed, saying, “I beg
your pardon, madam; 1 can go into an
other room,” and immediately retired.
The coach soon afterwards resumed
its course, and the passengers their
places.
At length the coach stopped at the
gate leading to the castle to which she
1 was going; but there was not such
prompt attention as she expected. All
eyes seemed directed to the outside pas
senger,who was preparing to dismount.
She beckoned, and was answered, “As
soon as we have attended to his lord
ship, we will come to you.” A few
words of explanation ensued, and, to
her dismay, she found that the outside
passenger, with whom she had thought
it beneath her to dine, was not only a
nobleman, but that very nobleman in
whose family she hoped to be an in
mate. What could she do? How could
she bear the interview? She felt really
ill, and the apology she sent for her
non-appearance that evening was more
than pretence.
The venerable Peer was a consider
ate man, and one who knew the way in
which the scripture often speaks of the
going down of the sun. “We must
not allow the night to pass thus,” said
he to the countess; “you must send
for her, and we must talk to her before
bedtime.” He reasoned with the fool*
ish girl respecting her conduct, insisted
on the impropriety of the state of mind
that it evinced, assured her that nothing
could induce him to allow’ his children
to be taught such notions, refused to
accept any apology that did not go the
length of acknowledging that the
thought was wrong, and when the right
impression appeared to be produced, l
gave her his hand.
THE MODEL HUSBAND*-
He walks out with his w r ife on a
week-day, and is not afraid of a mil
liner’s shop. He even has change”
when asked for it, and never alludes to
it afterwards. He is not above carry
ing a large brown paper parcel, or a
cotton umbrella, or the clogs, or even
holding the baby in his lap in the omni-l
bus. He runs on first, to knock at the
door, when it is raining. He goes out
side if the cab is full. He goes to bed
first in cold weather. He will get up
in the middle of the night to rock the
cradle, or answer the door-bell. He
allows the mother-in-law to stop in the
house. He takes wine with her, andj
lets her breakfast in her own room.—
He eats cold meat without a murmur,
and pickles, and is indifferent about
pies and pudding. The cheese is never!
too strong, or the beer too small, orthe
tea too weak for him. He believes in
hysterics, and is melted instantly with
a tear. He patches up a quarrel with
a velvet gown, and drives away the
sulks with a trip to Epsom, or a gig in
the Park on Sunday. He goes to
church regularly, and takes his wife to
the opera once a year. He pays for
her losses at cards, and gives her all
his winnings. He never flies out about
his buttons, or brings home friends to
supper. His clothes never smell of
tobacco. He respects the curtains,and
never smokes in the house. He carves,
but never secretes for himself the
brown.” He respects the fiction of his
wife’s age, and would as soon burn his
fingers as touch the bright poker. He
never invades the kitchen, and would
no more think of blowing up any of the
servants than of ordering the dinner, or
having the tray brought up after eleven.
He is innocent of a latch-key.
He lets the family go out of town i
once every year, whilst he remains at
home with one knife and fork, sits on a
brown Holland chair, sleeps on a cur
tainless bed, and has a chairwoman to
wait on him. He goes down on the;
Saturday, and comes up on the Mon
day, taking with him the clean linen,
and bringing back the dirty clothes.—
He checks the washing bills. He pays
the housekeeping money without a sus
picion, and shuts his eye to the “sun
dries.” He is very easy and affection-1
ate, keeping the wedding anniversary
punctually; never complaining if the 1
dinner is not ready; making the break-' 1
fast himself if no one is down; letting 1
his wife waltz, and drink porter before
company. He runs on all her errands, j 1
pays all her bills, and cries like a child j!
at her death.— Punch.

THE SLATE MART AT NEW OR. 1
LEANS.
ST GEATHO mania.
So •paka (In GmoA and itk aaeaantr*
The tyrant"i pies, excua«d Us drriiiafa dasda," 1
The hundred slaves were huddled to-
gethcr near the auctioneer’s platform,
where on# by one they were success- 1
ively to pass under the hammer. The 1
men sat in stoical silence. The wo- I
men, especially such as were mother*,
gazed in anxious grief upon their little 4
ones, as they playfully grouped them- J
selves uj>on the floor at their feet. The
children that but a short time since had 1
been pressed to the mother’s bosom,
with all the earnest yearniogs, that
none but a mother’s heart can ieel.j
were to be sold and separated away to
cauel servitude, never more to know
the endearment* of maternal love. All 1
the tire of con*ang amity mod friend
ibio were bore to be severed for tile, e
wri the miieraWe objects to hi sent e
from the place there all their happy
associations had clustered, away to the
ferer and ague swamps of Miss., or to
the barbatoas cotton fields of upper
Texas. And such an outrage upon
humanity was to be perpetrated in open
day-light, in a Christian city, and wit
nessed—yes sanctioned by hundreds of
witnesses. One could hardly realize
the atrocioua fact. Here, in the freest
coaotry on earth, and in the nineteenth
century, was a scene transpiring that
would bare disgraced the times of Nero
or Caligula. It is no dream of fiction,
it is too real. And yet no arenging
band is put forth to stay the outrage.
The work goes on.
The two next victims are a noble
middle aged man sod his wife, who cal
led herselT twenty-two. They were
not to be sold to-gether —for they would
not bring so much money as if sold
separate, and moreover it seems the
design of every one who has anything
to do with slaves, to discourage and
deaden all the domestic lores to w hich
human nature is addicted. The young
wi'e was first questioned in this manner,
that she might perchance recommend
herself:—
How old are you
“Twenty-two.”
How long have you been married?”
Three years.”
How many children have you
None.”
And as she made the last reply in a
saddened tone, the tears started from
her eyes, and she turned beseechingly
to her husband for protection. Upon
this the questioner, too, turns feroci
ously towards him—
You villain )ou —have you lived
three years with this wench without
having any children
Now the true man was seen, although
bound in fetters, and trampled in the
dust. With form erect and folded
arms, and with a dignity that might
have lent lustre to Othello himself,
he calmly replies—
We have had one, but God took
him.”
The fact that the woman had been
the mother of but one child, and that
dead, was the reason for the low price
of two hundred dollars for which she
was knocked down. She was purchas
ed by a Red River planter, to be
turned out into the fields to hoe and
pick cotton. The husband was after
ward soM for seven hundred and fifty
dollars, to be sent into the swamps of
Tennessee as a wood chopper. The
two were separated never more to meet
in this world. It is expected that hus
bands and wives thus separated will
form new connections, rear up new
families, and perhaps be again sold and
divided asunder. Thus are the holiest
of the institutions of Heaven rendered
void by the management of men andj
thus are poor ignorant slaves made to
commit the sins that are denounced by
all moral and civil law, and by the di
rect commands of God.
The last spectacle was as much as
we could bear. We thought of our
own deep domestic loves—then three
thousand miles away. The love and
the sympathy of the wife so entwined
into our own soul, that no fate in time
or eternity could separate the two whose,
separate existences had become onej
life. The clinging fondness of the
little ones, who will not be content with,
a separate existence, but insist upon
being a part of the parent still. We
left the scene, but the anguish of that
separuteed pair followed us—it has not
ceased to follow us since. There was
the memory of their little log house in
the skirt of cotton wood upon the river
side there was the place of their early
love, as they had pcen reared up to
gether on their wealthy owner’s plan
tation from thence had they entered
the precincts of the church, and before
God, and in the holy forms of the
Episcopacy, had they promised to take
each other “for better for worse, lor
richer for poorer, in sickness in health,
to love and to cherish, till death should
part them, according to God’s holy
ordinance.” There was born to them
their little boy, who had gladdened
their hearts—and then died: and there,
hard by, was his little grave, over
which they bad wept together, and
would only be comforted in believing
that God had taken him. In that last
long lingering look was crowded the
gathering reminiscences of all the hap
piness they had known in life.
In closing this sketch allow me to
say, that we have seen slavery in eve
ry form. We have conversed with
slaves, slave owners, slave speculators
—and those who would have nothing to
do with slaves. We have looked at it
politically, morally, and religiously—
and may hereafter give our views from
each point of observation. We can
only say now that it is difficult to com
prehend the enormity of the evil—and
that in the work of emancipation is
required much care and consideration.!
If possible, the philanthropists of both
North and South—of the whole country
and the whole civilized world, should
work harmoniously together, that the
time may be hastened when slavery
shall be no more.— Chronotype.
A Gentleman.—Did you ever see a
gentleman? W’e have seen two or
three in our day, but real gentleman
are exceedingly rare. A gentleman is
one who treats everybody with res
pect, whether he be black or white, low
or high, poor or rich. He does not
bow to wealth, scrape his knees to hon
or, nor hold bis tongue when he sees
wickedness in high places. You always
receive from him a civil answer to your
inquiry, and he kindly imparts to* you
any information in bis power. He will
not say a word to injure your feelings,
or allude to a subject to pain your
heart. Whatever may b« done, he!
will not manifest angry feelings, or use
unbecoming language. He uses no
profane or indecent words smokes no
cigars in your presence not spits tobac
co juice on your floors. He is the
•tow kind, accommodating individual
from one week's end to another.—Ex
change.


