From the .Sixteenth Annual Report of the Massa
chusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
WILMOT PROVISO.
Ia our lust report we gave an ac
count of the Proviso to the Resolution
appropriating two millions of dollars to
be employed by the President in pur
chasing a peace with Mexico, moved
by Mr. Wiltnot, of Pennsylvania, at the
close of the first session of the last
Congress, to the effect that neither
slavery nor involuntary servitude, shxlL
ever exist in any part of any territory
to be acquired from Mexico, except for
crime;” and of the manner in which
the action of the Senate was prevented
after it had passed the House, by Sen
ator Davis, of Massachusetts, speaking
against time, until the hour fixed for
adjournment had arrived. A proviso to
the same effect was appended to a bill
authorizing the President to use three
millions of dollars for the same purpose,
on motion of Mr. Preston King, of New
York, and passed the House by a vote
of 115 to 105. In the Senate, howev
er, the proviso was struck out by a
majority of ten, and, upon the resolu
tion being returned to thp House, the
proviso was lost by a vote of 9Y to 102,
and it was then passed without the
amendment, by a vote of 115 to B*2!
So supple and subservient arc the faith
ful Commons of this Republic to the
authentic will of the House of slave
holders! Since that time, this proviso
has furnished the chief nucleus for the
opposition to the war and its objects, to
the more independent spirits of both
parties. The outrage upon the Con
stitution committed in the Annexation
of Texas, following at its due interval
upon those of the Annexation of Lou
isiana and Florida, having been sub
mitted to, the point seems to be granted
on all hands, that any quanity of terri
tory may be united to these States, and
all that is left to the free States is to
jm&ke a stand, of necessity an unavail
ing one, against the permission of sla
very in such new acquisitions.
This very shape which the political
hostility to slavery has found itself com
pelled to take, is one of the strongest
testimonies to the supremacy of that
power over us. It has trampled under
foot all Constitutional guarantees which
*tood in the way of its designs, while
it enforees them upon us, in their
jitraitest interpretation, to prevent
our interference with thoae purposes.
And having conceded the thing de
manded, our Anti-Slavery Politicians
would make amends for their folly by
seeking to obtain the consent of the
victor that it shall not be used for the
purpose for which it was sought and
*<>n. A pregnant proof that there can
be no effective resistance made to the
encroachments of the slave power, ex
eept by men who regard the Union as
e great political bulwark of slavery,
ana who are ready to level H with the
u *t as a necessary preliminary to the
dejruciton c f that enemy of mankind,
'indication of their own
c c n but hope that the daily
develop, of #ur hi ,J,
A “"-Sl.very portion! of *ll
pmrtios diitccni ,h„ tberTi. no Exodiu
f0 h l hTh° U V“ r lhe UvUh in
which they hv, K lr brother'* Eeep
er*. excepting ore, h romt of the!*
isting Union and Constitution
The whole hulory „f Ae VnM
*uice it wxs guhered into n
nation, has been a continual wfcne** to
the truth that there can be gmmine
Union between Good and Evil, between
Liberty and Slavery, There never baa
been a Union of these States. A Coe.
lition there has been; and its fate has
been that of every coalition which bai
beep attempted to be made, between i
HE NORTH STAR
good principle and a bad one, mace tb«
world began. The Bad bee predomi
nated ever the Good, The victory
has been, as it should have beea, to the
Evil Element of the attempted Compro
mise. v
The only history, worthy tike nemo,
that we bare in this country, in the nar
rative of various devices of the
I North to escape the jaws of staveiy,
without taking her bend out of its
mouth. Attempts, more or less vigor
ous, have been mads, at various peri
ods, to put the monster on abort allow
ance, but they have always (ailed. And
they mutt always fetl as long as they
are made in subordination to the agree
ment which gives slavery the power to
help itself. The resistance which was
made to tbs Purchase, and afterwards
to the Admission, of Luaiaiiaa, tbs
Missouri contest, and the Texfs strag
gle, were conspicuous attempts of this
nature. And splendid failures they
were, all of them. The present phase
of this spirit of resistance to the ag
gressions of slavery is seen in what is
called the Wilmot Proviso, which em
bodies the principle, that whatever
Territory is acquired by the present war
shall be Free Territory. A large part
of the Whig, and a proportion of the
Democratic, presses make a stand upon
this ground. Resolutions to this effect
passed the Legislature of Massachu
setts, unanimously, and have also pass
ed the Legislatures of various other
Northern States, -Democratic as well
as Whig. But this effort will be as
futile as any of Us predecessors. Af
ter the vaporing about the Annexation
of Texas, and the smoke in which it
ended, slavery will be indeed a fool
(and that it never has been in its gen
eration) if it be deterred by these de
monstrations from doing what it likes.
Hopes have been entertained that
the Democratic Party at the North
would rally round this principle at the
next Election for President, and put
Silas Wright, as its incarnation, in the
Chair of State. But this hope, faint
as it should have been, has been dis
pelled by the sudden death of that
Statesman; and all the other prominent
Northern aspirants for the place, will
be ready enough to repudiate it, for the
sake of the only support which can
give them a chance of a nomination,
much more of an election. The South
has taken its ground firmly and deci
dedly, and there is no doubt of its
maintaining U successfully. Its van
tage is too great for defeat. If *it
want the whole continent to Cape
Horn, it can have it (or all the resist
ance the North will make. The heart
of the North must be renewed before
it will be ready to make any effectual
head against the irruptions of the Slave
Power. And that will not be before
the next Election. Of which circum
stance the Democrats, at least, are well
aware.
And how stands it with the Whigs?
The undivided front which they seemed
at one time to present, under this
standard, is already broken. Southern
Machiavelistn has already made a crack
which, by due pains, may be widened
into a split. The Hon. Mr. Berrien,
of Georgia, a pious slaveholder, and
one of the officers of the Bible Society,
and of the A. B. C. F. M., if we are
not much mistaken, has suggested the
change of the issue from No mbre
Slave Territory,” to No more Terri
or y
Mr. Schouler, the editor of the Bos
ton Atlas, who, before he was transla
ted to a metropolitan See, gave some
signs of Anti-Slavery vitality and sa
gocity, falls in with this suggestion, and
is followed by a portion, not large as
yet, of the Northern Whig Press. Mr.
Berrien is, plainly, a knowing man.-r
-!He is no unworthy pupil of the great
Compromiser, Clay, to whom that same
Atlas judged Boston would give as
warm a welcome as she did Lafayette!
He takes a proposition that Imm vital
principle in it, and after squeezing its
life out, offers its breathless corpse to
his Whig brethren as a much more ef
ficient leader than when it was alive!
And he is taken at his word by a por
tion, which we prophecy will be an in
creasing portion, of the Whig Party.
No more Territory? No more than
what Than to the Rio Grande, or the
Nueces, or the City of Mexico? A
Dissolving Frontier like ours knows
no such thing ss New Territory AU
that we want was ours from the Crea
j tion of the World.
A little later, Mr. Buchanan takes
the Democrats in hand, and kindly
helps them out of their quoodary.—
Northern Democrats are not to be
expected to approve of slavery in the
abstract,” it seems! This is a great,
and rather a startling concession. But
ithen, the Constitution, Compromises,
Compacts, and all the rest of it, aaake
lit pita that they are expected to ap
prove of all alavery does ia the con
crete. Mr. Buchanan, of course, can
not be opposed to die acquisition of
Territory, nor even of Slave Territory.
But he is not in iavor of nothing but
Slave Territonr. O, no! He is fer
applying the BTwsouri Compromise to
whatever we help ourselves to, and ex
cluding slavery from all North of 96
degrees and 30 minutes! Or, in plain
terms, he would prohibit slavery
wherever it« physically impossible that
it should most; And the Northern De
clurion! perplexities are ml
an end!
But it ia aB mere heating the air,
even if the Whigs, or Democrats, or
both, at the North, were of one mind
as to the Wilmot Proviso. What eettid
they do rwa to procure its adoption?
Suppose Mr. Corwin, who semes the
present Whig Mpwsntsrivw of the
Wilmot idea, to he elected President,
i what could he do. or they that chass
him do? Could they any to dmry,
T"I |ss-*me*V*** '*m*
MGBTT m or 90 nX-TMJTH U GP NO THE PAXKSR AT Vft ALU AND ALL WB ABB BBTOttBL
Thus fer shall then go, and her
shall thy proud waves be stayed V
There, in the Senate, wifi sit that iroi
majority of slaveholders, who will mod
at all their impotent straggles. Th
example of Mr. Berrien shows that th
Whigs cannot depend on the Souther
division of their party, m a ease when
the interests of stevety me at stake.—
The Proviso can never hseorne a few
and it wifi ha distinctly intimsted the
no men that maintain it can expect eon
firotation lor any office, at the hands o
the Senate. The way of escape whicl
Mr. Berrien has opened will be madt
as broad as the Way that leadeth t<
destruction, and many there will fe
that wifi walk therein. The history o
the Proviso, lost winter, is an antetyp<
of what is in store fer it. Passed by a
Democratic House, it was, as soon a«
the wifi of the Senate was expressed
crushed by the very men who bad jusl
voted for it.
We hope that the better part of the
Whig Party, and of the Democratic
Party, too, will do stout battle for the
principle of the Wilmot Proviso, be
cause we believe that if anything can
show them the only effectual deliver
ance, it will he the experience they arc
about to have! They will find that il
they can succeed ia tying this millstone
about the neck of a Presidential candi
date, it will carry him to the bottom
with a most comfortable alacrity al
sinking.” They will find that there is
not strength enough left to the people ol
the free States, even if they were uni
ted, to a man, to resist the determined
purpose of the Slave Power. Thej
will learn the might of a compact, in
telligent Oligarchy over incongruous
masses, be they never so massive.—
They will discover that to attempt tc
destroy, or to limit, slavery under the
Constitution, is as vain and absurd as
to fight in fetters. From all this expe
rience, and more, we trust they will
come to see that the only way to be
free from the despotism of the slave
holders, themselves, and to put them
selves into a position to give effectual
aid to the slaves, is to dissolve the
Union!
It may look hard, but it is much ea
sier than to .carry the Wilmot Proviso.
For the one can he done by a majority
of the inhabitants of the free States, oi
a portion of them; while the otLer can
not, though they were all united as one
man. When the Anti-Slavery Whig*
and Democrats will unite in demanding
a Reconstruction of the Government;
in proclaiming the Dissolution of the
present Confederation, and the forma
tion of a New Union that shall be suck
indeed; when they shall put forth theii
strength against, instead of under, the
present constitution; when they shall
meet, not in partizan Conventions, bul
in Conventions to prepare the People
for a Revolution, or to carry that Revo
lution into effect; then they will begin
to exert some independent political in
fluence, and to produce an effect on
public affairs. They can then help to
create a Republic in which the will ol
the people will be law, and not the ca
price of a small aristocracy, their na
tural enemies, above their reach and
beyond their control. A Republic, m
which there may be such athing as po
litical success without personal dishon
or; in which a career may be opened
to men of honor and self-respect as well
as to turn-coats and parasites. In
short, a Commonwealth, the very oppo
site of everything that this spurious
Republic is, and the realization of ev
erything that it pretends to be.
CONGRESS.
The action on the Wilmot Proviso,
in its new form, was all that we have
time to notice of the proceedings of the
last Congress, although the able speech
es of Mr. Calhoun and of Mr. Corwin,
as expositions of the Pro-Slavery and
the Anti-Sfevery points of view, in
"looking at the facts and the possibilities
of slave-extension, might-well demand
a passing word. The speech of Mr.
Corwin, in particular, was a masterty
effort, which pfeced him in conspicuous
position before tfie countnr, akin to thai
which he occupies with his own State,
and opened to ban a way to public con
fidence and national distinction. Il
need not be said that whatever was de
manded to carry on our free-booting
campaigns 'in Mexico was readily,
though not unanimously, dispensed by
the guardians of the public purse.
The opening of the present Con
gress was marked by an extraordinary
event in oar Federal annals. For the
fourth time, since Congress was, a
Speaker has been chosen from Neu
England. There being a small Whig
majority, this became an object of am
bition to the aspirants of that party.—
For some reason the Southern Whigs
consented to the nomination of a North
ern man, only stipulating that his prin
ciples should bear the Southern brand
Though but a small minority of tin
party, still they might have had a can
didate of their own section of country,
hod they held out to the compromising
point. They wove satisfied, however,
with having one of their own selection
and, in shnsring Mr. Winthrap, the;
elected one who had given them pfafeei
of the trnth of his allegiance. Hit
toast given in the Cradle of Liberty
declaring that he would go for tfe
**Union however bounded;” his van
for the War BUI, with its lying pream
hie; his unwillingness to have tfe
Whig Party committed to the tumor
of none hot a eenrirtrnt enemy or sin
very; hit open defence of Iris jmbfe
Ugbtfui unanimity on the part of South
era end Northern Wfega was weU-nigl
brought to notfeog hy the ceutuurncj
ROCHESTER, N. Y„ FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 184&
i of two members of the party. Thrie
wee the vole taken, and twice was i
i defeated by the votes of Mr. Gadding*
t of Okie, end of Mr. Palfrey, of Massa
t chuaetts. And Mr. Winfbroj>*s elec
tion was finally only secured by th
i vote of Mr. Levin, of Pennsylvania
a Native American” member, ant
by the withdrawal of Mr. Holmes
a Nullifying Unionist from Sooth Caro
I fern.
The fetter gentleman, in a letter tt
f the Charleston Mercury, explaining hi
i course, says plainly, ‘‘The Southen
t Whigs nominated Mr. Winthrop ii
caucus, t» opposition to s majority q
ike Northern Whig*, —because be bat
f been successful in defeating the Wil
mot Proviso in the Massachusetts Whi|
Convention!” And he proceeds to ac
knowledge that Mr. Winthrop hac
“property constituted the Committees/
excluding Messrs. Palfrey, Giddings,
and Tuck from the important ones!
This act on the part of Mr. GkkUogi
and Mr. Palfrey was in the highest de
gree honorable to them, inasmuch a*
it showed that they believed in obliga
tions roperior to those of party ties,
and were ready to obey them, though
a£ the ccat of party denunciation. The
excitement which was produced by this
act of insubordination, particularly with
regard to Mr. Palfrey, and in his owe
State, was intense. This gentleman
who is honorably known to the aboli
tionists and to the country, by his ma
numission of his hereditary slaves,
his activity in the Anti-Texas cam
paign, and by his able papers on The
Slave Power,” appeared in Congres*
(hr the first time, and this was his first
act. It was bad in itself. It was worse
as a prognostic of what might remain
behind. The Pro-Slavery Whigs ol
his District, and of the neighboring me
tropolis, who had done their best tc
prevent his election, by refusing to sup
port him, though the regular candidate,
were full of wrath because he dared,
in a case where he believed his owe
consistency and honor, and the best in
terests oi his constituents to be con
cerned, to imitate their example. Hi*
conduct, however, has received the
unqualified approval of those whose
approbation he would esteem an honor,
and we believe will meet with the sanc
tion of his constituents, should he ever
appear again at their tribunal. He has
auspicated his political career by an
act of manhood, singular in this time
serving generation, and we believe
that his public conduct will be wortity
of the augury that has marked it*
opening.
Mr. Calhoun, in the Senate, has de
veloped the policy of tRe wiser sort o
the slavcholding interest, in a resolu
tion to the following effect: “That tc
conquer Mexico, and to hold it eithei
as a province, or to incorporate it inti
the Union, would be inconsistent wit!
the avowed object for which the wai
has been prosecuted; a departure frerr
the settled policy of the government;
in conflict with its character and
genius; and, in the end, subversive ol
our free and popular institu
tions.”
But then he goes for taking a de
fensive line that shall cover, ample ter
ritory for indemnity And this is to be
i the compromise, probably, on which
the North will at last agree with hei
masters. A compromise by which the
I South is to be secured in the prcsenl
possession of all she wants, with the
moral and political certainty of having
aH the rest for the asking!
Fm Parker’« Letter oa Slavery.
EFFECTS OF SLAVERY ON EDU
CATION.
[CONTI.NL'ED.]
In 1810, there were at the various
Colleges in the South, 7,106 pupils;
and in the free States, 8,027. Here,
too, the figures fail to indicate the act
ual difference in the numbers of such
as receive a superior education; foi
the greater part of the eighty-seven
Universities and Colleges” of the
South are much inferior to the bet
ter Academies and High Schools of the
North.
In the libraries of aH the Universitie*
and Colleges of the South, there are
2*23,416 volumes; in those of the
Nr th, 503,807. The libraries of the
J Theological schools qf the South con
tain 22,800 volumes; those of the
North, 102,060. The difference in the
character and value of there volume*
does not appear in the returns.
In the stave States, there are 1,368,-
325 free white children between the
ages of five and twenty; in the free
States, 3,536,680 such children. Is
the slave States, at schools and col
leges, there are 301,172 pupils; m the
free States, 2,212,444 pupils, at school*
or colleges. Thus, in the slave States,
out of twenty-five free white children
between five and twenty, there are not
quite five at any school or college;
while out of twenty-five such children
in the free States, there are more than
fifteen at school or college.
Ia the slave States, of the free white
population feat is over twenty years oi
age, there is almost one-tenth part that
are uamble to read and write; while is
the free Stales there is n*t quite one a
i one hundred and fifty-sis who is defi
cient to that degree.
Ia New England there hut feu
years of ace, who are unable to rea 4
and write; but many feceignere arrive
there with ao education, aad thus swel
the anatimr af the illiterate, and dinar
i iah fee zppwrt ofha^fraeiii.
f emigrants; IheitinesnnraaC the South
ore States, therefore, feta he ascribe*
to other ransss The Northern ami
i who settle in the sfeveholsog Staton
have perhaps about the average cal
t tore of the North, end wire thee that
1 of the Sooth. The Sooth, therefore,
fro
toe iiortn loses.
Antag the Northern Stetee, Coo
-9 nectkot, end among the Soothers
Stater, Sooth Carolina, are to a greet
1 degree free from disturbing influences
of this character. A comparison he
tween the two will show the relative
effects of the respective institutions of
i the North and Sooth. In Connecticut,
i there are 163,843 free persons over
i twenty years of age; in South Caroli
i aa, but 111,663. la Coaaecticut there
f* are but 526 persons over twenty who
I are unable to rend nod write; while in
South Carolina there are 26,615 free
white persons over twenty years of age
unable to read and write, la South
I Carolina, out of each 696 free whites,
more than twenty years of age, there
are more than 58 wholly ttaable to
read or write oat of that number of
i such persons in Connecticut, not quite
two! More than the sixth part of the
i adult freemen of South Carolina are
unable to read the vote which will be
deposited at the next election. It is
but fair to infer that at least one-third
i of the adults of South Carolina, if not
t of much of the South, are unable to
read and understand even a newspaper,
i Indeed, in one of the slave States, this
is n(4 a matter of mere inference, for
in 1837. Gov. Clarke, of Kentucky, de
clared, in his message to the Legisla
ture, that one-third of the adoh popu
lation were unable to write their
names;” yet Kentucky has a scbooJ
i fund,” valued at $1,921,819, while
South Carolina has none.
One sign of this want of abihy even
i to read, in the slave States, is too stri
f king to be passed by. The staple
reading of the least cultivated Ameri
cans is the newspapers, one of the
lowest forms of literature, though one
of the most powerful, read even by
men who read nothing else. In the
i slave States there are published but 377
newspapers, and in the free, 1,135.
These numbers do not express the en-1
i tire difference in the case, for as a'
general rule the circulation of thc
Southern newspapers is 50 to 75 per!
cent, less than that of the North. Sup-!
pose, however, that each Southern
newspaper has two-thirds the circula
tion of a Northern journal, we have
then but 225 newspapers for the slave
States! The more valuable journals—
the monthlies and quarterlies are
published almost entirely in the free
i States.
The number of Churches, the nutn
her and character of the clergy who
labor for these churches, are other
measures of the intellectual and moral
condition of the people. The scientific
character of the Southern clergy has
been already touched on. Let us com
pare the more external facts.
In 1830, South Carolina had a popu
lation of 581,185 souls; Connecticut,
297,675. In 1836, South Carolina had
364 ministers; Connecticut, 498.
In 1834, there were in the slave
States but 82,532 scholars in the Sunday
schools; in the free States, 504,835:
in the single State of New York,
161,7C8.
A cause which keeps 3,000,000 men
in bondage in America and the nine
teenth century, has more subtle iuflu-'
cnccs than those just now considered, j
It not only prevents the extension of
education among the people, but affects,
the doctrine taught them, even the
doctrines taught in the name of God.
Christianity is nominally the public re
ligion of America; not of the Govern
ment, which extends protection alike to
all modes of worship, of the Indian,
the Mormon, and the Jew, but of the
people. I will not touch the doctrines
of the sects, in which Christian differs
1 from Christian, but come to what is;
1 general among Christians— a part of
the universal Religion implied also in
Homan Nature itself. All sects, as,
1 j such, theoretically agree that the most i
■j important practical doctrine of Chris
[tianity, is love to men; to all men, of
j all ages, races, and conditions. As the j
Christian idea of God rises for above j
the Heathen or Hebrew conception
thereof, so the Christian's idea of man's
relation to man far transcends the pop-,’
ular notions of human duty which for- j
merly bad prevailed. God is “our
Father," the God of Love; Man is our
Brother, whom we are bound to love as
ourselves, and treat an we would be 1
treated. Christian Piety, or Love of
God, involves Christina Morality, or,
Love ot Man.
1 lay aside the peculiar theoretical
‘doctrines of the sects, that are preached
i everywhere, and ask: Can the Chris
tian relations of human Brotherhood,
the Christian duty of Love to Men, be
j practically preached in the slave States?.
tisnity may ha preached, not its piety,
not its morality, mot even its philosophy
or k* history. If «aa bolaii atave* m J
practice and justifies the deed in the
ory, how eaa he address an audience,
of i slaveholders and teach them the duty
of loving ethers. as thcmaelvea? ife;
I nor they consistently been.
The doctrines of the public religion j
are always amdified by national hah
-1 its, history, instil atioas, and idea*.—
Christianity, as taught m New Eao-j
land, has modifications unknown *n
Old England. The great national mmd
i peujjj? ideas of Aarttiee-of winch j
I truths of Christianity. We*begaa our'
national career by dsrlsrieg att men
horn with equal right* In such a peo
pie ua might leek fe>: a better sad mere
I than in a nation which knows no un^
T 3u**’ f*thc °rightT CI>
t In tome lands, Monarchy, Amtocn
cy, Prelacy, appear in Ike publi
i teaching aa parts of Christianity. 1
America il is not so. But it is tasgl
that slavery is an ordinance of God,-
i justified by Christianity. Thus as th
t public religion is elsewhere made t
i subserve the private purposes of king;
Nobles, Priests—so here it is made t
i prove the justice of bolding men i
F bondage. There are no chains kk
those wrought in tha name of God, an
welded upon their victim by the teach
era of Religion.
Most of the churches in the Unite
States exercise the power of excluding
a man from their communion for sue!
offences aa they see fit: for any un
popular breach of the moral law—fo
murder, robbery, theft, public drunken
ness, seduction, licentiousness, for her
esy. Even dancing is an offence fo
which the church sometimes deal wit I
their children. But, with the exceptioi
of the Quakers and the United Bretb
ren, no religious bodies in the Unite*
States now regard slareholding oi
slavedealing as an eccleastical offence
Church members and clergymen an
owners of slaves. Even churchci
themselves in some instances have, ii
their corporate capacity, been owner
of men. In Turkey, wben a man be
comes a Mahometan, he ceases to be i
slave. But in America, a clergyrnai
may own a member of his own church
beat him, 9ell him, and grow rich oi
the increase of his fcnikle slaves.”
i Few productions of the Southen
clergy find their way to the North.—
Conspicuous among those few are ser
mons in defence of slavery; attempt:
to show that if Christ were now oi
earth he might consistently hold proper
ty in men!
The teachings of the Southern pulpi
become more and more favorable t<
slavery. Oppressed, America promul
gated the Theory of Freedom; —free
she established the Practice of Oppres
sion. In 1780, the Methodist Episco
pal Church declared, Slavery is con-
I trary to the law of God,” and “hurtfu
to society;” in 1781 it refused to admil
slaveholders to its communion—passing
a vote to exclude all such. But in 18&:
f the General Conference voted not tc
interfere in the civil and political rela
tions between master and slave,” and
exhorted its ministers to abstain from
all abolition movements. The General
i Conference has since declared thai
American slavery “is nota moral evil.’
The Conference of South Carolina ho*
i mode a similar declaration.
i In 1791 the Presbyterian Churcl
added a note to the eighth command
went, bringing slavery under that pro
i hibition, declaring it manstealing anc
a sin. Yet, though often entreated, ii
did not excommunicate for that offence
In 1816, by a public decree, the note
was erased. Numerous Presbyleric?
and Synods have passed resolutions like
these: Slavery is not opposed to the
j will of God;” “It is compatible witli
the most fraternal regard to the best
i good of those servants whom God ma)
j have committed to our charge.” Even
the Catholic Church in the United
States forms no exception to the gencr
jal rule. The late lamented Dr. Eng
land, the Catholic Bishop of Charles
j ton, South Carolina, undertook in pub
lic to prove that the Catholic Church
bad always been the uncompromising
friend of slaveholding, not defending
I the slaves' Right, but the usurped
j Privilege of the masters. What a dif
ference between the present Chris
tian Pope of Rome, and the Bishop of
a Democratic State in a Christian Re
public!
It has been currently taught in the
most popular churches of the land, that
slavery is a Christian institution,”
sustained by the Apostles, and sanc
tioned by Christ himself. None of the
1 theological parties have been so little
connected with slavery as the Unitari
ana—perhaps from tbe smallness of the
sect itself, and its Northern latitude—
but for years one of its vice-presidents
was a slaveholder.
While the Southern Churches teach
that slavery is Christian, the Northern
join in the belief. Here and there a
few voices in the North have been lifted
up against it; seldom an eminent voice
in aa eminent place, then to be met
1 with obloquy and shame. Almost all
the churches ia the land seem joined in
opposing such as draw public attention
to the fact that a Christian Republic
j holds millions of men in bondage. Not
long since a clergyman of the South,
I who boasted that he owned thirty
slaves, aad “would wade knee-deep in
1 blood” to defend hie right to them, was
received by the Northern Churches,
and as himself has said, invited on
every hand to pulpits,” with no rebuke,
hut only welcome from the large and
powerful denomination to which be be
longed. He returned, as he says,
leaving the hot-beds of abolitionism,
without having been once toiled. God
be praised for sustaining me. I rive
Him all the glory, for without him lam
nothing.” Even in Beaton, there is a
church of the same denomination, in
which no colored man is allowed to
purchase a seat. Colored men at the
North are excluded from colleges and
high schools, from theological semina
ries aad from respectable churches—
tavern from the Town Hall aad the BaJ
•ht Doctrines and outward deeds are
I Wli ck
I The sons of the Nerth, when they
1 fettle the Snath, as amrehaats, isin
irters, lawyers, planters, when they
J stand in the Congress of the nation,
whoa they fill important offices ia the
federal government what testimony
do they hear to the declaration that
I “aft men are created free aad equal?”
If should blush to refresh your memo
ries with Northern shame.
tmui C. NELL, rnuvu.
wn> niimi
WHOLE NO—XII.
If the clergy find slavery ‘for darned”
in the Bible, and e»tablt»Hed iiimarsl
,he Christian msmu lions.” did net
U.e laymen first find it in the Bible of
Rousseau? Important men at the South
bate taught that shivery ia a moral
and humane matitetion, productive of
the greatest political and social advan
tage*;” the corner alone ol our re
publican edifice:” Iti»the meet uum
and stable edifice for free inatitutiona m
the world.” The doctrine that all
men are created equal” ia rights ia de
clared ridiculously absurd.” Demo
cratic Mr. Calhouu declares that where
common labor is perfot racd by men>
bers of the political community, a dan
gerous element is obviously introduced
into the body politic.” A pagan had
taught it 2,000 years before.
Thus powerful is the influence of sla
very in its action on the intellectual,
moral and religious development of the
people at the South; thus subtly dees
it steal upon the North. As one of
your most illustrious citizens, old but
not idle, has said, the Spirit of Slavery
has crept into the philosophical chairs
of the schools. Its cloven foot has as
cended the pulpits of the churches.—
Professors of Colleges teach it as a les
son of morals; ministers of the gospel
seek and profess to find sanctions for it
in the W ord of God.”
The effect of slavery on the industri
al, numerical, intellectual and moral
developments of the people, may be
best shown by a comparison of the con
dition of the two largest States, one
slave, the other free. Virginia con
tains more than <>4,04)0 square mites, or
13,370 more than England. The cli
mate is delightful. The State is inter
sected by the finest Bay in the
world;” watered by long and abundant
rivers, thus inviting navigation, and
allowing numerous and easy communi
cations with the interior; that waiting
to turn the wheels of the manufacturer,
to weave and spin. The soil is rich in
minerals, iron, lead and limestone aro
abundant. Nitre is found in her cav
erns. Salt abounds on the Great Kc
nawba and the Holston. Fields of coal,
anthracite and bituminous, are nume
rous, rich, and of easy acres*. The
soil is fertile, the sky genial, the sir
salubrious. She is the oldest State in
the Union; long the most important in
wealth, population and political power.
The noble array of talent und virtue
found there in the last century, has al
ready been mentioned. Abundantly
blessed with bays, harbors, rivers,
mines, no State in the Union had such
natural advantages as Virginia in 1790.
New York has 411,000 square miles,
and was settled somewhat lider than
Virginia, and under circumstances less
propitious. Numerous causes retarded
her growth before the Revolution.—
Though favored with an excellent har
bor, she has hut one natural channel of
communication with the interior. In
1790 Virginia contained 748,318 in
habitants; New Vork but 310,120. In
1810 Virginia had 1,239,707; New
York 2,42d,921, und in 1 *l5, 2,004,-
495. In fifty years Virginia hud not
doubled her population, while New
York had increased more than four
fold. In 1700 Virginia had more than
eleven inhabitants to each square mile,
and New York not quite eight; but in
1840, Virginia hud only nineteen, and
New York fifty-three persons to the
square mile. In 1798, the houses and
lands of Virginia were valued at
$71,225,127, those of New York at
$100,380,707; in 1839 the real estate
in Virginia was worth but £211,930,-
538, while that of New Vork had in
creased to $130,751,273. In 1810, tbo
annual earnings of Virginia tiers
$79,700,032; of New York, $193,-
800,433. The population of N. York
is not quite double that of Virginia,
but her annual earning nearly three
times as great. In 1810, at her various
colleges and schools, Virginia had
57,302 scholars, and also 58,787 adult
free whites unable to read and write—
-1,484 more than the entire number of
her children at school or college. New
York had 44,452 illueiate adults, and
505,442 children at school or college.
Besides that, in Virginia there were
418,987 slaves, with no literary culture
at all,shutout from communication with
the intelligence of the age. la 1844,
in New York, 709,150 children, be
tween four and sixteen, attended the
common public schools of the State,
and the common school libraries con
tained over a million of volumes; while
in Virginia there were over 100,000
free white children between four and
sixteen, who attended no school at aJJ,
perpetual vagrants from learning, year
out and year in. Shall it always be sc t
The effect follows the cause. A man
loses half his manhood by slavery, say#
Homer, and it is as true of a State as
a man.
Jrstic* to Suvm. —We are pleased
In note the following instance of justice
which took place in the Kentucky legis
lature. Mr. George T. Edward*, of
Imogen ssmty, sent a petition to the
Legislature setting forth that he and
his mother bad owned a fern-tie slave,
whom they manumitted; that afterwards
she became the owner of a small tract
of Sand; that she lias since died? and
that she desired her land t« go to her
two children who aro ytt slaves. By
the law they eaaaot inherit, and tho
land escheat* to the State. The petitoner therefore asked a special enact
ment vesting the »**Je in him for tho
benefit of these two slave children. Tho
committee Iht Senate to whom the
petition referred reported against
it; but the attention of the members
haring been called to the (acta in the
case, the rtwd was promptly dtmeaicd
for m. and the committee instructed to
report a bill according to the prayer of
the petitioner. —Cincinatti Atlas
From the Boston Atlas
Alexandre Dumar,
Damn and Ms 1W« ortwwftfir,
devoted to tin* performance of bia own
plays, constitute* the dramatic lion M
I*aria. I(«• translation of Srttakeapemre'a
Handel has created an ettr*ewi#«T
dentation, and continues to he
five mMi ,n UK wrti
This cttraacdia»*7 ro n rßl#
tXthe cause of 00—* «cKe,ne«.
Am >na his Other characteristics, Do*
mZH 7 g”*' tpaw*r. Having
visited the other quarters of the globe,
he U fiaxhus to go to America. Being,
however, mulatto, hs is said to fee
afraid that he wilt be taken and sold a*
a slave. This hts given rise to the
following correspondence, of which I
give yo« the the first English trans
lation:
moot uctasois dummas to
tIOAt I. C. C—A.
Paris. April I, 1917.
Sir,—4 ahull make i»o apology for
addressing you the present letter. I see
your name enrolled among the lending
l>esncrata of the United States. I c*n
not but feel assured that the request f
am about to make will be cheerfully
granted. My name cannot be unknown
to you. lam the author of Monte
Christo,” and other works, which have
heralded my fame throughout Europe.
I rank anting my personal friends
many individuals of noble and even
royal birth. I am the familiar asso
ciate of the leading literary and scien
tific characters of Paris, iam a mem
ber of the Institute, and wear the cross
of the Lrgioa of Honor. Yd my mo
ther was of African blood, and I am
n>t ashamed to confess, that my person
makes open declaration of my lineage.
I have travelled in other quarters of
the globe, yet, resembling my renowned
namesake, who sighed to conquer new
worlds. I am anxious to visit your
transatlantic continent, in this fam
less moved by vain curiosity, than a
desire to breathe the pure atmosphere
of civil liberty, and to mingle my ardent
sympathies with those of a free and
happy people. One tiling alone deters
me from immediately realizing this
cherished wish of my heart. lam told
that my African blood will subject me
to inconveniences in the United States,
and that 1 may be even taken and sold
as a slave, according to the existing
laws. This, of course, I hold to be an
atrocious slander, propagated by the
envious monarchists of the old tvorld.
Yet I have deemed it prudent to ad
dress you on the subject, and solicit
your advice. If tliere be any difficulty
In my travelling through the United
States, might it not be removed by my
being invested with some diplomatic
functions, which I have no doubt my
friend and admirer the Duke dc Mont
pensicr, would readily obtain for me
An early reply to this note will confer
upon me a lasting obligation.
Accept, Sir, the assurances of my
highest consideration.
A. DUMAS.
HR. C "N TO A. DUMAS.
Charleston, Aug. 1, 1947.
Sm, —I have the honor to acknowl
edge the receipt of your letter of April
Jst. Your name and fame are familiar
ta me# yet I U+**- *W l» »U 1
in the accomplishment of your wishes.
Your African blood would subject you
to imprisonment and slavery in this
State, as well as all other slave States
in the American Union. Your genius
and reputation would afford you no
protection. You belong to a rate that
has been the slave of the higher and
stronger races Iron* time immemorial.
If you have read my various speeches
and letters, you most be convinced
that Slavery is an institution ordained
by Providence, honored by time, sanc
tioned by the Gospel, and especially
favorable to personal and national li
berty. That it is compatible avith de
mocracy is evinced by the fact, that
tire* slave States are the principal seats
of democracy in this Union, and that
we regard the Democratic party here
as the main bulwark of the institution.
That Slavery is favorable to civilization
is demonstrated by the fact, that in this
State, (Setrtli Carolina,) where the
slaves are double the number of the
whites, refinement of manners is car
ried to the highest pilch, and Charles
ton, its capital, is the acknowledged
metropolis of American chivalry. It
would not avail you, in coming here,
to be invested with a diplomatic cha
racter. Necessity knows no law. Self
protection is the first law of society.
Though Slavery is a benignant institu
tion, and our slaves arc the happiest
creatures in the world, yet they might
be easily stirred up to rebellion. If
free blacks were allowed to come here,
they might excite their fellow Africans
to insurrection. We live, Sir, ia the
midst of a perpetual crisis. We must
preserve our throats from butchery,
our homes from conflagration, at all
hazards. At the same time, we must
maintain and perpetuate our peculiar
institution. In such a state of things,
should you visit Charleston, you would,
doubtless, experience no insult, but you
would bo politely turned out of town
by our chivalry, as was lately the case
in respect to a public agent sent hither
by the State of Massachusetts.
I am, respectfully,
For the authenticity of these tetter#
I cannot vouch, farther than to suggest
that they may be imagined to suit the
character* and circumstances of the
parties.
I am, yours truly r tS, G. L.
Pr<rji tarn New Yalk Tribune.
GEN.TAYLOR AND TIIK FLORIDA
BLOODHOUNDS.
Mm* hi*® repeatedly requested to pub
lish the foßowfaf U«ir, or asked if th re
letter t® publish, but hare uni
f,r doelfasd S*. until we find the
»n) copied no* the Ucmtdl ouljWssU ui
CoumJrca, both Taylor—®**
«r« can now {five phu» to it Without sstaung
So refleet invidiously ou Gsn. Taj'«or. W a
will be thoroughly explteil, however, and say
Hist we do not think it say worse t# roast
huwiu bang* with Wfoedhouad* «haa with
canoes aud rifle*. We know h raef be said
th»t bkwdhmiiid* would uoi obey Grti. Tay
for'e aireiSkW w*jt»rt«ia‘aouo aunty* wumoa
Oa J chiulrwi, hut m ca inea balls and shelto
any more diseuinkMMUng 1 Tto we not remem
hw tbs (taring is ptears of women wad chit
*4* '''s'

L “Sir: I hare the honor taiarkM yes a
(communication, tU,* mo mail received, on U St
•object of procuring b!wx»h»nm<b» from the
Aland of Cube, to aid the army in he opera
now broken nn into email parties, that take
belter m swamp* and hammocks as the arm
approaches* making it imp— this far us to
follow or overtake theca w ithout the aid oi
such auxiliaries,
Should this measure mact the approbation
of tbs Department, and the wwesipprj' au-
J ihority b? granted, 1 will open a correspond
ence on the subject with Mr. Kvmtson, through
Major limit, Assistant Quarter Master at Sa
i ranoah, and will authorise him, if it oaa be
I 'lose on roaaooebte terms, to employ a few
logs, with pmaga who wodnrrtaod their maa
agennat.
i msti it distinctly understood, that my
attic t in employing dogs is only Ns mctrtmn
1 rrVrt tks Indians cm he found, not to worry
them.
I bare the hotter t* be,
Yoor obedient ssrtrset,
(Signed) Z. TAY LOR,
Bt. Be. Geo. U. S. A. Commanding.
To Ga, R. Jones, Washington, D. C.
rr~—~T~~:
NOTICES.
WESTERN NEW' YORK ANTI*
SLAVERY SOCIETY*
Anti-Slayert Meetings.—C. L. Ri-
JIVND and l. C. Hathaway, Agents of the
WsHhf New York Anti-Slavery Society,
will hold meetings as follow*:
Canandaigua, Thursday evening, March 23.
Rushvfllo, Friday afternoon and evening,
March 24th.
Penn Yan, Saturday evening and Sunday,
March 25th and 2C»b, H
I’rattsbtngb, Monday evening and Tuesday,
March 27th and 2Stb.
Bath, Wednesday evening -and Thursday,
March SKth and 30th.
AxtvSuavk&y Office *jk> Reading Room,
is now open, in the 2d story, No. 25, Buffalo
street, over E. Serantmn’s Auction store, torn
9 o'clock A. M. tob P r M.
A room is neatly furnished, and the tables
filled with some of the best Anti-Slavery,
Temperance, Religious, Political and Litera
ry papers in the country.
An assortment of Anti-Slavery Books and
Pamphlets is offered for sale, and also a vari
ety of rich fancy and useful articles, made by
the Ladies’ Anti-Slavery Society. The pub
lic, both city and country, are respectfully
invited to call, avail themselves of the privi
lege of a free Reading Room, obtaia supply
of books, and purchase such artiefos as they
may need or desire.
ANTI-SLAVERY MEETINGS.
Jonathan Walker, from Florida, and
John S. Jacobs, from North Carolina, will
address tlie people at the following named
placss aod umr'* Will the friends of Imi
manky at those places make the necessary
arrangement, and assist them from place to
place
Fairport, Saturday, March 18.
Egypt, Sunday, 19.
Peniield, Monday, 20.
West Walworth, Tuesday, SL
Corners, Wednesday, S 3.
Williamson!, Thursday, 23.
Marion, Friday, 24.
Palmyra, Saturday, 25.
TRIBUTE TO EX-PRESIDENT
ADAMS.
Agreeable to public notice, a large mad re
spectable public meeting of the colored citi
zens of Philadelphia City and County was
held on Monday evening, 28th February,
1648, at the Philadelphia Institute, Lombard
street, to testify their respect for the memory
of the late Hon. John Q. Adams. At the
appointed hour, the meeting was duly organ
ized by the selection of the following officers: j
Rev. Stephen Smith, President; Jos. P.
Humphrey*, Win. P. West, Vice Presidents;
Win. Allen, Secretary. The Chairman, in
an appropriate manner, explained the object of
the meeting, when, on motion, it was
Resolved, That a Committee of five be ap
pointed to prepare suitable resolution*.
The following gentlemen wtere thou chosen
as said committee, viz; Franklin Turner, Jas.
McCrummell, Geo. W. Gomes, Rev. Wm.
Douglass, Dr. D. I. Peck.
After the Committeehad retired, tbe meet
ing was addressed by Abraham Field, Joa. P.
Humphreys. James Carter, D. B. Bowser,
Dr. J. G. Bias, and several other gentlemen.
After which, the committee appeared, and,
through their Chairman, presented the follow
ing preamble and resolutions:
Whereas, it has pleased the Almighty Dis
poser of evf**ts to remove, by the hand of
Death, the renemlS *nd faithful Patriot, tbe
lion. John Quiney Adam*! pud whereas, we
have perceived with great pit'•arc the up
right and manly career of this great aird good
man in behalf of Human Liberty, and
indomitable courage in endeavoring to secure
the right of petition to alt, irrespective of
color, therefore,
Resolved, That this melancholy event,
occurring within the walls of the Capitol of
the United Stales, at d while in the discharge
of his durian as a IMP 0 111 IIVO of the Peo
ple, was an appropriate close oflua active, pa
triot* and duftrog-usbed career.
Resolved, That we, the colored people oi
the city and county of Philadelphia, deep!)
deplore the h** of so fearless an advocate oi
ibe rights of man, and one whom opposition
could not danut, aor tyranny affright.
Resolved, That wc not only admire him lor
his noble stand on the Right of Petitioa, bnt
for his consistent opposition to the abominable
«v«trea of slavery, and the'addition of Slave
Territory in whatever shape it baa presented
Uselt,
R -solved. That a Commutes af three
he apptdated to transmit a copy of there
proceedings to tbe finally of the ifluttrians de
f tpi nlwAiro uuuuwttiwalwlok saawi vor
I AW iwUvß pvcmnewnw nmiiifonf Wsrt*
1 read, accepted, and, after some diaetiamoe,
1 severally put and adopted.
It was ato farther
Resolved. That Franklin Turner, Geo. W,
*0 (fill f ids*** ITWtWW J •••1
f t-v- HV*r ti 14%
SPtftOttf
«jS K§
Wm. Eccrcsary.
Y ...£h- r.
Another—
Sm:-Y«n payer »d brassed to Micnjth
rcs« Xz2^.^?p^r«“i
umger. lour

Once Bi prfcfis oae wiß epeac ia this
fi
A. Lsathz*, 6*;—The Eagle ad
dressed to Asm Jiggers m ns longer taken
out. About mx mouths since be wm caught
stealing sheep, amt would bare been cent to
jail W he hadn’t ntn a*v*y. The last beard
of hba, be wee in Bradford, Canada, and 1
would receuraend you an semi his paper there.
He bred to mpd jeer paper, and might pos
siMy pay for it some time or other if yon
should send >etn*
t M.
f‘- bdw >4 Ms
Every pber- of character ia delineated by
those eommauveatioM, embracing the cool,
st ir I^s, the indefinite, and, as in
the following, indulging in a harmless jeo
d’esprit:
Reason: Dead. Died of ship ferer since
subscribing for North Star. So you see his
aUtr has set to rise no more on earth.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER; MARCH *7,1848.
r— 'T
THE RORTH AND THE FBE
i) SIDEKCY.
The public mind is at present deeply en
grossed, and apparently perplexed, on tho
question as to which of the manstealers, or
hired assassins,” shall be nominated to nm
an candidates, in the approaching political
campaign, for the Presidency of our slave
holding and slavery-propagating Republic.—
Upon whom the nominations will fall, is ex
ceedingly doubtful, if anything can be learned
from newspaper speculations about the mat
ter, for the greatest confusion prevails among
them with respect to it. But one thing is
certain: Slavery, the old President-making
power, ia still on the throne; and it is equally
certain that, as on all former and similar occa
sions, it will so shape and control tho de
cisions of each political party, as to leave
liberty with nothing to hope from either.—
The old game of *4O and *44, will be
played off again, and the friends of freedom
will be again dogged with tbe doctrine of
choosing between two evils, as if moral evils
could be separated. The people of the North
are juat now, if we may judge from their
noisy tumult and clamor, sporting joyfully in
the delusion of imagining themselves parties
to a decision of the question of who shall be
nominated. Infatuated and deluded men,
how long will you be deceived Your voice
in this matter is without weight; your boasted
power is a shadow you have surrendered up
your proper influence in the choice of rulers
in your unholy union with slaveholders; you
have joined hands with tbe wicked man
stealer, to rob and plunder your equal brother;
and though you may share with him, to the
foil, the vile profligacy and infamy of his
crime, as for from being equal to him is
power, you tro but his mean, servile and
cringing tassel. You are eaught in the snare
which you set for others, and are under the
same yoke, in part, that you imposed on the
neck of the oppressed and despised black
man.
It ia in strict accordance whb all philo
sophical, as well as all experimental knowl
edge, that those who unite with tyrants to
oppress the weak and helpless, will soonor or
later find tho ground-work of their own
rights and liberties giving way. The price
of liberty is ete.nal vigilance.” It can only
be maintained by a sacred regard for the
rights of all men. The people of the North
have sought to attain sod secure their rights,
by a most flagrant infringement of the rights,
liberties sad happiness of others. They have
consented to stand side by side with the ty
rant, with their heels ca the hearts of fettered
millions, leaving them to perish under the
weight of what they eaH “our glorious
Union, and in so doing, ltavw given the
Southern slaveholder the most effective power
to control and govern the North. You may
flatter and flounder as you may about Wihnot
Provisos,” No extension of slavery,” and
V Northern President”—you are under the
yoke, yen ate in the traces, and wiH continoe
to be as until yon end your anion with stove
r* oiucrs. ana uiicny soniwion your
fWiHfitfififlin Yah Ihhl Imalr ttr ermtirm# in
*VO UIWWI WwWwj w» vVlillllTO tw
hug your chains.
The grand ever-ruling interest and all
pervading element in this boasted Republic, b
slavery. It reigns without a rival. Repro
bating, «s it dogs*, most Ana twelve hen fired
tuition v'foltors, itjsabte te bring to da aid the
overwhelming suflueues sf hath political par
tics. To this iotortit, the Whig as weH as
(he Democratic party lekng. Yes, they
behmg to it. They bats mutually twora
to remain true to ftorery, whether wh
in without its present limits- ‘‘Our
countrr however bounded.** is but another
Each party is ihs property sf At thwbcUer,
sad voo frltor to thess sorties. You *h»sk
Touvtehrcs free; bo* tbe truth to, yoaMrag
to these minks as much as we ever hetottged
in tW tuvttftl TtiLrmss A old
7.r?T.—..A indrourotoobra
Yam nun cate for tbe mtndcier. 01 mao.
—t— mm mrl criminal at wu Swth.
ar* *Hs r w
mm antim best s^to^d
tS’ taamtasn
aot yoamlvcs with the delusion that you
have say voice ia asmiasting thorpsraouswhs
Mithn Iti. «m’wh’ Oh
If it m aU Im>4 Tbmy wmsm ffiMfcm
t&sssaszpsr*
Sws|3te
Rnobred, That this Staterswilling to tor?
■amwar
fem*m*s*t pup Ale **rt«, to*"*
our common rights.
Resoved, Thai foe Start*** South Carolina
will regard tie passage of anyactby tie
General Government upon the subject of ala*
very, in violation of the right* of the Sooth,
a* annulling the Federal Compact, and upon
lie portage of sod an act, w»« esmifcrfeer
*df at to form a aew, separate and
Tie following are from the Alabama Do
moeratic Convention, and are equally bold
and decided, and we hesitate not to say, that
the spirit which framed these resolutions will
decide die question as to who shall be the can
didate in the approaching election
Reached, That this Convention pledges it
self to the country, and. its meaabets pledge
tbemsehes to each other, tenda no pohUcal
necessity whatever, to support for the office of
President and Vice President of the United
States, aay person who shall not openly anti
avowedly be opposed to either of the forms cf
excluding slavery from the territory of the
United States, mentioned in the resolutions, a*
being alike in violation of the Constitution,
and of the just and equal rights of the citi
zens of the alaveboldiug States.
Resolved, That these resolutions he con
sidered as iosticctior.s to our Delegates to the
Baltimore Convention, to guide them in
their votes in that body; aftd that they
vole for so man for President or Vice
President, who trill not uneymoocaiiy avow
themselves to he opposed to either vf the forms
of restrkting slavery whuk arc described in
these resolutions.
In perfect consistency with the foregoing
resolutions, Congress ban, within the last few
days, voted down the only principle upon!
which the North has made the slightest show
of independence. The only foundation ef the
North is gone, sttd whil e the South stands
firm, bold and united, in favor of the com
plete preservation and exter.skn of slavery,
and the permanent supremacy of the slave
power, the North lies disjointed, scattered,
and confused, with no great and commanding
interest or principle to maintain ox defend.—
They stand like so many Russian soldiers,
respectfully awaiting the command of their
superiors. A threat of dissolving the Union
makes them shiver in their shoes with terror.
The bleeding wounds of outraged freedom
plead, but plead in vain. insulted
liberty, the nu.s>t precious boon, for which
the fathers poured out their warm blood
on the icy earth, pleads for assutanco, but
has no power to move them to manliness,
and coldly* disdainfully and sacrilegiously
called by them an abstraction. They
are your practical men, and prove their right
to the name by adroitly allowing every favor
able opportunity for making an issue with,
and aiming a blow at, the slave power, to
pass unimproved. The Wilmot Proviso was
an issue, and one of much consequence; and
we have no doubt that many at the North sup
posed that now would come a noble struggle on
the part of Northern freemen against Southern
slaveholders; nor can we doubt that many,
in both the Whig and the Democratic party,
meant to stand by the principles of that Pro
viso at all hazards; but they little understood
the base metal of which they were made.—
Large numbers, in both the Whig and De
mocratic party, at the very first word cf their
Southern masters, meanly deserted then prin
ciples, the Whig* dropping entirely the of
fensive word “No more shoe territory,” and
adopting the soulless (me of No more terri
tory;” sod the Democrats, repudiating ibe
idea of making the Wilmot Proviso a tent in
the sorting Presidential contest, thus yielding
up to their masters everything which they
have ever demanded. What respect can the
South have for such servile dough-faces
They have hot to shake foe rod, and they
are down upon their knees at once, soeingfor
pardon. We hate, with a perfect hatred, foe
supercilious arrogance of Southern slave
holders but we cherish a most burning con
tempt for their miserable allies at the North.
We feel disgust, mingled with deeper hate,
for (he mean subserviency of foe North.
We are glad to bebeve that there are yet a few
in each political party who would he pleased
to have foe coming contort waged on foe
principle of the Wilmot Proviso, but they
are foe youthful, aad not foe hvfioenttal of
foe parties. They are the weak against the
strong. Could John Ton Buren rally a few
as noble as himself, a stand might possibly be
made by at least New York aad New Eng
land for freedom. He, however, is unsup
ported, aad we wait to see him crashed,
though we will ever yet hope fas the triumph
of htsnwverteaL
ISAAC EITEf.
This venerable friend of foe Anti-Slavery
cause, and foe cause ef righteousness gen
erally, died at his residence in
OB Friday, 3d of March. Ho had for seven)
yean been almost deprived cf foe qpe of bis
limbo by a stroke of paralyao, after which
he was frequently troubled with turns of
slight Alness, from which he bad speedily re
covered. It was in the hrt of these toms that
his pro spirit went to foe God who gave il
ls his dcub,a bereaved and devoted wife
keees an affections* busbar*, and a large
bou! J r
tuteeie friend. Flow earnest sousocuoe
with foe AnfoSfemy eaaae, we have know*
ifij heoae waa open to all who wore in
o<Jrffoefcwwho bod^riurtpbodown
m this country, aad treated foe dsopised bbdk
m Koines* so tbeueh his
»if w. wnn mS mu* rjjjw

BT Wo am Bon- Jota a
«S*t P^f***c
of AiktMin Y*_i achvinc MMmrtrtttisi
fir V*:
PUCK I pRACBf rZACBI
TMjojrM 11^^^
and for thbreasoa, we Mm that fey pern
a vigorous prosecutkxi of the sod berald
«g »t* Woody trremphs with apparent rap
tore, and glorifying the atrocious deeds oi
bwferoa* heroism on the part of wicked men
engaged in it, hare do sincere lore of peace,
and are now not rejoicing orer peace, but
pbmdtr. They ham succeeded in robbing
Mexico of berterritory, and are rejoicing arm
«f a regard hr peace. Had they not «se
needed in robbing Marino «f the most torpor
tant and naeat vahrsMe part of her territory,
many of those now loudest in then- professions
of fever lax peaee, would fee feudest and
wildest for war—war to the knife. Our soul
is sick of such hypocrisy. We preseme the
churches of Rochester will return thanks to
God for peace they did nothing to bring
about, and boast k an triumph of Chris
fiaajly That eal is put te the wholesale
murder in Mexkw, la just cease for re
jwriug; bat we are net the people to rtjoke,
we ought rather blush and hang our heads
for ahnae, and in the spirit of profound hu
mility, crave pardon for our crimes at the
hands of a God whose mercy endmeth for
ever.
D 7 The Albany Patriot copies that part of
oar letter, published a few numbers back, giv
ing a short account of our meetiag in Troy,
with the following comment:
Colored as well as whita men must judge
for themselves how they are to oktaiu mil
equality, while refusing to assume civil re
sponsibilities, *bd co-operating with those who
throw from their hands the oars by which
alone they can reach shore, beeaase bad men
hate prostituted them to unworthy pur
poses.”
This we regard as a caution to Mr. Garnet
against co-operating with us in sustaining our
independent press, on the ground that we
hate refused to assume “civil responsibili
ties,” and hare thereby thrown away the
means by which alone civil equality is to be
attained. We might ask the Patriot, What
civil responsibilities we have refused to as
sume ?—and should probably receive as an an
swer, You have refused to vote.” True
but not for the reason which the Patriot as
signs. We believe the Constitution of the
United States to be radically slaveholdrng in
its character, requhriag all who swear to sup
port it, to ■become parties to the enslavement
of our race, and to violate the divine law.—
We therefore refuse to bo parties to any such
compact or Constitution. We, go against
any union with slaveholders; and should do
so even though it could be shown that in so*
doing we gave up the only earthly means of
emancipating the enslaved, or elevating the
oppressed. Consistency and the clear conclu
sions of tnrr own moral sense, have marked
out this path for us, and w* dare not swerve
from it.
But is voting the only instrumentality with
which the powers ef prejudice and slavery
can be successfully met and vanquished No!
And we have only to copy a few extracts from
the same Albany Patriot, to show that he is
aware of the existence of another, for more
effective than mere voting. Hear him:
The searching inquiries of a vigilant,
untrammelled press, and the light diffused by
it, slavery cannot endure. It withers before
the ioiuenaes that come from such a quarter.
If mosey and etfort could be copiously ex
pended to gather up feet* connected with the
transactions of the slave system, only about
Washington, and spread them before the
world through the numerous public journals,
the nuisance would shortly disappear from the
Federal District, we have no doubt, is would
be smitten with blight and death elsewhere
by the application of the same means. The
wrong-doer does not like to feel that all eyes
are gazing at him. Of all the different classes
and shades of rascals that throng the high
ways of this worid, there is not probably one
of them more sensitive under impeachment at
the bar of public opinion than the slaveholder
—the wretch who has the hardihood to deny
the authority of God—to rob humanity of its
most precious rights, and virtue itself of its
just rewards. The.press of this country lac
never yet is its majesty bee* brought to bear
upon slavery. Its team are timid, faltering,
servile. Let it pursue in reference to this
grimmest of all Crimea— merchandizing in hu
man sinews and hearts—the same independent
course it ordinarily does to its treatment of
lesser mm*, and resort to balloNwxes would
aearoeiy be demanded or thought of. Slavery
would slink sway and prepare for as emriy
burial before the assaults of sn honest, ener
getic, fearless press.”
Truth, timely, awl well told., Stick to it,
and you wil scarcely ind a disposrtico to dis
courage any colored or white man from co
operating with us in the maintenance of sacks
press.
in’We copy m another part of thin
week's paper, the statement that Gen. Tsy
lor is a member of the Methodist Church,w ith
the coannarnls of the Pennsylvania Freon**
•poo it- We made the restomet* recently at
a meeting in Vienna, where a Methodist Mis
ter present, who ie a friend to the slave, de
nied oar statement. We said thew an we say
aow, we knew of nothing either hi the pro*
fi iwinns or the praetkse of that church which
would ft ©i*bey sisgalsr or iaewnreteat
for General Taylor to be a member in good
and regular Winding Is ft. General Taylor
ie a sktvabolder and a warrior. Both, to be
mum, are inmwawtret with Christies tty, bat
Ww* w» Ire* then dreary, is maintained aad
»./■—l- J i M .i

but iathh. town, not alone, but» associated
with nearly aH the evangelical dnremtrretkms
fe thh fend. The work of the reformer and
(L, f*kri*itan Is to ffrmntTifc JLlj
comumumtm, tbL the oacac «f hearts
peace and glorious liberty nay dawn usao our
these MS belenMd i* tag to
mad hi* friend* wore still scored mi the table,
hjr Alderman Lawrence, Chairman *f the
Conußittee of Reception, aad wow severally
introduced by Alderman Morphy. Their re
ception wa* every way most gratifying. The
following impromptu address, prepared by
TO HARRY OF THE WEST.
©sow. hrndWrt, me. let** harry oat
Torn oar haacMd great;
Foe b! in every street they ahaat.
Brave llsny of the Vlrrt!**
Th* City mrw m all snake.
Ami is bar hath Attad,
And voters make the welkin shake.
Far Harry «f the Wart.
The women, too, and thrkbe* sweet.
Are suving with the vestagg
Oki Broadway mow i* *B ifite,
And rtery heart set aw blest,
A* th* wma ms ronad, Mel aaaa arm*,
Brave Harry of he West."
Behold the aged statesman ccaret
In highest honors dt eased
No conquering hero ever shoot
like llarry of the West-
Nor shall a patty freling dare
To ism one narrow test.
But all sMi m tin tiilhatr itiin
To Harry a i the West.
For th' glorious day is mating nrar.
'll ben wrong shntt be redressed.
And Freedom’s Star dune laigbi aad char
On Harry of the West.
The* hail! aH hail! tbriee houored Sage,
Ore meat <lMtt»sui«k*d reuatl
We’d venerate tliy good okl age.
Brave Harry ot the West'
A spontaneous bunt of applause followed
this simple yet beautiful tribute to the distm
guimhed guest, which, from the happy mud
spirited style in which it was performed, it
was impossible to repress. At its conclusion,
Mr. Clay shook each brother and Abby most
cordially by the hand, and thanked them for
their kindness, not forgetting to pay a merited
compliment to the composer, who, on Una
occasion joined the brothers in singing.
ffy Hie shove extract from a New York
paper will astonish, no leas than grieve the
numerous Astt-Slavery friends of these gifted
singers; especially wHI their English and
Irish friends be pained and mortified by this
unholy prostitution of their noble powers.
The Hutchinson family, known and distin
guished in this country and in Europe, as
among the truest and best of liberty’s friends,
singing the honor and praise id* a slaveholder!
What a spectacle for the departed spirit of
Roger*! Wo find it hard to fancy the angel
hearted Ahby singing the praise of a notorious
trafficker in human flesh. We charitably
believe that her heart was not there; and if it
was, the angel was not. We have frequently
seen her and heT younger brothers strongly
tempted to violate ihck principles, and have
witnessed with heartfelt pleasure their calm
and beautiful meekness, as they have turned
to the infernal imps, saying, Get thee be
hind me, Satan!” and we fondly hoped they
would bold out to the end. A* they com
menced in the spirit, we hoped they would
end in the same but alas l a here of popu
larity has triumphed over their love of prin
ciple. Their moorings awe loosed, and there
is no telling where they will stop. Yet we
hope they will repent of this sin against the
bleeding captive, and again rally under the
banner of emancipation. Oar words are
those of sorrow, uct of anger.
Howitt’s JoraNAL.—Through the kind
ness of our friends William and Mary Howitt,
London, we are to receive regularly in future j
their valuable Journal. We feel like boasting
a little over this favor. Out Slavery-loving
and Negro-hating countrymen, will hardly j
believe us, when we tell them that those just
ly popular authors, are not ashamed to be
known as our personal friends. They can
hardly believe, that a gentleman and lady of
education and refinement, who have written
more works and volumes, than many who
claim refinement in this country have ever
read, of si) authors put together, can be per
sonal friends of s despised negro—a fugitive
slave yet such is the ease,and weetU upon
those of our countrymen, who cherub the vile
spirit of hatred against us and our oppressed
and neglected brethren, to note the feet.—
Look at the feet, and suspect yourselves of
narrow minds and vulgar feeling, which you
would do well to banish from you forever.—
Do not respect, because they regard and re
spect ovr nee but let the feet remind you,
that your views and feeing* ate foreign to
thooe entertained or cherished by the cultiva
ted asd gifted Author* in question. Mr. and
Mrs. Howitt are oot the favorite authors of
England’s lords and nobles. They am alto
get ber too Republican in then views, and
philanthropic in their feelings, to be very
highly esteemed among what art termed the
aristocracy of that nMe old land. (Wc fove
the very country, aad not without cause.)—
They we Democrats hi the highest, truest,
aad heat Wise of the void. They are firm
believers in the derianrtren of American inde
pendeuee, aad are anxious to see hs great and
glorimifc principles reduced lo practice through
out the world. They cherish a burning love
for this country, and look forward with ardent
hope to the perfect realxtation of our princi
ple* to off the people of our land. If ay they
continue lo hope and to work for th* glorious
miiawmwmu. Then highly interesting
hi tins growing city, w it already has in New
Yack, Beaten, MBMphin, wd sthor «Wes;
and hi order to do drift, there aoght to he an
agency at enee established in this city. We
Shad U hf «o advertise regularly the monthly
arrival of this journal, aad state fee® ii»
Vnuanw <a W.i.—Ai Pari< vbn
tfc. (Ll iti main «oa (kata, a lad, aaM
WdSogm, ifi»Wart)te-kiliktfra>-
isst goad fattens imogioaWe os this oarth, to
gubt a buttle. Ho replied, **No madam: next
m haring nao, it in dm gvw*—^*
BIBLES Ilf THE lOLTH.
Ml grieved bccaure we dccn**] ,t
•w «Julj !o cipow: the hollow scheme ori*.
3Ung WU 0)0 cf ihe AMi-Shm
Te eat ur -d« «l»e pretence of giving B
We* to the slaves. The following, lake
[TJ, "r*"*"’
M «™>Pt u fite Ac sh, o u*
fW J P™ W». HT D,pmi„ t
Ac dcj. of ,bc Bftfc, j, to ,ccc Ji, lfc
MwAwr the Chnaiiaurty c f Y(WT
♦•Tww w Cmin-fj, I.ito TLa
Boston >he
a report of the tml and m rr .,i
n.mt.*n, «t the Align* LrJ
Pleas, for 1847, vS”
on a chares of teaching a dfni'i
Bible! The following the *“a
we commend U te the carrel <*rv«i,,
ill who claim to be humane ami Christ
Wood Cocxtt, to wit —The Gt»rd
Jurors empaneled and sworn to ircuire of o f.
fences committed w the body of sard county
m their oath present: That Martha Christum’
bile of said county, being an evil disposed jer
»on, on the fourth day cf July, in the year of
>ur hlcrsed Lord one thousand hVcorod
ind forty-seven, at Righteous Ridge. in said
meety, not having the fear of God b fere her
syes, hut moved and instigated by the IXtil
aickedly, malicioisly, and feleniet sly, c d
teach a certain black and negro ucman ran ed
Rebecca, alias Black Beck, to road in the
Bible: to the great displeasure of Almighty
Hod, to the pernicious example of others in
ilre case offending, contrary i«> the h rm of the
itatute in such evues made and pTcv uted, ri d
tgarnst the peace and dignit y cf the Ccir.ntcn
weaith of irginia.'
Unnatural and inhuman ss it may seem,
the defendant in this case was found pt.ihy,
ind on the neat morning wasbrvupl.t into
Peart for sentence. Judge Shackle! ar dwelt
ipon the great favor extended towards ler on
tier tnal; the euormiiy of theoflei.ee, ard
.he necessity of faithfully adiunisuiir.g the
law; and she was sentenced to ten years ccr,-
inement in the peurientiury, and to |ay li e
:«mMs. Tlie defendant's counsel m.nu diati tv
ippealed from the cruel sentence, at d the tr
ies are now aw aiting the decision in the hich
Court.
“Those who read this indictment car.rrt
'ail to see kow ill adapted the J* ms aid; r<-
fdenit of Common law are to the dcu ar.cs cf
davety.”
ID* The Pioneer and Herald of Freedom
■ame to us last week in a new ar.d beai tiinl
Iress. In typographical execution, and in
ptahty of paper, it is decidedly superior, and
righly creditable to our friend To!man, tho
printer. With this change in the physical,
here may have come another, and far more
important, (though yet undeveloped,) in ike
spiritual character of tho paper. Henry
Clapp, Jt., has been succeeded in the edit' rial
oiuur by our old friend George Bredburn, Esq.
What he will make of it, what views it will
hold, what principles will support, is quite
uncertain. It has been for some titr.e pcm an
advocate of Non-Resistance. Wc hate rea
son to believe that it will he such 10 longer,
for friend Bradium n a war men. It was
once a free meeting paper it cannot Le so
now, for friend Brcdlvm is cn ordtr men.
It was once a moral suosien paper it can tt
be so now, for triend Brcdlvm is a
It was once a notwetiug paper it cancel bo
so now’, for friend Brcdlvm is a toting n tv.
It was once a staunch disunion j bj cr it can
not be so now, for friend Breel urn is a Cmcn
men. It was once an anti-!ibcity {arty ja
per; it cannot be so now, for friend Ircdinn
is a hUriy yarly man. Our friend Britibtm
nays the paper shall be an organ of litnsr[f
<mhf” and if so, wc presume the Plot ter has
become a liberty party paper. And so wo
go round, round, rt ur.d
lEf’ We have received a letter ftom Mr.
Collins, of Springfield, which lie culls a
Jefenoe of bis views on the subject of coin cd
churches. e feel that he bus no dum vp
sa ns to publish his letter, since we have al
ready published two in another paper, ar.d to
which we have merely replied, with what
justice our readers can judge. We are the
more disinclined to the publication of his let
ter, on account cf his non-payment of the
postage. It is too bad to subject us to the
expense of printing and paying {outgo
riso; yet we may in this irstauce do both.
Lite or John Randolph.— John Randolph,
a colored servant, (says the Tnbcne) tf it*
famous Randolph of Roanoke and long in his
service, but among the four hundred left free
by bis will, proposes to publith the “The
Private Life of John Randolph,” includiig
letters, poetry, anecdotes, &c., Lc. Many
eminent men who knew the subject and know
the author have warmly aided tne enterprise-
The book eauaot fail to be worth the dollar
asked foe it. The author ia tow tohnurg
smbaeribers m our city. Names may be left
for him at Burgess, Stringer k Co.'s corter
of Broadway and Ann New York.
Slit* Case.—ln the ease uf Sally Miller,
ef New Orleans, who, it will be recolh cted,
■•cd for her freedom seme time since, c» ibe
ground that she was ef whim descent, tho
jury were unable te agree open a verdict.
The Picayune aeys, that eleven w ere in favor
■>f confirming the freedom of the respondent,
holding her to he the genuine Salome Muller,
daughter of t German mdepptmsert whilo
mo mrnhai an behcHing for to he a colored
woman, s slave by birth, asi rightfully the
property of the demandants.
Mkiauks ia Kilntucxv. The Kentucky
Legislature has refbnd to admit a colored
mschiwic to move into that State from Vir
ginia. The reasons assigned were various—
bat among them, amiss ehkf were thesi,
that they wanted mere whhe mechanics, a; J
they should never have them until labor wts
made reput-fdc.
Ulians liw .1 111111 l’ lA* I j iiiaa-JLmiw
Jo** C. Calhoun Is said to have teriws’y
deebr ;vi the corresponds. .ee between hims lf
and f»e celeb. at d Dtkti, which will be
fousd m another io!umn, to be all a Crbrica
pfo.t Is it so!
COMMCIICiTIM*.
THE WAnOJf’l DE»TI!(T. /7
li vu truly s«d by a great writer, that
Not Wi*V-r*is*d Mm,
got mm wbs t*w tWr rigtes. Mi bMHf, te
mirnl*m iVn,”
constitute a State. He might hate added
Know the right, and knowing, dart matotaii
it; for by mointaimog the right, era eaa be*
premve out rights the two are in Horn soc
the same.
In the light of the truths quoted shore
where boor State?—what the destiny of tb<
nation Men who date ha free, who dan
dim and liberty, juntas,/or all, without wbid
thitr own rights eaa newer be far a
assure, where -are they Not, tnslyf loa f
theac whom the nattn;i d«!ight» to toww DC
theta is oo better criterion by w bieh to judgi
whether or not the nation’s be true,
than to look U those wh* m the people lort
and reTcre. The highest effise w this country
b now filled by a m** lheTe 10 **"3
nut, m dtftaoce of Uw, human or dime,
•laverr's fi»»y P ,3£ wkh commanding
talent, with no perwastwe eloquence, with
every h’art-throb to unison with slavery, yei
fill of hrpoemy, prating of equality. Socfc
it he who now stands before the world, ac
one chosen to execute the will of the Repub
lic. If any man wishes U> be popular, to rise
to high stations, be must bow down to thal
relentless power that is trampling on the peo
ple's rights, spurning their petitions in Con
g-oss, and sending millions of their hard
earned treasure in the accomplishment of its
lawless schemas of aggrandisement. Look
ov<*t the land—North, South, East and Weal
—and who are the min that away the hearts
of the millions
New England has beT soulless giant bow
ing bineath the October Sun” of the OM
Dominion, to the lordly planters, in whose
willing ears he utters the pledge that the sous
of tbi Pilgrims will not listen to the wail ol
the captive silent as Ihi glare in his seat in
thi San its, white words aw uttered that might
move tbs very stonia to mutinystanding
in the struts of a Southern city, with the air
of a cringing menial, and on the spot on
which the rights of old Massachusetts were
disregarded, and h ;r rcmrablc agent insulted,
uttering soft words of sickly complimeat to
the very min who did the deed.
From the bloody field in Mexico, where the
fierce din of battle is raging, comes up,
among the sounds of deadly strife, ths stern
cal! of the loader in that bloody conflict—
Give the Mexicans h—11!” The horrid
words ring through the land, and the very
men who know that every battle gained is but
a victory over tbeir own and their country’«
laws and liberties, shout praises to him whe
raised the fiend-liki bail]>cry.
In the distant West dwells a man growr
hoar y in crime, for many years a slaveholder,
opposed to ail 44 schemes of emancipation,
gradual or immediate.”
He is now in the evening of his days, with
out a symptom of bringing forth the fruit meet
for repentance, striving to make peace with
his Makar, by reputing the lip-service of a
firmal church, while out of ths abundance of
ih g uilty heart coma the words of cheer giv
en to his son when on the e«e *f departure
fur the battle-field, to fight is aid of slavery,
and the pieut mvA that he 100 might slay a
M ixican Yet be is the 44 embodiment”
of the principles of multitudes in this
Northrrn land, honored, almost worship
ped, by the learned and pious. From
lie Key Sums State goes forth on*
of her favored sons to his seat iu the Seriate
Chambir at Washington, and there labors
agiinst thi prohibition of slavery b extension
ov.*t a wider ar-i, the glorious free
birthright of the dwellers among the tvfld
AHaghaniea, for ths alkanes and favor of an
oligarchy of tyrants, who know no law hut
iJU’ir own will. Yet thisa, and such as
these, arc the men deemed worthy to consti
tute the State. They knave not their right;
they dare not maintain their rights, unless it
he their right to compel the whole nation to
help hold three million slaves, and, by doing
so, 16s» their own liberty. There is no bold
Standing up for freedom, for manhood, among
the men high in power. Verily 44 the whole
heid is sick, the whole heart is faint.” Our
44 destiny” is, and will be, a thing of shame
end scorn, unless the people rouse right
.speedily, cast aside their idols, and maintain
ihair rights. G. 1). S,
THE KOSCIUSKO TRIBUTE TO
COLORED AMERICANS,
Among tin illustrious foreigners who con
sumed their bist energies in aid of the Ame
rican Involution, the name of Thaddeus Kon
ciuski d .-serve* honorable mention; for hi,
as diJ indeed Lafayette and others, believed
that tin struggle thus commenced in the sacred
nami of liberty, was not fur partial and com
ptexioiiil d;s uetjo.i*; hut meant what was
tiien zealously prulcssed to be, cone other
t!ia i th 3 s ivering allegiance from Monarchical
usurpmon, that all a.id every one on Ameri
ca i Hi publican soil, should be 44 Free and
E’laal,” as endowed by iheir Creator, to en
j°y certain unalienable rights, among w hich
Wa hfe, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
Koseiusko, the gallant Pole, was young
when the news readied his ear, that America
WA c.ideavuriitg to release her neck from
yoke. llj promptly devoted hiraseU
t J lk *-rvic j, and displayed a heroism, which
UiJ j» universal respect. Washington loved
bu-e hm 341^3 |n^jn his
ra r v l)Jt his manly heart was saddened,
T I* lrn tlm l e Ci or '’d man was not to be a
mi'iv al n lh><C right*—rights too, which
many a a, hi.
fou ht
th> Ujr *hy presumed, that when
1 all, lrresplcu e
fred>
.to liberty have
*u
nunahua ha. t,.- ej 0 aw4lKlts|(lu
wait for the crumb* that £*u floa
festive board.
Kosciusko, with the fooling that all Amen
eans should have been proud t* e*h,h* t hui
sad to tell, f v »w did no—endesvored u»
•oms signal compensation to those with
wrong* bis owe had taught him to sytap*,
Ihisi for Uisir devotion in hours that 44 tned
Qtsn’s souls,” and as a grateful tribute lo the
|in(Mf««W»irU.Mwiw
ttttdf fjflfgtp
was to be fuJd km ££*Z
object was iluftMad ,|%M^flJ*..lf.®<
Unted Static, ef tbn ilhrtkiisn doner, *s
r will wm pat m» rt»bied»fCf|miiiiiii liffir
end adoes** *am, mmmbm
*iewawo*de“ wmeh* then b—Mineii and
better daughter*.” Jeflfersc* traraAsud At
1 tune to Beejenib I*. bHN>W
quest amounting thee te wasrinim
ed by tbe legal beimof the donor. lean Wed
C parties subsequently recommended tint the
(md if recovered should be employed by the
1 trustees in buying m 4 oduMtiifcoinve duld
ree, with the vieer oTaeodfatgthen loLibera;
asobjyet far enough st nut* see from the do
nor's intention «ir*
la July, 1547, the foßewfog wan pubKM
in several i*pe»:
Tub Hctas er Koecicsxo.—Washington
letters announce that the lien. Reverdy
Johnson and Major Tocbmao hied edition
bet week ia the Orphans’ Court ef tm Dw
trict, praying «h*t further proceeding* be «a
ken upon the former petitioowWith Major T.,
i filled in that Ceort ia Jaeaacy bet-end that
j Col. George Bombed, administrator dr bonis
no* of Kosciusko's came, be otdered tnsbow
cause why be should not distribute the bad ot
the estate amongst the next km of Gea. Kos
ciusko. The prayer wa» granted, and the
parties hare to appear on the 20th of Aogest
next. Tbe estate amounts* about $60,000,
of whirh fire or six thousand an in stock,
the restdee in cash. Estkosaod Zolkowskk,
tbe grand children of two sisters of Gea. Kos
ciusko, are tbe only distributees.
We bare been enable to leant tbe eoede*
ston of the matter, and would be grateful
for any information thereon; and would also
be glad to bare any fact* reiatirs to the exis
tence of a school near Newark N. J., under
title of a 44 Kosciusko School.”
The following question, was once pot to a
Florida Planter of 25 years standing
Has any property left by will to any
colored person, ever been honestly and fairly
administered by any white person Mark
his answer: 44 Such instances might possibly
bare happened, but never to my knowledge.”
When will tbe colored man gel justice
awarded him in America *—w. c. x.
Canandaigua, March 4th, 1948.
Fuikxd Douglass :—I was very much in
terested in looking orer the last number of the
Star, in tbe address to tbe Christians of Roch
ester, and your strictures on Revivals. Per
haps you would be interested in hearing that
we have protracted meetings in the various
pro-slavery churehes in this village; and 1
think this week, it is called a revival Souls
born into the Kingdom." You must not in
fer, that we are not a religious people, be
cause tbe advocates of tbe suffering slave were
shut out of every maetiug-houae in this place.
Almost our whole population are members ol
the church and almost ever winter, special
efforts are made to gather the rising genera
tion into the Aik of Safety." Yet lam in
clined to think, this revival was commenced so
late in the season, that few will be gathered.
Canandaigua, is t very religious place.—
Piety is fashionable, and few are so short
sighted, as to their Interest to remain long one
of the 4i £okL” The praises of God arc echoed
back from the walls of the sanctuary, on each
returning Sabbath. The condition of the poor
heathen on the other continent, is well re
membered. Weekly prayers are put forth in
their behalf; and money is poured forth freely
to convert them from the error of their opin
ions. But heathens ia America, heathens
that are made such by tbs wicked and ungod
ly laws of tills professedly Christian land, and
whose members are increasing at the rate of
100,COO per year; tli.-ir case must pot be
mentioned, and rather than be annoyed with
such an uupic uwuil topic, the churciies of this
village have excomoauuicaiod every Abolition
ist from their communion. Their business is
IP preach the gospel sod anvwafuk, and not
meddle with such secular matters ns slavery.
Thsy hive too mteh religion, to rebuke tbe
wicked and cruel war with Mexico; toe much
religion to put forth any well directed effort to
stay the tide of intemperance, (hat now ap
pears to be coming in like a flood; too much
religion, to rebuke the system of caste and re
spect of persona, by which the image of God
in the person of the poor colored man, is flout
ed and despised in the sanctuary. They have
a higher mission. Souk must not have their
attention turned off from the one thing need
ful, by the S3culiar topics. To euetam aa un
popular reform with them, would be tbe great
est folly. The gospel is to do up tho whole
work of the world's redemption why should
they lose their .reputation by attacking any
oue specific wrong?
In revivals like the present, the all absorb
ing interest is the love of souk; but how much
real love for souls there is among die revaluta,
I will illustrate by an incident: The Rev. T.,
a great revivalist, who formerly preached for
oie of the moat aristocratic and bitterly pro
slavery churehes of this village, during the
progress of a revival io addressed a
young man of my acquaintance, as follows
Dear H., how 1 love youreoul," throwing
his arm around bis neck. H., replied, 44 Mr.
T., I have lived with you several years ie
aaandkfua, aad have mrt you several tunes
every week on the side-walk, and yet you
never appeared le know er notice me. 44 My
soe* is do better than I am,” and tamed sway
in disgust. Tbe mass Rev. was on terms ef
intimacy with e respectable family by tbe
name of J. About 1849 Mr. J., died insolv
ent. His widow remarked to me some years
after her husband's death, that Mr. T., used
frequently to visit them when they were rich,
but now that she was ltd! a poor widow he
never called.
The doctrine meet streooouelj insisted np
on during tbeee seen re of awakening, ie the
total depravity of men, A Rev. Doctor ef
Divinity of yourrety, who peeehod here net
many days ago, io Ms eodeavor to napraaa
this doctrine upon his sofieoee, acknowledged
hiois -lf to bo a devil. I quote hk language,
“Wc are very devik io Ihy sight.” know
mankind io general, do sot take sorb man to
be io earnest ut aw* expressions hot I am
mclmod to think, tkttoa far aa a pre-elsvcry
tmaisuj are concerned, tbe mao was not wide
of the mark sad the* tbs convert* «f
tw of Matthew, ofthe wST
Yews, for the trail, _
m UAfiDVD
cjmUmMi gnrrwgy
*>flP* MUBCHUfIW
Mr!«SLi for ilMitMlnlw settle
«T«raoocasty m Medford, aad his ram fchili
tte,bi.uweChrte« abU-m^ea-gC
tad ui bi> wnM HfrilT for ibe dcnw
SMMTtfli, ‘awlintend is cw;
gaod work. A*4 be, too, boo wow the ad
nintfaft tad respact of afl who deptee tb
existing etflo of society, aad eaa appredob
a neater of tte Beaton School Committee
tbo question Of equal privileges for tmksn
children woo rtiapw—ei, aad wtea the vo*
wa» taken, tea tor omij two. a tte An
dip of Barton, oaold bo faaad to nans tbd
wtenaad tteir teote bin fane. Ma t
flaifool aad Gao. 8. HiAisni won tteao two
Afl honor uj them for their noble ifeeed, which
«hoqgh a itself tet a simple art of jastio
to an outraged tad persecuted dan, wa
then aad there a truly noble example—tw
Caleb Sterna aad John T. Safest, ii
their pulpit services, always remembered—yet
haps we should say ntverforgot —tte crush©
sad bleeding slate, la the name of thro
million American tendwea, I thank thee
from aa overflowing heart. Their auaiam
tieoa hart teea a sublime exception to tb
fraend rale. They are worthy (by coataar
of being called Ministers of Christ, for, fib
hw. *h*y believed ia doing good.
They have both lectured for tte Adetphi
Uaioa Library Araceiatkm ia Boston, on ra
rioua aubjecta connected with science an
genera] improvement of man, and thus don
their part in dispensing tte dew drop# c
knowledge to the colored people who wer
denied usual facilities for meets] cultivation
Their complete restoration to health ia sis
eerely hoped for. The eaaaa of haruanit
has yet a claim upon their aorrfoea, Massa
chuaetts may well be proud of eueh clergy
men.—w. c. a.
ID* the following beautiful Hoes were sen
to us by a very talented Anti-Slavery young
lady of Whitehaven, England. We hope
frequently to brighten our Star with rayi
from her heavenly mind:
Friind Douglass, —The following well
known and favorite lines have long been
familiar to moat of us; but h struck me, ix
thinking of them, that they seemed to concca
under their light and airy imagery, a dee)
and too often neglected truth, which I ven
tured to embody as below:
THE FLOWER AND THE STAR.
A Flower beheld a Star above,
Aad longed to reach its airy love;
Bat loafed ia vain. A dew-drop fell
Into the soft aad fragrant cell;
Aad then the War was imaged there,
As if it dropped from upper air,
Aad, gliding down from Heaven, bad come.
To Sod on Earth a kindred home.
May they not be read thus!
A Spirit fused on Heaven above,
Aad longed to centre there its lose;
But longed in vain. This sonny world
Still kept its skyward pinions farted;
Earth's loves, aad joy s, aad circling ties.
Would never let that Spirit rise.
Until the dew of Sorrow fell
Into its deep and secret cell;
And then the Star of heavenly love
Looked from its throne of light above,
AnJ, backward, fast baptising wave
Jts lustrous beams unruffled gave.
H. M. P.
the poetry of life.
u Them is nothing ia life worth living far, bat the
poetry of it.”—HaXLITT.
Wc are all pods, in a measurein this
prosaic age, unfortunately not enough so.
There is such a grovelling and mind-debasing
scramble after what are falsely called the
refines of Hfe—the politics—the wealth—the
possessions—and, in but too many cases, the
bare work-and-eat vegetation, that the poetical
and real existence is crushed out, cramped,
strangled, under a superincumbent mass of
antagonistic evils. Still, poetry ia there; and
we sometimes, by its ever-active energy, con
trive to render poetical, ia some way or other,
those want sod nnfroitfoßest of subjects.
The hooest politician (a turns nmturm that but
rarely visits our planet,) sometimes, ia the
height of Us partisan enthusiasm, imagines,
that if his creed were adopted, all would go
on smoothly aad well; aad conjures op, in
glowing colors, before his minds eye, a
poetic picture of a happy aad prosperous
people, governed by wise and ooaseteatinus
rulers. The money-seeker, ia the midst of
Ua cares, aad calculations, aad tricks for
ward, with a sigh aad a poetic aspiration, to
the time when be shall have «—-d wealth,
aod shall he surrounded by bis friends, loved
and respected. Aad even the poor day
worker, toiling us ia a monotonous existence,
from week to week, at times, also, has ?-m
humble imaginings of a quiet cottage aad a
happy ooatested family in store for Mm in the
future. 41 People fancy they hate poetry, aad
they are all posts and mystics.”
was the only was
imaginary all pain all good—all eril, m
aat, when we properly eomsder, without say
truthful application, at least ia a
seuae. We imagine something the futsrr,
which we hope to attain, and, ia imagining
roafly f amen, perhaps mom than when we
grasp the roafey. The travel)* on a read,
whs is constantly Woking forward to same
within hmsaetf, How beautiful. would 1 wees
b but little beautiful or rrumrfcahfc; that the
sun's rays and Ms own imngmUim gave the
prospect a 8 its flrillianej. He jsdnappoiated.
But why should ha He has already en
joyed ss msefc the iraaginaiive, as if it had
been a real picture. Twas Fanny that
failed »hs |i slum, Ilia true; but was it mu
haoowfatl Why. thatb eanqilaiaf If foe
tag. Jh pehßftr that law hath trefondNiy on

Hum which km had Traded Said ha u In
wm-i is mirm f
ttmiv, bvixy ii ihM|t Imm, iii haviag
ttraagewsya. Bat «a viaiing tk» hada,
Y found theca beautiful iodeud, a* arc all
Nature's works; hat I wse disappointed to
fad they did a* paean the kind of hnuiy
that I had imagined. Aate the people, they
an all .aan and women, magularty akka in
erory important isqierts, m ail ambled
neoatriro As did tha bafdkr, n do we
fdetafteae good ap the reality, and ia war
On hopes—bow fruitful ate they of poetic
awafiminga! The former, as he toda and
lafaon to prepare hie bred, and sowing hh
seed, wesniy drags mod-laden fret to nod
fin ever tha dammy field, is praeaerol enough.
Bor presently hie thaaghte wander to the
peoapect of e yellow harvest: He thinks tt
tha firtort; he imagines and conjures uj
pleasurable scenes of gladness and hilarity—
a plentiful crop sad a sunny autumn sky; ai*
how poetical he becomes! Forgetting all
hit present ill*—his lean—hit weariness—
j his anxious forebodings, he finds is their stead
more than the pleasures of a happy hanresi
boon.” There is hot little poetry in tb<
toilsome labors of the mechanic, as he worki
on at his daily occupation. Bat be dreams
of home and the happy smiling face* that an
there, made happy and smiling by his labors
immediately he ia a poet; he smiles, toe, fin
very sympathy with the beautiful picture be
five him. The reality in these cases is no
real. The fanner appears te he weanly sowing
his sesd; hot is base ia reality I He is doing
more than that: be ia aiao,and in*a men
heartfelt sense, enjoying the festivities of liu
harvest. The mechanic appears to be labor
ing at his calling; hut is he not at home
surrounded by the smiles of a happy family
And our fears—what unheard-of ills d<
they conjure up! Are we not made miser
able by oar fears, as we are tha reverse bj
our hopes 1 The roan of business fears sonu
loss or misfortune, which he expects wil
overwhelm him in irremediable ruin and ii
dread of its coming, he pastes, oh, how man}
anxious day* and sleepless nights! The evi
comes, and he is surprised to find how sligh
is its influence—how little difference it make
upon any important item of his life. Ho stil
►feels, and thinks, and acta, and has as res
an existence as before, slightly modified, per
haps, in some of its forms.
Is there not ppetry, also, in our religion!
beliefs? Yea; the highest and the nobles
poetry. The id<*a of Goo is a conception thi
most poetical and sublime. Some cannot, o
at least, do not realise this Idea. They can
not conceive at a Great First Cxvse
Alas, for them! Say they, M What proof d<
you bring What evidence do you produce
Prove it by reason or analogy.” Prove tha
the sun shines at noon-day! If you wer<
born blind, or if your owl-like propensities
lead you to close your eyes against the light
how can you know what it is to behold the
glorious sun in heaven*’ Prove that yoi
exist—how you came to exist—why yoi
®xwt. Prove that the seed sown grows—tha
h gets roots, and leaves, and flowers. Provi
how sod why it does this. Prove that tlx
stars which we see twinkling in the firma
meat, are suns; that the planets are workh
like our own that they are all sustained ii
their orbits by the law of gravitation or an)
other law—probably they are; but prove al
1 these, and many, other things, equally difli
cult of being exhibited to our cloudy intellects
Prove anything, everything else—or try to d<
an; but degrade not the idea ef Goa, bj
making it a mathematical proposition, to b<
proved by the rules of Euclid, and winding
up with a prosaic y. e. d. Oh, no! Tbw
is not the way to find out God. It was ir
this way that the philosopher sought to know
him; sod was forced to confess, The raor«
I seek to ksow God, the further I am from
knowledge of him.” If you easoot rcalizt
the idea of Gem, without proof, from reason
and*argumentation, such proof would avail
you little. If you easaot find God in yooj
own soul, it is vam for you to search lor Him
ia a book of revelation, or among the
sophisms Of logic. f
The visions of Swodenhouig, and of many
others, were manifestations, beautifully poetic
asd influential to those where they
originated; sad oothisg dm leas as, because
there are many aids that consider them
absurd and ridiculous. The reason of this
may he, either that the expression' ii too
feeble, and does sot convey say adequate iJea
of the thought* meant to bo expressed* or
the thoughts themselves arc ton poetical to
be appreciated by more prosaic cooceptfona.
The troubles of life—tbs workaday cxist
eaes—tha constant earning that are have
w to preserve it from assuming shapes that
we not agreeable or ssefal—ihs keeping
rod dressing” of the world—there is not
wueh poetry ia that, Few of re do that
for its owe sako; and fix tbs simple reason
hat it is sot poetical. Wo mast be doing
worthing; we casual Hva inactivity,
soik is law of our eviateasr The Earth
■be Witt ass support aay of os m idleness.
Wdrk most he daae by aareshea, to peuearo
■net As hath ids share sad sore. Work
would til nrndt more poetical, if if were move
squally divided. It is because many—indeed
borl iff of are avev-hmdeaed, that it hm
mcoom as prosaic. The kind pf work that
sade matters bairn, We m»y edhe^rew
one* to them. Ore asyappmr Mpoefed
whwssir^
L l ,ij l
m ***+•*—-mSNi
**G». Tiiwt Mmoww.-Mr. K»
Mtejjf tfMttit TniHeraL
1 rZZZ?
WtKJuX ICDCfI I® 0-» pHp9c bw vUHIWB»““
Ik tlx* tut onew h*fe Mho mi miiii w
l l recesthr ttv 9 liilfl 6mb Mraaswyipi
«be informs* me that Cew. Taitsr was a
Mabv sf the MedtoAs Ckorck. Ha said
feast.” lie lean stwemtd lip «U
nohhw's eves iplts Itbiad laciionßacit tad
tpuke el tbt oU way of onakind,
although be did not exactly swear, yet be
Pled same rat birsh language, toothing the
f old saner, has enaaefitma ids Icrpitfm
i Horn.*
We woe no! a wise before that "OH
Rough and Reedy” wee actually a pillar n
I “the Church Militant,” though we knew that
churches sad rmssirmary societies held hint to
high esteem, sod regarded him as a kina of
laj-mammanr of their religion. It now ap
pears that heis a Methodist, sad exbans and
sheds tesss at loss feasts «>d says hard things
eh this aouads when wo re
member Florida, end Monmxy, end Buena
Tina! the Serawole, hunted aad torn with
dogs, sad the Mexican murdered at fata fire
side or altar! The inconsistency is too bor
-111116 to he fuilii ions, and can only excite dis
gust sad Seething. What as association! the
mao-killer and the Methodist! Blood-hounds,
bayonets, artillery, grape-shot, bomb-shells,
battle-fields,wad tawe Feasts!” We. have
hoard of feasts which he has prepared, love
feasts'* for the wolves aad vultures sod ol
his exhortations to give the Mexicans “lesse,"
a little more grape,” with certain other sug
gestions less pious than emphatic. Aha fat
ths moral aud religious sentiment of otn
country when such a nan u chosen as to
representative, or is deemed worthy of itx
honors
Fnuwmt Mtrmo.— Captain Mix?rat
of the Third Municipality police, says the
New Orleans Bee, together with ssveraijpolici
officers, arrested on Sunday last, in the boost
j of Mr, Mechina, situated on Lore street, Ifr
i tween Poet and Music streets, a gang of fret
negroes and slaves who were congregatec
there for the purpose ofprracJting. Mr.Meehini
was also arrested, and had in his possession t
targe Holy Bible and three small prayer books
and also a purse with s3*l. Machine gavt
bail for his further appearance.
A tailor, working at has trade
aad delivering lecture* to princes; Ho
my, wasafteilor; Stowe, Ike historian
of London, wan a tailor; Robert Hill,
Ike self-taught Greek end 1 satin scholar,
waa a Hertforshire tailor; Geo. Btd
lard, a foamed Saxon ackolar and his
torian, waa alao a tailor; Jot. H. Buck
ingham, of the N. E. Galaxy,, aaa a
poor boy, aad becoming a reporter, be
floon waa at the head of the corpe edi
torial of Boaton. Eliba Burrist, the
learned polyglot, who knows 66 lan
guage*, was of a poor family, and was
apprenticed to a blacksmith. He he-j
gun the Latin, and could read Virgil in
one winter; J»e studied Greek at the
anvil; be then went through French,
German, Spanish aad Italian; all be
fore he waa 18. Ha learned Hebrew
with ease, doing all bis reading before
breakfast.
Mr. Burnt! says, that by a perse
vering culture of the mind, aa eminence
might be attained equal to any that has
formerly been won; that what man has
done, man can do again, and He who
formed our spirits, placed among our
common faculties, those which may be
polished into an exquisite perfection, as
ever the mind of man has heretofore
shown them to have been.
From the earliest stages of life up to
manhood, the mind of man was con
stantly receiving false images and in
fluences. He was taught to believe
that there were some, who were born
irith faculties which were denied to
others, and be who possessed these
faculties more than another, was said
to possess native genius. If a man
outstripped his fellows, and reached
the eminence which was the sure re
ward of his exertion, the world ascribed
it to his native genius, unmindful of the
Sisyphus-like labor of each step, which
led him toward the accomplishment of
his purpose.
The idea that native genius was con
fined to the few, has deterred many
from tasting the fruit of the tree of
knowledge. Nothing was to be gained
without effort, and if the resolution
could be formed, and maintained with
sturdy energy, to press forward, regard
less of the influences which the world
spread 1 around him on every side, he
might attain to the highest eminence!'*
Dr. Olinthus Gregory, says “With
a few exceptions, (so few indeed, that
they need scarcely to be taken into a
practical estimate,) any person may
learn anything upon which he sets his
heart. To insure success, he has simp
ly so to discipline bis mind as to check
its vagrancies to cure it of its constant
pronencss to be doing two or more
things at a time, and to compel it to di
rect its combined energies simulta
neously, to a single object, and thus to
do one thing at once. This I consider
as one of the most difficult, but one of
the most useful lessons that a young
man can learn."
Dr. Channing says:—“ It is asked,
how can the laboring man flud time for
self-culture I answer, that an earnest
purpose finds time, or makes time. I
seize on spare moments, and turn frag
ments into golden account. A man who
follows his calling with industry and
spirit, and uses his earnings economi
cally, will always have some portion of
the day at command. And it is aston
ishing how fruitful of improvement a
shod season becomes, when eagerly
seized and faithfully used. It has often
been observed, that those who have the
most time at their disposal, profit by it
the least. A single hour in the day,
steadily given to the study of some in
teresting subject, brings unexpected
accumulations of knowledge."
WOMAN’S SPHERE.
Abby Kelley ha* besa lecturing in Harrtebarfh on
abolition. We wonder if she know* how to broil a
steak or knit >t >ck ii»;»s. —Pkdmddflma (7. S~ Gmz.
We have ever noticed that when a
female gives evidence of a superior
mental cultivation—that she had lived
to some purpose, above and beyond the
everyday animal routine cf menial
duties—that she aspired to drink of the
fountain of knowledge—to take the
place in the scale of intellectual being,
which it was designed by her Creator
that she should til), she is met with
sneers like the above from the “lords
of creation." *Tis true, we would not
have them usurp, or attempt to usurp
the places more congenial to the
rougher natures of the sterner sex—to
go tar out of the sphere of the affec
tions—the endearments of domestic
life—to mingle in the political arena,
or to take part in the turmoil of active
business, which would wear off the
gentleness of their nature, and unfit
them for the holier duties assigned
them in the order of creation; but we
would not confine them to the broiling
of steaks and knitting of stockings," as
if they had not the soul's aspirings
after the rich and varied treasures
which are everywhere spread out for
the grasp of mind. This narrow, illi
beral, and menial spirit dwellcth not
with those who are themselves fitted for
the appreciation and enjoyment oi
these treasures. A knowledge of do
mestic affairs, in all their relations, is
desirable—nay, essential, to the com
plete education of every female, the
rich as well as the poor; for in the
changes of fortune aad of time, none
are pecucc from the contingencies ot
adversity. A well regulated household,
in cverv wtntion of jg pjjc ot
woman s brightest ornaments—a source
of happiness to her and to those who
are dependant upon her labors of love
for the attractions of home and its en
dearments. But what is home, where
there is no luteiiect—no cukivalioo
refinement—no knowledge, save »kat
which partakes of menial duties? What
would society he, if (he prineiple in
volved in the sneer of the United States
Gasette—and this is bat one —-rtm
thousand* of tnstanrrs i)iTrnilrd-~<
ware acted apoa? Gu to the plains
of “merry France,"—-tea to Oer
many, and to the euciviliaed —j-ma ot
the earth, where woman b drsiidad s*,
the labor, af the flaid, espuJd to the
ot warn of the colder eeneena, and tbort
hfed the praetka! operate* of this dee
trine.
When we kaar af the afoqMot, to
tm dnra*C
Can he plant potatoes, nr hoe eon?
Oh M! it ia assumed to he the natural
position of man to triumph m the cefe-
Ect of ißtttd; him ts assigned Mi
exclusive monopoly of the deep trea
birthi%bt, amTlame tbTjwTreHmodL
Bat whenever eae of the other mxW
tures beyond the sphere assigned for
the mass-—whenever she displays na
t torsi talents highly cultivated, and the
gifts which God has bestowed upon her
unproved, enlarged, elevated—at is re
ceired as something that ought to be
frowned npon- as aa assumption of
t prerogatives belonging not to her. But
this feeling is wearing away with the
,f progress of society—with a jnrter ap
predation of woflian’ii duties, and their
influence upon all the relations of life.
And what though hers bo to rule in
the affections? let these ho ehartoaed
and hallowed by mental enknre—and
better and happier w3i we all be for the
change.
WHY POSTAGE SHOULD BE UNI
FORM AND CHEAP.
•T AMASA WALKER.
The Post Office Department, in «U
i its ramifieatioos, is but a east. We
have a central bureau at WTasbington.
We establish mail routes to all parts
oftbe United States, and appoint deputy
Postmasters in all the principal towns
and villages. All this we must .do, il
we would have an efficient estabhsh
t ment. We pay a certain sum annually
1 for transporting the mail; no matter
how much or how little is in it. The
I mail must go just so for and jwat so
i often, whether there be many letters,
or few, in the bags. The officers of
the department must have pay for their
I attention to the business, whether
f many or few letters pass though their
i hands. The aggregate cost of the
f Post Office is a certain sum annually,
whether it distributes 50 mil boos or
200 millions of letters per year. Ii
not aU this true? And if so, does it, in
f fact, cost any more to eonvey a letter
I from Washington to St. Louis, than
from Washington to Baltimore? or
t from Boston to Galena, than from Boa
ton to Newton? Certainly not. Then
1 why should not the rate of postage be
uniform? Every letter roust be mailed
and delivered, whether it goes one
i mile, or one thousand. Its weight h
inappreciable. All the letters now car
ried in the U. States mails do nol
amount to three tons weight per day,
divided among the thousands of stage
coaches, railroad cars and steamboats
employed in the service!! If there
were four times as many letters as there
now are, tire cost of transportation
would be precisely the same as now.
What, then, do we conclude from all
these facts? Why, that since it evi
dently costs no more to carry a letter a
great distance than a small one, justice
demands that ail should be carried at a
UNIFORM RATE.
Again, since it is obvious, from the
foregoing considerations, that we can
transport 200 millions of letters as
cheaply as 50 millions, it is evidently
our duty to reduce the rate of postage
to a very low point, if by so doing wc
can transport a much greater number
of letters. And what shall we say ol
the prospect of doing this, in view of
the eminent success which has attended
the partial experiment made by our
government three years ago, and the
intimation of the Post-master General,
in his late Report, that a still further
reduction may be safely attempted?
And what shall we say on this point, in
view of the complete success which has
attended the penny postage system of
England, where the number of letters
has increased more than three fold?
Why, clearly, we can only conclude
that if TWO CENTS, the revenue of
the department would, in a short time
—that is, as soon as the natural opera
tion of the system were fully developed
—be equal to what it now is. The
avcivge rate of letters postage the last
year, the P. M. G. tells us, was but six
and a quarter cents. Then, if under a
two cents rate, the increase should be
as great as k has been in England,
(and who doubts, owing to the fact of
the more general education of the peo
ple, and /their enterprising spirit, it
would be much greater?) would nor (he
revenue be as large as it now is?
The increase in England, as we have
said, was more tbar three-fold. Now,
it is quite plain arithmetic, that 3 times
2 are 6; and consequently, that the
revenue from letters under the low rate
could be as large os under the higher
one, if the increase were a little more
than three-fold, as it has been in Eng
land under the penny system!
If all this is true-.■and' rt seems quite
incontestible—why should we not have
uniform and cheap postage at once
We believe there is no reason why we
should not have it; and yet k is quite
certain that we shall not, except on
one condition, and that is, that the
rEOFLK demand it. There is no hope
from any other quarter.
The experience of England shows
this. The reform met with the aoet
determined oppoeitien from the officers
and attaches of the post office depart
ment, who exerted themselves to the
utmost to prevent the adoption of the
system, and to thwart its operation after
it had been adopted by Parliament.
No reliance must be placed upon
government officers and officials in this
matter; it mast b* a dfotiwef end
peremptory demand of the people alone,
which will ever bring about so desira
ble a reform. They must hold public
meetings, pass resolutions, get up
petit ions, sod, in every proper and
becoming manner, express their do
termination to have n reform. Public
sentiment, as expressed by popular
meetings and through the must
he seen aad folt to he in favor of the
change.
hm they mnrt be hi
eaa generis wan. «asp matt mmm as
a sins fan aeu apea the total aholkiea
«*l (In mrUm mbikm* hmii
aaiforti tale af two cento'per letter of
a-t ever Mae eeaee
Knnnrt filltkj 1
to show why we shoeid merit en these
n—ta.
tww OHNHiOuf*
We answer because the ass of the
freaking privilege »e inseparable from
the abuse of k, and (he abase of k is one
of the moat prolific sources of expeaee
in the traasausshm of mails, aad of the
most demoralising influence to the
comnmnky. It is by the frmaked amtter
that the mails are rendered to cumber-
The abolition of the franking privi
lege ri one of the grand features of the
English system. Doct. Bowring, one
of the most distinguished members of
rthe British House of commons, and one
who did as much as any other one in
ParKmneut in behalf of the reform,
assured the writer of this article, in a
conversation oa the subject, that no
point was more essential to success than
the entire abolition of the franking
privilege."
Not toe Queen of England can send a
letter without paying toe same postage
os the poorest subject in her realm.
Should we not do well to imitate so re
publican an idea? If all pay a little,
none need pay much/ That is tne princi
ple on which cheap postage is founded,
and the prineiple must be inviolable.
Let us all, then, unite in demanding
the entire abolition af franking;- two
cents’ postage on letters; and, for the
present, one cent on all newspapers of a
reasonable size: and we have no reason
to doubt that the experiment will be in
the highest degree satisfactory and
successful.
We should do this, not only that we
may secure the blessing of cheap post
age for ourselves, but that we may aid
the noble and philanthropic enterprise
now in program, of uniting the nations
of the earth in one grand system oi
Ocean Penny Postage. Our motto
should be*
Penny postage for oareelvre—
Penny postage for all mankind.”
From fee Kentucky Eumiur.
DIFFICULTIES.
Milton tells us, that he dare be
known to think the poet Spenser a
“better teacher than Scot os or Aqui
nas;" and it is true, that the poets,
while they present to us truth severe
in foiiy fiction dressed,” often give us
mom impressive lessons with regard tc
the duties of life, than the professed
teacher does. An incident in Tassc
shows us in the most Mriking manner,
how to deal with difficulties. We give
the passage in Hoole's version. When
Alcasto offered to enter the enchanted
Forest— H'
To oppose
His further way mm of flame arose:
Wider each moment it expands, and higher
Aad seems one lofty wall of solid fire,
Which round fee wood a wondrous bulwark stands,
To guard its treasures from intrusive hands-
Part high above the rest aspiring grew,
Aad seemed a towering castle to the view.
The ramparts of this new-made belt to guard.
Vast store# of warlike eugines were prejwred;
And oh! in what dire crowds fee internal brood
To guard fee castellated barriers stood!!
Some eyed fee chief with stern and withering look;
Their weapon* some with threatening gestureskook.”
Alcasto was alarmed and retired.
When Tancred undertook to enter, the
seme wall of fire was there to oppose
him; but he was not to be daunted by
difficulties, and determined to make
them give way—
If boldly I advance, fee fire* I see
More fierce in aspect tlmn in tart kfv be;
But come fee worst! As feus fee here spoke,
A desperate leap amid the flames he took
B 1 lures unmatched! Yet did no heat intense,
A* of surrounding fire affect his sense;
Nor rightly, in a space so brief, he knew
If fancied were fee flames he saw, or true;
For, hardly touched, the haaelc phantom flew.”
This is the way to meet
Plunge into them, and they are gone.
There are always lions in the way; but
if you march up to them boldly, they
growl and retire. “Madame," said
one of the ministers of Louis XVI. to
Marie Antoinette, if the thing is only
difficult, it is done; if it is impossible,
k shall be done." The boasting
Frenchman, without knowing it, ex
pressed a great truth. The true prin
ciple is to act as if nothing were im
possible, which k is our duty to do.
Where there’s a will there's a way.
The great Disposer of events seconds
the efforts of those who resolve to
accomplish noble ends, and our duty is
to
Art—ACT in fee living present,
Heart within, and God o’erhead.”
There is a Hass of men, who, when
any course of conduct is proposed to
them, see nothing but difficulties in the
way. Though blind before, they in
stantly acquire a supernatural intenshy
of vision. They are surrounded with
horrors. In whatever direction they
torn, awfirl phantoms rise before them,
threatening destruction —lions roar,
tigers growl, jackals scream, thunders
bellow, and lightnings flash. Urge
them to advance, and the very wall of
fire before them burns to the very ben-
We have been led to make these
remarks by observing the disposition in
the minds of some to consider slavery
an incurable evil. They acknowledge
the system to be a dreadful wrong—*
wrong both to master and. slave—one
of the greatest evils that fin* ever
cursed the human race; and yet they
say there is no remedy; the subject
most not be dmc seed, ft eemsto us
that such a course is worse dam that of
those who contend that slavery is a!
blessing. What! Shaft our enemy
stand with hm foot upon our neck, and
we make no attempt to rise? Shall we,
like cowards and sluggards, contend,
that it is useless for us to make any
efforts? Who that calls himsetf a man,
should not he asaamed of such degra
dation? The vary ground ought to
•brink from allowing such cowardice
to lie open it Thri conduct aoome to
ue net enlydartardtr, but enmL We
i"* Jf; __
to kill ths*wnlf fbet wn lladdliy the
MMk Ia |WftV
||4 folded tbeir bak and mid I# CM
sst* LM* u *r^
r quirt. Ik. m do Botkin. IIU «b
-t surd to think >f resisting EagW.-
Let ns get on as weft a? we eon, ato
I tears thing* they «ref* Bat ftiey
were aK the pnam fin —nil irowrflj
t and ignoble thoughts. Tkey«Ht«ii
i They adoptod ths cmim whack they
I rnmniJin Mail a> n L, 4 |k a ftkuk*
r coiisiutrm] rfMOfflQ ibw mvj
1 would at least deserve sucooss. «A*h3
s the/ had infinitely greater difficult^*
to contend against than we have. Ken*
tocksans? do not disgrace yotwweH
earned fane! Do not fie still “till
your enemy has bound you hand and
foot!** Spam from yon the cowardly
thought, thaf yo# etumot do what yoo
t determine to do! Never let It bo said
f that a Kentuckian w so menu in soulai
to hew dowa a degraded head to fin
i enemy, and whine oat in piteous tone,
You are at/ master! spurn me, kick
l me, trample upon me, do whet yoi
please with me—l cannot resist!**
i ■''*■_■'■
Prow the Oroaotyp*.
ELECTRICITY A» BYMNti
i THY.
We hare received an interesting,
and, for such an occasion, an uncom
monly scientific address, delivered by
I>r. A. Means, before the Medical Cot
lege of Georgia, at the opening of its
annual session in Augusta, Nov. Bth,
1847. It is remarkable for the procni
nence which it gives to the pathological
agency and value of electricity. The
learned professor,. throws together a
1 greater number of important and signifi
-1 cant facts, than we have elsewhere seen
in synopsis, to establish the identity oi
1 the electric and vital energies. All the
processes of life, he finds are electric
and conducted by arrangements subject
j to strict electric conditions. The de
-1 veiopment of these conditions—the care
-5 ful provision of conducting and nooeon-
Lj ducting tissues just as required in elec
trical apparatus, is carious in the ex
treme. We are pleased to see that in
establishing his positions, this Southern
Professor, not hindered by any unworthy
prejudice of complexion takes honora
ble notice of the remarkable practice ol
our colored and blind fellow-citizen Dr.
Danid Ruggles, with whose great sue
cess our readfera are already somewhat
i acquainted.
Dr. Means refers as follows, to some
experiments which seem to prove a
solid foundation in physiology for the
practice of Dr. Ruggles, which out
readers will remember consists in
1 ing of disease by (he electric state o
the skin, determined by that delicati
sense of touch- acquired in blindness
i He sayf:—-- r
1 The human bhiod in a normal am
l healthy condition of the system, is in i
positive state, which is constantly main
tained by the activity of the generating
sources within—an excess generally
passing off in silence from the cuticulai
surface, so that out of 356 experiment!
made by Mr. Hemtner of England, upon
the uncovered skin,” 322 indicated
the presence of positive electricity.—
This surplusage of the fluid upon the
surface, we believe to be indispensable
to the healthful condition of the whole
animal economy, and that when, from
any cause, it is diminished or ceases,
diseased action ensues. >r
Dr. Means is of opinion, that the
state of the surface in inflammatory
rheumatism is electro-positive and the
reverse in chronic rheumatism. Dr.
Ruggles, m quoted from the Hampshire
Herald of Jan. 4, says 1 of the electric
action which he is enabled to perceive,
"In Chronic Rheumatism it is quiescent.
In Inflammatory Rheumatism it is
treasioua and appears confined by the
cuticle.* r The importance of Ibis elec
trical indication of disease, if by any
means it can be duly ascertained, is
quite obvious. It is the still small voice
and confession —the inmost truth—of
Nature herself. To believe that any
one can see or feel what we do not, is
anything but natural. When feeling the
skin of a living person we can recog
nise the difference of dry and moist,
warm and cold, but are as ignorant of
the presence or absence of electrical
emanations as tbs Hottentot is of the
constitution of the atmosphere. We
naturally set down every claim or pre
tension to deeper perceptions as hum
bug or charlatanry. But right, reason
may not bear us out in such a decision
and we believe it does not in the case of
Dr. Ruggles. From our long acquain
tance with him we believe him incapa
ble of any such attempt at deception.—
But let that pass for nothing.
The testimony of scientific men,
founded os accurate scientific experi
ments, that there are such electric con
ditions of health and disease as Dr.
Ruggles, without any knowledge of
those experiments, professes to have
discovered by his disciplined to sc Is is a
good foundation for faith to build upon.
And the practice of Dr. Ruggles pre
sents us with h number of strutlug facts,
which certainly go for enough to excite
the most lively interest, if wot endbubt
iag faith in Iris claims, and to justify the
coofideaee of a number of wealthy gen
tlemen in Nortbemption, who have, by
a liberal expenditure, furnish rd hiss
with an ansarpassed water-cure estab
lishment. We have heretofore detailed
the case of Rev. Payson Wiilistoo,
aged 81, restored by his practice
from a severe disease which baffled
btW treatment. The courage and con
fidence with which he'undertook that
case, certainly throws some confirma
tion oa his mode of judging of the abili
ty of patkwfo to bear the Water Trees
ible source number ease, which hears
with stiff greater fores. The late Pro
fessor Stoddard, of Middfobury Ceflege
consulted Dr. Ruggles, in regard to the
propriety of bis taxing a hydropathic
course. After examination, Dr. Reg
gies groaafl that
tolhe stomach and huge to give aay
st’iirs.eatsrsE:
i _ j i. i
wfHH »n*i l.iuin (tfiv.R m.
t- ve seen, sr §tvt
to Aejgi h unanimous to his
k la has. His repo
strong, that heis eototsntlr resorted u
for m opinion by patients from si parti
of the country, before taking a water
Ha is infretbeesmang, and baa abroad]
hmmummd, we believe, the Amencai
We cannot better dose this notic<
than by adverting to the caee whicl
first attracted the puhfic attention t<
one doctor without a diploma. Mr. Sul
fivan, a young gentleman who wau an
I der his caress 1814, for be then prac
deed water-cere in a small way, for a
disease of the hangs, foil from a bag!
building, and received a severe sbx*k
After the surgeen bad announcec
i that no bones were broken, Dr. Reg
gies objected to Iris being tried, leached
i or drugged, on the ground that, accord
ing to the symptoam, ha bad a betfei
remedy at hand.
TVrogh the yotfng nan was quite
senseless, and was surrounded with
anxious advisers, alarmed at the ideaol
wring water in such a cane, ha took the
responsibility, and put him through hy
dropathically. The case was inscrib
ed ill the foHbwmg article from the
Northampton Democrat, June, 1814;
but without giving the credit which was
due to Dr. Ruggles.
"A FriireL Lur Aim Narrow
Esc Arc.—One of the moot extrordinary
cases of preservation, under circum
staaces of imminent peril, occaoed a
few days since in this vicinity. On
Friday morning last, at the Silk Facto
ry of the Northampton Association* a
building four stories in height, Mr.
James Sullivan, a young man connect
ed with that Association, went out on
the roof for the purpose of picking up a
mineral which he had accidently drop
ped there while standing in the belfiry.
To secure himself from falling he took
off his shoes. Notwithstanding this
precaution, after descending the roof a
few steps, finding himself slipping, he
took off one of his stockings, and whilst
attempting to take off the other, his mo
tion became so much accelerated, that
further efforts to save himself from the
fearful fell were useless. He then with
remarkable presence of mind, rolled
himself over upon the roof whilsihe was
sliding, m order to prevent falling up
on the platform, and when he reached
the eaves, having drawn in and held his
breath, clenched his teeth and hands,
and contracted his muscles,, he leaped
to the ground, a distance of 40 or 4£
feet,, and came down on his feet!
The concussion was so great, at
temporarily to deprive him of the powe:
of standing. He was carried into th<
f house and placed in bed, and was sooi
after examined by a surgeon, who de
cided that no bones were broken, am
no -joints were dislocated, ahbougl
I there was reason to apprehend serioui
t injury to the muscles about the spine
where there appeared 1 to be great sore
ness. The young man’s friends thei
wrapped him in sheets, wet in cold wa
ter, after the manner prescribed by the
water-cure" system, which soon pro
duced perspiration. A cold bath was
afterwards administered. In the after
noon of the same day, he walked out
without assistance; and the next day
was running about with his usual hilari
ty, complaining of no unpleasant effects
from his fall, excepting a slight lame
ness in one of hi* feet.
Fran the Salem flronklt.
THE HERMIT OF LYlVlf.
Ltxjt, March, 1, 1848.
Died on Monday last, George Gray,
the hermit, aged about 76. He was
by birth a Scotchman, and came to
Lynn about half a century ago, locating
himself in a lonely spot, where he made
has home till the time of his death. His
early history is probably known to no
one living—at least no one in this coun
try, for be always avoided giving any
information on the subject. He was a
reflecting roan, of considerable literary
and scientific attainment, and capable
of imparting knowledge in almost any
of the higher branches of human learn
ing.
He took gnat pleasure in attending
lectures and scientific meetings, and
collected a considerable library. But
his fondness for the mechanic arts was
perhaps the most conspicuous trait,
and he became very skilful m some
branches connected with machinery.
Strangers would sometimes vex him
with untimely visits, and by obtrusive
remarks induce sudden exhibitions of
asperity of temper. Bat if soy one
assumed to be a scientific mechanic, he
was sore of a courteous reception,
though not of admission to his dwelling
—And this woe not (infrequently taken
advantage of, to obtain their end, by
those who were merely prompted by
curiosity.
He cinimedto be the inventor of the
moat useful part of the ship’s steering
apparatus buftome one was before him
in securing a patent, and he was sub
jected to much expense and vexation in
unsuccessful efforts to establish his
claim. In religion he was probably a
materialist, most of his life. The writ
er recollects Ms remarking, some dozen
yean ago, it was ridiculous fiw any
one to smr that intelligence was not the
result of physical organization,** but
within a few years he appeared to hare
dunged his views; and be probably
died ui the full light of tho Christian
feith. He was eccentric in his habits,
and had quite as tittle regard lor his
personal appearance as was agreeable
to those with whe n be came in con
tact, 'jenspm
Am to physical exertion and en
durance even in his old age, he was
maskable; sometimes he would walk
into Boston in a winter evening, at
tend a lectors and walk boom afterward
—making a distance of not lose than
twenty auies. And many of tho Salem
people remember him os appearing or
ffiear Lyceum lectures, on winter eve
nmgs, with his dilapidated draw hat in
his hand, and porhspe with font sheas
**ti
crave leavmn a charaetor se feus from
ft, l t
aAsmkfoss, He probably M property
to dm amount of aim# throe or four
HHSrrWr
MiMNMh
THE TYROLEfE.
Tb® people are very cheerful and
•“■pfe* They have little idea of the
of elasses, and will come
lo 7*«, and ask all sorts of
yumman that is, of those who can
Z?!'*"*- It amuses them to find
®o not understand them,which,
G lr w none of the purest,
_ c l on,,lK and they will laugh
ILJ*
IoH of I®* 0 y° ar ftce "bk
=L Action. They are
manner and?’ ttc,rert befes9, in their
ticuloriy struck with the mutual r+JrZ^
which they .bow
SSXi. ,K, *h“.
of roui
courtesy and obligmgnc*.
evidently a great deal of real brotherly
kindness among them; the greetinii
which you see exchanged along the
road are such as one member of a large
united family would pay another, vaiy
ing with the age and character of the
individual. There is a considerable
degree of boisterousness sometimes,
and my impression at first was, that
they were quarrelsome and violent, but
a sight of their good-humored, anima
ted faces quickly undeceived me; they
were merely taking advantage of thtr
occasion, to be as sociable and jelly
as they could, and were all talking to
gether, bantering and joking with each
other, every one trying to be best heard
above the general din. You seldom
see the sullen surly countenance, or the
fretful, anxious expression so common
in our country; tho Tyrolese peasant
is conspicuous for his frank and manly
bearing and his look of independence.
If a man be reduced in circumstances,
be does not therefore sink into a lower
grade; he will take to some manual
labor, or become the driver of a atell
wagen, and retain his old connections
and considerations in society. The
usual aristocracy of the towns, who,
generally speaking, arc a very modern
ised class of people, arc the govern
ment officials;, these laboring to main
tain a distinct existence, and to keep
themselves as separate as possible from
the mass by their dress and habits. In
the matter of education, however, there
is no distinction; all are educated to
gether r and it not uncommonly happens
that at the distribution of prizes, which
takes place periodically, the child of
the peasant is preferred to one of the
exclusive class. I myself was present
at such a distribution, at which the
smartly-dressed daughter of the burgo
master figured among a crowd of ser
vant girls, and little lasses in red hose.
The nobles live at Inspruck, the capi
tal of young Tyrol, or about the court,
and belong to quite another sphere:
gentry there are none. The law of
primogeniture does not prevail here, so
that the land is parcelled out among the
children of the soil, and there are as
many proprietors as there arc people.
The law enjoins and provides for the
education of every individual: every
child must to school for so manr
years——l believe till he is twelve—and
must produce a certificate of having at
tained a certain proficiency, before he
can enjoy any ot the privileges of a
denizen, or even be permitted to enter
into the marriage state. The whole
population of the country therefore can
read at the very least; and they would
seem to bo a studious peope. The
women take their books to church
for the purpose of religious meditation.
The Rambler new periodical.
Houses for Laborers.—A society
exists in Edinburgh for promoting the
comfort of tho working classes. A
large piece of land is bought in the
suburbs, which is covered with suitable
buildings; watered, and drained from
central reservoirs. All things (land
and materials) arc bought at wholesale
for ready money, and the best machine
ry, with steam power, is used. The
work is also pushed most actively wheu
labor is in least request. In this way
a saving of fully one half is effected in
the cost of a dwelling over the urual
expense to the poor, who pay exor
bitant rates for lots or groundrent and
for credit on material. Some 10,00(1
working men belong to the Association,
wach of whom pays a monthly con- i
tribution. The houses, at low compa
tative rents, pay full interest, so as to
mduce capitalists, from other than
benevolent motives, to contribute large
ly to the fund. Every contributor re
ceives his share of the rentals and
when he desires to buy (for his own use
only) he is entitled to his choice of
unsold houses at nearly the cost price,
payable in verpr small monthly install
ments. By this plan, instead of small
rooms in dirty alleys and courts, good
sized, well lighted aqjl vci.tilatt d rooms
are provided, with wide streets and
rheap omnibus conveyance to the town;
the cost to the working man is less than
onc-haif of the usual rate paid by the
laboring classes in the old way.
Ax other Witxess.—A writer in tho
Liberator, who signs himself A na
tive of the South," thus replies to the.
oft-repeated and stale assertion that the
onti-siaverir agitation tightens the
chains of the slaves."
"I know agitation softens the
chains. I know, since the anti-slavery
excitement, a number of churches have
sprung op in South Carolina. Slaves
are better clothed; and I have been in
formed by a gentleman who spend* in*
winter months in Charleston, that the
lews relative to the cobred population
are much improved lately; that the
work-house, although not abolished, is
softened in sp*.-U; tLu rhe Ur*
Cre a cobred man twenty lushes oa
hare hack if he spit on the
Hall or aify other public oflice steps,
or if any dirt adhere to his shoes, sod
•oil any public office step*, are re
pealed! And many other good things
he said, for all of which improvement*
the colored people are indebted to the
anti-slavery excitement. __
QtoTtrns in Rostov.—la iHft
society wan formed in Boston to p*"-
mote indumrv Thm was owe of the
tight hindot societies, forthey preset
•d by ptaeties rather thsn by theory
In 1753 they eebhralrd the.r
sarv on Ruaton Common, when tsrvs
hnmlved female*. slUrcd ui cloth
ffiiir own memrihetore, were at
