AN ADDRESS,
Delivered at Oberlin, Ohio, by Miss.
Sally Holley, daughter of the late
Myron Holley, of Rochester JV. F.
Ladies of the Anti-Slavery Societt:
I am happy in being permitted to ad
dress you—glad to lift up my voice in
behalf of human freedom And tho’ this
phrase is often on our lips and in our
ears, yet we cannot too fully drink in its
blessed spirit, nor too vividly realize its
grand significance and glorious truth.
And if the few words that I shall say,
this afternoon, will advance but one
hour, the inevitable progress of human
freedom and the downfall of human sla
very, I would not exchange that con
sciousness for ali the gold of Califor
nia, or the fame of a Washington.
If in the bosom of a single individual,
they shall aid to extinguish one bitter
and cruel prejudice against the colored
race, or kindle and quicken the slum
bering energies of one heart into gen
erous sympathy with the despised and
outraged African, I shall be amply re
warded, and it you will excuse this one
expression of a filial affection that
“never slumbers nor sleeps” I will
add, that I shall feel, from out his man
sion of rest in heaven, the smile of a
sainted father’s love resting upon me.
I propose to consider my subject un
der the following heads;
Ist. The importance of the anti-sla
very movement.
Ski. What it has actually accom
plished.
3d. What can we do for its advance
ment
Elihu Burnt says, “The idea that a
man cannot own property in man, or
make him a chattel, has not fifty years
of age or expansion.” If we may say
it, reverently, the Virgin Mary of that
idea, was an obscure English woman,
who was startled from her slumbers,
night after night, by its vivid revela
tions—it wrought in her mind for
months, absorbing all of her thoughts,
all the glow of her sympathies, all the
vigor of her convictions. And its hour
came. She proclaimed it to the world
with a heart-power that reached the
consciences of statesmen and stirred
the nation to emotion Look at the idea
now See how tho principalities and
powers of the earth are bowing before
And a few years ago Harriet Mar
tineau wrote, “The most sublime spec
tacle now moving on the face of the
globe are the abolitionists in the United
States. They include men of every
shade of color, of every degree of edu
cation, of every variety of religious
opinion, ot every gradation of rank,
bound together by no vow, no pledge,
no stipulation, but each preserving his
individual liberty, and yet they act as if
they were of one heart and of one soul
—a well grounded faith towards a no
ble object, is the only principle which
can account for such a spectacle.”
Thus many of the leading minds of the
age early appreciated the importance
of the Anti-slavery movement. If
there was any doubt in their mind
about its ultimate triumph, it lay in this,
that like the doctrine of our immortali
ty, it seemed almost too good to be
true. Well might they sing,
"Oh! could we make our doubt* remove,
Those gloomy doubt* that ri*e.
And aee this Canaan that we love
With unbeclouded eye*."
And, m> friends, it is good for us
now that the Anti-Slavery struggle has
gained many victories, to revert to the
pioneers of this great moral enterprise.
It is refreshing to the very soul to think
of their courage and heroism. Most of
them, from the beginning, foresaw that
the conflict was likely to be long and
arduous, and they girded themselves
accordingly for the conflict. They pre
sent us a noble example of a brave fi
delity and a devotedness to as holy a
cause as ever blessed mankind. For
Anti-slavery is the child of Christianity.
It bears on its very front “the image
sod superscriptionof God. The An
ti-Slavery movement is important, be
cause it not only is to redeem three
and a half millions of colored people
from “the vilest system of slavery the
tun ever shone upon,” and place them
on a level of a common humanity, but
it is also to bring freedom to all races.
We must never forget that it is as
much the cause of the white, as of the
colored people. VViib every black
•lave a white will also be freed. It
is prophetic of the doing away of all op
pression. It is the foundation of uni
versal freedom. It is the dawn of that
day when the rights of all shall be re
spected.
THE NORTH STAR
FREDERICK DOVGL4SS, Editor aid Proprietor.
VOL. IV. NO. 5.
The Anti-Slavery movement is im
portant in another most interesting
sense. One of its most striking char
acteristics is, its genuine and exalted
regard to the moral nature It may be
doubted whether, since the days of the
apostles, anything has ever occurred
to awaken so large a portion of the
world to the great fact, that they hnd
spiritual rights and hopes, as this same
Anti-Slavery movement. It teaches
that the identity of a human being is
not in flesh and blood, but in thought,
affection, conscience, will, and all the
riches of the spiritual nature. When
told that the slaves have cookies, and
dances, and so ought to be contented, it
indignantly replies, “Is it not true that
the life is more than meat, and the
body than raiment? Shall man live by
bread alone, and not by every word
that proceedeth’ out of the mouth of
God?”
The Anti-Slavery movement is im
portant, for it appeals to all the noblest
sentiments and aspirations of the hu
man soul. It awakens a fervor of love,
an earnestness of devotion, and an en
larged hope that is twice blessed,
"It blesses hie* that gives and him that takes
All over our land are those that
could*rise up and testify to the great
work it has wrought in their own souls,
enriching and elevating their entire
being. In consequence of the agita
tion of the Anti-Slavery question, many
an otherwise would-be cipher in soci
ety, both men and women, are now
transformed into characters of perma
net interest and beauty. It has im
parted vigor and freshness to their
once dull and withered lives. And as
one after another of the colored race
escapqp from the South and undo the
heavy chain of ignorance, they too as
tonish and delight us by exhibiting a
force of intellect and a fullneSs of ele
vated sympathy, that before was “not
so much as dreamed of in our philoso
phy.” Witness thal most remarkable
man of the age, Frederick Douglass.
Hear his rich and touching language
—“I sometimes forget the color of my
skin, and remember that I am a man.
I sometimes forget that I am hated of
men and loved of God. Has the white
man religious aspirations? So have I.
Thoughts that wander thro’ eternity,
and affections that ascend even to the
everlasting throne and cling around
my Heavenly Father.” Here let me
ask you all to read Gerrit Smith’s re
cent letter to Mr. Douglass. It is good
to have the heart stirred by the emotion
it excites. It is good to let the dry
wastes within be freshened by the
tears of sympathy it occasions. If the
cause of Anti-Slavery had made us ac
quainted with but one such spirit as
Gerrit Smith’s, we should greatly re
joice, what then should we not feel
when we call to mind the “glorious
company” of the Anti-Slavery reform
ers! Think of a Garrison, a Goodale,
Angelina Weld, and Lucretia Molt,
“that beautiful example of woman
hood,” (to use the language of Dr.
Channing,) and a host of others, even
the most unfriendly to Abby Kelley,
must see that she has brought holy and
beautiful gifts to the altar of God and
humanity—“ With ali ihy faults I love
thee still.”
The Anti-Slavery movement is im
portant, because it proposes to unite
the two races into one. Although I
have forgotten many other good things
that Professor Thome said in the Rhe
torical class, I shall not easily lose his
remarks, made while criticising an An
ti-Slavery discussion. He said—“it
is a great happiness for me. I love to
look forward to the time when through
the divine influence of Christian Anti-
Slavery principle, the two races shall
iqipgle into one.” “The two races
united and in kindly activity can find
out everything and accomplish every
thing that is true. They will subject
the elements then, instead ot Subjecting
one another. The elements are made
for subjection. Their broad shoulders
are spread for service. It does not de
grade them, or weary them, or impov
erish them, to be made to work. Aye
they are willing to work. All they
want of intelligent mankind is, tint it,
will stand out of the way and give them
elbow room and a chance.”
The Anti-Slavery movement is im
portant in view of its influence upon the
nominal church of our country. It has
stripped off the stolen mask of goodness
and purity with which she has so long
tried to “deceive if possible, the very
elect,” aiffl shown up the cant hypocri
sy, hollow-heartedness and utter world
liness that lay concealed beneath. Let
none of my friends mistake me here. I j
love and reverence the true church of
God as “the very gate of heaven,” as
“the shadow of a great rock in a weary
land/’ but this is a very different thing
from the pro-slavery churches of this
world. No one of us cau for a moment
look at the church and clergy of our
land without Tne deepest humiliation
and mortification—with a few noble ex
ceptions, it must be owned, they are all
on the side of oppression.
We live in a crisis when a tremen
dous conflict of principles is taking
place. On one side is the oppressor,
struggling to keep his power for the
sake of his gold, and with him, the mer
cenary, the faithlessly timid, the am
bitous and the weak. On the other
side are the friends of the slave, and
with them those who without possibility
of recompense are sacrificing their
reputations, their fortunes, their quiet,
and risking their lives for the principle
of freedom. What are the church and
a great portion of the clergy doing
amidst this war which admits of neither
peace nor truce, but which must end
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR; GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
in the subjugation of the principles of
freedom or of oppression? As a body
they must be ranked as the enemies of
the slave. So while society is going
thro’ its greatest of moral revolutions,
casting out its most hateful abomina
tions and bringing its Christianity into
its politics and its social conduct, the
church and the clergy are pitying and
ridiculing the apostles of the revolution
preaching speculative doctrines,mourn
ing over the wickedness of the ancient
Jews and telling how stiff-necked and
rebellious people were a thousand
years ago; advocating third and fourth
rate objects of human exertion and
leaving it to the laity to carry out the
first and pressing reforms of the age.
They are blind to their mission of en
lightening and guiding the moral senti
ments of society in its greatest crisis—
And yet professing abolitionists some
times tell us, “Beware how you disre
spect the church and the ministers.
Anti-Slavery must not lose its rever
ence for them—come of the slaves
what may. Abolish slavery ifyou can,
but reverence the clergy, the pulpit
aud the steeple whether or no.” Our
judgment and our conscience answer
no. We must prefer Christianity to
the church—the inward spirit to the
outward means. And lastly, I will
mention one of the considerations for
which I doom the Anti-Slavery move
ment important. Though in this, I
may differ from “some whose charac
ters I admire and whose opinions 1 re
spect and whom I should feel honored
to call my friends.” I allude to what
it has done for woman as woman. It
has no small measure awakened her to
fact that she has political as
social rights and duties. It has
made her intelligent as to the wicked
laws and usurpations of government in
this country. “Honorable women, not
a few, are beginning to feel and act in
view of their immense responsibilities
in all philanthropic improvements.
The Anti-Slavery movement has
helped them to see the difference be
tween a few man-granted, peculiar
privileges, and the essential God-given
rights of their moral nature. Before
Anti-Slavery agitation, who ever heard
of women’s attending political meet
ings and listening with thrilling inter
est to political speeches? When a
Chase, a Seward, Pres. Mahan and
Prof. Hudson speak in this chapel, who
does not know that a large portion of
the audience are the women of Oberlin!
This is a loud comment upon the spirit
of the age.
2. What the Anti-Slavery movement
has actually accomplished. It is gen
erally admitted that since the com
mencement of the Anti-Slavery strug
gle, the condition of the free people of
color has greatly improved. Talent
enterprise and moral worth have been
developed that have ensured the es
teem and commanded the respect of
community. Prejudice in various quar
ters is giving way, and caste will abate
as slavery becomes more odious, until
they both descend to the region of
darkness, from, whence they sprang.
The time will come, we are encouraged
to believe, when individuals will be ap
preciated according to their moral
worth, irrespective of complexion, sex
or condition in life, when disabilities
will be removed, and all enjoy the
privilege of rising according to their
talents, enterprize and character. The
Anti-Slavery movement has accom
plished what, from the outsat, it meant
to do. It has brought the subject of
abolition into our national and state
legislatures. Anti-Slavery is the all
absorbing subject of interest in the
Hall of Congress.
The first men of the nation are now
engaged in its discussion—and a few
days will bring us intelligence concern
ing it, of the deepest interest. The
Anti-Slavery movement has caused
Ohio to repeal her “black laws,” and
provide for the education of her color
ed children. Tbe proper officers are
authorized to admit colored children in
to the regular public schools and in
case they do not admit them, they are
required to create schools for their spe
cial benefit. Colored persons are now
placed in regard to the distribution and
benefits of the school funds upon the
same footing with white persons. The
Anti-Slavery movement has greatly
aided the free people of color in their
efforts for intellectual and social eleva
tion. Amorig many instances we no
tice the following. The Salem Regis
ter says, “Robert Morris, Esq., of
Boston, the young colored lawyer, a
native of this city, appeared as counsel
j in a case, before the court of Common
Pleas, now sitting in Salem, on Tues
day last. He managed his oase with
much ability, and his presence excited
considerable sensation. We hear his
effort spoken of as having given great
pleasure and satisfaction, which were
not diminished by the consideration
that the first colored lawyer who has
j ever made his appearance in the courts
i here, was one of our townsmen.” The
graduate at the last commencement at
Middlebury (Vt.) College, who deliv
ered the Latin Salutatory Oration, was
a colored man. The New York Cen
tral College at McGrawville, has a col
ored Professor, who is said to fill his of
fice with dignity and ability. The
New York Tribune in giving an ac
count of the examination of the Public
School, No. 1, (colored,) by the Trus
tees, in the presence of many visitors
and distinguished friends of education,
says:
“The boys under Mr. Peterson, a
colored teacher, numbered ISO, and
compared, intellectually, very well with
some of the other dPublie Schools.
Their order end readiness were com-
ROCHESTER, N. Y., THURSDAY, JANUARY 23, 1851.
mend able. There Ib a well selected li
brary connected with tbe school and
many other appliances for effective
teaching. In the girl’s department
were 80 girls, who were lady-like and
orderly, with a fair thare of intelli
gence. They read well, wrote very
well and sang better. Some drawings
and paintings wfre decidedly good
The principal, Miss Roe, (colored,) is
an intellectual and accomplished wo
man.” “Cha’s Avery, an opulent cit
izen ofPittsburgh, Pa., has founded a
high-school for people of
intending to exclude other youth,which
has been opened within a short time.
It is called "The Alleghany Insti
tute,” and is ty its charter a college.
Of the nine tmstees, 6 are colored
nine successors to continue in the same
ratio forever. “The people of color
are making agricultural efforts that are
highly commendable. The munificent
grants of land tsthe colored persons by
Gcrrit Smith, in the State of New York,
have induced a number of them to
commence subduing the forest and til
ling the soil, their attention is
wisely drawn to Ihe country, and from
the employments and temptations inci
dent to their condition in cities.” The
Convention of colored citizens, held
last winter in Colimbus, was spoken of
by the newspapers with approbation of
the order of the proceedings, the
ability of the speakersand the happy in
fluences exerted. There are newspa
pers published and cwducted by col
ored persons which compare hand
somely with any in the country—and,
my friends, I might {numerate many
more instances that shiw what the Anti-
Slavery movement las actually ac
complished—l presune ii is unneces
sary.
Your own observafeon and reading
can supply them. Bu if I were asked
to tell, in one singh phrase, what is
the best thing the Ani-Slavery strug
gle has accomplished I would answer
—lt has developed in !he minds of the
community, the idea >f perfect human
freedom! One of th< greatest ideas
that ever dawned uptti created mind.
Personal freedom! pditical freedom—
religious freedom —lol every individual
of the human race! Tor this inestima
ble service we are imnediately indebt
ed to the Anti-Slavery movement. And
this brings me to tbe 3d head of my
address—which is—
What can we do for the advancement
of the Anti- Slavery cause
In the first place, we can and must
discharge from every chamber of our
soul, all prejudice against color. This
is the first work for a true aboitionist
to do. At home and abroad, ir high
ways and by-ways, in stage-coash and
steamboat, in song and sermon, always
and everywhere, we must set oir face
against it. Yes, the poor black slave
as he is, a stalking animal wth his
mind all crushed in walking <n this
green earth, without a single pusation
belonging to a free man, must U pre
cious and sacred in our estimation.
My friends, I ask you in all the serious
ness of my soul, it is not enougl that
the colored people have to content with
their own ignorance, stupidity and in
dolence in the way of their elevltion,
without having to encounter this kick
ed prejudice against color,that is press
ing down upon them, with giant
weight on every side, almost alike from
the sinner and the professing Christian?
Think you, the thought that you helped
to swell the tide of bitter prejudice
against color, will add to the treasure
of your holy recollections in tbe great
future? Think you, your Heavenly
Father will welcome you with more
love into his mansions of glory! Will
the smile of his countenance be more
radiant as you enter? Will it give mel
ody to your voice, as you join the song,
“Salvation to our God which sitteth up
on the throne, and unto the Lamb.”
My friends, I beseech you by all your
hopes of heaven, by all your sympathy
in a Savior’s dying love, to cast off, at
once and forever, all prejudice against
color. I know the influence of educa
tion, association and custom of society,
is great. I know the power of sin and
selfishness is strong. I know the
bondage of the flesh and the world is
not easily broken. Alas! how few of
us ever escape! Alas! how few of us
ever know what “full salvation” means!
Let us all remember that every time
we make a distinction merely on ac
count of color, whether in the church,
in the choir, in the street, in the recita
tion room, in the social party, every
time we refuse to associate with wor
thy colored people on terms of perfect
social, civil and religious equality, we
are helping to bind tighter the chains
'of the poor slave—we are assisting to
put further off in the future, the d"y of
his deliverance—we are aiding to
trample uuder our feet and deeper in
the dust, those for whom Christ died.
I say this, as much for my own, as for
any body’s else benefit. We’ need to
look this matter full in the taco. It
has been dodged long enough by pro
fessing abolitionists. The only safe po
sition for the Christian reformer, is a
bold and uncompromising one. It may
lead even to the cutting off of a right
band, or the picking out of a right eye;
no matter, it must be done. “It is bet
ter to enter life maimed, then having
two handa to be caat into hell fire.”—
Christianity is true, candid, aweet and
full of aimplicity, yet strong amfcoura
geous, what tho’ her way lie through
doubt, darkness and difficulties yet
leaning on her Father’s arm she feared
•no evil. A genflemsn who lor tbe first
time contributed to aid the Anli-Slayery
cause, said to a colored friend of mine,
whe was lecturing, “I once bad great
prejudices against your people, but
when I was converted they all left me."
Here was a genuine conversation!
What! a child of Heaven despising any
color that God had seen fit to give hip
human family, tho’ the hue, for very
blackness,
“To thame might bring
The ptaamgo of the Ravcn’a wing.”
A few years ago, u gentleman, wLo
professed to be a "good abolitionist,"
was staying at mv mother’s—l sus
pected that he plumed himself rather
high upon his abolitionism. So I ven
tured to test him. I invited the only
colored neighbor we had to take tea
with us. I said nothing to this gentle
man about it and when tea was an
nounced, I was not surprised to ob
serve the quick flush of indignation that
broke over his countenance, as he en
tered the room, from which, when he
saw who was there, he precipitately
retreated. Afterwards, I said to him,
"I thought you called yourself an abo
litionist!" He replied, "well, soldo,
but I don’t intend to eat with black
folks!" And even in Oberlin, this
spirit sometimes manifests itself. In
this place, not many years ago, a gen
tlemarTinvited all his table mates to
accompany him on a ride to the Lake.
Now, it so happened one was colored
and did not go. On the way out, a
lady suddenly exclaimed, "O we are
not all here, after all. I do not see
(naming the colored individual)
a gentleman replied, "I think he
showed his good sense in not coming.
He would not have enjoyed the ride
with us." "Well," said the lady,
"whose fault is it? His, for wearing a
skin not colored like ours, or ours who
by our behavor aie constantly remind
ing him of the difference in our colors?”
There is truth in what an Anti-Slavery
editor has written. "Our people have
got the colorphobia. Some of them
have it in blue, collapse stage. Many
of them have got it so bad, they can’t
get well. They will die of it. It will
be a mercy if the nation does not What
a dignified, philosophic malady! Dread
of-complexion. They don’t know they
have got it, or think rather, they took
it in the natural way. But they were
innoculated. It was breathed into their
veins and incided into their systems by
Old Dr. Slavery. It is fouler than Old
Testament leprosy. It seems to set
the dragon into people and make them
treat poor dark-skinned folks like a
tiger. It goes hardest with dark com
plexioned white people."
Yes, my friends, from our heart we
must discharge all prejudice against
color. It is low, base, mean and utter
ly unworthy. Unless we do arise above
it, we need not claim to be Anti-Slave
ry. If there is any professing Christian
here, who is not willing to regard and
esteem people irrespective of their
color, to him I say, You may say that
Garrison disbelieves the Bible and
denounces the Sabbath"—you may call
Abby Kelly "a hyena"—say that Em
erson and Parker are of the "worst
species of infidel"—that Douglass
"scoffs and makes fun of religion"—
that "Gerrit Smith is a fanatic"—that
"Dr. Channing did not know what
Christian salvation meant." You may
say all these things and ten times hard
er things if you mil —but do not call
yourself a Christian. Dream not, for
mercy’s sake, that you in all your
"sphere of influen9e and usefulness"
are an appropriate representative of
the Lord Jesus Do not ask
us to believe your spirit and life to be
Christian! Tell us not, to think you
are "not far from the kingdom of hea
ven." That you are helping to build
up the kingdom of truth and righteous
ness, which Jesus came to set up on
earth—for which the "Lamb was slain
before the foundation of the world"—
which caused the Indefinite Father,
out of the fulness of His Love to send
His only begotten Son to die, to re
deem us from sin and misery. Do not
expect that you have any part or lot
in this matter. You are not laying a
solitary stone in the walls of Zion.
Human Redemption. The angels and
arch-angels of God love to look over
the battlemenVof heaven to witness the
going forward of this grand provision
of the wonderful love of the Everlast
ing Father. Think, I ask you, what
the words mean, that you so atfecting
ly sing—
Jews I my cross have taken
All to leave and follow thee,
Naked, poor, despised, forsaken
Thou, front hence my all shall be.'*
Again we can aid the Anti-Slavery
cause by embracing every opportunity
to do all in our power to elevate the
colored people. Give them our respect
and confidence. Give them offices of
trust and honor—we must minister to
their self-respect. Their highest pow
ers must be brought out into action.
We must mingle freely with them.
The idea of "colored churches and
colored schools" is all false. There
should exist no such distinctions in so
ciety. They must be made to feel at
home with us and we feel at home with
them. It is brtter for us both. "Their
presence amrassociation with us are
vitally needed for their and our mutual
welfare—for ttftir and our mutual
nourishment of their and our wronged
and sickly chardfeters#" Gerrit Smith
writes:—"a few years ago, I spent a
Sabbath in one of the large towns of
Western New York, and as is wont
when I have the opportunity, I wor
shipped with a company of colored per
sons. The unregulated seal of not a
few of my fellow-worshippers was loud
and freoxied, indecent and disgusting.
Whence this gross violation of pro
priety
This was clearly traceable to their
exclusion from the society of the well
informed. Had they bean allowed to
TERMS— S 2 Per Abbbm, ißTtritMy Xb AJvabcc.
associate with their white brethren,
they would hare participated in the in
telligence of those brethren. Had they,
instead of being shut out from the tem
ples of those brethren by arrange
ments and restrictions, such as even
the most degraded can scarcely look—
had they, instead of this outrage upon
their equal rights and instead of being
compelled to herd together in their ig
norance and fanaticism, been allowed
to worship with those brethren—they
would have fallen not at all behind
them in the knowledge and observance
of a deportment proper to the sanctua
ry. As moral reform women, we can
not expect to do mu;h until slavery is
abolished. The hideousness of slavery
is most awfully seen, when it puts its
great claw into domestic life and
wrenches thence all that is most pre
cious and sacred. This one monstrous
outrage ought fo array the whole civi
lized world in storm and deathless ener
gy of opposition against it. O! when
I’ve heard abolitionists accused of
using “harsh and denunciatory lan
guage” against slavery, I have thought
if such accusers had ever experienced
a tithe of the horrors of slavery, they
would deem all language too feeble,
too impotent to show forth faintly, the
unutterable character of this "ill” that
hath befal.en inheriting “flesh,” an
'•ill” that flesh” by nature wa» not
“heir to”—well has slavery been
called “hell above ground.” There
are subjects on which not to appear
‘terazy and fanatical” would be to be
come a moral iceburgh. Again, as
Anti-Slavery women, we can and it is
our serious duty to keep ourselves ac
quainted with the changes of aspect
this question is, from time to time, as
suming before the face of our country.
We should bd armed with intelligence
as to Anti-Slavery affairs, so as to be
able to converse freely and with effect
upon everything concerned in them.
Bring up the subject as often as you
can, and discuss it earnestly and feel
ingly. I confess I have great confi
dence and hope in talk. I believe with
one of our professors, that it is the
“Heavenly light.” It is one of the
mightiest agencies for good or ill, that
has ever been placed in the reach of
human beings. Anti-Slavery women
should read the doings of Congress,
when such men as Henry Clay and
Daniel Webster rise in the Senate
chamber of the United States and give
their energies and influence on the side
of chains and oppression, and their
speeches are reading all over the land,
exerting a powerful bias upon the
moulding minds of the >oung, blinding
tbeir intellects and preventing their
moral sense and inducing them to close
tbeir hearts against the cry of the
down-trodden slave. O, is it not a
high duty for the Anti-Slavery woman,
to be able to point out to those around
her the unprincipled baseness of such
speeches and to counteract their effect.
Never in the history of our country,
since the days of Arnold, has there
been so traitorous a political act, as
Mr. Webster’s speech, and it ought to
rouse the wholo country to burning in
dignation against it. Never has Bos
ton exhibited such preposterous and
glaring inconsistency as in condeming
i. W. Webster, while approving and
congratulating Daniel Webster. Why,
John W. Webster has killed only one
mao and then in a moment of passion,
while Danis! has deliberately consign
ed throe and a half millions to a con
ation, ten thousand times worse than
death. It shows up the moral sense of
t|iat city in anything but an enviable
light. As Anti-Slavery women, we
cannot take an enlightened interest in,
We cannot render a good and efficient
service to the cause we love and honor
Without knowing how it stands before
our country. We must be able to
prove that the course of H. Clay de
serves the deepest abhorrence of all
Christian hearts. Many of the young
people here are reading his speech and
think it “fine,” and their minds are
taking a permanent stamp from it.
Now, we ought, as a matter of Chris
tian Anti-Slavery principle, cultivate,
if we have it not already, a decided
taste for such reading and with all the
intellect and energy we can summon
up battle valiantly for the true and the
right. I do not believe that if in the
place of the endless talk about dress,
society and the beaux, we should intro
duce such topics, our table-talks, our
home conversations, our rural sides
and walks, or social intercourse any
where, would be any the less interest
ing. Then, too, we must appreciate
and honor such anti-slavery champions
as Horace Mann, John P. Hale W.
H. Seward and S. P. Chase. They
have done nobly in Congress. Their
Speeches are refreshing and inspiring
to every, true anti-slavery soul. If the
apeeches of Clay and Webster made
our hearts throb with pain, those of
Hale, Chase. Mann and Seward,
qaused them to leap with gladness. 1
have just been reading Mr. Chase's
speech. How much more honorable
to humanity than Daniel Webster’s.
No wonder Whittier thought “Icba
bod.” O when I see so distinctly por
trayed the consequences of Legislative
action—the “ship of state” freighted
with liberty and blessings of many—
the woes and agonies of others, its very
sails beaten with their sighs—its spars
creaking with their wails—its lading
drenched with bloody sweat—the
heart-breaking separation of famiiiea,
the crippling, destroying and would-be
kitlipg of the immortal mind, distancing
Popery and even Mahoraedanism itself,
while 1 feel hmmbly grateful for the
posseeaion of reason, natural rights
and benevolence, is it strange tint I
WHOLE NO! 161.
should (’•sire with all my tout, to ex
ercise these in the way that shall be
meet potent most efficient for good?
And here, to my gentemett friends
present, let me ask—do you value the
ballot-box that executes your wiU as
freeman—that guards as a sacred trea
sure your deposits in the ©sues of the
good and the right? Do you prise this
inheritance beyond all price? lias God
given to man tbe rights of self-govern
ment and not to woman also? Is oar
sensibility to be wounded by the tele
of oppression, consequent on bad lawa
and the power to be withheld from us,
to counteract as far as we might, by
good, by just legislation? It is useless
to plead that we are ignorant and there*
fore incapacitated. Give us knowl
edge—give us light—give us encour
agement, as you would the serfs of
Russsia or the Peasants of Hungary.
It is insufficient to urge that home and
society afford just as good and all
necessary opportunities for manifesta
tions of patriotism, of humanity. Let
the law-made condition of three and a
half millions of staves answer with
refutation! Let the response of your
own hearts to tbe question, would you
for any consideration give up yoer en
franchisement? be the answer. The
day will come when the right and ne
cesityof woman’s voting will be felt
and acknowledged. God speed the
right. And here, if it were in order,
I would say, by way of doing, that
it is indeed, a very melancholy fact,
that so few women realize the least re
sponsibility in this matter. But does it
not all spring from the man-spoken and
woman-echoed precepts that “women
should not meddle with politics.” “It
would generate family feuds.” Why,
then, is it not dangerous for men too?
Certainly it is very clear they ought
not to meddle with politics. In what
ever effects the interests of humanity,
men and women must have a common
cause. The cynical sneers of the
press and from all other not wholly the
most philanthropic, unquestionable
quarters in regard to the awakening in
terest of woman in politics—is by no
means an ill or even discouraging
omen! And if the honesly good join in
the shake of the head (they will not
point the finger) of derision, we need
only leave the temples of truth, where
the light of religion, of science, of free
dom, are now beaming with sunny
brightness, and take our way down the
broad avenues, gradually becoming
less and less broad, the lights dimmer
and more dim, till we are compelled to
thread a passage, almost feeling our
way. To Galilee before the inquisitors
—to Luther before the Worm's Diet
—to Jesus before Pilate! Were all
the good among tbe spectators of those
scenes entirely free from doubts. The
grand, immediate want of our day, is
an unflinching, might-and-main op
position to the malaria of expediency
and compromise. It is the hateful
genius of their doctrine that has given
so much to slavery!—that has taken
s much from human freedom! It is
notoriously true that so infectious ia
their influence, combined with party
passions and individual ambition that
by far the majority of men hold the
anomalous practice, if not theory of
thy consciences—a good conscience
and a political conscience, aright thing
per st and aright Constitution! Now
woman having no personal ambition to
gratify, no selfish aim to induce ner to
adhere to any party—ia pre-eminently
qualified to see clearly the right—and
to engage with all her lively sympa
thies—her tenderness of soul—her en
during zeal—her devotedness of pur
pose—her religious enthusiasm, in thin
anti-expediency, anti-compromise ef
fort! Senator Chase's remark “Hon
esty is the best policy—Justice the
highest expediency, and principle the
only proper basis of union in a political
organization,” is a worthy motto—and
if its spirit should henceforth be in
stilled into the minds of our embroyo
statesman, we might confidently expect
and calmly await the dawn of a new
century upon universally emancipated
America! And if the so oft
cited “experiment” of free self-gov
ernment is to be successfully demon
strated in America, there can be no
doubt, but the experiment of human
slavery is by her to be as signally
proved a failure! and her tableture
may bear two inscriptions—“ She re
sisted oppression and was delivered”
—'“She ceased to oppress and wax
free indeed!”
SALLY HOLLEY.
Excitement at the Irving House.
—Soon after the decision of Judge
Judson, of the U. S. Court, to seed
Long, the fugitive slave, back to Vir
ginia, was made public yesterday, a
large number of colored persons col
lected in and about the Irving House,
supposing that Long was there se
creted, preparatory to being sent
back. One of the blacks struck a white
man who was present and a bloody
scene came near being enacted. A
Southerner, who had been a witness
for the claimant, being present, drew
a six barreled revolver, and threatened
to blow away at any black who should
interfere with him. Capt. Rynders,
with a party of men, was present.
After much trouble on the part of Mr.
Howard, the proprietor of the House,
he and the man with the pistol with
drew, and the large and excited crowd
who had congregated to witness the
result quietly dispersed. Long, the
fugitive, was in the Court Room at the
time of the disturbance.—JV. F. 7V»-
bvne.
Thieves Alarum.—An English pa
per describes another device to scare
away thievca, under the name ot an
‘anti-burglar,’ being nothing more nor
less than a “cracker" of card-board,
about the size of an envelope. To
each end is attached a loop, by whiiqh
it mSy be connected with the door end
door-frame, or with the window, on
small hooks, so that when either are
opened, the cracker ia severed, end a
loud report takes place. The burglar
would either imagine himself fired at,
or would be scared away by the first
alarm, which would wake a vary aoun
sleeper.
ICJ* If a slave comes into this State
from Charleston, we are all bound ten
der heavy penalties to aid in hia cap
ture; but if a free colored seaman goes
to Charleston, be is thrown into jail
and deprived of his liberty, and aU
men are expected to approve of thf
outrage. PracHctU Chrittian,Fifitin Sine Fair.
The North Star Association of Ladies will
•pen Fair on the 14th of February, 1851,
to assist the Committee of Tnirteen in aiding
and defending such pereona ae may be arreeted
as fugitive slaves.
The Ladiee of thia Aaaociatiou (awate
that a very great amount of funda will be
accessary to effect the object of the Com
mittee) feel it their indiapenaable duty to
render all the aasiatance in their power.—
They therefore purpoae holding a fair, the
proeeeda of which will be to aid the Commit
tee in accomplishing the design of their for
mation.
The Committee hare pledged themselves
to seonre for those who way be arrested un
der the present wicked and abominable law,
such defence as'the law may provide and in
order to do this, they must be provided with
the neoesaary means, that they may be pre
pared whenever there is an ocoaaion for
aetioo.
All who are friendly to thia design, are
earnestly solicited to contribute. Anti-elavery
friends! you have sympathy for the subjects
of the atrocious fugitive law. It is] hoped
you will lend your aid to defend them. The
Association believe it unnecessary to urge
this appeal; there is ami-slavery feeling
enough to assure them that it will be favorably
responded to.
Donations, either is money or goods, will
be thankfully received by the following ladies,
who have been appointed a committee to re
oeive contributions; also by the Directress
and Secretary Mrs. Annette Porteau, 894
Second Street; Frances Essex, 158, Crosby
street; Sireno Downing, 4 Temple etreet;
Eliza Berrion, 68 Hall etreet; Miss Marie M,
Degrasee, 11'York street.
EMELINE BASTIEN,
Directress, Albany street.
Fanny Tompxins, Sec., 180 Church st.
North Star Fair.
Th* North Star Fair Association
will hold their Annual Fair for the North
Star Newspaper during Anniversary week in
May next.
All who are desirous of sustaining that
paper are respectfully solicited to contribute.
The Association consider it an efficient Anti-
Slavery agency—-one which aims a death
blow at the foul system of slavery and now
is the time its power should be felt. Slavery
is oppressing us on every side, and we must
be ptepared for battle. Our only weapon is
Truth, and the North Star is well calculated
to wield it. It can and will combat the
enemy on every aide, and therefore ought to
be sustained. Then let us sustain it! The
ladies of this Association are determined to
exert their influence in its behalf.
Donations, either in money or goods, will
be thankfully received, and may be forwarded
to the Directress nr Secretary.
EMELINE BASTIEN,
Directress, 6 Albany street.
Fanny Tohyxins, Sec., 180 Church st.
May next
An Incident.
Washington letter in the Evening Post
narrates the following incident, which took
plaee st the capital of the freest and greatest
country on earth
As the cars were departing for the Balti
more station, on Thursday evening, my atten
tion was culled to an occurrance which was in
some degree parallel to to Long’s case, and
deserves to be made public. A respectable
flee colored man, in appearance, had been
serving as waiter st one of the city hotels.
He had recently come from Baltimore. There
was no question of his freedom, none as to hts
character, but he was “informed upon” as a
fellow who was seeking to earn his own
bread by he nest industry forty miles from hie
birth-place. He was arrested and the offence
proved.
He was ordered to give bonds in one thou*
•end dollars tor his good behavior, or to leave
the place in twenty-four hours. But like
many other respectable men, lie could get no
body to bind himself in the penal sum of one
thousand dollats, to.insure the corporation,
the people of Washington, for the good health,
food conduct, and success of this black man.
Ie sotrowfully took up his bundle and went
to the Baltimore cars, to shake off the dust ot
hie feet against the place. But he was there
met with the information that he could not
enter the cars to leave the District, unlew he
gave bond for a thousand dollars, with two
•ufficient securities, that he was not a slave.
Here was another illustration of the advanta
ri «f being in the freest country on earth.
thousand dollars to stay, a thousand dollars
to go, and the poor object of so many alien
lions with not half so many cents. Impris
onment, ie, 1 believe, the penalty for non
compliance with one or the other demand
What was the iwue of his difficulties, 1 d
not know
Shockin Effects of Intemperance.—
Woodrow MeMurray, who seventy years of
age, together with his son William, lived in
the northern corner of our town, called the
Irish Settlement, was, on Saturday last,
about noon, found dead in hit bed, with marks
of violence about his person, indicating that
be died by the hand of violence. His son
Willisn was also found lying dead drunk up
on the hearth. There was no appearance of
having been any fire in the house for many
boars. The father and son were both of in
temperate habits, and it is known that they
had procured a jug of whiskey on the after
noon of tba man’s death. The last time he
-was aatn at the door of his house, just at dark
on the evening before be was evidently in
toxicated. There was marks of blood upon
tha floor, which had apparently swept with s
broom, found lying under the table, and also
some blood upon the bed. William says he
did not strike or injure the old man, that he
does not know anything about the matter.
After an examination he was committed to
tbo county jail, to await his uial foi parricide.
A sad New Year’s day to the prisoner—
and wera wa io his place, we should deem it
a acfirce less sad New Year to the person
who sold the somihe liquor, which, whether
the son be guilty or not, must oertainly have
lolled the father.
Recorder of Memphis Murdered. —Mr.
John A. Chester, the City Records! of Mem
phis, Tenn., was shot and instantly killed by
a negro, on tha Ist inst. The negro exhibit
ed a paper,purporting.to bo certificate of
bis freedom, which be wished countersigned
by the Mayor and Recorder, but on examine-
Boa it was discovered to be a forgery. Mr.
C. being satisfied that tha negro was a runa
way, was in the act of conveying him into his
office for sale-keeping, when he turned, and
with a double barrel pistol inflicted the mor
tal wound, wh ch resulted in his death io the
eoorsa of a fow minutes. The negro, after
eommuting the deed, acknowledged that he
was a slave. He was taken out by the exas
perated crowd and immediately hung. Mr.
Chaster’# son, a young mansighteeo years of
age, was reodered a raving maniac on view
ing tha lifalaas body of hia father.—Charles
ton Courier.
Tn Mind.—The mind has a certain vege
tativa power, which caonot be wholly idle. If
it is not laid ootand cultivated into a beautiful
gaxdeo, it will of itself shoot up in wstda or
flewen of wild growth.—Noe*. Democrat,
$1 )t No rtlj Star.
ROCHESTER, JANUARY 53,1031.
11/ The Bth Lbctuxx of the series will
be delivered by Frederick Douglass, in Co
rinthian Hall, on Sunday evening, Jan.96th,
at 7 o’clock. The public are respectfully
invited to attend.
ET The friends of the North Star,”
whose subscriptions are now due for the
Fourth Volume are most respectfully but
earnestly reminded thalthis is a time when
their subscriptions are much needed, and ought
to be paid, as it ia exceedingly important to
the well-being of the paper that it should paw
into the new year unincumbered by -debt*
which were necessarily incurred in the old
year. Pay your dues —give us a generous
support, and we will make the North Star”
a paper ot which even a white man need not
be ashamed.
D 7 Will our Rochester subscribers have
the kindnew.to leave their subscriptions for
the present year of the North Star” at our
office at an early period
try Our British friends are respectfully
requested to forward their subscriptions, for
the present year of the North Star,” to
Mrs. Henry Richardson, 6 Summer Hill
Grove, New-Caatle-on-Tyne.
The two first lectures, delivered bf Fred
erick Douglaw in Corinthian Hail, Rochester,
are now published [in one pamphlet; it is got
up in a very superior style, and may be had at
the North Star Office." Price one shil
ling each, or 10 perhnndred.
Ballard’s Panorama ia atill on exhibition in
this oity, at Minerva Hall. See advertiaemeti
in another column.
B 7 We have been compelled by our con
stant attendance upon public meetings to omi
our intended strictures upon the Syracuse
Conventiou. Our readers will see in this pa
per the resolutions and addrern to whioh man}
of the members of the Convention took ex
ception, and which finally led to a separation
of the Convention without finishing the busi
new legetimately before it.
D3* We have received another letter from
Wm. W. Brown, who is now in Scotland,
but too late for this number. The friends o
the hunted fugitive will rejoice to know tha>
Wm. and Ellen Crafts are in company with
Mr. Brown, and that a friendly interest is be
ing taken in theii welfare. A letter fron
Mr. Brown was published in last week's pa
per without his signature. The paper wen
toptew before we saw the omiwioo. Mi.
Brown may feel awuied that his letters an
always welcome to a place iu the columns ot
the North Star.”
A Fair for the Fugitives.
Our readets will observe, by a notice it.
another column of the North Star, that the
ladies of the North Star Association,” it
the city of New York purpoae to open a Fair
on the 14th of February, the proceeds t>
which are to be devoted to the defence anti
proteetion of fugitive slaves who may be ar
rested in the citj of New York under that in
human and atrocious enactment, the fugitive
slave law.”
We rejoice to see this movement, on the
part of the ladies of that Association. Money
is absolutely needed for this purpose. From
present appearances there is a deierminaliei>
on the pan of the alaveholdera to avail them
selves of this inhuman Saw, to thy fullest
ixtchi,” and we may be but just upon the
threshhold of distress and suffering from thie
slave-catching business. Let the Fair be
held, and let every aasiatance which money
can procure be afforded to those who may be
arrested under this law.
It will be seen that the excellent ladies en
gaged in this noble effort, are the seme wh<
held ao successful a Fair last Spring in Nev
York, in aid of the North Star," and wh
intend holding another Fair for ttys earn
purpose, during week in May
next.—r. d.
Seventh a nnnal Meeting oI tbo Western
IV. Y. Anti-Slavery Society*
The members and friends of this Sooiet)
met in Irving Hall on Thursday, Jan. 16th,
at 10 o’clock A. M.
Benjamin Fish, the President of the So
ciety. took the Chair; and the meeting wa>
further organised by the appointment of Julia
Griffiths and Sarah C. Burtis Secretariss.
Frederick Douglass, Abby Kelly Foster
Abigail Bush, Amy Post, and Asa Anthony
were appointed a Business Committee.
While the Committee were out, preparing
business for the meeting, Hiram Wilson o
Canada made some interesting remarks abou
the fugitives in Canada, their present suffer
ing condition, notwithstanding the kiodnes<
of the people there manifested in their behalf
Mr. Wilson expressed ,an earnest hope tbs
something could be done for them by th«
friends of the slave in thia vieinity.
Frederick Douglass, from the Businas*
Committee, here reported a series of resolu
tions, which were received.
Resolved, Thst American slavery is a sin
of the first rank, a flagrant outrage agaiost
human nature, a violation of the first princi
ples of justice, a mockery of our professedly
free institutions, a fool disgrace and scandal,
and that it ought to be immediately and uncon
ditionally abolished.
Resolved, That slavery ia not exclusively
an institution of the South; but that it is
also an institution of tba North, and of ibe
West, and of the whole United States, involv
ing in a common guilt and shame, the tshoU
American people.
Resolved, Thst slaveholding can never be
defended upon any principles but such as are
in accordance with theft, robbery, pitaey
and murder, and that the faet that slavery
openly defended, by professed ministers of the
gospel, from the American pulpit, implies a
blindness of moral vision, a desdnosa of sen
sibility, a perverseness of spirit, and a prone
ness io evil, which must shock and alarm
every man wbo teals an intelligent interest in
the moral and teligoo* well-being of the
nation.
Resolved, That we regatd with the fnlleet
measure ol detestation and scorn the recent
murderous threat of Millard Fillmore, that he
is determined to exeeule the inhuman enact
ment of Congress, for the recapture of fugi
tive slaves, even at the point of the bayonet;''
and that, notwithstanding tbits throat, we
shall never refuse to give bread or shelter to
the panting fugitive, nor to use any means,
consistent with Christian prineiplea, to hide
the outcast,” and to deliver the spoiled out
of the hands of the spoiler.”
Resolved, That each individual man ia
the rightful owner of” eyes, hands, or pm w,
dimensions, Menses, affections and passions”
with which be haa been endowed by hia
Creator, and that no law, constitution, nor
compact, can aver invalidate or destroy
this natural and inherent self ownership.
Resolved, That he who attempts, under
the fugitive slave taw, to enslave a fellow
man, does, in that act, disregard the very
principles of justice, by which as a man his
own life and liberty are secured to him, and
if he should be struck down or shot down by
his victim in such an attempt, the common
sense of mankird could pronounce hut one
judgment upon his fate, (via.) it served the
villain right.”
Resolved, That the Constitution ot the
United States, according to the popular inter
pretation of that instrument, and the uniform
practice of the government under it, is a
slaveholding compaot, and that he who swears
to support that eompact, agreeing with that
interpretation of it makes himself a partner in
the criminality of slaveholding, and ought not
to be regarded consistent as the advocate of
emancipation.
Resolved, That while we rejoice at the
manly stand taken, last winter in Congress,
by William H. Seward, John P. Hale, S
P. Chase, Horace Mann, J. R. Giddings,
Thaddeus Stevens, Charles Durkee, and other
noble friends of freedom, who eloquently op
posed the extension of slavery and the enact
ment of the horrid fugitive slave bill, we are,
nevertheless, impelled to the oonclusion, that
they are shorn of their moral strength, and
are rendered comparatively powerless in the
presence of slaveholders, while they solemnly
swear to respect the alleged pro-slavery com
promises of the Constitution.
Whereas, strenuous efforts are now being
made, by pro-slavery priests, and corrupt po
liticians, in this State, and elsewhere, to pul
down anti-slavery agitation, and to give peace
and quiet to this guilty country, and, where
as, we believe that that agitation is founded
on the principles of eternal justice, and iu the
noblest sentiments of the human soul; and,
whereas, to cease from that agitation is to dis
regard those principles and sentiments, to
prove traitors to God and to man, and to havt
more than three millions of our countrymen
in chains, upitied, unwept and uucared for;
and, whereas, peaceful emancipation can be
secured, in this country only by changing the
moral sentiment of the people on the subject
of slavery; and, whereas, this change can
alone be effected by the patient and persever
ing enforcement of the great principles ol
justice, religion, and morality upon the un
-lerstanding and the hearts' of the people,
therefore,
Resolved, That the members of this So
oiety, do pledge themselves to renewed exer
ons in piomoting the apead of anti-slavery
principles in Western New York—the as
sumed and natural field of labors, and that
they so highly approvs of the proposition ol
the Executive Committee, to employ one or
more agents to lecture in this region.
Resolved, That as an earnest of onr sin
cerity, and determination to encourage the
hearts, and to strengthen the hands of the
Executive Committee of this Society, we
proceed at once, to raise three hundred dol
lars, and to place that sum kt their disposal.
The meeting was then addressed by Ste
phen S. Foster. He expressed his deep
regret at the small degree of interest mani
fested in this community on the subject of
slavery. He had not attended a meeting in
two years where eo few were present as on
this occasion. Among the many reaaons al
leged for the apparent coldneas and deadness
of the community on the subject of slavery,
wore some which bore hard upon the aboli
tionists of this region. He declared that they
bad not exerted themselves at they ought to
have done that the fault was in them and
experience showed that where there were no
agents In the field, there would be little inter
est iu the cause. “Where no teed is sown,”
said he, “no harvest can be expected.” It
ia impossible to keep up anti-slavery feeling
in the community without agents. The tre
mendous influence of the olergy iu this local
ity, ia constantly operating against the anti
slavery movement and unless there are
agents in the field, it is utterly impossible to
keep up anti-slavery feeling. Mr. Foster
referred to the decline of anti-slavqry liberal
ity in supporting agents, and in sustaining
the anti-alavery press, and commended the
example of the American Anti-Slavery So
ciety, fourteen yeara ago, in sending out sev
enty agents. It waa impossible to have pioa
perity where there waa no investment. Men
must give to the anti-slavery cause to become
interested in that cause. It takes much,”
he said, 11 to make a genuine abolitionist.”—
He made reference to negative abolitiomsm-;
and pcinted out the difference between talking
and acting. We need,, to commence with
eelf-examinaiion among ourselves. As in the
church they commenqp revivals with confes
sions, so we need to oonfess. We need a
naw baptism—a new consaoration. Every
abolitionist ought to feel as if his own dear
fnends were in slavery. The plea that we
are few in number, is no excuse. There sre
enough present, if but in earnest, to shake
>ha laaji. Think of that one voice which
•sued forth from an obscure garret in the
:ity of Boston, twenty years ago. Thai
*oiee re-echoed through every valley of the
South, and filled the nation with alarm, and
tauaed a price of five thousand dollars to be
offered for the head of W. L. Garrison, li
is not so much what is taid, as the manner in
which we say it. The people do not care fm
nere profession. It is pottles*. Our ac
tions, not our words, are the true test. We
ire not aware what we can accomplish, if we
determine. The mere not voting, not joining
a pro-slavery church, does not entitle a man
*o the name of an abolitionist. The tnau who
sees his neighbors heuee on fire, and refrains
from assisting to put it out on the plea that he
did not aet it on fire, nor make it burn, ia juai
aa culpable as the incendiary. For one, I am
determined to be' heard; and if the people
will not come to me, I will go to them. I
start with tho idea that thie community shall
be converted to anti-alavery,” said Mr. Fos
ter. Some men will preach if men will
hear: but I am a preacher who will preach
whether men will hear, or whether they
will forbear.” Mr. Foster’s remarks were
listened to with deep interest by the audience.
Frederick Douglass expressed his gratifica
tion at the remarks of Mr. Foster. He aaid
that the smallness of the number who had as
sembled was to be accounted iu by the almost
impassable slate of the roads leading to the
city; and another reason tps the want of or
ganisation among abolitionist*. The feet ia,
that the Western N. Y. Aqji-Slavery Soeiety
aa an organisation, is littlo better than a name,
and very few feel any degree of responsibility
in regard to its existence or usefnlooae. Mir.
Douglass base called for the reading of the
Annual Report, as the best index to the real
state of the Society. The reading of the
Report waa postponed until the afternoon.
The morning's eoeetoo was timber ooeu
pied by remarks from Hiram Wilson tod
Stephen S. Footer.
Mrs. Foster suggested that t plan far action
wsi desirable to be diacuscnd tl titit IMtttag
rather than fundamental principles. Never
had theie been each a time for action as now.
The fusion of politicul parties—there being
no Whigs, no Democrats, no Fiee Soilers,
all remaining uncommitted!—make it com
paratively easy to mould the public mind.—
She declared that the abolitionists, ibough
small in number, were the roost important
body in ibe nation, and alluded to the remarks
of Messrs. Calhoun, Clay and Webster in
which they say that the abolitionists must be
put down. This little handful of fowstiss
had endangered the Union, thrown the politi
cal parties and churches into coofua'on, and
that by laboring faithfully before the next
Presidential campaign, we shall hare the sat
isfaction to see in ibe field bat two organisa
tion*—one under the black flag of slavery,
and one under the greyish white of liberty.
Our duty is to gain all we can for the highest
position—“ No uoioif with slaveholder.”
She exhorted us to work while it is called
day.” The Liberty Party, aha said, had
vanished,'as she expected it would do, as all
small political organizations were in due time
swallowed up by the larger ones, The pres
ent Liberty paily, ueder Gerrit Smith, is not,
strictly speaking, an anti-slavery party, but
has nineteen reforms to effect, of which anti
slavery is one. Tha. party has no agents,
and only occasional meetings. A large Held,
therefore, is now open for the Western N.
Y. Anti Slavery Society. We may secure
aid from the members of all parties.
Mrs. Abigail Bush arose tcmake snexcuse
for the ministers of Rochester. She said
that the ministers were engaged in other good
things—Bible, Missionary, aid Tract enter
prises, and other benevolent sbjecta. It was
true that the churches geneally were closed
against anti-slavery meetingi, but that we are
no longer deprived of the ueana of reaching
the public ear. Corinthian Ball (a very com
modious one) has been reportedly crowded on
Sunday evenings, to hew addresses from
Frederick Douglass.
S. S. Foster inquired wist were the anti
slavery resources of this eity l whether means
could be found to fur nidi agents for going
through this section of esuntry l He refered
to the bill, now before the Legislature, pre
sented by Mr. Coffin
The Annual Reptrt was then read by
Mrs. Burtis, and war accepted.
TUIBDAI EVENING.
Resolutions were gain read by Frederick
Douglass.
Mr. Foster then iddiessed the meeting.
He said the atmoeihere of Rochester was
heavy, exceedingly heavy, difficult of res
piration s torpor seemed to have hung over
this meeting, 1 lave had,” (said he,)
since I came here,no ease, no fluency, no
flowing of spirit.” Be did not know what
plan it would be netessary to devise, He
however, believed th* there must be a storm.
Thunder and lightnag alone can purify this
atmosphere. MoßALthunder is required to
purify the public mild. He was persuaded
that no oidinary applances could answer the
purpose. It was pueible that even a moral
earthquake would be necessary to awaken the
people from their apathy. Had thare been a
crime committed in Rochester, the crime of
murder, your city would have boiled with
excitement. Now, all is calm and quiet.—
But ia there no crime l no cause of alarm
He would sooner take his place with Piol.
Webster in judgment than with the ministers
of this ciiy. He said, the abolitionists were
on terms with murderers, and to be ou such
terms offaiimacy was to be accessory to
mutder. iis had always had the satisfaction
to be calkd an odd man, a fanatic, because he
had alwajs regarded the term* of fellowship
with protlavery people impossible for a Chris
tian. Hr had been called an infidel. What
isaninSftel? One who disobeys God—no
faithful faithless. The American church is
an infidd bedy. Mr. Foster here portrayed
the aboainations of the fugitive slave law,
and thegwful condition of the women in sla
very. lie regarded the people of Rochester
to be ai guilty aa those of South Caiolins
and Getrgia, and he would arraign them on
the charge of infidelity, and immorality, as
much deserving a plsce in the States Prison,
at Auburn, as the vilest prisoner ever sent
there. He was a peace man, and he believed
in the icriptuTe that exhorteth, aa far aa in
you lieih. if it be possible, live peaceably
with all men.” But his doctrine was, first
pure, tken peaceable." ”We have no right,
(said be,) to be at peace with the ungodly.
To be at peace with wicked men is to be re
deem to Christianity,”
Wefhave not entered into the wrongs of
the slare as we ought to enter into them.—
Revenge finds little lodgment in the bosons of
the colored people, or they had long since
been free. Mr. Foster continued in a strain
of the most pointed denunciation of the hy
pocrisy, wickedness and guilt of the American
church in respect to slavery, and only desired
that men should place themselves in the con
dition of the slave to see the conduct of the
church in the seme light with himself.
M. D. Codding ststed some fsets relative
to the Rev. Mr. Mcllvaine’s sermon on the
death of General Taylor, in which the Rev.
gentleman regards (among other things) the
death of General Taylor as s judgment on the
nation for their unfaithfulness io their consti
tutional obligations thst Rochester bad been
guilty in this particular, in that she had not
return ed to bondage the three hundred fugi
tives who were here
Meeting adjourned until half-put six.
On re-assembling, the resolutions before
the meeting were again read by F. Douglau.
S. S. Foster submitted a resolution in de
nunciation of religious ud political editors
who were in favor of the fugitive slave bill,
classing than with pick-pockets, pirates and
assassins. Mr. Foster made a long and
powerful speeoh, in support of his resolution.
He was followed by Mr. Ptekard, on the
same side. Rev. Mr. May dissented from
the views of the previous speakers. He saw
to advantage in calling a slaveholder a pick
pocket, and the like names. His philosophy
difiered entirely from that of Mr. Foster and
Mr. Piokard. Hie wont thing that a slave
holder could be called was a slaveholder. Mr.
May illustrated his method of dealing with
such offenders by several very striking anec
dotes of his own experience, in which he had
avoided the u:» of every hanh epithat, and
yet had produced the desired impression on,
the mird. He relied more upon a faithful
dseoription'fef the crime of the offender than
upon the epithet by which that crime wu char
•denied. Mr. May glaooed at the greet it
sponsibility of editors, and dwelt with muck
powt upon ibe course pursued by tfee Syra
cuse Star in respect to the late Convention.
He said that that paper bad recommended tbs
prosecution and punishment of the officers o
that Convention.
Frederick Douglass was glad that this dis
cussion had taken this turn the manner o
advocating the cause of the sieve waa of gresi
importance. The very best instrumentalitiei
ought to be need in aoch a cause. There
was, however, no absolute and unvarying
rule by which tor determine the matter. The
silvery mildness of Mr. May, and tbs scath.
ng denunciation of Mr. Foster were alike
esseutial to the success of this cause. Wher
men will consent to have their conduct ex
amined, and are disposed to reason, epitheti
are unnecessary, but when they are proud ol
their utter indifference to the enslavement ol
mankind, and do actually glory in their own
shame, then we need fire as well as light.
Epithets are necessary then in such cases.
The very impression which they produce is in
dispensable to the salvation. I therefot*
ses woik for both my friends;” (said he,)
the rough battle-axe of brother Foster, maj
bo used with effect in the same field with thi
smooths silver blade of brother May.
Mr. Foster again explained his views, and
quoted largely from the 23d of Mathew, ic
support of his method of dealing with pro
slavery sinners. He said that the men ol
Rochester were walking corpses, and thal
nothing short of thunder and lightning would
rouse them.
FRIDAY MORNING.
The meeting commenced by the Rev. s. J.
May proposing and leading a series of reso
lutions, which were adopted.
A resolution, on the necessity of immsdi
ste action, was read by F. Douglass, who
added a few remarks on the subject. He wai
followed by the Rev. S. J. May, who exhorted
the meeting to remember the immense in*
portance of the present crisis. '#4
Mr. Milo D. Codding next addressed the
audience; beseeching them to use the present
time aright. Now, ifever,”*be said “Anti-
Slavery effort will pay.” Political parties were
broken up. It is an indisputable fact that the
slaveholders now beatow more loud and cloth
ing on their slaves, than they used to do a few
years ago this was owing to the abolition
ists, and should be one ground of encourage
ment to them to go on.
Mr. Codding was followed by Frederick
Douglass, who spoke in support of the rao
lution and said, this resolution involves ui!
question, “to be, or not to bef” Shall the
Western New York Ami-Slavery Society
really live once again or shall it con
tinue to have a name to live, and be dead.
You have usually appointed an Executivt
Committee The very name implies action
and doing. The names ol the Committee
have appeared in the paper and have been
heard of far and wide. The friends in
England, Scotland, and Ireland have read
of the Executive Committee of the West
em New York Anti-Siavery Society.
What have this Committee effected 1
They have no agent in the field; they can
have no agents. You have given them
no money to expend in the cause; and
while you voted them into office, you tied
their hands, and rendered them powerless
and useless. Shall we renew this solemn
farce The time for action has now come.
A resolution, commending a good principle,
it good, as far as it goes. A resolution
against the fugitive slave law, is a good
thing, as far as it goes. Bui some prac
tical effect is desirable; and if our efforts
are chsrtcterixed by earnestness and sin
“cerity, we shall witness these practical
effects.”
Mr. Douglass then made reference to the
anti-corn law movement in England, and its
eventual triumph, after a seven years’ cam
paign. He concluded with an earnest ex
hortation to the Western N* Y. Anti-Slavery
Society to do their duty.”
Mr. Foster then addressed the meeting on
the importance of immediately deciding upon
some plan of operations. He suggested that
the first thing for a successful anti-slavery
oompaign, was an earnest Executive Com
mittee. He stated that four agents were
needed in Wpatern New York, and that men
could now be found for the work, if funds
could be raised to sustain them in the field.
He referred to the seal of the churches, and
recommended the abolitionists to copy their
enterprise.
After a few remarks from Mrs. Bush,
Mrs. Foster made an earnest appeal to the
friends of the slave to act in some decisive
and business-like manner—not to be discour
aged by the smallness of their numbers, bat
to remember that it is usually the few who
take the responsibility.
AFTCENOOM SESSION.
On the meeting being called to order,
the Rev. S. J. May again retd the memorial
to the Legislative assembly, and made some
propositions respecting it. He was followed
by Mr. Bloss, who made remarks concern
ing the proposed memorial.
Mrs. Foster addressed the meeting on the
cruelty and iniquity of the fugitive slave law,
and on the necessity of carrying out meas
ures to counteract its baneful effects. She
urged the meeting to definite action.
S. S. Foster followed by making a power
ful speech on the guilt of the America!
Churches. He was interrupted by Mr.
Avery, who raised some objections to Mr.
Foster'* wholesale denunciation, and endeav
ored to explain the difference between tb<
true and the false ehurch. He regretted the
want of discrimination on ths part of Mr.
Foster. Mr. Foster explained, and a some
what lengthy discussion between the tw<
gentlemen ensued; After which Mr. Fost«
spoke warmly on the fugitive slave law, am
the meeting adjourned to be resumed in the
evening.
FEIDAY EVENING.
On the meeting being called to order
Mr. May submitted a proposition that KM
be immediately raised, and pkoed at the die
poeal ef the Committee to satisfy presen
emergences. This proposition sppesred u
be approved by the friends in general. Re
marks were made by S. S. Foster and Mik
D. Codding, and a collection of the fundi
was commenced. Mrs. Foster and Mr. Ms]
made brief addressee, during the taking ap 0
the money. It seemed to come hot slowly
Frederick Douglass again addressed th<
meeting. Some present might say, this it
not the smertainment to which I wss inoited;
this is Dot what 1 expected. I came to hear
fine speeebe, not to give money.
I have now an announcement to make.
The Weatetn N. Y. A. S. Society have
raked $6O. Stand bock Slaveholders fear and
tiemble As evidence of our deep interest in
the poor fugitive, this sum will not make
them very uneasy. After a strenuous ap
peal from Mr. Douglass, twenty more dollars
were raised by the meeting, and Mrs. Foster
gave a brief but fervent address on individual
responsibility in ibe slave question. She quo
ted considerably from the 25th of Matthew
referred to the poor slave meeting us in judg
ment, and the Savior condemning os there
for uofsithfulneaajto our brother in hoods.
A Resolution was then read in reference to
the proposed visit of Mr. Thompeon to Roch
ester, Mr. May, and Mr. and Mrs. Foster
pronounced a high eulogy on his charaotet
and attainments.
After which Frederick Douglass gave an
interesting sketch of the history of this elo
quent champion of freedom, and ended his
speech by a spirit-suring appeal to the
friends of the slave to give their English
friend a warm welcome to this city. A few
remarks were then made by Mr. Bloss, and
the meeting closed.
Joua Griffiths,
Sabah A. Bubtis, j Stcrtiana
At a meeting in relatioo to the fugitive
slave bill, held at the Union Meeting House,
Collins Centre, Erie Co., N. Y., the 17th of
13th mo., 1850, William Henry, ofGowanda,
was called to the Chair, and Joseph Griffin
was appointed Secretary.
The meeting was feelingly addressed by
Joseph Parkins in a discourse of considerable
length, showing the nature of the bill passed
as a law by Congress, but whioh hs did not
acknowledge as a law, as it contravenes some
of our most important moral obligations.
After s free discussion of the following pre
amble and resolutions, thsy were unanimously
adopted;
If in all criminal prosecutions the accused
shall enjoy the right to a speedy and pub
lic trial by an impartial jury, (see amend
ment to the Constitution, Art. 6,) if in suita
at common law when the value in controversy
shall exceed twenty dollars the right of trial
by jury shall be preserved, (Art. 7,) if the
writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended,
unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion
the public safety shall require it, (Con. Art.
1, Sec. 9,) and if we consider the national
constitution the basis upon which all legisla
tive enactments that are repugnant thereto,
are null and void, and especially such as con
travene these provisions of the Constitution
designed as guaranties of personal liberty.
Resolved, That as the fugitive s(oe bill
denies the right of trial by jury in cases in
volving personal liberty when the person is nol
even claimed as s criminal, and when the
value in controversy incalculably exceedt
twenty dollars and that it refuses the writ ol
habeas corpus that a commissioner appointed
for the purpose, having supreme jurisdiction
in the cases is required to deliver up to the
lander mercies of slavery any person on the
affidavit of any other person in a distant slave
atate, who may claim him aa a slave, thereby
giving little or no opportunity for such a claim
being contested, or evidenee being furnished
of his being legally entitled to freedom, it i«
a gross violation of the Constitution of our
country, in the spirit snd letter of it, therefore
not legally binding upon us.
Resolved, That aa instances have not been
wanting, in times past, of individuals of ob
scure parentage, or of a dark akin, but ol
partly European oiigin, being claimed by
Souther kidnappers, and earned off, or
attempted to be carried oft aa slaves, this bill,
by preventing evidence, offers great facilities
for such miscreants to prey upon the liberties
of the whites, we, if we had nothing further
in view than the protection of our white
breihien, object to it, as an insult offered to
all classes of freemen in the Northern States.
Resolved, That in respect to personal lib
erty, we know no distinction as regards color;
we regret it, as in its principles it contravenes
out highest obligations of duty one to
mother, or that higher law than the Constitu
tion, that impels us to relieve suffering hu
manity without respect to color.
Resolved, That the pay of a Commissioner
according to the bill, is in effect nothing less
than bribery, fire dollars if he fails to make
out the claim sufficient, snd ten dollars if hs
succeeds in it.
Resolved, That in view of the unconstitu
tionally of the fugitive atave bill, of the mis
chiefa snd miseries it is working to the colored
population in the Northern States and Can
ada, in compelling us to become slave
catchers for the slave claimants of the South,
and of its being utterly repugnant to the besi
feelings ol our nature, that impel us to acts
of humanity toward those in bonds as bound
with them, we will do all in our power, mor
ally, socially and politically, to procore the
immediate snd unconditional repeal of ssic
bill.
WILLIAM HENRY, Chn.
Joseph Griffin, Sec’y.
The Slave-Hunting Law.
The following bill was introduced into Use
Assembly of this State on Friday last, read a
second time the next day and referred to the
Judiciary Committee. Its mover was Mr.
Edwin S. Coffin of Otsego. The chief or
gan of the slaveholders in this city, the Jour
nal calls it an "infamous nullification bill,”
which is good evidence, so far. as the opinion
of one man may go, that it will answer its
purpose of protecting the rights of citizens,
and ought to become a law. A full expres
sion io its favor by that portion of the prees
opposed to slave-hunting in our own
soil would doubtless secure its passage.—
Standard
AN ACT to.prevent the arrest or the removal
of free citixens ofthis State beyond its juris
diction, except for crime.
Sec. 1. Arty person who shall arrest or at
tempt to arrest, or cause to be arrested, or
aid in arresting, or attempt to arrest any free
citizen of this State, with intent to have such
citizen removed against his will beyond the
jurisdiction of this Slate, or vriro shall re
move, or aid directly or indirectly, in remov
ing any such citizen against his will beyond
the jurisdiction of this State, shall be deemed
guilty of kidnapping, and on conviction
thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment in
the State prison for a term not exceeding ten
years, and shall also<be liable in a civil action
to |be party arrested, or attempted to he ar
rested or removed as aforesaid, for the dam
ages sustained by reason cf such arrest or re
moval or attempted arrest ot removal, as
aforesaid.
Sec. 9. Any person who shall have openly
and publiely resided in this State for one year
preceding each arrest or removal, or attempt
ed arrest or removal as aforesaid, shall in all
courts and places be deemed, and held to be a
free citizen of this Slate within the true in
tent and meaning of this act, until the contra
ry is proved as provided in the next section.
Sec. 8. On the trial of any indictment foand
under this act, or of any civil action given by
this act, the defendant may prove that the per
son charged to have been arrested or removed,
or attempted to have been arrested or remov
ed as aforesaid, was not in fact s freeman
entitled to come and reside in this State; and
if the jury shall be satisfied thereof they shall
acquit the defendant; bat no warrant, orders,
process or certificate, iaeoed or made by any
court or office, sod no ex-perte affidavit, depo
sition or record shall be received or admitted
io evidence to establish the right to street or
remove the person charged to have been ar
rested or removed, or to prove that such per
sob not a free eitiaen of this Stats, within the
true intent and meaning of this tot.
Sec. 4. Indictments may be found under
this set, in the county where the offirace shall
have been eommitted, er in any county into
or through which any free citiseo se srieeted
as aforesaid, shall have been taken or serried
Sec. 5. This act shall not apply to the case
of persoos arretted ot attempted to be amat
ed or removed from beyond the jurisdiction of
this State, on a charge of treason, foleuy er
other crime; or to easee of the arrest or remo
val of persoos belonging to or employed ia
the Army snd Navy of the United Suttee.
Aati-FufiUv* Slave Law Meeting.
At a large meeting of persoos from various
parts of the State of New Yerk, held ia the
City of Syracuse, January 9ih, 1851, aod of
which Frederick Douglass was President,
the following Resolutions and Address were
unanimously adopted. The address ia the
•earn#, and, with an inconsiderable exception,
the Resolutions are the same as those which
[were reported by Germ Smith to the State
Convention held in said City, January 7th
aod Bth, 1851
anoLUTtoHs.
1. Resolved, That we pour oot upon the
Fugitive Slavs Law the fulleot measure
of our contempt snd hate sod execration; and
pledge ourselves to resist it actively, as well
as passively, snd by all such means, as shall,
in our esteem, promise the most effectual re
sistance.
9. Resolved, That they who consent to be
the agents of Southern oppressors for exe
cuting this law, whether as Commissioners,
or Marshals, or in any other capaeity, are to
be regarded as kidnappers snd land-pirates.
3. Resolved, That it is our duty to peril
life, liberty, snd property, in behalf of the
fugitive slave, to as great an extent u we
would peril them in behalf of ourselves.
4. Resolved, That obviously and grossly
Unconstitutional as is this Law, nevertheless
this is not the chief reason why we condemn
snd defy it:—for equally, whether they are
Constitutional or Unconstitutional, do we con
demn and defy all laws, which insult Him
who is above all Constitutions, snd whiah,
aiming not to protect, but to destroy rights,
are, therefore, to be regarded as no laws.
5. Resolved, That, [horrible as ia this law.
we must bear in mind, that it is huts perfect
ly natural and not at mil to be wondered at
exsetion of slavery snd that, hence, oar first
and great work is to get rid, not of the law,
but of slavery—as it would be our first and
great work to pursue and kill the mad-dog,
instead of pausing, until we had effected the
cure of one of his biles.
6. Resolved, That between cotrupt politics
on the one hand and corrupt churches on the
other—between the politicians and parties who
enacted this Law, and the priests, who are
pisaehing its enfsrceinent—there is no hope
for this Nation, unless it shall very speedily
be brought to prefer honesty to knavery, both
in its religious teachers snd civil rulers.
7 Resolved, Thai, were the corrupt re
ligion of the country to be exchanged for
blank infidelity, the abolition of slavery would
be comparatively easy.
8. Resolved, That when the immortal
writer of the Declaration of Independence
said “If we do not liberate the enslaved* by
the genetous energy of our own minds, they
must, they will, be liberated by the awful
process’' of St. Domingo Emancipation, be
uttered woide, which there is but too mueh
lesson to believe are rapidly approaching their
fulfilment.
9. Resolved, That, inasmuch as aouod
principles snd sound teachers are as indie
pensible in our Institutions of Learning, as in
our pulpits, we iejoice to know that, under
the progreaa ot the anti-slavery aentimeat,
there are already several Colleges in our
country which are open to colored students
snd that there are two of these, in which
colored students find themselves emphatically
at home. These are Oberlin College in
Ohio, and Central College in New York—in
the latter of which there is a colored Pro
fessor.
10. Resolved, That, inasmuch as every
National party in this Nation must, beojose
it is a National party, spars, if not indeed,
positively favor, slavery, it follows, that
whoever belongs to the Whig or Democratic
party, or to any ecclesiastical National party,
does, however unwillingly or unwittingly,
give his influence and support to slavery.
11. Resolved, That the time has come, and
had long ago come, for gathering a Northern
political party, which shall be both determined
and able to carry out the principles of the
Federal Constitution and the principles of
h imanily and religion, in overthrowing the
base and bloody system of American slavery,
snd in establishing a righteous Civil Govern
ment.
12. Resolved, That we welcome the pres
ence in this Convention of William L. Chap
lin and render thanks to Almighty God for
having preserved him alive, whilst under the
blows snd threats of murderous ruffians, and
whilst in the dreary prisons to which villain
ous, snd piratical Governments had committed
him.
13. Resolved, That, instead of rebuking
and scorning, we honor and love, this dear
brother for having dons thst for which Jesus
Christ will siy unto him before an assmbled
world: “Inasmuch as ye hsvo done it unto
one of the least of these, ye have done it
unto me.”
14. Resolved, Thst if William L. Chaplin
has done violence to the principles of repub
licanism and ehiistianity, in suffering a couple
of his fellow-men to seek to promote their es
cape from slavery by getting into his carriage,
then are republicanism snd Christianity the
deadliest enemies of humanity, and the crud
est lies thst have ever been propagated.
15. Whereas, notwithstanding the eoa
siderable amount of donations toward effecting
the liberation of our brother Chaplin, he waa
obliged, by reason of the exorbitant bail
required of him, to borrow large sums of
money from various individuals; Resolved,
therefore, Thst we deeply sympathise with
him under his pecuniary embarrassments,
snd warmly desire, thst the benevolent may
toon relieve him of them.
16. Resolved, That the liberation of Chap
lin is an occasion for remembering afresh, tod
pitying &/raah, Drayton and Sayre and lot
calling afresh on this hypoontica! snd oraal
Nation te set these outraged and afflicted
brethren at liberty.
17. Whereas, inasmuch as the imprison
ment of Drayton and Sayre for aiding their
fellow-men to escape from the horrors of
slavery, is an imprisonment for what not only
humanity and religion pronounce a virtue;
but for what the law of the Declaration of In
dependence, since it declares “thst all men
are created equal,” pronounces s virtue; and
for what the law of the Federal Constitution,
since it declares its object to be “to establish
justice snd secure the blessings of liberty,”
does, also, pronounce a virtue; Resolved,
.therefore, That it would be, not a lawless set,
but a lawful, as well aa humane aod religious
act, to demolish the prison of these philan
thropists, and let them go free.
A9DSHM. i
To the people of tho State of Nets York:
A reeent law of Congress called on you te
assist in reducing your fellow-men to alar
very. Were these follow-men criminals,
slavery would be a punishment bevead, ud
infidelity beyond, their deserts. To subject
a man to the most capricious, cruel, and irre
sponsible, despotism—a despotism 100, which
absolutely annihilates all h» rights, sad
him from manhood to chattel-hood—ia mere
than is doe to even tho greatest crimes. Bui
these follow-men ate not criminals. They
are yoor peaceable, guiltl.ee, harmless,
neighbors. And they are not iosrasble la
the wrongs inflicted upon them. They hem
interests and sensibilities like year owe.
They love wife sad children, even as you de.
As susceptible, as yourselves, are they ot
joy aod sorrow. As as.set to them, as lu
you, is liberty. And when bereaved of this
prioelete blasting, theit desolation sad wiowfc-
edness are u perfect, u would be rout ewn,
under (be like bereavement.
Why tbeo, if these tbtegs are eo, should
yon do the great wrong of reducing iheee
innocent people to ala very* The anawer to
thie inquiry ie, that law commands it. We
admit oar reverence and love for law, and
our obligation to obey it. We say with
the Apostle, that “the law is holy, and the
commandment holy, and just and good."
Bat, then, all is not law, which ia called law.
That, which laeka troth, and justice, and
all the elements, of law, it, at the moat, but
nominal law. Genuine and real law ia for
tho protection of rights. It ia sham law,
and no law, which is for the destruction of
rights. But slavery desolates the whole field
of human rights. It leaves not one right to
its victims. Hence, ever law in favor of
slavery ia, moat emphatically, sham law—ia,
most emphatically, no law.
Bee, it ia said, that the law in question
must be obeyed, because it ia a Constitutional
law, and because the Constitution called for
the law. We aee nothing, however, to justi
fy the enactment of this law in that provision
of ths Constitution, which the law was en
acted to enforce. If that provision calls for
any legislation, it is, most certainly, State,
and not National, legislation. But were it
so, that it calls for National legislation, it
weuld, of oourse, be such, as does not vio
leoce, and attempts no violence, to the pro
vision of the Constitution, respecting the
Writ of Habeas Corpus, or to that respecting
the tight Of trial by jury, or to any other of
its provisions. Again—this law was enacted
for the sole purpose of repluoging into ala
slavery those, who had fled from its horrors.
But by no fair construction of language can
thja provision be said to refer to fugitives
from riavery. It is sad, however, that, nol
with,tending the Constitution is, upon its sur
face a°d n obvious meaning, a paper
against *l* T ery, there is, nevertheless, in this
and in a ome other of its provisions, a hidden
meaning M slavery. To this we reply, that
it is quite license enough to pass from an ob
viousness to an occult meaning of words—
from the certain legal meaning of words to
some one of the ten thousand of their uncer
tain historical and tradititional meanings—
even when this is done for the furtherance of
the cause of justice but, that to do this for
ths purpose of gaining success for injustice
and villainy, and injuatice and villainy of un
skilled enormay, is to go vety far beyond
the limits of endurance.
What, however, tfthu law were in harmo
ny with the Constitution ?—that would be no
authority for the law, if the law is contrary
to truth. Constitutions and laws, so far as
they are repugnant to truth, are void. If the
great Apostle had to confess, that he could
“do nothing against the truth, but for the
truth," the like confession must be made for
Constitutions and laws. They are powerless
against the everlasting bulwatks of reason
and religion.
Because it ie the sacred work of our fa
thers is another of the ressoss assigned, why
we must obey the Constitution and every part
of it. Our brief, only, and sufficient, answer
to this is, that whatever respect we owe to
our dead fathera, we owe more to the living
God.
We are told, too, that, if we respect the
Constitution, or any part of it, we cannot con
sistently, and cannot, of right, vote under it:
and that, hence, we must cling to it, and to
every part of it, in order to save to ourselves
the precious and important right of
suffrage—the precious and important right of
participating in the choice of our civil rulers.
In answer to this we declare, that it is a very
gross and a very pernicious fallacy, that our
right to vote is crested by, and held under,
the Constitution. Our right to select our
civil rulers comes from God inheres in our
sooial being and overides all Constitutions
and enactments. It is true, that men are at
liberty to provide their conventional regula
tions for the exercise of this right:—but they
cannot create the right, or take it sway, or
at all encroach upon it. Hence, the provision
•f the Federal Constitution, which makes the
taking of a certain oath the condition of the
choaen ruler’s entering upon the duties of his
offioe, should be repealed, because it is in de
rogation of the natural and absolute right of
the people to choose their rulers. Hence,
too, they are wrong, who, because of this
required oath, relinquish, or hold in abeyance,
this natural and absolute right. They should
persevere in the exercise of it, as did the con
stituente of Daniel O’Connell: snd if any,
whom they wish to make rulers, shall have
conscience against taking the oath of office,
they should, nevertheless, elect them. Their
peiseveranee would he se eucceesful as was
the perseverance of O’Connell’s constituents.
The oath would be waived, when refused
or, better still, it would be withdrawn from
the Constitution.
But, in answer to all our reasons for not
obeying this law for making slaves of our
neighbors, we are told, that we must obey it
for the reason, that Civil Government must
be obeyed. It is true, that Civil Government
must be obeyed. But, the command to obey
k comes to us with the limitation, which ac
companies the command to obey oar parents.
If we must obey our parents, only “in the
Lord"—that it, only to the extent, that their
commands harmonize with the Divine com
mands—so we roust obey Civil Government
with the like qualification. C vil Government
is. to the same extent, that every person is
subjected to the supreme immutable laws of
God; and wherever it violates those laws,
it is entitled to no authority or obedience.
The dootiine, that wrong may be done, if
commanded by Civil Government, is utterly
fallacious. It is a doctrine which found no
favor with him, who had rather be cast into
the lion’s den thsn comply with a wicked re
quirement of the Government. The Apostles,
too, refused to obey such a requirement; snd
they based their refusal expieaaly on the
ground of the paramount authority of God.
We ate admonished to obey this law, as
we would escape the crime, and the peril, of
rebellion. But, when the Civil Government
tramples on the Divine authority, it is the
Civil Government, which is the rebel—and
not the citizen, who refuses to follow it. Ths
Government, which has enacted this diaboli
cal law, has involved itself in the deepest and
Ei it tiesi rebel I ion—rebellion against Jehovah
imaelf. But the citizen, who refuse# to
beer a part in enforcing it, keeps himself
clear of the sin of rebellion.
Wc are summoned, in the the name of
oatriotism, to obey this law. But this law,
being treason to God snd roan, we cannot
eerve our country by |oheying it*. “Right
eeusoesa exalteth a nation”:—and whenaoever
we shall be invoked by a true patriotism, it
will be to a course of righteousness. It will
invoke us to honor, snd not to insult, God
to stand by, and not to oppraes, His poor.
Wa are told, that we are not at liberty to
deeide for ourselves what is Constitutional
snd lawful; snd the further falsehood is add
ed, that the Constitution appoints the judges
under it its sole expounders. We are, also,
told to listen submissively to wbst eminent
clergymen pronounce to be the eithics in the
ease. But, whilst wescout the papal doctrine,
which would urjnd out conscience by other
men’s interpretation* of religion, we hold in
no higher asteem the equally lying doctrine,
which denies our right to judge for ourselves
what is Constitutional and lawful.
We eee, then, that no plea*or respect for
law, or Civil Government, or for the Civil
Government, or for the Constitution, or for
any of its expounders, or for any of the ex
pounders of Christianity, and that no threats
or the stigma or punishment of rebellion, and
no appeals in th? name of patriotism, should
he allowed to have the effect to bring na to
the side of ibis infernal and horrible law.
Come these pleaa, and tbieats, and appeals,
from the Meetiogs, which commercial and
political men are fatting up all over the North
under the name of “Union Meetiogs"; m
come they from the mercenaries snd knaves
who have got possession of so large a shart
of ths American pulpits; we are to be deal
$o them all.
The way is new prepend fat us to aay
that we will resist this lawwill mist it,
at all bssarde of property, or liberty, or life—
tad by all each means, as ahall promise to
him, who uses them, the most effectual re
sistance. We cannot be Christians, we cannot
be men, and do otherwise. He is no Christian,
and he has sunk his manhood out of sight,
who can join in the attempt to redaoe bis
innocent neighbor and brother to slavery or
who can witness such attempt, without striv
ing to defeat it. This is not extravagant
language in European ears and if it m such
in American ears, it is only because slavery
has subsidised the American press and pulpit,
and benighted, infatuated, and debauched, the
American people. It ia manifest, that, wher
ever slavery reigns, there must be a very
imperfect perception of the claima of humanity
and religion.
FeUow-citnens we atop not with exhort
ing you to trample tbia law under foot. Thie
law ia one, and but one, of the demands of
Amoriean slavery upon you:—and, at long as
Amorioan alaveiy lives, it will, ever and anon,
be putting forth demands eponlyou—demands,
all of which will be deeply revolttng to an
enlightened conscience sod a sound humanity.
Your war with this law ia, therefore, not to
be limited to thia law :—but it ia to be ex
tended to slavery itaelt. For, until alaveiy ia
overthtown, you will be continually exposed
to its tyrannous and galling claims. For your
own sake, then, you have need to strike at
slavery. But, if so, how much more should
you atrike at it, for the slave's sake! If you,
who are amid but the outer and feebler
reaches of the power of slavery, are, never
theless, so impatient under that power, what
must not be the agony of those, who are in
the very eentee o? its iron grasp 1 If you,
who are in but the penumbra of Mavery, com
plain so much of iu chilling shadows, how
horrid must be their condition, who are in
the blackness of its dstkness! Oh, to be a
slave! To wake, every morning, with the
consciousness of being a slave! To carry
tbe weary load of this consciousness, all the
day-long! Surely, earth has no other lot, so
hard as that of the slave!
Does slavery, then, concern you for your
selves? Immeasurably more should it con
cern you for the millions of your enslaved
countrymen. Is it your duty to deliver your
selves from its toils? Infinitely higher is
your duty is to free theslsve. What hinders
you from giving this help? Say you, that
the Constitution does? We admit, that, in
most of the interpretations of the instrument,
there is an abundance of pro-slavery. But,
we affirm, that, in the instrument itself, there
a none. We admit, that pro-slavery is to be
found in some ot the clashing and uncertain
histories of tbe instrument. But, we affirm,
that, for the purpose of snterpreiing it, we
have nothing to do with these histories and
hat we are to determine its character and
claims from its pages, and not from its his
ories. We admit, that there ia some his
iorical evidence, that certain persons had the
purpose to get slavery imo the Constitution.
But, the question is-—did they get it in? The
rurpose Is nothing, if it was noi successful.
What, however, if the Constitution, in
itead of requiring, as it clearly does, the im
mediate extinction of slavery, requires it to
he upheld!—vain, altogether vain, is such
requirement aginst the obligations, which
low from the natural and unchangeable re
ations of ifen to each other. Theso relations,
wing befoie and above any relations created
>y the Constitution, must be sustained and
lonored, even though all artificial and con
tentions! relations do thereby perish.
Is it said, that we are not to interfere with
he institutions of our sister States—and
ihat slavery in Virgini or Georgia is beyond
cur legitimate reach We answer, that,
vherevei in our own Nation, or in any other
Vation, the rights of men are cloven down,
here is a work for us to do, in behalf of our
common humanity. Neither by Stale nor
National, lines are our sympathies to be bound
sd:—and, wherever our sympathies are
sailed for, thither should we go in person, if
ihst be needful to make our sympathies most
sffeciive. It is a fiction of men, instead of
Lhe truth cf God, that we have not tbe right
to help such of the oppressed, as dwell beyond
the limits of our State, or Nation. The
>ara right have we to fly to the .succor of
the oppressed Italian or Hungarian, as to re
dress the wrongs of our countrymen and
neighbors. It is tyrants, who are not willing
to be disturbed in their oppression of their
subjects—it is these, who have instilled into
the well nigh universal mind the lesson, that
a man has no right to carry his philanthropic
efforts beyond his own country. But that
lesson is scorned, wherever tbe doctrine of the
human brotherhoods;inieiiligently and lovingly
apprehended. £)raw as many lines upon the
surface of toe earth, and make as many
Nations, as you will, this can, in no wise,
affect the rights, which pertain to member
ship in the human family. These were as
folly the righia of the Samaritan, when in
Judea,aa when in Samaria; —and, hence,
his liberty to minister to human want, as well
tn the one Nation, as in the other. These
rights are unimpaired in the beloved Joseph
Sturge and Elihu Burritt; —and, hence, their
liberty to go among the contending powers of
Europe for the purpose of making peace.
They are unimpaired in the the eloquent
and excellent George Thompson also —and,
hence, he may come to ihe shoies ot Ameri
ca to plead the cause of the dowwn-trodden.
It is true, that Siurge and Burritt ere not
Danes, and that Thompson is not an Ameri
can. But, Sturge and Burrit are brothers of
Danes and Thompson is the brother of Ame
ricans and, surely, one brother has the right j
to help another, meet they where they may
in the wide world.
Deny our right to deliver the millions of
our countrymen, who sre crushed in the iron I
folds of slavery? Why, if wherever a nomi- i
nal Christianity per vails (and tbe prevailing j
Christianity of no nation is more than nominal,) j
there were a real Christianity, then would it
be acknowledged, over all Christendom, that,
to break up the nest of pirates in our South
ern States, and to break up every other neat
of pirates, is tbe first work of Christianity,
and a work to which no State nor National
boundaries should be suffered to present any
impediments.
We presume not, fellow-cititens, to pre
scribe what you shall do for the overthrow of
American slavery. It ia for your to determine,
aa you sre able to do wisely, by what means
you shall undertake to compass this object.
But, we cannot cloqe this AJdress, without
reminding you, that, in vain will be all your
efforts to this end. whilst you sre identified
with American religion or American politics.
These are the great props of American sla
very. America boasts of her republicanism
and also of her religion. But, there ia not in
the wide world another such compound of
hypocrisy, meanness, and cruelty, as is to be
seen in her republicanism, sud, also, in her
religion. We mean by American religion,
that religion, which our national ecclesiastical
parties have t gotien up for tbe purpose of ac
commodating themen-lhi vevesof tbe South and
their guiltier partners in the North—that re
ligion, which, only the other day, shut out
men from an Episcopal Convention for no
other reason than the color of their skins—
that religion, whose cunning, calculating
ministers from one end of your State to the
other—from the Spencers of Brooklyn to the
Lords of Buffalo—are preaching obedience
to the law, which calls on you to sink your
fejkiw-men into the Hell of slavery. We
4|2ri by American polities that mixture,
winch our National political parties have
skillfull; adapted to the palates of the dealets
ia human flesh at the South, and to the
palates of the dealers in Southern cotton at
ihe North, and to the palates of office seek
ers, both North sod Sooth. We mean by
Ametican politics the Whig and Democratic
politics, which enacted that law, under the
tenon ot which “the poor of the earth hide
themselves together,” or fly affrighted to
the wilds end snows of Canada and under
the powet of which patents, children, hus
bands, wives, are dragged dowa into the
match lees honors of slavery. Wa mean by
I American pgliuca the politics, which crowd
the numberless “Union Meetings” of thi
North with Whig end Democrat traitor* u
Freedom end to God. We mean by Amen
can polities the politics, which have, so re
cently and so suddenly, led the WWg and
Democratic patties, both in and out or Con
gress, to adopt the hush- policy in regard t«
slavery. Many of their Newspapers have,
ere now, ottered brave words against slavery;
—bat even these have nearly all foend them
selves obliged to come into this hush-policy.
We scarcely need add, that the base, hag
gard, murderous creatures, which we have
declared American politics and American ra
hgion to be, most, necessarily, so long as
slavery is the ruling interest of the Nation,
be the politics sad the religion—the one of
our National political parties, and the other
[of our National eooleaiaatical parties. For, it
is manifest, that the South, so long as she is
under the eway of slavery, will oome into no
party—will abide in no party, whether in
Church or State—that does not eoofontf to
ihe demands of slavery. Whatever, then,
yon shall, or shall not, undertake to do for
the overthrow of American slavery, it is ob
vious, as we have virtually said before, that
you can do nothing effectual to this end, only
in so fsr, as you are extricated from the
meshes of National parties, both political and
eoelesiastical. To be in any such parties is
to be, whether you know it oi not, and whe
ther you will or not, on the side of slavery.
We take pleasnieio admitting, that there
are many persons in the Whig and Demo
cratic parties, who cherish a sincere desire
for the abolition of slavery, and who make
more or less effort to this end. But, it is
manifest, that the anti-slavery influence Cl
such desire and effort is as nothing, compared
with the pro slavery influence, which they
exert in sustaining a mighty pro-slavery party.
Surely, if an individual would maintain his
power at any point, he must not join and sus
tain a party, which is exerting a counter
power at that point.
So, 100, do we take pleasure in admitting,
that there are many persona in the Whig and
Democratic patties, who cherish a sincere
desire for the repeal or nullification of the
Fugitive slave law, and who make more
or less effort to this end. But preeminently
absurd is the idea, that they are in effect, as
well as in desire and effort, against this law.
For, not only is it true, that these parties are
desperately pro-slavery, and, from the fact
of their being National parties, necessarily
pro-slavery but it is also true, that this law
lias become the great bond of union in the
:ase of each of these parties, and that each ot
them is to be kept from dissolution, only se
ong as this law is unrepealed and enforced.
[f he then, who adheres to a party, which it
ield together by the continuance and cement
if this satanic law, may be honest iD believ
ng, that the weight of his influence can be
tgainst the law, he nevertheless, foolish
n entertaining such belief. The Whig and
Democratic parties mad* 'he law. The Whig
ind Democratic parties uphold the law. The
Whig and Democratic parties must, on pen
ilty of being broken up, continue to uphold
he law. Nothing, then, more plain than
hat the first work of him, who is in one of
hese parties, and who would contribute to
put an end to this law, is to break out of his
isrty, and to cease to vote for slaveholders,
md for the makers, snd defenders, and keep
ers, of slave-catching and slave-holding laws.
Do what else he will, he is, until he* does
his, for the law. Until be does this, he is
o be held responsible for the murderous law,
nstead of being fellowsbipped by its contin
ent and effective enemies. His first woik is
iis own repentance, instead of bringing others
o repentance:—and for us to admit, that he
:an espouse oui cause, and stand by our side,
without having done this first work, is for us
o cheapen, and disgrace, and condemn our
relves, our poaition, and our cause.
This Nation is perishing, because of its
National parties: and whoever would con-
Lribute to save it must stand aloof from them.
The most reasonable hope, that the Free
Soil party, which waa organized in the State,
two or three years ago, would prove useful,
was grounded in the tact, that it waa not a
National party. And it might, possibly, have
proved useful in some respects, had it con
tinued to be a Northern party. But, the
loaves and fishes are to be found in National
parties: and as it was these, more than the
success of the anti slavery cause, that the
majority of its leaders were after, it is no 1
mystery, that this party has, with honorable
exceptions among its members, identified it
self with a National party. Free Soil parliea
were organized, about that time, in several
other States. But little or no good will come
from them, notwithstanding, that many noble
men are in them. These partis refuse to be
concerned for the three millions of slaves in
the States; —snd, in respect to fugitive slaves,
the highest ground, which even their Mr.
Giddings takes, in his late Free Soil Speech,
is, that, whilst they will not hinder the fiend
work of replunging them into slavery, they
will not help it. It is, nevertheless, by means
of such parties, that these good men expect
to accomplish good. Alas, when will even
good men give up their atheistic contrivances
for doing good? Why should they hope for
success in a policy, which is counter to the
Divine policy? God’s ia the positive and
glorious policy of doing good. Theirs ia the
negative and miserable policy of doing no
harm. He denounces not him only, who
makes tbe poor cry, but him also, who
“stoppeth his ears at*the cry of the poor.”
He denounces not him only, who draws his
fellow-men unto death, but him also who
“forbears to deliver them, that are drawn ua
to death.’* The Free Soil parties flattei
themselves, that God denounces but the slave
holder. No less, however, does He denounce
them, who suffer the slave to be held. Tbe
Fiee Soil parlies flatter themselves, that God
denounces but the slave-catcher. But, no
less certain snd festful sre His denunciations
against them, who auffet the slave to be
caught.
The excuse of these Free Soil parties, for
keeping themselves within this circle of ne
gations, is that the FederalConsti ration keeps
i hem there. Unhappy reading of the Con
stitution is theirs! But, what if tbe Consti
tution ia, as they read it? What, in that
case, have they to do, but to break away from
it, as they should from every “covenant
with death and agreement with Hell”? None
of ua are absolutely bound to be Constitution
•lists. But all of us ate absolutely bound to
be men. If we cannot be constitutionalists,
and yet be men then we cannot be Constitu
tionalists. If we cannot follow the Constitu
tion without forsaking our manhood, then we
cannot follow the Constitution. If to claim,
that God has made us keepers of all our bro
thers—of our brother, who ia pining in sla
very, and of our brother, who ia escaping
from it—is to disobey the Constitution, then
we must disobey it.
Happy, thrice happy, would it be, were
the good men of the land to oonstittute a po
litical party, which should be inien on reali
zing tbe idea of a righteous Civil Government
—a Government, which would sympathize
with the slave, and the landless, and protect
its subjects from the curse of war, and the
cours ot the traffio in intoxicating drinks.
How soon such s party would rid the country
o‘ slavery, and land monopoly, and rum-sel
ling, and save the earnings of its laborers
from being wasted oq war and the prepara
tions for war! But, ae it ia, that the good
men of the land do, with few exoeptiona, be
long to the National polities!' parlies—and
what infatuation would it be to us to hope for
tha advancement of our country in the eauee
of truth and virtue and religion, whilst tbe
great mats of her good men are found in such
wicked and pernioioos connexions! Make up
your minds, fellow-eitizena, that your country
must perish, unless the good men in it hasten
to quit the National, and, because National,
pro-slavery parties. We beg you not to
tnisundmstand ua, at this point. We do not
bold, that Civil Government, however perfect
in its theory, or in its administration, ia the
sou roe of salvation. Religion alone has this
i honorand civil Government is but her aer
|vaot. She will, however undertake no eon*
tradietiona. Sbfl will not seek to mw the
world by means »od ignauies hootilo to its sal
ration. She will not employ to this end war,
instead of peace; drunkenness, insteed ol
temperance; lioentiownees, instead of parity
nor unrighteous Civil Government, unright
eous etvii riders, and unrighteous politics!
Outlast words ere to vbe colored people ol
this Stele of New York sod, in speaking to
(bear, we speak to tbs colored people of all
tbe Northern States also. Bretlirea! we
need your help to overthrow the bloody and
sataoic system of American slavery. We
can not dispense with it. Much less can we
afford to have you as obstacle in our way. So
it is, however, that you have, hitherto been
such an obstacle. Iks Colonisation Society,
which you hate with a great, but not too
great, hatred, proposes to remove you to Af
rica- Your reply to this proposal that you
muat remain here to sympathise with your en
slaved brethren, and help deliver than. Par
don us for saying, that yea wholly mistake
the effect of your presence. Were you re
moved Irooa the lead, tho work of delivering
Urn slave would sot be half as dificult, as it is
now. You are the miH stsne atoned his neck.
It m true, that, were youf coadopt sod ofasi
seter what they should the effirct of your
presence would be moa| favorable to tbe slave,
indeed, he coaid net, in that eese, remain a
slave.
What is most needful for the deliverance of
the enslaved is, that then oppressors shall
aee them to be men. If they shall ase these,
whom they abuse and trample underfoot, to
be men—Heaven endowed, immortal moo—
the right will render tlufbmersily incapable
of continuing their ski# relation. They
will ly book from that relation, horror-struck
at the revelation of its enormities. But, how,
by suy other means, could they be broughl
so effectually to see tbe manhood and dignity
of their slaves, as in tbe light of your conduct
and character, were but that conduct and
charactar whit they should be, for self denial,
purity, beauty, and elevation? Nothing ii
more true than that that part of the race,
which is out of slavery, reflects the advan
tage, or, disadvantage, of its character—of iu
excellence or debawment—upon that part ol
the race, which is still in slavery. An in
stance of this truth is in the slaveholders'jus
tifying their enslavement of your brethren by
the standing tad plausible, and gratly influ
ential, plea of your degradation—of your un
fitness for freedom.
You admit your degradation:—but you seek
to excuse it on tbe ground, that it is forced—
tfast it is involuntary. An involuntary degra
ration! We ate half deposed to deny its pos
sibility and to treat the language as a sole
cism. At any rate, we feel comparatively
no conoern for what of your degradatior
comes from (he hands of other*, it is youi
telf-degradation, which fills us with sorrow
sorrow for yourselves, and still more for tbs
millions, whose fate turns 10 largely on youi
bearing. We know, and it frievea us to know
that white man are your murderers. But,
9ur far deepest grief is, that you are suicides.
Would to God, brethien, that you were in
spired with self-respect» Then would others
be inspired with respeet to fou :—and, then,
would the days of America's slavery be num
bered. We entreat you b rise up, and to
}uit yourselves like men, mall your political,
and ecclesiastical, aud social relations. As
instances of your leek of self-respect—many
jf you oonaent to woiuhip is Churches which
have the negio-pew; and many of you are
in connexion with*pro-slavery ecclesiastical
todies, and have Church-fellowship with
those, who buy and sell your brethren, and
who, of course, have no moral principle
against buying and selling you and many ol
you belong to the mine political parties with
the slaveholders, sod the upholders of slavery,
and the upholders of the Fugitive alave
law"; and, a* entinly prostrate your self-re
spect, that you goto the polls, apd vote for
men, who refuse eat with you—to sit by
your side in the House of Worship—or lei
their children sit iy the side of yours in the
School, and who vould kick you out of their
parlors, were you 10 presume to enter them.
Ssy we not truly, breitoso, that you are tbe
heaviest burden, which tbe tote-slavery cause
has to cariy Indeed, cortpared with this,
all other burdens are light.
Perhaps it will be said, inexcuse for your
abjeclness and self-contempt,that, so long as
you are clustered in cities ad villages, and
confined to servile employntnU, your spirit
must, necessarily, be servle, your votes at
the disposal of your employes, and your reli
gion whatever is most cavenient. Why,
then, do you not scatter yaraelvea over the
oountry in the capacity of independent, and
upright fanners and mechaics
All truly good men do, if course sympa
thize with you. You are oppressed—deeply,
cruelly, wickedly, opprea|»d —and that is
reason enough, why they aould sympathise
with you. Nevertheless, great injustice is
done to Daniel Webater, Lewis Cass, and
others, when they are tand with inconsist
ency for passing over you, and giving their
sympathies to the Hugarians. Daniel
Webster and Lewis Cass ad the like belong
to the vulgar herd of mem—and when has
that vulgar herd been knorn to sympathize
with a people, aimply becase they were op
pi eased? Never! Never! There must be
heart, where there is sue) sympathy. But
all men, including even suih selfish and pros
tituted persons, as Daniel Yebeter and Lew
is Caas, aie capable ofayopathiziog with the
brays, self-denying and heroic endeavors,
which, here and there, tbeoppressed put forth
to throw off their oppreseiofs. Hence, tbe in
terest of Daniel Webstar, Lewis Csss, and
the like, in the Hungarians, whilst, at ihe
same time, they forgei others, who are mote
heavily oppressed, bat who, nevertheless, in
stead of arousing themselves, like the Hun
garians, to pul an end to their oppressions,
have sunk down tamely, and servilely, and
hopelessly, under them.
Let the colored people of the Noith display
bravery, and self-sactifiee, and heroism, in
their own behalf, and in behalf of their
brethren in bondslet them be seen "in ev
ery city to gather themselves, together and
tu stand for their life", as did the handful of
oppressed Jews in the reign of King Ahas
uerua; and let them be seen resolved to
perish rather than return to slavery: or let
them be seen sternly refusing to consume the
products, which are heavy with the groans
and wet with the sweat, and tears, and blood*
of the slave: or let them be seen as sternly re
fusing to worship wiih Ihe devit-werahipers,
who build negro-pews: or as sternly refu
sing to go into political parlies, in which
slaveholders feel at home, and to vote for their
oppressors-, trtducers, aad despisers; let
such things, w* say, be seen in the colored
peuple of tbe North, snJ it requires no spirit
of prophesy to foretell, that such things will
have power to enlist tke sympathies, and ex
hort the praise and admiration of all man.
Even Daniel Webster sod Lewis Cass, now
negro-murderers, will then be ftegro-admirers.
Then Daniel S. Dickinson, exchanging for a
genuine reverence the spirit to him, wbioh As
deems to be a reverent, but which it only a H
spaniel and servile acini, will desire to be
earned back to Old Virginia, no longer for
the purpose of kissing the feet of alaveboid
ing patriarchs, bet for tbe purpose of honor
ing btr black man. And, then, even the
slaveholders, throwing away Iheiy whips and
branding-irona, will join Ihe abolitionists.
Brethren, wn an not unmindful, that, iu
speaking to you, and of you, as wn have
dons, we have spoken plainly and freely.
But, we have spoken honestly and trulv.
We admit, and we take pleasure in admitting,
that what wn hav# spoken does not apply to
you all. Then are among you man, who
would sooner lay down their lives than join a
pro-slavery Church, or a pro-slavery political
Crty, These art JRmo of relf-respset and
If-denial—men o* the heroic and martyr
spirit. May God multiply aae b, and make
them an effectual leaven in the mass of their
servile brethren.
In conclusion. we disclaim the idea, that
yoer ebarsoter hay suffered more from your
uniavoreMe cueamMannsa that thn character
of white men would hate suffered front tb
like circumstance*. Had white men been uu
der as protracted and seven a process of d«
basement, as you have been, there would
doubt teas, be quite as moch to lament in thei
condition and character, as there is in yours
But, let it not soothe and content yoe t<
know, that you differ from your whilt
brethren, not in yoor origin and nature, bu
only in yoar circumstances and that to yotii
circumstances, and not to your origin and na
ture, iayour lack of dignity aud self-esteem
attributable. Feel, deeply feel, that you have
fallen —and that, whataver the causes or
explanations of year fall, you will rise. Feel,
deeply feel, that, cost what it may, yoa will
be what you should be.
The Cneiaiatt "Fugitive Slave Case.*
We referred yesterday to the arrest of a
colored man by oar city watchman. We
have since seen the individual who was ap
prebended aa a ‘'Fugitive" and locked in one
of the cells of the watch-house. The histo
ry of this affair is somewhat singular, and
may be interesting to our readers. We
yesterday saw the apprehended "fugitive,"
and found it to be the barber, Hamilton Jack
son, of Walout-et. He lives at the corner
of New and Broadway. On Sunday night
last, a man who gave hie name aa Charles
Hooker, found Jackson near hit own house
and inquired of him, after some circumlocuto
ry proceedings, where the watchmen were
Jackson showed Hooker the Ninth Ward
when Hooker ordered them to arrest
Jackson sa a runaway slave from hit father.
Jackson waa accordingly taken into custo
dy, and marched to the Mayor’s office, all the
time supposing it waa all a joke, and that the*
parlies knew him. At the Mayor’s office the
Chief of Police and the officers were acting
in good faith, and even sent to Mayor Spen
cer’s bouse for his honor. Jackson was put _
into a cell and locked in He had been there,
some time when he began to think the joke
had lasted long enough, and asked to be let
out, but was then informed that the proceed
ings were in earneet, and that he was really
imprisoned at the instigation of Hooker, and
by affidavit by him, held asa "fugitive." This
was rather a serious matter for Jackson still,
he knew that be could establish his freedom
ss hundreds had known him here for ten
years or more, and there wete persons here,
also, who knew him when a child Jn Chilli
cothe.
The Fourth Ward watchman came in dur
ing the night and seeing Jackson confined
there, and knowing bict well, had him re
leased. The officers are now after Hooker,
but he ia not to be found. We presume
there are few men of color better known here
than Hamilton Jackson. From what we
have heard, we think that this Hooker is a
Northern man endeavoring to extort money,
and as big a viliain as runs unhung, and is
endeavoring to hook "niggers" in by false
swearing and effrontery, but he may be
caught by a hook of the law without swal
lowing bait. Qn. Com.
The Memphis Eagle says that 5 fugitives
have been brought back to that city within
the past two weeks.
A COLLOQUY BETWEEN TWO
FRIENDS.
As a Christian, What do you think
is our duty respecting this monstrous
evil, slavery?
Why, to persuade all free colored
people to emigrate to Liberia—culti
vate its soil—produce cotton, sugar
and coffee for the market of the world:
by this method American slavery would
die out.
You surely don’t believe this?
Yes, that is my settled conviction.
You astonish me. Suppose, for ar
gument sake, it were possible to raise
sufficient cotton, sugar and coffee in
Liberia, how would, how could, free
labor compete with slave labor? It is
well known in New Orleans that many
slaves are hired out at two dollars
a day. Their inhuman owners give
the slave one dime, and pocket the dif
ference. The poor unhappy beings
get a five cent loaf and five cents’
worth of meat, and sleep where they
can. On the plantations, the same
system of grinding oppression exists.
The coarsest of fare and unrequited
toil is his unhappy lot. How is it pos
sible for free labor to compete with this
scheme of unrighteous oppression?
Well, I don’t think you benefit the
slave by keeping up agitation. His
condition is far worse now than years
ago. He is held in bondage with a
firmer grasp; his labor was never more
valuable than at ihis moment; the full
energies of the slaveholder are em
ployed to perpetuate this peculiar in*
stitution.
My conclusions differ entirely from
yours. It is quite true his labor was
never more valuable; hence his mas
ter’s anxiety to keep him in bondage.
By this craft he has hie wealth; no
matter how vile and unjust the cause,
so that wealth comes into his posses
sion It is quite true the slaveholders
are using their utmost endeavors to
perpetuate this system of wrong,which
is a foul blot on our glorious Republic.
It is not true that his condition is worse
than in former years. The slave
holder has too much sagacity to treat
him as cruelly as formerly. Such acts
he knows would be chronicled through
the length and breadth of the land.—
Sad and forlorn indeed is the condition
of tbe unhappy slave, yet not worse
than in former As to keeping
up agitation, that is® he only way, in
my humble judgment, to abolish slavery
in the United States. By agitation,
men are led to inquire into the truth.—
Many who thought nothing of it before,
give attention and come to right con
clusions. When this is universally
done, such men, and only such, will
fill our halls of Congress, and say of
slavery, in decisive, uumistak&ble lan
guage, So far shalt thou go, but no
farther; here shall thy proud waves be
stayed.” Besides, what good was ever
accomplished without opposition? Read
the history of the world in the Bible—
read the ac:ounts of modern times:
all tend to show that any good achieved
for man must meet determined opposi
tion. Truth has nothing to fear; though
tbe tur:.ace be made seven times hotter,
it will corne forth with resplendent
glory. Error hates the light, aed will
not come to the light lest its deeds
should be reproved.
Well, I don’t see any good results
from the agitation of slavery for the
last twenty years; and as to the few
who escape from bondage, and others
emancipated, the system still retains a
firm footing for all that.
My friend, you are mistaken. Some
years ago there was scarcely a press;
throughout the land which advocated
the cause of the slave and the rights
•f the colored people. Now, thank
God, there are hundreds; their number
still increasing. When onoe the full
power of the pulpit, platform and press
is employed in behalf of the oppressed
children of Ham, the day of their re
demption is at hand. There were dark
days for Israel in Egypt, but the com
tnaud of Jehovah had gone forth, Let
my people go!” I will not let Israel
go from serving me,” was the reply of
the haughty tyrant. Will our task
masters in the South take warning, or
parish in fighting against God?
But what good can you or I do in
this cause i would rejoice with you
in the abolition of slavery throughout
the country and this world.
Much, my brother. All our influ- 1
•nee, be it little or much, should be
thrown into the scale of right. All our
Margies must ba employed to enlighten
our fellow men. “Am Imy brother’s
keeper?” was the inquiry of the first
murderer. Let us not imitate him.—
We are verily guilty concerning our
brother. Let us redress the wrongs
1 and grievance* he has suffered, and
endeavor to elevate, enlighten and
christianize him. Love thy neighbor
as thyself,” is the command of him who
we call Master and Lord. Who is our
neighbor? Is it only him with a fair
skin? or does the command embrace
all mankind? Let us show our love to
Jesus by kindly treating the despised
negro. It does not become us to be
dumb and inactive while the curse of
slavery remains in our borders. The
tongue, pen and press must all be con
secrated to the cause of justice.
I begin to see with you that the time
has come for every Christian to stand
manfully for the oppressed bondman.—
Things do appear hastening to a crisis.
The abominable fugitive slave bill has
aroused many who were indifferent to
look seriously into the matter, and to
question the extravagant claims of the
slaveholder.
Depend upon it, God will hold you
and 1 responsible to the full extent of
our influence. Let us not be partakers
of other men’s sins. By the fear of
God, the love of Christ, the love of our
fellow-men, the love of truth, the ha
tred of injustice—by the sufferings of
those in bonds”—by the withering
effects of slavery on the slaveholder’s
posterity, and by its wretched influence
on the free white non-slaveholders, we
should labor and pray—pray and labor
that this Upas tree may be plucked up,
this thrice-acoursed institution may be
destroyed. JABEZ.
ANTI-FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW MASS
CONVENTION.
First Dat— afternoon session.
Convention assembled and was called
to order by the President at two P. M.
Gerrit Smith and Frederick Douglass
made their first appearance in the Con
vention.
On motion of Rev. Mr. May, the fol
lowing Committee was appointed by
the Chair to make out a list of those
present who wished to be considered
as members of the Convention, so
that it might be known who the mem
bers were and whence they came, viz:
L. P. Noble, of Ondondaga; A. S.
Wing, of Oswego; Chas. Merrick, of
Syracuse; and Mrs. Mary Springstead
of Madison.
During the taking of names, a Mr.
Johnson, a colored man, entertained
the Convention with several appropri
ate songs.
Wm. L. Chaplin being loudly called
tor, took the stand. He wanted those
who made abolition professions to act
up to them. He thought that aboli
tionists were apt to make professions,
not intending to fulfil them. It is not
so with the slaveholders. He proceeded
to illustrate by a familiar instance. In
the course of his remarks, he took oc
casion to vindicate the mental capacity
and moral tendency of the slaves, and
related a number of anecdotes occurr
ing during his recent imprisonment in
Maryland, to support his positions.
Frederick Douglass being called
forward, said that it them ever was a
time of solemity for those who
well to the slave, that time was now.—
The present is the time to test the
friends of those confined in tbe bonds
of slavery. He understood the Con
vention as being called to consider the
Fugitive Slave law, and the duty of the
friends of the slave in this crisis. The
fugitive law is the only law which has
been passed in many years causing the
Executive opeuly.to declare that it
should be enforced, even were it neces
sary to employ the sword and the bay
onet. It is, however, a law, and a law
about to be pressed into execution. A
few months ago the people at the Norih
did not believe that such a law could be
passed by an American Congress. It
is true, that Mr. Mason had a similar
bill before the Senate, where it was ex
pected it would pass. However, we
did not think that it would get through
the House. But it did not pass both
Senate and House, and the North ever
hopeful then fell back upon the relief
that Millard Fillmore would never sign
it, and then the North, still hopeful,be
lieved that it would be a dead letter.
After the first case had been disposed
of, and one fugitive sent back to sla
very, the North thoughtthatthat would
of necessity be the last attempt to en
force the law. There have been other
eases since, yet the people at the North
have indulged in the hope that each
would be tbe last. This matter of
slave-catching, said Mr. D., has just
begun. The slaveholders have thus
far been but encouraged by the enrage
ment and subsequent cooling down of
the revolt of the North against the law
authorizing the recapture of fugitives.
They see the ministers of the gospel,
who ever before have upheld human
rights, now preaching in favor oi sla
very, and those presses which have
ever been strongly abolition in expres
sion, now banishing it from their col
umns. They see the North easily
brought to a tame submission to their
exactions, inviting still further aggres
sions. The more stringent their de
mands the more satisfactorily they are
answered. The question is, whether
we are to submit to the utter destruc
tion of oar ideas of the rights of man,
and have those of slaveocracy insti
tuted. The South are plainiybound to
press this matter to the “bitter end,”
and have the law, President, army and
navy to aid them in doing it. He ask
ed the Convention to point out the best
course for the friends of the slave to
pursue. Mr. D. said he was a peace
man, but, he thought the Convention
ought to say to the slaveholders that
they would risk bodily danger, should
they come to capture fugitives in this
State! He thought this a religious du
ty, and nothing short of the blood of the
slaveholder, should appease the indig
nation of the friends of humanity in this
State in the case of an attempted re
capture. He wanted the Convention
to point out the proper course to the
friends of freedom throughout our
State. He bad great faith in moral
suasion, but when the struggle comes
on between the slave-catcher and the
fugitive, and he sees no other way to
rescue the latter, he would strike him
down with as much composure and
thoughtlessness as he would a blood
hound. He held that slaveholders had
no right to exist, and if they came this
way after fugitives they would probably
be apprised of that fact. The slave
holders are used to such talk. They
keep the Northern people from “ag
fression” upon the «'rights of the
outh” by such talk, and now let us
try its efficacy. We mutt, as did the
Bostonians, make the Fugitive Law a
dead letter, and the only effectual way
of doing this, to his mind, wss by ma
king two or three dead slaveholders!
We are invited to the work of slaying
slave-catchers. A few examples made
of them will make all right. Mr. D.
recommended the course pursued by
the citizens o£ Boston towards Knight
and Hughes, who pursued William
and Ellen Crafts to that city, as worthy
of imitation in all necessary cases.
This fugitive Law cannot be repealed.
Our only course is to make it unsafe
for the slave-catchers or Government
officers to come after fugitives. He
gave the instances of recapture and at
tempted recapture since the passage of
the law. The slave-catchers have
been intimdated from their work,and the
only way to preserve the fugitives is to
‘intimidate them more. He held that a
man who would not fight, and kill if
necessary, for his liberty, was not wor
thy of it.
There was something in the heart of
the community here at the North,
which said, when a slave-catcher fell
by the hand of a fugitive “served him
right!” Mr. D. spoke, we think, over
an hour, and delivered in the opinion of
those who have otten heard him one of
the best speeches he ever made. He
was often interrupted by applause, and
the fierceness or rather “blood and
murder” which characterized his ad
dress, seemed to give it high relish with
the greater portion of the Convention.
The Business Committee submitted
two series of Resolutions, one appa
rently emanating from the Boston Anti-
Slavery class of Abolitionists, and
the other from Gerrit Smith, the head
and front of the Liberty Party. It was
stated that the two sets were presented
so that the Committee might select a
series which should be considered as
embodying its sentiments. Both sets of
resolutions, of course, take high
grounds against the Fugitive Bill, and
also touch upon other points of the Sla
very question. As soon as a series is
settled upon by tbe Convention we shall
give them.
On motion the report of the Business
Committee was accepted.
When at half-pasi 4 o’clock the Con
vention adjourned to meet at 6 o’clock.
"FREE PRODUCE CONVENTION.
In accordance with previous notice
a number of the friends of abstinence
from the productions of Slavery, met
in Convention at Salem, Union Co.,
la., 11th mo. 19th, 1850.
The meeting was organized by the
appointment of Wm. Beard President,
Joel Parker and Thomas Freeman Vice
Presidents, and Walter Edgerton and
Reuben Macy Secretaries.
On motion, a committee of seven
was appointed to prepare business for
the action of this meeting. The fol
low ing persons constituted said com
mittee, viz: Walter Edgerton, Wm.
H. Brisbane, Levi Coffin, Wm. Hough,
Jonathan Swain, Sarah Franklin,
Jemmima Maxwell and Tathan
Thomas.
After the reading of a chapter from
the sacred volume, and a solemn pause,
an excellent letter from Judge Jay to
the colored citizens of New York, re
lative to the bearing of the infamous
Fugitive Slave Law upon the colored
population was read, ar.d also a letter
from H. H. Garnet, a black man, who
is now advocating the cause of ab
stinence from Slave-grown produce in
England, to the editor of the “Non-
Slaveholder,” setting forth the cheer
ing progress of the cause in that
country.
On motion, Wm. H. Brisbane of
Cincinnati, was called upon to address
the meeting, who came forward and in
terested the audience in an able and
impressive manner till the close of the
session.
On motion, the Convention adjourn
ed till 5 o’clock this evening.
EVENING SESSION.
The Convention met according to
adjournment,—the President in the
chair.
The Committee on business through
its chairman reported the following
preamble and resolutions, which were
separately taken up, discussed and
unanimously adopted:
Whereas, Slavery is an evil pro
fessedly deprecated by the great mass
of the Christian community, especially
in the non-slaveholding portion of our
country; Therefore,
1. Resolved, That it becomes our
imperative duty, if we would maintain
any character for consistency, to avoid
as much as practicable giving any
countenance or support to that most
wicked institution.
2. Resolved, That that the African
Slave Trade-—the wars, and incalcula
ble loss of human life incident thereon
—the horrors of the “middle passage”
in the Slaver—the unutterable agony
of tens of thousands of our fellow-men
and women as they cross the briny
deep, the victims of the man-thief's*
cupidity, together with the scarcely less
infamous but legalized traffic in the
bodies and ssuls of men carried on in
the midst of this liberty-loving Repub
lic! the tearing asunder of husbands
and wives, parents and children, and
the application of the chain, the iron
collar, the hand-cuff, the knotted-laah
and branding-iron, to the quivering
flesh of the unfortunate who have fallen
among thieve, and all the rest of the
pharaphernalia of human torture which
the ingenuity of the most inhuman
tyrant can invent, depend almost, if not
exclusively upon the consumption of
the produce of the labor of the slave;
Therefore,
3. Resolved. That tbe consumers of
slave produce are the primary support
ers of this most infamous scheme from
first to last.
4. Resolved, That with these views
it is our duty to endeavor to put in
train a set of measures by which we
can be furnished with articles of con
sumption in common use free from the
blood of the slave, and that we appoint
a committee who shall digest a plan of
operations and present it to a future
session of the convention.
The following persons were appoint
ed a committee as contemplated in
the above resolution, viz: Walter Ed-
Serton, Levi Coffin, Nathan Thomas,
oel Parker, and Dr. Brisbane.
On mortion, adjourned till 10 o’clock
to morrow morning.
morning session.
Eleventh mo. 20tb, pursuant to ad
journment the Convention again met
the president in the chair.
The committee on businees reported
tbe following resolution which was
unanimously adopted.
Resoled, That we recognize tbe
Non-Slaveholder as an able and effi
cient advocate of the abstinence cause,
and would therefore recommend it to
the friends of that cause, and solicit
for it their hearty patronage.
The Committee to digest snd pro
pose a plan by which we may be
furnished with articles of sonsumption
in common use free from the blood of
the slave, reported tbe following reso
lutions.
Resolved, That this Convention
recommend the formation of a joint
stock company raised upon shares of
five dollars each to be under the con
trol of twelve directors, and to be
regularly chartered, for the establish
ment ef a wholesale tree-produce store
in Cincinnati, Ohfo\
Resolved, That Dir. Brisbane, Thos.
Freeman, Samuel Lewis, Levi Coffin,
Thomas Frauklin and Richard Gaines,
be a committee to make arrangements
to carry the foregoing plan into execu
tion, —to detail such regulations as
may be necessary for the formation of
said company upon the most efficient
principles, and shall have power to fill
all vacancies which may occur in their
own body and are directed to prosecute
the concern till the company is duly
formed, and stock sufficiently taken to
accomplish the above object.
Resolved, That the Fugitive Slave
Law is so wicked, barbarous and un
just in i*B features and requirements,
that no good honest citizens can without
disgracing himself yield the slightest
obedience to it.
On motion adjourned till early can
dle-lighting, this evening.
EVENISG SESSION.
At early candle-lighting the conven
tion met.
On motion, Resolved that the Secre
tary be directed to forward the pro
ceedings of this Convention to the
True Democrat, the Aiti-Slavery Bugle
and Ohio Standaid for publication.
On motion, adjourned sine die.
WM. BEARD, Pres’t.
W. Edgerton, Sec'y.
Slave Case in Baltimore.— A Slave
Case has just occurred which attracts
much interest. Daniel Fossbeuner, an
old man, and member ci the Methodist
Church, has laid claim to a colored
boy named William Moore, alias
Keller, as his slave, whe has been for
sixteen years exercising the rights of
a free person. Fossboqner owned a
woman named Elizabeth Moore, to
whom he offered the renainder of the
term of service (eight y«rs) for the
sum of $lOO. The woman went off
to earn the money, taking a son five
years of age with her. This child is
alleged to have died in inftney, and the
boy now claimed as that son, is said to
be a child whom the adopted after her
son’s death. The boy arrested has a
peculiar mark at his head which is
alleged to be sinjlar to a mark on the
boy the woman t»ok away with her,
and on that ahpe he is claimed and
identified. The toman did not pay the
$lOO stipulated br her manumission,
and Fossbeuner row claims the right
of property in ths boy, as well as two
fine girls, born <f the woman subse
quent to the time of her going off, but
prior to the exjiration of the eight
years remaining f her term of servi
tude at that time.
The evidence pints very conclusive
ly to the boy as tig one claimed, and I
apprehend there till be a judgment in
favor of the at the final ex
amination on Tuesday, who will, of
course, sell him aid his sisters to a
slave-dealer. VShat makes such a
case peculiary had, is the fact of the
poor woman havirg all the trouble and
expense of raisindthese children, and
now, because thty are worth some
$l,BOO, to see thym torn away from
friends and relatives, to be sold into
hopeless bondage.* Tbe claimant knew
their whereabouts before, but held
them as persons, only to be made
goods and chattels of when the market
was good. Colored testimony is de
barred them by our righteous laws,
otherwise, it is confidently alleged, that
their freedom could be conclusively
shown. The mother, when her son
was arrested, followed to the station
house, and had five convulsions while
there pleading for her child.— Cor. JV*.
F. Tribune.
We learn from a gentleman
from the Falls, that the little steamer,
The Maid of the Mist,” disappeared
from public observation yesterday.—
was moored for the wipter at the
wharf at Bellevue, and was deemed to
be beyond the reach of any casualty.
The snow, however, gathered in such
masses on her decks, that she was
weighed down deeply at one side. The
water made its way over her decks,
and filled her hull so completely that
she sunk in twenty feet water. She is
still held by her cables, but it is very
doubtful whether she can be raised—
the current being very rapid, and the
channel shelving off abruptly to a great
depth. She was owned by the Niagara
Falls Association, and the loss is from
five to seven thousand dollars—no in
surance. The little steamer, so aptly
named, has played a gallant pan, in
showing up the Fails to thousands of
visitors, during her brief but eventful
life. She was tbe first steam vessel to
tempt the storm and waye, in the very
hell of waters” in Niagara river,
and many of our readers have trod her
quivering deck as her elfin hull rose
and fell in the mad tide.
Many had doubt* of her strength
and safety, and deemed it a hazardous
exploit to muke one of her brief voy
ages. But we imagine her place will
be soon supplied with a stauncher
craft, and one more confided in by tbe
public.—Jßsunwwf.
ky Silence may be tbe aulltn mood
of an evil temper, or the lefty endur
ance of a martyr.