THE SENATE.—ApriI 20.
PROTECTION OF PROPERTY IN THE DIS
TRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Continued.)
Mr. West coll —l should like* to know
of the Senator from New Hampshire,
if he can say that any non-slaveholding
state in this Union has passed a law by
which, in case of the abduction of a
slave by an abolition mob,the country or
town is to be made responsible for the
act
Mr. Hale —l do not know, sir.
Mr. IVcstcolt —lt is time enough,
then, when such a law is passed to
protect the property of slave-owners,
to talk of a law to indemnify for the
destruction of property of abolition in
cendiaries.
Mr. Foote The Senator seemed to
suppose that I wished to decoy him to
the State of Mississippi. I have at
tempted no such thing. 1 have thought
of no such tiling. J have only chal
lenged him to present himself there, o*
anywhere, uttering such language, anti
breathing such an incendiary spirit a.«
he has, manifested in this body, aud J
have said that just punishment woulc
be indicted upon him for his enormous
criminality. 1 have said further, that i
necessary, I Yvould aid in the inflictiot
of that punishment. My opinion is
that enlightened rnen would sanctioi
that punishment. But, says the Sena
tor, that would be assassination!
think not. lam sure that the Scnatoi
is an enemy to the Constitution of hi:
country —an enemy to one of the insti
tutions of his country, which is sol
cinnly guaranteed by the organic lav
of the land, aud in so for, he is a law
less person. lam sure, it he would g<
to the State of Mississippi, or any othei
slave State of this confederacy, ant
utter such language, he would justly
be regarded as an incendiary in hear!
and in fact, and as such, guilty of ar
attempt, to involve the South in blood
shed, violence, and desolation, and il
the arm of the law happened to be toe
short, or the spirit of the law too slum
berous, I have declared that the duty
of the people whose rights were thus
put in danger, would he, to inflict sum
mary punishment on the offender. But,
says the Senator, victim* have been
made, and there arc other victims
ready. 1 am sure that he could nol
persuade me that he would ever be a
victim. 1 have never deplored the
death of such victims, and 1 never shall
deplore it. Such officious intermeddling
deserves its fate. I believe that nc
good tnan, who is not a maniac, as the
Senator from New Hampshire is appre
hended to be, can have any sympathy
for those who lawlessly interfere w it!
the rights of others. He, however,
will never he a victim! He is one oi
those gusty disclaimers —a windy speak
er—a
Mr. Crittenden If the gehtlcmar
will allow me, I rise to a question o
order. Gentlemen have evidently be<
come excited, and 1 hear on all sidei
language that is not becoming. I cal
the gentleman to order for his persona
reference to the Senator from Nev
Hampshire.
Mr. Foote—l only said In reply to th<
remarks of the Senator from New
Hampsnire—
Mr. Crittenden —I did not hear whal
the gentleman from New Hampshire
said, but the allusion of the gentleman
from Mississippi, I consider to be con*
trary to the rules of the Senate.
Mr. Foote —l am aware ol that; bul
such a scene has never occurred in the
Senate such a deadly assailment oi
the rights of the country.
THE NORTH STAR.
Mr. Johnson, of Md. —has the Chai
decided
j Mr. Foote —Let my words be takei
down.
The Presiding Officer- —In tSe opinioi
of the Chair, the gentleman from Miss
issippi is not in order.
Mr. Foote —What portion of mr re
marks is not in order?
The Presiding Officer The gentle
man is aw are that the question of ordei
is not debatable.
Mr. ff'estcott —l ask whether tht
words objected to are not, according
to the rule, to be reduced to writing?
Mr. Foote —l pass it over. But the
Senator from New Hampshire has said
that if I would visit that State, I wouli
be treated to an argument. Why, J
would not argue with him? What righl
have they of New Hampshire to argue
upon the point? It is not a mattei
w ith which they gtand in the least con
nected. They have no rights of pro
perty of this description, and I rejoice
to he able to say, that a large propor
tion of the intelligent and patriotic peo
ple of New Hampshire do not concur in
the views expressed by the Senator this
morning. They take the ground thal
the people of the United States, the
Constitution and the Union, have guar
anteed the rights of the South, con
nected with this property, and that the
people of New Hampshire have nc
right at all to meddle w ith the subject.
Why, is it not a fact, that gentlemen,
members of this body, among them the
distinguished Senator from Massachu
setts, whom I regret not to see in his
place, arc known to be more or less
hostile to the institutions of domestic
slavery, but have never entertained the
doctrine that the Congress of the Uni
ted States had any jurisdiction what
ever over the subject? They have
held that any attempt, directly or indi
rectly, to effect abolition or to encour
age abolition by Congressional legisla
tion, is at war with the spirit and letter
of the Constitution.
Mr. Halt Will the Senator allow
me to inquire if he can point out o
single instance, in which 1 have made
any aggression upon the rights of pro
perty in the South.
Mr. Foote —That is the very thing I
am about to show. hen the Senator
from New Hampshire undertakes to
assert that those Northern men who do
not concur with him are “cravens,” he
uses language of false and scurrillous im
port. It is not the fact that his lan
guage will be re-echoed in any respect
able neighborhood in New England.
His sentiments will find no response or
approvals® any enlightened vicinage in
New r HhqPgnd, and therefore he has no
right to say that those who are piithful
to the principles of the Constitution and
foil to re-echo.the fierce, fanatical, and
factious declarations of the Senator are
“cravens” in heart, and deficient in any
of the noble sentiments which charac
terize high-spirited republicans.
Mr. Hale—l did not use such lan
guage.
Mr. Foote —Did the Senator not use
the word “craven:”
Mr. Hale —lf the Senator will allow
me, I will inform him that when the
Senator from South Carolina remarked
that he supposed it was thought that the
South had lost all feeling, I replied by
asking if it was supposed that the North
had no sensibility—that we had bowed
our faces to the earth, with our bucks
to the sail, and submitted to the lash so
long that we dare not look up?
Mr. Foote —The declarations of the
Senator from New Hampshire just
amount to this, that if he ruet me on the
highway and addressed me gravely or
humorously—for he is quite a humorous
personage—should say, I design to take
that horse which is now in your pos
session, aud then announce that he
wishes to enter iuto an argument with
me as to whether I should prefer that
the animal should be stolen from the
stable or taken from me on the road.
How could 1 meet such a proposi
tion by, I should say to him, either
you are a maniac, or if sane, you are a
knave. And yet this very case is now
before us. 1 he Senator from New
Hampshire introduced a bill obviously
intended to rob the people of the Dis
trict of their sluves. I will read and
show that such is the import of the bill.
I do not know anything about the paper
to which reference has been made. It
has been sent to me, as to other Sena
tors during the winter, hut 1 always re
frain from opening it. The editor of it
may be an intelligent man. I have
heard that he is. He is certainly an
abolitionist. It may be that lie has not
in his paper openly avowed, as the
Senator from New Hampshire seems
very plainly to indicate that lie has
approved of the late attempt to gteal
the slaves from the District. But the
publication of such a paper has tended
to encourage such movements.
Mr. Hale —hen did 1 avow that I
approved of this movement?
Mr. Foote —l will show it f ro m this
hill. I challenge the Senator to pro
duce any such statute from the statute
book of any State of this Union.
Mr Halt— l have said that the bill
is in substance identical with one of
the statutes of the State of .Maryland.
1 have that statute-book before me and
will hand it to the Senator.
Mr. Johnson, of Maryland Allow
me to see it.
Mr. Foote—H ow are we to under
stand the Senator? He will not ac
knowledge that his object is to encour
age such conduct, and he shuns the re
sponsibility. When we charge upon
him that he himself has breathed in the
course of his harangue this morning
the same spirit which has characterised
this act, he says most mildly and quiet
ly, “By no means; I have only at
tempted to introduce a bill correspond
ing substantially with the law on the
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
statute-book* of most of the States of
Ous confederacy” And the Senator
supposes that all of us are perfectly de
mented, or do not know the nature of
the case, the circumstances, or the
motives which have actuated the Sena
tor. Will he undertake to assert, that
he woul<b ever have thought of such a
bill if these slaves had not been ab
ducted from the District, in opposition
to the consent of their owners, by the
parties engaged in this marauding ex
pedition? He cannot deny it; and,
therefore, I am authorized to come
to the conclusion that he introduced the
bill for the purpose of covering and
protecting the act, and encourage simi
lar acts in the future. What is the
phraseology of the bill (The honor
able Senator here read the bill.) Who
doubts now that the object of the Sena
tor from New Hampshire was to secure
the captains of vessels and others en
gaged in any attempts by violence to
capture and steal the slaves of this Dis
trict? No man can doubt it. Then, I
ask, have I used language too harsh,
and is it not a fact that the Senator is
endeavoring to evade a responsibility
which he is not willing to acknowl
edge?
Mr. Hale —Will the Senator give
way for a moment. I will read an ex
tract from the law of Maryland to which
I referred. Will the Senator be good|
enough to look at my bill while 1
read?
An Ad Relating to Riots.
Sec 1. Be it enacted by the Gen-j
eral Assembly of Maryland, That from I
the passage of this act, if any oounty,
or incorporated town, or city of this
State, any church, chapel or convent,
any dwelling-house, any house used or
designed by any person, or any body
politic, or corporate, as a place for the
transaction of business,or deposit of pro- j
perty,any ship, shipyard or lumberyard,
stable, or other out-house, or
any articles of personal property, shall
be injured or destroyed, or if any pro
perty therein or thereon shall be taken
away, injured, or destroyed, by any ri
otous or tumultuous assemblage of peo
ple, the full amount of the damage shall
be recoverable by the sufferer or suf
ferers, by suit at law against the county,
tow n, or city within w hose jurisdiction
such riot or tumult occurred. [Provided
however, that no such liability shall be
incurred by such county, incorporated
town, or city, unless the authorities
thereofshall have had good reason to be
lieve that such riot or tumultuous assem
blage was about to take place,or having
taken place, should have had notice of
same, in time to prevent said injury or
destruction, either by their own police,
or ‘with the aid of the citizens of such
county, town or city; it being the in
tention of this act, that no such liability
shall be devolved on such county, town,
or city, unless the authorities thereof
having notice, have also the ability of
themselves, or w ith their own citizens,
to prevent said injury: Provided, fur
ther, that in no case shall indemnity be
received where it shall be satisfactorily
proved that the civil authorities there
of have used all reasonable diligence,
and all the powers entrusted to them for
the prevention or suppression of gucli
riotous or unlawful assemblies.
Sec. 2. And be it enacted, That in
any suit instituted under this act, the
plaintiff or plaintiffs may declare gen
erally, and give the special matter in
evidence.
The honorable Senator will surely
now do me the justice to say, that the
bill was not dratted with referenc to any
particular case, such as that to which
he refers. I had not the remotest re
ference to the protection of individuals
concerned in transactions of that char
acter; but if 1 should undertake to say
that 1 had no reference to demonstra
tions growing out of this transaction, I
should be saying what was false, for it
was these demonstrations which in
duced me to introduce the bill.
Mr, Foote ln one breath, the Sena
tor makes two directly contradictory
assertions. He says he did not draw
the bill in reference to the bill, and in
the same breath declares that he did!
He dis(4aiins in one moment that which
he avows in the next! lam sorry that
I have occupied the attention of the
Senate so long. I have felt deeply on
this subject. We have witnessed this
morning the first attempt on this floor
to violate the constitutional rights of
the South, and I hope it will be the last.
1 trust that the indignation of the coun
try will be so aroused, that even in the
quarter of the couutry from which hei
comes, the Senator from New Hamp
shire, although his sensibilities are not
very approachable, will be made to feel
ashamed of his conduct.
Mr. Mangum —lt is now about four
teen years, I believe, since the Senate
very wisely, by the concurrence of the
most distinguished men on both sides,
came to the resolution to exclude dis
cussion upon the inflaming topic <>f sla
very; and that when abolition petitions
were presented, upon the question of
reception, a motion should be enter
tained, which motioQ is not debatable, j
and the vote taken upon it, to lay the
motion for reception upon the table.—'
Thera has been, ever since this rule
wgs established, a steady and uniform
adherence to it, but I am sorry to per-’
ceive that there is latterly a disposition
manifesting itself to depart fmmthe sa
lutary rule of action which the Senate
thus wisely prescribed fur itself. Upon
this question of slavery we know there
are different opinion* entertained in
different quarters of the Union. I stand
here representing one portion of that
Union, but I could not, if I would, bring
myself to a state of excitement and
alarm in consequence of any menaces
that may be thrown out 1 stand upon
the Constitutional compromises; and
while would not invade the rights of
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1818.
others, I am very sore that the bowk!
portion of the community will not in>
vade our rights. Why should we
pursue this discussion Is it believed
that we are to he reasoned out of our
rights? Are we te be reasoned out of
oor convictions? No, sir. Then why
discuss the subj ct? Why not stand
upon our rights; upon our Constitu
tional compromises? Why not stand
thus perfectly passionless, but prepared
to defend them when they shall be as
sailed? But are they to be assailed?—
Sir, nothing has occurred during this
session that has afforded me more satis
faction than to bear from some of the
ablest and most distinguished men in
this Union, the declaration, that, while
they are opposed to the extension of the
area of slavery, they are not disposed
to trample upon the compromises of the
Constitution. This is our strength. It
is to be found in the patriotism of those
who love the institutions of our country
better than party. I believe the great
body of the people are prepared to
stand upon the compromises of the
Constitution. It is upon this ground
that I stand content and passionless,
and if I know myself I shall continue
to do so. Sir, no good can result from
this discussion. 1 shall vote against
the reception of the bill at this time.—
And why? Because I think that the
occasion which is selected for its intro
duction is a very unhappy one. It
seems to grow out of the occurrence of
an unwarrantable trespass, recently
committed upon the rights of the citi
zens of this District, without being di
rected to the prevention of such aggres
sions in future, but on the contrary,
having for its object the suppression of
the inanifestatioas of the feelings of
indignation which such acts naturally!
create. We, who are the only legisla-,
tors for the District of Columbia, are'
not informed of their wants and wishes
in regard to legislation upon this sub
ject. If the people of this District re
quire any other laws than they already
have for the purpose of protecting their
property against unlawful violence, let
them indicate to us their wishes; and I:
shall be ready to lend a willing ear to;
their request, and to aid in passing such
a law as in my judgment may be ne
cessary for their protection. If, on the
other hand, the citizens of this District
should require other and more penal
laws for the purpose of protecting their
slave property, I shall be as ready to
vote for a bill for that purpose. But I
shall never vote for the one nor the
other, when I find them pressed for
ward by gentlemen of extreme opinions
—gentlemen from remote poitions of!
the Union, having few feelings in com
mon with the citizens of the District.
Sir, upon these subjects I am accus-i
torned to look to the silent operation
of the law for the protection of ail our j
rights. In the State from which I came!
there is no excitement in regard to
these subjects. If I know anything ofi
the character of that loyal, steady, 1
fixed, and moderate State, there is no!
State in the Union which will hold to
her principles ami her rights with more
firmness than that State. But we ap
peal to the silent operation of the law;
we know nothing of mob-law, or of
Lynch-law; we know nothing of ex
cesses of this description. Although
I have lived to be an old man, most of
the time in North Carolina, I have
never seen anything in that State ap
proximating even to a spirit of popular
tumult.
Mr. Foote Will the Hon. Senator
allow me to ask him whether, in case of
a conspiracy to excite insurrection
among the slaves, it would not in his
opinion justify mob proceedings?
Mr. Mangum —Ob! my dear sir, in
former years we had a compendious
mode of disposing of such cases. We
have now a mode equally certain,
though not so compendious. Upon a
matter of that nature we take a strong
ground. But I am not driven hastily
into legislation that is proposed by gen
tlemen who entertain extreme opinions
on either side.

Mr. Douglass —l have listened to this
debate w ith a good deal of interest.—
But w hile I have seen considerable ex- j
citcment exhibited on the part of a few’
gentlemen around me, I confess that I
have not been able to work myself into
anything like a passion. I think that
probably the Senator from New Hamp
shire has done much to accomplish his
object. His bill is a very harmless
thing in itself: but being brought for
ward at this time, and under the pres
ent circumstances, it has created a good
deal of excitement among gentlemen on
this side of the chamber.
Mr. Calhoun, (in his seat} —Not the
bill—the occurrence.
Mr. Douglass —On this occurrence 1
desire to say a word. In the first place,
I must congratulate the Senator from
New Hampshire on the great triumph
he has achieved. He stands very pro
minently before the American people;
and is, I believe, the only man who has
a national nomination (or the Presi
dency. I firmly believe that on this
floor to-day, by tbc aid of the Senator
from South Carolina, and the Senators
from Mississippi, he has more than
doubled his vote al th* Presidential,
election, and every man in this Cham
ber from a free State knows it. I
looked on wit<i amazement for a tune,
te see whether there could be an un
derstanding between the Senator from
New Hampshire and his Southern;
friends, calculated to give him encour-'
agement, strength, and power, in the
contest. Bat I know that those dis
tinguished Senators from the South, to j
whom I have referred, are incapable of
such an undertaking; yet I tell them
if they bad gone into a caucus with the
Senator from New Hampshire, and af- j
ter a night’s study and deliberation, had
devised the best means to manufacture
abolitionism and abolition votes in the
North, the/ would have fallen upon pre
cisely the same kind of procedure they
have adopted to-day. A few such ex
citing scenes sufficed to send that Sen
ator here. I mean no disrespect to him
personally, but I say with his senti
ments, with his principles, he could
never have represented a free State of
this Union on this floor, but for the aid
of Southern speeches. It is the
speeches of Southern men, represent
ing slave States, going to an extreme;
breathing a fanaticism as wild and
as reckless as that of the Senator from
New Hampshire, which creates aboli
tionism in the North. The extremes
meet. It is no other than Southern
Senators acting in concert, and yet
without design, that produces abolition.
Mr. Calhoun —Does the gentleman
pretend to say that myself and South
ern gentlemen who act with me upon
this occasion are fanatics? Have we
done anything more than'defend our
rights, encroached upon at the North?
Am 1 to understand the Senator that
wc make abolition votes by defending
our rights? If so, I thank him for the
information, and do not care how many
such votes we make.
Mr. Douglass —Well, I will say to
the Senator from South Carolina and
every other Senator from the South,
that far be it from me to entertain the
thought that they design to create abo
litionists in the North or elsewhere. Far
be it from me to impute any such de
sign! Yet I assert that such is the only
inevitable effect of their conduct.
Mr. Calhoun, (in his seat) —We are
only defending ourselves.
Mr. Douglass —No, they arc not
defending themselves! They suffer
themselves to become excited upon this
question—to discuss it with a degree of
heat, and give it an importance which'
makes it heard and felt throughout the I
Union. It is thus that abolition de
rives its vitality. My friend from Miss-J
is.sippi, (Mr. Foote,) in his zeal and
excitement this morning,made a remark
in the invitation he extended to the;
Senator from New Hampshire to visit.
Mississippi,w hich is worth ten thousand
votes to the Senator, and I am confident
the Senator would not allow my friend
to retract that remark for ten thousand
votes.
Mg. Foote —Will you allow me
Mr. f)ouglass —Certainly.
Mr. Moote If the effect of 'that
remark will be to give to that Senator 1
all the abolition votes, he is fairly enti
tled to them. Had the Senator from
Illinois lived where I have resided—
had seen insurrection exhibiting its
fiery front in the midst of the mcn,j
women and children of the community
—had he reason to believe that the
machinery of insurrection was at such
time in readiness for purposes of the
most deadly character, involving life,
and that dearer than life to every
Southern man—had he witnessed suclij
scenes, and believed that movements
like that of this morning were calcu
lated to engender feelings out of
which are to arise fire, blood, and des-;
elation, the destruction finally of the
South, he would regard himself as a
traitor to the best sentiments of the hu
man heart, if he did not speak out the
language of manly denunciation. I can;
use no other language. I cannot butj
repeat my conviction that any man who
dares to utter such sentiments as those
of the Senator from New' Hampshire,
and attempts to act them out anywhere j
in the sunny South, will meet death
upon the scaffold, and deserve it!
Mr. Douglass I must again con
gratulate the Senator from New Hamp
shire on the accession of five thousand
votes! Sir, Ido not blame the Senator
from Mississippi for being indignant at
any man, from any portion of the Un-t
ion, who would produce an incendiary
excitement, who would kindle the flame j
of civil war, who would incite a negro
insurrection, hazarding the life of any
man in the Southern States. The Sen
ator has, I am aware, reason to feel
deeply on this subject. But lam not al
together unacquainted with the peculiar
circumstances of the sections of the
country to which he has alluded. 1
have lived a good portion of my life
upon the immediate borders of a slave
State. I have seen the operation of
such excitements as those of which he
speaks, upon both sides of the line. I
can well appreciate the excited feel
ing with which gentlemen in the South
must regard any agitating movement to
get up insurrections among their negro
servants.
Mr. Doris, of Mississippi —l do not
wish to be considered as participating
in the feeling to which the Senator al
ludes. I have no fear of insurrection,
no more than I have of my cattle. I
do not dread such incendiaries. Our
slaves are happy and contented. They
sustain the happiest relation that labor
can sustain to capital. Ii is a paternal
institution. They are rendered mis
erable only by the unwarrantable inter
ference of those who know nothing
about that with which they meddle. 1
rest this case in no fear of insurrection;
and I wish it to be distinctly understood
that we are able to take care of our
selves, and to punish ail iaceudiaries.
It was the insult offered the institutions
which we have inherited that provoked
my indignation.
Mr. Fools —Will the honorable Sen
ator allow me to (fiake a remark
Mr. Douglass —With a great deal of
pleasure.
Mr. Fools —lf it be understood that
I expressed may fear of insurrection
which might grow out of this movement
it is a mistake. X said that such an au
dacious movement as this could not be
tamely submitted to without encouraging
ita authors to proceed; and in that I
think all who have spoken on this side
1 of the Chamber conear.
Mr. Dmti», of Mississippi l did net
intend to imply that my colleague hac
taken any such course as that which 1
disclaimed.
Mr Dong last-A\] that I intended to sa\
was, that the effect of this excitement,
of all these harsh expressions, wil
be the creation of abolitionists at the
North.
Mr. Foots —The more the better.
Mr. Douglass —The gentleman mn>
think so; but some of us at the Nortb
do not concur with him in that opinion
Ofcourse the Senator from New Hamp
shire will agree with me, because he
can fan the dame of excitement so as tc
advance his political prospects. And I
can also well understand how some geit
i tiemen at the South may quite compla
cently regard all this excitement,if they
can persuade their constituents to be
lieve that the institution of slavery rests
upon thei^shoulders; that they are the
men who meet the Goliath of the North
in this great contest nbout abolition. It
gives them strength at home, but we
of the North, who have no sympathy
with abolitionists, desire no such ex
citements.
Mr. Calhoun —l must really object
to the remarks of the Senator. Wc
are merely defending our rights. Sup
pose that we defend them in strong
language; have we not a right to do so:
Surely the Senator cannot mean to im
pute to us the motives of low ambition.
He cannot realize our position. Foi
myself, and I presume I may speak for
those who act with me, we place this
question upon high and exalted grounds,
Long as he may have lived in the
neighborhood of slaveholding States, he
cannot have realized anything on the
subject. I must object entirely to his
course, and say that it is at least as of
fensive as that of the Senator from New
Hampshire.
Mr. Davis, of Massachusetts —l wish,
before the vote is taken, to say a word
or two for the purpose of placing my
self right with regard to this matter. 1
am not very apt to be carried away by
any of the excitements that sometimes
have existence in this Chamber, and 1
cannot say at this moment that 1 parti
cipate at all in the excitement which
seems to exist in the minds of manv
gentlemen here. What is the question
that is presented for this body to decide?
A stranger coining info this Chamber
would suppose that had some meas
ure under consideration which con
cerned the deepest interests of slavery
that we were about to pass judgment
upon some question affecting that great
interest; that we were about to legis
late upon the subject in some way that
would affect it in a manner injurious to
the rights of those who own property ot
this description. Now, I think whoever
has listened to the reading of this bill,
must he satisfied that there is no such
thing contained in it. If I understand
it, it proposes nothing which has any
special reference, under any construc
tion that can be given to it, to that par
ticular description of property. We
have laws which make municipal cor
porations liable for damages done to
property by popular tumults, where
such corporation is remiss in its duty in
enforcing order and obedience to the
law. If I understand the proposition ol
the honorable Senator from N. Hamp
shire, he intends nothing more than to
give security to property. He pro
poses nothing beyond this. This is the
whole matter under consideration. Hut
gentlemen say this is an unpropiti< us
moment to introduce a question of this
sort; and why unpropitious? Because,
if I understand them rightly—and I
learn the fact lor the first time—a mob
has assailed the office of a newspaper
in this city, and has rendered it unin
habitable. Well, how does this con
nect itself with the subject of slavery?
Why, it is said that from this office u
newspaper issues which is called an
aboliton paper. Suppose all this to he
true, it is added by the Senator from
New Hampshire that the paper is con
ducted in a temperate maimer, that it
employs temperate language, address
es itself to the reason and understand
ing of the public; and that no complaint
has been made against it by the public.
Well, how far this inobocratic spirit is
to be attributed to another event which
has happened in this District, is not for
me to say. Some gentlemen seem to
suppose that it has some connection
with it. If it has, lam unable to see
it. The Senator from New Hampshire,
then, introduces a measure, and pro
poses to make the corporation liable for
the damages committed, in case they
ref usd to do their duty, and enforce the
law. Well, such a law exists in many
of the Slates. But it is said that this is
a very peculiar state of things. Here
was an abolition press at work in this
building. Let me ask gentlemen
w bet her they propose to stop the opera
tions of the press; whether, in other
words, they propose to take away fr« cu
it its freedom? It seems to me that we
might learn a lesson, if we WO4M, from
what is going on cm the other side of
the Atlantic. The agitation of this
question alone the freedom of the
press has overthrown many of the
thrones of Europe.
Do yon not propose by measures of
violence, or by any other uwde, to put
an end to the discussion of the suject,
either by speeches or through the me
dium of the press? Whoever under
takes a work of this description, has
got an herculewo task upon his bands—
a task which he will find himself wholly
incompetent to accomplish. Well,why
is it that the Senate flies in the face of
this mease re, and objects to its recap*
tion? And 1 pet it to the calm consid
eration of the Senator from South Car
olina, and those who think with him,
whether the iafrrtac* I hut mads will
WILLIAM C. SELL. rmiilil.
JOHN Dlt K, rM.m*
WHOLE NO-21
nollt. m»it ihrt ugh< at tlwcouMry;
t n »ht lh»*r ii will not t considered
evcrjwbett au assault upon the liberty
ot the press, and of rpoeth whether
rt will not Lc irrcsitible, and whether if
jII not im,kc a lasting impression upon
i tL üb,, J flank the petpla
.will reason in this way upon the fub
,iect and that they will hold cut os,
as the duty ot this body, lo taka lit*
subject into consideration. fcei.d it to
a committee, let it be examined, and
not presumed, as the honorable Senator
from South Carolina does, that because
its provisions do not cover the whole
subject, it cannot be made to cover the
whole. It it d« es not auswer the views
fhe gentleman, it can be made to do
so. Then why fly iu its face! Why
take this very unusal course of re
fusing to receive the measure at all?—.
simply because, by construction
and infeience, it is supposed to have
some connection with the question of
slavery. Now, is this wise; is it pru
dent? Does it best accomplish the
object which gentlen.cn have in new,
w hich is to protect this kind of propeity i
I have ever been one of that class of
persons who have at all times con side r
;ed themselves bound by the terms of
the Constitution on this subject, and
have stood ready to support the guar
antces contained in that instrumont.
But, nt the same time, I must confess
that I thought the honorable Senator
from Illinois, in the remarks which he
j made here, uttered a great deal of
wholesome truth. 1 thought he admin
istered some wise, and prudent, aud
salutary udmouitious iu those re
marks, worthy of tbe consideration of
all parties here; and I hope they will
have their effect. I hope a little reflec
tion, a little consideration, will iuduco
gentlemen to change the course thev
have adopted on this subject, and to
permit this measure to take the usual
course of legislation. Suppose we do
come to a discussion on the question,
where, let me ask gentlemen, is the
harm of discussion? Why, gentlemen
ask, What right have you to discuss
our rights of property in slaves? By
what authority do you claim the privi
lege of inquiring into this u utter? Sir,
we may have no right to disturb thin
light of property; we may have no
right to uli'cct the title to it iu any way;
no such rights may be claimed. Nev
ertheless, no one will deny to any citi
zen the right to discuss the character of
property ot this kind, and the efleet laws
have upon such property. Who deifies
this right, and where is it denied?. It
belongs to freed* in of discussion, to tba
freedom of speculation which exists in
every free, untrammelled mind. Men
may advance very absurd notions;they
may reason very preposterously they
may reach very absurd conclusions,but
while the whole matter lit s in discus
sion, very little, in my judgment, iu
gained by teitiling that discussion in
cendiary in its character. Wby do
you expect to satisfy tiie public mind
when mankind discusses the question of
slavery, however important it may bo
to any portion of this country, and ex
press their opinions in rcgoid to it. Lo
you expect to put them under foot by
saying it is incendiary? If any gentle
man butter himscit with hopes aud ex
pectations of this description, he is
doomed to be disappointed. This dis
cussion will go on, aud the way to meet
error, is by confronting it with truth.—
Let the discussion go on; let it |>e frre
everywhere. My own opinion is, that
all considerate minds here and very
whore are entirely deposed to adlitjo
o the guarantees and compromises of
he Constitution, and instead of being
weakened by discussion, they ate at
sven step strengthened; they at every
step become firmer and stronger bonds
jf union. Let no one try, ii they can,
So suppress discussion. Lvcry attempt
to stop it will result, as in Kuiopc, in
one general sentiment, which will
trample under foot the power that at
tempts to suppress it. This w ill be tbs
I’flect of such attempts. 1 invite then,
my friends, to meet this question boldly,
and not let this subject go to the public
in the form which it now pics* uts it
self— as a bill presented here—relating
to nothing hut the protect!* n of piopcrty
against the violence ot a mob, and de
nied admission to this hall and (hat fa
de, because supposed to have some in
direct connection with the question of
slavery. J-ct us take, sir, a more
manly view of the subject—one that
accoids better with the thaiacter of
lugh-mirdod men. Let it lake its
course here. Let it go to a committee;
let that committee examine it, ana if it
docs not, from afty cause, meet jour
Approbation when it conies to be con
sidered, then let other measures take
its place let it take its late. But
nothing, sir. is to he gained by this onu*
■ual course. 1 assure tbe gentlcmcu
who represent tbe slave interest, that
instead of gaining, they Lsc much,
rery much.
Why, Mr. President, cannot every
gentleman see, and sec plainly, that
when the bill comes to be published,
when the terms in which it is conceived
come to be read and undcisto* 6. it will
be seen that it is a measure diJhrmg in
no essential material point lr«» Jaws
existing ui many of the free Stales aid
free countries everywhere and as a
Senator near me says iu some ot the
slave States—funking corporations un
der certain circumstances liable ft r the
v iokoce of mobs? And w hoever take#
the ground that th s bill has been
brought inatm uopropitious mom* nt,
and Ibc th* l reason denies it admission,
as antes s responsibility that he will
rncttmly *uk by and by to get rid of.
liTtaf here we to do with the present
■ofwmeut, sir—with tbe particular and
peculiar circumstances which surround
be question? In my judgment, nothing
at all. I do not undertake to say what
tiic motive* were of the Senator from
New Hampshire, in introtilcing tiu*
bill: it doea not become me to inquire
into them. It iii enough for mO to know
that if the printing office of the Union,
or National Intelligencer, wete assailed
and injured bpr a mob, that it would be
my duty to inquire bow it happened,
and whether further provisions were
required in addition to the present laws
of the District, in order to suppress
such disturbances. The care and de
liberation, 1 should feel myself bound,
under such circumslrnces, to exercise
w ith regard to the property of others, I
should exercise in this case. The
same measure of justice I should mete
out in other eases, i would mete out in
this. The protection which I would
j feel it my duty to give to the pro
porty of others, under all circum
stances, I would give in this. And il
it turns out that this care is unworthily
to-stowed, that it docs not demand le
gislation, then let it take its destiny.
Hut this is not the'way to deal with it.
It docs not. in my judgment, have the
sanction of deliberation. I have al
ways been of the opinion that nothing
has been gained by the opposition tu
tbc introduction of petitions here. 1
believe if the subject had been left
open, and we*had been allowed to go
into the consideration of the subject,
gentlemen would have found less ex
citement existing, than has been cre
ated hy the opposite course. It would
have tended much more strongly, in
imy judgment, to tranquilize and har
monize the pnbtic mind. Under all
the circumstances, then, how are we
to act? I think the question is a very
plain one. Things are brought in and
made to bear strongly on the minds ol
gentlemen, which do not belong to this
t question at all. I shall vote for the
reception of the hill, in order that it
may take the usual course of legisla
tion.
Mr. Crittenden —What is the motion
pending?
f The Presiding Officer —The Senator
from Pennsylvania made a motion to
i adjourn, but gave way to the Senator
from South Carolina.
Mr. Crittenden —l intend to renew'
that motion. I think, after the excite
ment we have all witnessed to-day, we
will be better prepared to decide with
the deliberation which usually marks
the proceedings of this body at a future
session. I move that we now' adjourn.
Mr. Benton —Will the gentleman
withdraw the motion for a moment?
Ordered, That the bill be printed for
the use of the Senate.
Mr. Johnson, of Maryland, then gave
notice, that should the Senator from
New Hampshire, have leave to intro
duce his bill, he would move the fol
lowing resolution:
Resolved, That the Committee to
whom was referred the “Bill relating
to riots and unlawful assemblies in the
District of Columbia,” be, and they
are hereby instructed to amend the
said bill, by inserting a section in the
same for the effectual protection, by
penal provisions or otherwise, of the
citizens of the District, and other
citizens of the United States, in the
undisturbed possession and ownership
of their property in slaves in such
District.
On motion, the Senate then ad
journed.
National Convention of the Liberty
League»*
The undersigned committee appointed at Macedon Locks in June last to call a National convention some time in the year 1848 do invite those who wish to provide equal civil securities to the rights of all men to meet in Convention at the City of Rochester on the 31st day of May next, at 10 o’clock A.m. fo the purpose of nominating a candidate for the Vice Presidency, and the transaction of such other business as may come before the convention.Notice - Agreeably to the recommendation of the Liberty Party Convention, held in Auburn, January 12th and 13th 1848 will be in the city of Buffalo on the 14th and 15th days of June, 1848. This convention from the fact that it is expect to nominate candidates for President and Vice President; and to take high and effective ground in behalf of personal liberty, free trade, free soil, exemption from war, and from other violation of the equal rights of all men, will probably attract a large concourse of persons and be of deeply interesting character. State League Convention. A mass convention for the nominate state officers, to be supported by the Liberty League at the ensuing fall election, will be held at Rochester on the second day of June next, at 10 o’clock A.m. Let our friends see to it that the various parts of the state are well represented. F.S. Gilbert, W.D. Barbitt, Wm. R. Smith, Hiram Pitts, A. Pennel Central Coal. of the Liberty League.
Hon rove. Feb. 29th, 1848.
Notice. —Messrs. E. R. Dunlop and S. II.
Day are not agents for the Colored people of
Upper Canada, as is generally suppose*! and
if they have collected money in their name, it
has bacn done on their own responsibility,
and not of the British American Abolition
Society in the city of Toronto. Mr. Dunlop
was dismissed from his agency for .said society,
outlie first day of December, 1817. Mr.
Dunlop was sent out with Mr. Day, fox the
•olft purpose of getting signers to {establish a
paper in the city of Torcmto.
In behalf of the Executive Committee of
tfie 11. A. A. Society,
CHARLES- FREEMAN, See.
April 21, 1+547.
The Prisoners,
A niTliug was held in Boston on flic 25th,
in relation to the recent attempted escape of
the slaves from Washington, and the iinpri
roniueni of thus.? concerned in it. A com
mittee was appointed, and we publish below a
Circular issued by them. We need not com
mend it to the attention of our readers
It is the Citizens of the United States who are the sailors of these men. 
Wr duty that the Constitution confers on
Congress any power to establish, or to main
tain slavery, m territory over which itpossess
es exclusive jurisdiction. This is a most im
portant question, in reference not only to the
District of Columbia, hut to the tcnitoryl
about to be acquired fiom Mexico. We wish f
to bring it before the. Supreme Court, and to
have it presented there, along with some
other closely related questions, liv the very
ablest counsel. To do that, money is needed
and \vc cull on you, friends of liberty, to fur
nish it. Even pirates and murderer** are en
titled to counsel—how much more, guilty
only of an act of humanity, prisoners in the
iuiil.it of a hostile community, surrounded by
enemies thirsting for their blood 1 This call,
we know, will not he iri vain. We suggest
ihe expediency of setting subscript ions on foot
in the principal towns. All remittances to
our Treasurer, J. P. Blanchard, or to .Samuel
E. Sewall, 10 State street, or Francis Jack
son, 27 Stale street, or to any member of the
'ommittee, will be acknowledged through the i
public prints, and the expenditure duly ac-1
counted for. Editors friendly to liberty are
requested to give this a few insertions.
SAMUEL MAY,
SAMUEL G. HOWE,
SAMUEL E. SEWALL,
Kit HARD HILDRETH,
ROBERT MORRIS, Jr.,
FRANCIS JACKSON,
KEIZER WRIGHT,
JOSEPH SOUTH WICK, 1
WALTER HANNING,
J. W. BROWNE,
HENRY 1. DOW DITCH,
WM. F. ('HANNING,
JOSH. P. BLANCHARD,
JAMES M. WHJTON,
CHARLES LIST.
Boston, April gB, l'G?*.
lU7* The bail fixed upon is $70,000;
about $lOOO for each prisoner.
Anniversary of British West India
Emancipation.
A mooting w ill bo h dd at '/ions Church,
Spring street, on Monday eve., May 22d, at 7*
v clock, to make arrangement* for the of
August celebration.
AH friends of huivntfy art* invitci) to be
j^rcseal.
Signed in behalf of many.
JAMES SHARPE,
J. I*. MORRIS,
RALPH FRANCIS,
JOHN 8. BISHOP,
JT. HAWKINS,
CHARLES JOINER,
W M. C. VELL
Western New York Anti-Ha very Modety.
Tl»c Executive Committee will meet oo
Tuesday evening i.**xr, M»y «f3i, at tbej
Anti-Slavery Office, 25, Buffalo Street.
Attend nee i* requited at 7 o'clock pec
fu*e!y. J
W C NELL, TLe. S.c. j
Awciiva* A*ii-SlnTe«r t'ocictfv
We tyr mdshted to the Ne* York Tribe iw
for thd|iifll»'wi*|f report
These mertwi* for business end di«rgMni
w ere continued at the Mitten a Rooms, fore
ottwi and afternoon of the 12th inst., and ad
onm**d a limit belt part, 3 e'd.«Ht.
The discussions mere of an exciting uni
interesting character, tlie utmost freedom o
debate being allowed on the resolutions, a
which distinguishes this body fron
other societies which IhiKl th«ir anrnverMMei
hi this city. ’Hie principal speakers wen
W end ell Phillips, Kdmond Quincy, Parkei
j Pillsbury. f\ Burleigh, Luer* tia Mott, W
L- Garrison, and H. C. Wright, llic fol
lowing are the resolutions adopted by iht
Society at the various meetings.
\N letcas, An attempt has Iteen made it
the District of Columbia, by a large body o
i slaves, to obtain their freedom hy tlight, bu
unsuccessfully and whereas, tliey ucreaidct
in this design to secure liberty for themselvei
and their children by Captain JSayres and hn
crew, of the schooner Pearl of Philadelphia
who are now lying in prison in the city o
W ashington, to be tried as felons; and w hero
as, this ooeunrence has caused great excite
incut in I lie District aforesaid, and Jed to i
fierce debate in the Halls ot Congress, on tin
part of the tSenators and Represent
atives, in which the conduct of Capt. Sayrei
and his ass'K-iat -s has been stigmatized ai
leionious and piratical, and every one win
sympathizes with those martyrs branded ai
actesKiry to robliery and outrage There
fi*e.
I Resolved, That this attempt by the slave
alluded to, receives the cordial approbation o
the American Anti-Slavery Society, as it mtis
°f ever}’ one vho is not a traitor to his race
and excites the joyful hope that these are bu
drop* of a coming shower, w high shall covei
the whole Southern country.
Resolved, That it is the riplit of the slavi
to escape from big prison-hour*c whenever e
favorable opportunity is presented, and the
duty of all to hide the outcast, and betray noi
hitn that wandereth, whatever may be the
consequences.
Resolved, That most deeply do we sympa
thise with the recaptured in view of the dire
ful sufferings to which they will be subjected
by their merciless oppressors but our sorrow
j is greatly assuaged by the firm conviction, that
though for the time being they may have
riveted more closely their ow n chains, the ef
fect of their laudable example upon die mill
i ions of their brethren in bondage, will be to
i inspire them with a determination to be free,
and to hasten the day of their deliverance.
Resolved, that (’apt. Sayres and his asso
ciates, by endeavoring to secure for these
slaves a safe and peaceful mode of escape on
(ward the schooner Pearl, that they might
stand in the enjoyment of freedom under the
British ilag in Canada, ar.d not crouch as
beasts under the star-spangled banner, per
formed a noble and Christian act, which'is
worthy of constant imitation, under favorable
circumstances, and that they deserve, and
will receive, the blessings of those who are
ready to perish, and the plaudits of the friends
of freedom universally.
Resolved, That slavery in the District of
Columbia, from the hour that District was
coded to the United States to the present time,
has been illegal and unconstitutional, because
the American Government is not empowered
to create, prolong or tolerate slavcrv in any
territorial possession that every slaveholding
enactment by Congress has been an act of
usurpation, and is, therefore, null and void
that every slaveholder in the District s legally
and constitutionally guilty of felony 'and,
therefore, that Capt. Sayres has violated no
law of the land in transporting slaves and
passengers from the District in his vessel.
Resolved, That we rejoice to know that the
case of Capt. Sayres and his companions is to
he carried up to the 11. S.Snpreme Court by the
friends of constitutional Jaw, and there vindi
cated as innocent on the ground of the illegal
ity of slavery in the District of Columbia;
and that Court is hereby solemnly admonished
to calculate, if it can, the consequences that
will follow a decision sentencing those inno
cent and noble men to an imprisonment for
years. -r
Resolved, That slaveholders, as such, can
have no rights that ihey have no Rightful
evi.-n nec on earth they w ere never treated
by God, and constitute no part of (be human
race tliev are of monstrous and diabolical ori
gin, and no law, no constitution, no compact,
no religion, that endorses their humanity, is to
be obeyed or tolerated.
Resolved, I hat while we appreciate the
presence of Mr. Jlale in the United States
Senate, delight in the irankness and seiPde
votion of Mr. Palfrey, and in the gallantry,
courage and boldness of Mr. Ghidings, of
Ohio, on the subject of slavery, w hen brought
to the consideration of Congress, we de
plore the melancholy necessity of their po
sition, which obliges them to stop so for
short of w hat the hour and the duty of every
Americau citizen requires; and we are espe
cially sorry, though not surprised, that nu n,
professing to be abolitionists, are found wil
ling 10 hold up ns the highest representative
of an anti-slavery political idea, one who. like
Mr. Hale, has never vet avowed himself an
abolitionist; w ho, indeed, has broken no
pledges, because he never made any, but who
lias avowed no principles upon the subject
more radical than those of the Young Demo
crats ot New A ork, and the oung Whigs of
Massachusetts, and the mass of soft-spoken
men throughout the Union.
MEXICAN WAR.
Resolved, That the man who has borne
arms against Mexico is a traitor to humanity,
and an enemy of American institutions; the
statesman who consents to the acquisition of
an inch of American territory on nnv condition
whatever, betrays the right of the North,
‘hough lie hastens that welcome event, the
downhill oft Uo Union and that the aboiition
irl who counts the Wilinot Proviso as any
thing hut breath—a reed set up against the
Mississippi _ has yet the A, li, C of his cn
t ‘rprise to learn.
Resolved. That while we bid God-speed to
every' movement d signed and calculated to
overthrow every species of oppression, whe
ther affecting the interests or rights of white
or black men, we must reiterate our convic
tion— .unified as it i» by iminmerahle facte—
that the anti-slavery movement in ihiscountrv,
in heighth and depth, iu length and breadth,
in its promise to r the fut re, its conflict with
everything spurious in the Church, and every
thin!! corrupt in the State, in its tendency to
overleap ail .sectarian and political harriers, in
cultivating the spirit of universal love, in
propagating the world-reconciling doctrine of
human brotherhood, i# ihe umst radical of all
the reforms of the day, and its triumph is
essential to the success of every other.
ResoPVd, That tliey who are affirming that
the condition of the white working classes is
more intolerable and more to lie dcplomi than
that of the slave population—that ‘what they
absurdly call wages slavery’ is worse than
chattel slavery—do grossly msull the common
t- nse of mmkmd, betray a lack of knowl
edge or of principle, and are not to be trusted
tn the sdvorary of the (l f fo.
b*r; for, w hntever sre the grievances of the
while lalwmg population, they b-* r no com
parison to those under which tlie slaves are
gru.ityig; and it the tree workingmen in the
land art to ady extent deprived of ibmrjustj
rights- by bad 1 gMarion, the fault is in great
Ct their own, because they hold in their
d* the political power of the country they
«n eresiti and they destroy, whercss, ihc
dam of (tin South are utterly deprived of all
heir rights, and are therefore (Hmerless.
Resolved, That while we would nut throw
i straw in the- way of the improvement ami
clkf of th« white working claw.*#, nor iu any
runner dWounge, but or. the contrary r t
j then in tlifir efforts, warmly rncourags than
,1 lo throw off any burdens under which they
an I.during, we would submit to them the
Cituity of their expecting to achieve sorb a
victory for themselves, while they scorn and
despise the colored population on aceoent of
their complexion, refuse to work with them
•n equal terms, elevate slaveholders to office,
and array themselves against ibe anti-shivery
movement.
Resolved, that the abolitionists of the coun
try .should keep it in constant remembrance,
tliat an efficient instrumentality in their hands
is to petition tbe Slate Legislatures to repeal
ail laws making any Opprobrious or unequal
distinction between the inhabitants on account
of their com pit-sum or condition and, espe
cully, to memorialize Congress to call a Con
vention of the People of the United States, in
devise measures for the peaceful dissolutioa of
the Union, in w hich it is impossible for the
dements of liberty and slavery to coalesce,
or tyrants ami freemen to live in peace to
gether.
H*. solved, That recognizing as we do, with
profound gratitude the wonderful progress of
our cause during the last eighteen years, yet
ccKisidering the effort made to ooovince the
i community that the ecclesiastical organizations
of ihe country will and can abolish the sys
tem, nnd that the political parties are ready
1 and able to grapple w ith the evil, this society
•i feels bound to reiterate its convictions that the
•July exodus for the slave out of his house
of bondage, is over the ruins of the present
American chutch and the present American
Union.
Resolved, That this Society takes occasion
i at the first meeting held since the reception of
s, the Remonstrance addressed by forty thousand
women of Scotland to the women of this land
to express its deep gratitude to the friends ol
i justice and liberty in old Scotland for this no-
I ble effort in behalf of the American slave, its
i appreciation of the amount of labor necessary
to embody so imposing a testimony, and the
i c ireial joy it feels in know ing that in the dread
struggle waging here against such over
whelming odds, we have the sympathy and
help of the abolitionists of Scotland fur our
J comfort and encouragement,
j Resolved, That as Republicans, we are
proud to remember that one of the first acts
of the French people, after the achievement ol
l their own liberty, was to decree the imme
diate emancipation of the slaves throughout
the Republic and we are glad the cause ol
freedom abroad is thus relieved from the
heavy burden which our hypocrisy has laid
upon it; and more especially, as abolitionists,
we rejoice in the noble rebuke of American
I inconsistency—glad that France stands side
j by side with England, Denmark, Tunis, Al
j giers and Hungary, as a lover of human lib
ertv, and that the nation whose earlv strug-
I gles Lafayette so devotedly aided, offers thus
to the world the fullest atonement in its power
I for that error which saddened the last years
of the philanthropist and patriot—that of hav
ing drawn his sword in founding a slavebold
ing Republic.
The following are the officers of the Society
fot the ensuing year:
President,
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
Corresponding Secretary,
Sidney H. Gay..
Recording Secret ary,
Wendell Ppil&ifs.
Treasurer,
Francis Jackson.
Rt rev tire Committee,
W. L. Garrison, Maria W. Chapman,
•W. H. (’banning, Sidney H. Gay,
Francis Jackson, Edmund Quincy,
Eliza LceFollen, J. R. Lowell,
Wendell Phillips, Anne W. Weston,
Sarah Pugh, Chas. F, llozey.
New-York State Vigilance Committee.
This body held a meeting at Zion Church,
corner of Leonard and Church sts. on Tues
day. Iu the absence of the President, Isaac
T. llofpkr, the Cliaii was taken by Rev. S.
I S. Jocelyn.
This Society, which is composed mostly of
colored people, is instituted expressly for the
j management of the underground railroad, and
to judge by the results, keep its business in
constant activity. It employs an ageut, whose
whole time is occupied in collecting monies,
providing for fugitive slaves when among us,
and in forwarding them h> places of safety
and in all possible ways promoting the inter
ests of the society. According to the report
of this agent, read nt the meeting last night,
j since October last the Society have afforded
1 aid to 10G fugitives whom they have sent to
various places of safety, mostly in the United
States. We copy a single paragraph:
“While we cannot but deplore the unfortun
ate issue of the recent attempt to obtain their
rights on the part of a large portion of our
brethren and sisters, we would not be discour
aged. Our rails have not been taken up—
while friends and foes were earnestly discus
sing this affair, three noble-looking men walk
ed peaceably through the city of Washington
on their way from old Virginia, arrived safely
in New York, and are now where their op
pressors will not probably follow them.”
The meeting was first addressed by Wm.
Blown, a fugitive slave, in a speech which
was forcible throughout and often rose to
thrilling eloquence. Rev. Mr. Garnet fol
lowed in an address hardly less effective. We
venture to say that abler speeches than these
two were made at few if any of the many
meetings which took place yesterday.—
Tribune.
Meeting for the Promotion of Educa
tion among C olored Children.
This meeting took place on Monday night
in Zion Church, corner of Church and Leon
ard streets. The election of office bearer*
for the Society for the ensuing year was the
first business which was gone iuto.
i he annual report of the Society was next
read, which gave a detailed account of the
formation of the institution—its labors and
difficulties in a pecuniary point of view, Ac.,
&c. The report stated that the Society had
been formed in July, 1616; but from the'diffi
culties and prejudices which it had to encoun
ter at the commencement, but little good
resulted from their labors during the first
year. In the spring of 16-17, they had esta
blished w hat they called a high school of edu
cation for colored children; but it was now
inijKisrihh; lo continue that school on ac
count of the necessary funds not being forth
coming. At tbe commencement of the
Society, they only nuir.l>ered twelve mem
bers; now, however, they could boast of
upwards of one hundred and twelve. The
chairman of the meeting (the Rer. Mr. S.
E. Cornish) after the adoption of the report,
introduced the Rev. J. W. C. Uenningtou(a
man of color) to the meeting, who moved a
resolution to the effect that the society ought
to endeavor to lay the foundation for esta
blishing norma! schools, so that the school
masters may be regularly taught for the
office of teachers, and thereby make it one of
tlie learned protrusion*. Education said he,
u one of the most important and laudable
aiuiumeuta which tbe human tutnd can be
possessed of; and why but make public
teachers professor*! It was at one time a
matter of disputation u liethtr or not a colored
man’s head could hold as much knowledge as
would save his soul fr«n |<erdrtion; these
prejudices had now pasted away, and it wm
for hr* colored brethren to show in their
turn, that they were about as far advanced to
edscaitoa and the science of literature aa their
w bite brethren of this great republic, J| ip
now high time that we show tlmm that we
can think for oararlve? aa well aa they can do.
Go into all the Übmnes connected with the
public maftuuuwa of lb’* great city, and you
will hod but precious few volumes on Utm
ture, that are tbe prudccLou of Americana;
all tbe works of m*nt have been inujorieo
from the old country —so that we have really
ttirr.aud the abilities of out white lneihrvn
in these State* M ton higLys vatm The pee
eof this country deny the aristocracy of
gland for their coercion of the eastern
eatHxi*, while at home they bold a far mere
obnoxious distinction between the mdn of
Color, and what they have been pleased to
denominate the intelligent whites. It i*
high time that these distmrtions were sunk in
the abyss of oWttioo, and there is nothing hot
education that will ever accomplish this end,
by the establishment of normal schools it
will also keep out from our ranks adventurers
who, in too many instances, have much
depreciated the education of our rising genera
tion. —The Rev’d gentleman concluded bv
moving the adoption of this rmolation, which
was seconded by Mr. Charles L. Reason,
and earned unanimously.
I)r. J. McC’une Smith next read the finan
cial report, from which it appeared that the
j society w as, in the meantime, in debt to the
amount of *2fM). He also read a long, per
tinent, and philosophically got op essay of
j his own, regarding the propriety of equal edu
cation to the rich and pom. He concluded by
recommending that the society adopt the spirit
j of the essay, which was unanimously agreed
to.
The Rev. H. 11. Garnet next moved a reso
lution, in effect that the greatest amount of
good was to be derived to a community by
educating rich and poor, colored and while,
in the very same seminaries. “This age,"
said he, “is a revolutionizing age the time
has been when we did. not expect to see revo
lutions hut now we expect to see than, and
they are daily passing before our eyes; and
change after change, and revolution after revo
lution will undoubtedly take place, until ail
men are placed bjxmi equality. Then, and
not till then, will all enjoy that liberty and
equality that Gud has destined us to partici
pate in.
M. R. Delany.
The following account of his efforts is copied
from the Cincinnati! Herald. We regret that
I his communication did not arrive in season for
this paper. It will appear next week.
The address of Dr. Mr. R. Delany, (onq
of the Editors of the North Star,) Rochester,
1 a colored man, on the subject of Slavery, on
Monday evening last in the Sixth Congrega
tional Church, was an extraordinary produc
tion in more than one respect. Apart from
I its being a well arranged discourse, clear, dis
tinct, and forcible, from one of a proscribed
and disfranchised race, it was a most bold and
manly denunciation of the religious and politi
cal hypocrisy of the times.
He made but a short exordium, and plung
ed into the midst of his subject, without cir
cumlocution, or any labored effort to do the
agreeable. From his earnest, grave and en
ergetic manner, it was evident that he felt the
importance of the work he had to perform,
and that he had no time to lose in smoothing
over sentences made up of soft nothings.
He began by adverting to the well Known
persecutions which arc everyw here through
out our land heaped upoi the African race.—
The societies u-ith which he acted had been
charged with irrcligion, in that they desecra
ted the Christian Sabbath, by discoursing up
on political and other worldly topics, and by
the vending of books and tracts on that holy
day. Against this charge he defended him
self and associates, on the ground that they
held the entire seven days of the week to be
holy, on no one of which did they feel .them
selves at liberty to think or act irreverently
before God. He then examined ihe mode of
Sabbath keeping by his professed Christian
aecusers. The law concerning the Sabbath,
he said, required that no work be performed
on that day hy servants, or by the cattle; yet
where was the Christian that would not har
ness his horse, and drive him to church, w hile
at the same time liis servants were kept em
ployed in his household duties? This was a
clear violation of the very letter of the law.—
Hut to proclaim the glad tidings of Peace
on earth and good will towards men,” either
orally or by books and tracts, was not contra
ry to the gospel.
It was not uncommon forchristian ministers
(so called) to teach that slavery isa Divine in
stitution, and the doctor here named a cata
logue of well known jxipular Divines who so
I teach and it was no uncommon thing for a
jiious gentleman or ladp to sell into slavery a
man, a woman, or a child, and deposit the
proceeds into the funds of a Tract, Missionary,
or Bible Society. The Church, lie contended,
was anti-Christian.
'Flic people were not free. This charge
was ably sustained, hy showing de tail politi
cal rights were vested in 250,000 slaveholders
of the South. He referred to the fact lhat
Pennsylvania disfranchised her 40,000 free
persons of color, at the dictum of A irpinia;
bespoke also of Maryland's demand upon
New Jersey, and of Kentucky's mandate to
Ohio, &c., uli of w hich had been implicitly
obeyed. Then came a thorough review of
Texas annexation, in which the power of
Southern slaveholder*, and the servility of
Northern politicians were held up in strong
light. In this view of the Texas business,
with its terrible and disgraceful consequences,
there was administered a most awfully severe,
castigation upon the degenerate character of
Americans. They weie taunted with the
epithet of cowards, for refusing to war with
England,after the I )uke of YVellington’s t hreat
ening speech in Parliament, and immediately
afterward making an attack upon Mexico, who
was too feeble to offer them even a decent re
sistance. He affirmed that the war was in
stigated for the acquisition of slave territory,
at the behest of Southern slaveholders.
He declared himself opposed to such a gov
ernment and religion as he had described.—
He would, in the language of Frederick
Douglass, Welcome the bolt, whether from
Heaven or llcll, that shall strike down and
sever a Union that is built upon the liberties
of the people.”
D~p The National Reformer of this city
seems to be rather piqued that we did not
give a more extended notice of the French
Sympathy Meeting. Probably tome of the
Reformer's particular friends spoke on the
occasion. If is so, we were not
aware of it, or we should probably have en
deavored, as far as our mean ability extends,
to have given the world notice of the import
ant occurrence. The Reformer says—
The North Star says, speaking of the
Sympathy Meeting, it “was addressed by
Aid. Greig, Aid. Smith, J. C. Chumaaero,
Esq., Hun. S. S. Bowne, Hon. \Vm. C.
Bloss, and several others
Exactly. This reminds as of notice* we
have have seen in Southern papers, some
thing like the follow ing:
Steam Boat Accidext. —The steam
boat Eclipse, on her downward passage, col
lapsed a due. We regret to state, that Hon.
Mr. Jones and his little son, were slightly
scalded by the aocideat. No other injury
was sustained by the boat or crew, if we
except the iact that several horses on board,
together w ill) two daves belonging to Mr. J.,
were scalded to death.”
If Aid. Greig, Aid. Smith, Ac., do not
object to be likened to the slightly scalded
Mr. Jones and little son, and those whom
we called some other*” do not object
to being likened to the more unfortunate
horses and slaves, the North Star will be the
last to enter any complaint.
Cecrtjv to ths N eoroes. —At Opelousas,
La., on the 22*1 ult., a poor colored man
h»med Jem, who had been arrested for debt,
*m lynched by a mob, and whipped mate un
minr.fally. He was restored to the pofcee,
and next moaning was found dead in prison!
What patriot in hemes most hb murderess
have been
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHJESTKR, MAY 19, IfM?.
TW Aiilniunr at JTcw Tartu
We hasten to give our leaders some ac
count of the recent anniversary of g»e Ameri
ca® Anti ah very society, premising, however,
that we base little hope of imparting to them
any adequate idea of the thrilling grandeur
of the occasion. It must be seen, to be felt and
appreciated. This annual gathering of free
dom *a chosen friends is always a season of
gTeat interest to os; bat we are free to aay,
that this last meeting far transcended any
which we hate heretofore attended. On en
tering the Tast hall of the Broadway Taber
nacle, and gazing for a moment on the ear
nest multitude who had assembled to bear the
boldest blast of freedom, out eye was di
rected to the noble address to American
women, signed by forty thoosapd of their
Scotch sisters, calling upon them in the name
of the all-merciful and ever-living God, to
exert themselves for the peaceful deliverance
from thraldom of the millions who are at this
hour groaning in cruel bondage upon Amer
ican s il. This address hung in graceful
festoons from pillar to pillar, around the vast
hall, leaving still a roll of many fathoms rest
ing on a stand beside a pillar going through
the platform. At this stand sat Henry C.
W right, with pen in hand, noting the pro
ceedings no doubt, preparing a communica
tion to those very noble women abroad, whose
free spirit seemed hovering over and around
U 3 on this occasion, bidding us to be firm and
fearless in the great cause we had met to
subserve. On the platform there sat a galas v
of light and strength, such as is seldom wit
nessed in any meeting for any purpose. Isaac
T. Hopper, the friend of the fugitive, whose
venerable appearance gave the idea that he
was the spiritual father of us all, was there.
William Lloyd Garrison, the pioneer of the
cause, and the president of the Society, wj*-
there. Lucretia Mott, whose earnest, Wit
tranquil countenance, imparts faith and hope
to all around her, was there. We must,
however, hfsten on; to name them will be
sufficient. Charde Speare and Francis Jack
son, of Boston; Rev. Samuel J. May, of
Syracuse; Wendell Phillips, Esq., Rev.
Theodore Parker, Rev. Samuel May, of Lei
cester, Wm. W. Brown, the fugitive slave,
Edmund Quincy, Esq., Charles L. Remond,
Abby Kelly Foster,Parker Pillsbury,and Rev.
John Pierpont of Troy—were all on the plat
form, and were the observed of all observers.
Wc. wish every slaveholder in the land could
have caught a glimpse of those faces—could
have looked at the men and the women who
have opened their giant intellect to, and
directed their energies against this system of
slavery. It would be a lesson even to John
C. Calhoun.
The meeting was called to order by the
President, William Lloyd Garrison, who an
nounced that truths might be uttered during
the meeting, that would cause the heart of
the toil-worn bondman to leap up with joy,
and that of his tyrant master to quiver with
fear. This was said with an emphasis and
solemnity that stripped the words of all ap- j
pearance of declamation, and gave them a
place in the consideration of the audience. A
moment was now given for any person to offer
prayer, which was embraced by Rev. The
odore Parker, who addressed the throne of
grace in a most solemn and appropriate
prayer. A lesson of Scripture, bearing
directly on the subject, was then read by the
Rev. Samuel J. May; after which, the
treasurer’s report was read by Francis Jack
son, setting forth the receipts and disburse
ments of the society during the past year,
which amounted to nine thousand dollars.
The report was adopted. The President at
once introduced the Rev. Theodore Parker to
the meeting, who made a most profound and
impressive speech. Jle spoke like one ac
quainted with the centre, not less than the
circle of things. He penetrated the inner
temple of our national heart, and exposed to
view the fierce contest going on between
moral purity and moral corruption therein,
backing up his theory by the startling de
velopments of our age and nation We ill
not, however, mar this speech by any attempt
at reporting either his words or ideas. A
reporter was present, catching the words as
they fell from his lips, and our readers shall
have them in all their purity and perfection in
due season. Mr. Parker spoke nearly an hour,
rising,widening and deepening in interest to the
end. The attention to his words was per
fect, and the appreciation of his speech was
more discernible in the deep stillness of the
audience, than by loud demonstrations of ap
plause.
The next speaker was Lucretia Mott. The
general buzz which runs round a gvide con
gregation, after being held in breathless atten
tion for an hour, died away as she gently
advanced towards the front of the platform,
so that when she reached the point from
wbieh she intended to speak, all was still and
calm. Her subject was the progress of re
form. To all who have any acquaintance
with this noble woman, we need not say a
single word of the excellence of her address.
It was one of the most calm, clear and hope
ful addresses to which we ever listened. We
are confident that not a word was lost. There
is, in the absence of any great strength in
the voice of Mrs. Mott, a wonderful clearness
of utterance and a gentleness of manner,
which so completely rivets attention that she
was able to be beard distinctly in all parts of
the halt There was one thing connected
with her speech on the occasion, which is s
glorious sign of progress, mod that was,
the complete absence of all noisy excitement
in the audience, indicating feeling on account
of a woman's speaking. Every one seemed
to listen with the attention due to a great
mind sad a pure heart, without appearing to
think fur s moment of the sex of the speaker.
Mrs. Mott spoke nearly three quarters of an
hoar.
At the daw of her speech, Wendell
Phillips, Esq., took the platform, and was
hailed by the audience with a shoot of ap
plause, such as seldom greets s reformer on
an anti-slavery platform. He is the same
majestic Wendell who fur s dozen years has
stood in the vanguard of anti-slavery speak
ers and principle*,,lpved and admired by all
who stand in the fxwu ranks of liberty’s ad
vancing host, and feared aa ranch as he is
hated by the cowardly w avseers that lag behind.
Stepping to th* front of the pkrtfunn, with
an ■linm jmm »npwlirri~iyr ease and grace, h<
procrc-dcd to read a wnolutkO rc«ffirmirj
tlmt the Exodus of the bond
man is over the ruins of the Amcricat
Thurrh aed Constitution. Tie readme o
this resolution teeught down a storm o
hisses from all pens of the hafl, which wen
protracted for several minutes. It wai
worth our whole journey from Rochester to
New York to behold the fare and attitude o
Wendell while that funous storm was raging
—calm and serene as a summer’s mom. Af
ter this storm was over, lie read his resolutior
a second time, and proceeded to make one o
his most powerful and eloquent spcoelfs
charming friends as well as disarming foes
bearing the w hole au<honcc w ith him.
After Mr. Phillips, we were called upon,
awl responded in a few remarks at tho do*
of which, the Hutchinson Family pouredirpor
tho audience from the rdknr, one of thee
soul-stirring songs, which sent a thrill of dc
light through the assembly. Here the meet
ing closed. F. D.
To Our Friends.
Since the last issue of the North Stai
a very encouraging list of subscribers ba-sbeui
received, both from the blast and the TV ost
which as we may safoly predict, is hut a:
drops of the coming shower! for the peoph
seem now to be w ide awake to the important
of sustaining the enterprise, and are ready to
forward their names and the cash. Frim
among our letters, the following words o
cheer, will suffice as a specimen —A list ol
donations will soon be published.
Williamson, May 15,1848.
W. C. Nlll :—Sir, being reminded by
notice iu the Star, that our subaerption wil
soon expire, I hasten to enclose I, the re
quisitc amount to ensure us a reading of youi
valuable paper for the remainder of the year.
The Star is ever hailed with delight on ib
appearar.ee in our family circle. Got! speci
you in your blessed work.
Accompanying this is a small sum in atldi
Bon to our subscription.
Yours, for the right,
JOHN S. MOTT.
The North Star. —With Number 28
Friday, June 23, 1818, will terminate the firs
six months. We therefore notify those whoa
terms will then expire, that they nviv have
sufficient time to, ad ranee their subscriptions
The facilities fur rendering the Star an inter
esting paper, and valuable Anti-Slavery in
strumentality, arc daily increasing. Abb
correspondents in and out of the country, wil
contribute to its columns. It is the intenlioi
of all connected with the paper, to avail them
selves of every means of its improvement
and confidently solicit tho co-operation of it
friends.
!N'ow’« tho day, and nowV tho hour.*’
Practical Elocution.
D. V Gatos on two evenings of last wee
submitted to his follow-citizens recitations an
imitations of distinguished orators and delinca
tions of tragic and comic characters. Hi
efforts were very successful, though not wit
nessodby as large ail audience as In deserved
Mr. Gates is qurio a young man, who, by hi
self-taught exertions, has nlreatUp, receivn
favorable notice from the preaßl|ff seven
cities.
ITIs performances are characterized by tha
jenius which, if assiduously cultivated, wil
yet win for him a generous share of public at
and patronage. His friends, espe
cially the young men, should extend to hia
tha hand of encouragmnent. The following
is a tribute to the advantages of such exer
rises, from the gifted mind of Channing
In the meantime, is there not an amuse
ment, having an affinity with the drama
which might be usefully introduced among us
1 mean Recitation. A work of genius, re
cited by a man of refined taste, enthusiasm
and powers of elocution, is a very pure ant.
tiigh gratification. Were this art cultivated
Mid encouraged, great numbers, now insensi
ble to the most beautiful compositions, niighl
be waked up to their excellence and power.—
It is not easy to conceive of a more effis*tua!
way of spreading a refined taste through a
The drama, undoubtedly, aj>-
peals more strongly to the passions than rrri
lations but the Utter brings out the meaning
af the author more. Shakespeare, worthily
recited, would be better understood than or
die stage. Recitation, sufficiently varied, uti
is to include pieces of chaste wit, as well as
af pathos, beauty and sublimity, is well adapt
ed to our present intellectual progress.”

It has been intimated that Mr. Gates and
brother will soon give another Exhibition. Il
jo, they should be greeted by all w ho are fond
if devoting an hour with the poets ant
luthors.—w. c. s.
“Liberty oh Death!” 83id the grea
Virginia orator, and a nation’s plaudits rung
rot in honor of the noble sentiment. Liber
iy or death cries the poor Alabama slave
is the waves close over him, and no one telit
as lus name.— Pittsburgh 1 ’inter.
Astronomy.
Professor Dewey proposes a course of tet
ar more lectures on this interesting science.—
The introductory was given on Tuesday eve
rung last, during which lie exhibited an orr
ery, the donation of several young men o
Rochester. This apparatus is adapted to il
lusirate the lectures, and will render tht
course a valuable one indeed. The ncx
lecture will be this (Friday) evening. Singh
tickets twelve and a half cents. For tfo
course, $l.
Correction. Rev. Mr. Sheer, Cbaplaii
of the Senate, denies having bad a converss
lion with Hope 11. Slatter in the cars, whih
the recaptured fugitives were leaving Wash
ingtoo.
A Problem.— South Carolina, says tfo
Kentucky Examiner, has less thaa 20 pci
sons to the square mile and her citizens at
leatnog her genial climate and neb soil b
thousands!
Massachusetts, with n sterile land sad
hard climate, has over 100 to the square nrik
and the value of land in rising in all part* c
it!
lIT We gratefully acknowledge Congre*
aiooal documents from Hon. J. B. Cndding
and Hon. J. G. Palfrey.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A. F. M., lo No. m.
J. W. 8., Nettle (Wk; C. T., IkMtM} 1
fWklirid) G. W. C., Victor—lkftcm).
N. Ik, lam.— rectdinl. Credited I
«#.4T.
John C. ('alhonn.
Great men arc rat always W-* Tb»»*j
I who arc estimated great, as the world
arc often the very reverse of euhn w u*. or
great, or honest. To have great talent* 9
ri no honor, but disgrace, if those talent* art not
u«ai for the promotion of righteous end*,
If, instead of hr-ing employed in the advanee
ment of the world’s welfare-, they arc prosti
tuted to low and selfish purpowa, the men
who possess them, instead of being glorified
thereby, are only rendered the more unworthy
j the greater adepts in Jrlf-seelciug and every
species of meanness. Said an Knglisli Prime
Minister, not many yunrs since, referring to
a notorious mrmlief of the opposition—“ Hea
ven haa bestowed upon him great talent*, hut
the devil has the use of ftflh”
In the recent discussion in the- Senate on
1 Mr. Hale's bill for the protection of property
in the District of Columbia, the Senator from
Sooth Carolina expressed himself as follows:
Sir, I am amaxed that even the Senator
j from New H.tmpelnrc should have so little
regard fur the Constitution of the country, as
.to hung in suc.t a bill as tins, lithe htipnk-
Aiuns of the country an; not,to he respected,
why shot:!! we r~spsct those in others?
I have for so many years raised my voice «>u
‘this subject, that 1 have been consider'd
almost the exclusive defender of this great
institution of the South, w|x»n which not only
Us prosj* riiy, but Us very xistcnce dejiends.”
All this onrtimial talk about regard for
I the Constitution,’’a>upuialw>i>» uf the Con
stitution,” Ac., which is cr-ai- l-\«v?y rung ir»
1 people's ears, what is it but the most abom
inable trash, undiluted nonsense—positively
sickening? What have right and wrong to
•do with Constitutions 1 Tho question to l*r
decided is, whether slavery ought or ought
not to exist. If it be right, it is of very Irttfe
consequence what the Coustuutimi rays about
it: and if it be wrong, all the Constitutions
and stipulations in the universe, cannot fur
one moment throw around it the merest sha
dow of justice. The Constitution sanctions
many crimes, besides slavery but they are
not a whit less criminal, because of that
sanction. If those who founded this Union,
founded it on injustice and rubbery, as they
allege who say that it sanctions slavery, do
not common sense and common honesty, lo
say nothing of any higher motive, teach,
that we should now, at once and forever, tern
aside from following in their footsteps? To
say that wc are bound to maintain the stipula
tions of the Constitution, after those stipula
tions havo lux n shown to !>e both irrational
and unjustifiable, is an absurdity which even
John C. Calhoun, with his perverted seme*
right and wrong, and apparent insensibility to
the difference between justice and injustice„
will not venture to d feud, 110 has be« u
considered almost the exclusive defender oi'
the institutions of the South.” Poor man!
who does not pity him? That ho should
have grown old and grey-headed, without
j having learned the first lesson of morality—
not to appropriate what belongs to another— is
trnly a hard ease! erity,thou great U[ostlc
of slavery rim) injustice, it is hard lor tin o
to kick against the pricks.’ 1
He says further—
Gentlemen, it would seem, h ive at last
come to believe, that the Sunt.' rn people
and Southern members have hric lost all
sensibility on tins subject man who
says, iliftt the tx wple of i! is District have no
riglit to their slaves, and that it is no robbery
lo take their property trout them, is not en
titled to be regarded ns in possession of rea-
Rpu* u are. merely defending our
rights. Suppose that we defend tlmm m
strong language. Have we net a right to do
so? AVe place this question upon high ar.d
exalted grounds.”
\es, it cannot he doubled fi r a moment,
that very many have come to believe, that
Southern people and Southern members
have lost all sensibility on this subjectsome
even are not quite sure, that they ever had
much sensibility: if they had, they would
surely have given some alight indications of
its existence. What can possibly be a ir.oic
conclusive proof of insanity than to sav, that
the people of the District have no right to
Iheir slaves”? Did they not buy them.
Ixxly and Fonl—all their powers of action and
motion—all their powers of thought and voli
'lon their entire life,tod.sp<is<: ~f at pleasure
He is fit only for bedlam, who wopld take, tt
tpon him to say, that the people of the Dia
rict have no right to their slaves! llut if
hese slaves, should, alter all, turn on! to be
it ole n property—John C. Calhoun, what
hen? VV ill you still affirm that any man has
t right to sell or to keep stolen property, after
le has found its owner Perhaps you may
)ut common law, common sense, common
loncsty, and tho unanimous decision of all
uen who are not then.selves robbers and
plunderers, are all against you. Merely
lefending our rights”! The right of one
nan to possess another! Where did you, or
my other barbarian slaveholder, obtain that
■ighi No sanction of earth or bell could
rive you that right; no sanctum of that just
-»od who made all men equal,” would give
pou that right. It is no right at all—cannot
>e; it i» a wrong of the greatest magnitude
—9. crime of the deepest dye—a horrible
niquity, which none but the heart of a fiend
>r a slaveholder could conceive and' perpetrate,
flul the reason of all yOur feverish e*c»to
uent is, that even you begin to fi;ul, that the.
;round whereon you have so lung stood firm
wd immovable, is giving way beneath your
otl. Ii is trembling, trembling! Pray
heaven that it come not down with the »ud
leu and resist tea* fury of an Alpine avalanche,
werwholming you ami all your refuges of
in t fearftd destruction,—jr. o.
The Democratic Review.
The character of a man is known by the
oinpary he keeps; and yet the best of
riccd* will occasionally foil out. The D VlllV
rrattc Review of this month quarrels, in a most
of friendly way with the great alaveholder.
t must have been a fiery trial for that wry
copectaUc personage to find herself under
he neceamty of reproving the great John C.
alhonn. Here i» the manner and measure
if the efaatiaeaießf adininist.-red.
W« mourn over the weakness of human
traaon, when we see a man like Mt. Calhoun,
•f odvanced age, long experience, and tow*
rrtng intellect, give huusell up. in the face oi
ita country and the world, to all the cUiWv-h
*Yorate* erf unbridled, passion. It is just this
itfuct of hit) character that has destroyed hi*
auwsr; which ha* made hnn utter nr ieesWe to
!ria country, an injury to his party, and uw?-
«oa to hio age. How wit possible to rrtpec 1
i man who targets hniuclf aud the body i><>
ihnuld adorn, by cooduet and words w<;
inly iu a muuic ur *i cumin* »n uli***" 1
The question uf slavery U the on wh.i i-
\j r r-ilhom has constantly split, instead ol
M y a« w IUI a statesman of any Address Ol
r T.'tmouam it would have been. itopping
to tilt* holiest fame and the loftiest pro
f nnwit
l„ no this t bctutiful Mmple of maternal
correction The good Ia. 1) mourn* thai
h H under the pamful noccoaity of usingthc
„j Prithee, take comfort, good dame! In
u v be the better for »t, and possibly, if h«
ii<H forget himself. will beware in futun
himself up to the childish excesse:
unbridled passion.”
But 1< at this darling boy shook! fed him
!f too much aggrieved by this wholesonv
,a.<> ;n nt, the good U4j take* to wluppinj
v ii hcaity poor! will, whether to any pur
or not, some others, over whom, by th<
by. she can scarcely lay claim to any mater
n u authority—thus
t
“In spite of the incendiary and basely
s !fi-h strivings of the hypocritical alxilition
i-t> <*t the free North,” wb a.*»ert, and oui
i.vc* and honor on it. that slavery in
■''••nth will never break up our glorious 1 nion
will never scatter the Mars of our “thrice
icnowned” banner will never prostrate tin
hopes of huttc.uttv which are all conceit
trated in our sure. No—because tie
intelligence ol oi.r ciihghlenod j*eojdc, norti
and south. ea.M aiwi wc.-i. l- adequate to sett I*
■without di.Mii.i *a any dulbrouces of opinion oi
any clashing utiment, which may at ant
t;ii*e /ceur Ihlwi*h I hern, and that vviihou
the a..! of th. eou!“*els of that iniscnt
hie f tel ton of fool* and fanatics headed by
Mcmw. Hale, biddings, and pang*’
tViurape, good lady! This is pretty wrlj
f.ir a readable matron of your years.
*1 ‘.f r« is Mill some vigor in that arm Hv*
jorritical alsditi itsists!’’ Is not that a pretty
.rd blow? •Hale and (.lidding*, our lives
nd honor on it," winced under that stroke.
Free North,” thrice renowned banner,’'
hopes of humanity,"—this has more the
appearance of braggadocio and flourish, than
anything else. The guilty one*, r.t each ol
of tins.! strokes, may be suppo* d to havi
boon more frightened than hurt. They pro
habiy heard the cane whizzing about thoii
ear*, and were rather glad to find that it did
descend further. “Odious conns ds,” im
se/able faction,” fools and fanatics Great
dove, look mil an old woman has stolen
yourlbund r!
J!.:t this is not all the old lady propounds
further—
Tiie slave property of the South is pro
perly s ’cured under the guarantee* of the
f 'o:iMitnUon, and though we shall ever yearn,
v.jiL the emiciirrenec of ihe South, to get rid
t tliu cur. 4 legacy of Knglixh cruelty and
ivarioe. y*-t w should no more think of
n:g or itiva.l.ng it. than committing highway
v ih ry. We know there is a way of gra
dually eJceiing a solution of. this difficulty
and wk are tt jually .-lire, that the South wil
J-»daiis v. 5 in it. Jkr.it this i* not the place
oor is the time yet coins for the statctn; <tf
j impositions lliat will put an end f'.«t ever t<
flic Presidential hopes of llalc, (biddings, am
gang.”
N\ Jim Constitution can “properly scour
flivc property No; thank Heaven! n
oiistitulion—no power of old parchments
{•rofiucjv called sacred. can perpetuate tlii
wrung. The South fee!., this now, and wil
fed it more forcibly ere Jung. I.ike the tic
•n the fiblc, which licked the bloody file, lh(
South li 'n ns. t k i'g up her own life, as i.
shown by the >rv limited progress, and it
s a cas tlie depopulation of her States.
No, you w oul i not invade this cursed legacy
•if English cruelly and avarice;"’ i.o on
ver suspects you capable of anything half sc
humane or praiseworthy. Instead of invad
ing, you will rather protect it. Fnglisl
cruelty and avarice left a legacy of noi
cp.ite nlaves American “cruelty am
avarice’* have made it 3,000,000. “Wei
done, thou good and faithful usurer! A'criJy
no further proof than this one fact is watiux
to show the disinclination of the Deinoeratic
Review ami otlu r Northern ttl.-etlors o
slavery, to disturb or invade the curset
legacy of English cruelty and avarice.*’ Hu
the old lady becomes oracular. This is no
the place, nor is the time yet come.” l’ray
where w the place, and when is the time
that will produce your way of effecting th<
solution of this difficulty 1 Is there no
reason to fear that the place is not in till
lower world, and that th. Democratic Revicv
ind the South, i.i t!i fain ss of their uisJon
ami prudence, have deferred the time till afte
the Gfeck Calends 7 If so, the Presi
tleniial tiopes of Hale, (biddings, and gang,’
if they ever entertained any such, may not b
utterly blasted after all. —j. n.
The New York Herald,
If there is any one thing utterly dotestei
and abhorred by all well regulated and pro
j>erly constructed minds, it is to hear a mat
devoid of all sense of moral obligation am
religious sentiment, speak upon moral am
religious subjects. Not that it is of any con
sequence what expression of low blackguard
ism or unfeeling ruffianism lie may utter; bu
that a chill of horror, similar to that whicl
one may be suppos 'd to feel when acciden
tally placed in rather close proximity to
rattlesnake, and hears, for the first time, it:
angry rattle sounding in his cars, is the result
The two are so incongruous—morality am
vice—religion and the utter disregard of (Jo*
and man; all that is pure, holy sublime, am
all that is dark, vicious, vile benignant ]ovi
and scowling sin Oh, the contrast is tin
hideous; we torn from it with Poolings o
horror, loathing, and disgust.
The New York Herald of the 13th inst
has an article under the heading of Th<
Moral and Religious Anniversaries in New
ork.” From that article the following ex
tnu tis taken. It is perhaps not the mus
abominable or profane portion of the article
hut it i> that in which readers of the Noun
i A 1: dl be more particularly interested.
var now in the midst of the moral am
religious aiimvi rsaries of New York.
i esU-rd.iv then* was a celebration given in thi
shajH- <it a public breakfast, at the Colisuum
at which all colors and all shades of colors
met together on the common ground of liber
ty, equality, and fraternity. There the;
were to lb iw-yn, eating and dunking, talking
and laughing, rollnckiog and enjoying them
selves at the same board, on the same lootm;
of equality—men and women—Mack, whiti
mixed, yellow, and all sorts, xjh-. ung tin
good time that la coming.” Oh J oh
Headers will pardon this one infliction
The columns of the North .Star are not oftei
disgraced by the hideous trash that is issue!
from the office of the New. York Herald
The feelings ol* this writer, of whoso effusion;
this is a too favorable sample, must be any
thing but euviable, ills face may be whilei
than ivory but his heart'—is the blacknesi
of lie 11 |txlf to be compared with it j. o.
Johtt f. r»Hnw, tie Pwßfnitfc Review
atd (ke New York IlenU.
These tiwre mt very aptly 1* wsiflerad
types ot three different chew* sf American
churns, who are aJI mliM*d in ftuppsrt el
slavery. John C. Calhoun, tJw *Utn*d» and
unflinching guardian angel of Southern insti
tution*, represent* the slaveholditig interest.
The Democratic Review, coUl-hearted and
respectable, repressots with to’ctaWe accur
acy, the w numcat* of that portioo of the
profcsffo.lj reltgwss public who take Dr.
Cox, rt (*iwn, for leaflets and the
New York Herald w a very fit and proper
exponent of the sentiments of Northern
rowdyism and roflSaotsro, 11 Good men and
true are they all on the side of robbery and
wrong. Tbcir character manifest* Itself in
different way*; but it w the eime in reality.
Jotm C. Calhoun i* not at heart a whit worse
man (though, by his position he is a degree
mor* criminal.) than the. followers of Dr. Co*
and others like him; and the rights and
liberties of mm, especially of men who be
long to a despised and oppressed race, would
be quite as safe in the keeping of the New
York Herald clase, a* in that of cither of the
oUkjw. We look in vain to cither of these
cla-vcs for the rexpression of one noble, man
rxpandmg sentiment. b rom John C. 'Cal
houn, w hose course is by far the most manly
and straightforward, we have blunt assertion*
of the Heaven-ordained right of slavery.
From the Democratic Review class #re have
—not an open avowal of real sentiment, but
sneaking covert supjiort of Southern insti
tutions with now and then an attempt to
extract from the Bible an apology for, if not
a direct sanction of slavery a most effectual
way, if they succeed in making good their
attempt, of bringing that book which they
call holv and infallible, but would prove to be
most v lie, into utter contempt and disgrace.
This is not the time,” the Constitution
the slaves are happy and contented,”
white slaves in Europe not half so well
ofT,” Ac., &c., is the constantly reiterated
mode of their expression of pro-slavery sen
timent. The New York Herald class again,
though no one who lias any regard for de
cency, troubles himself about their opinion,
cover over the entire subjects of slavery,
ulxi’itionism, rights of man—as they do all
other subjects of any noble import—with a
filthy coating of slang and obscenity. Each
class, in its way, answers its end. The
whole science of making and keeping slaves
is finished and complete in those three. No
doubt they find each other's company most
agreeable, as did Macbeth’s w itches, in their
deeds of wickedness—•
When *li;dl hc three meet a?:ihi 7 .”—J. D.
tlommimuatums.
M hi" County Convention.
The County Convention met at the Court
House :u 10 o'clock A. M., last Satuiday, to
nominate a delegate to the National Conven
tion, to Ik* held in June, to settle the import
ant question, now involved in uncertainty, who
tho faithful may vote for to be the next Presi
dent. It is well known that a number of per
sons are talked about as probable nominees,
distinguished for sluwholding, fighting, or
some other high qualification, which endears
them to the free Christian people of our fa
vored land.
1 went to the Court House just before
noon, and found it filled with delegates and
spectators. Croups of men were talking iu
low, earnest voices, in various parts of the
room, and the names of Clay, Scott and Tay
lor could occasionally be heard while such
words as the party,” expedient,* avail
able,” and kindred phrases, fell new and then
upon the ear.
A committee was chosen to draft resolu
tions, and a motion made to adjourn until two
o'clock. The members from the country
wore many of them opposed to adjournment,
wishing to finish their business and return to
their homes before night. The city members,
and a portion from the country, moved there
to, it may he, by thoughts f got.d dinners
and cozy chats over the desert, were for the
adjournment. At length a member proposed
a compromise. This is a magic word with
good Whigs, for the embodiment” is skilful
iu such matters. It was, that the Convention
adjourn until half past one. It was carried
after some little discussion but like more
famous compromises that might be named, did
but little good to those who fancied them
selves the gainers. Those who had good
dinners in waiting at home, went and ate them
leisurely, (to promote digestion,) and deem
ing it perhaps injurious to exercise too active
ly alter the noon-day meal, returned to the
Court Jlonse so tardily that nothing was done
before two o'clock, and of course the poor
countrymen wended their way home to the
distant parts of the county in daikness and
discomfort. However it was for the public
good. Politicians are used to being taken
in by compromises in other w ays as well as in
this matter of dinners they take it quietly
from habit, as one of the necessary ills of the
craft.
In the afternoon, an informal ballot was cast
for a delegate*—Just a sort of teeJur to know
who was and was not wanted, so that the
most available one could be united upon. No I
one had a majority, but the largest vote was
given for Jerome Fuller, of Sweden. Then
came a real balloting to decide the question, 1
and Hon. Jerome Fuller received nearly two-
thirds of the votes. He was then voted i
unanimously to be the choice of the Conven- j
turn, and called upon to give bis views as to j
the question who shall be President. He was 1
greeted with cheers, and said that in a few i
words he could speak his ferlii g*.
He was first of all for Henry Clay.
(Cheer* loud and related wem giv«l fcr
tbi*.) Ho believed Gen. Scott to be an
honor to the country-; (he didn't say why—
perhaps because he has been eommander-in
chief of the army in Mexico, to wage a war
which brother \V|ngs have repeatedly de»j
dared to be unjust and unconstitutional; per-
haps because Scott has said that a soldier who
has a conscience of h s own must he a little
beside himself, and he thought the sanei
should apply to peruzana, and the Gen-!
oral, if in .the White-House, would see that i
no such troublesome commodity as a eon-1
scicneo w as about the premises)—and that if i
Mr. Clay was not nominated, as he trusted!
and believed he would Ik*, lie was icady to!
«jpj»ort Gen. fjeott, if he was deemed avail- j
able. Something wxs «id, too, about any j
other man of wjuislie whaeii I
did not clesriy understand. The remarks
about Gen. Scott were applauded, md. be
wem a* to say that usdar so awti-tturea
whatever should be tote for Gee. Taylor.—
Thu was responded to by enthusiastic cbaers,
and for a moment I hoped and thought that
the opposition to Taylor had something to do
in be wtiml w ith the deeds of the hireling
murderer. Perhaps it had, but sot much I
fear, for not a word said of them. The
only reason be gere for his detemuoatiou
w as,-that Gee. Taylor was willing to be nom
inated by the National Convention, but if not
nominated, would run independently end In
opposition to the regular nominee Thai
was the bead ar.d front of bis ofleodtng; and
nothing appeared to show that if “Old
Zark” was willing to work in the traces and
would run well, be would receive the support
oY the Whigs of Munroe county—and why
should be not
He says he is opposed to the Mexican war.
So does Mr. Clay. He fights is it: Mr. Clay
doc? not, for it is not his profession but his
sou has, with his approbation. He has ex- j
pressed the wish that he might slay aMex- j
icaa, if need be, in his country’s service, 1
and made a speech against the war, when it
was like shutting the stable-door after the
steed was stolen. Gen. Taylor is a slave-,
holder; so is Henry Clay. Gen. Taylor is a
man of less intellect, not veined in the craft
of the politician, not skilled in specious com
promising. But why compare them? Both
are bad men both enemies to liberty and
right.
Three cheers were given for the speech.
It was in manner commendable; there was
an air of openness about the speaker, a some-
thing which made one see that he had rich j
gifts, and grieve tliat they w ere devoted to so
unsuitable an object as the honoring a man
stealer.
Five cheers, loud, long and hearty, were
given for Henry Clay, and the Convention
soon after adjourned, in the best humor ap
parently. Men worthy in the relations of
lifs, goou neighbors, kind fathers and hus
bands, felt happy that their suppoit was
pledged to a slaveholder
G. B. S.
Remember those in Bonds, as bound
with them.”
At this late day, we are asked, What
shall we do?”—“ How shall wc get rid of
the system “We see it is an evil, and a
great one but it has existed for two hundred
years. Now how can we get rid of it?”
Tell us that. Evils are more easily described
and condemned than removed. Alas! so
they are As the disease that has been per
mitted to grow day after day, until it pervades
I the whole system, at once is seen the be-
I clouded eye and dim, out of which looks the
restless and chafed spirit; wildly inflamed
'extremities, hectic ar.d blotched surface, or
1 cadaverous, tell us that within is sickness.—
J
i The fair and beautiful body that was, is at
tacked Nature makes an effort to cast out
the disease, gathering up all its energies.—
From the vitals, outward, it drives. The
shock shakes the system. Alas! if that
effort fails, back again is driven life to the
vitals, weakened by that struggle. Disease
rushes forward again for fresh conquests,
spreading havoc as it advances. Unless it is
driven out, death is inevitable. Victory or
death” in this extremity. Help now from
any quarter is welcome. Who will wait un
til reduced to this strait And so of the
nation. With (as men say) half an eve, how
plain to sec this nation is diseased from the
vitals outward, through to the extremities.
The Constitution is mortally affected and in
fected. A terrible biliiousness is in the
blood. No wonder; for ever since it was a
child, now these two centuries, bom amid
revolution, in vigor and of vigorous parents,
'it disdained the ordinary food of a nation's
childhood, and inherited a lust for human
flesh. To appease it, flesh was given and
now, to feed, to satiate the bloody appetite
and unholy, not only is one continent well
1 nigh depopulated, hunted from one side to
the other to procure the flesh of the negro
j man, so savory to its horrible taste, but pre-
miums are offered for raising victims at home.
Wise and honorable men” have en-
gaged, are engaged, in this breeding of
victims, and to improve the quality, they mix
in their best blood
Oh, ye shades of Jefferson and Madison
(Jan ye look back from your now places, and
see your flesh and blood sold iu the shambles?
For more than two hundred years, upon
such has it fed. Heavens Who can cal
culate the millions on millions of men, women
and children, that have been destroyed to
say-nothing of the hearts with their hopes
and joys, that have been blasted, —the world
of living souls that have been extinguished,
and driven hack to Him who put them here
into being, in Ilia purpose of his omniscience.
Through those two hundred years, what'a
fearful accumulation of guilt! There
is a day of reckoning coming, when the
wrongs of those millions, before the Eternal 1
Judge, who will render unto men according
to their deeds, in the presence of the nations,
shall be redressed It is a thouglit worthy
to engage the attention of all men.
Three millions of victims, men women and
children, arc bound, held iu chains, by this
nation, looking forward only to be ground up,
devoured What is life to them Here on
this side of time, they know no hope. Be
yond, their thoughts are of clouds and chaos.!
Eat, drink, and be merry, (if ye can,) to- i
morrow ye die.” So, an beasts, they live! i
together, chattering and sighing, clanking i
their chains and singing. Alas! what a i
sight for angels to look upon and good men! i
Yet there arc human beings that do look upon
it and say 6uch are contented and happy”—
u hich is a sight scarcely less deplorable. To j
stand looking at slaves, singing and laughing 11
loud aa they can for the weight sf then j
chains, and calling them happy Whata j
thing it is for men when they say tbs laugh- i
ing and singing idiot, or the broken-minded
and raving maniac is happy! when the 1
beautiful spirit of man, dwelling in j
its temple, the whole as an instrument, made
and attuned by the Creator, capable of the j
highest harmony, is before us, unstrung and i
broken by the band of man, or alas sound-,
ing wildly and discordantly, and men call it I
ojtmie of tbs happy What a state a£»t
heart it iafcitm in those to wboor it is 1 i
sir* What darkness ©f rand i
Does net the whole betvg ef man yearn ir-
\mm of destiny mi nttsrty embed to Um
aoaJ, from ia depths cooes the response
Yes, yen! to he few!
Mu cannot bee, wok, lore sad voaluj
trsly, oahm, as the Creator made him, he a
free. The trie steal hare its orifait, the haadi
their pcopar work, the heart Meat find iti
affinities, the son] seeks h* eestie—God
Give these way, pot before them so bin
draoce*. Life, time, are real aad a peal
place. Freedom, work, lore and worship,
aake it beautiful; hiadraaces make it stenle;
chains aad bondage a dungeon, foul and
PMtdeai,” and turn those living them mtc
idiots and maniocs, though they wag, tough,
and eoper, sever so wildly. To one standing
free m the tmth, opes the outside, and look
ing in opon them through the grates, as thei
chatter and caper in manacles, it is a sad
spectacle. The head or heart that can de
fend extenuate, or remain indifferent to it,
envy not. Contented and happy,’ implies
tliat the vision of his spirit is abut up in
darkness, his high upward tendencies aw
crusljed, and the tux is sunk so low that b(
is as the brute that perisheth. It implies thai
habitual intercourse with slavery, and its
peculiarities, has not been a whit less
destructive fo the soul of the master
than to the slaves, whose intellects anc
souls are darkened, deadened, cannot appre
ciate their power, beauty and worth in others
To see ouly a brute chattel, and no intellect
capable of large discourse; not to feel ih<
presence of a spirit immortal, argues tha
thine own heart is asphvxied, thy wits an
demented. Slavery hath done this, as nc
other system of wrong could. Here is a fact
a volume of argument in itself, such as, ir
respect to its dreadfulncss, I never expect t<
hear again. Slavery destroys body, mint
and soul of master and slave. Is there any
thing more horrible in the drcadfulest con
ccption of hell
Can men look upon this, and ask.
What shall we do What shall we do
Anything, all things, if ye will—duty. Gei
your eyes open, for now they are closed up
Go do the first thing that has a glimmering o
duty, if perchance ye may see aught. Thei
thank God that you are not entirely giver
over, blind, deaf, hard-hearted that duty it
apparent to you that you are not thrice dead
plucked up, and rutting in the sun shining
over you.
Do it, not for the slave's sake, but foi
your own.
Look at the noble and wise men, women
ay, wad children, who have acted, are acting
for the slave’s sake. They have known, am
do know, the benefits for their own sake. Th<
blessings of those who were ready to peris!
have fallen upon, and been to them a hiddei
source of ever new life. The world aroum
marvels at the power and beauty of thei
lives, but they know the cause. It is withii
them an active principle, developed by a lift
of devotion to a truth, a holy instinct. Wha
shall we do? “Go and do likewise.
Remember those in bonds, as bound wit!
them.”
JEREMIAH.
Congressional Discussions on Slavery.
The late discussions on the escape an<
re-capture of the slaves in Washington, th<
mob and matters connected therewith, ar
peculiarly rich. Mr. Bayly, of Virginia
one of the chivalry,” to judge by his man
ner, has worked himself up into a terribh
agitation. He lias made the discovery tha
England is setting all this abolition stoni
brewing, to dissolve the Union, make th<
South a waste, and all that! England hai
abolished chattel slavery in her own domin
ions thus, according to the astute reasoning
of the wise Virginian, inflicting a curse upot
herself. She now, on the principle thai
misery loves company, wants to make u<
abolish slavery too, and thus destroy all oui
prosperity, make the South a desert, and re
duce Mississippi, Virginia and other States
that might be mentioned, to the same deplora
ble state of destitution which now mark the
British Island!
*Tis conscience doth make cowards oT ffs
all,” said the great Shakespeare. Mr. Bay
ly knows slavery ought to be doomed. He
knows the Union w hich supports it ought to
be dissolved. He fears—“ The thief doth fear
each bush an officer”—and this slaveholder
sees in the warm sympathies of English re
formers with the abolitionists of this country,
an organized effort to dissolve the Union
Northern men, too, spoke out boldly. Mr.
Root, of Ohio, made keen thrusts at
the institution,” in his humorous speech.—
Joshua R. Giddings talked boldly called
things by their right names; said that the
mob was encouraged by members of the
House; that while they were expressing sym
pathy for France, they were in the District
maintaining a slave-market more shocking
than any to be found withii* the jurisdiction of
the Grand Sultan reminded Southern men
that it was too late to attempt to seal his lips
ind the Kps of Northern members; that they
:ould not bring the practice of the plantation
to that place.
It is cheering to bear now and then of a
sold word, and of laic they seem to multiply,
biddings, Palfrey, Askroun, and others, in the
House, and John P. Hale, in the Senate,have
alked in an unwonted strain for their high
daces in wickedness. They are all cramped
jj the Constitution. When their feehngt
varm op, and earnest words gush np from
he heart, its compromise* present a barrier
o their noble zeal, saying to all opposition
hey can raise to slavery, Thus for shalt
hou come, aod no farther.” Bat why do
lot others come out as strongly as they do?
fhere are some twenty or thirty from New
fork, a proportionate Bomber from other
j tales; but they are silent, supine, with bat
em exception*. They ought to know ibj
lavery is ike qwtjfam, before which all minor
hingj, like Banks, Tariffs and Sub-Treasn
ies, are being swallowed up like the rods of
he Egyptian Magicians by the rod of Aaron,
fee, and they should know, too, that they
re behind the people. I don’t thiak very
ligldy uf tha virtue or imnlinrss of the
eopie on this question but I firmly behove
bat if thawepenertitivea to Congress wowto
mm oM aa a few haws dose, use then back
«aet a hole to keep themselves firmly erect,
ad talk openly, baldly, they would be warmly
ostmned by their coosritaeats at home. The
aiMtovery footing to growing through the
forth Cuter than po&tkuzs arc aware, a mA
kji. Ucar, b ud pn.tr.-k-, n
r ootiuag 9am, who, wufciajr speak the aen
p «aw»i *e p*»pk, fe dumb oa Uu» «lt
t ahsnrhiaf topic.
lM them be 9pm, maintain the right, W
f ina, and the quarto* wtfl ho constantly he
-1 fore both Howes for once, aa it now it, hire
Banquo’s ghost, ’twill down at no man’s bid
ding. Disrusswo will uoiy show more and
more the wickedness of the system, the
weakness of the South, the miserable position
1 of the North. The people will kwm them
Man ta more than Conautntiooathe sen
umeat will find as aHr ranee oa the door of
I Congress, he talked of, agitated, and then
the doom of slavery h soaled. Uahm or no
r Union, it must hare no support from the
I North.
■j G. B. S.

I Godly Slaveholders.
If God is really what the apologists of aU-
I I very make him oat to be, Shelly was not fat
l out of the way when he said:—
1 j “Hr name of God,
j Hu fenced about all Crimea with hulincM
Still !*orr in*s o’er the wsr-pulluted wurU
M Fur dcdukrttoa’s watrh-wrard;
1 I was forcibly reminded of this a few days
5 since when, in conversing with a deacon of the
Baptist church in this city, be made use of the
I following language There are as many
godly slaveholders, as there are that do not
bold slaves; and there are more abolitionists
that are infidels, than any thing eke.” Lest
3 I should forget, I took a memorandum qf the
t; words of this godly man” immediately, that
3 I might not misquote them*. If this deacon
correctly states the case, who would not choose
to be infidel, rather than to be identifiers with the
I godly oppressors I would entei into no de
y I fence of infidelity, fur the term is a vague in
definite one, and applies to so many classes
‘j of individuals and actions, that we should not
know which to begin at. I wish now to take
the words of this deacon for and see
II what a position it leaves his religion in. Re
j member that it is not an abolitionist that has
1 placed Christianity in this position, but one of
I Christianity's defenders— an officer in an influ*
H ential church—a northern church. 44 Slave*
I holders are golly men!” Well, then God
I I sanctions the greatest iniquity the snn ever
s j shone upon the sum of all villainies,” aa
another Christian has pronounced it. But let
us specify. 44 A!1 men are born free,” conse
quently if one is made a slave, it is an act ol
r piracy or kidnapping, or both then the dea
con's God is a kidnapper and a pirate, or such
things could not be 41 godly.” Bigamy is a
oommon thing among slaves, not only sanc
tioned but enforced by their 44 godly” masters
3 —this the deacon’s God must sanction; for
1 1 without it the system could not exist. Adul
-1 tery is common among slaves, for both
master and servant. From it the slaveholders
r not only gratiy themselves, but make it a
*j source of revenue for themselves. Large
3 sums of money are received not only from the
1 hire of prostitutes, but fiorn the very children
of the masters who have shrewdly made laws
1 for the children to follow the condition of the
mother, knowing that if they followed thQ.cou
dition of the father, gradual emancipation
would have been far advanced before this late
day. This part the deacon’s God must sano
i tion, for it is one of the safeguards of the
3 godly” institution. Then what the deacor
thinks can be called godly, are piracy ant
kidnapping, bigamy and adultery, to say noth
ing of the various other 44 godly” crimes ne
-3 cessary for the preservation of the system.—
1 These arc the beauties of a religion which ht
1 presents for me to become converted to and bt
3 saved from damnation by. Nor does he stof
here. Infidels oppose all these things, he
says, yet the infidels will be damned for theii
upbolief. Now, here is an aged deacon.
1 whose head has grown grey in the service oj
I the chinch, making these statements to one
whom he wishes to get religion! Who with one
spark of humanity would not spurn the offers
f of salvation thus held out at the expense of hu-
I I inanity 1 Who would not say to himj—
-41 We prefer Hell’s freedom
To Much servitude in Heaven’!”
Really and seriously, how many converts
would the church at thi3 day obtain if she had
many as honest deacons as this, and they
would take the trouble to see the import of
his language! Further the deacon said
j o o
j 44 there is tills Garrison, and this d:\rky that
lectured here, are as great iufidcls as ever
lived.” The only answer I gave to this,
was in the following conversation between us:
“Are you acquainted with Garrison!” “No.”
“Did you ever hear him speak!” 44 No.”
44 Did you ever read any of his writings!”—
“No.” 44 What do you know about him!”
44 O! I’ve heard about him.” 44 Do you call
any believer in the Bible an infidel?” “Yes.”
Did you hear Douglass when be was here?”
“No I would not go.” 44 Did you ever hear
him No.” Did you ever read any of
his writings “No.” 44 What do know
about him?” O! I hear what every body
says!” This a deacon, who lives in sight of
our great Theological Seminary and has had
as good a chance as others to receive all the
influence fur good, which has emanated from
it for many years. I again aak lf this is
Christianity, and infidelity the reverse, who
would not be infidel E. W. C.
Araca s, April 30ih, 1348.
Slaveby Debate—A Fact axd a Pbedic-
Tios.—Among other curious things said, in
the recent Debate oa Slavery in the Senate,'
Mr. Butler of Sooth Carolina i» reported to
have said:—
44 1 fed that the sentiment of the North
against the institution of slavery is advancing
with the certainty of the malaria from (he
Pontine marsh"* —with the certainty of all
progressive movements, and there is no dis
guising it.
I make the prediction that should any
part of Mexico come mto the acquisition of
this Uoioa, there will be provisioca introduced
to prohibit alavery.”
S latest— Perpetual unpaid tod; no mar
riage, no husband an wife an parent, no
child; ignorance, frvntiouanrea whips,
chains, seaarges, auction safes sad aepsrs
baas an embodiment sf si) tbs woos that the
BT Fourteen young ladies, from Massachusetts
aeWt, are now in this cay, on their way west,
as teachers, under the auspices of the Ameri
can Society for the promotion of Popular
Education. They are bound. Principally, for
Indiana and Illinois — Buffalo Herald
From the- London Morning Advertiser.
AMERICAN SLAVERY.
We have observed of late, w ith feel
ings of deep regret, a variety of indica
tions, not to be mistaken, that we are
about to witness, in different parts ol
the world, a revival of that iniquitous
and revolting traffic iu human beings,
which we had hoped had been, so far as
this country is concerned, abolished
for ever. On the appearance of Lord
Grey’s letter some time ago, respecting
the importation of Africans into the
West Indies, as one of the means for
relieving” the planters from their
present difficulties, we unsparingly ex
posed the real character of the mea
sure, and proved, with conclusiveness
of demonstration, that, by whatever
name it might be called, it would be
but slavery after all. If the rose by any
other name would smell as sweet, the
draught of slavery, under whatever
name it is administered, will taste as
bitter. We saw with sorrow*, the
silence which our liberal cotemporarics
preserved in reference to that import
ant communication from the Colonial
Office, which virtually sanctioned a re
vival of the slave trade. We much fear
that the indifference to the great object
of slavery which this fact betrays, so
far as the press is concerned, is equally
shared by a large proportion of the pul>-
lic. Would that we could stop even
here. But we cannot. Truth com
pells us to add that the feeling of indif
ference on the question of slavery, of
which wc complain, has infected a very
large proportion even of the religious
public. On wliat other ground can we
account for the silence which every
where prevails with respect to the still
unredressed wrongs of the colored race
in various parts of the world? Judg
ing from the absence of all allusion to
the subject of slavery in our public jour
nals, at our religious meetings, in our
Christian pulpits, and in private society,
one would be led to suppose that there
was no longer such a being as a slave
on the face of the earth.
This is not such a state of things as
ought to exist. It is an unnatural, an
unfeeling, and an un-Christian state of
things, when wc all know that slavery
is as rampant on the other side of the
Atlantic as it ever was. In some re
spects, indeed, it is even more rampant.
And what is the most painful and most
fearful fact of alt, is the sanction given
to slavery, not only by the American
lay members of Christian Churches,
but even by the ministers of the Gospel.
A minister of the Gospel an abettor of
slavery! The idea is so dreadful, that
did not the ghastly fact stare us in the
face, we would not credit its existence.
The world contains no instance of an
anomaly half so great, it is an enormous
inconsistency—the very culmination of
incompatibility.
We almost shudder while we write
it, but we must not shrink from the ex
pression of our deep-rooted conviction,
that, but for the aid afforded to Ameri
can slavery by its ministers of the Goo
pci, the accursed institution” wmU
long since hare ceased to exist. They
have been its great supporters—lb*
main pillars on which tbe hideous edi
fiee rests. The/ are not mere nepathn
upholders of the system: they do not
simply remain passive spectators of its
existence and operation, but are roost
active and energetic abettors. Many
l of their number denounce the abolitioo
ists, and their conduct, arith vehemence
and heartiness with which they have
i aever denounced Satan and his doings,
i They are incomparably more earnest
snd eloquent in the advocacy of the
[“Social Institution,”as they call »t
t wlmt a name!—than they are in enforc
ing the great truths which constitute the
glory ot' the Gospel, and which make
men wise unto salvation.
Nor can we except any of the evan
gelical sects from this most terrible con
-1 demnation. Episcopalians, Baptists,
Independents, Presbyterians, Wesley
an Methodists, are all equally gui Uy ol
friendship for slavery and hostility tc
the unhappy slave. Not lang ago, a
Baptist minister in the State ot irginia
actually snatched up his gun, and shot a
poor slave who was trying to make his
escape! Was this minister of the Gos
pel—(awful thought, that such a man
should appear in so sacred a character!)
disowned and shunned by his ministeri
al brethren of his own or any other
!Christian denomination? Nothing ol
the kind. So far from it, he was, we
doubt net, regarded by many of their
number as a hero of the first magnitude.
A recent and striking illustration ol
the relentless hostility of the American
clergy to the emancipation of the slaves,
has just been brought under our notice.
It appears in a communication from
New Tork, which is published in the
Manchester Times.** “On the 30th
of September,” says the communication
referred to, a colored man being at
Ripley, Ohio, undertook to get posses
sion of his wife, who was held as a
slave by a Presbyterian minister in
Kentucky. This holy man of God
missing his human property on the Sab
bath morning, and being prevented, by
pulpit engagements, from going in pur
suit employed a neighbor on
this Sabbath service. While he gave
himself to the ministry of the word and
prayer, the agent, acting under the di
rection and authority of the minister,
undertook to wrest the man’s wife from
him by force of arms, and, in the ex
change of pistol shots, was wounded, I
believe, mortally; thus failing in the
object of his mission, and falling a mar
tyr to the cause of slavery, in the ser
vice of the Church.”
\V r e make no comment on the facts
here recorded. They need none; they
speak much more forcibly in their una
dorned simplicity than would any lan
guage which we could employ.
We have another equally recent ex
ample of the active and earnest support
which slavery, with all its revolting
enormities, receives in the United
States, from persons calling themselves
ministers of the Gospel, and whom wc,
for courtesy’s sake, must, wc suppose,
call by the same name. A Mr. Ar
nold,” says the communication from
which we have already quoted, “was
lately expelled from Columbia College,
Washington City, for the crime of giv
ing a small sum of money to a man who
was held a slave by the steward of the
College, in order to enable him to sue
lor bis freedom. Mr. Arnold applied
to the faculty of the Baptist College, at
Watterville, Maine, forwarding a full
account of the whole affair, together
with a letter from President Brown,
stating that the affair of the slave was
the only offence charged, and for which
he was expelled. To his surprise, he
received a letter from President Shel
don, intimating that the faculty of Wat
terville considered themselves bound to
refuse his application.”
Who, that reads this statement can
refrain from crying “Shame, shame!”
Such facts as these are so monstrous—
so utterly astoundi g, that were they
not attested in such a manner as to
compel our belief, they could not be
credited. And yet ministers of the
Gospel in England can carry on a friend
ly correspondence with these clerical
ministers in the United States—ay, and
can, too, receive the ‘D. D.’s’ and
other honorary degrees of their colleges
with abject expressions of gratitude!—
Have those of our English Doctors of
Divinity, who have received their de
gree from the Southern States of Ame
rica, never fancied that they saw in the
liquid with which the communication
was written, the blood of the slaves, in
stead of the ink usually employed in
writiug? If our English ministers of]
the Gospel had the spirit of men, to say
nothing of devoted Christian feeling, j
they would regard these blood-stained
American degrees as an insult, instead 1
of an honor, and would throw them 1
back with scorn and indignation in the
faces of those who sent them thither.
MICROSCOPIC WOKUORS.
Upon examining the edge of a very!
sharp lancet with a inicroscype, it will
appear as broad as the back of a knife;I
rough, uneven, full of notches and fur-1
rows. An exceedingly small needle
resomhles a rough bar of iron.
But the sting of a bee seen through
the same instauinent, exhibits every
where the most beautiful polish, with-;
out the least daw, blemish, or inequali-j
ty and it ends in a point too fine to be;
discerned. The threads of a fine lawn i
seem coarser than the yarn with which
ropes are made for anchors. But a
silkworm's web appears perfectly
smooth and shining and everywhere j
equal. The smallest dot that can be
made with a pen, appears irregular
and uneven bat tbe little specks on the
wings or bodies of insects, are found to
be most accurately circular. The;
finest miniature painting appears before j
the microscope ragged and uneven,
entirely void of beauty, either in the
drawing or coloring. The most even
and beautiful varnishes will be found to
be mere roughnes. But the nearer 1
we examine the works of God, even in
the least productions, the more sensible!
shall we be of his wisdom and power. I
In the numberless species of insects,
what proportion, exactness, uniformity
and aymetry do we perceive in all the
organs! what profusion of coloring!
Azure, green, and vermilion, gold,
silver, pearls, rabies and diamonds,
fringe and embroider their bodies,!
wings and every part
t umm iMFWffry m
f VEILED.
It u wf tbing to be tie pwtwt
Mjr Hoe—and vita infamy baa bad ite
be root. That Alexander Dumas—we
i beg bis pnnkm, Aknadrc Davy, Mar
quis de la Pailkterie—is the greatest
literary impostor of oar day, there wall
be m doubt remaining, if half the
1 statements be true which this extraor
dinary publication discloses. To the
many titles to notoriety wbicb the dash
-1 ing novelist possesses it adds another.
Covered as bis breast is with orders
and ribbons—so that at the head of
i bis corps of. National Guard he blazed
like some marshal of the empire—it
affixes one distinction more—the Cross
of the Legion of Impudence. Alexan
der tbe Great will live in literary
•j annals—not by his works, but by their
1 history. If his volumes be not found
-1 weighing down the shelves of another
*j generation, his name will be met with
1 in bibliographical catalogues. I g bored
as a poet, a dramatist, a novelist, a
traveller,an historian,he will be rcmem
mbered as tbe roost daring, amusing,
i and successful of literary charlatans,
j So rapidly is this prediction in course o(
fulfilment, that it is even now half ac
comptished. Already mauy of Ms
works are swept away into the rubbish
1 corners of literature—Hind his place in
bibliography has been given. M.
Querard has commenced the process ol
literary embalming. As M. Dumas 1
reputation commenced with his dramas,
let us begin our examination of its title
with these. There is a long list ol
them—something like forty-tive—and
mostly of five acts each. Had the
written nothing else, they would have
argued tolerable fecundity.. Now, ac
cording to M. Querard, out of these
forty-tive dramas only four are the
production of M. Dumas. This is not
offered as a mere assortion —but as a
fact proved beyond dispute by M.
Querard’s researches. The names of
all the other collaborcAturt are given in
full —real names, together with peeu
donymes. These forty-five plays all
(with or two exceptions) announced as
the production of Duinas alone, and
printed among his works—are traced
by M. Querard to other owners and
part-owners, in spite of play bills and
title pages. The four dramas which
M.Dumas has written unassisted by any
other living writer are “Henri III.”
“Christine,” “Charles VI1.” and
“Don Juan de Marana.” The spirit
of collaboration, however, is of the
essence of his genius— and accordingly
he has associated himself w ith the dead.
There is something in his appropriation
which is quite regal. He takes scenes,
characters, and incidents wherever he
finds them and whenever they suit him,
and in the style of an imperial con
queror annexes” them to his own
literary domains. This he does with
little attempt at disguise. Accused of
it by astonished critics, he very cava
lierly replies Eyery one is a
plagiarist. As to complete creation,
I pronounce it impossible.” M. Du
mas and his Friends have energetically
denied that he has had any other liter
ary assistance than that of M. Auguste
Maquet. These two men, therefore,
are the only avow r ed authors of the
incredible number of dramas, novels,
histories, and travels which bear the
name of Alexander Dumas. What
says M. Querard? Including some
few r authors, such as Schiller, Thierry,
Chateaubriand, and Scott—from whom
Dumas has plundered so largely that
they must be counted in the number—
M. Querard makes out a list of serenly
four colhiborateura! All their names
are given, and the particulars of their
assistance specified- The firm of
Alexandre Dumas and Co. consists of
seventy-five members! The miracle
of fecundity which keeps horses sad
dled at the gate and relays on the
road turns out to be no miracle at all,
but a discreditable scheme of literary
speculation. A popular name has been
used as a guarantee under which
miserable trash has been sold end paid
for at enormous prices. The case, to
take it in its simplest and least import
ant aspect, is a commercial fraud.
Goods have been sold under false
pretences.— Alhenaum.
THE HAMMER.
The hammer is the universal emblem
of Mechanics. With it are alike forged
the sword of contentions, and the
ploughshare of peaceful agriculture, the
press of the free, and the shackle of the
slave. The eloquence of the forum
1 has moved the armies of Greece and
Rome to a thousand battle fields, but
the eloquence of the hammer has corer
ed those fields with victory or defeat.
The inspiration of song has kindled up
high hopes and ooble aspirations in the
bosoms of brave knights and gentle
dames, but the inspiration of the ham
mer has strown the field with tattered
helm and shield, decided not only the
fate of chivalric combat, but the fate of
thrones, crowns and kingdoms. The
forging of thunderbolts was ascribed by
the Greeks as the highest act of Jove’s
omnipotence, and their mythology
beautifully ascribes to one of their gods
the task of presiding at the labors of
the forge. In ancient warfare, the
hammer was a powerful weapon, inde
pendent of the blade which it formed.
Many a stout scull was broken through
the cap and helm by a blow of Vulcan’s
weapon. The armies of the Crescent
would have subdued Europe to the
sway of Mahomet, but on the plains of
France their progress was arrested,
and the brave and simple warrior who
saved Christendom from the sway of the
Mussel man was named Martel—’the
hammer’—how simple, how appropri
ate, how grand,-— the hammer!’ The
hammer, the savior and bulwark of
Christendom. The hammer is the
wealth of nations. By it are forged
the ponderous engine and the tiny nee
dle. It is an instrument of the savage
and the civilized. Its merry clink
points out the abode of industry—it is
a domestic ditty presiding over the
grandeur of the moat wealthy and
ambitious, as well as the humble and
impoverished. Nut a stick is shaped,
not a bouse is raised, a ship floats, or
carriage rolls, a wheel spins, an engine
moves, a press speaks, a viol tings, a
spade delves or a flag waves, without
famine r. Without the hammer
civilization would be unknown, lad the
brail species only at defence!*-*
brutes, but in skillful bands directed by
wisdom, it is an histrameat of power, ©1
greatness and true glory.'— Scientific i-
A BUHD SCCLPTOK.
A remarkable genius, as connected
with the history of art, is bring at the
preset time in Enrope—in the Tyrol,
at n poor cottage in Innsprnck, being
a stone blind artist who produces busts
and heads of extraordinary merit. Thu
wonderful geniua is now an old man,
seventy years old, who at the early age
of five years lost his eyesight. His
j peculiar power of touch enabled bin
to feel images for carving with inimit
able dexterity, and he was able to pro
duce in wood admirable representa
tions, and to tell also whether any
figure shown him, possessed the requi
site qualities and proportions of a work
of art. He lost both his parents to
childhood, and found himself a poor
solitary peasant, to grope in darkness
through the world. But this did not
discourage him; he had to strive for a
living, and he manfully commenced the
strife. His first efforts were as diffi
cult and painful, as they wore abortive;
often did a false stroke of the chisel,
l or a too vigorous one, destroy the
work of many long and laborious days.
Any one but himself would have been
discouraged by hia repeated failures
into abandoning his stiange design.
But after innumerable efforts, mere or
less successful, Kleinhaus attained that
extraordinary firmness and precision of
hand, which enabled him to work out,
step by step, and bit by hit, the entire
details of the figure on which he was
employed, even to the contour of the
ffmhs, and the traits of the counten
ance. Nay, incredible as it may seem,
he actually arrived at the power of
first impressing upon his mind by the
touch, and then transferring them to
wood, the traits of individual counten
ances, so as to produce portraits that
are striking likenesses!
Klei.nha.vs is the name of this pen
severing but poor artist, who has during
his long career executed no less than
three hundred and fifty figures oCthe
Saviour, of various sizes, and a hun
dred heads of Madonnas and saints.
In the Museum of Innspruck, there
is a bust of the Emperor Ferdinand*
cut iu wood by the hand of Kleinhaus,
from a marble bust of a German sculp
tor, and which is said to be as good a
likeness as the original bust modelled
from the life. There is also in his own
cottage a bust of one of his relations,
which is still more extraordinary, since
it was produced from merely passing
his hands over the living face of the
individual represented, and the likeness
of which is said to be perfect.
Notwithstanding the industry and
genius of this veteran and unfortunate
artist, he is still obliged to carve figures
for a subsistence, although he is appre
ciated in his neighborhood, and much
visited by strangers. But this is some
times the way of the world, and unos
tentatious merit, during the life-time of
its possessor, meets with but slight
reward. Probably after death, a mon
ument will be erected to the blind
sculptor of the Tyrol,'* and this 6y the
very persons who, whilst he lives, seem
scarcely to think whether he starves
or is pampered.
THE RE-CAPTURED FUGITIVES.
Washington, April 28.
I have learned something more ol
the history of some of these- poor
slaves who started from this city, in the
keeping of Slatter, the slave-dealer,
among the number, sisters whc
were members of the African Metho
dist church. They are beautifully
formed, handsome, and nearly as white
as their master. Their brother is the
coachman of Secretary Walker, arH
when he learned the horrid fact that
Slatter had purchased them, and was
designing to take them South, he made
efforts to purchase them himself. He
had laid aside from his hard earnings,
money nearly sufficient to purchase his
own liberty, and this, with what bene
volent persons gave him, he offered
for his sisters, and offered also to se
cure the balance, but his efforts were
vain. The inhuman monster, on ac
count of their rare beauty, set a heavy
price upon them, and demanded cash
down. A young Southern libertine,
before they started, offered $1,00(1
for one of them; but Slatter demanded
more. He was aware that men 'of this
class would pay almost any price for
them, and hence his spurning the offers
and pledges of the brother. I have
conversed with this brother, and I must
acknowledge that I hardly ever met
with a young man of better natural
talents. His countenance is prepos
sessing, his manners are extremety
easy, -his language is correct and
chaste, and his high forehead, keen
eyes, and the peculiar expressions of
his countenance, all betoken a high
order of intellect. In a person of this
character, possessed of warm feelings
and keen sensibilities, what must be
his anguish in reflecting upon the fate
of these sisters, who were as dear to
him as the apple of his eye. You can
imagine in some small degree what his
feelings may be, but you cannot know
fully about their reality. This the
mild slavery of the city of Washing
ton, such as is upheld by the sanction
of Congress, in sight of the American
Capitol, and within a full knowledge of
the Representatives of a free people;
yet a large majority of those members j
permit party considerations to triumph
over the most heartrending appeals to
their humanity, philanthropy, and the
common rights of freemen. While we
condemn the atrocities of slavery in
Algiers, we permit the most abhorrent
forms off slavery in of r own midst, that
an Algerine would shrink from with
horror. John Wesley never uttered a
greater truth, than when he declared
that tlarery was the tmm of all vil
la met.'' It is not murder, adultery,
fornication, theft, merely but the word
slavery expresses the sum of all these
evils. Tbts slavery, church members
upon the ioor of Congress will defend,
and even threaten, aa did the Presby
terian Venable last week, a dissolution
of the Union, if Northern people inter
fered much more with it. The Char
leston Mercury, too, in a late number,
makes the same threat, and contends
i that Messrs. Hale, Gildings and Pal*
frey, shoald he summarily punished
We are save If verging to a curioui
crisis in ear national affairs. The
storm may blow over, hat 1 pray Hea
ven that it may sweep with it, as will
a besom of destruction, every remnani
of slavery that now curses the nation,
in a moral, political, and religions point
of view.— Cor. Bottom Wiy.

Fna da drwrtjff.
LETTER FROM GERIUT SMITH.
Peterboro, May I, 1818.
Elixir Wright —My Dear Sir:—
I have been waiting, very impatiently,
for a right movement in behalf of die
three men who are imprisoned at
Washington, for helping their poor
brothers and sisters to escape from
slavery. I this day see, by the Chro
notype, that there is such a movement
in Boston; and that there is a Com
mittee appointed, ef which you are a
member, whose duty it is to collect
money and retain counsel for the
defence of said persons, and for bring
ing before the Supreme Court of the
United States, the question of the If
-1 gality of slavery in the District of
Columbia.*’
You will need a large fund—not less,
1 should suppose, than ten thousand
dollars. As my contribution to it, 1
herewith send you a draft far $5OO.
1 will pay more, should more be need
ed from me.
My heart bleeds day and night for
the seventy-seven who are replunged
into slavery, after having escaped from
its horrors. Oh, that is “the second
death!” As for their three friends, I
have very little fear that they will be
convicted. American slavery could
not long survive their conviction and
punishment. To say that slavery is
constitutional in any part of the nation,
is quite absurd enough. But, to say,
that it is constitutional in the District
of Columbia, or any where else, where
the jurisdiction of the Federal Gov
ernment is exclusive, is the very height
of absurdity. If constitutional in such
circumstances, it must he because
Congress can make slaves. But, as
Richard Davis well said on the door ot
Congress,—“ Congress can no more
make a slave than make a king.”
To return, for a moment, to the
three imprisoned men. How it swells
my soul with indignation to sec their
merciful and Christian conduct stig
matized—and that too, in anti-slavery
high places! Precious to my whole
heart is the man,* who braving the
reproach and peril of such an under
taking in this land of mighty and over
awing oppressors, helps bis poor bro
ther or poor sister to escape from the
Southern prison-house. Let othen
say, that he is meanly employed. 1
will still say, that no man on earth is
more honorably employed.
With great regard, your friend,
GERRITT SMITH.
The Colossus of the Revo-lu
tjo.’V.—The revolution was with Dan
ton an instinct, and not a religion. He
served as the Wind serves the tempest,
by elevating the foam and sporting with
its waves. He only understood its
movement, not its direction. He had
its intoxication rather than its love.—
He represented the masses, and net the
superiorities of the epoch.' He display
ed the agitation, force, farocity, gener
osity, all in turns, of these masses. A
man of temperament rather than of
thought, more elemental than intelli
gent, hc.was still a statesman, beyond
any of those who tried to handle and
manage men and things in those times
of Utopianism. He was even a great
er statesman than Mirabeau, if by that
appellation we mean the man who un
derstands the mechanism of govern
ment independently of its ideal,- he had
political instinct. He had drawn from
Machiavclli those maxims which teach
all that power or tyranny may effect in
states. He knew the vices and weak
nesses of the people, but not their vir
tues He understood nothing of what
forms the holiness of governments, for
he did not see God in men, but merely
chance. He was one of the admirers
of ancient fortune, who adored in her
the deity of success only. He felt his
value as a statesman, with the greater
complacency as democracy was further
beneath him. He admired himself as a
giant among the dwarfs of the people.
He displayed his superiority as a par
venu of genius, and was astonished at
himself. He crushed others, proclaim
ing himself to be the head of the repub
lic. After having carressed popularity,
he braved it as a wild beast which he
dared to devour him. His vice was as
bold as his brow. He had pushed po
litical mistrust even to crime in the tol
erated days of September. He had
defied remorse, but it overcame him.
He was beset by him. Blood followed
his footsteps. A secret horror mingled
with the admiration he inspired. He
felt this, and sought to separate himself
from his past. Uncultivated in his na
ture, he had impulses of humanity as
he had of fury. He had low vices, but
generous passions—in a word he had a
heart. This heart in his latter days re
turned to God through sensibility, pity,
and love. He deserved at the same
time curses and pity. He was the Co
lossus of the revolution—the head of
gold, bosom of flesh, loins of brass, feet
»f clay. He prostrated, the apex of
the convention appeared lowered. He
had been its ckwcU, lightning, thunder.
In losing him the mountain lost its
summit. fatmariim Hitiory of the
Girondist*.
Liberty or Tux Press Give me
Ut the liberty of the pro*, and I will
[»ive to the minister a venal house of
jteen, will give him a corrupt sod
lervile bouse of commons, I will give
him a full swing of patronage of bis of
fice, I will give him all the power that
plaoe can confer upon Lira, to purchase
up submission and overawe resistance;
and yet, armed with the liberty of the
peeee, I will go forth to meet him undis
mayed; I will attack with that mightier
engine, the mighty fabric he has raised,
I shall shake down from its height cor
ruption, and bury it beneath the ruin of
the abuses it was meant to shelter
Mend* a.
If you want to keep out of bad compa
ny, shun those who neglect to paythe
printer for two years subscription.
