burns’ anniversary festival
this annual gathering of the sons
anti daughters of old scotia in this city
and land of their adoption, took place
on the evening of thursday, the 2oth
lust. there was, for the occasion, a
numerous assemblage—not much under
three hundred —perhaps two-thirds of
them from the land of burns; ihe re
mainder friends and sympathisers.’ it
was interesting to have an opportunity
of seeing and conversing with so many
who had visited the ground made classic
hy the pen of the poet, and who had
been reared amid ihe scenes which he
lias described with such inimitable pow
er and pathos. 1 could almost have be
lieved, when 1 heard the scotch voices,
and saw the scotch faces, and listened
to the wild notes of the pibroch, which
was played at intervals during the eve
ning, that 1 was in the auld toon of
ayr” itself, within a short distance of
the hirth-place of the poet, and ihe
scenes of the disasters of his immortal
hero, in alloa kirkyard. the associa
tion recalled to my mind many a bar
ren crag and leafy rivulet, in that brave
old country. memory was busily at
work conjuring up pictures of early
days, and the almost-forgotten events
of long-past years. as l wandered,
mentally, among many a ruin old and
hoary,” and saw the familiar faces of
dear friends, some of whom are separ
ated front me by distance, some by
death, it would have been strange in
deed had 1 not felt slightly disposed to
philosophise on tlw vanity and changea
hleness of all things earthly. this is
one—perhaps the principal advantage
of such social gatherings. it serves to
strengthen the links that hind friend to
friend—man to man—country to coun
try. it serves to refresh and water the
green spots on memory’s waste, which
are apt, amid the business and hurry of
this working world, to he lost sight of,
if not forgotten.
my present object, however, is not to
moralise, hut to eke out some account
of this anniversary festival. the pre
sident for the evening (mr. russell
took the chair ut eight o’clock, and
commenced the proceedings of ihe eve
ning with a speech, of which ihe fol
lowing is the substance:
friends and fcli.ow-scotchmen:
this is our second social meeting.—
fiie object of calling our former one,
was then briefly explained. we have
now the same general object in view
ihe promotion of social feeling, brother
ly love, and innocent amusement. we
hope that this, like the former one, will
he a scene of happy enjoyment—a
*cene io he looked back to and remem
bered as one of pleasant emotion, a
green spot in the desert of memory’s
waste.
i his meeting has been called on the
eve ol burn’s anniversary, to show our
inspect to the memory of one who has
done to much, by l us wo rks, to elevate
co| l&nd in their own
d 'h" -ximalion "f the
*orm. sack meniug, lld w>rm
„ur 50c..1 feeling., 'l 1,., roust
be cold indeed .h« doe. no, |wbd
nod dilate with the loduence a i
»oul-*.mng niu.ie and the bnglu and
happy face, around u.. we cofne here
to-night with our heart, free from t|„.
cares and troubles of the world. deu* r
mined, for one night at le u! to b j
happy; and when we look upon this
meeting in after years, may it he with
pleasure and with profit, inasmuch as it
tend* to make us love our fellow-men
mure and ourselves no less.
such meetings ar« needed in a phy-
of view our mothers, our
•usteia, and our wives, are too much
the north star.
i confined to their home*, and tbeii
iniruin too much racked with the con
ktaut and unceasing watchfulness re
quired in attending to their domestic
affairs. i say, and it muit be evideo
to ns all that such meetings are needet
1 more than we do have them. we art
aware that our lieallh depends a greal
deal upon the state of our tninds.—
should it not admonish ns, then, as tl»e
warning of a kind parent,' to keep out
minds buoyant and happy, and on ull
fitting occasions to meet together in so
-1 cial compact.
after a short interval, during which
several songs were sung, and an amus
ing scotch piece, purporting to he a di
alogue between man and write, on the
propriety of signing the tee-total
pledge, was recited by mr. mcttn.-
f i.i.vms—the chairman called upon mr.
i si dev w ho spoke as follow s:
mr. chairman anj> friesds:
this being a social party, we are
all expected to contribute our share to
the amusements of the evening. for
that reason, with your consent, i will
make a lew rermfrks. this recalls to
mind the joys which we had in our na
tive land—joys which we neither can
nor will forget; and he who loves not
the home of his childhood, that land
which contains the ashes of| his
sires, is a being whose presence any
land can spare. if it looks to its own
honor and weal, such a one, the poet
has well said, shall die
t'mvepl, unlionoiej amt uusung.”
.all of us who are here, met to spend
a night in scotish style' in the land of
our adoption, can look back with pride
to that land whose earliest records
give ns to know that she alonejof na
tions drove back the troops of the
mighty caesars; and whose every hill
and glen bears record of where a mar
tyr fell and patriot died in defence of
freedom and fatherland. in this our
own time, we can look back to a watt
in science—a hume and macauley in
history—a burns in poetry. all of
her history teems with truths which
make her children feel proud of such a
native land; and likewise to know that
she had some of her sons here when
freedom’s foes were strong in their
attempts to crush the liberty which
washington so gloriously achieved.—
may we never cause scotland to blush
lor her offspring in other lands. may
we always be found in the van of that
march of progress that leaves destroyed
in its rear institutions and customs!
which are a disgrace to the age; and j
may you always be amongst the firwf to!
remove all that degrades our race, or
supports a class by practicing an injus
tice on the many; and may you like
wise show that the poet spoke truth
when lie speaks of home and of birth- 1
place—
that though bleak and barren be tlw* lonely spot,'
its charms can never, never l>e forgot;”
and when memory leads you back to
the haunts of your childhood, may the
virtues you saw practiced in the puirj
man’s hame,” make you feel as burns
sung—-
time but the impression deeper make*,
as streams tl*eir channels deeper wear.**
ninety years since to-day, scotland
received that child, stamped not with
titles or earthly grandeur; but with;
nature’s mark of genius, he was inis
forttie's child and scotland's glory—
nature’s poet and freedom’s poet—a
man whose greatest joy was in the tri-j
umph of right, wherever .asserted. the'
powerful tyrants of a class government
lie despised, although at that time his
country’s rulers. he could sing the
glories of america and the french j
patriots, even while those glories were 1
reaped at the expense of britain.
and why? because he wished to see
that principle triumph which says—
i'rimes and lords are bm hie hreulliof king*;
an honest man v i lie noble.-,! work of <*od.”
for such (iodlike conduct, lie was told
ins part was to work, not to think. but
did he submit? no; he fulfilled his
creator’s plan, that was to set the
world a thinking, and mirth a laughing
at the baby titles with which born kings
decorated the lug, but soulless men oi
his time. lien these titles and men
are at rest in their kiudred clay, burns’
memory shnii he green; and while in
dependence, poetry and benevolence
are revered, his memory will lie not less
so. as long as there is oppression,the!
oppressed will find in him their defence;
anti long-faced cant, dressed either as
the heavenly chosen or wordly wise,
will find soch a truth in his poetry us i
will make them cry, avaunt—thou art
satan; and while the slave wears the
mark of bondage, the songs of barns]
will make strong his hope. where ye
freedom finds a home, her praises will]
be sung with his songs—her brightest
robes be independence such as his her
first and proudest words—
“a man’* a man fur all that,”
burns was a friend to universal 1
brotherhood, an elevator of his race.
he cherished a love for his kind and 1
for freedom, that only found limits
(there these had no existence. f n him!
we see the victim of the oppressor and
the earthly god mammon. they de
stroyed the mao, but could not crush
[he spirit which wished and prayed that
[he time would come
‘-whru man to wait dte world o'ti
would brother* be, and a' that.”
let us be like him—in adversity never
o think of yielding, but the greater the*
pressure the greater the strength; and!
while fortune is kind, like him let us
always have a heart to feel and a hand
to help the unfortunate.
lie fore leaving his memory, let us.
cherish with it the memory of ameri
ca poets who wreathed around his
throws u wreath of poetry will
never fade. so with the words of hal*
h’ck, i arm j #tv e j,j m where his fame
lies not—
*1
rk7ht is of no skx—trfth 18 of no oilor-ood is the father of t!s -all, and all*#l5 are brethren.
t fc<f i l m'j ***2 wl i
“and bum*. thoufj* bt'.ef iw race h* tan,
ilmmifti rimtgli ami <ferk the |»tli he trod,
'i livnt, died, w*".*
lire image of hie imml.
bv adam elder. mu. president
j i consider this social -gathering as emi
ucntly suggestive of tlkmight of tbt
land of our birth, and that of our adop
tion suggestive j>oinls of contra*
and of agreeuient, a glance at whicl
may not be inappropriate to this occa
sion.
our island home, as she rest* like i
wearied dove upon the expanse of wa
ters, presents in territorial extent noth*
ing by which she may become an arbi
trator among the nation*, or entice tc
her fields the combatants of the world;
though in diversity and grandeur ol
i scenery she yields to none, incapacity
to charm and captivate the hearts of hei
sons; nor in the history of martial
prowess, since war received its first im
pulse from the murderous hand ol
cain, till the complete development ol
its enginery under the conduct of na
poleon, have the frequent wars of our
country much affected the conduct and
destiny of nations; nor in the marts
of the business u’orld, have her useful
and valuable fabrics, and the extent ol
her commercial transactions, entitled
her to the position of a firstpporerw r er in
establishing and maintaining the com
mercial equipoise, or dictating restrict
ive measures to estrange mankind; but
like many of the choicest enjoyments,
the unfolding of her best treasure was
deferred until the belligerents in war
and its concomitants hud proclaimed a
truer, and (he persuasive voice of
home, and school, and religion, and the
application of these to the practical
affairs of life in one short century, has
placed our country in the foreground of
nations, and scotland has become a
formidable competitor in the discovery
and elucidation of principles which are
gradually but effecti» r ely reconstructing
societ/apfietigion and governments of
the wrer|d;.demonstrative evidence of
whicl is afforded in the gradual fusion
of tta-jliversified character and pecu
liar itjfeslcformerly conflicting peoples,
rearing j&refrom, as by magic, the
present american nation, our adopted
home—grander in extent, more potent
in power, but dependent alike with the
humblest community upon the same
fixed rules of action to us, then,
wherever we may go, the discipline of
our scottish homes, and the examples
of our countrymen, are an invaluable
behest, the application of which, ia our
american homes, from congeniality,
will ensure eminence and respecta
bility.
frederick douglass, who was
present as an invited guest, being called
upon by a number of voices, rose and
said—
mr. chairman: i regard it as a
pleasure, not less than a privilege, to
mingle iny humble voice with the fes
tivities of this occasion. although i
am not a scotchman, nor the son of a
scotchman, (perhaps you will say “it
needs no ghost to tell us that,”) [a!
laugh,l hut if a warm love of scotch
character a high appreciation of
scotch genius—constitute any of the
qualities of a true scotch heart, then
indeed does a scotch heart throb be- j
neath these ribs. from my earliest
acquaintance with scotland, i have
held that country in the highest admira
tion. as i travelled through that land
two years since, and became acquainted
with its people, and realized their
warmth of heart, steadiness of purpose,
and learned that every stream, hill,
glen and valley, had been rendered
classic by heroic deeds in behalf of
freedom, that admiration was increas- 1
ed. that you may know that i have
some appreciation of the genius of the
hard whose birth-day von have met to
celebrate, i went a pilgrimage to see j
the cottage in which he was born; and:
had the pleasure of seeing and con- t
versing with a sitter of the noble poet to
whose memory we have met to do honor.
i can truly say that it was one of the 1
most gratifying visits i made during my
stay in scotland. i saw, or thought f
saw, some lingering sparks in the eyes
of this sister, that called to mind the
fire that ever warmed the bosom of
burns. but, ladies and gentlemen,
this is not a time for long speeches, i j
do nor wish to detain you from the so
cial pleasures that await you. i repeat i
again, that though lam not a scotch-j
man, and have a colored akin, i am;
proud to be among you this evening.—
and if any think me out of my place on
this occasion [pointing at the picture of
burns,] i beg that tbe blame may be
laid at the door of him who taught mel
that “a roan’s a man for a’ that.” [mr.
d. sat down amid loud cries of “goi
on!” from the audience.]
mr. demotes, the scottish vocalist, j
very opportunely happened to be in the
city on this evening, and as became aj
true scotchman and admirer o.* the,
scotch poet, hastened to lend the aid of j
his eloquent voice to add to the interest.
of the occasion. his "highland mary”|
brought the -sympathizing tear to the
eyes of more than one of his delighted i
listeners; and that song ol burns'
w hich is, and will always be, tbe ad
miration of all men—“a man's a man'
for a’ that,” brought of ap-t
plause from tbe audience. it was after
tbe singing of this song, that tbe call fort
douglass, douglass,” arose, and that,
man for a’ that,” got upon the plat-j
form, and delivered a short speech, of
sketch will be found above.—
several other gentlemen, end one lady,
whose names i did not catch, also vot-j
unteered songs. they were ell good; 1
but the song by m my—■“ let us
baste to kefria grov«." was a pecu
liarly successful effort. the "feast of
reason,was of course the principal
part of tbe entertainment; but mr.'
serpell, an english confectioner,* who
rochester, n. y, friday. february 2. 1849.
has taken up hia residence in this city
to administer to tlie gastronomic*
wants of his amencaa cousins, tool
good care that another kind of lea si
i should not be wanting. may his shadow
never be less. the evening passed oti
pleasantly to all parties. the absence
j of any beverage stronger than tea anti
coffee, prevented the occurrence of aav
of those scenes that are the bane and
the disgrace of social gatherings, in
but too many instances, in the land ol
burns, much more so former than
now—though in that respect there is
•till room for improvement. the as
semblage broke up at an early hour,
taking with them food for pleasarable
reflection, and the anticipation of a fu
ture recurrence of burns' anniversary.
j d.
s ct ct lions.
speech of mil. j, r. giddixgs
on the bill to pay the hut* vf antonio pachrfo
for v slave sent tocst of the mississippi mtk
the .seminole indians in ih3s.
mr. (jhidings said he had not intended
to participate debate; hut, from
the favor with which the bill had been
regarded in committee, and the major
ity in favor of its engrossment, he ap
prehended that gentlemen had not care
fully examined the facts of the case,
ncr did he think they had fulljflcotisidi
ered the principles involved in the pap
sage of the bill. there are tsaid he)
certain great and
which lie at the foundation of mir gh*
eminent. we profess to hold these
truths to he self-evident, that all men
are created equal;” yet the bill before
us admits one man to be the property ol
another; that one man may rightfully
hold another subject to his will, may
scourge him into obedience, and com
pel him to labor for the benefit of his
master. we profess to believe that all
men “are endowed by their creator
with the unalienable right to the enjoy
ment of life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness;” yet the hill before us ad
mits the claimant to have rightfully
held the liberty and happiness of his
dmow-man at his entire disposal. now
if we pass this bill, our professions will
be in direct contradiction to our prac
tice. if we really hold to these doc
trines, it is certain that we must oppose
this bill; and it is equally certain that
if we pass this bill, we shall, by such
act, deny these truths. we each of
us deny these doctrines, or we hold to
them. we cannot do both. say
that we hold to them, and at the same
time support this bill, would he placing
our professions in direct contradiction
to our actions. the inconsistency
would be too obvious to deceive any
one. tell me not that you hold to the
undying truths contained in the declar
ation of independence, and at the same
time sit here to estimate the value, in
dollars and cents, of the body and mind
of your fellow-man. those who found
ed our government declared their ulte
rior object. that object was, to “se
cure all men (residing within our juris
diction) in the enjoyment of life, liberty
and the pursuit of hpppiness.” are
we to-day (said he) carrying out these
objects? here, sir, are two hundred
and thirty american statesmen legislat
ing for the benefit of slavery. there
is no evading this plain and obvious
fact. no subterfuge can hide it from
the people. the powers of govern
ment were instituted by our patriotic
fathers fop the express purpose of se-<
curing to all for whom we legislate the
blessings of liberty. we are now sit-,
ting here to compensate the oppressor
oi his fellow-man for his inability to
continue his power over the victim of
his barbarous cupidity. the members
who vote for this hill will give unmis
takable evidence of their approbation
of slavery, and their willinsness to sus
tain it.
before i proceed farther, i will give
a synopsis of the facts involved in the
case. the claimant, in 183 d, residing
in florida, professed to o«u a uegro
man named lewis. tlijs man u said
to have been very intelligent, speaking
four languages, which he read and
wrote with facility. the mastbr hired
him to an officer of the united .states,
to act as a guide lo the troops under
command of major dade, for which he
was to receive twenty-five dollars per
month. the duties were dangerous,
and the price was proportioned to the
danger. at the time these troops were
massacred, this slave lewis deserted to
the enemy, or was captured by them,—
he remained with the indians, acting
with them in their depredations against
the white people, until 1837, when,
gen. jessup says, he was captured by
a detachment of troops under his com-,
mam:. an indian chief, named jumper,
surrendered with lewis, whom he
claimed as having, at he said,
captured him at the tune ot dade's de
feat. jessup declares that he re
garded him os a dangerous man; that
he was supposed to have kept up a cor
respondence feftb the enemy horn the
time he joined major dade until the de
feat of that that, to insure the
public safety, he ordered him sent west
with the indians; believiag that if left
in the country, he would be employed
against out ttoopa. he was sent west,
and the claimant now neks that we
should pay him fiiooo as the value of
this man’s body.
the committee on jfmtary affairs
were unable lo unite in a report upon
the case. five slaveholder*, repro*
tenting ehrepr&petty joy,
constitnting a of the commit
tee, have reported 0 bih for the pay-,
meat of this amount to the claims*!.—.
four northern men, representing ftfe
nten only, have made a minority report
against the bill. the report, as* 1
think, is sustained by irre futable argu-
i, utent*.
the majority of the committee as
sume the position that slaves are re
garded by the federal constitution as
property, and that this government and
the people of the free states are bound
to regard them as property, and to pay
i for them as we would so many mules or
li oxen taken into the public service.—
j the minority deny this doctrine. they
insist that the federal constitution
[treats them as persous only, and that
this government cannot constitutionally
involve the people of the free states in
the guilt of sustaining slavery; that we
i bsve no constitutional powers to legis
late upon the relation of master and
slave. there are several oth?r points
on which the committee differ, some of
l which i intend to notice; but i propose
first to examine for a few momenta that
of the constitutional power. it is due
to myself and the country that i should
call public attention distinctly to the
fact, that these questions are forced
upon us by southern gentleinen,against
the wishes and remonstrance of ever)*
member of the committee from the free
i states. involving as it does the great
fundamental principle of our govern
ment, a distinguished member from the
north (mr. rockwell, of connecticut i
introduced a resolution to close the de
i batq jn one hour from the tune we went
i iato committee. i thought it unbecom
ing northern members to attempt thu9
hutiffeidebate on so important a matter
biwbld upon us by the south. i there-
pwwcalled for the ayes and nays on
|that resolution; and nuw bold the floor
by* a sort of legislative fraud, having
voted for the engrossment of the bill,
with the sole object of obtaining the
fl 00 1- i.tu-.r
sir, at the formation ot the constitu
tion, slavery was condemed in the se
verest language by the delegates who
framed that instrument. it is true that
they had been regarded -in england as
property. in 1749, lord hardwicke
had decided that trover lay for a slave
in the british courts. that was the
last decision of the kind made in eng
land, or in civilized europe. one hun
dred years has elapsed since that de
cision. its doctrines have been a
thousand times discarded, contemned,
and overthrown by the statesmen and
jurists of that nation; but here, in an
american congress, we now hear this
barbarous doctrine revived.
in the year 1772, lord mansfield
boldly assailed the obsolete doctrine
i laid down in this hall to-day, and ex
j hibited its absurdity in one of the ablest
opinions to be found on record. from
that period this doctrine of property in
man has found no supporters under the
government of england. with all our
refinement as a nation, with all our
boasted adherence to liberty, on this
subject we are three-quarters of a cen
tury behind our mother country.
when sir warren hastings was on
trial in the house of peers, in 1787,
mr. sheridan, speaking on this subject,,
iu his own peculiar and fervid elo
quence, declared that allegiance to
that power which gives us the forms of
men, commands us to maintain the
rights of men; and never yet was this
truth dismissed from the human heart—
never in any time, in any—never in anv i
clime where rude man ever had any i
social feeling—never was this unextin- j
guishahle truth destroyed from the heart
of man, placed as it is in the centre;
and core of it by his maker, that man
was not made the property of man.'’— t
thus was the language of british
statesmen sixty-two veers since. to
day we have before this branch of the i
american congress the report of a j
committee avowing that, under this
federal government, in the middle oi j
the 19th century, man is the projierty of*
his fellow-man.
these sentiments of the british
statesmen and jurists inspired the hearts j
of our american patriots in 1786, wbenj
they declared it to be a self-evident
truth that all men are created equal.”|
when they framed our constitution,!
they declared their object was “to!
establish justice, arid to secure to them-'
selves ami their posterity the bless
ings of liberty.” this siihject of hold
ing property in men did not escape their:
attention, nor have they left us ignorant j
of their views in regard to it. mr.
madison, the father of the constitution,;
has left to us a clear and explicit ac
count of their intentions. he informs
us that on
wednesday, august *22, the con
vention proceeded to consider the re
port qf the committee of detail, in re
lation to duties on exports, a capitation
tax, and a navigation act. the fourth
section reported was as follows:
no tax or duty shall be laid by tbe
legislature on articles exported from
any £tate, nor on the migration nor im
portation of such personx as the several
states shall think proper to admit; nor
shall suck migration or importation be
prohibited.*
mr. gerry thought we had nothing
to do with the conduct of the states as
to slavery, bat we ought to be careful
not to give any aaactioa.”
our people think, witk mr. gerry,
that »e have nothing to do with sla
very in the states.” we are deter
mined, that we will not be involved n it*
guilt. with mr. gerry, we intend* *to
be fateful to give it no sanction.*
sir; we‘will not sanction your slavery
by paring our money for tbe bodies o 4
slaves. this is the doctrine which we
bold,and which we expoet to maintain;
yet the me where of this body annow
engaged in legi4ahag upon the price oi
human flesh. if we pans this ham, wa
shall give ear meet solemn sanction to
that instiiuuoti which gerrty and bis
compatriots detested. will the mem
bers from pennsylvania, the sorceeeon
of fraiikßn and wilson, lend their
sanction to slavery, by voting the toon
ey of the people to pay for states? m
but mr. madison tells us that mr
sherman (of connecticut) was oppodld
to any tax on slaves, as melting the
matter worse, because it implied that
they were property.”
i understand that some gentlemen
from the north admit that slaves are
property. mr. sherman and the frameri
of the constitution would do no act by
which it could be implied that they were
property.
mr. madison also participated in the
discussion himself; and, as he informs
us. declared that he thought it wrong
to admit that there could be property in
men.” and the report was so amend
ed as to exclude that idea.
in that assemblage of illustrious
statesmen, no man expressed his dissent
from these doctrines of gerry, of sher
man, and of madison. these doctrines
are: 1. that we should have nothing
to do with slavery, but ought to be
careful not to give it any sanction/'—
2. that “we should do no act by which
it can be implied that there can be pro
perty in man.” 3 that it would be
wrong tor us to admit that there can be
property in men. such were the
views of those who framed the consti
tution. they intended to express their
views in such language as to be under
stood. will this house stand by them
the gentleman from south carolina
(mr. burt) declared that he would leave
us no roqm to escape this issue—no
loophole at which to get out; that we
must say by our votes either that there
is property in men under the federal
constitution, or there is not. i am
most happy to meet the gentleman on
that point, and am prepared to submit
the question to those who framed that
instrument—to mr. madison. his de
cision is left on record. the only
question is: have the representatives
of the people here the firmness and the
independence to maintain the constitu
tion? there stands the record of their
intentions. “he who runs may read”
no man can fail to understand the in
tentions of those who framed our
political compact. those intentions
constitute the very spirit of the con-'
stitution, which we are sworn to support.:
a i.v, people of the free states are aware:
of the objects and intentions of those
patriots. they know their rights under'
the constitution that they hold the
indisputable right to be free and entirely
exempt from the corroding stain of
slavery. so perfectly were these prin
ciples understood in,the early days of
the republic, that after the war of the
revolution no man asked pay for his
slaves that were taken from him or
killed in the public service, during the
revolution. in 1830, the register of
the treasury declared that no instance
of the payment for slaves during the
revolution was to be found on record.
no, sir; madison and jefferson, and
their cotemporaries, were then living.
they well understood the principles on
which the union had been formed.
they respected the rights of the free
as well as of the slave states, and no
man then attempted to involve the peo
ple of the north in the support of
slavery. i believe the first attempt to
make this government pay for slaves
was in 1816. this was twenty-seven
years after the adoption of the consti
tution, and tbrty-two years after thej
declaration of american independence. 1
it is an important historical fact, that
shows clearly the opinions then enter
tained on this subject.
after the close of the lale war with
england, a biil was pending in this
house, providing for tho payment of
property lost or destroyed during that;
war. when the section providing forj
the payment of horses, carts, &c.,,
impressed into public service and des-i
troyed, caine up mr. maryant, from s.
carolina, moved to amend the bill so!
as to embrace slaves. the motion was 1
opposed by mr. yancy and mr. robert-
son, and was negatived by a large ma-,
jority. (see national intelligencer,
december 28, 1816.) this was a
motion so to amend this bill as to pay j
for slaves if killed in the public service,
when they had been impressed. i have
heard northern members express the
opinion, pending this bill, that we
ought to pay for slaves, if lost, when
they were impressed into the service.
sir, such was not the caae thirty-five
years since. our predecessors then
spurned the proposition. whore now
is the feeling, the spirit, which animated
them? we have no record of the
speeches, but every member will see j
that the case proposed wee the strong
est case that could be imagined. it i
was where a stave was taken agaioet
the wiu of the master, and pressed
into the service, and killed by the
enemy. yet they rejected the pro
position by a )arge majority. the
claim before us is of incomparably icm
force. here the master hired the slave,
at a high price, to go with the troops as
a guide, and of course took npon him
self all risks.
the neat cate was that to d’aoterive.
he had etahne again** the united
skates for wood and other neceaeariee
famished the army, and for the lorn of
time and the expense of nursing a
stave who was wounded in the service
of government at new orleans. this
case is mere inleremiag from the tact,
that there was at that time an attempt,
anon the present eeeasion, to break
down that well-known principle an oar
coortitntioa, that slaves are persons,
and net property.”
the comanlleo on claims at that
tune (1898) was comeossd of taur
northern and three southern amo. at
its kng|l
111 builunidtv
man, [lewis willow*, of north
carolina,] who served hie eoantnj
ssrsrswbfe
john dick.
whole no. 58
(quarter of a century he vu a dis
tinguished member of this house.
there are fear, very few, now present,
that had the pleasure of serving with
him but can attest
to his great abilities and deserved in
fluence. that committee reported in
favor of allowing compensation for the
articles furnished to the army, but
said, expressly, that slaves not being
i property* they could not allow the
master any compensation for his. loss.”
this was the unanimous repost—mr.
williams of north carolina, mr. mc-
coy of virginia, ami mr. owen of
alabama, uniting in the report. mr.
w illlams had been contemporaneous
with madison and jefferson, and be
did not hesitate to avow the doctrines
of the constitution, and tti maintain
them. here is the record of hts opin
ion and of the views of his associates
when the bill came up in committee
of the whole, certain southern gentle
men suddenly became excited, worked
themselves into a passion, threatened s
dissolution of the union, and all that
sort of thing. in short, they manifested
that spirit of dictation and intimidation
which we have so often witnessed on
more recent occasions. they made a
strenuous effort to reverse the decisiou
of the committee on claims; but after
j some two weeks' discussion, gave it up,
laid the subject on the table, and there
the matter ended.
this discussion was thirty-nine years
subsequent to the adoption of the
constitution, and more than fifty from
i the declaration of independence. the
principle that slaves were persons, and
not property, waa reaffirmed, upon full
discussion, without the light which wa
possess on the subject. the madison
papers were not then published. the
views of gerry and sherman and madi
son, in the convention, and the action
of that body in relation to this matter,
tyere unknown to them. should we
now reverse that decision, and overturn
the practice, we shall sin against great
er fight than they possessed.
the next and only remaining instance
in which the question of appropriating
the treasure of the nation to pay for
slaves was in isis. “a bill for the
relief of the people of west florida,”
intended to provide for the payment of
slaves taken by the army of general
jackson from the inhabitants of that
territory, in 1814, came up for discus
sion. the slaves had been taken,
against the consent of their owners, by
the military power of the nation. 1
think there were about ninety, taken
from different individuals. the pro
position was distinct in its character.
the object of the bill was to pay for
human flesh. i myself opened the
debate, and stated, as the principal
grounds of my opposition to it, that
slaves were not regarded as property
under the federal constitution. my
venerable and lamented friend, now no
more, (john quincy adams,) suslauurd
my positions. several southern gcu-gg
tlemen spoke in favor of the bill. the™
journal is now before me, and shows
the bill to have been rejected, by a
vote of one hundred and ihirteon to
thirty-six. this was done by a whig
congress. not one of that party from
the free states voted for the bill.
i have now given a history of our
legislation on this subject. there was
a bill passed this body, “sub silent io,”
on one of days when there is, by
the rules of the house, uo discission,
by which payment was made for ala yes
my friend from pc niutflvunia (mr.
dickeyj has stated the facta in regard
to it. i knew that such a bill was pend
ing, and so did mr. adam>; and hc
had mutually agreed to oppijse* its
passage; but it slipped through un
noticed, and, therefore, constitutes no
precedent.
in 1843, a bill passed this bldy to
pay over moneys obtained by the gov
ernment from great britain, and held
in trust by us, tu be paid to the ifuners
st slaves lost on board the comet
and encomium.” this bill also lathed
the senate, and became a law. at the
last session we passed two bills to pay
over moneys held in trust for thi* vume
purpose. these cases were not io
lake the treasure of the people ut the
free states to pay for slaves, hut to pay
over moneys that did not belong to us,
but which we held for the use of those
who claimed it. but from the daw noi
the revolution to this day, being more
than seventy yean, this house has ex-
pressed but one opinion on thie subject
they have at all times refused to tax
the people of the north to p*y for the
slaves of the south. we hare trover
regarded them as property. but au
attempt is now making to change the
essential elements of our goveroi -nt
statesmen, mow in the high counci l of
the nation, deny that all men are
created emal;” that “they are en
dowed by their creator with the tin
alienable right to their lives and their
liberty;” or, that governments sre
instituted among men to secure the
enjoyment of those rights.” it is now
urged that this corernment was institu
ted for the purpose of robbing men of
those rights; of disrobing a portion of
our race of tbair humanity, and re
ducing them to the state of brutes, and
making them the property of others.
will northern members assist to com
mit this outrage open the honor of tha
nation and constitutional rights oj the
northern states? is there a member
from the free states oho will tote to
tax to poy for trtborn
xos? if na* jot thorn place thoir
xr on record in favor of tbm bill,
and let that eseoh descend to coming
generations, as a lasttaf memento of
the principle# which guide them.
i have now referred to tha hitfory of
arthmrfrwmi immrtm bject the
mealed upon my friend feom new
continued on page four
notices
pawtucket anti-slavery fair
the anti-slarenr women of piwtackel
will hold their thirteenth annual fait, ai
the hall of pawtucket hotel, commencing
wednesday, feb. 7th, at 2 o’clock p. m.,
and will continue through that and the follow
ing afternoon and evening.
the invitation goea forth to all—come, aid
wa in giving liberty to the captive, and opening
the prison doors to them that are bound.
rebekah mitchell maria dealer,
mary pack, rath bmm,
elizabeth shove, sanan shove.
avis simon, i. j. adama,
esther read, susan siaaon.
pswrrcarr, let mo. 27th, 1849.
anti-slavery meetings.
frederick douoi.aas and jons s. jacobi
will hold anti-slavery meetings in the fol
lowing places
henrietta, monday evening, feb. 12
m codon. tuesday 13
rnah, wednesday, 14
avon, thursday, 15
uma, friday, i«
w. bloomfield saturday 17
canandaigua sunday 18
ruahville monday 19
peon yan tueaday „20
prattshurg, wednesday 21
hath, thu red. a frid. 22 a 33
id' this is intended as the roramenee
ment of a series of meetings to be held ii
this state. our friends in the several placet
above-mentioned, will confer a favoi on us
and we hope aid the cause of the slave, bi
securing suitable places for the meetings, am
giving extensive notice of the same.
john s. jacobs, of massachusetts, afugi
live slave, will hold meetings as follows:
ontario, monday, jan. 2»th, at 7 p. ft!
webster, tuesday, 30th,
penfield, thursday, feb. ist,
egypt, friday, 2d,
fairport, sunday, 4th,
the friends of the slave in each place an
requested to provide a place and give extendei
notice of the meetings, that all may hear on
who can tell ably, from personal experience
what american slavery is.
american slavery.
the fifth of a series of lectures on this
.subject will be delivered by frederick dou
01.ass, in mineiva hall, on sunday evening
next, jan. 27, commencing at 7 o’clock.
western new york anti-slavery society
the executive committee will meet oi
tuesday evening next, feb. 6, at the anti
slavery office, 25, buffalo street.
attendance is requested at half past f
o’clock precisely.
w. c. nell, ree. sec
from ilk- northern star and colored farmer.
essex county, t
town of keane, -s
i, elijah b. jones, being duly sworn, dc
depose and say that 1 have been employed
by wait j. lewis, whilst the weather would
l* rmit, since the 23d of december last past
;ut a hand in surveying land for the granteei
of oerrit smith. i did not know that thi
lands off from the main road were as good at
they are, although i have spent nearly mj
whole life in this town, mr. i be
lieve, will have a hard tune surveying, ai
i here exists in this community much oppo
sition against him, and against the lands be
ing settled by colored people. i have heard
the while inhabitants accuse mr. lewis ol
trying to ruin the town, by getting colored
people to settle in this town, that the town
would be represented by a black supervisor.
ac. i have heard much abusive language
used towards him in this town, whilst going
and returning from surveying. 1 know that
he has purchased from the state a large quan
tity of good land i have seen the village
plat on lot and township twelve, called free
man’s home by said lewis, and know it to he
beautiful land, with sufficient water power
adjacent. when mr. lewis told the inhabi
tants that he had not given 40 sduare acres,
as mr. smith had done, but had given 40
square rods of this beautiful land in the vilage
plat, to a great number of colored men, they
(the inhabitants) replied that he was a fool,
anil' that mr. smith, he (lewis) and the
blacks, ought to be banished to africa that
if smith and others would let the blacks alone
that were here, they could starve them out,
and the land would be settled by whites; that
they would not live in a town surrounded by
colored people, and if be (uewis) surveyed
the land, he would have to go aimed, or he
would get shot. mr. lewis would reply that
he hoped’that he would yet live to see one
memlier of the essex county board of su
pervisors a little darker complexion than ihe
rest; that he would yet read the speeches of
l)r. mccune smith in congress and live long
enough to know that gerrit smith occupied
the white house at washington. 1 believe
that there is a combination of a large number
of persons against mr. lewis, who will, u
possible, prevent his surveying the land aud
showing thp colored people where their lands
are. mr. lewis has made maps and pro
cured townsip surveys, ac., at a great ex
pense, and if he is not illegally prevented or
unavoidably hindered, he can and will fulfil
all his contracts with the grantees. i know
that he was postmaster of this town 12 years;
i know that he is and has been an acting jus
tice of the peace of this town 13 years; i
know that he has been elected town super
intendent of this town 4 years; i kuow that
all monies (post-office or school) coming into
las hands have been legally disbursed; 1
know that he is and has been friendly to the
colored people; (know that his house has
been a home tor the colored man,- when, i
believe, others would not keep them here;
i know him to he strictly a temperance man
1 know him to he very warmly attached to'
gerrit smith, and advocates his principles and
measures. i believe that those who have
slandered him w ill soon suffer the consequen
t's, by judgements against them in oiircoun
ly or supreme courts.
elijah b. jones
subscribed and sworn to before me this bth
day of january, 1849.
i wait j. lewis, justice of ihe peace.
wc nubloh the above as a matter of jus
nce to mr. lewis, and for the purpose of ma
king public the fiendish malignity of some oi
his neighbors. we send mr. le«w a few
extra copies of out paper, thafchc mav distri
bute litem as he pleases
mlrdkb—the sumter banner give* the
following account of a murder near king
dreet, s. c.— we are informed that on the
niai august, a <*erman named grienvault,
was shot from a concealed poeition, about
three miles from kingatreet, williamsburg
urtrict, on the road from georgetown to thai
place, by a runaway negro, who ted iinmedi
utely after the commimion of the act. the
<*aum of the deed was not mentioned nor
known, we believe. it was done about 9
o'clock m the day. grieuvsult lingered until
the morning of the let, whoa death pm an
end to m buttering*. j
hov«* or r*p*bmpftajmrt»—jan. 19.
-pacheco slave caie.—the padteco
ikre ca»e «u on motion token np. mr.
teambe of georgia, being entitled to the floor,
mfetßlly explained the ment* of the cm:
tiiet much nimpprebeneion bad ptelailed witit
regard to its character. he saw that neither
p*rtt, in point of argument were entirely
rigm that a question whole foreign to the
cane had been brought into thie discussion, and
ao much dwelt upon, a* to prevent a dear
understanding of ita just claims. he then
proceeded to produce precedents and authori
ties from previous legislation to congress,
t ac., to show that the haim of the heir* of
j pacheco was just.
mr. boel, of new york, obtained the floor,
aod briefly replied to a single point adduced
by mr. toombs, and then called for sbe pre
vious question, which was sustained.
1 the question of reconsidering the bill waa
t j then put to the house, and the yeas and nays
demanded, and derided in the affirmative, by
j yeas 106, nays 02.
iv lull, on motion, was now pul on us
‘j final passage. the main question, as amen
ded, was then voted on, and decided in the
affirmative, by yeas 106, nays hi; so the pa
checo bill was again passed. the discussion
on it has cost about $lo,ooo.
v. 8. senate—jan: 22.
resolutions adopted by the legislature of
j new york, instructing the representatives in
congress from that state to vote against the
extension of slavery into any new territory,
aod also against the traffic in slaves in the
district of columbia, and against the teias
claim of boundary, were presented by mr.
dix, who afterwards moved to lay the *ame
upon the table. adopted.
mr. yulae spoke against the resolutions,
and said they were an insult to fifteen states
of the union.
mr. rusk also spoke in opposition to the
i resolutions.
mr. foote said he was in favor of printing
the resolutions, as it was a courtesy usually
r extended to the state legislature*.
mr. dix spoke in favor of the resolutions,
and several other members took part in the
debate, some of whom spoke particularly on
the slavery question.
mr. yulee reiterated his previous state
ment, and added that the union was totter
ing on its base, in consequence of assaults
from northern fanatic*.
mr. davis of .mississippi endorsed mr.
y r ulee's charge, and said that he would not
vote for the printing of the resolutions.
when new york respected herself, he would
respect her.
messrs. berrien, douglass and king epoke
in favor of printing.
i i mr. downs was opposed to printing the
t, resolutions, and said that lie considered the
union in great danger. the south had
been denied the light to reclaim fugitive
j slaves; that it could not endure such grie
vance* tnnch longer.
1 the question to print was finally decide
ij in fhe affirmative. adjourned.
telegraph to the n. v. 'i ribune.
the address of the southern caucus.
washington, sunday, jan. 28.
mr. calhoun's address to the people oftb
«j southern states on the subject of slavery i
i published in the union of this morning am
i occupies four columns of that paper. it open:
with a history of the wrongs the south hai
j sustained in the obstacles thrown in the wai
i of reclaiming fugitive slaves, by state legis
lation, in defiance of the explicit guaranty o
the constitution.
the address proceed to describe the grost
inequality and injury effected by the wilmo’
proviso, and calls the attention of the people
to the unwarrantable measures which have
been agitated during the present session o
i congress. the following is the conclusiot
of the address.
1 with such a prospect before us, the
gravest and most solemn that ever claimee
the attention of a people, the question for u:
to consider is, what is to be done to preven
it? it is a question belonging to you t<
decide. all we propose is to give you oui
opinion. we, then, are of opinion that the
first and indispensable step, without whicl
nothing can be done, is union among our
selves, in this great and most vital question
the want of union and concert in reference
to that has brought the south, the union ant
our system of government to' their presen'
perilous conditife|.w
“if you bpsothe united, and prove your
selves in earnest, the north will be broughi
to a pause, and that may lead to s
change of measures and the adoption of s
couise of policy that may quietly and peace
ably terminate this conflict between the twe
sections; if it should not, nothing would
remain but for you to stand up immovably in
defence of rights which involve our properly,
prosperity, liberty and safety. as the assailed,
you would stand justified by all laws, human
and divine in repelling a dangerous blow,
i without looking to consequences, and to resort
to all means necessary for that purpose.
your assailants, and not you, would be res
ponsible for consequences.
entertaining these opinions we earnestly
entreat you to be united, and for that purpose
to adopt all necessary measures. beyond this
we think it would not be proper to go at
present. we hope if you should unite with
anything like unanimity, it may of itself
apply a remedy lo this deepeeated and dan
gerous disease. but if such should not be
the case, the time will then have come for
you to decide what course to adopt.*’
the vote on adopting the address was 42 to
19 the following are the nays:
messrs. berrien, metcalf, underwood,
rusk. houston, pendleton, preston, cling
man, toombs, stevens, hilliard, morehead,
cocke, t'abelt, roman, chapman.—the
telegraph sends us but 16 names.—ei>.
this.
mr. berrien’s address is pretty much the
same, only rather more moderate, and is ad
dressed to the people of the united states,
while mr. calhoun's is addressed to tliesouth
exclusively. the concluding part of berrien’s
is altogether different fron the extract of
calhoun’s above quoted.
pi out the liberator.
ur talk of the value of the union! read
the following simple but truthful statement of
the horrible atrocities inflicted for the dreary
period of fourteen mouths upon two innocent,
worthy free-horn citizens of the notth—hue
band and wife in—new orleans and there
is no possibility of obtaining redress down
with this accursed union
beware of new orleans*
on the 9th of may, 1847,1 shipped on
board the schooner comet, at baltimore, jo
seph rrwby, master, to proceed on a voyage
from the above port to tampico, and faun
thence to new orleans, mysdfitlhe capacity
roy w »fe in that of stewardess.
nothing extraordinary occurred daring the
voyage, until our arrival new orleans, at
w hich tune it was understood that the schoo
ner would receive a caigo from new york.
we, of course, after discharging our inward
h«ind cargo, commenced reloading at lafry
mtd on the 22d july, we wernttou^s
ood municipality to take in the remainder oi
out cargo.
upon our arrival there, myself and wife
we rj* ken vessel by the proper
committed to prison, ldom
vessel we belonged to. i told fcfbtbeaehoo
ntr comet. he asked for our free
i told him they were on board the said
sutiog at the same time that we wen free
hart, aad ha to phifadilffhm mr
baldwin ordered tea to he wleot, aad di»em«
myadfaad wifa to ho eoaftaad into chain
gag. we wme ehaiaed together an hcvtea
hanger and confinement, wc wen
reduced to mete skeletons, which preveatec
an, on several oeoamomi, from p—out
aaual tasks, aad in defaah of which wo aao
taiaed the lash and endued the man excru
ciating pain.
on the ist of much, i*4*, lieut acxrpen
ter, whom f had served under on beard tin
v* s frigwte coostitatioo, on the pacific mo
tion, in 1838, happened to pass by whilst w«
were at work and immediately recognised am.
this gallant officer and philanthropist inquired
into the nature of oar ruramanarra, and an
ed his almost cxeniona in oor behalf; hr
which means myaelf aad wife were faeharged
from the infernal den on the 6th iast.
wc tender our sincere thanks, on this oc
easioti, to lieut. carpenter, far oar freedom.
had it not keen for him, we should, at the
expiration of twelve moaths.hsve been placed
upon the auction block, and knocked of to
the highest bidder.
upon our discharge from prwoo, an account
was rendered for oor jail fees, amounting la
sl7*. we remonstrated, stating, at the
saaae time, we haul no money, neither did we
see any direct way of getting any. the jai*
lor then deducted 100 from the bill, leaving
a balance of' $72 sod gave us the privilege
of shipping on board a »w orleans vessel,
and no other.
on the following day, by chance we ship
ped on board the brig victory, of new orleans,
john hall faster, then ready for sea, hound
to apabchiola' thence to eusoeur, and bach
to new orleans.
believe ns, our honest-hearted readers, al
the time of our joining this vessel we were
almost naked, ihe greater part of our ciothiug
haviu£ been taken from us by the jailor, and
the remaining, portion being nearly worn out
by us. we are happy to say, that capt. hall
was very kind, and exhibited every mark of
benevolence during the voyage. and we
farther declare, that the very day of our arri
val, after preforming the voyage in the brig
victory, our wages were attached by the pro
per authorities for our jail fees, and we were
left penny less.
after an elapse of a few days, we were
fortunate enough to get a passage from thence
to boston. our depressed circumstances and
injured feelings, will not allow us to say any
more on the subject. we merely wish to in
form our colored brethren gf the dagger, and
cruelty, and injustice, which awrifemgm in
new orleans.
john callis, jmi
charlotte cagflh
the north staky
rochester, february 2, 1849.
slavery triumhphaat
but for a firm, unyielding and ever in
creasing faith in the cause of human progress
and the ultimate triumph of all righteou
principles, the recent weakness and fou
treachery to libeity and humanity displayed ii
i he united states congress by the ever-supph
representatives of the north, would certain!;
i discourage and dishearten us. we allude, o
course, to the action which took place on mr
gott s resolution proposing fbe abolition o
the slavetrade in the district of columbia
and the pacheco case. on both these vita
issues with the slaveholder, the north at firs
took a manly and noble stand, and for a tim<
evinced a courage and determination which, i
persevered in, rendered success inevitable.—
the northern press largely commended am
cheered them on, and strong hopes were en
tertained that they would stand fast and firm
but alas! in the midst of the cheers of ihei
friends, their courage quailed, their spirit
j faltered, and to-day they are vanquished, am
j the slave power is completely triumphant.—
the worm that essayed to turn is crushed.—
the north is humbled, and the south is ex
i
alted.
this result is all the more disgraceful
since in both cases the north, at the first,war
in the ascendant, and had both measures in its
own hands, by clear majorities; and the de
feat, therefore, is solely owing to de&ertior
and treachery. at first they resolved to loot
their masters fully and firmly in the face;
but a contraction of the brow, a flash of the
eye, and a step towards them by the latter,
soon humbled them into obedience and brought
them under the lash. poor cringing staves
we know not whether most to pity or to de
spise them.
the bill to compensate the heirs of pa
checo for his learned chattel,” passed by a
vote of 101 in favor and ninety-four against.
we copy below from the national era, the
names of the poor weak northern slaves
through whose unfaithfulness, desertion and
treachery this result was accomplished. let
them he remembered and reserved for the exe
cration of which their infamous conduct makes
them justly deserving.— f. d
the members from the free states who
voted in favor of the bill, or did not vote si
all, being in their seat or absent, were the
following:
whigs.
veas.
brady, pa. thompson, ift.
dunn, pa. tavlor, o.
levin, pa. talmadge, n. y.—6.
absent.
butler, pa.| rose, n. y.
duncan, o.j sylvester, n. y.
grinnell, mass. slingerland, n.
hale, mass. van dyke, n. y.
holmest n. y. stewart, pa.—ll.
j. r. ingersoll, pa.
democrats.
yeas.
birdsall, n. y. manu.pa.
brown, pa. murphy, n. y.
bridges, pa. maetay, n. y.
brodbead, pa. mcclernaod, 111.
clapp. me. nieoil, n. y.
cummins, 0. richardson, 111.
hammons, me. richey, o.
c. j. ingeraoll, pa. thompson, pa.
lvnde, wis. wick, la.
clark,me. williams, me 9o
absent.
edaall, n. j. strong, pa.
ficklin, 111. tbompnon, lowa.
leflser, lowa. wiley, me.— s.
general taylor*
we observe that the louisiana conference
of ilie methodist episcopal chinch, sooth,
was recently held at baton rouge, and that
during its pt ogress it was honored with n
visit from gen. taylor. the hflary blas
phemer and human fimb-mooger mam have
wt quite at hope with has dear methodist
bcethrea. a letter in the southern chriwiaa
advocate states that
the president elect wan eanendingly
normaanmiive and inirmwing, altogether ae
bad expected to find him.”
no donk of it yoo found him a mao after
pour own heart. a ititihnmai. slavotrader.
tad a warrior—joat the man for yon a
csßow-fading” made him wondrous load.*'
what happy, thiag that john wealey was
pit prtseat 10 aar ac pww of wesmyan
body, by lirniiprirf dnoy tkeiw d
all tills sirs, ud lisrelioura pb pudultn.
i w* hope gcp. taylor or® nmke il ip hit
i oroy to visit tk methodist f'hatch, north,
r ipd fit* bts experience ip mpilpp am time
daring the prmideotujtern. weehn**s«e
i kin apt tbe feet of kb beiog shir holder nr
p sfc vender will form 00 bonier to hwsduus
>jna among bio bmbreo; and we bore no
j doubt (bat be uras os well supported lor the
presidenrr trr tbeebftreb nortb uatbe eborefe
i| south.—r.
8. j. *pt-
i; it ban rarely been our privilege, of late
j years, to liaioa to a before in every respect
better calculated to do good, reaaore prejudice
against the colored nan aad tbe anu-alevery
l movement generally, tbae that delivered at
5 tbe unitarian chan* in this city, on monday
l nigbt last, by rev. samuel j. may, of syra
case. tbe lecture was somewhat peculiar
and unexpected it was neither an old nor a
now fashioned one—different from both rather
j than like either. it was a history of bis con
si aeetioa with tbe anti-slavery movement and
tbe men of whom it is oomposed, commencing
with fits own earnest impressions with re
spect to slavery aad prejudice against color,
i! illustrated sod applied with interesting facts
and arguments, and told off with all the mod-
t estj and artieasnesa of familiar conversation.
while free /rota all straining after effect, it
r was forcible—quietly deliveted, yet so dear,
'■’pure and earnest, that it fixed tbe attention
1 aad earned the feelings and minds of his audi-
f* ence completely along with him throughout.
he does not address himself to the whole, but
to those who are sick. he is not a eon of
1 thunder, striking terror into the bosom of tbe
-slaveholder or his guilty apologist, but seems
to regard with more affectionate interest tbe
i sinner than the saint, acting on the principle
that there is more joy in heaven over one sin
ner that repenteth, than ninety and nine just
persons. he aims not to annihilate the ene
tines of freedom, but to save them. his love
of jibe right is more conspicuous than his ab
j bajrrg|ce of the wrong; and he labors more
1 it win friends to the cause of freedom, than
itm warm and overpower itr, er.*mies. he
taste for the science of offence and
pleases those who differ from him. if
offended by his arguments, they are won by
his kindness; and though they may repudiate
his doctrine, they are attached to the man.—
his address on monday evening (though it did
not sparkle, freeze, or burn”) held a deeply
interested audience in profound stillness mote
than the space of two hours.
i during the course of his remarks, he al
-1 luded to his first acquaintance with william
i lloyd ganison, in the infancy of the anti
r 1 slavery movement. he related the deep im
f pression made upon his mind by that.inter
-1 view. in mr. garrison, he found a man of
f large and warm heart—a mind of singular
1 purity, clearness and force—of great activity,
earnestness and singleness of purpose, his
whole soul aroused to the enormous evil of
1 slavery, and a firm faith that the nation could
soon be brought to repentance. mr. ganison
was then writing letters to a large number of
distinguished men throughout the country,
■j honestly believing that the cause was such as
only needed to be brought lo their attention to
secure their sympathy, aid and co-operation.
1 he then believed that if he could get the sub
ject before the ministers of religion, the object
would be nearly accomplished. he therefore
wrote to a number of ministers of different
denominations, appealing to them to take up
the wrongs of the slave, and to demand im
mediate emancipation as the right of the slave
i and the duty of the master. in return for
his letters he received coldness—in some
cases reptoof—in others silence, and in nearly
all utter indifference. this did not destroy
his confidence in the rectitude of his princi
ples, or the righteousness of his cause. it
did, however, chill and destioy his confidence
in the soundness and purity of the church and
clergy.
the remarks of mr. may on this point
were highly gratifying and useful, removing,
as they must have done, much of the preju
dice which exists here as well as elsewhere
against mr. garrison.
he then passed happily to his acquaintance
with the celebrated george thompson— de
j fended him from the unjust remarks made
1 upon him recently in syracuse and in this
city, by dr. baird, in his lectures on europe
and england. after showing op the injustice
and|ptejudices of the latter gentleman, he be
stowed a well-merited eulogy upon the former.
it was peculiarly refreshing to us to witness
the warmth of admiration and strength of
brotherly affection with which tbe eloquent
champion of west india emancipation was
remembered and defended by one so able and
devoted to the canse of freedom as mr. may.
thank god that ther*; are those in our land
whose sense of joslice'will not allow even one
so beloved and popular as dr. baird to injure
with impunity the absent. the promptness
aad genuine earnestness with which mr. may
came to the aid of his friend, showed*ths pu
rity and benevolence of his own heart, as well
as added lustre to the character of the noble
george thompson.
the next person to whom our attention was
directed, was mias crandall—the anti-slavery
lady who, a few yearn ago, for establishing a
school for the instruction of colored children
in connecticut, received such brutal treatment
at the hands of the piety aad respectability of
that very evangelical stale. he gave an in
teresting history of the commencement and
final overthrow of that school, and commented
upon the difficulties thrown the way of the
edaealioo and improvement of colored persona,
at that time and now. a tribute of —teem
was paid to the worthy young woman who
gave such evidence of devotion to the easse
of human brotherhood; aad the speaker
branched oi somewhat from his narrative, and
tics to the «lecture, sad this brief an
esuat is sot to hs taken ss even s firir sketch
of it. is, that the sight was so
dark aad the weather ee iademeat, that hut
few worn present to bear it; aad thisrugret
is only mitigated by thepramtas aat mr. may
wifl*sesa visit raehalir again, and dakvat
hum. i. r. gnsum, and hue. j. g.
furnv, w® please neeapi set thanks for
omt—
we commcnee tm» mfc the pakßnstii* «f
the able, rigorous, and earnest *e*rh rf
cntkmo, so the fasnoos maco cnen.—
although it acmftn large if**, "eh*-
§w no reader of the nett* star
tkm the wisdom of pobtiattag it. the speech
is a masterly one, and mnst hare
impremion upon the rill semis ■mmskw he
twe whom it sres dehrcrrd i* oegkt to be
published in pamphlet fcro, and rirenlated
freely throughout the north, that the be--
nun bod and lethargic people of the free
states may be awakened to a sense of the
iran condiuoti of the ntuoa with respect u>
this momentous subject. how saddening it
is to think that northern members oi cow-;
gtws could hear this mighty expose of human
rights, and then turn round add trample
upon every principle of justice and humanity,
by paying for the body and soul of a brother
man.—r. d.
this sweet songster gave delightful en
tertainment at the new conceit hall, in this
city, on tuesday evening last; and proposes
to offer another io the course of a few days,
of which due ooiice will be published in the
daily papers. the merits of mr. dempster,
as a vocalist, are well known, and widely
j appreciated. as a composer, he ranks with
tlie best of the age; and as a performer of
the songs, especially those of his native land,
we think he has no soperior. he has not a
deep bass voice, such as henry russell or
asa hutchinson, to awaken terror by its
roaring grandeur; but he has jußt such a
voice as is proper to the performance of the
songs of his country, and kindred music.
the crystal clearness and melting sweetness
of his voice, while admirably adapted to ex
press the beautifnl tenderness of love, and
the warmth of domestic affection, possesses a
1 loftier quality and compass, which soars on
high, bearing his audience into the concert of
angels. no one could listen to his perform
ance on tuesday evening, without having
the better elements of his nature highly gra
tified and improved. the song of the in
dian women,” by whittier, the rainy
day,” by longfellow, ’tis sweet to love
t io childhood,” by mary cook, the may
queen,” by tennyson,” and the dying
child,” by mary howitt, and several scotch
songs, were all sung with enchanting beauty
and sweetness. to all who love music in
which there is nothing to injure the feelings
of the helpless, divested of all low-vulgarity,
creates no fever in the brain, leaves no stain
upon the soul, but refines andjurifies the
heart, elevates the mind, and it with
loving sentiments—we say, go and hear
dempster.—f. d
florence cmreatis^
the following reaoliuiemihgm been adopted
by the florence conveatfam f
resolved, that ~mm instruct the general
agent to appoint as many sub-agents as he
may think expedient for the benefit of the
settlement, to collect funds for that purpose,
and they transmit it to him; that the migrant
house, school-honse, saw-milt and church may
be completed as early as the last of april or
the first of msy; that the geneial agent in
struct the sub-agents to collect the amount of
three thousand dollars to be appropriated for
the specified purposes, and whatever money
shall be left over, the rev. henry hicks, of
catskill, shall appropriated for provisions, un
til the first crop can be raised among the first
settlers, and that rev. charles b. ray and
dr. james cune smith, of new york, make
all necessary arrangements in that place, and
receive donations for the settlement.
resolved, that the association solicit the
services of rev. w. j. logan, of syracuse,
frederick douglass, of rochester, and rev.
samuel r. ward, of couitlandville, to solicit
donations for the settlement, such as school
house, saw-mill, emigrant house, church, and
other public works under the charge of the
association, and the general agent publish an
extra of the northern star and fanner with
the proceedings of this meeting.
resolved, that two-ihirds of the associa
tion meet at florence, feb. 23, 1849, to hold
a meeting to make the necessary arrangements
for building and completing saw-mills and
other public works pertaining to the interest
of the settlement.
resolved, that we appoint inspectors to
price the public property of the settlement
after the public works are completed, and they
shall make a general report how much has
been expended for said settlement. the in
spectors shall make their first visit on the first
of june, and they shall hold their first meet
ing at the settlement on the first tf septem
ber, where the books shall be opened for their
inspection. committee—rev. j. w. logan,
f.douglass rev. h.hicks.w.h.topp, rev.
s. r. ward, and g. brown.
wm, a. griffin, sec’y.
we do not know that we understand this
last resolution. it begins by appointing m
speetors, and defining their duties, and ends by
nsming a committee, for what purpose we do
not know. are the inspectors a separate
body from the committee, or are they one and
the same t we ought io know our duties if
we are expected to act.— r. d.
oor female cormpoadeat.
we may have sinned somewhat in admit
ting the letter of irwin” into the columns ot
the north star. it is a tart, sharp letter, and
written with some ability, though it belts all
appreciation of reforms, or the means of ac
complishing them, and want of charity for the
foibles of those engaged in them. her at
tention has been attracted by the cry of re
form reform and sfart led by the cry, she
exclaims, where what 1 as though the cry
were altogether new, and the need of it a
mystery! like rip van winkle, she has
just eome out of an age of sleep, just from
the fair and sonny south,” and b utterly
amaaed to aee the state of things troond her.
this is all very natural, and we axe disposed
to make every allowance for our astonished
correspondent, and proceed at once to remove
•ome ranees of her aatooiohmeot. she has
lived in a dark though annoy region, where
meeting-hooees am thought more trfff than
■en where man are sold to build ebarehes,
•od women are sold to fhnriah what she is
•oenotresed to regard as the house of god—
where revivals of refighm and revivals of the
abvetrade go hand in hand—where worship
b performed by menstealer*, and ministers
traffic in human flesh, sod where to op
pore davery an a great sin, m, in the popular
ret notion, to fight against the porpnren of a
■oreifel god.
k b therefore net strange that our ear
respondeat ms wared when she finds her
•df among n people who believe slavery to
he fiem the infernal, and oa the celestial ra-
she m shocked at eho terms infer
nal and hsobh,” and «h*h that the use
of thorn in dm house of god io drreniliisi.
mijmm suppose that these words amok
a at be oftwhc to her, if thee dropped (ran
the bps of a manater, or were read fteot uh
bible is the palp*. they sis strong weeds,
we confess. bat their propriety or snpto
priety depends wholly open the appßntior
made of then. if* they are applied to pood
and holy things, the person so using then
deserves to be shamed m a foul-mouthed per
sos. bat if the things or persons to whoa
i those epithets are applied be really devilish,
manifesting a wicked and malignant spirit, it
may he perfectly proper thus to characterra*
them, and to do so anywhere on earth; for
there is no place where the command to be
holy is more binding than another. to think
otherwise, is to think that rigbtjand wrong,
virtue sod vice, depend upon time and place,
and denies the everywhere present god,
the unwillingness of oar correspondent to
have the churrh rebaked, is a true index of
the state of her mind upon the whole subject
of reform. she would have the church re
buked, but it must be by men who love god
but it so turns out, that the persons who in
her judgment ire fit, are the very persona
who utterly refuse to have anything to do
with the discharge of that dnty, and leave it
for what she terms sinners.
we are glad that irwin has spoken, and
hope her attention may dwell longer upon
this snbjeet. a further investigation may
lead her to sec as we do. the persons upon
whose course she has commented are abund
antly able to take care of themselves; apd
we leave it to them to say how far she has
misrepresented their conduct.—f. d.
the editor of the pennsylvania freeman,
for whose judgment in many things (his ap
preciation of ourselves of course included!)
we have the highesf»iespect, says:
there are few papers in our land wliose
editorials are written with more clearness and
force than mr. douglass's. were he a little
more rigid in regard to the literary merits of
some other contributions to his paper, it
would be well both for the paper and the
writers.”
we have not been insensible to the literary
defects of many articles admitted into the
columns of the north star, and have only
admitted such when to do so served to en
courage a class of personsjwhose literary advan
tages have been fewer than those of the editor
of thj freeman. we however thank our
friend for the suggestion, and hope to profit by
it in the future.—f. d.
“thk impartial citizen.”—the above
title has just been assumed by the north
star and colored fspmei,” formerly pub
lished at albany, under the editorial and we
believe sole management, of mr. stephen
myers; but is now to lie published under its
new and happy title, at syracuse, and to be
edited by s. r. ward. success to the citi
zen !—f. d.
colored inhabitants of philadelphia
we have been favored with a copy of ar
interesting pamphlet, just published, entitled
“a statisiical inquiry into the condition o
the people of color of the city and district*
of philadelphia." the census (says the
preface) which forms the basis of the calcula
tions and statements which follow, was taker
near the close of the year 1847, at the sug
gestion and under the direction of some mem
bers of the society of friends. it is sub
mitted to the public in the conviction that it
presents, so far as it goes, a faithful picture
of the condition of our people of color—a
picture which should inspire them with hope
and confidence in the future, and encouiage
their friends to persevere in their efforts.”
the firat table shows the total number of
of colored residents in philadelphia to lie
120,240, though this is believed to be lather
;less than the actual number. the.increase
during the twenty years from 1820 to 1840, is
i’ shown to be 14 per cent, per annum.
it appears from another table, that 42.7
per cent, of the colored population of phila
delphia have been born out of the state; and
it is further supposed that two-thirds of
these immigrants are from the slave states.
the total number of those born slaves is
stated as 1,077 manumitted. 767 bought
their freedom, 275 the amount paid for
their freedom. $63,034.
it has been attempted by the compilers of
this pamphlet, to form an estimate of the real
-and personal estate held by the people or
color; but it is justly observed, that “no
returns of this nature can be more than an
approximation to the actual value," on ac
count of the difficulty of obtaining correct
returns from the individuals. the total value
of real estate, carefully computed from the in
formation obtmoed is $531,809. none of the
public projay, such as meeting-houses,
4tc., ia included in this esti-
increase in the value of the real
estate between the yean 1837 and 1847, is i
rated at 50 per cent. this real estate is held
by 315 freeholders, who are likewise the
owners of personal propeity to the amount of
$194,318; of these freeholders there are two
who own from $5,000 to 10,000, and two
who own from $lo,ooo to $20,000.
the total amount of reoul in 1847 i was
$199,665 46—paid by 4,019 fsmiliea being
an average of $49,68 per family. the taxes
were in the same year $6,308 38 the water
rente 1,032.
the trades and occupations of 3,358 men,
and 4,249 women, forming about four-fifths of
the entire able-bodied population above 21,
has been ascertained. of these, 968 are me
efaanics; 166 shop-keepers, and traders the
re** are laborers, waiters, hair-dressers, die.
of the women, 216 are dress-makers 231
•eamstresms; 33 keepers of boarding-houses;
is school-mistresses.
undar the heading of “education and em
ployment of ctuldreo,” h is stated that the
nnrahen between the ages of 5 and 20 are
computed to be shout 4,506. of this num
ber, 1940, or upwards of 64 per cent, of them
go to school; and there are returns of the
manner in which 1,340 of those who do not
go to school a«e disposed of; leaving about
1,300 between 5 and 20 who are not reported.
the parishes of dm eastern penitentiary
fiwwsh some imsrrsrtng intoaaatioo. the
feet that ailhoagh the population of the .stale
han bean ianrimmg at the f per cent.,
steadily deereanag, is peculiarly gratifying—
showing as it dses, that the colored population
of pennsylvania are gradually advancing in
iatefligrnrr and amcality.
them are 16 nokaud ehaiulms ia pwk»
ddphm fima 19 of theat mtunw have bean
received, which «ute the number usually it
tending st 6,100. theee twelve congrega
tions nil heve sunday-schools, employing 167
teachers, ud attended by upward* of 1,000
scholars the coet of eleven out of the
twelve meeting-hoove* is given at nearly
$07,000
there are a namber of literary ~~n lfmil
(saya the writer) establi ed among the people
of color, several of which appear to be sop.
ported with zeal and ability, and which, nc
donbt, have an important influence upon those
who are within the sphere of their oper
irons.
there is a marked difference in the eooj,
tit»n of the various districts as may ot
coarse be expected, the immigrant population
are chiefly found in tbone crowded streets and
alleys where destitntion and wretrhedneas
most prevail; though some of that class are
among the most industrious and thriving of
the people of color. in respect to this state
of things, the pamphlet well remarks:
we may fairly trace these extremes in tfcn
condition of the colomhtnumgrant to the evil
influences of slavery, epon a feeble and
common mind it operates like a blight, with
ering the active principles of oar nature, and
inducing a listlessness and indifference to the
future, which, even should the slave become
a freeman, leave nil the vicious habits of sla
very worked into the very gram of his charac
ter. to those. on the other hand, who have
resisted these withering influences and bought
their freedom with the hard-earned fruits of
their own industry, the love of liberty often
imparts a desire for improvement and a con
sciousness of trcir own worth as men, that
invigorate all their powers and give energy
and dignity to their character aa freemen.”
here is a statement,written december 18th,
1848, by n. b. leidy, the late coroner,which
gives a lamentable illustration of the effects of
prejudice and injustice. let christian re
publican americans who do not to
boast of the freedom and equality of this land,
hang their heads for shame as they read it.—
“all men are by nature free and equal
horrible mockery! how long. lord, how
long” shall the pale-faced tyrant be permitted
to keep his iron heel upon the necks of the
oppressed away with constitutions! away
with republicanism away with govern
ments if this is the best they can do for the
human family!
many were found dead in cold and ex
posed rooms and garrets, board shanties five
and six feet high, and as many feet square,
erected and rented for lodging purposes,
mostly without any comforts, save the bare
floor, with the cold penetrating between the
boards and through the holes and crevices on
all sides; some in cold, wet and damp cellars,
with naked walls, and in manv instances with
out floors and others found dead, lying in
back yards, in alleys, and other exposed situ
ations.”
the result of this inquiry is considered by
those who instituted il, to be in a high degree
interesting and satisfactory. say they—
“of a large portion of this class of our
fellow-citizens, it may be truly said, that they
are steadily advancing in alt that constitutes a
respectable and intelligent community. they
have numerous skilful and industrious arti
sans and tradesmen—the desire for informa
tion and the feeling of self-respect are in
creasing! among them and it is upon the
influence of the christian example and the
steady conduct, both as regards industry and
morals of those who have thus raised them
selves, and upon their benevolent exertions,
that the future welfare and respectability of
the people of color in this city, must, as s
j class in the community, mainly depend.
the distinction of color, and the preju
dices which have grown out of the condition
of slavery, ate no doubt feu by the man of
color to be the principal barrier* against his
obtaining that social position to which, by his
good conduct, intelligence and wealth, he is
fairly entitled. there are few things in the
world more unreasonable and unreasoning
than these prejudices of caste and color.”
the writer lias huge hope that these preju
dices will speedily die away.
“our more intimate connection with the peo
ple inhabiting the tropics, where men of color
form a large proportion ot the people, and ex
ercise the highest offices of state, must, of
itself, in the end, obliterate the odionsness of
the distinction here. let the man of color
cultivate the spirit of self respect and inde
pendence, and without allowing hi* mind to
be disturbed by prejudices which cannot be at
once removed, pursue that course of quiet
industry and unpretending virtue which will
make him happy and respectable as an indi
vidual, and will contribute more than any
thing else to elevate the condition of his
people.
this proper feeling of self respect would
lend to check the disposition so prevalent
among many of the people of color, to in
dulge in jove of show and extravagance, in
anniversary procession! and entertainments,
which add nothing to their respectability in
the eyes of their fellow-citizens, and foster
tastes and habits most unfrieudiy to the real
improvement of the people of color.
there is no way in which the patriotic
man of color can so promote the well-being of
his people, as in kindling and keeping alive
the desire for instruction. a good school is
not merely a place for training in knowledge,
but in virtue and morals.”
this pamphlet is highly interesting ami
instructive. our limits wilj not admit of more
copious extracts. it shoeft be carefully read
and pondered by colored men who are endeav
oring to achieve their own elevation and by
the friends of colored men who are desirous
to learn in what way efforts on their behalf
may be rendered most effective.—j. d.
a cotßkspoxoort, writing from wayne
co-, 0., gives a rather gloomy aaeount of the
state of anti-slavery sentiment in that region.
he says:
i remit the amount of my subscription
fat next year. 1 have tried in vain to obtain
subscribers lor the north star. this is a
dark corner, inhabited principally by dutch
farmers, without education, and without any
desire for knowledge, except that pertaining
to making money. 1 wish the good spirit
would guide firede nek dongtass through this
section of couetry. hut native eloquence and
sincerity would perhaps arouse the people
from their apathy. i sometimes think, when
contemplating their dullness sod indifference,
that “they must ha awakened by a storm
•leap forever.”
for the information of this writer, *ml
tatsvealed, may say, that fssosaica
doi otass experts to he in ohio some time
toward* the end of next summer; and ft is sot
impossible, if the location of our friend is not
too much out of his intended route, that he
will pay htin a visit. of this, more be real
tor.—;.
an eaton crept into the cash account
which was published in our pnper of jan
of the ladies society. renders will p) moo
observe that the receipt* of the rochester
fair weto $885(01; reducing the halses* oh
hand to $05,14.
the fim year of the
north star ban or pawed away, i feel that
net only duty, but justice to yourself and the
eaese of freedom, demand a word of en
couragement. the result of your effort
does not stop at the triumphant success, on
your part, of simply sustaining the north
star for one year, and making good your
pledge. it concludes a new chapter in the
history of the past, which, for important
practical results ta favor of freedom, is one
qaalled by an; similar movement. the
whole civilised world is eonvuland with inter
nal commotions, springing out of that great
innate principle of man’s adaptation to, and
unceasing efforts for, a free exercise of
thought, speech and action. while the
press that is, a well-conducted, fearless,
uncompromising and truth-telling press—
must be one of the moat effective agents
to bring about this levelhog process in
the north star, visible marks aie seen from
its high-toned spirit and masterly efforts
against the institution of slavery and other
prominent evils, such as has been brought to
bear upon them by no other paper conducted
by colored men, and which no other, con
ducted by any other class of citizens, could
do for us. by it, one of the most prominent
objections extant—of inferiority—has been
consigned over to take its place in the low
and lying category of objections w hich have
long since failed to aid the grovelling apolo
gist fot slavery, it lias been the means of
drawing thousands aw ay from former habits—
in a measure curing them of that loathsome
disease, expediency. the great objection to
the north star at its commencement was,
that it took too high grounds—not that they
were untrue in any of their bearings, but
they were so far in advance of the diseased
public sentiment of the age—so little ju ac
cordance with, but far overreaching the pop
ular religion of the day, that (sorry am i to
record the fact) a large portion of the colored
people have lieen arrayed against it—if not by
public expressions of disapprobation, by si
lence and inactivity in its behalf. these ob
jections are rapidly passing away, and colored
men begin to see that the work must be done
by them, upon uncompromising principles—
that the only safe mode of action is to do
right, and abide the issue. another omen
for good arising from the publication of the
north star, may be seen in the diffusion of
anti-alavery principles in sections of the coun
try hetetofore difficult to reach. in various
snd remote regions of the south, the editor
has become the subject of public and private
discussion, and much of his writings,although
violently and unjustly assailed, have estab
liahed facta, brought out and dissemminaled
truths of incalculable benefit to the cause of
freedom. these, together with the daily in
fluence exerted on the minds of anti-slavery
men for good in our own and other lands, as
i in the outset staled, leave the north star
without an equal.
this is but a slight glance at the good
results already emanating from a press con
ducted by colored men, and needs no further
proof that the hour has come—yea, now is,
when upon our action in a great measure de
pends the freedom of the slave and salvation
of our country. the bugle blast for republi
can liberty in the old world, has crossed the
atlantic. its delightful strains have taken
lodgment, in spite of the impure atmosphere,
in the heart and body politic of this professed
republic; and in spite of the efforts of slave
holders and their apologists against it, party
strife, bloodshed, mexican war, and all other
hellish ingredients, the onward progress of
equality can no longer be impeded; and there
is hope that this land will ere long, in deed
and in truth, become what it has professed to
be for nearly three-fourths of a century. we
must be the prominent actors in this mighty
struggle. liet us stand by the press; through
it alone can we reach the nation's heart, and
change the nation's will. let us hold up, 1
beseech you, the north star—take it as our
guide. it has never deceived us, and i ven
ture to say it never will. take the example
of our philadelphia friends, n.or whatever
course is best adapted to increase its perma
nency. if we carry out these views, and
rely upon him who rulps the destinies of 1
men, victory is ours. more anon. i
yours as ever,
a. h. francis.
philadrlphia, jan. 18, 1848.
it is not customary for females to take a
stand against renowned public speakers; but
the spirit leads i obey. i am not a phila
delphian, but feel as one. my native home ia
the fair and sunny south. though cursed
by the iron rule of slavery, as my home, i
love it still.
my ;mention has lieen attracted by the
great cry of reform, reform; but reform
where 1 ho where it is needed 1—
some say in the church, and have knocked
loudly, but were not admitted, and rightly
too. j am no bigot; i am no communicant of
any denomination but such is my reverence i
for the house of the lord, that i think the:
language used by the anti-slavery lecturers
a desecration. suppose, as we ought always i
when in (rod’s house, that he is there too, do!
you think that such expressions as infernal,
hellish, rascals, and many more of like ten
dency, would meet his approving smile no,
sir none can be found who would stand in
the presence of god, and give utterance to
»uch lauguage. hard words harden the
heart, but a mild and kind reproof worketh
wonders. can men who threaten, abuse, and
try to drive us to do what they may think
right, expect to gain their point when our
saviour sent his apostles to teach, be bade
them go forth meekly and lowly, and they did
0 1 wn as they went, and i suppose
touched many a heart as a aa we (so called)
pro-slavery phuadelphian. po** m they
did 001 cr, out -hk.wsty.2l
iiol '•"“■woth, ,„d a
holhtd u. ibe b«t £j“ onlbu ]_
men who low cod ln d e jn
•re »nd «hot.m be pn.ileged u. rebuke the
church bol thoee who ha.e nerer known
god, or made a profession u> know h, m
think it sheer presumption m them to attempt
to take the mote out of their brother's eye,
when they have a beam in their own.
i was present a short time since when one i
of the anti-slavery lecturers laid a great many
sins at the door of the philadelphia people.
fim, he foaod firek wtlh the dinrinrtfons
wise disapprove of it, and t know it esiati to
a great extent, but i do not thing that to abase
ia the way to reform. t
another charge was. wo wore 100 food of
dress; ladies with carls sari ribbons flying, in
imitation of out oppresoore and girls who
live at service spending their earnings in be
decking then*elves equally ia appearance
with their employers. i should like to know
how the gentlemen would have os dress. 1
suppose the old-fashioned bonnets and dresses
of our grandmothers would please him. 1
kaow they would please our oppressors, far
the unwelcome truth would not sure them in
the face, that we are as capable of refinement
and taste as they are. i think our service
girls have been unjustly handled. most of
them have poor parents, and a great part of
their earnings go to assist them, which leaves
them little to spend upon themselves; yet a
stranger, who knows nothing of the social
relations of the laboring people of our city,
undertakes to censure them for extravagance f
the gentleman speaks much against our
young men wearing broadcloth but 1 may
say, that i see none of them dress as fashion
ably as he does. pray who does be ape t is
there any nation of the genuine color”ithat
i have not heard oft america does not ori
ginate her fashions she receives them from
france and england so when we follow a
fashion, we consider ourselves no more imi
tators than our oppressors.
it is now my turn to find fault. it is with
romething of more consequence than people’s
dress or color. 1 seldom attend a lecture, but
i am disgusted with some expiession which
makes the blush of shame o'erspread my face.
what gentleman would allow the utterance of
words at his fireside, which would cause his
wife or daughter to hang her head then
may i inquire, what right have lecturers to
use language in public that they would not
dare use in private do they expect to re
form the people l do stop this, i beseech
you. think where you are—consider we are
not all simple, but have a little sense, and
would not mind improving ourselves. you
wish to elevate us if you employ the right
means you can. let us set to work—have
lectures on scientific subjects; let us have our
schools well filled, our retreats and houses of
industry [supported and above all, let us
raise a fund to build a college or high school
in the state of pennsylvania, that our young
men of the next generation may be so well
educated that our proud oppressors can no
longer say we are not equal to them. god
speed the time when our people will have
more public spirit among them. let us pull
together, every one feeling that he has some
thing to do for the common good, and then as
a well-organized family we must prosper.
yours, irwin.
the harrisburg delegation*
pursuant to arrangement, the colored citi
zens of philadelphia, met in the wesleyan
church, lombard street, for the purpose of
receiving the delegates from 'the harrisburg
convention; the rev. w t m. t. catto in the
chair, and joseph c. moore, secretary.
prayer was offered by the rev. joshua p.
b. eddy. after the president had stated
the object of the meeting, the rev. stephen
smith, one of the delegates, addressed the
assembly, stating that they, (ten in number,)
in obedience to the request of their constitu
ents, convened together in harrisburg, in
the shakespeare saloon, on the 13th instant,
with some fifty-five other delegates from the
various counties of the state.
by a special resolution of the convention
(he said) it was agreed that there be $6,000
raised to oarry on the object for which they
had met. the city and county of philadel
phia promised to raise $2,000 of the above
mentioned sum. he sustained the same, by
offering a resolution to that effect, which was
unanimously adopted.
mr. j. ware read some of the resolutions
adopted by the convention, and stated that
the delegation from philadelphia had been
constituted the medium to bear our petition to
the legislature—appoint an agent or agents to
canvass the state, and lay the claims of the
i disfranchised impartially before the people,l
both colored and white.
m. w. gibbs, in a brief but eloquent;
speech, set forth the great necessity of raising
the sum of $5,000 to promote the cause. he j
was followed by d. b. bowser, who called
upon the assembly to know if they would as
sist in the advancement of the enterprise. he j
i received a hearty response from the audience: j
after which, in a brief and enthusiastic speech,
showed the necessity of concerted and imme
diate action. j. j. g. bias then made a few
remarks, calling upon young and old, male
and female, to lend their assistance, both phy
sical, moral and pecuniary, to obtain our
god-given rights. c. l. remond followed,
on the great advantage of having the elective
franchise, and the great disadvantage of our
disfranchised coudition concluding with a
resolution that there be a committee of three
appointed to make arrangements for a public
meeting. george w. guinea, peter lester,
and rev. stephen smith, were appointed that
committee; after which the meeting adjourn
ed, to be reassembled at the discretion of the
committee.
wm. t. catto, pres t.
joseph c. mooax, sec’y.
philadelphia, dec. 18, 1846.
salem, n. j., j tn 9, 1849
frederick douglass l n accordance
with a motion made at a meeting held in the
township of maoningion on the 4th inst.,
the colored people of mannington, salem!
and the adjacent county, assembled ia the
m. e. church, (mount pisgah.) on
motion of mr. jostah connell, mr. daniel
ue was chosen chairman, and a. m. bland
secretary.
after prayer by rev. james holland, dr.
reek came forward, made some remarks ex
planatory of the meeting, and closed with the
reading of an appeal on the right of suffrage
which had been presented by a delegation
from dutch town, and which the assembly
had convened 10 consider.
the following gentlemen then addressed
the among: messrs. con well, holland,
wilson, fletcher, shockley and bland.
on motion of dr. rock, the convention,
when held, be held ie trenton. carried.
on motion of rev. ja*. holland, there be
a committee of three 00 correspondence to
confer with onr brethren throughout the
stele. carried. committee dr. reek. re*.
jaa. holland, and we. wilson.
on motion of dr. rock, the minutes he
i published in the north star and ram’s horn.
curried.
daniel lee, chairmen.
a. m. blahd, secretary.*
me. gioowue cm slavery .—lt is said
that mr. giddinga has prepared the following
resolutions to be presented to the house the
first opportunity:
resolved, that establishing this re
cblie, its founders proclaimed their object tc
to secure to those who live under the
executive jurisdiction of its laws the enjoy
ment of lifr, liberty, and the pursuit of happi-
resolved, that it k the solemn duty of mil
who administer this government, or pertici
pete in its legislation, to carry these objeeta
into effect by excluding slavery from that por
tion of our territory lying between texas and
the rio grande.
resolved, that to effect these objects, the
line that separated texas from the mexican
stales of tamaulipaa, chihuahua and new
mexico, ought to pe immediately established.
slavery is maryland —curious deci
sion.—a curious question under the laws of
slivery has been decided in the maryland
court of appeals. some time ago a wealthy
gentlemen died, having by will given freedom
to certain of his slaves. tliere is a legacy
duty payable in maryland on all estates be
qneathed by will, and the register of the dis
trict in which the gentleman resided claimed
from the executors the amount of this duty on
tbe apprised value of the manumitted slaves.
the claim was resisted, on the ground that
freedom to a slave is not such a legacy of es
tate as is contemplated bjyh# law but the
court of appeals has decided otherwise,
bolding that the bequest of freedom to a slave
—that is, if a man to himself—-is piecisely
similar, in legal intent and effect, to the be
quest of a slave to any other person. the
executors, therefore, have been required to
pay the duty.
singular escape from slavery.—wil
liam w. brown writes to the liberator that
one of the most interesting cases of the es
cape of fugitives from slavery has just
occiurred. he gives the following particu
lars
william and f.lien crapt, man and wife,
lived with different masters in the state of
georgia. ellen is so near white that she can
eass without suspicion for a white woman.
eer husband is much darker. he is *a me
chanic, and by woiking nights and sundays,
he laid up money enough to bring himself
and his wife out of slavery. their plan was
without precedent; and though novel, was
the means of giving them their freedom.
ellen dressed in man's clothing, and passed
as the master, while her husband passed as
the servant. in this way they traveled from
georgia to philadelphia. they are now out
of the reach of the bloodhounds of the south.
on their journey, they put up at the best
hotels where they stopped. neither of them
can read or write; and ellen, knowing that
she would be called upon to write her name
at the hotels, &c. tied her right hand up as
though it was lame, which proved of some
service to her, as she was called upon several
times at hotels to register” her name. in
charleston, s. c. they put up at the hotel
which gov. mcduffie and john c. calhoun
generally make their home; yet these distin
guished advocates of the peculiar institution”
say that the slaves cannot take care of them
selves. they arrived in philadelphia in four
days from the time they started.”
daily enterprise.”—we i have re
ceived the two first numbers of this paper,
published at wheeling, (ya.) the editor,
we judge, is independent, from the following
remarks on the subject of slavery. we know
many a northern editor who dare not say as
much. it is a sign of the good times com
ing, when an editor in a slave state speaks
out thus boldly :—ohio standard.
1. we are anti-slavery, soul and body, now
andforevei. we go against enslaving the
body, enslaving the mind, the tongue, the
press.
2. if the question were to be decided lre
tween perpetual bondage and immediate
emancipation, we would choose the latter
without hesitancy.
3. we go for the abolition of slavery on
the best plan for the slave's own benefit. that
plan we could propose if necessary.
4. we believe that it is a national evil, and
an individual curse, and that in the aggregate
the whites would be greater gainers than the
slaves.
6. we suppose the citizens of wheeling
have but little interest in the question, except
as it affects their immediate interests, and
aie in this respect prepared to discuss it
themselves.
finally, if we are to be proscribed for sen
timents like these, the sooner we get out of
j this commonwealth the better. but we have
j formed no such idea of the people of western
j virginia. a few of the selfish and contract
jed may condemn for opinion’s sake, but the
most of them are too liberal to permit their
minds to be thus biased.
j the great light.—m. le motte, a
frenchman, has been experimenting on the
i great western line with a new electric light,
j which being attached to either end of a train,
diffused its rays with such extraordinary brill
j iancy as to render it visible for more than two
miles through the thickest darkness of night.
an interesting case was decided by
judge watrona, of the united states dis
trict court, sitting at galveston. thomas
toby sued david| randon on two promissory
notes, amounting to $3,600. the defendant
contended that tbe money was oot justly due,
as the property he received lor the notes were
slaves, natives of africa, who were brought
through cuba contrary to the laws of spain,
and taken to texas in 1835, in violation of th#
laws of mexico. the plaintiff contended
that at the time of the revolution, the negroes
were held in slavery, their condition being
fixed by the constitution of the republic of
texas, of l?th march, 1846. the judge
sustained the plea of the defendant, and gave
judgment in his favor.
universal suffrage.—of about thirty
four millions inhabitants of france, eight mill
ions voted for president at the late election.
in this country at the last election there was
not quite three millions.
ftp richard c#bden has given notice in
the english house of commons of his inten
tion to introduce early in tbe next session a
motion to settle future national disputes by ar
bitration instead of war.
pcait>n oprosition to beas-saitino.
macsuley, in his new history of england re
marking on the puritan character, uses this
language —“the puritans bated bear-baiting,
not beeaose it gave pain to the bear, hot be
cause it gsve pleasure to tbe spectators,”
calhoun’s southern address adopted.
—the southern convention met at wash
ington on monday evening.
mr. berrien’s address was read.
mr. mason of virginia, opposed it. he
said it was nothing mere than a petition— not
a declaration of rights.
mr foote of mississippi, sustained mr.
calhoun’s address.
mr. berrien advocated its postponement to
the 23d of february.
attcf ftr uußwico uiibiimuon, wold! isfltfii
until morning, the question wss put, snd mr.
berrien’s address was negatived—yess 86,
navs 33.
mr. calhoun’s address was then adopted,
yeas 38, nays !».—mgraphtc dn/mtek to
th* evening fftrs.
jam— rwa,i lowell im tmmi tmmkmr
poem fro® the pro—; tb* third pse*ted publi
cation of hri within —ijf mouths; km
fable fin critics, the bigelow paper*, mod
now the vision of sir launlal. his range of
thought is nobly large and high, and his vari
ety of style greater, we think, than that of
sst other taring author. hu wit is keen, his
bo—or broad sod fine,* the happiest adaptation
to the subject, and especially is he remarkable
for the effectiveness which bunpreeares.—
some writers secure our admiratto for their
productions as works of art; others bare the
higher art of transferring their own great life
into that of the reader. lowell is eminently
successful in both. but his highest praise is
the devotion of his noble eerrnsp. he is ooc,
and one of the best, of those poets who ars
the ordained priests of the age; one of those
flaming spirits—nt forth to minister to men in
their highest practical interests kindling the
life and shedding the light of their own iospi
ralkm npon the great progress which human
ity is making towards its earthly destiny.—
tnere is enough in lowell to admire and
(mai—, but there is something greater in him
that refoses such homage as inadequate. our
very heart blesses him for the purity, and
i beauty, and breadth of his manhood. —phiua
republic.
terrific theory. professor silliman
mentions the fact, that in boring the artesian
wells in paris, the temperature of the earth
increased at the rate of one degree for every
fifty feet, towards the centre. reasoning
from causes known to exist, he says“ the
whole interior portion of the earth, or, at
least, a great pari of it, is an ocean of melted
rock, agitated by violent winds, though 1
dare not affirm it, is still rendered highly pro
bable by the phenomena of volcanoes. the
farts connected with their eruption have been
ascertained and placed beyond a doubt. how,
then, are they to be accounted for* the
theory, prevalent some years since, that they
are caused by the combustion of immenre
coal beds, is perfectly puerile, and is entirely
abandoned. all the coal in .the world could
not afford fuel enough for a single capital
exhibition of vesuvius. we must look higher
than this; and i have but little doubt that the
whole rests on the action of electric and
galvanic principles, which are constantly in
operation in the earth/’
slavery in the district of columbia.—
the mayor and council of washington city
have petitioned congress either to abolish
directly, or empower them to abolish, the
district slave trade. maj. gaines presented
the memorial in the house.
mr. clay in the senate. —a despatch
from louisvillu, states that mr. clay has re
ceived the nomination for 11. s. senator, to
succeed ictr. metcalf. a baltimore despatch
reports mr. clay at new orleans, where,
it is said, he will remain during the winter.
historical. —the history of midas might
be read just now with profit. that ancient
gentleman being permitted to ask any favor of
the gods he pleased, was cute enough to de
mand that whatever he touched might be
turned into gold. his piayer was granted,
but when he found that even the meats he
attempted to eat turned to gold in his mouth,
he was sick of his bargain and begged the
gods to take back their gift. soon after this
we find him sporting a pair of asses’ ears, all
of which is very interesting.
cost of imprisoning.—lt is stated that
i the clinton state prison of new york cost
the state last year 32,000 over the income
from the labor of the convicts, or four dollars
a week for each convict, over and above jiis
earnings.
married in jail.—charles burton and
elizabeth nichols, of boston, were married
in the albany jail on the 15th. the bride
groom is under sentence to the state prison
for two years, for horse stealing, and the
bride is a pretty, intelligent and- respectable
girl-
another diving bell.—a correspondent
of the easton, pa. sentinel, says that a
company of gentlemen from boston are now
at w ork near grand menan, with an apparatus
invented by a gentleman who belongs to bos
ton. the operator has to descend to the
depth of one hundred and twenty feet from
the surface, where he is enabled to remain
one hour, or longer.
slaveholding in new-jersey.—we un
derstand that a state convention is shortly to
be held in our city, for the purpose of se
curing the repeal of laws authorizing tempo
rary residents to. hold slaves in this state, and
requiring or authorizing our officers to assist
in the arrest of persons claimed as fugitive
slaves. this matter was brought before the
legislature at its last session, but the judi
cary committee of the house reported ad
versely to the petition, and consequently no
aclion was had in relation to it.— trenton
news.
morals oe slaveholding.—col wilson
sunderlin, of memphis, tcnn. recently died,
leaving an estate of $150,000. he had two
sets of children, somewhat after the fashion
of many southern gentleman, but in the clev
erness of his heart he made them all share
alike. an effort will be made to contest the
will by some of the.heirs. —jy.jjt. evang.
stampede frustrated. —we learn that
about forty negroes had made arrangements to
leave their masters in woodford county, ,on
saturday night last, hut the plot was dis
covered just in time to defeat its execution.
the negroes all had free passes. according
to the plan of operations, each was to steal a
horse and cross the ohio river before day.
they were betrayed by a negro to whom the
plot was disclosed, and who was requested to
join in it.
mr. cobben, writing to the peace congress
at brussels, says the total armed force of
europe exclusive of national guards, police
ac., is 2.360,000 men, and total expense
$200,000,000 sterling per annum.
intemperance prevails to auch an extent
m england and wales, that one human being
dies every nine minutes, or one and
sixty every day of drunkenness. this fact
is stated on the authority of a late report to
parliament.
the gold fever in the sandwich
islands.—a letter from hong kong, dared
sept. 28th, published in the salem register,
—ys that a vessel just arrived from the sand
wich islands, reports them to be depopulated
by the california gold fever, which had
been raging there with such virulence as to
carry off all the young men
the same letter —ys that the sandwich
island oaoere report a horrid massacre at the
fegeesvabout the 15th april. no particu
lars given. two english men-of-war had
gone there.
the ladies of paris have quite a numbei
of dobs ma secret societies. a parisan pa
per chronicles the fact, wiih many exeiama
lion points seventy-*** ladies sat down at
secret party dinner recently, and nothing ha*
transpired of the proceeding*. seventy-six
ladies koep a secret! this is one of the many
carious developments the french revolu
tion.
frp why is a man closing a letter like a
traveller! because here* wafti t/fwayforer.]
the author of th» eonu|#«iin, «ts said, h*
dwappesred unde* mjappua carru—frro.
the editor of the st. louis dsmopviiie
has been fined for chopping wood a* unsea
souabie boat*-
cholera. —we! are requested to stare tha
dr c dvmcomir’* rare and preventive o!
cholera is for «fe pn-dpal dm*
stores in lidwtr-
doc, 90.
hampshire, [mr. wilson.) i with how
ever, to add a few word* on this point
i am not aware that any committer o
this house ever reported in favor o
paying for slaves, until the first srssioi
of the 27th congress—being more that
sixty five year* from the formation o
the government.
in 1830, my predecessor, the hon
e. w hitteiaey, reported upon the cast
of b rancis larche. this wa** the caw
alluded to by the gentleman from soutt
carolina, [mr. burt.) i understood hin
to sa> that the slave ol larrhe was no
impressed.
mr. burt.—tin- gentleman is mis
taken. the statement i made wav this
that no case could be adduced in wide!
a refusal to pay for a slave had beet
made, on the ground that he is not pro
petty, the gentleman i« totally mis
taken.
mr. giddings.—l certainly under
stand the gentleman now and i refei
particularly to the case of d*auteriv<
which whs rejected on this nienticn
point* the committee say, in express
language, that “slaves have nevei
been placed on the tooting of property.'
and they rejected the haim di«*tinctlv
on that point.
but to return to the ca*c of laic he
the committee on claims of the sen
ate (vide rep. 11. it. 101, ih.sessior
21 «t cotigresa say in distinct language
that “the cart, hoise, and negro mac
antoine, belonging to the petitioner,
were impressed, and sent to ihe lines ol
the arnericnn army, oil the jst day ol
january, 1815, where the negro man
was killed by a cannon hall lioni ihe
j british batteries."
the gentleman from south carolina
[mr. burt .assures u*thal in* was not
impressed. 1 can hardly suppose that
he was authorized thus distinctly in
deny the accuracy of that report, in a
matter of fact. however that may he.
it is certain that the committee under
stood that the man was impiessed.
they therefore acted upon that hy
pothesis, and with that belief the eom
mitee unanimously repotted against the
bill. no stronger ease can in* im
agined. the horse, rail, and negro,
were impressed, as the committee re
ported and believed. the petitioner
1 was paid for the property —that is. the
i horse and cart —but the claim for the
'slave was rejected. vet, sir, they had
not the advantages of kn wing the sen
timents of the farmers of the constitu
tion which we possess. they were un
conscious that the members of the con
vention declared, that “they ought t<
he careful tb give no sanction to sla
very;’ 1 that they should do nothing by
which “it could bo implied that slaves
were property;” that it was wrong to
admit that there could he property in
man.” i repeat that to the best of my
knowledge, (and i have bestowed much
labor on the subject,) no report was
made in lavor of paying for slaves from
the public treasury during the first
half century which this governmenl
'existed under the present constitution.
if wrong on any of these points, j
ask gentlemen to correct me here, be
fore the country. let them expose mj
errors, in the presence of this house
where i can meet them; where, witt
truth on my side, i stand prepared t<
defend my positions. let gentlemei
stand forth in this hall and meet mi
facts and argument like men. liki
statesmen, and not slink away in si
lence, and then set their letter writer
to assail me—to pour forth their miser
able abuic upon myself. why, sir
suppose they destroy me, they wil
leave my doctrines, my principles un
touched. they will remain while eter
nity shall last.
but to resume the history of this sub
ject: in the 27th congress, the clain
of janies watson for slave's was com
i mitted to the committee of claims, o
j which 1 was chairman. the friend
jof the claim, by some means, learnei
i that the committee had always reportei
j against the payment for slaves. the;
i therefore obtained the transfer of tha
case to the committee on indian at
fairs who reported a bill to pay for th»
slaves claimed by watson. that re
port, made seven years since, was tin
first in favor of paying lor slaves a
property, so far ns ray knowledge ex
'tends, ever made to tli.s body. du
ring the same sessioif, a report iron
the committee on territories \va
made of the “bill for the relief ot tin
people of west florida,” to which
have already alluded, and which wa
rejected by the house. _
mr. burt.—will the gentleman al
low me the floor a moment:
mr. giddings.—with pleasure.
mr. burt.—l stated in ihecornmitte<
the other day, in reply to the interrog
atorv of the gentleman from ohio, ilia
mr. whittclesey, in his report' oi
laic he’s case, quoted the report of on
senate. i stated further, that mr. \n il
hants, to whom the gentleman iron
ohio alluded, made a report in th<
senate, on the ease ot larche, sayin*
that there was no evidence that tin
slave had been impressed at all.
•tated further, that i had examined tin
senate files in that case; and there ii
no evidence there, except the deposi
tions of one or two men. (in the absence
of any order,; i hat he was impressed
mr. giddings.—here is the histori
cal record, the documentary proof, or
which we are bound to act. i ask tht
gentleman from south carolina if he
intends to overthrow it by his sidebai
testimony?
mr. burt.—what is it:
mr. giddings.—that this man wai
impressed.
mr. burt.—l df, sir. there is nc
evidence of the fact.
mr. giddings.—then i leave the
gentleman to take issue with the his
tory. the docuinentaiy evidence is,
that this slave was impressed; that he
was taken to the american lines, and
was there “killed by a cannon shot from
the enemy’s batteries.' 1
at the period to which i was refer
nng when interrupted, i had been
placed at the head of the committee on
claims bv the then speaker of the
j house, [hon. johu w hite, of ken
tucky, j of whom, though a slaveholder,
i i can never speak except with pro
found respect. there were at that
time many claims for slaves before that
(committee. it was then our settled
policy to make no reports on those
cases, lest we should stir up agitation
on this delicate question
in this hall, before the howe. i wan
interrogated by a slaveholder [mr.
\n ise, of virginia j oe ibis select. i
t was asked distinctly whether our com-
i mittee would report in favor of paving
'i lor slave*; i answered, that we would
1 follow the established practice on that
h subject. he replied, that my answer
t was evasive, but that the established
practice was not to pay for slaves. it
'so happened, that on the ‘2lst march,
i**4*2, i introduced certain resolutions
declaring the rights of the people of
the tree states to he exempt from the
support of the slave trade. for this
i was censured und driven from my
seat. another member war added to
the f'ominilke on claims; and then,
sir. during my absence, just eight day#
after 1 left the committee, thiscase was
urged u|xm the members, who were
most of them inexperienced m their
duties, and unacquainted with the
precedents. i ielt- this mall on the
*j2d march, and »>n the i <4 day of april
fallowing a hill was reported by a slave
holding member of that ommittce, to
pay for tills man lewis. this was the
first ca«e of the kind that ever receiv
ed a favorable report from that paiti
rular committee; and that report was
obtained in the manner just slated. it
wa-* in the sixty-seventh year of ameri
can independence, and the fifty-third
of mu* constitution. this is the histo
i v of this subject, ami of this hill. it
was reported seven years since by a
\vhig committee. we are. yet to see
whether ihi* mouse can lie induced to
pass it.
sir, we have the power to overturn
the practice of this body from its first
formation; we may overthrow its estab
lished and time-honored principles; we
may defeat the objects of those who
framed the constitution; ue may sub
vet t the essential elements of that
sacred compact which we are sworn to
t support; we may attempt to change
the law of our existence—to deface the
work of (»<>d. and declare his image to
he property; we may do all this at the
bidding of the slave power: we may
humble ourselves in the presence o r
those who hold the rod of terror over
its: but there is a superior power that
will hold us to a strict account of our
stewardship. sir. the eyes of the
people are upon us; they arc watching
our actions. the concentrated rays
of intelligence now brought to bear
upon alt our doings, render it impossi
ble for us to deceive them. no evasion,
no subterfuge, will screen those who
would render northern freemen sub
sidiary to the support of southern slave
ry.
to' this day there has been in this
hall sufficient independence and pat
riotism to reject all propositions of this
humiliating character. as i have said,
we arc now driven to legislate by south
ern slaveholders, under the lash of the
south.
mr. burl. i hope the gentleman
from ohio will allow ine this opportuni
ty to disclaim utterly and indignantly
any such imputation.
mr. giddings. withdraw it, then.
mr. burt. 1 venture to appeal to
this whole committee, who heard my
remarks.
mr. giddings. i thought, when the
>j gentleman said he would hold northern
i gentlemen to this point whether a slave
was property “that he would leave
5 no loophole for us to escape.” i thought
it looked somewhat like the language
i of intimidation; it smacked somewhat
of the plantation, of the crack of the
whip. i took it unkind in the gentle-
i man from connecticut, that, under such
circumstances, he should attempt to
stifle debate, to seal the lips of north
ern men.
this bill is pressed upon us at this
particular time, when southern men
are holding conventions, and manufac
turing their usual mock thunder of
i dissolving the union, in consequence ol
1 our agitation. we hear it rolling along
i the heavens. it affords amusement to
r our sehool-boys, who crack their jokes
1 and sing ditties in regard to it.
sir, when l reflect that 1 am now
constrained to sit in this hall to legis
late upon the price of human flesh as
->pruperty, i feel humbled. before the
3 nation, before heaven, i protest
against this degradation. by what rule
shall 1 arrive at the value of this man:
1 he is said to he very intelligent and
3 learned, reading and writing lour lan
guages. in this respect he has, pro-
l bably, few equals in this hall. 1 mean
no offence by this comparison, eithertc
gentlemen now present, or to the negre
who is absent. i regard the inoral
qualities of a man as the proper criterion
by which to graduate my respect. in
i, this light, i know not whether the com
parison be unjust to him or to those
t who estimate his value at precisely a
i thousand dollars. i would he as wil
ling to enter into an inquiry as to the
value of the body of the honorable
i member reporting this bill, as i am te
estimate the value of a man who, as a
linguist, probably has not a dozer
equals in this body. if we are u)
judge of him by the report of the com
mittee, if placed in this body, he might
have reflected honor upon our country
and our race. the splendor of has
genius might have soared far above the
grovelling intellects now engaged in
figuring up his value in dollars and
cents. his name might have been
placed in future history betide that ol
i wirt, of henry, of burke, and of
’i sheridan; or perhaps hit philanthropy
might have placed him on the roll of
fame with adams and wilberforce.
j and yet we are now sitting here to in
quire as to the value of this immortal
mind, to estimate ita price in glitter
,ing dust.' my soul shrinks from the
impious sacrilege with loathing and
disgust. but this ethereal, immortal
intellect, was bound in the chains ol
bondage, shut out from that sphere ol
usefulness and of action in which god
designed it to move; and we are now
asked to compensate this claimant for
committing -this wrong to mankind, this
crime against god. i am anxious to see
how northern members estimate their
fellow men. w hat price do they put
upon their constituents let their rotes
give the answer.
on a former occasion 1 died the
opinion of an eminent jurist (jndge
mclean) on this subject. in the cnee
of groves vs. slaughter and others.
(15 peter.’• jl*port4, 440.) (hi.
non came distinctly before the supreme
court ofthe united states. the con
fitittthoa of mississippi bod prohibited
the introduction of tiers* into fhot
stale after a certain day. sieves were
token there and sold on o credit after
the time allowed by the constitution of
that state. sait vos commenced on
tho note given in consideration of tu
slatea. the defence set up won, that
the contract was illegal and void under
the conmitotion of that state, which
prohibited the sale therein of slaves
from without the rate. the reply to
this was, that slaves were property,
and therefore the state of miaetamppi
had no power to prohibit their intro
duction into the states, as the power to
regulate commerce between the states
belonged only to congress. in de
ciding the law, judge mclean said
by the laws ofcerta n states slaves
are treated as pte>perty; and the con
stitution of mississippi prohibits their
being brought into that state by citi
xens of other states, for sale or as
merchandise. merchandise is a com
prehensive term, and may include every
article of traffic, whether foreign or
domestic, which is properly embraced
by a commercial regulation. but it
slave* are considered in some of the
states as merchandise, that cannot
divest them of the leading and con
trolling quality ot persons, by which
they are designated in the constitution.
the character of the property is given
thciq by the local law. this law is re
spected, and ail rights under it are
protected by the federal authorities;
but the constitution acts upon slaves
as persons, and not as property.*’
but one member of that court dis
sented from these views. it may
therefore be regarded as an authority,
so far as the judiciary arc concerned.
'/'u cimchidfd n*i/ trtfl.
north carolina.
the house of commons of noyth
carolina passed on the :ld inst. streibg
resolutions on the subject of slavery,
by' an almost unanimous vote. the
following are the proceedings as they
appear in the raleigh standard:
4 the question being on the
passag#of the resolutions to their sec
ond reading—
mr. stanly asked to he excused from
voting ftn the same, w hich was granted.
mr. h. c. jones asked to b€ excused
from voting on the 4th resolution,which
the house refused.
mr. jones then called for a division
of the question, and moved that the vote
he taken upon each resolution separ
ately. the motion prevailed, and the
question being on the passage of the
first resolution in ihe following words,
viz:
resolved, that the states came into
the union us equals; and that the citi
zens of each state are entitled to equal
rights, privileges and immunities, under
the constitution of the united states.
it was determined in the affirmative
unanimously.
resolved, that the proceedings ol
the convention by which the federal
constitution was framed, clearly de
monstrates that the institution of sla
very was maturely considered; anc
that the union of the states was finally
secured by incorporating in that instru
ment distinct and ample guarantees o
the rights of the slaveholder.
the question on the adoption of thi;
resolution was also determined in th(
affirmative unanimously.
resolved, that k we view with deej
concern the constant aggressions on the
rights of the slaveholder by jeertair
reckless politicians of the north; ant
that the recent proceeding s of congress
on the subject of slavery are fraugh
with mischief, well calculated to disturl
the peace of our country, and shouh
call forth the earnest and prompt disap
probation of every friend of the union
the question on this resolution was
determined in the affirmative—yeas
107, nays 2; messrs. l>. f. daldwel
and campbell voting in the negative.
resolved, that the enactment of an}
law by congress which shall directlj
or indirectly deprive the citizens of an}
of the states of the light of emigrating
with their slave property into any o
the territories of the united states
and of exercising ownership of the
same while in said territories, will b«
an act not only of gross injustice anc
wrong, but the exercise of power con
trary to the true meaning and spirit o
the constitution, arid never contem
plated by the framers thereof.
the question on the adoption of this
resolution was determined in the affirm
ative—yeas 89, nays 4. messrs. d. f
caldwell, campbell, hargrove, anc
miller voted iq the negative.
mr. rayner was understood to asl
for a division of this question on thh
resolution, and that the vote be firs
taken on the first branch of the resolu
tion, ending at the word ‘‘wrong;” bui
the chair deciding that the resolutioc
i was not divisible, the question was laker
on the whole proposition.
the following members present die
not vote: messrs. allen, blow, beau.
biggs, cherry, doak, hackney,head
en, johnson, j. m. leach, palmer
rayner, russell, satterwaite, skinner,
trull, sud j. m. taylor.
resolved, that while we do not in
tend hereby to be understood as con
ceding that congress has the powei
under the constitution to enact a law
prohibiting slavery in any portion of th<
territories of the united states; yet,
for the sake of preserving the peace
and promoting the perpetuity of tb<
union, we are willing that the basis ol
the missouri compromise should bt
adopted in reference to the re rently
acquired territories of mexico an<j
california, by extending the line then
agreed upon to the pacific ocean.
resolved, that a copy of the tore
going resolutions be signed by the
speakers of the senate and house ol
commons, and forwarded to our sena
tors and representatives in congress,
with a request that they be hid before
their respective bodies.
the vote on these resolutions was
i taken jointly, and passed in the affirm
ative—yeas 101, nays 3—d. f cald
well and catnpmm voting in the neg
ative.
gold or oram.—a writer in pen
sylvania undertakes to prove that solo
mon obtained his gold for the temple
from california—that that was the
place called ophir m the hook of
kings he also thinks the queen of
"sheba came from that region.