Having as 1 liclievo fully proved in j
ik first place, that God never, cither!
a the Old or Now Teata.nent, tolcra
ted slavery, as l have defined it; and
secondly, that he positively condemned
it; shall now proceed to show that
those who are held in bondage in the
Southern States of America arc the j
subjects of a cruel and oppressive
system.
Let me repeat my definition ot slave-;
rv
Slavery is the condition m winch one,
is 1/1 the power of another whom hr is
compelled to serve, without the means oj j
redress ichcn i pronged.
Southern writers say that those cir-j
cuinstances that are adduced as oppios-|
•dons and cruelties in slavery aie the j
"abuses of slavery." But 1 contend
that these things are essential elements
of slavery. It 1 have a proper under-j
standing of the use of language, I
should say that to abuse any thing is to j
detract from its use, i. e. to weaken
it. If I abuse my liberty, and become
licentious, 1 am losing my liberty and
becoming a slave to tny lusts. If lj
abuse mv purity I am becoming im
pure; to abuse my honesty is to be-j
come dishonest. So to abuse slavery
is to destroy slavery. But is tl not so
that the more you oppress a man the
greater slave he This oppression i
therefore is not the abuse of slavery,
u is the of liberty, it detracts
more and more liom the man’s liberty,
and involves him deeper and deeper in
slavery. Now, how comes it to pass'
that the more a man is oppressed the}
greater slave he is, if oppression be
not an essential element ol slavery f i
Take away all oppression, and what)
then? The man may not he out ofj
bondage, but lie is no longer a slave.
Freed from oppression, be is freed from 1
slavery* If he remain in bondage, it 1
is for Ids own benefit. He has his
means of redress, should lie suftVr
wrong, and his master is hound as well
as himself. He hus all tlie liberty he
wants, and he remains in bondage be
cause it is for his own happiness. It
would be foilv to call such a condition
slavery.
The slaveholder holds ids slave by a
legal tenure. He could not retain the
man in servitude if the civil law and
its administrators did not guard and
defend his claim. The laws ol the
country determine the extent ol the
master's claims, and limit the extent ol
the servant's powers accordingly. To
ihe laws, therefore, must we resort to
ascertain the real condition of the
servant It they give tlie servant pow
er ol prosecution and means of redress
when imposed upon by the master and
others, there is no slavery in the case.
K u i. they do not, and the master
luv- ihe power to compel service in
his own way, just as he might an ox or
a mule, *hc man is oppressed b) the
very law that places him in that condi
tion.
What then, is the law of American
slavery? The law of South Carolina
'tetines slavery thus:
Slaves phall be deemed, Mold,
Ukcn. and reputed to be chattel* per
sonal, in the hands ol their owners
And possessors, their executors, ad
ministrators or assigns, to all intents,
*oti at ructions, and purposes whatso
tvfcr.”
Goes not any one see at a glance
'hat a man or woman subjected to the
o ptratious of such a law, must be in
»n oppressed condition The msn who
"»too blind to «ec this is not fit to be
THE NORTH STAR.
reasoned with. Here is the essential
element 'of slavery; a .c'edition in
which one is in the complete and entire
possession and power of a maater, jusl
like a horse or a cow. Vet this is the
law under which professed believers o:
the Bible are holding their fellow men
in bondage.—But why wa< this, and
similar laws in other States enacted
Evidently, because it was found essen
tial to slavery. Let the law now be
repealed, and another passed in these
words
Slaves Bhall not hereafter he
deemed, sold, taken and reputed to he
chattels,” and what then becomes of the
slaveholder’sclaims? Hehasnone. His
servant is no longer a slave. Nc
longer a chattel. He is no longer a slave
he can not be sold. What then is he
worth-— Nothing, in the market. He
cannot be transmitted to heirs; he is
not a chattel—-he is now a inan, with a
will and a purpose of his own
Thus the very basis upon which
slavery is erected, is a law that places
men in the condition of cattle, ‘‘to all
intents, constructions, and purposes
whatsoever.” Can any one, in the
taco of this law, say slavery is not op
pressive' firacious God have mercy
upon the man whose heart is so hard,
that he cannot feel for a servant in
such a condition!
But to make the bondman as power
less as possible, he is not permitted to
give testimony, or to enter a suit in
law or equity, either for himself, or his
wife, or children. Why such laws, if
they he not essential to slavery?
These two things, defining the slave
to be a chattel, and debarring him
from entering a suit in law or equity,
to recover damages from his master,
or to secure his wife and children from
wrong and injury, are all-sufficient to
prove the oppressive character of slave
ry. And as such laws are absolutely
indispensable to the system, it follows
that oppression is its essential element.
But let us draw up a catalogue ot
some of those things, that some might
be pleased to call the “abuses of slave
ry.”
1. Punishments, of kind and degree
at the option of the master.
•1. Delegated powers to agents and
overseers, who may be cruel and
hearties men.
3. No legal rights of property.
4. Liability to be sold at the option!
of the master.
5. Liability to be sold for the mas
ters debts.
No right of redemption.
7. No choice of masters.
8. No reedvery of damages, if in-j
jured, cither by others, or by their
masters.
No power of making contracts.
10. Subject to descend by inheritance
to persons of the most cruel and des-,
potic dispositions.
I
From the New Yorx Evangeu»l.
EDUCATION OF FREE COLORED
PEOPLE.
BY W. L. CHAPLIN.
I cannot but hope that the period
has at length arrived m the progress
of the anti-slavery cause, when no in- 1
considerable group of persons, notj
heretofore very definitely identified!
with the objects of the enterprise, are!
prepared to listen with candor, to the,
claims of the colored population onj
this continent, and to lend heartily a
helping hand in the work of their en
lightenment and elevation.
Among the results from anti-slavery
agitation collateral to the main issue
with slaveholders, one of the most pre
cious and gratifying, has been its effect
upon the free colored people. What;
waking up, what advancement among
them, have we not witnessed in the last i
fifteen-last ten years! To under-,
stand this matter fully, one must have
had his eves upon the colored people
all alongj from some point of observa
tion near at hand. The anti-slavery
movement, if it has not at all times been
perfectly calm, circumspect and forgiv
ing, in its tone and spirit, has been as
“life from the dead” to the young men
and women among our colored people.
It has touched dormant sympathies, ar
oused benumbed faculties, and kindled j
up new, nobler, and juster aspirations, j
They have demonstrated a capacity for
developement and progress, which the!
most skeptical cannot gainsay—which
has often won homage from the lips i
and hearts of the least genial and hope
ful persons in the community. It is in
no way an extravagant assertion to
say. that \he colored people of this
country are at least as susceptible of
improvement, and are as likely, with
fair opportunities for culture, to reach
a high state of civilization, as any oth- 1
er division of our people. Why not,
then, open the way lor m at once—
speak to them words ofctioo and let
them feel the cordial grasp of a broth
er’shandr
In this case, ns in all others, the real
improvement of the colored population,
must be the result of rallying their own
energies, and putting in ceaseless re
quisition their own faculties. Not all
the law-making, by all the parliaments
and conquerers in the world, can make
a people genuinely free, unless the peo
ple themselves have within them the
seeds ot true freedom, and they are
cherished among them in their habits
I of thinking, and their social activities,
i Whatever else may be designed or
attempted for the overthrow of slavery,
and the restoration of their rights to the
j entire colored population in the United
States; I submit that universal free
education ought at once to be exten
ded to them by their friends, so far and
fast as they can be brought within
reach of its appropriate means. This
measure, as it seems to mt, is no less
the dictate of a wise policy, than of a
(wise comprehensive philanthropy. The
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX-TRFTH IS OF No COJ/JR—GOD IS THE FATHER OF FS ALL, AND ALL WE ARK BRETHREN
whole matter shapes itself in my own
mind on this wise: In the 1 nited
States there are, in round numbers,
three milions ot slaves, with half a mil
lion, more or less, of free colored pco
pie. Upon the islands in the Gull ol
Mexico and the contiguous seas, the
colored population, slave and free,
amount to not less than two and a hall
millions—with say, seven millions in
Mexico, somewhat variously composed
j as to origin, complexion, and progress
in the arts and refinements of life, yet
agreeing very nearly in outlines of
j character, and in general condition and
prospects, without raising any ques
lion ofeurious speculation, it seems on
j ly rational to conclude, that these thir
teen millions are linked to a common
destiny, are to commingle and live in
contiguity on this continent, at some
point most agreeable to their tastes,
'temperament, and the natural arrange
ments of an ill-wise Providence. Most
obviously those fragments of the color
jed people, scattered at intervals over
the cold North, have been forced by
the pressure of slavery upon them, from
their natural position—the locality con
genial with their constitution, habits
and strong predilections. Ho that ns it
may, however, these thirteen millions
of people are to form communities and
I States, whether temporarilly or perina
i nently distinct from their paler faced
1 brethren, is entirely immaterial, so far
forth ns the question of duty urges it
self upon our attention. They arc to
constitute a leading and controlling el
ement in these communities and States,
I in spite of anything that the w ildest
projects of foreign colonization can
achieve, or the wickedest theories yet
devised by the imagination of the
most frantic pcrpetualists, have hated
to assume.
These thirteen milions! ques
tion urges itself home to the bosom of
every considerate Christian man, what
can he done to diffuse among them
such a fullness of intelligence—educa
tion in so comprehensive and enlarged
a form, that tyranny cannot, by any
possibility, sway its scepti c over them.
How shall they be put upon the career
of Christian civilization in its highest
idea? How shall they be aroused to
a keen perception of their rights and
dignity as men, and induced to seize
upon the means indispensable to their
complete vindication? It may be ho
ped that our free colored people and
their brethren, as fast as their fetters
are broken, will be borne along by the
general current of events, and imbibe!
the spirit of improvement and self-cul-i
ture, peculiar to our times. I wish it
might be so. If such should be the
case, that fact would prove them to be
the most remarkable people the world
has ever seen.—Massachusetts is now
two-hundred and twenty-nine years
old. Her people came to this coun
try to educate themselves, and for no
other purpose. They have been at that
task, more or less earnestly, from the
beginning, and yet her wisest citizens
have but lately conceived the idea of a
true education as applied to the mass-j
es ofthe community.
Let the drop generalities and descend
to a particular or two, and that shall
end what i have to say at present. In
some ofthe slave States, the free col
ored people are accessible to school
arrangements. —They can be legally
taught. The alphabet and multiplica
tion tables are not objects of such pe
culiar jealousy and alarm to society, j
as to demand the restraint and terror of;
legislative penalties. With this small!
measure of indulgence in this respect, I
the colored people are yet under great
disabilities and embarrassments. As-:
sistance and co-cperation in the estab
lishment of schools among them, entire
ly free for the poorest, would become’
a source of encouragement, hope and
progress, such as words cannot easily
describe. For instance, in Washing
ton are, say five thousand free colored
people. They have acquired a con-
siderable amount of property in the
gross, and are taxed for every dollar of
it, for the support of white schools,
while not a single dime is in any way
contributed by the white pupils tow ards
the education and training of the col
ored children. There is among the
colored people here, a commendable
desire to reap the advantages of educa
tion. A number bf subscription-schools
are sustained by them. A few of the
teachers are worthy of all praise for
their exertions in the cause to which
they are i.e voted, yet the number of
scholars actually in the schools is ex
ceedingly small in proportion to the en
tire colored population. It will be
long, 1 fear, before education in the
most humble and meagre form, w ill be
come general among tnc people, with
out impulse and aid from abroad.
Three to four hundred children, upon
an average, are all that are found in
attendance upon the eight or ten
schools.
Can seven to ten thousand dollars
be appropriated in any way more likely
to bu effective for good in the cause ol
freedom, than by placing in this city a
free school, on the best model as yet
known, to be open to all the colored
families and other families that choose
to avail themselves of its bene tits?
Well, then, why should not the friends
ofthe anti-slavery cause undertake it
To what object .can our sympathies
and money be morB fitly appropriated,
than in wisely directing attempts to ed
ucate the entire colored population in
the United States, and on this conti
nent, so far and fast as it is accessible i
i Give this people, who are already free,
education—teach them to know them
selves, physically, intellectually, in
their moral relations, and the balance
ol their brethren would not long remain
slaves. Chattledom would soon be
stripped of its victims. The tyrant’i
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14. 1849.
occupation would be gone. The death
and burial of the slave system would
not be postponed for the enactment ol
Wilmot-Provisus, or the rattime of
ballotboxes’ We should goon rejoice
over a vast people, all equal in the eye
of the law- all protected in their rights
by the noiseless action af a beneficent
government.
As to possible anti probable objec
tions that may he raised,in any number,
as to plans of action. I have nothing to
say in this connection. Let the enter
prise, in all its aspects, be fairly con
sidered. Just conclusions will be
reached without difficulty
Washington, l).(
Tur following 8 the well-known Bnitu<
Address, for the alleged circulation of which
.1. M. Barrett is now in tail in the Calhoun
State, Talk of foreign de*qiotj'<m “Charity
begins at home," is an old adage. Is there
another spot on Cod's earth where such an
atrocity would l*e perpetrated 1
Fellow Citizens:—l desire to nd
dress you on an important subject, one
of momentous interest to all of us.
Mirpnlitirians areabout topiecipitate
us into evils from which nge-= will not
recover the country.
Every effort is being made by them
to perpetuate a system which has al
ready nearly ruined us, and in which
if they succeed they will forever blast
the hope of elevation and prosperity to
the mass of our population. Fnder
the name of Southern Kights, they are
demanding the extension and perpetua
tion of a system of policy runious to
our own State, and disastrous to our
personal interests. A lew among us.
having wealth, having political power,
having the monopoly of the govern
ment of the State, are determined to
secure their own interests, and per
petuate their own power, and therefore
they arc resolved to rend the union of
these States rather than not preserve
their own supremacy. Knowing they
caunot succeed by a true representa
tion ofdheir own position, they are
crafty enough to present themselves as
the standard-bearers of southern inter
ests, whilst in truth they only represent
a small fraction of the South. They
cunningly declaim in favor of State
rights, whilst they know they arc them
selves despisers of the people, and are
trampling under foot the true sovereign
ty of the State.
Fellow citizens, before wc suffer
ourselves to he hurried into the
schemes of mad politicians, it be
hoves us to enquire what true
condition of our State, and whether or
not it will be to the interest of the
mass of the people to follow these men
in their wild purposes to dissolve this
Union rather than not perpetuate their
own power.
This state is said to have a repub
lican form of government. It may be
the form, but the substance is wanting.
By a republic we understand a state
where the interests of all the citizens
are cared for, and their rights protec
ted. Is this the condition of the citi
zens of South Carolina? I speak now
of those Who are recognized as citi
zens, not the whole, but only the white
population.—Are these in the full en
joyment of the rights of citizens? Do
all stand on one political platform Is
the government alike regardful of the
interest of all? Or, is it not rather the
case, that the great mass of the peo
ple are virtually disfranchised, their
interest utterly disregarded, and their
voice not heard in the Councils of the
State? Let facts determine this in
quiry. Look at the follow ing table, and
it will be seen that the constitution
secures the government to a privileged
class.
Districts of South Carolina arrangid
in the order of llu relative number oj
Whites to Stares.
bisiKu rs, Wliilc Slaves. Sen. Rep.
Georgetown, 2,093 15,933 2 4
Beaufort, 5.950 29,082 1 0
(’ol. St dial. 20,795 77,785 13 32
Sumpter, 8,*>41 18,875 2 5
Williamsburg, 3,327 0,908 1 I
Kershaw, 3,988 8,043 l 2
Richland, 5,320 10,604 1 4
Orangeburg, 0,301 11,934 2 3
Fairfield, 7,587 12,505 1 4
Newbury, 8,208 9,904 1 3
Edgefield, 15,020 17,538 1 0
Abbeville, 13,880 15,148 I 5
Darlington, 7,109 7,<700 1 2
Barnwell, 10,533 10,503 I 1
Marlboro. 4,118 I 2
Union, 10,485 8,*154 I I
Chester, 9,889 7,722 I 3
Lancaster, 5.505 4,23-» 1 2
Laurence, 12,572 8,911 I 4
Lexington, 7,401 4,065 1 2
Marion, 8,593 5,251 1 3
York, 11,44? [0,825 1 4
Chesterfield, 5,537 2,871 1 2
Greenville, 12,491 5,305 1 4
Horry, 4,1<54 1,571 I
An. Pick., 24,295 8,398 I 7
Spartanburg, 17,924 5,080 a
Total. 259,084 328,036 45 124
A fair inspection of the above table
will show the following results: —the
eleven first named districts in a com
parison with the eighteen others stand
thus.
hites. Sen. Rep.
Eleven districts, 77,939 28 04
Eighteen districts, 181,145 17 0(
Here we see that less than one
-1 third of the free population have th<
j supreme control ot the State, and tho<
j occupy that portion of the State, for th«
most part, where the rice and loog-sta
pie cotton interests chiefly prevail. Bui
it is worse than this, as the columo o
senators will show. The six distncti
of Georgetown, Beaufort, harlestown
Colleton, Sumter and Oraogeburg girt
a majority in the senate. Nothing there
fore can become law if these six dis
tricts [embracing a population of onlj
49,503 white*,j combine it
Tunt is those districts embracing about
one-fifth of the whole population of the
State can veto any demand which the
great majority of the people may deem
it their interest to make.
The thirteen districts last in order in
the abova table comprehend the majori
ty of the white population of the whole
State. But wl- a is their strength in
the legislature? They have only twelve
senators. The tw o districts of Charles
ton and Colleton with less than
white population, can outvote them in
the senate.
And why does this inequality exist
For no other purpose than to guard and
secure the interests of the large rice
and cotton planters. The interests of
men who have to work w ith their own
hands are entirely unprotected. The
upper districts may go to ruin. The
rice and cotton plantations of the lower
country are amply protected.
But to guard these interest mark how
everything in the political machinery
is adapted exactly to suit the purpose.
A proper qualification is required for
a scat in the legislature. Keal estate
of the value of about seven hundred
dollars, clear of debt, or live hundred
acres of land and ten negroes must be
actually possessed In* a candidate for
the house of representatives, or he is
ineligible to a seat. To be a senator
requires double the amount of real es
tate. He may he a thrifty farmer, an
excellent mechanic, an enterprising
merchant, a skillful physician, or an
aide lawyers, and withal a suitable
man to represent the true interests of
the people; but it is all in vain if he
have not in real estate the amount re
quired.
Will any thing ever be done by such
a legislature for the interest of the
people?—Never, unless it be to the
special interest of the favored few to
allow’ it. Blit over no department of
the government can the majority have
control. The governor must heve $7-
000 at least in settled estate; and to
make it certain that he shall be from
the planting rather than the farming
interest, the people are nut allowed a
vote in the case: he is appointed by the
legislature.
The appointment of the judiciary,
from the judge on the supreme bench
to the common justice of the peace, is
entirely by the legislature.
Senators in Congress arc appointed
by the legislature. The legislature
lays off the State into congressional
districts, from which the people as
guarantied to them by the United
States’ Constitution may elect the rep
resentatives in Congress; and mark
how they arrange it to suit the strong
planting interest. To the low district,
with a white population of 115,47 ft,
they allow four congressional represen-,
tatives, and to the upper district with a
white population of lift,till, only
three.
Nor are the people permitted to vote
for the electors of the President and
Vice President of the United States;
evidently from an apprehension that
they might cast the vote 8f the State
for a President who will promote the
welfare oi the people, instead of the
interests of the wealthy planters.
Thus is the interest of the large rice!
and cotton planters fully guarded in
every department of the government;
and to have it doubly secure, the con
stitution cannot he amended, unless
this monopolized and monopolizing leg
islature lirst recommend it by a vote of
two thirds of both branches of the
whole representation; and not even
then, unless the succeeding legislature
also concured by a vote of two thirds of
both houses.
And what is the consequence of all 1
this despotism As a matter of course,
the white population are emigrating, j
although there are fourteen millions
of acres ot land in the State yet un
cultivated. What can the poor man
do here? He can make nothing to lay,
up for his family. He cannot get his
children educated. He and his family
are doomed to poverty and ignorance,
and to the contempt of the favored aris
tocrat. Here or there one of pecu
culiar tact, or extraordinary talent may
obtain an independent property, but for
the most part there is no hope here for
the citizen in moderate circumstances.
And yet our so-called statesmen and
their partizans are moving heavpn and
earth to prevent the poor man off'aro
lina, crushed down a-* he is by this ter
rible Slave power, from finding a spot
in all the vast territory lately acquired
by the U. States where lie can have
the full reward of his free labor. Nay,
New Mexico, California and any other
genial clime, must be under the domin
ion of this man-crushing powfy-, or the
disunion of these States must be threat
ened; and the great body native
Carolinians themselves can have no
voice in their own legislature to rebuke
this arrogant demand.
And what is the remedy for those who
cannot leave the State, or who wish to
remain by the graves of their fathers?
They have no power to amend the con
stitution, for this guaranties every
thing to the privileged class, and they
alone have the power to alter it. Shall
the sword be resorted to, and thereby
effect a revolution? United States
soldiers will crush the first attempt at
violence.* —And is there no remedy?
No means of redress? —I think there
may be if we can only arouse the peo
ple to demand their rights. Shall up
wards of two hundred thousand white
citizens of Carolina be virtualty dis
franchised whilst mocked with the idea
of free suffrage, and lie still under the
iron despotism that crushes them?
Surely it caonot always be so. We
must teacli these masters of overgro wo
plantations that we cannot always en
dure this state of things. It is time to
demand our rights, aod to do eo with a
fixed nnii settled determination to have
them
hat then i« the proper course tci
«>btain redrew Permit me fellow citi
j zens* to point it out Lit the j>eople ol
the >tate meet in then prituaiy as>em
i blies. tu ilirir resjHctive neighborhoods,
parishes. and districts, anti appoint
delegates to a 'Hate Convention. Let
that ''ta?e omtMUion draft anew con
stitution lot the State, in which the in
terests of the frit laborer shall he pro
vided for, ami an equality of represen
tation established. Let them lay this
new constitution before the legislature
ot the ''fate, and demand that thev
take measures for its adoption and
ratification; and it then the legislature
will not take the proper measures, eali
another convention of the people, and
appeal to the Federal 'ongress to >c
cur? to the people, a truly republican
form of State Government. Thev are
t bound by their oaths to respect tlm de
mands of (he majority in the State, and
to carry out the guarantee of the Fede
ral Constitution. W hen this method
of t edress shall have been tr.ed ami
failed, we may then consider what luvr
is to be done.
Yours for the Right,
BRUITS.
THE SISTERS.
The Inllowing account of a scene in the
slave market of Constantinople i* ta
ken from a work entitled “‘Way faring
Sketches:”
I “A most interesting group presented
itself betbre us; two young female
slaves,both with most pleasing counten
ances, stood togather, closely embra
ced, the arm of the one closely round
the neck of the other; their attitude, as
well as the strong likeness between
them, pointed them out as sisters. By
their side was an African slave dealer,
in whose furious countenance it ‘cem
cd impossible to discern a trace of hu
man feeling. He was armed with a
large, heavy stick, vvitl\ which he
drove them to and fro, literally like a
herd of animals. Three or four 'Turks
were discussing, with tolerable animu-i
tion, the price of one of the women;,
but the bargain had been struck justj
before vve came hi, arid one of the par
ty, a stout good looking man. paying
down the money. When this was
completed, with an impel ions move
ment of his hand lie motioned to his
newly purchased slave to follow him.
It was the youngest and most timid ofj
the two sisters, whom lie had selected.
Nothing could lie more painful than to
watch the intense, the terrified anxiety
with which both had followed the pro
gress of the sale; and now it was con-'
cliyled and they knew that the moment j
of separation was arrived, she whosei
late had been sealed, disengaged her-
self, and turning round, placed a tirm
grasp, and gazed into her eyes. Not)
words, nor tears, could have expressed j
one-half of the mute, unutterable des
pair that dwelt in that long, heart-ren
ding gaze. It was hard to say which
was the most eloquent of misery; hut
the Turk was impatient; he clapped
his hands together This was the well
known signal. A >!igbt tremor shook
the frame of the young slave; her
arms fell powerless at her side, and
she turned to follow her master. The
voiceless but agonizing farewell was
over. In another moment we could
distinguish her slender figure thread-)
ing its way through ibc crowd, in corn-;
panv with other slaves belonging to the
Turk, ller sister bad bid hersclt be
hind her companion, and now sat on
the ground, her head sunk upon her
folded arms.
And just such scenes may he w it
nessed in our own free land, ten thou
sand times in a year
i
THE I,AW OF HE HAN PROGRESS.
Look at the cradle of the nations and
races which have risen to grandeur, and
learn from the barbarous wretchedness
by which they were originally surroun
ded, that no lot can be removed from
the influence of the Law of Human
Progress. The Fegee Islander, the
Bushman, the Hottentot, the Congo
negro, cannot be too low for its care.
No term of imagined “finality can at-,
areat it. The polished Briton, whose
civilization vve now admire, is a descen
dant, perhaps of one of those painted j
barbarians, whose degradation still lives;
in the pages of Julius Cu-sar. Slowly
and by degrees, he has reached the
position where lie now stands; but he
cannot he arrested here The improve
ment of the Past is the earnest of still
further improvement in the f uture.
And who can doubt that in the lapse of
time, as the Christian Law is gradually
fulfilled, the elevation which the Briton
may attain will be shared by all his
fellow men.
The signs of improvement may ap
pear at a special period —in a limited
circle only among the people, favored
of God, who have enjoy ed the peculiar
benefits of commerce and of Christi
anity; but the blessed influence, cannot
be restrained to any time, to any place,
or to any people. Every victory over
evil redounds to the benefit of ail.
Every discovery, every humane
thought, every truth, when declared, is
a conquest of which the whole human
familv are partakers. It extends, by
so much their dominion, while it lessens
by so much the sphere of their future
struggles and trials.
But there shall be nobler triumphs
than any over inanimate nature. Mao
himself shall be subdued to abhorrence
of vice, of injustice, of violeuce—sub
dued to the sweet charities of life—
subdued to all the requirements of duty
and religion—subdued according to the
law of human progress, to the recogni
tion of that Gospel law, by the side ol
which the first is tho scaffolding up-
."•H\ pi. p r
WHOM'. NO. !*O.
on the saerrti the Law ot Hu*
man Brotherhood Übnr tor this
oml man wa> *w nt tori.j mio iti<» world
—not m the littleness <4 idle perfec
tions, hut endowed v, i*!i infinite capaci
ties, inspired l>\ infinite desires, ami
commanded loMrnr perpetually art**i
excellence—am dst the encouragements
1 ot .hope, the promise-; of final success,
and the inexpressible delights which
spring from 1 pursuit —Thus does the
I-aw ot lluiuati Progress
i 'crn.it Frnv iC< iic',
-list JtWUi'. tie l,«l U,
l>\ showing evil no longer ns a glooms'
mystery, holding t!ie world in ©verlast
mg thrall, but a- an accident, under
ttic laws ot t»od, to be slowly subdued
In tne works ot men, as they press on
to the promised coal «>t happiness
harlt Sumner.
t’nns the Oni»ltsn l'iii?cn.
**K NOW U'lH.t: IS I>o\t i;h. m
Knowledge is power. said Bacon,
a'ter he had reflected tor a life-time up
on all the cognizable powers and pro
perties in the universe. “Knowledge
1- power, lisped the dandy in the
streets ot London, as he separated
two bull-dogs with a pinch of snuff,
aifer the rude rabble had vainly twisted
their limbs 111 the attempt to draw them
asunder. The sago and the fop—those
extremes ot the mental world—have
repeated the same grand truth in the
ears of their circles: and yet the world
does not believi the fact. Alas, poor
world.' From the depth of the foun
tains ot thy tears ami sighs, and in the
agonies ot a sail experience, the truth
must he learned
Republicanism, above all political
beliefs, is emphatically a faith. There
is in it a principle of life and enthusi
asm which no other political principles
can excite. Trial, tubuJation, self
sactdice, ami high devotion, are em
phatically the cliarncterietics of a true
republican, above all other partizatis of
political forms; and yet, m spit* of
(hose proud elements ot moral being,
the republicans o( Kurupc are now
routed and discomfited, and therepub
lics—at least one ol them—am descen
ded into the very lowest grade of
political contempt. \nd why is this
Why is that hum of (ioveinmeut, so
just, so generous, and so well adapted
to devclopc ail the genius ami re
sources ol nations, already lying
trampled beneath the heels of tyrants
and ol plotters' Simply because man
kind have not yet generally learned the,
great tact that “knowledge is power.”
Ihe impulse ot the heart of Franco
decreed, m lS|s, tint she should be
come a Republic, and she was so in
name and form. **l nu la rejialthq^ie!"
shouted the grey-hmred mu:i, ms he
lifted his sunken eves to heaven. “Jin
la reiwhlitjtu■!" screamed the little
go mm 111 the streets. But there was
neither power nor vitality in these
cries, for they were horn ol impulse,
not ot knowledge. Franco did not
know two principles of 1 epuldiramam,
ami she was destitute ol a political
faith. The hollow fabric of her repub
licanism has withered awav, as the
erratic sentiments, winch in her egot
ism she terms ideas, have impelled her
from one extreme of suicidal folly to
another. She did not know republi
canism; she did not know herself; and
90 she is power less to move in the.
course of definite mid continuous ac
tion. Like a harpooned whale w hile
in its flurry, -die bounders about in thv
ocean of politics, destroying her own
offspring by those energetic cunt oil ions
winch herald her ignominious death.
The revolutions of Kurope have
surely taught men that the bases of
despotism and republicanism are equally
hollow-hearted, when planted on an
ignorant soil; and that bayonets, whe
ther w ielded in the name of tyranny or
liberty, have an equality of power
Knowledge truly is power; it Is the
invulnerable basin ol public opinion;
it is the index of ordinate purpose—the
adamantine wall that defends liberty
from every cunning assault.—Amongst
a people who have knowledge, the
licentious Inhumations of demagogue
isin on the one hand, and the falsehood
and fraud of despotism on the other,
are powerless; it ih wdh the plastic and
flexible subjects of ignorance that they
prevail never with the men whose
minds have acquired knowledge, and
with it, consistency Let the true re
publican, then, evei bo t teacher,
seeking to build up a brother m ideas
and virtue; for these, and not bayonets,
arc the weapons of u triumphant war
fare against wrong and falsehood in all
their tonus. I>.t the watch-word of
the freedom-lover now and forever be,
“Knowledge is power.” j. u
A Nation'sße*i I)l>lxcl.—lf you
have a nation of men who have risen to
that height of moral cultivation that they
will not declare war or carry arms, for
they have not so much madness left in
their brains,you have a nation oflovers,
of benefactors, of true, great, and able
men. Let me know more of that nation;
i shall not find them defencletu* with
idle hands swinging to their aides. T
shall bud them men ot love, honor, and
truth: men of an immense industry; men
whose influence is tclt to the cud of the
earth; men whose very look and voice
carry the sense of honor and shame;
and all forces yield to the energy and
persuasion. H lie never u<* see the doc
trine of peace embiaccd by a nation,
we may be assured it »dl im4 be oik*
that invites an injury but one, on the
contrary, which has a friend in the
bottom of the heart of even man, even
of the violent and the base; one against
which no weapon can prosjiei, out*
whodi looked upm as the asylum of
1 the human race, and lias to* tears arid
blessings of mankind.-Emerson
From the Liberator
Meeting of the Colored Citizens of Boston
Agtooablo to not toe, a very large and fti
thaauatic aodrenee ewureoed h
er,i Baptist Church, Belknap street, on Mon
ur;
»n«i I«ac H Snowden and George A'*'
leri, Secreuriea
On motion, the following committee was
-elected «o draft resolution* for the meeting,
vrz, -Wm C. Nell, Henry Thacker, Jtr-*
*ph W. Butler. John 1 Hilton, Henry
VVeeden, Wm. Johnson.
Thoma* Paul Smith and John H. Roberts i
spoke in opposition to the majority—the for-
meT alluding significantly to the fact, that he
knew he was in the minority,Ac. To which
John T. Hilton replied, that he was mistaken
in representing himself in the minority, tor
John C. Calhoun, Henry Clay, the Amen-;
can Colonization Society, and the entire pro
slavery community, were with him.
The chairman called attention to the report,
remarking that the present crisis was as im
portant to them as any this ride of eternity, it
being none other than the cause of truth and
right against prejudice and expediency.
Wm. C. Nell r in behalf of the committee,
submitted the following resolutions..
Whereas, in all great and important under
taking*, it has ever been necessary to adopt
systematic efforts for their promotion, as seen
in our Savior's example, in the appointment
of twelve efficent men to root up old evil cus
toms, and establish upon their ruins a better
and more healthy state of things. There
fore,
Resolved, That we do hereby apppoint
twelve men, m whom can be placed implicit
confidence, to superintend our School Right
matters, and to pursue the same to the extent
of their abilitiea—pledging ourselves to meet
the contingent expenses thereof
Resolved, That the recent attempt to de
fame iljc fan reputauon of Mr. Ambrose
Wellington by a certain clique, in raising the
cry ot infidelity against him, is alike inhu
man, unchristian and dastardly in design, and
that while under unjust persecution, we ten
der him the hand of sympathy.
Resolved, That we again renew our pledge
to each other, never to countenance fur one
moment an exclusive school, and that although
we have often so decided, we are not wearv
in our efforts in so just a cause
Resolved, That in our present etrupglefor
equal school privileges, we shall not be frown
ed down by the active opposition of the ene
mies of human piogres-s; nor shall our zeal
be in any degree abated by the insidious e:-
forta of those identified w ith us in complexion,
but who, alas’ to their shame be it recorded,
are reverting, by their animus, the hand upon
the dial-plate ol our Imerties.
Resolved, That sustained as we are by the
opinions of those eminent in legal authority,
viz. Hon. Justices Richard Fletcher and
Charles H. Warren—encoutageed* by the
precedent in oilier citizens of ihe Old Bay
:>iate, where proscription tor complexion’s
sake is now unknown—justified in out course
by an enlightened public opinion, we will not
be satisfied wiili any equivalent for our rights
but slia 1, God helping us, contend for victory
like men who know their rights, and know
ing dare maintain.
Resolved, That believing as we do, that
special legislation regulated Uy complexion
or any physical ditlerences, is anti-Republi
ean and anti-Christian, we shall ever be found
using our best exertions for the supremacy of
equal rights.
Resolved, 1 hat duly appreciating Uie mer
its and dements of the arguments pro and con
relative to our rights, as published in the
newspapers of ihe day, and knowing, as wc
do, the sources whence they mainly emanate,*
we feel called upon here to assert, that if
there was ever a cause in which a majority of
the people were united and prepared tor an
advanced position, that cause is an equality ot
school previliges in Boston, and we, colored
citizens, arc that people.
Resolved, That all articles that have
appealed in the public journals in opposition
to our cause, arc the sure and ceitain agents
of the prejudice against the welfare of the ri
sing generation.
Kematks were made in support of the above
resolutions by several gentlemen, and heartily
concurred in by the meeting. The whole se
ries were adopted by a rising vole, and or
dered to be published.
The meeting then adjourned.
ROBERT JOHNSON, Chairman.
Isaac H. Snowden, c
George W. Allen, JSecwuw*-
Slavery, Ac. in California.
The Alto California of July i?d, publishes
ionie inteifsting paiticulars respecting the
now inhabitants of California, and discusses
several points which it is will be
acted upon by the Convention which was ex
pected to assemble in that country. The Alto
California gives its views ol what ought to be
held essential in ihe structure of a eonstitie
tion, as under
The prohibition of Slavery.
The refunding by the United States of the
duties collected in California since the peace,
to be made a general fund for the support oi
a state government
The limitation of the amount ol expendi
ture to be made in any one year for internal
and other improvements
The basis for the establishment of banking
or other incorporations
The prohibition of imprisonment lor debt.
The rights of married women to iheir indi
vidual property, acquired before or after mar
riage.
The right of universal suffrage.
The estab ishment of a branch United
States Mint in California, the net proceeds of
which should ho devoted to the suppmt of a
state Gorernment
The writer goes on further, to give his
views on the all absotbmg question of slavery.
Every person appears to be convinced that
the slavery question, under the complexion
that it now wears in the Atlantic states, de
feated she numerous attempts made in the
last Congress to give to California a territo
rial organization, and all men ought to be as
firmly assured that, unless the citizens of
California settle that question lor themselves,
and do so at once, it will prevent, defeat, or
at lean protract, for years to come, the estab
lishment of any government in the country.
Independent of ilie moral considerations w hich
weigh so heavily in the balance against slave
ry, and which we have neither time nor
room to repeat, as a matter of expediency—as
a means of giving to this country a govern*
inent—it ia necessary that the people should
insert in their constitution a clause forbid
ding the introduction ot negro or other slave
ry. The highest, noblest dictates of humanity
demand it; the progressive doctrines of re
publicanism cannot be maintained without it
and the interests of the mass, the people,
those who dig and delve, and earn their bread,
and learn sell-respect and enterprise from the
necessities of labor, render it imperative
There must be no slurring over or avoiding
the question. The South have contended
that it is a question which should be left to
the citizens of each suite to decide, and they
cannot complain if wc decide against it:
whilst the North have asaeited that it was a
principle with them which they arc bound in
maintain it any and all hazards, and that
therefore they can never consent to the exten
sion of tltvery into California. True, the
men who are the most vociferous are probably
the least sincere but the political character
of the question has become such that the
great controlling mass of the North would
undoubtedly agree with and sustain their rep
resentatives.
We do not fear to assert, ihen, that a State
Constitution for California which does not
contain a provision against slavery will never
he allowed to go into effect by the Congress
of tbe l aited St.tr., *nd -ill m««
film in uarmfKMM »b«t tbe people of Cali
fornia wo«M never app»*e aueh a document.
The following pertietilaii of the cotnpaot
noa of ihe population of Celifomi. taken
froos the same journal, will .id in forming 10
eimin*te of there moral worth and intelli-;
fence
From the beat id formation in our powwioo,
we are of opinion that up to this time (30th
lune) there hare probably armed in this
;ountry since the lat of January last, about'
15,000. Of tbeae about 5000 are Americana,
8000 Mexicans, 2000 Chilians, and tbe re
maining 2000 from nearly .eery country. It
will thus be Men that a preponderance of the
emigration thus far is foreign.
The number of inhabitants in tbe country
on the first of January last, waa probably not
far from 15,000, excluaire of Indiana. Of
this number 9000 were Californians, 5000
Americans,and 1000 foreigner, of many na
tions. This would give, then, the character
of the present population as follows
Americans 10,000 1
Californians 9,000
Mexicans 6,500
Chilians 2,500
All other nations 2,000
Total 30,000
By the last account from the Atlantic
States, there were about 17,000 emigrants
for this country by sea. Some 3000 of this
number hare already reached here and the
others will probably arrive by the end of Oc
tober. In addition to this, there will pro
bably be an emigration of 8000 by land,
which will reach here about the same time
and it we set down the number which will
come vis Panama and Mexico at the moderate
computation of 3000, we shall have a total
of Americans in California at that time of
thirty-fire thousand.
If we add to the above figures the probable
number of emigrants which will reach this
country from Europe and all other countries
by the last of October, we shall then find the
total statement something like this
Americans 35,000
Californians 9,000
All other nations 16,000
Total 60,000
Of the thirty thousand already in the coun
try, it is supposed that one-half (including wo
men and children) are engaged in the various
business pursuits, and the other half are en
gaged in digging. We apprehend this will
not be found far from carrect.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, SEPTEMBER 14, 1849.
Anti-Slavery Meetings at West Wal
worth, Marion, Palmyra, Victor, and
East Bloomfield.
It seetm necessary that 1 should report the
character of my anti-slavery meeting: al
though very little can be said of them th«i is
either new or peculiar. The one held at
West Walworth on Tuesday evening last
was well attended by an audience that mani
fested a lively interest in the subject of sla
very, as presented in the lecture. At the
close of the meeting 1 disposed of a number
of copies of the Narrative” of my experi.
ence in bondage, and obtained one subscriber
to “The North Star.” I may state here,
that there are already ten copies of the Star
in circulation in this place.
1 found, as usual, the slaves’ Inends, Wil
liam G. Barker and Hicks Halstead, and
families, ready to receive and cheer ine on
ward in the good work.
On Wednesday I held two meetings in
the Presbyterian Church—one in the after
noon, the other in the evening. The former
was well attended, and the latter was throng
ed—a great many being compelled to stand
during the meeting. My frienjß Samuel
Smith, though quite feeble in health, had
exerted himself to circulate the notice, and 1
am indebted to him for rquch of the interest
created on this occasion. He is what 1 would
call a working abolitionist—-making the ad
vancement of the cause one of the constant
duties of his life. It is always heart-cheering
to meet a man who labors disinterestedly and
earnestly in a cause so unpopular as that of
abolition.
I had the pleasure of meeting, in Marion,
that long-tried and faithful ftiend of the slave,
[Griffith M. Cooper. He came over to
'attend the meeting, and, in the spirit of true
abolitionism, brought not only his family, but
1 some ot his neighbors, to help to swell the
numbers, and to enliven the zeal of his fellow
I workers. Friend Cooper exercised on this
occasion his right of free speech, and his re
marks were listened to with attention and
respect by the audience. Besides my own
address in the evening, Mr. Wade, a Baptist
i minister, from Williamson, entertained the
audience with a highly interesting narrative
lof his own expetience while traveling in
Kentucky, in which he illustrated the fiendish
spirit and murderous cruelty that slaveholders
usually manifest towards a man suspected of
sympathy for the poor slave. In one or two
instances his own life was put in jeopardy on
account of the mere suspicion that' e was an
abolitionist. While in Frankfort he had the
temerity to visit that martyr for freedom,
Calvin Fairbanks. This simple fact was
sufficient to shr up against him the fury of a!
uiob, consisting of many hundreds, fiom which
he barely escaped with his life. I hope that;
friend Wade will often be induced to attend
'anti-slavery meetings, and thus relate his ex
perience. Others may tell the honors ol
slavery as experienced by the black man, but
it is advantageous to know its cruelties as
they aie sometimes felt by the white man.—
Mr. Wade has it in his power to render the
cause of freedom in this legion essential ser
vice by giving lectures on the subject of
slavery and 1 earnestly hope he may find it
convenient to do so.
On Thursday evening 1 delivered a lecture
hi the Baptist Church in Palmyra. On ac
count of another very popular meeting being
held at the same time, and tbe unpopularity
of the anu-slavery cause in that place, the
meeting was but thinly attended. However,
such as were present seemed to be quite at
tentive to and interested in what was presented
to them.
On Friday evening, agreeably to public
notice, a large meeting was convened in tbe
Fniversalist Church of Victor. It was one
of the most satisfactory anti-slavery demon
strauons which I ever atteoded in that pises.
I Thera appeared to be s greater willingness to
listen to tadteal anti-ala very sentiment* than I
usually find in the country towns of this
region.
On Saturday the ladies of the Western
New York Anti-Slavery Society held Fait
in the hall of Mr. Pick's Hotel in Victor, the
gross receipts of which amounted to more
than fifty dollars.
I mart end this bn f report with ikoit
account of ray meeting in East BloomneU on
Sunday. In consequence of a mistake is the
advertisement tn the North Star, there had
been no general notice of the meeting given
by the friend* in the village before my arrival,
and then there was but time for a very limited
one. The meeting was large the spacious
vestry of the Presbyterian Church m which it
was held, was crowded to overflowing; and
my address was listened to with the beet at
tention
The New: York Observer.'* containing
an artide in reference to the approaching
meeting of the American Board of Commis
sioners for Foreign Missions, furnished me'
with a text for my discourse on this occasion.
This artide is in keeping with the spirit of all
that emanates from the brains of the Rev.
Sidney E. Morse on the subject of slavery—
cold, obdurate, Jesuitical, and aboundiog in
hypocrisy. He writes, as he says, under an
apprehension that an attempt mil be made at
this meeting to obtain some action of the Board
fat or able to the views of the religions anti-sla
very party." And he adds, as tf in solemn
warning. “If the Board yielding to the
storm of nltraism which ts now raging with
such violence in some of the religious bodies in
England and America, shall leave the firm,
upright, consistent and tndy Christian posi
tion it has hitherto maintained, it mil be
regarded by many of our best men as the pre
cursor of the direst cals to our country and to
the cause of evangelical religion." Here, then,
is the influence brought to bear upon the ap
proaching meeting of the Board. Look at it'
1 w ould call the particular attention of British
Christians to the statement. First an attempt
is apprehended that 11 some action of the Board"
will be had favorable to the views of the reli
gious anti-slavery party." What is the char
acter of these views, that their adoption by
this Board should lead to such disastrous and
dire consequences 1 They are (if I understand
them) simply these That the Board shall
no longer send out men stealers as missiona
ries of the pure Gospel of Christ; that slave
holders and polygamists shall no longer be
fellowshipped and esteemed as Christians in
the mission churches established by the Board;
and that the Board shall no longer lend the
sanction of its great name to the countenance
and support of the deadly sin of American
i slavery; but that it shall exerfciae its mighty
influence on the side of the righteous cause of'i
immediate emancipation.
Herein consists the U/traism" which the
Rpv. Sidney E. Morse professes to dread so
deeply. He appears to have no wish to have
either the church or the world purified from
the foul stain and curse which now rest so
heavily upon both, and which especially inflict
so deep a wound upon the cause of Christi
anity in our own country, making it a bye-!
I word in the mouth of infidelity. Jt is to Sid
ney E. Morse, and to such men as him, that

the infidel is indebted for the most powerful
weapons he wields against the cause of reli
gion. While it can be said with truth, that
under the cloak of religion may be found the
most cruel systems of wickedness; and that
the professed ministers of the Gospel are
exerting their ingenuity to defend and protect
from exposure and rebuke the guilty perpetra
tors of crime, it is impossible that any high
respect can be cherished by the thinking por
tion of the community for such a religion and
such a ministry. The Rev. Sidney E. Morse
affirms that neither Christ nor his Apostles
require the slaveholder to emancipate his
slaves; and he denies that the church or the
ministry have any direct duty to petform to
j wards the abolition of slavery. According to
him, the moment a sin obtains ihe sanction of
human law, it is at once beyond the legitimate
action of*the church and ministry of Christ.
Now, it cannot be necessary for me to expose
the sophistry by which this damning heresy is
sustained. Upon the very face of it when
nakedly stated, it carries its own confutation
to every honest mind. This it is that makes
Christianity appear to pander to all the popu
Ur forms of human villany. Instead of puri
>j fying the states, it leaves the latter to decide
sj what sins shall be denounced and what ones
L shall be defended from the Christian pulpit.
How unutterably low and degrading to the
character of the church is this position In
i stead of being the hope of the world, she thus
becomes the receptacle and cage of every
I abomination which the state may commit to
i her rare. But 1 have no time to dwell further
l on this subject. The article in question is but
i another proof of the truth of the oft-repeated
charge that the American church and clergy
i ate the deadliest enemies to the cause of
i emancipation, and that they form the most
i powerful bulwark around the foul system of
f| American Slavery.—r. d.
A few weeks since we published an ac
couut, which we met going the round of the
press, of a disgraceful election row, in
which the publisher of the Louisville Exam
iner was said to be engaged. The following
explanation from that paper places the mat
ter in rather a different light. Eveu this,
which may be understood to be the truth,
does not entirely excuse, as nothing can ex
cuse a resort to the cowardly practice of the
chivalry whocary fire-arms and other murder
ous weapons of otfence and defence, but it
in some sort explains llie circumstances so as
to make it evident that this was not the usual
course of the person referred to. Mr. Sey
mour, in our humble judgment, had no right
to be in such bad company. If respectable
men will use, and strive to make otbers use
the ballut-box and the majority-power, either
with or in opposition to such scoundrels as
Means and the “fighting men,” and the
slavebofdmg, slave-breeding, slave-whipping
sons of Infamy in Kentucky and the other
slave states of this union, they must even
endure the consequences. But it will be no
matter of surprise to learn that they have got
either shot or kicked to death by a vulgar
and ignorant mob whose highest knowledge is
the use of the bowie knife—whose onlv con
clusive argument is brute force.— s. d.
Affray ia the Tim Ward.
Most of oar readers know that an affray oc
curred in the First Ward,during the late elec
tron in our city, in which Mr. Seymour, the
publisher of the Examiner, was attacked,
anda Mr Means was shot by Mr. S. We
expected the matter to undergo a jodieai
investigation, and determined to aay nothing
on lb« subject until after the investigation
should have been placed in proper light, fiat
as erroneous accounts of the affair have got
abroad, we will aay a w ord or two on the sub
ject.
The editors of this paper ate utterly op
pofd to the earn ing of anna hjr private ciu
m, and they would hate attempted to dis
suade Mr. S.'frooi doing i", if thev
•■y knowledge of the matter. But we coaid
have employed nothing hut advice. He is a
free agent, and would hare taken his own
course. We have made this statement that
oar own position msv be known. —Now s
word or two in regard t the affray.
It has been stated that Mr. Seymour went
to the polls, “cursing and swearing’ that
he called some one *“d d son of a b -b,
die. Now, there is not one man in a thou
sand ui the citv of IxMiisville who believes
such a statement. Certainly no one believes it:
who has any acquaintance with Mr. S. oe,
have never heard bun use anything approach-:
ing to profane language during onr acquain
tance with him; and the most delicate lady in
Louisville is not more fastidioas in avoiding
vulgar language than be ts. On the first day
of the election, be saw several persons beaten
for voting according to their sentiments. Af
ter s particular instance of the kind, he re-,
marked that it was a shame that in a republt-j
can government men should be so abused for
exercising their rights. His language it
seems, was reported to some of the “fighting
men.’’—ln the evening a triend of Mr. S.;
who, we believe, is a pro-slavery roan, told
him that he was in danger of getting a beat
ing. Mr. S. mentioned the matter at his
boarding-house, and a friend told him as be
was going out after dark he had better take
a pistol which the gentleman offered to lend
him. This explains the fact that Mr. S. had
a pistol. He is not in the habit of carrying
weapons.
The next morning, he again went to the
First Ward. The weather was very warm,
and Mr. S. to relieve himself, raised his hat,
which was full of tickets. Some of the tick
ets fell to the ground, and while Mr. S. was
stooping to pick them up he wss struck by
Mr. Means, an athletic man. Mr. S. at
tempted to'tnake his escape from the crowd.
Means and several others pursued him, and
while running[Mr. S. turned partly round and
fired at Means, who was nearest to him. Both
fell. A J. Ballard, Esq. ihen fired at a
man who was beating Mr. S. as he was ly
ing on the ground. This probably saved Mr.
Seymour’s life. The man who was shot at
turned from Mr. S. to fire at Mr. B. Anoth
er gentlemen also fired a pistol. During the
affiay a littlle boy was shot. All the parties
are now recovering. Mr. S. was badly
bruised, having been severely kicked in the
face and head. Gentlemen of unimpeachable,
veracity who witnessed the whole affair,have
told us that Mr. Seymour had not said a wotd
to Mr. Means when he was knocked down.
They expect to make the statement in the
court.
Colonization, Sailing of the Liberia
Packet.
The twin-sister of slavery is still at her
post, fostering prejudice against the colored
roan, and scattering abroad her hateful, un
pluloaophical and unchristian dogmas about
th§ inferiority of the negro, and the necessity
of his expatriation, both for his own well
being and that of his white fellow countiymen.
It is gratifying to find that this movement, in
stead of growing moie popular, is every day
sinking lower and lower in public estimation.
The white American has to learn, and will
learn this lesson—that the color of a man’s
skin is no sign of either mental or moral deg
radation. Facts beyond dispute are constantly
occuiring, which prove the negro, when cir
cumstances and education favor him, to be as
capable of brave and manly deeds as his white
despisers. They may affect to doubt —to dis
believe this. Let them. They may continue
to despise and insult the colored man. Let
them. They may hope, by stopping their
ears against all testimony, to keep up in their
own minds the long-cherished delusion. Let
them; hut only the more sudden and complete
will be their surprise and discomfiture when
they awake to right reason, and find them
selves lagging far in the rear of society, in
company with the low and the vicious. They
may as well learn this now, as hereafter. It
would be better that they should learn it now.
Better for themselves—better for those whom
they injure and insult. It is a settled fact
that colored men will form a large proportion
of the inhabitants of this country. For good
or for evil, or as a matter of indifference, just
as men choose to consider it, this must be. If
white Americans cannot bring themselves to
the rational and Chi tain conclusion, that the
color of a min’s si au, or the shape of his
nose, or the form of his eyes, does not afford
a quite infallible rule as to the morality of his
character or the force of his intellect, —then,
doubtless, it will be for evil to them, inasmuch
as they will constantly make themselves and
those around them miserable by their absutd
prejudices. But if they learn to consider all
men alike, —all “created equal,”—all the
children of one common Parent, —all human
beings,—all immortal beings,—the life and
1 happiness of every one—black, white, brown,
or any other shade of color—equally impor
tant and worthy of consideration, so far aa]he
is himself concerned, with the hope and hap
piness of every other one—how little difficulty
will there be in the way of removing all doubts
and clearing up all differences.
We want colored men, when colonization
ists press upon them the propriety of emigra
ting to Liberia, or any where else, to give
them this simple and decided answer: We
will not go' Americans, under the guidance
of irrehgion and selfishness, have well nigh
exterminated the Indian aborigines of this
continent. They would long ere this have
done the same, if they could, with the negro,
had they not found that he could be converted
into a beast of burden, to do their bidding,
and perform tl*eir labor. He will not do this
long. He is learning to respect himself, and
l to know that he is entitled to a higher position
1 than that of dogs and cattle. It has been, and
is exceedingly difficult for him to attain to
even this limited measure ot intelligence. The
i tree of the knowledge of good,” at least, if
not of evil, has been guarded against his ap
proach by more vigilant and jealous watchers
than even the cherubim with flaming sword
who kept off intruders from the gates of
Paradise. All the possible sources from
which he might gather information are poi
soned or closed against him, in ordar that be
either should not know at all, or that hia
knowledge should be very imperfect. But
this state of things cannot —must not continue.
Humanity protests against it. Christianity is
loud in her denunciations of those who rob
the laborer of his hire.” God himself, who
impartially just—who is oo respecter of
persons, cannot behold without abhorrence,
»oeh s flagrant violation of that law of right by
which be wills the world to be governed. We
rejoice in the anticipation that slavery will be
rooted oat of this continent We are as cer
tain of it as we art that the son will continue
to shine. Every paper that is printed—every
medium of conveyiog intelligence that is put
in operation, is helping on this result.
And the negro, when liberated, will not go
to Liberia. This is his native lend. He, if
any on*, bu a right to the soil of this couti
nea t. Far many long aad tedious years baa
be cultivated it with the labor of his hands,
aad watered it with his tears. He will re
main on this continent. There is abundance
of space for him her*. There are still in
this wide domain thousands of acres on which
the foot of man has never trod. Why then,
should he seek a new home in a far-distant
continent T This matter may be looked upon
as decided; and it would be well for the
ruling and power possessing majority of this
country to begin at once to shape their
course accordingly. Delay only increases the
difficulty. It is well for every country tka t
its citizens should be intelligent. Then let
the colored man receive such an education as
will tend to make him intelligent; and by be-.
coming intelligent he will become useful.
It is well for every countiy that its citizens
should be virtuous. Then let the colored man 1
receive an education calculated to draw out
his moral nature and what has been consid
ered a curse will be converted intc a blessing.
This opinion is rapidly gaining ground. We
have much pleasure in copying on the outside
of this week's paper, an article by W. L.
Chaplin, which affords satisfactory evidence
of this. No colonization humbug can ever
drive back the flowing tide of liberal popular
sentiment to where it waa only a few years
ago, or to where it was last year even. Col
ored men, themselves have also learned some
thing in the course of that time; and they will
continne to learn. Last year the Colonization
Society boasted, as if they had done a migh
ty deed, because they had managed to ez
patnate four hundred and some odd peisons,
under the name of emigrants, to the Liberian
colony. This year, we doubt whether they
w ill be able to effect even that small amount
of mischief. We do not wish to be under
stood to say that colored men may not go to
Liberia. We Aay they may go, if ihey are
s minded, just as white men go. So we say
they may go to California or to Nova Zembla;
hot they ought also to be allowed, as white
men are, to consult their own interest, and stay
at home, if they happen to have formed an
opinion that neither Liberia, California, nor
the North Pole, is precisely the place best
suited to their tastes and constitutions. It is
right that every one should go where he
thinks lit; but it is wrong that he should be
subjected to any undue influence in the forma
tion of his opinion. The weight of prejudice
presses heavily upon the colored man. Let
him battle with—not yield to it. Jle may
have and doubtless oftentimes has doubts,
whether it would not be better for him, could
he find his way to a country where he would
be recognized as an equal man. In such a
mood of mind he is the ready prey of the col
i onizationisis. Let him banish forever all such
I thoughts, and resolve to struggle on manfully
in this land, for the full possession of his
1 rights. It is a republican theory that all
I men are “created equal.” Republicans in
this country must therefore either prove that
colored men, in many cases their own offspring
1 —are not men, or they must violate and deny
the first principles of their boasted republican
ism. Eiiher dilemma would not be very flat
tering to their self-love. It is probable, that
when they are forced into this corner, they
will rather try to avoid the inference that they
beget monkeys. Then the conclusion is in
evitable that these men are entitled with
themselves to the tights and privileges of all
other men.
But we have wandered somewhat from the
object which we had in view. We have be
i fore us a number of the Colonization Journal,
j from which we learn that the Liberia Packet
which sailed on the Ist of August, took out
six cabin and twenty-one steerage passengers.
We trust that the next effort at expatriation
will not be any more successful. The entire
scheme has been frequently shown to be a gross
deception. It has lost nothing'of its fraudu
lent character. Liberia is probably a very
respectable place. We have no desire to
stigmatise the colony. It is mayhap as good
or a little better location for those who have
become, in some measure accustomed to civil
ized life than the banks of the Gaboon river,
or the kingdom of Dahomey. All that we
affirm is, that it is not expedient for Ameri
cans to emigrate thither. There are many
circumstances in Liberia which cannot fail to
exert a very injurious influence, at least for a
time, upon the settlers in that country. They
are surrounded on all hands by hordes of the
most ignorant and degraded savages. Are the
majority of the slaves sufficiently intelligent,
and have they received a moral education
that will enable them to resist and to over
come that tide of barbarism 1 Who can help
having some misgivings on this point 7 We
are more anxious for the welfare of the color
ed American, than we are for the success of
the colony at Liberia; and with alt the disad.
vantages under which he at present suffers in
this land, we fee! persuaded that he is better
here. Therefore we say again, that it is not
for his advantage to go to Liberia, and those
who advise him to go thither, under the pre
tence of friendship, are his worst and most
deadly enemies. Giving themselves up to the
guidance of low and vulgar prejudice, they
entirely forget to recognise the demands of
Justice. Mistaking their own inferior na
tures for the common standard of humanity,
they judge that all the inhabitants of this
country except a score or two of fanatics, are
influenced by the same motives, and actuated
by the same unchristian principles as them
selves. May they and that speedily discover
their mistake, and learn that there is a higher
morality than any they have yet dreamed of,
which is summed up by an old writer thns
“Do justly, lovt mercy and walk humbly with
thy God —j. o.
Education a Crime.— It is a crime in the
Southern State*, for any person to undertake
to teach a slave how to read and write. The
New Orleans Courier of the 16th, contains the
annexed:
“John Vening, arrested some days since
on a charge of teaching slaves to read and
write, was yesterday examined before Recor
der Baldwin, and commited for trial before
the First District* court. The accused, it ap
pears is the principal of a school lor free col
ored children on Apollo street. John n.
Henderson having missed for some time lac
daughter of a negreas belonging to him, and
who was employed in hia house as a servant,
instituted a search for her and found her in
hia school. The charge was brought by Dr.
Heoderson, ami the accused pled that he was
ignorant that the girl was a slave, and that
she was sent there by her mother, whose
condition he knew not. Dr. Heodetsou, tes
tified, that after informing him the girl was a
slave, »od cautioning him against receiving
ber, b* will received her i» his school, and
con tin m 4 instructing ber.”
W bat a sad ramwourjr this, upon tl<e in*
stitatMM of slavery* I<* f while wjth fact*
»i« related to us. any wonder, that abolition
l*m at the north should geeersliy prevail. A
enma for endeavoring to teach the mind how
to burst from an ignorant bondage into light!
and reasoo’ A dreadful law* indeed
and Keystone.
Letter aad !few*peper Postage.
We have received a circular from Joshua
Leavitt, Secretary of the Boston Cheap
Postage Association It is addressed particu
larly to the publishers of newspapers, but the
object which it has in view is equally interest- 1
ing to all classes of a reading community.
Every one is interested in ihe subject of
Cheap Postage. The idea of raising a reve
nue out of the transmission of intelligence
must be entirely abandoned. All that the
Administration should ever dream of from
this source is the mere return ol the required
outlay. That this object can be gained at a
much lower rate of postage than that now
charged in the Free States, has been demon
atra ed, time and again, beyond a shadow of
doubt. Of the Slave States the same cannot
be asserted without hesitation. We rather
apprehend, that even at the present rates,
they do not meet their own expenses. But
they never will so long as they are Slave
States. There cannot be much ot cither
reading or writing, where, for a large propor
tion of the population, the possession of
knowledge is a crime. This is one of the
items of subsidy which Freedom, by the
union of the Northern with the Southern
States, is compelled to pay to Slavery.
The immediate cause,” says the circular
‘‘of the failure to pass a bill for Che3p Pos
tage, was a division among the friends of
postage reform, to send newspapers postage
free.” It will be recollected that in the
House, last year, Mr. Ashrnun offered an
amendment to a bill abolishing the franking
privilege, the provisions of which amendment
were intended to bring the rates of postage »n
i this country very nearly to a level with those
of Britain, namely, a uniform rate of two cents
on all letters weighing not more than half an
ounce; more than half an ounce, and not
more than one ounce, four cents, &c. This
measure of reform, its projectors w ere encour
aged to hope by the successful example of
Britain, would be earned out, to the great
advantage of the public, and without any loss
to the revenue. But it failed, by two votes,
solely, as the circular states, because it did
not embrace the newspaper provision. It
seems that under the present regulations, as
appears from Majoi Ilobbie’s letter of last
December, one-third of the expense of news
paper postage is a charge to the Department.
Now r it is very evident, that the expense ol
transmission of newspapers must be paid by
the public in some way. We are no friends
to indirect taxation; and we imagine that tin 1
majority of our readers are equally with our
selves convinced that the postage and every
other Department should meet its own ex
penses. If we cannot at present have news
papers carried free of expense, and, at the
same time, have a cheap letter postage,
(though we are fully persuaded that a little
experience of the cheap letter system will
show the practicability of this also,) then let
us have what is next best— namely, an imme
diate trial of a low postage on both letters and
newspapers. The proposed plan by the
Cheap Postage Association is given below.
The reasonableness of this proposal will be
allowed on all hands.
1. That the uniform rate of postage on
newspapers should be one cent, paid in ad
vance. (i. e. we suppose, at the office
where they are taken, and not at the otlice
from where they are sent
2. All regular subscribers tube allowed to
pay their postage quarterly in advance.
Otherwise, the postage to he doubled, or the
publisher notified to stop the paper.
3. AH papers not sent to regular subscri
bers to be paid in advance at tbe office where
they are mailed—except the usual free ex
change papers, which will be continued of
course.
4. Publishers prohibited from including oc
casional papers in the bundles sent to subscri
beis.
5. To facilitate the prepayment ot postage
on occasional papers, let the Post-Office fur
nish stamped strips or wrappers, for one cent
each, to be used in all cases except of papers
sent to subscribers. These to be kept for
sale, at every Post-Office.
6. It would probably be for the interest of
the department to sell these newspaper stamps
in quantities, of 1000 or more, at a liberal re
duction; of one-fourth, or even one-half—the
increase of business more than compensating
for the discount.
But, at all hazards, we are in favor of
cheap postage, and hope that this year, this
much needed reform will be carried to a suc
cessful issue. For our own part, we have no
vote, nor anything to say in the matter; but
if we had, and fell disposed to use it, we
should be very much aided in deciding that a
candidate was deserving of our suffrages, il
we found him willing to aid in every measure
which had for its object the promotion of tbe
education and brotherly feeling of the people
Cheap Postage is one such measure. If the
sums that are expended yeaily in war or pre
paration for war against a foreign enemy
were expended in waring against that interna
foe of this, as of all other nations—lgnoiance
whether by transmitting intelligence free o!
charge, or in some other way, how much
more rational would it be, and how infinitely
more glorious and world-improving its re
suits J- d.
Liberty in the Model Republic. The
Louisville Democrat an out-aDd out pro-sla
very paper gives the following
Wanted to Vote. A negro, ot mulauo,
pi evented himself before the Judge.* of the
Seventh Ward precinct, on Wednesday alter
ooon, and offered his vole. H« 5000 fuUwl
out that Joe Jeans, one of the city watch, was
on hand, and that he believed sables were not
quite entitled to that privilege yet. He
knocked the fellow over for his impudence
Verdict of the crowd —served him right.
National Leaoue of the People or
Colo*. —Frederick Douglass urges the for
mation of a National League by the colored
people of this Country, in which all their dif
ferences of sect, party and clan, and all petty
jealousies and fends ahall be absorbed and
forgotten ia the one great object —the pro
tection of their rights and promotion ol their
welfare. The proposal generally meet* *<h
a warm approval from the more intelligent <»fi
their number, and will, we trust, »e*d to more,
harmony and a closer unity among them
Their petty divisions and feuds perpetuate
their wrongs. They are too weak lo aflimJ
to imitate the quarrels of their oppressors, but
such a people can never be subjected and op
preaaed if cordially united ia feeling and ac
tisa.— Pa. Freeman.
Wm. IlfOirn in Dabli>,-?lo ('oloutiai,.
there.
Th« Dublin Freeman's Journal of th« p,
ult.,givcaan interesting report r 'f a xoer
held in Dublin, to welcome Wm Bro«
to the capital o( Ireland. Fverv v*»t cf tr
spacious Hall (say* the Journal,) f
at an early hour Javi:** Haixhtov,
tool; the chair I'he following ire
from the speeches
The hairman opened the proceedings
a few brief prefatory remarks H e ?3 d V
was thcic for the purpose of mtrod o, n c
the meeting a man f, r twent, vearahw
been subject to the stripes on ,he r
the tr.cntal nmnolu imposed on lhf
man by the Curse of s W,. Who co 2
hoa, the a bom: nab cmbmai/0,, of
bmed in the word, human slavery ,h.
feel w.,h.n turn ,h, ra S“
Wl h "—m U m
•o abhorrent to human reay M
.n the »ghl .h-U.^'rt tT ,bl
(hear, hear.) Hut would nbo beUveiTh*
men wete foun«l who attempted m 11)3
system ot human slavery bv argument d
duced from the sacred waitings 1 but t,«
chairman) would ask, what connection cu L
exist Ivtween the d.v;ee teaching* ot
Saviour, ami the atrocious system wh.cn*,
ered husband from wile, mother from ch.'j
ami subjected fellow bumgs to treatment mute
cruel than was given to the beasts
and made ya* it was nothing Jess) wretch*)
man the arbiter of the life of his fellow wotu
to huy and n. sell and dispose to the highs*
bidder ol the persons of h.s fellow -creatures
who were in a thousand instances found gift*
w ith souls and minds, wuh energy and geolll
tar superior to those «u the grovelling v
sensual brutes who impiously dared
rugate to themselves a right ol ownership
traffic in human beings, tar elevat >,j jJbore
them ir» all that constitutes the moral »tai 1
'of manhood and excellence <rheers
would beg to introduce to them M r
ihereMr Drown rose and stepped JZr
and was received wnh loud and cord,a!
and he would leave u to the meet.n* 0
cide (when they would have heard him)
ther he was one upon whom the braid
chattel ownership could be placed b>
pious slaveowner (cheers i
Mr. Webb then came forward and rea
son™ passages IT. m the Anti Slavery UareuV
in the highest degree coniplunentarv t,>
i Brown s talent and sterling w„,,h J tieir
1 axtracts were received w„h OUli ch T'
i the meeting.
Mr. Brown, the emancipated dav* x it
came forward in front of the platform and waa
received with repealed rounds of ihe warmest
and most cheering plaudits. H e bowed
1 graceful and evidently heartfelt aoknowkv
ment, and said, that m general j>erson> j‘
i pearing before an enlightened public auii«w
•uch as he had the honor to address, e;t
I enabled to sustain tlieir part, and felt e j, ilr
i hesitation consequent on so piomment iw.
tion by the knowledge in themselves that the
perhaps possessed something m the shape ot
acquirement or capability to recommend them
(hear, hear.) 1 lie best aeeessorv towards
that certainly liberal education, but that
blessing he unfortunately had not ken bori
u. enjoy. Ihe little he possessed m the »hii*
ot acquirement was the result ot unaided ami
laborious exertnyi (cheers It could not
otherwise, tor I'.veiit v of his best and youngest
years had heen spent, riot under tie* gentle
guidance of a preceptor, hut under the hum
iash.d the taskmaster in hopeless and help
less slavery (cheers.) Jle mm but came be
tor« that enlightened meeting to 3 within
their view a simple statement ot the miseries
and suffering entailed on on** unhappy section
•1 their fellow creatures, wlio were made th,
■ubects of the tyranny and captive 0 f men
i calling themselves Chnstians anil boasting oi
freedom, and when he had done, if he onh
succeeded in impressing all who heard bin
with even a faint notion of the iinchutwi
barbarity of the slave system of the A roman
states, he would feel that he had done niuth,
feeling convinced that no truly t’hnstiin a
1 setnbly, once convinced ol even a part of Ui«
horrors of that system, would hesitate lor 4
moment one and all to exert every faculty for
*Hes purpose of denouncing, and, it possible
I overturning such a vile outrage against Bod i
j law, and human reason, and feeling He
knew that he addressed many who still held
in revered remembrance a man now departed,
whose life was one continued and nobis itrag*
gle for the religious and civil liberty ,l h'»
native land—Daniel O. Connell (loud and re
peated cheers.) Mayhap there were intuy
now present who would recollect that when
j the Liberator of the Irish people w 3S m tbs
zenith of his well earned popularity, hu
friendship was sought by the representin'*
i of every power at the court of St James'*
Stephenson, ihe American, was anxious to
know and to have to boast of the friendship
O’Connell, and that friendship— the friend
ship of the illustrious Irishman, would have
been gladly given to him who sought it, but
the rumour was abroad that Stephenson uu
a slaveholder, a buyer and seller of hums:
flesh, and the free soul of O’Connell spurnsc
the proffered hand of theslavedealrr (cheers
That hand was outstretched to O’Connell, but
before he could think ot taking it, he asked,
Arn you, or are you not a slaveholder
The answer was, “I arn” “Then,” said its
hater of slavery, “1 will not press the bint
of a trafficker in the flesh and blood of m>
j fellow ruen” (cheers Tha American mom
hostile challenge toO’Connell, hut he wt:.*
courage had been painfully tried before,
well refuse, and without reproach, to acei
even as an enemy, the man who had itweA
so many of Cod's children of then U*r.>
(cheers
After having placed the subject of A«*r
can slavery in tis fullest light before the au
j diencfc, Mr. Brown concluded with a for .bis
appeal to the Christian aympailno oi List
I men to use every effort, arid tr add t' e we.gbt
J of their influence to the endea-urs wtuch
j becoming every d*y more snvceaful in poi
ting an end for ever to the ile s stem oi
human slavery which, until at-diahe*!, wooid
remain a deadly blot on the uarac ;i of tns
American nation. Mr. Hie wn ihen
down amidst fond cheering
Mr Webb then briefly addre xd thj meet
ting, and proposed a reuolulioa, w« h oming
Mr Brown to this country, and asser irig that
ri ,he friends ot abolition of slavery vete tbs
beat fitends to the ptospenty of the I mted
1 States, and deflating those who w
maintainnegtoslavery lobe the worst enerni**
of America.
Thus resolution was pot and earned b«
clanntton, after which thanks At:< »*ned a
the chairman, and the meeting sej
The Cromwell Fajhilv.—Oiw iVS4!
iccordsthe death of Mrs. Ru**ell, it*
ter of the late Mr Oliver ‘romwcll, >J
gtapher of bis illustrious ancestor -tn<s
take. Mr. Cromwell ru lineally de^ce 0^*1
from Henry Cromwell. He had no t* 4
heir, and it is said to have been hr* wish
his >on-in-law should lake the name ot Cro
well* hut George JV. had the meanness u
withhold bis permission Ihe Ime ol KcA
ard Cromwell ler.rioated in a female dsscec
dant, Mrs. Mary Cromwell, who died uuziae
iit-d at an adv*need ago, honored tor beres
emplarv woith and unaffected piety A**'
fan Palrtol
Slave Eweite.-A’seriousaffrav occur*-
oear Helena, Arkansa*. ou the Iftb ul l>
between an overseer and a negro man v
Murphy, ttie overseer, was dia*tw«f
slave's wife, when the slave interfered,
tng the overseer a blow with an iv*
desperate struggle ensued, but Morph' 0
raped to a neigh Inin n g plantation- -the
reiuaiuing. When the .Sheriff, aivunipa j
by two others, attempted to arrest tb*-
he strongly resisted, exchanging
with the posne. He escaped to the woods
j mortally wounded it is supposed.
Foreign News of the Week
The Niagara arrived al New York oo Fri
day last, and bring* later intelligence from
Europe
Knolano. —There to oo news of importance
fn*m Britain. If we mar judge f»om the
newspapers, the chief topics of interest are,
ihc Queen and the cholera. The former,
having concluded her vinl to her Irish sub
lets, has gone, with Prince Albert and her
family, to rusticate and romp a while, free
from ktate cares and state etiquette, amongst
the hills and mists of Scotland. The latter
still lingers about Ixmdon, and takes many
subjects fiom the sovereignty of the Queen of
F.ngland to the dominion of the King of Ter
ror* The official record »huws a continued
increase of mortality. In the Ixindon Dis
tricts, embracing a population of rather more
than ‘2,000,000. the deaths ftom all diseases
have risen, since the last week, from 1,909 to
9,230, and the death* from cholera from 823
to 1,230. At F.ivcrpool and other large cities
the mortality is al.no on the increase. Com
mercially, the present is a season of prospe
rity in England. The price of wheat and
other first necessaries of life, has for some
months been moderate; and a plentiful harvest
it now' being gathered in, which promise* the
continuance of Ihe same satisfactoiy state ot
the market fur the laboring classes in England.
At the same time, the manufacturing districts
send reports of unusual activity. This, in some
measure, accounts for the absence of poluical
intelligence. Agitation of any kind laroly
prospers m England while there is abundance
of employment for the workman, and he can
live tolerably well ou the produce of his labor.
Hungry and idle men are dangerous elements
in any community; more especially are they
dangerous in such a country as England,
where so much of their small earnings is so
palpably squandered away uselessly by an ex
travagant and insatiable aristocracy. But in
the midst of the present prosperity it is grati
fying to see that agitation is not wholly
asleep. A very large meeting of the Metro
politan Parliamentary and Financial Reform
Association has been held in the Drury Lane
Theatre, which was crowded to the ceiling
The theatre is a very large building capable
of accommodating at least 4000 persons.
Amongst the speakers were Lord Nugent,
Lord Dudley|Stuart, George Thompson, Esq.,
and a boat of others whose names are well
known in the ranks of reform.
The report of the Council was read by
Georoe Thompson, Esq. In this report the
reforms advocated by the Association are
given. They are:
1, Such an extension of the franchise as
will give to every male occupier of a tenement,
or any poition of a tenement, for which he
shall be rated, or sha I have claimed to be
rated, to the relief of the poor, the right to
be registered as an elector. 2. The adoption
of the system of voting by ballot. 3. The
limitation ol the duration of parliaments to
three years. 4. Such a change in the arrange
ment of the electoral districts as shall pro
duce a more equal apportionment of represen
tatres to constiteenis. 5. The abolition ol
the properly qualification for members of
parliament.
This movement, it is easy to predict,is des
tined to be one of importance, and will ere
many years passover, after the example of the
Corn Law League, sweep dow n all the bar
i ers to its progress. The chief question
aised is of course the extension of the suf
rage. This will be the entering wedge for
II other needful reforms. The piesent law
as most of our readers are aware, requires that
one should vote for Members of Parliament
but those who occupy dwellings rented at £*lo
a year or upwards. The proposal of the
Refoim Association when carried into effect,
will greatly change iliis. It is liable to one
very serious objection, however, that is, that
while it would admit the most ignorant of
those who are now non-electors, and who are
moreover, most liable to be influenced by
intimidation and sell-interest namely, the
agricultural laboieia, it would exclude the
majority of the young and intelligent olerks
and mechanics in ihe latge cities, very tew of
whom are ho use holders. This portion of the
proposed reform, will probably be modified
into the simple principle of complete suffrage,
with certain necessary provisions against the
admission to the polls of lunatics and crimi
nals. Lsrge meetings in favor of parliamenta
ry reform have been held in many of the pro
vincial towns. Henry Vincent is the chief
agitator.
Meetings sympathising with the Hungar
ians, in their struggle for liberty, have
been of frequent occurrence. The tone
of the speakers as well as of the meetings is
generally for acknowledging, the independence
of Hungary, and for war with Russia.
The Peace Congress was expected to com
mence it* sittings in Paris on the 22d. ult.
Most of the principal cities and towns in Eng
land and Scotland send representatives. Seve
ral members of Parliament, among whom are
Messrs. Cobden, Geo. Thompson, and C.
Villieis, have expressed their intention of be
ing present, and among other well known
public men who are mentioned as represen
tatives, we see the name* of Joseph Sm r ge,
Douglas Jeirold, Geo. Dawson, Edw. Miall,
2kc. The French government, through Mr
Dufaure minister of the interior, have expres
*ed their approval of the demonstration. M.
Dufaure'* letter says y
“(Gentlemen, —Conformably with the verbal
explanations which you have done me the
honor of making to me, and with the written
request which you addressed to me on the
21st of July, 1 authorise the assembling of
the Pesce Congress in Pans during the month
of August. The object which this (Congress
ha* in view is too philanthropic for me to re
fuse to give my consent. Beside*, the names
of the members who form part of the com
juitiee of organisation give me an addiltou.il
guarantee that the Congress will confine it
self within the limit* of us programme, and
will not permit any infraction of order or of
the laws."
Amongst the American delegates who had
arrived in London, we see the names of ihe
Hon. Amos Tuck, Hon. J. R. (ridding*,
Rev Wm. Allen. We have been interested
to learn, (says the iamdon Inquirer) that
Mr. William Hotch,of New Bedford, United
States, an early and steadlast supporter of
Noah W orcesU r, mi hi* peace efforts, a truly
venerable friend ot peace, now nearly ninety
years of age, ha* sent out a beautiful prim
of that Pioneer of the peace movement, for
•adi member of the Pari* Congress, one
thousand copies in all, the uuiubei which a
member of the London Peace Committee
recently in town, supposed would be found at
fans as delegates, it was a happy as well
a
as genetoua thought, to tend these ptirta to
the Congress.
Francs. There is nothing of importance
fmm France. It is thought that a ministry
with Count Mole at its head, will be the re
sult of the fall of Hungary. It is expected
that the bait held out to the President, by
Austria and Russia, in the shape of a mar
riage with Princess Aogutta of Wurtemberg
will now be eagerly siexed. W hat an alliance
for the chief magistrate of a republic! Briel
accounts are gtveo of the first meeting of the
Peace Congress About 1,500 persona were
present The celebrated M. Victor Hugo ir
the chair. Flags of all nations adorned the
Hall. The star* and stripes of the U. S'
floated aide by aide with the tri-colore ol
France and the English union-jack. Mr.
Cobden and his party were received with ap
plause, and the American delegates were
saluted with enthusiastic cheers. M. Victor
Hugo’s opening speech is described as an ex
quisite piece of composition, and replete with
the most benevolent sentiment. It is said
that the French Government have forbidden
any allusions being made in the speeches to
passing politics.
Hungary. The intelligence from Hunga
ry is of the most disastrous kind. The
Hungarians have been totally defeated and
have been forced to lay down their arms and
submit unconditionally to the Russian forces.
The Moniteur du Soir of Paris thus gives the
intelligence, in a notice from the Minister ol
I*ranee in Berlin, to the Minister of Foreign
Affaire.
Count Beckendorf, Aid-de-Camp to the
Emperor of Russia, arrived from Warsaw
last night, charged to announce to the King
of Pi ussia the conclusion of the war in Hunga
ry. Gorgey having become dictator by the
departure of Kossuth, submitted with his en
ure army to Marshall Paakiewitch at Arad, on
the 13th of August. —The corps of General
Bern had been destroyed by Gen. Ludeis.
The Kuryer Warezwski of Aug. 18, pub
lisher the following bulletin from Gen. Pas
kiewiitch to the Emperor of Russia;
“Hungary is at the feet of your Imperial
Majesty. The Government of the insurgents
has renounced its powers, and Gorgey has
assumed them. Gorgey lays down his arms
without condition, with the principal army of
the insurgents, and doubtless the other insur
gent corps will follow his example. The
officers sent by him to negotiate the capitula
tion have shown themselves disposed to re
pair to the other corps with our commission
ers and the Austrian ones for inducing them
to lay down their arms. 1 have the honor to
announce to your Imperial Majesty that the
sole condition stipulated by Gorgey is that he
may be enabled to lay down his arms before
the army of your Imperial Majesty. 1 have
taken the necessary measures that the troops
be surrounded on all sides by the corps of
Gen. Rudiger, whom I shall likewise order
to proceed to disarming. In w hat concerns
the ulterior disposal of the prisoners, and the
measures to be taken with respect to the other
insurgent corps, I shall act in concert with the
commander iu-chief of the Austrian army. 1
have caused Gorgey to be brought to my head
quarters, where he will remain until the or
ders of your Imperial Majesty shall arrive
respecting him.”
The latest accounts respecting Kossuth and
the other Hungarian leadors, are, that they
had fled into Wallachia. Lord Westmorland,
the British ambassador at Berlin had arrived
at Dover. Various surmises are afloat as to
the object of his visit. An impression pre
vails that it is connected with the surrender of
Gorgey.
The overthrow of the brave Magyars,
though sufficiently melancholy cannot be said
to have been unexpected by any who.have
calmly weighed the prospects of the contend
ing! parties, during the progress of the war.
\t times some signal success of the Hunga
rians encouraged a hope, that notwithstand
ing their very inferior numbers and resources,
the justice of their cauae, or some unexpected
turn m the politics of Europe, might at least
save them from complete and final defeat. But
that they were gradually losing ground, and
beooming less and less effective in their ef
forts, has been for some past abundantly
apparent. The result is lamentable. We can
only sympathise with the vanquished, and
express a belief that Liberty is not even yet
dead in Europe; and that although the Czar
and his Cossacks may for a time retard, they
cannot prevent the final triumph of free opin
ions not only in Hungary but in Russia and
Siberia.
A terrible illustration of the fearful ravages
of war, is given by the ruin which has over
taken many of the Batska towns. Some of
them have even ceased to be and where the
fugitive inhabitants are to find shelter, on
their return, is beyond conjecture. Therei
osopel, Zombar, and Baya, are said to be now
mere names. Before the invasion of Jel
lachich, the first of these had a population of
30,000; while Zombar had 19,000, and Bava
12,000 inhabitants.
The superior importance of the Hungarian
news puts into the shade all the foreign in
telligence and the papers do not give any
thing worth noting respecting the other coun
tries of Europe.— j. n.
First ot August in Columbus.
The New Concord Free Press publishes
the toasts, given at the celebration at Colum
bus, which it appears were handed to tbe pa
pers of that city for publication, but did not
gain admittance. Amongst them were the
following:
The Ist of August, 1838, the day we com
memorate.—lt broke the chains of 800,000*
human brings, and changed their condition,
from that of brutes, to that of freemen.
The friends of emancipation—May they in
crease North and South, as the fioge of
Egypt, and so plag ue the Slave-holders, as
to compel them to lei ihe oppressed go free.
l al he Ame ?c*n Slay* Trade as carried on
a e al Government—lt is
n IT ;V? Unr,y «he Union,
owh reav
The Mexican War-it was a Slave-holdinir
scheme, perpetrated to strengthen the
of the Slave power, and extend the area ot
“Despotism.”
Liberty—the superlative of earthly bles
sings, ceasing to be the property of the few
may she shed her benign influence over all.
J. K. (ridding* and others who contend for
the colored mans'* rights—let us love and
honor them.
The Colored people of this age— Msy they
evince an appreciation of laberty, challeng
ing a conparison with past, and worthy tbe
imitation of future generations.
Nathaniel Turner, Cioques, and Madison
Washington—They were great and mighty
men men competent to lead the oppressed to
Liberty lei us perpetuate their memory.
Slsveboiding Christians—legitimate heirs
and faithful comisaanea of Satan, let him take
care of them.
How mock have thoee evils tjrei have never
happened cost us.
Communications.
BrrrALo, Aug. 13th, 1819.
Frederick Douglas*:—As one of the
Committee of Arrangements of the first of
August Celebration, at Buffalo, you wilt con
fer a favor by allowing me through your
columns, to call attention to the following ex
tract from an Editorial in the Impartial Git
sen of the Bth inst. After speaking of the
peaceable mad orderly manner in which the
BmU at Auburn patted off, the magnanimous
Editor adds as follows:
“It u due to our friend, J. W. Quincy,
and others of the Committee of Arrangements,
j that they exhibited a more—a much more lib
eral disposition than did tbe Buffalo Conven
tion.—The latter refused to pay H. H.
Garnet a single red cent over and above his
travelling expenses, for his services as Orator.
They however went to great expense for
printing, paying largely to printers, but ask
ing tpeakere to woik for nothing. The Au
burn Committee were as willing to pay speak
ers as printers.—We preferred not to say
j anything about this before the Celebration.
lest we should be regarded as desiring to
disparage the Buffalo meeting, or to show
partiality betwixt them. —We had no personal
reason to do so. As a printer both committees
treated us alike. Bnt as a speaker, the one
wanted ua for nothing, and the other offered
compensation. Our object in mentioning this
difference between the two committees, is, to
call attention to the fact that just here lies
the secret of the poverty and embarrassment
of our public men; in the unwillingness ol 1
some to compensate them for their labors.
We penned a line to Mr. G. Weir on this!
subject, but to no avail. We doubt, however, l
whether they asked Mr. Beman to come
from New Haven, simply for his travelling;
expenses. If they did they are more un
reasonable than they suppose they are.
When will black men learn to pay their
own laborers as liberally as they pay white
men —May the Buffalo folks improve in this
matter.”
Now we certainly have no objection to the
Rev. Editor’s exposing himself to the world,
through bis misnamed paper, providing he
would make, an impartial statement of the
facts in the case and not endeavour, through
cunning and craft to present the Buffalo Com
mittee in an unfavorable light before the pub-;
lie; for the most casual reader will readily j
observe that the gratuitous article while it
claims sympathy for us on the one hand, is in-;
tended upon the other hand to reflect discredit
and disparagement upon our efforts.
“Away with such disguised sympathy.”
Some time in the month of January last the
Committee at Buffalo addressed a letter to
the Rev. S. R. Ward, inviting him to Buf
falo as one of the Orators for the first of
August, and requesting him .to state upon
what terms he would come, &c. to which
letter he replied by referring us to the Can
andaigua Celebration held some two years
previous, leaving us to judge from that, what j
his terms would be; &c., to which letier the
Committee responded by telling him that j
they could not take the Canandaigua celebra
for their criterion; but that they would
pay his traveling expenses to Buffalo and
back again; and pay all expenses that might
be incurred by him during his stay in our|
city. To this ’letter Mr. Ward replied as fol-j
lows:
Syracuse, March 2, 1849.
G.*<Veir, Jr., Dear Sir :—I am disposed
to say that for ought I now see, it is probable
that I will comply with the request of your
fellow citizens in respect to the first of August
next, on the terms you propose. Should any
thing occur so to change the minds of the
Committee as that they will not need me, 1
you will please let me know by the first of
May, so that l may be free to engage myself
elsewhere. Your obedt. Servant,
S. R. WARD.
From this letter the Committee, aa a matter
of course, enrolled the name of Mr. Ward,
as one of their speakers. Subsequent to this,
however, the Committee received a letter from
him stating that owing to business matters
&c., he should be obliged to dcclinejseiv
ing us at Buffalo on the first of August upon
the terms intimated in a former letter stat
ing that if he did, he should embarrass his
business, Sic.
The Committee not wishing by any means
to embarrass Mr. Ward in his business or
other engagements, immediately wrote him a
letter releasing him from his obligation, which,
of course they supposed was all that he asked.
But it seems that he has now taken a public
opportunity of thrusting the javelin at them,
and all because they would not consent to
give him twenty-five dollars, together with hit
raveling expenses, for making a first of Au
gust speech. In the article above, he freely
makes use of the name of Mr. Garnet and
says that we would not agree to give him a
single red cent over and above his expenses.
Whether Mr. Garnet authorized this assertion
on the part of Mr. Ward or not, we do not'
know. But this we do know as Mr.
Ward has assumed to mention his name, that!
both of the gentlemen in our opinion have
entirely disregarded the true principles of
genuine greatness for they both agreed to
come to Buffalo, and both backed out. As to
Mr. Garnet, the published proceedings of
our meeting will show in what estimation
we hold him. Because we did not see fit to
pay him Jorty dollars, he refused to come,
even after assuring us by his letters that he
would come, God being willing. Hid Mr.
Garnet not said positively that he would be
here, we never should have used his name on
our Bills, —and consequently we should have
got rid of paying the printer for that job.
And as Mr. Ward seems disposed to find
fault with our paying laigely to printers,
we will assure him that bis friend whose
name he uses with such emotionsof pity has
been the means of incurring a portion of the
expenses; and secondly, we inform bim|thai
we do not know that it is any of his or any
person’s business what we pay for printing,
or what we do not. We*paid him aceoiding
to his request in advance for ooe notice in hi*
paper and that we believe is *ll that should
concern him, especially when the editorial
Sic., which he promised us in relation to our
Celebratioo, haa never appeared. The twenty
five dollars bonus was not found forthcom
ing, neither was.the editorial, although be had
promised it. Alas, what an effect the Ahrugh
ty Dollar will have We are sorry to see it
so in this ease. It betrays a want of interest
and feeling, upoo the pan of the wonhy
editor, much to be lamented. We exhort
him to repentance. He seems to be wonder
fully concerned about tbe terms upon which
Mr. Beman came to Buffalo. We simply re
mark upon this point, that whether he
believes that Mr. Beman came simply for his
traveling expenses or not, is nutter of ia
differeoce to os. Mr. Beman has a soul too
big with pilanthropy, and boa (oo moch in
terest in the welfare of Mending humanity, to
make and cents a standard. Pore phil
anthropy pium pis him to act toe; and his letter
to tbe Buffalo Committee will ever be borne
to mind with the moet pleasing recollection.
Wr.uld that we could say as much for tbe
letters of Mr. Ward and Mr. Garnet. That
J. W. Quincy and tbe Auburn Committee
possessed a great deal of liberality and mag
naomity we do not hesitate to believe. But
be that as it may, our friend Ward possessing
as Utile a* be does, should certainly not un
dertake to draw a contrast between them and
tbe Buffalo committee. The Buffalo committee
are responsible for their acts, and when they
wish tutoring in regard to their duty, they
will call upon some candid man and not one
who assumes to have so much sympathy with
us that he would not apeak of us at the Au
burn celebration, and at the same time
would publish us to tbe world through tbe
column* of his paper. He closes up his
article by inquiring When will black men
learn to pay their own laborers as liberally as
they pay white men 1 die.—using the very
language which were a white man to use, he
would be quick to condemn. We admit that
the Buffalo folks have need for improvement
in many matters; but we fear that if they
wait for certain (Rrr. Editors to set the ex
ample, unless money can purchase it, they
they will wait in vain.
Yours for truth and justice,
GEORGE WEIR, Jr.
Trial of Slaves. —Four more of the
slave* who lately escaped from Charleston,
S. C., work-house, have Ween convicted and
the following is the sentence
“Each of the prisoners to be placed in
solitary confinement m tbe jail for six months,
to receive fifteen lashes each month in the
workhouse, and at the expiration of this time,
to be placed in solitary confinement for five
years, unless sooner sold out of the State by
their owners.
Receipts
For tbe North Star, from thr date of laxt nrknrm--
to Sept. 12, 1849.
Western New York A. S. Society don 9 40,00
H. Thoms*, West Exeter, N Y 1,00
Robert B. Foraon, Borodino, N Y 1,00
Iraac Reynolds, Palmyra, N Y 1,00
Mary Ann Woodward 2,00
Orrin Lapliam, Macedon, N Y 2,00
Orrin Prestor, Victor, N Y 2,00
Calvin Campbell. East Henrietta 1,00
H. P. V, Hill, Riwhviile 1,00
J. R. Many an i, Schagticoke 1,00
John Petrie, Webster, Maas. 1,00
Cavie Richardson, Pittsford 2,00
A Idle L. Brigden, Wellington, Ohio 2,00
Titus Haight, F.lliaton 2,00
Peter Christianson, Philadelphia. Pa. 2,00
J. Wilson, Pelham, C. \V. 2,00
Seneca Tracy, Middlefield, Ohio 2,00
Charles Joiner 2,00
John E. Robinson 2,00
G. H. Graham, Pittsburgh,Pa. 1,00
L. P. Beebe, Concords Mich. 1,00
H. W. Seymour, Seneca Falls 1,00
John Carter, Ma 'isoti, Ind 2,00
H W Johnson, Canandaigua 1,04
George Coots, Savannah, Ohio 1,00
J J Wallis, Massillon, Ohio 1,00
Wm. Seavey, Victor 1,00
J K Salmon, East Bloomfield 2,00
C Kennan 2,00
Samuel F Talcot 2,00
Mrs. G F Munson 1,00
Dr. Webster 2,00
B Bradley 1,00
Oliver Chapin don 5,00
Jos !ah Secor, Newark 1,00
Benzelow J Peet, Palmyra 1,00
John Spooner, Marion 1,00
J H Durfec 1,00
Wm. Parkes 1,00
John C. Clarke 1,00
Wm. Spooner 1,00
Isaac Carpenter, West Walworth 2,00
Notices.
AntUSlavery Lecture* and Fair*.
Frederick Douglass will visit and lecture,
and Fairs will be held, under the management
of the Ladies of the W. N. Y. A. S. Society,
at the following places in the course of next
month—namely:
West Walworth, lecture, Tuesd. Sep. 4th.
Marion, Wednesd. sth.
Palmyra, Thursd. 6th.
Victor, Friday 7th.
Fair, Saturday 6th.
E. Bloomfield, Lecture, Sunday 9th.
Fair, Monday 10th.
Oswego, liccture, Thursday and Friday,
Sept. 13th and 14th.
Fulton Village, Lecture, Sunday and Mon
day, 16tb and 17th.
Mount Morris, Lecture, Thursday, 20th.
Fair, Friday, 21st.
Caledonia, Lecture, Sunday, 23d.
Scottsville, Monday, 24th.
Fair, Tuesday, 25th.
Honeoye Falls, Lecture, Thursday, 27ih.
Fair, Friday, 28th.
Loekport, Lecture, Tbuisday, Oct. sth.
Fair, Friday, 6th.
N.B. The Lecture at each of the above
named places will commence at 7 f.m. pre
cisely, unless some other hour is named in a
uture notice.
An Appeal In behalf of the Western
New York Asti-Slavery Fair.
Earnestly desiring the abolition of Slavery
in this land, and being deeply convinced that
this result can only be accomplished by renew
ed efforts to change our present corrupt moral
sentiment, the undersigned mem hers and
friends of the Western New York Am-slaver*
Society, again make their sppeal to the
fnenda of the SltTe in behalf of their annual
Bazaar, which will be bekl in Rochester in
December next.
While we have been cheered and gladdened
by the progress already made, and the good
alteady done, and while we rejoice to observe
that friends have been raised up to plead the
cause of the bondman among persons, and in
quarters where we had least expected them,
we still aee the “harvest to be great and the
laborers to be few,” sod instead of relaxing
our efforts, we are impressed with a sense of
the duty of doubling our diligence, and ap
plying more closely oot energy to tba means
of advancing this holy cause.—We appeal the
more boldly to our friends because tboee for
whom we plead cannot plead for themselves.
While we are surrouoded by our domestic
circle, with none to molest or make ua afraid,
there are three millions of men and women in
our own land, doomed to abject Slavery and
chains, robbed of every right—avil—eoeml—
personal—and political. Remembering thorn
m bonds as bound with them, we desire to
ulead their eanae as though they were os our
own limbs, and the knotted lash were applied
te our own book**
While to obuin mesas foe enlightening the
f public mind, is the strong motive for folding
our nr.non] Fair, it in oot the only one. a
great amount of good may be traced directly
ito socli occutoaa. Many who are now at
tire worker* in behalf of this holy rooTernent
became first interested in it through the m
sttumeiitahty of tboee annual exhibitions of
anu-niavary mdoatry, tact and skill.
The present object of tbe Rochester anti-
I slarerj Bazaar for the general enlighten
ment of the public mind o tbe subject of sla
very. Recognizing the North Star. (published
ra thia city) as an efficient Anti-Slavery in
strumentality, we propose that the funds raised
by the Sale of articles at the Bazaar (on
behalf of which we here appeal) shall be
mainly appropriated to the support of that
important paper.
We gatefnlly acknowledge the prompt as
aistxnce rendered to our last Fair by our
friends and coadjutor* in various parts of our
own State, Wisconsin, and Michigan, and we
earnestly solicit their continued co-operation
i with os in tbe good wotk. That no time may
I be lost, we especially recommend to them the
immediate formation of sewing circles in their
various towns with a view to making articles
for the Rochester Bazaar. We would also
in this connection render oar heartfelt thanks
to our British frieods for the valuable aid ex
tended by them to our last year ’s Fair and
we would again warmly solicit their generous
assistance. It is due to our trans-Atlantic
friends to say that for much of the interest felt
in our last Bazaar we were indebted to them,
and we are persuaded thst their continued
co-operation will essentially ptomoie the suc
cess of nur approaching December Bazaar,
and tbe advancement of the cause of the slave
in our land.
We hope that the foregoing appeal will
commend itaelf to out philanthropic friends on
both sides of the Atlantic, and that they will
cordially unite with us in the effoit here pro
posed.
Rett no* —inglorious rest
Unnerve* the man;
Struggle —’ti* God’s behest*
Fill up life’* little span
With God-like deed*—it is the test
Test of the high born toui,
A nd lofty aim;
The te*t in history’s scroll
Of every bo noted name
None but the Brave shall win the goal'
6icned on buhalf of the Fair Committee,
AMY POST.
The Difference.—- The ordinary Ointments
and Liniments, it is well known, are severe
and partial in their operation. Sloan’s Oint
ment is mild, yet thorough: it reaches and
removes the cause hence it gives real and
permanent relief.
For purity, mildness, safety, certainty, and
thoroughnes, Sloan’s Ointment excels, and is
rapidly superceding all other Ointments and
Liniments now in use.
Kj 3 See Agents’ names at the head of
Sloan's Column. For further particulars and
testimonials, get Pamphlets of agents.
As you are already aware, at the
very beginning of the Hungarian Rev
olution, sereral secretaries were ap
pointed in Kossuth’s Cabinet, one of
them understanding Bohemian, anoth
er Croatian, another Italian, another
French and German. Among them I
had the place of translator from the
French into the Magyar. While we
were still in PeMh, I worked in the
Chancery at Buda, and had only now
and then an opportunity of seeing our
Kossuth. But since the Chancery was
removed to Debreczin I have been
almost every day at his side—<»r rather
I might sav day and night, for hardly a
night in the week passes away in which
we are not compelled to be busy. I
gay tee, for the great man always em
ploys more than one at a time. I will
accordingly endeavor, aa far as words
will allow me, to introduce you into
our work room, and to let you behold
with your otvn eyes, as an observer,
t the Liberator of whom in America
(there is no just conception, w o is
even unknown in the neighboring coun-j
tries, and whom few of your corres
pondents can describe, for there are
not many who have had the opportunity
of carefully studying- a Kossuth.
I hardly know how to begin, as there
is hardly ever a pause in the course of
his activity to start from, but, for ex
ample, I will write down for you the!
doings of yesterday.
j Yesterday morning after I had break-;
tasted, I hastened to the Chancery—
that is to say, to Kossuth’s house, which
contains four apartments, his sleeping
chamber, a parlor, the Chancery where
we four correspondents have our places,
and a small room for copyists. Three
(couriers with dispatches were in the
room as I entered, and Kossuth sat in
his usual place, with a pen in hia right
I hand, mid in his left the dispatches just
brought in. I had come rather too
late, for it was already a quarter past
five o’clock, and another secretary had
prepared, in my place, two dispatches,
which were sent off before five. As I
entered he was employed in several
ways: his hand was writing, his mouth
was dictating, his eye glanced at and
read the opened dispatches, and his
mind directed and followed the whole.
He looked paler and more suffering
(than usual. A glass of medicine stood
by his side, from which he tasted from
!time to time, as if it were the means of
keeping up his physical existence. In
deed, though I have often worked at
his side from early in the morning till
i late at night, I do not remember having
seen him stop to take any nourishment
except this mixture, and though he
does sometimes eut, I can assure you
that the amount of food which he con
sumes is hardly enough to keep a
young child from starving.
One might almost say that the physi
cal part of him had no longer an e is
tence of its own; the man is nothing
but a spiritual energy; lor, if it were
not so, the perishing sickly hull would
long since have been dissolved in spite
of ail the wisd >m of the physicians.—
But he is perhaps the only living being
whose mighty will is alone sufficient by
'its own force to urge forward the
wheels of physical nature, and keep
them constantly in movement. He
will not be sick, and he is not.- Great
as are his bodily infirmities and suffer
ings, he is strong and indefatigable.—
His spiritual resources, his will, his
enthusiasm, endow bun with the pow
iers of a giant, although his physical
■strength is not more than that of a boy
of six years. He bids defiance to
death that threatens him in so many
different maladies; his spirit keeps the
body alive. The spirit is still young
and vigorous, and can bnly cease to be
so when the too great tension shall
have irritated the nerves to such a de
gree that they refuse to obey the will,
and thus the organism destroys itself.
I do not express myself clearly, but
words will serve me no further. But
to our In bore.
I had scarcely taken my place when
he b« gun to dictate a letter to Bern foi
me to write, and so we were employed
some f< ur hours, during which I wrote
two letters and each of my three col
leagues three, all by his dictation; ht
i himself had in the meantime preparec
two dispatches, one for Perczel, tin
other for Comorn-
After nine o’clock he left us work ir
abundance for the whole day, and wen
with the Ministers, Szmere and Dus
click, who came for him, to the Hou*<
iof Representatives, taking along wit!
him some papers, on which he hat
made several memoranda.
He came hack about four o’clock ir
the afternoon, accompanied by seveia
Representatives, with whom he har' i
conference of two hours, answering
.their questions and suggestions; thii
did not prevent him from examining
the documents we had prepared during
his absence, or from dictating nvrt
letters. While be was thus dictating
to in three or four letters, with totally
different contents, being given off to
gether by the same lips, we had to bi
exceedingly careful in takiog then
down.
At stx o’clock came more dispatchei
and verbal inquiries, all of which wen
answered without delay. My dinnei
consisted of a glass of wine, a piece o
ham, and some bread, which I had or
the table beside me, and disposed o
with the best appetite as I was writing
The Representatives, with one excep
tion, went away: the one remaining sal
down at the side of Kossuth and begar
to help us. This made five secretaries
and to give you some description of tht
labors of the evening, I will tell yot
that from half-past seven to balf-pasi
eight he dictated to us, at the saint
[time, five letters, all of different con
tents! One of them was to Dembinski
one to Bern, the third to Paris, tbt
tourth to Vienna, and the fifth to Gyo
,tiygos; two were in German, one ii
French, and two in Hungarian!
Is it a Mitt who can do such things
After tbit* he waa for some time en
gaged in figures, which ho reckoner
And reckoned in a state of almost per
feet abstraction. While he was thui
occupied, his friend and family phvsi
cian, the Doctor and Professor Buga!
Pal.' came in and interrupted him. He
greeted the Doctor kindly, pointi d him
to a chair, and returned to his occupa*
lion as before. The Doctor took his 1
hand, which he yielded to him willing'!
ly, as if it did not belong to him, and i
held it for some fifteen minutes, feeling.
the beat of the pulse, after which he
withdrew' without any further notice
from Kossuth.
At 11 o’clock the head of one of my I
colleagues was already nodding, and
both myself and the one opposite me
could hardly keep our eyes open.
The clock struck twelve, and the j
noise of the departure of the copyists j
from the neighboring room roused him
from his reflections. “Whit time is
it, gentlemen*” he asked of us, and j
when we told him it was just after 12, i
he became unquiet, and a cloud sud
denly spread over his br«»w. He rose
from his seat, saying: Has no express j
arrived from Peath?” No,” was the
answer, and he began to walk up and
down the room. He did not seem to
think that it was high time to seek rest,
and as if to prevent us from having
such au idea, he said: There is work
to be done yet.”
Finally, after waiting vainly for an
other hour, he said to us: Let us take
a little re;>t, gentlemen, while we are
waiting; 1 will call you when I need
your help.” He went into his bedroom,
and we arranged ourselves on the,
benches, and slept with our fatigue as
soundly as in the softest bed. But our;
rest was not of long duratioa. Between
three and lour o’clock the expected
dispatches arrived. Still half asleep,
we took our places, and Kossuth, that
watchman of his country, dictated to us
as before. At six in the morning wo
received permission to go away while
he went for a bath, though with the re
quest to be there again by eight o’clock.
We are young and strong, and such a
night’s watching now and then will not
injure us; hut it is not so wi h him.—
How long can this Hero of the Nine
teenth Century—this guide of our
Fatherland amid the foes that surround
it—how long can his spirit sustain the
contest that it ever carries on with the
little of physiol nature that is attached
to it?
My friend, if beyond the ocean, in
the free and happy America, there are
men who feel sympathy for our good
cause, who desire the success of our
efforts, do not ask their prayers so
much for tne triumph of the Magyars
as for the life of Kossuth; for Hungary
cannot be conquered so long as this
incomprehensible being, whose name is
Kossuth, is spared, though Russians
and Austrians enter the country by
myriads, and though thousands of our
brethren fall as sacrifices for Freedom.
He is the image of Liberty, Equality,
and Fraternity; he is the incarnate
spirit of Justice; he is the Washington
of Hungary; and so Eljen Kossuth.
A FEARFUL DREAM.
THE LAST SATURNALIA.
Some ninety years ago, there flour-
ished in Glasgow, a club of young men,
which, from the extreme profligacy of
its members, and the licentiousness of
their orgies, were commonly called
the Hell Club. Besides their nightly
or weekly meetings, they held /one
grand annual saturnalia in which each
tried to excel the other in drunkenness
and blasphemy; and on the thesb occa
sions there was no star amongst them
whose lurid light was more conspicuous
than that of young Mr. Archibald B
who endowed with brilliant talents and
a handsome person, held out great
promises in his boyhood, and raised
hopes which had been completely frus-'
trated by his sunsequent reckless dissi
pation. One morning, after returning
from this annual festival, Mr. Archibald
8., having retired to bed, dreamed the
following dream. j
He fancied that he was mounted on
a favorite black horse that he always
rode, and that he was proceeding to
wards his own house—then a seat em
bowered by trees, and situated upon a
hill, now entirely built over, and form
ing part of the city—when a stranger,
whom the darkness of the night pre
vented his distinctly discerning, sud
deul) seized the horses rein, saying;
You must go with me.”
“And who are you?” exclaimed the
young inan, with a volley of oaths,
whilst he struggled to free himself.
“That you will see by and by,” re
turned the other, in a tone that excited
uncomfortable terror in the youth, who,
plunging his spurs into his horse, at
tempted to fly, but in vain. However
fast the animal flew, the stranger was
still beside him; till at length in his
desperate effort to escape, the rider
was thrown; but instead of being
dashed to the earth, as he expected, he
found himself falling—(ailing—falling
slid, as if sinking into the bowels of the
earth.
At length a period being put to this
mysterious descent, he found breath to
inquire of his companion, who was still
beside him, whither they were going.
Where am I Where are you taking
me?” he exclaimed.
“To hell!” replied the stranger, and
immediately interminable echoes re
peated the fearful sound, “To hell! to
hell!”
At length a light appeared, which
soon increased to a blaze, but instead*
of cries and groans, and lamenting, as
the terrified traveler expected, nothing
met his ear but sounds of music, mirth
and joillity; and he found himself at the
entrance of a superb buildi. g, far ex
ceeding any he had seen constructed
by human hands. Witbin, too, what a
scene! No amusements, employment,
or pursuit of man on earth, but was
there being carried on with a vehe
mence that excited hit unutterable
amazement. There the panting horae
still bore his bruts! tider through the
excitement of the added race! There
over the midnight bowl, the inebriate
still drawled out the wanton song or
maudlin blasphemy! The gambler for
ever plied hie endless game, and the
•laves of Mammon toiled through eter
nity their bitter tasks; whilst all the
magnificence of earth paled before that
which met hia view.
He aoon perceived that be was
among old acquaintances whom he
knew to be dead, and each, ho observ
ed, was pursuing the object, whatever
it was, that had formerly engrossed
him; when, finding himself relieved ol
the presence of his unwelcome conduc
tor, he ventured to address his former
friend, Mrs. D- whom he taw
sitting, as had been her wont on earth,
absorbed also, requesting her to real
from the game, and introduce him to
the pleasures of the place, which ap*
peered to him to be vrry uniiko what
he had expected, and indeed an ex*
tremely agreeable one.- But with what
a cry of agony she answered that there
was no rest in hell; thst they must
ever toil on at those very pleasures;
and innumerable voices echoed through
the interminable vaults, There is no
rest in hell!” whilst throwing open their
vests, each disclosed in his bosom an
ever-burning dame! These, they said,
were the pleasures of hell; the choice
of earth was their inevitable doom! In
the midst of the horror this scene in
spired, his conductor returned, and, at
his earnest entreaty, restored him
again to earth, but as he quitted him,
he said:
Remember!—in a year and a day
we meet again!”
At this crisis of the dream the sleeper
awoke, feverish and ill; and whether
from the effect of the dream or his pre
ceding orgies, be was so unwell as to
be obliged to keep his bed for several
days, during which period he had time
for many serious reflections, which ter
minated in a resolution to abandon the
club and his licentious companions al
together.
He whs no sooner well, however,
than they fi »cked around him, bent on
recovering so valuable a member of
their society; and having wrung from
him a confession of the causes of his
defection, which, as may be supposed,
uppeared to them ridiculous, they soon
contrived to make him ashamed of his
good resolution. He joined them again
—resumed his former course of life—
and when the annual saturnalia came
round, he found himself with a glass in
his hand at the table; when the Presi
dent rising to make his accustomed
speech, began with saying: “Gentle
men, this being leap year, and a year
and a day since our last anniversary,’
Sic.
The words struck upon the young
man’s ear like a knell; but, ashamed
to expose his weakness to the jeers o!
his companions, he sat out the feast,
plying himself with wine even mort
liberally than usual, in order to drowr
his instinctive thoughts till in the
gloom of a winter's morning, he mourn
ted his horse to ride home. Sum<
hours afterwards the horse was fount
with his saddle and bridle on, quietly
grazing by the road side, about hal
way between the city and Mr. B.’s
house, while a few yards off lay th<
corpse of his master.
Now, as I have said, introducing thii
story, it is no fiction. The circum
stances happened as here related. At
account of it was published at the time
but tho copies were bought up by thi
family. Two or three, however, wen
preserved, and the narrative has beei
reprinted.— Crotr’s Night Side of JVa
lure.
THE DESERT OF SAHARA.
North of the Mountains of the Moon
in Abyssinia, lies the Great Desert of
Sahara, stretching 800 miles in width
from its southern margin, and 1000 in
length between the Atlantic and the
Red Sea. It is a hideous, barren waste,
prolonged eastward into the Atlantic
for miles, in the form of sand-banks,
and interrupted to the west only by a
few oases and the valley of the Nile.
This desert is alternately scorched
by heat and pi ched by cold. The
wind blows from the east nine months
in the ycur, and at the equinoxes it
rushes in u hurricane, driving the sand
in clouds before it, producing the dark
ness of night at midday, and over
whelming caravans of men and animals
in common destruction. Then the sand
is heaped up in waves, ever varying
with the blast; even the atmosphere is
of sand. The desolation of this weary
waste, boundless to the eye as the
ocean, is terrific and sublime—the dry
heated air is like a red vapor, the set
ting sun seems to be a volcanic fire,
and at times the burning wind of the
desert is the blast of death. There are
many salt lakes to the north, and even
1 the springs are of brine; thick incrus
tations ot dazz.ing salt cover the
ground, and the particles, carried alofi
by whirlwinds, fl*ah in the sun like
diamonds. Sand is not the only char
acter of the desert: tracks ot gravel
and low bare rocks occur at times nol
less barren and dreary. On these inter
minable sands and rocks no animal, nc
insect, breaks the dead silence; not a
tree nor a shrub is seen in this land
without a shadow. In the glare ol
noon the air quivers with heat, reflected
from the red sand, and in the night il
is chilled in a clear sky sparkling
under a host of stars. Strangely
1 but beautifully contrasted with these
I scorched solitudes is the narrow valley
of the Nile, threading the desert foi
1000 miles in emerald green, with its
blue waters foaming in rapids among
i wild rocks, or quietly spreading in a
I calm stream amidst fields of corn and
the-august monuments of past sges.
Dreaming for a Breakfast. -Down
in Aroostook county, Maine, a*' h
fcnan and an Irishman happens jbe
journeying together through the most
interminable forest of that regioo, and
by some tnixhap had lost their way and
wandered about in a pitiable condition
f-r a while, when they fortunately came
across a miserable hovel which was de
serted save by a lone chicken. As this
poor biped was the only thing eatable
to be obtained, they eagerly oespatched
and prepared it for a supper. When
laid before them, Pat concluded that it
was insufficient for the support of both
himself and Sawney, and therefore a
proposition was made to hit companion
that they should spare their chicken
until the next morning, and the one who
had the most pleasant dream should
have the chicken, which was agreed to.
la the morning Sawney told bis dream.
He thought angels were drawing him
to heaven in a basket, and be waa never
before so happy. l/pon concluding hia
dream, Pat exclaimed, 4 *Ocb, aure,
and by Japers, I saw you going, and
thought you wou!dn*t come back after
the chicken, and 1 gat up and ate if
myself!’'