dear fr winds: we have learned,
with*great satisfaction, that a com
mittee has been formed on your side
of the atlantic, resembling our own
in its construction and objects, and
prepared to co-operate, in the attain
ment of a common end”, with ourselves,
and our estimable friends in belgium,
who have also been organized on simi-
jar principles and for a similar purpose.
l mted thus in sympathy and aim, we
feel that we should be also, so far as is
practicable, united in counsel and ac
tion. with this view, we venture to
send to you across the waters these
few words of triendly and fraternal j
greeting, believing that we shall be all
mutually strengthened by the consci- j
ousness of sympathizing and extended
fellowship.
of the remarkable congress held by
the friends of peace at brussels last
year, you are already fully apprized.
that experimental demonstration was
undertaken in much anxiety and tear,
with imperfect opportunities ot prepa- 1
ration, amid many sinister prognostica
tions of failure, and in the face ot not
a few circumstances of difficulty andj
discouragement. and yet its success
was in every respect unequivocal and
triumphant. it was an assembly which
was felt to be, both for numbers and
character, too important to he either
ignored or despised, even by those most
reluctant to recognize any seriousness
ur reality in such movements. enlight
ened and earnest men from various
parts of europe gathered around the
uplifted standard of humanity with a
glad and spontaneous promptitude,
which proved how deeply charged their
souls already were, w ith kindred senti
ments and sympathies, which wanted j
only the critical touch to call forth, in
eager and eloquent utterance, the con
victions and desires which had been
long pent up in their hearts. the meet
ings were pervaded by a spirit not un
worthy ufthe cause and the occasion—
a spirit of generous and catholic hu
manity, which, triumphing over old
prejudices of nations and creeds, fused
all hearts into one—ot culm, and elms- j
tened, and devout enthusiasm —the otf
t juiiig, not ot momentary excitement,
but of deep, earnest, and enduring
principle.
the.results ol this memorable as-,
.'•embly have been altogether remarka
ble and auspicious. it has elevated
the cause of peace out ol the obscu-i
i it v of years, into a commanding promt-j
uence which challenged the attention!
of the whole civilized world. it has,
formed a rallying point, to which multi-;
tudes of minds iu ail christian coun
tries, wiio had before been grieving or;
hoping apart, can now look as a com-;
inon centre for their aims and aspira-,
lions; and it has, above all, opened!
the way to other movements, on a scale
commensurate with the greatness and
dignity of the cause.
i bus beckoned on, as we believe,
we may without presumption or pro-,
fanity say, by the directing linger of
providence, we dare not hesitate in
following the onward course which
seerns to be prescribed to us.
in obedience to these intimations, it
bus been resalved to hold a second
annual congress at pans, in the month
<»f august, with more of deliberate,
preparation, and on a more extended!
scale as far as we can see at present,
all things augur well for its success.
m de lamartine in france, and mr.
cobden in england, have already pig
the north star
nitied their adheiion to the movement,
and we have reaaon to believe that
many of the leading minds of europe
will dignify it by their presence, and
aid in its deliberations. we are con
vinced, moreover, that the great revo
lutions which have recently shaken the
continent of europe, and which may at!
first sight seem to render yuch a move
ment unreasonable, have, on the con
trary, contribjted make this an
epoch pre-eminently favorable to our
object.—the attempt to
peace principles has been hitherto, in
many parts of europe like sowing the
seed by the way-side—ground which;
had been trodden into hopeless obdura-i
cy by the footsteps of hereditary and
conventional prejudice for many gene
rations. but this ona hardened surface
of european society has been broken
up by the late social and political con
vulsions, and a fresh virgin soil thrown
out, full of a robust and teeming fertili
ty, which it behoves us, ere it is pre
occupied by a noxious, malignant
growth, to see thoroughly impregnated
with the seeds of human brotherhood,
benevolence, and peace.
we must not, however, conceal from
you, dear friends, that the full success
of this demonstration will depend, in a
very important degree, upon you and
the christian public of america. to
raise it to the level of an object and of
an occasion so great, it must be emphat
ically a congress of the two worlds.
by that means, it will be lifted out of
the region of national jealousies, the
baleful legacy of past centuries of ani
mosities and conflict which still becloud
the relations of all european countries
with mutual suspicion, into the serene
and lofty sphere of universal humanity.
your presence will be accepted by alii
as a suflicient guarantee that there isi
no selfish or sinister object of european
policy under the guise of philanthropy,
but that the movement is what it seems,
the advent of the era of our common
brotherhood, under the inspiration of
our common christianity.
it will not be enough, dear friends,)
permit us respectfully to say, that am-!
erica send delegates to the congress.
to meet the requirements of the case,;
the delegation must be such, in charac-,
ter and numbers, as shall worthily rep
resent your great country iu the
presence of assembled europe, and on
an occasion so momentous and august.
the mere fact, indeed, of a large com
pany of devoted and distinguished men
(and may we he allowed to add, -of
women also) crossing the waters of the
atlantic, on such a mission of mercy,
will furnish so impressive a demonstra
tion of earnestness and moral power i
arrayed on the side of our cause, that i
it cannot fail to sink deep into the
heart of the world, and be regarded of
itself as a significant presage of our
success. we have attained, beyond
11 doubt, toamo3t critical point in the
history of the peace question—a point
which demands and will amply reward
great sacrifices and an unbounded de
votion on the part of its friends.
to you, then, dear friends and fellow
laborers, we look on this occasion, with
feelings of expectation and anxiety,
which it would be difficult to describe.
can we doubt, indeed, that the appeal
you have made, or may yet make, to
the ctristian heart of america, for
men and money to worthily sustain'this
great enterprize, will be responded to, i
in so cordial and generous a spirit as
will enable you to charter and lade a
vessel, which will bear to europe such
a freight as the world has rarely seen;
and which, as they land on the shores
of the old world, will send to the heart
of the war-demon so long enthroned
there, a thrill of terror, which w'ill be
felt as an omen of its approaching
doom, and gladden the face of human
ity with the smile of an unwonted
hope.
we are, dear friends, on behalf of
the committee, yours fraternally,
henry richard,
elihu burritt.
the same old fallac les
repeated
_
some of the threadbare, time worn]
and prevalent fallacies of the pro-slave
ry party, which have seemed of late to
be getting into disuse, are brought
freshly to mind, bv their serious repe
tition in the letter from “a member of
the society of friends,” a part of which
we publish in another column. flimsy
and baseless as they are, and oiled as
they have been exploded, their endorse
ment by a man, from whose birth and
education, and christian profession, we
might hope for a clearer head and
truer heart, may give them importance
in some eyes, and help to mislead men
anxious to find excuses for their own
pro-slavery relations, or criminal in
difference to the claims of humanity.
hrror confidently assumed, and fictions
boldly asserted, often pass for truth
and fact among the unthinking and
prejudiced, and the longer they go un
exposed the more liable are the masses
to take them for grauted the safest
policy is to stamp them as counterfeit
j the moment they fall into our hands,
and to continue to repeal the mark
every tune they are returned upon us,
till their character is known and their
currency checked. wc will repeat a
i few of the false assumptions and as
sertions in the letter to which we allude,
and add a word of comment to each.
fallacy ist. i hat slaveholders know
all about the subject of slavery, while
the people of the north are quite igno
rant concerning it.
however plausible this may seem,
the fact is, that abolitionists of the
north know vastly more of the slave
system and its economical, political and
moral result*, than ninety-nine hun
dredths or the slaveholders in the
south. the error is founded on &no-
right is of no sex-truth is of no color-god ls the father of us all, ant) all wf. are brethren.
ther, uz., that only mose who live in
the midst ot any practice or system can
know its character or consequences.
do rumsellers alone understand the
subject and evil* ot intemperance;
libertines alone those ot licentiousness;
despots alone those of injustice and
tyranny; wa rrioraaone those of war,
and liars alone tfihe ot deception and
fraud? shall we throwaway the works
of lyell, and siiliman, and other emi
nent geologists, and go to the peasants
and farmers of europe and america to
learn the geological features of the
two countries? if we can know noth
ing of the past beyon j our own personal
experience and memories, and nothing
of the present beyond our observation,
there may be some justice in* mis
plea
slaveholders if they dared look
slavery in the lace, are to a great ex
tent so blinded and distorted by their
system of wrong, and their fancied
self-interest, that they are incapable of
seeing and feeling its evils and wicked
ness, as impartial men can do. no
men know less of the great science of
human rights, and human relations and
duties. few know less of the practi
cal operations of slavery. they are
the last men to thoroughly examine
these facts, and contrast them with the
workings of freedom and justice;
while with the abolitionist these ques
tions have been subjects of patient
investigation and serious thought, and
his judgment and perceptions have
been clearer, that he has stood above
the fogs which becloud the vision and
chill the hearts of the southern people.
believing that a residence in virgi
nia or austria is not necessary to a
knowledge of the laws of nature and
justice, and the rights of man, or of
the condition of the slave and serf, or
the evils of oppression, we shall proba
bly continue to plead for liberty, and
denounce despotism and man-robbery,
as heretofore, without waiting for the
tyrants themselves to come forth, as
leaders in the needed reform.
fallacy 2nd.—that slaveholders are
anxions to get rid of slavery, and arc
only waiting to discover the practical
way to do so. doubtless there are here
and there slaveholders who feel self
reproach for their sins, and know that
slavery is their curse; as drunkards
and gamblers and thieves feel concern
ing their evil practices, hut it is not
for lack of a way, but for want of the j
will of humanity, self-denial or;
courage, that they do not “get rid of
slavery.” a .short, straight path of;
escape from the evil lies directly be-j
ore them; a patff already trodden byj
housands of the wise tfhd good;* the'
lafety of which is witnessed by great,
lowerful, prosperous and enlightened
dates and nations, at home and abroad,
iriz. emancipation. if they would
*ain prosperity and happiness, let them
choose this high road to virtue.
we know that slaveholders have!
long gulled verdant visitors from the j
north with the pretence that they
were anxious for the abolition of slave- i
rv, but we have not forgotten another j
assertion, spoken in southern mobs,}
louisiana purchases, florida negro
hunts, texas annexations, and mexican;
wars, —the world of action—which de
nies the coward lie of their profession, j
when we can forget that they have 1
been the enemies of free speech, have
struggled, as for life, to quench dis-j
cussion and suppress, the truth, which
alone could reveal the true remedy for
slavery, and that they are even now
striving in every way to extend and
perpetuate their system, and to shut
out the intrusive light from its dun
geons, we may give credit to the
assertion of their quaker apologist.
as it is, we only marvel at the creduli
ty which in the face of a thousand
facts, can believe the absurd pretence.
fallacy 3rd.—that the owners of
hundreds of slaves are as conscienti-j
ously opposed to the system as any
abolitionist can he. we envy no man,
the judgment to believe, or the reck
lessness to affirm such a propositon.'
precious little can he know either of
conscience or of the abolitionists. we
have a habit of looking to men’s ac
tions rather than their words, to learn
the character and strength of their
conscientious convictions, and until the j
old rule “by their fruits ye shall know
them,” is amended by the authority
which proclaimed it, we shull continue
to use that text. to talk of a con
scientious opposition to crimes, we are
daily committing and resolutely cling
ing to, is to abuse men’s common sense
and misuse the plainest language.
fallacy 4th. that slavery is a
matter between the master and their
god alone. then it is nothing to the
slave and his wife and children aud
kindred and friends, that he is plun
dered of his manhood and all the rights!
of a man it is nothing to the communi
ty that it is polluted by crimes; to the}
slate, that its citizens art; robbed aud j
its peace invaded it is no concern ofj
philanthropists that misery and suffer- j
mg exist where should he joy and bliss,}
or of christians that wickedness
abounds in the land and crime goes
forth unchecked. these are all mat
ters “between the criminal aud his
god.” we had supposed that we had
a right to {oppose injustice aud vice, j
to defend virtue and purity, and to
sympathize with the poor and suffering,
and plead for the oppressed, and “cry
aloud” against the oppression; but this
sage moralist —this modern daniel—
comet up under his broad brim wrap
ped in sober drab, with his smooth face
and oily tone, to teach us that this is a
great error that nobody has anything
to do with slaver)' but the master and
his god. the teachings of jesus and
the prophets were quite wrong. if we
dare to love our neighbor, to treat man
i as our brother, to pity the suffering, to
rochester, n. y.. friday, .june i, 1849.
feel indignation at oppression, we are
stepping between the slaveholder and
his god. the moral maxims of the
world and the principles of law uni
versally acknowledged, are all false,
for they teach that the wrong done to
one man is done to all, and that the
peace of society and the protection of
its every member, are the concerns of
all; all our institutions, social, political
and religious— founded as they are on
the idea of social relations, duties and
rights—are fundamentally false and
must be exploded. cain was the true
philosopher and moralist, the priest
and levite the great exemplars, of
the east.
what lie -hat ajoin or i
brutalized; that our poor brother has
fallen among thieves; that our country
is polluted a;id disgraced by hideous
barbarisms; that the world god’s
beautiful world —is turned into a
charnel-house, or dungeon of torture,
to millions of its children? that is a
matter between the oppressor and his
god. out upon such doctrines! they!
are rank atheism, or worse than athe-i
ism. they dethrone the intiniie fath
er, and rend the human brotherhood
into millions of repulsive atoms. how j
long and how often most the truth be
repeated, that whatever concerns hu
manity, concerns us; that we can no)
more escape from the obligation to|
protect the needy and relieve the op-’
pressed, than we can cast off our|
nature and escape from the government
of the eternal?
fallacy sth. that masters receive j
their slaves without their consent. who 1
compels them to be slaveholders? sup
pose it be true, as in some instances it
is, that they did not purchase or liter
ally kidnap them, but received them as
legacies or gills, did they not accept
that gift of human chattels? a thief
offers you stolen goods, you take them j
and plead that they came into your pos
session “without your consent.” the
owner demands from you the stolen
property; you resist his demand; he
pleads with you and you gag him; he
attempts to take his property; you
pursue him; he resists and you shoot
him, and then retaking your plunder,
reiterate that it came into your care
“without yonr consent.” what arrant
absurdity! who believes the shallow!
pretense r
fallacy (ith. that slaveholders, if!
left to themselves, would soon adopt
emancipation laws. where is the
evidence? when did tyrants ever
give up their power without a struggle?
for fitly years nearly, the slaveholders
of this nation were “left to themselves,’”
and itfhat was the resutp they multi
plied their victims, extended their
territory, increased their power, and
with a greediness as insatiable as death,
they grasped after more. they have
met remonstrance with insult, resis-j
tance with fury. they rejected em-!
ancipation in kentucke, and still later,
when fear forced the question upon
them, in virginia; and now they de-j
mand that church and state, the press
and the pulpit, shall all extend their
sanctions and their support to their!
system. does this look like voluntari
ly emancipating their slaves? but it
seems almost a waste of words to dis-j
prove what intelligent men must reject j
as palpably lalse. that the present i
agitation for emancipation in the slave j
states is owing to the anti-slavery j
movement at the north, is too evident l
to need a repetition of the proof.
fallacy 7th. that freedom of speech j
exists where it is not safe to circulate j
papers, or lecture on slavery. our|
quaker friend must have novel ideas of
free speech. that his speech was
never restricted, is probably for the
good reason that slavery has nothing to
fear from it. the dragou is quite con
tented to be patted, and stroked, and
fed with dainty tare, but let any man
resolutely assail and seek to destroy it,
and he will find it as a dragon still.
there is and can be no free speeh for
any one, in the south, until slavery’s
power is broken. but wc will not
refute this self-contradiction. e have
given more space to these trashy apol
ogies for the slaveholder, than we de
signed in the beginning, and now leave
them withoun noticing several equally
false and irrational positions ot the let
ter. we are heartily tired of refutiug
assertions so absurd, and we fear our
readers can sympathise with our weari
ness.—peen. freeman.
from the new york tribune.
a c hristian' philanthropist.
we are not aware that the following
letter w as intended for publication, but j
it does seem to us that the world can ill j
afford its suppression. gerrit smith, j
its author, is one ol those who believe
the earth was made for man, and that
his right to use and cultivate is not lim
ited by his ability to pay for it. he
has already given away a large num-!
her of acres to poor colored men, and j
he now proposes, so far as he has to i
give, to do the like by a still larger;
number of whites. he frankly says it 1
is not generally of good quality, but it j
is such as he has, and such as money j
has been paid for, and could be sold for j
money again. e presume he would j
much prefer to have this considered an
act of dutv and justice rather than aoj
act of charity, but it contrasts so sig- j
naily with the spirit evinced by exten
sive landholders genersllj, that it will
be difficult to repress the gratitude and
admiration ot the upright, and especi
ally of the poor here is mr. smith’s
letter.
circular.
feterboroi oh. may 1, 1648.
dear sirs: i still have village and
1 city property; hut on the larger share
of it there remain must long re
main, a very great debt. the debt
due to the state of new york on my
other land will, i hope, be paid within
the coining rear. all, or nearly all,
such of this land, as shall then remain
upon my hands, 1 shall wish to give
away. there will, perhaps, be enough
of it to enable ine to make gifts to a
thousand persons. these persons must
be white inhabitants of the state ot
new york; must be between the ages
of 21 and 60; must be virtuous, land
less, and poor; and must be entirely
clear of the vice of drinking intoxicating
liquors. moreover, they must in each
oounty, be taken from the sexes in
equal numbers. along with each gift
of land, there will be a gift of §lo in
money. where the land is worth re
moving to, and where there is a dis-i
position to remove to it, tins money'
will to defray the expense of remo
val. in perhaps every case, it will be,
sufficient to pay two or three years
taxes now due, and also the taxes for
number of years to come.
each county, except madison, is to
share in the proposed gifts, and each
according to the amount of its popula
tion. i shall not be blamed for mak
ing this exception by any who are
aware that, in some two hundred and
fifty instances, i have given to inhabi
tants of the county of madison. nor
shall 1 be blamed for distributing
the thousand parcels of land among
white persons exclusively, by any who
are informed that three thousand col
ored persons have received deeds of
land from me entirely free of all charge,
either for the land, or for the expense
of perfected deeds thereof. i will re
mark here that the deeds of the thou
sand parcels will be made, acknowl
edged, and prepared for record, at my
own expense.
the number of beneficiaries in each
county are as follow s.
albany 30 onondaga 28'
alleghany 16 ontario 16
broome 10 orange 20
cattaraugus 12 orleans 10
cayuga 20 otsego 20
chatauque 18 oswego 20
chemung 8 putnam 4
chenango 16 queens 12
cliuton 12 rensellaer 24
columbia 16 richmond 4
cortland 10 rockland 4
delaware 14 saratoga 16
dutchess —22 schenectady 6
erie 32 schoharie 12
essex 10 seneca 10
franklin 8 steuben 20
fulton 6 st. lawrence 26
genesee 10 suffolk 12
greene 12 sullivan 6
hamilton 2 tioga 8
herkimer 14 tomlin* 14
jefferson 26 ulster ll^
king’s 32# warren 6
lewis 8 washington 16
livingston 12 wayne— 16
monroe 28 westchester 18
montgomery 12 wyoming 101
new york 150 yates 8
niagara 14
oneida 34 total 1,000
the next thing in this letter is to say,
that i have a great favor to ask of you.
it is that you go to the pains of select
ing the beneficiaries in your county;
and that you do, by ist of march next,i
let me know their names and residence.
to guard the beneficiaries ot your
county against disappointment, i wish
you would inform them that most of the
land is of an inferior quality; that it is
probable that, in some instances, it will)
prove to be unfit for farming; in some,l
of little or no value either tor farming,
or timber; and that it is possible (ij
trust, but barely posible) that in somei
instances, my title will fail. ttou will, 1
moreover, inform them that, in the
event of my not having land enough to
give each of the thousand a parcel,
some of those chosen in your county
may be unsupplied. you are, howev
er, authorized to say to them, that who- 1
ever of the thousand shall fail to get a
parcel of land from me, shall get, in
stead thereof, §4o in money—and this’
too, in addition to the 10. the $6o
will enable its possessor to buy forty
acres of government land. i hope that
it will be expended in some land or
other; for one of my deepest convic
tions is, that every person who can,
should make himself the acknowledged
owner of a piece of land. his doing so
would hasten the day when the right to
the soil shall be everywhere acknowl-;
edged to be as absolute, universal, and
equal, as the right to the light and the
air. may the blessed day come quick
ly!—for, until it does come, our world
will be one of disorder, oppression, pov-
erty, vice; and, let me add, that it nev-,
er will come, until the religion and pol-j
itics. the churches and governments
of the world, shall be so imbued with
the spirit of justice and brotherly love,
as to call for the coming of that day. j
the parcel for each beneficiary will
probably vary from 30 to 60 acres. in
a few instances, it majf exceed6o; and
in a few, where its value may be above
the average of the parcels, it may be
less than half of 30.
all the land is in the state of new
york.
respectfully, your friend,
gereit smith.
to john cochrane, fill ham l.
isaac t. hopper, george h. jerfliu,
and daniel c. eaton, of the state of
.vei e york.
kidxappixg im illinois.
three or four weeks ago, a family of
colored people, emigrating from m»*
aouri to canada, while aided on tbeir
way by some of their friends on the
under-ground railroad, were stopped
by a band of ruffians, who, without
law or authority, seized the woman
and two or three of her children, and
carried them off. it was afterwards
reported that they were put upon a
boat, and carried to st. louis, where
the kidnappers received a reward of
several hundred dollars for their per
fidy. the lather and husband who ac
companied the family, and saw the col
i ored man, escaped, as they happened
at that time to be some miles ahead oi
the waggon that contained the chil
jdren.
we learn from a communication in
the sangamon journal, from s. d. mar
shall, a distinguished lawyer in gallatin
county, that four children were kid
napped from pond settlement, in that
county, on the sth ult.—the first and
second were females, one and the
other 17 years of age—and the others,
boys, one 9 and the other 5 years ot
age—all children of benjamin w. fau
ver, who offers a reward of £*i> tor the
recovery of eucn of *he ohtulreu, tr re
covered in the state—sso if recovered
out of the state—and one hundred dol
lars for the recovery and conviction of
the kidnappers, four in number.
the father was tied while the kid
nappers were taking the children. mr.
m. says that “kidnapping has been a
regular trade in this part of the state—
particularly in gallatin county. the
band of kidnappers is organized, nu
merous, increasing, and will continue
to increase, unless the arm ot the law
is strengthened by additional legislative
enactments. we know who the men
are, but cannot punish them, in conse
quence of the disqualification of ne
groes as witnesses; the prejudices ot a
large portion ot the people against them
requiring positive proof; the ease with
which they can postpone their trial from
term to term, &c.”
mr. marshall recommends that a
session of the legislature be called to
pass laws sutficient for the protection
of this class of our population. ihe
journal very properly remarks, that
there is little hope that the legislature
would do any thing effective, after hav
ing refused to pass any new law's, or
repeal the old ones. a public sentiment
must be aroused against kidnapping be
fore our legislature will do anything.
it is also reported that one of the
kidnappers who flourished in this city
in the same line last fall, returned
again a few days ago, to commence
operations here. the tribune says
—“he is too leaky a subject to be suc
cessful.”
“he says the slave-owners in whose
employ he was, generously gave him
100 for the indignities which he suf
fered while in their service, and were
so liberal in their offers as to induce
him to risk another attempt. they
(the slave holders) are not bo anxious
to get the runaways back a 2»i t
count their value, a*--
“beat the'yankees. this is his story,
as we obtained it from one whom he
thought entitled to his confidence. w e
advise him to return immediately to his
employers. if he remains here, w'e
shouldn’t wonder if he again becomes
entitled to our sympathy.”
our friends will see from the above,
that there is much to be done before
the soil of illinois willj>e free.
revel in the maelstrom.
come; dance around, my jolly boys!’
said the captain. and away went the
merry tars in a continued circle around
the deck, shouting till their lungs were
spent. it was a drunken frolic.
‘captain,’ said the pilot, who alone
refused to join in the jollification, ‘we
must drop anchor at once. the wind
has died away, and the ship has perfor
med a quarter circle within the last
minute.
‘ha! ha! ha!’ shouted the captain.
fill your glasses, rny lads. dance a
round, around, i say; the good old ship
is keeping company.
the pilot rushed back; with a pale
and concerned look, to note the indica
tions of the taletelling compass. pres
ently' he returned with a lace livid from
fear.
‘captain, he cried, ‘for the love of
heaven drop anchor at once till the
wind springs up, for we have entered
the maelstrom. see with the glass.
yonder ship has cast anchor, and is
making signals to us.’
‘away! thou white livered fool.’
screamed the captain.’ ‘my lads 111
give you a song.’—he began:
“awaj away! with tli- bo/w of care
the devil is iditiwomc ;ind merry.—
odd boot* it where if there’* pleasure there,
with plenty of champagne and berry.”
the pilo*. was fraatic. no one vol
unteered to aid him in dropping the an
chor. it was a feat impossible for one
to perform. now' a signal *hot boomed
from the other ship. a boat put forth
with a line securing it to the ves»el.
the pilot ran to the heavy line boat,
but could not move it. in vain be call
ed for aid.
still the dance and shout, the song of
revelry went on. once again he flew
to the compass and in despair seized
the useless helm, for no wind filled the
sails, and still the ship moved on the
mysterious circle. for the last time
he comes to give the solemn warning
to the now reeling captain and crew.
he begged and prayed them to heed
their danger; but danger seemed to
have a fascinating sound, and was ans
wered with a laugh. as they laughed,
he wept, cautioned them with tears,
and threw himself over into the sea.
with a strong frame he swam through
the fatal current towards that boat pul
forth to rescue, and reached »t in safe
ty. as long as line could he had in the
anchored vessel, the boat continued ill
way towards the ship with the drunker
i crew. they came within bail and call
ed on the crew to save themselves
one or two sobered by the sense o
danger, threw themselves into the sea,
and succeeded in reaching the boat;
but the others became stupid. jj*
line was at length exhausted
ship could now he seen slowly moving
in the narrow circle, ye* those on board
joltn nub. pvsto»«**>
whole no. 75.
put forth no elfort for their own preser
vation. it was a fearful sight. from
the other vessel every eye was strained
with an intense gaze rapid, hurried
action was there. still the hue was
extended with every species of material
that could he found for the purpose..
necessity became the inventor oftturntt
never heard of in an ordinary
cy.
it availed not to reach the drunken
crew without power to aid, those in
the imat beheld them hastening on to a
terrible grave, with the agony and ex*
citeinent each moment increasing.
night was coming on. faster grew
the motion of the doomed ship. at
last the approaching shadows warned
iliem io return. l>arkncss soon settled
upon and veiled the scene, and when
the morning again dawned, the ship
with the drunken crew had vanished
forever from the sight.
how fearful is the warning conveyed
by such an incident. \et the dread
circle of the fearful maelstroom, is
scarcely more certain in destruction
than the giddy circle of intemperance
—.v y. organ.
colonel benton’s appeal.
below w r e publish the short address
of colonel benton, in which that dis
tinguished senator appeals from the in
structions of the legislature directly to
the whole body of the people of mis
souri. the resolutions to which he
refers take the ground assumed in the
address adopted by some of the south
ern members of congress at washing
ton last winter, known as the ('nlhoun
address, and instruct the senators, and
request the representatives, of mis
souri to act in conformity with them.
to the people oj missouri—
the general assembly of our state,
at its late session adopted certain reso
lutions on the subject ot slavery, and
gave me instructions to obey i hem.
from this command 1 appeal to the
people of missouri—the whole body ot
the people—and if they confirm the in
structions, l shall give them an oppor
tunity to find a senator to carry their
will into effect, as i cannot do anything
to dissolve this union, or to array one
half of it against the other.
i do not admit a dissolution ot the
union to be a remedy to be prescribed
by statesmen for the diseases of the
body politic, any more than i adipit
death or suicide tube a remedy, to he
prescribed by physicians for the natur
al body. cure and not kill is the only
remedy which my mind cun contemplate
in either case.
i think it probable, from whyt l ob
serve, that there are inany citizens
good friends to the harmony and sta
bility of this union—who do not seethe
missouri instructions and their proto
type, the calhoun address, in the
same light that i see it, and in the light
in which it is seen by other* who best
understand it. for the information of
such citizens, and to let them see the
next step in this movement, and where
it is intended to end, i herewith subjoin
a copy of the accomac resolutions,
lately adopted in that county of vir
ginia, and fully endorsed by the rich
mond enquirer, as the voice of the
south. ido not produce these resolu
tions tor the purpose of arraigning
them; on the contrary, i see something
in them to admire, as being bold and
open, and the true interpretation and
legitimate sequence of the calhoun
movement. i consider the calhoun
address, and its offspring, the missouri
instructions, as fundamentally wrong;
but to those who think them right, the
accomac resolutions are also right ami
should he immediately imitated by simi
lar resolutions in missouri. i produce
them to enable the people of missouri
to see what it is to which their lego*
lature would commit the state, and
what it is they have instructed me to
do.
i appeal from these instructions to the
people of missouri—the whole body of
the people—and in due time will give
my reasons for doing so. it is a ques
tion above party, and goes to the whole
people. in that* point of view the ac
comac resolutions present it—nad pre
sent it truly; and i shall do the same. i
shall abide the decision of the whole
people, and nothing less.
respectfully, thus. h. benton.
st. louis may o,lbll*.
american cities.—the growth of
american cities is unparalleled in the
history of the world. already half a
million are embraced within the sub
urbs of new' york; and half that num
ber within those of philadelphia. new
orleans contains about one hundred
and fifty, boston one hundred and thir
ty, and baltimore one hundred and five
thousand inhabitants. the second child
born iu cincinnati, it is said is still alive
and has not reached the middle age of
life, while the city has'a population of a
hundred thousand. tie population of
st. louia was about i.mto in 1*10;
16,000 in 1840; 40,000 in 1845; and is
j probably now not less than tio.oot*.
buffalo contained 2,412 in 4825; m
|h4o, ‘29.70ft; and now contains about
45,000. in 1896, the population ot
i.owell was ft,5:12, it is now fto.tmw
chicago, a place scarcely known on
the latest maps, has already reached a
population of 18,000; and milwaujue,
‘of still more recent origin, rivaling
it in its growth and population.

tkcth —a parent may leave an
restate to his son; but how soon may it
be mortgaged! he may leave him
roonev, but bow soon may it be squan
f dered! better leave him a sound con
dilution, habits of industry, an unbiem
fished reputation, a good education, and
an inward abhorrence of vice in any
shape or form; these cannot be wrested
from hun, and are better than thousands
of gold and silver.
notices.
frederick do««taß*
will speak on slave ry at—
warren, maae. tueo. even. sth june
scbuyleravilie, n. v, frida v *th
quaker springs sat. *h
jd* fiieods at three place* will please to
make ihe necessary arrangement*
tie yearly meet lag
of the religious association of kromda and
other* will be held at junius, near waterloo,
n. y.. commencing on first day, (sunday.)
the 3d of june, at ii o’clock a. m.
fifteenth aaaaal meeting of the a mer
ic aa aatmmavery society.
rrporied for the standard, hy w, henry
bi rr, phonographrr
hock chackt, wennesdsy evening.
thmftpctetv met according to adjournment,
mr. (jbboo m the chair. mr. may, one of
the secmanes, read the resolution)) before the
meeting aftet which w m. l. garrison ad
dleased the meeting, as follows:
mr. chairman—l hare been requested to
say to the audience that it is desired by those
who have admitted us to this place this even
ing, that no demonstrations of appuuse should
be made the reason given is this—that we
are under a church. if we were anywhere
rise it might be that our lore of liberty w ould
be very apt to break forth and manifest itself
even through our feet, and no offence would
be given and none taken. where the spirit
of the lord ia, there is liberty, and where
liberty is, there is the plsce to plead the cause
of the oppressed, and to manifest in every
natural way our sympathy w ith the slave, and
our adoration of the cause of human freedom.
now, this is the calamity to the christianity
ol this land, and not of this land only, but it
is universal, that w c and our houses, out days,
our times, our seasons, our ordinances, and all
these merely external things are sanctified
and holy, are enforced upon us as worthy of
our most sacred regard. and we have learn
ed the lesson well, pre-eminently well, as
other people in other lands have learned the
game lesson. but as for man, created in the
divine image, made but a little lower than the
angels, we have not been taught to regard
him ss sacred as for his rights, god-given
and inalienable, we have not been taught to
regard them as such, but as given only to be
taken away in case the individual has not a
skin colored like our own. 1 do not marvel,
therefore, that we have sanctified days, times,
seasons, ordinances,and houses; but we have
forgotten to remember who man is, and what
he is. i do not marvel that we, like the jews
of old, can strain at a gnat and swallow a
camel.’’ i do not marvel that to-night, with
all our sacred places, with all our holy days,
with all our houses of god, so called, with
all our church organizations, we have three
millions of our countrymen, clanking theii
chains, smarting under the lash of the driver,
ranked with the beasts oi the field, and treat
ed as such.
we must reverse the whole of this. there
is nothing sacred under heaven but man—
him first, him midst, and him without end,”
in regard to this matter of sactcdness. men
need to understand this, that the incidentals,
or the machinery to elevate the man, are not
the things sacred but that man, as created
in the divine image, was to receive no detri
ment as to his natural liberty which god in
tended him to enjoy. all these forms, and
seasons, and times, are not of heaven, but ol
man, and if they are of any use it is only to
elevate man. if they do not therefore tend to
promote his freedom and lus happiness, they
ought to be trampled under foot or cast aside
here we are, under a church. 1 speak noi
invidiously, of this particular church 1 know
nothing of its character, or of its congrega
lion, or pastor but ,we are here under
church that is just where anti slavery ha
been with the church on top of it. all tin
way through its progress the church has ben
pressing down upon it, putting it beneath itsel
and seeming to rega d us as unworthy to com
up and stand side by side with itself.
now the church, by whatever name called
after professing to be christian, should throw
its doors wide open to receive our calls i
should not wait to be asked or supplicated
but its doors should be ever opened, ewer read'
to receive the advocates of freedom and thi
enemy of slavery and why 1 what is th
mission of the church 1 ll is redemption i
is the overturning of the kingdom of satan
it is the promulgation of the principles an<
doctanes of christ; it is to proclaim libert
to the captive it is to consummate the mis
sioo of jesus. the advocate of human lib
erty of all men should be the first to enter tit
church, and the first to be welcomed by thi
chuicb. show me a body calling itself b;
the name of christ which stops its ears to thi
cries of the poor, and needy, and oppressed
which strikes hands with thieves and consent
with adulterers, and you show me a churcl
that is guilty of cruelty, fraud and great wick
edness a church to be assailed and scourgei
and reduced to powder. three millions o
our countrymen are without the bible; tin
american church professes to regard us cir
culation among men as essential to their sal
vation, as needful to make them wise untt
salvation. three millions of our country rnei
are stripped of that book hy law not left b\
accident, not left in the condition of those u
the islands of the sea who have it hot became
it can not be proffered, but because the law:
forbid its circulation among them—simply be
cause it has not been circulated. in our lain
we are not only guilty of ilus terrible impiet'
of neglect of them, but we say, they shal
not hsve that which we call the word oi t iod
they shall neither read it nor be allowed t<
learn to read anything contained in it.” nov
it seems to me as clear as any proposition cai
be that they who look on and see our oolore<
population deprived of this hook and can
nothing for it, who raise no voiee against it
who feel not horror stricken in view of a, an
not believers in the book. they do not be
lieve that book to be the word of god ihei
do not appreciate it. no matter if they an
officers and supporters of the bible society
and are zealous in giving the bibb: to thos<
who are destitute in our own country and ove:
the world if they do pot feel moved m theii
inmost souls with horror in view of the fac
that three millions of the american popula
j lrc by law the possession ant
reading of that book, they are unbelievets ii
it; and when they pretend to reverse it then
is m truth in them, because if it is the wore
of god, it is the word of god to all men
and if it is essential to make those who are u
the islands of the sea wise unto salvation u
essential to our slave population. there
fore the roan who loves the book m all om
it for the race; he who believe* it lt>|
one roan believes it good for all men, and he
who can look on and see one human being de
prived of it, much less lie who can sirikt
hands with the oppressor w ho takes it away
is infidel to the hwik, and is only zealous it
circulating it elsewhere because it is fashion a
we 10 do so, or because there u> a show „t j„
ety in it. for there is no cross in this
the bible abroad. men are not tried by dom
that which everybody does, and which every
body is disposed to do. when religion w alki
tn silver slippers it is easy enough to follow it
her footsteps. when men are praising a par
ticular object, it is not s great cross to prai*
that object. we are tested in our love of vu
tue and truth, and our fear of god, v hen op
position looks us in the face, because we wii
do tight —when persecution, reproach, am
contumely are arrayed against us, because w<
are unpopular in doing right.
men profess to receive christ ;ut their sav
iour now what does u prove in regard tc
them do you know anything of their char
hy then profession wno finds it diffi
cult now u> profess to believe in the christian
railh. why the tune hss gone by long since
when it was any proof of a man’s moral char*
j acter to profess christianity. it is fashionable
to believe to chrinnwiy, q«ite unfashionable
not to do so. it i* my safe, and popular, and
advantageous. for a man to profeae to believe
in chrfet and be a chhatian; it ie very unsafe
and not at all advantageous for a man to die
believe christianity. bat at the present day
we have no real lest of character by a man's
profession of christianity. there baa been a
tune in the history of our race, when for one
to sav, l believe in the son of god be is
my redeemer; i believe in the gospel," was
a teat of character; it showed a spirit which
soared above all human opinions or human in
stitutions, which was not afraid of persecution,
•of the rack, or of the fires of martyrdom.
these were the tunas that tried men's souls
i religiously.
in regard to the marriage institution, 1 do
not sec how any one can pretend to believe in
its mo red ness who is not deeply moved with
horror in view of the abolition of the marriage
institution among th« slave population. if the
human mind has any intelligence and light on
this subject, i do not see bow it is possible for
a person to be virtuous and not cry out against
slaveholding as a damning sin, even if there j
be only thts single feature about it, —it abol
ishes the marriage institution. it is one gteat,
active volcano of lust and impunty, throwing;
i out its lava, spreading desolation and death,!
blighting every green thing it is sodom and
gomorrah combined it is one mighty stream
of pollution—no marriage, no protection for
virtue. tell me whether virtue be in the
hearts of those who are striking hands with j
slaveholders in christian fellowship 01 in po
litical fellowship l what is vutue 1 is there
any such thing as virtue 1 is there any such
i itiujf; m awrred hetoro t whjr
not then sacred to the slave as well a* to you
or me’ what if your state government
should have power strong enough to strike
down the marriage institution, and make con
cubinage universal 1 is not the thought hor
rible 1 and yet* your frapire slate is not
populous enough to compare w ilh the slave
population of the south, who are without the
marriage institution. tell me whether the!
curse of god be not resting upon the uphold-*
ers of that institution in our land. is it true!
that judgments tell upon .sodom and gomorrah 1 j
why not upon us l what form of uncleanness
does not prevail where this institution exists 1
why, let the slave mother dare to raise her
hand to protect her virtue, and the infamous
monster who dares to claim her as his prop-!
erty rnav strike her dead with impunity. and
yet slaveholders are reputable men, honorable!
men, godly men; they fill our churches, oc
cupy our pulpits, hold high places in the state,
and control the union, while he who sympa
thizes with the down trodden and oppressed is
one to be hated, to be anathematized, to be ca
lumniated, to be ranked among the off-scour- j
ling of all men. talk of virtue, talk of faith
in the bihle as the word of (jod 1 it is a de-
lusion and a lie. the american people are
given up to oppression and to uncleanness, i
j and the victims are ready at any time to tes-
i tify and will go as swift witnesses before the
bar of god to testify against us as a people.
in our meetings this season, 1 have heard
some speakers say that we attack the church
for such reasons. it is not exactly the phra-1
seology that i would use. i deny that we 1
have attacked the church; 1 deny that w e
have been the aggress* s in this matter. 1
deny that we have travelled out of our way to
see if we cannot have a quarrel with the
church. on the contrary, we are church
members, many of us. we were brought up
to revere the church we ever believed it io
be the church of god before our eyes were
anointed in regard to this system of slavery,
land we saw the guilt of it. we had all our
prejudices to overcome, in this matter. wc
did all we could to avoid coming to ihe con
-1 elusion that that which we looked upon as sa-
cred was indeed anything else but the church
of (jod. no, we do not attack the church.)
i the church attacked the slaves and the slaves’;
advocate, and the defenders of liberty were
necessitated to repel the blows which the
l church inflicted upon them. if the american
church were against slavery (perhaps softie of 1
;you w ill believe it is) we should
know it in a f irst, as to the
estimation in which the church is held by the
slaveholders on the one hand, and then by the
advocates of freedom on the other. tell me
whether the american slaveholders have any
controversy with the american church 1 if
the church is anti-slavery, then of course
they have. if the church is on the side of the
j slave to befriend him, then of course the slave
j is supplicating the benediction of god upon
i the church, and the slaveholder is gnashing
his teeth upon it. what are the tacts you
know them all. the slave pow er has no con
troversy with the american church it finds
its choicest refuge in the bosom of the church
it is defended and sanctified in the name of
the lord, and the scriptures are marshalled in
support of this cruel institution. then it is
nothing else than treachery, and our business
is io unmask it and expose its lottenness, for
only in so doing is there any hope for the re
demption of the slave. it is the prevailing
religion in all lands screening and sanctifying
popular abominations, that is the difficulty in
the way of reform. you cannot politically
sanctify sin and have it prevail popularly when
your religion condemns that sin and "what- j
ever in any land is upheld by the church of the 1
j land, whether that church be mahommedanor
j christian, or any other so called, you have
first either to crush the church, or else so o
vereome its opposition to the cause of right
eousness as to enlist its support, before any
popular sin can lie put down.
is the slave a man, my friend 1 is he a
man 1 who made him 1 where shall we
place him has he the features of a man 1
i the form of a man 1 is he accountable to the
same (jod that wc are 1 did jesus die lor
i him as well as for us 1 is he under the same
{law of god l are the same precepts laid
down for his olredience which are laid down
for ours 1 is he to be measured by the bible,
{if you please, as well as ourselves 1 what
■say you 1 is lie a man 1 where will you
place him, i ask 1 if he is less than a man,
how much less? what is the guide which
god gives him in order to govern his actions
as a being less than a man 1 gan you tell me 1
j you will not say that he is wholly a beast.—
i even they who have the leprosy of prejudice
most violent will not say that he is wholly a!
beast. is he half, two-thirds a beast 1 if he
is, how shall we measure him? what will 1
you require of him what shall be the pun-;
isliment that shall be meted out to him incase
of disobedieuco 1 not the punishment ffieud
i out to man, but probably something less.— j
now those who are forward in denying the)
{equality of the negro with the white man, 1
when they come to talk of punishment in re- j
gard to any wrong act, are always disposed to
have the heaviest punishment given to the
i colored man as compared with the whiteman.
for instance, slavery illustrates it in a re
markable way in virginia. you know there
are there something like seventy-two crimes,
which if the slave shall commit, he shall be
executed, whereas, the white man can only
i find two or three w hich will subject him to the
gallows. what does this imply, as a matter
i of justice 1 of course, if we look at this sub
ject of punishment, it implies that the slave is
not only a man but he is superhuman, and sins
l against so much light that the penalty u to be j
increased. tbe punishment is to be multipli-
led because condemnation should be in propor
tion to the guilt, so that m fact on one bwid,
while by law we degrade them to the condi
itlul* boasts, on the other we try them when
th fy do wloo ß though they were angels
w ho stn against higher light than we could
possibly obtain hete on earth.
now the great difficuliy we have to comeod
i jn lhwlw j u> regard to our anu-slaverv
i movement, is an unwilling ness to see in the
lorm and laee of the slave, a man. the roo
u*eot we recognize in bun a child of (jod one
like ourselves, all difficulties vanish we ljz
our cavillings sgsio* u*
tool in f»« ihsi urn, im*
pleading the cense of tbs slave. the moment
we meke the cese of tbe stave out own for
instance, as husbands whose wives are read*
for the public suction block, whose children
are to be put m the aeales to be mm by the
pouod to the trig heat bidden, tint moment we
reeae to have urfanktoftad «ith those who
plend the cause of the southern slave. talk
about the excessive teal of the abolitionists!
it is cold. talk about bta bard language f
it ts not beginning to apeak— at least vou and
i would nr so if we were in the condition of
the slave. o, we should marvel that they who
pretend to sympathise with ua. did not know
how to lighten, did not know bow to thunder
we would if god should only put as into
their places.
now. here we are untight representing the
slaves in our land. on the side of the op
pressor there is power”: oo the side of the
oppressed there are few to stand up. here
we are, bow shall we feel, how shall we act!
1 tell you friends that ia pleading the cause of 1
the southern slave, i never have thought of
that slave out of myself, or oat of toy own
family. no. let god be my witness. 1 have
at least endeavored to approximate to the con
dition of the slave. it is a matter of living
principle. any human being in boodage is
but anothei copy of myself. therefore ssid
jesus, love thy neighbor as thyself.” yes,
in that slave mother, my mother 1 see: in that
wife, my wife is there in that slave child a
bout to be turned away forever by the ruthless
hand of the tyrant, my own child i see about
to be torn from me. can 1 therefore have any
dimness of moral perception in regard to such
a subject no. my vision is clear. can i err
when i sit in judgment upon such conduct 1
no, nature is true within us. there is no
slaveholder in the land who will not confess
that if he were in the condition of the slave,
he would feel that the abolitionists as repre
•antinp hie were anvthing but true to
that case, because they come so r~ *hort of
the zeal, and energy, and fidelity which ro®
case required.
whatever we may say or think, or stop to
hear from the lips of any prejudiced person,
god looks upon the slave as a man; christ
regards him as one worthy of redemption.—
so do we, friends, and if we can only get you,
and the rest of the people of our non-slave
holding states, to come into this state of
mind, the w ork is done there will be no more
clanking of chains, there will be no more
shrieks and groans of those under the lash of
the driver going up to heaven the day will
have come lor the jubilee song to be sung. i
do not ask any aid on the pan of the south to
abolish slavery i only ask the north to take
sides with the slave, even by withdrawing
their influence and support now given to the
slaveholder—standing passi v e, if you please,
letting the line of deraarkation run broad be
tween them and the oppressors, leaving the
settlement of the question to be made on the
part of the slave and the slaveholder in the
south, and i lie work is done.
what a country is this in which we live!
human beings flying by night, alraid of the
glorious sun of heaven, afraid to be seen in
the broad daylight, afraid of every human be
i ing that they meet, like tlie wild beasts dread
ing the light of day, and coming out by night,
endeavoring to find their w ay out of our land,
fearful of every thing that they hear or see,
i encountering storms and peril, enduring un
-1 told sufferings for the sake of gaining their
freedom. yet we are a nation of freemen,
we are a christian people, we have a glorious
in ion and a glorious constitution.
friends, 1 am stating nothing new, i am
exaggerating nothing these are the simple
facts, and most imperfectly stated, from the
weakness in which they are presented. i
blush for the land in w hich i live. it is not
my country. no, my country is not stained
w ith human blood my country is a tree coun
try, where liberty dwells there is my country,
j (the audience here made a demonstration of
applause, notwithstanding the request to
the contrary at the opening of the meeting.)
it is the land of my nativity, i love it as such.
i want to see it become the glory of all lands.
i long to see it true to its declaration of inde
pendence. i long to see it true to its christian
profession. it might take the lead of the
i world. it was first independent among the
nations of the earth, and we ought long since
to have had every throne in the world cast
down. we ought long since, through the
i power of our glorious example, to have had
i all the nations of lhe earth rejoicing in liberty.
if sixty yea r s ago, in forming out constitu
tion, we had only proclaimed liberty through
out all the land unto all the inhabitants there
of, no throne, 1 believe, would now be found
on earth. all the people would have been
magnetised by our example, and despotism
i would have been unknown in the world. o,
this power of slavery we have a mighty
work to do. who has not measured this
mighty power of slavery at the very sound
of it men turn pale. slavery, a southern in
stitution why then is it that the dweller on
the banks of the penobscqt trembles and dares
not whisper a word against it except at the
i peril of hia reputation and his interests 1 how
is it that on the hills of new hampshire, on
the green mountains of vermont, as well as
south carolina and georgia, men aje afraid
to speak out their real sentiments in regard to!
i slavery l it is because the power is omni
present, omniscient, omnipotent. it is because
it is the dispenser of all favors politically it
holds all the offices in the land in its own
power. it is because it has subjected the
church aud the rel’gion of the land. there
fore there is none that dare to confront it, un
less he is w iling to be ranked among the no
ble army of martyrs and confessors in days of
old.
i this power is not to be overthrown without
a tremendous struggle. lit the language of
one of our resolutions, it is essential for the
deliverance of rhe slave that the union should
go down, a union cemented with the blood of
the slave at the outset.” is it not true that
even at the outset of our government, when
our fathers were just fresh from the battle for
independence, with the fire of liberty burning
brightest in their bosoms, even then when
.slavery was of very little power comparatively
j and of very little value, the american union
could not lie formed until the national guaran
ties should be thrown around it 1 and if it
was necessary to form a union at that time,
where do we stand now 1 we have three
millions of slaves, with their value in properly
j estimated at hundreds of millions of dollars. 1
we have sixteen slave states in our union.—!
how long could our guaranties be sustained!
i beyond the condition that you shall be slave
catchers, and connive at the bloody abomina
tions of the slave states, when you very well
know that when you will no longer act out
j these things, the union is at an end! what
an absurdity that freemen and tyrants can
make a union. suppose one half the mem
j bers of our congress were monarchists, what
sort of a legislation should we expect 1 the
idea of monarchists being allowed there and
having privileges is absurd, and every republi
can sees il. you have one of the worst ol
monarchists there, a tyrant of all tyrants, a
man-thief. if you talk about the glorious
union, you are talking about freemen who are
robbing humanity of all its rights. it is im
possible for christ and belial to unite. it is
impossible for light and darkness to be recon
ciled —for liberty and slavery to exist on the
same soil. slavery exists on our soil, there
fore we ha'jp no liberty.
friends, are you prepared to enter into this
great conflict, this new revolution, this great
struggle for independence l what does the
•south give us in return for our co-operation 1
we have allowed ourselves to be humbled by
the south. we have done all we could lo
strengthen the system, and what have we got
in return 1 does the south respect and honor
us 1 does it care for ua? is it of any advan
tage to us 1 it spurns us always. it is wil
ling to welcome us as umg as we will do its
evil work, bot the moment any spirit of free
dom is seen ruing here, it treads that spirit
down is it treads down its own slaves, seek
ing its subjection, and if nr cowry, its extir
pation. (applause.)
f*locatex douglass.—mr. chatman —1
think we, as abolitionists, are apt to over
rate the intelligence of nor audiences with re
spect to their knowledge of slavery* and also
with respect to their knowledge of the guilt ef
the churches. i think there are few people
out of the reeks of the abolitionists, whoj
i rally know anything of the real paettkn pf
the american church in regsid to slavery.
we meet in this city from year to year and
denounce the pro-slavery poettfm> of the ame
rican t htireh and clergy, but we seldom have
time to lay before our meetings anv facts
connected with the proceedings of the church
in regard t» slavery. i propose in the few
remarks that i shall make this eveniiwßeay
a word with respect to this sort of
and to give a few facts which are familiar
enough u* the abolitionist, but which are
quite unknown. i have reason to believe, even
to the very church members themselves.
the ministers know what action they have
taken on the subject of slavery, but the people
know very little about it.
take for instance, the methodist episcopal
church. —that church probably wields an in
fluence second to no other in the land. «in the
year 1836, when the question of slavery was
rocking the country from centre to circumfer
ence, aud when the lives of abolitionists were
scarcely safe at tunes from the fory of the
mobs that were bowling around their persons
and their houses, this subject came up before’
the general conference of the methodist epts-
copal church. it seems that two ministers of;
that denomination ventured fo leeture upon,
and in favor of emancipation in the city ofcin-!
cinnati. the vety next day after these lec
tures were given, the rev. stephen g. ros
zell, a distinguished minister in that chureh,
brought forward two or three distinct resolu
tions setting forth the views of the general
conference with respect to slavery. what
were these views l they declared in their
first resolution, ui annual conference assem
bled, “that thev iwdlv j nw<-
dern abolitionism, and 1 hat they wholly dis
proved of the conduct of the two ministers
who were reported to have lectured upon and
in favor of this agitated topic.” they went
furthei; and in another resolution declared,
“that thev were not only opposed lo modern
abolitionists, but they had no right, no wish,
no intention to interfere with the relations ex
isting between masters and slaves in the south
ern states of our union.” these resolutions j
were adopted by that large conference, with j
only eleven voting against them. an over- j
whelming concourse of divines professing to
be called of god to preach the gospel, to pro
claim deliverance to the captive and the open
ing of the prison doors to those that were j
bound, declared before the world that they
had “no right, no wish, no intention to inter
fere with the relations of masters and slaves.”
the slaveholders rejoiced in that action.
they could smoke their pipes in comfort when
they got a knowledge of the proceedings of!
that body of divines.—they could hear of ie-
vivalsof religion going on in the church'with
the utmost complacency. they felt in no
wise alarmed, hut rather strengthened by the!
members added to that church, which, so
far from being an abolition church, had “no;
right, no wish, no intention to interfere with
the relation of master and slave.” that is the
religion for me, says the slaveholder. there
sat the bondman before that body of metho
dist divines in his chains, calling upon them
in the name of god and humanity to give him
his freedom and deliver him frotiuhis bonds.
deliver me from my chains! was the erv that
came up from the lips of three millions of
bondmen, and yet these methodist clergymen
responded’ “we have no right, no wish, no in
tent ion lo give you freedom.”
how is it with the presbyterian christian.
you know’ that a few years ago, through the
agency of the abolitionists in new england,
a large number of petitions and memonals
were sent to the general assembly of the
presbyterian church, calling upon that body
to pass resolutions declaring slavery to lie a
moral evil. they stated that body had al
ready denounced dancing, declaring it to be
incompatable with church membership to move
the feet at the sound of music, and they be
lieved thauheir consciences were now becom
ing alive to the sin of dancing. they were
encouraged therefore to send petitions asking
these divines merely to consider slavery to be
a moral evil. so the general assembly pas
sed this resolution in answer to their memo
rials
“resolved, that it is inexpedient and not
for the edification of the church, to pass any
judgement in respect to slavery.”
it is the boast of the protestant episcopal
church of this country that it never has any
thing to do with such sins as slavery. it is
their boast that their church has not been dis
tracted or disturbed by this agitating topic.—
to be sure it has had some other topics that
have agitated the public mind to some extent,
which i need not mention here. if 1 were in
a moral re|jjrm meeting i might speak of
them. (laughter.) but as to tho question
of american slavery, it is their boast that
they are not disturbed by it. the groans of
heart-broken millions come upon every breeze,
but they do not hear them, they are indiffer
ent about them, “we are worship ping the!
lord,” say they, “we are engaged in giving
honor to god; that is our business.”
now i have taken these three christian
churches, and they are samples of the rest, j
the baptists are no better than the method
ists and presbyterians, and the episcopalians
are as bad as either. they are all as pro-j
slavery as they can be. it is because these
churches have passed resolutions favoring!
slavery, and have in other cases resolved to;
have nothing to do with the matter, that wet
are compelled to attack them if we would be
faithful to slavery. and if there is one thing!
that leads me to indentify myself with the i
american anti-slavery society, more than
another, it is their readiness at all tunes and
in all circumstances to apply the highest
and most radical anti-slavery tests to all par
ties, all institutions, and all organizations of 1
lhe land. 1 have been into various atili-sla-l
very meetings since i came to this city, and ij
have heard speeches of various branches of
the anti-slavery topic; but the most earnest,
the most sincere, the most radical tone of
sentiment from any quarter has been from the
platform of the old fashioned garrisonian abo
litionists. (applause.) i mention this for
the benefit of some i see before rue who attend
these other meetings, and who think that be
cause every thing went on orderly at them, it
indicates great progress.
why, the other day 1 went into the meet
of the american and foreign anti-sla-
very society, and after a long abstract of the
report was read and-my soul uru&ied up with
the expectation of hearing slavery denounced
and its supporters held up to the detestation
of all those who loved the slave, w hile i wasj
waiting to get nay spiritual strength renewed,
a grave, gentleman arose and sat«! “the next;
thing in order will be music.” (laughter.)
now anti-slavery meetings, according to my j
notion, should not be very orderly. i like tbe
wild disorder of our free-discusston meetings, i
i like to bear the earnest voice of anti-sla
very, so far forgetting the character of us
speech, and the manner of its delivery, that
almost any person may be able to take excep
liotrt to the remarks made. i always feel
glad when 1 have a thousand explanations to
make after i go away from anti-slavery meet
ings. w hen i have sp< ken in such a way as
lo make people think that i am a desptser of;
of religion, or that 1 hate the very name of a i
clergyman, or that i am myself an infidel,!
then 1 feel that i have done something towards t
leading the people to think of their responsi
bility in regard to slavery.
i believe tbe grand reason why we have
slavery in this land at the present moment is
that we are too religious as a nation, in other
words, that we have substituted religion for
humanity—we have substituted a form ol
godliness, an outside show for tbe real thing i
itself. we have bouses built for tbe worship
of god, which are regarded aa too sacred to
plead the cause of the dow n-trodden millions
in them. they will tell you in these churches
that they are willing to receive you to talk
to them about the at ns of the scribes
tad pharisees, or on the subject of heathen- j
tarn of the south sea islands, or oo any of the j
subjects connected with missions, the tract
society, the bible society, and other socie
ties connected with the chinch, hot the very
gwmeot yon ask them to open their mouths
far the liberation of the southern ah***. they
will tell joo, that it is a subject with w hich
they bare nothin? to do, and which they do
not wiah to hare introduced into their church;
it it foreign to the object for which tharehea
is this country were fanned, and bouses built.
the american and foreign anti-slavery
society seems to hare fallen into the error of
j supposing that the dtstribulioo of the bible
among the slaves will be the means of their
ultimate liberation. 1 should not wonder, if
the slaves could he allowed to make known
to that societv its views of their effort? to
give them liberty if they should my, “fust
give us ourselves, and then we will get bi
bles." w hat the slave beg* for is his free
dom sod the american and foreign anti-
slavery society comes forward and says
i “here is a bible." to be sure, they say
i thev would be glad to have the stare free, but
j i ask any of you w ho were present in their
tueetingiyesterday and beard the speech rflade
by mr. henry bibb, if the chief design of that
society did not seem to be, to give the slave
the bible, which, when it is giren him he can
not read. for ray part i am not for giving
the slave the bible or anything else this side
of his freedom. give him that first and then
you need not give him asplang else. he
can then get what he needs. ‘(applause.) i
know that the inference was left in the minds
of some who. attended that meeting that the
old organization were not in favor of giving
the bible to the slaves, for tbe society arro
gated to itself a great amount of piety in that
it was in favor of giving the bible to the slave,
and it was said by their speaker, 1 believe,
that if the old abolitionists had gone to work
and tried to distribute the bible among the
slaves, ere this, slavery would have been
j anoustr,4. now what we want is first to
give the slave himself. it is but n>«k., jt
tempt to ineud old garments with new cloth
—to put new w ine into old bottles, to think
of giving the slave the bible without first giv
j ing him himself. god did not say to moses
j “tell my people to serve me that they may
go free," but “go and tell pharoah to let
i my people go that they may serve me."—
(great applause.) the first thing is freedom,
i it is the all important thing. there can be
i no virtue without freedom—there can be no
j obedience to the bible without freedom.
when the slave is free he can own a bible;
but suppose we carry it to him now, what is
the law of slavery 7 it is that the slave shall
be taken, deemed, reputed and judged in law
to be property to all intents and purposes
whatsoever. now how r can property own
property —how can property ofc’t !the bible 7
it takes persons to own propertybut the per
sonality of the slave is annifairy >d. he is
not looked upon or treated in ad r way as a
person except when he is fa p nished.
i throw out these remarks bee; ise i ,think
i there is danger of confounding .tly anti-sla
very duties, with what are anti-sja
i very duties. there is an attenijjijdn the part
of some professedly anti-slave^.advocates,
to make themselves out as religions advocates
of anti-slavery and all others a* irreligious
advocates of the cause,
i mr. foster —now to test the honor and
integrity of those men, l will state here pub
licly, and any gentleman presgnt may cairy
the intelligence to the leaders of]’that party,
that to save them the trouble of raising funds,
i i will furnish them with one thousand bibles,
if mr. bihb or any other prominent man
amo .g them will go, openly in person,
and carry them to the slaves. 1 will have
nothing to do with any underhand raomnent
to steal bibles into the south. .thieving is
bad enough when connected w;th!getting pro
perty, hut when it is connected with the glo
ry of god it is utterly deteslabb, 1 will have
nothing to do w ith it. and i can do more;
i think i can pledge that one thou
sand more after he has distributed: the first
thousand; but i will keep within,my means.
let them spare themselves the tfouble to go
through this city to collect funds for that pur
pose, for i am ready to fulfill my pledge.
(applause.)
mr. douglass.—l wish lo make a single
remark further about giving*the bible to the
slaves. here are.three or four facts connec
ted with the matter which makes the thing
impossible. in the first place the slavehold
er’3 consent must be obtained before any bi
bles can be given to the slaves, and the slave
holder will never give his consent to let the
slave have anything which may open his
mind to the wrong of holding him as his pro
perty. if his consent is had at all, it is pur
chased at the expense of tbe silence of the
person giving the bible to his slave, as to its
being presented for the puipose of opening
his mind to the sin of slavery.
in the next place, if the bible is given to
the slave he cannot read it. so it is abso
lately not given at all; for you might as well
give him a block with no letters upenit as the
bible with letters in it; because he cannot read
it. now if this society would only ask for
r money to educate the slaves whether the raas-
i ters would or not, and some good volunteer
like my friend in the distance, should go there
professing that his object is to educate the
slave whether with or w ithout the consent of
j ihe slaveholders, 1 should think the move
ment,, however impracticable, was in the hands
j of honest and sincere men at any rate. [ap
plause.] the fact is they cannot give the
bible to the slave. it is idle to make the
bible and slavery go hand in hand; they are
i at war with each other, and the slaveholder
knows this as well as any man. the moment
they begin to read, that moment they begin
to be restless in their chains. there are only
three or four passages of scripture that the
slaveholder wants them to read, and these can
be read to them. they are the passages
which relate to servants heing obedient ac.,
which they torture to a sort of sanction of sla
very. these they like to have the slaves,
know, but as to knowing about the golden
rule, “all things whatsoever ye would that
others should do unto you do ye also to them,”
or any thing of the doctrine of love to man,
they do not want them to know anything
about it. the more ignorant he is, the better
slave he makes, and hence the most stringent
laws are enacted throughout the south to pre-,
vent the slaves from learning to read, (ap
plause and hisses.)
now i suppose that those who hiss think
that i have stated what is not true, but what'
is the fact' there is zachary taylor in the
presidential chair. you knew nothing about
tayfar, until you heard of his blow ing out th« j
brains of the mexicans. (applause and his
ses.) —no minister of the gospel ever came j
out and endorsed the christian character of
general taylor before he succeeded in taking
monterey. no minister of the gospel ever
made him a member of the home missionary
•society until he heard that he had fought his
battles in mexico no one thought ol' saying
aught in favor of that man for the presidency
until the chiustianity of this country learned
that he had favored the importation of blood
hounds from cuba to hunt down the florida
indians. (hisses and applause).
i mentioned yesterday in an other place, j
that the great men ol the natmo might always
be taken as fair examples of the moral senti-
merit of the people- i h ave taken zacbary
taylor who 1 believe is just as good as those
who voted for him; 1 do not think he is i
in any degree worse at heart than those who j
had no objections to him as their candidate on
moral grounds. am not at all lowering him
that you need come to bis defence. lu him i
see yourselves reflected who have no moral
objections to slavery. you only need a geo
graphical change. vou need only to be trans
ported front new york to new orleans fa be
come as much a slaveholder as general tay
lor at baton rouge. sir, if the american
pulpit had been wbat it ought to have. been,
and what i trust it will yet be, no party in
this country could have been found base
enough to have brought foward the mine of
such a candidate for the suffrages of the
american people. no! had the american
pulpit uttered us voice in righteous denuncia
tion against slavery and war and kindred
crimes, we should never have heard of such a
being as a legalized cut-throat presiding over
the destines of this nation. (hisses).
but i will touch no longer your idol,
friends. 1 will leave him and puss to another
who is perhaps teen an idol now, because he
i has not the reins of government in hit hand,
and no office to give to those who may be,
disposed to hiss in bis favor, (laughter) i]
flmude to henry (’lay. i never was mors for
dolv struck with the truth of garrison's re
mark, tbit he never looked upon the slave
but as upon a member of bis own family, than
when i beard the various eulogies showered
down upon this man by the north on account
of his letter on emancipation, or rather ex-
patriation. you are aware of the character ol
f that letter. it sets nut with a sort of argu-1
raent against slavety. declares that the aigu-|
i raents that are put forth bv calhoun and that.
class of politicians at the south in favor ofc- j
remising- slavery are erroneous, and he goes
on to ssv, granting that the w hites are sup*j
rior to the bfirks, that it is the duty of the
whites lo instruct, improve, ami enlighten the!
blacks. for so much i thank him. but take
this out, and the remainder is full of all man-
i ner of sin and injustice. with the exception;
of these few sentiments, it is one of the most j
skillfully-contrived schemes for oppressing
ihe slave and perpetuating slavery that i ever!
read. mr. clay, after having laid down his
platfotm of principles, that the slaves should
be enlightened and instructed by the superior!
classes, goes on to fix a day when the laves j
should be emancipated, and that day is set in
thiswise: all children born of slave parents
after the year 1860, shall be tree at 25. and;
h°w free 7 free to stay where they are, and
work for a living l no. free to be expelled,
free to be driven 3wav from kentucky and
transported lo africa, on the ground that it is*
their native land. but they ate not free even
then, for he has another proviso, and it is this:
that after having arrived *t the ago of 25.
thev shall be tnreo vu. an otneev m mr
i rvi ihnw jeus, u* order to nae $l5o
to pay for their own exportation irom thetr
homes and their families. yet the people
read this letter and say. o! how just howi
merciful, how humane, how phtla nth topic is
henry clay-'
there i* another point about th .s letter to
i which i object strongly; it is this: you are
aware that at the age of 28 almost all the,
slaves have families. mr. clay proposes that
the slaves having families and children of 3 4
and 5 vears of age, shall be snatched from
those children and hurried oil to africa, leav
ing those children parentless, guardianless,
w ith no one to care for them. those children
are to live 25 years longer m slavery, and
then to he hired out until they are *2b years
of age, and afterward to be hurried out of the
country. and yet young men and wo
men, old men and old women, mothers, sis
ters, and daughters read the cold-blooded
proposition, from which, il it ,wero to be ap- j
plied to wh.ite persons, they would shrink in
horror, and they say how good, how kind,!
how philanthropic is mr. clavl such is the
man in whose pathway they wilt strew flow
ers when he comes to the north—a man who j
boldly proposes to sunder parents from their
children, and compel them to leave the count-
ry on pain of being again reduced to slave- i
ry.
in another part of that letter he says that
the trifling loss that would result from eman-;
cipation may-be prevented by leaving the rights
of the owners undisturbed during the next 25
years. what is the meaning of this? it is
j just this: that henry clay would leave the;
slaveholder, after the year 1860 until the year!
1885, in full possession of the right |to sell
slaves from kentucky into louisana, or any of
the more southern states. the proposition j
is not, alter all, that they shall emancipate 1
their slaves at the end of 25 years, but it al
lows them 25 years in which to watch the
new orleans and mobile markets, and if j
they do not see fit to sell them during the
course of 10 15 or 20 years, just in the last of
the 25 years, when the slave is about to grasp
bold of freedom, their masters can put them'
upon the block and sell them to the highest
bidder; thus kentucky will only be getting
rid of slavery to send their slaves to clank
their chains on southern plantations.
oh, the blinded moral sense of the ameri-;
can people! how lost to all principle! how lost
ito all sense of justice! we can eulogize the
man who with iron heart would revive the
horrors of the slave trade, under the delu
sive idea of advancing the cause ot freedom.
friends, 1 have not used the name of gene-j
1 ral taylor or henry clay because i have anyj
personal pique towards them, or any differ-;
rence of political opinion with them, or political!
ends to serve. \ou have denied me the right
of citizenship, you have trampled on my rights'
as a man. i have no voice in your politics, ij
only speak as one of the three millions of
slaves in your land. i speak as one of the
injured party. i speak is the name of four
sisters and one brother who now live, if indeed
they live at all, under the burning sun and the
biting lash of the slave-drivey. i speak in be
half of those whom l have left behind me.
how would you speak if you yourselves had
relatives and friends in the condition of slave
ry 7 would you speak soft words of the
church and clergy who eould live indifferent
to the condition of vour sisters and brothers/
think not because i am black that i love uot
tnv kindred and friends.
“fleecv looks anil black comptoxioo
do not alter nature’s claims,
skins may differ, but affection
dwells in white and black the same."
my sisters are as dear to me as yours can'
be to you. my brother lies as near my heart
as your brothercan lie to yours. my mother,'
my family, my friends are all as dear to me!
as yours can possibly be to you. o! jf you could
put yourselves in the place of the slave, the
question would be carried; there would be no:
differences at all; you would feel that we
were your brothers and sisters and slavery
would soon be at an end.
the north star.
roche-ster, june 1, 1841*
drayton and sayres.—fined for what!
washington, may 19, 1840.
i mentioned, in my last, riie acquittal of
drayton from the charge of larceny, in steal
ing twenty slaves from this neighborhood,
i foe bin own use. that indictment was not
sustained. but he was convicted or trans
porting the slaves, twenty in number, and
sentenced to pay a fine of 140 in each
case, and to fae imprisoned till the fines be
paid. hts coadjutor, sears, is also fined in
like manner.
i hose who countenanced them in tbe pro
tect for abducting slaves, (whoever they may
oe,) will no doubt aid them in paying the
fines. the governor of virginia will, it is
«ud, demand them of tbe authorities of tbe
district, and under virginia law, they will be
tried for felony.— carr. journal of commerce.
look at this foci. it is worth thinking of
1 for a few moments. the annals of despotism
cannot furnish anything more ty rannieal than
j the treatment of these two me u by the gov
ernment of our “free” country. what is|
their crime 7 what offence have they com
mitted 7 why, they attempted to carry away
from tbe district of columbia some seventy
four men and women, residing there. what
will the men of a hundred years hence think
of this 7 will they not say—“ but it was
contrary to their inclination —they did not
wish to go 7” oh yes! they were perfectly
willing to go —indeed they asked these men
to take them. “then they bad commuted
some crime, and tbe pnaon tn which they
were confined was broken open, and they
were allowed to escape in direct contraven-;
boo of the cods of justice not so either
they weie innocent of ail crime. no one
ever attempted to allege again** any one of
the seventy-four, that he or she was any
r! thing but moral »nd correct in character and
•j deportment. the reading of a few pages of
the history of this model republic would soon
enlighten the mind of the questioner on this
s subject. he would there learn, that there
were other reasons besides crime, which made
it mlawful for some inhabitants to travel he
i would find it stated that in ihe year 184**,
there were certain law* which actually made
men and women prof»rty. to he set down on
i their owners* ledger, by the side of sheep,
cattle, sugar hogsheads, and bales of cotton
he would be desirous to know the reason of
j this, and on making further search, would
j probably discover, that ifase who were thus
set down as “property" were generally
though not always, “black” or “colored
he would find also, that it was contrary to
i law lo instruct these colored persons to read
that thev could not, it those books were present
ed to them, tell the difference between the bi
hie—the “good news to %)1 people", and the
i mysteries of pans or guilder's travels
i and that this ignorance, forced upon them m
opposition to every precept of right, was con
i initially urged asaffrief reason why they
should not be permitted lo enjoy their clearest
of all rights—the right to themselves— to use
their own hands and feet, and intellects, m
such way as might seem lo them desirable,
so as not to interfere with the equally clear
rights of those around them.
such is the crime of drayton and -sayre*
they are aciuamj round guilty of being
willing to carry men and women* here th—
wanted to go 1 it this is a crime in the dis
trict of columbia, it is a crime also m new
'york—massachusetts—ohio— the entire
world. no peculiar circumstances of a
country or a state can alter the character ot
ian action. to kill a man is, and must fa*
everywhere a crime. to steal a roan's proper
ily is, and must be everywhere a crime. to
steal a man himself, and sell him, is, and
must be every where a crime. no law can
ever make the commission of these actions
innocent. the enactment of laws every
day in every year from now till the day of
judgment cannot make their commission one
iota s criminal than if no such laws had
any existence. so with acts that are in
i themselves right. it ts right for any and
every man and woman to go where they will
—north—south—east—wrest. 1 should like to
see any one attempt to restrict the people of
these northern states m the exercise of this
right. suppose any seventy-four of the
citizens of new york w anted to get to alba
i ny, and when they had been some few hours
j «he way, an armed steamer was started in
pursuit and overtook, and ordered them back,
and imprisoned the captain and mate of the
steamer on which they sailed and had them
up for trial, and convicted of larceny, and re
1, manded to prison for life. suppose, that at
j the expiration of one year, it was thought the
j law would not sustain this sentence, and a
new trial was granted, and they were then
l; sentenced to pay 140,(hi each for every one
ol the seventy-four thus carried so many
f miles up the hudson—what would be thought
1 ot the country which was governed by such
j laws—or of the people who allowed such law s
jto exist 7 yet this, and nothing more nor
worse than this, is the crime of which these
i two persecuted men have been convicted. if
it is urged that they were not w bite but black
men and women, whom sayres and drayton
carried troin the district—lwouldask, what
difference does that make 7 in what way
does the color affect the action. crime knows
nothing about color, innocence knows noth
j ing about color. there is no more crime in
j conveying a man with a black skin to any
i place where he may wish to go, than there is
i in carrying a man with a black head, or black
eyps, or a black beard. if it is said, that
i those black men were property—l deny it. it
is not possible to convert a human being into
property. every man is himself—belongs to
himself; bis hands and feet are his own his
head is his own and if any man attempts to
rob him of all or either of these, that man is a
thief—a god-defying, heaven-insulting thief,
who should lie chased from amongst men—if
not from the world itself—with infamy and
scorn.
i may he told that all this is very simple
some may even say it is very silly. i con
fess it all. it is so very simple and silly that
the merest child can understand it. i ac
knowledge that the whole affair appears to
me so simple so self-evident, that i have not
ingenuity enough to get up any mist about it.
the assertion that any one man can by any
possibility claim to hold as property the bones
and muscles, ami mental energy ol any nthei
man, is so transparently absurd and silly, that
it seems like mere playing upon words to
argue the question. and yet, simple ami
silly as it is, how many are there, in this
country whose mental or moral perception**
are so dull, that they cannot be made to see
it they will talk you for a full hour, almost
without drawing breath, about the rights of
slaveholders—the compromises of the .'onsti
tution —the independent action of the .states,
ac. as if all that had anything to do with the
decision of the simple question *of right and
wrong. a man who makes the tr.<*t distant
cuini to tfte possession of a wwr-trace, will
lie apt to consider himself insulted by the
1 presentation of such an argument for his ac
ceptance. it may pass muster amongst pol
rrtieal demagogues or persons t§ho look for
ward to the possession of office, and wish to
retain their standing a* political men but
after ail, how very little influence do such
men wield in the management of the worlds
affairs they are tbe mere tools of the tune.
they would be better—nobler, if the moral
atmosphere surrounding them were purer—
more elevated convince men everywhere
of the moral wrungfulneas of slavery at all
times and in all circumatances bnng them
to see and understand this and all that can
be said about tbe compromises of the consti
tution ac., will be to them mere waste of
words mere beating tbe au without n»
object.
w ell, now, such is the case of drayton
*j»d -sayres, when stripped of the mist of
l*w—coosututtoo inferiority of the cofared
race— rights of slaveholders —and all that
•ort of thing. the seventy-four colored per
•ons had a perfect right to leave washington
city, or anywhere else, if they chose to do *o
drayton and sayres had a perfect right to
i take them. i honor them for exercising ih*‘
right.. pray heaven that a few others have
tt pot into their hearts to go and do likewise
-taking ears however, that they are not
overtaken though even that not matter much - as one or two mores such times obtained bv the "»*^p° wer wouw
equivalent to a defeat the (iovernment un
der h low law such a verdict has been ob
tained. is an unjust, tyrannical government—
mure unjust than the rule of the c«ar of
ku«bia—more tyrannical than that of home, in
xhe palmiest days ol inquisitorial priestcraft j
the people who make and sustain that
government by electing slaveholders to the
presidency—by appointing officers to carry
,t on. and to fulfil its requirement* —by hav
ing anything at all to do with it, except to
renounce it as wicked, unchristian, partial,
inconsistent—are an unjust and tyrannical
ople. the.tr boasted love of liberty is all
„»pretence for they love liberty only for them
't-lves. tneir talk about the “equal and in
tlteeiblc rights of man” is all moonshine:
tor let a man’s skin he of a certain hue, and
in their estimation he has no tight*. i heir
claim to is- ihe happy citizens a frec
country” is proved to he all boast and brava
do for ihe captain ol a schooner, or the
driver ot a stage, cannot go into any of the
southern states, and carry away men and
women from thence, without running the
risk of being lined f 140,00 lor each, or in
default ot payment being imprisoned for
life 1
blow aimed at the personal rights of any
man, no matter what his color or condition
ma> be, is a blow aimed at universal liberty.
reverberate, with oft-repeated echo**-
in |.la.v. tong and distant- the
lining au.\ voaprisonment of drayton and
sayres, by the government of this model
republic," lor the jierfonnance of an act
which every sane man. not himself a despot
~nd a tyrant, must pronounce to ire perfectly
moral and right, will serve to strengthen the
4 rm of the oppressor in the old world, and
i„ strengthen also the chain of the oppressed.
see," says the tyrant, what a popular
government will do tor you and the hands
~j the struggling peasant, panting after lib
erty, fall down by his side, and his head
droops in hopeless despondency. it is boot
loss to talk to europeans about color. they
have learned to estimate men, not by the co
lor of their skm, but by the strength of their
minds and the excellence of their moral char
acter. none hut americans, or those whom
americans have innoculated with their ridi
culous prejudice, can understand the color
argument. europeans see this and other
similar occurrences eunply as tacts, and they
arc i d to ask the dishearteniug question—
what better after all should we be under a re
public, than we are under a despotism 7 tiue
lovers of liberty everywhere desire to see
publicanism cleansed of this blot. slavery
and democracy cannot exist peaceably togeth
er. they arc directly antagonistic. there
is no slavery in democracy; there is no democ
racy in slavery, 't hey cannot commingle and
fuse together, any more than water and oil—
or than tiie iron and clay of nebuchadnezzar's
image. either the slavery must swallow up
and destroy the democracy, or the democracy
must annihilate the slavery. which shall it
be it is for the citizens of these northern
slates to determine, if they submit without
a struggle—with scarcely a word of remon
strance, to be fined, imprisoned, brow-beaten,
ruled and tyrannized over by a despicable
slaveholding oligarchy —their enslavement
has already begun, and in due season will be
perfected —j. n.
the hanging in boston.
washington goode was hanged on friday
last. the voice of the 24,000 petitioners in
las favor was disregarded, and that of the
nine and the governor prevailed. here is a
portion of the account of the barbarous and
inhuman proceeding, as given by the boston
bee. what good purpose, or what purpose
ai all, except to make men’s blood curdle
with horror and indignation, the wise men of
massachusetts hope to effect by such exhibi
tions, it is difficult to imagine.
at half past nine the sheriff left the
i ail, followed by his attendants. the weak
ness of the prisoner rendered it necessary to
carry him in a chair. he was dressed in
filack, and his arms were tied with cord, with
which also his legs and feet were hound to
gether. the prisoner was lifted up on the
gallows, and his chair was placed on the
drop he was convulsed, and a deputy held
his open hand upon his forehead, probably to
keep him steady in his seat. he mourned in
a deep tone of anguish. sheriff eveleth,
at lei a few remarks, uncovered himself, and
read the wrrrant in an audible tone. \n hen
he had finished, the white cap was drawn
over ins face by deputy sherriff pratt, who
then adjusted the rope. the culprit’s moans
were now audible at some distance. at ten
minutes before ten, the drop fell with a death
like sound, and washington goode was
launched into the presence of the supreme
judge of us all.
the rain, the solemn stillness of the hour,
the gloomy and wretched group, and the sad
occasion, conibided to produce an impression
which the witness of this spoctacl of misery
and woe will never wish to see again.”
thus the law of massachusetts put a per
iod to ‘.he already dickering life of a poor
ignorant man. found guilty of inuider on
very unsatisfactory circumstantial evidence.
he did not wish, as he said, “to die the
death of a pirate;” and so he had attempted
to bleed himself to death, by opening several
veins with the sharp edge of a piece of
glass. the offended state not wishing to be
thus cheated of her expected least of horror,
had sent her smgeon just in time to reset ve
for the victim blood and itle enough to
carry him to the gallows' may this be the
last time that massachusetts thus disgraces
herself in the eyes of the thinking and hu
mane
new hampshire has also had a hanging.
elder elms dudley, of grafton, was executed
on the 23d, for the murder of his wife also
convicted on circumstantial evidence. both
of these unfortunate men asserted their inno
cence to the last. talk of justice in con
nection with such cruelties' justice has
nothing lo do with them. they are the off
spring of nothing but the blind, cowardly,
inational, unmerciful spirit of revenge.—j.d
ock paper this week is well nigh fulled
up inside with tlie report ol the speeches de
livered at the evening meeting of the ameii
can anti-slavery society and yet we have
not been able to find room for all we desired of
that report. wrnoell phillips’s speech
will lie given next week.
conservatism. the real conservative is
the'rnati who prefers a iilile light because he
had tried a little, and found u to answer lus
limited purpose. if we were surrounded by
midnight darkness, we should be obliged to
him for bis tsper, but it is of no use to us since
the sun baa risen-
mare akllm it rew orleaii.
abolitionist* aw accused of overeating
and coloring the worst features of the pecuiiai
institution, and thereby exciting the feelings
of freemen agamst it. how much this is the
case mar be learned from the following des
cription of a slave auction by one who con
fesses himself to be “interested in the slave
business." thw account sufficiently light
and flippant no doubt —marvellously so, con
sidering the fearful enormity of the crime one
of whose most detestable manifestations it
professes to describe; but if one interested is
compelled thus to give his impressions, hid
ing and smoothing over, as he evidently does,
very much ot what he witnessed, may we not
with justice entertain the suspicion that the
most “isbid abolitionist" who has yet attemp
ted to portray such scenes, has utterly failed,
from the mere inadequacy ot language, to
conrey to his readers anything more than a
very shadowy and indistinct conception of the
reality?— r. d.
‘have you erer been to the slave market 1
asked my friend hams, as he took my arm
and walked with me thiough camp street.-
i answered nay so we entered bank’s ar
cade. we observed a sign hanging out, with
‘slaves lor sale' painted on it; and along the
front of the store, sitting on benches, expos
ed to the gaze of the purchaser and the
curious, were the objects of our search.
some of them were large and strong
black as your hat. these were the field or
plantation hands —carmen or draymen. ‘this
slim mulatto man is a barber,’ said the slave
dealer, who, omervinw wv were mangers,
stepped up, anxious to display and dispose of
his property that they are property, is never
questioned in this latitude. ‘bui,’ continued
the dealer, ‘he’s a first rate waiter for a hotel
ora steamboat.’ a little farther along sat
some females, strong, burly wenches, for
farm-work, washing, or heavy house work
near by, several good looking yellow girls,
with long, straight, black hair, pearly teeth,
fresh and animated countenances. some
were engaged in conversation, some occupied
themselves wtih sewing or knitting. they
are nurses, seamstresses, or waiting maids.
in the squad were some of all ages and col
ors, from the child at the breast to the middle
aged man and father.
it was a sale day—so we entered the auc
tion building. beard and calhoun were the
auctionecib. here vvaaascene, worthy of
elizur wright, of the chronotype his pro
lific pen would have gloried in such a theme.
on a platform near the door, stood the
slaves to bo sold and the auctioneer, as he
cried and discoursed of their separate merits,
walked up and down in the rear, so as not to
interfere with the sight of them. it did not!
require mr. beard to talk long, betoic we
knew, by the manner in which he worried the.
j v’s and w’s, that he is neither a native, nor 1
i ‘to the manor born.’
‘the first lot i have to offer you to-day,’l
said mr. 8., (i imagined he was going to
6ell a horse,)‘is a family from a plantation,'
1 father, mother, and five children; what will
you give for the lot, for they must be sold
together i’—how 1 —how kind of him! ‘they are
fully guaranteed, and sold under good char
acters. dick, the father, aged 35 years, a
leading man on the plantation his wife, aged
31 years, cotton picker charles, 12 years;
william, 10 years; thomas, 7years betsey,
10 years; maria, 5 years; and i am only
offered two thousand dollars for the whole
family!’ they were eventually sold to a
planter for $2500.
it’s not difficult to say what was passing
in their minds at the time of the sale—so
important an era in their lives. perhaps they
were like our m. c.’s, who make the sailors
out to be destitute of feeling, and only lioped
that they might not get masters any worse
than those they had just parted from.
the next offered was hermina, a pretty
mulatrebb, about seventeen years old. ‘she
is,’ said the auctioneer, *a good seamstress
and hair-dresser, raisen in one family, and
bears a good character.’ the girl could
scarcely withstand the rude gaze of the bid
ders and idlers, and turned her head aside
when mr. b. ordered her to face about and
look at the audience. a slavedealer stepped
up and requested her to open her mouth,
which she did, and he examined her teeth in
the same manner a jockey would a horse—
he felt her breasts and shoulders with all the j
gusto of a connoisseur. bui the slave-dealer!
did not get her, tor a california adventurer!
became her purchaser, for the sum of $o9o.
cokelow, a little and interesting creek in
dian boy, 11 years of age, mulatto, as the
auctioneer styled him, a good house attend
ant, fully guarantied, and sold for no fault.
poor cokelow whether it was owing to
flight, or that young as he was, he was
more fully alive and sensitive to the wretch
edness of his situation than those who -had
preceded him, it is impossible to say, but
cokelow cried! he was sold for $240.
yesterday i saw cokelow sitting upon the
steps of a mansion, m the second munici
pality, with a large sandwich in his hands,
with the crumbs of which he was feeding a
noisy parrot, confined in a cage by his side.
cokelow was happy! he had secured a
good and kind unstress.
the next subject was the guile man, pat-,
rick, aged 20 years, ‘a very likely man,’ said
mr. 8., ‘having a good character, a good
barber and house servant, fnlly guarantied
against the vices and maladies prescribed by
law—(what they weia we did not learn)
and is only sold because his mistress has just
got married.’ from which we might infer,
the newly-made husband wanted money to go
on a spree. the biddings at this stage of
the proceedings grew faint and languid, and
as the indifference uf the auditors increased,
the red faced auctioneer became excited and
wrathy. lie was not very choice in the se
lection of the epithets he liberally bestowed
indiscriminately upon the motley group be
fore him. ‘you either don’t want to buy, or
you are all a d d set of fools,’ said mr.
8., ‘and if you have nothing else to do than
to stand and gap at me, 1 have,’ and suiting
his actions to his words, he stept from the
platform, beckoned to his clerk, and walked
off’. this ended the sale. patrick sold for
$750.
that i may not reuder myselt liable to the
imputation of pandering to sectional preju
dices. or of treating a serious and unfortunate
occurrence with 100 much levity, 1 would
merely add, that 1 am personally and pecuni
arilv interested in the ‘slave' business—but
its extension and propagation by others,
meets with no favor from roe.— phil. sun.
h. g. r. lewis.—-a letter has been re
ceived from j. t. m ilson,ot jackson, mich.,
highly commendatory of this gentleman. it
ts rathet foreign to the object of the north
star, to publish such letters. i may say,!
howcvett that 1 have reason to believe, with
the writer of the letter, that the slanders
which have got abroad reqwcting mr. lewis,
are entirely unfounded. during the tew
weeks that he lias been in this city, mi. j
lewis has made himself eminently useful)
amongst the colored people, by lecturing to
them on philosophical and scientific subject!,
and urging them to aim at mental and moral
superiority nor does be tail, when opportuut- j
ty offers, to plead the cause of his enslaved
brethren. i have listened with much inter-;
cat to mr. lewis. he has studied and
understands the subjects of which be treats
and 1 am happy to learn that he had at all of
his lectures, a good audience.—j. d.
hon. j. g. palfrey will please accept our
thanks for a copy of his speech oo postago
reform, delivered in the house, feb. 21, '4o.
wreck of tie empire.
the total number of perama ascertained to.
be drowned by the l*te accident at newburgh,
is 17. on saturday night, the 40th ult., the j
coroner's jury returned a verdict, to the effect
that the steamboat empire was wrecked by
coouog in contact with the schooner noah
brown; and in consequence of the reckless
ness and disregard of regulation*, by the pilot
of the empire.
the following are interesting incidents of
the wreck
immediately after the alarm was given a
great many threw themselves madly into the
water. a lady, who had evidently just left
her berth, rushed out crying for some one to
save her. and was about to leap oo to the
schooner, but was seised by a gentleman who
prevented her from falling into the water,
which would haae occurred if she had at
tempted so long a leap. he tried to calm her,
but without success. she rushed from him
wildly, and was not seen by him again.
the screaming of the victims was beard
with frightful distinctness on the top of the
hill in the rear of newburgh, and spread ter
ror throughout the village. several boats put
out at once to the sufferers, but none arrived
probably until she had sunk to the hurricane
deck, in which condition she was found by mr.
hubbard when he arrived. scarcely fire
minutes elapsed between the collision and the
sinking.
a company of twelve persons, on their way
to take up a permanent residence in illinois,
will be obliged to proceed on their journey,
leaving four of their number behind them—
four brothers. the names we have not
learned.
after umpire was struck, amt while 1
sinking, two mothers snatched what they sup
posed to be their own infants, and rushed up
on deck, and in their fright threw themselves
into the water. one of the devoted parents
held the child to her bosom, and both were
saved while the other sustained hers until if
breathed its last, yet still holding on to the
body until she was rescued. the surprise of
the mothers may be imagined when they dis
covered that in the confusion attending their
escape they had each taken the other's child.
and while the poor woman who had suppo
sed that her little one was lost, pressed to her
bosom her own babe, the other was frantic
with grief to find too late that she had pre
served another's child and lost her own.
pro-slavery literature.
the louisville (ky.,) examiner was lately
favoured with the following bright specimen
of southern scholarship. i don't think that
our colored friend, charles b. reason of new
york, would object to receive a few such
pupils gratuitously for at least one quarter.
poor fellow when any one wishes to prove
the inequality of the human race, he has
only to refer to such instances of white bar
barism as the writer of this letter. he does
not know anything, and does not want to
know anything. probably, that man is the
ovvnei of a few slaves, and looks down upon
them, as a kind of inferior beings. if they
are inferior, alas for them!— j. d.
grassy creek april 12th j 49.
sir inclosed you will find your fiilthy pa
per the k.maminer tie inform you at this
time i receive no such documents and allow
no yanky aney such liberty as you have
taken by sending me your filthy sheat we
tar and feather just such things as you are
up here you may think this strange hut it is
no less true than strange and if you dont
believe it, come and see
i am &c rjch'd mullins.
our ridiculous coirespondent in athens,
georgia, who would not mitdtgnify him
selt by writing to negroes, i am afraid has
forgotten his excellent resolution ihereanent.
the anti-slavery standard publishes the
following choice morsel from his pen
letter from athens, georgia.
4< how now ye secret black
and midnight hags,
what is it ye do!”
to the recent colored anti colonization
meeting in new york—
from shakespeare’* mc’beth
sent to blacker wizards—
by j. j. flournoy,
the white man.
poor unfortunate! he is certainly crazy.
his love of —lu wit, himself, and hatred
of ham, have undoubtedly deranged what
little nouse he possessed. for humanity’s
sake let his friends get a strait jacket for him
and consign him at once to the care of a
lunatic doctor. he has made a fool of him
self jong enough.—j. o.
cholera in cincinnati.
in our last number we mentioned the fact
that the board of health had officially noti- i
fied the citizens of the prevalence of cholera
in the city. we give below' the reports from
day to day, that the public rnay see the pro
gress and extent of the disease. previous to
wednesday, the 9th inst., there had been 114 i
cases, and thirty-two deaths reported. since
that, the reports have been as follows, up to
thursday noon, 28 cases, 6 deaths,
friday noon, 3<* 10
saturday nt*on, 45 10
sunday noon, 46 7
monday noon, 20 3
tuesday noon, 25 3
wednesday, (10th,) 15 4
making in all 329 cases aud seventy-five
deaths. many of these reported cases were
only in the first stage, and are now entirely
reheved. considering the amount of our
population and the manner ,in which many
are prepared for the disease, its prevalence has
not been extensive, and the mortality is small.
but little alarm prevails with reference to it;
there is, we believe, no disposition to fly from
the city, and great care is taken in the use of
preventives.— cincinnati w atchman.
st. louis, 21st. —the total number of
buildings trained is 418; the number of
lost by ibe fire, is supposed to be 20; the loss
of property six' millions of dollars. the in
surance companies are solvent, and will pay
in full, with the exception of the st. louis
and citizens, companies, which pay 70 per
cent. two thirds of the wholesale dry goods
dealers, one half the retail, commission and
other stores, that were burned, saved their
books and papeis generally- the brokers
saved everything, and resumed business.
dreadful shipwreck and ijossof life.
—capt. marshall, of the bark nicaragua, ar
rived on the lllh met. at quebec from glou
cester, with 129 passengers and six seamen of
the brig llavannsh from newrv for quebec,
which vessel came in collision w iih ice on the
morning of the 2hih of april, while the pas
sengers were in bed, and sunk in 40 minutes.
these passengers were saved by taking to the
ice. no pen, says the quebec gazette, can
describe the pitiable situation and destitution
of these passengers, parents with loss of chil
dren, children with loss of parents, and they
themselves all but naked, and the greatest
part of them frost bitten. lam informed that
jifty-fivt perished t nth the add.
queer property. -7- a new orleans
paper advertises for sale one “undivided half
of a negro.”
runaway negroes are swarming through
our country at an unusual rate. five have
been committed to our jail m a few weeks,
and many others have been seen who escaped,
among them the three from chmlotie.
[aabviue (n. c.) messenger.
communications.
the brotherhood ef man.
and ye all are tmrtkrw.”— matt, train, (l
when the divine sentiment of equality and
fraternity first floated upon the balmy breeaea
of palestine, and fell like a world of swee
music upon the ears of thousands of that great
multitude then also went up a murmur—a
cry of mbst ts this new doctrine, &e., and
all the invention* of minds darkened by pre
judice and superstition f’
bat a word had gone forth m that hushed
stillness, which emanated from the throoe
of the eternal—which will never return
void till tt accomplishes that whereuuto it
was sent. this holy sentiment was a glori
ous peculiarity in that era of good will to
men. and as often as it touched the hearts of
men, it drew them together as a strong cord.
and why has it not had its perfect work, coo
verting the world to a garden of pleasant
places and joyful habitation* of men why
has it not bad free course, and been glorified
throughout the earth 1 it is because that evtl
gnuus of man —oppression —has borne the
iron sway. we have seen this plague spot
in the form of kings, priests, and all the va
ried potentates of earth, dealing their fire
brands of death along their pathway, and
scorching, as the lava of etna, every thing
beautiful and fresh. the laws of god, hu
man life, and the rights of man, have all been
ii- w unhallowed power.
“and ye all are brethren.’’ it would seem
the world had forgotten these words were ut
tered by one who was endowed with love and
wisdom, and the divine spirit of the highest;
one who came to teach the unity between
man and man, and man anil his creator—and
also the emancipation of the human body and
the human soul. if w.e, in any degree, have
imbibed this spirit, then we desire the realiza
tion of this brotherhood. sickened and spir
it-weary we turn from the superficial attempts
at reform, which have never reached the root
of the gigantic evils of the present false sys
tem. spirit-weary, i say; but hope’s pro
phetic vision 3cans the vista of years, and
shows us the reorganization of a true society,
wherein are blended in perfect harmony, man,!
nature and god, in universal joy and true re-!
jigion. then should we realize, with .a ful-:
ness of bliss, these divine words from the lips
i of jesus
and ye are all brethren.” c. m. c.
york, (pa.,) may 9th, 1849.
frederick douglass: sir —lt is my
purpose to record the death of an eminent
citizen, a faithful advocate, and an ardent
triend of the way-worn slave. the person to
whom i allude is the venerable samuel mars,
who closed account with all that’s earthly on
the 28th day of april last. need it he asked j
who he was? why, from the last passenger
in the underground railroad tlotm to the latest
retired slave monger of maryland, none are
so unlearned as not to *know for, while the
latch-string of his hovel hung free to invite
.the fugitive of the “dismal swamp,” his
heart was open and as free to hear their tales
:of oppression and woe. noi was this all;
had he a crust it was broken had he health
(of which he was happily seldom dispossess
ed) it was staked for the freedom of the
j slave. by a life partially spent in the service
of a master, he was made to understand the
system and, in extent to its horror, so was
his zeal for its abolition.
the end of eighty-nine summers found him
somewhat debilitated in body, but in spirit the
same invincible friend of libertv. m. c.
great fire at milwaukie. —loss sixty
thousand dollars. —a fire broke out last
thursday morning about tour o'clock, des
troying about f>o,ooo worth of property be
fori it was subdued. the fire originated in the
building occupied by mr. hawkius as a plan
ing and stove factory, which was consumed
together with the store of daviu moore, da
vis, livery stable, luddingston's bried build
ing occupied by the sentinel, and gazettee;
davis and moore’s stage-house, barn and;
wagon shops, (the loss on which was $8,000;)
p. davies, livery stable, including large quan
tities of hay, carriages, &c.; and all the build
ings from luddingsston’s, on the west side of
water street, with the exception of metcalf,s
meat market,and the saddlery of g. dyer,
which were saved.
i disastrous fire at watertown, n. y.
—a disastrous conflagration took place on
sunday, may 13th, destroying nearly all the
business portion of the village. included in
the buildings destroyed is the american hotel
and out-buildings; all the paddock s stores on
washington street; all the block of stores op
|k>site on court street; woodruff's iron block,
the fjpiscopal church, the colombian hotel,
the northern state journal office, the demo
cratic union office, the printing office of isel
greene, and about 30 of our most extensive
stores. the most of the stores had jußt been
filled with new goods. the post office and
all its contents, and the valuables ot the black
river bank, were saved; also the valuables of
wooster sherman’s bank and henry keep s
bank, and the surrogate’s office papers, all
saved. the loss in buildings altogether is
estimated to be within the bounds ot 125,
000.
the great flood at new orleans.
baltimore, sunday, may 20. —the south
ern mail has arrived with dates fr»*m ntw
orleans to the 12th inst. the great cievasse
about the city was still unchecked. the wa
ter was flowing out rapidly, and thousands of
acre® of land were overflowed. the crevasse
was widening, and the water was gradually
r sing. the picayune entertains the worst
apprehensions, and thinks the most senous ca
lamities may be realized.
thousands of workmen have been employ
ed to close the crevasse, and have not been
able to make any successful headway ihe
water in the swamps and m the second
municipality is gradually rising. people are
da.lv moving out and abandoning their dwel
•un«. some were taking refuge in the
second and third stone, of their houses, using
boats to go out and tn. as before hated,
whithe and benton sw. with portions of
h«x>t dryo" r ke tcfit t
latter street, were entirely surroundedby the
floo d m d were only accessible by boats and
horses, producing great distress among the
j m bank of the new eaaal wasoyer
flown and the people of the jwenth ward
and second municipality were preparing to
situ their abodes. a considerable
portion oftbe railroad near the half-way
lse was submerged, and the wagr covering
the street at the new
m th# head of the basin. about houses
some workmen employed at the crevasse were
dying with cholera.
co»ui p"* -the p<*-
mxaer u wheeling,
to deliver the new concord (ofeto) free
press to its suheeriheva tn that etty, of whom
it has si*. the reason given ts ns anti-slavery
opinions and geoetal
which the pertlmmew el «hee poty te l e.,
delivered it to its subscribes u. states gazette
“a very original affair, said i, lay
ing down the tribune of that day.
“what is that?” inquired my cora*-
panion.
“i refer to that scene in the trial of
smith o’brien, when dobbyn, the irish
detective, is proved a perjurer by the
unexpected testimony of mr. d’alton.
all the circumstances connected with
the affair—the visit of d’alton at the
freeman office; the hasty and success
ful measures instantly taken to bring
into court; the crushing power of
d’alton’s iestimonv, and the complete
unmasking of dobbyn—would seem to
mark the whole as an interference by
providence, if all these things had not
so unaccountably failed in the great
result.”
the gentleman to whom i said this,
was a grey-headed refugee from ire
land, since the great rebellion in ’9b.
he paused a few moments, and then
replied in a voice trembling with age
and strong feeling,
“i dare not trust myself to speak of
the trial of o’brien, for it reminds me
of the days of fitzgerald and kmmet.
but there is one incident of those times
which i can mention with more calm
ness. your remark suggested it. i
will tell you of a providential interfer
eence, this time successful, in a trial,
of similar character. the actors were
obscure and are now forgotten by all,
except the few who then stood in the
court-room, and saw the heroism of aj
servant girl, trampling upon her own!
love for the sake of truth and justice in,
the cause of ireland. they never can
forget it. all that i did not then under-,
stand in the affair, i afterwards learn- j
ed by inquiry of others —so strong
was the interest that humble heroine
made with me.”
late on hallowmas eve, a young
man and girl were sitting together in
the servant’s room of an irish country
seat. the latter was a fair and buxom
lass known far and near, as “pretty
mary donnovan.” she had an honest
face, too, where the very heart seemed
looking forth, and one for whose real
nobility a man might pledge his life.
at the moment, it was clouded with anx
iety and timid love.
near her, sat a man with one
of those false, handsome faces that we
occasionally meet, and look upon a
second time. his glossy hair was
elaborately curled, and his eye, hard
and black like jet, was marked with in
sincerity. his whole appearance was,
as i have just said, handsome and
false. had the young girl whom he
was so earnestly addressing, been a
physiognomist, she would never have
listened to his words, but as it was, her
whole manner was wavering, distrust
ful, yet tender.
“pltelim, you know r that i love you,
and oh! that i could trust ye too. if 1
could shut my eyes while ye talk to me,
i’d wait no longer, but give ye the word
at once; but whenever l look in your
eye, you seem to be talking only with
your lips, and so i v v
the face i should love to iuo.. upon.”
“i understand ye, mary donnovan,”
said phelim, bitterly, “and because
the face i was born with don’t suit ye,
you think i am trying to cheat. it’s no
use to fool around ye any longer. i’ll
go to the mountains and join the fight
ing boys to-morrow.”
“not because i sent ye there!” ex
claimed mary hastily. “dear phelim,
forgive me, and i’ll never vex you a
gain.”
a glow, not of shame, passed over
his face, as he saw the effect of his
w ords in this, the first sign of tr iumph,
and he persevered so cleverly, that in a
few moments they were betrothed, and
he had won*the first ripe kiss from her
dainty lips. then followed the inter
change of lo\e tokens, usual among
the irish peasantry. they could only
interchange locks of hair, for they
had nothing else to give.
“write on the paper around it the
date of the blessed night, phelim, and
it will be twice as precious to me.”
so he did, and mary placed it care
fully next to her heart.
they then began to talk of more
serious matters. both were poor, hut
hopeful and ready to wait for some sud
den turn of good fortune which they
fondly dreamed might corne at any
time. this disscussion of ways, means,
and all impracticable projects, carried
them far into the night; so far, indeed,
that phelim, lover though he really
was, yawned sleepily, as he took his
candle, saying;
“goodnight, mary dear, and don’t
forget hallowmas eve.”
’‘ah! phelim,” she replied, “i'll re
member it.”
so she did.
the next day brought tidings to the
inmates of hall, that a large bod/
of peasants had risen during the past
night, and committed excesses too com
mon in those times of apprehension and
resistance. nor did they end with that
night’s work. —what is known in his
tory as the “rebellion of ninety-
eight,” speedily broke out, and for
months kept the land in most fearful
agitation. at last the rebellion was
crushed, and then commenced the trials
of those leaders who had been cap
tured. all crowded to the court to see
their first men brought to trial and con
demned, almost invariably, to death.
one of those leaders was of great no
toriety in the vicinity of hall, and
when his case was called from the
docket, every man, woman and child
flocked to the trial—some to sympathise
with the caged patriot, some to exult
over his fall, and very many to see the
man whose name had been held up as
a word of equal terror to refractory
children and full grown men.
“mary,” said her lover, as he saw
her arrayed in rustic finery, “surely,
you are not going to court to-day.”
“indeed, i am,” she replied; “i’ll
go and give the prisoner a blessing with
ny eye, since i can do nothing more
for him. why should i stay away
when a roan is to be tried for his life,
because he loved us too well surely
we must go and say to him by our
presence, that we are with him in our
irish hearts.”
“it’s no place for women, i tell ye/’
exclaimed phelim, with sudden viol
ence, and then coaxingly. “indeed;
you must not go. stay at home, and
think of what i'm telling you; that fve
got fifty guineas, and we 'can be mar
ried next week, or as soon as you’ll on
ly aay the word.”
“fifty guineas in real gold. who
gave them to ye—was it the master,
or—”
“hush! here's the master's own
voice, calling me now, so i must go.
stay at home. mary dear, or i'll not
forgive ye.”
“i don’t understand ye, phelim, and
i uill go to the court,” said mary to
herself. “fifty guineas of bright and
heavy gold—blessings on the giver.”
in opening the case, the prosecuting
attorney was observed to look anxiously
around the court as if in search of some
particular face. each time he was dis
apointed, and at last was obliged to
announce that in the absence of its prin
cipal witness, the crown would first re
sort to other evidence. and meagre
enough was that evidence to all in the
crowded court. every thing manifest
ly depended upon the principal witness,
the informer, and without his speedy
appearance the prisoner would doubt
less be entitled to an acquittal. at last
the crown officer finished his other
evidence, and again peered anxiously
about the crowd. this time ius face
lightened with satisfaction.
“phelim reeoy!”
“phelim!” cried a faint smothering
voice upon the opposite side of the
room.
“silence there in the court,’’shouted
the sheriff*, angrily.
but there was no silence in mary
donnovanheart.
“i see it now—these fifty golden
guineas! ah, they have made phelim
reeny an informer, but they shall never
make me his wife.”
the informer felt the moist and
flashing eye of mary donnovan, burn
ing into his brain, and he shivered with
terror, but the voice of the prosecuting
attorney soon restored self possession,
and he coolly testified as follows:
he had disguised himself, and joined
the rebels in their great meeting on tbe
night of their first rising. he had es
pecially marked the prisoner at the
bar, as the seeming leader, and the one
under whose direction the whole body
acted. he heard this prisoner utter
words, saw’ him do acts of treason on
that night. this was the substance of
his testimony, and so clear, full, and
direct was it throughout that every one
saw that the prisoner’s life was hang
ing on the words from this informer’s
lips. the crown lawyers skillfully
pumped him of every thing, and found
that he had done full justice to his train
ing.
the first question on the cross ex
amination was in regard to the time of
this affair. phelim appeared somewhat
uneasy, and replied in a very low
tone.
“louder!” cried one of the judg
es.
“it was on the night before the ris
ing—hallowmas eve.”
no: it was not on hallowmas eve,
exclaimed mary donnovan, rising with
an uncontrollable impulse. “phelim,
you are not even an informer—you are
perjured!”
there was dead silence for one in
stant, and then the prisoner’s counsel
spoke sharply—
what’s this! let that girl come to
the witness stand.”
pale, but trembling, she took the
place where phelim had just stood.
<‘you say it was not on hallowmas
eve—tell all you know.”
she fixed her eyes on her lover, and
kept them there steadily till she had
i finished. no one questioned or inter
rupted her in the course of her broken
i testimony.
“never would i be standing in this
place, your honors, ifthe false oath and
black word hadn’t come from the lips
of phelim reeny. never would i open
mouth to condemn the man i love best,
if he himself had not compelled me to
do it.
“this man was once my lover, be
fore he sold his country and me, too,
with it. and the very night he first
spoke l.is false words to me without
check was this same hallowmas eve
i when he swears he wa9 up on the
mountains disguised as oite of the band
of that prisoner at the bar. we talked
till two in the night—do you deny it?
look then at this, which i take from my
bosom for the last time —this lock of
your hair, wrapped in a paper—and
j ye’ve written on that papertfhese words
with your own hand.
“phelim rf my to mary vvnnoran —ll
o'clock t. hallowmas ere”.
take the paper and hair, sir—’twill
never come into my hand again.
“isn’t the shaking of that guilty man
a good proof of my oath ah, phelim,
1 see now where the fifty gold guineas
came from, but did ye think at the time
what ye gave in exchange for that
bribe?
“this is all that 1 know; and oh! it
is too much for me to say, for it strikes
down the man that i love. phelim, why
did you do all this? an hour ago, and
world’s wouldn’t have tempted ye to
exchange places with that man at the
bar, but there’s nothing ye wouldn’t
give to be this prisoner yourself. ye’ll
be despised and cut off among men, but
never can you even feel more misery
than i shall find all my weary life, for i
loved you, phelim, and you've broken
my heart.”
the old man stopped here, but his
eyes were eloquent as he mused.
“well?” said i inquiringly.
“in the course of a long life,” he
i i continued, ‘‘l have often heard the out
rju rings of true genius, but never did
see such eloquence as there was in the
i eye of that servant girl, when she faced
her lover and made him a criminal.
even tbe hard-eyed judges were soft
ened by the sight.”
t “wbai became of her.”
“ah! that is a true incident, and you
must not expect tbe ending of a novel.
i —the prisoner was acquitted of crime,
i reeny suffered the penalty of his crime,
i while mary donnovan retired again to
her service, forgotten and unknown.
had ireland then attamed her lode
pendence, you would long since have
seen her name written in the annals of
r that desperate strife, and not have
heard at her now, only through a
chance story by an aged wanderer from
his own unhappy land.'' holden*
magnzme.
the news.
our columns, this week, are well
nigh filled with a history of recent
appalling disasters. destruction of
life and property seems to be the nipple
of newspaper intelligence. east, mat,
north and south we hear of fatal disea
ses, awful conflagrations, and distres
sing calamities. in europe, war, pesti
lence and famine are scourging the
nations, and scattering death and ruin
among the people. our own country is
but little less favored. the cholera is
progressing with its work of death in
the south aud south west with fearful
rapidity. in new orleans, st louis,
cincinnati, louisville, chicago, and
other cities of the southern and western
states, this fatal epidemic is slaying
its victims by hundreds. whether its
terrible work of mortality is to be gen
eral throughout the united statas, will
doubtless be known in a few weeks. in
all probability very few, if any, of the
cities and large towns will eseape the
scourge.
but the progress of the cholera does
not furnish the only item of interest
with which the news of the day is made
up. —mobs, bloody riots, and destruc- 1
live fires, are of frequent occurrence, j
montreal has scarcely recorded i
the tremor occasioned by the fatal
affray with which she was recently af
flicted; and new york has hardly wip
ed the blood from her streets where
her citizens fell in a disgraceful riot.
this week, news of disasters by fire
and accident are particularly in order.
one half of the business portion of st.
louis is in ruins—five million dollars’
worth of property in theterible confla
gation! the flourishing young city of
milwaukee, in wisconsin, has likewise
been visited by a destructiue fire; and
the beautiful village of watertown,
in this state, has been ravished by the
same destroying element, and is smok
ing in ruins. and in addition to these
calamities by fire, we have likewise to
record that ofa fatal steamboat collision
on north river. and such is—“the
news.” —-northern citizen.
the frozen dead of »t.
bernard.
the scene of the great est interest at
the hospital—a solemn, extraordinary
interest, indeed—isthatofthe morgue,
or building where the dead bodies ofi
lost travellers are deposited. there i
they are, some of them as when thfe
breath of life departed, and the death
angel, with his instrument of frost and
snow, stiffened and embalmed forages.
the floor is thick with nameless skulls
and bones, and human dust, heaped in j
confusion. but around the walls a
group of poor sufferers, in the very 1
position in which they were found, as
rigid as marble, preserved by the ele
ment of an eternal frost, are regularly
arranged.—there is to he seen the mo
ther and child, a most affecting instance
of suffering and love. the face of the
little one remains pressed on the moth-
er’s bosom, only the back part of the
skull being visible, the body enfolded
in her careful arm—careful in vain,
affectionate in vain, to shield her off
spring from the elemental wrath of the
tempest. the snow fell fast and thick,
and the hurricane wound them up in
one white shroud, and buried them.
there is also a tail, strong man stand
ing alone, the face dried and black, but
the white, unbroken teeth firmly set
and close, grinning from the fleshless
jaws—it is a most awful spectacle. the
face seems to look at you from the re
j cesses of the sepulchre, as if it would
tell you the story of a fearful death
j struggle in the storm. there are other
j groups more indistinct, but these are
the two never to be forgotten, and the
whole of these dried and frozen rera-
i nants of humanity are a terrific dem
onstration of the fearfulness of this
mountain pass when the elements, let
loose in fury, encounter the unhappy
traveller. you look at all this throngh
the grated window; there is just light
enough to make it solemnly and dis
j tinctly visible and to read in it a power
-1 ful record of mental and physical ago-
s ny, and of maternal love ia death.—
the little child, hiding its (ace in its
1 mother’s bosom and both frozen to
death—one can never forget the group,
i nor the meme)uo mori nor the token of
deathless love.— l jr. cheerer's wander
ing*.
appearances deceptive.
a french paper gives an incident
that lately happened to a celebrated
artist, who is extremely neglectful of!
his toilette. leaving his study one
day, and walking along the street
rather absently, he heard a call from a
female voice behind him.—
“here, my man,” said a lady beck
oning to him, “can you carry a bundle
a little way for mer”
the artist looked at the lady for a
moment, saw that she was very hand-,
some, and instead of explaining, as he
was about to do, he said, "waiinglj,
madam!” and followed her into a shop.
the bundle was large and heavy,
but he lifted it with some effort upon
his shoulder, and followed after the
lady. she mounted at last to the se
cond story of a house, with the tired
porter close at her heels, and began to
fumble in her pocket to find the money
to pa him. as she did so, the artist
looked well at her face, and found it to
be me of the most peculiar in its style
of beauty, as well as one of the finest
he had ever seen.
“pardon me,” he said, as she offered
him the money, “i am not a porter —i
am an artist, and instead of money, will
ask a favor of you—to allow me to
make a copy cf your face. the pack
age was heavy, and the compliment
you paid to my dress was not very
gratifying, but i shall be well paid if i
can send a copy of your beauty to the
next exhibition of the academy.”
and so a great artist came by the
original of one of the most exqui ite
pictures which his pencil has put upon
canvass.
amxucaji antiquities. —two idols and
t sacrificial twain were rcemlj discovered
aear saa luis potosi, mexico, having been
excavated from the nuns of an ancient city,
the existence of which was wholly anknown to
the present inhabitants, either by tradition or
history. they were hewn from blocks of
concrete seodttooe, and are now in a perfect
stale of preservation an american travel er
discovered them.