more blackguardism.
the washington correspondent of
the boston atlas has the following, un
der date of dec. 26, 1848:
i have been an eye-witness to much
of the anti-slavery agitation here; and
what has been the result of it all a
great deal of excitement has prevailed,
many hard words have been exchanged
and animosities engendered. yet sla
very exists. this question, as i said
in one of my former letters, is the most
important with which public men have
to do; it is the one which should com
mand the largest share of prudence,
judgment, patriotism and common sense,
and it is about the only one now-a-days
which neither of these qualities are
brought to bear upon. the question
has become a political party hobby,
north and so,uth. the leaders in it
are fanatical, narrow-minded dema
gogues, who care more tor their own
places in congress than they do for all
the slaves in the union. prudent men
hold back from communion with these
men; and hence, although the subject
forms a part almost daily of the doings
in congress, yet nothing is done in re
ality which looks to the good of the
country and the gradual redemption ot
♦he land from slavery.
“there is, in my judgment, a stu
pendous selfishness in nine-tenths of the
anti-slavery and pro-slavery move
ments which are made by the gid
dingses, the palfreys, the calhouns, the
rhetts, and others in congress. the
bill presented the other day by mr.
giddings, to permit the slaves of this
district to vote, is a striking instance oi
the fact. now, if he was really in
earnest —if he wished to carry a bill
through congress to give the citizens
of the district the privilege of express
ing their views upon the subject, a wise
and honest man would have so framed
it as to obtain at least the good will ol
the house. he would not have taken
the most effectual means in his power
to defeat his own measure. but gid
dings’ object was clearly agitation. he
must exasperate the members.and make
himself ‘a friend of humanity.’
“again, the proposition made by
mr. gott, to instruct the committee on
the district of columbia to report a bill
to abolish the slave traffic in the dis
trict, is another instance of folly—to
call it by no other name. the resolu
tion itself was a very proper one, and
one which every northern membei
ought to have voted for. but the reso
lution is not enough. it must be pre
faced with a preamble and half a dozen
whereases, speaking of slavery as an
institution contrary to the principles ol
natural justice,’ &.c., all of which was
abstractly true, and in a country de
bating society would have been very
much in place. but to thrust it in the
faces ol men who are to vote upon it—
who are slaveholders themselves, and
who represent slaveholding constituen
cies, is what no prudent or well-disposed
person would have done. well whal
he ctrecl? why, it u con.id
ered by many of the members as per
sonally insulting, who had no objection
to the resolution itself. the preamble
was of no more use than a fifth wheel
to a coach. yet in u was thrust and
what for?
ido honestly believe that party end*
and private ambition lie at the bottom
of a large share of these movements in
washington, and it is time that th<
lion’s skin should be torn from the ass’i
body, and let the long ears be seen.
believe that mr. calhoun and his imme
diate worshippers art at heart in favoi
the north star.
of a dissolution of the union. i be
lieve the seme of giddings and his fol
lowers, when the union is dissolved,
we shall have king giddings ruling the
northern dominions, and king calhoun
those of the south. take both of these
men out of congress, and those who
sympathize with their treasonable fana
ticism, and let the people north and
south, send men of plain sense, of in
telligence and of honest purpose, to re
present them in their place, and l do
really believe that more would be ac
complished for the cause of freedom
and emancipation in two years than
ever will be under thejpresent state of
things.
“one of theqe schemes is to have all
sorts of ultra anti-slavery propositions
intrqfluced, call the yeas ami nays, and
make northern whigs vote for them;
to sweeten the dose, such men as john
wentworth, mr. smart of maine, and
david wilmot, of the locofoco party,to
vote with them. thus do they waste
the time of congress, and succeed in
dividing the whigs of the north from
the whigs of the south. mr. giddings,
mr. root, and mr. palfrey, love loco
focoism better than they do gen. tay
lor. during the late canvass, they
charged him with being the most dan
gerous man that could be elected, and
they are afraid of their own predic
tions. the locofocos proper of course
will oppose his administration. this
game is deep, and thus far has been well
played; but it is discovered, and 1
think you will see a movement on the
part of the northern whigs which will
very plainly inform mr. giddings and
his co-laborers that they may vote for
their own propositions.
now the great question before the
country, is in regard to extending the
principles of the wilmot proviso over
new mexico and california it can be
passed [and would be prosed without
very serious opposition; the late can
vass settled the point, and southern
whigs were not disposed to seriously
dispute. a measure like this would
have been enough for one session, and
would have satisfied all reasonable men.
yet the chances are not so favorable
to-day as they were three weeks ago,
and because the fanatical demagogues
have come nearly every day with a
number of sixpenny propositions,which
have had the effect to exasperate and
madden the southern members. i do
believe that giddings co. would glory
more over the defeat of the wilmot
proviso in the house than at any other
thing that could happen.”
union op the south.
it seems to us that it is high time for
both parties in the south to present a
united front of resistance to unjust ag
gressions upon their rights. unless
they do this, and speedily, they may
be left without any rights to protect.
but almost as much depends upon
the matter of defending ourselves, as
upon the thing itself. a threatening,
hectoring attitude, hot words and lofty
talk, would be unjust to the calm and
fixed purpose which pervades every
southern soul, to stand firm and shield
the institutions and rights of the south
from wrongs which are contemplated
by men who are enemies, not only of
the south, but of the union and of lib
erty itself.
and while we say this, we also say
to southern democratic presses, which
are invoking all parties to unite, and in
the same breath insinuating that gen.
taylor is unsound on southern sub
jects, and charging that fillmore is an
abolitionist, you are taking strange steps
to bring about your professed purpose.
the whigs of the south, they who are
even more interested than the demo
crats, in the preservation of southern
property, can patiently brook no such
taunts as that they have supported abo
litionists for the highest offices of the
government. is a union to.be effected
by such a mode of courtship.
southern whigs will not silently sub
mit to wrongs either from their geo
graphical or political enemies. they
are ready to bury the hatchet with the
last, if necessary, to check the aggres
sions of the first. but so far as the
president who succeeds mr. polk is
concerned, if democrats can confide in
the present incumbent, after his signa
ture of the oregon bill,southern whiga
may well repose the most undoubting
trust in zachary taylor, a southron ol
the southrons; a louisiana planter,
with two hundred slaves; a man who
was never false to himself, to hia
friends, or t) his country; a citizen
who has never uttered a syllable or per
formed an act inconsistent with perfect
fidelity to the south—the land of hit
ancestors, of his home, of his interests,
of his glory—of all, in a word, that can
be near and dear to the human heart.—
richmond repub.
|cjp the following paragraph is from
the official organ of the present demo
cratic administration, the wash
ington union. see what terrible things
will happen if congress shall dareto
abolish the slavery it has established in
the district of columbia! oh, oh!
we deeply regret mr. palfrey’s
motion of yesterday to abolish slavery
in the district of columbia. it is a
new torch of discord cast into the
minds of the people. we still more
deeply regret that 69 members should
have been found in the house of re
presentatives to favor its introduction.
why disturb the happiness of a great
people by such ill-advised and intem
perate movements? it can come to no
sood. it will excite the country, and
estroy the harmony of the confedera
cy. if pushed to its ultimate conse
quences, it will shake the union itself.
what benefit can it render, to compen
sate for these calamities?'*
right is of no sex—truth is of no color-god is the father of us all, and all we are brethren.
here is another rabid specimen from
the same paper:
another blow.—blow follows blow
in rapid succession. we scarcely know
what to expect. the abolitionists ap
pear to run on with “an appetite as
keen as death,” to the gratification oi
their favorite object.
the proceedings of congress during
this session,with respect to the question
of slavery, have been of the most
alarming and portentous character. it
was not enough that the house of re-
i presentatives, without precedent, with*
out necessity, and in contempt tor the
rights of a large and patriotic portion
of the union, should have instructed
the committee on the territories to re
port a bill excluding slavery from new
mexico and california. without pre
cedent, for we recollect no case where,
under similar circumstances, the same
step has been taken before. without
necessity, because it was known that
the same committee, at the last session,
had reported a similar bill in the at£»
sence of specific instruction, and in all
probability would do it again. in con
tempt for the rights of the slaveholding
states; for, without taking the high
constitutional ground, it cannot be
right, as a mere question of equality, to
exclude their citizens from ail partici
pation in the benefits of a country ac
quired in a war to which they contri
buted so largely in men and means.—
this we say, and we might say more;
because, without meaning any invidious
comparison, it is notorious that the
slaveholding states furnished more than
their ratio of men —to say nothing
about the money—for the mexican war.
it was not enough that a proposition
should be made to take the sense, not
only of the free negroes and mulattoes
of the district of columbia upon the
question whether slavery should be
abolished within it or not, but of the
slaves themselves also, (such was the
character of the proposition, as mr.
giddmgs himself declared, upon inter
rogatory,) and that it should have come
from a member of a state (ohio) which
does not permit free negroes even to
vote, and be voted for by 79 members;
but thursday, the house of repre
sentatives, by a vote of 98 to 87, in
structed the committee for the district
of columbia to introduce a bill abol
ishing the slave trade within that dis
trict
do the gentlemen who have voted for
these resolutions really see and fully
comprehend to what their action is lead
ing? do they suppose that the south
has become so tame, that they will not
even turn when trodden upon? do
they suppose that they have lost the in
stinct «of the mere reptile? we are
aware that much has occurred of late
to induce northern and western men
to suppose that those of the south are
indifferent about these questions. but
they may rely upon it that such is not
the case. it is true the whig states
of the south, and some of the doubtful
ones, have lately voted for gen. tay
lor and mr. fillmore: the former of
whom occupied an equivocal position
upon the subject of the wilmot provi
so; and the latter, as we were sure,
sympathized with the abolitionists. but
it must be recollected that their friends
represented them to be particularly re
liable upon the subject of slavery, and
that they were voted for by a large
portion of the south upon that ground.
let not the country deceive itself by
these manifestations; they are de
ceptive.
we speak not as a southern man—
not as a virginian; but, godkiiows! as
an american —an american proud of
his glorious country—as a friend of the
union—as a friend of political/reedom
throughout the world, the sttccess of
which depends upon our example. and
we conjure those who would sap and
undermine it—we would implore those
who would sow tares between brethren
—those who would disturb the feelings
of mutual kindness—those who would
discard those feelings of mutual con
cession and compromise in which our
blessed union originated, and in which
alone it can continue to exist, ‘to dis
countenance it, to frown upon proceed
ings calculated to endanger it. they
may rely upon it, the late proceedings
of congress are of that description.—
let not any one of our countrymen de
ceive themselves. we say this not in
anger —in no spirit of intimidation, but
from a deep sense of the excitement
which the resolution of yesterday will
produce, and the consequences it will
carry with it. the appeal is made to
the south and to the north, without
regard to party. it is a question that
overleaps all parties and all cliques. it
is our country that calls upon us. it ii
an appeal to the love for the union it
self —in behalf of that spirit of com
promise on which this great confederacy
is built, and by which it must be pre
served.
movements at the south on
the slatebt question.
the agitation at the sooth goes on with
unabated vigor the slaveholder! an deter
mined that no effort shall be spared to prevent
the exclusion of slavery from california and
new mexico, and to prevent the abolition of
the accursed traffic in the souls and bodies of
men in the district of columbia. the rich*
mood enquirer a# the 3d inst. puhbsbes the
proceedings of a public meeting of the people
of king william county, va., on thn 35th
ult., professedly for the purpose of concerting
mftwrtt in oppowtinn to what is called the
late and alarming proceedings in congress on
the subject of slavery. the following resolu
tions were adopted:
resolved, that it i* the imperative
duty of thn southern state* to note
any farther intnuonnco on the aspect
of slavsry, either w the staten nr tar-
rochester, n. y., friday, january 19, 1849.
ritorie*, by the congrtm of the united
states, 41 at all hazards and to the last
extremity.”
resolved, that we invite the aid and
assistance of oar fellow-citizens of vir
ginia and the southern states, on one
combined resistance, (by every means
which freemen have the right to as©,)
to the late proceedings io the house of
representatives of the united states,
on the subject of negro slavery.
resolved, that the president of this
meeting do appoint a committee of
safety, for this county, and such other
citizens as the president may select,
whose duty it shall be to take such
action as may from time to time be
called for by the course of events.
the richmond republican, urging
the virginia legislature to have the
arsenal in that city converted into a
military academy, says:
such a change is of importance
not only to the diffusion of education
through the state, but of that military
knowledge and discipline which may be
so essential to the south in a certain
contingency. we would recommend a
similar policy to all odr sister states of
the south. south carolina has two
prosperous military academies one
at charleston and one at columbia.—
let the south be prepared to defend
her rights, and they will never be as
sailed.”
virginia. —the following resolutions
have been introduced into the virginia
house of delegates by‘mr. scott,
whig, as a substitute for the ultra
southern series presented by mr.
floyd:
resolved, that the institution of sla
very was fully discussed by the con
vention which formed the constitution
of the united states, and that the rights
of the slaveholder were fully recognize#
by its provisions; that, without the
compromises then solemnly entered into
the union of the states could never
have been formed.
resolved, that whether congress pos
sesses the constitutional power to pro
hibit or abridge the free immigration
of a slaveholder with his slaves to a
territory of the united states, is a
question on which men may and do hon
estly differ in opinion.
resolved, that if congress does
possess that power, any exercise of it
which would abridge the right of a
slaveholder to immigrate, with his
slaves, to a territory acquired by the
common blood and treasure of the
whole nation, would be contrary to the
spirit of conciliation and compromise,
under which the federal government
was formed, unjust to the slaveholding
states, and an abuse of the power
which would interrupt, if not destroy,
that harmony between the states so
necessary to the healthful action of the
federal government, and the preserva
tion of our glorious union.
resolved, that the fundamental prin
ciples of our own and all free govern
ments are, that the people are capable
of self-government; that all legitimate
power resides in and emanates from the
people; that governments are instituted
for the benefit of the governed, and
are their trustees and agents, and con
sequently it would be unjust legislation,
and a tyrannical abuse of power, to
force domestic slavery upon an unwil
ling people. in the case of california
and new mexico, it would aggravate
the wounds inflicted by war and con
quest and sow the seeds of disaffection
and revolt.
resolved, that the question of sla
very in california and new mexico is
merely transient -in its nature, and no
matter how decided in congress, can
never produce any practical effect;
that those territories were free when
acquired, and so according to every
reasonable probability must remain.—
congness cannot legislate slavery into
practical* existence within their limits,
and it is matter of indifference, so far
as its existence there is concerned,
whether congress engraft into their
forms of government, what is known as
the wilmot proviso, the missouri com
promise, or the senate’s resolution.
resolved, that the unity of govern
ment, which constitutes us one people,
is now as dear to us as it ever has been.
it is justly so; for it is a main pillar in
the edifice of our real independence,
the support of our tranquility at home,
our peace abroad; of our safety; of our
prosperity; of that very liberty we so
highly prize. _
resolved, that we prize the union
of these states too highly, to fly to
arms and dissolve it upon a difference ef
opinion on an abstract question of con
stitutional law.
resolved, that the passage of a law
by congress, prohibiting the introduc
tion of slaves into california and new
mexico, contrary to the wishes of the
people in those territories, would be a
tyrannical abuse of power; the passage
of such a law, under existing circum
stances, being wholly unnecessary even
to accompli*, so far as those temto
ries are concerned, the wishes of the
most ardent abolition* would be a
gratuitous outrage on southern feelings
lid manifest a spir* of hostility to the
rithts of the sooth secured by the con
stitution, but too well calculated to keep
alive and increase the apprehension for
the safety of those ngfits, aheady un
happily excited, and ufiunately alienate
the attachment of the southern states
to the federal government.
resolved, that while we deprecate
anna, lor a mere abstract* n, we stand
ready to resist all invamoa of our rights
—whether by the assumption ef power
tyraaaoos use of graatoa powers.
resolved, that w# consider any m
tetfbrenee of coagrsss withia tha die
trid of coiaiobu,
of iu iolubitanu, with ihe n*kt* of tbe
slaveholder, among which in thn right
to hay and sell, at variance with thn
fundamental principle of free govern*
menu, end a direct attack upon the
institutions of the southern states; the
first net of meditated war upon the
rights secured by the constitution,
which ought to. be met at the thres
hold and restated at every hazard.
resolved, that the governor of the
commonwealth be requested to send a
copy of these resolutions to each of the
states of this union, and also to our
senators in congress, and each of the
members of the house of represent
atives.
selections.
the pacheco case.
the following interesting history of the
pacheco case, and the recent close vote
upon it in congress, is from the new york
tribune:
washington, jan. 6.
the debate on the claim of one an
tonio pacheco, of florida, (or rather
of his heirs, since pacheco him
self has died during the pendency of his
claim) was to-day closed by mr. gid
dings, of ohio, in a speech of remarka-
force, and which, in spite of mr.
g.’s unpolished delivery, rose at times
to the region of eloquence. the claim
is based on a state of facts substantially
as follows:
early in the progress of the florida
war upon the seminoles, major dade
hired of pacheco, at $25 per month,
his slave lewis to guide through the
country of the hostile savages the expe
dition which major d. commanded.—
lewis was a negro of remarkable abili
ties, spoke four languages fluently, and
it would seem was a secret confederate
and spy of the indians at the time.—
when about half way to his destination,
the expedition was suddenly attacked
by the indians and almost entirely de
molished, hardly a man escaping. the
negro was no more heard of until near
the close of this war, when he came in
among a band of seminoles, who sur
rendered, finding longer resistance im
possible. he was now claimed by his
old master, but (whether in accordance
with the terms of capitulation or other
wise does not appear) general jessup
resisted the claim, and decided that
lewis must go west with the discom
fited savages— -and so be did. where
upon pacheco ctnsnmi payment for him
by the government.
mr. giddings’ opposition was based
on the general grounds that the federal
constitution does not recognize human
beings as property —that no slave was
ever paid for by this government (save
in a single case through inadvertence)
—that successive congresses, on the
reports of committees composed in part
of slaveholders, have rejected like
claims—and that to pass this would be
setting up a most mischievous and dan
gerous precedent. he spoke with great
fervor and plainness, and his speech
excited much sensasion. i apprehend,
however, that, by placing this case on
the broad ground of no property in
man, instead of the special facts intrin
sically involved inlt, his speech helped
the bill. when he bad concluded, mr.
hilliard, of ala., obtained the floor,
and,after a few general remarks, moved
the previous question, which was sec
onded, the main question ordered, the
yeas and nays called, and the house
brought to a direct vote on the final
passage of the bill.
the call proceeded in silence, and it
soon became apparent that the vote
would be close. every member present
from the slave states voted aye, with a
number from the free states, among
whom i remarked mr. rose, of n. y./
and mr. ch. butler, of pa. when
the list had been called through, and
some time spent in figuring up, the as
sistant clerk paused and figgeted, and
there was evidently a botheration of
some sort. a member rose who had
not voted and asked to have his name
called. he voted aye; whereupon an
other made the same demand, and voted
no—so that it was as broad as it was
long. the clerk handed his tally-list
to the speaker, who announced the
vote yeas 90, nays 89, presenting a
case in which the speaker is expected
to vote. he commenced some remarks
preliminary to voting, manifesting con
siderable reluctance and trepidation,
but he was just beginning to intimate
that he should vote no and defeat the
bill by a tie, when the clerk again
called his attention, and announced
that the vote stood yeas 91, nays 89,
so that the bill was passed and no oc
casion for the speaker’s vote. where
upon ensued a motion for reconsidera
tion by mr. burt, of s. c. and to
that motion on the table, and another
for a call of the house; hot the latter
was voted down and the former on re
flection with-drawn. mr. cocke of
tenn. renewed the motion to recon
sider, but thought again ane withdrew
it, end mr. palfrey moved a call of the
hooae, which the speaker rgled oat of
order —nothing having been done since
the last move for a call was rejected.
—now cooes the best part of the
story: it seems, on a careful foenitiay,
that the vote on the passage of ths
pacheco bill actually stood—yeas 89,
nays 89—a fir, so that the speaker’*
vote in the negative would *hgre de
feated the btfl! this will
cosw ap on a motion to correct the
journal on monday, tho speaker rahfl
—ths hih providing for a board oi
c psuaiesioatrs to invletigete and settle
private claims was father debated to
day, and to be taken out of com
mittee at i 1-9 on monday. i think a
will pus. bet that is not certain.*
extract from i. k. giddihg*
reply to trvxiff smith.
in the month of april, an outrage
upon humanity of a more enormoui
character transpired there, than any
which had ever taken place, in the city
of washington. that head in human
shape, hope h. slatter, a notorious
slavedealer, in open davlight, marched
fifty-two mothers and daughters, hue
bands, wives, sisters and brothers, from
the jail built with the money of our peo
ple, to the railroad depot, from wheooa
they were taken to baltimore, and
there shipped to the new orleans slave
market. mothers were torn from their
children husbands separated from
wives; children were seen taking the
last agonizing look towards their par
ents; while despair and unutterable
horror marked each countenance in that
mournful procession, as they were driv
en from home and friends, and all they
held dear in life, to premature deaths
amid the sugar and cotton plantations
of the south. this was done under
the laws of congress. there was the
speaker elected by the whig party—
there were the committees arranged
and constituted by him for the purpose
of upholding and continuing these
heaveu-daring crimes. a majority of
them were whigs. they at that mo
ment held in their possession the peti
tions of thousands of our people from
the free states, praying to be relieved
from the guilt of sustaining this traffic
in human beings. yet scenes like this,
nor all the influence that philanthropy
could bring to bear upon them, could
ieduce those whig committees to take
one step towards relieving their con
stituents and mine from the damning
stain of such infamy. and yon now
taunt me for refusing to vote for a
speaker who has exerted his official
power to uphold crimes like these!—
you claim him to ba a whig, and those
committees to he whigs, carrying out
whig doctrines and whig practices,
by thus maintaining a commerce in men
created in the image of our god! if
this be whig doctrines and whig prac
tices, then i say distinctly before heav
en, i am no whig.
i believe it would be no more offen
sive to god for our nation to make
merchandize of you and me, or of that
whig speaker and those whig commit
tees, than it is to sustain a commerce
in the bodies of those people who, by
laws of congress are now daily sold in
washington city. my constituents
would be as willing to see your children
sold in market as those of other men.
they would be as willing to see your
wife torn from your embrace, and sold
into degrading servitude, and doomed
tq premature death, as they are to see
the wives of other men subjected to
such lingering murder. now, sir, can
the name whig sanction such crimes
with them. they are a moral and re
ligious people. they <lo not indulge
the belief that they can justify such
crimes before an omniscient judge, by
saying that “they did it in order to up
hold the whig party.” sir, you mistake
the character of my constituents entire
ly. they are an enlightened people.—
they understand the distinction be
tween principle and party between
measures and men. they have ever
been foremost in the support of whig
doctrines—the strongest whig district in
the united states. they have been
such upon principle, and they despise
the power of party, when it comes in
conflict with the great moral and politi
cal truths on which our government is
based. no party can'drive them.—
acting upon the dictates of enlightened
consciences, guided by accurate knowl
edge of political matters, they look with
contempt upon the miserable artifices
put forth by demagogues and designing
politicians, to mislead them. they
stand pledged to god and man to exert
their utmost to separate the federal
government and themselves from crimes
like those which are now upheld by the
whig committees of the house of re
presentatives. they well understand
that no effectual movement in that body
can be made in that body, except
through those committees, unless two
thirds of the house consent. the
slaveholders will not willingly cease
their traffic, and they vote against all
efforts to stop the slave trade. these
committees, therefore, stand between
humanity and the slave dealers, sus
taining and protecting them in carrying
on a commerce in our fellow-men.—
these committees were appointed for
that purpose by a speaker elected by
the whig party. and you now attempt
to anathematize me for not voting for a
man who i was conscious, was pledged
to this very policy.
the bearing which your letter was
designed to exert upon me, or my poli
ticalinfluence, is of small importance;
hut so far as it is an attempt to estab
lish and carry into exorcise tbs tyranny
of party, by proclaiming your bill of
excommunication against me for daring
to obey my conoeicnce and god’s law,
in preference to the biddings ot •poli
tical party, tf m worthy of serious re
ply; indeed, except for this considera
tion, i should not have answered you.
sir, 1 think the day for wielding the
lash of party has gone by forever. it
can effect little among intelligent and
honest men. they feel that each ie
morally responsible for bis own politi
cal conduct. mfn have leaned to
think for the—elves. they know that
gad has given them powers of thought
end redaction for the purpose of being
exercised. they fod that by voting
for men who uphold and sustain crimso,
they make themeelvaa partners in gain
ton may regard the abvetrade now
carried on in the district of ceiuadno
a* a matter of no importance; hut th#
people of ohio look upon »*hdin
no fcnw sf boinf wjmnjwm
entod from the wlpg party could drive
john dick. pvsusasa.
whole no-56.
1 to lumiin for office any man who
would exert his official power to uphold
that disgrace of our net km and human*
nor could they knowingly be led
to support the man who, by the ties of
interest, of education, and of associa
tion, was pledged to establish slave
markets upon soil now consecrated to
freedom. 1 fear and believe that some
have been beguiled into the support of
such a man for president. if so, a just
retribution awaits those who have mis
led and deceived them. it is morally
certain that southern whiffs who sup
ported general taylor under the belief
that he was favorable to the extension
of slavery, or northern whigs who sus
tained him under the cooviction that he
was opposed to that national crime and
disgrace, have been deceived. the
president elect is in favor of that heav
en-defying iniquity, or he is opposed to
i it. god himself cannot be on both
sides of that question. a few short
months will determine whether the
north or the south have been duped.—
sir, as a friend, i would advise the sup
porters of general taylor, who reside
in the free states, to be a little cautious
in their manifestations of confidence in
their political power. if they shall
exclude slavery from our newly-ac
quired territory—if they refuse admis
sion to any more slave states—if they
shall relieve the people of the free
states and the federal government
from the deep and damning guilt of
maintaining a commerce in the bodies
of men, now carried on upon our south
ern coast and in the district of colum
bia, and shall fully separate and purify
the people of the free states from the
contagion of slavery then, sir, our
children will rise up and call them
blessed.” but if they extend slavery
—if they admit more slave states to
this union—if they continue the slave
trade upon our southern coast and in
the district of columbia—if they con
tinue to legislate in favor of slavery in
the states then retributive justice
awaits them. they will doubtless se
cure to themselves the loaves and
fishes” of office for the time being; but
the deep stain of their crime will be
rendered more distinct by the increas
ing light now brought to bear upon the
act 9 of public men. think not that the
supporters of slavery can hide their
public doings amid the obscurity of past
years. a new era has dawned upon
our country. the people of the free
states are beginning to awake to the
protection of their rights. their con
centrated scrutiny is directed to the
votes and acts of our public men, and
those who now serve nder northern
rights at the bidding of the slave pow
er, cannot escape merited retribution.
from the ohio bugle, g|
‘the young abolitionists.*
marlboro,' nor. 12, 1848.
to the readers of the bugle
dear friends, —before me is a work
entitled the young abolitionists, or.
conversations on slavery;’ by j.
elizabeth jones. it is just from the
anti-slavery press of boston. 1 have
read this little book with great profit
and satisfaction. the principles,
practices and spirit of american slave
ry are brought out in it clearly and dis
tinctly, and to the comprehension of
the class of readers for whose benefit
it was designed. it was written for
children; and the child who begins to
read it will not be likely to lay it aside
till it is read through. it is in the form
of dialogue, and the conversation in
carried on with spirit and animation.
the author has contrived to impart in
struction to children on the most radical
and only true principles of anti-slavery.
i see not how any child can read that
book or hear it read, and not receive
lasting benefit.
the writer has done a good work for
anti-slavery. she has struck a blow
for freedom in the right place. if the
children of ohio could get at that book,
and read it, and imbibe its spirit, it
would matter but little what constitu
tions or laws were made to uphold the
system of fraud and violence. slavery
would be dead in the state, and noth
ing could keep it alive. one effort
made with children, tells more power
fully against slavery than ten made
with adults. children are bora aboli
tionists; this work is designed to keep
them so, and to prevent them from im
bibing the spirit of violence and op
pressien that is so rife arouod them in
this land of boasted liberty. the facts
and illustrations embodied in the
young abolitionists,' are pertinent end
forcible, and peculiarly fitted to make a
deep aod abiding impression on the
hearts of children in favor of human
liberty. it would greatly benefit the
righteous cause of anti-slavery, and
help to hasten the day of the slave's
redemption, if the abolitionists of this
state and of the country would take
measures to get that book into general
circulation.
1 would say tor the information of
abolitionists, that the young aboli
tionists, is bound in two kinds of biad-
mg owe is 20 cents per copy, reteil
price; the ether, 30 cents. it may be
bad at the office of the anti-slavery
bogle, in salem.
henry c. wright
a hist ut time.—doe day a trav
elier met the plague going cairo,
roptiod, “i killed but 3,000,
sard* the rest.” the moral is good
tbs first tone we had the cholera in this
s?.fc~hfflsd moay—tke ascend time
there was lass fear, and fewer deaths.
—jr. r. fer.
forty pounds of california gold are deposited in a new york bank. 
the annual meeting of the massachusetts anti-slavery society will be hew in boston,
on wednesday, january 24th, commencing
at 10 o’clock, a. m., ahd will probably con
tinue in ao—ion the two succeeding days.
the signs of the times ere no auspicious for
the friend* of emancipation, that a large and
spirited attendance on their pan is confidently
expected. such are the facilities of railroad
conveyance, every part of the commonwealth
ought to be well represented. we cordially
invite our friends, beyond the limits of mas
sachusetts, to be with us on the approaching
anniversary. the slave power is beginning
to falter—fresh adherents are daily rallying
around the standard of liberty—and the cr
•of‘no union with slave-hold
ess’ ts causing the knees of the oppressor v
tremble. we must press onward until ou
work is accomplished, the slave liberated fror
his chains, and the land purged from its stain
of pollution and blood.
francis jackson, present.
edmund quincy, secretary.
western new york anti-slavery society.
the executive committee will meet on
tuesday evening next, jan. 53, at the anti-
slavery office, 25, buffalo street.
attendance ia requested at half past 7
o'clock precisely.
w. c. nell, rec. sec
notice to the public and instructions to
postmasters.
i. a postal treaty has been entered into
between creat britain and united states,
placing the correspondence between the two
countries, the mail packets of each govern
ment, and the postal charges upon equal and
reciprocal footing.
11. letters posted or charged in the united
states will be rated at a half ounce to the
single letter, over a half and not exceeding an
ounce as a double letter, over an ounce and
not exceeding an ounce and a half as a treble
letter, and so on, each half ounce or fractional
excess constituting a rate. in england the
half ounce limits the single letter, the full
ounce the double letter, but on letters ex
ceeding the ounce, and not exceeding two
ounces four rates are charged; also on letters
exceeding two ounces and not exceeding
three ounces, six rates are charged that is,
two rates are imposed for each excess over an
ounce.
111. the single rate to be charged on each,
letter posted in the united states addressed
to any place in great britain or ireland is 24
cents, the double rate 48 cents, the teble rate
72 cents, and so on according to the united
states scale of progression in weight.—see
no. 8.
iv. like single, double, tbele, &e. rates
will be collected on each letter according to
its weight, which is posted in great britain i
or ireland wihont being prepaid, and is re- j
eeived at any office in the united states for j
delivery.
v. said postage on letters going to any
place in great britain or ireland may be pie-!
paid, if the whole amount is tendered at the
office in the united states, when mailed, at
the option of the sender.
vi. ’newspapers may be mailed at any
office in the united states to any place in the
united kingdom on the payment of two cents,
and may, on receipt from any place in great
britain or ireland, be delivered at any office
in the united states on payment of two cents.
note—each government is to charge 2 cents
on each newspaper. these are to be sent in
bands or cavers, open at the sides and ends,
and to contain no manuscript whatever.
vii. on each pamphlet received therefrom,
there is to be prepaid in the first place, and
charged and collected id the second, one cent
for each ounce in weight, or a fractional ex
cess of an ounce. these are to be sent in
bands or covers, open at the ends or sides, so
as readily to be examined, and to contain no
manusciipt whatever.
viii. on letters addressed to any place in
british north america, not to be conveyed
by sea, there shall be charged a postage
equal to the united states postage, and the
province postage combined but, as this de
partment is notfinformed of the british prov
ince rates, the united states postage to the
lines will be charged, and prepayment thereof
required, until the details are ascertained and
settled, as required by the 21st article of the
treaty. united states postage on news
papers to canada and other british provin
ces is to be prepaid.
ix. on letters to be sent to any foreign
country or british possession, and mailed for
that purpose to any past office in the island
of great britain, there must be prepaid, if
aent by a british packet, 5 cents the single
rate, and if by an american packet, 21 cents
—to be doubled, trebled, &c. according to
weight.
x. on letters received from foreign coun
tries or english possessions, through the lon
don or any other post office in great britain,
to be delivered in the united states, the for
eign and british postage is to be prepaid, and
what remains is to be collected on delivery
liete in such cases is simply the united states
postage —5 cents, single, if brought by an
american packet; 40 cents if such tetters are
delivered at san francisco, astoria, or any
other place in the territory of the united
states on the pacific, when brought to an
atlantic port by a british steamship, and 56
cento if brought by an american steamship.
xl on british or foreign letters received
in the united slates to be forwarded to the
west indies by american packets, or any
place on the gulf of mexico, to chagres or
panama, in the united states mails, the sin
gle postage charge will be (as the british
postage and the postage arising in its transit
to great britain most be prepaid) 12 1-2 cento
if to havana, 20 cents if to any other place in
the v\ eat indies or on the gulf of mexico, oi
to chagres 30 cents if to panama, with 16
cento added if brought to the united states
fiom great britain in an american packet.
xii. care is to be taken to see that all
american postage on letters from havana,
from other places m the gulf of mexico,
from our pacific possessions, and from the
british north american provinces, i* in
the united slates before the same rsdis
patehed by mail to great britain.
xiii. newspapers for countries bevond
great britain may be sent on the prepayment
of two cents each—also pamphlet* as stipu
lated under no. 7—and newspapers and pam
phlets received from oouutries beyond great
britain are to be delivered on the payment of
two cento for each newspaper, and one cent
per ounce rn weight of each pamphlet.
xiv. postmasters are cautioned to write
on their post-pills, opposite each entry of a
foreign letter, newspaper or pamphlet posted
by them respectively, the word “foreign,” the
better to enable the postmasters of new-york
end boston, and any others that may be des
ignated, to make a separate quarterly report
of the amount of foreign postage.
xv. the postmasters of boston sod new
york will be specially instructed as to tho
closed mails contemplated by the treaty, the
mode of keeping their accounta of foreign
postage, and that of mailing and acknowl
edging redpu of foreign matter.
c. johnson postmaster geneva!
post office department january 8, 1*49.
a model message. gov. williams come
prises all he has to say to the new hawi»hu»
legislature in a short new»p*per column
confining himself entirely to sute affair#
cnffshpi—vsu of the tribe—
prsrwilf at vaihkgtsi.
washington, monday, jan. 8.
senate—mr. hale unseated a memorial
abolition of slavery sod the
slave tnde, wherever the general govern
twnt had junsdtctioa, and moved its inference
to committee, with itwtroctwns to report a
bill in accordance with the prayer of the
petitioners, as far as related to the district of
'olumbu.
mr. king moved to lay the question of the
reception of the petition on the table.
<i r hale contended that mr. king was out
001 h,tio 8 yielded the hour.
mr. tfceateott maintained that mr. king’s
morion was always in order.
the chau so decided, and the motion to
lay oo the table was earned. 25 ayes, 16
noes, as follows:
yeas —atchison, atherton, bell, benton.
berrian, borland, butler, clayton, davis of
min. dickinson, downs, fitzgerald, fitx-
houston, hunter, johnson
of la. king, metcalfe, pearce, rusk, stur
geon, turney, uunderwood, westrott—2s.
nats —allen, baldwin, bradbury, bright,
cameron, corwin, dayton, dix, fetch, hale,
hamlin, miller, niles, spruance. upham,
walker—l 6.
the northern men voting aye are ather
ton, dickinson, fitigerald and sturgeon.
1 mr. corwin presented a remonstrance,
against the extension of slavery to territories
now free, which was laid on the table a* above,
without a division.
house or representatives.
the speaker said if would be remembered
that on saturday the vote on the bill for the
relief of antonio pacheco was announced as
ayes 90, noes 89. xh* 1 chair was about
giving his reasons for voting, when he was
interrupted by the clerk, who informed liim
that on a re-count he discovered the vote stood
91 ayes, 89 noes. the chair then annouced
the bill to be passed. on a more careful re
examination of the vote, however, it was
j fouud that an error still existed and the vote
was 89 ayes, hu noe*>. if therefore there
were no farther correction of the journal to
be made, tue chair would proceed to vote.
mr. j. w. farrelly of pa. here inquired
if his vote was recorded.
clerk replied in the negative.
mr. f.—l voter! in the negative,
j the speaker.—lt is the gentleman’s right
to have his vote recorded.
mr. houston of ala. asked to have the
yeas and nays read over by the clerk, and
general consent being given they were read.
sir. pettit asked if a motion to reconsider
was in order.
i mr. c. j. ingersoll said he was not quite
i sure whether lie was in the house on saturday
in time to vote. he knew' he came in as the
vote was being called, for he stopped to ask
what the question was. if however—
the speaker.—lf the gentlemen dij not
1 vote on saturday it is evident he cannot vote
now.
the speaker then called on the clerk to
announce the vote, which he did, as ses 89,
ndfes 90.—the speaker than said the house
would perceive there was no necessity for the
(.’hair to vote, as jib vote could not affect the
result.
some conversation took place between sun
dry members, the house appearing to be in
a very undecided state as to what should lie
done, when
mr. sawyer resolved the diffiuclty, by mov
inga re-consideration of the vote.
the speaker then announced that the bill
being a private one the motion to reconsider
must go over until friday, the next private
bill day.
mr. meade of va. moved a suspension of
the rules to enable the following resolution to
be considered:
whereas, it is the duty of the congress of
the united slates to enact all laws necessary
to enforce such provisions of the constitution
as were intended to protect the citizens of the
several slates in their rights of property; and
past experience has proved that laws should
be passed by congress to enforce the 2d sec,
j of the 4th art. of the constitution, which
requires that persons held to labor in one
state, escaping into another, shall be delivered
up on claim of the party to whom such labor
may be due, therefore.
resolved, that the committee on the
judiciary is hereby instructed to report a bill
to this house, providing effectually for the
apprehension and delivery of fugitives from
labor who have escaped, or may hereafter es
cape, from one state into another.
the vote was taken by ayes and noes, re
j suiting—ayes 78, noes 100
i two-ilurds not voting in the affirmative,
the rules were not suspended.
washington, tuesday, jan. 9.
i senate —the senate was late in orgaitiz
ing, and when 12 o’clock had arrived, there
were but ten members present; finally the
vice-president took his seat and called to
order.
petitions.
mi. underwood offered a petition asking an
appropriation on the part of government to
remove the free*colored population to liberia
or to some place beyond the jurisdiction of the
united states. he then moved that the pe
tition be received and referred to the judiciary
committee w ith instructions to inquire whe
ther congress possesses power under the
constitution to make such an appropriation;
and if so, whether it is expedient to exercise
it.
mr. hale moved to lay the question of re
ception on the table, on which motion the
yeas and nays were ordered, and decided m
the negative by yeas 10 nays 35.
mr. dayton moved to postpone the subject
until tomorrow, which was carried.
the admission of clifornia as a state.
mr. berrien, chairman of the committee
on the judiciary to whom had been relerred
the bill for admitting the territory of califor
nia into the union as a state, made a long
and able adverse report.
mr. masou of va. said that tlie great im
portance of this subject to the people, and
indeed to the whole country, required that the
report should be widely circulated. he there
fore moved that 10,000 extra copies of the
same be printed.
mr. douglass spoke at lengih in reply to
the arguments ot the report. he contended
that recent events would speedily supply suf
ficient population to justify the application of
california for admission as a state, and con
cluded by defending the bill against the objec
tions of the committee.
the committee report makes three objec
tions to the bill; first, that it is unpreced
ented second, that it is uncotiiilituuoaa];
third, that it is inexpedient to admit a terri
tory as a stale before some previously organ
ized government existed. beside it would be
unconstitutional to divide a stale after it had
been once admitted. when it became a
state its division would be beyond the con
trol of congress.
mr. s. downs said that lie was in a min
ority of one ou the commuter, w ho dissented
from the majority on some points of the re
port. he did not see the report until this
morning, and had not had time to make a
counter report. he staled, however, that be
would do so at a future time. he thought
the bill might have been modified.
mr. butler replied to the iitumauon that
i the committee }had reported without a full
consideration. no subject had ever been
considered with pester deliberation, or mote
fully investigated m committee. every fa
cility bad been afforded the friends of tbe bill,
*»d others interested in its merits, to be
beard.
mr. foote said that be was in favor of
printing a large number of extra copies of tbe
report. the subject was one of great magm
tnde to tbe country, and though he did not
approve of all tbe dortnoes of the report, yet
be was ia favor of its being widely emulated
among (be people.
mr. borneo, as tbe author of tbe report,
gave a sutemoot of tbe proceedings u the
committee in order to show that all oppor
tunities for a full and free conaoluooa ware
offered to tbe advanttes of the bill. he west
tbe potato in tbe report which
bad been wailed.
r weffieott said that he concurred fuffy
in the report; there crimed oo power
congress, under the constitution, to creole
state.
mr. dayton said that be was peculiarly
situated.—-that be was tbe only northern
member or tbe committer, hot that be nob
scribed to the main doctrine set forth, and
concurred with the report that it was not
constitutional nor expedient to admit california
at the present time as a state'.
hereupon the usual number of copies of
the report for the one of the seam were
ordered to be printed. for tbe present tbe
farther consideration of tbe subject was then
poepooed.
new-york legislature naff slavery.
the legislature of new-yoik, (says the
evanglist) among its first business, passed a
series of joint resolutions on the subject of
slavery, which defines the posit mm of the em
pin? state in this momentous issue in tbe nast
satisfactory manner. the resolutions met
with some feeble opposition, but scarcely
enough to detract from their chaaacter <2
unanimity. it baa now become as unpopular
to appear as tbe advocate or apologist ot
bfavery, as it wasa few years ago to express
hostility to it. times are changed indeed;
and now that the hateful institution, in favor
of which not one word of apology ever could
be urged, is on a down-hill progress, it will
soon not hare a friend left. tbe resolutions
are as follow g
whereas the people of mew-xexico, have
petitioned congress for the establishment of
a territorial government, which shall protect
them against the institution of domestic slave
ry. while they remain a territory of the united
1 slates, and have also petitioned cougress for
protection against tho unfounded claims of the
state of texas to a large portion of their
territory lying east of the rio grande and
whereas it would be unjust to the people of
new-mexieo, ami revolting to the spirit ol
the age, to permit domestic slavery, an in
stitution from which they are now free, to be
introduced among them and whereas since
the acquisition of new-mexico and california
by the united slates, the people thereof have
a right to the prelection of the general
government, and should lie secured in the
full possession and enjoyment of the new ter
ritory therefore.
resolved, (if the assembly concur,) that
our senators in congress be instructed, and!
our representatives be requested to use their
best efforts to procure the passage of laws for
the establishment of governments for the ter
ritories acquired by the late treaty of peace
with mexico, and that hy such laws, invo
luntary servitude, except for crime, be excluded
front such territory.
resolved, (if the assembly concur) that
the territory lying between the nueces and
the rio grande, and that portion of new
mexico lying east of the rio grande, are the
common property of the united states, and
that our senators and representatives in con
gress, lie requested to use their bent efforts to
preserve the same as such common property,
and protect it from the unfounded claims ot
the state of texas, and prohibit the extension
over it of the laws of texas or the institution
of domestic slavery.
resolved, (if the assembly concur.) that
the existence of prisons for the confinement
and marts for the tale of slaves, at the seal
of the national government, is viewed by this
legislature w ith deep regret and mortification;
that such prisons and marts ought forthwith
to be abolished.
resolved, (if the assembly concur,) that
our senators and representatives in congress
be requested to use their strenuous efforts to
procure the passage of a law that shall pro
tect slaves from unjust imprisonment, and
i shall effectually put an end to the slave-trade
in the district of colombia.
the north star.
rochester, january 19, 1849.
a few words to our own people.
all 'people are ours, and we are theirs—
members of a common family, with a common
destiny. in the sight of the most high and
bis immutable attributes, we stand upon a
common and equal footing. with him, there
is neither jew nor gentile, barbarian nor
scythian. he is no respecter of persons,
j and hatli made of one blood all nations for to
j dwell upon all the face of the earth. in what,
then, some may ask, consists the propriety of
using a caption which implies upon the face
of it a denial of this doctrine the question
is a fair one, and deserves an answer,
j without admitting that the caption in
question necessarily carries upon its face the
.alleged implication, we answer, that by the
i force of potent circumstances, now in exist
ence, and which for ages have existed, the
colored people of this country are compelled
to occupy a distinct and peculiar condition,
and that it is therefore right and proper to
address them especially and specifically with
respect to that condition, and the rights, duties
and responsibilities which of necessity attach
to that condition.
though in the broad sight of a righteous
god, we stand upon a common level of broth
erhood with the rest of mankind, and are
naturally and aelf-evidently entitled to all the
rights, privileges and immunities common to
every member of that family, we are never
theless regarded and treated not only as dis
tinct from, but as inferior to all others. in
oar case, vice and virtue are often treated
with equal disfavor by our oppieasors; and in
some cases a premium is paid to vice, and
virtue is placed under the ban of malignant
i proscription. in many of the northern states
jof the union, a low, idle, vicious white
stands higher in the social and political scale
of society, than the moat refined and virtuous
i colored man can do. in the states of ohio,
1 indiana, and the whole south; the word of
any white* villain will be taken to evidence
against us, a hile that of the most respectable
and upright colored man would be rejected if
in onr oura favor. wherever we go, and in
whichatef dpection we turn, we find that we
are regarded as a doomed and distinct people,
and unsuited to the society and of
our whit# fellow-countrymen. let us ap
proach the halls of science and leamu* —we
arc spuiqed; advance towards the praod tem
ple dedicated to the worship of oar father,
almighty god, and we are proscribed—essay
to travel by ma or land, lake or river, and in
what p*t of this slavery -cursed lead do we
find our manhood admitted or respected*—
thus cam out from among the met of maa>
i kind, ithseomes us to look around and ascer
tain iwne be any means within oar reach
with which we may improve our eaodilmm,
regain ua* to* ngbti, and ascend to the de
rated stall* is the male of being far which
i we warn evidently dmigmuf by a haedfeeat
creator. u inimpemihs to thmb ear eeadi
lioa peat improvement. we emmet, ought
not, and mm not settle down trader the mm
■nfijpnpir idee, that we have attained all that
is attainable fm at in this country, end that
our condition is a hopeless one. it would he
to —euro the arwae rote*
motet with purtafey, fo uampm that wfcte
the rote of mankind are steadily awl rapidly
advancing in um arts and i rimer*, and the
■any of dvflinatioo, we only are
.1] gf mtfltwg ou condition.
hence to deny that wc have the mesne, u> a
large degree, of oer own elevation and im
provement m our hands. tbe man among «*a
who is looking out of oomdves for ocr im
provement, ia looking in foe wrong direction,
and ia mttmg n hay example, which, if ex
tensrdy followed, most aink os below ou
present degraded condition. if tbe whites
advance and we stand stfll, the distance which
now separates us mutt beeome a gulf— and it
may be an impassable gulf.
already are ou eoemies gravely speculat
ing upon our final extinction, aod even ven
turing upon the probable time it will take to
blot us out from the face of this nation. this
argument has been adduced by a distinguished
free soil man, as s reason for opposing tbe
extension of slavery. regarding ou exten
sion as a desirable end, and believing the
extension of slavery to be unfavorable to this
result, inasmuch as, by the inevitable laws of
population, it must increase in proportion to
the augmentation, sod decrease according to
tbe decrease of tbe means of living. yes,
we say that our enemies are gravely and
boldly speculating upon the final extinction of
the colored people of this country. they say
that both the indian and the african must
perish beneath the car of the advancing civili
zation of america. to this end, we relieve,
the hon. mr. hannegan, of indiana, pre
sented petitions the othet day in the senate
of the united slates, asking for grants of
lands in new mexico to be colonized and set
tled by free colored people. this we take to
l<e another cunning scheme of our oppressors.
once get the free colored man confined in any
one territory or locality —let us once be se
parated from ihe white people of this country,
and we shall become the mere game of ame
rican trappers and other adventurers, and
there is no recson to believe that our fate will
be in any respect better than the noble semi
nole* and other indians who have perished by
the perfidy and rapacity of the proud anglo-
saxon race. it is certain that there can be
no good accomplished by emigration, unless
we go beyond the musket shot of white ame
rican adventurers. there is nothing tq be
gained by such emigration, but almost certain
extinction. in a land like this, and in the
circumstances by which we are surrounded,
we have no better advice to give than this—
stick hy the ship”—stand to your post.—
we can live where other men live, and must
die if we place ourselves where other men
have died. nothing seems more evident to
us, than that our destiny is sealed up with
that of the white people ol this country, and
we believe that we must fall our flourish with
them. we must banish all thoughts of emi
gration from our minds, and resolve to stay
just where we are—not in towns and cities
merely, but among white people, and avail
ourselves of the civilization of america, in
the very centre of its existence, and never
think of trusting ourselves on its outer bor
ders, where it ceases to be civilization, and
becomes savage barbarism. it is said that we
cannot prosper in a cold climate. there is no
truth in the proposition. we can become
acclimated just where any other members ol
the human family can be acclimated, and can
live as well and long as any others. the
idea that we cannot, is a miserable pretence,
got up to afford a pretext for getting us oul
ol this country. we can live on the hanks ol
the penobscot as on the sabine, and do live
there. let us not, therefore, be gulled into
the notion that this climate is unfavorable to
our development and progress. there are
other modes of improving our condition at
hand. we need not look beyond the limits ol
the northern stales for every facility which
we need for our improvement and elevation.
education, that grand lever for improvement,
is to a large degree within our reach. trades
are not entirely closed against us. public
opinion has at last granted to us the right ol
speech. we can now speak of our wrongs
boldly and fearlessly. we have had numer
ous concessions from high sources, that we
are capable of tbe very highest attainments.
we have three newspapers in the hands of
our own people, as well as a large number of
churches and societies for moral and benevo
lent purposes. are we to turn our backs upon
these, and wander away, to become the game
of american sportsmen we hope not; and
feel assured that we slrxll not, notwithstand
ing all the effbite that may be made in high
places to induce us to do so. cdme, friends
and brethren, let us unite firmly to do all that
in us lies to improve our condition, where we
are. let us sustain our press, and keep our
men in tbe field whose voices are never up
lifted in our cause in vain. let us not run
from prejudice snd hardships, but meet and
overcome them. let ns keep pace with tbe
wheels of american civilization, as the best
means within our reach to prevent ns from
being crushed by it. let us live savingly,
that we may educate our children, snd place
them in favorable circumstances for maintain
ing an honorable position in society. banish
forever the withering heresy that our condition
here is as good as we can make it, and as
good as it ever will be. sach thoughts
•hould never find a lodgment in our bosoms.
they will do for the mean coward, mod the
mteerable sluggard, but must never be toler
•ted for a moment among men and women
situated as we are.
let ss thro be ap and doing,
with a heart for say foe,f
ia the full that kis nobler to die
n *bfliag rgaiaet the advene currents, than
to five inuring idly and listlessly down to mev
itobie destruction.—r. a.
k rrr op h. h. gum.—ln another
rolumn will be found an interesting and stir
fetter feom this distinguished laborer m
c *nmof improvement and elevation of our
p®°pfe- the picture which he draws of the
and religions debasement of the colored
wk western now york, may be
*fe»»ht nntineand dmterted, bat we think it
fe®«w»hly eoneet, and we long to see seam
■■da and generally united in, fbr re
the idea af bolding a eosveatioa
f°od one, and wa hope it wih he earned
into efieet. we however that the new
abould net he sailed a christian
ceovamiae." a maeaaiion eempeasd of
christians woal#fiul te reach the very
dmrn «|i il 0 the mart deurable to alfeet,
mi wool* undoubtedly be ft ■n*ll i* l
there be m conveatioo behffoi the improve
ment of oar people, bat let i> be wpneed fll
—r. d.
the north mar fair, philadelphia
it ghree os pleasure to leant that the ladies
active in this effort to sustain the north star,
encouraged by the success which attended this
their first attempt, have resolved in real good
earaest to commence at once to prepare for
another fair, to be held daring the next
christmas week. this prompt and spirited
movement in the cause of oar common im
provement, is deserving of great praise, and
we hail it as the commencement of efforts of
the same description m other sections of the
eoonlry. we believe it was the first fair ever
held in this country by colored ladies, to sus
tain a press under the sole management of
persons of their own complexion. we take
it as an evidence that, whatever others may
think of the expediency of establishing such a
paper as we have tried to make the north
star, the oppresaed themselves feel the value
of it.
we have not yet received an official account
of the receipts of this effort, but have learned
from one of its active members that it amount
ed to two hundred dollars over all expenses.
this, considering the shortness of time during
which the ladies had to prepare, is a large
sum, aud reflects well upon the industry and
perseverance of the ladies engaged in it.
we hope soon to have the usual appeal for
’assistance to the next fair, with the names of
the ladies attached to it, to be published in the
north star. the example of philadelphia
ought to be extensively copied. cincinnati,
pittsburgh and detroit, should at once com
meuce, and share with philadelphia the sup
port of a paper, the existence of which is a
common blessing to us all.—f d.
henry bibb.—this eloquent anti-slavery
lecturer, whose efforts in exposing the wrongs
of the slave and vindicating his rights, have
won for him a large share of respect and
esteem, is uow making a tour east, and will,
during his tour, act as agent for the north
star. it gives us all the more pleasure to
make this announcement, since it shows that
while mr. bibb differs from us on several im
portant points, he nevertheless looks upon the
north star as doing so much to raise our peo
ple from the degradation to which they have
been long subjected, that he deems it his duty
to labor to sustain it. we would that others
would do likewise.—f. d.
gerrit smith, with his characteristic be
nevolence, has kindly sent us his check for ten
dollars, to aid john white, the fugitive slave
of whom we spoke in last week’s north star.
this leaves the sum of thirty dollars remain
ing to be paid to complete the ransom of this
brother bondman. we will gladly belheme
dium of other sums for this truly deserving
man.—f. d.
j. w. c. pennington will shortly leave
new york, on a tour through the west in
dies, and perhaps england. he will act as
agent for the north star, and otherwise serve
the cause of our oppressed and disfranchised
people, during his stay in those countries.—
mr. pennington is a presbyterian rftinister, a
devoted friend to the slave, and an active man
in all the efforts to improve and elevate the
character of the colored people of this country.
we bid him god-speed in his mission of mercy.
—f. d.
donation meeting. —on tuesday eve
ning, jan. 9th, a meeting was held at the 2d
baptist church, buffalo, for the purpose of
receiving a presentation from the daughters
of zion. the meeting was called to order by
the rev. harris hawkins; after which an
address was delivered by henry bibb, of de
troit, on the subject of american slavery. a
resolution thanking mr. bibb for his able ad
dress, was unanimously adopted.
the liberator
the following is mi. garrison’s address to
the public at the commencement of a new vol
ume. may it meet with an immediate and
hearty response, in a greatly increased sub
scription list:
we begin our nineteenth volume with a
new typographical dress—with the wannest
congratulations of the season to our beloved
friends and patrons—with a spirit as elastic
as we felt at the commencement of our anti
slavery labors—and with a determination to
make the liberator the enlightened, faithful
and intrepid advocate of liberty, peace,
universal brotherhood. commencing the
paper without a subscriber, and almost with
out a friend, —having no other bank to draw'
upon than the bane ok faith, —for eighteen 1
years we have struggled against a tide of op
position and under a load of obloquy, dimply;
for demanding the immediate liberation of our*
fettered countrymen, such as few have been,
called to stem or bear in any age or country.
at no time have we beeu sustained by *ny 1
responsible body, for the means to carry on
our operations. our subscription list i» all
we have to rely upon for subsistence, except
ing such incidental aid as may be voluntarily'
extended to us through sympathy and friend
ship. that list has always been tmidrqotle
to cover th€ necessary expense* of the pan-r,
even if every subscriber had been fiuibtui to
its terns; but. in common with other ue ws-1
paper establishment*, we have suifered prions
losses from the want of integrity or attention;
on the part of many calling themselves oer
‘patrons.’
we need a eonsidetahle augmentation of
good paying suwnhen; and the commence- j
mentof a new volume is a favorable time for
those who fed a special mterest m the per
manence of the liberator, to exert them
selves with a will' to effect this dn*rablri
purpose. it does not look like a tbrroidabfo
task for every one of our present subscriber*
to procure the name of another one to be*
added to oer list. if this were done, we!
should be delivered from maov depressing eeo- j
harraasroents, and enahfed io pci»«m«e oorj
work with for greater efficiency but will:
it be done we trust that at least an effort
will be made to doit, and we cannot doubt
that h will be made soewnfuny.
arrest or fugitive slays*. —ln the v
york legislature on tuesday hih ms*. mr.
treadwell introduced g uii for ihn foiibt*
protection of personal liberty. the hill pro
pones to prohibit any officer j>r jndf in the
state aiding in the arrent of fugitive staves.
amthclavcrv orimioji at t»* sot tu.
a recent nurai*?r of itn» "w
iwer, in an article upou 'laamignutm »uu
r»e ale line," earn: “two baadrad aod fifty
thousand mo caoootalwaye bold in eenrite
bondage three mil hone of human
hetage. the etevauoa of the race nay ha
retarded in in pragma* by the obeunacy aad
nuaukea ealfiahaea of the fcw who land 4
over the many, but the urwmpb of tight and
jtuftiee over wrong aad injustice, b eertaiu at
the ead.”
cast account a f the wester* new
york litf fßfittry society for the
year im«;
o*. f
jam. *.—do—lions 4x*a s—dry per****
paid to treasurer *140,19
du— tins, paid to ottce af— l* hn
cash for goods sold is 'ofhce 59,29
collected by lectarisg agent* 97.02
“at nettings in rochester sjo
from ladies’society 153,50
*a band of oftre agent 4.32
hand of treasurer 4j»
*547,78
dr.
j*r. 1. —cadi due to treasurer trout
old acem— 5,49
rent and sundry expenses in oftre 177,04
saiarie* to oflke agents 125,59
lecturing agents 300,00
travelling and other expenses of do. 45,74
*054,48
receipts brought down 547,76
t balance due *106.70
e. p. willis,).
jour dice,
treasurer's report of the ladies' aati-
slavery society fro— job. ist, 194*, to
jaa. bth, 1849:
cr.
jar. 1*1948.—8a1. iu treasury 29,15
rec’d admission fees, contributions, jte. 7,62
goods sold, ac. 1-1,13
dec. 2s.—rec’d proceeds rochester fair 355.53
from friends in england per carlisle box 14,52
jar. s,lb4o.—proceeds henrietta fair 40,69
*455,64
dr.
march i.—contributed to anti-slavery
other 18,00
paid directresses, at sundry times, for the
purcliase of materials 26,90
paid freight and duty on goods from europe 55,16
advertising fair, ac. 10,00
use of concert hall c»r fair and
meetings 45,00
paid sundry small bills 19.24
contribution to north star *5o inn 00
25 nos. n. star, circulated, 50
agent on ace. w. n. y. a. s. s. 69,50
agent anti-slavery office 66,00
jar. 8,1849. —balance remaining in die
treasury 45,84
*455,64
mary h. hullo will, treasurer.
march 1
british views on colonization.
from die anti-slavery reporter.
we peiceive that the british oovernmem
have recogmral the independence of liberia
this smalfispublic is composed of liberatec
american slaves and free people of color
who were sent thither by the american i‘olp
nization society. to these has been added s
numerous body of natives, the total popula
tion being estimated at 85,000. this society
was founded in 1816, and whatever migh
have been the motives of those with whom i
originated, it has been used by slave-holder
for the most hateful purposes, and has prove*
a formidable hindrance to the cause of aboli
tion in the united states. it is based on thi
supposition that black and colored men ough
not to be admitted to citizenship in the unite<
states, that their proper home is africa, am
that it is patriotic in american citizens to sem
them there. it adopts, however, the languagi
of philanthropy and religion in the prosecutioi
of its objects, and by that means, manages t<
impose on many good-natured people.
the estimation in which the beneficiaria
of the society are held, may be gathered fron
the manner in which they are described bj
some of its oldest and most distinguished sup
porters. one of these says free black*
are a greater nuisance than even slaves them
selves.” another describes them as a
horde of miserable people—the objects of
universal suspicion.” another declares them
to be “of all classes of our populatibn, the
most vicious—-contaminated themselves, they
extend their vices to all around them.” ano
ther, ah a large mass of human beings,
who hang as a vile excrescence upon society.”
another says, “they are a curse and a
contagion wherever they reside.” otheie
say they are an anomalous race of beings,
the most depraved upon earth”—” a mildew
upon our fields, a scourge to our backs, and
a stain upon our escutcheon” notoriously
ignorant degraded and miserable, mentally dis
eased, broken-spirited, acted upon by no mo
tives to honourable exertions, scarcely reached
in their debasement by the heavenly light.”
to draw off this black blood,” as one ex
presses it, is an object of this society but
j the great motive for doing so becomes con
-1 spicuous in the course of its proceedings,
namely, adeeprooted and unchristian prejudice
against a people, many of whom were living
evidences of the wickedness of the white
population, and all of whom had been the
victims of the most cruel oppression. one
proof of this prejudice, or rather hatred, we
shall give from the fifteenth report of the
society. it says: “the managers con
sider it clear lint causes exist and are now
operating to prevent their improvement and
elevation to any considerable extent, as s
class, in this country, which are fixed not
only beyond the control of the friends of hu
manity, but of any human power. chris
tianity cannot do for them here what it will
do for them in africa. this is not the fault
of the colored mao, but an ordinance of provi
dence,’ and no more to be changed than the
laws cf nature.” this lying blasphemy
ever; good man will repudiate with indigna
tion. we must not, however, permit our
indignation to interfere with oar duty to the
victims of a cruel and beanie— prejudice;
and therefore, whilst we continue to abhor the
american colonization society and its doings,
we feel no indisposition to aid oar colored
brethren in liberia; on the contrary, we
would expre— the hope that they may pros
per, and become the means of introducing
the blewings of freedom, civilisation, and
religion, among many nations in africa.
we have no means of ascertaining the
exact number of colored and black peiaoos,
who have been transported from the united
slates u» africa it has not, however, been
large; but we have great reason to fear, that
the monthly connected with their removal
has been dreadful, the privatum of the people
immense, and their ptogit— slow.
we sincerely trust that the provisions mj
scried in their laws against slavery and the
slave-trade, will be rigorously enforced and
that their reblioos with the oaiive population
will he honourable to themselves. should
that happily be the case, they will not want
friends to this country to sympathize with,
and help them. but, without expressing
want of confidence in those who, at present,
manage the afihtis of liberia, we warn the—
that a sharp look-oat will be kept a poo thei
proceedings, and that they must not expect
the philanthropists in this country, either
directly ok indirectly, to play the game of the
awaonaoim da-* s (ls—oiw
menemn vomunijoo soewy.
slajw carrs asd.—advrees foam the coast
of afoot to the 17th ef july state that her
msjpsty'a mvmmm gtappler.(na her passage
from fernando to the south enact, captured
on the 14th july the brigantine sapphics, folly
equipped for the slave trade; and on um 26th,
two hours after leaving the congo, tf point
pediuo, another beautiful vessel, the fefcat
date (i7ff tone) with 370 skuas set hand,
four of which wees foil sussefo, hating eg
tbe cholera has disappeared ftun the quar
antine station at staten island, new york.
tfiommunuations.
daw* mills, canada wist,
jan. 6th, 1649.
i am no pugilist' but on the contrary,
much of a non-resistant, that it is with ex
tieme reluctance that i erer wield a weapon
even ia selmefeoc*. i noticed ut the north
star of the 29d uh., a letter from wm. p.
newman, from the nature and spirit of which
he appears to base been much excited by a
letter of mine published in tho liberator, and
oopied from that into your paper. 1 bate r«o
compunctions of conscience about the md
letter, and am prepared to reaffirm every
word of it. mr. newman begins with saw
ing, it reminds him of certain resolutions
published in the oberlin evangelist of oct.
13th, 1847, over the signature of hamilton
hill, untruer and blacker than which no reso
lutions were ever cooeocted out of hades.
why my unoffending letter, which certainly
infringed upon no one, should have ‘‘reminded
him of certain resolutions published in ober
lin” more than s year before, 1 am unable to
see, as there ia no apparent affinity between
them. my letter said nothing about mr.
newman. it made no allusion to any resolu
tions concerning him, either good or had and
i cannot understand his straining and far
fetching to introduce irrelcvai t matters, unless
it was to show his skill in making a magi.am
dash at one against whom he had some private
antipathy. hamilton hill is able to defend
himself, and will doubtlessly do so when an
attack upon him has any claims to manliness
he is a noble-minded englishman, of sterling
worth, in whose honesty, integrity, and pli
lanlhropy, the people of oberlin, and all true
friends of oberlin, have the fullest confidence.
as indicated by the responsible office of treas
urer, which he has held there for eight or
nine years. a truer friend of the oppressed
is not to be found. as in all fairness, mr
newman should have introduced the resolu
tions to which he alluded, or said nothing
about them, it becomes my duty to make
them known, and also their source. tbe>
emanated from the wesleyan methodist con
ference of canada, in july, 1847. 1 sent
them to hamilton hill, and he made use of
them as he thought proper.
here they are, with a preamble just as they
were passed by the conference, and signed by
the chairman and secretary
44 at a contention of the third annual
conference of the true wesleyan connexion
of candda, in the township of dav'n, canada
west, on the 28th, 29th, 30th and 31st of
july, 1847, a letter was presented, giving an
account of some statements that had been
made in a meeting at oberlin by william ,p
newman, respecting the rev. hiram wil
son, at which meeting the said wm. p. neu
man stated that the rev. hiram wilson could
not preach in any colored church in canada.
tliere being delegates from five diflere.nt cir
cuits, numbering seventeen, a question was
asked, after the reading of the letter, w hether
any of these seventeen delegates knew of a
disposition existing in any of the churches
where they had travelled, to close their doors
against the rev. hiram wilson, or prohibition
from preaching in any of their places of wor
ship. time being given for an answer, every
delegate stated, without hesitation, that no
such feeling or spirit existed in their neigh
borhood. ihe following resolutions were
then offered and adopted withont a dissenting
voice:
“ist. resolved, that whereas, wm. p.
newman has reported in a meeting at oberlin,
in the united states, that the rev. hiram
wilson is not allowed to preach in any of the
colored churches in canada, this conference
deems it their duty to say that said report ii
founded in falsehood.
3d. that this conference highly appre
ciate the labors of love of the rev. hiram
wilson, both among and for the colored people
of this province, and earnestly hopes that his
life may be spared, that he may see the eon
summation of his indefatigable efforts.
44 3d. resolved, that the foregoing resolu
tions be entered among the proceedings of this
conference, and a copy of the same be signed
by the chairman aud secretary and presented
to our brother, the rev. hiram wilson.
“josiah henson, ch n.
isaac j. henson, sec’y.”
these are the resolutions alluded to in mr
newman’s letter, and notwithstanding his
attempt to spurn them as falsehoods, they arc
the naked truth, my own experience and con
sciousness bearing testimony and concurring
with the statement of the conference. then,
if truthful, he stated publicly at obetlin that
which was absolutely false. if utrutfaful,
then the colored wesleyan conference in
canada fabricated and voted a lie. sol have
no coo trove ray with mr. newman on tbai
point neither has hamilton hill. it lies
between him and the conference. that mr
newman stated publiely at oberlin what
alleged against him, and contradicted in the
first resolution of the conference, tbe*e can
be no manner of doubt. it came to me
through two authentic channels: one was
hanoi 100 ho), the other a committee of litre*
persons, appointed at oberlin in keb., 1847,
who wrote on the 23d of that month to the
committee of the canada mission in roches
ter' and comm untested the seme thing. now
if mr. newman will get along with the
matter honorably, i will endeavor, ia the
meantime to attend to my own appropriate
business.
when i wrote to the liberator, i wrote as
a missionary and benefactor «f the refugee* in
this country. 1 bad thmt an official connection
with the dawn inmuats, and have not ai
prevent ido not feel called npea to aasw er
wxteen interrogatories for mr. newman, over
the heads of trustees and committeemen, fui
whom proceedings, whether good, had or u»
different, i am ael at all responsible espe
cially after saying, as he does, and then chal
lenging contradiction, that “hitherto the m#u
tnuoo has been the curse nf our people ia
canada,” which nf comas taaglrs up and
i-hwifi himself ia bad hnmnesa, for he was
hero aettag officially in the midst of the
eurvn" few nearly two years, su*taming awl
fecronmug whether he did this witting!)
unwittingly, wr ate not informed. if n»t
tfeglj, then he most have been wiper laurel)
bane coin—if unwittingly, he must hire been
indeed!
he professes to sympathize with me in my want of friends. i have no want of friends, as mr. newman supposes, nor am i in want of his sympathy, unless so expressed as to evince sincerity. i wish it understood that my footing here is manly and independent. god being my helper, i shall do right, «nd be sustained and blessed in well-doing,
although my reward come* not from thoee
«hose welfare i seek.
my hand? are foil. i am famishing the
best of instruction to rising of 50 scholar
during the week, my wife and mrs. parkei
assisting me. we hare also a peculiarly in
teresting sabbath-school of 70 scholars. su
perintending this school in the morning, ami
pleaching in the afternoon, consulates im
regular sabbath-day labors, and yet i har«
frequent appo.ntment* to hit tu liawn and vi
cinity besides. we are doing all we can foi
the benefit of the refugee* and children. sc
far as in my power, i have been eye* to the
blind and feet to the lame,** —have fed th«
hungry, clothed the naked, and instructed
the ignorant, for more than twelve year* hut
my days in canada are numbered, and 1 shall
toon leave, with an approving conscience, to
seek some other fihd of labor. 1 hope, how
ever, to pass through my thirteenth,winter
campaign, which is now successfully in pro
gress. before leaving. wherever divine
providence mav lead me, 1 shall hope to toil
on m the great cause of christian philan
thropy even unto death but not in the en
tanglements of pro-slavery fellowship, nor
under sectarian auspices. 1 ‘rust that the
lord wilt raise up friends for the suffering
slave and the forlorn fugitive, and that this
field will continue to be cultivated by more
faithful and worthy hands.
you will do me a favor to give this an early
insertion in the north star, but 1 am not dis
posed, like my antagonist, to beg notoriety in
“the ram's horn, the emancipator, the con
tributor, the oberlin evangelist, american
missionary,” &c., with the view of oblig
ing the public.”
vetv respectfully yours,
hiram wilson.
petxrbgro, nov. “9, 1&4&-
georol r. williams i have just read
your deeply interesting letter. mv heart
bleeds for you and your oppiessed and out
raged race.
i wish ii were in iny power to aid you to
the extent of your wishes hut 1 can do only
a little for you. my hands arp lull with my
present engagements. some of these en
gagements are to help purchase the liberty of
slaves.
1 will give fifty dollars towards purchasing
the liberty of your brother, and twenty-five
to aid purchasing the liberty of the child. i
will pay the money whenever j. w. c. pen
nington or frederick douglass shall see such
a prospect of your success as to justify one or
both of them in drawing upon me for the
money. this letter j. w. c. pennington or
frederick douglass will need to see.
your friend, gerrit smith.
chillkothe, 0., dec. 10, 181 g.
rrv. j. w. c. plnninoton respected
sir—let not this letter, which emanated from
our best friend, take you by surprise, and in
the event of its surprising, let it afford pleas
ure and happiness, rather than sorrow and
pain. in order that you may better under
stand the nature of the letter above, it will be
necessary for me to fell you what elicited such
an epistle.
about three weeks ago, 1 wrote to mr.
smith, and the object of iny letter was, to
inform him that i bad some relatives who are
groaning beneath the weight of that accursed
institution and also to ask him it he, in
company with the good people of new aork,
would assist in purchasing their libeiry. in
that letter, 1 stated that i was born in north
•carolina, that my mother moved out here
about four years ago that 1 was in new
york last october, in pursuit of my sister
that i ultimately found her, and succeeded in
taking her away and that she was married,
and had an only daughter, which the slave
holder asked 300 dollars for; that all my near
relations were free hut one brother, for whom
the slaveholder asked 1000, and that he was
likely to be sold to the far south. the above
is the cause of the tetter to mr. smith and
to confirm what i said, i told him to write to
you, knowing that you knew’ a part to be
true, and expecting that you would inquire of
aunt culbreth about the truth of the rest.
now, iny dear sir, if i can only get you to
bring the subject before the public mind, 1 ain
certain that they will be free, and humanity
will rejoice at so noble an act. i wish you
would write to mr. douglass, and ask him to
take an active part in the matter, and also fur
nish him with a copy of mr. smith’s letter.
there is mr. jacob francis, who i think will
be an excellent hand if you can get him to
enlist. i purchased the liberty of my sister
with 125—i. e., it cost me that to go there
and lake her away. and i want it distinctly
understood that i want nothing for any ex
pense that 1 have gone to in securing the lib
erty of my sister. mv circumstances are
such that ido not need it. 1 wish you would
write to mr. smith, and ask him to send you
a subscription paper, with the object stated at
the head, and sign what lie promised to give.
give my best respects to bro. jacob francis
remember me to mrs. pennington, and accept
for yourself my best wishes for happiness and
prosperity.
do answer this, and let me know w hat you
can do. i have the honor to be your humble
servant and sincere friend,
geo. r. williams.
self.help.-thf wants of western new
york.
there are many pleasing indications at the
present, that foreshadow the redemption of the
enslaved people of america. those, who are
even ordinary, observers, cannot fail to see
rhem. arising one after another, like the first
gliuunenugs of day on the eastern horizon.
ihe brightest, the most glorious, and the
most hopeful ot them all, is an incieasing love
lor it,at dear old principle of self-help.—
this principle m invincible. regard it either
in a moral, ph>*ical, or intellectual light, it is
to an oppressed people what moses was to the
hebrews—what virgmius wa* to rome, and
what toussamt l’overture was to hu golden
island of the ocean.
my heart leap* with joy a* i behold my
long-suffering and imble people laying amde
their old garments of dependence, and enmr
ing upon lheir own work. god lielps those
who help themselves and hence, if
true to this principle, we shall have the ue*t
help that the universe can afford. if hod i t
with us, who of all the sons of men need we
tear? l*t us trust in him, and work man
fully. acting in lo'ifoiimty with fhit- prmu-
pte» there ire some things tint must be dooe
by the people of color and their friend*
throughout the country. it is my purpose,
however, merely to speak of the western por
tions of new york at this tone.
one important instrumentality we have now
in operation, and its existence should be an
occasion for national rejoicing. i allude to an
i efficient and a well-sustained press. through
it we can speak to the nation—through it i am
now speaking.
i 1 the gospel of christ is the only sure
foundation of hope and elevation offered to
any enslaved people. there is nothing which
tyrants fear so much as the spread of the
gospel. from beginning to end, it is opposi
tion to their ways. when a tongue or an aqp
is raised, watched and strengthened by jeho
vah and his truth, which is brought to light
by his son, there is no mortal power that can
cause it to fall short of its destiny. the
1 saviour has said “if ye continue in my
1 word, then are you my disciples indeed and
ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall
make you free.” any people destitute of the
preserving influences of practical christianity,
are wretched. [but what language could 1
use fully to describe the forlorn hope of the
colored race in america, when, in addition to
our indescribable evils and political afflictions,
we turn away from the consolations of re
ligion
there are in the state of new york some
sixty or seventy thousand people of color.—
of this number, theie are perhaps thirty
thousand west of albany. what are their
religious principles? there are not more
than six thousand that meet together to wor
ship god. scattered in small numbers over
the entire state, they find it impossible to
meet together and such is the cruelty of the
whites in enforcing the laws of caste, that it
is neither desirable nor profitable for them to
assemble in their churches. thus we have
some twenty-four thousands of people in
western new vork without the full enjoy
ment of the christian privileges. even in
those places where the greatest numbers of
the colored people are found—even there their
re%ious institutions are very limited, and the
consequences are, that we behold our young
people rushing on to ruin, as if impelled by a
phrensy. too many buffer their ambition to
lead them no where else than to the ball
room, the tippler’s retreat, and the gambler's
table. for proof, look to utica, syracuse,
auburn, geneva, buffalo, and especially ro
chester. in all of these places, there are
many triumphant exceptions, who stand up
amid the wide ruin, like ever-geen trees in a
fire slash.
2. much of the blame attached to this
state of things lies at the door of w hat is called
the church, and much rests upon our own
heads. this church that has torn us, must
help to heal; she who has scattered, must help
to gather and both of these things we must
do ourselves. 1 totally despair of my people's
redemption until we trust more in god, and
labor more in our own cause. shall we
make the attempt, brethren, one and all, to
raise the standard of the lord in the western
parts of this great state. i will propose my
plan, and hope that you, friend douglass and
others will give your opinions.
let a christian convention of the colored
people and their friends be called at some cen
tral place. let there be no caste or secta
rianism encouraged in that meeting but let
us come together in good earnest to do some
thing for'our^afflicted fellow-men. i further
propose that a permanent state society shall
be formed, and agents or missionaries be em
ployed to go forth into the hedges and high
ways, and entreat these neglected ones to turn
into the paths of rectitude and virtue. i shall
be glad lu correspond with any person to whom
the subject is interesting.
h. h. garnet.
geneva, jan. 12.
pittsburg, jan. 8, 1849.
i‘ red*rick douglass —lt gives me pleas
ure to acknow ledge that i have been a steady
reader of the north star for one year; and i
look upon it as the guardian of our dearest
rights—one of the great engines to effect the
freedom of the slave, and to break in pieces
that unrighteous, marble-hearted and iron
handed prejudice of the north, that is grind
ing us into the dust. it is our incumbent duty
to support the north star, as a means of ele
vating our race. allow me to say, that its
editorials are strong, cogent, and in very many
instances eloquent. your appeal to the
friends of humanity and the public, calling
them to the support of your most laudable un
dertaking, 1 hope will not be lost upon them.
surely, there is energy, spirit, patriotism and
promptitude enough among the colored people
to cause a loud response to the call, with an
unanimity of purpose not to be gainsaid or
misunderstood. let lnion be our motto, our
watchword—yes, our rallying point, our
standard, our lever and fulcrum, for liberty,
equality and fraternity.
our friend and brother,
j. b. vashon.
albany, jan. 10, 1849.
.frederick douglass things
look somewhat encouraging. the peaceable
abolition of slavery is something svhich now
may be sooner realized than was thought
probable two years gone. the indications
throughout the free states warrant the belief
lhat change in favor of anti-slavery has
j laken pl»ce within one year. and while this
state of feeling exists, let us in this state do
i all we can to gain our political rights.
you are aware of the fact, that there is an
i association funned for the pupoee of estab
lishing a settlement of colored persons near
the village of florence, oneida county. this
association applied for the use of the assem
bly chamber for next monday eveuing, to
have mr. ward lecture upon ;agriculture,
and other subjects connected with the interests
of the colored people. well, the application
caused qoite a discussion. some were op
posed to granting the use of the chamber to
any class of citizens. others thought the
colored people were in this lnsunee merely
urged on to see bow far they could push mat
ters, coming up, as it did, right in the wake
of ilie anti-slavery resolutions just then passed,
and thought it should not be granted them.
however, if was granted by a strong vote,
and mr. ward is to speak there.
respectfully yours,
wm. h. tupp.
a hamburg emigrant ship has been lost,
with 122 passenger^.
from o«r m omihideat.
i los do*, dec. 89, 1948.
prince jahuj napoleon bonaparte u no*
president of the french republic the
election lerminated as all hnd anticipated, hot
the triumph of the prince naa far more com
-1 plete than his warmest friends and adherents
1 could have expected, as he received more
1 than fire millions of rotes, and attained a
1 majority shore cavaignac of four millions.—
his proclamation took place on the f both dee.,
(a day earlier than war intended, to aroid dis
turbances.) the scene was one of great ex
citement and interest. a full assembly being
convened, the reporter of the electoral com
mission ascended the tribune, made his report
of the election and its termination, and then
announced that the citizen louis napoleon,
having received the required absolute majority,
the committee had charged him to announce
that he was duly nominated president of the
republic. his declaration beiug received
with marks of great satisfaction, general
caraignac, in a brief speech, announced the
collective resignation of the ministry, and re
mitted into the hands of the assembly the
power with which he had been invested.—
after the report of the committee had been
put to the vote, and almost unanimously ac
cepted, the president, (m. marrast,) in a
loud voice, though somewhat broken with
emotion, said in the name of the french
people, before god, and in the national as
sembly, i proclaim louis napoleon bonaparte
president ol the french republic democratic
—one and indivisible—from the present day
to the second sunday of may, 185*2. i invite
the new president to come forward and take
the oath reqired by the new constitution.”—
the oath is as follows: before god, and in;
the presence of the french people, repre
sented by the national assembly, i swear to
remain faithful to the republic, and that 1
will always forward its interests in all re
spects.” the oath being duly administer,
louis napoleon said in a loud voice, 1
swear.” loud cries of “vive la repub
lique” here arose, while the new president,
ascending the tribune, delivered, in a firm
voice, and with gteat emphasis, an able and
excellent address, in which he alluded to his
honorable predecessor, and late opponent ca
vaignac, in a manner that evidences his appre
ciation of the character of that illustrious
general, and his earnest desire for unanimity
and concord. the address was warmly re
ceived, and on leaving the tribune, befor^
leaving ihe house, advancing to the seat of
cavaignac, shook him warmly by the hand.
this act was greatly applauded—unmitigated
satisfaction appeared to prevail, and the scene
closed with the announcement that odiilon
barrot was empowered to form a ministry.—
the same evening the new ministry u as ga
zetted. in the selection, there is much to
inspire confidence. the integrity and ability
of odiilon bairot are well known, and he is
the head of the cabinet. m. leon de malle
ville, minister of the interior, and m. hyp
pliote passy, minister of finance, are con
sidered to be well chosen for their respective
posts. the immense majority attained by
the president, at once invests his government
with considerable authontv. already the
funds have risen—business is more brisk, and
gaiety once more prevails in paris.
on the 24th inst., a grand review took
place, in honor of the new president, at which
the reception given him was enthusiastic in
the extreme. doubtless much of this was
attributable to old recollections; but his de
meanor on this his first appearance before the
army, seems to have been so attractive,
graceful, engaging and all
hearts were won, and v r ive napoleon” was
the cry ever resounding through the air.—
the members of the bonapartist family wit
nessed the review from the place de la con
corde, and the ex-king of westphalia, jerome
bonaparte, was present, dressed in the uni
form of lieutenant general, which he wore
at the battle of waterloo. he is appointed
governor of the invalides, where (you will
remember) the remains of the late emperor
are deposited. his son, m. napoleon bona
parte, is appointed ambassador in sweden.
general changarnier is appointed to the com
mand of the garrison of of paris, in addition
to that of the national guards, which he
held tinder cavaignac. the prince president
has taken possession of his official residence,
the palace of the elysee nationale, and has
slept in the bed-chamber last occupied by his
celebrated uncle—the emperor. at present,
all looks promising in french aflains; but
when we remember the proverbial fickleness
of the french nation, and bear in mind their
treatment of lamartine, and of the dauntless
cavaignac, we cannot but fear ihat their
present hero will also, in his turn, fall, a vic
tim to their capriciousness.
the pope remains at gaeta, surrounded by
the royal family of naples, and by those
roman courtiers who adhere to him. he
only consents to return to rome if the ministry
there will resign, the civil guard be dissolved
and thediberiy of ihe press suspended.
the hungarians have proclaimed them
selves a republic, and are preparing for war
with extraordinary energy. they have forti
fied presburg and pesth, and burned a large
number of towns and cities, front breck, on
the lutha, to presburg, to starve the impe
rialists in their winter campaign. later ac
counts state that hostilities have commenced
in good earnest in hungary, and that the im
perialists have taken possession of a castle
within three german miles of presburg,
while jellacbich had already reached the
banke of the leitta. the magyar aitny, un
der kossuth, amounts to about one hundred
and fifty thousand men. the war promises
to be one of extermination.
s. p. q. r.
the patriarchal system—some of its
fimatn —hoathera bubariw.
hindeed doll a as rcwaid.—ran away
from near burksvilie, three black boys, named
ben, dave, and 808. ben is a dark mul
atto, about 38 yean old, 5 feet 3 inches high,
down cmmtenance when spoken to. dave ii
a dark mulatto, 18 or 20 years old, feet
inches high free open countenance, thick lipa.
bob a copper colored, 23 years old, 5 feet ifl
inches inch, spare made, fine face, very
shrewd. it is supposed they are together.
$6o reward will be given for any me, or sisc
for all, secured so that the subscribers eaa gel
them.
john m. baker,
thob. c. nunn/
elizabeth alexander
thjsty dollabs rxwxao will he paid foi
satisfactory mforasaum about my negro man
henry poster, who was amt m ae
errand with a letter to me from my phunsriou.
ia the parish of st. charles, on friday last,
the 4lb tost, about 9 o'clock r. il, and wbo
has not reached here or hen heard -rfebun
r the supposition being that hs is either droww
t ed or has met with me accident, or bean
i kidnapped, either on the rand or in the upper
suburbs of }be city, between this and car
rollton—as lam confident be would not keep
1 out of the way for a moment of bin owa ae
t cord, be being of a good dispaehion, and one
of the most faithful of boys. he is of a light
black or gride color, of a middle mas, rather
short and well made, with a bnahy or foil
bead of goad hair, and of a good and open
countenance, and about 35 years old; had on
when he left home a pretty good suit of black
or dark woolen clothes, and carried on his
arm a basket with eggs, &f- the only mark
recollected about him was a severe cut with
an axe in one of his feet about two yean
ago.
chas. a. jacobs, bank place.
escaped, from the establishment of the
louisville manufacturing company, an sat
urday sight, 9th ult., a mulatto man, robin
aged 43 years, about 5 feet 7 inches high,
stoutly built, pleasing and rather sprightly
expression of face when spoken to, no special
marks recollected. the said boy is the pro.
perty of mrs. force, of jefferson county, ky.
it is thought he is attempting to make his
escape to parts unknown, but may be still
lurking about the city or county. 1 will pay
for his apprehension and delivery to me ten
dollars if taken in the county, $25 if taken
in any other county, and 100 if taken out
of the state.
j. b. o bannon.
fifteen dollars reward. —ran away
from the subscriber’s residence, parish of st.
charles, the mulatress named maria, for
merly belonging to a mi. jmnanville, of new
orleans, deceased. she is tall, and has an
imperfection or squint in one eye. the above
reward will be paid to any one who will lodge
her in any one of the city prisons.
samuel w. logan.
hundred dollars reward— ran away
on the 24th september, the boy jacob,
about 28 years of age, 5 feet 6 inches high,
stout built. whoever will return said boy
to me shall receive the above reward.
james kathman,
corner frenchmen and claiborne st.
fifty dollars reward.-?— ran away
from the subscriber on the 15th october, a
dark griffe woman, named milley, about 5
feet 6 inches high speaks english oply;
formerly belonging to capt. swager, of
louisville, slim built and downcast look.
the above reward will be paid to any person
who can produce evidence of where she has
been staying.
stephen b. bogert,
no. 2 annunciation st.
the above are from the n. o. picayune.
the late vicksburg murder. —the
vicksburg whig contains further particulars
of the fatal difficulty between mr. crabb and
mr. jenkins, the editor of the vicksburg
sentinel:
as they met, (saysthe whig,) mr. jenkins
used the customary words of salutation. this
seems to have been the unfortunate cause of
the bloody scene which followed; whatever
may have been their intention, the words
were interpreted, under the circumstances, as
an insult or taunt, and the reply may almost
be anticipated. it was— what do you mean
by speaking to me, sir"’ in a stern tone of
voice. mr. jenkins made some rejoinder,
which was not distinctly heard, at the same
time putting jiis hand under his vest, as if
with the intention of drawing a weapon. mr.
crabb dropped a canc, and seized the hands
of mr. jenkins—a struggle ensued—the
hands became partilly disengaged—a knife
was drawn—both parties fell to the pavement,
mr. crabb being uppermost. while in this
position, mr. jenkins stabbed mr crabb
several limes in the back and neck. all this
was the work of a moment. two gentlemen
(drs. emanuel and bioadnax) immdiately
took hold of the parties, and separated them
mr. jenkins stepped into a door w'ithin a few
paces, and mr. crabb, bleeding very profuse
ly, was solicited to enter the drug store, one
door above where mr. jenkins had entered.
this lie positively refused, and turning im
mediately, walked within'sight of mr. jenk
ins, and deliberately presented a pistol, which
he had drawn from his pocket after he was
stabbed, and as the parties were pulled apart.
he lowered the weapon, however, without
filing, and turned away with the remark— 1
do not wish to kill him—and 1 will not kill
him, even now’; or words very nearly to tha
effect. after w alking a few paces, he turned
again, and mr. jenkins stepped out of the
door where he was standing, and came to
wards mr. crabb, with his knife in a striking
position then mr. crabb raised his pistol and
fired—mr. jenkins still advanced more rapid
ly than before, and inflicted another wound
upon mr. crabb’s neck, when dr. broadnax,
not believing that the shot had taken effect,
caught mr. jenkins’s arm and besought him
to strike no more at that moment he com
menced sinking, and the doctor caught him in
his arms, and in a few moments afterwards he
expired.
these are the facts, as related to us, by the
eye-witnesses of an occurrence which has
shrouded our community in gloom.
murder in texas. —a few days since,
john a. paxton killed john cronkrite at
lagrange. the circumstances, says the
victoria advocate, are these: cronkrite kept a
hotel last winter ia lagrange, and paxton,
who is a merchant, and was one of his board
ers, became, as it is said, excessively fond of
cronkrite’s wife, in consequence of which,
cronkrite parted from her 3 short time ago,
and went off. his recent appearance at la
grange was to obtain revenge, making threats
against paxton’s life. it was under these
circumstances paxton sought a private oppor
tunity and shot him. paxton gave himself
up, was taken into custody, and discharged
by the examining court.
a texan murder.— we take the following
from the brownsville (texas) flsg, of the
15th instant
a murder was recently committed near
san augustine, upon which a coroner’s jury
returned the following verdict
that benjamin pullura was murdered by
jackson and james chester, by having hit
eyes gouged out, his ears and off,
and his throat cut.'
these circumstances appear bad enough,
but iu the account of the murder, we observe
that the man, after all the above enormities
were inflicted upon him, was not quite dead,
and was carried to the nver and drowned.
one of the murderers was carried to prison by
the sheriff and five assistants, all armed to
tbe teeth.
dreadful muaoaß. —we learn from an
alabama friend, that a store keeper by the
name of samuel tate, wbo kept an establtsh
men near scott’s mills, tn bibb county, was
killed bv a negro, on the sth mst it appears
that tate bad been robbed several times, and
on tbe eight is question, serrated himself ia
his store, with a knife and a rope, determined
to apprehend the thief, and to secure him.
\bout midnight a negro man got m, through
a window, and war retired by tate, who
laid down his knife, m order to use both
hands in tying th we *i*»
suddenly seined by the seam p, who struck j
hun full w the throat, nearly severing hm bead
from the shoulders, and, of course, killing
him instantly the negro baa since been
aoorehended, and ha* confessed the act —{.v.
muancn —la efaabethtowo, ky. f oa fri
day night, wm, potter killed daring a
are mjail-
e*tancirar»on.-mr. john j£goamu,.«
wilcox co alabama, aaya tbe mobile repa
ur. wbo died a few weeks tuoce, «nane paled
all his slaver by his will.
the death of king charles the second. 
the death of king charles the see
mid took the nation bv surprise. hit
frame was naturally strong, and did
not appear to have suffered from excess.
he htd always been mindful of has
health even in his pleasures; sod hti
habits were such as to promise a long
i life and a robust old age. indolent aa
he was on all occasions which required
tension of the mind, he was active and
persevering in bodily exercise. he had
when young,been renowned as a tennis
player, and was, even in the decline ol
life, an indefatigable walker. his or
dinary pace was such that those who
were admitted to the honor of his soci
ety found it difficult to keep up witb
him. he rose early, and generally
passed three or four hours a day in the
open air. he might be seen, before
the dew was off the grass, in st. james’s
park, striding among the trees, play
ing with his favorite spaniels, and fling
ing corn to his ducks; and these exhi
bitions endeared him to the common
people, who always love to see the
great unbend.
at length towards the close of the
year 1684, he was prevented, by a
slight attack of what was supposed to
be the gout, from rambling as usual.
he now spent his mornings in his lab
oratory, where he amused himself with
experiments on the properties of mer
cury. his temper seemed to have suf
fered from confinement. he had no
apparent cause for disquiet. his king
dom was tranquil; he was not in pre-s
-ing want o£ money; his power was
greater than it had ever been; the par
ty which had so long thwarted him had
been beaten down; but the cheerful
ness which had supported him against
adverse fortune had vanished in this
season of prosperity.

his palace had seldom presented a
gayer or a more scandalous appear
ance than on the evening of feb. ist,
1685. some grave persons who had
gone thither, after the fashion of that
age,to pay their duty to their sovereign,
and who had expected that, on such a
day his court would wear a decent as
pect, were struck with astonishment
and horror. the great gallery of
whitehall, an admirable relic of the
magnificence of the tudors, was crow
ded with revellers and gamblers. the
king sat there chatting and toying with
three women, whose charms were the
boast, and whose vices were the dis
graces of three nations. barbara pal
mer, duchess of cleveland, was there,
no longer young, but still retaining
some traces of that superb and volup
tuous beauty which twenty years be
fore overcame the hearts of all men.
there, too, was the duchess of ports
mouth, whose soft and infantine fea
tures were lighted up with the vivacity
of france. hortensia mancini, duch
ess of mazarin, and niece of the great
cardinal, completed the group. she
had been early removed from her na
tive italy to the court where her uncle
was supreme.* his power and her own
attractions had drawn a crowd of illus
trious suitors around her. charles
himself, during his exile, had sought
her hand in vain. no gift of nature o
fortune seemed wanting to her. her
face was beautiful with the rich beauty
of the south, her understanding quick,
her manners graceful, her rank ex
alted, her possessions immense; but her
ungovernable passions had turned all
these blessings into curses. she had
found the misery of an ill- assorted mar
riage intolerable, had fled from her
husband, had abandoned her vast
wealth, and, after having astonished
rome and piedmont by her adven
tures, had fixed her abode in england.
her house was the favorite resort of
men of wit and pleasure, who, for the
sake of her smiles and her table, en
dured her frequent fits of insolence and
ill humor. rochester and godolphin
sometimes forgot the cares of state in
her company. barillon and saint ev
remond found in her drawing-room
consolation for their long banishment
from paris. the learning ofvossius,
the wit of waller, were daily employed
to flatter and amuse her. but her
diseased mind required stronger stimu
lants, and sought them in gallantry, in
basset, and in usquebaugh. while
charles flirted with his three sultanas,
hortensia’s french page, a handsome
boy, whose vocal performaces were
the delight of whitehall, and were re
warded by numerous presents of rich
clothes, ponies, and guineas, warbled
some amorous verses. a party ol
twenty courtiers were seated at cards
round a large table on which gold was
heaped in mountains. even then the
king had complained that he did not
feel quite well he had no appetite
for his supper: his rest that night was
broken; but on the following morning
he rose as usual, early.

scarcely had charles risen from his
bed when his attendants perceived that
his utterance was indistinct, and that
his thoughts seemed to be wandering.
several men of rank had, as usual, as
sembled to see their sovereign shaved
and dressed. he made an effort to
converse with them in his usual gay
stile; but his ghastly looks surprised
and alarmed them. soon his face
grew black; his eyes turned in his
j head; he uttered a cry, staggered, and
fell into the arms of thomas lord
bruce, eldest son of the earl of ailcs
bury. a physician who bad charge of
the royal retorts and crucibles happen
ed to be present. he had no lancet;
but he opened a vein with a penknife
the blood flowed freely; but the king
was still insensible.
he was laid on his bed, where, du
ring a short time, the duchess of ports
mouth hung over him with the famil
iarity of a wife. but the alarm had
been given. the queen and the duch
ess of vark were hastening to the room.
the favorite concubine was forced to
retire to her own apartments. those
apartments had been thrice pulled down
and thrice rebuilt by her lover to grat
ify her caprice. tlie very furniture of
the chimney was massy silver. several
fine paintings, which properly belonged
to the queen, bad been transferred to
the dwelling of the mistress. the side
bauds were piled with richly wrought
plete.. id the niches stood cabinets, the
master-pieces of japanese art.
the queen was for a time assiduous
in ber attendance. the duke of york!
scarcely left his brother's bedside. the
primate and four other bishops were!
then in london. they remained at
whitehall all day, and took it by turns
to sit up all night in the king’s room.
the news of his illness filled the capital
with sorrow and dismay. for his easy
temper and affable manners had won
the affection of a large part of the na
tion and those who most disliked him
preferred his unprincipled levity to the
stern and earnest bigotry of his
brother.
on the morning of thursday, the
fifth of february, the london gazette
announced that his majesty was going
on well, and was thought by the phy
sicians to be out of danger. the bells
of all the churches rang merrily and
preparations for bonfires were made in
the streets. but in the evening it was
known that a relapse had taken place,
and that the medical attendants had
given up all hope. the public mind
was greatly disturbed; but there was
no disposition to tumult.—the duke of
york, who had already taken on himself
to give orders, ascertained that the
city was perfectly quiet, and that he
might, without difficulty, be proclaimed
as soon ss his brother should expire.
the king was in great pain, and
complained that he felt as if a fire was
burning within him.—yet he bore tip
against his sufferings with a fortitude
which did not seem to belong to his soft
and luxurious nature. the sight of
his misery affected his wife so much
that she fainted, and was carried sense
less to her chamber. the prelates who
were in waiting had from the first ex
horted him to prepare for his end. they
now thought it their duty to address
him in a still more urgent manner.
william sancroft, archbishoy of can
terbury, an honest and pious, though
narrow-minded man, used great free
dom. it is time,” he said, “to speak
out; for, sir, you are about to appear,
before a judge who is no respecter of
persons.”—the king answered not a
word.
thomas ken,t bishop of bath and
wells, then tried his powers of per
suasion. he was a man of parts and
learning, of quick sensibility and stain
less virtue. his elaborate works have
long been forgotten; but his morning
and evening hymns are still repeated
daily in thousands of dwellings.
though, like most of his order, zeal
ous for monarchy, he was nosycophant.
before he became a bishop, he had
maintained the honor of his gown by
refusing, when the court was at win
chester, to let eleanor gwyn lodge in
the house which he occupied there as a
prebendary. the king had sense
enough to respect so manly a spirit. of
all the prelates, he liked kent the best.
it lyas to no purpose, however, that the
good bishop now put forth all his elo
quence. his solemn and pathetic ex
hortation awed and melted the bystand
ers to such a degree that some among
them believed him to be filled with the
same spirit which, in the old time, had,
by the mouths of nathan and elias,
called sinful princes to repentance.
charles, however, was unmoved. he
made no objection, indeed, when the
service for the visitation of the sick
1 was read. in reply to the pressing
questions of the divines, he said that he
was sorry for what he had done amiss;
and he suffered the absolution to be
pronounced over him, according to the
forms of the church of england; but
when he was urged to declare that he
died in the communion of that church,
he seemed not to hear wliat was} said,
and nothing couhj. induce him to take
the eucharist from the hands of the
bishops. a table with bread and wine
was brought to his bedside, but in vain.
sometimes he said that there was no
hurry, and sometimes that he was too
weak.
many attributed this apathy to con
tempt for divine things, and many to
the stupor which often precedes death.
but there were in the palace a few per
sons who knew better. charles had
never been a sincere member of the
established church. his mind had long
oscillated between hobbism and pope
ry. when his health was good, and
his spirits high, he was a scoffer. in
his few serious moments he was a
roman catholic. the duke of york
was aware of this, but was entirely oc
cupied with the care of his own interests.
he had ordered the outports to be
closed. he had posted detachments
of the guards in different parts of the
city. he had also procured the feeble
signature of the dying king to an in
strument by which some duties, granted
only till the demise of the crown, were
let to farm for a term of three years.
these things occupied the attention o
james to such a degree that, though
on ordinary occasions he was indis
creetly and unseasonably eager to bring
over proselytes to his church, he never
reflected that his brother was in danger
of dying without the last sacraments.
this neglect was the more extraordin
ary because the duchess of york had,
at the request of the queen, suggested,
on the morning on which the king was
taken ill, the propriety of procuring
spiritual assistance. for such assis
tance charles was at last indebted to
an agency very different from that of
his pious wife and sister-in-law. a
life'of frivolity and vice had not ex
tinguished in the duchess of ports
mouth all sentiments of religion, or all
that kindness which is the glory of her
sex. the french ambassador, baril
lon, who had come to the palace to in
quire after the king, paid her a visit.
he found her in an agony of sorrow.
she took him into a secret room,
poured out her whole heart to him. 1
have,” ahe said, a thing of great
moment to tell you. if it were known,
my bead would be in danger. the
kmc kreaiiy and truly a catholic;
but he will die without being reconciled
to the church. his bed-chamber is
full of protest ant clergymen. i
enter without giving scandal. the
duke is thinking only of himself. speak
to him. remind him that there is a
soul at rtake. he is master now. he
can clear tbs room. gothis instant or
k will be too late.”
,berilkm hastened to the bed-cham
ber, took the dake amde, and delivered
the message of the mistress. the con
science of junes smote kj«* h
started u if roused from deep, and
declared that imhtif should prevent
him from discharging the sacred
which had been too lotf delayed.—
several schemes were discussed and
rejected. at last the duke commanded
the crowd to stand aloof, went to the
bed, stooped down, and wispered some*
thing which none of the spectators
could hear, hut which they supposed to
be some question about affairs of state.
charles answered in an audible voice,
yes, yes, with all my heart.” none
of the bystanders, except the french
ambassador, guessed that the king was
declaring t>if wish to be admitted into
the bosom of the church of rome.
f shall i bring a priest?” said the
duke. “do, brother,” replied the
sick man. “for god’s sake do, and
lose no time. but no; you will get
into trouble.” “if it costs me my
life,” said the duke, i will fetch a
priest.”
to find a priest, however, for such
a purpose, at a moment’s notice, was
not easy. for, as the law then stood,
the person who admitted a proselyte
into the roman catholic church was
guilty of a capital crime. the count
of castel melhor, a portugese noble
man, who, driven by political troubles
from his native land, had been hospit
ably received at the english court,
undertook to procure a confessor. he
had recourse to his country-men who
belonged to the queen’s household,
but he found that none of her chaplains
knew english or french enough to
shrive the king. the duke and baril
lon were about to send to the venetian
minister for a clergyman, when they
heard that a benedictine monk, named
john huddleston, happened to be at
whitehall. this man had, with great
risk, to himself, saved the king’s life
after the battle of worcester, and had,
i on that account, been, ever since the
restoration, a privileged person. in
1 the sharpest proclamations which were
1 put forth against popish priests, when
false witnesses had inflamed the nation
to fury, huddleston had been excepted
by name. he readily consented to put
his life a second time in peril for his
pnnee; but there was still a difficulty.
the honest monk was so illiterate that
he did not know what he ought to say
on an occasion of such importance. he
however obtained some hints, through
the intervention of castel melhor, from
a portuguese ecclesiastic; and, thus
instructed, was brought up the bach
stairs by chiflinch, a confidential ser
vant—who, if the satires of that age
are to be credited, had often introduced
visitors of a very different descriptor
by the same entrance. the duke then
in the king’s name, commanded al
who were present to quit the room ex
cept lewis duras, earl of feversham
and john granville, earl of bath
both these lords professed the protes
tant religion; but james conceived tha
he could count on their fidelity. fever
sham, a frenchman of noble birth
and nephew of the great turcnne, helc
high rank in the english army, an<
was chamberlain to the queen. bati
was groom of the stole.
the duke’s orders were obeyed, an<
even the physicians withdraw. the
back door was then opened, and fath
er huddleston entered. a cloak ha<
been thrown over his sacred vestments
and his shaven crown was conceale<
by a flowing wig. “sir,” said tin
duke, this good man once saved youi
life. he now comes to save your soul.
charles faintly answered, “he is
welcome.” huddleston went througl
his part better than had been expected
he knelt by the bed, and listened t<
the confession, pronounced the abso
lution, and administered extreme unc
tion. he asked if the king wished t(
receive the lord’s supper. surely,’
said charles, “if i am not unworthy.’
the host was brought in. charles
feebly strove to rise and kneel before it
the priest bade him lie still, and as
sured him that god would accept th<
humiliation of the soul, and would noi
require the humiliation of the body
the king found so much difficulty in
swallowing the bread, that it was ne
cessary to open the door and to procure
a glass of water. the rite ended, the
monk held up a crucifix before the
penitent, charged him to fix his lasi
thoughts upon the sufferings of the re
deemer, and withdrew. the whole
ceremony had occupied about three
quarters of an hour; and during thal
time, the courtiers who filled the outei
room had communicated their suspici
ons to each other by whispers and sig
nificant glances. the door was a!
length thrown open, and the crowd
again filled the chamber of death.
it was now late in the evening. the
king seemed much relieved by whal
had passed. his natural children were
brought to his bedside, the dukes ol
grafton, southampton, and north
umberland, sons of the duchess ol
cleveland, the duke of st. alban’s
son of eleanor gwynn, and the duke
of richmond, son of duchess ol
portsmouth. charles blessed all, but
spoke with peculiar tenderness to rich
mond. one face which should have
been there was wanting. the eldest
and best beloved child was an exile
and a wanderer. his name was not
once mentioned by his father.
during the night charles earnestly
recommended the duchess of ports
mouth and her boy to the care ol
james; and do not,” be goodnatu red
ly added, let poor nelly starve.” the
queen sent excuses for her absence by
halifax. she said that she was too
much disordered to resume her post by
the couch, and implored pardon for
any offence which she might unwitting
ly have given. she ask my pardon,
poor woman!” cried charles; i ask
ners with all my heart”
the morning light began to peep
through the windows of whitehall; and
charles desired the attendants to pull
aside the curtsias, that be might have
one more look at the day.
soon after dawn ike speech of the
dying man failed. before tea his senses
were gone. great numbers bad re
paired to the churches at the boor of
rn fog service. whan the prayer
for the king was read, load groans and
•obs showed how deeply his people felt
for him. at noon on friday, the 6th
of february, he passed away without a
mraggle.