ARGUMENT
Of Charles Sumner, Esq., against the Con
stitutionality of Separate Colored Schools,
in the case of Sarah C. Roberts vs. The
City of Boston. Before the Supreme Courl
of Mass., Dec. 4, 1849.
[continued.]
111. The Courts of Massachusetts
have never recognized any discrimina
tion, founded on o«lor or race, in the j
administration of the Public Schools,'
but have recognized the equal rights of
all the inhabitants.
There are a few decisions of our
Court bearing on this subject, but they
all breathe one spirit. The sentiment
of equality animates them. In the casef
of Commonwealth vs Davit, 6 Mass.
R. 146, while declaring the equal
rights of all the inhabitants, both in the
grammar and district schools, the Court
said “The schools required by the
statute are to be maintained for the
benefit of the whole town, it is the
wise policy of the law to give all the in
habitants equal privileges for the educa
tion of their children in the public schools.
Nor is it in the power of the majority to
deprive the minority of this privilege.
Every inhabitant of the
town h&9 a right to participate in the
benefits of both descriptions of sshools,
and it is not competent for a town to
establish a grammar school for the ben-,
efit of one part of the town to the ex-i
elusion of the other, although the mon
ey raised for the support of schools
may be in other respects fairly appor
tioned.”
In the case of fVithington vs. Eve
leth, 7 Pick. 106, the Court said, they
“were satisfied that the power is given
to towns to determine and define the
limits of school districts, can be execu
ted only by a geographical division of
the towo for that purpose.” A limita
tion of the district, which was merely
personal, was held invalid. This same
principle was again recognized in Per
ry vs. Dove, 12 Pick. R. 213, where
the says, “Towns, in executing
the power to form school districts, arc
bound so to do it as to include every in
habitant in some of the districts. They
cannot lawfully omit any, and thus de
prive them of the benefits of our invalu
able system of free schools.”
The Constitution, the legislation, and
the judicial decisions of Massachu
setts, have now been passed in review.
Wo have seen what is contemplated by
the Equality secured by the Constitu
tion. We have seen also what is con
templated by the system of Public
Schools, as established by the laws ol
the Commonwealth, and illustrated by
the decisions of the Supreme Court.—
The way is now prepared to considet
the peculiarities in the preseut case,
and to apply the principle which w«
have thus recognized in the Constitu
lion, in the laws and judicial decis
ions.
IV. The exclusion ot colored chil
dren from the Public Schools, open tc
white children, is a source of partial
inconvenience to them and their pa
rents, toj which white persons are not
exposed, and is, therefore, s violation
of Equality. The black and the whit<
are not equal before tie law,
ll appears from the etatement of facte
that among the rules of the Primarj
School Committee, is one to this effect
“Scholars to go to the school neares
their residence. Application for ad
miesion to our ectioole (with the excep
tion and provision referred to in th<
proceeding rule) are especially enti
tied to enter the schools nearest tbeii
residence The exception bore ii
‘♦of those for whom special provisioi
has beet) made" in separate schools
that is, colored-children.
In this rule—without the exceptiot
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—
—it seen a part of the beauty of our
Public School system. It is the boast
of England, that justice, through the
multitude of courts, is brought to ev
ery man’s door. It may also be th«
boast of our Public School system,
that education in Boston, through th>
multitude of schools, is brought to ev
ery white man’s door. But it is not
brought to every black man’s door.-
He is obliged to go for it—to travel
tor it—often a great distance. The
facts in ths present case are not s<
strong as those ot other cases which
have come to my knowledge. But
here, the little child, only five yean*
old, was compelled, if she went to the
nearest African school, to go a distance
•>f 2109 feet from her own dwelling,
while the nearest Primary School wa
only 900 feet, and, in doing this, she
would pass near no less titan five dif
ferent Primary Schools, forming pan
of our Public and open to
white children, all of which were clos
ed to her. jSurely this is not equality
before the law.
This simple fact ia enough to deter
mine this case. If it be met by the
suggestion, that the inconvenience is
trivial, and such as the law will not no
tice, 1 reply, that it is precisely of that
character which reveals distinctly an
existing inequality, and, therefore, the
law cannot fail to notice it. There is
a maxim of the civilian, Duntoulin,
whish teaches that oven n trivial fact
may give occasion to an important ap
plication of the law. Modica enim cir
cumstantia facti indued magnum juris
dirersitatim. Also from the best exam
ples of our history, we learn that the
insignificance of a fact cannot obscure
the grandeur of the principal stake.—
It was a paltry tax on tea, laid by a
Parliament in which they were not rep
resented that aroused our fathers to the
struggles of the Revolution. They
did not feel the inconvenience of the
tax, but they felt its oppression. They
went to war for a principle. Let it not
be said, then, that the inconvenience is
so slight in the present case as not to
justify the appeal I now make, in be
half of the colored children, for Equal
ity before the law.
I tnay go, however, beyond the facts
in this case, and show that the incon
venience arising from the exclusion ol
colored children, is of such a charac
ter as seriously to effect the comfort
and condition of the African race in
Boston. The two primary schools
open to these children are in Belknap
street and in Sun court. I need not
add that the whole city is dotted with
schools open to white children. The
colored parents, anxious that their chil
dren should have the benefit of educa
tion, are compelled to live in the neigh
borhood of the schools, to gather about
them, as near the East people come
from a distance to rest near a fountain
or a well. They have not, practically,
the srme liberty of choosing theii
homes, which belong to the white man.
Inclination, or business, or economy,
may call them to another part of tht
city; but they are restrained on account
of their children. There is no such
restraint upon the white man, for he
knows that wherever in the city incli
nation, or business, or economy, iiibj
call him, be will find a school open t«
his children near his door. Surel)
this is not equality bofure the la*'.
Or if a colored person, yielding t<>
the necessities of his position, remove*-
to a distant part of the city, his chil
dren may be compelled, at an incon
venience which will not be called trivi
al, to walk a long distance in order t<
enjoy the advantages of the school.—
In our severe winters, this cannot be
disregarded by children so tender in
years as those of the primary schools.
There is a respectable colored person,
am told, who became same time since
a resident at East Boston, separated
by the water from the main laud.—
There are, of course, proper public
schools at East Boston, but none that
were then open to colored children.
This person, therefore, was obliged t<>
send his children, three in number,
daily, across the ferry to a distant Af
rican school. The tolls for these chil
dren amounted to a sum which formed
a severe tax upon a poor man.
This is the conduct of a colored pa
rent. He is well deserving.of honoi
for his generous efforts for his children.
As they grow in knowledge, they will
rise and call him blessed but at the
same time they will brand as accursed
the arbitrary discrimination of coler,
in the public school* of Boston, which
rendered it necessary for their father,
out of his small means to make such
sacrifices for tbeir education.
Such a grievance, even independent
of any stigma from color, calls for re
dress. It is an equality which the Con
stitution and laws of Massachusetts re
pudiate. But it is not on the ground
of inconvenience oaly that it is odious.
And this brings me to the next point.
V. The separation of children in
the Public Schools of Boston, on ac
count of color or race, is in the nature
of Caste, and is a violation of Equali
ty.
The facts in this case show express
ly that the child was excluded from the
school nearest to her dwelling, the
number in the school at the time war*
ranting her admission, “on the sole
ground of color.” The first Majority
Report presented to the School Com
mittee, to which reference is mnde in
the statement of facts, gives, with more
fulness, the grounds of this discrimina
tion, saying, “It Is one of races, not ol
tolar, merely. The distinction is one
which the Almighty has seen fit to es
tablish, sad it it founded deep ia the
ROCHESTER. N. V FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 8. 1850.
physic*!, mental, and moral natures o
the two races. No legislation, no s«
cial customs, can efface this distinc
tion.” Words more aj.t than these t*
describe the heathenish relation o
Caste, could not be chosen.
This will be apparent from the verj
definition of Caste. This is bor
rowed from the Portuguese word cotta
which signifies family, breed, race.—
It is in India that is is most often ap
plied; it is there that we must go in or
der to understand its full force. A re-
writer or the subject
says, that it is “not only a distinct in
by birth, but it is founded on the doc
trine of an essentially distinct origin »i
the different races, which are thus un
alterably separated.” (Itoberts ot
Caste, p. 134.) This is the ver)
ground of the Boston School Commit
tee.
But this word is not now applied foi
the first time to the distinction betweei
the white and black races. Alexandei
Humboldt, in speaking of the negrne.-
in Mexico, has characterized them a>
a Caste, and a recent political and ju
ridical writer of France, has used tht
same term to denote, not o'nly the dis
in India, but those of oui
own igpntry. (Charles Comte, Traitt
de Legislation, tom. 4, p. 445, 129.)
In the course of his remarks he refer*
to the exclusion of colored children
from the public schools, as among “the
humiliating and brutal distinctions” by
which their caste is characterized. It
is, then, on authority and reason, that
we apply this term to the hereditary
distinction on account of color, which
is established in the Public Schools ol
Boston.
It is when we see this discrimination
in this light, that we learn to appreci
ate its true character. The Brahmins
and the Sudras, in India, from genera
tion to generation, were kept apart.
If a Sudra presumed to si! upon a Bra
min’s carpet, he was punished with
banishment. It is with a similar inhu
manity, that the black child who goes
to sit on the same benches at school
with the white child, is banished, not
from the country, but from the school.
In both cases it is the triumph of Caste.
But the offence is greater with us, be
cause, unlike the Hindoos, we ac
knowledge that men are born equal.
TO BE CONTINUED.
From the National Standard.
RIGHT OP BUFFKEGE.
Citizens, in addressing you in favor
of a disfranchised portion of the legal
tax-payers of New Jersey, I feel, from
the success our enterprise has already
been crowned with, that intelligence,
humanity and justice, may be styled
characteristics of the citizens of this
State.
Knowing, then, that I atn speaking
to an and humane people,
who believe in that noble sentiment set
forth in the Declaration of Independ
ence, that all men are created free
and equal,” &c., I take the liberty ot
speaking freelo to you, being one of
the disfranchised, and I do not believe
your hearts are so callous as not to
listen to the voice of the oppressed.
Although the above Declaration de
clares that all men are created free
and equal,” those noble words, in their
common acceptation, do not and can
not apply to me disfranchised people
I am now speaking of; because, indi
rectly, you deny the disfranchised are
men. You say all men are created
free and equal, and at the same time,
you deny that equality, which is noth
ing more nor less than denying our
manhood. If we are not free and equal,
(according to the Declaration of Inde
pendence), we are not men, because
all men are created free and equal.”
We confess there is something about
this we never could understand. We
are denied our rights as men, at the
«ame time are taxed in common with
yourselves, and obliged to support the
government in her denunciations. It
we are not men, why are we dealt with
as such when we do not pay our taxes,
or when we infringe the laws? When
ever we become a delinquent in the
one, or a transgressor in the other,
there is then no question about our
manhood; we are treated as men, to
all intents and purposes. If we are
men, when our taxes are due, and men
when we. transgress the laws, we are
men when our taxes are not due, and
when we do not transgress the laws.
There are many reasons why color
ed men should be enfranchised. We
have been reared in this State, and are
acquainted with her institutions. Our
fidelity to this country has never been
questioned. We have done nothing to
cause our disfranchisement; on the
contrary, we have done all a people
could do to entitle them to be enfran
chised.
It is said,/* there is not sufficient in
telligence amongst us to warrant the
restoration of those rights, and that
we are not sufficiently acquainted with
the government, fee.; but they do no|
say we have not sufficient intelligence
and knowledge of the government, to
warrant us to pay our taxes, because
we cannot thoroughly understand how
the money goes!
If we, who have elwaye been with
you, do not understand something of
the regulations of tb» country, how
miserably ignorant are the thousands
of voters who arrive in this country
annually, who know nothing of this
government, and but little of any gov
ernment! There to no just plee, and
apology for you to shut every avenue
to elevation, a&d than complain ot de
gradation; what eUa can be expected,
U fretM
while we are looked upon as things,
and treated worse than unthinking
animals?
In the Reaolution, colored soldiers
fought side by side with you in youi
struggles for liberty; and thire is noi
a battle-field from Maine to Georgia,
which has not been crimsoned by out
blood, and whitened by our bones. In
1814, a Bill passed the Legislature o!
Mew York, accepting the services oi
3000 colored volunteers. In the battle
on Lake Erie, Commodore Parry
fleet was manned chiefly by colored
stamen. Many black sailors Served
under Commodore McDonougff, when
ue conquered on Lake
Many were in **»♦'battle* 1 (TnalU
burgh and Sackett’s Harbor. Gen.
Jackson called out colored troops from
Louisiana and Alabama, and in solemn
proclamation attested to their fidelity
and courage.”
But sums of our enemies say, we
had better go to Africa.” We ask,
Why? They say, we cannot rise
in this country, the prejudices are too
strong to be overcome;” that we had
better be kings am ing beggars, than
beggars among kings.” As ueither ol
the positions is enviable, we will not
quarrel about the beggarly or kingly
conditions. We think thess titular
philanthropists who try to make the
people believe we can never rise in
this country, and that money must be
raised, by appropriation or otherwise,
to expatriate us, would do well to hold
their peace—give their extra change
to the poor—emigrate to the countiy
of their forefathers as quickly as pos
sible, and take their incendiary reports
along with them.
They say, this is not our country.”
We would ask, Who does it belong to?
If this country is yours, and was gain
ed by conquest, then we are parliceps
criminis, and are equally entitled to the
spoil.
Africa is urged upon us as the coun
try of our forefathers! If this is good
sophistry—and we think it will pass—
then it follows that all men must go to
the country of their forefathers: in this
case, the blacks will go to Africa, and
the whites to Europe; and where will
the mixed races go? We suppose, in
such an event, they would occupy the
intermedium—ihat is, the Mediterrane
an Sea! What would become of the
Indians? Would they go to the coun
try of their forefathers? If so, where
is it
This sophistry is not aesigned to ag
grandize any but the descendants ol
European nations: Africa is the coun
try for the Africans, their descendants
arid mongrels of various colors; Asia
the country of the Asiatics; the East
Indies the place for the Malays; Pata
gonia the country for the Indian; and
any place the white man chooses to go,
his country!
The country a man is born in, is his
country; and the humanity that would
oppress a colored man for a white
man’s sake, is no humanity for us; and
the man that will refuse to assist suf
fering humanity, on account of color,
i» undeserving of the name of man.
Think no longer that we cannot un
derstand and act as men. We do not
need another man’s ears lo enable us
to hear, or another man’s eyes, to en
able us to see; nor do w* require an
other man’s reason, to enable us to
think, or another man’s legs to enable
us to walk. The faculties and senses
are bestowed upon us as upon your
selves; and the inan who favors a sys
tem that prohibits us from hearing a
lecture, or seeing an exhibition, —that
restrains our reason, by shutting up
the avenues for information, and that
prevents us from passing certain (ima
ginary) lines, to visit a sick mother or
a dying wife, do transcend the proper
bounds of men, and belie that noble
sentiment that declares all men are
free and equal.”
Our design, in speaking frankly, is
not to upbraid you, but to show you
our maltreatment, and ask you to ame
liorate our condition, by giving us our
rights. We apprehend no unkind feel
ings from an intellectual people. Ig
norance and prejudice are the monsters
we have to.grapple with.
Your present happiness and pros
perity in this country, result from your
having the Elective Franchise If you
were deprived of it as long as we have
been, you would be degraded also.
We ask this privilege that we may be
prosperous and happy. We never
could become rivals. The meagre pro
portion that we bear to you in num
bers, is a sufficient guarantee against
rivalry.
We are willing to stand by the peo
ple of this country, among enemies
and friends, in prosperity and adversi
ty, in peace and ia war; all we ask is
to be treated as MS9.
J. S. ROCK.
FATHER MATHEW’S LETTER TO
JUDGE LUMPKIN,
Richmond, (Va.) Dec. 23, 1849.
Hon’d and Dear Sir: When you
condescended to address aa invita
tion to pay the illustrious body ovel
which you, with so much dignity pre
side, a visit for the promotion of the
sacred cause of Temperance, I was
not aware of the high rank as a Judge
with which your country has honored
you; otherwise I should not have
marked my letter private, but have left
it to your own prudence to bar# acted
as seemed to you most conducive tc
the good of that glorious cause, equal
ly dear to us both. The second lettei
which you kindly forwarded, t have
never seen; as on its reaching Boston,
I was confined at New York by a set
lis i t ivu t
GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
j and my physician, Di
Fraxer, and my Secretary, deemed
tdvisable not to speak to me en sac.
tn exciting subject.
I notr, honored sir, presume to in
rude a letter «*n your well occupie*
lime, inconsequence of an insiauatio
hrown out that I bad uncourteousi
declined.to reply to your letter reqeii
mg aa explanation of my opinions 01
ta all-important question. Whateve
errors I may bare perpetrated, inten
iooal disrespect to any correspondent
however humble his rank, is not ainon;
them—much less to personage in
seated with the high dignity of a Judgt.
I find, with ream, that my aingh
adVocacf oHlidV
ubsorbing cause of Temperance, is noi
in this great country, well understood
In my own beloved country, though
groaning under the weight of the hea
viest burden of misery that ever a
nation bore, I endured every specie*
>f calumny rather than risk the inflic
tion of the slightest injury on the Tem
perance cause, by advocating the Re
peal of the Union between England
and Ireland. In referring your Honoi
to the conversation I held with Mr.
Garrison, in the Adams House,”
Boston, I vainly thought my solemn
declaration of being firmly resolveq
not to interfere, in any, the slightest
degree, with the institutions of this
mighty Republic, would have been
amply sufficient to calm the anxieties
of even the most sensitive American.
I now, dear and honored Judge, renew
this declaration, and I most respect
fully urge that no man, who enjoy*
himself freedom in this emphatically
free country can require more from
one, who has meekly come among you
to advocate the high and holy cause of
Temperance, bearing in his hand the
purq.and spotless banner, with the Di
vine motto inscribed,"Glory to God on
high .peace on earth to Men." In the
anxious hope that this candid explana
tion will remove the suspicion of inten
tional disrespect, in making my reply
private, and my not having answered
your second favor, I have the honor to
be, dear Judge,
Your Brother in Temperance,
and devoted Friend,
Theobald Mathew.
SOIREE TO W. W. BROWN, IK
NEWCASTLE.
On Thursday evening the friends
and supporters of the anti-slavery move
ment, rnet at the Music Hall, in this
town at a public tea meeting to afford
Mr Brown, the American fugitive slave
an opportunity of addressing them on
the subject of slavery, and to present
him wiih a testimonial of their esteem
and regard. Between four and five
hundred sat down to tea. The Rev. J.
Pringle was called to the chair. He
congratulated the meeting upon the cir
cumstances under which they had met,
having amongst them an indiv dual be
longing to a race of men who hid long
been unrighteously and cruelly oppres
sed. He believed the cause they had
rnet to advocate was of the highest im
portance, and intimately connected with
the moral and religious advancement of
society.
The Rev. T. Pottenger participated
in the general feeling of satisfaction at
meeting Mr Brown on the present oc
casion, and giving him a cordial wel
come. Although there were many
things in our own country, which, as a
patriot and a Christian, he deplored,
one of the things that endeared it to him
was that it was the land of the free as
well as the brave. All kinds of slavery
deserved universal censure, but that
was the most outrageous which was
pa ronized and propped up by professing
Christians,
Mr. Brown, on rising, was enthusi
astically cheered. He fell thankful,
especially to the ladies of this town, for
the kind manner in which he had been
received as a representative of the
slaves of America. Long before be ar
rived in this country he had heard that
Newcastle wds head-quarters for anti
slavery in Great Britain, and when he
returned he should follow in the foot
steps of others, in giving his humble
testimony to their efforts, not only in
behalf of the American slave, but in
the cause of freedom throughout the
world. He gave an account of the
rise and progress of the anti slavery
movement. Benjamin. Lundie, a Qua
ker was the first to raise the banner ol
freedom in America, in the year 1818,
and to advocate gradual emancipation
for the slave. Travelling through
Massachusetts he became acquainted
with William Lloyd Garrison, then a
printer about 19 years of age, who as
sisted him in the management' ofhtf
newspaper; but Garrison who took a
higher ground, and advocated immedi
ate emancipation, shortly after remo
ved to Boston, where, by means of thr
press, he first agitated the question. H«
then visited England, and returned tc
America with that renowned champioo
of civil and religious liberty, MrGeorgt
Thompson, who, in spite of immenct
opposition, aroused the attention of the
community to the enormities of the aye
tern. Mr Brown then related the sub
sequent progress of the abolition move
meat down to the present time. He
was himself indebted to the Anti-Slave
ry Society tjf America for the positioc
he now occupied. It was engaged to
employing such men aa Frederick
Douglass as lecturers, in supporting
fugitive slaves, end in creating a feel
ing which would eventually abolish
slavery altogether. With the Bible
for a text-book, and England for thi
platform, he had no doubt of the result
J Much had hems already accomplish
4
ed by the agitation of this subject. Al«
though there is still in existence a la*
giving to tho slave nolaer the right o
pursuing a slave into the Free sut*»
public sentiment will not allow him t
be dragged back. Since the com
mencement of the movement, not onl;
nad the eonditiou of the slave been im
proved, but that of the five tbousan*
tree colored people in the stave states.
The coloured man formerly was no
allowed the elective franchise in man;
>f the Free States; now that right i
granted to him in all the New Euglao.
States but one. Mr. Brown conclude■
dis highly interesting address by thank
ing the meeting for their kindness t«
-mm httw reprrggmanvß on we merer
who were still clanking their chains it
the plantations of North America.
The Chairman then rose *ud pre
sented to Mr Brown a purse containing
twenty sovereigns, accompanied with
the following address:—" This purs*
containing twenty sovereigns is presen
ted to Wm. Brown by the follow
ing Indies and some other friends ofth<
slave in Newcastle, as a token of theii
high esteem for his and ad
miration of his zeal in advocating tlu
claims of his three millions of brethren
and sisters in bonds m the Souhern
States of America. They also express
their sincere wish that his life may be
long spared to pursue his valuable la
bours—that success may soon crown
his efforts and those of his fellow abo
litionists on both sides of the Atlantic,
and his heart be gladdened by the ar
rival of the happy period when the lasi
shackle shall be broken which binds the
limbs of the last slave.”
Mrs. Jno. Richardson, Miss Ann
Richardson, Mrs. Edward Richardson,
Miss Ellen Richardson, Mrs. Daniel
Oliver, Mrs. Morton, Mrs. Henry
Walker, Mr. J. Dixon, Mrs. Charles
Brightwen, Mrs. George Mennell, Mrs.
James Watson, Mrs. Thomas Potting
er, Mrs. Alex. Reid, Mias Pringle,
Mrs. Jno. Ross, Miss Potts, Mrs.
Fenwick, Mrs. James Robson, Mrs.
John Mawson, Mrs. John Hindhaugh,
Mrs. Burton, Mrs. Thomas Wicke,
Mrs. Stephenson, and Mrs Innis. The
purse, which was a very handsome one,
was made and presented by the Misses
Swan, Berlin Wool Repository, North
umberl»nd Street.
Mr. Brown felt deeply indebted for
this mark of their kindness, and could
assure his friends, that the money they
had so kindly presented to him should
be employed in pleading the cause of
his enslaved brethren and sisters. This,
with other testimonials, should go
across the Atlantic to cheer the heart
of bondmen, to stay up the hands of
the abolitionists, and weaken the grasp
of the tyrant. He could not forget the
slaves of America, for he had still (if
living) a mother, asister, and three bro
thers in slavery.
The Rev. J. Houston expressed the
extreme gratification he felt at the
manner in which the meeting had been
conducted, and the satisfactory nature
of the results which would follow. He
had great pleasure in proposing a vote
of thanks to the ladies who had inter
ested themselves in connection witi'.the
party and the testimonial. The reso
lution was seconded by Mr. Parsons,
and after a vote of thauks to the chair
man, and two or three Anti-Slavery
songs from Mr. Brown, the proceed
ings terminated.
Froin the Massachusetts Spy.
THE CLOVEN FOOT DISCLOSED.
One day, exactly, after the election
had taken place in the fourth district,
Gen. Taylor’s message to Congress is
permitted to reach us, in which the
TREASON TO LIBERTY of the ad
ministration, is fullv exposed. That
message which we publish to-day, it
will be seen, not only takes the Cass
ground of non-intervention, in relation
to the territories, but goes against the
establishment of any territorial gov
ernment for New Mexico, which shall
include that part of that country to
which Texas has set up an iuiquitous
and unfounded claim, for the purpose
of extending slavery over it, Texas,
if confined to her own proper limits, is
six or seven times as large as the whole
State of New York—vastly larger than
any one State ever should be permitted
to be, and the additional territory she
now claims is larger than all New Eng
land, and includes the capital and best
settled portions of New Mexico. Tex
as, as sbe is, must inevitably be divi
ded, on account of her unwieldy size,
as a State, and the only possible object
of giving her more territory would be,
to extend slavery where it otherwise
would not go.
The New York Tribune thinks to
admit California as a free state, and to
leave the settlement of the slave ques
tion to the territories themselves, “is as
much as a Louisiana planter could
he expected to concede.” Indeed!
So said the free soilers long ago, and
they said it was all he probably would
cooceed. And, when they said that
Gen. Taylor’s influence would be
thrown against the Wiimot Proviso,
they were denounced for it. But it is
now matter of record, and all the lying
pretentions of the Taylor papers, about
his favoring the Proviso are at an
end.
But, the Tribune very well remarks,
that although the message concedes as
much as a Louisiana planter could be
expected to conoede, “it, by no means
follows, that it should satisfy North#*’#
Freemen er their Representatives.”—
If Texas ie allowed to her Hi
country 8 P wUl be to slavery^
WHOLE NO. 111.
remaining territories of New Mexico
i ind Eastern California, then slavery
will be introduced there, and become
astablished, tliut when a State gov
ernment shall be framed the attempt to
exclude it will be unavailing. m The
Tribune well says, in reference to this
question:
New Mexico is this day in m o>ent
peril of subjugation to slavey. Her
people are few, scattered, effeminate
and spirit-broken by conquest; Texas
can crush her in a month if secured
•annuity in so doing. Withdrew from
New Mexico the protection of the Fed
erai Government, and Texas thrutties
her at once. By.that act, slavery
i fow pwliwl op eke 4Qd Anns
of north latitude, considerably further
North than it now has a tool hold in any
part of the Union. The swindling An
nexation resolves indeed hold out a
show of excluding slavery North of 30d
30, but that is a deliberate fraud. The
resolve only 9ays ‘Such Slates as may
he formed out of territory North of 36d
30m shall be Free Stales, and Tvxas
and her councilors will take precious
good care that no 'States' shall be
formed in that way, though she should
i be split iuto a dozen. ,The triumph of
i Texas in the pending struggle would
give to Slavery a new domain larger
than JYeto England, whereon there is
not now a slave and has not been these
twenty years. There is nothing ab
stract theoretical, conjectural about
this matter; THE TRIUMPH OF
TEXAS IS THE DISCOMFITURE
OF FREEDOM inevitabty. The work
of Freedom to-day is the preservation
of New Mexico, and to that every thing
else should give way.
But the Wilmot Proviso is the per
manent medicine of the State the
grand heroic antidote for the civil
passions that most excite the National
rapacity and corrupt the National
heart. Give a proviso that there shall
nevermore be Slavery in any territory
of the Union, and the South would
keep us carefully out of all wars of
aggression and conquest thereafter.
We need that as guaranty of tranquii
ty, a security against greediness, for
all time to come. Non-intervention is a-
PLAY UPON WORDS; for what
shall be the law of the territory in
question prior to any action on the sub
ject by its people? May a slaveholder
take and legally hold his slaves there?
If Yes, then you haqe Slavery estab
lished under the name of Non-Inter
vention. If No, then you have Anti-
Slavery, and in essence the Wilmot
Proviso. Why will grave men plav at
hide-and-seek with such terms as this
Non-Intervention?
MR. CHARLES DiCKENs’S SUBSTI
TUTE FOR PUBLIC EXECUTION.
Mr. Charles Dickens has written a
second letter on public executions.
His positions in reference to their de-
moralizing nature he states to be,
"First—That they chiefly attract as
spectators the most depraved of man
kind, in whom they inspire no whole
some emotions whatever. Secondly—
That the public infliction of a violent
death is not a salutary spectacle for
any class of people; but that it is, in the
nature of things, that on the class by
whom it is generallywitnessed, it
should have a debasing and hardening
influence." These positions he sup
ports by his experience at the late
execution. To prevent such spedacles
in a Christian country, and all the in
calculable evils they engender, he
would have the last sentence of the
law executed with comparative privacy
within the prison wall. "From the
moment of a murderer’s being sen
tenced to death, I would dissmiss him
to the dread of obscurity to which the
wisest judge upon the bench consigned
the murderer Rush. I would allow no
curious visitors to hold any communi
cation with him; I would place every
obstacle in the way of his sayings and
doings being served up m print on
Sunday mornings for the perusal of
families. His execution within the
walls of the prison should be conduc
ted with every terrible solemnity that
careful consideration could with pro
priety devise.
"Mr. Calcraft, the hangman, (of
whom I have some information in ref
erence to this last occasion,) should be
restrained in his unseemly briskness,
in his jokes, his oaths, and his brandy.
To attend the execution, I would
summon a jury of twenty-four, to be
called the witness jury, eight to be
summoned on a low qualification, eight
on a higher, and eight on a higher still;
so that it might fairly represent all
classes of society. There should be
present, likewise, the governor of the
jail, the chaplain, the surgeon, and
other officers, the sheriff of toe county
or city, and two inspectors of prisons.
All these should sign a grave and
solemn form of certificate (tod same in
every case) that on such a day., at such
an hour, in such a jaU, for such a
crime, such a murderer was banged in
their sight. There should be another
certificate from the officers of the
prison that the person hanged was that
person, and no other; a third, that
that person was buried. These should
be posted on the prison gate for twen
ty-one days, printed in the Gazette,
and exhibited in other public places;
and during the hour of the body hang
iog, I would have tbe belts of all the
churches in that town or city totted, and
all the shops shut up. that all might be
reminded of what was being done."
The Falcon sailed for New Orleans on 15, ult. Of Charges with 203 passengers
Slavery and the Missionary Work
As an illustration of the blinding influence
of slavery, we opy the following advertise
ment from lit* Aelieioua Heftld, a Baptist
paper, published in Richmond, Va.
WHO WANTS $35,000 IN PROPERTY?
1 am desirous to spend tbe balance of my
life as a Missionary, if the Lord permit, and
therefore, offer for sale my Farm, The Vine
yard, adjacent to Williamsb'urgh, and con
taining about 600 acres —well watered, well
wooded, and abounding in marl—together
with alt the crops and stock, and utensils
thereon.
Also, my home and lot in townt fitted up
as a boarding establirhinent, with all the fur
niture belonging to the same.
Also, about forty Servants, mostly young
and like.y, and rapidly increasing in number
and value.
To a kind master, I would put the whole
property at the reduced price of thirty-five
thousand dollars, and arrange the paymems
entirely to suit the purchaser, provided tbe
interest be annually paid.
SCERVANT JONES.
Would any Northern Christian believe it
possible, that a true disciple of him who came
to preach deliverance to the captive, and the
opening of the ptison to the bound, could as
sign, aa a reason for wishing to sell forty hu
man beings, a pious and benevolent desire to
be a missionary Mr. Jones does this, and
apparently in all sincerty Slavery has blind
ed him.
In the hope of seeming a purchaser, he as
sures all who read, that his forty servants are
mostly young and likely, and rapidly increas
ing in number and value. He thus virtually
claims the right to seize upon and hold as his
own, every child jhat may be born to any ol
those whom he calls his servants, and he pro
poses to transfer that right to the purchaser
of his human chattels. Yet he seems un
conscious that iii so doing he is giving the
highest sanction in his power to a practice
which the Scriptures rank among the highest
crimes,—to man-stealing Slavery has blind
ed him.
He takes credit to himself as being willing
to tell bia servants at a reduced price, provid
ed the purchaser is a kind raas’er. lie has
probably uever thought of the Question wheth
er it is possible for one who deals in mortal
men as merchandize to be kind; and he seems
equally oblivious of the fact, that, whatever
may be the character of the buyer, the per
sons bought may, by his death or insolvency,
speedily be thrown into other hands. Slavery
has blinded him.
And what of the editor and publisher who
is willu g to give cuirency to such an adver
tisemeut lor money? Is he not blind also?
Western. Christian.
Epistle of. Michigan Yearly eet ing ol
Friends,
Held at Livonia, Wayne county, by adjourn
merit from the 6i h to the 8t h, inclusive of t/u
1 0th month, 1849.
Dear Friend .—Couvened at this time ir
the capacity of a yearly meeting, we havt
been led gratefully to remember the bles
sings which have been bestowed upon us b\
the DivineGivet, not the least among which
ia the privilege of thus assembling in socia
and religious intercourse—to offer a willing
and heartfelt tribute of praise to the greai
Fountain of all Good. With high and holy
aspirations that we may be led into a life oi
polity—of goodness—of charity and love
and that being brought under subjection anc
obedience to Divine lequirements, we may bt
fitted to fulfil the duties which lie in oui
path, we have taken sweet counsel together
and been made sensible that a blessing is ir
store for those who labor in the Vineyard o
righteousness. Few io numbers and wear
in human power, we have passed through
baptism of trials, and, as we believe unde;
Divine guidance, have been enabled to pam
through it unharmed, and at a Ibrraer meet
ing to adopt for the outward regulation of th<
body, a code of discipline much in accordanci
with gospel simplicity and truth. Recog
nizmg ourselves as members of the Humai
family at large and children of one conmiui
Father, we acknowledge also the duty o
alleviating the distresses and sufferings of ou
fellow men to the exient of our ability—am
of testifying against the wrengs and injuriei
inflicted by arbitrary power upon the unfortu
rate and helpless in all parts of the world
We rejoice to know that our feelings of com
miseration for these wrongs are deeply svm
petbised with by a large and increasing num
berof aincere hearted Philanthropists, who*
•fforts for their amelioration are an honor t
humanity. Regarding well jjiiecled efforts o
this nature with a waim approuai, we are de
sirous of lending our aid to iheee measure
of Christan benevolence w hich aim at tb<
restoration of the rights of man, and at th<
raising up of the down-trodden image ot God
We are firm in the bslief, that man must am
will be elevated,—that he will yet be redeem
•d from the thraldom of Pi iestly and Kingh
power—that acting in accordance with th!
noble faculties of Humanity and the Divim
impulses of his nature, will throw**!} ihi
shackles of tyranny, and be enables to fill ihi
station of usefulness in the world designed bi
his heavenly Parent. We have viewed will
painful commiseration, the noble, self sacri
fleing, but perhaps wrongly directed efforts o
tbe oppressed millions of Europe to throw oi
a portion of the weight of tvranny they fel
no longer able to endure. They are agau
crushed to the earth We can do no mori
than pity their sad fate. It is a strong cor
roboration of the truth of the testimony, tha
“they that use the sword shall perish by th<
•word.’’ We fed not to blame them, they
will yet have better feelings and more en
lightened views. In how clear a light do the
advantages with which we are surrounded
appear when contrasted with the sufferings
which are the portion of the great mass ol
the human family; and it is earnestly to bt
desired that we may oe fully impressed with
tbe feeling of the responsibility that rests
upon us in view of these blessings. If wt
are imbued with love to God and his children,
can we monopolize those blessings to our
selves? Must we not feel the necessity ol
imparting them liberally to others? May we
be concerned individually to look at ihw mat
ter, and be encouraged to follow the promp
ting of duty. We have not been unmindful
or uninterested observers of the efforts made
towards reform in the religious world.—Here,
as io the nation at large, has been great com
motion, and here as there, signs of improve
ment are manifested.
We have seen and felt that commotion in
our own society, sud been made sensible that
some of the most cherished ties of Friendship
have been partially broken; but we feel' that
the spirit of love still reigns, and that, al
though affi lilies may be weakened, they are
not destroyed; and «e withhold not the hand
of Christian Fellowship from those whom,
though not disunited with us in an outward
religious connection, we ha ve never ceased
io love; ana wo shall strive to harbor no un
kind feelings towards any by whom we may
have felt ourselves aggrieved. There are
others, who like us, have passed through th*-
trying ordeal of being separated (rum a dear-
Id prized and long cherished religious connec
lion. With such we can truly and feelingly
sympathise; and although we may differ irotu
them in some views regaiding s religious or
ganization, or on some points of Christian
duty, we are conscious that one circle of re
ligious brotherhood may embrace us all, and
we are alike endeavoring for the establish
ment and diffusion of purity ia righteousuess.
love in religiuo, sud philanthropy towards
our fellow men.
ffeviog raised the standard of righteous
ness aloft, above the narrow views of aecur?»>*
policy, and inscribed on us folds tbe glorious
motto of “Love to God in the highest, peace
on earth and good trill to men,’’ let us unite
wife a humble dependence on tbe arm ol
Diviee Power—to a resolute determination
to fellow it to tbo end, showing on example
to the world, that we ere actuated by the
principles that wa profess, and gowned by
that aptiit of Low which we esteem it aaefa
a privilege to be enable to follow.
With aspirations for foe welfare ofhuman
iiy, and with the salutation of love, we re
main yonr friends.
Signed by direction of the Meeting:
Thomas Chamdleb, J
Abigail Llpham, J c er
Meeting of the Mnssnchnsetts Anti-
Slavery Society.
My dear Fbiend You have asked m<
for some account of my trip to Boston, ant
1 avail my self of the first leisure moment sinct
my return to comply with your request.
1 had long desired to bo in Boston during
one of their anti-slavery festivals, but nevei
until this season, had a convenient opportum
ty of realising my wish. At the first open
ring of the meeting, I must confess to somr
feeling of disappointment. The place of as
setnbling was as you know, Faneoil Hall;
capacious edifice, admirably adapted to largi
popular gatherings, but illy suited for thi
business meetings of a comparatively loca
Society. One consequence was, in this case
that the attendance though quite respectabli
tu nnmbers for the beginning of a meeting
appeared, in the midst of so much unoccupiei
space to be discouragingly small. Added t<
this was the meagre number of speaker
around the platform. Garrison, whose pres
•-nee seems almost indispensable on such oc
c isions, was confined at home by sickness
and it was said, would probably not be abl
to attend any of the meetings. Tne Foster
were absent; as were also Douglass, Re
mood, W. W. Brown, C. C. Burleigh am
others, whose voices have been wont at time
like this to wake up the echoes of the ol<
Cradle of Liberty. Then the atmospheri
temperature was at quite too low a figure fo
a good meeting. I have never yet seen an
considerable degree of life or warmth in a
assembly where the temperature ranged muc
below 70 degrees Fathrenheit.
The meeting was called to order by it
veteran President, Francis Jackson, we
known by reputation to all the readers of th
Freeman Eliza Kenny and Samuel May
Jr., were appointed secretaries. A busines
committee was chosen, consisting of the fo
lowing persons —Wm. L. Garrison, Wende
Phillips, Daniei Foster, Parker Pillsburj
Charles F. Hovey, Lucy Stone, of Wei
Brookfield, Annie W. Weston, of Wey
mouth. (The names of S. H. Gay and J
M. McKim were afterwards added.) Th
Report of tire Treasurer was read, showin
the receipts of the society for the past year t
have been $6lBB, including $2324 from th
Bazaar. The disbursements, were $5844
leaving a balanoe on hand of 244. Next fo
lowed the Annual Report of the Board*
Managers, d/awn up as usual by Edmun
Quincy. This was a masterly docuiuetn
giving a comprehensive history of the ant
sla\ery cause during the past year, and pn
seining in the writer’s peculiar and furcibl
maimer, all the striking facis which have lalle
out during that time. These Reports of Ih
Massachusetts Society, by the way, wlul
they will make easy work for the future hit
lorian, furnish in the mean time for the cot
venient use of abolitionists, a record, in ur
broken chain of all the most interestin
events that have transpired in connection wit
the cause.
At 1 o'clock the Society took a recess f<
dinner. In the atternoon tho meeting bega
to fill up. The Business Committee repoite
a series of some four or five resolutions, whic
will be found, with others, in another columi
Parker Pilsbury look the floor, and spoli
with his usual ability. He was followed b
E. Quincy and W. Phillips, who occupie
the remaining part nf the afternoon. In th
evening the audience was still on the ii
crease, and the spirit of the meeting was pr<
portionally more lively. The first speaki
was Samuel May, Jr. an unpretending an
somew hat diffident man, but one who, by if
dignity of his manner, and good sense an
pertinence of his remarks on this oecasioi
commanded general attention, and made
wholesome impression. He was followed t
Robert Edmonds, a Scotchman by birth, bi
who had been living in South Carolina ti
about two years since, when he wasconvicic
by a Lynch Court of being an abuliuonis
and of having attempted to teach some slavi
to read the Bible, and was adjudged for the:
offences to be tarred and feathered and banisl
ed from the State the whole of which set
tence was duly executed. Mr. Edmunds p
Idled his story with great e mphetty an
impressivners, and was listened to by tf
audience with marked manifestations of syn
paihy. Parker Pdlsbury and Wendell Phi
lips successively followed Mr. taking h
narrative for their text. They-held up th
outrage as an admirable comment on the valt
of our Union and the character of our coi
federates; and such a torrent of scorchinj
scathing indignation as they gave utterance i
on this occasion, 1 have rarely had the priv
lege of hearing. The audience seemed to t
in general sympathy with the speakers, ar
with slight exception, sustained them wit
manifestations of their approval.
But it was not until the next day—the set
ond day of the meeting—that the ball wj
fairly opened. By this time the feelings
the people began to rise toward blood-hea
The seats in the body of the hall were gei
erally occupied, while many persons stood i
the aisles. New speakers also came upo
the platform; several of them for the purpoa
of defending the Fiee Soil party, whiett i
the course of the discussions had been severe
ly handled. Win. A. White,of Watertowr
was one of these. He venerated, he said
the old pioneer society.—-He had been fc
many years, and was still, a member of ii
and was proud to co-operate in its ranks, bsi
at the same time, be fell at liberty to act wit
T tbe Free Soil party, and gave some of hi
reasons for so doing. These reasons seemei
to be satisfactory to a number of peisons whi
stood in the outskirts of the meeting, am
who testified their approval in the usual way
but they elicited no especial rejoinder iron
those to whom they were more particular)'
directed. Christopher List, formerly of Phil"
adelphia, also took ground on the same side
He bore high testimony to the anti-slaver
character and efficiency of Win. Lloyd Gurrt
son and his associate, but contended, that a
we could not be perfect in this world—as w<
were compeliu to be inconsistent, beinj
creatures of circumstances—as we were ob
liged to do things that were in theroaelvei
wrung, we had a right to resort to expedten
cy, and therefore fo act in the manner ap
proved by the Free Soil party. All thesr
aiguineuis, and others more specious tha
were not urged, were fully answered am
exploded—as I think, some of the Free Soi
men themselves, if they had been condid
woyld have admitted; and asm fact they did
admit virtually by declining to ente( the
arena in their own defence. Such men si
Henry Wilson, of Natick and others of the
same ilk, who were at home in the meeting
and on the platform, would not have let then
cause go by default, if they had anything
which they themselves could rely upon, te
say in its support.
In addiiiuu to Free Soiliam, foe Whig
party, the Democratic party, Lewis Cass,
General Taylor, Daniel Webster, Father
Mathew, the Church, and the State, Ac. Ac.
constituted topics of discussion. The State,
however—the Federal compact, that dark
“covenant with dea b,” came in for the prin
cipal share of anirualvetson. It would have
dime you good to listen on this subject to the
burning invective of Quincy, and the thril
ling and exciting appeals of Phillips— to say
nothing at all of the crushing hyperboles o»
Parker Pilitbury. Ail this, you, and the
,-eaders of the Freeman, who have heard these
cap better imagine than I can
describe.
But I bare no time nor space for further
details of this interesting meeting. If this
week's Standard or Liberator, should hot
furnish you the fail proceedings, 1 think, I
shell be tempted to prepare for foe next Vim-
man some fuither account of what transpired
during it* sessions.
1 most not close, however without savin*
something of the meeting on Thursday even
inf. It had been announced that on thu
evening, Betsey Blakely, the young girl wht
escaped a few weeks sines, from Wilmington
N. U. u> Boston, in the bold of a vessel, am
whom ths the captain of tbs vessel and hei
owner suspecting her to be secreted on board
had essayed in vain to smoke oat of her hid
ing place, would he present with soothe
escaped slave—a man —from the same place
The Hall was well filled, and among tin
audience and near the platform, was pointet
out to me Frederica Bremer, sitting by the
side of Cl.arlea Sumner, who bad accom
panied her to the meeting. Samuel May Jr
presented the girl to the audience—a most in
leresting looking creature she was —am
ielated her story. He wsa followed by Luc]
Slone, who made an appropriate and mos
touching speech. There were many over
flowing eyes in the house. Min Breme
listened with deep attention and evident feel
ing.
After Lucy Slone the colored man spoke
He was illiterate, but had the eloquence o
nature, and spoke with great efftci. Thei
followed Quincy in an admirable speech, ant
a Tier him came Wendell in one of his mot
eloquent efforts. The effect of the whole wai
electric, and the audience was deeply moved
Miss Bremer whom, I observed closely, kep
her eyes fixed upon the speakers as they sue
ccsBively took the stand, apd seemed to listei
with wrapt attention. At the conclusion o
the meeting, a collection was taken up fo
the benefit of the girl; and I nofeed tha
when the hat came round to Miss Biemershi
rose from her seat as if in lestimon) of he
leeiing, and put in her contribution. She hai
previously sent up to the girl a spiendn
boquet of flowers which she had brought will
her to the meeting. This was handsome 11
out distnguished Swedish guest, was it not
Garrison appeared at the meeting on thi
last day, and spoke with more than his usua
abi'ity. Theodore Parker also made
speech, part of which was intended for a de
tense or, or more properly speaking an apolo
gy tor the church, and the Free Soil party
Among the audience, at several of th<
sessions was our old friend Jno. G. Whittier
I an attentive, and I hope not an unedifie*
listener.
But I must stop, as the printer can onl
find room for what I wiite by crowding ou
other and perhaps mote profitable matter.
J. M. McKm.
~THE~ NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, FEBRUARY 8, 1860.
The North Star i» sometimes sent to friend
who do not take the paper, in the hope that tiie
mav see fit to subscribe for it. Subscriptions an
donations for the same may be safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederick Douglass, Rochester
N. Y.
QC^YVawted— Several Travelling Agents
to procure subscribers for the North Star. J
liberal commission will be given. Nor e need appl
i but such as can bring good recommendations lo
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
erick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
i
Remond and the Field
ANTI-SLAVERY MEETINGS.
I Mifflin W. Gibbs, of Pennsylvania, am
Charles Lenox Remond, of Massachusetts
will visit and address the people on the abovi
r subject, in the following places
January 31st, Thursday, Canandaigua
j February Ist, Friday,
3d, Sunday, Roshville.
i f* 4th, Monday, Penn Yan.
fith, Tuesday,
6th, Wednesday, Branchport.
I 7th, Thursday, Prausburg.
Bth&9th, Fiid.&Sat. Bath.
1 lO&llth, Sun.& Mo. Corning.
12th, Tuesday, Elmira,
Wednesday, Millport,
j Let our friends in the above plaices givi
our friends Remond and Qibbs a cordial re
ception, and secure for them large audiences
•j by circulating the notices far and wide, am
thereby advance our glorious cause.
Rochester, Jan. 30, 1850.
j Father Mathew.—This once great, bui
now unfortunate man, has written a letter u
j Judge Lumpkin of Georgia, which mutt sink
him to the lowest point of debasement it
the estimation of many of the be9t men tha
world affords, who until his visit to thii
countty, entertained for him the profoundea
1 respect, the warmest regard, and the highest
admiration. We place his letter to the in*
i famous slaveholder, Lumpkin, in anotliei
1 column. Let the reader contrast this servile,
cringing and fawning letter of Father Ma
thew, with the bold and manly address signed
by the same Father a few years ago. f.d.
Cheap Postage.—lt is cheering to ob
serve that our fellow-citizens in Rochester,
are awaking to the importance of a cheap and
uniform rate of pottage. The movement in
this direction, is decidedly lo be ranked as
one of the great reforms of the present day.
Every improvement in the means of carrying
and spreading intelligence, is step towards
the destruction of slavery and other forms of
injustice in onr land.—f. d.
To Correspondents.
The article from the Christian Citizen,”
to which our correspondent at Johnston, R.
1., refers, was inserted in our paper during
our absence from home. Its highly compli
mentary character was not the reason for its
insertion in the North Star. It is the custom
of our Publisher, when we are absent on sn
anti-slavery tout, to copy notices of our labora
from other papets. The notice from the
Christian Citizen, is but one of the many that
have appeared in the North Star from time to
time. Ii cannot be expected of us to explain
the reaaona for the different kinds of notices
called forth by our speeches. Our anti
slavery position is, we hope, pretty well un
derstood, at least among abolitionists. We
can only say, that, on all occasions, we bear
I an unequivocal testimony against a pro-slavery
church, a slaveholding government, and tbe
blood stained Union of these States. This
we do, in such language ss we are able to
command, and which, in our judgment, seems
best ealculated to convince Jhe minds, and to
convert tbe heart* of our hearers. This we
tritd to do in Worcester; god if we (ailed,
the error waa “of the head, and not of the
keurl.”—r. d.
We, solicit a continuance of tbe favors
of pur esteemed friend, R. D., of Phila
delphia.*-#. |k
The letter from our friend, J. H., of Leeds,
bee beta received.—f. d.
Hnnr Clay ud Slavery.
Long tad assiduously have the deride<
ami contemned advocates of emancipatiot
labored in the work of disseminating thei
principles and opinions at the North; am
anxiously have they looked forward to tbr
period when these opinions and principle
should be brought before the entire nation
That time has now arrived. Not withstand
jag that the slaveholders of the Sooth, will
equal assiduity have been active in originating
schemes, with a view to stay the progress o
these opinions and principles, and in fortify
iag the system of slavery against attack, b;
trampling upon the right of petition, by sup
pressing free discussion, by fettering th<
American press, by gagging the Americai
pulpit, and by enlarging their borders, —thr
judgment-day of slavery is dawn ng—thr
devices of the oppressor, thanks to the Got
of the oppressed, have most signally failed—
the wisdom of the crafty has been con
founded, and the counsels of the ungodl]
have been brought to noughtthe grea
movement for freedom baa rolled onwarr
with a speed accelerated in proportion to dir
amount of opposition arrayed against it
This should be a time of rejoicing with tin
1 humble laborers in the cause. We speal
advisedly, and in no canting spirit, when wr
i term 'bis cause holy for if to have triumph
ed over foes mighty and muliitudiuous—l<
have removed mountains of difficulty,—if tr
have, with one, chased a thousand,” ant
i Hllth two, to have put ten thousand tr
i flight,” be any evidence of the guaidianshi]
1 of Heaven, we can say, with one of old
Truly the Lord is with us.” This dread
ed agitation, so feeble in its commencement
now rocks the land, from end to end. Thr
vexed question of slavery has forced itse)
into the councils of the nation and, like the
rod of the Hebrew deliverer, ii has swallower
I up all other topics. Scarcely a day har
passed since the meeting of the present Con
t gress, but that the baled subject has been thr
1 theme of fiery discourse. Our entire ex
change comes to us laden with leaders ant
speeches on this once obscure and strictly
avoided topic. The public mind has reaohec
a point of interest and excitement unprece'
denied. The Sout hdemands the extensior
of slavery into ihe new terriiories; while
the North sternly insisis upon its exclusion
but words pass on borh sides, and the wave*
r of agitation rise higher and higher. It is ai
J this juncture that the ci&fty Clay, with his
characteristic temper and skill, has thrown
himself on the turbid waters of debate. He
comes, as he is wont to do, with that soft and
gentle diction, and in that spirit of concilia
tion and compiomise, for which he has been
1 so long and so highly distinguished. He
wishes, as usual, to revive the expiring em
bers of to soothe all asperities—
to allay all sectional jealousies, and to knit
j the nation into a firmer bond of union. He
has presented a .stung of resolutions to the
Senate, for the purpose, (to use his own lan
guage,) of making an amtcable arrange
I tnent of all questions in controversy between
fAe free and the slave States, growing out oj
the subject of slavery This object, it must
be admitted, is a comprehensive one and it
displays no small ambition that any one man
should essay to accomplish it. But let this
pass. V\ ill he succeed? is the question. We
think not. The plan which Mr. Clay pro
poses, like all Southern compromises, gives
everything to Liberty, in words, and secures
everything to Slavery, in deeds. He is most
generous in giving away that which he does
not possess; but is never betrayed into the
weakness of bestowing that which he has the
power to retain. The first Resolution of his
compromise goes the enormous length of pro
pping the admission of California into the
Union, without forcing her to open her golden
j domain to the foul and corrupting system o|
What s magnificent concession is
here! Ought not every Northern man to
bow, with grateful emotion, to the magnani
mous man by whom it is proffered This
liberal and generous concession, to be fully
appreciated, must be viewed in the light of
certain notorious facts. The first fact is, that
i California has already, with singular unani
raity, adopted a constitution which excludes
i for ever the foul system of bondage from her
borders. The next fact is, that she has
already received, from the present Adminis
tration of the United States goverument, es
pecial marks of its approbation. Another
fact is, with the growing population of Cali
fornia, her vast extent and boundless wealth,
she is, of herself sufficiently strong to com
mand respect, witnout asking the favor ol
any and ihe last and most important fact ol
all is, that the North has the disposition and
power to admit her into the Union, with oi
without the generous compromise, so nobly
and complacently presented by that father ol
compromise-, Henry Clay. Mr. Clay’s
proffered liberality is about as noble as that
of a highwayman, who, when in the power
of a traveller, and on his way to prison, pro
poses a consultation, and offers to settle the
unhappy difficulty which has occurred be
tween himself and the latter, by accepting
the half of the contents of his purse, assur
ing him, at the same time, that if his pistol
had not missed fire, he might haye possessed
himaelt of the whole. This assuming to
concede, as a mark of liberality, the right of
a State to enter this Union, without being
compelled to have the foul curse of slavery
fastened upon her, would be about as ridicu
lous as it is disgraceful; but that the slight
est token of concession, on the part of the
South to the North, is hailed by so many
doughfaces with marks of humble gratitude
The impudence of slaveholders exceeds ev
erything They talk abont the rights
of slavery, just as if it were possible for
slavery to have rights. The right to intro
duce it into the new territories! the constitu
tions! right, Ac* Shame on such insolent
pretensions! Slavery has no aroHrs. It is
a foul and damning outrage upon ail rights,
and has no right to exist anywhere, in or out
ol the territories. The earth is the Lord’s,”
and righteousness should cover it;” and
be who concedes any part of it to tha intro
duction of slavery, is an enemy to God, an
invader of hn dominion, and a rebel against
bis government.
The next resolution of Mr. Clay adopts
practically, the non-intervention doctrine so
oniverstlly held up to ridicule by the Whig
press of th« North, as the offspring of tbst
prince of sycophants, Gen. Cass- They are
tokwa j
Resolved, that the western boundary of the
Stsie of Turn, ought to bo fixed on the Rio
I del Norte, commencing one marine league
from it* mouth, tod running up that river t«
the Southern line of New Mexico thence
with that tine eastwardly, and oo continuing
I in the mow direction, to the line established
between the United Siatee end Spain, ex
cluding any portion of New Mexico, wbethei
lying on the earn or weet of that river.
Resolved, That it be pioposed to the State
of Texas, that the United States will provide
i foi the payment of all that portion of the
r' legitimate and bona jfcfe •public debt of that
State, contracted prior to its annexation b
the United Slates, and for which the duties
on foreign imports were pledged by the said
r State to its ci*ditor», not exceeding the sum
of in consideration of the raid duties
so pledged having been no longer applicable
to that object, after the aaid annexation, bu
1 t.aving thenceforward become payable to tht
i United States; and upon the condition, also.
u, *t the State of Texas shall, by some aol
j ema and authentic act of her Legislature, <n
of a (Convention, relinquish to the Uniteo
States any claim which it has to any part ol
New Mexico.
No comments on the foregoing resolutions,
1 are needed from us. We put them on record
J merely as links in the chain of this compio-
B lt will be seen that Mr. Clay does
not concede the justice of the claims which
B Texas has recently set up, for a large portion
k of New Mexico. So far so good.
e Tne fifth and siith resolutions are as fol
low*
a
Resolved, That it is inexpedient to abolish
Slav:ryin the District of Columbia, while
that institution continues to exist in the Stale
o ol Mjry land, without the consent of that State,
p wiihoqji the consent of- the people of the
Di-triCt, and without just compensation to the
ownets of slaves within thu District.
But, Revolved, That it is expedient to
prohibit within the District the slave-trade,
e iu slaves brought into it from States or places
f beyond the limits of the District, either to bt
sold therein as merchandize, or to be trans
e ported to other markets without the Distiict
d of Columbia.
8 If the abolition of slavery is to depend
1 upon the assent of the slaveholders of Mary
e lajad, and the other contingencies specified, ii
ia.caay to see that slavery la the District ol
Columbia cannot be reached until the lasi
j vestige of slavery has disappeared from tht
State of Maryland. When that event lakes
place, there will be no necessity for compio
mise. And so far as these resolutions hav«
e any bearing at all, their effect will be to cloj
the Wheels of emancipation.
it What is said about abolishing the slave
a trade in the District of Columbia, is a mere
n ruM since the slavetraders of Maryland can
e easily reside in Washington, and sell theii
slaves out of that city, under the very man
agement which pretends to obstruct the trade
n While slavery remains in the District, and the
e r *gh* to buy and sell is retained by the slave
holders, it will be imposaible to suppress the
slavf-trade there.
The seventh resolution in the series is at
follows
e
e Resolved, That more effectual provision
ought to be made by law, accotdiug to tlu
requirement of the Constitution, for the re*
titution and delivery of persons bound to set
n v ice or labor in any State who may escapi
e into any other State or territory in thi
Union.
X
n Hardened as we have had reason tq believi
n Mi. Clay to be, and inconsistent as he alwayi
s is, we scarcely expected such a resolution
e from him as the foregoing, at this time, ant
K in sucli a connection. When the sympathy
s of the nation has, by his eloquence and tha
8 of others, just been wrought up to the great
t est intensity for the Hungarian fugitives from
g oppression, that he should propose such i
e resolution, at suck a time, for hunting dowi
e fugitives in out own land whd are fleeing
s from a bondage and tyranny far more terrible
_ than that of Austria, is almost as shocking ti
e our sense of propriety, as i
n is revolting to our moral perceptions of rig h
t and wrong.
8 B ut we give Mr. Clay’s eighth and las
0 resolution, that the reader may judge for him
_ soil as to the benefit which freedom will de
s live from this mis named compromise. T«
v us, the whole seems like the handle of a
t jug—all on one side.
t Resolved, That Congress has no power it
prohibit or obstruct the trade in slavestaiweer
the tlaveholding States but that the admia
-9 sion or exclusion of slaves brought from om
i into another of them, depends eiclusivelj
l upon their own particular laws.
This resolution declares what is not true.—
If there be any meaning in words, the Con
r stitution of the U. S. does confer upon Con
gress full powers to abolish the slave trad<
between the States. Having already ex
tended this article beyond the limits we had
f prescribed, we bring it at once to a close.—
f r.
1
r Pawtucket Annual Fair.
j. The Anti-Slavery Women of Pawtucket
R. 1., will open their Fourteenth Annuai
Fait, at Manchester Hall, Mill street, Feb’y
1 20th, at 2 o’clock P. M., to continue through
r the following afternoon and evening.
At this period of their anti-slavery labor,
they feel it to be unnecessary to urge the im
portance of the cause they are seeking to ad
vance, or their desire for the continued co
operation of those who have for so many
years extended a helping hand, or to do more
than simply remind their friends,that the yeai
has rolled by which brings them again before
the public, with the products of thetr ingenu
ity and industry, as solicitors for patronage
and bounty, on behalf of the sighing bond
men.”
It ia hoped that the exertions new making,
will render the prospective Fair equal in in
terest to any previous one; and it remains
with the friend* of freedom to decide whether
it shall not be far more productive.
On behalf of the Association,
SUSAN SISSON.
Pawtucket, Ist Mo. 29, 1860.
Slavic** and State Madness.—The Ver
raont resolutions on the subject of slavery
were transmitted to the Governor of Virginia
who sent them to the legislature with a de
nunciatory message. An unheard of excite
inent at onoe broke out, and the following
among other ridiculous resolutions, were pto
pused.
Resolved By the General Assembly of Vir
ginia, that the resolutions from the State ol
Vermont, on the Commonwealth, with a re
quest titat they he returned to the Governor ot
Vermont, and that tbe Governor, of Vermont
be informed that the Legislature of Virginia
understood their constitutional rights, and
mean bi maintain them.
Resolved, By the General Assembly, that it
be and is hereby recommended to the peoph
of \tfftma, not to wiport, purchase, orcon
mma any amete, the produce or the menu
fiMtare of the State of Vermont, er of any
State in ibis Union, which shall address 10
Virginia the language of menace or of re
proach.
BloCkucy, near Philadelphia, t
Ist Mo. Slat, 1860.
Faroe rick Douglass :—ln the North Star
of the 26ihjnst., 1 find a petition to Qaeen
Victoria from the women of Ireland, and also
a letter from Belfast to thyself. (Janat thou
spare a little space for a few remarks upon
them
None can regret more than I, that the
treaties between Brazil and Spain, respect
ively, and Giest Britain, for the abolition ol
the African slave trade, have not been fulfilled
by the people of the former countries and 1
would rejoice if the British Government
could adopt some pacific measures to accom
plish this grand object. But Ido not believe
that any measure which does not strike at the
root of slavery itself, can ever destroy the
slavetrade. One of the fundamental princi
plea of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery
Soicety, is thus expressed That so long
as slavery exists, there is no reasonable pros
pect of the annihilation of the slavetrade, ano
of extinguishing the sale and barter of bumai
beings,” dtc. I believe this a great tiuih,
which should be kept constantly in view by
every laborer in the anti-slavery cause.
It is well known that the combined fleet
of Great Britain, France and the Uniteo
Slates, have not only tailed to put down th«
African slavetrade, but have actually in
creased its horrors. The women of Ireland,
in their petition, implore the QueCn to re
quire her ministers to adopt such meaJurts a*
they shall deem requisite to enforce the fulfil
inent of the solemn treaties with Spain, Por
ugal snd Brazil, for the total abolition of thu
nefarious traflße,” Ac. Thy Belfast corre
spondenl acknowledges that many peison.-
refused to sign the petition, because they
considered its language too strong, and at
indicating the propriety of a resort to wariikt
measures. This,” she says, “we shoulo
regret as much as they, provided the grealei
evil can be removed without resorting to so
dreadful an alternative.”
It is evident from this language, in connec
tion with this petition, that the signers con
template war against the offending nations
at least as an alternative in case other meas
ures fail. Will not American abolitionists
geneially, regret that their warm-hearted and
benevolent Irish sisters should for a singh
moment sanction the unchristian dogma, “thai
the end justifies the means.”
I like much better than this, the memoria
to the Queen, recently circulated in England,
and now awaiting, with 53,000 signatures ol
British women, a suitable opportunity foi
presentation, After portraying the oonlinuec
atrocities of the slavetrade, these petitioner:
say But while respectfully directing theii
Majesty’s attention to the Spaniards and Bra
zilians as the immediate perpetrators of tht
crime, we cannot conceal from ourselves tht
fact, that the late enormous increase of tht
slavetrade has been coincident with the in
creased consumption of slave produce in ihit
country. The Sugar Act was passed ii
1846, and the results are before the world
t hut the good and evil, how fearfully dispru
i purtionale There has been a plentiful sup
ply of cheap sugar in the markets of ihi
country, and an increase in the slavetrade o
more lhan three hundred thousand souls pei
annum to produce it! But are we so dead t*
feeling, as to desire that the homes of Africs
should be ravaged to add to the luxuries of i
British tea-table? Breathes there a womai
in our land, who would have her own cuj
sweetened, by throwing gall into ihe cup of i
fellow-creature? We are aware that it u
difficult to apply a remedy to evils which pre
vail in countries beyond the jurisdiction o
Great Britain; but we earnestly pray tha
every legitimate and peaceful means may b<
resorted to, on the part of your Majesty’s go
vernuient, to enforce on the governments o
Brazil and Spain fbe fulfilments of theii
solemn engagements, by which they' art
bound riot to permit another cargo of negroei
to be landed on their shores, and to give lib
erty to all those slaves who have been unlaw
lully introduced. And as nothing can bt
more clear than that slavery is sustained b\
1 the purchase of its productions, we propost
for ourselves an immediate and wide-spreac
abstinence from the slave productions of Cubi
aud Brazil, and in this we venture to hop*
for the high sanction of your Majesty’s ex
ample, and that you will be graciously pleased
to exclude these productions from the roya<
household.”
Permit me again to refer to the Belfast pe
tition. In reference to the fact, that the sum
of 1,300,000 was paid by Great Britain tv
obtain the treaties for the abolition of the
slavetrade, the petitioners “testify their eagei
desire to have the bargain, which their
fathers and brothers paid for, scrupulously
enforced.” Perhaps the ladies would be
startled if they were told that they them
selves, and their fathers and husbands, are
now paying the Brazilians and Cubans for
committing the identical act of which their
petition complains! Yet such is undoubtedly
the fact.
Agpin The petitioners wish these un
grateful nations (Spain and Brazil) may be
practically taught, without further delay, that
the British people will not submit to dis
graceful fraud.” This sounds like a noble
determination; but what does it mean?
Heretofore, the British people, and the Irish
100, have made themselves parties to this
“disgraceful fraud,” by purchasing its fruits:
thus giving ibe immediate pcipetrators the
inducement to commit it. Have they now
determined to cease this guilty connection,
sod no longer submit to be participants with
those Brazilians snd Cubans who, disregard
ing alike the laws of their own governments
and the treaties with Great Britain, continue
to putchaee those foully wronged and per
secuted people, the victims of the African
slavetrade,” tor the purpose of supplying the
people of Great Britain and Ireland with
cheap sugar and coffee? I fear their lan
guage will not justify an affirmative answer.
On the contrary, it would seem \bat, rather
than banish this sugar and coffee from their
table, and thus peacefully contribute to effect
the object of their petition, they would be
willing to resort to the dreadful aileron
tive” of overwhelming the people of Brazil
and Cuba—the guilty and innocent alike—
with the cruelties and miseries of war.
Shall we, indeed, continue la sta, thai
grace or liberty raey abound? “God forbid!”
Very truly thy friend,
SAMUEL RHOADS.
Tfc« Aaaaai Meeting of the Massed*.
,u AilMliwjr Society.
We copy, with pleasure, from tha Libera
tor, the following resolutions, adopted st the
recent meeting of the old pioneer society.—
They are well draws, and instinct with light
•nd life.
Resolved, Tt.st surprised as we are at the
simplicity of the Northern press and North
ern members of Congress, to urging so in
cessantly upon Southern Disuhmmisi* that
•heir course will defeat their object, since in
tne L mon and under the Constitution is the
on|y security for the permanence and quiet
enjoyment of slave property, we are still more
disgusted st the unblushing impudence with
which these same ediurs and politicians rise
I rum their servile knees m ask of ihe abuli
tionists the suppoit of that very instrument
which they have just proved tuba the cor
ner-stone of bondage, and a eomlort to the
oppressor.
Resolved, That we look upoo it .as one
source of rejoicing, even in the atrocious sys
tem of slavery, that the agitation for its ovar
ihrow, seems destined to waken to life the
torpid conscience of the nation—to quicken
its sense of justice, and to recall pure religion
10 the desecrated temples and whited sepul
chres which have so long passed lor its
shrine.
Resolved, That one chief reason why we
enter our lebuke against ihe Chubch is, that
having so long scattered the seeds of retorm
she sits still, now that the fields arc white for
the harvest; that she disowns the principles
which have sprung from her bosom, brands
hem as infidel, and gathers into her fold those
nmid sheep whom she can still govern, lest
.hey be corrupted by the •running to and
iro, and mcteaso of knowledge’ which her
prophets have foretold that, claiming to have
on her bi east plate of righteousness, sue re
luses to have anything tu do with the battle
claiming to hold the sword of the Spirit, she
keeps it nicely sheathed, while other men
contend tor the faith once dehveisd to the
saints; and in view of these facta, we pro
nounce her claim to be the Church of Christ,
tu uiJe blasphemy,
Resolved, hat, in view of the anti-slavery
progress ot the past year, it must be matter
of surprise to all coming time, ihat in a nation
-prung from English and Puritan ancestry,
ihe political arena should he the first to
iwaken to its duty on a great moral question,
ind that an agitation like that of ami-slavery
should owe its progress and suocess far mure
to the forum than the pulpit— to the-selfish
broils and time-serving motions at Washing
ton, than to those who assume to fill the pul
pus of Cooper and Mahew, and to teach the
Gospel of Christ.
Resolved, That we look on the present
session of Congress as the most useful since
the organisation ot the Government, and con
sider its character the result not only of u,,
virtue and independence of a tew leading
minds there, but of that awakened public
opinion of the tree States, of which Wasb
mgton is but the echo) and this conviction
gives fresh animation to the zeal with which
we set ourselves again to the work of re
educating a corrupt and besotted people.
Resolved, That we seek a dissolution of
this Uuiou, first as a measure of individual
duly 10 cease from sustaining a great evil
secondly, to secure free action and expression
lor that degree ot anti-slavery feeling which
even now exists in the nation, and which is
either soothed by the pride, cajoled by ihe
professions, or intimidated by the power of
ihe great national parlies and seels; thirdly,
by abstaining Irom all guaranties lu the mas
ter to leave ihe balance even between ihe two
races fourthly, to bring closer to the South
ern conscience the indignation and moral re
buke of the age, now contused and restrained
by a fusion of these States; and, lastly, to
bring to bear on the institution of slavery
'hose principles of the relative value of free
and slave laboi—of ihe unchangeable connec
tion of national prosperity wnh popular pro
gress and ihe elevation of ihe masses, winch
has swept chaiteiisro tfom Europe, and will
put an end it here whenever the break
water of this Union, which now shields the
£oulh from their reach, is removed.
Resolved, That in the lamented death of
David Ruggles, we mourn the list of an
early, active, sagacious and persevering friend
••I the Anti-Slavery cause—of oiih whose
professional ability makes his decease a public
loss, and whose position and success wete
doing much to weaken the cruel prejudice
against color—of one whose career proves
the power of individual intellect and eiiergy
in making their way under the most trying
disadvantages of race and position, and of
personal infirmity and ill health and that we
commend ihe con inet and character of Dr.
Ruggles to the study of a pro slavery com
munity, as evidence of the vigor of a race
borne down by so many burdens, and to uni
colored frieud's as a model, the imitation of
which cannot fail to secure their elevation
and improvement.
Kicoived, 'I hat it is with deep regret we
perceive that the poet Longfellow has pr.mti
ruled his fine poetical genius to eulogize the
blood-stained American Union as freighted
with the hopes and interests of humanity as
being a noble ship, invulnerable to the rock
and proof against the storm, built in the most
skilful and workmanlike manner whereas,
me history of its creation and its cruise de
monstrates it to have been
n i u, berk,
Built i th eclipse, and rigged with curses c’ark,*—
oiling thiough all her timbers, leaking from
stem to stem, laboring heavily on a atmm
tossed sea, surrounded by clouds of disastrous
portent, navigated by those whose objeet is a
piratical one, (namely, the extension and |>er
petuity of slavery.) and destined logo down,
•full many a fathom deep,* to the joy and
exultation of all who are yearning for the de
li vet anee of a gtoantng world.
Tnr following is a short, but happy and
and complete reply to the brilliant hallucina
tions of Carlyle, on the subjeet of West
India Emancipation, and the character of the
negro population of thoee islands. The il
luminated madcap, Carlyle, should blush, in
view of his effort to create contempt and
hatred towards a people who have already
suffered the greatest inflictions ever imposed
on any race, by pride, selfishness, and cru
elty.—r. t>.
From the British Anti-Shivery Reporter.
Mr. Cailyle, whose Anglo-German cru
dities, and mystified philosophies, have so
tickled the fancies, or heated the imaginations
of not s few amongst us, as almost to create
a school, hss recently so far diverged from
his usual course as to inflict upon the reading
world an Occasional Discourse on the Ne
gro question, the most salient parts of which
will be found in another part of the Reporter.
«*d this production proceeded from any
other pen than Carlyle's, we should have
allowed it to puss in ailence; but because it is
attributed to him, it must, forsooth, be no
ticed. Now, what is the staple of his die
course? Stripped of its inflated verbosity,
and pul into plain English, it affirms that the
emancipated slaves of the British colonics are
an idle and inferior race of men, whom Qud
hascreated to be tbe servants or slaves of white
men; who, in ihe enjoyment of their freedom
are content to live oc pig’s food,” that
Providence designed them to grow sugar and
coJfce sod spices for the rest of the world, in
stead of shaping out their own course and
'hat, if their be .no other means of seeurinr
this, the whip must be employed, to compel
These indolent two legged cattle to produce noble elements of cinammon, sugar, coffee, black pepper, and grey for their born lords. In the meantime, before the beneficent whip and the wholesome state of slavery can be restored, our philosophic teacher suggests that not a square inch of soil in those fruitful isles purchased by British blood shall any black man.
hold to grow pumpkins for him, except 01
terms that are fair to Bn tian; that is, “not j
pumpkin, Quashee, not a square yard of soi
till you agree to do the state so many days oi
service.” In this strain “the profound Car
lyle,”as be is styled, raves on. To reply ti
him would be simply to re-open the question!
which the common sense and common con'
science of mankind have lone ago settled
That the slaveholders of the United States,
Brazil, and the Spanish colonies, will a ware
him an ovation, there can be no doubt, bui
that the sensible portions ot mankind will si
tach any importcnce to his oracular utter
ances” we can ot for a moment to believe.
So far aa the emancipated classes in th<
Biiish colonies are implicated m this Dis
course,” we beg ty say that Mr. Carlyle’*
delineation <>f them ia perfectly untrue; anr
we shall be much surprised if he do not fin<
more than his match in some of the black
Quashees, of whom he affects to speak will,
such lordly disdain. The negroes in thi
British colonies are free no» will they evei
be re-enslaved, Mr. Carlyle and the Wes'
India body—that part of them, at least,whon
he so perfectly represents—to the conlrar)
notwithstanding. They will cultivate sugar,
or coffee, qr pumpkins, as it may please them,
for masters or for themselves, as they may
choose, but they will be no longer coerced ti
do either. A sounder philosophy than thai
inculcated hy Mr. Catlyle will be found in iht
opinion expressed by Sir Charles Grey, the
present Governor of Jamaica, whu says, in
one of hit latest despatches, the negroe*
appear to me to be generally as free from re
bellious tendency, turbulent feelings, anti
malicious thoughts, as any race of laboiers 1
ever saw or heard of. My impression is
indeed, that under m system of perfectly fan
dealing, and of real justice, they will comen
be ao admirable peasantry and yeomanry
able-bodied, industrious, and hard-working
frauk, and well-disposed.” Hitherto, they
have not had justice done to them; they havt
not been fairly dealt with; yet, amidst alt th*
difficulties ot their position, they have ad
vanced and had not they met with the se
vere check imposed upon them, as well a*
their employers, by the Sugar Act of 1846.
they would have made greater advances still.
Surrender ot Fugitive Slaves.
The readers of the North Star have al
ready seen the Bill introduced into the
United States Senate, by Mr. Mason, of Vir
ginia, providing for the recapture of fugitiv<
slaves. The subject was again brought up
before that body on the 28th ult., and furlhei
considered. We give, below, a few extracts
from the speech of Mr. Mason, together with
the amendment offered by Mr. Setvard, ol
this State. On the presentation of thi*
amendment, Hangman Foote got the floor,
and be s pane rod Mr. Seward all over with hit
wordy indignation and contempt. Mr. Sew
ard look no notice of his windy assailant—
altogether the best course with such an op
ponent.—f. n.
Here are the extracts from Mr. Mason’*
speech
What are the provisions of the fundamen
tal law? Ir< the fuuith article of the Consti-'
tiou there are two clauses providing for tin
extradition of certain classes of persons es
caping from one Slate to another—clause*
that lie in juxtaposition, conceived at th<
same time, and written upon the same page,
and each of them —I submit not only to
Senators, but to the world—each of them
plain, distinct, unequivocal in its import, and
the ends designed to be attained. Now, sir.
even should t succeed, though in a plain and
humble manner, to direct the attention of th<
country to the existing state of things n
relation to these clauses of the Constitution,
and not startle these people into rebellion
against the Government of their own Stales,
this law, if passed, will remain, I am afraid,
a dead letter npoe your statute-book, as th«
present law is. It is provided in the fourth
article of the Constitution as fellows:
A person charged in any State, with
treason, felony, or other crime, who shall flee
from justice, and be found in another State,
shall, on demand of the executive authority
of ihe State from which he fled, be delivered
un, to be removed to the State having juris
dicton of the crime.”
This is the first clause of extradition—a
clause operating in all the States—made foi
benefit of all the States, and each of the
Stites is alike interested in having it exe
cited.
Wnat is the other clause?
No person held to service or labor in one
State, under the laws thereof, escaping to
another, shall, in consequence of any law oi
regulation therein, be discharged from such
service or labor, bet shall be delivered up on
the I'laim of the party to whom such service
or labor may be due.”
Clauses, sir, having a kindred purpose—
the one designed to effect the surrender ot
lugilives from justice, the other designed to
effect the surrender of fugitives from labor—
each clause imperative upon the Governmem
framed under that Constitution, and upon th*
States who are parties to it. But this latter
clause, Mr. PresiJent, which provides for the
extradition of fugitives from labor, is a clause
that accrues to the benefit of some of the
States, and not to all. It accrues to ihe ben
efit of those who unhappily are now in the
minority—a minority, not in the number ot
Slates, but a minority in the number of the
people. The slaveholding States, air, are
alone interested in the faithful and proper ex
ecution of this second clause for extradition;
and we are to look to the majority to execute
that law, against which their people havi
been for more than a quarter of a century in
revolt—ay, sir, in revolt. I think lam war
ranted, then, in the apprehension expiessed,
that no law which can lie passed by the Con
gress of the United Slates w ill sfford the
remedy which this law is intended to supply,
unless it is sustained and supported by iht
people to whom it is addressed.
Sir, let me present another view of this
question. The clause which I have read,
was intended —upon the faith and honor of all
the States—to secute to the owners of these
fugitives from labor, the surrender of auch
fugitives, when they escaped into othei
Stales. This is not the only law of the
Consulution bearing upon slave properly
Far from it. These very Stales, now non
slavehuldiug States, when they became par
tial to that compact, not only with their eyes
open and their interests awakened, conceded
to the slaveholding States important privi
leges and advantages, but for which they de
rived ample equivalents. These veiy people
who are now so sensitive to freedom—whose
unwilling ears will not bear the name of slave
—these very people negotiated upon the basil
of stave property, and received ample consi
deration for the privileges we now vainly in
voke. Why, sir, they yielded to the South
ern States a repiesentaiion based upon tbit
property. They did more, sir; they agreed
by this compact, to withdraw from the con
trol of Congress altogether, for twenty years,
the right to prohibit the introduction of slaves
from abroad; and they went further, anti
bound themselves, under the solemn stipula
tions of the instrument, that when slaves es
caped from ooe State to another, they should
be delivered up, and for this and every con
cession they received most ample equivalents.
They received that equivalent alluded to bj
the Senator who sits before me. the Senatoi
from South Carolina, [Mr. BtiTLta.J the
substitution of an ordinary majority for a
majority of two thirds, in all laws affecting
commerce and navigation; and many of then
received still mere extraordinary equivalent!
ia a concession to all the States, whatevei
their aise may be, of en equality of repre
sentation in this body. Ooe of the greatest
difficulties that stood in the way of those whe
framed tbit instrument, was the demand upor
the part of the eastern States, or many ol
them at least, for an equality of representa
tion in the Senate; and not only was lhi<
equality conceded, but the further securitj
was given, that such equality should not Im
destroyed by any future amendment to lh<
Constitution, without the consent of the State
to be affected by it.
He again sets forth the rights of slave
holders, aa follows:
Now, Mr President, what are the right;
secured by the Constitution to the ipastei
whose slave escapes from his service into an
other State Desiring, sir, to •be very sc
curate upon this subject, I have written dowi
what I understand to be the right of the
owner in the recapture of a fugitive slave
within the limits of any and every State ui
ihe Union.
Mr. M. here read from a paper as follows
The Constitution of the United Stale*
secures to the master the same right of pr«*-
perty in his slave, and to be enjoyed and ex
ercised to the saim extent, and with the same
incidents, when thj slave escapes to another
State, which he held in the State from which
he fled, so fat as recapture is concerned.
He may take him wherever he is found, by
virtue of ownership, and without any war
rant or other process in law.
None has a right to interpose between thr
claimant and the fugitive, or to inquire whe
the slave be his, or whether he is a slave at
all, far less to molest or hinder him in the
capture.
He may enter peaceablv any enclosure or
dwelling where such slave may be found, tor
the purpose of taking him, and this witheut
committing a trespass..
He raav use whatever force may be neces
sary to eff ct the capture, without committing
'hereby a breach of the peace; and if forct
‘>e offered by the slave or others, he mat
iesist it to any extent that may be necessity
to secure the possession of his property.
These rights and this authority are incident
to the rights of property; attd the law of tltr
Constitution secures the owner in the exer
cise of them against any hostile law of the
State to which the slave may flee, should
such law be.
The Constitution does not confer these
rights; they are antecedent to the Constitu
tion, and arise as incidents to property undet
ihe laws of the Slate whence the slave es
capes. They have their sanction in the law
i»f the domicil.
The Constitution, however, as the supreme
l&w, recognizes thss right of property, and
i-arrtes its obligation and its incidents, for all
ihe purposes of reclamation, into every State
in the Union, and makes the law of the
lomicil, quo ad hoc the law of every State
in th*e Union.
Mr. Seward gave notice that he would, at
ihe propei time, move the following amend
ment to the bill, viz: strike out all after the
enacting clause, and insert the following:
When any person who shall have been sui
ted arrested as a fugitive from labor, under or
try virtue of the act af Congress entitled “An
net respecting fugitives from justice and per
sons escaping from the service of their mas
ters,” passed February 12th, 1793, shall Ibe
brought or come botore any judge or magi s
nate named or described in said act, the per
son at rested or seized tnay deny that he owes
such service or lalior as ts alleged, or that ihe
has escaped from such service or labor, itshtill
lie the duty of such judge or magistrate
whereupon to appoint a tune and place tolrv
the issue thus joined; and adjournments slmil
lie granted ftuin time to time, as shall be
found to be necessary for the furtherance cl
a just decision upon the fact; and the person
so arrested may give bail or security, to be
approved bv said judge or magistrate, for his
appearance at such adjournment, if it shall
he granted on his application; and the clai
mants shall give security to the person so ar
rested or seized, for the payment of damages
and costs, tf the claim shall be adjudged void;
such security shall be approved in like man
ner as aforesaid
And the issue thus joined shall be tried be
fore a jury of twelve persons duly qualified to
serve as jurors for the district, free from all
challenges or just exceptions, to bo. summon
ed by the marshal of the district by virtue of
a ven re, to be issued by such judge or mag
istrate; and exceptions may be taken by ei
ther party on such tria', and judgement slptll
be rendered for or against the claimant accor
ding as the verdict shall be.
The Judgement may be brought before the
district Court ol the United Staua for the dis
trict for revision by a writ of certiorari, to lie
issued out of the said court on security appro
ved by the district judge of the said district,
and such district court may affirm such judge
ment or reverse it with a veniri de novo and
in that case may proceed to try the said issue
and to render judgement according to the ver
dict to be rendered by the jury empanelled in
that court.
Sec;. 2. Be it enacted by the authority
aforesaid, That any person arrested or seized
as a fugitive from labor or service, shall be
entitled to a writ of habeas corpus, to be is
sued by the judge of the district court of any
associate justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States, as a writ ol right; and on be
ing brought before any judge by virtue of said
wiit, it shall be the duty of such judge
to proceed to a trial of the claiin by ju
ry in the manner before mentioned, if no tri
al has been had, and to discharge him from
such arrest, if such trial by jury ha* been had
and the claim has not been sustained before
the jury or the court which has cugtuzance of
the same.
And it shall be the duty of the marshal or
any other person having custody of any per
son sc arrested, to allow him ail necessary and
convenient time to employ counsel and sue out
such writ of habeas corpus.
Sec. 3. Any judge or magistrate who shall
disallow such a writ of habeas corpus, shall
forfeit to the person claiming it, five thousand
dollars, and shall also forfeit his office; and
any marshal who shall unreasonably hinder
or prevent such person Irum sueing out or
setvtng such writ ol habeas corpus, shall, in
like manner, forfeit five thousand dollars, and
forfeit his office.
Sec. 4. Jurors and marshals shall be enti
tled to have the same fees lor services to be
rendered under this act as they are entitled tu
receive for such services as jurors and mar
shals.in the Circuit Court of the U. States, tc
be paid by the claimant if his claim prevail,
and by the United States if his claim shall not
be sustained.
Sec. 4. The penalty of any bond to bt
given by a claimant shall not be less than on<
thousand dollars; the securities thereof shal
be residents of the district in which the pro
ceedings shall be instituted, and shall justify
their ability to-perform the said bond.
Hie amendment having been read, Mr. S
moved that it be printed.
Disgrncefnl Scene in the Legislature oi
New Yoik.
Application having been made, to tha
body, for the use of the Hall of Represents
lives, for a Lecture on Slavery, by our elo
quent friend, C. C. Burleigh, Mr. Mun
roe, (from what part of the State we know
not,) embraced the opportunity afforded bj
the occasion, of making a ridiculous, low
scurrilous attack upon the patties who madi
the application. We quote a specimen o
these proceedings to show, that even among
“honorable men,” there may, sometimes,
creep a creature so low and vulgar as to dis
grace a company of rowdies.
Mr, Flaw begged leave to aak the gentle
matt bow letting Mtaa Mott come in here,
would have the effect to dissolve the Union 1
[laughter.]
Mr. Momsoi 1 am glad, Mr. Speaker, t<
see things taking a playful turn here, and 1
thank my friend from King* for bit contribu
tion to a result which without his aid, J, per
bape, alone, could not bate achieved, i, air,
want to run due dung into Urn ground, ajtf
break it off, air. Yea, air, break it off. Now,
aa to Mias Mott, air—of whbm I know noth
ing—since hei name has been mentioned bj
my friend from King*—l msy be permitted
to reply, that whether her coming in her*
with a colored man would dissolve the Union,
has nothing to do with the point 1 am driving
at; but that if it had—l sa» it without mean
ing any offence—it might lead to that onion
—with which I hive nothing to do. [Roars
of laughter, which the Speaker could with
difficuly repress.] Sir, let me tell gentlemen,
in perfect seriousness and candor, that I have
a deep and abiding conviction, derived from
letters addressed to me fiom various quartets,
and from my own knowledge of the effects ui
this slavery agitation, that the cnutse we are
pursuing in that direction, we shall all of ua
find reason, when per ha pa it shall be too late
to regret. I do not believe air, that there ia
anv want ot patriotism here, but 1 do believe,
that there is a want of a proper appreciation
and conviction of existing and impending
danger. And I do hope, air, that we shall
not have Mias Mott, and-; —what ia the other
man's name? (asked Mr. M. of the gentle
men about him, under a burst ol laughter at
the phrase “other man”) —Tom, iatt? (he
continued.) 1 hope, sir, we shall not have
Miss Mott, and Tom, Dick and Hairy com
i mg on this floor, kindle up aoew the flame ol
abolitionism. This individual who writes to
,the Speaker, I understand, is a colored man.
Am 1 prepared to say that he will not m thie
hall, with himself as chairman and Mias Molt
aa secretary, re-echo sentiments on this slave
ry question akin to those ot certain gentlemen
here—but not, thank God, to me.
The Speaker here asked to be allowed to
state the application. The chair understood
Mr. Burleigh to be a gentleman who had lec
tured extensively on slavery, and on the
subject of peace.— [A voice “on what l On
the subject of peace. He was expected here
to-morrow, and the church where he was ex
pected to lecture being engaged, the use ol
this ball w&a asked for that Mr. Burleiuli
might lecture on slavery. If it was the
wish of the citizeus of Aibany to hear a lec
ture on peace also, they would piobably be
gratified.
Mr. Monroe. Sir, I am very glad to hear
that he ptoposes to lecture on peace. Slave
ry, I propose to lecture on myself. [Ligh
ter.] Sir, I should be veiy glad to have the
gentleman from Orleans (Mr. Burroughs)
go in and hear that lecture on peace. [Laugh
ter.]. He told us the other day, on this floor,
that if the question ever came to be one ol
slavery or peace, he desired no peace. I hope,
sir, lie will go in and listen to the lecture on
that subject.
Mr. Burroughs interposed. The gentle
man did notcorrectly state Ins language.
Mr. Monroe I shall not misrepresent the
gentleman. 1 took down his words, but my
notes are not here. The gentleman may rely
upon it that I shall give him an early oppor
tunity to withdraw them.
Mr. Burroughs did not withdraw one
wotd.
The .Speaker called to order.
Mr. Monroe had no doubt he was out of
order, for he was speaking on behalf of the
Union.
The Speaker The question is on granting
the use ot the hall.
Mr. Monroe I understood the Speaker
to say that the lecture was to be on the sub
ject of slavery or peace and I was stating
that on the subject of slavery 1 propose to
lecture myself.
Mr. L. YV. Smith moved that the use of
the hall be granted to the gentleman to deliver
a lecture on slavery. [Laughter
Mr. Monroe The gentleman need not
trouble himself; I am obliged to him, but my
constituents have made it entirely unnecessa
ry.—My constituents have given me a seat
here. M> constituents, who have an abiding
attachment to the constitution, and who are
in favor of the Union—ihey sent me here. 1
have a right speak without any special
permission. I have only to say that 1 have
confined mysell to the resolution as far as
possible. I hope me use of this hall will not
be granted, except for purposes connected
with legislation, in which all of ua take an
interest. I am opposed to granting the use ol
this hall for all purposes, and esperially for
the purpose of allowing Mu>s Mott and my
friend’s friend to lorrn a union here. [Laugh
ter
Mr, L. W. Smith said that such applica
tions were not unusual. A few days since
the use of the hall was granted to an agent of
1 the Colonization Society; last year to a color
ed lecturer on Slavery. This hall was the
property of the people, and the spirit of our
institutions favored the dissemination of light
and truth. The gentleman was mistaken if
he supposed he could change this practice. It
j seemed to be the drill of the gentleman from
New York to alarm the house with a dread of
the action of the South, and seemed to have
seized the occasion of this simple motion to
grant the use of the hall to an individual ot
whom he knew nothing. He ho|>ed leave
would be granted. The precedent haa been
established, and it was now too late to dta
i criminate.
j
Wo give the following extract from a
letter of our esteemed friend, Gerrit Smith,
published in the Liberly Party Paper. It
respects the recent General Anti-Slavery
Convention at Syracuse. We insert it with
much pleasure as an act of justice to him,
in view of our strictures on his course in
that Convention
Thu morning of the second day, 1 brought
a chatge against Mr. Foster. He convinced
me, that it was false. I expressed my re-
I gretat having brought it, and fullv rettacied
it. 1 have no doubt that Mr. *\>ster was
right—although the President and every one
ot the many, with whom 1 spoke on the sub
ject, had understood him, as 1 had. But we
were mistaken. Mr. Foster, whom 1 believe
to be a man of truth, knew his own wotds,
and their intended meaning better than we
did.
The evening of the second day, 1 offered
two resolutions—feeling just aa liee to offer
them as it I had been in a Liberty Paity Con
vention. At that lime, I neither asked, nor
as my noble brother Douglass, has it, “de
manded,” the vote of either the Convention
or the assembly upon them. I confess, how
ever, that, immediately after I had com*
down from the desk to my* seat, I did join in
the call of many voices for the vo e of the
Assembly. 1 confess, too, that 1 knew, that
the enrolled members alone had the right n
vote. But, the great assembly evinced mud
eagerness to vote. W hy should it not b«
gra-ified? I confess, moreover, (hat I war
curious lo know, how that large company ol
Whigs and Democrats, (be. <sJc., viewed
my resolutions. 1, over, and oved again, sairi
that, the vote of the Assembly would not be
the vote of the Convention; and that the
Convention would be, to no extent, responsi
ble lor it. That this vote can he defended by
paliamentary or other rules, is not to be claim
ed. It waa an irregular proceeding and, i!
at all blameworthy, 1 do not disown my shut
of tbs blame.
The morning of the third day, Mr. Pills
bury made a speech. I was charmed will
ita beauty and vigor. There waa, however
a passage in it, which was exceedingly offeu
sive to'Liberty Party men. 1 rose, and pro
tested against tt. Instead, however, of re
uacting it, he said to me “If the cap fin
you, you can wear it.” I should not hav*
risen, but that I supposed Mr. Ptllsburv in
tended to abuse and insult us Liberty ratty
men. 1 have, since, been assured by Mr,
May, and Mr. Burleigh, that he intended im
such thing; and that tie was only expressing,
iu strong and figurative language, bis cunvtc
tme, Ural the American .finii-Slaverv Sudan
•s right, and the Libeny Part) is vrotig. 1
w ish, with all my heart, that M r Frllsbery
had condescended to malfi this txplaasiKto
hiopeif. But, I will #oi wait tor h»**
so. will a«oept tb* -w»
of ht- w»ptanat»on at the lim
•mode, (they were my friends also,)
and express ray regret at having taken offence
at his unfortunate rhetoric. I cannot afford
10 do wrong to any one—and, certainly, not
to one, whom I believe to be so devoted a
friend of the slave.
One of our pleasant recollections of the
late Convention is, that not one word was
said in it to irapogn the raotivee of any friend
of the American Anti-Slavery Society—-not
one word to call in question his sincere devo
tion to the cause uf the slave. Another such
recollection is, thai, with so few exceptions,
all was kind and agreeable on the part of the
friend* of that Society. Who could ever tire
in the cause of moral reform, weie all his co
workers such men—efepaticaily such gentle
men—as S. J. May, C. C. Burleigh, Fred
erick Douglass, and Joseph C. Hathaway,
Respectfully yours,
GERRIT SMITH.
Anti-Slavery. The Massachusetts Anti-
Slavery Society commenced its usual yearly
sessi-.n Wednesday, in Faneuil Hall, Fran
cis Jaokson presiding. The Boston Courief
referring to the report of the Treasurer, aaya
that the receipts of the Society for the past
year have been $6189, including $3394, from
ihe late Bazaar. The disbursements were
$5944, and the balance on hand was $243.
The annual report of the Board of Mana
gers was read by Mr. Eimuud Quincy. It
is a long document, ai d goes at length into
all the subjects usually diacussed.
The pioceedings of Congress are first ta
ken in hand. The inauguration of President
Taylor is termed the induction of the slave
power into the seat of Government. In te
gard to the present alaveholding Speaker of
the House, the report says—•“ It is a cuiioua
instructive fact that, in the composition of
C. mmitteea, Mr. Cobb has given more weight
to the anti-slavery element of the House than
was done by his Northern piedecessor."
The Free Soilets a;e alluded to, and their
earlv dissolution predicted; ihe political unions
i i Massachusetts and New York are spoken
of as fruitless in their results; and the Free
Democracy is severely rapped for allowing
the defeat of Mi. Palfrey, who, the report
says, is the righiful head of the political par
ty opposed to slavery. The fact is stated
that for eleven years an escaped slave has not
been recaptured in Massachusetts, and this is
attributed to the anti-slavery agitation.
Fugitive Slaves. —Our readers will re
member the last great contest over a man
claimed as a fugitive from slavery, before
Judge Edmunds of this cay. The slave was
arrested by a Mr. Lee, (rum Maryland, with
out piecept, and gagged and chained, and
would have been taken out of the Stale, had
not Mr. Lee been stopped by the arm of our
State law. The slave, so called, wan brought
before his honor, Judge Edmonds, on habeas
corpus, and discharged on the ground that
Mr. Lee could not prove that Maryland was a
slaveholding State. He. proved that he had
held him as a slave, but failed to prove that
such holding was authorized -by the law of
Maryland. It appears from the following
that the Slate is taking up the case:
Important Movement. A resolution
passed the House ot Delegates yesterday, au
thorizing the Attorney General of Maryland
to test before the Supreme Court, if necessary
the [lower of a magistrate ol New-York City
in discharge from custody a fugitive slave.
The case in point is that of Mr. Lee. of Fred
erick. who some time since arrested his run
away slave in New-York, but he was subse
questly discharged by one in the Magistrates,
and allowed to escape. The hill also pro
vides for paying Mr. Lee the expenses incur
red »»f iiis unsuccessful effort to regain posses
sion of the rnn-away Balt. Sun.
The Anglo Saxon Race.— Elihu Burritt
lias one of his telling articles in ihe last num
ber ol the Christian Citizen. He says that
the Anglo-S/xoo race numbers 60,000,000 of
human beings, planted upon all the islands
and continents of ihe eadh, and increasing
everywhere by an intense ratio of progres
sion. He estimates, if no great physical rev
olution supervenes to check its propagation,
that in less than 150 years it will number
800,000,000 of souls, all shaking the same
language, centered to the same literature and
religion, and exhibiting all its inheient and
inal enable characteristics. The population
of the earth is fast becoming Anglo-Saxonized
by blood; but the language is more self-ex
pansive and aggressive than the blood of that
race. He concludes with the following glo
riou* vision
Thus the race, by its wonderful self
'expansive power of language and blood, is
ifust occupying, and subduing to its genius, all
the continents and islands of the earth. The
grandson of many a young man who r“*de
these lines, will probably live to see the day
when that race wilj number 800,000.000 ol
I human beings. Perhaps they may comprise
a hundred nations or distinct governments
Perhaps they may become a grand constella
lation and commonwealth of Republics, per
vaded bv*the same laws, literature and reli
gion. Their unity, harmony and brotherhood
must be determined by the relations between
Great Britain and the United States. Theii
union will be the union of the iwu worlds.—
If they discharge their duty to each other and
to mankind, they must become the united
heart of the race they represent, feeding its
myriad veins with the blood of moral and po
litical life. Upon the slate of their fellow
ship, then, more than upon the union of any
two nations on earth, depends the well being
of humanity, the peace and progress of the
world.”
Political Trials.
No men labor hurder for a smooth path, or
make mure concessions of principle* or aacn
fives of leeling for popularity, and none have
a tougher way, or mure frequent rebuffs, than
politicians. If this game in Solomon's time
was as perplexing as now, he might well
pronounce lile all vanity and vexation ol
spirit,” a text which we doubt not has been
related more sincerely than many snot: er
Scripture sentiment. A travelling rorit
spondent of the New York Evening Post,
(probably Biyant, the idio,) writing from
Wilmington, N. C., alludes as follows io the
trials of the poor Southern Whigs under their
misfortune of victoiy.
I iiave lost no opportunity of listening to
the taik of Southerners on the subject of sis*
very, in the cars, stages and steamboats.—
The Southern Whigs are in a sad quandary
about it. The Democrats are pressing then,
hard, taking the lead in the agitation, and io
r> spudding to the Calhoun Address white
the Taylor men do not know what stand it
may eventually become necessary lor ihem
to take. This Iras, you know, all along been
the principal uae lor which Southern politi
cians have plied the slavery question—to
electioneer st home, each party claiming to
he the real Simonpure of pro-Slaveiy, and
seeking to fasten upon the oiher the charac
ter uf affinity aid association with the Anti
Slavery patties at the North. The Demo
crats now hs*.» theii opponents on the hip.
Being in opposition, they have the fall
swing, ami can fool it to the top ot their
bent.” in the game of political pok< r, tbey
now holt, the cards, and are bragging high
nothing, indeed, short of Dissolution of the
Union, if the Proviso ptevsils. The
*re unwi bug to appear behind-hand in seal
and couisge, yet dare not, if they woulds
come up to the scratch on this issue, in view
of the poaaibih y thel the events of next
winter may At we them into the position uf
ihesupportetsof Taylor, the Uuion, Proviso
and til! Meanwhile, they are on the anx
ious sesi, and sre twisting about veiy un
»n»fi*ft«b!y tbsre. Nor have 1 the Ipase
tppxehensMm ‘bat the hudjf pf the Demon at(
push the agnation much beyond the
nainly unfit A «mch it if
Dtaso* I*** 1 *ui be in earnest for
VT..-«o f but the Union was never in 1«m
j danger.
fall justification of hi* abandonment by the
Sooth. It i* regarded aa an act corres|>ond
ing, on hit part, to Vdh Baton's response to
the Free Soil norainstiwti, being supposed to
be prompted by a spirit of resentment against
the South. Still, iam satiafied, from what I
have seen and heard, that ao inconsiderable
number of hit Southern friends eltug to Clay,
whether ot no. .The day is out distant whan
these respective acts will be precisely thoeu
which glory will choose to record on the
tombs of the two noble and illustrious patriots
above named.”
Truckling to thk slave power. —Not
long since, lbe Columbia (S. C.) Telegraph
denounced Godey’a Lady’s Book because
one of its editors, Giace Greeuweod was a
contributor to the National Era. Mr. Godev
waa very prompt 10 send a conciliatory letter
to the South Carolinian editors, in which he
aavs, 1 have been publishing the Lady's
Book for twenty years, and tf tn that time one
line can be found aspersing in any way South
ern institutions, 1 am willing to fail under
your censure.'* He coucludes by assuring
the Southern gentlemen that Grace Green
wood's name is withdrawn from the cover,
where it wan placed iiominaily as editor, she
never having had the least control over the
columns As if to color hia dastardly con
duct morn deeply, he declares that Sartain’a
Magaaine, (a rival work,) it liable to the
censure, and encloses two aniclea from that
work iu order to prove the charge of guilti
ness.
In allusion to this affair, the Christian In
quirer well says, We do not know what
sort of books ladies choose to read’ but we
ate sure no Northern womcm, no Yankee girl,
no wife, or daughter, or mother, wilh tree
blood in her veins, will consent to receive into
her house a Magaaine which is so faithless to
all honorable ideas, in its course as this’”
Mr. Godey has chosen his market; let him
peddle hia wares there to his heart’s content.
As tor the South, that will despise his course
no less than the North. The South may love
the treason, but it feels only contempt for the
trailer. The Northern man, who, for the
sake of a few Southern dollars, beltays Nor
thern principles, is as sure of receiving the
spaniel’s reward aa he is of deserving it.”
As to character, Mr. Godey’sia evidently
composed of such elements as have distin
guished certain Northern politicians at Wash
ington, who have long been in the market,
and in regard to whom Southern purchasers
have their price current as definitely ar
ranged as they have in regatd to colored
slaves.
Educate your Daughters. —When living
among the Choctaw Indians. I held a con
sultation with one of their principal chiefs
respecting the successive stage of their pro
gress in the arts and virtues of civilized hie;
and, among other tilings, he iuformed me si
their first start they fell into a great mistake
—they only sent tlietr boys to schooal. They
became intelligent men, but they married un
educated and uncivilized wives and the uni
form result was, that the children were all
like the mother; and soon the laiher lust his
interest in both wife and children. ‘Ai.d
now,’ said he, ‘if we could educate only one
class of our children, we would choose ihe
gills; lor when they become mothers, they
would educate tlietr sons,’ This is to the
point, and it is true. No nation can become
lolly and permanently civilized and enlighten
ed when the mothers are not, to a good de
gree, qualified to discharge the duties ol
‘the home work of education.’— Rev. S. Dyer.
Genius —He is not the greatest man.
who, with a giant intellect, slailles the mul
titude as w ith sudden thunder. The expres
sion left behind is not agreeable and lasung.
He who would stir up the soul, must have a
calm and sympathizing heart. It is this which
vibrates the human heart, leaps in ihe warm
pulses, and urges us to deeds of mercy. The
man whose liesri is moved by pure benevo
lence, breathes thoughts that will never die.
Like the silent dews, they de-cend in ihe
bosom, tocheet, to bless, and to save. The
bteath of true life is thus fell in the heart.
Such a writer blends genius with humanity,
and is destined to sway the multitude, and
urge them on to deeds of mercy aud unending
ulorv. i
Receipts
For Out North Star, /or tkt Wttk ending
February 6, IB6o*
A W Turner f 2,00
Win L Willson 1,00
Marshall Pierce 2,00
Julius Bi,by 2,10
Char'es Herd I/O
Win R Hallowed 2,00
Daniel Gatens 2,00
Hugh For men 2,00
Rufus E Fillmore 2,00
Peter Letter 2,00
Robert B Forten 2,00
Jolin William* 1,00
Joobirn Johnson 1,00
James Johnton 1,00
Elisa Young 1,10
Dr. J H Blanchard 2,00
Silas Barrett 2,00
William Caird, Glasgow 2/8
Andrew Patou, ditto 2,40
Elita Wigham, Edinburgh 2,04
Miss Grant, ditto 4,08
CAUTION TO DRUGGISTS AND THE
PUBLIC.
The unparalleled and astonishing efficacy of Dr.
Wistar’s Balsam of Wild Cnerry, in all the Dis
eases for which it is recommended —curing many
cates after the skill of the best physicians was un
availing—has effected a large and increasing de
mand for it. This fact has caused unprincipled
counterfeiters and imitators to palm on spuriou.-
inixtures, of similar on me and appearance, for the
genuine Italsam
Be not deceived by Impostors. The public
should be careiul to get the Genuine Article, at the
imitations and counterfeits being got up by those
know nothing of medicine, or of the diseases of the
human system, are entirely unsafe uud dangerous.
From the Columbus (Ga.) Enquirer, Feb. 8, 1848.
WISTAR'S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY.
We have an utter abhorrence for all kinds of
puffs, and especially such as are calculated to mis
lead the public as to the curative virtues of patent
medicines There are, doubtless, many* catchpenny
nospams, daily vended and lioutjy used, which are
not only of no value, hut absolutely deletei urns to
the physical umn Theta ate other balsams, ex
tracts, it c, not embiaced p<rad venture, in the
pharmaceutic arrungewedt* of the apothecary- or
regular physician, that are in certain coses, of more
va'ue than all the prescriptions of Galen put to
getlier. W istar’s Balsam of W ild Cherry is ad
mitted by the concurrent testimony of those who
have proved its virtues to he of the latter class.
In colds and consumptions, asthma an t chronic
coughs as well as in any other kmdipd diseases
it has been used with almost universal success. In
a climate so changeable as this, superinducing and
aggmvaing tlie family of diseases above al uded to
this medecine lias a value not to be estimated.
None genuine unless signed BU ITiJ on the
w rappel.
For sale fay Post it Willis; also by Wit*
PITKtR.
THEY WONT FOOL YOU IF YOU DONT
PURCHASE. THEjR TRASH.
Since Sjoaa’s Ointment, Condition Powders,
and Tania Pasta have earned a great repuUiisn
and sell readily several persons in afferent parts ot
of he country, have commenced imitating them by
manufacturing spurious articles. At first they wil
reootnend their nrei>arntii>ns as superior to Sloan’*
and when they find that Pill won’t gu down, tbe\
will tall another falsehood by raying that then
Ointment, Condition Powders aad t gniun Fairtr
are made from Sloan’s recipes, aad that they sell a
larger quantity Iqr b*e money.
Stmra of wotdd be considered honcrabk
geiiiteeran tides. Notwithstanding
P"M *pmuaded any other■ a»«l*
urn promise that it is just ufkiti
Hold fast to diet which has ptew; pe gooti, and
by so doing, the Rascals won't iool you with thei>
Humbugs, nor injme the lepotutioii of Sloun’v
preparations.
M> See Agents’ nemes at the head of Sloan’s
Column. For farther particulars aad testimonials,
get pamphlets of agents.
THE MAN who was suspicious.
A TALE WITH A MORAL.
In a recent number of an English
magazine we find the following sketch,
written by Alfred Crowquill. Our lim
its will not permit us to give the long
and less interesting introduction; but
will simply say, that a moderately
wealthy, but very happy and contented
country gentleman had gathered his
family and friends around a bright and
ruddy fire on Christmas Eve, and, in
accordance with his long established
custom, relates the following story:
"You all know the sheep sheds in
our lower croft, by Windy Gap," said
he. "Before I built those sheds, when
it first came into my possession I had
often endeavored to reclaim it; but at'
ter many vain attempts I gave the ob
stinate bit up in despair, and put it to
its present use. It is a desolate look
ing nook, and in its appearance carries
out to a miracle the scenes of happi
ness enacted upon its site.
"William Mawby was born there, of
parants well to do in the world, with
everything about their farm in a thriv
ing slate. As a mere child, he was of
a peevish, solitary nature. This I have
heard from good authority*; for I only
became acquainted with him as I en
tered my first school, and he was just on
the point of leaving it.
Consequently when I returned
home for good to my parents* roof, he
was a grown man, and I a mere strip
ling. As so short a distance divided
his father's farm from ours, I soon fell
over him, and renewed our acquain
tance. His occupation was a foreshad
owing of his miserable character; he
was diligently inspecting a hedge that
divided a close from the main road. He
thought that he had discovered evident
traces of some one having passed into
the field through the said hedge.
"I laughed at his wise and serious
face drawn into a loik of profound
wisdom for so trifling an occasion.
‘My young friend,’ said he, ‘men
are ruined by trifles It is not the
broken hedge I value; but I suspect
the trespassers passed through that gap
on some unlawful purpoes; but I’ll be
even with them now my suspicions are
aroused.’
i “With that he tapped the side of his
nose, and went on his way most sus
piciously uncomfortable."
"Tne next aay, to the amusement of
the village u large board appeared star
ing over the hedge, with the announce
ment ofall sorts of penalties and spring
i guns to the unwary trespassers. His
old father was a merry-hearted, plain
old man, who never put himself under
the infliction of doubts; for he believed
that men were all petty considerably
honest, as the world went, and he had
not the slightest idea that ne was better
*thati anybody else, consequently, he
smoked his pipe in calm contentment,
and let the world wag.
"His suspicious son soon disturbed
blissful equanimity; for, much to his
annoyance, he found padlocks placed
J upon things that had hitherto been open
-i to all. His neighbor had to wait for
his glass of ale while he found his son,
n and his son found the key; for he was
not always sure where he had hidden
it.
Poor William’s principal torment
was his suspicion of his own father.
His lynx eyes soon fathomed the soft,
easy temper of his parent, and saw a
thousand ways wherein his disposition
might be turned to account by the cun
ning dealers on market days, when the
ale was uppermost at their simple
1 friendly dinners, in winch the old man
delighted, and which it would have
been difficult to wean him from—as,
though yielding and good natured, he
was too tough and independent to be
dictated to by anybody. Another
painful thorn in his side was an aged
aunt, lo whom the old man took a well
stored weekly basket. She lived on a
small stipend in the market town. She
had two daughters. The old man often
took his sobering cup of tea with them
on his return. He might leave them
something comfortable. The thought
was tormenting.
"His suspicion carried him every
market day to dodge his father, with
the show of sincere affection; which
the unsuspicious old man, with his
heart glad reported to his simple dame,
who rejoiced with him over their im
agined treasure.
“He was at the time about eight and
twenty, and, dodge as he would, he
could not escape a pair of bright ’eyes
and rosy cheeks that caught him in the
before mentioned market town on one
of the suspicious visits.
"He soon scraped an acquaintance,
after having by great assiduity found
out that her father was a retired miller,
of good fortune, and that she waa an
only child. He thought this a safe in
vestment. His position and appearance
soon gained him pernfission to continue
his visits, which were in tact continual,
for he was always under the apprehen
sion that when the cat is away, the mice
will play, and that some other might
snap up his valuable mouse. He did
not feel quite assured about the old
man’s possessions, so made it his busi
ness in a thousand tortuous ways to
make inquires.
"This could not go on quietly, but it
at last reached the old miller’s ears,
who good naturedly put it down to the
young man's prudent foresight; but, on
inquiry, he discovered that it proceed
ed from a doubt of his respectability
and veracity. The miller was a
shrewd old man, but whether the
young suitor might not be wanting in
some of the qualities he thought neces
sary for the girl’s happiness.
"The old banker was a chum of the
miller’s, through whose instrumentality
he had invested large sums in excel
lent mortgages. He allowed himself
to be pumped by Mr. Mawby, with the
connivance of the miller, and conse
quently, by winking replies to hie eager
inquiries, made out the miller to be
little less than insolvent.
"William’s affectioas sank down to
zero, aWho’ it had for months been burn
ing, according to hit own account, like
two or three Etnas combined. His
suspicions, then, were true. What aa
escape! thought he. So it wm, for the
fortunate girl. He proceeded to bis
intended one’s boose. It being dark,
he crept over the garden palings, and
sneaked up towards theshuttir. He
vainly attempted to peep through the
crevices. Here, while endeavoring to
make out a murmured conversation, in
which he thought he heard his name
mentioned, he was pioned by the mil
ler’s dog, who, poor brute, was cursed
with the youth’s fault Of suspicion, and
suspecting that he was a thief, had
seized|hirn accordingly. Here was rath
er an awkward denouncement, and he
had no right there, the path to the door
lay another way. In his anxiety he
had trampled down the flower bed. He
stammered out some excuse upon his
release, and departed home crest fallen,
hoping that they did not suspect his
suspicions.
‘‘The next morning he received a
very polite note from the miller, beg
ging him not to repeat his visits, as the
dog appeared to have taken a sudden
dislike to him in which he was joined
by himself and daughter. At the same
time, to ease his mind as to the state of
his affairs, he begged to say that any
respectable young man who pleased his
daughter’s taste, might have $lO,OOO
down on the wedding day and as much
more at his death.
“For once William suspected right
—viz: that he had made a sad fool of
himself.
“Not many years after this, he lost
his simpleminded mother. Her death
gave him plenty of exercise for his
miserable fault—for he was continually
laying traps for the servants, as if they
had been so many mice, to catch them
out in their little speculations, uutil his
espionage mude all around him so un
coinf triable that many of the old do
mestics left the farm in disgust.
“Whenever he met me he was full
of some deeply laid plan to And out
some miserable suspected one, and
often in the midst of his self-sufficient
tale he would start off on a sudden
without any apology, because a sus
picion had flashed on his mind that he
had not locked his corn bin or preserve
cupboard before he had left home.
“His whole occupation seemed to be
to find out things that would make hinr
uncomfortable. The food preserved
for his own table he constantly dotted
or nicked that he might see, upon theii
being brought to the table again, mhe
ther any one had ventured to purloir
even the smallest particle.
“He had a habit of laving straws ir
keyholes, that would be displaced upor
the slighest attempt to insert a key
and discover the intended thief. I havi
known him to walk to a considerabli
distance, and then return and push tin
door to assure himself that the lock ha<
shut.
“He once got in his own trap. On<
night late, he nad an engagement to gi
to some neighboring dance; so he sen
all the servants to bed, and locked th<
front and back door, and to make al
secure hid the ponderous key. On hi
return, he could not for the life of hin
think of the hiding place; he therefor*
had some hours to walk up and dowi
in the night air before the day dawn
when the imprisoned servants discov
ered him feeling about in hen coops an*
under hatches lor the missing key. A
last his hiding-place struck his memo
ry, and he had the mortification c
withdrawing it before the tittering ser
vants, who thus discovered his suspic
ions, and the retribution on himself ii
his long night watch.
“His father, who had now grown to
aged to attend the farm, left it entirel;
under his control. his suspicion
had nearly finished him off—for h<
suspected, during his harvest, that hi
shocks were pulled and robbed in th
night. He therefore hired b clown t
sit up as a watchman, armed with ai
old double-barrelled gun loaded will
slugs. The first night his suspicion
would not let him sleep. This watch
man might be bribed to connivance, am
he get laughed at. He was soon dres
sed and creeping along the hedge
where his suspicions were' verified b.
hearing low murmuring voices. Hi
crawled close in their vicinity, am
there i i covered that it was the poo
fellow’s wife who had brought hin
something comfortable for his supper
He crept back cautiou.-ly, but stumblinj
over the root of a tree, roused the at
tention of the watchman, who dial
lenged him immediately. He lay stil
for a moment, hoping he should escapi
observation in the darkness of tin
night, but upon his first attempt to raisi
himself, lie received about a dozet
slugs in his arm and back, for hit
watchman was a better shot than hi
suspected. *The picking out of lhes<
by the village surgeon was a positivi
satisfaction to the many to whom hii
character had become pretty w«l
known.
“Thus he went on until his father’)
death left him entirely alone, for hii
suspicious mind never allowed him t<
form a friendship, which can only b<
true and valuable where there is i
mutual confidence and an openness o
character. He, by his suspicious na
ture, had locked himself within himself
which is the most fearful of imprison
ments.
“His father’s wealth enabled him t'
please his fancy—so to set hismind a
ease, he sold his farm, that he might
as he thought, be freed from a hest o
pilferers. He built himself a house
iu the croft 1 mentioned at the begin
ning of the tale, the very prototype o
himself. It bad a most suspicious 100 l
—it bad but one door, but windowi
were placed so that he could see a>
that was going on no every side.
“He bad only one domestic, an ole
cripple without relations, who was to<
lame to go out, and of course had n<
visitors. It was well known in thi
neighborhood that he had withdrawi
large sums from the different country
banks, where it had been invested bj
his father, and it was strongly believet
that he kept it in the bouao, as be sue
pected that these speculative gentle
men might one fine morning turn out t<
bo insolvent. Hia walks were confioet
to within sight-wf hia solitary mansion
the precincts of which he was nevei
known to leave as age crept on him
but wandered about like an unquie
•spirit around his self-imposed tomb.
“In the course of time bis old do
mestie was conveyed to the vUlagi
church yard, much less solitary that
the abode which she had left.
“Fora moment the old man atoot
and gazed after the bearers, his whin
hair blown about by the cold wintry
wind, and his shrivelled hand shad
ing his eyes. He turned slowly away
from the sight and closed the door.
_ “Many were the kind offers from the
simple people of the village; but all
offers he resolutely declined, as he sue
pected that his age and wealth were
[calculated upon to a nicety, and a
thumping legacy looked forward to as
the reward of some trifling attention.
Distant relations began to hover
around him and make tender inquiries.
These he always met on the door-step,
which was his only audience chamber
for such callers.
“That solitary old man sat, as long
as day lasted, at a window everlooking
the high road. Here he passed his
life in reading and watching. The
same wiudow showed a light burning
throughout the hours ofdaikness, for he
always appeared upon his guard,, as
upon any person approaching nearer
thau usual to the premises, his ears
were saluted by the deep growl of his
dog, who never led the house any more
than his master.
“About two years after the decease
of his housekeeper, the nightly light
was missed from the window, for it had
become quite a guide to many coming
to the village. This of course caused
some oi the more curious to approach
the house by daylight, and reconnoitre.
But there sat the solitary old man ap
parently deeply occupied with his book,
and also his god, peering through the
glass. This satisfied them, and they
departed.
“A week had elapsed, and the vil
lage was alarmed by the appearance ol
Mawby’s dog, careering in a wild man
uer through the village.—Upon being
noticed, he sped hack to the croft.—
Many followed him, and upon approach
ing the house and luok ng up at the
window, they perceived the old mat
still sitting unmoved, though the
frame had been smashed by the dng’«
exit. After repeated calls, which inei
with no attention, they forced theii
way into the house.
“Everything in the chamber was
neat and comfortable. There sat tht
poor old man in bis arm chair deac
and alone! Of what value now wert
those riches which had closed his hean
against ail the pleasures of this beauti
ful world, against the possessions of t
wife, children, kindred and friends:
There was no will, for he suspected llu
moment he made it in any one’s favor
that would be his last moment of securi
ty. It therefore spread itself for mon
evil, and was split up into more tliar
forty lawsuits lor the benefit of everj
One but the rightful heirs.”
The Sultan. ln his Expediton t(
the Red Sea, Lieut. Lynch thus speaki
the Sultan of Turkey:
“He is a man, young in years, bu
evidently of impaired and delicate con
stilution. His wearied and spiritless
air was unrelieved by any inaicatioi
of intellectual energy. My feeling sad
dened as 1 looked upon the monarch
and I thought of Montezuma.—Evi
dently, like a Northern clime, his yeai
of life had known two seasons only
and had leaped at once from youth tt
imbecility His smile was one of th<
sweetest I ever looked upon; his voice
almost the most melodious 1 had evei
heard; his manner was gentleness it
self, and every thing about him be
spoke a kind and amiable disposition
He is said to be very affectionate, U
his mother in especial, and is generous
to the extreme of prodigality. Bui
there is that indescribably sad expres
sion of his countenance, which it
thought to indicate nn early death. A
presentiment of the kind, mingled per
iiajw with a boding fear of the over
throw of his country, seems to pervade
jai d depress his spirits. It truth, like
Earn >cles, this descendant of the Ca
lipus sits beneath a suspended fate,
'l'hrough him the souls ol the mighty
mouarchs who have gone before, seem
to brood over the impending fate of an
empire which once extended from the
Atlantic to the Ganges, from the Cau
casus to the Indian Ocean.”
How Holland wa» gathered to
gether.—No description can convey
the slightest notion of the way in which
Holland has been gathered, particle by
particle, out of the waste of waters; of
the strange aspect of the country, aad
the incessant vigilance and wondrous
precautions by which if is preserved.
Holland is, in the fullest sense, an
alluvian of the sea. It consists of sand
and mud rescued from the ocean, and
banked up at all tides.—Produced by
the most dexterous and indefatigable
exertions, it can be maintained only by
artificial means. If the efforts by which
it was redeemed from the waters, were
to be relaxed, ihe ocean would reassert
its rights, and the whole kingdom would
be submerged. The slighest accident
might sweep Holland-mio the deep. It
was once nearly undermined by an in
sect. Indeed, the necessity of destroy
ing insects is so urgent, that the stork,
a great feeder on them, is actually held
in veneration, and almost every spec
ies of bird is religiously protected from
injury. Bird-nesting is strictly pro
hibited by law. The drift of all this is
palpable enough. But it ia curious that
the very existence of such a great
country should depend on such guaran*
tees. Bentley's Miscellany.
How to Make tour Friends In
visible. —This is a rare device, only
lately pome to be known, and is prac
tised as follows; take a slip of thin sil
ver paper, auch as is wont to be cashed
at ye Bauk of England, and be sure
that it hath “£2O” imprinted conspic
uously in one of the corners thereof.
When your friend a'sketh for small
loan, ye which be promieeth shall be
promptly returned, peas your talisman
into his hand, and let him keep it about
his person until he shall depart, ye
which he doeth presently, with many
courteous speeches. If this cunning
feat hath been well contrived, you shall
not be able to see him for some time
afterward. This will answer nine
tiau out of ye ten. Pvnch.
Mp. Calhoun. —The corespondent
of the New York Commercial Adverti
ser says that aome of the friends of Mr
Calhoun assert that be will never again
he able to take an aetive part in public
affairs, his health being completely
prostrated. He is new about seventy
years of age.
