LETTER TO THE HON. WILLIAM
J. NELSON, MEMBER OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
New York, 11th February, 1850.
My Dear Sir:— As one of your im*
mediate constituents, permit me to ex
press to you my views on the resolu
tions lately submitted to the JSenate by
Mr. Clay, They are skillfully drawn
and their true import seems to me to be
generally misunderstood, and in many
instances, intentionally misrepresented.
Various considerations combine to ren
der these resolutions acceptable to
that class of our northern politicians,
who are anxious to be popular at home,
without forfeiting their share of the pa
tronage which is dispensed at Wash
ington, by the slave power. The res
olutions are eight in number, and I will
examine them in their order.
I; This proposes the admission of
California us a state, without the im
position by Congress of any restriction
on the subject of slavery, and “wii/i
suitable bouiularut These word# im
ply that the present boundaries are un
suitable, and must be altered. Let
me call your attention to the true rea
son for this reservation about bound
aries, and respecting which the reso
lution is silent. During the war, and
before the cession of any territory, the
House of Representatives passed the
Wilmot Proviso, prohibiting slavery iu
all the territory that might be acquired.
On this, the south, with one voice, de
clared that they would not submit to the
exclusion of slavery south of36deg 30m.
The legislature of Alabama resolved
that they would not recognize “any
enactment of the federal government
which for its object the prohibi
tion ot slavery in any territory to be
acquired by conquest or treaty south
of the line of the Missouri compromise.”
At a public meeting in Charleston,
and at which I believe Mr. Calhoun
was present, it was resolved that it
would be debasing and dishonorable to
submit to the prohibition of slavery
“beyond what is already yielded by
the Missouri compromise,” and innu
merable have been the offers and eff
orts of southern politicians to extend
tho compromise line to the Pacific.
Hence it is not the exclusion of sla
very in California 4o the north of that
line, that offends the south, and to ad
mit this anti-slavery state, bounded on
the south by 3(>deg 30m is doing no
more than what the south has consen
ted should he done, and is in no sense
a compromise. But the free state of
California extends south of this line,
and hence her southern boundary is
unsuitabte, and hencfe Mr. Clay’s reso
lution makes a tacit provision for de
priving the stgte of so much of her ter
ritory as hia southern friends have re
solved shall not be consecrated to free
dom. Mr. Foote, of Mississippi, obser
ved in relation to this resolution,
“1 see no objection to admitting all Cal
ifornia above the tine of 36d«g 30m in
to the Union, provided another new
•Lave state be laid off within the pres
ent limits of Texas.” To this laying
off another new slave state, Mr. Clay’s
compromise opposes no obstacle.' Had
Mr. Clay proposed the admission of
California with “its present bounda
ries,” his offer would,so far have been
a compromise, ns taconcede something
to freedom es a consideration for the
surrender of the Wilmot proviso.
SECOND RESOLUTION.
2. The next resolution declares that
“as slavery does not exist by law, and
is not likely to be introduced” into any
of the conquered territories, they
should be orgautsed under territorial
joveromemi, wityput any restriction
RKiHT IS OF NO SEX—-TRUTH IS OF NO OOJX)R—
on the subject of slavery.—The propo
sed assertion by Congress that slavery
does not exist by law in the territories
is hailed as an all sufficient balm to the
consciences of those who recoil with
horror at the idea of being in any .de
gree responsible for the extension of hu
man bondage. And what, let me ask,
is this declaration, but the enunciation
of a bald truism? We all know there
is no law, Mexican or American, recog
nizing slavery in the territories. Mr.
Clay adroitly avoids drawing any infer
ence from this acknowledged fact, but
expects th.it the good people of the
north will draw for themselves the in
ference, that because slavery does not
exist by law therefore it is prohibited
by law. Property in elephants does
not exist by law in New York, but still
it exists, because it is not prohibited
by law. Mr. Calhoun and the great
mass of the slave-holders contend that
in the absence of a prohibitory law,
men, women and children, as well as
horses and sheep, may be held as prop
eriy in any territory oi the United States
and this doctrine Mr. Clay himself no
where denies. Nay, further, Mr. Cal
houn insists, and I believe truly, that
slavery never has been established by
law in any country—that after proper
ty in man has been acquired, then, and
not before, laws are passed to protect
it. The slaveholders ask for no act of
Congress authorizing them to carry
their property into the territories.
All they ask is that no prohibitory law
shall be passed, and then they will car
ry their slaveswhere they please, and
keep them by their own strong hand
without law, till in their territorial leg
islatures they shall pass such laws on
the subject as they shall find needful.
Not a word Mr. Clay’s compromise
contravenes this legal theory, or pre
vents its reduction to practice.—Slave
ry did once exist by law in these terri
tories; why does it not now? Mr. Clay
answers the question by telling us that
Mexican law abolished it. Now he
perfectly well knows that the Mexican
law not only abolished but prohibited
slavery. If that law was repealed by
the conquest, then the old law was re
vived, and slavery does now exist by
law. If the Jaw was not repealed by
the conquest then the law is still in
force, and slavery is now prohibited by
law. Why, then does not Mr. Clay
fairly and honestly declare that slave
ry is now prohibited by law? Be
cause this would indeed be a com
promise, and would render the proviso
nugatory, and would secure the terri
tories from the curse of slavery. The
very emission of such a declaration
implies a denial of an existing prohibi
tion; and in such denial he wellknowns
the wholo south concurs. So far,
then is Mr. Clay’s inconsequential tru
ism from being a compromise, that it
surenders to the south even more than
she has demanded, and throws open to
the slaveholders the whole territory
north os well as south of the
line. Rut to reconcile the north to
his total surrender, they are to be fa
vored by Congress with an opinion
that it is not lik.£lv that slavery will
be introduced into any part of the con
quered territory.—What is only im
probable, is at least possible, and
hence this legislative opinion would,
in fact, be a solemn and official de
claration, that there is no legal pro
hibition to the introduction of slavery.
It is not pretended that this opinion
which Congress is to volunteer, is to
have any legal force whatsoever. But
what; if time shall prove the opinion
to have been erroneous, will it be any
consolation to the north for having by
their act blighted immense regions
with human bondage, that they have
been fooled by an opiuion? Mr. Downs
of Louisiana, in reply to Mr. Clay, as
serted that there were already in the
territories “some four or five hundred
slaves;” and another member declared
that there would now have been plenty
of slaves there had not their masters
been apprehensive of the proviso. If
Mr. Clay is correct in his opinion, the
slaveholders have been strangely mis
taken. It Was openly avowed during
the war, that the territory to be con
quered south of 3tideg 30m should be
a slave region. Before our army en
tered the city of Mexico, we were offer
ed all Texas proper, and the whole of
New Mexico and California north of
thirty-seven degrees; an extent of ter
ritory equal to nine stntes of the size
of New York. The offer was rejected,
and thousands were slaughtered to] ob
tain territory south of36deg .‘Kim to be
peopled with slaves. From the first
mention of the proviso, our northern
editors and politicians in the slave in
terest opposed it as unnecessary, be
cause, as they assured us, the soil
and climate of these territories were
unsuitable to slave labor. The slave
holders knew better, and never endor
sed the falsehood of Iheir allies. Mr.
Waddy Thompson, of South Carolina,
Minister to Mexico, announced to his
brethren, writing of California, “sugar
rice and cotton find there, their own
congenial clime.”- Recollections of
Mexico, p. 333.
Did the south make war upon Mexi
co only to acquire free territory? Is
she now threatening disunion and civil
war for a privilege she “is not likely”
to exercise? 1
Upon what does Mr. Clay rest his
strange, unnatural opinion) Almost
exclusively on the exclusion of ala very
from tbe Californian constitution. He
does not pretend that this exclusion
was owing to the unfitness of the soil
and climats for slave labor. We all
know that tbe unexpected, discovery of
oM .uid.nl, "Utoml is Cdiforaj*
a large northern population
averse to slavery, and jealous of tlx
competition of slave labor in diggin|
gold. But does gold exist in Desere
or New Mexico? or is there a large
northern population in California,soutt
of36deg3om? Is it logical to infertha
slavery is not likely to be introducec
into these territories, even with the
sanction of Congress, because undei
totally different circumstances it ha;
been excluded from California? New
Mexico is separated byan imaginarylinc
from Texas, and about halt of it is
claimed by that slave st%te. la it likely
that Texan slaveholders will not cross
the line with their property, or occupy
territory they claim as their own.
The settlers in Deseret have formed
a constitution virtually allowing slave
ry, by not prohibiting it. The gold
diggers in California are concentrated
far north of 36deg 30m.; the city of
San Francisco is also north of that line,
while south of it is a large area, where
there is little to obstruct ihe‘introduction
of slavery. Under these circumstan
ces, there are probably very tew men
in Congress who would dare, on their
oaths, to affirm the opinion expressed
by Mr. Clay. That opinion is at best
a calculation of chances; a calculation
on which no man would hazard a thou
sand dollars; yet this miserable calcu
lation is offered to the north as a com
pensation fer the surrender of all the
political and moral blessings which the
proviso would secu&£.
Mr. Clay utterly demolishes Gen.
Cass's argument against the constitu
ality of the proviso, and affirms most
positively the right of Congress to
prohibit slavery in the territories.
But how stands the question of duty
and moral consistency between these
two gentlemen? Undeniably in favor
ofthe General. He has not, indeed,
undertaken to solve the nice and diffi
cult question whether human bondage
is a curse or a blessing. He is sen
sibly alive to the atrocity of flogging
two or three Hungarian women, but
makes no comment on laws which sub
ject thousands and tens of thousands
of American women to the lash. He
calls upon the nation to express its in
dignation, at the execution of a few
Hungarian insurgents taken with arms
in their hands, but gives no opinion
how far it would be right or wrong to
shoot certain of his own country, if ta
ken in revolt against worse than Austr
ian oppression. But he contends that|
whatever may be (he moral character;
of slavery. Congress has no consti-j
tutional right to prohibit'd, and there
fore not to prohibit it. On the olher
hand, Mr. Clay frankly declares that
slavery is wrong “a grievous wrong.”
that to propagate slavery is to propa
gate wrong. Heaffirnsthe constitu
tional power of Congress to prohibit
i this propagation of wrong, and then
1 calls upon Congress to permit slave
j holders to propagate this wrong when
and where they please over the whole
wide extent of our conquered territory,
with the single exception of what may
be included within the state of Cali
fornia. Before God and man, Gen.
Cass’s conclusion from his premise,
is just ified. while the conclusion drawn
by Mr. Clay from his premises is con
demned as hostile to morality and hu
manity.
THIRD, FOURTH, FIFTH, AND SIXTH
RESOLUTIONS.
3. This resolution merely gives to
Texas more territory than she
tled to, and less then she demanWs, and
is so far a compromise of territorial
claims; but in no degree a compromise
between the friends and enemies of hu
man rights, since what is to be taken
from Texas is to be immediatly thrown
open to the slaveholders.
4. Texas had, before annexation,
pledged her duties on foreign com
merce as security to certain creditors.
These duties, by annexation, were
surrendered to the United States. Mr.
Clay proposes that the United States
shall assume the debts due to these
creditors if Texas will' relinquish her
claims on New Mexico. If justice re
quires the nation to assume these debts,
their assumption ought not to depend
on the cession of territory by Texss.
If in justice we do not owe these debts,
their payment by us will in fact be a
gratuity to Texas for the relinquish
ment of one of the most impudent and
fraudulent claims ever made. We
have official information, communicAtad
by General Jackson to Congress, that
I the Texans when defining the bound
aries of their new born republic, at first
determined to include California, and
beyond all question they had then as
much right to San Francisco as they
now have to SAnta Fa. The proposi
tion of Mr. Clay is therefore to pay
Texas for territory to which he admit*
she has no title, and then to throw open
the territory so purchased to the slave
holders. In this, I can see no conces
sion to the north.
5. Congress is to declare it inexpe
dient to abolish slavery in the District
of Columbia, except with the assent ol
Maryland and the people of the Dis
trict, and making compensation to tb<
slaveholders. The unlimited power
Congress to abolish slavery in the Die
trict is ifully conceded, yet he calls oi
Congress not to do, what many of.ili
members and vast multitudes of theii
constituents believe it their moral dutj
to do. la this proposal I can find nc
other compromise but that of consci
•ace.’
6. The next proposal is to prohibi
the importation of slaves into the Dra
trict for aale. In other words, the in
habitant# are to bava a tnonopiy of Um
trade m human he tag* Time*
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1850.
people are not to be deprived of th<
privilege of importing as many slave
ms they may want for thejr own use
nor of seUing husbands at/d wives, am
children, to be transported to the ex
i trutnilies of the Uuion; but ioreign tra
ders shall no longer be permitted ti
glut the Washington market with tbeii
wares. The moment the: resolution
passes,human chattels will rise in value
in the capital of our republic. I object
not to the abolition of the trade, since
it will remove one of ttarmany abomin
ations with which sSarM’y has disgra
ced the sent of our‘jJut£bnal govern
ment but I deny that the proposition
involves the slightest concession on the
part of the slaveholders. Says Mr.
Clay himself, ‘'almost every slave
i holding state in the Union has exer
cised its power to prohibit the intro
duction of slaves as merchandise.”
The power is exercised or not, accord-
I ing to convenience,and, as it is thought
most profitable to breed or to import
slaves. 1
SEVENTH RESOLUTION.
7. We now come to a grand specific
forgiving ease to northern consciences,
for allaying all irritation, and for res
toring a healthful action throughout
the-present morbid system of the con
federacy! I will give the recipe in
full: “Resolved, that more effectual
provision ought to be made by law, for
the restitution and delivery of persous
bound to service or labor in any state,
who may escape into any other State
or territory of this Union.” That 1
may not be accused of injustice to Mr.
Clay, in my subsequent remarks, I
will quote from his speech on this
point: I do not say, sir, that a pri
vate individual is obliged to make the
tour of his whole State, in order to
assist the owner of a slave to recover
his property; but I do say, if he is pre
sent when the owner of a slave, is
about to assert his rights aud regain
possession of bis property, that he aud
every one present, whether officer or
agent of the state government, or pri
vate individual, is bound to assist in
the execution of the lows of then
country.” I will go with the farthest
senator from the south, in this body,
to make penal laws to impose the hea
viest sanctions upon the recovery of
fugitive slaves, and the restoration of
them to their owners.”
Such is the panacea, and such is the
mumier in which our medical adviser
proposes to admiuister it. He must
not be surprised, should some difficulty
be experienced in compelling the pa
tient to swallow the draught.
Mr. Clay has long been a favorer of
those field sports in which the prey is
man, and he has the merit, it is be
lieved, of being the first to conceive
the grand idea of securing a national
intercommunity in these sportß, by
means of international treaties. So
eaiiy as the 19th June, 1826, as Se
cretary of Slate, he proposed to the
British government to. throw the Can
adas open for this sport, and in return,
to British sportsmen should be accord
ed the privilege of hunting West India
Negroes, throughout the whole extent
of the American Republic. But John
Bull rejected the tendered reciprocity,
and churlishly replied, The law of
Parliament gave freedom to every slave
who effected his lauding on British
ground.”
About the same time we requested
from Mexico the boon of hunting ne
groes over her wide area. The desired
favor was denied, but we have since
forcibly added almost half her territory
to our own hunting grounds. Of .all
the game laws in existence, that of
1793, which regulates the chase of ne
groes, is the most horrible; yet Mr.
Clay is dissatisfied with it, and calls
upon Congress to make it more effec
tual, and of course more horrible.
Should a Virginian come to New York
in search of his horse, and find him in
the possession of another, who claims
him as his property, how is he to re
cover the animali Only a jury of
twelve impartial men, drawn by lot,
shall pass upon the conflicting claims.
Neither party has any choice in select-,
ing the jury, nor can either establish
his claim by his own evidence. But if
the Virginian is hunting a man, and
sees one that will serve his purpose,
and who will fetch a thousand dollars
in the southern market, but who claims
to belong to himself, how is he to se
cure him? Why he may catch his
man as well as he can, and without
warrant may carry him before any jus
tice pf the peace, whom for sufficient
reasons he may think proper tq select,
and swear that the man he has caught
is his, and the justice may surrender
the max. to perpetual bondage, degra
dation, and misery. Various officers
besides justices are authorised lo aid,
so that the Virginian has a wide choice.
Surely this is hunting made easy by
law, but it is not found so easy in- prac
tice. Latterly various states have pro
hibited their own officers from assisting
in the chase of human beings, and ci
r tizens rarely lend apy unpaid assist*
ance. Hence a new game law is
i deemed needful, and Clay, as we
f have seen, is pledged to go with the
farthest southern senator,” the most
i devoted lover .of the sport, to make it
i effectual. The judicciary oipmittee
have accordingly reported a bill* now
before the Senate. agree,** said
i Mr. Mason, one of the farthest south
ertt senators, in his speech on this biN,
(28th Jan.) I agree that the federal
t government haw no power to impose
duties of way kind upon the officers of
state governments as such.’* Of
i course the obligation imposed by the
L|lur of UW, justices of tbs ptsts
GOD IS THE FATHER OF U 3 ALL, AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
and other state officers to catch slavei
i are void, and our northern legislator
have a right to prohibit them from par
I licipating in slave hunts. To obviat
this difficulty, it becomes necessary t
select other than state officers to adju
dicate upon questions of higher impor
than any, with the single exception o
life and death, that ever exercise thi
talents, learning, virtue, and independ
ence of the most august tribunals o
any civilized country. And who ar<
the grave and reverend judges appoint
ed by this bill to sit in judgment on th<
liberty or bondage of native iM bon
Americans? Among these judges art
TWENTY THOUSAND POST-MASTERS? Eacl
one of these new judges is authorized
to adjudge any man, woman or chtld,
black or white, to be a vendible chat
tel; and this judgment is to be founded
on any proof that may be satisfactory
to said post-master, in the words of the
bill, either by oral testimony or affi*
davit,” nor is the testimony either oral
or by affidavit of the interested claim
ant excluded; and from this judgment
there is no appeal! Slavery is no lon
ger confined to one color. The south
ern papers abound with advertisements
offering rewards for fugittve slaves,
containing the caution that the fugitive
will probably attempt to pass for a
white person. A few years since, a
Maryland slaveholder caught in Phila
delphia a white girl, (Mary Gilmore)
whom he claimed as his slave. The
case was brought before a Pennsyl
vania judge, and occupied two days,
and it was proved by most abundant
overwhelming evidence, that the al
leged slave was the orphan daughter
of poor Irish parents f The mother had
died in the Philadelphia hospital, and
the daughter had never been in Mary
land. By a pending amendment to
this bill, every man and woman who,
prompted by the holiest impulses of
our nature, shall harbor or conceal”
the prey from the hunter, is to be vis
ited with fine and imprisonment. A
few days after Mr. Clay introduced his
resolutions, Bruin k Hill, slave-traders
in Alexandria, wrote a let»er, since
published in the newspapers, stating
for the information of a free mother
in New York, who wished to redeem
her daughter from bondage, that they
cannot afford to sell the girl Emily
for less than eighteen hundred dollars
Why this prodigious price? They
add, we have two or three offers for
Emily from gentlemen from the south.
She is caul to be the finest looking wo
man in this country.”
Should this devoted victim escape
from her keepers, and* be afterwards
found concealed in her mother’s house,
not only is she to be carried back, and
mbjected to the fate intended for her,
nut the mother is liable by the then
present Uill, to be sentenced to pay a
ine of five hundred dollars to the
LJnited States, to pay Messrs.. Bruin
ind Hill one thousand dollars for dam
lges, and be imprisoned six months.
We hope, for Mr. Clay’s reputation,
no farthest senator from the south,”
will ask for heavier penalties, for if he
loes, Mr. Clay is pledged to vote for
lie heaviest sanctions” that may be
proposed. But suppose this poor girl
ihould find her way to Peekskill, in
stead of New York, and iu your ab
sence, with bursting heart, ask to be
sheltered in your house, from her pur
suers. Can you for a single moment
admit the possibility that your wife, the
mother of your children, could, through
fear of the law, so unsex herself, as to
turn the trembling fugitive into the
street, or betray her to the hunters?
A thousand times rather would you see
the partner of your bosom enduring
Mr. Clay’s heaviest sanctions,” than
bringing ignominy upon herself, and
covering her husband and children with
shame and confusion of face, by com.
mtting a crime so foul and damnable
Mr. Mason, in his speech, insists on
the right of the hunter “to enter peace
ably any enclosure or dwelling where
such slave may be found, lor the pur
pose of taking him.” Should this as
serted right be incorporated into the
compromise bill,- then may Southern
ruffians and Northern doughfaces ere
long be roaming through our bed
rooms and ransacking our closets ic
search of pray. .Should an attempt be
made to enforce the heaviest sane
tions” for which Mr. Clay is ready te
vote, he may be assured the prisons ir
New York and New England are toe
few to hold the vast multitude of mer
and women who would willingly tenan
them, rather than peril their souhi b)
betraying the fugitive or assisting it
his capture. Mr. Clay very kindly de
clines requiring “a private individua
to make the tour of his whole state” if
search of a slave, but be insists tha
all who are present when the game it
started, ought to follow the hounds
Could he but enforce this obligation
we should have some grand turn-outi
in New York and New England, sonn
like the ewe fancied by the poet:
“Qt>ad-Juek to our hunter*! Itow nobly they ride,
Is tbs flow of their seal, and the strength of tfati
The-priest with canock Dung back oa the wind,
bxH screening Ute politic statesman behind—
The *aint ana the ainaer, with cursing and pruver-
Ttta drunk sad the sober rid* merrily there.
Oh! goodly sued grand is our hunting to see,
Iu this ‘land of the brave and this home of the fret
Right asefrily huutiag the black man, whose Sin
la the earl of his hair and tbs bus of his akin.)
So speed to their hunting o’er mountain and eWs,
'l'kvr* ha.iA.hraha en t'fiirwsl fha huntaMil’rtMf!
g RID wUiv*i#l aao ailU KUi vSfc OUiitCi VS saasiss•
Butihe constitution! ThiqjflStruraeE
declares, in substance, that M fugitiv
slave shall be delivered op; but Mi
day, I behave, ie*be first lawyer wb
baa contended that the obligation
delivery rests upwr “private individ«
is “addressed to the jurisdiction of tk*
state into,which the fugitive may ea
cape.” Of course* individual citizens,
as 9uch, are under no constitutional ob
ligation to volunteer to catch slaves.
But suppose a positive law should en
join each individual to betray or aid in
capturing the fugitive? the question put
by the Apostles, when legally forbidden
to teach in the name of Jesus, would
then recur: “Whether it be right in
the sight df God, to hearken unto you,
more than unto God, judge ye.” It is
not merely the right, but the duty of a
Christian to refuse an active obedience
to any and every law’of man, which he
believes contravenes the commands of
his Maker; and then, like the Apostles,
to offer no forcible resistance to the
penalties attached to hit disobedience.
Mr. Clay may rest assured, that the
bill of pains and penalties promised in
his 7th resolutions, will not have the
composing influence he anticipates.
Filling our prisons with pious, benevo
lent, kind-hearted men and women, will
have little effect in suppressing agita
tion. In his compromising ano
dyne, Mr. Clay has omitted an impor
tant ingredient. Ample provision is
to be made for the recovery of south
ern slaves, but none for the recovery of
northern citizens. If the constitution
gives the southern planter a right .to
seize his slave in New York or Massa
chusetts, equally explicit is the grant to
citizens of those states to enjoy all the
rights of citizenship in South Carolina.
Yet, if certain of our citizens, free
holders and electors at home, think
proper to visit that state, a prison is
the only dwelling they are permitted to
occupy; and should the state to which
they belong send an ngent to inquire
why they are immured A a jail, and to
bring their case before the supreme
Court of the United States, he is com
pelled to flee at the hazard of his
life!
8. The last item of this grand com
promise is virtually a guaranty that the
American slavejtrade, vile and loathsome
as it is, shall be held sacred from pro
hibition or obstruction by the federal
government for all time to come. The
stars and stripes shall forever protect
each counting vessel that shall be freight
ed with human misery and despair, and
manacled coffles shall, without molesta
tion, be driven across the continent
from the Atlantic to the Pacific. The
slave trade in the District, that is, in
one single market, Mr. Clay pronoun
ces “detestable,” and talks with honor
of “the corteges which pass along our
avenues of manacled human beings.”
But why thia sudden outburst of indig
nation against a lawful commerce? is
it dishonorable to sell merchandise?
Has not Mr. Clay himself proclaimed
“that is property which the law makes
property Why does he dishonor the
Washington man-merchants? Is it
base to buy and sell human beings?
Mr. Clay forgets that this “detestable
trade” is, in fact, supported by the gen
tlemen breeders who sell and the gen
tlemen planters who buy. But this
trade, which is so “detestable,” and
these corteges, which are so horrible on
a very little scale, are now to assume
national importance, protected and
sanctioned by the government of the
whole republic!
Such, sir, is the magnanimous com
promise which so many of our whig and
democratic politicians, now that the
elec\jofls are over, and the solemn
pledges made in favor of the Wilmot
proviso, supposed to be forgotten, are
willing to accept as a mighty boon to
human rights, and a mighty barrier
against the further encroachments of
the slave power. In my ears the only
language addressed by these eight res
olutions, to the north, is the cry of the
horse-leech—give, give. No test can
detect in them, no microscope can
make visible the most minute concession
to human liberty. Not one single inch
ol territory does the proposed compro
mise secure from slavery that is not al
ready rescued from its power. Not one
single human being wiH it sav? from
bondage.
The extension of the Missouri line to
the Pacific, would at least have render
ed all on the north of it free soil; but,
says Mr. Clay, most truly, although
with a frankness almost insulting to
the north, “I say, sir, in my place
here, that it is much better for the south
that the whole subject should be open
on both sides an imaginary line of 36
deg 30m than that slavery should be
interdicted positively north of 36 deg
30m with fVeedon to admit 07 exclude it
south of 36 deg 30m 'at the will of the
people!!”
.But, Mr. Clay exclaimed, “oo earth
ly power could induce me to vote for
the positive introduction of slavery south
or north of that line," and *t this he
roic hvowal the galleries applauded.
But the galleries are not deeply versed
in southern tactics., Mr. Clay need
apprehend no. coercion to extort his r*>
luctant vote for a purpose no one de
sires or demands. The south have,
with one voice, denied the power of
Cbngtess either to prohibit or establish
slavery in the territories.. Said Mr.
ging, t pf Alabama, in rep*y "we «»k
no act of Congress to carry slavery
any where. I believe we (Congress)
have just as much right to prohibit sla
very in the territories me to CaErry it
there. We have no right to do one or
the other.” Other southern senators
t avowed their concurrence in the doc
trine advanced by Mr, King. Hence
Mr. Clayo’s defiance of any power on
F earth to make him do, what nobody
wants him todo, was, at least, a rhw
torical flourish.
3 -g* Wifi'alto
JOHN DICK, PitsTn
WHOLE NO. 114.
contend, a full and unqualified
surrender of all ihe demands of the
north, why did certain ultra senators
object to iff A show of resistance
might have been deemed politic, ae
tending to make northern men snppoee
there must be something granted to
them, although they could not tell
what. It may also suit the party pur
poses .of some, to prolong the present
agitation; that they may manufacture
more patriotism ftr the southern mar
ket; and, lastly, if any really wish to
form a separate republic, in which they
expect to have more power than they
now enjoy, they will of course reject
all concession, however great. But k
is incredible that the mere alaveholfe
ers, the men who are only anxious to
open new markets for the sale of their
stock, and to acquire more votes in
Congress, should be averse to a pro
position that offers them all they have
ever asked, and all that Congress ean
give them, with the exception of the
suppression of the right of petition,
and the censorship of the Post Office,
and these are not now in issue.
But we are told that unless we yield
to the demands of the slaveholdeas, they
will dissolve the Union. And what ara
these demands, which Mr. Clay adnti
we have full right to refuse? Why
that a small body of men, not probably
exceeding 100,000,* shall be at liberty,
for their own aggrandizement to, blight
with the curse of slavery our vast pos
sessions south of 36 degrees 30 minuts,
and whatever portion of Mexico it shall
hereafter be found convenient to seize.
Thus at a time when cruelty and op
pression are elsewhere giving way be
fore the increasing intelligence and
morality of the age, we, the Model
Republic, are to be the instrument ot
extending over illimitable regions now
free, a despotism more accursed, than
any other known throughout the civi
lized world—a despotism that not only
enslaves the body, hut crushes the in
tellect through which man is enabled la
distinguish good from evil—a despot
ism that annihilates all rights, sets at
naught all the affections of the heart,
and converts a being made in the im
nge of God, into a soulless machtM.
Tell me not of exceptions~of mom
lucky chattle, like Mr. Clay's negro,
referred to in his speech, who in his
master’s well stored kitchen, hugs his
:hain, laughs and grows fat. He is
hut a vendible commodity, and to-mor
row’s sun may behold him toiling under
he lash, his wife given to another, and
lie childrea with pigs end assies ssld
it auction to the highest bidder. Tell
me not of exceptions—'the kind owner*
may at any moment he exchanged biy
death or debts, for the hardened. rt»
Horseless task-master, and the tnw
junctions every villainy perpetrated
ipon the slave.f No, my dear sir, I
:annot give r«y consent, and I hope k
will not be given for me by my repre
sentative, to curse a vast empire wtih
such an institution, and to doom un*
Dorn millions to its unutterable nbonw
lations, even to save our southern
brethren from the sin and folly of found*
ng a new Republic upon the denial
human rights, and of rendering
hemselves a bye-word, a proverb and
i reproaeh among all the nations of the
earth. I value the favor oi my God*
and the salvation of my aouly too much
to take part or lot in such great
wickedness. Most fully to do I agree
with Mr. Clay, that Congress has up
more constitutional authority over ala*
very in the states, than in the Island ot
Cuba; aud most-fully do I agree with
the admission in his speech, but not to
be found in his of the right
of Congress to exclude slavery from
the conquerred territories. Hence in
my opinion, the refusal to this
right, even to preserve the Union,
would be a crime in the sight of God
and man. I entertain ng apprehension
of the severance of the Union, for this
cause, but should the few slaveholders,
and the vast multitude of southern
people, who have no interest in shivery,
in their madness separate from us, upon
them will rest the sin, and upon them
and their chirdren will fell its punish
ment. Let us do what God commands,
and leave to Him the consequences.
Yoiira. trolvj
WILLIAM JAY.

A Itpe census in Kentucky, reveals Ik* 6ct,
that the slaveholder* in that stale own on an aver
age 22 slave*, should this average be wplitt to.
the whole si ave region, the number of rnastet s,
according to the census of 1840, cannot exceed
117,000! i
t Our doughfaces are always rnnplaiaiig that
their employers arc slandered at the north, lot
the employers speak for themselves. Ip Doc Re
po** (North Carolina) p. 263,1823, we font the
case of The SlSte vl. Mann. The defendant at
tempted to flog a woman slave whom he Had hired;
she retreated; he ordered bei to cose© to him, bet
she continuing to retreat,.he seised his gw, ire*
at, and wounded her. For this he was indicted.
The Court held that be who hires a slave is, for
the time beiug invested with all the powers of the
owner himself to enfotce obediertce, and tbs t ike
indictment could not be sustained. SaflT Judge
Ruffin. ‘The power of ths master atuet be abho
lute, to render the submission of the,slave perfect-
I most sincerely confess my sens* of the harshness
of this proposition. 1 foe-lit deeply as any bub"
cun; and us a principle of moral right; etery man
bis retirement most mpudhws it. Bot in the actual
stats of thing* it must he easretheneew remedy.-•
>V*R I* TM SouTH.r-Accotmu teotivek
figp Brazil, stale that the war wbieb bau
been some lime concocting between Break
and Buenoa Ayxee, ia about.ta oonaetwa
without further ptwtponeweot. D m~p kri—
Paraguay aa pan. of the AxgeoUM RepnbUo;
which claim Paraguay reaiate, and Break
Ulwa part aa an ally, wife a m arrwnPm*t r
piohably, that aha is to get aonrethfe# bj it,
Tht Question of Labor.
“The Bights, Wrongs and Hopes of La
bor” waithe theme of an evening’s eloquent
discount by Dr. William Elder, of Philadel
phia, JMt week, at Washington Hall, in this
city. The great question of labor in its re
lit** to Capital,—of which it has been said,
*‘lfcestudious everywhere are pondering it—
tie philanthropic everywhere, unintentionally
eften, and indirectly are strengthening it —it
reminds one of the fabled sphinx sitting by
the wayside, it demands of the politician, the
philanthropist, and the Christian, “Unriddle
me thia riddle, or I will devour thee—How
to employ and pay the peoplel”—was dis
cussed by a man who combines the roosi
genial humor with a profound and far-reach
ing, philosophy and consecrates both to the
cause of humanity, and great was the satis
faction all present experienced.
Mr. Eldet beautifully portiayed the icU nti
ty of labor and capital, the advantages oi co
operative industry, the futility of “strikes’"
and organized antagonisms generally, and
the tendency of the age to associative enter
prise. Nothing ia gained, he remarked, by
(be laborer in combinations against wealth.
The spirit which prompts fraternity to break
down the power of capital equality impels an
unity among caphalisls to maintain its power.
The former pursues its object without the aid
which the latter, in its own defence, can so
readily command. Hence, all combinations
against capital, save in a very limited and
partial degree, had been unsuccessful, and
would alwsys be. The true philosophy was
for labor to count, to coSx, to solicit capital
—to form an alliance with it—to make use
of iu power for right purposes—in a word,
to render identical labor and capita], and by
co-operative industry and associative action
accomplish that which the two, in indepen
dent positions, in opposition to each oilier,
never could hope to effect.
This was the idea of the discourse. We
pretend to present only that. For the rich
imagery, the touching illustrations, the elo
quent language of the speaker, our readers
should have listened. We hope yet to
present passages from a verbatim report, if any
phonographer was fortunate enough to make
one. In lieu of that, at this time, we may
lemark that the suggestions which the lec
turer threw out were not merely the fanciful
conceptions of a warm-hearted enthusiast,
gjowingwith thoughts whichthe impracticabil
ity of our present civilization will not allow ol
realisation, but the calm, carefully conceived,
prudently-digested,deliberately-adopted philo
sophy of an earnest, whole-souled man, who
has made the evils of society his study and
offers plans for their remedy with heaven
inspiring confidence in their efficacy. —New
Eng. Washingtonian.
The Canadian Question in England.
The London Times of the 29th ult, in a
long article on the subject of Canada, winds
up by saying
When we have to deal with elements so
violent and capricious, it is almost idle to cal
culate their action on the principles of reason,
justice, or self-interest itself. The orbit of a
comet that sweeps rapidly across the heavens
once in two centuries, can be calculated with
tolerable certainty but who can measure and
predict the humors and vagaries of spoilt
children, or any self-willed, unprincipled
mind It is, however, evident, and will
probably have some weight, even with the
Canadians, that by annexation they would
give up a good certainty (or a very problem
atical advantage. All things considered, a
Canadian settler is in a most enviable condi*
tion. There is not a being in the whole world
pretending to civilization, who is so lightly
taxed. For all the actual expenses of gov
ernment the Canadian population have to pay
about 2s Id a head, the rest of their taxation,
which ia not much, being the interest on a
debt contracted for roads, canals, and other
improvements, likely before long to be re
munerative to the province. From those
taxes which an American citizen pays to the
federal government, the Canadian is en
tirely free, as they are borne by the mother
country. The recent acts of the Imperial
Legislature have deprived Canada of a pro
tection from which it never derived any sub
stantial and permanent advantage, while the
repeal of the navigation laws has given new
facilities for the disposal of her produce, and
the employment of her ships. Whatever'
the effect of that measure on the rest of our
empire, there can be no doubt that Canada
will have a large share of its benefits. Her
commercial relations with the United States,
we would hope, are still under revision. An
entire freedom of trade between the two
countries would be for the benefit of both, j
and certainly is deseived by the high and
generous spirit which lias animated the coun
sels of the British Legislature on these im
portant questions. We are well awate thatj
a large party in the United States believe,
that by continuing and even aggravating the
present barrier of customs against Canada,!
they will ultimately fotce her into annexation. j
Such a consideration we hold to be foreign to
a question of commerce or of customs, and
unworthy of the giowing friendship between
England and the United States. “All these
things,” as old Homer says, “lie in the lap
of the gods.” Whether Canada is one day
to add her start to the Union, is as purely
conjectural as the possible disruption of the
Union itself. It is, however, certain, that if
England is really destined to lose her last
footing on the continent ot the New World,
that event will not be caused, or much has
tened, or much retarded, by any tricks of
legislation. All the.power attainable by sucb
devices, is that of doing ill what Heaven will
otherwise do well.
From Ned Buntline’a Own.
Treason, ‘Black and Monstrous.*
1 hare just read the report of a body oi
creatures who were assembled at Syracuse,
in this Slate, on the 10th day of January, call
ing their assemblage the ‘Anti-Slavery Mast
Convention of the Abolitionists of the State
of New York,’and have read it with astonish
ment —astonished that such sentiments as
were there Ottered should be listened to
calmly by men professing to be Americans,
or that those who dared to speak them were
suffered to go unhung (or a single hour.
1 have ever avoided saying one word in
regard to polities in this paper. The words
‘Wilmot Proviso’ were never in these col
umns before; nor have I ever written one line
either for or against the institution of slavery,
as it exists in the South. I had not intended
to do so—l do not now mean to do so. But
1 would not be true to the ancestral blood
which flows in my veins, if I could read and
pass unnoticed such sentiments as were not
only uttered there, but are now being repeat
ed through the land in the columos of the pa
pers.
A black fanatic named Douglass, as re
ported in last Sunday’s Herald, used theac
words:—
‘1 believe the slaves would be more than
a match for the enslaver*, if left to them
selves. Let the Union, then, be dissolved
1 wish to see it dissolved at once. It it
the Union of the white people of this coun
try, who etui be summoned in tbeir w hole
military power to crush the slave, that pet
petnates slavery. Dissolve the Union, and
they will raise aloft tbeir unfettered arms
and demand freedom; and, if resisted, would
hew their way to liberty, despite the psie and
puny opposition of their oppressors. In view
of the oppression of this Union, I welcome
the holt, whether from the North or from (hr
Sooth, whether from heaven or from hell,
yrhich shall shiver this Union in pieces. Lei
this unholy, unrighteous Union be dissolved
Wo are told of the wisdom and goodness oi
our aoeestu.'** know the y wer sisvehold
ers. Tslk to se °f tk® love of liberty oi
your Washingtons, Jefferson*, Henrys!
They were stringers to ,dea ibw
2! He who does not love ,c end liberty
raH, does not love liberty TanJ J«*ice.
They wrote of liberty in the Declaration 01
Independence with one band, and with the
other clutched their brother by the throat.
These are the men who formed the Union!
I cannot enter into it. Give roe no onion
with slaveholders! I wish to dissolve the
union of these States, and to do it in a* direct
way.’
Did one American hear that? Did one
man who dares to say that he is an American
and loves his country, stand still and listen to
such language—hear the names of Washing
ton, Jefferson and Henry, polluted by such
slanders from human lips! No! If a per
son were to come and tell roc he had calmly
listened to those sentiments, 1 would not even
honor him by calling him a Judas or an Ar
nold—to call him a coward would be flattery,
to call him a fiend would be too high a com
pliment. Is there no law against treason in
ihis land—or are the officers of the law too
dastardly or too cowardly to enforce it?
I am not a friend to slavery—would gladly
see it pass from our land, by due andpioper
action of the people; but I would also gladly
see every wretch who dares to speak of a dis
union of this Republic, (which can only live
and prosper with union,) hung higher than
H&man wan! 1 would gladly see these fana
tics, who pretend to so much feeling for the
slaves, and who in their insanity are only riv
etting the otherwise fast loosening manacles of
slavery, kicked from the union to which they
are traitors —driven like bastards, as they are,
from beneath the protection of our national
banner.
The head devil among them, one Garrison,
used this language—‘The Constitution of the
United States is a covenant with death and
hell.’ And he who is enjoying eveiy privilege
guaranteed by this Constitution, dates to ut
ter such a thought! It were as just, as ap
propriate, and quite as decent, for him to call
his own mother a prostitute, to brand himself
as a bastard. I cannot find language strong
enough to express the indignation which fills
my heart as I note the action of these would
be murderers, who, to carry out their own
views, would gladly drown the land in blood,
and glory in the groans of dying millions,
and shout glory to God, while the nation
which Washington and his compatriots give
to us as a birthright perished from among the
nations of the world; like Greece aud Rome,
into the sea of oblivion!
If proper action was taken, I think sucl.
meetings could be stopped, or, aUeast, such
sentiments could be strangled in the black
throats of those who dared to utter them. I
|am not very}easily moved to anger,but I think
that if 1 had heard the baboon Douglass use
the nameof Washington as he did, I should
have tried to choke all the black out of him!
It is such things as Douglass, Garrison, Bur
leigh, and other 'colored pussons,’ that are
helping to perpetuate slavery, and forcing
those who would gladly ameliorate the con
dition of the slave, and prepare him for eman
t cipation, to tighten, rather than loosen the
bond! They the frtendt of the slave! Just
as much as the devil is the friend of sinners!
The Price of the Union.
What an alarming and melancholy illus
tration of the depraving influences of slavery
has been exhibited in the halls of Congress
within the past* w weeks, After all that
has been said and done to expose the baibari
ties and cruelties of the slave system, Henry
Clay, a man endowed with persuasive and
commanding oratorial poweis, comes for*
ward and attempts to mingle light with dark
ness, to unite freedom with slavery; a work
1 which tlie Author of Christianity, (to say
nothing of common sense,) gives us to under
stand is impracticable. To prevent a dissolu
tion of the Union, is the object which the
able and plausible Kentucky orator contem
plates in his efforts to effect the adoption of
1 what are called the Compromise Resolutions.
Let us look at the object, or end, and then
at the means proposed to effect that object.
1. The object: To prevent a dissolution of
the Union. What is this Union which is so
much lauded? and what are the privileges
which it secures? It is a Union by which
three millions of men are held in cruel bon
dage. It is a Union in one half of which, no
1 expression can be given to those deep feelings
of haired to sl*?ery and love of liberty which
burn in every true and maniy heart. It is a
Union in which the right of petition js denied
and in which free men are imprisoned and
sold as slaves. Such are some of the privile
gea derived ftom the Union, any one of which
every freeman knows, is a sufficient cause for
condemning and destroying that Union.
But what are the conditions on which
Henry Clay proposes to effect the continuance
of so glorious a union? There are eight pro
posed; but as one of them is of such a charac
ter that no Christian or freeman can accept,
the rest need not be considered. I allude to
his seventh resolution, which, presented in its
true light, amounts to this, namely:
That, when a man, who has been com
pelled to work all his days without wages,
ssiose wife and children have been torn from
him forever, sold on the auction block, sub
jected to the most brutal treatment, and him
self gtoaning under sufferings tor which no
remedy can be had, attempts to escape (and
who would not?j from so horrible a state, and
while the North Star, that lighthouse which
God seems to have set in the heavens for this
very purpose, beckons and guides hiig on;
when such a man, heaven guided, comes
among us weary, hungry, panting with fear
and imploring our protection, we are deman
ded, forsooth, to extinguish every spark of
humanity within us and deliver him up to the
tender mercies of his bloody pursuers.
Who of us will consent to terms like this,
to perpetnaie such a union u has been de
scribed, or any union whatever? No one, it
seems to me, who hates tyranny, loves man
and reverences God. The slaveholder is lit
tle aware of the deep sympathy existing in
multitudes of breasts for the fugitive slave,
How many a fond and fearless lieart
Would rive to throw
Its life between him and the foe.
Aud I trust that to the free North it may
ever be truly said,
‘There’* freedom at thy gates, and rest
For Earth’s down-trodden and o|»prest,
A shelter for the bunted head,
For the starved laliorer toil aud bread.
Power, at thy bounds,
Stops and calls back iiis baffled hounds.
SETH HUNT.
From the Independent Democrat.
The Poor Whites ol the Soath.
There is a very prevalent error in commu
nity that supposes that opposition of Free
Soil men to the extension and perpetuation ol
slavery rests chiefly, if not wholly in theii
sympathy for the enslaved African. Thu
feeling undoubtedly has, and should have its
due weight. The cries and groans of three
millions of men and women shut out from the
enjoyment of all theii God-given fights, and
subjected to all the wrongs of cupidity cruelty
and lust, cannot but stir the blood and awa
ken the sympathies of all within whose breasts
throb human hearts. The existence of a
whole race in theveiy garden of our country
to whom God, Christ, and Immortality are
unmeaning words, is a fact to make our
whole nation put their bands on their mouths
in the dust and ery Unclean, Unclean, before
I the world and its Creator.* Disguise it,seek to
hide the truth even from ourselves as we
will, there stands the damning tact that we
the people of the often boasted on y free
country on earth, are guilty of supporting a
darker and more grinding oppression than
an v for which God ever visited the earth m
judgement
But heavy sod cruel as are the sorrows of
our sabla brethren, they are far from being
the only sufferers. The yoke that g»Us their
iiecka pierces also the souls of another class,
the institution which enables an hundred
thousand nabobs to riot in the blood of sev
ered affections, broken hearts and overburden
ad souls, crushes also, with scarcely less
blighting power, millions of the poor laborers
of our own nee. Fearfully as slavery
bears upon the blacka of the South, its effects
upon the vast majority of the white* is no way
>«m dreadful. Slavery degrades all labor,
and with it mil laborers. Such, in spite of
the degradation attaching thereto, a large ma
jority of the Southern citizens are compelled
to be. They do not and cannot own Mares.
The great mass of them do not eren own
land. Bought and sold, like their colored
brethren, they are not. But saying this they
are scarcely lees dependant than their neigh
bor “chattels.” Forced to work with slates,
to associate with slaves, independence, bold
ness, and Jhe spirit of freemen is a stranger
to them. Nowhere in the old world is a
state of more abject indigence than exists be
tween the slare-hclders and white laborers of
South Carolina —And what is worst of all,
the evil is increasing. Socially proscribed,
and without a single free school, every gene
ration is growing up poorer, more ignorant
and more degraded.
To us who have breathed but in sight of
schools free as the air of heaven, it seems in
credible; yet it is nevertheless true, that such
a prodigy as a system of free schools, is ut
terly unknown in every slave state. The
poor white children are in all of them as fa
tally doomed to ignorance and consequent bar
barism, as the slave children. What must be
the result of such a state of things, requires
no prophet to foretell. The slave states must
get rid of their slavery or they must sink,
whites and blacks together, into a state little
short of heathenism. Talk of such a commu
nity nuppciting republican principles! It is 1
utterly preposterous. They cannot long sup
port anything but chains.
Yet such is the institution, bringing forth
such} fruits that we are required to plant
anew upon God's free eaith! Nay a free en
lightened Christian nation in the middle of the
nineteenth century are threatened with intes
tine revolution and civil war if they will not
do it. Well if so it must be, give us revolu
tion, give us war, give us all other curses
but spare the guilt of carrying this greatest
of all, to any part of this fair world which
God created and pronounced “good” Spare
a Christian people the crime of banishing
Christianity from the newest and richest por
tions of the earth. Spare a republican nation
from sacrificing their children and the end
less generations that shall pioceed from them
to the chicfest demon of the pit, the demon
of Barbarism, Ignorance, Cruelty, and Moral
death.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, MARCH 1, 1850.
The North Star if sometimes sent to friends
who do not take the paper, in the hope that tliey
may sm fit to subscribe fop it. Subscriptions and
donations for the same may lie safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederick Douglass, Rochester,
N. Y.
QC^*Wantei>— Several Travelling Agents,
to procure subscribers for t)|e North Star. A
liberal commission will tie given. None need apply
but such as can bring good recommendations for
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
erick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
Anti-Slavery Meeting*,
Charles Lenox Remond, of Massachu
setts, and Mifflin W. Gibbs, of Pennsyl
vania, will visit the following places and
address t)ie citizens on the subject of Ame
rican slavery, on the evenings speeitied
Le Roy, Thursday, March 7th.
Batavia, Friday, March Bth.
Lockpoit, Monday, March 11th.
Buffalo, Wed. and 'flips. Rjarch }3 14.
Jamestown, Sunday, March 16th,
Busti, Tuesday; March 19th.
The friends in the above places will please
secure houses and make the necessary ar
rangements fpy the meetings, and thereby
subserve the cause and oblige the friends.
New Yore State Peace Convention.—
The American Peace Cougrees Committee
appointed to secure a delegation to represent
the people of the United States in the Peace
Congress to be held at Frank fort-on-the-
Maine. Germany, in August, 1850, would
respectfully invite the friendsjof peacethrough
out the State of New York, to njeet in
Convention at Albany, on Tuesday, March
sth, for the purpose of appointing two dele
gates at large, to represent the State in the
Frankfort Congress; and also to devise and
adopt measures for securing representatives
in the same assembly, from the different Con
gressional Districts, Towns, Universities,
Literary Associations, Municipal ant) Religi
ous Bodies of the State and to take such
other steps as, in the judgment of the Con
vention, may promote the cause of permanent
ant) Universal Peace. A delegation from the
Peace Congress Committee will attend the
Convention and take part in its proceedings.
AM ASA WALKER,
ELIHU BURRITT. Secretaries.
Public Meeting at the Court House,
A meeting was held in this city, on Mon
day evening last, to consider the present as
pect of the slavery question, as exhibited in
the late proceedings of Congress. The as
semblage waa summoned together without
distinction of party, and was, as might have
been expected, few in numbers, and not very
enthusiastic. It will not, however, be with
out its influence in this community. Upon
the organization of the meeting, Samuel D.
Porter, Esq. rose and addressed the audi
ence in a clear and forcible manner, on tbe
necessity of taking prompt and decided mea
sures for arresting the impending danger of
extending slavery. He exposed the hollow
and one-sided compromise resolutions of Mr.
Clay; rebuked the time-serving and swindling
course pursued by the Northern Press, in
withholding the proper information from the
people, and in strivipg to get up a panic at
the Noifh, by publishing the empty threats
ol dissolving the Union. Mr. Porter pre
sented a string of resolutions, pertinent to the
occasion, whioh will be further considered at
an adjourned meeting, whieh is to lake plaoe
at the Court House, this (Friday) evening.
The friends of Freedom should all be on
band.— f. p.
Henry Clay on lfMaappiag,
Ob, for tbe powers of Punch! Did we pos
sess them, they should be exerted in linking
the benevolent face of Henry Clay to the
neck and shoulders of a furious bloodhound.
He should be in full chase in pursuit of a
panting fugitive—perhaps s woman, flying
from the embrace of brutal master. His
lofty brow would look well prey the breast of
a bloodhound And his neck, too, should be
adorned with s collar labelled with his own
motto, traced in letters of blood—“ In pur
suit <f fugitive slaves, I will gam far as the
farthest." fc
In no man living is there more completely
combined, nor more strikingly exhibited, the
dignity of human intellect with tbe savage
brutality of a beast of prey, than is to be
found in the chancier of this distinguished
senatorial kidnapper. Ha talks as coolly of hi*
right to hunt down, bind, and feller his bro
ther man, and to drag him back to the infer
nal prison-house, as though his victim were a
well' or a bear. Such a being appeals to us
only in the light of a moral monster. e. d.
Weekly Review of the Congressional
Proceedings.
It would require sheet six times larger
than that of out North Star, to record the
speeches made, from week to week, in the
National Congress, and the State Legisla
tures,on the subject of slavery, and connected
therewith. Wishing to give our readers a
full and ample assortment of intelligence, we
propose, in future, as in the present instance,
to lay before them an editorial review of the
moat important of these speeches weekly,
instead of publishing the speeches of indivi
duals entire.
The past week has been no exceptien to
previous ones in the agitation of slavery in|
the Halls of Congress. That subject, in
some form or other, has been constantly
pressed upon the consideration of both the
Senate and House. Mr. Fitch, of Indiana,
made quite a lengthy speech in the House, on
Thursday, February 14th. in which he took
up the slavery question. His discourse,
though on the Northern side, and containing
many excellent hits at the blustering brag
garts of the South, was, nevertheless, so
untruthful and contemptuous in its tone to
wards the real fnends of freedom at the
North, as to give it the appearance of a mere
harangue, designed for personal and political
effect. Among other things, Mr. Fitch made
the following observations:
The North is charged wiili an intention
of violating the Constitution in legislating
upon this subject of slavery. Tlie Constitu
tion guarantees rights in common to all the
States, and certain special rights to the slave
holding States. Yet, though special, they
are constitutional rights, and as such, should
be recognized and protected in the State*
where they exist. And the gieat mass oi
the Northern constituency have as little idea
of interfering with those rights, as of peimit
ting interference with their own. There are
exceptions to this —there are, 1 am sorry tc
say, Northern disuniomsts. But they are
few in number, and of limited influence.—
Can the same be said of the Southern The
latter arrive at the same conclusion with the
fonder from adverse premises—reach the
same goal by a different road. In aiding the
accomplishment of the ultimate design of the
northern disunionists—the men they were
wont the moat contemptuously to denounce—
the South add nothing to their own strength.
They do but divide the responsibility of an
odious cause. The pseudo-philanthropy of a
few of these Disunionists at the North the
Garrisons and Abby Folsoms—a philanthropy
manifesting itself by an officious intermeddling
with the property rights of the South insti
gating the escape of thp slave, while if turn;
its back upon the free negro, leaving him to
steal or starve— a philanthropy which, in
stead of expending its pecuniary means as it
legally might in ministering to the wants of
the black already free, or sending him to the
country of hts origin, wheie he could attain
the dignity of a citizen —invests such means
in printing incendiary publications, or hiring
emissaries to create discontent in the s'ave, or
increase that already existing this kind of
mistaken philanthropy, with its attendant in
direct efforts at disunion, is unjustly charged
to the entire North, while the South appar
ently seek to precipitate its consequences.”
On Tuesday, Feb. I9lh, Mr Venable, of
North Carolina, made quite a long speech, in
opposition to the doc'rines and measures of
the free Soil party,” and in defenpe of
slavery. His speech seems, in part, to be a
reply to one made by Hon. Horace Mann,
which we have not yet seen. Mr. Venable is
the worthy colleague of that young Republi
can minister of human bondage, Mr. Cling
man, who led the way, at thp commencement
of the session, in a long, dull, and tedious ar
gument in favor of his blood-shedding and
man-iqtbruting system-
The first part of Mr. Venable’s speech is a
recapitulation of the dangers to which the
South would be exposed in case of a dissolu
tion of the American Union. He defies such
dangers; but ridiculously whines because
Northern men are not willing to abandon the
Wilmot Proviso,” lest the South ahpnld ex
pdse herself to such dangers by dissolving tfre
Union on the adoption of that Proviso. This
is like a band of villains threatening to blow
out their own brains, unless peimitted to
plunder whom they please, and pleading lot
the latter privilege as the least of two evils.
He greatly dislikes a remark made by Mr.
Palfrey, a year ago, that a large number ol
colored persons resided in New Bedford, and
that most of them had paid for themselves
with their heels,” This is evidently a sore
point upon which to touch slaveholders. Mr,
Venable expresses himself thus with respect
to the danger of the dissolution of the Union:
“We cannot avoid the conviction, that
unless that disturbing cruse is removed, it is
impossible for the Government to extend its
existence, without such internal convulsions
as must sever the tie which unites the States
of this Confederacy.”
He ridicules the idea that the President
can, by physical force, perpetuate the Union;
and speaks of equal justice as the only founda
tion upon which the Uniou can stand. The
speaker then goes on to give a narration ol
the causes which have been for some time
operating, and which have served to bring
tha nation and the Union into (what he con
siders) its present perilous condition. We
shonld be amused, if we were not shocked,
by the speaker’s solemn warnings against in
justice, and unequal legislation and by the
mock fervor with which he portrays the fate
of nations and governments which have, in
time past, fallen into ruin from these causes
For a slaveholder, (that most unscrupulous oi
all earthly tyrants) to stand up before thii
nation and the world, and lecture on behali
of justice and equJ legislation, is the con
summation of audacity, and the climax ol
hypocrisy. Mr. Venable displays great
adroitness in outing the blame of the present
agitation upon the North. He says
I am aware, air, that it belongs to the
policy of those who pursue a system oi
wrong and oppression, to divert attention from
themselves, and fix the blame of disturbance
and disorder upon the wronged and op
pressed.”
It is notorious that for whatever agitation
now exists in the councils of the nation, the
South, and pot the North, is to blame It
was in obedience to the insatiable and out
rageous demands of that section of the Un
ion that Texas was annexed, and that the
Mexican war was waged and, as a conse
quence, the present territories, -forming the
field of contention, were added to this gov
ernment.
It is equally notorious that the South, from
hi first, declared Its intention to hr, the ex-
tension -of slayerjr over the “free soil'* ac
quired by the war in Mexico. In view ol
these plain facts, which are too generally ad
mitted to need proof or illustration, an attempt
to make the North responsible for the present
agitation, can only originate with one pro
foundly skilled In the use of impudence and
temerity. No! the North is not to blame
we wish it was. It ought to have long since
assumed an aggressive aspect to slavery; but
this it has never done. The real abolitionists
at the North are yet but a handful!. The
overwhelming mass of the people are still
clinging to the compromises and guarantees
given by the Constitution to the system of
hnmao bondage. Mr. Venable’s allegations
ought to be true; but the facts are against it.
The speaker, in the following remarks,
doubtless utters the BentimeuU of all the raen
stealers of his section!
I recognize no party ties uniting me to
ohose whose system of aggression has for its
result the equalization of the black and white
races—which looks even remotely to the pos
session of civil or social oquality of those
races at the South at least, (amongst them
selves it may be a trotter of taste with which
it does not become us to interfere.) Neither
will I acknowledge party allegiance to those
who vote for or approve the Wilmot Proviso,
or any equivalent measure, the abolition oi
slavery in the District or elsewhere by Con
gress, or the obstruction of the recapture ol
fugitive slaves by State authority. My con
stituents have declared disunion preferable to
any of theae results, and so instructed me at
the polls.
Oh that there was manliness enough al
the North to meet the issue, and to say to the
South boldly, We of the North are pre
pared, and we will, God helping us, stand as
firmly by freedom as you of the South have
resolved to stand by slavery! In such a con
test, it is easy to see on whose standard vic
tory would peroh. We must not follow this
windy Venable further, since we have more,
of the same sort, to present from othei
quarters.
The Senate, on Wednesday, Feb. AO, wa*
the scene of a warm debate, on the Union,
slavery, and the admission of California. A
Mi. Clemens, from Alabama, led off as the
champion of slavery. Among the liot-heada
of the South, there is not a more violent sla
very-defender than he. Though but recently
elected to the Senate, and perhaps scarcely
known five years since beyond the limits ol
his own State, he talks of and to Senators ol
forty years standing, as though he was, in
every respect, theiz equal. Cass, Clay and
Benton are handled by him with all the free
dom and careless indifference with which he
would throw about an old shoe. It is quite
probable that his swaggering immodesty and
Open rudeness have already won for him the
contempt of his brother Senators, though we
very much doubt whether he has the sagacity
to see, or the sensibility to feel it.
Mr. Clemens is apposed to Mr. Clay’s com
promise resolutions. We shall not weary
our readers with any extracts, since he brings
nothing new nor important to the considera
tion of the subject. He hqs all of Foote’s
impudence, without his graceful flow of
language.
Robert C. Winthrop, (who has remained
singularly quiet since losing the Speaker
ship) has at length opened his mouth and
his Bpeech shows no abatement of his attach
ment to slavery, nor qf his desire to conciliate
the favor of the human flesh-mongers who
prowl about the Capital. He said the Presi
dent was at the helm, and, by the blessing of
God, he trusted that he would be hailed as
the pilot who had weathered the.storm. This
is just what we should expect 43 the opening
of a speech from this panderer to the slave
power. He went on to bind himself, by the
cords of feu years’ growth, to the slave sys
tem, In the following emphatic manner. We
copy from the Tribune
Ten years ago, when he was a'candidate
for Qongress, he said that if it was his for
tune to be elected, he would deem it to be his
duty not fo agitate the subject of slavery
that he had no sympathy with any fanatics,
and that whenever the interests of the North
were assailed, lie would defend thenr— a
plague on both houses!” had been his con
stant exclamation. He thanked his God that
he was incapacitated from commencing ultra
ism in any way. If he had the approval of
the ultraiats, he should inquire, in the lan
guage of one of old, “What evil have I done
that they should speak well of me?” As to
Mr. Root’s resolution, instructing the Com-
Territories to bring tn territorial
bills, with the slavery restriction, he regarded
it as fraught with the greatest cpischief—
hence ha voted to lay it on the table and he
oanqe to the conclusion that the honotable
member. Mr. Root, for the sake of a misera
ble notoriety, put in peril a cause of which he
professed to be the proudest advocate. If the
resolution had been pressed on the House, all
hope of legislation would have beep at an
end, and California not admitted during this
session. If the Wilmot Proviso was dead,
its death lies at the door of Mr. Root; and
the epitaph on the tomb ought to be, Here
lies the victim of restless vanity and the
headstrong rashness of the gentleman from
Ohio, who held it up deliberately to receive
its death-blow.” It was a fatal blunder—
that resolution—but Mr, Winthrop had sought
the favor to say to his constituents and hia
country that these gentlemen are not the
proper judges of his votes. There has never
been a party under the cloak of philanthropy
that has been so vituperative and abusive as
the Free Soil sect. He did not believe that
there was ever witnessed, in the history of
this or any other country, such audacity and
false statements as the presses of their parly
have exhibite<f; —he had his it, and
more than his share, here and at home.—
There was a nest of vipers in his district,
who had be%n biting a file, and having-broken
their own teeth, they want the uae of the
teeth of honotable members of this House.”
If slavery be extended to New Mexico and
Deseret, it will be through the agency of just
such toadies as this same Winthrop. This
speech of his (if we do not mistake the spirit
of Massachusetts) will gain few friends, and
add largely to the list o his 'political ene
mies. His attempt to mako what he alleges
to be the imprudence and rashness of Mr,
Root an excuse for his own treachery tp the
principle of freedom, will he fully compre
hended in the Old Bay State.
We now turn with pleasure from the slave
bolding to the anti-slavery side of the Con
gressional proceedings and by far the most
important of these, is the speech of the new
member of the House, from Pennsyvania,
Thaddeus Stevens. His effort, a# reported in
the Globe of Saturday morning, Feb, 83d, is
one of the most powerful, eloquent and
acathiog deuunciations of alavery to which
the slaveholders in Congress were ever called
upon to listen. S. S. .Foster could scarcely
have been much more severe in his conclu
sions, nor more logics] in his mode of st
riving at them, than Wte Sttvene, Wt
had intended to extract largely from thia
speech in the present article, but are per
suaded that our readers will be better pleased
to have the article entire in our next week’s
paper.
The Senate has bedPcompatativelv dull.-
The South has had the largest share of its
time and attention.— r. o.
No Union with Slaveholders.
The following is the Petition which was
so furiously denounced, ind so contempt
uously rejected, s few days ago, by the Ame
rican Senate. We observe that the Penn
sylvanian” has published the namea ot the
signers in a black square, as a mark of its
indignant displeasure, and with a view to
excite against them popular odium; but we
greatly miscalculate the material of the peti
tioners, if any measure of a malignant and
scurrilous print, such as the paper in ques
tion, shall either alarm or disquiet them.—
The objection to the existing Union of the
North and the South, is founded upon the
rocls of immutable principle, and can never be
removed by vulgar abuse nor dignified con
tempt. This treatment will have no other'
effect than to deepen the conviction, and to
strengthen the determination of the noble I
men ahd women who signed the petitition, to
persevere in their bold and conscientious ef
forts to free the Northern States from the
ctirce and guilt of being parties to this slave
holding confederacy. Lei the heathen
rage “He that sitteth in the heavens will
laugh” at their attempt to stay the behests of
His Government. r. d.
To the Senate and House of Reyresenlath'es of
the l ruled States in Congress assembled:
We the undersigned inhabitants of Pennsyl
vania and Delaware, believing that the Fed
eral Constitution, in pledging the strength of
the whole nation to the support of slavery,
violates the divine law, makes war upon hu
man rights, and is grossly inconsistent with
republican principles; that its attempt to
unite freedom with slavery in one body poli
tic, has already brought upon the country
great and manifold evils, and has fully proved
that no such Union can exist but by the sac
rifice of freedom to the supremacy of slavery,
-respectfully ask you to devise and propose,
without delay, some plan for the immediate
peaceful dissolution of the American Union.**
Ihe following Resolution, introduced by
Mr. fiarrison, find adopted by the Afstssaohu*
setts Anti-Slavery Society, is being exten
sively quoted and commented upon, as evi
dence of the bigotry and intolerance of its
author, and of those who co operate with
him in breaking the chains of the hopeless
millions who writhe in bondage, under the
ponderous weight of our blood-stained Union.
I’o us, the alleged intolerance is nothing
more than the intolerance that truth and jus
tice must always create against falsehood and
cringe, fhe stand point of Mr. Garrison
differs from that of his accusers he looks at
the Union from the cotton-field—the slave
shambles, and the cane-hrakes of the South
he reels the lot of the bondman to be his
own; and remembering those in bonds as
bound with thorn,” be feels every eulogy
upon the Union to be a rivet in his chains
and the resolution is but a natural expression
of his sense of the wrongs of the oppressed,
j F. D.
Resolved, That it is with deep regret
we peroeive that the Poet Longfellow has
prostituted his fine poetical genius to eulogize
the blood-stained American Union as freighted
with the hopes and interests of Humanity—
as being a noble ship, invulnerable to the
rock, and proof against the storm, built in the
most skillful and workmanlike manner;
whereas, the history of its creation and its
ernise demomatrates it to have been
_ A perfidious bark,
UuiU i t|i ecUp*e, aiul rigged with curses dark,”
rotting through all her timbers, leaking from
stem to stern, laboring heavily on a storm
tossed sea, surrounded by clouds of disastrous
porten.t, navigated by those whose object is a
piratical ofie, (namely, the extension and
perpetuity of slavery,) and destined to go
down full many a fathom deep,” to the joy
and exultation of all who are yearning for the
deliveranoe of a groaning world.”
We copy the following correspondence
from the Standard;
Colored People in Canada*
We are indebted to the London Inquirer
for the following article and interesting corre
spondence, copied from the Montreal Patriot,
Having no Canada exchanges, we are in
debted to the American press for our news
from that Province, and that contained in Mr.
Cameron ’s is not of such a character as Ame
j rican editurs ate desirous of laying before
1 their Republican readers. It gives rise to
reflections which would not be considered as
conducive to a sound political morality in the
United States
CORRESPONDENCE
Between the Hon Malcolm Cameron and the
Colored Stockholders of the Elgin Asso
ciation.
We publish the following correspondence
with great pleasure, having already, on more
than one occasion, advocated the rights of our
colored fellow -citizens in this province; and
expressed our surprise and indignation at the
attempt made to take them away. The op
ponents of free settlements may be reminded
that we are not yet annexed, and that it is far
too soon to anticipate, by an anti-British po
licy, an event, the possible occurrence of
which is contemplated by the genuine lovers
of freedom and independence with strong
feelings of aversion. The prejudice against
color is a moral weakness, to say the least,
of whioh an Englishman should be ashamed.
It ought to have no place among us.
To the Hon. Malcolm Cameron —Sir—
We, the undersigned Committee, have been
appointed by a number of colored stockhold
ers of the Elgin Association, to ask your
views on a subject that chiefly concerns our
civil rights. Your long residence in the
Westein part of the Province, where
our people are settled, makes you well ac
quainted with our pppdipon, and the many
disadvantages under which we labor, in con
sequence of an unjust prejudice, which de
prives our children, in a great measure, of
the use of the common schools, and excludes
us from participating in ftp rights privi
leges g isranfeed us by law. This preju
dice has lately assumed a hostile form, in an
Address published at Chatham in August
last* the object of which is to prevent us from
settling where we please, and, if carried into
effect, would eventually drive os ftom the
Province. As you represent the county where
the Elgin Association have purchased land
for colored settlers, they wish to know if you
are in favor of oar settling there, or sny
other place that we stay select in the Pro
vince, sod if you will aid us in obtaining ail
the rights and privileges we are entitled to by
law. An answer at your earliest conven
ience will oblige the Committee.
Adolphus Judah,
W. H- Abbott, J Cbm
David Ho lain,
*na. casrron’b reply.
Gentlemen—ln reply to your letter Of this
lay, 1 beg leave to a«y, that the evil yea
tomplaiu of, rotative to your position in oom-
ful! pro tided for ia the
B j'' wh,ch had the honor to
l ,hroa b Parliament last session, and
h —weiiiio opera non in J«m« next.
I regretted tnueh the tone and sentiment,
of the resolutions and addreaa to which you
allude, as having been passed in August last
and 1 feel quite sure they are not fhe senli
ments ot the great mass of the County of
Ken*, I-or my own part, 1 hate eter advo
cated the perfect equality of aU mankind, add
the right of all to every civil and religious
privilege, without regard to creed or color.
And under the Constitution we now enjoy
all men are really “fiee and equal,” anj
none can deny to the African anything grant
ed to the Sotchman, the Irishman, or the
Saxon; they have the right to purchase where
they please, arid settle in groups or singly as
c j <e ml w herevcr they are, they will
find me ready to defend and maintain the
principles ol civil and religious liberty to all,
as the principle I hold moat dear to myself
j and most sacred to my country.
1 have the honor to be your obedient
MALCOLM CAMERON
To VVilson R. Abbott, David Holtin, Adol
phus Judah (.'ommittee
The following little picture, together with
kindly advice to children, we copy from “the
Advent Haibinger.” It is from the pen of one,
who has long, suffered under the hand of afflic
tion and it is well adapted to impress the
youthful mind with the spirit of kindness and
benevolence.—T. o.
Now, there comes an old rnvn, leaning
heavily on his staff. His whitened locks and
tattered garments are streaming in the wintry
btasi Wicked boys laugh at his infirmity,
and deride Ins poveny, while lie silently hob
bles on. Give him your hand, lead him
gently uneven psth-wity, wrap your
own warm cloak aronnd his almost fare**
limbs, conduct him safely to his lonely amt
almost destitute dwelling, and let his “thou
sand thanks” convince you, that the human
heart is always made better by acts of kind
ness.
And now listen to that deafening outcry
and see the snow-balls flying in the air already
resounding with the shouts and savage yells
of a crowd of rude and unfeehng boys, who
are putsutng some object with all rhe fierce
ness ot a pack of hounds. We will, also
j watch that professedly pious gentleman, and
richly attired lady, approaching the scene of
J rudeness, but alas they havfe tinned aside
and scornfully passed on, while the tumult is
so increased, that we must conclude that
some thief or criminal is making his esctiie.
Shall we go and aee what it is that has pro
duced this uproar! Ofit is a colored girl—
a defenceless little girl, whose only offence
her sable hue. In attempting to escape, she
lias fallen in the street, her little basket, and
the lew pennies with whioh she was timidly
hurrying to the market, are lost in the snow
Q let ns, in the love of God, who ta no re
specter of persons, fly u» the rescue of that
innocent child, disperse the thoughtless
crowd, and rebuke them sharply,— regardless*
of the scornful smile of that haughty Mist*
who is passing,—lift the trembling innocent
from the gutter, gently wipe away her tears,
and brush the snow from her garments, find
her basket, restore the l>st money, protect her
from further insult by your own arm, lead her
quietly down the street, and leave her safely
in the arms of her poor weeping mother, and
let the overflowing of that humble grateful
heart teach you that the power of love, of
sympathy, on the human mind ia irresiatable,
let the color, sex, or condition be what it
may, with the exception of some few cases
of the most hardened depravity— and even
then, our duty to love and assist them remains
unchanged.
But let us return, and though our abort
excursion has been an imaginary one, let mo
assure you, •ear children, that similar inci
dents transpire in real life, and areof frequent
occurrence, affording the benevolent child of
trod daily opportunity of doing good to the
afflicted.
But J have said enough to you this time. If
have wearied you, please let my intense
anxiety <0 interest my young friends be iny
apology,_May I not hope to hear from some
through the Harbinger If lam oos
rectly informed, the “Youth’s Department”
i'* designed for your benefit, Theugh you
may not be accustomed to write for the press,
you have only to realise that we are all learn
ers, and together striving to acquire a know
ledge of God'a truth, and obtain a character
that shall constitute us heirs of God, give us,
with all such as do his will, a right to the
tree of life, and admission into hw peaceful
kingdom. That we may there meet, is the
fervent prayer of your sincere friend,
S. M. M,
Rochester, N. Y.
A Correspond Ait ot The 7 Mlntno thus
warns all who are disposed to assist the true
fugitive Irom the impositions of a pretended
one:
Impost kr. A colored man calling his
name William Johnson, is on a tour of spec
ulation among the friends of the colored tace
in the Northern and Eastern States, stating
that he had escaped from Slavery three or
four years since and was now in search of his
wife residing somewhere at the north. His
address i$ good and statements very plausible,
and by means of them he has obtained a few
letters of intioduction to gentlemen prominent
for their benevolence, who have aided hi.a
with money and clothing. He pursues bin
journey from place to place, repeating th»
same statements, exhibiting his letters and
mentioning freely the names of different per
sons who were induced to give because of
others having done so. It has been lately as
certained that he has deserted his wife and
left her entirely unprovided for, with whom
he only became acquainted in July la^ and
it is believed that he is now pursuing’ the
the same means to obtain a living by exciting
the sympathies of chat itabl«persons,of which
he is entirely unworthy,
Rev. J. W. Loooen.—lt is with shame
for some of our fellow citizens, we are
obliged to state, that this good man, when
lately on his way from your eity, and be
tween Fort Herkimer and Jacksonburgh, 5
or 6 miles west of this, was Tudely assaulted
while peaceably traveling hither wi«b bis
horse and sleigh. A lot of rowdier being
probably of a hubs whiter skin, but surely of
dark souls, first came behind him in another
sleigh, and after exhausting on him the low
est vocabulary of those who '‘love rum and
hate niggers,” dtove violently by; vnd then
occasionally hailing in a narrow place, re
newed their foul-mouthed abuse, with vari
ous thieats, and thus harrassed him for about
two miles, till to his joy they turned frem the
main road. Were the viMaiiis who could
thus scandalously treat a genteel stranger on
account of cqlor hut f»opd out, a houae of
correction ought to be erected for tlieir pecu
liar benefit, (Mr. L. is to officiate for the Af
rican Methodist Society of this village on
Sundayfnext]
Legislative Petitions.— White gratified
to see those filling up around us, praying the
inmates of the Capital to hear Ihe arguments
of Gerrit Smith against the lying law of sla
very, I trust those for the prohibition of the
drunkard manufacture will not be forgotten
but poured in copiously from every section of
the State. “Keep it before the people,” by
all means, aod may none of your reforming be
,B Yours, Ac.,
—Liberty Party Paper.
Out thanks are due to Hen. Jem P. Hat*
for valuable Congressional documents. Oar
obligations to him are the more sensibly felt,
because so few of out Representatives feel it
worth while to send Congressieuai Documents
to om of our creed and color
We published in Jut week's paper, a let
ter upon Education, by Sarah D. Fish, and
in the exercise of our Editorial prerogative
we abridged and compressed it into such limits
as we deemed suitable to out columns; hut
in this, we took cate to do no violence to
her meaning—and to omit no thought nor
expression which appeared necessary to give
her meannig force, and point. This, how
ever has been found unsatisfactory; and we
therefore, piefer to publish her letter entire.
—F. D.
Education,—Kindness.
The subject of educating children, I feel to
•be one of vital impotlance: and viewed by
many very incorrectly. But 1-think it more
an error of the head than heart. Instead oi
taking the way in which we were educated
for a basis on which to improve, knowing that
those who have gone betore us had not as
much light as we have, we seem to take it
for au exact pattern. Children are often found
fault with, when they ought to have soothing
words of encouragement, and one of the
fiist qualifications sought alter in a school
teacher, ought to be, the very desirable one of
possessing a faculty of governing by love in
stead of rigor. 1 have recently heard of a
school teacher's saying, that he should as
quick think of taking a gun in his school, as
a whip or any instrument with which to in
dict corporeal punishment. This is as it
should be. i'o think uf mending the heart
by bruising the flesh—how absurd and how
debasing! Is it not astonishing that we should
ever have imbibed so low, so degrading an
idea. It was evidently from the bottomless
pit, fur it never had a higher oiigin. “God
is love,” and every thing that emanates ftom
him is pure, lovely, and elevating, and how
dssirable—how indispensable that those
who assume the dignified stations of parents,
guardians, and teachers, should be directed
from above, instead of descending, and im
pulsively yielding to our lowest naiuies in
correcting our children. Who ever knew it
to fail of having a good effect on a child to
appeal affectionately to their pure mind—to
their reason—to show them the consequences
of sin, the sufferings that inevitably follow a
wrong course, assuring them that it is their
good, their happiness, we are aiming to in
sure, and not the giatification uf our own
missguided pasiou.—Some would say, as 1
have heard ihem,we have tried that, found it
of no use, and ar. last had to resort to w hip
ping. 1 always feel, when 1 hear this, that
they have not iiad sufficient patience —that
they have not given Jhe child time, and al
though our great Exemplar has enjoiued it
upon us to forgive seveniy limes seven, yell
believe in the case of children who are com
paratively innocent, and much easier wrought
upon by Christian kindness than their super
iors in age, so much as ill at would not be
necessary. I think our forbearance and for
givaness a vety lew tunes, as a general thing,
would accomplish the desired object. 1 have
frequently heard it said, “well, i would make
them mind at any rate:” but I believe it would
be very wrong to be determined to make the
child yield at once, unless it could be done by
mild rnd persuasive means, because “like be
gets its like,” harshn ;ss calls out its w orst
possions, which should be carefully suppres
sed, and never called it into action.
We should he untiring in our kind efforts
to cultivate everything in children that is
lovely—to nurture most assiduously that spirit
of affection ale love which God has implanted
in their hearts, and as much as possible,
while they are young, give it the predomi
nance, teaching them that this unerring prin
ciple, which, most assuredly, is from our
Creator, should be cherished, and strictly ad
hered to. We ought in all cases to manifest
to them a yielding on our own part, and after
we have said all to them which our God-giv
en —our highest nature dictates, we should
then leave them to their own reflections.
Give them all the time they choose to take,
and w henever suitab e opportunity occurs to
impress their mindwith the imperativenecessi
ty of living agreeably to thedivine law, be sun
to improve it; and always be willing, as was
Jesus to make any sacrifice to our own com
fort, toour will, rather than call out an evil j
passion in Hie being for whom we are so'
highly responsible. We should thus save
not only those beloved ones whom our Fattier j
has entrusted to our care, but ourselves also
from many a heatt-ieudmg pang: besides be
ing rewarded with that peace, which would
indeed “flow as a river,” and in the event,!
most assuredly enjoy the unspeakable plea
sure of seeing those for whom we nave
trustingly labored, forsaking sin and all evil
and coming up with the powerful weapons of
love and good will, “to the help of the Lord
against the mighty, ’—sarah d. fish.
Rochester, Feb. Bth, 1850.
We extract the following, from an ad
dress recently delivered in Philadelphia, at
the Colored Department of the House of
Refuge, by the Hon. W. D. Kelly.
Jt is gratifying to find that meg in high
places of the nation, are beginning to appre
ciate the social condition into which ages of
injustice, slavery and oppression have plunged
the nominally “Free Colored People” in
Ftiiladel pbia, and elsewhere in out country.
We hail this fact as an earnest of the pro
gress which Society will yet make on this
•object.— r. d.
Thus far, 1 have spoken chiefly of our
white population; but what 1 have said is
equally true of those for whom this building
is designed. The colored man is depressed
hy the causes that depress the white man;
•no 1 the agencies which strengthen aud de
velope the Anglo-Saxon child would, if fairly
applied, give him a sturdy competitor in his
dark neighbor. The existence of a colored
community in otir midst is coeval with slave*
ty. Its members encounter not only the pre
judice of color; but, go where they may, let
their worth and ability be what they may,
they are recognized as the deesepdants ol
slaves, and too oiled treated as though they
deserved no better than their fathers’ fate.
They are with us, yet not of us. Dwelling
m our midst, they are a distinct community.
Defied the right ,of citizenship, they are
•til subject to our laws; and we can no more
neglect* 1 their moral, intellectual, and social
condition with impunity, than we can expect
contagious disease to desolate their poor
homes and leave our loved ones untouched.
1 know not how to speak of them as a com
munity. Numbering less than one-twelfth of
our population, living chiefly in dependent
employments, with comparatively few sources
of revenue, and fewer wholesome incentives
to ambition, they nevertheless present to the
eye of the careful observer as wide a range
of character, and perbape of condition, as is
exhibited by society at large. Slavery being
the negation of mail's tight to himself, it, ot
comae, denies him the right to possess or ac
cumulate property. It necessarily keeps him
in ignorance. Whether manumitted on our
own soil by the wise legislation of our fa
thers, or elsewhere through the promptings
of benevolence, they are all come to freedom
in poverty and ignorance, The condition ol
the fugitive slave, and we have many of them,
is still worse. In dread of the law by which
he would be surrendered if taken, he strives
to live in concealment until the chase is over.
Idle, and without resource, he soon exeausts
kis slender stock of clothing, sod contracts
the vices of his least thrifty and most de
graded brethren. Yet, despite all advene
ciieiunstaooM, they are an improving people.
They have their own churches and private
echoole. They maintain and conductassocia
lJOos for benevolent and literary purposes.
Ristflg above the mental stations their lathers
filled, they U* engaged in mechanical pur
•iiits, in trade, and two of the
learned professions; man/ of them have ao
outred real estate, and a few fcf# on income
7mm their caoital. which they manage with
tact and judgment. I will not uk whether,
as a people, they are capable of cultiration.
They had answered that question affirmatively
and satisfactorily to our community, betore it
appropriated one of its commodious public
grammar school buildings for the education
of colored children.
The prejudice against color is unknown in
France; and prominent among her distinguish*
ed men of science, her statesmen, and histo
rians,* are to be found those whose cheeks
are shaded, and whose hair is curled by the
blood of Africa.
Alexander Duma*, Gerard, ami others. “You
have not forgotten that two youths of African blood
gained the highest honor* in the College at Paris,
in the year 1838, and dined on die same day with
tlie King of France, the dercendant of St. I.ouis,
at die Palace of die Tuilerie*. And let me add, il
1 may refer tomy own experience, that in Paris 1
have sat, lor weeks, at die School of Law, on the
same bench with colored (tenons, listening, like
myself, to the learned lectures of negrando and
Kosm.” —Speech of Ckarie Sumner, £’*/.,m Robert*
t». The City of Button.
We copy tlie following letter, fietn “the
National Anti-Slavery Standard.” It may
give our readers some insight into the labors,
trials, and hardships of those who pioneer
the way of our anti-slavery Reform. Mr.
and Mrs. Foster have been, and still are,
laboring in comparatively an uncul(iva,ed,
and long neglected region. Stout hearts and
an enduring zeal, (both of which they large
ly share,) are needed in the conflict which
they are now waging.—f. d.
Our next meetings were at Palenville, di
rectly under the deep-furrowed, frowning
brow of the old Catskills, and only two miles
from the “Mountain House.” Here we held
four meetings. At the first there seemed an
involuntary uprising of the place to defend
Slavery or apologize for it. An elderly, man
called the slaves cattle. We showed the
congregation that if he were right they were
in the practice of baptizing cattle into the
name of the Father and of sitting at ihe com
munion table with cattle. We afterwards
learned that this man is a rumselling Elder
in the church. The Bible was brought for
ward and quoted in defence of Slavery, and
although the minister of the Dutch Church
did not think the Bible sanctioned it, he after*
wards wanted some explanation of Abraham’s
position towards those servants born in his
house. Indeed had not the subject for that
evening’s discussion been the terrible system
of American Slavery and those who were
apologizing for, or defending it, been in high
standing in the church or making high pro
fessions of Republicanism and Democracy,
the whole affair would have been richly ludi
crous. It was however, truly pitiful, and I
olushed and grieved for my race.
The three following meetings were quiet,
many of the church members having with
drawn, and no one came forward to reply.
Yet when we announced our meetings closed,
the Dutch Reformed Clergyman, who had
attended throughout, but had kept aileuce
since the first meeting, gave notice that he
would hold a meeting there the next Thurs
day evening to show that the Church of
Christ had been misrepresented and slander
ed. Mr. Foster, rising said, if the Church
ttad misrepresented no one was so deep
ly interested to know it as himself, as it was
not his intention to misrepresent any one;
therefore he should endeavor to be present to
listen to the discourse, lie has gone to-day
ind will probably stop and reply to-morrow
svening.
In Palenville we obtained but five subscri-
Ijera but several others will probably sub
scribe while Mr. Foster is there, as there
was quite as much interest manifested to ob-j
Lain information by books as in other places j
in this section. At our last meeting in Palen- J
ville a unanimous vote of thanks were ten
dered us for our lectures, and an invitation
given ua to return and discuss the question
farther.
1 will here suggest that next summer a
Convention be held in this vicinity, when by
the promulgation of truth having swept the
charming valley below, we adjourn to the
heights above and refresh our spirits by a j
view of the varied scenery, rich, beautiful,!
grand and sublime.
From PalenviPe we came to Hudson,
w here we have held four meetings—the three
first in Temperance Hall which were con
siderably disturbed by rowdyism, and the last
in Friends Meeting House, which being larg
er and more commodious than the hall, we
believed would secure us from further out
rage. Yet even hither the rowdies followed
and proceeded to still greater extremities
by throwing eggs and other missiles, one of
which bit our excellent friend, Aton C.
Macy.
Although we had designed to hold other
meetings in the place we gave notice at the
close of this, that at this late period we did
not feel it our duly, as in years gone by, to
speak in disturbed meetings. The liberty of
speech, which had been trampled under foot
all though the country was now regained in i
the North save in a few benighted corners,
and we chose to speak elsewhere to those
who were eager to listen to this allabsorbing
question of the age.
Injustice, however, to the masses who at
tended our meetings it must be said, there
was an evident desire to have older, and some
of the city authorities weie present at all the
meetings, save the first, trying to preserve
order. Their failure to do so must have
been owing to an unpardonable lack of effici
ency somewhere. In numerous instances I
have seen greater turbulence, fiom much
greater numbers, entirely ‘put down and or
der preserved by one or two efficient, private
citizens. I learn there is a class of rowdies
here who have given the place much trouble,
foi a long time past, in disturbing temperance
meetings and m commuting other shameful
outrages on the citizens, such as taking off
gales, tearing up doorsteps, overturning out
houses and the like. If the citizens know of
no better means of protection than by physi
cal force, I can assure them their present
forceless system is woise than nothing. These
river fiowns are to be commiserated foi be
ing infested, during winter, by a set of somk
ing, drinking, gamming loafers who are
thrown out of employment by the closing of
navigation. My opinion is, that no physical
force will reach the difficulty. Much could
be done for tbs salvation of these places by
the preaching of the real gospel in lieu of
that soulless sectarianism which hqs stolen
its name, and which is a savor pf death unto
death instead of life unto life.
We find that thiouhout all this section,
the menbating, God-defying Colonization
pause is in all its primitive luxuriance. The
General ,Synod of the Dutch Reformed
Church, trie highest pcclesiastial judicature
of that denomipstton. recompnend* that all its
minisieis preach, at least once a year, aei
mofi in favor of Colonization, and take up a
collection for the Colonization Society; arid so
far as leap le«n the request is heartily res
ponded to.
The work is great, the harvest is ripe for
the reaping, and our prayer is to the Execu
tive Committee for moie laborers.
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER.
Negroes for Liberia. —One hundred and
aixty-four negioea, belonging to the estate of
the late Jacob Wood, Esq., and liberated at
his death, by his will, arrived here yesterday
in the steamer Robert CoJlms, destined to
sail in a few days from this port for Liberia,
an board the bark Chieftain. Captain Drink
water. In Überatiqg these negroes, Major
Wood appropriated by will $5OOO to defray
the expenses of their emigration. It was
his desire, and was so expressed ut his will,
that they should be sent to Hayti, bat his ex
ecutors, D. Charles West, of Houston Co.,
and Judge Elias peed, of this city, after
employing an agent to go to flay tp examine
and report the condition of things there,
thought it impolitic to aeod them there, and
obtained order of Court to change their dee-
tinaiion to Africa, believing that this course
would better promote and aecure the bsppi
nese of the negcuea themselves, and carry
out the benevolent designs of their former
owner.
From Livermore’* "Review of the Mf xieau \V ir.”
The True Destiny of our Country.
There is a genuine Anglo-Saxon destiny,
i of which we can conceive, that would be
truly glorious in itself, and beneficial to
mankind. But it is a destiny of liberty, not
of license. It is a destiny of peace, not ot
war. It is a destiny of justice and noble
ideas, not of invasions and violent annexa
tions. It is a destiny whose emblems and
implements are not the bomb and the bowie
knife, but the priniing-piess and the Bible.
It is a destiny of raising up the fallen races,
and administering wise and equal laws,
wherever our dominion extends, not of tramp
ling under the hoofs of the war-horse the
prostrate red man, black man, or "dark
browed Mexican.” Science, commerce and
Christianity have given England and the
United States, the two Anglo-Saxon powers,
an almost immeasurable influence over the
rest of the human family. But (rod has put
this sceptre into their hands for no idle and
vain-glorioua purpose, but to promote the
welfare of mankind. Did the grand vision
of a true and providential destiny, the real
mission God has sent them to accomplish,
dawn upon the minds of our statesmen and
orators, our rulers and people, they would
sheathe the sword forever. They would
"trust, not in uncertain liches, but in the
living Godnot in carnal, but spiritual
weapons. This is the only worthy destiny—
the only one that heaven will bless, or futu
rity honor. It is impious to talk as if any
people were fated to be ambitious and grasp
ing, and a terror to the tace, and not a bles
sing. We might with as much propriety
say, that an individual was destined to be a
knave, or a ruffian. The Creator has, in one
sense, destined all his children to be good
and true, to obey hiß laws, and share in his
promises. "He is not willing that any should
perish, but that all should come unto repent
ance.” But men have been gifted with the
power of choice, and the opportunity of good
and of evil, and if they come short of the
glory of God, they may be said to have fius
trated the divine plan, and not fulfilled their
mission and destinv, as immortal beings.
These two nations are capable, ifthey have
grace to seize the memorable opportunity, of
leaving a mark upon tho history of mankind,
“above all Greek, all Roman fame.” They
can make themselves felt for good—we yet
hope that in a measure they are doing so—to
the remotest isle of the sea, and to the
savage tribe, whose name even has not yet
been domesticated in a civilized tongue. They
have the saving ideas of science, freedom, and
Christianity, that are able, if diffused, to
keep the life-blood flowing, in stiong and
pure tides thtough their own heaits, and also
to stir the deep sleep of paganism with fresh
and waking pulses of regeneration. They
have both the personnel and the materiel the
ships, tools, arts, studies, truths, men, to do
this magnificent work. They and their allies
of kindred European races, if faithful to the
high vocation, wherewith they are called,
and “obedient to the heavenly vision,” can,
in two centuries, change the aspect of the
whole habitable globe, and make the solitary
place glad, and the desert blossom like the
rose.
But if, abjuring this kingly power of bene
ficence, and turning aw ay from this sublime
mission of realizing the kingdom of Cbiist on
earth, they bow themselves down to the base
uses of Mammon and of Mars, they will fling
away an opportunity of usefulness, such as
has been rarely afforded in any juncture of
history, if they consent to track the old bloody j
tound of sordid, guilty ambition, and seek not
to bring other tubes and races under the obedi-1
ence of God, and harmony with his laws,
but in subjection Ito their own tyranny, then
it requires no prophet's eve to foresee that
that are destined to fall a prey to the same
passions, suicidally acting on themselves,
which have poured the vials of wrath upon
other countries. Their prodigious vices wil
be whips enough to scourge them. The im
mense agencies which might have proved the
instruments of an incalculable beneficence,
will become, when perverted, only the heavier
millstones about their necks to pull them
down to perdition. Destiny is a fearful word,
and when we pronounce it, we remember
most vividly the life of that mighty man who
called himself the "child of destiny,” but;
whose star, brilliant as it was, rushed head
long in an ill-fated moment from the zenith of
its glory into eternal night. Imperial as the
nations are, doth not the Lord "sit upon the
circle of the earth,” and "bring the princes
lo nothing, and make the judges of the earth
as vanity 1”
A Little Matter.
The Governor of Maryland calls attention,
in a message exclusively devoted to the inter
ests of slavery, to a matter in which Penn
sylvania is directly concerned. It is that of
the imprisonment of Jonathan Little, in Hun-,
tingdon county, on the charge of kidnapping. j
It seems some Virginian of high character”
has called his Excellency’s attention to the
matter, and represented Little as being a
poor man, who is unable to obtain counsel,
and be therefore recommends that the State
furnish his means of defence. We hope it
will be determined. Nothing would sooner
bring the non-slaveholders of that slavery
ridden State to think of the evils of slavery,
and of some early plan for getting rid of it.
Men are reached, sometimes, through their
pockets, when they can be reached in no other
way. Let them be called upon to sustain a
few such contests for the benefit of other
peopled interests—such as they are injured
rather than benefitted—and a change will be
very apt to come over the spirit of their
dreams.
As to the finale of such test cases,” i
matters little whether the Maryland slave
holders succeed or fail. All the slave-catching
laws which can be concocted, and all the de
cisions of courts that may be obtained in favor
ol slavery, will go for naught, while the in
herent impulse for freedom animates the
heart of the enslaved, and the means of suc
cor sre within his reach. Self-emancipation
will go oh in defiance of the machinations of
the slaveholders and their hired sjaye-hounds
in the free States. Look at the perils run
and tfie privations undergone by such "chat
tels as William box Brown, and William
and Ellen Cr»fL They a tale that ought
to teach the oppressor th e futility of those
movements which desperation is now madly
concocting.
As xn illustration of the force of oar re
marks, we may state that we have private
advices from Delaware, which indicate a con
tinued increase in the nomber of fugitixe
slaves from Maryland and elsewhere, who
past along that route. A correspondent oi
ours there, incidentally mentions a recent case
whjph goes ahead of even the Crafts, for
craftiness. It seepna fh*< a mulatto man,
whose completion bad been bleaphed by suc
cessive stWtlg»WPd*ons, so ss to approximate
closely that of pur own move favored race,
has oome successfully from ss far South as
Georgia, in this wise; He travelled in the
public conveyances to Richmond, Virginia,
and thence to Wilmington, Delaware, on foot.
Getting out of funds, he succeeded in so in
gratiating himself with a noted slave-dealer,
as to borrow several hundred dollars of him,
with a pan of which be dined at the best ho
tel at Havre de Grace, Maryland, while wait
ing for the host which conveys the oars serose
the Susquehanna river at that place, in which
any white man may ride backwards and for
wards with pleasure! Of course, be ia now
safe in Quepn Victoria’s dominions for we
understood that a branch qf the underground
railroad k eoonfpied fith that place. Our
correspondent shrowdiy and remarks
that the sltvsiiolders shoqld be careful not
whttnoash their “chattels” so stash, seeing
that it renders it so difficult to distinguish
them from men '.—Pittsburg Dispatch.
Foote Cloy.
In the Senate ef the United States, a few
days since—
Mr. Foote' interposing, inquired whether
the Senator, coming as he did from a slave
holding State, felt himself authorized to vote
for the admission of California as site now
presents herself.
Mi. Clay replied with much warmth, that
it was not the first time that be had been re
minded that he represented a slaveholding
constituency. Sir, (he said,) I tell the gen
tleman 1 know whence 1 came—l know tny
duty also, and am ready to meet any respon
sibility which my course may incur. (Ap
plause.) Much has been said about alle
giance to the South, and neglect of and trea
son to her interest. For one. he knew no
allegiance to the South, as a section, —he
owed allegtanoe to two sovereignties—one the
sovereignty of the Union, and the othet the
sovereignty of the State of Kentucky. To
these sovereignties he acknowledged alle
giance, and to their interests he felt himsell
pledged; but if gentlemen supposed that he
acknowledged any allegiance to a Southern
Confederation now, or in the prospective, he
would tell them that he utterly repudiated
such allegiance—he would not live under
such a confederation. (Applause.) His duty
to the Union, and lb his State, he was pre
pared to do at all times,and having performed
that to the best of his ability, accoidtng to the
light that was give* him, he was prepared to
sustain all the responsibilities which attached
to his acts. He would say fuithet, he re
ceived last night resolutions passed by the
Legislature of Kentucky, one ot which ex
pressed the hearty concurrence of that body
m the whole series of propositions which he
had submitted to the Senate. The resolution
had been passed without a word of intimation
on his behalf; for he had not written a single
line to any member or officer of his legisla
ture since the commencement of the session.
He begged that-gentlemen would, in the
continuation of this debate, restrict them
selves within the limits of Senatorial decorum,
avoiding all personalities. For one, if the
contrary practice was to be continued, and
offensive personalities were to be indulged in,
he did not and could not know how far he
might be able to trust himself, in vindication
’from the personalities of any man, no matter
who he might be. But he had risen to vin
dicate himself from the charge of inconsis
tency, and desired now to say that he de
signed, in the event of the Senate’s acting
affirmatively upon his resolutions, to propose
a separation or classification of the various
subjects embraced, lor the purpose of giving
each its appropriate and separate reference.
From the Massachusetts Spy.
Mr. Spy Will you have the goodness to
publish the following advertisement, for the
especial benefit of the very worthy and hu
mane gentleman who edits the "Family
that he may understand and inform
his readers what slavery means, and what
means the compromise with slavery which he
is so anxious to have effected and to have his
readers pleased with 1 By so doing you will
do them all a great kindness and much oblige.
Yours, A Free Soilkr.
Worcester, Jan. 5.
NEGRO DOGS.
The undersigned has on hand some of the
best Dogs in the State, and he wishes to let
the public know that he is prompt and ready
to attend any calls that is not over 15 miles.
He has been in the habit of charging every
one five dollars for going and ten dollars catch
ing each negro; he does not intend to reduce
his former prices, but will charge more for
land trips. He does not advise any person
to-come after him unless he can take him to
a trial that is not more than eight or ten hours
old. Any person wanting a negro caught,
will either go after him or send a man author
ized to make a baigain with him before he
starts. Some persons do not like their n'egroes
caught with dogs on account of having them
bit, he assures all such that if they request
it, he can have them caught without being
bit. Residence two miles west of Clinton, at
the forks of the Jackson and Port Hudson
roads.
The money will be required when the work
is performed, [jan. 24. J W. B. ROURK.
P. S. The foiegoing advertisement I re
ceived, via. New Orlaans, in the "Louisiana
Floridian, published at Clinton, East Felici
ana,” June 3, 1846. The date of the notice
being Jan. 24, shows that it was a standing
advertisement, and indicates a steady busi
ness.
It will be noticed by the careful reader,
that ''some persons" are more squeamish than
the generality of their neighbors, and do not
like to have theii negroes "bit," any more than
most sportsman do their game. F. S.
The League of Brotherhood.—We have
hitherto mentioned the operations commenced
in this countty to spread a knowledge of
peace principles among the people oi Paris,
and, eventually, ot all France. We see by
tecent foreign papers that cortesponding efforts
are now being made by our transatlantic
friends in England and elsewhere. A com
mittee has been formed in Paris itself to co
operate with that of England. This body
has made arrangements to dine together every
month, when the general operations will be
discussed and diiected. A monthly "olive
leaf’ will be issued in the French language,
containing short paragraphs adapted to the
popular mind in France. This will be for
warded by post every month to about 800
newspapers, with a request to tpe editors to
insert such of the articles as they may ap
prove in their respective journals. By thus
feeding the continental press, it is hoped to
iiubue public sentiment abroad as well as at
home with the principles of peace and brother
hood. These “olive leaves” are also to be
distributed by hand among the ourviers
(workmen) of Parts and other large towns.
An effort will be made, in accotdance with a
suggestion of M. de Lamartine, to form cor
responding committees in ail the principal
towns in France. In this way the combined
influence of many ol the roost progressive
minds on the Continent will be.brought to
bear in promoting the widest possible exten
sion of peace and brotherhood. Is not this
an age worth living ini —New England
Washingtonian.
Pius IX the world is wondering at
the change in the sentiment of Pope Pins IX,
who is said to regard his former liberal opin
ions as a great error—a sin, deserving the
toourge of pod; and many fire the causes to
which this change ia attributed; we can give
it in a single word— Jesuitism.
Clay’s Compromise. —The Washington
correspondent'of the N. Y. Herald of Tuee
d»y
ffompromise of Mr. Clay presented
this morning, roused tip the whole south from
Virginia to Texas, in opposition toil upon
one point or another. Hie scheme waa la
terally demolished. He considers the policy
of a "masterly inactivity,” a dereliction of
duty but the difficulty of doing any thing
may enforoe this policy of doing nothing.
Mr. Clay proposes to admit California—to
provide governments for the territories, and
to aay nothing about slavery,
He waa listened to with profound attention;
but was met with determined resistance. His
scheme msy be cosiderad ns defeated; it is at
less! s step towards a compromise. Not s
single northean roan rose to the support of
Mr. Clay —not a man from the south. He
stood alone. But this was a mere skirmish—
the battle has yet to be fought,
Mr. Clay is admiupd to have sustained his
high reputation; bat the northern men must
have tM proviso, and the southern men must
have s more dt*"-ci compromise The det
“-Jibn from New York tsMt <tf UMUiog a
card, defining their p<oStt!uu>J which eat her
masterly inactivity” or Th?
position of the MUM wdertuwd to bn
settlement of this dispate— other business af
terwards. If noteiog is dooe witk it, we
probably hare no appropriations to carry
on the government.”
Lake Nicaragua. —Lake Nkaiagua is de
scribed as a magnificent stream, and the sce
nery on its borders is remarkable fur beauty.
The banks near the sea are low, and are co
vered with palms, which look like so many
plumes. Higher up the banks are more ele
vated, “and covered with a dense mass of
verdure, coming down like a wall to the very
edge of the water. These are the broad leaf-*
plaintain, the gigantic cebia, the slender co
coa palm, besides an hundred other strange
varieties twined and bound together with
vines, covered with bright flowers end hang
ing their long pliant tendrils from every stem.
On this mass of impenetrable verdure which
never fades, parrots and noisy macaws glan
ced in and out»long necked cranes mounted
on the sand bars, bright green iguanss looked
from the over-hanging limbs, and queer mon
keys hung by their tails and chattered vocif
erously. The Lake Nicaragua is a remar
kably fine body of. water; nearly as large as
Lake Ontario. On the north, are the undu
lating slopes and grassy hills of Chartales,
the paradise of the cattle raisers—on the
south, for a long distance, are the rugged
hills towaids Costa Rica, the abode of tire
untamed Indians of the department of Ni
caragua, lately the seat of terrible motions;
the department of Grenada, with its indigo
and cocoa estates, and its volcanic peaks. In
the midst of the lakes rises the regular cone
Ometne, a very fine fhountain, and by its
side the volcano of Maderia capped with
clouds.
Black Diamonds vs. Yellow Gold. —The
supplies of coal sent to market for the year
18-19, from all the| anthracite coal regions in
Pennsylvania, is estimated by reliable au
thoiity at about 3,193,755 tons, being an in
crease in the supply of 1849 over that of 1848
of about 125,000 tons. The average cargo
price of this coal—and it has been unusually
low this season—has been 3 62 1-2 —thus
making the anthracite mines of Pennsylvania
yield $11,577,361 worth of coal during the
present year. The yield of the Calilornia
gold mines, this season, will fall short of this
immense sum; and yet, from all accounts,
there has been more capital employed, and
more men engaged, in working the golden
sands of the Sacramento Valley, than in get
ting out the “black diamonds” of Pennsyl
vania. And further, all these coal operations
are carried on noiselessly, without astonish
ment or excitement, and what is better, there
is no need of leaving home and frinds and
country, and travelling 17,000 miles to gather
up the vast treasures of the coal regions.
While the old maxim holds good that all is
not gold that glitters, it is equally obvious
that some things that don’t glitter are as good
as gold, if not better, as far as distance and
trouble are concerned.
Canada Affairs. —The following des
patch from Toronto, if true, indicates more
trouble in Canada. It has been supposed
that the British Government was nut averse
to a separation from the Crown, and if this
rumor proves true, we do not know how to
account for the very general impiession which
has prevailed on the subject, unless there has
been a sudden change of policy.
ToRONTO.Feb. 1.
ljotd Elgin has received a despatch from
Earl Gray, urging him to use every means in
his power to suppress any movement in favor
of annexation, thanking him for what had al
ready been done and declaring that so long as
any portion of people are desir
ous of maintaining connection with the mo.
ther country, they will be supported Jby the
whoce power, Mood and treasure of F.nglahd.
A Would-be Missionary. —A Mr. Jones
advertises his plantation for sale, in a southern
religious paper, and includes in the advertise
ment, “fifty or sixty servants, which are con
stantly increasing in number and value.” He
wishes to sell, he says, as he has a desire to*
become a missionary.
Receipts
-Fur the North Star, for the Week ending
February 27, 1850-
Calvin Gilmore 2,00
John F. Williams 2,00
J. 11. Newton 1,00
Dr. G. S. Colnveu 1,00
Henry Macpherson 2,00
Isaac Titus 2,00
A. Coolage 2,00
Loienzo Mabbitt 1,00
Orrin Preston 1,00
Robert Palmer 1,00
M. E. Evans 2,00
Elijah Lewis 1,00
3. S. Russell 2,00
Ditto donation 3,00
George Doughty dou 3,00
Robert Fortin do 2,00
N. E. C. &M. S. Evans do 5,00
Isaac L. Miller do 1,00
Davis Gairett do 1,00
William Esther Ilibberl do 2,00
S. A. Vanhorn do 50
James Davis do 50
Ellick Jones do 50
Hugh Dever do 50
John Brown do 50
John Boyd do 50
Harvey Ransom 2,00
Almon Dickinson 2,00
L. H. Bowser 2,00
Ditto donation 2,00
F. R. Newell 2,00
J. W. Bonsall 1,00
F. C. Purday 2.00
WISTAR’S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY.
It was known many years ago that the wild che
ry tree of this climate possessed valuable medicinal
properties. Indeed, this fact was known to the
aborigines, and a decoction of the leaves or bark of
this tree has ever been regarded hy their physicians
as one of the moat effectual remedies in many dis
eases. This fact, several years since, arrested the
attention of Dr Wistar, a highly respectable practi
i ionei of Virginia. He investigated with care, the
healing properties of tlie wild cherry—tested its
effects when administered alone, and when in com
bination with oilier remedial agent*. He found that
its natural virtues might be greatly improved, and
by combining it with ingredients, whose properties
were well proved and generally recognised, a medi
cine was produced which constitutes a remedy of
great value in pulmonary affections and diseases of
the chest and throat—diseases which are proverb
ially prevalent in our cities and large towns, and
often prpve fatal, swelling the bills of mortality to a
much greater extent than is the case with most
others, we liad alnost said all other classes of dig*
eases.
pCXAHIRK CLOSELY BEFORE PURCHASING.
The genuine Balsam is put up in bottles, with the
words “Dr.Wistar’s Bale am of wild cher
ry,” J*hil:i,” blown In the glass; each bottle bear
ing a label on the front, with the signature of
H. WISTAR, M.D.
This will be enveloped heieafter with a wrapper
copyright secured 1844, of which will atmear the
written signature of L BUTTS." Any one
counterfeiting the label or wrapper, or forging the
signature of the General Agent, will be punished
with the utmost rigor of the law.
For sale by Post Will;*; also by Vim
Pitkin.
Popular Opinion.—lf popular opinion is any
criterion of the worth of an article, we invite the
iocredniout to read at least a faw of the many vo
luntary certificates which appear in our columns
respecting the great variety of remarkable fcures ef
fected by the use of Sloan’s celebrated Ointment
and Condition Powders.
These remedies no longer remain among those of
doubtful utility—they have paced from Ikr. ,tide of
experiment and nqw #a*d higher in repotatioo, and
are becoming more extensively used tkau all other
articles of the kind —Jfi eh. City AW*.
OCHJee Agents’ names at the head of A loan’s
column. For further gad ywtirpsiilii
get Pamphlets of Aymts. ___
OLIVER GODSMITH.*
BY NOBLE BUTLER.
After the perusal of Irving’s Life
of Goldsmith, we feel that justice has
been done to the author of "The De
serted Village" and "The Vicar of
Wakefield." The literary merits of
Goldsmith it required the malignant
meanness of a Kenrick to decry; but
to make his personal character the ob
ject of unfeeling jests has been fashion
able. We owe a debt of gratitude to
the American Goldsmith for a true por
trait of one who wopld not have dis
dained to call him brother.
We will not now attempt to speak of
Goldsmith's literary character. His
works are in the list of the world's
classics. His poems the world has by
heart. Every one who has gone be
yond the school reader, has read and
felt "The Traveller" and "The De
serted Village. The simple and effec
tive style, the beautiful imagery, the
noble sentiments, are appreciated at all
times and in all countries. No change
of schools in poetry has diminishea
Goldsmith’s fame. He spoke to the
human race and the human race un
derstands him. There is nothing in
his works to excite the stormy passions,
k is to the gentle feelings that he ap
peals. His poeins are like landscapes
full of quiet beauty and grace, where
the tree bends calmly over the water,
and sees a sky below as unbroken as
the sky above; while over the whole is
spread the gentle melancholy of Indian
summer. His prose works are written
in a style which, in graceful freedom
and transparency, can scarcely be sur
passed, and are full of exquisite delin
eations of character, sound observa
tions on life, the most delicate humor,
and the kindest feelings. "Few
works," says one of his biographers,
referring to "The Citizen of the
World, exhibit a nicer perception, 01
more delicate delineation of life ant!
manners. Wjt, humor, and sentimenl
pervade every page; the vices and
follies of the day are touched with the
most playful and diverting satire; and
English characteristics, in endless va
riety, are hit off with the pencil of a
master." He even made abridgement;
of history delightful, and natural histo
ry as entertaining as "a Persian tale.’
It is said that when Langton made
his first visit to Johnson, he had, from
perusing his writings, "expected to find
him a decent, well dressed, in short a
remarkably decorous philosopher. In
stead of which, down from his bed
chamber about noon, came, as new!)
risen, a large uncouth figure, with c
little dark wig which scarcely coverec
his head, and hisclotheshangingloose
jly about him." It is seldom that the
appearance of distinguished men cor
responds with our expectations. Bui
we do not know of any author whost
external appearance and conduct wen
so well calculated to disappoint the
readers of his works as were those o
Oliver Goldsmith. His works give yot
the idea of a most polished gentleman,
kind-hearted, indeed, but extreme!)
shrewd—of one whom you would not
think of attempting to deceive. Yot
imagine him dressed in the most perfeci
manner in which no part of the dresi
excites particular observation, but the
whole conveys sn inexpressible idea ol
btcomingnetf. You expect to find one
who manages his affairs in such a judi
cious manner that all goes on smooth
ly.
But he who became personally ac
quainted with Goldsmith, after having
formed such ideas of the man, wan
e gK r «g iou>, y disappointed. There was
his little, plain person, decked in a fan
tastic manner. A bailiff perhaps was
entering the door while a sturdy beggar
was walking off with the money which
which should have discharged the debt.
He might have been perceived cursing
his credulity, which had just been im
posed upon by one successful deceiver,
and pawning his clothes for the benefit
of another. With respect to worldly
thrift there was nothing but wisdom in
bis mouth, and nothing but folly in his
conduct. The visiter could almost
imagine a mysterious union of two in
dividuals iu the same body, a man to
think and speak, and a child to act. It
seemed as if some charm prevented his
true nature from manifesting itself in
action—as if the thought, starting from
his brain like an Oberon, was in its
passage to action changed into a Puck.
But this character, with all its strange
contradictions, was one which all but
the envious man and the fool were
forced to love. When he died in the
midst of his difficulties, the feelings of
bis acquaintances burst forth in that
expressive exclamation, "Poor Gold
smith!"—an exclamation in which pity
for his failings was over balanced by
affection for his virtues. The principal
charges that have been made against
the character of Goldsmith are the
charges of improvidence and vanity.
That he waa improvident ia too mani
fest, and a severe penalty did ha pay
for his fault. He was led to incur
debts which pressed upon him continu
ally, and at last crushed him to the
earth. But we believe that he never
entertained a dishonest intentioo during
his whoie|life. His "knack at hoping"
led him into innumerable difficulties.
When he was about to incur some debt,
Hope pointed to abundant sources of
revenue, and overwhelmed Reason with,
her volubility. The kindness of heart
from which a great part ot bis careless
ness with regard to money proceeded
affords some palliation for his faults.
He felt so much of the distress of the
miserable that he found it impossible to
resist the inclination to relieve them
Even whilp at college, his benevolent
feelings led him into difficulty, The
following story shows his disposition.
He was doing the same thing in differ
ent forms all his life.
He was. engaged to breakfast one
day with a college intimate, but failed
to make his appearance. His friend
repaired to hie room, knocked at the
door atid was bidden to enter. To bis
surprise be found Goldsmith in his bed,
immersed to his chin in feathers. A
serio-comic story explained the cireaia
~*Oliver Goldsmith, k Biography. Bj Wadi
•ngtoo Irving. I vol. v«. New York: Gome
f Putnam. Ciociaooii: H. W. Dwty ft
ihssifflQa; Nsnos ft ftriswald
f
stance. In tbe course of the preceding
evening’s stroll be had met with a wo
man with five children, who implotxd
his charity. Her husband was in tire
hospital; she was just from the country,
a stranger, and destitute, without food
or shelter for her helpless offspring.
This was too much for the kind heart
ol Goldsmith. He was almost as poor
as ncrself, it is true, and had no money
in his pocket, but he brought her to the
college gate, gave her the blankets
from his bed to cover her little brood,
and parttif his clothes for her to sell
and purchase food; and finding himself
cold during the night, had cut open his
bed and buried himself among the fea
thers.
Poor Goldsmith was buried in fea
thers tbe greater part of his life. While
he was immersed in feathers to keep
himself warm if another sufferer had
come to him with a piteous tale he would
have given up the feathers too. He
was totally incapable of resisting an
appeal to his charitable feelings.
Crowds of the needy surrounded him.
He would pawn his property to raise
money for them. On one occasion the
poor woman whom he owed for the hire
of his appartment, entered his loom
and told a piteous tale of distress, her
husband having been arrested in the
night for debt, and thrown into prison,
his feelings were so excited that he sent
off to the pawnbrokers’s a borrowed
suit of clothes, aad raised money enough
to release his landlord from prison.
His answer to Griffiths,, who threatened
him with the jail, is a most affecting
out-pouring of despondency. “Sir,’
says he, “I know no misery but a jail
to which my own imprudences and yoni
letter seem to point. I have seen ii
inevitable for these three or four weeks,
and by heavena! request it as a favot
—as a favor that may prevent some
thing more fatal. I have been some
years struggling with a wretched be
ing—with all that contempt that indi
gence bring with it—with all those pas
sions that make contempt insupport
able. What then, lias a jail that if
formidable? No, sir, had 1
been a sharper—had I been possessec
I of less good nature nrtd native gen
i erosity, I might surely now have beer
in better circumstances. I am guilty
I own, of meannesses which poverty
unavoidably brings with it; my reflet
tions are tilted with repentance for inj
imprudence, but not with any remorsi
for being a villain; that may be a cha
racier you unjustly charge me with.’
1 Poor Goldsmith was conscious o
his imprudence, and generosity was s<
natural to him that he did not think o
it as a palliation. He was able evei
to give good advice on the subject o
prudence, and knew all the maxims o
thrift. In a letter to his brother Hen
ry, speaking of the education of hii
nephew, he makes the following re
marks, which are as prudent as coult
well be imagined. “Teach, then, m
dear sir, to your son, thrift and econo
my. Lei his poor wandering uncle’i
example be placed before his eyes. 1
had learned from books to be disinter
ested and generous, before I was taughi
from experience the necessity of being
prudent. I had contracted the habit)
end uotions of a philosopher whil 1 wai
exposing myself to the approached o
insidious cunning; and oftfin by being,
even with my narrow finances, charit
able to excess,*l forgot the rules of jus
tice, and placed myself in the ver>
situation of the wretch who thankee
me for my bounty. When lam in the
remotest part of the world tell him this,
and perhaps he may improve from mj
example.”
Fortunately prudence is not the only
virtue in the world. If it were so,
Goldsmith would have been the mos!
incorrigible scoundrel that ever breath
ed. But this man, who was so har*
rassed with pecuniary difficulties, could
not be induced, by any prospect ol
gain, to swerve from his principles oi
give up his independence. If his room
had been filled with bailiffs—if starva
tion or the jail had frowned upon him
wherever he turned his eyes, they could
not have driven him from his principles.
Those who considered money the great
god, were astonished at his childish
simplicity in this respect. Instances
of his firmness of principle were re
lated as excellent jokes by those who
could scarcely find words to express
their virtuous abhorrence of his impru
dent generosity. While he was liter
ally living from hand to mouth, one
Parson Scott, who had received two
fat livings for his political subservien
cy, was deputed to engage him in the
support ofLord North’s administration.
The parson made what he considered
a “good story” out of his embassy.
“I found him,” said he, “in a misera
ble suit of chambers in the Temple. I
told him my authority. I told him I.
was empowered to pay most liberally
for his exertions; and, would you be
lieve it, be was so absurd as to say ‘I
can earn aa much as will supply my
wants without writing for any party;
the assistance you offer is therefore
unnecessary to me;’ —and so I left
him in his garret!” High-minded par
son! We can imagine the sublime
contempt with which the ‘'round, fat,
oity man of God” looked upon the mis
erable sinner before him! “And so I
left him in his garret!” How Parson
Scott’s eve twinkled as be related his
story! No doubt he told it again and
again, and considered that he had per
formed his part of the entertainment
when he had got through with it. When
the wiae ones called tor “Parson Soott’o
good story,” how complacently he sat
shaking his laurels as the bursts of up
roarious laughter pealed around him!
Sir John Hawkins relates another ex
ceedingly “good story,” The Earl of
Northumberland, who then bold the
office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland,
wm willing to extend to Goldsmith the
patronage which his high post afforded.
Sir John was at Northumberland House
when the poet made bis appearance.
Ho waited in the outer room to
learn the result of tbe visit. Gold
smith, on coming out, told him that, in
reply to tbe gracious offers of oasis
tance, be had mentioned tbe situation
of his brother, who stood in need of
help. “Thus,” exclaims Sir John,
“did this idiot in tbe affairs of the world
trifle with his fortunes, and put back
the hand that was held out to eseiat
him!” The lawyer was>oe unfortunate
as the ptrton in tbs attempt to under-1
stand this singular idiot, who thought ol
others more than ha did of hitnself.
TO BE COXTIJUED.
CLASSES Ilf RUSSIA.
The nobles number about 800,000,
(including those in Poland, Finland,
and the Baltic provinces,) and are di
vided into some fifteen different classes.
Some of the nobles are hereditary, and
others have received their honors as a
reward of their merits. It has been
the policy of the Emperors, ever since
Peter the Great, to create as many
nobtes as possible, in order to weaken
their power. Many of these nobles are
exceedingly poor, but very proud, dis
daining all manual labor, and looking
with contempt at a merchant, however
wealthy. They wear a badge, which
designates the exact order of nobility
to which they belong, on the left breast
of their coat, and to this the common
people pay the greatest deference.
The son of every nobie is also a noble.
Many ot these nobles are exceedingly
refined in their manners. Most ot them
speak. French, (which they learn in
childhood,) and many speak it better
than Russian. This custom was set
by Peter the Great.
Of the merchants there are 3,000,-
000. They are divided into three
guilds, according to their property;
but each man may estimate his proper
ty at what he pleases. Those who are
worth $lO,OOO may enter the first
guild; those worth between $lOOO and
$lO,OOO may enter the second guild:
and those worth under $lOOO belong to
the third guild.
The clergy form a class by them
selves, and marry among themselves,
like the tribe of Levi among the Jews,
The number of men belonging to thi*
order is 102,000, but their entire fami
lies number half a million. The bishops
are taken from the order of monks, and
are unmarried. All the rest of the
clergy must be married; and they can
not marry a widow, or be married the
second time. This latter rule makee
them take good care of their wives.
They are readily known by their long
beards and black dress. They are not
much respected, except in their offici
al capacity, for they aro extremely ig
norant, and many of them are very low
in point of character. Avarice and
intemperance are common vices among
them. The most opprobrious epithet
one Russian can bestow upon another,
is to call him the son of a piHest.
Tere are 48,000,000 serfs in Russia,
of which 20,000,000 belong to the
crown, and 26,500,000 to the nobles.
The serfs are bought and sold with
the land. Some of them are mechanics,
but the greater part are farmers. Each
serf has as much land as he can culti
vate, the use of which he pays for in
money or in kind. These rents are
very reasonable, and many of the serfs
become very rich, for their property is
sacredly protected. There is no coun
try in the world where a man can rise
so rapidly as in Russia. The lecturer
mentioned the caso of a man, who has
j risen from the condition of serfdom to
be the owner of 100,000 serfs. In
Peter the Great’s day, the highest
offices in the army were open to the
serfs.
The dress of the sefs, for the most
part, is very rude. They live in a
cabin fifteen or twenty feet square,
containing one room, in the centre of
which is a table, and around the sides
is a bench which, being turned over at
night, forms their bed. This cabin is
kept intensely hot by a stove, but the
injurious effect of so great, a heat is
counteracted by the smoke which is
produced by shutting off the flue when
the wood becomes charred.
There are i,BQQ,OOU Jews who live
in the western part of Russia. They
are confined mostly to Poland. The
reason of there being so many Jews
in this country is, that Kosimer, thr
King of Poland, was married to a
Jewish lady, (by the name of Esther,
as the Jews say,) through whose in
fluence bis kingdom was opened as an
asylum to the Jews, when they were
persecuted by every other nation. The
Jews are very poor and ignorant,
though better educated than the mass
of the Russians. They are known by
their peculiar dress and dark complex
ion. Many of them, especially the
women, are extremely handsome.
The Doctrine in Ohio. At the
Democratic State Convention held in
Columbus, Ohio,on the. Bth inst. the
following resolution in reference to the
slave question was adopted:
Resolved, That on the question of
Slavery,we hereby re-affirm the resolu
tions of said Convention in the words
following: “That the people of Ohio,
now,as Uuy always have done,look up
on the institution of Slavery in any part
os the Union, as an evil, and unfavor
able to the full development of the spir
it and practical benefits of free institu
tions; and that entertaining such'senti
ments, they will at all times feel it
their duty to use all power, dearly
given by the terms of the National
compact, to prevent its increase, to
mitigate and finally eradicate the evil.
But be it further Resolved, that the
democracy of Ohio do at the same time,
fully recoguize the doctrine held by the
early fathers of the Republic, and still
maintained by the democratic party in
all the States, that to each State -be
longs the right to adopt and modify its
own municipal laws;to regulate its own
internal affairs; to hold and maintain
an rqual and independent'sovereignty
with each and every other States and
that upon these State rights ‘the Na
tional Legislature can neither legislate
dor encroach.
“What needjhas the South to fear,
while the Democracy of the North
stand by such doctrine? If the South
would but learn to know who are the
true friends of the constitution in the
North, all source of uneisiness would
speedily be banished.’*'
r W* a K® nfu< PSPSrI Burra
for Ohio Democracy! Us resolution is
in advance of the Wilmot Proviso-*-**
it not, Mr. Plaindesler?
“What need has the South to fear?”
Nona whatever! and the South will
learn this; will know who are Its true
friends at the North-*’ V
So we go- Up bore on the cold
Lake, this resolution is all for Free
dom; down there, on the dark and
bloody crowd, it ia all for Slavery l~