“popular sins.”
a tree soil sermon for the times.
by john t. sargent.
woe unto him who buildeth ins hou«e by unright- 1
eousness and his chambers by wrong.—jeremiah
xxii: 13.
there was some point, certainly to
the practical satire of the ancient phi- j
losopher, who is represented as going j
about the world, with a lantern, seeking j
for an honest man. it implied that the
world was so far gone in the darkness
of its intrigue, that scarcely by torch
light could a strictly upright individual
be found. it implies that honesty is
not a very common or popular virtue,
and of this our daily experience gives
but too plain assurance. the denunci
ation of the prophet in our text is capa
ble of an application, however, beyond
the knavery of individuals. in every
enlarged or christian view ol the sub
ject, the admonition might as well ex
tend to the acts of communities, cor
porations, or the country at large, for
these are but the aggregate of the indi
vidual passions.
the dishonesty of the individual is not
the only evil to be considered, nor is
tie dwelling-house of the individual the
only house that is “built by unright
eousness.” there is, perchance, here
and there, the counting-house,
the custom-house, the gambling
house,” and the house of ill-fame”
the meeting-house, the distil
h >use,” the state-house,” the sen
ate-house,” and the house of repre
sentatives”—all of which might come
in for a share of the warning and the
woe here pronounced, just so far as they
may lack the principles of an uprighl
morality or an even justice in their acts
or their organization.
the expedition of diogenes, it u
said, was unsuccessful. it would prob
ably have been equally so at the pres
ent day. indeed, we have reason tc
doubt whether he could have gone far
amid the crowd of cheats that infest our
land, in high places and low places,
without having his very lantern stolen,
or his lamp blown out, so many are they
who love darkness rather than light,
because their deeds are evil.”
southey, in his life of wesley, does
indeed relate rather an extreme case ol
a conscientious individual, who used to
buy a penny’s worth of parsnips every
week, and on them, and them alone,
with the water in wliieh they were
boiled, lived for some time, that he
might save money enough to pay his
debts! rare virtue that, surely! and
how many, think you, are conscientious
enough uow, to practice such an ascetic
self-denial as living on parsnips fot
honesty’s sake? very few, i will an
swer for it, and for one such case ol
scrupulous integrity which subjects a
man almost to the suspicion of insanity,
i might p »int out to you twenty-—aye,
twenty thousand, of those who are
putting aside their obligations withoul
any acruple whatever, faring sumptu
ously every day at others’ expense, cov
ering their trauds beneath a false plea
of insolvency, and interposing every
kind of mean pretence betweeu them
selves and their creditors. the col
umns of the daily press tecin with ac
counts of commercial duplicity and
•peculation. you can hardly lake up
the papers of a morning but you shall
see the startling announcement of some
disgraceful forgery or embezzlement,
the absconding of defaulters, and the
various conventional etforts to compasi
the acquisition of property by dishonest
means. we almost wonder if a single
day passes without tome new illustra
the north star.
tion of this master passion. and the
worst of it is, we are coining to be
quite too easily reconciled to it all—the
habit has so grown upon us; and, ac
cording to our prevalent social morals,
no man seems to stand ranch the worse
now-a-days, in the long run, for a little
consummate knavery in matters ol
business. no very violent ostracism
awaits him on that account. he may
walk “on ’change as erect as ever,
so almost universal has become this
j one idea that a man’s self-ipterest, in a
worldly point of view, must be com
passed, no matter at what sacrifice ol
right principle. nor is this passion for
j self-aggrandizement, at whatever cost,
this reconcilement peculiar, as i have
said, to the individual. it lies no less
grievously, we fear, at the heart of
communities and nations—nor can i, as
a christian minister, fail to apply my
i subject in all its legitimate bearings. 1
must and will protest and remonstrate
just so far as i may see the code of
morals in any community becoming un
christian —just so far as i may witness
such a prevalent corruption of the na
tional ethics as might lead the nation to
build its own power and prosperity by
the infringement of others’ rights, seek
ing by its act to excuse or perpetuate so
unchristian a system as that of slavery,
or aiming to immortalize the demon of
war.
let us not think that because a na
tion does a great wrong it may there
fore escape the righteous judgment ol
god. oh no! there is a woe here,
as in the case of individuals—a woe
which “eateth as doth a canker” to the
heart of the nations as to the heart ol
individuals—the woe of finding that our
progress is downward and degrading
just according as we diverge from that
which is honest and true.
the same principles apply to nations
as to individuals in this matter of retri
bution, and i will ask whether for the
national soul any more than for the in
dividual there is or can be any securi
ty short of virtuous principle and deeds
of mercy? to do justly, love mercy,
and walk humbly, is alike the obliga
tion of nations as of individuals. the
true honor of a people is to be found
only in deeds of justice, the diffusion of
knowledge, the culture of peace. but
how stand we now before the na
tions and before the world?—branded
and upbraided as a band of"pirates,
usurpers and traitors, for so they have
called us. for the last two years the
newspapers have been dripping every
day with the bloody intelligence of ty
ranny—our armies knee-deep in the
red tide of battle, thundering with our
cannon at all the gates of the mexi
can cities, (god knows for what,) and
with our iron heels on the panting
breasts of more than three million
slaves—god knows how long!—and so
by our duplicate oppressions, carrying
the stringent hoop of our abominations
clear round the body of christ! oh, i
tell you it is a monstrous iniquity! and
how can we fail to see and deprecate
the deeply interesting, the inevitable
connection between our present action
and its ceming consequence. the
fates are just”—as one of our own poets
has said—
the fate* are just. they give us but our own;
nemesis ripens what our hands have sown:
for god still overrules man’s schemes, and takes
craftiness in its self-set snare, and makes
i the wrath of man to praise him.”
j in the annals of nations, we have
seen how rome, in her grasping career
of conquest, carried her triumphal car,
laden with the trophies of all climes
clear round the globe, and then fell at
last, crushed beneath her own chariot
wheels; —how corinth was smothered
beneath the weight of her luxuries;
how carthage came to be the prey ol
suicidal factions; and by what reversion
of law can we hope for exemption from
the same tragical end, if we go the
same tragical way believing as i do
in the necessity of a loftier christian
morality in society; holding, as i do,
1 the doctrine that never safely can jus
tice and right be compromised or se
parated from the national any more than
the individual soul, i cannot withhold
the expression of my concern in this
crisis. i believe a faithful and dispas
sionate analysis of our present moral
'j condition as a people, will reveal to us
the fact that we are in moral jeopardy
—that we have in our midst and all
j around us certain elements of disorder
which will tarnish what little glory we
ever had, and take the jewels all out ol
our crown. prominent among these
evils—lying at the root of all the rest,
perhaps, is that insatiable spirit of ava
rice which gnaws greedily into the very
heart of the land. what else is il
which winds in serpent folds around the
body of the poor african slave, tt
1 wrench a dollar more or less out of hit
1 miserable, toil-worn flesh? what is il
but this that goes about roaring like e
j lion, seeking after his prey, crouching
in every covert of speculation, anc
■j thence springing out with hungry fang
r upon every passing opportunity foi
i gam? what is it but this that weave!
like a spider the subtle toil and the
shining web of a dishonest purpose
sitting within the secrecy of dark
schemes for lucre’s sake, concentrating
the venom of knavery, and still recon
structing with such endless patience
and perseverance the broken threads o
\the unsuccessful snare? what bu
this is it, whether in the ambitious ant
greedy enterprises of a nation, or the
financial intrigues o! an individual a
the broker’s be>ard 4 which seeks to “joii
house to house and land to land,” se
realizing the woe which is threatenee
1 upon all such monopoly.
one of thegyuncholy and momen
tons symptom#* the day’s disease, i
the absorption of men, the majority o
men, in the mere outward and selfish
1 the material and the perishing; lhi
j constraint of tha soul with anxious con
right is of no sex—truth is of no color— god is the father of rs all, and all we are brethren.
si deration and toil from morning to
night, aye, and all through the night, a*
to what are ahall eat and what we shah
drink, and wherewithal we shall ix
i clothed. out of this laboring for anc
love of the outward, there is every day
growing an endless and turbulent com*
i petition, a jostling of separate and per
sonal interests, invidious discords and
collisions, the abrasion of oar finet
1 sympathies, and a fierce warring of all
j the elements of society, manifest in al
the relations of business, politics, reli
gion, and social life. e see this more
especially in the common struggle for.
office among us, a struggle which too!
often gives occasion to the lowest pas- j
sions and the meanest principles, be*
cause founded upon the meanest mo* i
tires; —i mean the love of power, and;
the love of place, and the emolument*-;
of place and power, merely for theii
own sake, without regard for any ma
jesty of principle by which the duties o:
the place are to be discharged. what
is called the morals of trade and poli
tics, is a mere riddle to a majority oi
those engaged in them—thrown aside
as a superfluity. most men would
laugh in your face if you were to talk
to them about discharging the duties o»
their offige, trade, or position, reli
giously, morally. hence, as the emol
uments of office are the main thing in
most cases, we see all sorts of places
scrambled for by all sorts of people, in
all sorts of ways. hence the want oi
harmony and composure we see iu the
great forces which are agitating and
upheaving society. they are not con
trolled by any spirit of unity or assimi
lation. jarring, discontent, and unrest
must of course be the result, where the
spirit of society and the spirit of chris
tianity are at issue. when the angels;
of heaven and the demons of earth'
come thus to their wrestling and the
last grappling, though the issue may be,
more or less delayed, it cannot be a
doubtful one. the spirit of righteous
ness must triumph, and clash as we
may with our scimetars of worldliness!
against the “sword of the spirit,” we!
shall come off, sooner or later, pros
trate, fatigued, and with the fragments;
of only broken blades in our grasp!—
some future time will reveal the conse
quences of that fatal struggle and ol
that resistance we now offer to the
right, aud, though the end is not yet,
we may see it in the light of experience
as if it were.
in the providence of god, for a little
while, the unrighteous may seem to
prevail, while the cause of truth and the,
companies of the innocent are hindered
or borne down by oppression; but wait
god’s time, and watch his workings,;
and you shall see the tide of battle
turning gloriously under his majestic
leading, while the injured are uplifting
again their broken or falling standards.
god never yet suffered the righteous
and true-hearted to be forsaken or per
ish utterly; and though such may often
seem to be their fate, smothered be
neath a load of injustice, yet, sooner or.
later, god himself will arise in the
majesty of infallible judgment to re
deem and to rescue. iniquity may, in
deed, triumph to-day, but be assured it
is only for to-day, and its retribution
will come rolling in like a thunder
storm to-morrow!
here, for example, is this iniquitous
and mortifying war in which for nearly
two years we have been engaged.—
j victory upon victory, it is true, has fol
lowed the aggressive course of our
arms. triumphal issues without a par
allel, have attended the whole progress
of oih* misguided troops. our flag of
stripes—fit emblem of the spirit of that
people which it represents—waves
proudly over castles and fortresses, un
til now deemed impregnable. the
jewelled furniture of mexican palaces,
and the golden crosses of their cathe
drals, are now mere playthings in the
hands of our deluded soldiery. suc
cess, as they call it, has perched so
uniformly on our standard, that we
1 have come almost to believe, in our
folly and infuriation, that the lord is on
our side in this matter, as if the lord
could be on such a side! we have
thrown the lasso of our cupidity clear
round the glittering prize! but who is
so blind as not to see that sooner or
later, in god’s own time, our day ol
reckoning is approaching to the eye
of our obscured conscience it may seem
very distant or invisible, or perchance
no more threatening than the little
cloud, no bigger than a man’s hand,”
which elijah’s servant saw in the hori
zon from the summit of mount carmel;
but if god is just, and there is any truth
in the doctrine of cause and effect, it
will come towering up and over us with
the lightning bolt in its bosom, and de
velop for us, even as did that little
cloud, all the blackness and terrors ol
a great exterminating tempest.
with less than the vision of a proph
et, i can see something of the forth
coming melancholy harvest of this war.
to say nothing of the national debt
which it entails, the weight of which,
with all our cowardly fears of money
pressure, we have scarcely as yet be
i gun to realize, i see other woes ia the
prospect behind its dark funeral pall.—
the troubles which are coming out oi
it to-day, the immediate trials, the fa
tigue, the expense, the loss of life, th<
bereavements, the mothers’ and wid
ows’ tears, these poor leturning crip
pled soldiers and their bloody rags, an
not all nor the worst. the most la
me stable of all the consequences grow
ing out of it, is the degradation of ou
moral sense, the depreciation of ou
standard of right. as another has said
the people are demoralized wit boo
i knowing it. their standard of char
rjacter sinks— the moral tone of thei
j discourse becomes lees firm and true
i! their principles grow lai and conveo
jtiimal the effect is but the more de
rochester, n. y., friday, november 24, 1848.
i
plorable that it is insidious. men slide
off from the position which they once
held, and with an accelerated speed
tend to that place of morality on which
the opinions and practices of the world
attempt to meet the commandments ol
god—not, however, by changing their
own character a as to harmonize with
those commandments, but by interpret
ing the revelations of duty which are
given through conscience and through
christ, according to the maxim of ex
pediency license ot equivocation
and compromise. this is the moat dial
astrous blight which war cun ever cast
upon a land, a blight upon the inoral
perceptions and sensibilities of a people
—worse than defeat in arms, worse
than commercial embarrassment, worse
than poverty, wowe even than political
servitude, for a nation would better re
main faithful to god, though it lose its
civil liberties, than retain its political
institutions at the expense of its loyalty
to the divine principle of rectitude.—
better lose anything than lose charac
ter. it is as true of a nation as of an
individual. power, prosperity, liberty,
is nothing without virtue. w hen,there
fore, we see a country deteriorating in
character beneath the infliction of war.
we are justified in saying that the great
est curse which even this demon evil
can shed upou it has taken effect.”
i go on to say that we shall not be
long in learning that anguish and wail
ing and disappointment are in reserve
for us out of this conflict. the terri
tory which we have wickedly won
seems already bristling with dragon’s
teeth. briars and thorns will grow out
of the soil which our brothers have
moistened with their own blood or the
blood of their brethren. all the nation
will have gained there will be a grave
yard, where the serper.t shall hiss and
the wild-bird shall scream. the ban
ners we have borne along through strife
over that bleeding and desolate land,
will be, as it were, the winding-sheets
of our warriors, and the eagle which
surmounts them seems even now chang
ed into a vulture to prey only on their
hearts. and after all, what more or
less than this can we expect if to irre
sponsible, careless, or impulsive men.
we delegate scr responsible a power as
that of making war. let me say,
further, touching the motives of the
people as to the chief office within their
gift, it is by no means an auspicious
omen which, of late years, has been
presented, the disposition of the peo
ple to select for that station military
chieftains, and chiefly because of their
military prowess, their having won a
battle more or less—thus making the
office little better than a gladiatorial
prize. we may possibly find we are
doing this thing once too often. the
principle is every way an objectionable
one. we may well question the expe
diency of elevating any mere warriors
of the time—
those pagod tilings of sabre sway,
with fronts of braes and leet ol' cay,*’
as another has well called them, for in
all probability their “feet of clay will
not support them squarely on their pe
destal, while their “front of brass” may
come tumbling ruinously down upon our
own fronts!
the scripture saith something as to
the probable consequence of casting
our pearls before swine; they may
trample them under feet, while
they turn again ar.d rend us, and so in
the history of past republics governed
and grieved so b) their tavorite military
chiefs, who turned at last and trampled
on the very people by whom they were
raised into power, we may probably
read a lesson of caution. it is not all
a fable how the idols so elevated with
their “fronts of bass” have become all
brass, and towered up into a monstrous
and overwhelming tyranny. it is not
all a fable that some of those rulers
who begin by fighting for the dear peo
ple, have ended by fighting against
them. the story of their blasting and
blood-thirsty ambition is long euough
and sad enough without our adding an
other volume or chapter to the tale.—
it needs no supplement to be drawn
from our experience. let it have none
such. let us rather seek, it it be not
i too late, to prove ourselves an excep-
i tion to the general history of republics
in their decline and fall. happy for us
will it be if there is nothing in our
present tendencies giving indicalion ol
our positive decline. it may be that
the mountain of our prosperity staudetfa
strong as some deluded men are apt tu
think; how can it be so, resting as it
does, on the scarred backs ot our en
slaved fellow-creatures, is past my com*
prehension to understand.. the cau
tion is ever timely, and quite as appli
cable to nations as to individuals.—
i "let him that thinketh he standeth
take heed lest he fall.” though we
have planted our cloven feet and bloody
fla on the top of the cordilleras, it u
by°no means so certain that we can
keep our balance there. pride com
eth before destruction and a haughty
spirit before a fall;” and the fall i»
'the inevitable consequence of the
i haughty spirit, then verily we are fai
i gone out of our upright position, for we
are haughty enough, heaven knows!-
if we were not, how, in conscience
could we stand before the world sc
long, trampling on the right* ot tbi
teak and u»e enslaved, when other na
too. have emancipated theirs? of i
truth, our position betore god and tut
j universe is shameful in the extreme
why, even the poor mexican genera
pota to shame our boasted cbrntianitj
■i and civilisation by the very script*,
j which be places at the end of h.s offi
eial documents and predamation*.-
and liberty!—
st god and liberty! thiol
of that, ve oppressors, who lookup*
ibmlbm! and w*—whit ihouu «n
place at the ead of oor documents aac
i declarations of independence now to be
consistent judging from the unifora
j antithesis which has characterized oui
1 relations to that oppressed people, see
ing that all our policy is antagonistic tc
i theirs, it would be—ves, it could onlj
be this—instead of god and libertv—
the devil and slavery!*!-
are those our gods? is that our mot
to? heaven forbid! 'aud yet how car
we escape the imputation of this hate
ful idolatry so long as we compromise
jpo with these notorious wrongs? sla
very! oh how shall i speak ot it? you
have had so many expositions of it«
evils from this pulpit, that any details
of that wrong by me may seem super
fluous.
i will only say of that, as satan ii
the father of sin, so slavery is the par
ent of all our social troubles; the
fruitful mother of all abominations, the
darkest shadow of all in the gloomy
procession of proof that this nation is
ungenerous and oppressive. i say the
darkest shadow of all is slavery, be
cause this lays the iron grasp of its
withering hand not only upon the out
ward man, his actions, and liberty, and
limbs, but on the inward spirit of its
victims, defrauds them of all intellect
ual and spiritual force, wipes out almost
the inscriptions of almighty god upon
their souls, and scribbles in their place
the base ideas of brute force under
hopeless inequalities. it tramples on
the mounting fires of the slave’s intel
lect, denies and damns the inspiration
of god therein, vetoes the magnani
mous declaration which says, all men
are crented free and equal,” and flings
contempt upon the collateral sentiment
that life, liberty and the pursuit ol
happiness are the inalicnble rights ol
all.”
1 know it is common for the south,
in vindication or palliation of that atro
-1 ciou9 system of theirs to say—pointing
i to the north and to the depressed con
dition, as they think it, of our laboring
classes “physician,' heal thyself;
and it may as well be confessed, we de
serve the rebuke just so far as the poor
among us are overlooked or forgotten,
just so far as an unrighteous mo
nopoly, or extortion, or social exclu
sion crowds them out of our sympa
thies—just so far as they are oppressed
or constrained by insufficient wages for
their work—just so lar as by any self
ish or unjust habits of trade they are
brought low or made miserable. do
you say there are no such habits? not
ito mention others, i will ask what
means this wicked traffic in ardeut
spirits still continued here at the north,
and so akin to slavery at the south, by
which so many are building their house
i by unrighteousness, and by which
j countless multitudes all over the land
are hurled down to wretchedness every
day? will you call this just—this—
j to steep the brains of our fellow-crea
tur s in liquid fire, to strike them blind
and take away their intellects, and pa
ralyze their immortal powers and phy
sical strength only that we may steal
their purses the more subtly and the
more surely? this just!—to cast the
cloud of death over reason, to stultify
the judgment, and then, when our poor
i brother is reeling and sick, and ready
to fall in the pit, to rob his mourning
family of their last poor mouldering
j crust! oh, is it just— this —to pour
out upon the land so the whirlwinds of
our iniquity aud selfishness, those tor
rents of our torment, while thousands of
the widowed and fatherless are sending
up their ceaseless and sharp wail from
its oeep and yawning depths? oh, is
it just?
ah, friends, there is a debt written
against this nation such as i fear can
be cancelled only by blood and tears at
i the last—a debt written out upon the
i anguish-riven souls of the enslaved—a
debt recorded as by a pen of iron upon
the spirits of the oppressed—a debt
such as the slaveholder will poorly pay
when lie has filed off the iron chain
from the african’s wrist —a debt which
the rutnsellcr must answer for in the
sight of god, when he can, as he can,
if he can, in behalf of the poor drunk
ard who entered his grave through the
4oils of that traffic. the score is a
long one and a black one, but it must,
it must be wiped out as we hope for
mercy or peace
we owe to this land, then, let me
sav to every individual in this land, the
blessed boon of liberty, the love ol
which god stamps on every soul as its
prerogative, and if we do not give it,
then, i say, the land is doomed; yes,
4 doomed sooner or later to wear the very
fetters which it forges! we owe tc
this land temperance and peace, uni
versal peace and universal temperance,
and so long as drunkenness throws the
wide o'ershadowing curse of our de
gradation or ingratitude up to the heav
ens, and so long as slavery belies and
‘contradicts the liberty of which wc
boast, and so foeg as war makes havoc
of all our comforts and goodly affec
tions, so roust there be for us only
weeping, and wailing, and woes, the
more to be realized the further we ad
vance.
if one act of charity coaid but covet
and cancel a multitude of sms, then
would there seem to be some hope ol
america yet, for she did one goodthtnjj
awhile ago, when she sent her btscui!
v and corn to famishing ireland; and yet
look you at her inconsistency! withu
that seme year, aide by aide with the
i deed of benevoleoee, simultaneous!)
r with this mission of our loaves end oat
,»lore to starving ireland, nets af aggros
sioa were eomnutted hy ua r and are sui
sanctioned and persevere# in, toward)
another nation, which make this bouotj
t of mend on the waters” liula bettei
(ban a bloody gift! and what an ioeon
i groby is here! how shall we recon
i' rib or oecoont (or jt out, riribxoi
rkflo; i*v4 4
people should be dealing out, at thi
same time, to one nation the means o
supporting life, to another the means o
destroying it; to one nation bread, t<
another bullets; cargoes of corn to one
the contents of the cannon to another
a discharge of grain here, a discharge
l of guns there; meat in one direction
ammunition in the other; food in th<
left hand for one suffering nation, “fin
brands arrows and death” in the rigb
hand for another!
there is inconsistency here which i
for one, find it hard to reconcile witl
the national honor, to say nothing o
christian principle. the lights am
shadows of the picture are so strangely
intermingled, the sky is so overcast
the landscape in our perspective is s*
dark, that 1 scarcely know bow to 100 l
upon it otherwise than as a gloom)
scene.
what amount of woes are yet in stor<
for us i know not, but this i know, that
the only redeeming grace in the aspect
of our times, is the earnest, consistent,
unflinching remonstrance of true-heart
ed men and women against all the
forces of oppression and wrong-doing
that are struggling so bard to desolatt
and blast the nation. it is the convictior
coming out of the many-voiced utter
ance of peace-loving souls that wur—
all war is unchristian, and that slaver)
must not and shall not be sustained oi
extended among us. it is the stead)
and uncompromising spirit of self-de
nial with which all true men and wo
men stand by the right now, their right
human right, come what will—suffering
everything, sacrificing everything, loi
the sake of the broad and generom
principles of individual liberty and uni
versal justice. trodden down to-da)
as these principles may seem to be
they will yet rise and react, and be glo
rified with a freer course to-morrow.—
every day we see the infallibility o
that law which dethrones, sooner oi
later, the minions of intolerance, out
puts in their place the champions o
right. stand as they may to-day in the
high places and pulpits of the land, the
antagonists of reform will only live tc
find their occupations clean gone to
morrow. the places which once knew
th m will know them no more. the
cause of right, which never yet went
backward, will confront them and force
them to abdicate. they who fight
against philanthropic truth or the
rights of humanity, though encased iri
golden armor, must fail and fall, be
cause they fight against god. the
mortification of failure will take posses
sion of their spirits, as the hungry ral
on the island of st. helena ran awa)
with the embalmed heart of napoleoi
at midnight. while, on the other hand
the single-hearted champions of a righi
principle, though encompassed with dif
ficulty, though arrayed in sackcloth,
though borne down or against the wall
by the.bayonets of prejudice, though
harrassed by multiform oppositions, will
gain, and keep, and consummate their
victory in god’s own time. it may nol
be to-day, but in their patient working!
there is the ever-living hope of a mil
lenium! and while with their lips they
utter the benignant prayer, thy
kingdom come,’ we may see the pro
mise of its coming in the kindling
and gracious energy of their words and
deeds.
the boston mob of 1835.
since the discussion relative to mr.
van buren’s pro-slavery, considerable
interest has been excited in reference
to the mob of property and standing,”
which put down the meeting of the fe
male anti-slavery society. we there
fore republish, from the boston atlas of
oct. t 2, 1835, the following account of
the affair. it is an interesting narrative,
and serves to show the strong ami-
slavery character of the atlas, in that
day. —boston republican.
proceedings in the cave or wil
liam l. garrison. —the abolitionists
succeeded in producing another distur
bance in our city yesterday. after the
appearance of a succession of inflam
matory articles in the liberator, highly
insulting to the feelings of a great ma
jority of our fellow-citizens, attacking
with a frantic maliciousness their char
acter and motives, manifesting an inso
lent defiance of public opinion, and a
determination to persist in braving it—
a notice was yesterday issued, that the
female anti-slavery society would
bold a meeting that afternoon, when it
would be addressed by several gentle
men. in consequence of this notice,
and of the general suspicion that the
notorious thompson would be present
on the occasion, a large assemblage ot
citizens collected in froot of the build
ing, no. 46 washington street, with
the determination ol' intercepting the
foreign felon as he entered the door.
soon afterward#, several individual*
among the crowd went up into the hall
l of the abolitionists, and threw out ol
the window all the tracts and papers ol
the society, which were speedily des
troyed by those in the street,
j the assemblage, in the meantime,
speedily increased. several gentle
i men, at the suggestion of the mayor,
look down the sign, bearing the word*
anti-slavery -room*,’ and threw it in
to the a reel. it was dashed into i
thousand splinters by the crowd.
atone time we should think t||l
from four to five thousand persona were
assembled in the street. the mayoi
made his appearance at the portico
and addressed the multitude .nvbrie
and judicious speech. he called opm
j the people to mmm him m the pkmr
ration of good order, and in mattusm
mglke supremacy of the laws. ha
wn* calculated to eznremsi
iff** effect, and was received with ap
jniatmak the crowd however, did m*
j«npw* we should not omit to stole,
i**!)* occupants of the atoms iethi
john dick. pc
whole no-48.
hcioitjr of the anti-suiery rooms, pe«
it loot'd ibo mayor ami aldermen,
previous to the meeting, setting forth
hat their property *a* lu dauger, in
consequeoee of the general apprvhen
'ion ol a riot, and praying for protec
tion. the city authorities did not
consider themselves empowered to com
ply with the request contained in the
petition.
one word with regard to certain
imputations which concern ourselves.
several persons—abolitionists in dis
guise, we presume—their names ara
known—were heard, while the excite
ment ran highest, actively giving circu
iation to the report, that (be atlas had
been mainly instrumental in getting up
the disturbance that it was an ‘atlas
i mob,* and produced by atlas inffu
j ence.* the charge is hardly worth
i refuting, and it would he utmost pre
j sumptuous in u 9 to consider tt seriously.
that we have repeatedly exposed the
true character and tendency of the
doctrines of the abolitionists—that we
have published the recent development*
in relation to the career of the fel
•on thompson, which have been
confirmed by abundant testimony—that
we have avowed our unswerving fidelity
to the union and the constitution, and
opposed all measures, which threaten
their permanence—are charges, which
we shall neither attempt to palliate nor
deny.”
charge of addi cting slaves.
i
john wilson alius bynum thomas,
was arrested at baltimore on monday
night, in the philadelphia cars, for at
tempting to aid six slaves in their es
cape. it was ascertained that the slaves
were the property of persons residing
in talbot county, and that they had
been brought to baltimore in a small
vessel, belonging to one captain heury
h. baily. the captain and a hand
employ ed on board the vessel, named
j charles andrews, v ere arrested with a
i man named james worth, who had
engaged the captain to do so. worth
having been arrested, was identified by
andrews as being the man, and the
agent of the philadelphia road swore
positively that upon the night in quet
i tion, worth was at the depot, and
ollered himself as security to the com
pany if the negroes were ullowed to go
on to philadelphia. wilson is sup
posed to have been employed by worth
to persuade the slaves to abscond.
the parties implicated were all commit
ted iu default of $4,000 bail.
“to persuade the slaves to ah
scond?” how these editors stultify
themselves when talking ol the que*ti< n
of slavery is persuasion necessary
to convince men that liberty is better
than slavery to induce them to prele*r
manhood to chattelism—to make them
shrink from torture and aspire to he
more than beasts of burden—to make
them abhor and shun the tyrants who
rob them of all their rights and heap
insults and injuries upon them why,
the wild beast and the reptile will hy
from its enemy, or escape, if it can,
from its torturer will not man do as
much has he loss feeling of wrong,
less love of liberty when his nature
is reversed, and he loves pain and in
sult, and bondage, better than delight
and kindness arid freedom, there may
be significance in the words which are
now folly. when the starving rnan
i refuses food—when the dungeon’s in
mate longs not for fresh air and ths
light—when the tortured sufferer clings
to the rack—when it is sweeter ro re
ceive hatred than love, —we msy try to
fashion arguments to persuade slavery’s
victims, bruised, trampled, wronged as
they are—to prefer freedom to slavery;
till then, we think we can find other
fields for argument, which have mors
need of labor. the old absurd story
that the slaves had no desire for free
dom, lias been to* thoroughly exposed,
for thinking men to be gulled again by
it. editors who wish to maintain a
decent reputation for common sense
and common honesty will be cautious
how they resort to it.
we still see by this extract that
mercy is a crime,” in our nation—
that he who works righteousness is the
felon, while the oppressor and the rob
t her of god’s poor is honoured with
i office and power ;—u shall not always
be. as god is true, and the progress
of the universe is onuaid, the tune is
coming when the walkers and torrent
and draytons, the slave’s saviours, shall
wear a crown of honor instead of 10-
famy.— penn. freeman.
i
postsi. asrogeme.it with gfttat
britain. —the following is said to bs
the basis of agreement between lord
clanncarde and our minister, mr. ban
croft:
i 1. entire reciprocity between the
two governments in the transmission of
letters by their respective steamers.
2. the rates of postage to be uoi
j f oro >n american or english ateameia.
3. the british colonial mail to bn
conveyed through the united states and
by the american as well as ths english
steamers.
4. american mails for europe, asia
•*®d africa, to be convened by the
british an well aa the american steam
ers.
the retea of postage will probably
not exceed twenty-five cents on each
idler from the uoitrd states; or one
shilling sterling on letters lorwsrdrd
from tne united kiugdom. by this er
f] raneement, a letter wailed in sny part
t of great britain or ireland, and a sbtu
-i ling paid epoe it there,will be delivered
in the united state* without charge to
i the person to whom it is directed. so
i with e letter seot from th* u. «tetrs;
by the payment of twenty-five cents
i tier*, it will he delivered free of charge
notices
rochester
anti-slavery
bazaar,
to hr hthi tvnfwyr 2(va <nuf slit, 1844.
we again annourlce umhe public that our j
annual lknar is near at hand, and wilt afford
an opportunity of making sympathetic effort
an behalf of the suffering millions in our midst.
a glance at the object of our moat holy and
bencroient enterprise, is sufficient to arouse the
leant inquiring mind from its lethsrgy, to a
hearty crvopeition ia making oer fair worthy i
of those who duly estimate the blessings of
freedom. the farmer will confer a great
faror by donations of any of the various pro-
duct ions of hia farm—eggs, butter, ac.; and'
merchants, mechanics, grocers and confec
tioners will do great service to the cause by
lending their aid. donations for our book
able will be very gratefully received.
the friends of the cause in egland, scot
land and ireland, inform us that boxes of
goods for our fair are ou the way. among
ihe many articles named, are the following
sofa guards, watch pockets, slippers,
five elegant collars doyley’e, bracelets,
necklaces, bags, children's fn-cks, shoes,
aprons, bibs, bridal party and opera danc
ers, (dolls) puckers, baskets, beautiful draw
ings and pictures, colored drawings, gloves,
knitted tippets, caps, one side-saddle, dec.,
abigail bush, pree t.
sasah c. owen, sec’y,
toronto, nov. 7, 1848.
w*e, the underpinned, authorize the rev.
washington christian to act as the only
agent of the british american anti slavery
society.
b. rankins, chairman.
a. jcnah. h. richards,
c. davis, jas. johnson,
j. harper, vvm. thompson,
w m. harnkv, geo. brown,
chas. freeman, sec'v.
beauties of the peculiar institution.
a father emancipates his own son and his
mother; he dies, having devised his proper
ty to his own son the supremo court of
mis*issippt declares ihe act of emancipation
to be an offence against morality, &e—
-declares the son and mother to be slaves—
sets aside the father’s will, and gives them
and the property to distant relatives.
the ease of hinds, vs. brazealle,ot which
a synopsis is presented above, illustrates in a
very striking manner, the practical working
of slavery. it may be found in the second
volume of howard's mississippi reports,
s 3
the facts are these. elisha brazealle, a
mississippi planter, lived with a colored wo- j
man, his slave, as his wife. bv her he had!
a son named john monroe brazealle. in
i*2b, he left mississippi, and resided for some
time in ohio, bringing with him his son and
the mother of his son, for the purpose of
emancipating them.—while in ohio, he exe- j
cuted a deed of emancipation, setting both
free, and shortly after returned with litem to i
his residence in jefferson county, mississippi, i
borne years afterwards he died, having made i
a will, in which he recited the deed of eman
cipation, declared his intention to ratify it, and
devised all his properly to his son, acknowledg
ing hipi in tho will to ihj such.
the more distant relations of elisha bra
xealle—how distant does not appear—filed a
bill claiming to be heirs at law, and as such
not only entitled to the property devised, but
to the possessions of their relatives, john
monroe brazualle and his mother, asptoperty.
also, on the ground that the deed of emanci
pation, and the will were void under the
laws of mississippi.
this ctaim, which shocks every principle of
justice, and every sentiment ofhumanity, was
sustaiued by the supreme court of missis
sippi.
•some passages of the opinion of the court,
deliveied by chief justice sharkey, whose
own name seems more appropriate than his
official designation—are worthy of especial
notice, as illustrating the inversion and sub
version of all moral distinctions, by the
adoption of the idea of property in man.
wequote these passages, and leave them to
the reflection of our readers, without further
comment;
to give it—the deed of emancipation—
validity would be in the first place a violation
of the declared policy and coutrary to positive
law of the state. the policy of a state is
indicated by the general course of legislation
on a given subject, -and wo find that free
negroes are deemed offitnsive, because they
are not permitted to emigrate to or remain
in the state. they are allowed few privi
leges and subjected to heavy penalties for
offences. they are required to leave the
state m thirty days after notice, and in the
mean time give security for good behavior,
and those of them who can law fully remain,
must register and carry with them their cer
tificates, or they may tie commuted to jail. it
would also violate a positive law, passed by
the legislature, expiessly to maintain this
settled policy, and to prevent emancipation.
.no owner can emancipate his slave, but by
m deed or will properly attested or acknow
ledged in court, and on proof to the legis
lature, that such slave has performed some
meritorious act for the benefit of his master,
or some distinguished service for tho state
and the deed or w ill can have no validity until
ratified by the special act of the legisla
lure. the state of the case
shows conclusively that the contract had its
origin m an offence against morality, peruici
nus and detestable as an example. but above
all, it scorns to have been planned and exe-
with a fixed design to evade the rigor ol
the 1 ws of this state.
the acts of the party in going to ohio
w ith the slaves and there executing the deed,
••nd his immediate return with them to this
state, point with unerring certainty to his
purpose and object.—the laws of this state
cannnot be thus defrauded of their operation
bv one of our own citizens.—
the consequence is, that the negroes, john
monroe and hw mother, are still slaves, and
a part of the estate ot elisha brazealle, john
monroe being a slave, cannot take the pro
perty as devised and 1 apprehend it is equally
clear, that it cannot be heuhn trust for him.’’
thus the learned and humane xharkry,
chief justice of the high court of errors
and appeals of the state of mtbsissi|>pi,
cautiously avoiding the well known principle
of law declared even by the court* of louis
iana, that a slave once enfranchised bv being
removed by his master s consent lieyoud the
jurisdiction of the laws enslaving him. into
the jurisdiction of a state where slavery is
not tolerated, can never be re-en>luvcd de
claics that the merciful act of brazealu* in ta
king his wife and son into ohio tor the pur
pose of emancipation, la a fraud on th«
operation of the laws of mississippi, and
with one fell swoop consigns the mother aud
non into perpetual slavery, and their proper!)
bequeathed to them by a husband and father
to (i*uni<u>d unknown relatives.
the bum slave of ihe mixes.
v rev. president hitchcock.
allow me here to refer u a cane that lately
tell under my observation, which illustrates
more forcibly than i bad ever conceived, the
priceless value of the christian hope to the
must on fortunate and degraded- 1 had des
cended one thousand feet beneath the earth's
surface, in the coal pita ef the mid lothias
mima >o virginia, and w»wand«l|ftglhrough
their dark, subterranean passagtn, when the
sound of mtnie ate little dbtentt, broke upon
my ear. it eeaeoi upon our approach, and
i caught only the concluding —luuient of um
hymn.
**l del be ia beaten in the asratit^.'*
on advancing with our lampa, we found
the pajwvge dosed by a door, in order to give
a different direction to tba current of air, for
the purpoae of ventilauoo, yet ihi* door tmm
be opened occasionally to let the rail can
paaa, loaded with euel. and to arwompliah
this, we fou«l sitting by that door an aged
blind alave, whoae eyea had been entirely
deatroved by a blast of gunpowder many
yearn before, in that mine. there he sat oe
a seat cut in the eoal, from sun rise to aun set
j day after day; his sole business being to opeu
and shut the door, when be beard the rail cars
approaching. we requested him to mug
again the hymn whose last line we had heard,
i it was iodeed lame in expression, and in
i the poette measure very defective, being, in
fact, one of those productions which we found
the pious slaves were ia the habit of singing,
in part, at least,, impromptu. but each
stanza closes with the sentiment,
i •ball be in heaven pi the morning.”
it was sung with s clear and pleasant voice
and i could sec the shrivelled, sightless eye
balls of the old man roll ia their sockets, as
sif his soul felt the inspiring sentiments; and
j really the exhibition was one of the most
1 affecting that 1 have ever witnessed, t here
jhe stood, an old man, whose earthly hopes,
even at the best, must be very faint; and be
was a slave—and he was blind—w hat could
|he hope for on earth he was buried, too, a
j thousand feet beneath the solid rocks in the
expressive language of jonah—“ he has
gone down to the bottom of the mountains;
i the earth with her bare waa about him for
i ever.” there, from month to month he sat
.in darkness. oh, how utterly cheerless his
condition! and yet that one pleasant hope
iof a resurrection morning was enough to
infuse peace and joy in bis soul.
i had often listened to touching rousio—l
1 had heard gigantic intellects pour forth en
chanting eloquence, but never did music or
eloquence exert such overpowering luflnence
over my feelings as did this scene. never
before aid i witness so grand an exhibition of
sublimity. o, how comparatively insignificant
did eaith's mightiest warriors and statesmen,
her princes and emperors, and even her phil
osophers, without piety appear how power
i less would all their pomp and pageantry, and
wisdom be to sustain them, if called to change
places with this poor slave! he had a
principle within him superior to them all; and
w hen morning which he longs for shall come,
how infinitely better than theirs w til his lot
j appear to an admiring universe. and that
morning shall ere long break upon thy dark
ness, benighted old man the light of the
natural sun, and the fact of this fair world
l will never indeed, revisit you and the remnant
of your days must be spent in your monoton
loustask, by the side of iho wicket gate,
deep in the caverns of the earth. but that
bright and blessed hope ot a resurrection
morning shall not deceive you. the saviour,
in whom you trust, shall manifest himself to
you even in deep darkness; and at the ap
pointed hour, the chains of slavery shall drop
off, and the double night which envelopes
you shall vanish into the light and the liberty
and the glory of heaven. and in just pro
portion to the depths of your darkness and
degradation now, shall be the brightness and
the joy of that everlasting day.
the north star.
rochester, november 24, 1848.
northampton, nov. 18, 1848.
since leaving rochester on the 27th oi
october, 1 have spoken once in sptingficld
once in lynn, thiee tiroes in new bedford
once in abington, once in plymouth, and at
tended the annual meeting of the rhod<
island state anti-slavery society. i havi
also had appointments sent on to several othe
places, but in cons&juence of the great poli
tical excitement occupying the public mind
and the monopoly of public halls by the poli
tical parties, and the churches being closet
against the subject of slavery, i have failet
to get meetings, and have therefore had th<
pain of travelling without accomplishing much
except in a private way. it is absolutely im
possible to interest the public mind with any
thing else than politics, during a presidents
campaign like that which has now teiminated
it is one of the saddest things connected witl
our institutions and national character, tha
we are so prone to magnify politics, to th«
exclusion of everything of a moral and intel
lectual nature during a political canvass
and that so much precious time is consumer
in these unprofitable struggles. admitting
that it is necessary to agitate the public mint
and enlighten the people as to the charactei
of the men and measures presented for theii
support, it cannot be claimed that more that
one-tenth of the time usually employed foi
that purpose is necessary. the charactei
and (tosiiions of men and parties are generally
as well understood two months after theii
nominations, as after six months of fierce de
bate and agitatiou. fireworks, burning pow
der, discharging cannon, torch-ligbt proces
sions, illuminations, &c., appeal only to feel
ings, and have nothing whatever to do witl
bringing men to an intelligent opiniou on the
questions involved in an election like the ont
just passed. yet what an important and pre
cious amount of time, of money, of health
to say nothing of morals, have been saeri
ficed to such dumb show and senseless display
during the last few months* these demon
strations would be less deplorable, were they
not attended with loss of life, as w ell ashealtii
and morals. the eight men killed on the
salem and marblehead railroad, might now
have been living, a blessing to themselves,
families and fiiends, but for being led away
from their homes to attend one of those torch
light processions. the newspapers teem with
accounts of fights, rencontres, wounds and
deaths, growing out of these disgraceful dis
plays, in which pride and passion usurp the
place of reason. these we take to be their
legitimate fruit. to put an end to these
scenes, every lover of order ought to lend his
aid. it is an insult to die understandings of
intelligent men to have such paltry and sense
less appeals made to their feelings as were re
sorted u> during the cauvaas.
but to the meetiugs. that in springfield
was called to hear an address from rev. mr.
conklin, on the singular subject of bible
free soil.” the meeting was on sunday
evening, in the town hall. rev. mr.
church was in the chair. the evening was
dark and rainy, but nevertheless a large meet
ing assembled. as soon as the reverend gen
tleman learned that i u in the house, be
waived hu contemplated lecture on bible
free soil,” for tbe purpose of allowing me
to occupy the evening with such remarks as i
might deem proper to make. it wa»%n awk
ward position to be placed in. bm neither
himself nor the audience would help me oat
of the difficulty and i was tberafore rdoc
untiy compelled ta take the stand end to oe»
jtosml generous at oo the put of iht
mmirttr, while it in anditable to him, equal);
•fc®***!* progress of lb* anti-slavery earns.
a few yeati ago, 1 should scarcely bare bees
allowed to apeak 08~ the subject of slavery ii
that place, much lew been invited to uke ok
place of a popular clergyman, when a meeting
wan called especially for him. the meeting
passed off with good effect—many hearing
radical anti-slavery doctrines advocated for um
first time in tbeir lives, and weald not bav<
beard at this time but that they had been
teacher, to bear discussed the unique (object
of bible free soil/’ anything labeled
with the bible, good or bad, seems to take
well with the religious portion of tke public,
and this is especially the case with the people
of springfield.
1 found lynn, as usual in noth times, wrapt
in excitement oo the subject of free soil
and like all other towns vrbeie much anti-
slavery effort has been expended, a large
free soil vote was east, leading both the old
parties. while here, i had an opportunity ol
heanng a few remarks from that once great,
but now fallen man, daniel webster. he
was in lynn for the purpose of gaining the
votes of the freemen of that city fur the slave
holder, zachary taylor. mr. webster's ap
pearance made me sad. in gating upon hun
1 forgot his words in the contemplation ol
himself. a thunder sheered column, stood be
fore me. there was just enough of the fim
chiseling left to proclaim the wonderful skill
of the artist. but what a wreck !—what a
magnificent ruin the outline of his formei
greatness might be traced over the vast area
of his brow, while through the windows ol
his soul might be seen large masses of his
giant power, fast mouldering to decay. he
has arrayed himself against god, and ie
broken. he has trifled with his moral sense,
and destroyed his conscience. once he was
the seivant of freedom—now he is the servant
of slavery. his words go one road, while
his convictions go another; and as a house
divided against itself must fall, so daniel
websier has fallen. his greatest service to
mankind will be found in the loud warning
which his ruin proclaims as liable to all who
follow his dangerous example. his case
shows that intellect, however strong—that
genius, however exalted —that friends, how*
ever numerous—that wealth, however abund
ant, can never fill up the chasm of a want of
fixed moral principle.
my meetings in new bedford, like all anti-
slaveiy meetings, which it has been my pri
vilege to attend in that place, were very
satisfactory. there is something in old asso
ciations that always refreshes and cheers me,
when i stand in the midst of that community
where not ten years ago, i stood a stranger
newly from slavery. i never so fully realize
the difference of my position now from what
it was then, as when i stand in the midst of a
new bedford assembly. what i was and
am is known to them. there are no doubts
in the minds of my hearers with respect to
myself to be removed. they know me and
hear me as a competent witness against the
whole system of slavexy and all its abettors.
i was assisted in my meetings in new bed
ford by charles lenox romond, a man who
never fails to command the sympathy and
attention of an audience in that place. i
missed one face from the meetings which de
tracted somewhat from the happiness with
i usually look upon an anti-slavery audience
there. it was tnc face of that veteran laborer
and faithful pioneer in the cause, john haily.
he has moved from new bedford to lynn.
his house wa3 formerly the home of all those
who devote themselves to the work of awak
ening the public mind to the sin of slavery.
what mr. baily was in new bedford, that
be will be in lynn—an untiring enemy of
slavery, and a friend to all who lajtor in free
dom's cause.
the colored voters in new bedford almost
to a man voted the free soil ticket, and i
believe the same was thb case in all parts of
massachusetts. but such was far from being
the case in rhode island. the colored voters
i in providcuce almost unanimously supported
the taylor ticket. i should be ashamed to
state this disgraceful fact, without at the
same time explaining some of the circum
stances by which it was brought about. the
democtatic party in rhode island is known
as the free suffrage party —the party which
six years ago adopted a constitution restrict
ing the right to vote to white persons alone,
and excluding colored citizens from the exer
cise of that right. this base insult offered to
the colored people by these loud pretenders
to liberty is freshly remembered. fortun
ately the whig party, then known as the
law and order party, defeated this infamous
constitution, and ui drafting another, whether
from principle or not, left out of it the mean
color condition of suffrage. this circum
stance has eiven the whigs almost complete
control of the colored voters so that if the
whigs should nominate satan himself, they
might calculate upon a large dark vote in
rhode island. i extract the following from
a long address by the whigs to the colored
voters of the state; and the reader will
easily see the effect such an appeal would be
likely to produce on the minds of men cir
cumstanced as the colored people are in rhode
island.
now, we say to the colored peope of rhode
island, and they will believe us, for we have
never deceived them, and the only party of
freedom is the whig party, that the only way
in which they can make their votes count for
freedom in this election, is to vole for the
whig electors, for william sprague, george
g. king, james t. rhodes, sad rouse
babcock. you know these men, and yon
know the party to which they belong and to
which you belong, the party which opposed
the annexation of texas, which opposed the
acquisition of mexican territory, which now
opposes the extension of slavery over that
territorythe party, too which extended to
you the right of suffrage, and gave you a
voice, in the election of the rulers. ingrati
tude is not a vice which belongs to the colored
race; stand by the men then, who hone stood by
\fou; support the party which has sup
ported too give your votes for the men who
fare you the right to vote. you we bound
lo do this by the obligations of doty and
flatitude and of the highest policy.
on thursday evening last i attended the
necting of the rhode island state anti-sla
very society. it was largely attended. i
raa informed, oo my arrival, that mr. j. b
sanderson, of new bedford, sad rev. mr.
cheney—the latter a thorough-going aboli
iooist and eloquent speaker, had chiefly ad
trsaaad lha meeting ia the afiennen aaaaian.
there vh no lack of speakers on ike oflwi
mm m m fthtn johnaoo, gemye bred
ban, james n. bofum, j- b. sender**
tod frederick douginas being pemeat. ot
this evening there were no resol ntioei hefew
the meeting, and every ooe spoke jest whs
he wu disponed to speak. 'die first spemkei
who came upon the stand was m r inglia, 1
believe, the editor of young america. 1
should be glad to giro bis remarks in fall, mix
reply to them at length, did time mid spot*
permit; bat m the circumstances can onlj
glance at the subject. he commenced bt
stating hie high regard for the slave, end bit
deep interest in the anti-slavery movement
hot strangely enough went on in an effort t<
show that wages slavery is bad as chatte
aiavervi and that if the slates were emand
paled, they would soon be as badly off as tlx
paupers of ireland. he recommended at
enlargement of our objects as a means u
bringing into our ranks the white working
people, and stated as a reason why they die
not care anything about the anit-slaven
movement, that they saw the abolitionist!
taking an interest in the cause of the black
wujp they neglected and opp nwetmfe white
lawrer. these and many other views of th<
same stamp, were put forth by the speaker
it was difficult to think the speaker honest
yet be seemed to be perfectly so. he ap
peered to be full of his cause, and to give l
his best energies. so far so good. then
was, however, ooe great falsehood running
through the whole speech, which even th<
dullest could not fail to perceive.
the attempts to place holding property it
the soil—on the same footing as holding prop
erty in man, was most lame and impotent—
and the wonder is, that any one, could listeu
with patience to such arrant nonsense. thai
land monopoly is a great evil there is no ques
tion—bat to speak of it in the same age with
chattle slavery, is to lose sight of all the mor
al distinctions most obvious to common sense.
i would be ashamed to argue with a person
such a question—but that i believe there are
sorae'good men who honestly believe it. to
own the soil is no harm in itself. it was giv
en to man. it is right that he should own it.
it is his duty to possess it—and to possess it in
that way in which its energies and properties
can be made the most useful to the human
family—now and always. there is therefore
no wrong in the fact of holding property in the
soil itself. and the question raised must
therefore relate to the mode of holding and
the amount held—and not to the act of holding.
the question then is, as to the manner, and
the amount, with respect to these various opin
ions may be honestly entertained. what
manner of holding property in the soil is the
best, which best secures the happiness of the
whole human family the land reformers,
have one view—but other men have views di
rectly opposite—and as honestly entertained.
it is not therefore for either to denounce the
other as criminals. the question is one of
expediency—about which it is easy to err.—
not so with slavery. it is to sin against self
evident truth to enslave a fellow man. but i
must hasten. the meeting was addressed by
mr. buffum, mr. bradbum —and myself, and
adjourned to meet on friday morning at ten
o’clock.
during the day and evening of friday—the
discussion was mainly on the pro-slavery po
sition of the church, anti the constitutional
support given to slavery. on the latter sub
ject there was a long discussion. mr. brad
burn contended that the constitution was an
anti-slavery instrument—and made a long
and ingenioys argument in support of his view,
which would have proved as conclusively that
there is now no slavery in america—as it
proved that there is no slavery in the constitu
tion. slavery is wrong, and therefore is not
in the constitution, seemed to be the upshot
of his reasoning. he set out by laying down
certain rules of interpretation—which would
i apply very well to the constitution of the uni
ted states—if there was any honest doubt as
to its true intent and meaning—things which
ido not hesitate to deny. one of these rules
is, that any law susceptible of two interpreta
tions—and about the meaning of which there
is doubt, that such law shall in all cases be
construed favorably to justice. this cannot
apply to the constitution of the united states.
for no one is in doubt as to the true intent
and meaning of that instrument—and it is
therefore idle to talk about such rules. we
know the men who made the constitution—
we have their words—as to what they meant
—by what are now called compromises of the
constitution, and to wrest them from their true
intent and obvious meaning—a forced process
iis a most- unfair mode of dealing with the
slaveholder, we had better own that the
compact is a slave-holding one, and declare
i that we will abandon it. but enough of this
for the present.
ivc shall probably have a regular report of
the proceedtegs of the annual meeting with
sketches of the debates which occurred.
i am now at the water cure establishment
of dr. ruggles—in northampton mass.,
—and have seen my old fnend and benefactor
for the first time since my return from great
britain. he was the first to welcome me
from the land of whips and chains and to
plac? me beyond the retch of my blood-hound
pursuers. since then, be baa lost his outward
vision—but the lamp within burns as bright
as ever. his whole soul is in his present pro
fession—and i would as readily trust him with
my breath now—as i did with my liberty ten
years ago. to his wonderful skill as a hy
dropathic doctor, be adds that warm philan
thropic energy and perseverance which marked
ail his movements in the old vigilaoee com
mittee at new york.
the establishment here is urge sod commo
dious^-as neat and orderly within as a meeting
ef the society of friends. there are now in
the establishment twelve or fourteen patients,
with two of whom i am acquainted—one from
rochester new york, and the other from
ply moth massachusetts the condition of each
is such as to encourage and cheer their
friends.
i shall lecture this evening in springfield—
aad from there shall ret am to boaion sod letv
tare to salem aod marblehead, and other
towns in their vicinity.
yoon for righteous freedom,
frederick douglass.
by a nmom mnpriat la a onoatry paper,
the rev. mr. ellia, tim boobond of a wd!-
kao*a aathoreaa.’ia dowribed u “tba boa>
baad of tfco worn of eagiand’
ft*. jlw
mtttats iff-
lei disguise nwy-fot u.
try to hide ituvi pay will u ocrtaia
and in—itable. that if mytbe operation of any
system of injustice, on# portion of tbe uibab
itantt of a coon try are degraded and brutal*
aed, their ignorance and brutality —t and
will attach to those who degrade them. no
man hreth for bmsejf. it a aapoeamito
estimate the influence which each baa upon
those around him, for good or for etrtl. a
vitiated atmosphere does not more certainly
cai&e disease siwfdeath to tbe material exist
ence, than does the prevalence of a virioo*
and ignotiot state of raiod produce the same
result to the moral and intellectual being. an
every moral and enlightened man in a commu
nity exerts an influence upon the— around, to
make them moral and enlightened, so the in
fluence of every ignorant and brutish man is
directly the reverse. true, the tendency id
the human mind is to pug roes it does not
recede without a severe struggle. it is al
ways looking forward to a better and brighter
state of being. a wise man said long since,
that the spirit of a man looketh upward
hut tbe vision of the upward looking spirit is
and must be bedimmed and clouded by the
murky nuasma of vitiating influences.
it baa been often asserted that the free peo
ple of the south are ignorant. we see auch
assertions in newspapers every day. it is
rarely attempted to deny the fact. it is, in
deed, too palpable to admit of denial. were
it necessary, nothing would be easier than to
produce proof strong and incontrovertible.—
one such illustration may be given, just to
show that those who say that the south i*
ignorant, do not speak at random. a cotre
spondent of the concord (n. h.) democrat,
writing from georgia, says
in one county in georgia. i was told by
the circuit judge, a jury was empannelled
and out of the twelve, nine of ihein made
their marks as signatures to the piesentiments.
this is almost incredible, yet l was assured ii
was true. the poor people are ignoiant, be
cause they have no means of education, an<.
as long as slavery exists, so long will they
continue to be ignorant. in some parts ot
south carolina, georgia, alabama and miss
issippi, one may travel a whole week withou
seeing a single school-house, and what few
there are, are miserable hovels, more resem
bling a nigger hovel” than a schixil-house.
a new hampshire farmer would erect a bet
ter building fur his sheep or horses, than arc
here built by parents in which to educate their
children. the houses, however, are in keep
ing with the state of education. i have oftei
met with men who were considered intelli
gent by the natives, who thought that
england was a northern state, and a pan o.
the union, and have asked the question if the
yankees were americans!”
remember, reader, that this is not among
tbe inhabitants of new zealand or the sand
wich islands, who have but recently come
under the operation of civilizing influences.—
it is not in a nation or among a people jusi
emerging from the darkness of barbarism. ii
is not among the aristocracy-ruled, and taxed,
and poverty-fetficken people of the old coun
tries of europe. were such an illustration
of the debasing influence of kingcraft and
aristocratic misrule to show itself in any oi
those countries, the righteous denunciations ol
indignant republicans would be heard ringing
throughout the land, from maine to texas.—
but it is not in any of those countries. no
in none of them would twelve men be sum
moned to sit on a jury, nine of whom could not
write their names. it is reserved for enlight
ened america, the model republic,” in tin
nineteenth century, in the mid3t of its boasting
of superior intelligence, superior privileges,
and “glorious institutions,” to exhibit thi>
instance of jury-box ignorance. and no
wonder. slavery could not exist, were it
otherwise. theie is no enemy to tyranny and
oppression, like inte ligence. make a people
moral and enlightened, and you drive slavery,
iu all the modes of its manifestation, from
among them. intelligent ami moral men
cannot be made slaves themselves; and as
little do they wish to enslave others. tin
desire for power, which has been said to be
inherent in man, is, after all, the impulse of
uneducated and untrained minds. it is a
brute force in disguise. it does not in the
least affect the ability to possess power, whe
ther he who aims at it be enlightened or ig
norant—refined or brutal—moral or vicious.
the more ignorant and brutal he who hold*
power is, the more offensive and despotic i*
he in its exercise. there is one kind of power
which the intelligent man must and will pos
sess and it is well that he ahonid possess it.
by a law of our being, we are constrained to
admire, and to endeavor to imitate those wh<
are superior to us. this is a kind of moral
magnetism, by which the superior mind act*
upon, and brings inferior miuds to its sway.—
it is a kingcraft which there is no gainsay in;
no opposing. all other kings beside*
those who rule in this way, are usurpers.—
their power is spurious. it is not obtaine*
from m right source. and there is no patent
of nobility but this. those who claim to b*
noblemen coder any other patent, are men
swindlers. they have obtained their title
deed by forgery '—it is not signed with th«
royal signature, nor is the seal of royalty
attached tu it.
tbe south does not want this kind of kings.
southern men would gladly, if it were possi
ble, blot all such out of existence. tbt
brute rale of ignorance is that which they
particularly admire. tbe schoolmaster it
felt, and mutt feel himself to be out of place
amongst auch men. it is necessary, before
we can admire and wish to imitate thatwhiel.
is excellent, that we should have a perceptior
of its excellence. because the owl, at mid
day, cannot see the sun, it is no proof that
the min does not shine. it would seem that
the south has not even yet strived to tba*
stators of intelligence which makes one ad
mire and eodeavor to acquire enlightenment.
says the tallahassis journal:
we think it high time that the people of
the south should depend more upon school
masters of native growth. the schoolmaster
f too much abroad; he brings many notions
tap abroad-read some of them are not al
friendly to the state tf society at the
sooth.”
schoolmasters of native growth why.
whore are they to get them, if they have no
schools? when would the districts of ala
hums, mississippi, georgia and south caro
hna, in which you may travel weeks without
tmlsos they get them from abroad!—
schoolmasters am not the indigenous grow th
of any coil. they mat he cultivated. it
(•quins yean of careful traising to sake
schoolmaster ah, hut "be brings many
ntaam fro. wdfwy
what i 4 lb* of a aakoolmaaur, unless h#
teweho* wahhiag to bis puptis which they
do wot already knew f |yee: b*l*‘ hi* pnii
ctplta are ait always friendly lube state ad
society at the south.”' ah t that is the 'fife
colt y. he would tell yout children that it u
wrong to steal; he would, mayhap, tel! them
that it is a god-accursed, soul-damning am tn
etea) a man. h*fcigbt possibly even endeavoi
to instil into their youthful minds the awful
monstrosity asserted by some foolish old fa
natics, who drew up a declaration of lnde
peadeoee for a model kepoww’ the* ah
men are created equal.” he might say this,
without inserting the word tcfuu," before
men. he might even forget to mention the
theory of a certain very benevolent, philan
thropic, and sagacious modem philosopher,
who thought that only one man was created
—oil the rest were born,” thereby making
those same foolish old fanatics who penned
that deelaraiioit stultify themselves moei
abominably, when they talked of ah men be
ing created equal,” when in fact only one
man was created equal—to himself. this is
what the schoolmasters might do for the
south and it is just exactly what the south
does not want. it is not friendly the state
of society at the south.”
northern men behold your rulera! they
are ignorant, and don't want to learn they
are vicious, and don't desire to improve they
are brutal, and are content to remain steeped
to the lips in pollution and iniquity! are
you willing to be ruled b such men are
you not suffering from the corrupting effects of
their evil influences are you not becoming
a hissing and a by-word among the nations, in
consequence of your paiticipation in and suf
ferance of their crimes i shake them os',
then bring down the usurpers from their
seat of power; and let this be your rallyjug
cry, as you commence your onward march to
honor, virtue and happiness— w no union
with slaveholders!”— j.d.
southern testimony.
a word of commendation from a friend is
sometimes cheering and encouraging, seiving
to lighten labor, and to stimulate to exertion.
more efficient to this end, is the constrained
confession of an enemy. he is not liable to
be misled by the blinding partiality of attach*
ment, or prevented j>y an unwillingness to
give offence, from speaking the true sentiments
of his inind. particularly gratifying,then, to
colored men must be the following extract
from the mobile tribune. it is the involun
tary confession of one who is far from having
any partiality for the coloted race he will
yet see greater things than these
recently the ‘colored people’ of the free
states held a national convention at cleve
land, ohio. they drew up and published an
address to their brethren in those states,
which is rather remarkable for the exhibition
of a great deal of earnestness and considerable
ability. to show what plans these men have
to elevate themselves in the social, scale, we
extract below a portion of the address. the
immediate tendency of these sentiments will
inevitably be to array against the convention
ists the white industrial population of the
free states.
“the colored people have made rapid strides
in some respects at the noith; and as we
hold that the two races cannot exist together
on anything like equal terms, the result of their
progress will be to array the stronger side
against them: and we may -have
such scenes at the north as the abolitionists
in their fury are trying to stimulate at the
south.”
this editor, however, evidences a lamenta
ble ignorance or misapprehension of the effect
of education, and of the state of society in
the north. an intelligent and moral man, let
his color be what it may, cannot fail to com
mand the respect and esteem of his fellow
citizens. it is not so much the prevalence of
prejudice—though that also is sufficiently ram
pant—as the cowardly necessity which the
majority of northern men imagine they are
under, to act fashionably, and to hold fashion
able sentiments. the one is equally mean
and irrational with the other—or rather of the
two, the latter reason is the meanest and most
irrational. he is a mean and ignorant man
whose prejudice prevents him from discovering
what right is, but more mean and dastardly is
he who knowing the right, is deterred, by the
fear of getting into a minority, from carrying
it into practice.
the patagraph above quoted gives an illus
tration of the sort of bugbears of which the
south either is or preteods to be afraid.—
what a terrible picture of blood, slaughter,
and fury presents itself to the vivid imagina
tions of these negro-haters how do they
shudder and shrink at the bare possibility oi
the two races existing together on equal
terms' a false education has filled their
minds with the idea that the colored man is
not a man, or, at least, that he ia a man of
inferior order. puv it is, that these boasters
of their supeiiot intellects and supeiior race,
cannot now have an opportunity of conversing
with their very intelligent and refined ances
tors, who, a few hundred years since, painted
their skins, to keep them warm, for lack of a
better covering. wonder if their ideas of
propriety w ould permit of their claiming kin
died with thoee piebald gentlemen
wbat the scenes are that this timid writer
imagines that the “abolitionists, in their fury,
are trying to stimulate at the south,” it ia
rather difficult to imagine. is it, then, such
a very fearful and crying evil to teaeh men
that they sat men ?—to tell thrm that they
belong to themselves, and are the property of
oo one else?—to instruct them that labor has
rights, ar.d that every man who labors should
be paid for hi* k|or are these very devil
ish or does the idea of
all meo doing justly and loving mercy, pre
sent such a horrible picture for contemplation?
ob, the misery and madness of a perverted
intellect! could such writers see the appalling
picture presented by southern slaveholding
atrocity, through an nnjaundieed medium,
they wool! net require to call imagination to
their aid in order to provide for themselves a
picture of horror and wretchedness. fact
is ofttimes stranger and more horrible than fic
tion.—i. o.
runaway slaves. —we learn from the
maysville (ky.)herald, that several slave*
belonging to tbatcity escaped from their roas
ters on saturday night. three runaways
fam montgomery were captured a abort die
tanea below maysville, on sunta* sod taken
bark.
tb#jaople ofumied suu* oae
>0 w# of ufooo toooour—*bout
»ofh gmo jbr ftpuiafa etftn.
it® tfco rtonis mi 1 ttirty mad jostles
la ohio ami mlaia.
lla* a committee appointed for the purpo*.
p ‘’fncnda” of the congregational order
(mlptffcd in annual meeting at green plains,
clark county, ohio on the 88th and 29tb of
the teeth month, 1848, we address you upo-«
the subject of the unjust and iniquitous lawt
which make distinctions between persons ou
account of color. w® suffer with fou under
a sense of the degraded position we occupy j n
the estimation of the wise and good the world
over, by the continuance of these relics of a
lest enlightened ago upon our statute hooka.
we mourn with you the corruption of the
moral sense of our people they engender and
wa are armed wnh you in sympathy with
the most deeply injured portion of our
countrymen, who are rendered the subject# of
so much injustice contumely and scorn by
their existence. impicssed with these senti
ments we desire to bring into activity such an
instrumentality as shall effect their annihilation.
to do this, all that seems to us to be necessa
ry, is to sronse and concentrate against
them the moral sense of tbo men and women
of our land. we believe the politicians who
shape the legislation of the state, await only
such action of the people, as shall demonstrate
to them what is our desire m the matter. to
obtain a concentrated expression of the public
will, we piopoee that every man and woman
into whose hands this address may fall, and
who believes in the propriety of effecting the
object at w hich we aim, shall consider himself
or herself especially called upon to circulate
ihe following or some similar petition, obtain
every name which can be had in favour of the
measure and to see that it shall be transmit
ted to some member of the legislature at an
early day for presentation.
dear friends if you will but unite with us
in a vigorous, persevering and simultaneous
effort, it is in our power, no doubt, now to ac
complish this most desirable result. who
will be idle, who negligent, in the preform
ance of this high duty
thomas pennock jonathan huddleson
thomas swayne cato allen
huldah kester valentine nicholson
fredchick hoover acrsah williams
ruth dcgdale a. broke
form of petition.
to the senate and house of representatives
in the state of
the undersigned, residents of the slate
of .respectfully represent that we be
lieve that all laws making distinctions between
persona on account of color, are unwise and
injurious to both while «nd black, and highly
iniquitous; and we therefore, respectfully re
que?t you to repeal all laws upon our statute
hooks creating such distinctions.
all editors friendly to the object please
copy.
william and mary howitt.* —ln a letter
from mr. howitt, received a short time since,
he says—‘we trust vnu are quite restored to
your usual health. you are not to believe
that we are coming to livo in america. we
propose, however, to pay you a visit.’ moat
happy shall we be to welcome these accom
plished triends to our shotes. their literary
fame, their active sympathy for suffering hu
manity, their deep interest in every branch of
reform, will procure for them a wprm recep
tion in whatever part of this broad land they
may travel—always excepting its slave-cursed
regions. should they give their impressious
of what they may see and hear, during their
sojourn, in ihe shape of a book, we are suro
they will ‘nothing extenuate, nor set down
aught in malice,’ but will furn sh a most in
teresting volume. at what time they expect
to leave england, no mention is made fn the
letter.— liberator.
emancipation in kentucky. —pending
the canvass in kentucky, for members of the
convention to amend the constitution, a spir
ited discussion is going on throughout the
state upon the policy or impolicy of emanci
pation. the ablest politicians in the state
are engaged in the f ra y. this is all we could
ask. in a free and fair debate truth must be
triumphant. among the advocates of slavery
is g. w. johnson, the late democratic candi
date for governor. judging by the numer
ous appeals to them, the white laboring pop
ulation must have acquired a vast importance
in the contest. we look to the i.ssue of this
struggle with much interest.—jv. y. evang.
the plan for introducing slavery.—
we learn from the fayette (howard co.)
times, that judge beard and family, of tex
as, passed up the river last sunday week on
on his way to new mexico. he goes out by
authority of the governor of texas, as judge
new mexico. texas intends, we suppose
to assert her paper title, and the confession of
president polk in support of her claim to the
land and the jurisdiction of that part of the
country known as new-mexico. if success
ful in establishing her right, as may very pos
sibly be the case—president polk having all
ready acknowledged it—ihe introduction of
slavery goes with it. this is a condition of
things which ihe northern folks do not seem
to have considered, although the president
doubtless did, when he recognized the right of
texas the soil and jurisdiction, upon the shab
biest pretext that ever governed a statesman
in so important a matter [s* louis renub.
!ltl. r
recovered lake. —a singular accident
occurred on the michigan central railway.
it became necessary to carry a grading of em
bankment of fifteen feet high across a low
piece of ground, containing about 100 acrea,
nearly dry enough for plow-land. when they
had advanced with the grading for aome dis
tance, it became too heavy for the soil to aup
port, the crust of the earth broke in, and the
embankment sunk down into seventy-nine
feet of water! it appears that the piece of
ground had been a lake, and bad collected a
soil of mots, peat, muck.fitc., on its surface
apparenlly from teo to fifteen feet thick, which
had become hardened and dry enough for farm
purposes.
metallic paint.—a singular and osefel
discover? of an artificial slate has been made
bibb, of ohio. when taken from the
mine, this substance presents the appearance
of the purest indigo, about as bard as cold
tshow. it is applied by forming it into paint,
and mixing with linseed oil. a slate roof j»
b? means of this mixture given to a bouse, by
simply painting it. there are of course many
other ways in which it esa be advantageously
and economically used.
dow* with the constitution. the
bowon bee says that a paper [the anti-sla
*ery bogle, of coorsej published in sabot,
ohio, thus talks of the constitution
“the constitution doesn’t deserve recoding
—no honest roan ought to touch it, nor can he
without becoming defiled. it is a far greater
tyrant than was lotus philtppe, and if the
men of france wets justified is overturning
the throne by violence, the me® of amerie®
ou k /““a* lb. conmi
tuuon by the same means.” it i® a hoary
headed despot that baa ruled over them for
seventy years, and it is more than time that it
was hurled from its place, and the sceptre of
its dominion broken. in the name of god
and liberty, down with the constitution
moot of euctiko tie president and
vice president. —the presidential electors
bj the people, aeeemhb in the capital*
of their states, as soon aa possible after they
ate elected, and vote fer lie candidates rtf their
•®«fl®. having recorded their vete, copies of
it ar® mad® and forwarded to washington by
•p*e*ri mnmwgor the vote* of all ih®
stagnate opened in the presence of both
houses of confiow, and the reenk pissed a®
record communication#.
nov. 15, 1816.
mom*. editor* having ii ray hi
communication endeavored show lira uo
kmdnew and absurdity of the charge of "bos
nlity to the anti-slavery movement,” pie
fened againtt certain colored churches in this
hty, i shall proceed now to fulfil the pro
imse, then partially made, of exposing souk
of the emmeoes views upon which l concern
the charge to be founded. i shall confine roj
romarka exclusively to what has been aaid re
»pccting st. thomas’ church.
in the attempt to show that church to b*
hostile,” it ha* been affirmed, in the meet
unqualified terms, that its doors arc bam*
against the cause of the slave, and to iti
pulpit are welcomed episcopalian slaveholder!
and slavery defenders.” this, truly, is a
very grave charge: it places the church in the
attitude of or/*i> hostility against the caused
freedom—she is not even allowed the consola
tory plea of neutrality, but is represented a*
performing her servile task with all that fi
delity and leal that characterises the pampered
mental; not content with boluog, bui
must see to it that her doors are also barret!
against the cause of the slave while, on
the other hand, episcopal slaveholders and
slavery defenders' are, with the most pro
found obsequiousness, “welcomed to hei
pulpit.” now, assertions like these ought
not to have been made without being accom
panied with something to support them. but
they have been made w ithout the least shadow
of proof, which we moot peremptorily de
mand. these assertions are in perfect keep
ing with the general charge itself, which is
founded on assumption. it is assumed, in the
first place, that the p. e. church in the
united states is hostile to the anti-slavery
movement, and that st. thomas church is
connected with her in that hostility; hence, i
the illegitimate conclusion that st. thomas
church is hostile. but has it been shown
that the episcopal church, either in her gen
eral or diocesan conventions, has ever de
clared herself hostile to anti-slavery? thi.-
must be done first, and afier that is done, the
particular link must be pointed out which
holds st. thomas’ church in the same hos
tile position. all this must be shown before
anything like a sirong case can be made out.
we shall wait patiently until an attempt ni
this kind is witnessed. it cannot be expected
of us to disprove mere assertions. in can
dor, we must nevertheless acknowledge, thai
in the endeavor to expose our superstitious
notions” concerning the church, and the ab
surdity of excluding irorn the pulpit all ex
cept regularly ordained ministers, we think
something of the form, if we do not feel the
force of argument, and it may not be amiss j
to pay due respect to it. colored episco
palians, as well* as while ones, excuse them
selves for not opening their churches to anti
slavery meetings, on the gtound that those
churches are dedicated to the worship of god,
and that it would therefore be using the house
improperly to throw it open for such pur
poses.” this is pronounced a superstitious
doctriue.” and to prove beyond all doubt
iflwt it is a superstitious doctrine, we are told
that “the jew ish religion sanctified times and
places, and set them apart for certain forms
and ceremonies, christ found them ail in ex
istence and left them destroyed.” quite a
new discovery but i beg leave, with due
deference, to submit the following queries
was not the feast of pentecost one of the
sanctified times?” and did not the temple
at jerusalem occupy one of the sanctified
places?” furthermore, did not christ, ten
days after his ascension, send down the holy
ghost upon the apostles and brethren on that
very day, while they were all with one accord
in one place how then does this historical
fact agree with the assertion that christ found
them all in existence and left them destroyed l
it clearly appears, that we have in this in
stance, at least, one of the sanctified times ot
the jewish religion, impressively marked by
the divine author of christianity himself.
for it must be borne in mind that the petne
cost alluded to, happened to be on the first day
of the week, the lord’s day, commonly called
sunday.
having taken a view of the awful wreck
and wide-spread desolation of the “sanctifiec
times and places” that christ left,” i shall
pursue my course in search of additional light
on superstitious doctrines.” to show that
consecrated churches were never contem
plated by christ in the new' dispensation
which he established, we are referred to the
interesting conversation that took place be
tween our lord and the woman of samaria.
one design which the lord evidently had in
that conversation, was, to put to rest the
question that existed between the jews an<j
samaritans at that time, respecting the placx
where worship should be paid, whether at
jerusalem or on mount genzzim. the jews
held to the former, while the samaritans held
to the latter place. the saviour, predicting
the general spread of his religion, when
churches would be established in every quar
ter of the world, and not confined as then to a
particular place, he said to her, the houi
cometh when ye shall neither in this mountain
nor in jerusalem worship the father.”—
god is a spirit, and they that worship him
must worship him in spirit and in truth.”—
we arc told, that the idea of temple wor
ship is here clearly disclaimed.” this para
graph is aomew hat ambiguous lamat a loss
which of two meanings to attach to it.—
whether the worship of a church, or the
worship of god in a church, be thee idea
clearly disclaimed, wc are not here informed.
w e have the precise meaning, perhape, in the
following sentence the house which god
requires, is a spiritual one that is, an in
visible one. 1 his, we are to understand, was
the sura oi our lord s leaching to the woman
of samaria, touching the |*>jnt under consid
matron. the idea of dedicating churches to
the worship of god, is entirely scouted. he
designed no other than “spiritual houses
while 1 say noting aga,,,* spiritual bouses.
i msy, in behalf of visible ones, ask how the
conduct of the apostles is to be accounted fot
in establishing churches in asia, africa and
europe. were their minds enveloped in the
darkness oi superstitious error with regard to
the instructions of their master on this point t
and if they mistook bis meaning, t* it not
passing strange that this error was not recti
fied by our lord, when lie appeared in vision
half# century afterwards to the venerable
aposde, john, oo the i*w of psubo* bai
fcr *ll u firm rectifying, the* he coo
finned the eo-celied laptraiifioai actios, ky
•uncling john m write,” not to the ievu*-
ma, but 4 to the ‘vwbla’ aagek of tin atvao
ehurelaa w a«l h after film
tin of wch high authority, «c shall surely
be penloeed if we cootiooe to held to the so
called superstitious notions of fcfatif
churches to the worship of god—ill that has
been said to the euetrary not withstood mg.—
for we cannot but think that the holy apostles
understood the in**iruction* of the savioor on
this point a little better than those who would
break our heads for being to shamefully de
juded. b'tf perhaps the greet superstition
complained of, lies, not in the dedication of a
church to god, butm considering it 44 too holy
to plead the cause of injured man therein.”—
now i readily grant, that if it were so con
sidered, it would indeed he superstition blind.
but 1 deny that it is so the
supposition that it is so considered could never
be derived from a consideration jpf the form of
consecration itself, nor from the avowed senti
ments of those who realise the sacred ness of
the obligation imposed upon them by the act.
that 1 do not consider the church too holy to
plead the cause of injured man thereto, is
clearly admitted by my animadvertist, when
he refers to a canon of the church which pro
hibits all except ordained ministers from occu
pying the pulpit. it is admitted here that or
dained ministers may plead the cause of in
jured man in the church, and not thereby be
considered as 44 using the house of god im
properly.”
this weak point being discovered, and
no other resource being at band to defend it,
a desperate attempt is made to fortify it by
ridiculing the idea of ordination in the follow
ing witticism: 44 the devil, in holy orders
would be received, while christ, unordained,
would be rejected.” to hold up the ludi
crous picture of 44 the devil in holy orders”
before the minds of the frivolous, might be
quite conclusive from this summary processi
such a one might be laughed into a full con
viction that ordination is the grossest absurdity
that can bo conceived of. but the reflecting
know how to appreciate an argument like the
above. they know that no just conclusion
can be reached by supposing impossible events.
the above argument, stripped of its extrava
gant dress of wit, would amount to this: a
bad man, in holy orders would be received,
while a good man, unordained, would be re
jected. how conclusive against the idea ot
ordaining any set of men with exclusive au
thority to minister in holy things! wth the
aid of his salanic majesty 44 in holy orders,”
ordained ministers are driven to the winds,
with one omnipotent sweep. the “bolts and
bars” of churches are now spiritualized—
their doors now opened as by magic at the
stately approach of the unordained who
of course, must be good, because they are
“unordained.” the tables are completely
turned. should the man, christ jesus, whom
■‘god the father hath ordained,” make his ap
pearance, he must be rejected, 44 because he
is “ordained! this is the new order of
things that must be understood, to prevent
‘the devil in holy orders” from occupying the
pulpit. and here i would say, that while st.
thomas 1 church acknowledges no bolts and
aars” against the cause of the slave; while
ihe does not consider her sacred edifice too
loly to plead therein 44 the cause of injured
uan,” it is fortunate for her that she has a
:anon to guard against the erroneous notions
that have passed in review before us, the pro
mulgation of which can have no other than
an injurious effect upon the young and
thoughtless.
if the rising generation are to be taught
that such passages of scripture as the follow
ing—“ reverence my sanctuary; holiness be
cometh thy house forever my house is the
house of prayer”—if they are to be taught
that such passages are all obsolete, of no
force whatever except in a spiritual sense—if
they are to be told that the idea of conse
crated times and places is superstitious”—
that “we need meeting-houses,” notchurches,
(lor there is a wide distinction between a
meeting-house and a church) —that an ordain
ed ministry is only a form of hu
man invention; —if these notions are hence
forth to form the basis of their future practice,
then we instinctively recoil from the moral
ruin, desolation and misery that will thereby
be the inevitable result. to describe here,
would be vain to attempt—a limner is re
quired that can trace bis lines with die from
perdition’s gulf. i drop the pen, leaving the
doleful scene to be sketched out in the horror
stricken imagination of your numerous read
ers. yours, as ever, for the elevation of our
people, w. d.
nov. 15, 1848.
sirs: the history of the following
production is simply this: the principrl of a
popular and flourishing academy, in a small
country town in new england, desired a
class of young girls to each produce an essay
upon some distinguished man in massachu
setts. the writer of the following, a young
girl of my acquaintance, innocently supposed
that an essay upon the character of william
lloyd garrison would be just what her teach
er had requested. she was however soor
convinced of her mistake, by the fact that be
examined and corrected all the compositions
for the rest of the class, while he kept hers
two or three days, snd then returned it to her,
saying that he had not had time to inspect it;
and although previous to this he had been
anxious for her to write s composition every
week, he then told her she might be excused
from writing again during the term.
it was written about three years ago, but
being accidentally mislaid, i was unable to
get a copy of it until recently. i for its
publication in the north star, not only be
cause i wish to encourage the young writers
of such essays, who have had their produc
tions slighted snd spurned, but because i wish
also to expose the contemptible meanness of
that servile tool of a pro-slavery public opin
ion who oecupied the place of a teacher.
isaac c. kenyon.
william liard garris**.
among the many distinguished men of
massachusetts at the present tows, and at
those who seem likely to occupy a prominent
place in the wodto history, ia william ltoyd
garrison. ttleott of ram order,
and a spirit of ewiutorestoe henevoleoee, ao
one is batter calculated to do good to hit
fellow-man, or to leavt a brighter example of
lovs fix th# imiftiod at fvtwm generations.
at tbe pwoeer »«n of the warn glensee
mm of tbe preeeit ego, bfe bit mtmaetod
degree at tmnmu* taaaamm end moral
courage which eeghc, end deobtlem will, ea-'
ettre toh«a eamaaodkmcr hat shad eat-'
lit tbe cbtpiet at earth** proudest eeoqaerory
end berees.
he arm bare eed edeeeted is comparative
obscurity, wttboet wealth or influence. wbes
tbe great quest** at tbe eatversal brother
hood of man excited hit aitonlion, though
popular opinioa end prejudice wen strong lv
•gaiom him, be beaitated eel a gin utterance
a tbe connctioaa at hie heart, and rebuke
the tpint of oppreeaoa wberenr it might be
foaad.
with tbe aoebanging truth at hit guide,
and a fiim treat in tbe goedeea of god at hit
thield, he ttood alooe and unfriended amid the
whirlwind of paaaioe that followed tbe declar
ation of bit atern truth. a few who dated t«»
apeak for tbe right, at length gave their aid to
his noble work; and tbe pore flame of kbertj,
which waa first lighted in a dceolste garret,
in boston, now bums in a thousand patriotic
hearts, and illuminates tbe social circle.
though numerous are tbe advocates of kit
principles, be baa still much to contend with,
and few understand his motina or appreciate
bit labors, for his spirit continues in advance
of the mass of mankind; and not until his
earthly mission is over, sod he reaps the re
ward of his toils in a purer realm than earth,
and human nature, in its onward march to
perfection, reaches tbe goal to which he ap
proximates, will hia devotion and sacrifices be
valued and hia fame established. it is not,
however, for such an end that he has borne
the burden and heat of the day during his
stiuggle for liberty; for had he yielded to the
influence of the popular errors of the times
instead of the flood of bitter persecution which
has ever engulfed him, he might now have
been drinking of the cup of prosperity, and
dwelling in the sunshine of earthly fame; but
he chose reproach and ridicule rather than be
false to the convictioos of his heart.
i do not say that there are no others who
have labored for an object ao exalted and be
nevolent; but i know of no other case in
modern times where one alone has stood be
fore a whole nation as powerful as this, and
exposed its sins and combated with its loved
institutions. clarkson once stood in a similar
positiou, but the sympathies of some of the
ablest men of bis age were with him.—
o’connell has the power of england to con
tend with, but many hearts throb with interes;
to watch his movements, and he is the admira
tion and wonder of the world. but garrison
alone first proclaimed his views, and compara
tively alone he maintains them. happy wil
it be in future times for tbe children whose
ancestors have labored with him for the rights
of man; but thrice happy they who now
struggle with him to dispel darkness and dis
seminate light in the earth. w hen timeshal
have laid bunker hill monument of stone in
the dust—when then the outward emblems of
past ages have yielded to the destroyer, the
memory of garrison will be enshrined in many
a heart, and the recollection of his love to man
be returned with gratitude from ransomed
millions. c. m. c.
london, oct. 27, 1848.
dear sir :—thing* are goiug on here so
rery quietly, that there is little tu be said ol
public interest. messrs. o'brien, mcmanns,
o'donohue and meagher, have all been tried
and found guilty of high treason. the evi
deuce against the first three was too strong to
be resisted, but considerable difficulty was
found in convicting meagher. he appears tu
me to be decidedly the best of the irish patri
ots. his youth, honesty, unselfishness
and general nobility of character, have all pro
cured for him much sympathy. but it is
much to be regretted that a man of such tal
ents, and such purity of purpose, should al
low himself to be carried away by a cause
which cannot possibly be productive of benefit.
if the eloquence which he employed in de
nouncing past injuries, raking up old griev
ances, and exciting national animosities, had
been used to inculcate patience, industry and
forgiveness, he might thus have done much to
elevate the character of the mass of the irish
people, and at the same time to bring thcii
selfish landlords to a sense of their duties and
responsibilities. there cannot be a doubt that
the mass of the english people are mos<
anxious for justice to ireland,” and there
fore only evil can flow* from a course which
tends to excite ill-will between the two races.
the church of ireland is a grievous burden—
a perfect incarnation of robbery but the eng
lish church isan iniquity, and ao is the church
of scotland. why, then, should blame be
put upon saxon shoulders for oppressions
which equally with the celt* they are groan
ing under 1 it is perfectly surprising to see
writers on your side of tbe atlantic taking
up the subject in the manner they do. if you
want to benefit ireland, subscribe your mone\
—not to buy pikee, but to invest in railroads
and works of public utility. send over, not
warriors, but missionaries, who will teach the
people perseverance, industry and peaceful
habits and at tbe exme time by their exam
ple inculcate independence of spirit and hon
esty of conduct, and depend upon it, you will
emancipate ireland much sooner than by send
ing a starving nation, to keep idle holidays ot
tbe mountain, and cheer claptrap speech**
about saxon misdoings two hundred year*
old.
sentence of death has been passed upon all
the prisoners, in the usual barbarous form,
which ia ao utter disgrace to our governnem
to hava retained upon the statute-book
especially after universal disgust had ben
created by it a few yean ago in the ease ot
frost, william*, and jones. hie aaoteec*
will not be carried out. a universal feeling pre
vailing in favor of clemency.
tbe emperor of austria has been agmii
driven sway from his capital by a rebellion or
the people, in which two of the ministry were
assassinated in x most atrocious manner. tb
diet cnotianoo to sit in vienna, and seem t<
have assumed the same attitude towards tbt
emperor as oor parhaotoot did to chnriaa the
first at the uuuimanmnwh of the civil war.
they do not wish to break with the emperor
hot neither will they submit to hia despotic
measures. tbe haagmriaa parham in
also in rabaihoe, end mm m army to tb
support of tbe vieneem, which, however,
hen since withdraw*. it probable, howev
er, that the emperor wfll he supported by tb
regent of genoaey, aatj on condition of eo»
oflpdng e coofliitmtimd omomomm, whftob
to 4*. b>mfw4ll>fawmtb»
tbe n kdtm to to», tort 4m mi nfa
rapid pmgt—■ ttowai ia lm4m ton
been*wfew, urfntoimlbeen mswdwd
decenary to publish rega v ballerina, w
there ate not more itoa two or three com
day. ia mne other towns it haa beea nufcei
wane, bet edinburgh to the only place when
it caa be wid fairly to have got a footing.—
there hare beea about two baadted cue
there, of which about owe bead red bare died
la the ediabargb return*, leith aad new
baeea are included. leith to the piaee when
it ragee most.
there to to be a meeting at exeter halt or
monday evening to receive aotne of the prin
cipal members of the peace convention lately
held at brumells. i have do doubt it will to
a good meeting", aad bare its effect on pa bin
opinion.
it generally supposed that the govern
raent ioteoda to prepare a plan for tne endow
meat of the catholic priests in ireland; tor
aa many of the catholics themselves aril
unite with all the dissenters and with tto
evangelical party in the church,to oppose ml
a measure, they will hare much difficulty n
carrying it. indeed, 1 do not believe the]
will carry it at all, becauje all classes wil
unite against such a costly scheme at a tin*
of so much financial difficulty. so for wan
of meant, if not in consequence of public rir
tue,government bribery will be found impract j
cable. there to nothing for it here and else
where, but justice—pure justice to all—whicl
to the only legitimate end of government.
0 r. s. d.
wrjting tor the press.—oye poets am
prosere, who aspire to write in the miscella
nies, and above all, o ye palpitating untried
who meditate the offer of your maiden essayi
to established periodicals, take care, pray y t
take care tv cultvate a good, plain, bold, roum
(ext. set up tomkins as well as pope oi
dryden, for a model, and have an eye to youi
pot-hooks. so me persons hold that the besi
writers are those* who write the best hands
and i have know a the conductor of a maga
zine to be convene d by a grabbled ms., ti
the same opinion. tof all things, therefore, be
legible; and to that end practice penmanship,
tf you have never lean ted, take lessons. be
mre to buy the best pa.*>er, the best ink, the
>est pens, and then sit do wn and do the best
pou can; as school boys do—put out youi
ongue and take pains. so* shall ye happily
escape the rash ejection of a jaded editor sc
laving got into your hamd, it is possible
hat your head may follow and so last, not
east, ye may fortunately avert those awful
nistakes of the press, which sometimes ruin a
joet’s sublimest effusion, by pan tominrcall)
ransforming his roses into noses, a .ad his an
gels into angles, and all his happiness intc
jappiness.— hood.
the cherokee nation.—the nariona
[convention met on the 2d ultimo, and on the
id ultimo, in joint ballot, elected judges am
solicitors for the respective districts. on the
ith the acting principle chief, george lowry
sent in a message brief and business like. ii
icknowledges, in fitting and gratef .11 ingu ige
the divine goodness as shown to the cherokee
nation, the abundance of crops, and the in
ireasing industry and geneial prosperity oi
the people; regrets the “killing of the noto
rious starr boys,” and says that they ought
to have been tried by a jury, and strongly de
predates the system of lynch law lays th<
dame of such local disturbances as have oc
surred updh the use of intoxicating drinks
mvs the common schools have d«»uo well; re
jjteis that the mission to washington on thi
ihairs of the nation had been attended with
no certain results; and exhorts the council it
its deliberations to be influenced o ily by patriot
ism.— nat. int.
i have spoken of labor as one of thi
great elements of our s«»ciety, the great sub
stantial interest on which we all stand. no
feudal service, not predial toil, not the irk
some drudgery by one race of mankind
subjected, on account of color, to the contru
of another race of mankind; but labor, intelli
gent, manly, independent, thinking and acting
for its* if, earning its own ages, accumulating
those wages into capital, becoming a part o
society and of our social system, educating
childhood, maintaining worship, claiming thi
right of the elective franchise, and helping t<
uphold the great fabric of the state. that s
american labor, and i confess that all m;
sympathies are with it, and my voice, until
am dumb, will be for it.”— dan. webster.
shame on it!—no northern city has
greater reparation to make, in regaid to its fe
rocious opposition to ihi anti-slavery move
rnent, and its houible treatment of its free col
ored population, than philadelphia; and n
one is, apparently, more callous in heart, o
destitute of a redeeming spirit. of the 53
627 votes polled in the city and county c
philadelphia, only 877 were given for th
free soil ticket and this where quakcrisr
so extensively prevails! the degenerate du
ciples of penn and fox, it is alleged, went e
masse for the man of blood and oppressor *j
his race! of what value are their testimonie
against slavery, and in favor of peace ?—im
orator.some fifteen or twenty men were
tented in the bar-room of the rail-road
hotel, two of whom were engaged ia
a game of backgammon. although it
waa sunday it seemed to excite no
surprise at all upon the minde of the
spectator*, who watched the progress
of the game with great interest. all
at once the game was interrupted by
the cry of "murder” in the streets, and
all rushed out to discover what was the
occasion of the outcry. some negroes
were lighting, and one who was get
ting rather roughly handled, had raised
the alarm. a party of them had been
playing marbles, and a dispute arose
between them which terminated in a
fight. the citizens were highly in
dignant on account of the violation of
the sabbath, and it was unanimously
declared that the whole posse must be
whipped. they were accordingly tak
en into the jail-yard to receive their
punishment, and 1 mixed with the
crowd, who were highly elated at the
prospect of “fun.” they were made
to strip themselves of all their clothing
but their pantaloons, and one of the
rnen who had just been playing back
gammon, and who was also a city
officer, was selected to handle the
whip. this instrument was a raw-hide,
twisted riding-whip, about three feet
and a hall long, and was to be applied
to the bare back. twenty la*shes was
the number decided upon, and a man
to count was appointed. the blows
were* laid on heavily, and almost every
one was followed by blood. every
blow 1 that was struck, the poor victim
would ejaculate. oh lordy do
pray massa have mercy,” for the love
of (jfod massa, strike easy,” re. &.e.
one of them, however, —a bright mul
atto, —took bis twenty lashes without
uttering a groan, or hardly moving a
muscle, although his hack was crim
soned over with blood. god damn
him,” said u bystander, "cut him to
pieces if he does not beg!” the
whipping re-commenced, and about a
dozen more blows were counted, when
the poor wretch threw himself upon hi*
knees with oh, god, massa, i do
beg this satisfied them, and the
crowd diepersed, highly pleased with
their sabbath-day entertainment. i do
not mention this on account of the
barbarity, because i have seen negroes
whipped much for a slighter offence,
but the idea of whipping these negroes
for gambling upon the sabbath, and
selecting a man to do it who had been
guilty of the same tiling, was to say
the least a little peculiar.
i have been made astonished since i
have been in appalachicola to see so
many w’hite niggers’ and mulattoes
—"creoles,” they call them. the
farther south you come the more white
slaves you will find. it would be a
low estimate to say that three-fourths
of the slaves in the southern states
have white blood in their veins, and
one sixth of them have more than one
half white blood.—many attempt to
justify slavery on the ground that the
"niggers” are another and inferior
race. if none were slaves but full
blooded africans there would at least,
be three-fourths less than there now
are. this excuse, however, is one
peculiar to the north. i never hear il
i given here. men do not attempt to
justify it on the ground of race” oi
color.” this would not do here;
j for if the slaveholders denied their
slaves as belonging to the human lam
ily, of course, they must deny that
their children do also. i do not make
1 this insintm.ion without some knowledge
i of the matter. 1 know —and it is pub
i ticly known, that masters do cohabit
with their slaves—raise children by
their slaves and sell their own jiesh ana
blood as slaves. no man who has
ever lived at the south, or knows any
tiling of the southern character will
attempt to deny it. in towns of two oi
three thosand inhabitants, (by towns
i mean what would be called in new
england, villages) almost every single
man, and many married ones, keep a
i black or mulatto woman, as a mis
tress —doit openly and unblushingly,
too. the offspring become slaves tc
the owner of the mother. such things
are common and well known, and the
reputation of such men, rarely, h ever
suffers from such an imputation.
siill this is called a christian coinmuni"
ty, and the government which toler
ates an institution productive of such
unholy debasement arid prostitution oi
morals, is called a republican govern
-1 merit is is possible that in the nine l
1 teeuth century such a baibarous, un
civilized people exist—so destitute o:
i humanity and virtue, and every quality
that exults the human character, as t«
sell their own children as slaves yes
1 it is so, and that people claim to be the
most enlightened—the most christian,
and most philanthropic people on eaitli.
corr. concord (jv*. democrat.
from tlie i’lnl ulelpliia daily republic.
temperanc e celebration in
philadelphia.
mr. editor; —on thursday evening
i had the pleasure of attending a pub
lic meeting of phoenix and gurnei
unions of daughters of temperauce,
and others at the wesley methodisi
church, iu lombard street, and 1 musl
say, that it was one of the most bril
i ia tit and interesting scenes which i
ever beheld. this society is cotnpoaec
of colored w omen, and was accompa
nied by several other unions belong
ing to this city; amounting iu all it
some two hundred in full regalia. be
side these, there were many cold wa
ter girls, dressed in white. the meet
ing was then called to listen to an ad
dress from henry highland garnet, tht
apostle of liberty and temperance, who
for an hour and a half portrayed tht
terrible effects of alcohol, and labored
to allure the drunkard to the paths oi
soberness and peace. this address
was listened to with profound attention,
which was only interrupted by hearty
plaudits. the speaker concluded hu
remarks by repeating the popular lines,
‘go on, go on,* which were sung by
the whole audience. j)r. m. r. dels
ny made a brief and able speech, which
waa received by the audience with ap
probation.
the rev. stephen smith, the faith
ful minister and distinguished cobred
capitalist, next took the stand, and pro
sentedthe claims of the ‘north star,'
of which dr. debit/ and frederick
douglass are editors, and a contribu
tion was taken up oa the spot for the
benefit of the peper; the amount re
ceived i did not learn. the meeting.
i wes closed by nsoul-stirring speech by
i rev. amos 6. be man, of new haven,
connecticut, who formed the first total
abstinence society among the colored
people in the united states. the roee
tinng was most instructive and delight
j ful, and every person teemed to be
gratified. i learned from mr. garnet's
i remarks that there are fourteen unions
among tbe colored women in pennsyl
vania. in this city, there are five
unions, viz: tbe garnet, formed there
sept. 27, 184?; the phoenix, gob led
rule, perseverance, and tbe coven
ant; embracing over 000 members
there are also the following unions in
the* state, connected with those already
mentioned; the garrison, at columbia;
bias, carlisle; douglass, harrisburg:
driver, lancaster; reroond, lewis
ton; e. roberts, reading; naryzed,
bellfonte; liberty, pittsburg; piety,
j hollidaysburg. this is not all, there
is a host of‘sons of temperance* and
teetotallers who are continually waging
war against tbe great destroyer. tbe
daughters of temperance number
throughout the state about 1500.
truly, mr. editor tbe people of color
are doing good service in this great ref
ormation. in their early efforts they
were compelled to hew their way
through mountains of opposition. dr.
j. j. g. bias, samuel van brackle,
rev. c. w. gardiner, and the lament
ed andrew harris, were -pioneers in
the work, and went into the hedges, and
the highways, and compelled tbe poor,
reeling, and neglected inebriate to look
up and live. they were scoffed, as
saulted, and mobbed; and iu some in
stances, their propeity was burnt, and
otherwise destroyed, but they, the faith
ful and fearless, continued to labor, and
great have been the results. they
were sustained also, by those friends of
man, wm. j. mullen and mr. harned.
it was through their instrumentality,
that the intelligent and benevolent la
dies, who compose the daughters of
temperance, were enlisted iu their no
ble undertaking. dr. bi°s has thrown
his whole s *ul into the work, and his
labors have been second to none, al
though man)' have labored long and
well—and such will be the decision of
j posterity, it this generation should fail
to appreciate him. the ladies who
have been ioremost laudable en
terprize, i atn informed are—miss
elizabeth roberts, mrs. james new
man, mrs. eliza a. bias, miss mary
e. purnell, mrs. jane black, mrs.
i bundy, mrs. stephen smith, miss s.
richards, mrs. simmon9, aud mrs. su
j san richardson, of new york, aud
mrs. samuel nicholas.
mr. editor, i have taken the liberty
to lay these facts before the public
through your columns, believing that
they will be interesting to every well
wisher of the human race.
yours, w. z. d.
the trials, persey erange,
and triumph of genius.
there is at prbseut in england an
i american who went to that country to
endeavor to interest the capitalists in a
new bridge which he ha* constructed.
1 his name is remington, and he is a
native of virginia. an account ofhia
progress is given by himself, in the
following letter to the late dixon h.
lewis, and is published in hunt’s
merchant’s magazine
stafford, england, aug. 15.
my dear sir i should have writ
ten sooner but that i had nothing
pleasant to say. i reached london on
the ist of january, 1817, without
money or friends, which was just the
thing i desired when i left america,
1 and just the thing, i assure you, i will
i never desire again. i commenced
operations at once, on the supposition
i that in this overgrown city, i would at
‘i least enlist one man. but englishmen
i are not americans. an englishman
w’ill advance any amount on an abso
lute certainty, but not one penny where
there is the slightest risk, if he got the
whole world by it. i spent the first
five months looking for this man with
i unparralleled perseverance and indust
ry, living for less than threepence per
day,
lam convinced that few persons in
i london know so much of that incom
prehensibly large city as myself. blit
alas my wardrobe was gone to supply
i j me w’ith wretchedly baked corn-bread,
t on which i lived entirely, i slept on
straw, for which i paid a half-penny
per night. i became ragged and filthy,
aud could no longer go among men of
t business. up to this time my spirits
never sunk, nor did they then but my
i: sufferings great. my limbs dis
torted with rheumatism, induced by
cold and exposure—my face and head
swelled to a most unnatural size with
cold and tooth-ach, and those who
slept in the same horrid den as my
self w*ere wretched street beggars, the
very cleanest of them literally alive
with all manner of creeping things.
but i was no .beggar. i never begged,
nor ever asked a favor of any man
since 1 came to england. ask george
tjßuneroft, whom i called upon two or
three times, if ever i asked tbe slight
t est favor, or even presumed upon the
letter you gave me to him. i did write
him a note, asking him to come and
witness the triumph of opening tbe
i bridge at the gardens, and delivered
•f the note at his own house myself;
although prince albert came i never
got even a reply to my note. if ban
croft had come, and been the man to
■j have only recognized me, in my rags
as 1 was, it would have saved me much
subsequent suffering. i will not believe
that bancroft ever saw my note, for
his deportment to me was very kind.
i the succeeding three mouth* after
i the first five, i will not detail, up to tbe
time i commenced to build tbe bridge,
i i will not harrow up my feelings to
write, nor pain your heart to read the
incidents of those nioety days. my
head turoed gray, and i must hare died
i but for the jew, who did give me one
i shilling down for my acknowledgement
for £lo on ahnand. these wicked
robberies have amonted to several hun
dred pounds, every penny of which i
t bad to pay subsequently for, since
i my success at stafford, not a man in
england who can rend, hot knows my
address. it cost am a 0 to obtain the
shilling with which i paid my admittance
into the royal zoological gardens,
where i succeeded, after teach mortifi
cation, in getting the ghost of ft-model
made of the bridge. the model,
although a bad one, astonished every*
body. every engineer of celebrity in
london was called in to decide whether
it was practicable to throw it across
the lake. four or five of them, at the
final decision, declared that the model
before them was passing strange, bat
that it could not be carried to a much
greater length than the length of the
model.
this was the point of life or death
with rne. i was standing amid men ol
the supposed greatest talents ns civil
engineers that the world could produce,
and the point decided against me. this
one time alone were my whole ener
gies ever aroused. i never talked be
fore—l was haggard *nd faint for want
of food—my spirits sunk in sorrow ot
toy mournful prospect? —clothes i had
none—yet, standing over this’ model,
did i battle with those men. every
word 1 uttered catne from my inmost
soul, and was big with truth—every
afthament carried conviction. the
elrect on those men was like magic—
indeed, they must have been devils not
t» have believed under the circum
stances. succeeded. my agreement
with the proprietory was, that i should
superintend the construction of the
bridge without any pay whatever, but
during the time of the building i might
sleep in the gardens, and if the bridge
should succeed, it should be called
remington’s bridge.”
i lodged ia an old lion's cage, not
strong enough for a lion, but by putting
some straw on the floor, held me very
well, and indeed was a greater luxury
than 1 had for several months. the
carpenters that worked on the bridge
sometimes gave me part of their din
ner. on this i lived, and was compar
atively happy. it was a little novel,
however, to see a man in rags directing
gentlemanly looking head carpenters.
1 the bridge triumphed, and the c t
was and was the greatest hit ever
made in london. the money made by
it is astonishingly great, thousands tens
of thousands crossing it, paying toll,
besides being the great attraction to
the gardens. not a publication iu
1 london but what has written largely
upon it.—although i have never re
ceived a penny, nor never will for
building the bridge, i have no fault to
find wan mr. taylor the proprietor, for
1 he has done all fully that he promised to
do—that is, to call it remington’s
bridge.”
the largest wood-cut perhaps ever
made in the w’orld, is made of the
bridge. every letter of my name is
nearly as large as myself. the bridge
to tiiis day is the prominent curiosity oi
the gardens. you can’t open a paper
but you see remington’s bridge. soon
alter it was built, i have frequently
seen hundreds of men looking at the
large picture of the bridge at the cor
ners of the streets, and envying rem
ington, when i have stood unknown in
the crowd, literally starving. how
ever, the great credit of the bridge
gave me some success with a tailor. i
got a suit of clothes and some shirts—
a clean shirt! any shirt was great,
but a clean shirt—o god, what a lux
ury! thousands of cards were left
for me at the gardens, and men
came to see the bridge from all parts
of the kingdom. but with all iny due
bills in the hands of the hell-born jews,
of course 1 had to slope, and come
down to stafford.
i first built the mill, which is the
most popular patent ever taken in eng
land. the coffee-pot, with many other
small patents, take exceedingly well.
the drainage of tixall meadows is the
greatest triumph i have yet bad in
england. the carriage bridge of earl
talbot is a most majestic and wonder
ful thing. dnkes, earls,
lords, &c. and their lames, are coming
to see it from all parts. i have now
jtnore orders for bridges fropi aristo
cracy than i can execute in ten years,
if 1 would do them. indeed, i have
been so much among the aristocracy of
late, that what with high living, being
so sudden a transition from starving, i
i have been compelled to go through a
course of medicine, and am just now
convalescent. of course, anything
once built precludes the possibility of
taking a patent in england, but its
merits and value are beyond all calcul
ation.
a permanent, beautiful, and steady
bridge may be thrown across a river
half a mile wide, out of the reach of
floods, and without anything touching
the water, at a most inconsiderable ex
pense. the american patent is well
secured at home, i know. i shall con
tinue to build a few more bridges ot
j larger and larger spans, and one of
them a railroad bridge, in order that i
may perfect myself in them, and com
mence fair, when i reach america. j
have a great many more accounts of
•exploits since i came to stafford, but
must defer sending them until next
jtirne. i beg you will write me, for
now since a correspondence is opened,
i i ■h®!! he able to tell you something
i about england. i have dined with
earls, and from that down—down—
down, *o where the knives, forks, and
plates, are chained to the table, for
fear they should be stolen. i am, my
dear sir, your obedieut servant,
j. r. remington.