To thf. Editor:—-It may be said,
when I shall not be here to contradict
»t, that I have given up the principles
by which the Liberty party was chara
cterized in 1844, and become a mem
ber or an avowed adherent of the Free
Soil party. 1 judge so, because ju
niors, relating to myself, equally
groundless, but thought to suit the
purposes of u party, have been once
set afloat because, of late, J have
received letters, written probably on
that supposition—and because an un
usual number ot Kree Soil newspapers
and other documents have been sent to
me.
Wishing to be fully understood on
this subject, 1 am free to declare that
rate much higher, what 1 suppose,
was the object of the Free Soil party
at its formation, than, w hat I am almost
sure, is the common object of the
Democratic and Whig panics now.
Not expecting that my views will in
fluence many; nor that they wilt add
much to the stock of information al
ready possessed, I desire to record, in
an enduring form, this syllabus, (tor I
regard it as nothing else, as furnishing,
at all times, a decisive answer to the
notion, that I have relinquished, at least
for the time being, opinions w hich i
embraced with the most cautious and
considerate reflection, and which 1
shall, in all probability, continue to
think true. But as 1 hold myself always
open to conviction and as I value one
truth higher than any number of false
hoods, I shall consider myself indebted
to any one, who will show me bv rea
sonable argument and inference, that
rny opinions are wrong, or that there
is unsoundness enough m any position
1 have taken, to vary the conclusion to
which I have come. But let it he re
membered that 1 discuss the Constitu
tion, and not any vicious practice ot
which it is made the cover.
I. The object of all government, no
matter how constituted, whether by the
Social Compact, or by any less fanci
ful mode, is to preserve and not to des
troy rights.
1 here is an obligation resting on
every person, to conform to the law°s of
the country m winch he lives, as long
as those laws are not incompatible with
a higher law-—the divine law, as he
understands it. But no one—so fur as
1 know—says there is any obligation on
the slave to conform to laws that, in
stead of preserving and protecting his
rights, purposely destroy and annihilate
them.
•J. The punctual, uud certain pay
ment ol the public debt first suggested
the Convention of 1787; hut the Con
ventionuts had full power to form it
government for the whole country ol
this we have evidence in the union then
effected, aud which, with some addi
tions made to the Constitution, in the
mode pointed out by that instrument it
self, we yet have.
4. Ihe Constitution makes no differ
ence between the Territories, he they
North or South. It there was or is in
them, any institution hohtile to the Con
stituiton, as air order of nobility, or an
established religion, |t goea
out, at once on our getting possession.
Such should have been the case with
slavery, tor nothing is more adverse to
our professions, and nothin.* shows
more undeniably that it u a .s the maste
ry over us. Our getting of
a country in any way, ought to haw
been a godsend to the slave who was m
it. Establishing slavery, because it
iu a country or Territory, when we g. i
possession of it, shows that the Con
stitution yields to Slavery.
G. .Freedom is the natural, the un
constrained, condition of man, —slave-
*7, an artificial and constrained one.
THE NORTH STAR.
r-verv government, toutided as our« is
I has a right to know that none of hei
principles—especially her fundamenta
ones—are violated, and that all, wh<
owe her allegiance, are in their nat
ural, unconstrained condition. Th<
late President Polk tells us, in his mes
sage to Congress of July 24, 1848
see eekly National Intelligencer o
July 29, 184 s.) “That where there ii
no protection, or allegiance, or sever
eingnty, there can be no just claim tc
obedience*. It »un one not coming
within the territory of a State is chargee
with committing murder or larceny, ot
any other offence, lie is tried by the
la w s of the State which he has violated,
It Mr. Polk «avs what is true—and 1
have no doubt he does —on whal
ground do we demand allegiance, when
we give no protection, nor otter any;
but, so lar from it, sutler one, un
charged with crime, to be taken out
from our jurisdiction; when we well
know, too, that he will not be granted
even the form oftrial. but lie consigned
ti» slavery as long as be lives?
ti. The States that sent delegates tc
tin* Convention, were, at a verv early
day. distinguished from the States thal
should be afterwards formed and ad
mitted into the Union, as “original’
Slates. 1 hey, then, constituted the
whole government; and if any light
existed to establish slavery, they .had
it. Nothing was done about abolish
ing slavery. The Constitution gives
the power to Congress to admit “new’
States to the Union. So hateful was
slavery, then, that it was not supposed,
another slave State would ever be ad
mitted. And because it was thought,
that slavery could not be, entirely put
away, at that time; it was to be con
fined to the States who were parties tc
the contract; where, from various
causes, it would soon die out. How far
they were mistakan in the effect of the
cultivation of cotton and sugar, staples,
to w Inch slave labor could be applied,
thvi present number of slave States ad
mitted into the Union will testify.
7. Laws concurrent with the Consti
tution of the United States are supreme,
and the executive and judicial officers
(those of the United States of course)
and those ot the several States are
bound, by oath or affiliation, to support
it.
8. The constitutional provision for the
delivery of persons, charged with be
ing Slaves, is immoral, therefore, void.
No obligation of the kind would be en
forced. in any intelligent Court, in the
free States, as between individuals.
S juM I be told, that, although the
word Slave or Slavery, is not in the
section above referred to—nor, indeed,
in any pail of the Constitution, —yet
that the section was, undoubtedly,
meant to apply to Slaves, I freely ad
mit the inference. Jt is my own infer
ence; but it does not embrace Slavery
on ils lace, and the history of this pro
vision drives us back to that time,
(1787,) when the Slaveholders ought
to have begun their efforts to get rid of
Slavery, instead of using them, as they
have, for a long time done, and as
they all are now doing, to extend and
confirm it. They seem to regard the
provision in question such is their
faith—not as temporary, hut as per
petual.
i lie State ot Missouri (e. g.) was
not in the Union, when the Constitution
was made; ot course, she was not one
of the original States: yet the slave
holder in her name, goes into any of
the North Western States, and exer
cises the right of sovereignty—and a
very important one it is too— by tak
ing from its territory one whom he
chooses to call his slave, although they
have never, in any way, consented to it.
'J he popular opinion in this country
is, that under the constitution, Con
gress cannot establish slavery, that is,
make it right. If this he the case,
how then can Congress, by ratifying u
constitution for a State, which its own
law lias authorized, and raising one of
its own Territories to a higher rank,
give it any power to hold slaves? Can
Congress authorize another to do w hat
it cannot do itself—or can it confer a
power that it does not itself possess?—
I fthe facts conveyed in these interroga
tions he true, the Slave States derive
no support from Congress; and I see
not, it a slave were to sue out a habeas
corpus before a Judge of the United
States, or, of one of the States, how
he could he otherwise than liberated, if
(lie judge took for his guide the consti
tution and his oath. It might be proved
that he was a slave—that his parents
and ancestors, from time immemorial,
had been slaves. This is all that could
he proved, and this, perhaps, he would
state in his petition; but what would it
avail when pul in opposition to the
“self-evident truths” published by us;
long ago, “that all men were created;
equal; that they are endowed by their
Creator with certain inalienable rights:
that among these are life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness?” If these
truths are “self-evident” ones, then
the opposite of them must he false. No
court —no nation, any more than an
individual, ought to do w hat it knows
to Ik* false. 1 hen would we he driven
to the last position 1 assume, that,
10 There n* no power on earth, and
none in Heaven —with due reverence I
speak it—lor, the empire of mind is
similar everywhere—that can establish
slavery, or, make it lf you prove
bz any kind of sophistry—for it must
he by sophiatry. if proved at all—that
(iod has established slavery, you at the
same time prove him, according to the
apprehensions he himself has given us
—unjust. If some should he “elected”
to be slaveholders, which relation has
no tendency to make the temper even
better, it would be a cruel “election;”
if some were “reprobated” to be their
slaves, with the wonderful meat el pow
-J I’Ve-'.
IGHT IS OF NO BBX TRUTH IS OF NO 001/HI— GOD IS THE KAI HER OK US ALL, AND A LI, WF, ARE BRETHREN.
ers of themselves and posterity unim
proved and debased forever, it would
t be the worst sort of “reprobation.”
i These doctrines are both repudiated bv
all, except the very unlearned and ig
norant. If these things before men
tioned be true, there is no power in the
universe that can establish slavery, or
F make it right. To search for any au
i thority to support such an abuse will be
■fin vain. JAMES G. BIRNEY

From the Ma»sirhu«etti Spj.
“THE MERCERY” RISING
The South Carolina chivalry are
still doing battle with the books. The
immediate oracle of St. John C. Cal
houn, the Charleston Mercury, in its|
holy censorship over literature and;
science has just proscribed Paley’s
Moral Philosophy as a pestilent work,
that r*'u*t no longer taint the pure at
mosphere of South Carolina.—This
standard work, which has so long had
a home in almost every good library,
j and has been used for more than half a
century, as a text-book in colleges and
schools, wherever the English language
I was the mother tongue, has been dis
covered, by the great Apostle of sla
very, or some of his gifted seers, to con
tain sentimeuts favorable to human lib
erty, and of course denying the faith of
the political saints ot the holy land of
South Carolina, that “Slavery is the
corner stone of a republic And, as the
book in question does not harmonize
with that cardinal doctrine, it is, of
j course, uncanonical, heretical, danger
-1 ous to the “patriarchal institution,”
and worthy only of eternal “nullifica
tion.”
Accordingly, the Charleston Mercu
ry, the well approved standard ofpo
i litical orthodoxy, lor all the parishes,
j cities, boroughs, pine-barrens, swamps,
and sand-hills of South Carolina, and
the faithful reflector of that bnrning and
i shining light of slavery, St. John C.
f Calhoun, has published a decree, da
j ted at the imperial city of Charleston,
on the 3d day of the present month of
the 18th year of the most sacred era of
Nullification, in the following solemn,
sovereign, and monitory words:
“Paley’s Moral Philosophy should
BE TREATED BY THE LAW AS AN INCEN
DIARY BOOK, AND BE BANISHED FROM
OUR BOOK-STORES, AND CERTAINLY FROM]
OUR SCHOOLS.”
Will it require a Solomon to answer
the following queries?
1. Would it have been any refection 1
on Mr. Ex Senator Preston, now Pres
ident of the University of South Caroli
na, to have condemned the noxious l
book to be burned by the hands of the j
common ‘/i angman.
2. If the literature of Liberty should
be burned up, would not a Phoenix rise
out of its ashes?
3. If all “incendiary books” should
be burned at Charleston, would not the
“incendiary letters” plundered from:
the Charleston post oftice and the Uni-
ted States mail, make first rate kind
ling stuff?
1. Would not sijch a blaze give light
to a.ll the world, not excepting even
South Carolina, that miracle of States?
i>. Will the “outside barbarian”;
book publishers of Philadelphia, New,
York, Boston, and other outlandish
places, take timely warning, ami not t
hazard their precious necks, by send
ing to the Western “Celestial Em
pire, thejworks of those arch heretics:
and propagators of the damnable doc-j
trine of human liberty, John Milton,
Algernon Sidney, John Locke, John
Adams, and Thomas Jefferson, and
certainly'" any work containing that
infidel creed, the Declaration of Amer
ican Independence?
0. Will not his Excellency, the Gov
ernor of all the sovereign State of South
Carolina, recommend, in his next an
nual message, the prohibition of the
North wind from blowing over her sa
cred domain, as being quite too free,
and so interfering with her “state
rights” r—and, also, that the North
star shall no longer thereon,
as being ‘incendiary’ in its character,
and intermeddling with her “domestic
institutions?”
7. Are the following lines on the
freedom of the “Press, as true now
as when first published, more than a
century ago?
“Thin miree of arts ami freedom’s fence,
T» chain, u treason against sense,
And Liberty, thj ih<ju>:tnd tongues,
.None silence, who design no wrongs*
For those mho use the gag’s restraint,
First rub, brjorr they stup complaint.”
SLAVE TRIALS IN MICHIGAN.
Some of the recent slave trials at
St. Joseph have excited much interest.
On the night of the 27th of September,
a party of eight or ten Kentuckians led
by one Norris, broke into the house of
a Mr. Powell, in (.'ass co., while he
was absent, drew their pistols and
kpives, dragged Mrs. Powell and three
childieu from their beds, bound them
with cords, put them in covered wag
ons,and started post haste for Kentucky.
Alarm was soon given, and the kidnap
pers were overtaken near St. Joseph.
A writ of habeas corpus was obtained
for the colored prisoners, and the Ken
tuckians were arrested. The Powells
were discharged after a full and fair
hearing. The Register says:
“No sooner was the decision pro
nounced than the Keutuckians gather
ed around them 'w ith their pistols and
bowie knives drawn, and held them by
force. The Court House was crowd
ed, and the people of course became
very much excited at such proceedings
in a Court ofcJbstice. For some time
it seemed as though a bloody fight was
inevitable, but at last, at the request of
Norris, the Sheriff took the Powells and
locked them up la jail. It was now dis
covered, that while the suit was pen
ding on the habeas corpus, Norris bad
obtained a writ of the Clerk of the
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1819.
Circuit Court, under our State Lnu
relative to fugitives from labor, ant
claimed the right to hold them undei
that.
As they still remained in the custo
dy of the sheriff, where Norris had pla
ced them, a new writ of habeas corpus
tfas obtained directed to the sheriff
as also one directed io Norris—return
able before the same judge on Mon
day morning, October Ist. Norris was
duly informed of the tune and place 61
trial, but refused to appear, though in
town.—lt was satisfactorily shown to
the court that tht United States Su
preme Court, in the case of Prigg vs.
Pennsylvania, had decided that all State
laws relative to fugitives from labor are
unconstitutional and void, and it follow
ed of course that the writ issued by tiie
j clerk was null and void—and could au
thorize no person to hold them in cus
tody; they were accordingly dischar
ged, and quietly departed with their
friends and neighbors.
An opportunity was afforded Norris
to introduce on the trial any evidence
he might have to show that the Pow
ells were his slaves, but lie did not
avail himself of the offer. The Ken
tuckians doubtless returned home a lit
tie wiser from their visit to the tree
States, for two civil suits for false im
prisonment were commenced against
them by the Powells, and they were
held to bail in $lOOO, in each case.
From file Cleveland True Democrat.
SLAVERY MAKES MEN COWARDS.
Washington, D. C.t Oct 1 2, 1840.
Messrs. Editors: —Although Con
gress is not in session—and consequent
ly, this is not just now the attracting
arena of political conflict: princi
par skirmishing being carried on else
j where your readers may neverthe
less, be interested with the occasional
notes and comments of an observer, in
this metropolis of American Legisla
tion, for American Liberty
Would not a foreigner hearing that
the people ot the United States wire
tlit freest in the world —most naturally
expect to find the largest liberty of
thought and speech on all topics in the
atmosphere of the Capitol of our Free
Republic?
That ministers of Human Govern
ments —and ministers of Divine Gov
ernment— office holders, and office
seekers from the highest to the lowesj,
would feel free and speak like free men
everywhere, and on all occasions.
But strange to write— sue/ 1 is not the
fact. —An observing stranger will soon
discover in most circles, a marked dif
ference in the visage and speech of the
people, whenever allusion is made to a
certain topic, made contraband by the
Patriarchal system, and the lair of cus
tom, through the unmanly and unameri
can servility of the North.
Did you ever see a slave, timid, crin
ging, downcast, looking this way, and
that, hesitating to stand upright, step
firmly, and speak straight forward,
more than half in doubt, whether he has
a soul— much more —whether tiiat soul
is his own?
Such is too often, arrd has been too
long the servility of Northern white
men, that a corrupt public sentiment
has made it imperative to talk about the
‘peculiar institution’ —especially to talk
against it
Enter yonder stately edifice, built by!
American hands, and for the purposes
of an American Government—enter in
to' conversation with any of the hun
dred clerks, and most assuredly, with
nearly all, you will be struck with their
apparent consciousness of a want of
real liberty.
As if Public Sentiment had spies
watching and |!istening to detect, and
report, and put out of office—all who
would not bow the knee.
Honor to America She has noble sons
even here, and in office, as unbending
as pious Mordecai, sitting in the King's
gate, though Hainan’s gallows stood in
the centre of the arena, midway
between the White House and the
Capitol.
But some w ill ask—ls the pulpit
dumb? Are the ambassadors of Him
who came to preach deliverance to the
captive silent?
Said a pious lady from the North to
me, a few days since—“ I have been
here many years, and never heard the
oppressed prayed fur—nor any allusion
to the subject until last Sabbath!!”
And this is a matter of marvel since
it is neither considered strange nor un
christian for church members to hold
and sometimes to sell slaves in the Dis
trict of Columbia in the 19th century!
On this last point facts may be given
you hereafter of recent and affecting j
interest.
The earnest appeal to Congress 4>y
the citizens of the District last winter,,
for the abolition of the slave-trade, was
not without effect, but has inspired hope
that by renewed efforts the coming ses
sion, the District may be free indeedl 1
For this, should every philanthropist
petition for this, should every ambas-l
sador of Christ preach! And for this, i
“Lei every one that is Godly pray
Voprs truly, j
THE MOVEMENT, WOETH
Another Southern Convention was
held at Jackson, Mississippi, at which
Judge W. L. Sharkey presided, and an
address and resolutions upon the subject 1
of “Southern rights” were adopted.—
These were reported by a committee oV
twenty, among whom were the Gover-'
nor of the State, the Hon. Messrs J. i
Gc*ar, T. H Williams, E. C. WJ
kinson, mad G. Winchester, General*.
T N. Waul, G. Winchester, and other,
gentlemen. The object of the conven
tion, as stated in this address, was to
“deliberate on the means to prevent,
the unfounded pretensions, that Con
gress has power to legislate on the sub-1
j®® l 01 slavery, and to prohibit its in
I (reduction and existence in the territo
ries of the United States.
The address and resolutions takethr
ultra Southern ground, and are, in fact,
hut an echo of the address of the South
i era members of Congress. They de
clare that the interference of Congress
with slavery is dangerous to the rights
and safety of the South, and ought to be
resisted; that the passage of anv law
Abolishing slavery iuthe District of Co
lumbia, or to prohibit the slave trade
t between the several states, or slavery
in the territories, would be a dangerous
violation o( the constitution, and be evi
dence of a fixed design to interfere with
'slavery in the Spates; that they the
p«“0ple ot Mississippi) will not submit to
such ‘‘political degradation,” but will
regard the non-slaveholding states as
.enemies; that in view of the crisis
which these resclutionists thus conjure
up, they convoke a convent ion of a/I the
slaveholding states, to meet at Nash
i ville, Tenn., on the first Monday in
dune next; that associations be formed
m that state to procure unity and prom [it
i ness ot action. The tenth resolution is
I worthy of notice
1 iiat we recommend to the Legisla
ture of this state, that at its next ses
si°n, a law be enacted, making it the
duty of the governor of the state, by
proclamation, to call a general conven
tion ot the state, and to issue writs of
election based upon the ratio of repre
sentationin the State Legislature, upon
the passage by Congress of the “\Vil
i mot Proviso," or any law abolishing
I slavery in the District of Columbia, or
prohibiting the slave trade between ti:e
I states, to take into consider#*i n the
j. act ot aggression, and thernode and
j measure of redress.
Delegates were appointed to attend
the proposed convention at Nashville,
I ai ‘d a committee of six to prepare an
address to the people of the '.slavehold
ing states.
The convention which did these
threatening things was composed of
I sixty-nine persons, representing thirty
counties ot the state of Mississippi,
winch, be it remembered, is composed
ot some sixty counties.— JSurth .lmeri
j cun.
Curmsjiondcncc ot i!,o New York Tribuno.
FROAI Till: GREAT SALT LAKH,
rhe Country und the. Route—lmpres
sions Jhe People—• Manners und
Customs—lndustrial Progress—Pu
tie Worship—An Address by Urighnm
Young- His vines an American Af
fairs Ucs'nx uf Territorial Organi
zation— limitless Transacted in
Church—Thoughts upon the Purple,
G>£at Salt JLakk Citv,
July 8, S
Perhaps a few lines trom a stranger
in this strange land, and among still
more strange people, will.be judged
sufficiently interesting to Jind a place
in your colnmns.
The company of gold-diggers w hich
I have the honor to command, arrived
here on tiie 31st inst., and judge our
feelings when, after some twelve hun
dred-miles of travel through on uncul
tivated desert, and the last one hundred
miles ot the distance through and among
lofty moun'ains arid narrow and difficult
ravines, we found ourselves suddenly
and almost unexpectedly in a compara
tive Paradise.
W e descended the last mountain by
a passage excessively steep and abrupt,
and continued our gradual descent
through a narrow canon for five or six
miles, when suddenly emerging from
the pass, an extensive und cultivated
valley opened before us, at the same
instant that we caught ;t glimpse of the
distant bosom of the Great Salt Lake,
which lay expanded before us to the
westward, at the distance of some
twenty miles.
Descending the table land which bor
dered the valley, extensive herds of
cattle, horses and sheep were grazing
in every direction, reminding us of that
home and civilization from which we
had so widely departed—for a.s vet the
fields and houses were in the distance.
Passing over some miles of pasture
land, we at length found ourselves in a
broad fenced street, extending westward
in a straight line for several miles.
Houses of wood or sun-dried brick were
thickly clustered m the vale below us.
some thousands m number, and occupy
ing a spot about as large as the city ofi
New York. They were mostly small,
one story high, and perhaps not more
than one occupying an a"re of land.—
The whole space for units, excepting
the streets aud houses was m a high
state of cultivation. fields of yellow
wheat stood waiting t<>r the harvest, and
Indian corn potatoes, oats, flax, and I
all kinds of garden vegetables, were
growing in profusion, and seemed about
iu the same state of forwardness as in
the same latitude in the States.
At first sight ot all ihe»e signs of cul
tivation iu the wilderness, we were
transported with wonder and pleasure.
Some wept, some gave three cheers,
some laughed, and some ran and fairly
danced for joy—w hile ail felt inexpres
sibly happy to find themselves once
more amid scenes wMcb mark the pro
gress of advancing civilization. We
passed on amid scenes like these ex
pecting every moment to come to some
commercial centre, some business point
in this Great Metropolis of the Moun
tain*; but we were disappointed. No
hotel *igc-pu3t, cake and bet-r shop,.
barber pole, market house, grocery,!
provision, dry goods or hardware .store,
distinguished one part of the town from
another; not even a bakery or mechan
ic’s sign was anywhere discernible.
Here, then, was something new f an
entire people reduced to a level, and
all living by their labor—ail cultivating
the earth, or following torne branch ol
i 'fv 1
?v,,4 .1. ..j,
physical industry. Al first I thought ii
was an experiment—an order of thing?
established ptirposeiv to carry out the
principles ot ‘'Socialism,’' or “Mar
monism. In short. I thought it very
much like Owenism personified. How
ever, on inquiry, i found that a cortibi
nation of seemingly unavoidable cir
cumstances had produced this singular
state of affairs. There w ere no hotels,
because there had been no travel; no
barbers because every one chose to
shave himself, and no one had time to
shave Ins neighbor; no stores, because
they had no goods to sell uor time to
traffic; no center of business, because
all were too bjsy to make a center.
I here was abundance of mechanic
shops, ot dress-makers, rnillitnys and
tailors, &.c., but they needed no sign,
nor had they time to paint or erect one,
tor they were crowded with business.
Hc.iioo their several trades, all must
cultivate the land or die; for the land
v/as new, and no cultivation but their
owa within a thousand miles. Every
one had his lot, and built on it; every
one cultivated it, and perhaps a small
farm in the distance.
And the strangest of ail was that this
great City, extending over several
square miles, hnd been erected, and
eve y house and fence made within
nine or ten months of the time of oui
arrivaL—while at the same time good
bridges were erected over the principal
streams, and the country settlements
extended nearly I(H* miles up and down
the Valley.
I his Territory, State, or, as some
term it, “Mormon Empire,” may justly
bo considered one of the greatest prod
igies ot the age, and, in comparison
with its age, the most gigantic of all
Republics in existence, being only ir
its second year since the first seed oi
cultivation was planted, or the first civ
ilized habitation commenced. It these
people were such thieves and robbers
as their enemies represented them in
the States, I must think they have
greatly reformed in point of industry
since corning to the mountains.
I tiiis day attended worship with them
—in the open air. .Some thousands of
well dressed, intelligent looking people
assembled; some on foot, some in car
nages and on horseback. Many were
neatly and even fashionably clad.—
The beauty and neatness of the ladies
reminded me of some of our best con
gregations in New York. They had a
choir ot both sexes, who performed ex
tremely well, accompanied by a hand
who played well on almost every instru
ment of modern invention. Teals of
the most sweet, sacred and solumn mu
i sic, filled the air, after which a solemn
prayer was ottered by Rev. Mr. Grant,
ot inladclphia. i hou followed various
business advertisements, read by the
‘crk. Among these I remember a
t 'all ot the Seventh Ward, by its pre
siding Bishop, to some business meet
ing—a C’all lor a meeting of the :kid
lQuorum “1 the Seventy, and a meeting
of the officers of the 'id Cohort of the
Military Legion, fee., ftc.
After this, came a lengthy discourse
Irom Mr. Brigham Young, President of
the Society—partaking somewhat of
Politics, much of Religion and Philoso
phy, and a little on the subject of Gold
showing the wealth, strength and glory
of England growing out of her Coal
Mines, Iron and Industry—and the
weakness, corruption and degradation
ot Spanish America, Spain, ice., grow
ing out of her gold, silver, ice., and her
idle habits.
Every one seemed interested and
pleased with bis remarks, and all ap
peared to be contented to stay at heme
and pursue a persevering industry, al
though mountains of gold were near
them. Ihe able speaker painted in
lively colors the ruin which would he
brought upon the United States by Gold,
and boldly predicted that they would he
overthrown because they had killed the
Prophets, stoned and rejected those
who were sent to call them to repent
ance, and finally plundered and driven
the Church of the Saints from their
moist, and burned and desolated their
City and Temple, tie said God hud a
reckoning with that people, and gold
would be the instrument of their over
throw. The Constitutions aud laws
were good, in fact, the best in the
world, but the administrators were cor
rupt, and the Laws and Coiihtitutions
were not carried out. Therefore they
mu.-it lab. He further observed that
the people here would petition to be
organized into a territory under the
•tame Government—notwithstanding its
abeses—and that it granted they would
itam! by the Constitution and Laws of
the United States; while at tue same
Unit- he denounced their corruption and
abuses.
But, said the speaker, we ask no odds
of them, whether they grant us our pe
tition or not! V\ e never will ask any
odds ot a nation who has driven us from
our homes. If they grant us our rights,
well—if not, well: they can do no more
than they have dune. They, and our
selves, and all men, are in the hands of
the great G<d, who will govern all
things for good, and alt will be right and
work together for good to them that
serve God.
Such, in part, was the discourse to
which we listened in the strong holds of
iie mount am w Ik* Alnutous art not
ditul. nor u //nr#* r/ani broke. And, if I
mistake not, there is a noble, daring,
stern, and Democratic spirit swelling
in tb«*ir bosoms, which will people these
mountains whu a race of independent
Men, and influence the dtrylioy of our
country and the world for a hundred
generations. In their religion they
seem charitable, devoted and sincere—
m their Politics, bold, daring and deter
mined—in their domestic circle; quiet,
affectionate aud happy—-while in indus
try, shill and lutefwgcuee, they have
JOHN DICK, Prtnsfftc.
WHOLE NO. 98.
few equals, and no superiors on the
eaith.
I bad many strange feelings while
contemplating this new civilization
growing up so suddenly in the wilder
ness. 1 almost wished 1 could awake
troin my golden dream, and find it but
a dream— while I pursued my domestic
duties as quiet, as happy and contented
as this strange people.
TIIK LITTLE despot.
Head the following cantwm of a South
i arolma paper, and think how brave
lanI an< quiet happy slavery makes
the Palmetto Slate t
W e would caution the south to b«-
ware of Geo. Stephenson, of New York
a traveling agent for the sale of Bran-
I dreth's pills, who was called upon bv
the Committee of Safety of this dis
trict, which stated to him, that the d&n
gers which at present threaten the-pe-
Icwliai domestic institutions of the south
I made it necessary that all strangers,
especially those from the North, should
be examined, ami their business,See. .as
certained. He immediately arose, and
denounced the proceedings as oppress
ive and imgentlemanlv, and declared
himself an uncompromising opnouent
of slavery from this time forward. On
examining his papers a letter to him
j was discovered, in which, ment.on was
i c °l a new Richmond corps being
organized for the south, consisting of
some five or six persons, giving only
the initials ol their names, and al
luding to the difficulties and dangers
they had to encounter, and putting up
a prayer tor their success. He attemp
ted to explain this, as having relation
|to established agencies for the sale of
pills, which may or may not have been
[true, lie was warned to leave our
village on the next morning. We un
derstand that the agency for the sale
j ot these pills in this place was given
up and they were returned to him.”
K KFOR.>I SHOI LD (JEHEV AT
HOME.
c cannot new-model society, nor
new-mould or purity the public heart;
hut we can begin the amelioration by a
firm and wise government of our own
Let us mainly study this effect, and a
new spirit and temper would soon warm
into action about us, with all the buds
and bloom of a fresh coral spring.
No one knows how much good lie
may do by his own quiet, unobtruding,
good example. Our eyes are always
on each other, and if we took but half
as much pains to make our dispositions
and feelings pleasing to each other, as
we do to make our complexions, per
sons. and dress agreeable, we should
he halt seraphs ourselves, and be ever
unconscioimfy a „d aiding
others to become such.
By improving ourselves, we should
>o silent and secret benefactors to all
vv.th whom we intermingle and associ
ate. V\e cannot well avoid more or
less imitating each other. Those who
i see and feel in another whut they like
uhat they perceive to he pleasing are
imperceptibly attracted to do what they
find, from their own sensations, to he
gratifying, and what they mean to be
approved of by those who observe it
No one, therefore, acts rightly, with
out acting beneficially. f n «o doing
he scatters the seed of a sweet flower
that will spring up again in some other
bosom, sure to multiply itself in the
same way forever.
Ihe Extent of Loxdos. —lt is ab
solntely impossible to communicate to
one who has not seen it, any just idea
of it. I have said to inyself several
times, well, now f have seen the
whole, yet I soon find out that I have
seen nothing. You can travel eighteen
miles from Brentford to Strafford
through an uninterrupted succession of
thickly planted houses. I have walked
until 1 have had to sit down on some
door-steps out of pure weariness, and
yet have not got at afcl out of the rush
ing tide of population. I have rode on
tie drivers seat on and
there has been a constant succession
ol squares, parks, terraces, and long
lines of single houses for miles, and
continuous blocks arufrsingle palaces in
the very heart of London, occupying
acres of ground. I do not speak, of
course, of the large parks, winch, ’lor
their trees, their verdure, their neat
nebs, their embellishments, their lakes
and cascades, their waters swarming
with fish, and covered with a great va
riety of water-fowl which they have
been able to domesticate, and their gra
zing flocks of sheep and cattle, and
then national monuments, and the mul
titude, Ul well-dressed pedestrians, and
ol elegantly mounted horsemen and
horsewomen, and of carriages and
equipages as splendid as gold and sil
ver can make them, are beautiful be
yond my most romantic dreams. Ido
n 4 e a ggtrate I cannot go beyond
the reality. 7
1 here are over a thousand Princes
m Germany, great and small, who re
ceive annually two hundred miliums of
dollars; while a laborer works eights«n
hours in twenty-four, lor seveuiy-two
cents per week.
LiHiHiTiov or Art.—A 1/XHkwrorntpoQ
dent ot the; New Vurfc Tribune Mates that
Prince Albert ha* rteinsfsd the scheme—for
i next yKai ~oi gfimt exhibition ol ike An
I at»i Manufacture* wf Ike World in Leaden.
Atna.lv some of ihe principal firm* is Hus
eouuiry hate been cot suited, and ha««
s O'****! ih«u tfesirc lo co-operate. p l(Va
*m.i XA.WSi —sic to be distributed u* the
*kii»uf <>f all uaitona, by the frnftd yf
Queen of Log lain!—Tbts show to be
an uiipurallHled scale, and a temporary buikJ-
I in Hyde PsiW w spoken of as iu tfiostre
1W indie* am to be lime, and Arne lira also
.1 *h<* pb «e», mi last, me workmen ol tki
whole planet we to be invited to decorate the
Goddess of Industry in London.
Kossuth’s Letter to Lord Palmertson
Your excellency, is no doubt, already in
formed of the tall of m\ country —unhappt
Hungary, assuredly worthy a letter fate.
It was not prompted by the spirit ol disor
det, ot th“ ambitious \iews of taction it was
iiot a revolutionary leaning which induced inv
native courtrjr to accept the mortal struggle
maintained so gloriously. and brought, bv ne
ferrous mean*, to so tmtortcnsie an end
Hungary has deserved from her kings the
hiatorical epithet of “eeneious nation.’'for
the t.evei allowed he tael f to he surpassed in
loyalty arid faithful adherence to her sovereign
bv any nation in the world
Nothing but the most revolting treachery,
the most tyraontcal oppression, and cruelties
unheard ot in the words of history- -nothing
but the infernal doom of annihilation to her na
tions 1 existence, preserved through a thousand
years, through adversities so numerous, were
able to arouse her to opjxvc the fatal stroke
aimed at her very life, to enable bet to repulse
the tyrannical assault of the ungrateful llaps
burghs, of to accept the struggle for life, hun-
or and liberty forced trpon her And she hae
nobly fought that holy battle, m which, with
the aid of Almighty God she prevailed against j
Austria, whom we or l&hed to the earth,
standing firm, even when attacked by the Rus
sian giani. in the consciousness of justice, in
our hope in God. and in our hope, my lord, in
the generous feeling of your great and glori
ous nation, the natural supporter of jutlice
and humanity throughout the wotld. But
this :s over: what tyranny beg3ti has been by
treachery concluded: on all sides abandoned,
my poor country lias fallen, not through the
overwhelming power of two great empire®,
but by the faults, and i max sav the treason,
of her own sons
To these untoward events, 1 prav Goo. that
mv unhappy country may be the only sacri
fice, snd that the true interests of peace, free
dom, and civi .zanon throughout ilie world
rosy not be involved in oui unhappy tut-
Mr. Francis Pulsky, our diplomatic agent
in L mdon, has received ample information as
to the cause of this sudden and unlooked for
change in the affairs of Hungary, and is in
structed to communicate it to your Excellency.;
if you are graciously pleased to receive the j
same It is not antipathy to Austria, though
so well merited at the hands of even Hutiga-.
rian. hut a true conviction which makes me*
sav, that even Austriti has lost fat more by j
her victory, gained through Russian aid, than t
she would have lost in merited deteat through
honorable arrangement Fallen from i.er po
sit ion of a first-rate power, die ha‘ now fur-1
teited her self-consistency, and has surd, into
the obedient instrument of Russian ambition j
and of Russian commands
Russia only ba= gained at this sanguinary
game she has extruded and strengthened I
net influence in the east of Europe, end
threatens already, m a learful manner, with
outstretching arms, not only the integrity, but
the moral basis, of the Turkish empire.
May it please you, my lord, to comrmi;..-
>.afe to your Excellency a most revolting con
dition which the Turkish Government, at the
suggestion of Russia, is about to impose upon
us poor homeless exiles.
the governor of unhappy Hungary, alter
having, I believe, as a go> d citizen and an
honest man, fulfilled to tee last ray duiie- to;
iny country, had no choice left me between
the tepose of the grave and the inexpressible
anguish of expatriation.
Many of my brethren in misfortune had pre
ceded me on the Turkish territory I follow
ed thither in the hope that 1 should be permit
ted to pass to England, and ihere under the
protect.on of the English people—a protection
never yet denied to persecuted man—allowed
to repose for a while mv wearied head on the i
hospitable shore of your happy island.
But even with these views 1 would rather'
have surrendered myself to mv deadliest ene
my than to cause any difficulties to the Turk
ish Government, whose situation l well knew
how to appreciate, and therefore did not in
trude on the Turkish territories without pre
viously. inquiring whether I and my compan
ions in misfortune would be willingly receiv
ed, and the protection of the Sultan granted
to us.
We received the assurance that we were
welcome guests, and should enjoy the ful
protection of his Majesty, the Padisha, who
would rather sacrifice 50,000 men of lire own
subjects, than allow one hair of our heads io
be injured.
It was only upon this assurance that we
passed into the Turkish teirilorv, and accor
ding to the generous assurance we were re
ceived and tended on our journey, received in
Widdin as the Sultan’s guests, and treated
hospitably, during four weeks, whilst waiting
from Constantinople further orders au to the
continuation of our sad journey to some dis
tant shore
Even the ambassadors of England and
France, to whom 1 ventured in the name ol
humanity to appeal, were so kind as to assuie
me of their full sympathy.
His Majesty, the Sultan, was also ;'ta
>.ious 85 to give a decided negative to the in
human pretensions of oui extradition demand
ed by Russia and Austria
But a fresh letter from hi* Majesty, the
Czar, arrived in Constantinople, and ns con
sequence was the suggestion sent to us by an
express messenger of the Turkish Govern
ment, that the Poles and Hungarians, and m
particular myself. Count Caainm Bathianv,
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Hungary under
my Government, and the Generate Messaros
and PeriZfl (all here>, would be surrendered
unless we chose to abjure the faith of our fore
fathers in the religion of Christ, and become
Mussulmans. And thus five thousand Chris
tians are placed in ihe terrible alternative ei
ther of facing the scaffold or of purchasing
their lues by abandoning their faith. s<. m
is already fallen the once mighty Turkey, that
she can devise no other means to answer or
evade the demands of Russia.
Words .ail me to qualify these astonishing
suggestions, such as nevei hate been mane
vet to the fallen chief of a generous nation,
and could hardly have been expected hi the
nineteenth centui,
.Mv answer does not admit ol hesitation.;
Between death and -hame die choice ran
neither I* dub,on* not difficult Governor of
Hungary, and elicit to that high place bv
the confidence ~t fifirei, millions of mv mun
tiviuen, 1 know well what 1 owe to the hon
or ot my country even in evile Even a? a
private individual 1 have an honorable path :o
puiaue Once governor of a generous coun
uy—l leave no h**nu, e to mv children-—they
shall, at least. bca» an unsullied name. God's
will be done lam prepared u> die but .u- 1
think this measure dishonorable and injuimut
to Turkey, whose interest I sincerely have a i
heart, and as I feel it my duty to -ave m\
companions in exile, if I can, from a degra
ding alternative, 1 have replied tu th« Grand
Vizier in a conciliatory manner, and took d*,,
the liberty to apply tu Sir Stratford Canning
and General Aupich fur their ger.erouv -jij
against this tyrannic act In full rciianc on
the noble sentiment’* act generous jnn
of your excellency by which, a* well as
through your wisdom, you have secured tit**
esteem ol the civilized world, I trust to be ex
cused in enclosing copies of in y t .*o tellers to
the Giaud Vizier and Sir Stratloid among.
i am infoinicd that tlie w hole matter a
abet against the ministry of Rescind P t-ltu.
whose enemies would wish to force him to
our extradition in nrdci to lower it in public
estimation and render impossible its continu
ance m office. It is ceitain that in Hip grand
council held on the Olh and lf»th of .Septem
ber, alter a tumultuous debate, tin* majority ot
the commit dec! vied in favor of oui extradition,
the majority of the ministry aga.nt ii No
decision was come to in consequence of the
altercation which look place but norwith
staoding, the u.imstry thought fir m make us
rfie revolting euggeauou 1 f»av«- named
Tius mode oI solving the difficulty would
not, I arn convinced, save the ministry, lie
cause a 'Protection only given, in contradiction
cf the Sultan’s generous feeling, at the price
of five tliou*a»d Christian* abandoning their
faith, would be revolting to the whole rtiris
ti-ut world, and prove hardly calculated to u ini
p\in tathy for Turkey tn the event of war with!
I\tt«*n. winch. in the opinion of the mo? ex-;
{•erienced Tuikiah statesmen, is approaching j
fast
As to mv native country, Tuikev does. 1
believe, already feel the lo*** of the neghetedj
opportunity of having given to Hungai v at
least some moral help to enable her to check
the advance of the common enemy. But it
appears to me it would lie a very ill advised
mode to gain Hungarian sunpathy by send
ing me to an Austrian scaffold, and forcing
mv unhappy companions to abjure their reli
gion. or accept the same alternative.
No friends to ihe Turkish Government)
would spring up from mv blood shed by her'
broken faith, but many deadly foes. Mv lord,
your heatt w ill, am sure, excuse mv having;
called your attention to our unhappy fate,'
since it ha* now assumed political importance, j
Abandoned tn tins unsocial land by the whole}
world, even the first duties of humanity give
us no promise of protection unless, my lord,i
you and vour generous nation come forward i
to protect us
Ghat steps it maybe expedient that vouj
should take, what we have a right to expect*
from the well known generosity ol England,,
it would be hardly fitting for me to enter ii{rj
on. 1 place my own and my companies’:
fate in vour hands, my lord, and in the name
of humanity throw rnvself under the protection i
of England. i
I une pi esses—our doom tuay in 3 lew bays
be sealed Allow rue to make an humble
personal request. I am a man, ray lord, pre
i pared to face the \Vor»t and 1 can die with a
lice look at Heaven, a* 1 have lived. But 1
iam also, im lord. :i husband, son, and father,
my poor true-hearted wife, my children, and
i my noble old mother, are wandering about
j Hungary I’hcv will mioq probably fail into'
j the hands of those Austrians who delight in
j torturing even feeble women, and with w hom
i the* innocence of childhood is no protection,
against persecutions. I conn n your excel- 1
I lency, in the name of the Most High, to put a
sl. p to these cruellies by your powerful ine
il.atio’i, and especially to accord to mv wife)
and children an asylum on the soil of the gen- 1
I cron* English people.
As to mv poor—mv loved and noble eoun
-1 try —must she. 100. perish tor evci 7 Shall
she, unaided, abandoned to her fate, and una
venged, he doomed to annihilation by her ty-j
rants 7 Will England, once liei hope, not
become her consolation
The political interests <»t civilized Europe,)
so many weighty considerations respecting!
England herself, and chiefly the maintenance j
ot the Ottoman empire, ate too intimately
bound up with the existence ot Hungary for;
mo to lose all hope. My lord, may God the
Ali.ni'hty tor many years shield you, that vouj
m piotect the unfortunate, and live to
i c the guardian of the rights of freedom and
he iiiiiy. I subscribe myself, with the most!
pf rf-et icspect and esteem.
(Signed) L. Kossuth.
Indian Free Goran C otton.
I ir- Loudon Morning Chronicle has tlie!
loho mg, Iron) w hii'ii it appears that the ex-j
peot.Mam ei.tertaiued of raising Cotton in the)
La i Indies, by free labor, are for the present j
doom. ,i to disappointment
Wc tegri; tu notice the failure and abau-j
donment oi tlie experiments in cotton culti j
vatu-;, that have been carried on, under Dr.
Wight’s superintendence, at Madras. This
enterprise, which had for its object the pro
ducer n of an article Je*s palpably inferior to
the cotton of America than the present badly- j
picked and indifferent Indian commodity, was:
zealously! and even lavishly supported try the
I local government; but the late failure of a
similar experiment in Bengal, after an outlay
of j£loo,ooo, had a readv given fair warning j
of the probable issue of Dr Wight’s efforts
in the sister presidency. Considered as a
scientific attempt to improve the cultivation!
ami tlie mode ol'oJ* insuig heretofore practised
in India, it w as undoubtedly interesting and j
may possibly have already exercised a benefi-l
rial influence. But if it was prompted by any 1
hope of restoring cotton to tlie place it once!
held m the export trade of India, w e are sor
ry to snv tint im project could well have been
more chimerical. I he changes effected in the
Indian export trade within the last half centu
ry, arc fi»r too significant to admit of a doubt
on that head. Fifty years ago, India shipped
to this country cotton goods to the value of
three millions sterling—in fact, it paid its
tribute m cotton. At the present time, the
process is exactly reversed, and India exports
Briti-b nruiufactures of American cotton to
the same amount. I'he causes which con
spired to produce this result were irresistable. J
In iliefii't place, the'inventions of HargTe3ve|
and Arkwiight soon rendered it far cheaper!
for the Indian consumer to purchase British
fabrics than to weave them himself. In the j
next place, the capital and mechanical skill j
winch. ;inco tlie introduction of Whitnev’sj
saw’gin in 1793, have been brought to bear 1
by the Americans on the cleansing of the pod,
have given their product an excellence which!
the Indian planter cannot approach The re- j
Milt has been a depression of the one trade, j
and an extension of the other, so prodigious
liiai in tlie words of Mi. M'Ctilloch, “theie;
is nothing in the literary of industry m com-j
pare with it, unless it be the growth of the
manufacture in ibis country.” In 1790,;
America did not export a single pound. In;
1834, she exported as much as all the rest of
the world put together. And tn 1840, out ofj
467,8jf»,‘27-i lbs. imported into this country, I
401,949,393 i!>s. came from the L. nited States
while only 34,546,143 were supplied by ihe,
Ea*t Indie- ami
already opium, indigo, and in a minor de
gree, sugar, have almost entirely taken place
ot cotton among iheexports of India. in le
here is a yearly export of the firstofthe.se!
promi i<> iho value of three millions, of ihe;
s 1 cond tn upwards ol two millions, and of the j
bird to nf a.iv a million and a half, the total
value ot the cotton exported in 1845, from ihe
three presidencies, does not amount to i’6oo
\tuJ nov v the failure of the experiments
made bv the Governments of Bengal and
Madras, with every appliance of skill and
capital to ercurc micccs-s, will at any rate ren
der l extremely duh.oi whether cotton be
fsted t(. ii> in- it- rani liie great sta-j
pi”
I >iii lin. Ivaniu Fie* mrni
Our Annual Meeting.
I .rim n eeiii- t.i he unanimous among
our i;.> ibat our anntvetsary lias this year
been lie’ most interesting and profitable mcel
-111!' that wc have held for years. The topics
considered were j radical, and matters of uu
portance to every aboiiiiouist the discus*ions
were gxmeraHy able and spirited, and con
duced xvit(i jm>d temper. Nothing occurred
during its s< -sum, worthy ot notice, to uis
rb tto* liarmoiiv ol teehng and action, though
•here vi i*. im suppre’-sion of dissenting view#,
and we jeroetlines Lad warm debates upmi
que-tions of piincipie or policy.
Not only to abolitionist*, but to the public
at large, it was evidently ju attractive and
interesting meeneg i be evening meeting#
bulb crowded, mainly by citiseas of the
t 'Wfi :ud xieiuny, who had ucvci beer, identt
b-J "oil our eaus*‘. and what we interred
h* i f serious and andid attention and
cp Muuetit b< the time. confirmed bv sub
sf qociit m!ormanon—that the truth spoken left
a deep and t-r-orahle unprc*.«ion for our cairn*
Not the slightest evid- ucc of this is the du I
turhauce manifested by smne of tbe reverend
slaveholders and. parawtesof slavery, m at
tendance upon Uie Frcnhytenao ami German I
Reformed Synod* ai tlie urm- e m*| om-i
of these Southern puevts m out meeting, and
found him greatly enraged si us *f ßtia l}C# j
arid Misotgam/ers, who wa re doing m* tnuci»
raise h let to in’* darling insutution He very)
generously offered—uhert, unaware ot hi»
character and opifuorii. we asked him for a
contribution to the arm slavery cause, —to con
tribute to buy a gallows to hang the whole
of ua; and we think, from his toee and man
ner. that he would readily have roloaieared
hangman for the occaeum, could hi* p**y*
Have been answered but boweter ‘ferveat,’
it waa, fortunately for our necka, not 'tficto
al. I hanks to thepowerleeeneaeof tbte’Minia
tcr of Christ a# wc suppoee he impudmitly
and blasphemously call# himself. When we
tnvitpd him to come forward and defend bis
cause, and show us our errors, instead of rail
ing at or about us, and pledged him a quiet
ard fair hearing, he left the bouse. Wa
heard of another consecrated slanderer, who
attempted tosiu up enmity to our cause, by
retailing about the village such aboard false
hoods as that ‘Garrison asserted that tbe
Bible emanated from the lower Pit.’ He
certainly forgot the old Jesuit’s advice to his
young disciple ‘Never tel! improbable or
useless lies We see in tbe Baltimore Son,
a letter dated from Norristown, and under
stood t” be from a Baltimore clergyman,
which tepeats the silly and stupid falsehood,
accompanying it with kindred perversions of
tbe truth This we expect, and in it we see
the mgns that our blows are felt by our op
ponent*. and are encouraged to repeat them.
From the Spartanburg (9. C.) Spartan.
Report of the Committee of Vigilance.
The Committee who were instructed to
prepare an addiess to the people of tbe Dis
trict, beg leave to submit the following
through their Chairman
To the people of Spartanburg District
Fellow-Citizens: Being appointed a
Committee ol Vigilance and Safety for Spar
tanburg District, we deem u our duty to lay
before you the causes w hich made a necessary
to constitute such a committee, and the course
we shall pursue to carry out the objects for
which we are appointed.
Vou will all remember, that a few years
since a set of fanatics at the North, contemp
tible in numbers, with no political power,
commenced a crusade against our rights and
institutions, under the name of abolitionists,
i or a long time the South took no notice of
it, and the Northern people treated them as
disturbers of the public peace; but a material
change has occurred in their prospects in a
few year*. By assuming a variety of shapes,
adopting different names, and uniting with
one political party after another, they have
gathered strength and power to be heard in
Congress—they are like the fabled ass in the
lion’s hide, covering a portion of the animal,
yet leaving exposed some of the distinctive
features by which it is well known. From
a small rill they have increased to a mighty
torrent, threatening to sweep before them all
the barriers of the Constitution, take from us
our rights and liberties, and degrade us to a
social and political equality with our slaves.
It is tmnecessary to recapitulate all the
movements of this fanatical horde.' It is
sufficient tn stale, that alter attempting to
abolish slavery in the District of Columbia,
refusing to deliver our fugitive slaves, murder
ing our citizens when endeavoring to recover
their property, and endeavoring to cheat us
out of our rights, in the Territory of New
Mexico and California, they have now thrown
in our midst their agents and spies, to insti
gate our slaves to revolt, and disseminate
their incendiary writings for the purpose ol ar
raying one portion of our people against
another, knowing that as long as we are a
united people, their hellish schemes will be
frustrated.
Under this state of things, this Committee
lias been organized and it has always been
the case among civilized nations, when any
radical change of their institutions or form
ot government is attempted, to organize such
Committees as this, (no matter by what
name they are called,) whose powers rose
superior to the law, and whose duty it was to
protect peaceable citizens in their rights and
property, and their persons from violence in
any form and Iroin any quarter.
In carrying out these views of what we
conceive to be our duty, our object will be to
prevent by ait means in our power the spread
of these abolition writings among our people,
it harsh means be necessary, “we will not
hesitate to use them,” *and any incendiary
hereafter caughunay expect rough treatment
—by this Committee.
\Ve also expect tg introduce some plan,
whereby slaves will be kept in proper sub
jection— preventing, so far as in our power
lies, tlie giving or selling of spirituous liquors
to them and exercising that kind of sur
veillance ov t r them which we think essential
to keep them in proper submission and under
reasonable discipline.
We will use all vigilance in detecting and
punishing all persons interfering with or cor
rupting our slaves, or in any way attempting
to inteifere or endanger the relations which
now exist between master and slave. Our
intentions are io protect the citizens of this
District and of the State from all interference
with their rights and institutions.
In carrying out our views of the duties im
posed on us, wo may in some instances have
to rice above the law; but where the law will
apply the remedy, we will resort to legal pro
ceedings, “and exercise that sound discre
tion’ which is necessary under our peculiar
circumstances.
In carrying out the views of the Committee,
we need ihe cooperation and support of the
citizens generally, and hope that all persons
will feel called upon to give all the informa
tion ill their power to aid the Committee in
their operations.
W.C. BENNETT, Chairman.
sTlli.no Ff.cl Negroes.— Mr. C. A.
W tckliffe, the Ex-Postmaster General of the
l rated States under President Tyler, pre
sented the following proposition to the Ken
tucky Convention, on the 13th ult. We
extract from the official repot t in the Kentuc
ky Statesman I
*T de-uc to submit a resolution of inquiry
in relation to tree negroes to one of the com
nnttces I Think from what I have heard ex
pressed here, that all sides would be very glad
to get clear of them from Kentucky. I have
devoted some reflection to the subject, and to
the various expedient* suggested to sustain
that object, as well as its connection with our
relations 3s a State arising under tbe federal
constitution I propose, as a subject of in
quiry. for the committee on miscellaneous
provisions, the propriety of substituting, in
lieu of the punishment now imposed on that i
class of people for crimes other than murder, j
tlie penally of exportation, or being sold again
into bondage I tlmik .t is worthy of inquiry,
and it strikes roe, if it has no other effect, it
will at least have the tendency of keeping
this class of persons out of tbe State; and it
may be tbe means of inducing others to leave
it voluntarily. It is a subject worthy of in
quiry, and I offer it tu that shape
The resolution was agreed to jV. Y.
Eiprcs.
North and South Politics.
I.*! northern partizans lead tbe following,
and consider how loog it is best for them to
be used as tools by slaveholders They sup
pott slsvery for the sake of party measures,
while the South will sacrifice all party meas
ure- for the sake of slavery
From tbe Coluo&wi (S. C.J Telegraph
I HE BALANCEOF POWER
I he Northern paper* are calculating large
|y on the very close division of partieein the
next t’ongiese, and count with great certain
ty on the controll which the Free-Soilers
pee st will exercise tn consequence. In effect,
we regard ail the member* of both prfiw
Notifies unsound on this subject—the strong
current of popular feeling there forcing them
into opj-o-uum to tbe extension of the area of
•lave States. Tfie Northern Whig* make
no pretension; to soundness oo «h»* subject,
and even tlie Union itself makes tbe foliow
it'g frank a Jin i»*. ion ss to tbe Democrats.
I be Democrat** party, like tbe Whig
pariy, compute* persons of all shsdss of
opinion upon the subjects which do get tftet
its po] it test doctrines and pnnnpks Un-
doubtedly, there are Democrat* tu tbe free
States —nay, the great mass of them who are
opposed io principle to slavery, snd would be
glad to have it cease to exist every w here,
while they would resort to oo unconstituiioft
sJ or improper means to effect an object
which they deem so desirable,” Ac.
When there is a will there is a way and
in a matter so vital, it will never do to trust
to uncertain guaranties snd nice distinctions
for our safety. Hence we would see South
ern representatives standing together on this
platform of Southern safety irrespective of
Ktv lies, and bolding in their own bands the
ance of power, instead of allowing the
Abolitionists proper to incline the balance, by
throwing their weight in eithet scale, as it
might suit ibeir poltcv. This can he done
for tbe Free Soil representatives (elected on
that alone) amount to but eleven thus fat—a
number contemptible indeed, if the other two
parties were not so nicely balanced. Their
power would at once be checked, were the
Southern delegates to say sternly and de
cidedly ro tbe two parties which have hither-
to played fast and loose on this question, as it'
suited their interests—“ Gentlemen, we go
with you only on condition of your going
with us. Thu slavery question is paramount'
with ua and our people. We cannot consent
to work in tbe same harness w ith you on
other subjects, when you kick out of the
traces the moment this one is approached,
snd leave us to straggle stone. M e remem
ber tbe closing scenes of the last session,
when the votes were strictly sectional. If
there is to bFa repetiion of that, we had bet
tet organize sectional parties at once—which
will give U 9 the balance of power—as yourj
two, Northern cliques never could agree;
about the partition of the party spoils, and
must seek our aid, by which means we could
buy your support.”
THE NORTH STAR,
ROCHESTER, NOVEMBER 9, 1849
Government and its Subjects.
It has long been tegarded as the dictate of
wisdom, by sagacious legislators, that a gov
ernment should conciliate, as far as possible,
every class of its subjects. It is always deem
ed unpardonable folly, and flagrant wicked
ness, for any government needlessly to atflici
and insult a portion of its people. Govern
ments are, either exceedingly strong, or ex
ceedingly weak; and that government is
strongest which has the fewest foes. This is!
peculiarly true of our own it, of all others,
should make friends with its subjects, and
with every class of its subjects, for the day
may come when it will need them all. It is
not to be disguised that, in the matter of slave,
holding, our nation stands before the world,
pre-eminent in infamy that the existence of
slavery, in this country, is looked upon hy
other nations, as the peculiar weakness, as
well as the crime, of the American people
and it is quite easy to perceive that, in the
event of a conflict between this and any Euro
pean power, this vulnerable point would be
the first to be attacked. The colored people
of this country would be counted as the natu
ral allies of any power which should inscribe
on its banners, Liberty for the black, as veil as
for the white man.
But with these truths so obvious to common
sense before them, our legislators appear to
rake the utmost pleasure in wantonly display
ing their contempt for the rights and feelings
of the growing colored population of the Uni
ted States. It would be impossible for a gov
ernment to devise a policy bettet calculated to
make itself the object of hatred than that
adopted by our government towards its free
colored people; to make us detest the land of
our birth—to abhor the government under
which we Uve—and to welcome the approach
of an invading enemy as our only salvation,
would seem to be the animating spirit and
purpose of all the legislative enactments of
the country with respect to us. With all its
boasted wisdom and dignity, it does not hesi
tate .to use every opportunity of persecuting,
insulting and assailing the weakest, and most
defenceless part of its subjects or citizens. It
acts towards us as though the highest crime
we could commit is that of patriotism and all
manner of insult, neglect and contempt, are
necessary to prevent the commission of this
crime on our part, Oui thoughts have been
turned in this direction by the contemptible
meanness of our present Secretary of State, tn
refusing to gram to William W. Brown the
usual passport granted to citizens about to
travel in foreign countries. Mr. Brown re
marks (in 9 recent letter to Mr. Garrison,)
that one of his fellow passengers to Earope,
was accompanied by a colored servant, and
that this servant had with him a regular pass
port, signed by the Secretary of State, Mr.
Buchanan.
Thta fact presents the American govern
ment in its true light. It has no objection
whatever to extend its protection to colored
servants, but it is resolved, on no occasion, to
grant protection to coloied gentlemen. A
colored man who travels for the benefit of a
white man, will have thrown over him the
shield and panoply of the United States but,
if he travels for his own profit or pleasure, he
forfeits all the immunities of an American cit
izen. The government in this particular,
faiil) reflects the lights and shades of the
whole American mind as appendages to
wfiue men we arc universally esteemed; a*
i independent and iexpansible men we ate uni*
j versally despised.
In keeping with ilu* spirit, and in puisn
anoe of this policy, the colored man is not
permuted to carry a United Slates’ mail bag
•cross the street, nor hand it from a stage
driver to a post-master. In the navy, no mat
ter how great may be his talents, skill and ac
quirements—no matter how daring, heroic,
jaaff patriotic he may be, hs is forbidden, by
the government, to rise above the office of a
cook, or a steward, under the flag of the Uni
ted States.
Tbe colored man, it a slave, may travel in
comptmy wuh his master, into any state oi
territory in the Union; but if he Lc a tree
man, he may not even vtut tbe capitol of the
nation, (which he help* to support by bis tax
es,) without the liability of being cut into
P***on,kept theie for months together, aod
then taken out, and sold like a beast of bur
deo, under tbe auctioneers hammer, for hia
jail lees. B**s«je* fraud, aD d miu
heaped, with scandalous profu
the heeds of the colored people, by
the government, the white population at targe,
(autot* and emoen,; ate constantly exerting
ibett skill and ingenuity tn devising scheme#
whiefa serve to embitter oar lot, and to destroy
oei happiness
From pieces of rastrnctiOß and amusement,
of*o *U other nations under the sun, we
«e tmimdai, from the eabiaa of steamboats,
mod the tables of Hotels (whieb a«t hue to
English, Irish, Dutch, Scotch sadsbo to toe
most rudedloosier of the Wsst) we sic *r
chuki; from the ecclesiastical convention, and
the political are are geaeraily mxdu
dW. from the bar and »he jury-box of our
counfrr we are ere hided; (taut respectable
trades and employ meats, sod from nearly all
the avenues to wealth and power, we are er
chided, from the Lyceum Hall and the com
mon school, the sources of light and educa
tion, we are as a people exdmded. Meanwhile
societies are organized under the guise of phi
lanthropy and religion, whose chief business
it is to propagate the most malignant slanders
against us, and to keep up in the public mind
a violent animosity between ua and our white
fellow-citizens. Upon this the government
smiles with approbation, and exerts its ut
most powers to execute the behests of this
unnatural and cruel prejudice. What is this
but the most discieditsble disregard of sound
political w isdom, to say nothing of the dic
tates ut justice and magnanimity? Can the
colored man be expected to entertain for such
a government any feelings but those of in
tense hatred 1 Or can be be expected to do
other than to seize the first moment which
shall promise fum success to gratify his ven
geance To apprehend that he would not do
so'would evince the most deplorable ignorance
of the elements of human nature.
We warn the American people, and the
American Government to be wise in their day
3nd generation. The time may come that those
whom they now despise and hate, may be
needed. Those compelled foes may, by and by
be wanted as friends. Ameiica cannot al
ways sit, as a queen, in peace and repose.
Prouder and stronger governments than hers
have been shattered by the bolts of the wrath
of a just God. We beseech her to have a
rare how she goads the sable oppressed in the
land. We warn her in the name of retribu
tion, to look to her ways, for in an evil hour
those hands that have been engaged in beau
tifying and adorning the fait fields of our coun
try, may yet become the instruments of spread
ing desolation, devastation,'and death thorugh
nut our borders.—k. d.
The Sultan and the Czar.
j Of unofficial individuals, we have often good
cause to speak in terms of commendation.
Humanity, justice and mercy are generally
confined tothelowly and nninffuential. Those
who are lifted above the common herd of
mankind, and who hold the reins of place and
powef, have usually few tears to shed over
human suffering, and little indignation to
spend on tyrianny and tyrants. It was not
the priest nor the I.evite that succored t the
man who fell among thieves,” but the hum
ble ‘‘Samaritan,” who could boa9t no sacre
dotal robes or othei badges of office. The
I rule of benevolence is with the pobr and the
humble, and not with the high and rich,- it
is adopted by the latter only ocaaionally
and it is always a cause of deep gratification
to the lovers of mankind when so adopted.
An instance of the latter desenption, on the
part of the Sultan of Turkey, is now claim
ing the attention and admiration of the civili
zed world. This Mohammedan Prince be
ing apprized that within the borders of bis
dominions, the Hungarian Patriots have
sought a refuge from the fury of the Russian
Czar—and he is called upon by this Christian
Potentate to surrender these refugees into
his hands, —the noble Sultan and follower of
the false prophet, rejects with indignation the
barbarous demand of the Christian Superior,
and at the peril of bringing upon himself and
people the gigantic power of Russia, combi
ned with that of Austria,3 extends the arm
of generous protection to thgse helpless refu
gees. The Sultan.has based his conduct up
on his sacred book, the Koran, aud in so do
ing, lias shown himself to be more Christ-iike
than very many who brand him and his na
tion with upholding the religion of “the pit.”
The Christian may well learn humanity and
magnanimity at the feet of the humane Sultan.
By this one act of bis, he has placed himself,
his country, and his religion, in a command
ing attitude before the world, and he will un
doubtedly, in the emergency threatened by
Russia, receive the sympathy and assistance
of all but despots and tyrants on the otheT
side of the Atlantic.
But we have no tears that war will result
from this refusal. Public opinion is not with
out its influence even upon the Autocrat of
Russia. The voice of Ix>ndon is nrtt Without
weight even in his e mncils. To be autocrat
of all the Russias, is not to be aatocrat of all
the world; and the unlimited Despot will
have his limits. He cannot with impunity 1
disregard the hurgane voice of the civilized I
world. We are rendered more hopeful of
peace between Russia and Turkey, by the
decided and spirited manner in which the
Sultan has been sustained by the press and
governments of England and France. Pub
lic meetings have been held in London of a
must spii ued character sympaibysing with
Kossuth, and his band of compatriots, and
condemnin’, in stern terms their blood thirsty
pursuers These demonstrations exert an in
fluence or. .he courts of Europe far beyond the
apprei ension of the mass of mankind
The powei of international opinion is juat
beginning to be understood and appreciated
Steam navigation, railroads and electric tele
graphs are bearing on their flashing wings the
power of intelligence to quarters hitherto in
sensible to the world about them. We live
at a period which may be regarded aa the dawn
of that day when “the pen ahall super-
cede the sword,” and when mind shall be di
rected by intelligence, and not crushed and
cramped by the iron hoofs of war and slavery
At such a period, when words may save the
use of bullets, it becomes every man to speak
out plainly in vindication of the weak and de
fenceless. To the public opinion of England,
expressed at vauous limes, and under a diver
sity of circumstances, American Slavery may
charge its deadliest slabs; and so should it
be, let the reproofs of our inconsistencies come
thick and fast, they will do good to all con
cerned, for while they call attention to our
National shortcomings, they will, perhaps,
leave the more exposed, some English deflect
which may be, thereby, mote speedily recti
fied. It ta fur the general moraT hesUh of aa
tioos that the coadoct of each should be deem
ed a suitable subject of dwenaaion by all.
Sacfadiarnaaiaua, though they may ha, some
times, heated, and extravagant, like the blasts
of beavee, ore always portfymg. If Turkey
be not invaded and overwhelmed by tor proud
and maoism, foe, it will be of (to
warmly expressed approbation of the conduct
of the Sultan is different parts of the world.
Turkey will be protected by the insunaoun
ttdße raropaiis of a world's public opinion and
sympathy.—r. 0.
ZfrMa Church School.
We recorded our protest last week against
huddling the colored children of this city into
the miserable cellar of Zion Church. The
colored citizens ol this city par aa freely for
the support of schools as any othei class, and
their children are as much entitled to school
privileges aa are the sons of the wealthiest of
this community; and there can be no reason
founded in justice why they should be shut
out of the fine, airy school-houses of the dis
tricts, and driven into the dull, damp, dark,
and badly ventilated cellar of Zion Church.—
It is a disgrace to the city of Rochester that
snch an act of fiagiant injustice and cruelty
can be perpetrated against any class of its cit
izens. The Board of Education have not only
stained themselves with the sin of partiality
and proscription, but have degraded them
selves by duping the stupid cr;ature* vv ho of
ficiate aa Trustees in Zion Church. If the
colored people of this city must be driven into
a separate achool, one wonld think that such
a degradation would be sufficient to satisfy the
negro haters, without adding to it the cruel
ty of crowding them into a cellar. We hope
that our brethren in this city will show them
selves in earnest about this matter, and will
continue to agitate the question of out chil
dren’s admission into the District Schools.—
We must not tamely submit to this violation
of our educational rights This is, just now,
the question of questions for the colored peo
ple of this place. If we yield willingly to this
encroachment, perhaps the next demand will
require us to live in a certain part of the city—
Ourchildien are to go to a particular school—
colored people are to attend their own meet
ing and it may, by and bye, follow that we
are to occupy a given place in the town. For
one, we say, most distinctly, to the Board of
Education, that in no emergency, will we send
a child of ours to the miserable cellar under
Zion Church.—f. u.
Edinburgh Ladies* Anti-Slavery Society.
We are indebted to the Secretary of this
Association foi a copy of its last Annual Re
port. The Society appears to have been as
usual, actively engaged in efforts to promote
the cause during the year; besides their own
home expenditures, they sent a box to the
Boston Bazaar, worth seven hundred and fifty
dollars. The report takes a favorable view of
the Free Labor cause; and pays a merited
compliment to the unwearied zeal and steady
perseverance of our esteemed friend Anna
Richardson, as evinced in her labors in this
particular department. The Report copies,
in terms of approbation, the resolutions adopt
ed by a Congregational Church in Brookfield,
Mass., withholding Christian fellowship from
slaveholders. The conduct of the American
Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions
is deeply deplored, and pointedly rebuked.—
Notice is taken ot the cases of Drayton, Sears,
Thomas, Garrett, and others— expressing
sympathy for them in their suffering, and ap
probation of their conduct in assisting the fu
gitive. This Society has been applied to for
assistance by the managers of the Philadelphia
Bazaar, but they have resolved to send, as
formerly, to Boston.—f. d.
New York State Convention.
The National Anti-Slavery Standard has
proposed the holding of a New York State
Anti-Slaveiy Convention and urges that the
first of winter will be a suitable time for the
demonstration, and that Syracuse will be the
most appropriate place for the same. The
proposition to hold such a Convention is a
good one, and deserves to meet the united
support of the Anti-Slavery forces ol this
State. To* little attention has been given, of
late, to this quarter of the field. Ohio and
Massachusetts have been cared for, to the
neglect, if not at Lhe expense of this, the most
important State of the Union. The conse
quence is, our ranks are scattered, and are in
absolute disorder —inviting rather than repel
ling the attacks of the enemy. We want a
certain sound from our anti-slavery war trum
pet, that we may prepare ourselves “for the
battle.” “The Standard” should have issued
its call for this Convention at once, and not
have left the question for holding it open to
controversy. The Convention is needed—it
ought to be held—and we are suie it would be
largely attended. There are hearts in all
quarters of this State, panting for an opportu
nity of meeting the radical friends of freedom
in a grand Convention for forwarding the anti
slavery cause.
We reserve, however, comments of this na
ture, until the call for the Convention is duly
issued. “The North Star” will then be
found shining in the firmament, to guide the
hosts of freedom in the right direction.—f. o.
A Voice from Ithaca iu flavor of the
National League.
We have received a letter from our friend
R. W Johnson, on the subject of the Nation
al League—expressing his hearty approbation
of the proposed organization, but fearing thai
the people of this State are unprepared for it
His plan for preparation is more unwieldy ie
our opinion, than the formation of the League
itself would be. It is not to be expected that
a rery large body of persona would compose
the League at its commencement. We rely
upon the intelligent, sad earnest few to sei
this union in operation. Twenty sound-head
ed, and clear-beaded men would be sufficient
to commence the work. The League would
then soon make its own way and increase iu
numbers It would be none the leas aNa
TiOMAi. League because composed but of few
it would be National in its objects and suns,
and open to the entire colored population ot
the country. Let no one hesitate to uoite in
this movement on the giouad that our people
are not reedy. The mem will he ready, when
the individuals composing it are so.—r. u.
BUhu Bantu.
This distinguished philanthropist and advo
cate of peace has reached home, after a tom
of three yean in Great Britain, Ireland, sad
the European conuaam. Had oar mead
Burrra, bean surrounded by any thing else
than an unbroken chain of papular apptoba
twa and applause on either aids the Atlsuuc
during this tout, we should feel it a pfeasurt
te hail hie imont wife such a teetiQouial o
aetar« aad as hie devetol labors is tha fiahTo
i
humanity entitle him to. But bu whose praise
"»o «*«ry mouth.needs u We
•re indebted to our fri«* Bgrntt for the re
CC P f Eeglieh frieode-fot
hich, we return him our wocere thank*
F. D.
R«v. Jarvis C. r Mu
Our readers will recollect ,he p'ubhcaoou
m the North Star, some months «oce. ofdl’
proceedings taken against the R*v J« nttC
Bncon, for the crime of lending, Gray**
county, a., Irxdxrick Doiglass’s
I'J® *,"l/° Antl B,lTer y **rmoo. He w to
then hel.l lo bail 10 appear at the fad term 01
the C.rcuu Sopenor Court of Grayson We
find in a late number of the True Wealeyan
«n account of the trial Mr Bucon acknowl'
the circulation ot the books, but denied
€y Were Jnceml a 'T The ,ury brought
m a verdict of “Not Gu.ltv The Judge
expressed himself much surprised at ,be ver
tct. Said he, “1, of course, gentlemen, am
gratified with your decision, but I must say a
is the strangest one I ever heard How coaid
the guilt of the prisoner be made to appear
more plain It was pioven he circulated the
book; it matters not that he had but one. no,
that he circulated it among white persons on
ly, for the slave cannot read. It is *l*, ckni
that the book is such as the law prohibits
The law, as you have been told, is that a per
son is supposed to intend all that may result
from his conduc t. If a man c*u circulate this,
what book can he not circulate 1 He would
just say to prisoner that he would do well to
remember the old homely adage A pitcher
that goes often to the well, will get broke at
last.’ Mr. Bacon was then acquitted, and
although acknowledged innocent, was required
to give bonds in $lOOO. lor his good behavior
for twelve months. He was also bound over,
on two indictments in $“00 each, for violating
the very rational and Christian provision ot
the Republican Slate of Virginia, that “Any
free person, who, by speaking or writing,
shall maintain that owners have no right ot
property in their slaves shall be punished by
confinement in jail not more than one year,
and be fined not exceeding five hundred dol
lars
The \ery wise and just Judge then announ
ced that he had arrived at the mighty and
magnanimous resolution to BURN THE
BOOK "They love darkness because their
deeds are evil.”— j. d.
Explanation.
e are happy to find the following in the
Pittsburgh Visiter
“Frederic Douglass, iu the North Star,
complains of a paragraph in the Visiter which
we were not aware had ever appeared in our
columns, until we saw it stated in his. In the
paragraph he is spoken of as “the negro Doug
lass, and in a slighting vein which we cer
tainly would never use towards any one ot
God’s creatures, for any peculiarity of color
or formation, the work of the Master’s hand.
It came into our columns in this wise. Thu
A isiter is published in the same office with
“The Commercial Journal.” The same tele
graphic despatches, market reports and gene
ral news items appear in both papers. The
establishment is large, and a number of peo
ple are employed who make selections of
items. Of course, some get into bnth papers
that the editors would not cbeose. This par
agraph was cut out of some other paper, and
put in the Journal, and from that transferred
the isiter without any knowledge of ours.
But a limited portion of our time is devoted to
editorial labor, and it is impossible we cun ex
amine every article that appears in nur col
umns. We are sorry foi this one, and that in
all we can do about it.”
Thanksgiving Day.
Proclamation by Hamilton Fish, Governor
of the State of New York
A sense of gratitude to Almighty God for
his numerous manifestations of goodness du
ring the past year, culls for a public expres
sion of thanks from a People who have expe
rienced the full measure of blessings which
have been extended to us.
Peace and quiet have reigned throughout
our land. Ihe labors of the husbandman
have been rewarded in the return* of tbe fruits
of the earth. Industry has pursued its accus
tomed walks in all its varied employments,
and its votaries have enjoyed honest and well
earned rewards. Civil and religious liberty
continue to be vouchsafed to all within our
borders—and the blessings of the Goepel are
extended to all who desire to enjoy its com
lorts and its consolations. A few weeks since
the whole Nation, in humble dependence, uni
ted in earnest prayer to Almighty God to
withdraw the grievous pestilence which was
ravaging the land; that visitation has passed,
and the blessing of public health is restored'
It becomes a grateful and a Christian Peo
ple to acknowledge these mercies and to rea
der thanks to their bountiful Giver.
I do therefore, designate Thursday, ihm
twenty-ninth day of November instant, and do
recommend its observance by the People of
this State, as a day of Public Thanksgiving
to Almighty God.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto signed
my name and affixed the Privy Seal of the
State, at the city of Albany, this
|l. s.J first day of November, one thousand
eight hundred and forty-nine
HAMILTON FISH
By order ot the Governor,
Robert H. Morris, Private Secietary.
Another Coetttlon.
On the 24th October, a coalition was effect
ed in Middlesex county, Maas between the
Free Democrats aod the old i democrats, each
section, bpwever, retaining its owa indepen
dent organization. The union of the two pax
tiaa extends to the support of a common «n»h»t
for Senatorial candidates, and the boats of the
union was as follows
“Whereas, owing to the constitutional mode
in electing Senators in ibis Commonwealth
there have resulted great inequalities of repre
sentation—at the loot session of the Lamfe
ture, a majority of more than 12,000 roam
having failed to return a single member to the
Senate aod
Whereas, the Whig party, controlled and
directed by the moneyed intereeta of the Com
moowealth, is enabled, under the present sys
tem. though in a minority, to wield the whole
executive *od legislative authority of the
btate, through the diviaioo which exists in the
ranks of its opponents and
•‘Whe.eaa, there happily ex*., at present,
sgood degree ot harmony to the vie wit of the
reference
Potey i therefore, sod
to the end of availing ourselves of the iu*
rights of ruajunuee. aad of remedying the
«*»«iitte* of representations
which threaten under the present system te
hoeome perpetual, we do consent, dm dedtr
mg our purpose to preserve our own separate
or pan ration, and maintain the integrity of out
principle*, t u act with the Democratic party
*n support of ‘good man sod true,’ as caadi
dates lor the Senate, who shall be josetly se
iscted by tto two Coaveeuooa, as haug wor
thy to promote the common views aad pria*
pfes ot tto two parties which these Coavea
uom represent,'’
Somebody says,,—Blessd are they who
do not advertise, for they stall rarely troubled
with customers
Foreign News of the Week
The Hibernia, Capt. Stone arrived at Hall
Friday evening laat, after an unusual
v tor*’ »r;>i stormy pa Mage. She brings date*
Liverpooll° ‘he 20th ah.
gs«LAND.— A large and highly reaped ablt
pf***4®d trrtt hy the Lord Mayor
in l>ondon, on the B?th alt., relative
«intended exhibition of industry It wai
jrtpoaed to tatae to be distributee
.-*miums, All nations are invited, with
ti distinction or preference. The promoter
aangmne in their expects
sons to ratae 100,000 to defray expenses
The anu-rent conap racy is extending
r.rcughoat all parts of Ireland The journal
*re filled with accounts of the abduction o
uopa There 'seems to be ageneral determt
nation on the part of the peasantry, especiall;
,n the southern provinces, to defraud land
iords of their rents. A conflict attended wit!
ratal results, took place at Killerlv, m Ktngi
county, in which three policemen were killed
mortally wounded, and several others »e
i.ously injured. Severs! vollic* were subse
quent! v fired into the barracks w hither the sur
v v. n of the constabulary had been compelled
.0 letteat, and the corn was carried ofl in tri
ll£ftf Üby the peasants
t he excitement growing out ol the dismis-
M i ot Lord Roden from the Magistracy, seem?
uAeiv t<> lead to very serious results.
The Uiangemen ot the north are prepatmg
tut j grand field day on the Gth ot November,
iht- Anntvetsary of the Gunpowder Plot—
j/iich, if not prevented by the strong ami ol
the law, o*n hardly tail to end in the shed
ding of blood.
T he Repealers continue their meetings at
Conciliation Hall, and ihe cent is on the in
aease
t kamck —The chief subject of discussion
it, the National Assembly, lias been the re
port of M. Thtets on the Roman question.
R is said to be decidedly conservative, and at
♦anance with the expressed views of the
President. The conclusion at which M
Thiers arrives is, that liberal inetitutions are
incompatible with the independence of the
Pope as a temporal sovereign, and likewise
the independence of the Catholic Church, and
,vtieri the rights of the people are at issue,|the
latter ought to give way. It is supposed that
the views of M. Thiers w ill not Ire responded
to by the French nation. At a Ministerial
Council held subsequently to the delivery of
ot the report, it wa.-> decided that the govern
ment would follow the policy laid down in the
President’s letter on the affairs ol Rome.
The effect of this, it is supposed wil l
be the immediate resignation of M. Falloux
and Gen. Ruilhieres. No action had ta
ken place on the pari of ihe Assembly,
to indicate the views of the majority on
ihe report ol M. 'Thiers.
On the 19th, during the speech of M. de la
Kosaiere on the Roman question, an altercation
arose between M. M. Thiers and Bisco. The
latter declared that the former had said that
the election of Louis Napoleon would be a
disgrace to France. Thiers demanded satis
uction, and a duel took place at once. One
shot was fired by each at 20 paces distance,
but neither was wounded, and the seconds
came forward and said the parties had done all
that honor required. Both members returned
to the Assembly just as the. sitting had ad
journed, at 6.
A sensation has been caused in Paris by an
announcement that the basis of an alliance be
tween England and France on the Turkish
question had been agreed to
The High Court of Justice at Versailles
commenced its sittings on the 13th, and is at
present engaged in trying the persons concern
ed with the affairs of the 13th July Several
disreputable scenes have occurred befoie the
Court. On the 13th ult-, when M
Emile de Girardin., was being examined as a
witness, a violent altercation took place be
tween him and the Procureur General, in the
course of which M. Girardin declared that the
Constitution having been violated, resistance,
was a duty.
At a subsequent stage of the examination,
the judge forbade M. Girardin to reply to a
temarkofone of the counsel, w hen all the pris
oners arose, eu nidsse, and demanded that the
witness should be heard. A fearful scene of
lumult and confusion ensued, and nearly an
hour elapsed before the hissings could bring
the accused and the Judge to a state ot calm
ness
On the day following, one ol the witnesses,
lieutenant of gendarmerie, boasted ot hav
ing thtusted his sabre into the breast ot a man
who was unarmed, whereupon all the accused
lost up and denounced the witness as a cow
*id indescribable confusion ensued, which
terminated in the judges taking flight.
The Ecenement says, that the Russian
Charge d’Affairs had told a foreign Minister
ihat Russia would regard as a declaration of
war the entrance ot a French fleet into the
Dardanelles. The same journal is assured
that orders have been given to the f rench
fleet to join the English fleet at Naples
Rome —Accounts from Romecontinue veiy
uD»atislactoi> The return of the Pope is
talked about; but when it will take place is
aidl a subject of conjecture, from some pre
parations recently made in the Quinmal, it
•*as supposed that the Pope was about to re
turn immediately The Court, however, op
pose such a step, until the French troops have
retired
There hag been a misunderstanding between
vne of the Cardinals and M. de Corceliee.
The Frenchman being offended at a letter ie
carved from the ecclesiastic, complains ol the
number of traitors still tolerated m the Eter
nal City The mattet was referred to His
Holiness, who forthwith dismissed the offend
mg Cardinal.
All the members ol the late Roman Assem
bly have left Rome i he outer ament had
resolved to pay the whole ot the Sute debt,
.ncludiog that incurred under the administra
tion of the republican:. I in- i‘.solution has
given general satisfaction Garrrbaldi has
left the island of Santa MadsWme lor London,
and ultimately, as is said about fmn and a
great many others who have no such mien
non*, he will come to tire United States
Austria aud Hcwaiv Gen. Hayuau
vOQUouet to sustain hif bloodthirat y charac
ter He has thus far succeeded in murdering
mOti the pretence of court-martial no less
duui ituruen Hungarian generals who deliv
ered meibseletes up at the close of the war.
fcLs last act of cruelty and treachery, the pub-
Ac inu rder of Coont |Bathyany, the Prime
Minuter of Hungary, is one which of itself
i* sufficient to make the name of Ha) nan take
it* place amongst the base and abominable ty
rant* who have in past times disgraced the
page of history Thu brare and accomphsh
od Hungarian had been sentenced to a male
factor a death. I'o avoid the ignominy of a
hahei, the wife of the patriot had a dagger
conveyed to him in his linen With this he
inflicted a wound in his throat, by which h»
raurdeiera were prevented from hanging bun.
He fell, pierced by the bullets of the Austrian,
soldiers, with the word* on his lips, "Mv
country forever
A letter dated Oct. Ithb, says, that the;
Austrian tGeneral Kantian had arrived at
Widdin, with a letter from Uen. Havnau to
the Pasha, by which the Hungarian refugees
from the sergeant downwards, are anested
in consequence of which the greater part ofi
them returned to Hungary Several hundred
officers of those furnished with passports
from Comorn have passed through Berlin on
their way to the west. Klapka and three
hundred others, are said to have resolved on
coming to this country
Russia and Turkey —There is no later
new’s from Constantinople or St. Petersburgh;
consequently no accounts of the solution of the
difficulty between the Turk and the Czar.
The general belief, however, among well in
formed circles is said 10 be thai Russia will
pocket the affront, rather than provoke a col
lision with the governments of England and
France.
A correspondent of the European Tunes,
w riting Irom Belgrade, states fliat the Hunga
rian refugees still remain at Widdin. They
are divided into three camps Italian, Hunga
rian, and Polish. Beni, Dembmski, and some
twenty other officers, besides enbiacing Islam*
ism, had entered the Turkish army.
Prince Alexander of Servia, is said to have
behaved well towards the refugees, allowing
hem provisions and free passage through his
erutory.
The Porte is said to have appointed the Isle
of Candy as the future residence of the Mag
yars.
Western Mew York Annual AnthSlave
ry Fair at Rochester.
This fair will be opened the I bib of Janua
ry next, instead of December, as has been be
fore contemplated and published. The post
ponement will doubtless meet the approval of
all concerned. We shall need more time for
preparation, as the old articles are nearly all
disposed of, and this year we must have an
entire new stock We hope there are already
many sewing circles formed in different parts,
who are zealously engaged in making up the
£rt?at variety of useful and beautiful articles,
:hat are usually presented at our fair. We
isk every abolitionist, and every friend of the
:ause in this Stale especially, as w r ell a 3
iiends in every other State, to feel themselves
bound to be represented, either personally or
by donation, at the Rochester Fair Let none
feel themselves excused from laboring earnest
y to make this Anti-Slavery Fair worthy of
:he cause.
Some of our warm hearted European
friends, have already prepared and forwarded
r box of articles to aid us iu this movement.
Truly, their disinterestedness and devotedness
rught to tinge every slaveholder’s cheek with
ihaine—stir every northern abettor’s bean
with remorse, ajid stimulate every abolitionist
to double zeal. The North Star we intend to
lustain, and we ask the zealous eo-operatioi
of our friends in so doing. Lectures are much
■eeded, and in this section of the State there
is a wide field for profitable exertion.
Seed diligently sown will yield a hundred
or a thousand fold, and the bread of truth east
upon the waters will return after many days
The personal attendance of anti-slavery friendf
at the fair is earnestly solicited, and confident
ly anticipated, and we trust that we shall be
able to make it more woithy the patronage o
the community than any that has preceded it
On behalf of the Fail Committee,
AMY POST.
To the Friends of the Slave and of
the. North Star.
Leak Friends —The North Star is uov
near the close of its second year, and finds it
self in debt, its self-sacrificing Editor ha;
struggled on, by day and by night, at boon
and abroad, to sustain it and the cause it ad
vocates, without drawing anything from th<
pioceeds of the paper for his own support
He cannot make the paper what it would be
ifheeould be constantly at his post. Necessity
has compelled him to be much from home ii
order to extend its circulation. Many of yoi
may not be awaie of the expense k incident t<
the publication of a paper and many havi
supposed that the North Star was sustaining
itself and making its owner a profilabh
business but, 1 can assure you it is far other
wise, and that few refmm papers can be sus
tained by their subscription lists, at least a
their commencement: and th«-y do not have i
long advertising patronage, as most of th<
political papers have. Now I would ask thi
friends of the Slave, and the friends of Fred
enck Douglass, if it is tight foi ns to suffe;
him thus to struggle on single handed in th<
cause for which we all profess to feel so much
For one, i feel that it is not right, and as out
means of aiding him and bis paper, 1 would
propose ihai each subscriber send on the
amount of his subscription for the next year
with an additional dollar aaa donation, and l hal
each endeavor to procure at least one additional
subscriber. This, 1 believe, would put the
papei in a condition to sustain useli tutu
lure. But some of you may say, there are some
things in the paper that 1 donoi like, and ldo
I not lee) much interest m sustaining it Did
i you e*er see a paper ihai suited you (m every
particular Idu not know that 1 ever did.
But shall we abandon a paper and a fnend
because they do some things that we do not
like 1 Nay rather let us suck by them and
suataiu thea»,*rtiMJ then we may. bv kind sug
gestions, be tire mean* of correcting those
error*. Who *Ut retpunJ to ifu a6o«» op
i peal'" Tbe publisher is r*que*ied to give a
list ol tbe name* of those oho do rttponJ, and
the amount of theit subscription, foi 1 do not
wudi tocooine ihsoelo one dollar who are
able to pay more
Youra for U»e cauae of tbe Slave.
BENJAMIN FISH,
i Rochester, Oct. 23, 1849.
The editorial coriMPOodeoi of the Cbar
leetoo Courier, pres*** Mr. Calhoun’* claim*
upon the public t* a candidal* for th* next
presidency
The Iron, and Iron Hearted City.
Dear Feiesu Dovsuw —I *ro wjouming
in tbit “liron" —(I wat goiug to say Iron
Hearted “City") lot the present. Perbape
tbe latter adjective would be ihepgat appro
priate, as well as the most significant, for the
mate of the people here, are at iron-hearted
as the iron they manufacture, so far aa any
sympathy for humanity or reform is concern
ed. Indeed, it cannot be wondered, and per
haps they ought not to be blamed that such is
the case lor life to them is but a battle for
money and bread. The rattle of dtajs, and
wagons,—the uproar and tumult—the borry
mg to and fro w hich are to be seen and heard
on all sides, are but so many discordant notes
of muss- to this ceaseless war of trade and
traffic. ’Tis true there aie a few good spirits
here a few whose souls are sadly out of
place, and out of harmony in this mighty
struggle. They feel that whatever may be
the professions of a people thus grasping, thus
engaged and absorbed their practices
sre “of the earth, earthly" —that to them
Truth, Goodness, Righteousness and Free
dom, are matters of incidental importance, are
mere abstractions, which are very pretty to
talk about, but impossible to practice.
There has occasionally been a momentary
interest excited here, in behall of the great
question of Freedom—in interest which man
ifests considerable earnestness for a time—but
soon the subject is forgotten, and the cry of
perishing myriads is dtowned by the uproar
and clatter of money-getting. So lung as so
ciety is now organized, perhaps it will be ne
cessary to make accumulation, the paramount
object—the “chief end ol man." It is truly
demeaning to make this the highest object ol
life —to cultivate that faculty, so much to <he
neglect ®f the higher and nobler attnbutes ot
the soul; but the people must have bread,
and while the few infernal graboerals and mo
nopolists have all the bread and money, of
course the many must work, and suffei and
toil, or surtender and die. Few are disposed
to do the latter, and therefore submit to the
crushing, blinding, stultifying, influences that
surround them
It is not extenuating the matter to say there
are upwards of one hundred churches m this
city. Indeed, this is perhaps the saddest
shade in the picture. It goes to show the ut
ter inhumanity of a religion so extensively
preached—so widely professed. Such a reli
gion adapts itself very readily to -the times
and is very profitable and convenient to the
priesthood; but Humanity must tide over ii
and its temples, before she can be free. Re
formers will ever find the most virulent oppo
sition, the greatest amount of calumny and
odium coming from this source, l.et Human'
jtv rejoice then, whenever there are indications
ol the fall and failure of the churches, for
when they are superseded, hei redemption
draweih nigh.
MILO A. TOWNSEND.
Pittsburgh, Pa., Oct. 9th, 1849.
From the National Era.
Mount Vernon, Knox Co., Ohio,
October 10, 1849.
l)r. Bailey Peihaps some ol your readers
will be glad to aid me in accomplishing an
important work ir, this place. 1 have resolved
to erect a Free Presbyterian Church. Some
loity or fifty members of rny old congregation
will go with me.—Those members who re
main, refuse to let us worship in the house
we left at any hour of th« .Sabbath, although n
may not he occupied by any other person. I
feel that the Church of God must be aroused
to take hold of the question of freedom,
with more earnestness and energy than it has
ever vet done, or the great wheels of the
chariot of liberty will be clogged. 1 do not
know any rpason why the central part ot
Ohio is not a favorable position for exerting
an influence favorable to ibis object. I am l
willing to make the experiment. The friends
of the congregation who go with me are con- j
tribuling liberally, according to their ability,
i But we will need some foreign aid to complete
our undertaking. I would be glad to see i
many of my distant Anti-Slaveiy brethren
face to face, and present my plea persor.r.lly.
But 1 cannot be absent long from my charge.
1 feel anxious to see the Church of God
reformed. Who will assist ine in my under
taking 7 I make mr-appeal to every lover ot
truth and tin inanity.
Yours, respectfully,
EDWIN H. NEVUS.
Will other Anti-Slavery papers please in
seit this 7
A "Negro Commentator. —The following I
story, furnished by the Alabama correspon
dent of the Manchester American, shows how
the slaves in that legion come by their know
ledge of the Bible, and bow very accurate
and valuable ibat knowledge is. It would be
the height of folly, however, to expect any
thing better of those in whom the ability to
read is looked upon as a crime
As the negroes learn nothing from books,,
their knowledge ot tho Bible and of history,
even among the most intelligent is extremely
limited and imperfect, abounding in odd
w hims and strange enors. We once atten
ded a large meeting of ihe colored people, ad
dressed by a colored preacher, who of course
could neither read nor write. It was his
custom not to take any particular passage for
a text, but to relate unne incident of the
Scripture, according to'the best of his recol
lection, and then add such explanations ol
his own as might occur to him. On this oc
casion he selected the visit ol Nicodeuius,
as the foundation of h*3 observations,.
“My bred’en.” said he, *‘dere was in old
times a great manv preachers on de atth who
west about among de people. Many or dem
was white preachers, such as Peter, James
a nd John "Dere was also a gTeat many
colored prearhers, and de greatest among dem
all was de nigger Demos'
The Prussian electric telegraph liu*= were
opened to th© public on the Ist Oct ai a
charge of about one cent per word, tor every
mile.
Sir Allen McNab, better knowu than es
teemed, is out violently against annexation
Ktcfifrt
(4, North Star, Jrtm EmgU’A Fnmda.
JL.
Eluabeib Pease, Darling*** Cob 6 0
Eliza Nicholson, Carlisle 4 O 0
Miss Blake. Bridge**!*! ~100
Dir.o dhio «h O 10 0
MrAViu Brown, duu> 0 10 0
Mr? Jones, Northampton
Mhi J Lurie, Carlisle w 0
MARRIED
la rill' cHf, Nov. X. by Re* U. U Mo*r
coMSar, Mr. Wm W Cool, erf Hoprdab Co«-
uiuoity, Maszactiu*etu, lo Mi** N*»«i M. I»ra
rii.rf VVaybod, Mrs*
DIED
lu Piovideace' R- i-» 270* «h,
Fltblkici Doeeiass, only irf Amo ~ud
Sarah C, fUdloo, af*d t yean.
Notices.

Rhode Island Ante-Slavery Society—
Annual Meeting.
The fourteenth annual meeting ol the Rhode
Island Anti-SlaTery Society, will be heW a»
Mechanic's Hall. Providence, on Wednesday
and Thursday. Nov. Hth and l>th, lit!*.
Prominent advocates of emancipation—«~t-bracing
bracing several w ho have broken the chains of
slavery, and arc breatbiag the free air of Heav
en, tn defiance of Southern laws—have beeu
invited to be present, and will, it is expected,
give valuable ani to our own earnest laborers,
in making the meeting an interesting and pro
fitable one to all who shall deem it worthy of
thetr piesence.
Much has been done for our cause during
the jiast year, bttt much yet remains for such
to do as are not mob weary wait dumg well.
The geographical boundaries of slavery tn oui
own country have been fixed by the public
voice, and cannot, it is confidently believed,
be earned further from the centre of our ini
quity. But it remains to blot out the loul
slain where it already exists, and to hasten
the glad hour when the angel of Time shall
say, “Thus tar hast thou come out no far
ther." To this end we invite the old and tbe
young, the strong, the feeble, ihe confident,
the desponding, and the faithless, to meet
with us, at our annual gathering, and
share in our hopes, our encouragements, our
joys, and our labors
In behalf of the Rhode Island Anti Slavery
Societ v.
JOHN BROWN, Prev't.
Amakam u Paine, Sec'y.
Providence, Oct. 6th, Ih4h.
An Appeal In behalf ol the Western
New Vork Auti-Slavpry Fair.
Earnestly desiring the abolition of Slavery
hi this land, and being deeply convinced that
this result can only be accomplished by renew
ed efforts to change our present corrupt moral
sentiment, the undersigned members and
friends of the Western New Vork Anti-slavery
Society, again make their appeal to the
friends of the Slave in behalf of their annual
Bazaar, Ahirh will he held in Rochester on
the IHth of January, lfciiO.
While we have been cheered and gladdened
by the progress already made, and the good
alteadv done, and while we rejoice to observe
that friends have been raised up to plead the
cause of the hondmaii among persons, and in
quarters w here we had least expected them,
we still see the “harvest to bo great and the
laborers to be few,*’ and instead of relaxing
our efforts, we are impressed with a sense of
the duty of doubling our diligence, and ap
plying more closely our energy to the means
of advancing this holy cause.—We appeal the
more boldly to our friends because those for
whom we plead cannot [dead for themselves.
While we are surrounded by our domestic
circle, with none to molest or make us afraid, i
tlmre are three millions of men and women in
our own land, doomed to abject Slavery and
chains, robbed of every right—civil—social—
personal—and political. Remembering those
in bonds as bound with them, we desire to j
plead their cause as though they were on our
ow n limbs, and the knotted lash were applied
to our own backs.
While to obtain means tor enlightening the
public mind, is the strong motive for holding
our annual Fair, it is not the only one. A
great amount of good may be traced directly
to such occasions. Many who are now ac
tive workers in behalf of this holy movement
became first interested in it through the in- 1
strumeiitality of those annual exhibitions of
anti-slavery industry, tact and skill.
The present object of the Rochester anti
slavery Bazaar is for the general enlighten
ment of the public mind on the subject ofsla
very. Recognizing the North Star, (published
in this city) as an efficient Anti-Slavery in
strumentality, we propose that the funds raised
by the Sale of articles at the Bazaar (on
behalf of which we here appeal) shall be 1
mainly appropriated to the support of that j
important paper.
We gatefully acknowledge the prompt as-
sistance rendered to our last hair by our
friends anil coadjutors in various parts of our
own State, Wisconsin, and Michigan, and we
earnestly solicit their continued co-operation
with us in the good wotk. 1 hat no time may
be lost, we especially recommend to them the
immediate formation of sewing circles in their
various towns with a view to making aiticies
for the Rochester Bazaar. We would also
in this connection render our heartfelt thanks
to our British friends for the valuable aid ex
i tended by them to our last year’s Fair arid
I we would again warmly solicit their generous
assistance. It is due to our trans-Atlantic
friends to say that for much of the interest felt
in our last Bazaar we were indebted to them,
and we are persuaded that their continued
co-operation will essentially piomote the suc
cess of our approaching -December Bazaar,
and the advancement of the cause of the slave
in our land.
We hope that the foregoing appeal will
commend itself to out philanthropic friends on
both sides of the Atlantic, and that they will
cordially unite with us in the effott here pro
posed
Signed on behalf uf the 1 air 1 omnuttee,
AMY POST.
Appeul of the Philadelphia Association
The‘-Women’s Association of Phtladel
phia” appeal to a benevolent public, and to
the friends of the Slave everywhere, to aid
them in their approaching Fair, the ob
ject of which is to sustain the “North Star
To those who are familiar w ith the page- of
this paper it is unnecesarv to speak of its
merit. To those who have not seen it we
may say, that we regard it as one of the very
best anti-slavery instrumentalities now m the
1 field-
e are the more interested in it, because
the editor is one of our oppressed race, and
admirably qualified by his talents, and moral
worth, to perform with credit the arduous
task of editing a papei devoted to our eleva
i tion. We believe and uu*l Out our friends
I will give us their liberal aid.
To our own people we look earnestly ank
hopefully. Sisters, Brothers, shall we food
in valid The iron has entered into vo«r souls
Ye go heavily, bowed down to the verv dust,
dispirited, crushed by the weight of oppres
sion Ye hear the taunts of the enemy,
“They are so ignorant and unrefined they
are jealous of one other' Yes they unite
but it is oolv to put down one who is more
intellectual than the mass’ Prove by the
unerring language of conduct that these as
sertions so often thrown in owfrew are roa
15>,0u. slanders. Sustain F
cause his ulenta tod correct principle* de
mand your respect and confidence Sustain
him because it isn*ht to do so, and because
of the sweet peace the performance of so wo.
thy an action will assuredly bnng U into your
bosoms.
The Fair will hr heU ou Uiu»umi» week.
Donations for it may be sent to
H ARRJET SMITH, 31® L-wtbsrd-sweet,
RACHEL LLOYD, 303 Pine tie, t,
AMY M CASSET. 113 Lombard-street,
Or to any member of the Amomtmn.
Eu..«th Am, 1-™* A*»
B.mot*. lOttvßl..,
Lo,i-» Btotou, H*i w W. 0.,
Bi.tivu tu'/
Ciuwwrrs Mill*.
SARAH M. POL'ULASS, Cm.
No £4 llailberry st.
bth 25*
t&K :.f v
J
Colonisation-—The banjue “Hum*/* ml
th« port, chiflered by the American CWadN
utK>o s©e:ctv. wh.ch sailed from Savannah
on ibe 4th May, with I<l piMMg«i«. am»«l
at Sinoe. Liberia, on the CTth June Wr
have seen a letter from the captain. is which
tie -ays that two of the passenger*, children,
ted oa the passage. Both of them had been
Nek from thetr birth. The test of the pasam
gets were in good health V. Jimr. of
Owt.
0" From the How, H V. P. Brook*. Atreat!
for the Illinois and Michigan Canal Parke* Boat
Cu«npanv.
Cmc *eo. Jane 24th. I£«S.
Dr. W. B. Sloan—Dear Sir For the b*t 30
rear* I bare lad oerasioo to use imn\ horse.*, ami
have used the grest variety ot Linuoeats ami Oint
■mli is use. hut hare never found utjflhag opal
to your Ointment for injuries on bones. W ithin
the last two month* 1 have applied \*ur Ointment io
Is Mai SO bora* nr various iijvin and is even
instance it has proved a sovereign remedy.
or See Agents’ names at the head of Sloan’s
Colnma. For further particulars awl tr*tiiuo»i.il*,
get aptnplet.* of agent*.
Dr. Wtmtt'i Bttiiv or Wun Chfrrv,
j'gr Consumption of tk- Lungs, Liter Compfiamt.*,
t'j* ffu, C«tds, Astkm%. Brvnctutu, Cramp. IVfcwpmg
CoHf*, inAnen :.i, 4*c. —Thi« infallible remedy was
discovered some ten year* ago. Since that time it has.
by its own merits, been rapidly, surely, and safely
working it* way through the opposition of .piacks
and counterfeiter*. until hr its true value and in
trinsic excellence, it ha* gamed for itself a two**!
enviable popularity and established itself in tbc con
fidence of an intelligent and enlightened public,
from one end of the continent to tlie oilier. Ihe
testimony of thousands wlk> have been relieved rind
cured by this valuable article, will show that it
stand." unrivalled —at the head of all other medicine?
i for the care of disease* for which it is recommen
ded. The genuine Dr. Wistai’s Ralsaut ol Wild
Cherrv is now for sale by duly appointed agent.*,
and all respectable dealers in medicine, in all iarge
cities and importau towns throughout the I nited
Stales, Canadas, and the British Province*,
introduced in the vear 1838. awl has heeu wHI
Caution. The orignal and only genuine W IS-
T.AR’S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY, was
tested in all the complaints for which it i* recom
mended. For, ten years, it has provevl more effica
cious a* a remedy for Cough*, Cold*, lnfloenta.
Bronchitis, Asthma, and Consumption in its in
cipient stages, than any other medic.ne.
Always signed I BUTTS on the wrapper.
An Evening at Home
Not going to the ball V said Mrs. Lindley,with
a look and tone of surprise. What has come ovei
the girlT’
•f don’t know, but she says she is not go
ing.’
Doesn't her ball dress fit
Yes. beautifully.’
What is the matter, then
Indeed, ma, I cannot tell. You had better g<
up and see her. It is the strangest notion in thi
world. Why, you couldn’t hire me to stay a
home.
Mrs. Lindley went up stairs, and entering hei
daughter’s room found her sitting on the side o
the bed, with her beautiful ball dress in hei
hand.
‘it isn’t possible, Helen, that you are not going
to this ball V she said.
Helen looked up with a half serious,half smiling
expression on her face.
I’ve been trying, for the last half hour,’ sh<
replied, to decide whether 1 ought to go or eta;
at home. 1 think, perhaps, 1 ought to remain a
home.
But what earthly reason can you*have for do
ing so 7 Don’t you like your dress
O yes very much. 1 think it beautiful.’
‘Doesn’t it fit you
As well as any dress I ever had.’
Are you rot well
•Very well.’
Then why not go to the ball It will be the
largest and most fashionable of the season. You
know your father and mysolfare both going. We
shall want to see you there, of course. Your father
will require some very good reason for your ab
sence.’
Helen looked perplexed at her mother’s last re
mark.
Do you think father will be displeased if 1 re
main at home she aAed.
I thiuk he will, unless you can satisfy him that
your reason for so doing is a very good oue. Nor
shall 1 feel that you are doing right, I wish all my
children to act under the government of sound
judgement. Impulse, or reason not to be spoken
of 'freely to their parents should in no case influ
ence their actions.’
Helen eat thoughtful lor more than a min
ute, and then eaid, her eyea growing dim as she
spoke—
I wish to stay at home for Edward’s sake.’
And why for hie, my dear
‘He does not go to the ball you know.’
Because he is too young and backward. You
couldn’t hire him to go there. But, that is nc
reason why you should remain at home. You
would never partake of any social amusement,
were Uua always to influence you. Let him spend
hie evenings in reading. He must not expect hit
sisters to deny themselves all recreation in which
he cannot or will not participate.’
‘He does not. 1 know he would not hear tc
such a thing as my staying at home on his ac
count.'
Then why stay
Because I feel ihst I ought to do so. This ia
the way i have felt all day, whenever 1 have
thought of going. If l were to go, I know that
1 would not have a moment's enjovment. He
ueed not know why remain at home. To tell
him tbit 1 did not wish to go will satisfy hii
mind.’
•1 shall not urge the matter. Helen.’ Mrs.
Lindley euid, after e silence of some momenta.—
you are old enough to judge in a matter of thia
kind for yourself. But 1 must say 1 think you
rather foolish- You will uol find Edward disposed
to sacrifice so much for you.’
*Of that Ido not think, mother. Of that 1
ought not to think.’
Perhaps not. Well you may do as you like.
But 1 do not know what your father will say.’
Mrs. Lindley then left the room.
Edward Lindley was at the critical age of eigh
teen, that period when many young men.e»pe
ciu'ly thoee who have been bieseed with a Kt*u»i
would have highly enjoyed a ball. But Edwanj
was shy, buahlal, and timid iu company, nn<
could hardly ever be induced to go out to partiei
with his sisters. Still, he was intelligent for hit
years, and companionable. His many good qua!
iUes endeared him to hie family, and drew forth
from his sister toward him a very tender regard.
Among hie male friends was several about hit
own age, members of families with whom hn
owa was on friendly terms. With these he associat
ed frequently, and with two or three others quite
intimately. For a month or two, Helen noticed
that oue and another of these young friends called
every now and then for Edwsrd, and that he went
out with them, end stayed till bed time. Out un
less bis Meter went ftom home he never went out
of hie own accord. The tact of hie betug oat had
from the first troubled Helen, though the reason
of her feeling troubled she could not tell. Edward
had good principles, and she could not bring her
self to entertain (ears of any clearly defined eriL
Bull, a sensation of uuea*u**a» was always pro
duced when hu was away in the evening.
iter knowing that Edward would ge out after
they had all left, was the reason why Helen did
Mi wish to attend the bail The first thought of
thw produced an uupleaeent sensation in her mind,
which increased, the longer eke debited the ques
tion of going away 01 remaining at home. I'inafty
•he decided that she would not go. The decision
took place after the interview with her mother,
which WMonly half an hour from the Ume of
fterting.
Edward knew nothing of tho intentions of his
sister. Hs was in his room, dressing to go oat,
and aoppoaed, when he hoard the carriage drive
fcpm the door, that Helen had gone with the other
members of the family. On descending to the
parlor he wea surprised to find her setting at the
center table with a book in her hand.
Helen la this you I thought you had gone
to the ball. Are you not well T* he said quickly
and with surprise, coming up to her side.
1 am very well, brother,' she replied, looking
Into his face with a smile of sisterly regard. But
1 have concluded to stay at home this evening
I'm going to keep vou company.*
Are you indeed nghtglad am lof it! though
I am eorry vou have deprived yourself of the pleas
ure of this ball, which I believe, to be a very bril
liant one. I was just going out because it is so
dull at home when you are all away.'
'I am not particularly desirous of going to ths
ball—so little so. (hat thd thoughts of your being
left here ail alone had sufficient influence over me
Ukeep me away.’
Indeed \Vell I must say that you are kind,’
Edward returned, with feeling. The self-sacrific
ing act of his sister had touched him sensibly.
Both Helen and her brother played well. She
upon the hup and piano, and he upon the flute
and violin. Both were fond of music, and prac
ticed and played frequently together. Part of the
evening was spent in this way, much to the satis
faction of each. Then an hour passed in reading
and conversation, after which music was again
retorted to. Thus passed the time pleasantly un-;
til the hour for retiring came, when they separat
ed, both with an internal feeling of pleasure much
more delightful than they had experienced for a
long time.
Time passed on. Edward Lindley grew up,
and became a man of sound principle—a blessing
to his family and society. He saw his sister well
married; and himself led to the alter by a lovely
maiden. She made him a truly happy husband, i
On the night of the wedding, as he sat beside
Helen, he paused for tome time, in the midst of
a pleasant conversation, thoughtfully. At last he
staid—
•Do you remember, sister, the night you staid
at home from the ball to keep me company.’
•That was many years ago. Yes, 1 remember
it well, now you have recalled it to my mind.’
1 have often since thought, Helen,’ he said,
with a serious air, that by the simple act of thus
remaining at home for my sake, you were the
means of saving me from destruction.’
How so V asked the sister.
1 was just then beginning to form an intimate
association with young men of my own age,nearly
all of whom have turned out badly. I did not care
a great deal about their company; still, I liked
society, and used to be with them frequently—es
pecially when you and Mary were out in the even
ing. On the night of the ball, to which you were
going, these young men were to have a supper,
and I was to have been with them. I did not wish
particularly to join them, but preferred doing so
to remaining at home alone. To find you,as 1 did
so unexpectedly, in the parlor, was an agreeable
anrprise indeed”. I staid at home with a new pleas
ure which was heightened by the thought, that it
was your love for me that made you deny vour
self for snv gratification.
Wo read together on that evening, we played to
gether and talked of many things. In your mind 1
iiad never seen so much to inspire my own with
high and pure thoughts. I remembered the conver
sation of the young men with whom 1 had been as
sociated, and in which I had taken pleasure, with
something like disgust. It was low,sensual, and
too much of it demoralizing. Never from that
hour did 1 join them. Their way, even in the
early stage of life’s journey’, 1 saw to be down
ward; and downward it haß ever since been tend
ing. How often since have I thought of that point
in time, so fully fraught with good and evil influ
ences. Those few hours spent with you seemed
to take scales from my eyes. I saw with a new
vision. I thought and felt differently. Had you
gone to the ball, and I to meet those young men,
no oue can tell what might have beou the conse
quences. Sensual indulgences carried to excess,
amid songs and sentiments calculated to awaken
evil instead of good feelings, might have stamped
upon my young and delicate mind a bias to low
affections that never would have been eradicated.
That was the starting point in life, the period when
1 was coming into a state of rationality and
freedom. The good prevailed over the evil; and
j by tho agyncy of my sister, as an angel sent by the
Author of all benefits to save me.
Trades and Professions.
There is good sense and profitable instruction
in the following article, from the Philadelphia in
quirer.- t
A correspondent in the interior of the State
informs us that he has a son who is very anx
ious to become a merchant, a lawyer, or a mem
ber of some other polished and elevated profes
sion. But, (adds the father) niy boy, while quite
as intelligent as lads generally, is not remarkably
so, and, inasmuch as 1 havo but one son, and am
in a fair business myself--a country store-keeper
—1 hesitate as to submitting him to the tempta
tions of metropolitan life. My own judgment is
that he had better follow in the footsteps of his fa
ther, become a useful member of society in the
circle in which he now moves and mingles, and
not by false pride or mistaken ambition, wander
away”from his true sphere, and perhaps become
a victim to some habit or vice to which he is now
a stranger. Am l right? C f an you give me any
advice on the subject.
In our judgment our corresponcent is perfectly
correct. If his son, in addition to hie ambition,
had manifested extraordinary talents, it would
have been the duty of tho father to afford him a
full opportunity for their development and culti
vation. But, inasmuch as his intellectual facul
ties are but ordinary, he should not bo tempted
beyond his proper sphere, or induced by a tatal
vanity to venture into an arena for the fearful
struggle of which he is not suited. Trade in this
country are too much neglected. It is another
mistake in parents to suppose that a boy’, in be
coming a mechanic, unfits himself tor some high
er, or perhaps we should say, moro intellectual
pursuit. This is not the case. Talent, like wa
ter, will always find its level. Some of the most
distinguished men of the country —statesmen,
philosophers, philanthropists—started as humble
mechanics, arlizans, tradesmen or farmers. 1 his
can be readily ascertained on turning to the early
histories of many of the most eminent men in our
land.
What a boy most requires is, first a proper mo
ral basis—second, habits of industry. Give him
these, with a fair education, and his character will
develop itsef, whether he be a mill boy’ iu Vir
ginia, or a wagoner’ in Ohio’; whether born in
one extremtiy of the Union or the other. Our
men of enterprise are, in niue cases out of ten,
the childrtn of poverty —compelled by the force
of circumstances to depend upon their own re
sources, and to struggle against all the anxieties,
difficulties and perils which beset the upper path
of fame.
•The boy,’ it should be remembered, ‘is father
to the man’ in more senses than one—and there
fore it is that early training, proper hat iu in
youth, an active, buoyant, determined spirit, are
all important, it is said of the late sage of Quin
cy, that bis last words to his son were, ‘a stout
heart, a clear conscience, and never despair.’—
This doctrine covers the whole ground. And
yet parents are apt to make fearful mistakes with
regard to proper pursuiU for their children. The
careful aud thoughtful selection of a calling or
profession, is one of the most responsible duties
of life. We thus at once direct, iu some sense,
the future existence of beiogs over whom we have
the greatest control, and who naturally look to ns
with respect and confidence. How careful should
we be not to commit a mistake! not to sacrifice a
son’s happiness on the altsr of false pride! Who
cannot point out intelligent citizens in this com
munity who have taught their sons to despise la
bor, to regard honest industry as a reproach! Alas
what a false, what a criminal error—an error that
may involve unhappiness for years—poverty, dis
sipation, misery, aud their fearful attendants.”
Heroic Act.—Tho Binghampton Republican
i tells the following story: An incident occurred
at the late fire iu this village worthy of notice.—
The devouring element had wrapped the whole
of the interior of the store in flames, and the he
j roic firemen had began to despair of saving ths
block, when it was whispered there was a quan
tity of powder in the building. The stoutest
hearts were quailing before this new danger,
when a fireman, Mr. James Halstead, seized a
lantern, and forcing the clerk (who slept ta the
store and knew where the powder was) to accom
pany him, eutefed lh« cellar, and groping his way
with his terrified companion, soon appeared again,
amid the breathless suspense of the few who
knew his fenrful errand bearing a keg of pow
der, charred with the rapidly advancing flames!
We understand, ««ye the Boeton Tran»cript.
that Capt Taggart, of Charlestown, lias com
pleted bw Plying Machine, on which he has been
engaged for many years He proposes to make
a public exhibition of it to-da).
Fron tbs Rochester Dlttf ttetsoem
Tht Ih4Um Mawr.
The flown were «oe*.
The tout* wihd—tbcfrlwUnfertot him W.
With their sweet spirits, and with aotsetsss weed
Cone Wlaeer eoM mud wo.
The own no more
Kissed with her dewy Its the landscape ptm,
Nor strewed with mj tied pma and brilliant ■horn.
Of netted frost work how.
Slowly her flres
In Uwfray east she lit; hogging hi rein
For nutn incense, end leetodloe* strain
Of nch-toned forest chotn.
Bui u will flow
Bark lo the cheek of beauty a dim Uooat.
Which teem to mock the prawnco of the towh.
Though tide obbe Wat ood tow;
Hoof! tie da ye
Nature baa bloomed egoiat end ee ef old
Amid her haunts logorgeoue robes of gold
The nailing Sommer strays.
Hhe comes to Meat
Our hearts with old time owmnrho wild and deep.
Whilst in her soft embrace earth seems to sleep.
In (item ksrlinea*.
From roe fai bill.
Faintly the long-drawn plaint of the ahy quail
Floats ccbo-like uf on the mellow gate',
While to the ehrystal rill,
in the old wood.
Tbc graceful deer bends low hie lordly crest.
And naif affrighted pauses oft 10 list
The tinkling of the flood.
In Use Mill noon.
From some green knoll, the eye, of plains ud glades
And dreamy landscape, drinks such joy, that fades
The dim light too soon.
Tbc bright spell
Is round, and beamy’s wand has waved again.
And bathed In misty glory each dark glen.
And modest mossy dell.
Oh! when the day
Of life wanes fast, an l hope has ceased to burn
With steady ray, may youth’s bright glow return
To cheer my saddened way,
As to the year
Come* the sweet summer-spirits 10 breath once more
Its fragrance round the haunts it loved of yore,
Tltough faded all and drear.
A Somnambulist Stsry.,
From the Paris Correspondent of the London Atlas,
la tho month of November last, a young girl
named Eulalie M— ,of the age of 15, wasbro’t
to one ot'the hospital! of Paris while laboring un
der a most alarming attack of catalepey. The case
was a most curious one, and the mother of the girl
declared that she waa subject to this disease, but
had never been afflicted for so long a period to
gether, having been 4 days and 4 nights without
consciousness. The doctors of the establishment
were,of course, enchanted with this tonne anomie,
and lorlhwith began to experimentalize, and to
provo and test a hundred different methods of cure
which, nevertheless, had all been exhausted before
the poor patient was restored to herself. Such,
however, was the debilitated state in which the
disease, or rather the remedies,” had left her,
that she was compelled to remain for sometime
longer in the hospital to regain her strength.
It was during this convalescence that a pheno
menon of the most extraordinary nature wat wit
nessed in poor Eulalie, which caused the greatest
perplexity and confusion among the nurses and
doctors in attendance upon her. She was seized
with an unceasing, ungovernable flow of speech,
—words flowed in a torrent from her lips; night
and day, sleeping or waking, it w’as all the same.
With persons of her age and sex, nothing is more
common; but, gentle reader, it was the subject of
her discourse, which was so extraordinary, and
which caused even the oldest and most experi
enced of the medical advisers gathered round her
bed to turn aside, 60ine in wrath, others in confu
siou—it was the complete unveiling of every tho’t
and desire which was passing through the mind of
whoever approached within a certain distance of
her bed.
Tho evil grew to such a height—so many secrets
got afloat—so many suspicions had grown into
certainty by this means, that it was deemed expe
dient to dismiss the patient before a complete
schism was created among the authorities of the
hospital. Every celebrity in the magnetic science
had been summoned to visit the girl, and all had
declared that never before had a subject, possess
ing such extraordinary powers of clairvoyance,
been met with. Every one of the professors, of
course, contended for the honor of bringing her
into public notice; but the yeuug assistant of the
hospital, who attended her in the first instance,
became the happy man, and bore off the treasure
to an obscure lodging near the Rue St. Jacques,
giving up, for her sake, and for the dream ot for
tune, promised by the wonderful faculty which
she possessed, his present situation and the cer
taintv of advancement he had acquired by many
years’ study and steadfast attention to his arduous
profession.
For awhile everything prospered with the young
codple. All Paris flocked to hear the revelations
of the sybil, and her house was flocked from morn
till night with eager inquirers. About a year ago
Madame do 8 well known by her eccentric
researches in every kind of science, became so en
thusiastic in her admiration for Eulalie, that she
insisted upon her taking up her abode with her, in
order to aid in certain occult works upon which
she was engaged—the end and aim being directed
to no less an obiect than the discovery of all the
buried treasures whicii existed throughout France.
It would appear that the revelations of the fair
Euluke were of such a nature as to satisfy the
most goldeu anticipations of Madame de 8
Hundreds of visions, more gorgeous than imag
ination could supply, burst one by one upon the
sleeping sense of tlie somnambulist; but of all
those which were thus laid open to the greedy
anticipations of the consullunte, none seemed to
oft'er such irnmeuso and certain chance of splen
dor as that which was beheld at the Chatecq of
('lndus.
These ruins, so celebrated in English soag, be
came forthwith the object of a pilgrimage, and
the Marquis de 8 repaired thither with the
firm intention of purchasing the ruins, if they
were to be had for love or money.
But the owner cared not a whit for the first, so
far as the Marquise was concerned at least, and a
great deal too much for the second; so that the
affair was rather more difficult to manage than
Madame do S had anticipated. Nothing,
however, is impossible tu tlioje who are gifted with
a will firm ana resolute as that of the stout-heart
ed Marquise; and the bargain was struck at an
enormous sacrifice on her part, the only condition
being the removal of the rubbish which encutn-:
bered the entrance to the principal dungeon of the r
castle, where, so the persuasion existed,the whole,
of the treasure was contained. The imp&tieuce
of the lair purchaser was so great that, fearing
the customary delay in all French proceedings,
*be insisted upon tho performance of this part of
tho bargain before she would consent to sign the
contract. i
Accordmglv, workmen were sent to commence
the task at once, when, lo! by the very stroke of
the hammer which loveled to the ground the rem
nant of the old wall that barred ail access to the
dungeon, a recess was discovered hollowed iu the
stone, and in the recess a casket of iron, curious
ly wrought in the fashion of the Greek empire,
which casket being opened, was found to contain
a diamond of wonderful magnitude, and of the
first water. It is said to be six times lsrger than
the Legem, and of a lustre unrivalled by any stone
known as yet to the world. The value of the
treasure is supposed to he at least 15,000,000 of
francs.
Readable if not Believeable.
Important if Tacx”— Clairvotakt discov
ert of Sir John Franklin’s Whereabouts
—We stated the other day that a proposition had
actually been made to Lady Franklinn. tostaitoff
in a steam b&loon, to look up her lost husband
amid the icy regions of the far north. Looking
over a file of English papers brought by the last
steamer, we find some very remarkable revelations
i raid to have been made by a certain young lady,
under the affluence of mesmerism, in reference
to the whereabouts of the missing navigator,
which we transfer lo our columns as a fitting
corollary to the cnal absurdity.
From the Manchester Guardian,
••Sir:—ln the Manchester Guardian of Satur
day last, (29th September,) you have inserted a
short notice of inquiries recently made of the Bol
ton clairvoyant* respecting the fate of Bir John
J Franklin, which, besides being essentially incor
rect, seems calculated unnecessarily to increase
the uneasiness felt by his friends regarding him.
As a party concerned. I feel it a duty, therefore,
thougii with some reluctance, to communicate tbe
real facts to you, ia detail if disbelieved their
publication can do no barm; and if ever so tittle
credited, they are rather encouraging th* P other
Wise
Being east into a mesmeric Mate, than, this
woman asserted positively that Sir John Franklin
w mil abvs. and now comparatively well. He
has undergone free' haidships, but has overcome
them* and is in good hope ef getting to England
ia nine months aud a half, provided ae nnforseen
accident occurs. Tbe difference between the ap
parent lime where He is and at Bohan m nearly
six hours, indicating e difference of leogitede ef
from 85 to 90. And afterwards, when mill, he
it.g stiff ra the m*-»u*ertc state, to endeavor to point
lau the map where he ia, ah* pot her finger on the
north-west side ef Hudson's Buy. which In net
very far from this longitude, though the amp he
mg on a very small scale, and very inconvnnieal
It bawd »p. volume ef the Funny Cycbpar
iL «ad requested by bar to be raised <w her heed.
K 4 bald to her eyes, end thus reversed, no fery
nurm indication could he w oUuntd.
“As she is perfectly uninetructed, and unable
area to raad or write, it acetaa scarcely possible to
aaennoe that die can know any thing of niaps
whatever; and. farther, the indication thoa ©b
taiaed. both by difference of time and her point'
iag oa the map, took tho byetoadera quite by aar
pnaa. They bad not the lenat idoa of looking for
Sir John in this direction. And if hia ahipa hare
been wrecked or abandoned on the west coast of
Boothia or towards Victoria Land, it is poaaible.
though it may appear to ne unlikely, that he may
have tried to retnm to the eastward of Boothia,
which when he departed, wea anppoacd to be an
•land And if he haa aocceeded m overcoming
the very graat difficulties which moat have attend*
od each n route, this ie precisely the direction in
which he weald appear. And farther, if be got
tltia length ieo late in the seeeen to save the Hud*
son’s Bay Company’a autumn ship, hia own im
pression would natarally be that he woald be de
taiaed till the ensuing spring, which weald just
make up the nine months specified before he ex
pected to be in England: this period not having
been given by the clairvoyants as a prophecy, but
as the impression on her mind, with which she
professed to have some mysterious means of coin*
muincation
It is true that she said that he had only three
persons with him; but other parties of his men are
following in the same direction, though some way
separated from him. She saw also the shells
(dead bodies) of others in different postures under
the snow. And she described graphically enough
the deer, wild cattle, wild men, and rough tangled
forests that she passed in going to him, with an
animal striped down the back and sides, which
leaps very far, and may be the panther or wild
cat
She also professed to go and visit his ships,
one of whom she said was under water, with very
thick timbers, the other above it. And an old
letter being also possessed from Sir James Ross,
she went to visit him too. For this purpose she
said she had to go much further. He is fast in
the ice. and unabled to turn his ship round, but
he intends returning to England when he can.—
She added that it was snowing heavily when she
saw him; he had not seen Sir John Franklin.
The difference between his apparent tf ne and
that of Bolton was nearly eight hoars, correspond
ing to 110 deg. to 115 deg. W., and when requir
ed subsequently to show the place on the map,
she pointed to Bankes’ Land almost at once, a
position fall of probability.
Sir James Ross, she says, is well, but much
annoyed at being stopped. Another ship is not
far from him, ana neither of them have sailed yet
Bat there is a third ship much nearer, uuder sail
and coming apparently from their direction; her
difference of time is only two hours and a half
corresponding to 35 degress to 40 degrees west
[Can this be the transport sent last spring to re
new their supplies? She mentioned this ship first
herself; only one person in the room knew that
such a vessel had been sent out; and, in his in
terest for the principal persons concerned; he had
not thought of the transport sent to their relief till
this third ship was mentioned.
She expressed great astonishment at finding
the clocks differ so much, and said they should
be sent to the watchmaker to put them right.—
She also described Sir James Ross as being stout
er than Sir James Franklin, and in better case
(“more squash” were her words;) Sir John’s
cheeks, she said, are somewhat sunk through his
fatigue, but his health is good, and he has now
abundance to eat. Her description of his person
was otherwise sufficiently near, and she respect
fully mentioned hiß being bald.
“These, then, were the principal statements
that were thus elicited; many other details were
added, not without interest, but this communica
tion is already too long. Including the mesineri
ser, four gentlemen were present during the mosl
of the time they were collected. They will gain
various degrees of present credit, according to the
temperament of those who may receive them; in
truth, it would seem premature at present to place
much reliance upon them, though in these days
when we make the lightning carry our messages
and the sun take our portraits, it is very difficult
to draw the precise line betwixt the possible and
the impossible. In any case it would be for the
interest of truth that they are recorded when col
lusion is impossible. 1 enclose my card to au
thenticate my letter, but I do not wish my name
published.
“I am sir, your most ob’t ser’vt. m.”
[in reference to the preceding letter, we are
desirous of saying, with a view of guarding oui
opinions on the subject from misconception, that
we vouch for nothing beyond the unexceptionable
authority, as to facts, and the writer, who is an
officer of rank in tho royal navy.]
[Edinburgh Guardian.
A New Article of Fuel.— Our attention was
drawn a few days since to a load at the door of a
citizen in Albany, which in appearance resem
bled unburnt bricks. Upon inquiry, we found
that it was an article of fuel, manufactured in the
vicinity of Newton’s Corners, a few miles out of
the city, from a swampy piece of low land which
furnishes an article much resembling peat. We
learn that this muck or peat is thrown into a mill
and ground, then pressed in the shape of bricks
for the purpose of thoroughly drying, when it is
ready for use. it is considered to be quite as
cheap as hard coal, and preferable to either coke
or coal for grates, there being no gas or smoke
from it. Thousands of tons have already been
taken from a single acre in the above vicinity, af
fording a nice profit to the owners and manufac
turers. [Troy Budget
Vallasls Table—The following tabla will
assist the agriculturist in calculating the number
of plants or trees which may be planted on a giv
en piece of ground, at any distance apart. It may
also assist him in the distribution of manures, di
visions of beds, &c. An acre ot ground contain*
53,550 square feet. An acre will contain at these
distances apart
Feet apart Plants. Feet apart. Plants.
1 43,560 12 302
14 19.360 15 193
2 10,890 18 114
24 6,960 20 108
3 4.840 21 98
4 2,722 24 75
5 1,742 25 69
6 1,210 27 59
9 597 39 48
10 435 40 27
Sisgular Discovert. —While some workmen
were engaged in digging away a hili belonging to
Mr. Williams, at Green Point, L. 1., last week,
they discovered a cell made of cedar, six feel
wide and eight feet high, containing some salt,
hay, and a bottle filled with a liquid resembling
brandy in appearance, but of an oily taste. No
entrance to the cell could be discovered, and the
“oldest inhabitant” was not able to account foi
how it pqme there. Some skulls were also foumi
near the same plaee, to wnie i oysters had attach
ed themselves and grown firmly.
Agricultural College. —lt is understood that
the Commissioners appointed last winter by the
Legislature, pursuant to the Governor’s recom
mendation, will, at the approoemng session, make
a report in favor of the establishment of an Ag
ricultural College. [Buff. Adv.
An immense Whig Mass Meeting was held at
New Orleans on the evening of the 20th met. It
was altogether, the papers say, one of the mosi
enthusiastic demonstrations of the kind the Cres
cent City has witnessed for manv yean.
Givisg Battle to a Wolf.— On Wednesday
evening, the 17th insL, Rev. J. E. Edwards, ol
Norfolf, Vs., married Mr. George W. Battle, ol
Richmond, to Miss Caroline A. Wolf, of the for
mer place.
Bteau.— A clever writer in the Charleston
Mercury, “The Home Tourist.” quotes the pro
phetic lines gf Darwin, with regard to the powei
and progress of steam. Dr. D. wrote in 1790.
Truly, as the ideal Abbot of the Mercury says,
“the poets are tour onlv true prophets.”
“Sooe shall ihjr arm, uieonquered swan, afrr
Drag the slow t>ar*e, or dn*e the rapid car;
Or oe wide waving wings expanded, toar
The flying chariot through the fields of air.
Fair crew* triumphant, ieaoinc from above,
Shall wave their fluttering 'herehetf* a< they move,
Or warrior bonds alarm the gapina crcu
And armies ahriah beneath the shadowy (Mi
A Scare is Cocut. —Tho Cincinnati Com
mercial tolls a mod story of a scone in s court ol
that city. We give the story as that paper (elk
Not a bud anecdote is told of Esq. Wick BaO
A cuss of assault and battery came before tun
•sma time since, sad after as esusniuuiiou ef tw<
or three witnesses, one of them, whom the ’squin
bed questioned rather sharply, become highly in
censed, nod, uncorking the vials of wrath, mk
he eaeld whip any mao that doubled hie word an
dor noth.
The ’eqaire palled eff hie spectacles, mad# t
loop over tho rnO, nod cried:
Tho court stands adjourned ltd the fight a
over,” and then, m a trice, hanieesed to the wit
■ass, end whipped him in sheet as quick time a*
be supposed to be agreoebio The betligeran
trim— being disuaoed ef, the ’squire very grave
ly coutfrnod the case, sad gave his dsoWea nr
cording to the evidence