Ltapiu tment Com Schools, Albany, Nov. SO
The Superintendent of Common
Schools tenders his most cordial con
gratulations to the people of the State,
on the recent adoption of the “Act for
the establishment of Free Schools
throughout the State,” by a majority so
strongly -indicative of the popular ap
preciation of the great interests involv
ed in the issue submitted. The whole,
number of votes cast for the new law is;
219,782, and the whole number against
it 91,951, showing a majority of 157,-
921. The unequivocal sanction thus
tnbr***a* Ui.. mkwlyH or xHa Univer
sal and Free Education of the youth of
the State, affords additional grounds of
reliance upon the efficacy of our repub
lican institutions, to accomplish the im
portant objects for which they were de
signed, aud demonstrates the entire
confidence which may at all times safe
ly be reposed in the intelligence and
virtue cl an enlightened community.—
The conviction is fully entertained by
the Superintendent, that by lnr the
larger portion even of those who felt
constrained to oppose the act in ques
tion, were actuated not by hostility to
the principle of Free Schools, but by
considerations drawn from objections,
whether well or ill founded, to the par
ticular details of the bill upon which;
they were specifically called to act.— i
These objections, it is confidently hoped
and expected, may be obviated either
by a more full explanation and under
standing of the provisions referred to,
or by future legislative action; and the
united efforts of the people, thereby
enabled to be put forth to sustain and
carry into successful operation, the new
and interesting feature thus engrafted
upon our system of public instruction.
To this end the Superintendent earnest
ly invokes the efficient co-operation of
every friend of Education, in its highest
a.id best sense, and of every citizen
who has at heart the welfare and pros
perity of our social, civil and religious
institutions, in the important task of or
ganizing and perfecting the details of
that system which has been so emphat
ically decreed by the popular will.
The following brief exposition of the
leading feature of the new act, is res
pectfully submitted to the consideration
of the inhabitants and officers of the
•tveral school districts throughout the
Siate, m the hope that it may aid in the
adoption of the requisite measures for
its practical administration.
The several provisions of the act,
u»«te effect immediately on the official
promulgation of the result of the vote
lor ana against the act, by the State
Canvassers.
1. By the first section of the act,
Common Schools in the several districts
of this State, are declared to be free tp
all persons residing in the district, over
five and under twenty-one years of age.
Non-residents of a district, ©ay be ad
rn.ued into the school with the appro
bation in writing oft i Trustees, or of
a majority of them. This approbation
should, however, be granted only to
special cases, as each district will be
required to make provision for the suit
able education and instruction of ell
the children within its limits, and this
burden should not he unnecessarily
augmented by receiving children from
other districts into the school. Nor
should the teacher who has been em
ployed to instruct the children of a par
ticular district, for a given compenaa-
Uon, be required to instruct un addi-j
tton a I number for whom provision has
already been made in the district where
they belong. Persons corniug into the
net, with the view of s temporary
"■•tdesco therein, for othtr purposes
than merely to attend the school— as
Jur instance, those hired by the mbabi-
Uau district to wstk, J©4 toying
THE NORTH STAR.
the privilege of attending school, whiU
so employed—are to ba regarded as, ii
all respects, members of the fcmilj
where they are hired, and as such, en
titled to all the privileges of the school
Mara boarders in tba district, for th«
purpose of attending in the schools, d<
oot come within this class.
2. The several Boards of Supervisors,
at thsir annual meetings, are required,
by the second section of the act,
caused to be levied and collected fron
their respective counties, in the sam<
manner ns county taxes, a sum equa
to ths amount of State School cnoneyi
apportioned to such counties, and to ap
portion the same among the towns and
cities in the same manner as the moneyi
received from the State are apportion
ed.'* They are also required to “cause
to ba levied and collected from each oi
the towns in their respective counties,
in the same manner is other tewn taxes,
a sum equal to the amount of State
School moneys apportioned to said
towns respectively." A circular hai
been prepared by the department to be
forwarded to the clerks of the several
boards of Supervisors, whose annual
meetings have not yet passed over,
specifying the amounts thus required tc
be raised in their respective counties.
Where the annual meetings have al
ready been held, the requisite addition
al amount can be raised only by a loan
to be authorized at a special meeting ol
the board, if deemed advisable, to be
addsd to ths amount to be levied on the
county at tho next angipal meeting.
3. The Trustees of the several school
districts are required, by the third sec
tion of the set as amendsd, within thirty
and not Isas than fifteen day* preceding
the time for holding the annual meeting
of the district, or of a special meeting
to be called by them, if they deem it
necessary, to "prepare an estimate oi
the amount of money necessary to be
raised in the district for the ensuing
year, for the payment of the debts and
expense* to be incurred by 9aid district'
for fuel, furniture, school apparatus,
repairs and insurance of school house,
contingent expenses, and teachers wa
ges, exclusive of the public money, and
the money required by law to be raised
by the counties and towns, and the in
come of local funds; and shall cause
printed or written notices thereof to be
posted for two weeks previous to said
meeting, upon the school bouse door,
and in three or more of the most public
places in said district."
Under this provision, where the an
nual meeting in any district has either
already been held, or stands adjourned to
a time rendering it impossible to prepare
the estimates, and give the notices requir
ed. nT J\ir' f fa hehtifl fovt
day of January next, it is recommended
to the Trustees immediately to call a
special meeting for the purpose of act
ing upon the estimates thus to be sub
mitted by them, giving at least fifteen
days' notice of such meeting, in the
mode now provided by law, and to pre
pare and post the estimates for the sup
port of Schools for the ensuing year.
The estimates should be explicit, full
and particular; and should be for at
least two terms of four months each.
The estimates for fuel, furniture, school
apparatus, repairs, insurance, contin
gent expenses, and teacher's wages,
after applying thejpublic money .should,
of course, be separate; and where prac
ticable, the particular items under each
head of expenditure should be specified;
as for instance, the number of cords oi
wood of a given length, green or dry,
the price per cord, the expense of pre
paring it lor the stove or fire-place, the
various articles of furniture and appa
ratus needed, the amount requisite for
insurance, and the amount per month
proposed to be paid to the teacher of
the Winter and Summer term. The
estimate for repairs and contingent ex
penses, cannot, of course, be particu
larly specified.
Care should be taken to make accu
rate copies of these estimates, and to
post them for two full weeks previous to
the meeting, on the school house door,
and in at least three of the most public
places in the district. The title may be
simply "Estimates of the amount of
money necessary to be raised in Dis
trict No. of the town of
for the support of Schools for the ensu
ing year," and the official signature o(
tba Trustees should bt appended at the
bottom. Tba notice for the special
meeting (which must be in writing, and
personally served upon ths legal voters
of the District, in the seme manner as
all other notice* for special meetings,)
should state specifically that the object
of the meetiog ia to pass upon the esti
mate made by the Trustees for the sup
port of the School* of the District for
tbs ensuing year.
4. At the time specified for the meet
ing, the Trustee* should be io atten
dance, for the purpose of submitting
end explaining the estimates made by
them, which must then be passed upon,
item by item, by the legal voters pres
ent, and adopted or rejected, wholly or
in pnrt. Where there is any conside
rable diversity of opinion in the District,
to reference to the whole or any por
tion of tho estimates, the vote should be
by ayes and nays.
The qualifications of voters at such
rtiog, are particularly prescribed in
third section of the eet. They must
he of full age, residents of the District,
sod, if aliens, entitled to bold lends in
this State, by having filed in the Secre
tary's Office, a certificate of their in
tention lo become citizen*. They must,
in addition to this, either Ist, ow%or
lease real property In the District, sub
ject to taxation for eehool purposes,
(whethsr the tax in p*id by themselves
or others, is of no consequence;) or,
2d, have paid a district tax within two
years preceding; or, fid, own personal
proparty habit to MwHop foe school
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR-GOD IS FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1849.
purposes io the District, exceeding $5O
in value, exclusive of such as is exempt
from execution. Either of these these
qualifications, in addition to that of full
age and residence in the District, and,
in ths esse of aliens, of being entitled
as above specified, to bold lands in tb«
State, is sufficient to constitute a legal
voter, at any school district meeting, sod
on any subject tbai may be brought
before such meeting, except in the sin
gle case provided for in 71, No. 20,
of he General School Law.
Each item of tho estimates presented
by the rTustec9, must be voted upon
separately, and so much of the estimate
as shall be approved by a majority ol
voters present, is to be levied and raised
b 7 a district tax, in the same manner
as other district taxes are bow by law
levied and collected. Theestimatea ot
the Trustees may, of course, be in
creased, diminished or varied, as a ma
jority of the legal voters present shall
determine.
5. If the Trustees neglect to prepare
the estimate within the time limited by
the act, or to post the required notices,
the inhabitants are authorized by the
fifth section, to aajourn to such other
time as will be sufficient to prepare
auch estimate and give such notices.—
Such adjournment should, in no case,
exceed one month.
0. Where the voters of any district
refuse or npglect to authorize the rais
ing of a sum which, in conjunction with
the public money, and the money rais
ed on the county and town, will support
a school for at least four months,
during the year preceding the next an
nual meeting of the district, keep the
school house in proper repair, and fur
nish the necessary fuel; the sixth sec
tion makes it the duty of the Trustees
to repair the school house, purchase
the necessary fuel, and employ a teach
er for four months, and to levy the ex
pense, of their own authority, upon the
taxable property of the district. In this
event, the tc hole, amount of the public
money, applicable to the payment of
teacher’s wages, must first be applied
to that object, arid the balance only,
including the expenses of providing fuel
and making necessary repairs, assessed
upon the taxable property of the dis
trict. No authority exists, and no
means are provided for sustaining the
school for any longer period than four
months, under such circumstances; and
the Superintendent, therefore, earnest
ly trusts that no district will fail to vote
the requisite amount for keeping up the
school for at least eight months, thereby
securing a fair and equitable distribu
tion of the public moiiy, between the
Winter and Summer term, and enabling
advantages of
the other.
7. In making their estimates for the
support of their schools for the ensuing
year, the trustees may and should in
clude the present tcinter term, although
commenced before the act took effect as
a law. The teacher’s wages do not
become due from the district or the
trustees, until the expiration of the term:
and in all cases where the term expires
subsequently to the official promulgation
of the act, such wages must be provided
for under the new law, and no rate bill
can be made out or collected for any
pontion of such wages.
8. Text books for the use of Schools
cannot be included in the estimates of
Trustees, or the vote of the inhabitants,
as a portion of the school apparatus.
In the copy of the set originally prepar
ed for the District School Journal,these
words were, through mistake, inserted
as a part of the act; they are not, how
ever, in the original act, and text books,
as heretofore, must be provided by pa
rents.
0. District collectors are required,
in all cases, before entering upon the
duties of their respective offices, to
“give security to the satisfaction of t|ie
trustees, for th£ faithful discharge .of
their duties," and to pay over alt mon
eys collected by them to the trustees of
their respective districts.
Upon receiving their warrants, they
are for two successive weeks thereafter
to receive such sum* as may voluntarily
be paid to them, with the addition of
one per cent, as their fees. After the
expiration of that time, they are to pro
ceed forthwith to collect the balance
remaining due. with five per cent, for
their fees; and in case a levy upon and
sale of property becomes necessary,
they are entitled to traveling fees, at
tbs rate of six cents per mile, to be com
puted from the eehool houses of their
respective districts.
10. In each of the Common, Public,
Ward and District Schools in the re
spective cities of the State, now incor
porated or hereafter to be incorporated,
including the Schools of tike Public
School Society in thw City of New
York, free and gratuitous education is
required to be given to each pupil, ac
cording to any laws to that effect now
in force in auch cities; and where pro
vision is not already made for auch free
and gratuitous education, laws and or
dinances are required without delay, to
be passed, "providing for and securing
and ewrtaining the system in each of
their Cwamon, Public, Ward or Dia»
trict Schoola.”
11. By the 6th section of the act,
"All laws and parts of laws inconsistent
with the provisions of this act, other
than those relating to Tree Schools in
any cities in this State, are hereby re
peated." m
12. Any Trustee or «»#r School
officer, wnoaball nee eitf money in hie
hands belonging tc
any other purpo** than the lawiffirerta,
and^oTcon vttt’wa, •chferted t^aSw
ceeding six months, or to both auch fine
and imprisonment.
CHRISTOPHER MORGAN,
Superintendent of Common Schools.
Fran tba Fleam* Bast.
SLATEKY IS A YfOLATfON OF
RIGHTS.
How selfish, how inhuman, how ut
terly destitute of mercy and right prin
ciples must be that individual, commu
nity, or nation, that can admit the right
of inan to claim property in the flesh
ind blood, and sinews and booes of his
fellow man, or to exact the fruits of hit
labors without returning ample compen
sation! Whv gave our fathers the
right to visit a distant land, capture
and enslave their equal brothers, sell
them in the shambles like brutrs, or
chain them down to a life ef toil, aod
five sumptuously on the productions ol
their unrequited labors? Who gave
the people of this generation the right
to bold in bondage the children of those
whom their fathers stole? Who gave
the government of t;.is nation the right
and power to sanction laws in favor of
such diabolical doings, to let the na
tion’s jails for slave pens, and permit
government officers to become blood
hounds, to hunt down such as dare es
cape from outrageous wrongs? Who
gave the right? Can any answer?—
Think ye who lend your influence to
support the government of this nation—
who gave you the right to aid in such
giganfic wrongs? If you cannot an
swer these questions to the satisfaction
of your own consciences, if you cannot
produce permits from the God of na
ture, sanctions from the throne of eter
nal right, thus to bind, rob and sell your
weaker brothers, ye are verily guilty j
of their blood. I can hardly restrain:
expressions of deep, soul-stirring ab
horrence when I reflect that in this na
tion of high professions and loud boast
ings of all that is holy, the right of man
oppress his fellow-man is for a moment
admitted. Slavery is a horrid stain on
the national character; her jails are the
shambles where human flesh-mongers
sell their Christian brothers and sisters
to the highest bidder! her churches are
brothels, where priests and laymen glut
their lusts on their helpless victims, and
still hold their standing as pious, hum
ble, pure-hearted Christians; and all,
in every section of the nation who lend
their influence to support a government
that permits slavery, are guilty of aid
ing in all manner of abominable sins
that ever disgraced the eartb. I know
this is severe, but I know equally well
that it is not severer than the truth. I
verily believe that if ail who read this
paper could see the monatrous^njustice
torn limb from limb before they*woife
move a finger to support a goverement
that not only permits, but even sanc
tions and protects it—they would be
torn in pieces with red hot pincers be-;
fore they would hold a standing in any
church whose members are permitted;
to participate in such heinous wrong.
Read the foltowiug from the Pennsylva
nia Freeman:
Liberty or Death. —The St. Louis
Union of August 20th, tells the story of
a slave, a young colored woman, who
was discovered concealed on board one
of the steamboats from St. Louis to
Cincinnati. The inhuman captain,
supposing her to be a fugitive slave,
secured and confined her, until leaving
Cincinnati on his backward trip, in
tending to return her to her masier.—
Learning that she was to be taken back,
while passing down the Ohio, she broke
from her confinement, and was drown
ed. While she was struggling in the
water, the boat was stopped, and great
exertions were made to rescue her, but
she sunk and was lost. “Whether she
was a slave, or free,” saya the Union,
“what led to the commission ot the fa-;
tal act, and who she waa, or where she!
belonged, remains a secret.”
COMPROMISES OF THE FEDERAL
CONSTITUTION.
We copy the following extract from
a portion of the late John Q. Adams’
Diary, under date of March 3d, 1620,
about the time of the Missouri Com
promise, so called. It has been drawn
before the public, chiefly on account of
a fact recorded in it, but denied by
John C. CaiboM, to the effect that in
1820, when Mr C. and Mr. Adams
were io President Monroe's Cabinet,
Mr. C. ga»« written opinion, that
Congress had power to interdict sla
very in the Territories. The discus
sions of that period were quite exciting
in Congress, and the Cabinet itself had
to manage prudently in order to keep
calm. Mr Adams had occasion to
converse somewhat freely with the oth
er member* of the he
seems to h*re thought much on the
subject of slavery and the compromi
ses of the Constitution ip its favor.—
H« appears to have made a copious en
try in his Piety relating to what wes
said and done, end of hit own reflec
tion* Read the following teerinfonr
from that departed statesman, and then
aay whether William Lloyd Gam tea
and his coadjutor, of ft»A»ertcaaAe
»»-Slavery Society are mmple-headed
fanatics for denouncing this Federal
Constitution as cotenwt wah earth
aod an agreement with b*U," whidMlU
true abolitionista ehould ehhor as they
shemfd slavery itaelf.",
“The impression producedu p«n my
mind by the progress of this Jjscuseioa
in, that the barge* betweeTfreedom
*nd alavcry.mmamedie
tMte of the United Stale*, m morally
SS ti^riwtedTSS
our
ud oppfMto bf **.‘*UB
the tyranny of the master; aod grc«|
ly unequal and impolitic, by adnuttdQ
that slaves are at once enemies to b<
kept in subjection, property to be se
cured or restored to their owners, ant
parsons not to be represented them
selves, but for whore their masters an
privileged with nearly a double than
of representation. The consequence
has been that this slave represents!tor
has governed the Union. Benjamin,
portioned above his brethren, hes ra
vened ax a wolf; in the morning he baj
devoured the prey, and at night he hat
divided the spoil. It would be no diffi
cult matter to prove, by reviewing the
history of the Union under this Con
stitution, that almost everything which
has contributed to the honor and wel
fare of the nation, hes been accom
plished in despite of them, or forced
upon them, and that everything unpro
pitious and*dishonorable, including the
blunders aud tollies of their adversa
ries, may be traced to them.—Practi
cal Christian.
RESOLUTIONS ON SLAVERY.
The Committee of the House of
Representatives to which was referred
so much of the Governor’s Message as
relates to slavery, presented to the
House, on Thursday last, the following
spirited aud well-written report:—
Whether we refer to the official ac
tion of the representatives of the peo
i pie of Wrmont in General Assembly,
from the Declaration of Rights in 1777
down to the iast session of the Legis-
I lature, or to the declarations of the
people themselves in their primary as
sembhes, we find that Vermont has but
one voice to utter and but one course
to pursue in reference to slavery.
Her voice has beeo, and is, and ev
er ought to be, in utter condemnation
of the system—her course one of de
termined and persevering opposition to
it, by all allowable means. Such is the
position of Vermont. The reasons for
that position are ample; but your Com
mitted deem it unnecessary to repeat
arguments which are already ‘familiar
as household words.’
Your Committee therefore recom
mend the adoption of the following res
olutions:—
Resolved, That slavery is a crime
against humanity, and a sore evil in the
body politic, that was excused by the
framers ot the Federal Constitution as
a crime entailed upon the country by
their predecessors, and tolerated sole
ly as a tning of inexorable necessity.
Resolved, That the so called ‘Com
promises of the Constitution’ restrain
ed the Federal Government from inter
ference with slavery only in the States
in whifihoLthen fwp in
WlWMgta'tWrtfTßtf gttvelfogr dHfrfor
a limited time, which has long since
expired: and that .the powers conferred
upon Congress by the Constitution to
suppress the* slave trade, to regulate
commerce between the States, to gov
ern Territories and to admit new States
—powers conferred with the express
intention to form a more perfect Union,
establish justice, ensure domestic tran
quillity, provide for the common dlfl
fence, promote the general welfare,
and secure the blessings of liberty to
ourselves and our posterity, may all be
rightfully used, and ought to be used,
so as to prevent the extension of sla
very into .territory now free, and to
abolish slavery and »the slave trade
wherever either exists under the juris
diction of Congress.
Resolved, That our Senators and
Representatives in Congress be re
quested to resist, by all and every con
stitutional extension of sla
very in any manner, whether by an
nexation to slaveholding Texas of ter
ritory now free, or by admission to the
Union of territory already acquired, or
which may be hereafter acquired, with
out express prohibition of slavery, ei
ther in the Constitution of each new
State asking admission, or in the act of
Congress providing for such admission.
Resolved, further, That our Sena
tors and Representatives in Congress
be requested to support every just and
prudent measure for the exclusion of
slavery from the District of Columbia
for the entire supglpeion of the slave
trade on the high eeef, and wherever
else Congress has jurisdiction—and
generally to relieve the Federal Gov
ernment from all responsibility for the
existence, maintenance, or tolerance of
iiaviry, or the traffic in slaves.
Resolved, further, Thet our Sena
tors in Congress be instructed, and our
Representatives requested, to us* their
I exertions for thejspeedy organization of
Territorial Government for New Mexi
i co aod California, with e provision for
ever excluding involuntary servitude,
i except fur crime therefrom.
The above resolution* hare passed
both branches of tho Legislature
Vermont Whig.
SOUTH CAROLINA TO Txl RM»
CUR.
A meeting ot belli breaches of too
Legislature of the Palmetto Stete
bold in the Representative's HeU
Columbia on the 3d. met. in seep end m
the recent moment Miseowippi reeolu
tionstogAfter the was orgeoH
zed ME C»raw madOß abort hut pat
riotic speech, end introduced the foL
HHhotvod, that in the late move
meats in the State of peeiaeippt iade
r.oe. of
involved"
twm -d our eecmd honor."
fera Convention to boTjlsld at Nash-
should he cd&lially embraced by ths
whole South; that by common councils
we may avert the common calamities
impending over us, through the action
of the General Government, driven by
the lust of power and the foU spirit ol
fanaticism.
Resolved. That, for the purpose ol
carrying out the recommendations ol
the people of Mississippi, it is expe
dient that, in Legislative caucus, we
should nominate four delegates to rep
fJßSscnt the State at large in the Con
tention proposed to be held at Nash
ville.
Resolved, That still further to carry
out the recommendations of the people
of Mississippi, we respectfully recom
mend to the'people of ibis State to meet
together on the first Monday of April
next, in the various Purishes and Dis
tricts of the State, to nominate as many
delegates as they have fnembers of the
Legislature, to meet on the frrtt Mon
day of Maj succeeding, at some cen
tral and convenient point in their re
spective Congressional Districts—then
and there to nominate two delegates to
represent eacii Congressional District
in the State in the proposed Conven
tion.
Resolved, That entertaining a sin
cere desire to co-operate with our sis
ter States of the South in any move
ment which they may deem proper for
the common good, and having entire
confidence in the wisdom, integrity and
firmness of the Southern peop e, when
assembled in said Convention, we ven
ture in anticipation to pledge the peo
ple of the State of South Carolina to a
faithful and unflinching suppo?! of any
measure said Convention mav recom
mend as expedient or necessary for the
maintenance of the rights, interests
and honor of the South, at every haz
ard, and to the very iast extremity.
A short debate, says the Carolinian,
arose or. the framing of the resolutions
and the distant day on which the pro
posed Convention was to meet, which
was participated in by Mr. Huger, Mr.
Keitt, and Mr. Cunningham, when Mr.
Memininger, on tlie ground that a
large proportion of the gentlemen
present had never heard of the resolu
tions until that evening, moved that
they be printed, and hnnded over to
the Committee on Federal-Relaiions,
and that they submit a report at an ad
journed meeting, which was agreed to,
and the meeting adjourned.
PUBLIC LANDS IN CALIFORNIA.
The following Ordinance was adop
ted by the Constitutional Convention
on the 11th of Oct. on motion of Dr
Gwin:
_ Omu^ancx.—Be it ordaqpd by Ifcft
f <NT»VWfITWJn wsaeffwfwi to ilimtOOii l
stitution for the people of the State of
California, on behalf and by the au
thority of the People of said State,
that the following propositions be sub
mitted to the Congress of the United
States, which, if assented to by that
body, shall be obligatory upon this
State.
Ist. One section of land for every
township of Public Lands, and
when such section has been sold or
otherwise disposed or, other lands!
equivalent thereto, and as contiguous!
as may be, shall be granted to the Stale j
for the use of Snhoofe.
2. Seventy-two sections of the uti-,
appropriated lands within this State;
shall be set apart and reserved for the j
use and support of a University, which, 1
together with such further quantities;
as may be agreed upon by Congress, 1
shall be conveyed to the State, and ap
propriated solely to the use and sup
port of such University, in such tnau-i
ner as th*Legudature may prescribe.
3. Four such sections of land, io
be selected under the direction of the
Legislature from any of the unappro
priated public lands belonging to tne
United States, within this State, shall
be granted to this State for its use in
establishing a Seat of Government, or
to defray the expenses of public build
ings at the same.
4. Five hundred thousand Seres of
the unappropriated public iandsTn this!
State, belonging to the United States, j
in addition to the 500,000 acres grant
ed to the new States under an act ol
Congress distributing the proceeds ol
the public laofls aiMSg the several
States of the Union, Approved A D
1841, shall be designated, under the
direction of the Legislature, and
ed to the State for tne purpose of de
fraying the expenses of the State Gov
ernment and for otner State purposes.
And five per ceni. of the net proceed*
of the sale of all lands lying within the
State wbtcffshall be sold under the au
thority of the United States, after de
dusting all the expense* incident to the
asms, shall also be appropriated for
tbs saeouragement of learning.
fiu All salt springs witS thiJwate,
nd the lends reserved for thR usaynf
the seal*, at least one section, meTu
ding each spring, shall be granted for
the State, to be used or disposed of as
tbs' DegislaturS may direst.
6. The first Senat <>r* and a<e» sen*
t stives elected |p Coogreas from this
fitqte are hereby authorized Rid em
bpowereAto make qR assent to such va
natioo#Rffie propositions herein made
[as the igtdrestf or the State may r*-
any eoch change wtiea ap
proved by tiie Legislate! l frisk be m
obliffigv aei|4b* aaasot trim Coo
seetioFu thereto, Ad all
atipelatiOM entered into by the Legis
lature in pursuance of the authority
herein shall he.eooridered
articles of compact betwee* the United
States and this State; smiths Legis
lature is hereby further fltboefeedfl
declare if in behalf of the people of
California, if such decist ate* be pse
poeeddß Cong rate, thet they so*
JOHN DICK, Pcatisat*. 0
WHOLE NO. 104.
tier the authority of the United Staten,
of the vacant lands within the knit* of
this State.
THE RESPONSIBILITY OP THK
CHURCHES
From the National Em.
Extract of an Address debarred i* Woodbury,
Conn February S, 1949, by J. Pack, on
The Moral Pmcer of Position."
“Thm shah love thy neighbour a*
thyself, and “all ye are brethren,"
seems to be the teaching of holy writ.
And the love which the apoetle incul
cated. "worketb uo ill to his neighbor.*'
So, even ifwe injure ourselvu, we
must not wrong him. This is undoubt
edly the theory of the American church
es, butr* it their practical position}
To enslave a man, make him a chat_
tel liable to sale as merchandise,*
Ik allowed even in Ihis degenerate age to
be a gross violation of this law oflove
and equality of right.” And in tbia
nation, bowsting of being freeest
nation on eaith, as well as preeminent
ly Christian, to continue, maintain,
and extend such usurpation of right,
that, too, in the middle of the nine
teenth century, under the blazing light
which has put out the darkness of sla
very in thirty different Governments of
earth since 1800, augurs either great
blindness of mind.or perverseness of
heart in the body politic. And who is
to blame f>r this, if the Church is inno
cent? Why uit that the sound of
wailing, with tne bondman’s cry, goes
up o’er the breadth nfthe land, unheed
ed by tiie pensioner occupants of pl&e
and power?
What is the pc on of the Church
'on this subject V» hat her influence
in the United States? Is it on the sida
of slaveqcrncy, or on the aid* of tha
slave? If the Church is innocent, sha
will welcome tiie research; if she is
guilty, the sooner it is made known tha
ortter, tor she claims "without spot or
blemish" is her standard and her aim.
But, as Church members would pre
fer investigating for themselves, H.
alone), I will only take a ”jt de met*
ofthe body, for a moment.
The grand sects 01 divisions ol the
Church at the South all know, have
gone backward in their position more
than tbe shadow on the Dial of Ahaz,
since 1780. Then liberty and right
w ere the PoieStai and Sun of the polit
ical horizon, even for British-born sub
jects!
Then, a three-penny tax on tea,
and one cent on a sheet of fools-cap,"
was insufferable tyranny; and a seven
years war was waged, to teach King
George the rights ofhis subjects, bn
wipe off the foul oppression. Now, to
biftnne, his
wife and children, his speTnng-booit
arid Bible, and then sell him. Ameri
can-born, away from the home of bis
childhood and the graves ofhis fathers,
against his consent, is very good mo*
sality! N* ither the practice nor apol
o#j cf such outrage is any bar to tha
communion table or tho pulpit.
Nay, more: to cast public odium ou
those who preach the doctrines of tho
Declaration and thd New Testament on
Mils Hibject. is, withthese Southern pa
triarchs, a sure passport to public con
fidence and exalted honors in Church
and State. The Southern people,
taught by tho high priests ofthe pecu
liar institution to use the old fashioned
Cauaanitish glasses, can’t see any dif
ference between a piece of property
and a man; between the right ol domin
ion over the beasts of the field, and
lording it over their brethren; between
selling Christ in the person of nis dis
ciples, and Jehovah’s right to a human
soul!
All moral diseases are catcUag. Aa
they dare not say. '‘Stand by, I am
holier than thou” pityingly theae
Churches of the Pilgrims say, "it’aan
evil;” but >£jrou will hold slavery to
your will welcome both to
ours. We have voted for your
friends, and as that, is a thousand-fold
higher honor than fellowship at table,
how can we bid; you out—away from
the table of the Lord!
Some (not.a few,) we know feel that
pour works are works of sin, and ought
to be rebuked, unless you place your
brother by your side. But really, in
our preseut plight, our lust for pleasure,
power, and gain, we think it will hard
ly do for us to “cast a stone,” and so
«ve are glad to learn (hat when rebuke
it given, *tis only to the selfish ones;
tor, indeed, it seems too bad tosey to
heirs, who keep the sieves for father's
sake—to doctor*, who “hold them for
their good”— tor MLuffies, who pile
them up for “repue! can corner stooet'*
—to churches; woo sell them to seod
the Gospel over the world—you msy
not sit and sup with us. So then, now
as ever, we say, in Christian bonds,
we are true and with you still.
And i* this picture true/ Look at
home. H<mr many sermons for th%
£ast twrnt*five years have bona
preached in our churches, designed to
overturn and dust my American slave
ry, and withdrew our counttnaneo and
support from this 'vilest if heathen}
ism.” so called by Southern Synods,
even in South Carolina, How many
incidental rebukes are given, odP and
above the nomber, aimed at the active
advocates of (ho dumb? Do tho pro
vf;tJhog influences of these cbureho»
tend to fim the epint of liberty and
Jove lo man into a glowing fiame, Of
check the kindling fire and crush tho
bofliOwn’* hope? If the Church'a
.''eye this subject,) "can
her body be fail of light?" If her
“hgbi, be darkness,” ob» vbo can toll
tb* dreadful power of bar position;
Tho truth we emt learn flw; the tre
mendous consequences to us, and tho
nations of thwearth, the judgement day
Will tell. 
Colored School Meeting
A latge limber of respectable erthren*
convened at the Court House on edne*day
evening, for ikjq purpose *«f protesting against
the erection o» «epnra«e school* fur the child
ren of colored per wo*.
Mr S\Mts I*. Fogg appointed Chan
«r# a.KIJo«‘W Hfift Secretary.
Me S If I »TMt stated lh lhe oi
ihc meeting «Jt to consider the action of our
cay iiiibontier in regard to the exclusion of
colored children from the common schools
We complain (wad Mr. F that this courae
is illegal, unjust, anti-republican, and un
christian. It u a wanton squandering of the
public money, Wtd a wanton injury to the pub
n. intetcet3. No man of liberal mind, of
dignity of stuil, and of established position in
society, i.bjects to tin* extension to others of
the privileges which he himself enjoys
Mr F ihen offered a senes of resolutions,
pending the adoption of which, Mr. Freo
krk k OovotAS i addressed the meeting.
Were we here to-night (said Mr. D lor
the purpose of considering the conduct of the
Autocrat N ichol&s towards unhappy Hungary,
1 presume 'hat every inind in this house would
echo my denunciations, however strong they
might be Were we met to think of thecon
dition ol i.iifortunate Ireland, no anathema
which I could hurl at British authority, or
British monarchy, would be deemed 100
harsh. Wo ran' sympathize with all phases
of suffering humanity abroad, but when wo
look at home, at the injustice and the wrong
which is inflicted there, wc blind our eyes to
iheir magnitude, or sec palliating cucum
biarices which make us think the evil good.
1 have (said Mr. U.) felt the lash of
the American slaveholder upon my back, but
the enjoyment of the little liberty which you
have been willing to allow me, has so in
reused my sensibilities, that I feel this insult
more keenly than that outrage. Colored men
have w atered your soil with their tears—have
fertilized it with their blood, and delved n with
their hard hands. We have fought fox our
country, and only ask to lie treated as well as
those who fought against it. We love the
country, and only wish to be used as well as
those who hate it Wc are American born,
and only wish to enjoy the same privileges as
tuieigners.
Dr. Lo.su stated that, as a member of the
Hoard of Education, he voted for the separate
establishment of colored schools, because he
was intoiracd that that portion of our popula
tion desircJ it.
He thought that holding a public meeting
was not the proper way to rediess these
grievances.
Mi K. Francis said the colored people
did not desire the establishment of such
schools that the one selected in the Third
Ward is an unhealthy, dark and dirty hole,
w hich has been used for a number of years as
an ice house.
Mr. 11. C. Smith, a member of the Board
of Educaiiuu, read the statute on the subject,
by which it appears that it is discretionary
with the Boaid to establish or not to establish
schools.
Mr. Peck made a few rcmaiks, which
were highly applauded by the audience
Georg e W. Clare added his testimony in
favor of the colured people, and finished oil
with a few verses of one of Burns’ glorious
songs
W.m C. Bloss took the ground that no
man could he considered a patriot who claimed
any rights for himself which he was not
willing to allow to the blackest man who ever
lived.
A committee was then appointed to draw
up a* remonstrance, to be presented to the
Board of Education. Messrs. Bloss, S. D.
Porter, the Rev. Mr Peck, J. P. Morris,
Isaac Post, Mr. Newell, and George W.
Clark, were appointed said committee.
The following resolutions were then unani
mously adopted
Resolved, As the sense ot this meeting,
ihat the Board of Education of Rochester, in
establishing separate schools for colored child
ren, an»i especially in excluding them from
the schools in the districts where such children
reside, have transcended their powers, mis
repre i led the sentiments of the community,
violated the rights of colored citizens, and
nerdless'y inflicted a wound upon the feelings
of the least piotected part of the inhabitants
of this city.
Resolved, That the establishment of colored
schools m ttas city is uncalled tor, unequal,
and mi|ust; —that if designed as a privtlcgi
to the colored population, they disclaim it, for
while they ask not lavois, they danand
Rights. It designed 4s a mark set upon
coloi u> degrade and separate them from then
co-equal tellow-citizeiis, they repudiate the
distinction, and claim their common rights, as
men and citizens
Resi lved, That as lax-payeis, who earn our
bread by the sweat of our brows, we atP in
terested in an economical administration of
our city n(fans, and that we protest against
the expenditure ot a thousand dollars of ihe
school fund, desecrated to prejudice, in the
support id two colored schools lor the present
year, when the whole might lie saved, and
the colored people be educated in their own
proper school d.stiicta, and in school-houses
which their fathers have heen taxed to build,
without the extra cost of a single penny to
the public at large: and thus give all the
«chools in ilie city the benefit of an entire
months* instruction more than they now
r.joy
Resulted, That it is cleuily the right of
very child more than five years old, to
attend tin school set apart for ih* d'stnct in
which In' or she mav reside; that the law pro
viding tor the establishment ot common
schools, makes no reference to the color or
origin of the children entitled to this priv
liege
Resolved. That every unjust act towards
u»« free colored citizens of the North, is anj
additional prop to slavery everywhere; and
that the. people ot Rochester may justly share
in the lcproach of slavery in South Carolina
it they give countenance to this wrong, and
thereby piova that they have only to change
their latitude to become buyers and sellers of
men, a class ot person* justly esteemed
st|*o6t»ia|Jo Democracy, and Christians only
m naralP
Resolved, That the pioceedtng* of this
meeting be published in the daily papers of
this city.
Cvrouers’s Inquest in the Pnikmun
Case.
'l'ht fttmiu*'’ lu b* pji/i of tkt twjy uf Th
(jMgt PurkMa*—J* Join H\ Wthmer tkarged
iath kaktnr kitltd
Kiofii die Boston ALU* of Friday.
Vesirtdsy afternoon, a few minutes before
<i o’clock, the room in the Court House occu
pied by ihe Jury of InnucM summoned by
Coroner Frau, in the Paikraan case, wa*
thrown open, and the reporters of the van*
ou» paper* admitted lor oner Pratt staled
that to accordance with the opinion expres
sed by the Attorney General of the Common-
wealth, Mr Clifford, and by a vole of the
Jury, in which vote he concurred, the evi
dence before ibe toquett would be kept aecret
from every body until laid before tbe Grand
Jury.
He remarked that tbe inquest bad been in
scMKHt 10 dayn, and bad examined a large
number of witoemea, and that that evidence
occupied over eighty large foolscap pagea of
w nung paper. He then said that tbe verdict
which bad been agreed upon would be made
public, and accordingly the Secretary of tbe
Inquest, Mr. Andrew* was directed to read
the verdict, as duly recorded, which be did,
and it is in the following language
Suffolk, m.—An inquisition taken at tbe
city ot Boston, w ithin the County of Suffolk,
thirteenth day of December, in the year of
onr Und one ihuuaand eight hundred and
forty-nine, before Jabex Pratt, Eeq., one of
the Corners of said County, upon tbe view
of sundry parts of tbe body of a dead man,
viz a thorax, kidneys, pelvis, two thighs,
left leg, and sundry bones, there lying dead,
by the oaths of Osmyn Brewster, John L
Andrews, Pearl Martin, Thomas Kcstieux,
Lewis Jones and Haium Merrill, good and
lawful men, who being charged and sworn
to inquire for the Commonwealth, when, how
and by what means the said dead man came
to lus death, upon their oaths do say—
That they all have been demonstrated to be
parts of one and the same person—that these
parte ot the human frame have been identi
fied and proved to be the remains and parts of
the dead body and limbs of Dr. George Park
man, late a citizen of said Boston, aged about
sixty years—that he came to his death by
violence, at said Boston, on the twenty-third
of November last, on or between tbe hour of
one and a half of the clock, 111 the afternoon
of that day (about which time he entered alive
ami in good health, into the Massachusetts
Medical College building, situate in North
Grove street, m said Boston,) and the hour
of four of the clock in the afternoon of the
thirtieth day of November last, (when a por
tion of said remains were found concealed in
and under the appartment of Dr. John W.
Webstar, of Cambridge, in the county ot
Middlesex, in said College building,) in
which building the residue of said remains
were afterwards discovered—that he was
killed in said college building by a blow or
blows, wound or wounds, inflicted upon him
with some instrument or weapon to the jurors
unknown, and by means not yet known to
said jurors, and that said blow or blows,
wound or wounds, and said means were used
by the hands of said Dr. John W. Webster,
by whom he was killed. In witness whereof
the said Coroner and Jurors to this Inquisition
have set their hand and seals, the day and
year above said
•labez Phatt, Coroner,
Osmyn Brewster, Foreman,
John L. Andrews, Secretary,
Pearl Martin,
Thomas Restieux,
Lewis Junes,
H arum Merrill. With a seal to each
name.
The reading of the verdict having been
concluded, the Coroner announced that votes
oi thanks had been passed by the Jury to the
City Mat&hal and other officers of the police
department, for the prompt and efficient ser
vices rendered by them to the inquest, in
procuring evidence and rendering such other
assistance as was in their power, and that the
Coroner be requested to communicate said
vote to the City Marshal—to Mr. Daniel
Merrill, tbe Superintendent of the Court
House, lor his attentions—and to the Co
roner, |Foreman and Secretry, for the ac
ceptable and satisfactory manner in which
they had discharged the duties that had de
volved upon them.
Constable K. J. Jones then made the usual
proclamation, adjourning the Inquest without
day.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER DECEMBER 21, isio.
Our New Volume.
e would remind our readers that with the next
number commences the third volume of the North
Star and would urge upon them the importance of
immediately renewing their subscription*. They
can gain nothing by delay nor will they lose any
thing by promptly forwarding payment for a new
volume. We require not only all our present sub
scripts, but many more. Will our friends bear
this in mind, and act accordingly.
MASS CONVENTION,
TO BE HELD AT SYRACUSE.
It lias been determined that a Convention
«f the Abolitionists of the State of New- York
shall be held at Syracuse, on Tuesday the
15thof January, 1850. The present aspect of
National affairs in regard to the question of
Slavery; the present position of political
parties in relation to those affairs the present
relation which Abolitionists, who have pie
served their faith inviolate, hold to those
parties and the relation which Abolitionists
now sustain to each other and the cause, de
mand that such a Convention be held in this
State, that it be held dining the ensuing
session of Congress; and that it shall repre
sent the entire strength of that portion of
our people who are hostile, not ouly to the
extension ot Slavery into new Teititories,
but to us existence anywhere who are de
termined not only to resist us establishment
on the Coast of the Pactiic, or in the valleys
of New Mexico, but are equally determined
on its extermination on the Atlantic Coast
and in the valley of the Mississippi.
The events of tbe jjhst year; the events of
the passing week; the events, probably,
which will signalize the present winter, ap
peal to all who aassume to themselves the
name of Abolitionists to arouse themselves,
at once, to the work of making this the larg
est and uiostinriueutial ANTI-SLAVERY
CONVENTION that has ever been held in
this State. The warning cry of No Union
auk Slave-holders and their abettors was nev
er more needed than at this moment, and has
never bean so needed as it will be in the
present crisis.
Particulars of tune, place, and probable
continuance of the Convention, and names
of the distinguished triends of the cause who
will be present, will be given in futuse
notice
The North Star Pair.
We would call the attention of our loaders
in Philadelphia, to the North Star Fair,
which is to be o{>ened m that city, next week.
Thu Fair will be held, ootbe 24th, 25th, and
-btti at Samson Street Hall and will be
coat nued at the Philadelphia lostitfjgft soul
the evening of the First of Jftuuary. A
great variety both of useful and ornamental
atttcles will be offered for sale. Tbe Lodiee
of the North Star Association, to whom wo
art indebted for ibis generous effort in our
Niff. have spoaod no pains to make the Fair j
more than ueasily attractive We hope
that their self-denying exertions will meet
with a cordial mtpoose from their feUow citi
sens, both while and colored. W
FaEDißtc*jDm.'OLA*s will be present, and
will address the asecrobly.
Check-Mate is the Mmm.
Tbe elected of the people present a vary
singular spectacle Tkej kite beaa
bled more than taro week*, and bare veted
for a choice of Speaker eenSwbsts, we sup
pose, over fifty times aad they are bow, if
we may judge by appearance*, at near or fan
ning aa they wet* oo the first day of am*
ing. We have ootbiag to aay against this
state of thing*. We opine that it would be
no very serious detriment to the country, if
they did not soceeed in agreeing open a
Chairman for .six momka to coma. Thera
would be time enough then to do all the need
ful legation. The first Candidate started
on the Democratic aide, waa Howell Cobb, of
Georgia, a well-known aad inveterate slave
holder- He came within a very few votes
of being elected. The Northern Democrats,
who, immediately before their election a few
months ago, seemed to encourage a belief
that they were so true to Freedom that tboy
could not come within‘fifty miles of a slave
holder, all with one or two exceptions, voted
for him. Mr. Welland, the only Democrat in
this State, (excepting Preston King, who is
a Free Soilei) from the very commencement,
stuck fast by this Georgia slave-holder, aa a
fit and proper person to bo the Speaker of
the House of Representatives. On the Whig
side of the House, we find our thirty-two
members of that faction, one and all voting
torjMr. Winthiop.as very a timeserver, trim
mer, and politician, as ever bowed the knee in
wretched submission to the Southern Moloch.
After a lime, both these,candidates withdrew.
Mr. Cobb missing a few Northern votes, on
the supposition, that he wa9 just a trifle too
much the servant ol the South. A few South
ern Members bolting Mr. Winthrop, because
they thought him a little too Northern. The
Free Soilers in the mean time for the most
part standing firmly on the ground of the
Wilmot Proviso, and refusing to give their
votes for any man who was not prepared to
use his influence against the farther extension
of slavery. All that followed our readers
will find under our summary of Congressional
proceedings. Both parlies seem now to be
at their wits’ end. They find that unless they
coalesce, without the help of the third patty,
they cannot sir a loot. They remind us ol
two well-matched gladiators, both keen,
cool and resolute, eaoh looking in the eye o;
the other, and fearful to strike a blow, lest u
so doing he should make a false step, an<
thereby give his antagonist a Blight bu
latal advantage. How long this state o
things may last, it is impossible to predict
We do not sec any particular reason why i
should not last for several weeks, or perhapi
months. No matter. Congress is as profita
bly and properly engaged now, as it will lx
after it succeeds in organizing. The grea
difficulty now is slavery. After the House
has elected a Speaker, it will still be slavery
In one shape or another, this haggard in
iquity will rise up and demand a hearing.—
The Southern members are now making i
furious, and we would fain hope a final effor
for the pieservation of that power which fo
so many long years they have held, and b]
which they have succeeded in crushing dowi
the hopes and energies of millions. Th<
Northern membeis of both parties are for th<
most part sufficiently subservient. Many o
them have time and again sold themselves t
slavery, #nd would gladly, if >i*sy dared, do
now. But there is heard in all parts of thi
north, a voice waxing louder and louder ii
favor of Freedom. There is a strong feeliiq
amongst their constituents against the contin
ued dominance of slavery and it is at thei
peril that they refuse to listen to that voice—
that they despise that feeling. Anti-slaver
and fanaticism are not now considered synon
yrnous. Radical Abolitionism is still nearly
if not quite as unpopular as less uncompro
mising opinions not long since were yet i
has become fashionable, rather than other
wise, to profess anti-slavery sentiments.—
The idea which some years ago burned in th<
bosom, and aroused the indignation and en
ergies of the poor young printer in a Bostot
garret, has taken deep root, spread itself fai
and wide, and is now responded to by man]
a free boin soul in all the Northern States o
this Union. The Members of Congress
both Whigs and Democratsknow this. Thej
know that in a few years at the farthest, t
day of reckoning will come round, and unlesi
they now pay some regard to the will of theii
constituents, they may be sent to ruminate ii
merited oblivion, on lost opportunities for ad
vancing the cause of suffering humanity, and
disgraceful acts of purchased subserviency tc
to the tyrannical destroyers of human happi
ness, and impious obsTUctors of human pro
gress.
Meanwhile, it is amusing enough for a
looker-on to note the vigor and energy with
which the organs of both the old parties de
nounce the Free Soil members, as the* imme
diate cause of the difficulties m tbe House.—
They are named disorganizes”—“enemies
of their country”—“ men who huckster theit
votes from one party to the other,” &c.; and
a.l this simply because they in some measfie
act up to the principles w hich they, in com
mon with both the other parties at tbe North,
profess. Theory is a very nice thing—very
pretty —so very convenient! its distant en
chantment is delightful. Our Free Soil Tay
lor Whigs, and “as-much-opposed-tc-slavery
asanybody” Democrats,” no doubt think so.
But practice!—vulgar practice how can
gentlemen politicians stoop to socb s thing t
Ob no All that tkey care about, is jost to
throw a little polite dust in the eyes of their
constituents, make them any number of pro
mises, blarney them into the bdief that they
aie men of muscle and back-bone get seat
to the House, to vote aad speak there oo be
half of truth and justice; but as often aa they
dare, sell themselves and their country, betray
the trust reposed in them, turn a deaf ear to
the appeals of the bgpreseed bondman, pad—
pocket eight dollars a-day. We hope that
fir Northern people will ia lime learn to think
for themselves, and cease to follow so impli
citly as they have done, the dictates of their
wire peUiog leaders, etthdk Whig or Demo
crat What especially to the ladiaooe
ne*ejrf|be Whig appeals, threats, aad de-
Rio4pM» »the feet, that they eaanot knag
up all their owe members. Means. Toombs,
Stefksss, aad soma half doata Soath
era Whigs, refine to vote for the petty odL
date. Let those (pay sheep he hreught beck
to the fcid, tad then, at lean with greater
show of reason, Jfa Free Setter* may ha
denounced as dn§aaisem; though not ia
reality with aay more truth. Every ana who
has irmly maintaiaed hm tfmimm m offp»-
ties to rabaf majority, hm a pa« time*
always hoao dcsifaated at o dborganiaar.—
loin wh a diaurganiaer; Washington,
Franklin, A tea, wen dinorfaniaera. la the
preamt daj, Garriaon m a diaseganiaer; and,
aecordiag to the opto too of oor Whig and
Pi mnuntir uth|piH, ike Free Soil mem
ben of tke Houae of Representatives, because
they will not yield np tbeir opiniooa and
ibeir ,rotM to ibe (factum of a majority, are
diaorgamaera For oor port. rejoice to
aee them ataad ao firm an they do. We trust
sincerely that they will 00l yield an inch, and
that, through do faith or truckling on their
part, will the House he permitted to elect as
its chairman, either a Southern slaveholder
or n Northern doughface. The South has
been long enough under the impression that
Northern members were, not leas than the
negro, artidea of commerce. L*t it now be
completely and finally undeceived —j. d.
Heetlac agaiast Colored Schools.
In another column will be found a notice of
a meeting held in the Court House last week,
to take into consideration the illegal ejeetraent
of colored children from the District Schools
in this city. The House was well filled; and
the unfortunate victims of coloTphobia and
prejudice who were guilty of the cruelty and
injustice of excluding children from the schools
simply because they are colored, met with
merited exposure and reproof. We were
satisfied, before the meeting, that the majority
of the citizens of Rochester disapproved of the
proceedings of the Board in reference to col
ored schools. The liberality of sentiment
there displayed, fully confirmed our opinion.
With the exception of Dr. Long, who, we
apprehend, is the cause of all the mischief,
not one raised his voice on behalf of the
measure. The Doctor tried to have it believed
that a regulation of the city required the
tablishment of colored schools. We almost
pitied the poor man, when another member of
the Board read the regulation to which he re
ferred, and showed plainly that it was only
permissory, not imperative. To such mean
tricks of tergiversation and falsehood will
prejudice reduce otherwise respectable enough
men.
The Democrat, speaking of this meeting,
says:
If, as is alleged, the colored people have
been taxed for the election of school-houses
and the support of schools in the several
districts, there would appear to be injustice
in the matter somewhere. We do not believe
that the prejudices against the colored people
are such, or so general, as to prohibit theii
children from attending the ordinary day
schools. As a matter of right, wherever the
franchise is allowed them, at least, there car
be no doubt that they have the same privilege
as others.”
This is pretty well for the Democrat; bui
we think it might have been a little more bold
and explicit, without forfeiting either influence
or esteem; for we do not expect any political
paper—at all events not one belonging U
either of the old parties, to utter a wore
where these are at stake. If’—there is nt
“if” about the matter. The Democrat knows
well enough that colored men have beer
taxed for the erection of District schools; anc
if they had not, still the injustice of excluding
colored children from the District School:
would be abundantly manifest, while Uu
children of white parents, who have nevei
paid a cent of taxes either for schools or any
thing else, are admitted freely and wiihoui
question. As to the matter of the fraanchise
that, too, is quite irrelevant to the case, inas
much as the children of foreigners, the da)
after they arrive in the city, can, and do claim
admittance.
We cannot at all agree with the Democrat
that it is best to leave the subject in the hands
of the Board of Education. They have al
ready overstepped their powers. The law
of the State is, that all persons over five
years of age, and under twenty-one,” are
entitled to the privileges of the District
Schools. So far as we know, the word color
is never mentioned in that law. The Board
must not be permitted, though they are in
authority, for the gratification of their unrea
soning prejudices, to violate the law—espe
cially when it is en the side of justice.
Meantime, the colored schools are almost
deserted. The new school on the East side
of the river, which has been established at a
cost to the city of five hundred dollars a-ycar,
has some seven or eight colored children,who
are ashamed of themselves for being there.—
and about a dozen ragged white children, w ho
go there, as their parents say, “because it is
convenient.” We trust that before the next
meeting of the Board, they will have discov
ered the folly and irrationality of their pro
cedure, and willing to retrace their steps.
By the bye, where is the remonstrance? We
have seen nothing of it.— i. d.
“The Mysterious Rapping—Public
Meetings for Investigation.”
By the kindness ot a friend, I have been
furnished with the North of November!
23d, and find an article in it over tbe initials
“J. D.;” which although using my name
prptty freely, the publisher had not the cour
tesy or frankness to send me. (1) This may
serve for an apology for the late appearance
of this contradiction of some of tbe most bare
faced misrepresentations contained in that ar
ticle. In doing so I will endeavor to be brief,
and convey as piamly ss possible my meaning,
by coming dissetiy to the point. 1 would ac
cuse “J. D.” of no intentional wrong, as a
man is coaaidered innocent until be is proved
guilty, although,#n this ease, the presumptioo
will he atroogiy against him, in the minds of
aU who were present n Corinthian Hall, aud
have read his article. Ooe of the first errors,
or fake tnmnuations, 1 will notice, is this.—
“Mr. Caproo, of Auburn, late editor of the
Auburn branch of the National Reformer, ap
peared on the pfctfotm, accompanied by tbe
two young woman, through whom the spir
it,*’ or whatever else it may be, makes itself
nwfim.”(S.) Iby no means object to the
company here assigned to me, bet I do object
tn any lake statement in regard to facts which
■»y he wmthy of the nuenikw of even the
jnejedioed tffed of “I. D.,” at some future
time if not the present. When “the two
young women” “appeared” on the
“Mr. Capeen” had not yet snivod, end they
were oonnmpomed by six or eight ladies aed
gentlemen of Rochester, who were well
hpDjl them, and whom “I- D.” hod every
oftpomnily know, were on the pktfbna,
hot perhaps ftfdkf not me them.

wfat is churned to fa the opening npofantw
wwM—ibc fawny of a •cfateo," I
km only to any that the Jew* were at <m
tfae m ifly satisfifa with tfa “origin" «f
what was realty “rltimod" to bo tfa “oftt*
mg up of a new world—tfa fa®* 6l of 1
new science,” as "J. D., f sod other* of hie
peculiar calibre, are with this. Beaidea, oo
such damn were set op io those lectures, for
these “mysterious sounds/' The facts were
stated, sod an io test igaths||faf led .for, sod
others called upon to decide whatit was, and
what it was not, if they were capable of doing I
so. Again “J. D.” says that “Mr. Capron
staled that the spirit, or wbat
erer it was, foiled htm home to Aider*,
and rapped to lum in his own house”(3.)—
There never »u any such statement made by
roe in Corinthian Hall, or any other place.
It is an entire misrepresentation of my lan
guage. If “fa spirit, or whatever tt was
followed" roe home, that spirit, or “it/’ could
not have been at Rochester at the same time.
It is a language I nevet use. Neither .is it
the language of any one pietending to any
degree of knowledge or intelligence on this
subject It sounds mote like the language of
persons who, with all the stubbornness of
mules, would not, or could not, from the na
ture of their organizations, candidly and lairly
investigate the matter, and who stand ready
to abuse their best friends for hearing or see
ing something they will not, or cannot. Pre
vious to making the statement, you doubtless
allude to, all in tbe hall had heard me state
that these sounds were not only heard in
Rochester, but in many other place."—not on
ly in presence of “the two young women,'' 5
but many other persons who have no knowl
edge of these “young women.*’
“J. D.” next attempts to play the critic
and show an inconsistency in ray saying in
one lecture the words You had better go
there" and in the next, You had better do
that" and evidently wishes to give it a color
ing against the truthfulness of the lecturer.
It would be a sufficient answer for him to say,
“Physician heal thyselfbut foi the readeis
of the Star, 1 will say that, brief as the sen
tence is, I quoted from memory, and very
possibly might have left out some word in
both statements. I intended to state the sub
stance, and if “J. D.” will show' the “dis
crepancy” in that, I will give him farther
“explanation” If he requires it.
Again. “The sounds are supposed to be
made by two young women.” Supposed by
whom By the fifteen citizens of Rochester,
who spent three days in the investigation 1
By those who have embraced every opportuni
ty for investigation for the last two years, or
by those who have never given the matter a
moment’s candid thought Are the sounds
in the other families in Rochester, in the
towns adjoining, in Hydesville, in Auburn, in
Sennett, and in various other places, all at
the same time, “supposed to be made by two
young women”? If so they must be “sup
posed” to be very nearly omnipresent.
In regard to his failing to get conect an
swers, I have only to say that 1 have known
others equally unfortunate, and that none of
his friends who know most of the matter, de
ny this. But I know, and he knows (unless
he is willing to brand some of his best friends
as fools or liars,) that there have been ques
tions of the most absolutely definite character
answered correctly, and that has evinced an
intelligence, not a “meaner, but a far higher
intelligence than man’s” (4.) Persons wffiom
“J. D.” would believe on any other subject
but this—and who were, at one time, as skep
tical as himself, are looked upon as telling
that which is false, or at least treated in that
way by many who know them to be incapable
of falsehood. Passing over his attempt to
ridicule, a weapon very cheap, and within the
reachjof those who stand in very mirey pla
ces. I wish to correct another error in his
article. I am sorry to have the bench of that
county, or any county, disgraced by calling
Mister Josiah Bissel, the leader of the rowdies
at Corinthian Hall, a Judge! He is evidently
a judge of a few things which decent men
generally are not, but the sense in which “J.
D.” mentioned it, he has no claim to, nor
never will, unless anarchy pievails, and iow
dies and ruffians bear s« ay Mister Bissell
is undoubtedly a good judge of torpedoes or hp
would not have taken the responsibility of
making a purchase and distributing to the
audience at Corinthian Hall on the night allu
ded to.
In concluding, I will say, that I can con
ceive of no one who is better prepared to judge
of the spirit of an “old Bachelor” than “J.
D.,” having, for some years occupied that
“whimsical fidgetty” positiof! himself.
E. W C.
Remarks.
_ The above letter, by Mr. Capron of Au
burn, u, as will be seen, an attempt to explain
I or rather contradict, the account given by us,
of ius laetuies in this city, a few weeks since,
on what is called the “Mysterious Manifesta
tions. We fear, however, that the writer
has sadly failed, in his present effort, to throw
any light on this dark subject. We feel that
he lias rather cceefied in “rnoje
so” what was already sufficiently suspicious.
Tho course which he has taken, in replying
to os, affords evidence to our mind, that he is
not himself quite satisfied with the evidences
affi rded. He is clearly ill at ease in hia new
beLif. When one is quite sure of his position,
be 11 calm, composed, unmindful of seeming
misrepresentation. Mr. Ciproo is petulant,
iin iy, nmtifliind. like the little snarling ter
rier, ready to pounce upon any and every pas
set jer, without cause or provocation.
1. We have one apology to offer Mr. Ca
pron—that is, fur nut sending him the paper
in which hia lectures were noticed. He will
pk ise attribute our negligence to forgetful
ness and not to any want of respect. About
ibt first of our “barefaced representations,”
we may aay that wo did not know w hot far or
not tfa lecturer came into tfa Hall, io compa
ny with those yoong women, sod do not im
agine, moreover, that any candid reader of
oar notice, would understand us to rey that
be did. Beaidea, it does not appear, trier all,
to be a very unpardonable offence, supposing
we did say so. Mr. Capron, io our opinioo,
whatever fa gHy himself think of it, did
nothing wrong, if fa brought there all tfa
way from tfaii ovrii bouse. We did see a'
number of persons oo the platform So wo
MWflMli number of chairs aad a desk; fat
did oot think it worth while to enumerate
thorn, more they were not known, j% suppos
ed to take nny strive part the proceedings.
t. Wa would recommend Mr. £apraa to
lock mm man at wr articles and be will see
dm we sever soerasil him of setting op a
«4»i— far a Wfb origin fat tbia thing, for the
aery simple tenoon, that bn coaid not. We
nay now, however* that whatever might he its
origin, be left H to be infarred that he thought
it was the opening op of a new world, or
the discovery of a new science,” from h» ie
ferences to tho unpopularity at first of Harvey,
Jeulrir. and others. If he did not mean us
10 understand him thus, what did he mean
He rarely does not intend it to be understood
that be took all the trouble of getting up a
ecture on a subject which he. considered of
no importance, merely from a desire for noto
riety or some mercenary motive. We never
supposed any such thing respecting him.
and cannot do so now.
3. Mr. Capron does make one explanation
He nays, that “the spirit” did not fallow him
to Anhum. Well, one uf the fraternity was
there, and rapped to him in Auburn. We
will not dispute with h,-a about that. We
certainly understood, however, that he meant
the Rochester branch of the fiim had commu
nicated with him and we are at a loss now
to tell by what piocess of rcaaoomg he arrives
at the conclusion that it was some other.—
The various “spiritt" communicate their ideas
in a language and tone so marvellously alike,
that he must.have a very acute ear who can
distinguish a difference between them. And
the mere fact of their saying that they are
tnis, that, or the other, is noihing to the pur
pose, inasmuch as we have oftentimes proved
them liars.
4. As to this thing being a high intelli
gence, whatever may have happened to oth
ers, we have had no proofs of its intelligence.
What a man would 9ay in ten minutes, and
make perfectly clear to every understanding,
takes this thing a day, and after all it leaves
in a quite unsatisfactory state. Besides, what
would he thought of the intelligence of the
man who would say to you, when sitting in a
room, in company with some dozen others—
“l have something to say to you—come into
a back rsom, or into the passage, and l will
talk with you there,” and after he has got you
there, says nothing, except perhaps to send
you back from where you came, or tO sit
down by a table, with a further promise of
some important communication, which prom
ise is as much fulfilled as the other* Every
reasonable person would of course, conclude
at once that he was either an idiot, or was
playing a trick. Yet this, as Mr. C., and all
the other friends of the “rapping,” well
known, is its constant inode of procedure.—
Or suppose the case of a man, who knew that
a dead body was in the canal, and was to be
found at a certain place; suppose further,
that this man, in consequence of some physi
cal incapacity was himself unable, and that he
communicated his information to two women
and told them to go into the canal and get the
body out Would not most persons come to
the conclusion that such man was either very
silly or very tipsy l Yet this is exactly what
the “spirit” did, not a very great while
ago and one of the persons favored with the
commission came nigh being drowned —in-
deed, as she heiself says, would have been
drowned, had not her husband accompanied
her, and taken the precaution to tie a rope
round her, to prevent such a catastrophe.—
Or what would be thought of a man who,
continually putting forward high pretensions
to knowledge on one or another scientific or
abstruse subject, yet when you come to con
verse with him, and put his knowledge to the
proof, fails to give any evidence calculated
to convince even the most credulous that he
has such knowledge We should call him
a very silly braggart, fit for the latitude of
South Carolina, and no where else. Yet
this is exactly the “spirit’s” plan.
Such illustrations might be multiplied in
definitely but one or two will answer our
purpose as well as a host. They prove to
our mind, beyond a shadow of doubt, that
this thing, whatever it is, knows very little,
and pretends to know a great deal more than
it does. The fact of other persons being more
fortunate than we have been, is no evidence
to us. This is one of those sort of things
which we cannot, without throwing our rea
son to the winds, take vpon hearsay evidence;
and we need not, in consequence of our unbe
lief, be accused of supposing any one to lie
either a “fool or a Inr.” All that we say is,
that we suspect, as we have seen in cases of
answers thought to be remarkable, given to
our presence, that some persons are quite too
tender with the “spirit,” and do not take
proper precautions to guard their countenan
ces and their questions, so that not even a
Yankee could guess at the answer.
We do not think it worth while to follow
Mr. Capron farther; and do not fear that any
candid reader of our notice, who was present
at those meetings, will accuse us of unfair
ness. We had no intention to misrepresent
Mr. Capron. Ali that we desire is u> get at
the truth, to expose imposture, if there be
any, either in this or any other affair that
comes under our notice; and we think, that
in doing so we have a right to point out any
discrepancy or difficulty that presents itself,
without subjecting ourselves to the supposi
tion, that we intentionally either misstate, mis
represent, or falsely insinuate. It our read
ers sre not much the wiser or the better for
the perusal of the above letter, they w ill not
be much the worse. In the meantime, with
our knowledge of the matter, we caa neither
deny nor corroborate, and should be well
pleased if any one would give us a satisfactory
answer to the question —What is it*— t. o.
Hoeiisc tbs Gold Baos.—Remittances iu
goid du»l from California generally come to
New York in email begs, winch are enclosed
in wooden boxes stripped with iron. In two
instances, packages that came by the Empire
City hare been bored under the uoo strap*,
and the dost the* abstracted- One box, con
taining shoot 625,000, was short 10,000.
Another box, belonging to a boose to Haiti*
»ore. lost $1,400 —The robbery is believed
to base been efleeted before the package*
roach the Empire City.
An Aoko Neoao— Died in Drekm coun
-1 poor hooar, July 60, Samuel Bar
ber, a negro, aged lib years
Faac Nanaoaa Admitted —The proposed
danae of the Coastituuao fbrtaddutg freyu
groes frsco neaufrating into California. was
k— By mjtettd In the Csnseotm%>y a tom of
31 to ft
4k ''ft.
THIRTY-FIRST lOMvRFsv
FIRST SRSSIOM.
IN SENATE
WED*rsr»AY, /Arr |2, I*lo
Mr Nuxs, (4 I<oui<i.in], ipficirid in hi-
Mt.
T he Journal of yesterday having been read,
Mr. Foote asked leave lo withdraw from
the files of the Senate the paper* of Joseph
Kadcliff w hich wax granted
Mr. Cooper asked leave to *mWu» f lun
ihe files of the Senate the papers of ).,hn II
Rogers
After rumc discussion th< Chair put the
question lo the Senate, and it was decided
mat leave be granted.
After an interval of an hoot, and the r
tog no business before the Senate—
(.hi motion, the Senate adjourned
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATI\ I s
After the Journal, of the diy he tore,
read, an interesting J»seu*sion came up, anu
some unexpected disclosure- were rn,<t.
of whieh we will endeavor io givr the
stance, our limits preventing o? frem givr
the proceedings entire
Mr Jobb, of Alabama, ros- am) ..o-l ,f,3r
he noticed in this mormii-j\ Union, a si.it.
ment in relation to the voles tor Speaker
which he had given during their effort* to or
ganize the House, whtrh was calculated to do
him injustice—whether intentM-nallv or not.
was not tor him to determine
The Clerk read the articl.- fruni the I moo
as follows
“it depends upon Mi ssrs t.'nbb. ot \i h
ma, Holmes, of South Carol ra, (wi.« l
for Mr. Brown on Monday, hut dcseitcd hirr,
yesterday,) and four ot the Free Soil Dent
ocrats, to decide whethet the House ot Rep
resentatives shall have a Deiaoemtic ?Sp,>akt- t
or not, to-day. Mr. Brown lx admirably- .pial
lfied to discharge the duties of the 'hair
Ml. Corb then continued. It was, be be
lieved, the first time in his file that he had
been accused of being 3 traitor The appel
lation might apply to others, but it was ye*
tube fixed upon the humble individual wlm
now addressed the House, He had declared
privately, as he now declared publicly, that
he never would be found to stand in the wav
of an organization of the House (Cries <>t
“Good,” from the Democratic side.) Let
them bring up a candidate, on either side,
who would command a sullietent number ot
votes to be elected, and be should reserve to
himself the course he would then pursue, a
he reserved to himself his own course open
all other occasions.
Mr. Wilmul said he desired to express hi
grateful acknowledgments lo those friend;
who had given him then suffrages fur the ot
lice of Speaker of that House. In insure to
his own teelings, lie felt called upon to sav,
that he felt inure honored by tin- confidence
implied by their support, inconsiderable as 11
was in point of numbers, than lie should hue
been by an election to that chair Both ot
the prominent candidates have rutiied from
the contest. In view ol this tael, he did not
feel justified in standing longer as a candidate
He trusted that Ins friends would approve ot
the propriety of the course he was about to
adopt. He hoped that his friends would
cease to cast their votes tor him, and seek
some abler man upon whom to bestow then
suffrages, and who would stand some reason
able chance of success.
On motion of Mr. Kai’FMan, the lions*
proceeded to vote for Speaker, nru am
On calling the roll tor the fortieth time tin
tellers reported *lll3l the whole number ot
votes given was 226 necessary to a choice
114; of Which Mr. VV .1 Brown,ot Indiana,
received 112, Mr. Duer, ot New York, 26.
the rest scattering amongst lb other names
Mr S IANI.V, of North Carolina then pro
posed the following resolution
“Resolved, That the members ot the Demo
cratic party be requested to appoint three
members to confer with three members of the
Whig parly, relative lo the choice of proper
officers ot ttio tfonre or KcpiCMinuiivci.”
He was tired of this long continued strug
gle. He wanted to put a stop to this state <>t
things, and to have some competent person to
preside over the House ot Represent itives,
who was acceptable to the Demonalic party.
Their present candidate was not acceptable
by a considerable number, as the last result
showed. There was something wrong, some
thing “rotten in Denmaik.” He looked up
on his own side of the House without hluslijj
tng ,he blushed when he looked at the other
side. As to any talk of disorganization, the
thing w as merely ridiculous—he spoke it w ith
all due respect to the other side of the House.
There was no danger of that This Govern
ment was not coming to an end vet, no mat
ter what gentlemen might say about Free
Snilism, VN ilmnt Pmvisoism, and all such
tomfoolery. There was no danger of that.
The Union could not tie dissolved while Hen
ry ('lay and Thomas 11. Benton w-eie hi the
Senate, or while old Rough and Heady wa
it the other end of the avenue.
Mr. Bayi.y.—The gentleman fiom North
Carolina has referred to the condition in which
we find ourselves unable lo organize and trans
act the business of the nation. He *3vs that
the condition of thing -existing 10 tins llon-r
(which is hut a type ol (hocondition of thing
in the country) gives him no alarm
And who (asked Mr. B.) is responsthb l<
tiro division and distraction ot parties wti- t.
exist in Ur's Kiiiiu |>et one ot the t*-; 1
parties run 1 eaii'Udate tor the Presidency
cupying a ihmhilul portion hi reference to it
let him allow bun-ell to he supported in cacti
section upon the ground that hr* views har
monized with theirs, allow himself, for in
stance, to be supported at the North upon the
ground that he was iti favor ol anti-slavery re
strictions by (’ungress, and at th«- South .33
the only hope to shield it fiom them a How
himself 10 be elected by the v«»tes.of elector;
with diverso opinions of his view? and diverse
expectations of his action —let him thus I*
elected let him keep up this Stale of oncer
tainty as to his opinions, and a t ongiess elect
ed in this slate of uncertainty let all thn*
happen, and tell rue, sir. it any man could
anticipate a different posture of affair* thru
the precise one in which we find ourselves
But it was not to reply to this portion ol ihr
gentleman’s remarks that I claimed your at
tention. The gentleman from North Caroli
na has said that he can look to hi* side ol tb-
House without shame hut that when be h *.k
ed to thta, he bkshed that then: wa- wit.
thing “rotten in Denmark.” The gentlem
has thus, in his place, by (hi? insinuation
given form and importance to an imputation
which this morning lias l*'en in w Inqs-r* eu
cutated through this Hall. lie insiuwai**
thatpometbing improper has taken place U
tween the Democratic pttty and the Fre*
Boilers. It is hardly necessary for me to -i>
that the rumor has no foundation in truth
Mr. Ashmin —Has not a corr»*spondct>e
taken plar»* between the member from India
na (Mr. Brown) and some member ol t!w Free
Soil party, in wtneh ho has pledged luiroo it to
constitute ihe committees in a manner satis
factory to 1 hem
Mr. Baylv.—-1 know yt no such com*
pondeoce. the gentleman authorized tv
say that there has been such an one’ It *0
what is his authority [Turning to Mr
Urown) lias any such correspondence taken
place*
Mr Brown shook his head.
Mr. Bayly continued lam authorized 10
W) that no such correspondence has taken
The gentlemen referred to have tin
own Views fc> carry out, and they roost proba
bly will take their own coutw m dorog n
And thsl a portion, ami a portion uidv.ot
'hem have toted with ns— which they hare
aM along shown such an unwdbngt»e*» w» do,
and when they do 11 now under what ap|*-it
necessity —Certain!) does not contain'*"''
u* wc out candidate for th< Speakership
We must be judged of by the character the
great body nf onr party, and not ol those who
Are accidentally thrown with us
Mr. Root said he never felt called upon to
ntake remarks to thta House on account of
remarks which had been n* anybody
else He intended to spe»* ,r J resolution
the gentleman from N* Carolina. That
r oluiion contemplsied big party and
,b#> 1 democratic p»oy—-thoee who were in
tali comm union ettlier of those parties,
V.-I nolxv.iv as haring some right* here.
Sow he h* f helliiaied he should enjoy,
the sanv right* on floor as any other rep
veenwave ol a (tec jieople enjoyed. He
claim them, and he -*boutd be an ugly
-tomcr i.l they were denied. He did not
a nd to «|*e*V for eithei of these parties.—
ff. represented neither of these. Hesuppne
he would lie deemed a representative of
wh»* the gentleman from North Carolina,
V- Sunlv), in most cspectful language,
id seen fit to character re as VVilroot Provi
-‘'ism, and u iomM«rr of ihat kind/’ but let
hihi tell that gentleman, that nine out of ten
of those representing the Whig party from
.he North would not, and the others dare not,
-'hen brought before their constituents, say
it the Wilmot prptrtso was a humbug and
tomfoolery,
Mr. Koot yielding for explanation
Mr Rxvlv. —l think it due to myself and
llon-»c to say that, since I was last up, I
oe had a conversation with the gentleman
n Indiana, |Mr Brown j 1 was mistaken
win Mint no correspondence had taken
between turn and the Free iSotlers. A
iri’-pondcnce has taken place; but in it he
as- me that he had refused to pledge htm
and had snd no moie than that, in form
trej 1 1 1- committee*, he would place the rnetn
>,-ut that paiiy m such posilions as their
-t i hug in the House and the country would
eew t>> him to make proper But thecorres
o- den-e will In produced, and it will apeak
lit itself.
Mr Ifooi resuming, said he would like to
kuow it these two ureal parties were brought
into such a terrible predicament that they
.v..ihJ not ogams** tl*«* House w ithout cutting
t seme of those who happened to differ with
them and depriving them of their rights l It
uf- as great an outrage upon him, (Mr. R.)
t they deprived him alone of the right to
peak. \ote. and act upon this question, as it
would be to cut of forty or eighty, or one
hundred au l twelve from the same right.—
Hi. V had no right to do it; and it they want
d to preserve their character they would not
i prive the humblest member on the floor of
tie ftco exercise of his rights. If this resolu
tion took clicet, the Fiec Sutlers were done as
i.u ns an\ .ufluence in the organization of the
House was concerned. He did not feel that
die remarks w hich had been made in relation
to “-mnething being loiten in Denmark,” af
fected luiri at all. They would ail be wiser
tii reaftei The peculiar state of things in
dll- body at this particular time, may, per
haps, lie somewhat illustrated by an anecdote
which 1 have heard ol one of my countrymen,
member the Universal Yankee nation.—
lie was traveling on a steamboat on the Ohio
river, and having made the acquaintance of a
fellow passenger from the lower country, they
jot up a friendly game of “poker,” by way
ol killing tune. After playing for awhile, the
Mississippi™, in a tone of vexation, exclaim
ed, “1 should really like to know what has
U. *ome of all the aces. 1 haven’t seen one
lor half an hour.” To which the Yankee re
plied, Now would you, ralyi Wal, one on
’em s in your cut sleeve, and ’totlier three
ire in my t>ute.'' 1 don't know that any gen
ik'iu.in here has anything in his coat sleeve,
hut I do know several gentlemen who wear
boot w ltii very long legs to them. IfgentJe-
Tiien should remember this anecdote a w'eek,
ill miv then be able to understand its true
application.
Mr Brown, of Indiana, said that he (Mr
n.) hail come on in Washington city, never
tor a moment dreaming of being a candidate
for ilie Speakership of this House. He had
r.n experience in such matters had never
made them his study When the suggestion
had been made lo him, that lie, occupying
middle ground, and coming from 3 free State,
would, in all probability, be able to concen
tr-ito as great a number of votes as any other
individual on the Democratic side of the
ijjj huil recwivuii she with
perfect astonisbrnwr
In tliis state of the case, he first received a
tetter from the gentleman from Alabama,
iMr Hubbard.J That gentleman propounded
~n-,,.1 questions He (Mr B.) did not an
-wer that lettei, but took to him Hie record
wine'll showed Ins votes, and speech he had
IU-hveied, "iving his views 111 relation to the
-lavi t y question, on the annexation of Texas.
H-’ was not then, and did not desire to be
considered, in the attitude of a candidate for
Ihr office ot Speaker. A tier lie had received
till v three votes lor that office, he had been
ji\e?> 10 understand that these gentlemen
with one ot whom, the gentleman trom i enn
sylvama Mr. Will not,j lie had been long ac
quainted. and ihe gentleman from New York,
iMr King,] with whom he had served in a
lormet Congress, and w ho, he believed, had
generally voted with him, for they were on
ihe Democratic side of the House —desired a
oiili ience with him That conference took
place and, in the course of H, he found th’at
the objection which they had against voting
fm him as Speaker —the great objection
which had impressed itself on their minds
was, iliat lie was selected as the favorite of
the South—that the gentleman from North
Carolina in his eye, ]Mr. Venable,] had said
ihat lie was pledged not to vote for any Wil
mot Proviso mail lor Speaker, and that lie
would turn round and vote lor him. In reply
10 the expression of these fears, he had stated
t 0 these gentlemen that fie had not made any
/ledges to any individual as to the committee
Jipou winch he should be placed. He had
Mated to these gentlemen that he would so
■onsiitutc these committees as that all sections
of the Union should he represented. This
much he had stated, and by that position he
would abide now. They had asked a fair
representation of all interests and all opinions
■—nothing mote If lie had desired to put in
-10 the hands <d those gentlemen that with
which they might go forth aud break the
heads of those who differed from them—rf lie
had desired to f urnish opportunity and cause
of complaint against the South, his policy
would be, to constitute these committees ot
Southern men, and to take these eight (Free
Soil) gentlemen and put them away on the
corner!* ut some unimportant committees.
Wrth the permission of the House, he would
now read the letter.
Mr Brown, having yielded the floor
Mr Wilmot said that he had a conversa
tion with the gentleman from Indiana, [Mr.
Blown] of which, with the permission of gen
lemen. he would state the substance. He
(Mr W expressed to that gentleman the
convir.rnin which he honestly entertained, that
the put.ti, voice, in respect to the great ques
tion which now agitated this country, would
be stifled in the committees of this House.—
All dial lie, and those who were associated
with him, asked, or desired, was a fair oppor
tunity to give expulsion to the great public
sentiment of the people u f the country. They
wanted, am) they ask»-u nothing more. All
that he and Ins friends had desired ar the
hands ot the gentleman t-,>m Indiana (Mr.
Brown] was, that, if he should be elected
Speaker ofthi- Houh be w< rJ
the committees as that they and the constitu
ents whom they represented, might be heard
in thin hall N« stipulation had K( n entered
into, or sought U> be entered into, 4a 0 the
~articular men who should be placed n these
committees. This was the purport „f Uie
conversation. He addressed a note u. the
gentleman trom Indiana, asking him, substan
tially, whether, if he was elected -Shaker o(
ih House, he would so organize the con.inn.
tees, as Im* satislacrory to himsell and
friends 1 He (Mr W.,J and Ins friends desi
r-d to he satisfied that the constitution m the
committees should tie such as not to stitb the
intents, as they believed, ot two-thirds of
freemen of Hus country
Mr >S ttvif ns of Pa —r.'rom the verlnl m-
N Mourse which had taken place between him
mid the gentleman from Indiana, baa he (Mr.
WihuutJ any reason to beleve that the pom-
mittees would be composed of a majority of
members who were in faror of free soil l
Mr. Wilmot.—From tke rettal conrrtM
tiona which I held with the gentleman from
Indiana, I had reason to believe that a major
ity of these committees would be composed of
hut northern men.
[Great laughter over the hall, and applause
in aotne parts
Several voices —Where are the see#'
Mr. Inoe.—l desrre to know what tb*
ileman means by the expression, “fair north
ern men?”
Mr. Wilmot.—Men who should not be
pm upon the committee* fiom political con
••derations or attachments to party, and espe
cially to this Administration men who wmiW
nw g*ce their aid to stifle the expression ol
the sentiments of the people of the North
that is what I mean.
Mr. Inge.—-Then I do not understand that
trou mean men commuted to the Wilmot Pro
viso»
Mr. Wilmot.— No; no fttrthet committed
than so far as their action and known opioMms
c<Ml **dered as committing them.
Mr. Stevens.—Has the gentleman no copy
of the letter
Mr. Wilmot said he had no copy.
Mr. Brown returned ihe floor.
Tlie Clerk made an effort to restore order
in the Hall.
Mr. Brown.—l will read the letter, and
then make a biief explanation.
Mr. B. read the letter, which is in the fol
lowing words
Washington City, 10 December, 1849.
Dear Sir: la answer to youts ol this date,
1 will slate that, should 1 be elected Speaker
of the House of Representatives, I will con
stitute the Committees on the District of Co
lumbia, on Territories, and on the Judiciary,
in such manner aa shall be satisfactory to
yourself and your frienda. lam a represen
tative from a free Slate, and have alwayaboon
opposed to the extension of slavery- and Ire
lieve that the Federal Government should be
relieved from the responsibility of slavery,
where they have the constituiional power to
abolish it.
1 am yours truly,
W J BROWN
Hon. David Wilmot.*
[During Mr. Brown’s remarks, and during
almost the entire day, great confusion andex
citement prevailed through the House
Mr. Burt resumed. He was one of the
representatives fiom the Southern States who
had given his vote with some mistrust to the
gentleman who had just taken his seat. He
begged his honorable friend from Virginia—
from the Accomac district—who had more
minute information on the subject than he
(Mr. B.) possessed, to the up now and state
w hat communications had been made to him
He referred to Mr. Bayly.
Mr. Bayly.—l take pleasure in responding
to the inquiries of my friend from South Car
olina, [Mr. Burt.] It was known that! had
served in the twenty-eighth Congress with the
member from Indiana, [Mr. Brown;] and
when he began to be spoken of as Speaker,
frequent inquiries were made of me as to his
opinions and votes on the slavery question.—
Among others, such inquiries were made of.
me by my friend from Georgia, [Mr. Wel
born.J I told him that noone could have ta
ken a more unexceptionable course. When
a gentleman from Massachusetts the late
Speaker of this House, Mr. Winthrof] had
in 1845, moved an amendment to the Oregon
bill containing the principles of the Wilmot
proviso, the member from Indiana |Mr.
Brown] voted against it, and that, upon all
Jther occasions, as far as I knew, he had vo
;ed with the southern democracy upon all
)ther questions touching the subject of sla
very. 1 assured him that no one could pre
lent a fairer record. Had I known of the ex
stence and character of the correspondence
which has just been read, and of theintei
riews preceding it, no earthly considerations
would have induced me to vote as I did.
Mr. Ven.»ble said, I feel it due to uiyself
hat I shouldjbe relieved fiom occupying,appa
rently, a false position. A day or two ago,
i declared that in no event could l vote for a
S’ ran Snilor or in 4 hoUlinniti -xfu*
foted repeatedly for the gentleman from Tndi
ina, [Mr. Brown:] Had I known the tran
saction or opinions disclosed this morning, 1
;ould not have voted for him.
Mr. Robinson of Indiana, made some re
marks explaining and extenuating the course
adopted by his colleague, (Mr. Brown.)
Mr. Hubbard said, that after ,his arri
val here, he had addressed the gentleman
from Indiana a letter requesting that he
would call upon him. The gentleman came,
and showed him the record of his past course.
With that he (Mr H.) was satisfied. The
gentleman said something in reference to
what would be his course in appointing com
mittees. He (Mr. II.) had told him lie
wanted to hear nothing about that.
Mi. Stanton, of Tennessee. Nit man
can regret more than 1 do, the necessity
for this discussion. But I do not regret,
since the facts existed, that they have been
brougi.t to light. I feel it incumbent upon
me, sir, to say one word in explanation, i
am miforunately among those who voted for
the gentleman from Indiana —even “to the
hitter end.” I feel, sir, that the odium of this
transaction, however unjustly, will in some
measure tall upon mysell, in common with
the whole South. I desire to throw off this
odium and I deem it a complete justification
to say, that 1 could never have supported the
gentleman, if 1 had entertained the least sus
picion of such a transaction as that which
has lieen disclosed.
After some further remarks by various
speakers, en motion ot Mr. Dunham of Ind.
ihe House adjourned.
Thursday, Dtc. 13, 1849-
Mi- Brown, of Mississippi, rose and said,
that he would ask leave of the House to offer
the resolution which he would send to the
Clerk's desk.
The resolution was lead as follows
Resolved, That Howell Cobb, of Georgia,
is hereby chosen Speaker of the House of
the thirty-first Congress.
Mr. Butler suggested that the proposition
of the gentlemen from Mississippi be received
in blank, and that the House proceed, not
knowing exactly where their votes would fall
this morning, to fill the blank; that the name
receiving the highest number of votes should
be, inserted, and the vote of the House then
be taken upon the resolution. If it did not
carry in that form, that the name receiving
the next highest number of votes should be
inserted, and the vote again taken upon the
resolution thus filled.
Mr. Thompson, of Penn, We have been
nine or ten days endeavoring to organize this
House by the election of a presiding officer.
A gentlemen from Ohio, a lew days since,
proposed to ballot for Speaker. 1 voted a
gainst the resolution, because I believed we
could still elect by the course adopted and in
practice for the last ten years. This expec
tation has failed. Some other expedient
must be adopted. This is the only one, the
one w hich 1 am about lo propose, viz to vote
by ballot that seems to vary the monotony
of the past, and present the prospect of an or
ganization in the future. us try it—if not
successlul, try something else 1 offer the
the following resolution
Resolved, That the men diets present will pro
•Th* Washington Dailj lilube ptihli«he* Mi.
Wilmot'* follow*:
Dec mb« k 10, I&4H.
Dear Si* lo the iwimwiwn which 1 had
with )ou ibis ev**i»«. fr"
elated Speaker of the House of Rcprearuianv**,
>on wouMtonatilutr .hr Cunmi.tlq* o*ilemione..
the Judiciary, and die Distort of Colnmbia, ut a
awoner that wboaiA be satirfartory to mymW and the
lim-u.l, vrith whom I h*v* ibe I woo* to act. I have
/M*ua,„i r aU*d this to my tneod* and if, t« «ph
to thi, .tow you CM them Ihr Mine a**uranre,
tltey a .11 t ,Ve yon acfcaertaJ and cordial mpport.
Respectfollf yonra,
D. WILMOT.
Hon. Wm. J. Brow*.

ceed to vote, by ballot, foe Speaker, and will,
•ink r the resolution, eontinee to bellot until
four o'clock this day, unless a Speaker be
sooner elected; and -that no rsutroo to adjourn,
or for any other purpose, aball be made until
ilia boar above named shill hart arrived^
Mr Carter, of Ohio, offered the following
resolution;
#feaa/tW,/rhat any oetsoo who may be e
lected Speaker of this House shall be divert
ed of the pswet to construct the district and
Temtsria! Committees, and that tbe same
shall be made by a vote of the House
He (Mr. Carter) thought that the House
was involving itself in a premature contro
versy on thestibjqff of slavery, presenting it
self before the country in the ridiculous atti
tude of making a grave issue upon a mere
ceremonial matter.
Mr. Meadk said Neither of ike resolu
tions before the House strikes at thu root of
the evil which affects the House. We bare
been acting for eight days a farce before the
people, at a cost io them of $3,000 a day,
which all will agree is l*econamg fo 3 s and
less entertaining. I have anxiertCgtJnuAted
for some ourtius from the N'ustkfo dpi*, re
gardless ol personal consequci*mpjM?»»«of It,
will leap into the gulf which yawits‘'lbT the
peace and happiness of this Union. Sir, let
a proposition be made and supported by those
who are desirous of crushing this demon of
discord, for the puipose of uniting the con
servatism on U>ih sides, in opposition to any
measure which shall look to the abolition of
slavery in the District, or a prohibition of it
in the Territories. If such a proposition
should be adopted, 1 should be willing to take
a Speaker from either side of the House, re
lying ipon him to carry out the views thus
express**! by a majority ol this body.
Hut, if the organization of this House is to
be followed by the pissagpof laws which wilf
enslave a large portion of this confederacy,
if these outrages are to be committed upon
my people, I trust in God, sir, that tny ey«s
have rested upon the last Sj>eakg:ol the
House of Representatives.
Mr. Hoot rernaiked upon the great diffi
culty which he had in telling what was the
precise question before ihe house, three pro
positions, he said, having been made, viz:
the first, to elect the Speaket by ballot, the
seeond, to deprive the Speaker of powers
usually exercised by him in reference to con
stituting tbe committees; and the third, to
moderate the spirit of anarchy which was
abroad in the land. He would endeavor to
notice these propositions tn their order. He
was opposed to the proposition to vote by
ballot liecause it would be likely to be con
strned hy the people as a proposition to enable
genllemnn by skulking under the ballot, to
vote differently from the manner in which
they would vole where a record was mnde.
He was opposed to the proposition made by
his colleague from the Stark District (Mr.
Carter) to deprive the Speaker of the power
of appointment of certain committees, and
said it reminded him of the performance
which he had heard had somewhere been ad
vertised to be played—of Hamlet, with the
part of Hamlet omitted [A laugh.] It
would not answer for a good dodge. If
it were intended to open a hole for tender
footed Free Soil Democrats to escape by, it
would not answer the purpose.
He now came to the other matter —the
dissolution of the Union, or that kind of
moderation which was to prevent it. He
trusted, with the calm, moderate counsels ol
such gentlemen as the honorable gentleman
from Virginia, [Mr. Meade,) we would get
along without dissolution. [A laugh.]
He noticed the computation made by Mr.
Brown, of Mississippi, tor show that the
Democratic party had the majority in the
House, and expressed his doubts as to its
correctness. He did not know the gentle
man’s data but bis word for it, to make out
a majority to enable them to elect a Speaker,
that party would have to reckon some of the
rankest kind of Free Soilcrs—not only Wil
mot-proviso men, but the Wilmot Proviso
himself, and referred, in a manner which
elicited much merriment, to the attempt hy
which they bad yesterday, by combining so
mcoiirtmoua elements come ko umur cfeciina
a. iwiwucf, WM OCICTIHW try
a very few leaks, owing to a defective cooper
age [A laugh.) They had almost come it
—not quite. There was nothing, however,
in that result, he thought, to discouiage
them. They should keep on trying. He
did not w ant to interfere in this difficulty at
*ll. He knew belter. He was not so fond
of a fig lit as to lead him into it He had
seen enough of “the chivalry” to make hint
a little cautious. He had heard the din,
*een the dust, and smelt the smoke of the
fight, and the way the “chivalry” had
charged upon their quondam candidate—par
ticularly towards the close of the battle—bad
satisfied him (Mr. R.) that it would be as
well never to get into any fuss with those
gentlemen, it lie could help it. Well, now,
if that man was not brought to a condition
where he could lie trusted on the Slavery
question, he would like to knowhow any man
could be. [Laughter
Mr. Duek The gentleman from Mississip
pi [Mr. Brown] has introduced a proposition,
declaring the genileman from Georgia [Mr.
Curb] to he the Speaker of this House in
other words, a proposition calling upon his
(Mr. Di er's) side ol ihe House (the Whig
side) to make an unconditional surrender. It
api»eared to him that this was asking alto
gether lo«t much for his own part, so anxi
ous was he that an organization should be
effected, that he was willing to organize in
almost any way, hy electing to the Speaker’s
chair eilher a Whig or a Democrat, or a
Free-Soiler —any one, in short, except a dis
umonist. He never would give his vote for
any man whom he believed to be inimical to
the Union.
Mr lUyly (interposing) said' There are
no disumonisls in this House.
Mr. Disk. I wish 1 could think so, but 1
fear there are.
Mr Bayly Who are they Point them
out.
Mr. Dler 1 believe there are some from
your own Slate; 1 think I see one of them
now (jointing to Mr. Meade, of Va.)
Mr. Meade It is fake.
Mr. Dler. You %re a liar, sir.
Quick as thought, Mr. Meade made a
rush towards Mr. Dler, but was immediate
ly surrounded by his friends, as was also Mr.
Dler, who remained standing in the |*)sition
in w hich he had spoken. Indescnbable (con
tusion followed —threats, violent gesticula
tions, call* to order, and demands for adjourn
ment were mingled together. The House
was like a heaving billow. Tire Clerk called
to order, but there were none to heed him
Some time elapsed.
The Sergeant-at-aims of the late House
of Representatives, Nathan Saruent, Esq.,
now took the mace ir. his hand, and descend
ing along the ctowd of members, held it up
on high.
Cries i»t “Take away the mace it has no
authority here.”
Mr. Dler at length obtained a hearing.
He would, he said, continue his remarks.
And, in the first place, he would beg par
don of ihe House for having uttered language
winch he h»d fell himself called upon to utter,
but of ihe impropriety of which he had not at
the time beerrfiilly conscious. He was no*
prepared at ibis time to rote for any proposi
tion; bat he thought it probable that if the l
House would consent to adjourn for a day or
two, some understanding might be arrived at.
Mr. Toombs said the difficulties in the w»f,
ot the orjjamxationofihia House are apparent
ami well understood here, and should be un
derstood by the country. A great sectional
question he* at the fo audition of all these
trouble*. We hate just listened to strong
appeals upon the neceßsity of organising the
Ilouse confess 1 do m* foel that neeesw- j
ty. From the best fights before me, 1 cannot
twe that my constituents base anyth tog to
hot«* from your legislation, hut everything to
fear. We ate to have the
door* of yo«r tieasotg throw* open, and
fort* millions of commm taxes of the
10 fg£
whole nation thrown into the top of mc half
of it Wank for nonnof it; wo expect none
•f it; th—nfuin gentlemen must pai<fcu at
wont of sympathy for their iwymato Sir,
1 hare an muck attachment»« the Lame nt
these States, under the Constitution of oet
hit hem, as any freeman ought to have, j aan
ready to concede aad sacrifice for it whatever
a jest aad honorable nan ought to naenfice—
I will do no more. But Ido net hesitate to
avoir before this House and the ceunitv, and
in rhe presence of the living that if bvj
your legislation you seek to drive as from the
territories of California and New Mexico,
purchased by the common blood and treasure
•f the whole people, and to aboh&h slavery
ia this Lhstriet, thereby attempting to fix a
national degradation upon half the States of
thta Confederacy, Jam for dumnton; and if
toy physical courage be equal to the mainten
ance of my convictions of right and duty, I
will devote all 1 am and all f have on earth to
its consummation. H e must arouse and ap
peal to the nation. We mast tell them, bold
ly aad frankly, that we prefer any calamities
to submission to such degradation ami injury
as they would entail upon us. that we hold that
to be the consummation of all evil. 1 have
stated my position* J have not argued them.
I reserve that for afuture occasion. These ate
the principles upon which I act here. Give me
securities that the power of the uigantsation
which you seek will nut be used to the injury
of my constituents, then you can have my
co-operation, but not ul| then. Gram them,
and you prevent the recurrence of the dis
graceful scenes of the last twenty-four hours,
and restore tranquility to the country. JLrfuee
them, and, as far as I am concerned, 'Tut dia
coid reign forever,”
[Several times during the delivery of these
remarks, Mr. T. was interrupted by loud
i bursts of applause.]
Mr. Baker, of 111. I avow myself, in the
first place, as decidedly in favor of what is
called the Wilmot proviso. It embodies a
principle approved by my judgement, and
dear tojny beau; and yet, I may say that 1
have not sought to make this a test in the
selection of a Speaker, or the organization ol
this House. 1 desire, in ihe next place, to
remark as to the threats of disunion, listened
to so painfully, and so intensely. Sir, I deny
that the great body of the people from the
North have w ished to raise j such a question,
or to excite unreasonable agitation nor when
the scenes and speeches of this day shall he
spread before them, will they believe our
brethren of the South to be in earnest. Gen
tlemen, when you threaten a dissolution of
the Union, we shall doubt. When you pro
test, we shall disclaim but no fervid declara
tions, no fiery appeals to southern feeling, no
solemn invocations to the Almighty, (asif in
deed he was a God of Discord,) will make
us believe that here, in this Hall, there is
one man who chambers in his secret heart a
purpose so accursed and so 4 deadly. Sir, we
do not believe the Union can ever be dissolved.
No evidence shall convince us, until the deed
is done; yet if such a thing be possible, it
•hall not be our fault. We shall not be inti
midated by threats of violence. We shall
not shrink from the calm expression of our
deliberate judgment. We are here as free
men, to speak for freemen; and we will
speak and act as becomes us, in the face of
the world and of posteiity.
Mi. Stephens rose and said, that he never
expected to live to see the day when, upon
I this floor, he should be called upon to discuss
the question of the Union of these States. If
in early life (continued Mr. S.) there was
anything in my heart cherished above all
others, it was the glorious conpact formed by
our fathers of the revolutionary struggle.
Sir, as has just been said, I believe that so
long as American hearts beat in American
bosoms, tiie day will never come when the
Union of these States shall be dissolved. But
1 tell that gentleman, [Mi. Baker,] and I tell
this House—whether he believes it or not,
and whether the people of the North believe
it or not—that the day in w hich aggression
is consummated upon any section of the coun
try, much and deeply as I regret it, this Union
is dissolved.
Il gentlemen suppose that by singing paeans
Iff T***® C'xrrtrT* it ia *uf fccrjjr .1. Wxia r trU*.
nod themselVes mistaken. The Union was
founded upon justice—immutable justice—
and right. It was not to render the weak
subject to the aggressions of the strong, it
is ag well that tins debate should have come
to-day as at any tune, so that the great
American heart may he awakened. I believe
that it has been slumbering. 1 would rather
that the southern country should perish—that
all her statesmen and all her gallant spirits
should be buried in honorable graves, than
submit for one instant to degradaiinn.
Mr. Cleveland, of Connecticut. 1 am
not a little astonished at the exhibition of pas
sion I hate witnessed on this occasion, by
gentlemen of the South. Charges are made
of aggression upon the rights of the South.
When and where have these rights of the
South ever been trespassed upon by the North l
What does the South ask of the North 1
That we shall forget that we are freemen—
the representattves of freemen 1 That we
should yield our opinions, our principles to
their dictation 1 This cannot be. Republican
government rests upon the will of the people,
expressed by majorities. Our differences
must he decided upon this principle.
After some further discussion, the House
proceeded to vote viva voce for speaker. The
roll was called, when the tellers reported that
the whole of voles given was 224
necessary to a choice 113, of which Mr.
Wintlirop received 59, Mr Cobb 40; the
rest scattering amongst 2b names The
House then adjourned.
Fnday and Saturday passed over m a some
what similar manner. Various resolutions
were offered, and after a desultory conversa
tion upon them, laid aside. Mr. Ashmun,
of Mass., proposed a resolution, that the
person receiving the largest number of rotes,
if over one-third of the whole,should be elect
ied Speaker. Some other Member proposed
Linn Boyd, of Kentucky, the oldest member
in the House, as Speaker pro tem Several
other resolutions, looking to some arrange
ment for organizing, were proposed, and soon
after laid aside or forgotten. Several ballots
were taken on each day, when Mr. Boyd, Mr.
Stanly, and Mr. Winthrop, received the larg
est number of votes; but neither of them near
ily enough for a choice.
(hi Monday the balloting was again resum
ed, w ith a very similar result. Mr. Wtothroji
received 77 votes, Mr. Boyd 87. Mr.
Thompson proposed a resolution that a Com
mittee of 14 should be appointed to report the
best plan for the speedy organization of the
1 House. It I** l 00 ,he uWe
On Tuesday, in the Senate, Mr Mangum
moved that the Senate proceed to the election
of Standing Committees. The motion was
agreed to, the balloting fMeded, and the
Chairmen of various were ap-
ToLt llooae. ,1* Speak,,
MMd. 0, the fifty-fifth balk*. Mi. Wt.
tbfop received 97 rotes, MClernaud 23, Jo
liin 4, Boyd 47, Suoeg l», Disney 4. remain
der scattering-
Cows Woaaw as Ox**.—A correspon
torn o( the Soother. Ctthmlo. «J._
have worked cow* in harness, net under tm
soke without detriment in any respect—«
the contrary ib«r calves wers superior to thr
re«t of the stock—due of course to the exit;
feed and attention the cows received,
should like to see tMn practice
nwff of the poorer efoaa have no other *ntme
powMjfta aid them m jtheu tmmng

jUI /HF
Foreaga Km mt the Week
The Hibernia ku armed, bet teduf
more this a tetegitephic sum maty of her
news ha* yet reached thmany.
Exolavd From England there is nothing
of mporiMe Cotton a dull. Sales of the
week, 19,000 hales American flau setts at
43s to 24 s
France. The attentioo of the Panswas
has been amply occspwd daring the week
with the details, closes and cross qeeaens, of
some half-a dosen duels between members of
the Legislative Assembly. M Pierre Beooa
parte was ooe of (be principals in three or
km of these encounters. Now of them
terminated fatally. Government threatens to
pnt jn force very stringent measures to pqp
vent their recurrence The plan to modify
the Cofisittetioo, is the engrossing subject of
discussion in the Assembly. It is now pro
posed to change the Legislative Assembly to
constituent body, by the addition of 150
members, and this new body to be invested
with the power of electing the President, or
eitending the term of his office, to such a
period as many avoid the neeeasity of a fre
quent appeal to universal suffrage.
The German Empirb. A telegraphic
dispatch received from Berlin via Cologne
announces that tho Austrian Cabinet had
made a formal protest against the convocation
of a German Parliament at Erfurt; and that
in the despatch the Austrian Government
alluded to the probability of armed inter
ference by Austria in the affairs of Germa
ny. The Cologne Gazette announces in a
telegraphic despatch ft om Berlin, that the
King has signed the law for the election of
Representatives to this Parliament. In a
despatch, replying to the insinuation of
Prince Schwarlzenburgh, that “Austria will
not hesitate lo have recourse lo an armed in
tervention,” the Ministry maintain with en
ergy the right of Prussia to carry out ths
limited federation, and coolly say that Prussia
awaits Austrian interference.
Turkey and Russia, It is confidently
stated that the British fleet has received or
ders to withdraw from the Dardanelles
Letters from Constantinople to the 10th,
mention fresh subjects of dispute between
Turkey and Russia in consequence of the
energy with which the united diplomacy of
England and France has followed up its vic
tory on the refugee question.—lt is said that
the Porte is also determined, at the expira
tion of the stipulated term, to withdraw those
concessions, in future, on Russian commerce,
over othet nations which at present exist.
Notices.
The Rochester Annual Meeting.
The Western N. Y. Anti-Slavery Society,
will hold their annual meeting on the Bth and
9lh of January in the city of Rochester,
which our friends in the city and country are
earnestly invited to attend. We feel that the
injunction “neglect not the assembling of
yourselves |together,” ought most faithful
ly lobe adhered to, remembering it is by uni
ted efforts that the bonds of the fettered slave
must be broken. We know' that the laborers in
the great w ork of reform are comparatively
few but, “Truth is mighty,” and we are
encouraged in believing “that the day of re
demption draweth nigh as we are assured
that the faithfulness of the few tried and devo
the chains and set at liberty many a despon
ding captive, and the reflection stimulates us
to a greater devotedness, knowing full well
that the corrupting and demoralizing effects
of slavery on our white as well as our colored
brothers and sisters, call loudly and impera
tively upon our holiest feelings, for energetic
action, while opportunity is yet afforded.
Considering the disabilities we are laboring
under, and the apathy of the mass around us,
on this vitally interesting subject, much has
been done in these parts during the past year;
but a steady, peisevering, uncompromising
devotion is indispensable, and we hope that
while we lalmr with unliring zeal to strike at
the root of this infernal system, we shall re
member that bursting the fetters should be
followed by the genial influences of sympa
thy and elevation, and, that during our delib
erations some suggestions may be made with
regard to devising means to place the escaped
bondmen in situations in which their long
buried intellect, their manhood shall be called
out, that they may be prepared to receive the
truth that they may be recipients of God’s
love, and thus be enabled to enjoy the boon of
liberty, of which they have so long been rob
bed. We again say to our friends far and
I near, Cojne up to our annual gathering, where
by a free and spontaneous interchange of sen
timent, we may scatter seed that will evestu
ally yield a rich harvest.
Frederick Douglass will be piesent.and
speakers from abroad will be invited lo at
tend.
SARAH D. FISH, Cor. Sec'y.
Rochester, Nov. 19th 1849.
To the Anti-Slavery Friends of Western
New York and elsewhere.
We see, wnh regret, in the Anti-Slavery
Standard, of the tith inst., that the 15th of
January is fixed upon for bolding the Syra
euse Convention, only one day previous to tbe
J time we had published our intention to hold
I the Rochester Fair. In older to allow an op-
I purt unity for the friends of the caose u> at
tend both, it will be necessary to again change
the time for bolding the Fair. We, there
fore, postpone it another week—Wednesday,
Jin 23d, 1850. AMY POST,
On behalf of the Fair Committee.
A. Dr. Kelt of %Vaohington, died several
years ago, and bequeathed to a yellow woman
whom be purchased from s slave-dealer, sod
lived with, (having issue,) property to the
value of six or eight thousand dollars Tbe
woman thinking that the will was all right,
congratulated herself o» her good fionnao
but two of tho female relatives ut the decnae
ed contested the paper, and the circuit const
was occupied with the case seven days. The
most talented and learned counsel of tho city
were employed—taro on noth side The je
ry retired on Friday sAsroooe, sod remained
in their room onto! this morning, (Nov. 20.)
after nearly foot days confinement Being
asab'e to agree—eight hetag for the woman,
and four tor the pbH»h&~-they wees dm
charged.—A new trial will tbe ounce*
qoeoee —N Y HrrwU,

Coot, an a Cue bmser T wo 4Forcestsr
i editors were candidates tor the legislature, at
(betK«. The Palladium thus chronicles the
result;
r The people of Worcester have sleeted the
editor of the Spy to go totkeleguiaturi and
alsnr 1 vs iv stay at ham. That shew
tery ptaieiy is*** ffisy iforr to*'
grown ap a knowledge
the «idn«f nti>w» knee
af arresting dtssnoe, and
Kotwitkaiandiag the progress waknte
tatk* akow dattfc*
mgrifogTS L* PK^WKTAItS I^ ALSAM
of wild cherry.
Nwh, Livingston Cb ,N- Y., Sam 9. l*4t
Mr. 8. W. Fowle.—Danr Sir Pnmptol *7 a
nm of roimilf far beaefcs nwiwJ *«■jftfLTf
of WISTAR*S BALSAM OF WILD CHF.RR*
I wbart dr feWairing ntnnrn fw’*" to
my taking the Wild Cherry I few! been «M.ged to
(ire Vmy Unman* fanwia.’aw
rifcciion of the tangs. Utkin distressed stale U»**
ordered to try yswr re—d; far I’ONSI'MPTION.
I did ao, and in tkn coarse af a few w*k», I w
restored la cusaparatire good krnkk, ao tkai 1 b»
•inn been aMe to attend to ardianrv tastiness. In
deed, my present state of benMi far eweed* my
■ont snag nine expectations. Yoorn truly,
JOHN BURNS
None genuine, ante** signed I. BUTTS on the
wrapper.
For safe by Post It Wttj.is;aad also by W a.
Pimm
From Whcohsih.—M-W. B. Sluan —Dear
Sir: We hare of late been in da habit of purrban
ing year Horae Medicines and Tuaia Paste from
yonr tnrelliag agent, the demand for them is no
great that we hare never been able to keep a supply
«a >«—l from the time of purchase, until the agent
come round again. If agreeable to yon, we will act
as yonr General Agents for tkis section f country,
la tkis way you could keep no constantly supplied
and we should consequently be able to dispose o!
maar more of your medicines than we now do.
Yaur* respectfully. LADD4 WILLIAMS.
8 bulls burg, March IS, 1345.
QCh See Agents’ Dames at the bead of Sloan s
Column. For further particular* and testimonials,
get pamphlets of agents.•Y*»*erkn«#*«)r people lockj’
it Qtorn Awlrtti and liii tAi °b
•erred Mrs. Henderson om ermine to
her husband in a tone which bordered
strongly on com plaint.
“Whit bee happened to them now,
Sophie!" inquired he, suspending h»
pen, end looking up with stronger
lenee of interest in hie wife** fee lime,
however, thin in hii neighbor*! for
tune*.
“Have you not heard, Phillip, that
a cousin of hii hai died in India, and
led six or wren thousand pounds?
Only think of receiving such a legacy
from a person one has never men, and
scarcely ever heard of!"
“I am glad to hear it," replied Mr.
Henderaon. “One may congratulate
him on hia accession of wealth with
out fear of giving rite to painful re
grets. Six thousand pounds would no
console one for the lons of a very dear
friend."
“Six thousand pound* would be ver„
pleasant to inherit, Phillip/' re pi it <T
the lady in a tone which seemed to
imply thst it would cossole her for a
great deal. “I wish somebody would
leave as much for you: how happy it
would make us!"
“I am not so sure of that; such an
addition to our income might possibly
make us nsither happier nor richer
than we are at present."
Not richer! Why, Phillip, you are
jo* ng. Would not three hundred a
year—make us a great deal richer?
What an advantage it would be!"
“What do you need, Sophia, that
►you do not at present possess, tbat you
i are ao extremely desirous of a larger
income?”
“Oh, a dozen things at least: we
would put Edward to a first-rate school,
and have a capital governess for the
{Others. What a pleasure that would
be! I should be no more tied to teach
ing, as I am now, but should be as in
dependent of the nurser as Mrs. An
drews; and then, perhaps, you would
:ndulge me with a week in London; and
lam dying to hear an opera? I am
sure you could afford that for once in
a way."
“1 hope we shall manage to send
Edward to a good school, my dear,"
said her husband rather gravely;
j “though, as to tuition of the girls, I
think you must still be contented to act
the part of a mother towards them.
And permit me to say, tbat I trust your
desire of going to London is as visiona
ry as your expectation of a legacy.
\our happiness does not depend on
either event, I should imagine; certain
ly not so much as on the cultivation of
a cheerful and contented spirit, such
as you have always hitherto exhibit
ed."
No more was said on the subject,
<and Mr. Henderson trusted that, as
the first excitement of this intelligence
subsided, his wife’s inclination to dis
content would likewise die away, and
Jhal she would gradually resume the
use of'her reason and her habits of ac
tive usefulness.
The inheritor of this unexpected
legacy, meantime did not view the affaii
|Hi tk* k>ipkl lk»i Jncted Mr*
Henderson. On the contrary, he hac
many and serious thoughts on the sub
ject. He was at the first moment, it is
true, much pleased with the sudder
accession of property, hut when he
came to consider the matter, he experi
enced a great revulsion of feeling; and
he began to doubt whether he was sc
lucky a man as his acquaintance uni
versally denominated him. It was,
after all, so small a sum—only six
thousand pounds—it would hardly add
to his income or increase bis credit.
Why had it not been ten thousand?
He would, he thought, have been quite
satisfied with that that would have
been a handsome legacy, a something
worth talking about, a gift to be
grateful for. Peniaps, had it been
ten thousand, he might have risen a
step in the world, and from senior
clerk of the extensive firm to which he
belonged, he might have been admit
ted as partner, a change which he ar
dently desired. Why could not his
cousin have made his legacy larger?
HoW provoking that, either from want
of interest in hih welfare, or from any
other cause, he had stopped short of a
sum which would certainly have pro
cured him, as he imagined, perfect
happiness.
The gloom which overspread his
brow was not unmarked by his affec
tionate wife; and supposing that he
was over-wearied with his work, and
standing in deed of relaxation, she one
day proposed tbat he should beg a short
holiday from the office, and spend it
with them at the sea-side.
“I cannot afford any such extrava
gant pleasures/' tth» reply, some
what impatiently ta her suggestion
“1 thought this legacy you have re
ceived would have enabled you?" she
replied rather timidly—then paused.
Legacy!" repeated ha; “I am
sick of the legacy. After all the con
gratulations with which I am pestered,
as if 1 had inherited half the Indies,
to be ownei of only sia thousand
poundsis 100 bad'”
'Nay, dear (seorge, I cannot agree
with you SIX thousand pound* in a
large sum tor ue, and will make a meat
lumiortable addition to our income I
am sura I feel grateful lot it
Grateful—pooh' IfflCdward lievie
wished me tt. a* grelefel, ha should
beta left am somslTuag Mh naming
vpow my word I we* ••named SM n
this leges* wbi h has mada mueh
e«*i*e a4yrs,» n. tnaand sound* 1
•he* it,* alga* alber gfthnd me almul 1
How rimpiiht u
am*., wba RukW mn ull
that teat •my yaai
Itoi these tbiugs #l4
.a n, end (f 4
UTLtlriSSlL*** tophimn! 1
•*m via*
u **eooo* .e*e*oe*
-r I *t f
I He did am hi**.. ii
•uafiimw,
of atu.„
•cause pa feel more than uauJL S
j bairuaead with bujfes.s. .1
that is theOol) reason. Priy, far onan
taka advice, and try if tka change
of eceript and Kttle hohda* 1 propone
would aira you roaevKd strength
aad vigor for yoor work.** Ska spake
m tka geatlant aad aid paeeaaaim ie>
cents, but tbay wera loa» aa a akd
which I intoned only to tka whiapera of
a newly-awakened avarice.
Mr. Andrews, after pacing tka room
for—onto minutes, seated himself again
ky his wife, and triad to make her un
derstand the ambitious projects he had
formed, and tba great poaitioo he be
lieved be had so narrowly missed. But
•he was too clear-sighted and wall
principled to encourage visionary pro
jects, which tended only to diaqaiet tba
mind, and prevent bis anjoying tka
bleaaings which ware lawfully hie. To
hu plan of laying by tka. whole of this
addition to their incoma aka did not of
course object, if it was to enable bar
husband at some future time to retire
from business; but his wish to become
proprietor of the concern to which he
belonged made her sigh, as aha thought
of the increased responsibility he de
sired for himself; ami aha dreaded lest
the sudden passion for accumulation
which bad now seised him, might lead
him farther in the road of covetous
ness than Be bad at all anticipated.
But hit project was fixed, and be re
solved at ail aventa to become posses
sor of ten thousand pounds, a prelimi
nary step as he imagined, to this great
advancement; and seeing that she must
subunit, she wisely submitted with
good grace, ahd resigned her hopes of
change of air for herself and children
without a murmur.
Mr. Andrews and Mr. Henderson
were clerks in tha same concern; but
the ormer, both in station and income,
was considerably the senior, and Mrs.
Henderson had long been accustomed
to eye with something approaching to
envy the superior comforts and even
elegancies which Mrs. Andrews enjoy
ed. Not that there was anything like
ostentation in their manner of living;
and in truth most of the indulgences
which Mrs. Henderson commented on
or coveted were purchased from the
comfortable portion which Mrs. An
drews had inherited of her lather.—lt
was this which enabled them to send
their eldest son to a superior school,
and it was out of this fund that the ex
cellent governess was paid, who shared
with the mother the task of educating a
numerous and increasing family. That
people already possessed of so much
should inherit more, seemed an unne
cessary addition, and almost an unfair
division of worldly goods, to the jeal
ous apprehension of Mrs. Henderson.
But had she known the truth, her envy
mußt have subsided into pity. From
the possession of that fatal legacy was
the wife iorced to date a melancholy
and most distressing alteration in bet
husband: his whole nature seemed
changed, every honorable, generous,
and even affectionate feeling, appeared
smothered in a passion for gain.
Quickly to accumulate the desired cap
ital was his thought by day, hia dream
by night; and to accelerate that object,
he tried in every possible way to cur
tail all expenses not strictly unavoida
ble. Gradually, but surely, Mrs. An
drews found herself deprived of numer
ous trifles which her delicate health
seemed to require; their household was
OimmrsTie-o, woscnptions to charities
withdrawn, their pleasant and commo
dious house exchanged for a cheaper
abode in a iess healthy situation; and
when il appeared that it was of too
contracted dimensions to receive them
all, she was told that she must there
fore give up the governess. By de
grees the whole expenses of the house
hold were reduced to the sum which
was in truth her own, and her husband
was not to be prevailed on to extend
its limits or allow her to touch his sala
ry. Had honor, jionesty, or prudence
dictated this proceeding, Mrs. Andrews
would have submitted without a re
monstrance; her zeal in economy
would even have exceed his; but to
feel herself and children deprived of
those advantages to which they had
been accustomed from birth, only to
gratify a fatally-increasing disease of
her husband's mind, was bitter. But
bittterer far was the loss of his affec
tion and confidence—the painful cold
ness which had insensibly grown up
between them. It was after a few years
of such a system that a new prospect
was suddenly opened, in an offer of!
partnership from another and a rival
house. The prospect was alluring in
every respect, the concern was sup
posed to be peculiarly flourishing, and
the terms in which it was made were
as flattering as they were advantage
ous. Eagerly was the proposal grasp
ed by Mr. Andrews, it being superior
to his hopes, and much beyond his ex
pectations; and the impartant step was
taken which raised him from servitude
to a master’s place.
The vacancy this change occasioned
was offered ioMr. Henderson, aad by
turn thankfully and gratefully accept
•eiJ; but his wife, though now raised to
the situation wtuah ska bad long!
courted, found it kf no moans replete
with all the advantages she bad been
accustomed to ascribe to it, aod she
sighed as she reflected how little pio
bable it was that any legacy would
ever bestow oa them' tba happiness
which eke beltaead Mrs Andrews te
•W s*tiaflad with kia own ad veered
powtion, bar husband paid Intis regard
to her murmurs, tor be was now ena
bled to procure lor km children such
tthJfiitionttJ idtifitftftfi m
ko aunaidarad useful at desirable, aod
ka pursued hie daily avaeekaa web m
ereseed attention aad aatodkation m
apite af tba reiteaaa—a of bia
whom ka van*l» triad ia igapm with a
libs «notaoted spirit by rauitwdiag bar
mf tba supanoi «-l-antaae> tka? an# 1
•«f«ted to iket# »dk waUk tkay e#m
waaaad lift 4 unfit flitaaa tale Mrs i
tadraae miad would tftar raadarad
U «*g Mssek »«vk Of
4- Sena amen eonatMl b»* 1
a* way mktgy than keft* i
SriMi Mg I
I mo—a |aeaopii
•ruoa*. and grant a—.Mwia.h
Mr. dmaruee could ait, Itui
tba taw t, avoid ftekor tea- digre ot
as?
,h ir «msC Z
16 uabouoltl tro- i
II.H JjJj.
ui „d rtß rkT,.4l!
tIM vnry opposite foible of George Afr
dteoro; encouraging his prejudice, eaqjy
mghu strength of mind, mod aaymgthM
if atfii—tonens allowed it, thny would
certainly potato his forasie
coagratuMKooa be received with a tri
umphant smile, which seemed to apeak
at oooe hie owe telf-approval. and hla
cootenpt for bis weak-minded com pan
_ c
Unwilling asfht was to judge any
one bansUy, the wife could not thiok
favorably of those who thus fostered a
weakness, or rather a vice, so com
pletely at variance widi his best inter
ests and the happiness of all connected
with him. She /sored the flatterers,
though unable to divioo their motives;
apd being now more then ever deprived
ef her husband’s society, the occupied
herself solely in directing her house
hold, end giving her children the best
education in her power. She imagin
ed that her husband must long ago
have realised the sum of ten thousand
pounds, which he asserted would be
the extent of bis.ambition; yet she saw
no svmpton of relaxation ih his avarici
ous habits, no improvement to herself
in her new rotation. All was grasp
ing, grinding economy, reodered more
bitter by the contrast which her hus
band’s coroMoions exhibited.
But uUfflng and complete termi
nation wwfat length put to their trials
and sorrows, for it suddenly became
known that the two senior partners in
the business had fled, taking with them
every pound on which they could lay
their grasp, and leaving the whole con
cern in estate of complete ruin. Debts
to an enormous amount appeared due
on every side, and it was evident that
the business had long been on the verge
of bankruptcy, which had only been
kept off for brief period by the capi
tal Andrewa brought them.—Of course,
though clear of their guilt, he was in
volved in their ruin, and at one blow
the labors of the last six years were
destroyed, and the money on which he
had set his heart was swept away for
ever. The legacy, the source alike of
pleasure and of pain, wai now become
as if it had never been; and the vafn
desires and ardent hopes which had
been founded on it, had proved vanity
of vanities. But k was a happy blow
for him: he awoke as from a dream,
and with the demolition of his ambiti
ous projects, there came other and bet
ter plans and feelings. After honestly
giving up every farthing he possessed
to his creditors, he looked around for
employment to provide bread for his
family; nor did he seek in vain. A
situation was once more offered him
in Mr. Walker’s house, and here he
began the world again as at first.
“Well," said Mr. Anderson to his
wife, “1 agree with you in thinking
Andrews a very fortunate man. It is
true that he has lost the legacy, but he
has gained a lesson which he will pro
bably never forget. And when J seo
him now so quietly pursuing his busi
ness, and his wife with a contented, or
rather a happy look, 1 must class him
among the most happy men of roy ac
quaintance."
INDIAN JUGGLERS.
One of the men,taking a large earthen
vessel, with a capacious mouth, filled it
with water, and turned it upside
down,when aft the wafoF flowed out:
but the moment it was placed with the
mouth upwards it became full. He then
emptied it, allowing any one to inspect it
who chose This being done, he de
sired that one of the party would fill it;
his request whs obeyed; still, when he
reversed the jar,not a drop of water
flowed—and upon turning it, to our as
tonishment, it was empty.
I examined the jar carefully when
empty, but detected nothing which
could lead to a discovery ofthe mystery
I was allowed to retain and fill it my
self; still, upon taking it up, all was
void within,yet the ground around it was
perfectly dry, so that how the water had
disappeared and whgre it had been con
veyed, were problems which none of us
was able to expound. The vessel em
ployed by the jugglers on this occasion
was the common earthenware of the
country, very roughly made; and, in or
der to convince us that it bad not been
especially constructed for the purpose
of aiding his clever deceptions, he per
mitted it to be broken in our presence;
the fragments were then handed round
inspection of his highness %nd the
party present with him
The next thing that engaged our atten
tion, was a feat of dexterity altogether
astonishing. A woman, the upper
part of whose body was entirely uncov
ered, presented herself to our no
tice, and taking a bamboo twenty feet
high, placed it upright on a flat stone,
and then, without any support, climbed
to the top of it with surprising activity.
Having done this, she stood upon one
on the point of the bamboo, balancing
it all the while. Hound her waist she
had a girdle, to which was fixed so iron
socket: springing from her upright po
sition on ths bamboo, she threw Her
self horizontally forward with such ex
act precision, that the top ofthe p*le
entered the socket of the iron ion**,
and ia this position she spun hers. If
round with s velocity which made me
giddy to look at— ilia bamboo all il.a
whtla appearing as if U asra support* d
by nm supernatural agency. She
turned bar l*g| backward, till the be. la
tan chad the shoulders, aad, grasp, g
ths tables in bar hands, continued h r
rot aliens as rapidly that the outline if
her bade was entirely lust is Ha
aye, and aha looked Mbs a revet*, g
hall Having performed several oil. r
font# equally aatraordinarv, ike 4
dawn the steam shaft, and, intstoi 4
5» aw, chia J
»upon!*. pc,
a a dtffeei* with i
apahratmn uf sa« eras a
Mmiy a tana no manna p
pass* tti eg a her parent!, whies t
denetad* was *N ages** *hm «ae rt
>elg*tanaeepsosf«fh«c lihamhty wh
bewnvsf threw bar a fow rapes* w. a
•hath Ah as passed pesdbeMv set
hs4 dhtsmud foianai
imrui Urn Titrnc Tr.g
House of Representative! of Gecry i
have paused t) *hc strong vote of 13
to 39, a b.II to repeal the l«w laying
reptrictiens oa the introduction of slaves
udo that Scats.