REPORT OF THE WEST BLOOM
FIELD A. S. CONVENTION.
At an Anti-Slaver/ Convention, held
according to previous notice, in the
Christian church at West Bloomfield
on the evening of Tuesday, March 19,
1850, the business of the meeting was
commenced by appointing N. W. Nash
President, and H. F. Welles, Secre
tary.
Prayer was then offered by Rev. S.
C. Brown.
After some remarks from S. French
on the differences between abolition
ists, and tbe necessity of activity at
this time, on motion, a Committee of
five was appointed to prepare business
for future meetings; which Committee
was composed of J. Dickson, S. H.
Ainsworth, S C. Brown, D. M. Smith,
and S. French.
A song was then given by Mr. Gibbs.
Mr. Remond occupied a short tune,
briefly recapitulating the points of dif
lerence between the several sects of
avowed abolitionists, in the means to
be used against slavery; and stating
hia own position as in coincidence with
that of the American Anti-Slavery So
ciety.
Mr. Gibbs spoke on the direct bear
ing of slavery.
Rev. Mr. Brown, in some observa
tions on the formation of the Constitu
tion, insisted on the anti-slavery char
acter of that document.
Elder Millard alluded to the prac
tical construction of the clause in the
Constitution concerning persons held
to service.”
S. French declared a recent State
law to furnish ample security for the
preservation <Jf liberty, and referred to
the debates of the Constitutional Con
vention, for the opinion of its members
on th e fugitive clause.
Elder Millard again brought up
the p radical construction, and sup
posed that an act of Congress would
be paramount to any State law, allud
ing to Mr. Mason’s Bill, now before
the Senate of the United States.
J. Dickson pronounced it question
able whether such an act of Congress
would not involve a suspension of the
act of Habeas Corpus, unless obtained
of in United States officer.
Mr. French believed such an ncl
unconstitutional.
Mr. Remond made a few remarks,
and a motion for a Finance Committee
of two, which was carried, and S. H
Ainsworth and J. F. Shephard appoint
ed such Committee.
On motion, adjourned till 9 o’clock,
a. M. on Wednesday morning.
Wednesday Morning, March 20.
Convention called to order at 10 o'-
clock.
Prayer by Mr. C. E. Fisher.
Secretary’s miuutes of previous
meeting read.
Rev. Mr. Brown, as Chairman of
the Business Committee reported the
resolutions that follow:
Whereas, God, at the creation of
man, gave him dominion over the fish,
the beasts, the fowls of the air, and
every creeping thing; but no dominion
over, and no power to enslave his fel
low man, of whatever condition or
color; and, whereas, all men were
created equal,” and equally entitled to
life, liberty, and the pursuit of hap
piness;” and whereas, power cannot
give right, and if all mankind but one
mao, unite to enslave him, they have
not tbo moral power to do it, and such
|Ut exertion of power would impose on
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—
the individual no obligation to obey it
and would be a violation of the la*
Nature and of God; and whereas, ou
government has been, from its com
mencement, a compromise of righ
with wrong—of liberty with slaver)
and such compromises should be n«
further extendi d; and whereas, it is
the duty of the North American Unit*
to its citizens, their posterity, to man
kind, to universal justice, and to th»
Almighty, to stop the further extensfcr
of slavery; and all persons in and out
of Congress, who are exerting them
selves to promote so noble an object,
are entitled to the hearty thanks of tht
country and the world; therefore,
Resolved, 1. That law is an intelli
gible principle of right, necessarily re
sulting from the nature of man, and
not an arbitrary rule that may be esta
blished by men, will wisdom or power;
that there is a necessary allegianct
due to that great paramount law, fron
human society, independent of the leg
islation of man, and from which n<
human tribunal can excuse a single
individual of our race.
Resolved, 2. Thst, being bound b)
the paramount law of Nature and ol
God, to observe and obey its edicts ai
all times and in all places, we hereb)
proclaim our unalterable determination
and disregard all the pretended
legislation of man, which forbids us tr
do unto others, as we would that
others should do unto us in like cir
cumstances;” which forbids feeding
the hungry, clothing the naked, re
lieving the distressed, or helping the
oppressed to the recovery of their lost
rights xnd liberties, wherever occasion
may require.
Resolved, 5. That slavery exists in
this country by no rightful tenure, by
no semblance of law having its found
ation in nature; but in defiance ol
natural justice, of revelation, the law
of God, and ail the nobler sentiments
of the mind of man; and that hence,
desiring to secure to ourselves and
our posterity.” laws and institutions
founded upon the rock of immutable
right, to honor our Creator and pre
serve our race an entity far above the
brute creation, we are in duty bound
and will continue to oppose the system
of slavery, be the consequences what
they may to us, so long as one of its
diabolioal features gives signs of life,
or a shade of its influence remains on
our statute-books.
Resolved, 4. That the views <sf law
set forth in the foregoing resolutions,
are fully sustained by the history of
our race, and more than confirmed by
the spectacle now open to the view of
all men, all over the States of this
Union; the existence of slavery in that
section of our common country having
had its legitimate effect in impoverish
ing the land, impeding the develop
ment of the human intellect, dwarfing
the moral sense, and transforming the
masses, both black and white, into
serfs and bondmen—the one race, the
most abject slaves on our earth, and
the oilier free only to do the will of the
wily demagogues who take advantage
of their ignorance to control and ren
der them available in enlarging the
area ot the slave power, and still far
ther subverting the rights of the nom
inally free Slates.
Resolved, 5. That, having had the
dictates of common sense so painfully
and shamefully confirmed by our own
experience hitherto with the slave sys
tem, we are wholly and totally opposed
to all schemes of compromise, and all.
devices of politicians, which shall tol
erate the further extension of the sys
tem, or recognize it as a matter over
which Congress can rightfully extend
the protection even of our National
Government.
Resolved, 6. That no act of Con
gress, provi iing for the arrest of any
of our citizens, of whatever color, or
however humble, as fugitives from
slavery, would possess a particle of the
elements of law, or be of any binding
force whatever; that we would disre
gard and resist it ourselves, and mark
the man who shonld enforce it, among
us, as an enemy of man.
On motion, tbe resolutions were re
ceived.
Mr. George W. Clark, after some
remarks, gave a song.
Preamble was reread, and Mr. Shep
herd objected to such formal proceed
ings. He preferred a more natural
course of discussion, such as was pur
sued last evening.
Mr. Remond objected to the pre
amble, as being too general, being
based on truisms, he hoped it would
be adopted without much discussion.
It will be adopted, if the meeting is
properly aroused in reference to pre
sent political events. The necessity ol
activity was apparent. The Anti-Sla
very cause is the most importaut ol
all, and its advance does not depend on
the reputation of its advocates. The
poor white man is as much interested
in its promotion as the black man.
When Frederick Douglass was in Eng
land, he, on occasion, openly recog
nised the Chartists, and when I was
in England 1 one day saw a bannei
approaching me in the street. It «i
the banner of a Chartist procession;
and when it came along, 1 joined it,
and identified myself with them. The
slave is a wronged man, and the pool
white man who pays his taxes to sup
port Slavery shown his relation to the
infernal system. It is a heart rending
shame that these poor mee should be
compelled to go the rounds to make
attention on this aubject. The clergy
should have called this Convention,
The Anti-Slavery Cause in thia coun
try i» bleeding at ever/ pore because
he clergy are dumb doge in this mat
ter, end they are properly so styled.
Those Resolutions bring out th<
Constitutional question which I hop«
<viU be thoroughly discussed. Bu
the Business Committee, in report
tag those Resolutions, have giv
jp by to tbe Church and th<
Clergy. No resolution touching th<
relation* they sustain to American Sla
very, has found a place among them
i hope some one will introduce such t
Resolution on bis own responsibility
The fact that staves cannot vote; ant
nave no representatives in Congress.
Synods, General Assemblies «nnd tht
uke, speaks volumes to me. Thb
American Pulpit and its occupants,
are fearfully guilty that persons in thi*
land,- that members of their own chur
ches, are held in bondage and innocem
ulood is tjp their garments.
There are men who are glad to heai
of mobs, and who use them to the over
throw of our cause. It is an unpopu
lar cause, acid these men take advan
tage ot the popular side, and seek oui
destruction. But 1 believe our caust
will triumph. That triumph may bt
retarded, may be delayed, it may noi
come as we wish, but come it will.
Mr. Remond moved the preamble bt
adopted. Seconded by Mr. Clark,
who said that the people of this coun
try do not believe the Declaration ol
Independence. They may admit its
abstract truth, J)ut their practical con
struction nullifies it. The slaveholder*
live North, but the slavewhippers live
South.
We must come back to the first
principle, that, ‘ail rnen are created
equal,” and, then we shall reject as
barbarism, "the wild and guilty fantasy
that man can hold properly in his fel
low men. The people must be educated
into its principle before we can look few
any of its legitimate fruits. Congress,
not long ago voted down the Declara
tion of Independence, kicked it out ot
the house, and the people, the North
ern peo*ple, made those Congressmen.
Mr C. said he was glad the preamble
was as full and general as it was,
and wished tbe whole series of Resolu
tions thrown before the meeting.
Mr. Brown thought best to take up
the preamble first, and afterwards the
Resolutions See.; had no objection,
however, to Mr. Clark’s proposal, but
want of definiteness It was necessary
to lay down some joints that might be
rallied around, and acted upon&c.; ap
proved of tbe action of his .associates
on the Committee, and said that they
purposed to bring in an additional Re
solution, touching the church Stc.;
hoped the relations of the church on
this subject, would be discussed, and
discussed properly.
The motion on the adoption of the
preamble was declared open for de
bate.
Mr. Gibbs said, the principles of the
preamble were so self evident as not to
need much discussion; but mere declar
ations of principles,however important,
or fundamental, would not fulfil the ob
jects for which this Convention was
call* d.
A simple assent to the enunciation
of great truths, was ineffectual. A be
lief, must be practically demonstrated
&c.; agreed with Mr. Clark that the
people bf this country do not believe
the Declaration of Independence. It
is the duty of every one to rebuke sla
very everywhere.lt is prejuduce at the
North, that sustains slavery. Slavery
should be called by such names us its
opponents helieve its most truthful des
cription. It runs through the national
character. It is seen everywhere—
in the church, in the political anti so
cial relations. He hoped a Resoluton
would be brought in exposing the pos
ition of the American Church and Cler
gy. Mr. Gibbs closed by saying that
the life of conventions, the life of free
dom, was in free speech.
The Conventions then adjourned till
half past one o’clock p. m.
Wednesday Afternoon.
Convention called to order at half
past one.
Prayer by Elder Millard,
Songs and remarks by Mr. Clark.
Mr. Brown of the Business Com
mittee reported the following additional
Resolutions:
7. Resolved, That in the late hu
miliating renewal of his allegiance to
the Slave power, voluntarily proffered
by Danial Webster, we are again
warned, as if by a voice of thunder, ol
the malign influence of that power in
our Government, and are stimulated
thereby to a renewal of our vows never
to desist from active hostility to Slave
ry, so long as it exists and we have
strength to strike a blow or utter a
liap for its extinction.
8. Resolved, That as Abolitionists,
we have great reason to rejoice in the
present aspect of our cause. By it we
are are assured that slavery must fall;
that our political institutions will be
regenerated; that man will be free,
will be intelligent, and will eventually
arise in knowledge and moral grandeur
to that sublime attitude in the scale of
being, for which by his semi-infinite
capacities he was evidently designed
by hia Creator.
9. Resolved, That confiding in God
for the success of our cause for a filial
triumph, we nevertheless feel to hail
every co-laborer in the good work with
all merited commendation, and to re
joice that while the hideous chains of
Slavery are attempted to be sustained
by a Calhoun, the recreant voice of a
Webster and the gasconading of the
Mississippi Jack Ketch, Freedom has
for h«r champions a Chase a Hale, a
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1850.
Seward, a Giddings, a King, and a
Root, who are both Competent and
ready to meet mousiei in any ano
all of his Protean sharper
10. Resolved, That foi furtherance
if the cause of Liberty, as well as t*
-ustain those men in Congress who an
manfully batting for the right, wt
urge the friends of freedom every when
and at once to hold Conventions and
t >wn and district meetings for the pur
pose of discussion; to circulate peti
tions for tbe of slaver*
WTiaFtPCbrigreas has aqt, soil
to prohibit its spread to territory now'
free.
11. Resolved, That we regret the
position of the American Church and
her Ministry, in not coming up in hei
power to the help of the friends of lib
erty, since she is set to be the light ol
the earth, and the salt of the world.
12. Resolved, That we rejoice in
trie evidences seen on every hand of a
willingness among the people to listen
to the story of human wrongs, anr
would urge upon the friends ol free
dom everywhere to act no tr. Slavery
is doomed and as intelligence shoulo
precede action on this as well as other
questions, all means in our power, tin
living agent and the press especially,
should be sustained in tireless activity
to prepare the minds of all for the
great duties before us.
13. Resolved, That those statesmen
so called, in and out of Congress who
supppose that they can devise any
means to suppress the complaints ol
freemen against the system of Slavery
short of its total destruction, can never
succeed in their endeavors, so long as
justice and mercy are constituent ele
ments of the human mind. The day ol
truces—of compromise of respites
even are over, and oppression must
henceforth he treated and
as the master vice—the deadliest curse
ol human society:
The Resolutions were received.
Mr. Brown moved the whole report
of tbe Committee be adopted. Second. j
Elder Millard, said that some per- i
sons might think too hard words would
he used in reference to slavery, and
asked it too harsh terms could be used
when the atrocities of the system were
before us as in an extract from a paper
which he wished to read.
The extract, which was the case of
Emily Russell, was read.
W. H. Olin, alluded to the case.
Mr. Remond said a few words on
the same.
Mr. Goodbll said that we ace just
what the institution is, which is said to
be guarantied by tbe Constitution.
Why can we not say with the resolu
tions that slavery has no lawful exis
tence in this country? If the Consti
tution guarantied Slavery, it should be
amended. If if can be preserved only
by addmitting its sanction of slavery,
let it bo destroyed.
Mr. Remond said, the majority of
the American people believed in the
compromises of the Constitution.
Mr. G. replied the conscience of the
people must he awakened to the right
fuloess of such compromises. We
must persuade them of their power to
clear it of suclt compromises and then
use it. He can unite on these resolu
tions. He alluded to Mr. Seward’s re
speech in the Senate, and said that
though he had not much respect for
his political action hitherto, he gave
him honor for that speech. But he re
gretted that in it he had made admis
sions in relation to the Constitution that
are notin keeping with the other parts.
There are men who do not call them
selves Abolitionists, but he wished to
know if there was one man in that
assembly in favor of such a bill as
Lason’s. If there was such a man
there he wished him to rise that he
might see him. He did not believe
there was one there.
Mr. Remond said that the last re
mark was doubtless true with regard
to this audience, but not of the com
munity. He hoped Mr. G. would give
a speech on the Constitutional ques
tion, and that no objection would be
to want of .time, as the Convention
was not necessarily to close to-day.
Mr, Goodf.ll said, he wonld not
decline such a discussion under lavor
ablo circumstances.
Preamble \\*as re-read.
Mr. Goodei.l said the admission in
the Preamble of the compromises of
the Constitution did not meet hts views
of that instrument, and suggested an
amendment to adapt it to the views of
himself and others and. which he
thought would not be objected to by
Mr. Remond. He therefore moved
tbe second paragraph of the Peamble
be amended so as to read as follows:
"Arid wh< t eas our Government has
been wielded from the beginning in
supportoi slavery, and such a perver
sion of its principles should, no longer
be tolerated.”
Hia motion was seconded and it be
ing open for debate,
Mr. Good ell said- that such a aub
ject cannot be properly treated in so
short a time; but he would endeavor to
be as comprehensive in his scope as
conciseness would allow.
There are prejudice* in favor of the
Constitutional compromises to be over
come; the decisions of the United States
Courts are not irrevocable; one gene
ration is not to bs bound by another.
Lord Mansfield’s decision in the
Somerset case is an instance of justice
overcoming precedent. A belief had
existed in England previous to it, of the
legality of slavery as strong as at pre
sent here. The £<urt in England had
decided in several oases simular to that
of Somerset in favor of tbe master.
GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
i{Granville Sharpe, who was no lawyn
I said it was' wrong, and brought th«
question before Lord Mansfield, wh
after several decisions in favor of slav«
ry, declared it illegal and from that
moment a slave treading the a* il ot
England was free.
We prejudge the matter when we
rely on legal decisions. That decisioi*
affected the colonies of England ai>
well, and the reason why slavery war
not abolished at that time de faclo as it
was dejvre was that no man was found
up boldly as Granville Sharpe
and insist on the recognniuu
decision in every place that English
Law was recognized.
The grounds of Lord Mansfield's
decision were, Ist, that the spirit of tht
British Constitution discarded the idea
of property in man. 2d, that it was in
hibited by the English Common Law;
that law has been decided by the United
States Supreme Court to be our law;
and its use for the overthrow of slave
ry is apparent. No Parliamentary
acts are to go against it. The Court
of King’s, Bench has repeatedly de
clared that Parliament had not power
to make certain laws, and among then,
no law to impiar the use of the Com
mon law.
Let u$ look at the origin and legali
ty of the slave-trade. Queen Eliza
beth gave the royal consent to John
Hawkins to go to Africa and take
thence natives, but with their own con
sent and not upon compulsion. Bui
Hawkins did not confine himselfto his
permission, to take them with their
own consent, but soon employed, what
he was forbidden to—compulsion. The
British Parliament after connived at it,
and Queen Elizabeth herself is sup
posed to have been a party to it. But
there was no power in the Crown to
Legalize compulsion, and notwith
stand the long toleration of the trade
it was manifestly illegal.
Pressing seamen, is another illustra
tion of the power of the Common law.
i At one time the laborers in the country
were pressed; and this was done by
order of the Lords of Admiralty. The*
liberation of these men was demanded,
and obtained, for the lords did not
dare to bring the question before the
Courts. Parliament passed laws re
gulating the slave-trade; and in them
was one express clause fusing those
who took Africans compufsorly one
hundred pounds; yet this statute was a
mere farce and so viewed at the time.
The decision of 1772 looked back and
saw all wrofkg; saw that slavery and
the slave trade never had a legal ex
istence. The slave-trade was carried
on in England years after the decision,
through technicality.
Sharpe wrote two letters to the
Prime Minister urging him as execu
tive, to put down slavery in the colo
nies.
In 1791 they began the regular siege.
Unremitting action against the slave
trade was determined on, and Wilber
force, Clarkson, and others pressed it
till 1799, when deferred till 1604, and
finally through great excitement, the
the bill for its abolition was carried in
1808. And because slavery was not
abolished in Brazil and the United
States the slave-trade? has doubled
since 1808. V
After years of effort in a discussion
in Parliament, while Mr. Dundas, like
a good many of our ova statesmen
was urging the Compromises of the
Constitution, and growing pathetic in
their support, Mr. Pitt for the first
time, springing from his seat and tak
ing down the statute, read it and de
clared (hat the very aot, used as a
guaranty, was in fact to destroy it. And
on such a discovery was the slave-trade
declared to be piracy, and the United
States in the same year passed a law
declaring it piracy. It had been de
clared illegal once in the Court of
King’s Bench and once in Parliament.
Edwards in his history of the West
Indies admits that Hawkins was a
murderer, and that the slave-trade was
a horrible one. A clause in the Dec
laration of Independence that was ob
jected to by Georgia and stricken out,
recited as a ground of complaint that
the slave-trade was allowed by the
English Government.
If slavery was not legal before the
Constitution, when did it become so?
When negro slaves were brought to
the colonies there were no enact
ments there to hold them as such.
They had nearly their whole stock of
slaves before any laws were passed
declaring any one to be a slave. Was
slavery legal under such circum
stances? And when the laws were
passed they did not specify with suffi
cient care who were to be slaves.
Virginia passed a law declaring "all
to be slaves who were descendants of
slaves.” This was afterwards amend
ed. But who could tell whether such
were slaves.
Georgia which was founded by Gen
Oglethorpe, was opposed to slavery,bad
a charter that declared slavery impos
sible, yet slaves were introduced by
hiring from South Carolina for a long
term of years—lor 99 years, or in that
way; and they went to importing slaves,
thus infracting the character. In con
sequence Oglethorpe went to England
and joined Sharpe, is his endeavors on
slavery.
Slavery waa unlawful because con
trary to British Constitution. Under
that Constitution the colonies had no
power to enact slave laws. If their
charter were silent concerning it, if
they were blanks so far as its prohibi
tion went, the Constitution repaired all
omissions The Colonies had charters
and in etch t clause providing that
nothing in them should conflict with th«
British constitution. Those Charter*
were our constitution before the Rev
olution; and they provided that the
inhabitants of the Colonies should bt
allowed the privileges of English
zens. Does the Declaration of Inde
pendence ins itute slavery? We Cj»m«
then to our constitution. Its preambli
is to the purpose declaring that “it
order to establish justice, promote
the general welfare and secure the
blessings of liberty to ourselves and
our posterity, we do ordain” &c. Wh«
this? We the people of thr
United States; aua mm r r .Lx- n nf
people the slaves were a party to tn<
compact.
Massachusetts passed an act declar
mg that slaves should be held according
to God’s law as in the Kingdom 01
Israel. This act would have freed th*
slaves, as in the laws of Moses a ycai
of Jubilee came once in fifty years,
when all the captives were loosed.
One of the old laws of New Hamp
shire declared that no person sho i
be held as slaves, but such as were
brought in by their own consent. Thi*
act created no slaves, as the consent o!
no slave would be given. If he was a
slave, as a chattle nit consent on an
question was not procurable. At the
formation of the Constitution what af
terwards took place was not contempla
ted. The form of slavery in the North
ern States was very different from that
in the South. The idea that labor was
to be confined to one class did not ob
tain and caste did not predominate.
At that early period Chief Justice
Parsons of the Massachusetts Supreme
Court decided that no legal slavery
was there.
The Declaration of Independece
was not repealed by the Constitution.
It was adopted by the .Convention and
ratified by the States. It had been de
cided by highest judicial authority that
the Declaration was the supreme law
of the land.
In-the Articles of the confederation
no one had been able to discover any
thing recognizing slavery. In this con
stitution, the word “tcfofe” was voted
out. We see that there was no legal
slavery down to the formation of the
constitution. Suppose we admit that
the constitution was intended to sanc
tion and support slavery. Suppose we
admit that in several clauses slavery
was recognized. Suppose that in this
the convention made a mistake and as
sumed that there were slaves in the
conntry when there were not, does the
Constitution create slavery, does it
make it legal? But we must look to
the Constitution itself. We are told
that the intentions of its framers were
undoubtedly to recognise and support
slavery; and various clauses are
brought forward as embodying those
intentions. But we learn fiom the
Madison and other papers, that the
idea of property in man, was objected
to be introduced in a provision of the
Constitution. It was thought wrong
that it should be introduced, and this
feeling was shared by slaveholders.
The Constitution as it is, was the re
bult of fheir deliberations and to that
alone we are to look. The fugitive
service clause might be construed to
mean appreuticies. (Elder Millard in
quired it it might not mean slaves. Mr.
Brown said it might include children.
Mr. G. assented to the latter, and said
that no service was due to the master
by the slave. The clause provided
that "service should be due.”)
What might be conjectured is not
allowable. We must go by the words.
Every witten document when brought
before a Court, is to be construed i!
possible in unison with equality ana
justice. This rule is to be applied to
the Constitution. What does the word
“persons” in the clause, mean? Under
the Common law the competency of all
persons of legal age, to make contracts
is recognized and confiimed, and the
Constitution prohibits any State from
passing any “bill of attainder or law
impiariug the obligaiton of contracts as
granting titles of nobility.” The slave
States have passed a law declaring that
a slave cannot make a contract, ot
course then the word “person” cannot
apply to slaves, and rfo contract ex
isting, no service is due.
In the use made of the secret de
bates in endeavoring to ascertain the
intentions of members of the Conven
tion, it has been taken for granted that
the framers of the Constitution were
the people, were those who finally
adopted it. Their intentions had no
thing to do with the adoption by the
people. Admitting that they intended
the Constitution as the support of slave
ry, to make such recognition legal, it is
necessary to prove that the people in
tended so too.
The fugitive service clause was first
reported to the Convention with the
word The word was changed
to pertont on a motion by a Southern
man, that it might not tolerate the idea
of property in man.
The Preamble is declared in the
name of the people of the United States,
not the white people nor the black peo
ple, but the people. (Mr. Remond in
quired if the colored people bad any
voice in the convention. Mr. G. re
plied that they had as much voice as a
great part of the people, as much aa
the women,as the aliens,or as the min
ors, aod all these were included in the
word people.)
I now pass from the question of
guaranties, to points sbsoiutely incom
patible with slavery. The Constitu
tion declares that “the Uuited States
shall secure to every state a republican
form of Government.” This demolishes
JOHN DICK, Punt*
WHOLE HO. 122.
slavery. Mr. Jenerson aennes slavery
to be “the most unremitting despotism
on the one part, and the moat degrad
ing submission on the other. H that
provision of the Constitution were en
forced, the slavery that exists in fifteen
States ot this Union would be de
stroyed.
In 1774 Congress protested against
the shve-trade, and the feeling against
it was general at the South, as well as
North. The ordinance of 1787 is one
of the evidences that there was belief
that slavery would soon terminate.
Gen. Heath of Massachusetts, told
the people of that state that the form
''r adopted by the Con
vention, was republican awe
abolish slavery.
In Pennsylvania, Ohio, and other
States, the same belief was found. Ben
jamin Frauklin was the President of
an Anti-slavery Society about that
time,and drew up a petition to Congress
against slavery. It spoke generally to
be sure, but desired measures to be
taken to abolish it. Virginia and other
States sent in similar petitions. But
the action against it, was procrastina
ted and it gathered strength, another
provision of the Constitution fatal to
slavery is the one that no person shall
be deprived of his liberty without due
process of law. Every slave now
held as such is deprived of his liberty
without due process of law; as such
process to be effectual must specify
distinctly and separately, every indi
vidual.
The famous Dr. Hopkins wrote a
dialogue agaiust slavery, and did not
admit in it the compromises of the Con
stitution.
We find no difficulty, from what
has been said, in concluding that
slavery has no legal or constitutional
existence in this union.
N. P. Rogers in 1836 or 7, first
broached the idea that the Constitution
contained no compromises with Slavery,
Alvan Stewart took it up in 1738; and
from that time the members of the abo
lition party up to the Free Soil move
ment, held it.
H. B. Stanton, now in the Stats
Senate, and formerly of the abolition
party, believed it and acted on that
belief several years. King and other
lawyers hinted at in Congress. When
1 was writing my book on the Constitu
tion 1 had occasion in the search fort
books, &c., to apply to some of the firs
lawyers in the country, and the doc
trine was acknowledged. At one time
I went to the Arcade to discuss the
matter with some lawyers there. The
morning after the discussion, a promi
nent democratic lawyer said in con
versation that the argument against
compromises was unanswerable. Only
one lawyer in the United States had
undertaken to answer Mr. Spooner's
book and my own. There are lawyers,
no oue doubt, able to write a heavier
article than Wendell Phillips. Why
do we not hear from them?
Elder Mullard said-the matter
was not as clear to him on ail points as
he was anxious it should be &.c.; was
not convinced the construction was an
Anti-slavery document, &c.; adduced
the practical construction ol.the instru
ment. It was not until that laws were
passed in the Northern States to con
fine the action in the matter of fugitive
slaves in United States officers.
The pro-slavery constitution began
immediately after the addoplion of the
Constitution. Ifitwasa wrong con
stitution why did not those then on the
tage rectifies it. In relation to the
declaration that the people adopted the
Constituion, he said their veisvs were
determined by those of the time.
Mr.Shephard insisted on the words of
the instrument.
The amendment to the preamble was
adopted.
Mr. Clark said it was a common
error of men in believing that legisla
tive enactments were law. There is a
necessity of discrimination between
what is law and what is not. In an
swer to a suggestion the we must be
obedient to the powers that be, be said
that the powers that be are ordained of
God, and those are not. He then read
some extracts fro* Mr. Seward’s
speech.
Mr. Brow* made a motion that the
convention hold over to-morrow. Car
nea. adjourned till half past six o'clock
p. M.
Free Neoros or Virginia.-— The
following, says the Richmond Whig,
are the provisions of the bill making
Appropriations for the removal of the
negroes of tbe Commonwealth: Ap
propriates $30,000 annually for five
peara to remove those who may be
willing to remove. Makes the Gov
ernor, Lieutenant-Governor, and First
and Second Auditors a Board of Com
missioners, who, whenever they shall
he satisfied that any number of free
persons of color, now free and resid
ents of this State, and their children,
•ball have been actually transported to
:he colony of Liberia, or other places
r>n the western coast of Africa, or hove
been embarked tor transportation thi
ther by (be American Colonization So
ciety, shall pay said Society such sum
is may be necessary to defray the costs
of transporting and subsisting such per
ions for a limited time; not more .than
|25 to be allowed for the transportation
ind subsistence ot any free person of
color above the age of ten years, and
not more than $l5 for those under
that age. The act imposes a tat of $1
upon every male fred negro of the age
»f2l years and under 55 years to he ad
ded to the appropriation aforesaid* to
assist id removing those who are will
ing to be removed.The North Defeated!
The miscalled scheme of “compromise
proposed by the Mississippi Harlequin, has
been, in the preliminary contest, triumphant
ly carried in the Senate. The North is de
feated by the votes of its own representative*,
as she always has been and perhaps always
will be. We hear already the notes of tri
umph from Northern doughface journals,
some bold and out-spoken like the New York
Herald and Journal ol Commerce, who pio
elaim it a defeat also of the Administration;
while others, knowing and fearing the over
whelming sentiment of the North against
this base surrender of the Cause of Freedom
to the tender mercies of the South, give
expression to their joy in balf-suppiessed but
significant tones. That a majority of the
committee of thirteen will agree upon a plan
that will suit the South, there is very little
doubt. It is composed of eeven members from
slave-holding Slates, and six from the free
States, one-half ol whom will be ready to
submit to any terms a majority of the South
ern members rosy require. Ihe Southern
men holding the most extreme opinions on the
question, are Messrs. Mason, Mangu-n, King,
Downs and Berrien, nearly all of whom
promptly dissented from the propositions of
Mr. Clay when they were first presented to
the Senate, and along with them the South
will have Cass and Dickinson; while ihe
North, containing a large majority of
people of the Union who are almost unani
mous in favor of a law prohibiting the ex
tension of slavery, has but two, or at most
three, out of a committee of thirteen, who
will represent her sentiments! And from
such a committee we are assured of a “com
promise” which will command the undivided
support of the South and enough votes from
the North to ensure its success. We wilt
not say it is imoossihio majority
or mis committee a fair settlement, hut we
frankly confess that we have no confidence,
scarcely a hope, of such a result.
The public will now be anxious to know
what “compromise”—for such it is to be
called no matter how one-sided it may be—
this committee will present. One of its pro
visions will no doubt be to admit California,
but her admission is not a proper subject ol
compromise. She is ours already. We have
won her on the very field selected by our ad
versaries. The So ith had all the advantage
she claimed, but having been worsted, she
insists that the North shall allow slavery to
go to New Mexico without resistance.
The remaining subjects in dispute are New
Mexico, the boundaries of Texas, the erection
of one oi more slave States from the present
State of Texas, Slavery and the slave-trade
in the District of Columbia, and the bill for
the recapture of fugitive slaves. In order to
get California, the North is called upon to
yield on all the other points in dispute. Step
by step we have been yielding, and one by
one have Northern representatives been se
duced from the principles which they were
elected to carry out, until the South has been
able to triumph in nearly every conflict. And
the doughfaces who adocate and vote for
these surrenders, tell us that it is necessary
to prevent dissolution. This nobody believes
and they do not believe it themselves. It is
an insult to offer an excuse w hich implies that
the existence of the Union depends upon the
perpetuation and extensiou of slavsry.
The dangers which the South assures us
are so imminent, are not to be lessened by
the unjust measures she is attempting to
force though Congress. The agitation of the
■lavery question so vehemently deprecated
and denounced, is not thus to be quieted. It.
is easy for those who have been for months
in Washington, to say, and possibly believe,
that the sentiments of the people of the
North have undergone a change. But all
this will be found to be utter delusion. The
great mass of the Northern people are in
earnest on this question, and he who supposes
that an edict against its agitation w ill quell
the storm, will find that it only renders it
more uncontrollable.
We have heretofore expressed a concur
rence in the plan presented by the President.
We concur in it now, and the North is ready
to support it. It is wise, simple and effec
tive. It requires no surrender from one sec
tion ot the oiher which cannot bo made with
consistency and safety. But it has been
treated as it deserved by but few members ot
Congress. It has been repudiated in the
Senate in a manner that indicates a desire to
thwart it if possible. The Locofocos of that
body opose it because it is the Administratien
plan.—Weeks 4 perhaps months, aie likely to
passs before we can know' the disposition of a
majority in the other House. The prospect
is not flattering, but until we see the yeas and
nays we will not give up all hope that the
members of that body who were elected as
friends of Free Soil and Freedom, have made
up their minds to succumb to the dictation of
the South.— Democrat.
Fare of Slaves on Plantations.
A more loathsome and disgusting place
cannot be imagined, than the huis in a neg
ro yard of a plantation. They ate generally
about twenty feet square, and the hands on a
plantation are divided into families, each of
which occupies one of these pens. The fami
lies number from five to twenty, and the
arrangements for sleeping are miserable in
the extreme, and what is used for their beds
is seldom if ever washed, or cleansed in any
manner, and is used until rotted or worn into
shreds. The same practice is pursued with
their clothing. It consists of a coarse wrought
fsbric, of cotton and wool, and also of linen.
The men wear pantaloons, and a heavy stout
frock. The women who work in the field
wear only a long ftock, without under-clothes
of any kind. These are put on and never
changed or cleansed, or taken off, night or
day, till they are worn out. The provision
for clothing the slaves is usually one suit a
year to ea h negro, and tney are generally
obliged to make this last or go without. But
many cannot, and you will ofien see negroes
with only the tattered and torn rags remaining
on them, as evidence of a slight degree
modest; and shame, that is manifest in keep
ing them abound him. And thus they live
in the most fii-hy, degraded and beastly con
dition that can be v*rtceived, and there is not
single provision o» a..* kind, either in food,
clothing or cleanliness, or tor beds, or dwel
lings, or labor, but what is calculated to de
bilitate, exhaust and destroy the physical
rjwers, and produce disease and death; and
make the assurance, without the fear oi
contradiction, that there is scarcely a planta
tion in the whole range of the sugar and cot
ton growing districts, if examined by a com
petent board of health, that would-not excite
their astonishment, that human beings could
live, even an average of seven years. In the
first place, it wtll be found that many herds
of slaves are kept on short rations, having
allowed to each one from three to three and a
half pounds of meat a week, with only corn
meal, which they wet with water, and roast
on the fire. This is their regular daily food,
and the meat is often the most loathsome’
disgusting, rotten mass that can be imagined.
On this point 1 am aware it will be said there
are but few, very few indeed, of such cases.
But it is not true, and every produce dealer
in the city of New Orleans, if he has not the
fear of the planter before his eyes, will bear 1
testimony to this fact, for I have seen it my
self, and know that they self thousands or
packages, weighing from eight to ten hun- 1
dred each, of smoked hams and sides of j
oork, that were so rotten that the bones had
become loose and separated from the meat,
and when they were opened for the examina
tion of the Planter, the maggots would roll
over the side of the cask upon the floor.
An instance of this kind 1 saw in the
store of a produce dealer in the winter of
1837. A planter from Mississippi bought 1
eleven casks of smoked meat from a tuer-
chant in Lafayette <elieet, which he had pur
chased the day before for one and a half cents
per pound. He sold it to the planter for one
and three-fourth cents, and when .the casks tl
wtt# opened they were literally alive with v
maggots. After the the pnrehase was made,
the cletk, a fine, honest New Jerseymtn, be
ing astonished at what he had done in selling
such stuff to be eaten by human being*, for
he knew that a dog in New Jersey could
not be found but what would turn fr°ni
asked the planter why he bought such food
for his negroes? The planter replied, that it
was pretty hard times and cotton was low,
and the boys do about as well on it as any.—
Now in view of this, I know it will be said
again, that “such are rare cases;” but the
reports of sales of meat in New Orleans tell
a different account; for there are hundreds
and thousands of such packages of rotten
putrid meat sold to planters every year, and
the negroes are obliged to eat it or starve,
and at the same time the planters tell you
“the boys do about as well on it.” Pract.
Christian.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, APRIL 26, 1850.
The North Star is sometimes sent to friends
who do not take the paper, in the hope that they
may see fit to subscribe for it. Subscriptions and
donations for the same may tie safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederick Douglass, Rochester,
N. Y.
AG-Wasted —Several Travelling Agents,
to procure subscribers for the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None need apply
but such as can bring good recommendations for
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to FRED
ERICK Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
sixteenth Anniversary, of the Ameri
can Anti-Slavery Society,
The Sixteenth Annual Meeting of the
American Anti-Slavery Society will be held
at the Btoadway Tabernacle onjTueaday, the
Seventeenth of May, 1850.
At no moment since the commencement of
the Anti-Slavery enterprise have Ae devoted
zeal and earnest effoits of its advocates been
more needed than at this. The American
Society stands now as it did at the beginning,
the sole enemies, through all the United
States, to the system of American Chattel
Slavery.—The magnitude of its work, and
the importance of the obstacle in the way of
its rccomplishment are yearly made more
and more manifest, as every party and or
ganization that have hoped to struggle against
the Slave-power by consenting to compromise
with it, successively retire from the contest
either glorying in in successful treachery or
submitting to shameful defeat. A contest of
near twenty years has pioved that the only
hopeful issue with Slavery is the demand for
the IMMEDIATE AND UNCONDITION
AL EMANCIPATION OF EVERY
SLAVE, and that such a consummation can
never be attained so long as we maintain a
political Union with Slave-holders.
The Northern boundary of the slave States
is the same to-day that it was when the
American Society came into existence; its
Southern is extended Westward and South
ward, embracing vast and fertile
sufficient to insure its existence for centuries
to come. It is something to be thankful and
hopeful for that this extension has not been
without a struggle, and that that struggle
becomes daily more and more earnest and
detormined. It will be entirely successful
when the North is awakened to the convic
tion that the Abolition of Slavery will alone
determine its extension—that a Southern and
Weitern boundary will no longer be contend
ed for when its Northern is destroyed.
The meetings of the Society will be con
tinued, as usual, for three days. The place
of meeting will be named in future notices.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Pres't.
Wendell Phillips, 0
Sydney Howabd Gay, j Secretaries.
We have given up our first page to the
report of the first day’s proceedings ot the
NV est Bloomfield Anti-Slavery Convention.
That Convention continued ip session during
three days, and the entire Report is altoge
ther too voluminous to be admitted into our
columns. Desirous to give some idea of the
character of that Convention, we have pub
lished the excellent Resolutions adopted on
that occasion and should any of our friends
desire to see the whole proceedings in print,
we would suggest that they make arrange
ments at once to have them published in
pamphlet form.— r. d.
Since our last publication, a most disgrace
ful scene has occurred in the Senate of the
United States. That wordy cataract, Hang
man Foote, commenced his usual round ot
personal abuße toward Mr. Benton, when the
latter rose from his seat, and approached
Mr. Foote, evidently in no conciliatory spirit;
whereupon the supple Hotspur retreated from
his place into the arena in front of the clerk’s
desk, and assassin-like, cocked his pistol, and
prepared for the bloody work of a murderer.
The two dignif ed Senators were kept from
a worse than bull-dog encounter, by some of
their less hot-headed honorable Northern
brethren. Of course, we have no American
pride to be mortified by this degrading Sena
torial ruffianism but, as a member of the
human family, we must deplore such demon
strations.—F. D.
Here is another evidence of tire decline
of American prejudice, and of the progress
of liberal ideas. Mr. Ward is a colored man
of tbe darkest hue, and the selection of him
to officiate on such an occasion, though in
itself a thing pertectly natural, since his
abilities amply fit him for the office, is ne
vertheless a fact worthy of note in ibis
democratic, but negro-hating country.—r. d.
Meadsville, April 10, 1850.
Frederick Douolass: Dear Sir, —I em
ploy the present occasion to inform you that
the Rev. Samuil R. Ward, of Syracuse,
has been invited by tbe members of tbe
Senior Class of the Meadsville Theological
School, to preach their Anniversary Discourse
on the 27th of June next. I make this
statement, that you may, if you please give
notice of the fact to the readers of your
journal, and oblige
Your Friend and obedient Servant,
B. J. BUTTS.
The Executive Committee
Ot the Western New York Anii-SlaVery
Society, are requested to meet at the house of
Isaac Post, 86 Sophia street, on Saturday
April 27, at 3 o’ clock V. u. punctually.
JOHN DICK, Sec'y
M'ssissppi has appropriated $20,000 to pay
the expeuses of her delegates to the Nash
ville Convention.
Slavery again Victorian*.
If at any time there bare been thoee at
the North, silly enough to believe that,
in the conflict growing out of the slavery
question, Northern politician* would ulti
mately be successful, that time has certainly
transpired. The recent appointment of Mr.
Foote's Committee of thirteen—the men of
whom it is composed—-tnd the circumstances
attending its appointment, must at once put
an end to all such vain and delusive hopes.
The event shows no contradiction to past
experience. Northern men have ever been,
and we fear will ever continue to be, too
weak to cope with their Southern superiors.
They ire now beaten upon their own issue,
and in a case where the South had scarcely
a pretence to stand upon that issue is, the
admission of California, singly and uncon
nected with any measures now in dispute.
The reasons in favor of this policy, were
most striking and forcible; those against it
feeble and far-fetched yet the North has
yielded, and the South has triumphed. Cali
fornia had grown up to the dignity of a
State, and had adopted a Constitution settling
for herself, in a manner the least objection
able to the Soaih, the question of slavery or
no slavery within her borders. She had done
so on grounds which Southern men* had gen
erally declared to be the true basis. Not
withstanding this, the South contend that
.r aU£»»>» nos no right to come into the
Union separately and independently, as a free
State, without she, at the same time, shall
drag into the Union, by the force of her owr
claims, some vast region which shall be open
to the foul and withering curse of human
bondage. And most strange to say, the first
step in this unreasonable, unjust, and wicked
exaction, has received the sanction of the
American Senate, and has been carried bj
fourteen votes. We scarcely know whu
language to employ to express, not our dis
appointment, but our indignation, at th<
conduct of Northern men in this controversy
They have basely betrayed the cause of free
dnm, turned their backs upon the North
which they were sent to represent, given uf
their strongest fortifications to the enemy
and become the allies of slavery and slavery
extensionists.
The following are the persons somprising
the Committee:
Chairman—HENßY CLAY.
FROM THK NORTH.
Webster, of Mass. Whig. Moderate
Cooper of Penn. do. do.
Phelps, of Yermoht do. Liberal
Cass, of Mich. Loco Foco Pledged to South
Dickinson, of N. Y. do. do. do.
Bright of Indiana do. do. do.
FROM THE SOUTH.
Downs, of La. Loco Foco. Southern ultrtt
King, of Ala. do. do. do.
Mason, of Virginia do. do. do.
Mangum, of N. C. Whig. Rather moderate
Berrien, of Geo. do. Ultra
Bell, of Tenn. do. Liberal
Can anything be expected favorable to free
dom from such a Committee 1 Its Chairman
Mr. Clay, has already submitted Lis plan fo
the adjustment of all questions, growing ou
•f the subject of slavery. He is for the ad
mission of California, with suitable bound
aries—which means, not with her presen
boundiPies, but with suoh as will permit tin
formation of a State on her immediate bor
ders, whose Constitution shall tolerate sla
very. He is in favor of abolishing the prac
lice of bringing slaves ihto Washington, o
I the District of Columbia, to be sold for thi
New Orleans market; but is opposed to abol
ishing the slave trade between the States, 01
slavery in the District of Columbia. He i:
in favor of passing a law requiring the citi
sens of free States to aid in the arrest anc
return of fugitive slaves to their claimants
So much for the chairman.
Mr. Daniel Webster stands next. He hai
also shown his cards, and told us in unniis
likable terms, into the hands of which sec
tion he is prepared to play. He hae cut him
self off from Massachusetts; no longei
speaks in her name, nor desires to represeni
her views. In respect to Northern anc
Southern grievances, the North is to blame
Northern legislators have not faithfully per
formed their constitutional pledge to returr
the fugitive to bondage and he avows hit
intention to vote for Mason’s Bill, converting
every stripling of a Post Master in the na
tion, into a judge, to settle the question ol
slavery for life to any man who may be ar
rested on the charge ssf having escaped from
slavery. This is thi 'second great man of the
Committee!
The next is General Cass, of Michigan, ol
whom not a word need be said. And, oh!
deliver us the next is Daniel Dickinson, ol
the great State of New York the most
cringing, subservient sycophant that ever
crawled into the good graces of the slave
powef. And the next—tell it not! is Bright
of Indiana, who, in every contest between
freedom and slavery, since he had a seat in
Congress, has been found the ready ally of
the human fleahmongers. We repeat, can
anything favorable to freedom bo expected
from this Committee Such an expectation
would be the height of folly. A Committee
could not have been well selected more hos
tile to the cause of free soil and free men.
There is not a man on it, who will expresa
the mind of the liberal portion of the North
not one in whom the North has the slight
est confidence. They are, every man ol
them, candidates for Southern approbation
and none among them believe that the in
sulted North has the manliness or spirit to
chastise them for their treason. And in thi*
they are perhaps right; for it ha* always
-seemed that those who stand best with the
South are the most lauded at the North
hence, wily politicians have sought first the
approbation of the South, as a means of
gaining and holding places of power and
emolument at the North. It is impossible to
say what thi* Committee will do—what
scheme of compromise they wilt submit—how
far they will presume upon the avarice, stu
pidity, and corrupt moral sentiment of the
North—and to what ex'ent their plans may
be opposed, remains to be seen but of one
thing there need be no doubt, and that is,
that the North, in this mstauce, ms in all
previous ones, will be driven to the wall.
She has not the elements of character in her
Representatives, to withstand the assaults ol
her Southern masters. She fettered by
the alleged guarantee* and compromises of
the Constitution. She is entangled in the
net-work of past legislation and she rolls
under the horrid nightmare that the Union is
in danger. She goes, therefore, to the coo-
flirt with the certainty that she shall, eventu
ally yield the contest. She goes without
energy, and to have her ranks speedily con
fused, humbled, panic-struck, and finally de
feated.— r. d.
McGrewrille College.
This Institution appears now to be on the
full tide of auccessful experiment. We be
lieve it is, at present, the only institution of
the class, in this State, baaed upon the prin
ciple of human equality. At its very com
mencement, it placed its heel upon the ven
omoua viper of American prejudice against
color, by electing a colored gentleman to fill
one of its most important professorships. We
are happy to learn that that gentleman has,
thus far, discharged the duties of his profes
sion in a highly creditable manner; and at
this time he commands the respect and es
teem of the entire Institution. It is easy to
see that a college established on such a
foundation, is far more entitled to support,
han any which may offer education to the
colored man on terms which must exclude
him from the society of white persons, and
stamp him as a King of a different, if not
a degraded class. It may sometimes be ne
cessary to establish schools for the especial
education of colored young persons; but
this necessity can never be pleaded where
free access can be had to school* open Tor
the accommodation and instruction of all.
We certainly wish every success to McGraw
ville college and we would suggest to auch
of our readers as have sons and daughters to
be educated, that they cannot do better than
patronise McGrawville College.—r. d.
Separate School System.
We are grieved to have to state to our
readers, that, notwithstanding the vety pow
erful plea of Charles Sumner, Esq., and the
many efforts made by our colored fellow-citi
zens in Boston and elsewhere, to have the
odious and needless separate colored schools
abolished, the Supreme Court of Massachu
setts has made a decision, leaving the ques
tion of the continuance or discontinuance oi
such schools to the option of the Schoo
Committees in the several towns of that
Commonwealth; thus practically refusing a!
jurisdiction in the matter, and leaving oui
colored brethren in that State without the
slightest protection of law against the ignor
ance, caprice and prejudice of auch personi
as may happen to be appointed on the com
mon school Committees. The following re
marks on this decision, are from the Neu
Englander:
Prejudice goes a great way in preventing
the acknowledgment of the rights of the col
oied citizens; and on this point, we are fret
to say we do not believe any practical incon
venience will 1© experienced from the distri
bution of the colored children in the Bchooh
of the city. Such has not been the result in
other cities and towns of the State. No
where in the Commonwealth, save in Boston,
are they excluded. In Salem, where the
colored people are nearly as numerous as
here, their children attend school with tht
white children. So in New Bedford and
1 Lowell, and without inconvenience or diffi
culty- The same is true of Worcester,
Cambridge, Roxbury, Charlestown, and ol
all the towns of the State, in very many ol
which there are more or less colored people.
Several colored men have been educated ai
our highest academies and colleges, and havt
graduated with the fullest honors. But wt
need not further speak on this point.
Of one thing we are certain. Were we i
r colored resident, sharing in the responsibili
i ties of citizenship, contributing our proportior
to the support of the municipal government
we would give no cessation to our efforts anc
our agitation till this stigma upon our socia
position, this violation of our undoubtet
rights, was removed and atoned for tn the
equal privilege of our children with tht
whiles to all the advantages which the citt
affords in its system of public education.”
Correspondence;
We are highly gratified to state that we
are receiving letters from friends in man)
directions, expressing their deep interest ir
the North Star paper, and offering their co
operation for the extension of its circulation.
We select one or two extracts. The first is
from the pen of an aged lady in Ohio. She
says:
I have taken some pains to scatter my
papers, the North Star and the Practical
Christian and I hope they will prove as
bread cast upon the waters, found after
many days.’ I have, from my childhood,
been a friend of the colored race, always
sympathising with them in their innumerable
woes and sufferings, which can neither be
told by tongue or pen, nor conceived of by
the imagination. When I think of the tears,
the sighs, the groans of the oppressed,
which, no doubt, react, to High Heaven, I
do not marvel that Jefferson should thus ex
press himself—‘l tremble for my country,
when I reflect that God is just, and that his
justice cannot sleep forever.’ I do not ex
pect to see the day when the blest jubilee
shall be sounded, being now in my 69th year;
but 1 expect to die in the full faith that it will
be done. I have no mors doubt ol it, than I
have that the Israelites were released from
their eruel bondage in Egypt.
Mary Watson.”
The second is from a gentleman in Con
necticut. He says:
Your paper, the North Star has acci
dentally fallen into my hands of late. I am
much pleased with the paper. I believe that
it is intended to do much good. As the
Northern Polar Star is to the bondman of the
South, a beacon to liberty, so this paper is,
In my estimation, designed to kindle, within
the bosom of the colored people, the spirit of
liberty, and to make the oppressor tremble.
T shall encourage our oppressed people to
subscribe for your paper as far as I possibly
an J. Cogswill.”
Another friend writes from North Dighton,
Mass.:
Permit me to express my full and hearty
approval of the’ manner and ability with
which the paper has been conducted during
the past year; and to expresa a hope that it
will be conducted in fpture in the same fear
less and independent spirit; and provo the
means, under JDivine Providence, of restoring
our much injured colored brethren to their
just rights; for it is a time, of all others, to
stand firm, when our able Northern states
men are recreant to their duty, and quite
under the influence of that cursed system,
SLAVERY. Jxivrs Shove.”
We have a number of other highly grati
fying testimonials to the same effect, which
it is needless to publish. We feel assured,
tbit if our friends in different parts of the
country, will make suitable exertion, the
iVortA Star paper can be easily placed upon
a permanent foundation.*’ r d.
Wt copy the following Address from the
Associated Baptist churches of Yorkshire,
England, that our reader* may see in what
light those churches and ministers tegard
slavery and the malignant prejudice against
the colored man. It is highly gratifying to
receive such testimony from those who are
beyond the contaminating atmosphere which
here surrounds the system of human bond*
age. The churches and ministers of this
land are so entirely under, the dominion and
power of this abomination, that they possess
not the requisite morel energy to battle for
its overthrow. The Pulpit is dumb and
the church is drunk with the blood of the
slave.—r. d.
The Associated Baptist Churches of York
shire, England, to their Brethren of the
same faith and order in the City and
Country of Philadelphia, and in the Free
States of Noith America generally, send
Christian salutation,
Dear Brethren, Jyaßw*
A coloied brother and ththlMer of Christ
ftom amongst you, Mr. Jeremiah Asher, has
visited us, to solicit rrintritlijuiii lull uJj
discharging the debt on his chapel. Cordial
ly responding to your highly respectable re
commendation, and to the claims of his case,
we have contributed, as we trust you will
think, liberally towards it. We feel con
strained, however, to embrace this oppoituni
ty of remonstrating with you, our brethren
inYhrist, on the strange inconsistency of the
treatment which our and your colored breth
ren receive at your hands, and the strange
difference between their treatment here, in
England, and in ihe Free States of the
Union. Ws have listened with interest to
his preaching, and he has been gladly wel
comed everywhere, both tcAur pulpits, and
to the firesides of every class of society. We
think that you, brethren, must agree with us,
that we owe a debt to our colored brethren,
which it is not only our duty,'but highly to
our honor, to discharge; and that in no way
can we better discharge it than by showing to
them our love as brethren in Christ, and by
avoiding every word or deed, and even sup
pressing every feeling, which could make
them painfully sensible of the grievous wrong
which our progenitors have done to them.
Brethren, we ate confident that you must,
as Christians, often feel that you bring no
small guilt on your consciences in allowing
yourselves 10 concur wtth the children of
this world in keeping your moat injured breth
ren in Christ at so great a social distance, and
in so depressed a condition, if the world can,
without compunction, refuse them equal
social intercouise, and practically hold them
down to servitude, though not in slavery, it
must violaie, brethren, your conscience and
every Christian feeling, to do likewise.
Brethren, we earnestly exhort you to break
through these me.ciy conventional, yet sinful
habits, and to honor your Master by your
treatment of his servants. Be not ashamed
of the brethren of Christ because the world
is so; but let your light on this subject shine
before men worthily of your profession. Hap
py, indeed, should we be to see our Baptist
brethren foremost in America, not only ir. the
emancipation of the. colored people from per
sonal slavery, but in the emancipation of free
men of color from social degradation, in edu
cating them, and elevating them by every
possible expedient; and foremost, too, in
emancipating themselves from a specie 3 of
pride so iriaiional, so vujgar, and so unchris
tian, as that of pride in difference of color!
Although, brethren, you assign your libe
rahty to voluntary emigrants from Europe as
the cause of your inability to aid Mr. Asher’s
case, we must beg to remind you of twu
things; first, that colored men now in Ameri
ca are in the land of their birth, therefore in
their home, and that “charity should begin
at home;” and next, that their color attests
that they are the children of compulsory emi
gration, whose ancestors were dragged by
yours, from their fatherland, and that your
fathers’ heavy debt to thus* unhappy emi
grants it is surely a sacred duty on your part
to repay to their c(iijdfep,
We trust, therefore, that our heartily ex
pressed sympathy with Mr. Asher, will m t
induce you to send to us other colored breth
ren on a similar errand. It would assuredly
lead to disappointment. We hope, on the
contrary, it will only stimulate you to con
tribute yourselves in aid of your eolored
fellow-countrymen’s spiritual wants, and also
to elevate yourselves “to the measure of the
stature of the fulpesa of.Cbrist,” by elevat
ing these, His brethren and your brethren, to
your ewn social standing.
We are, beloved brethren,
Yours in the Lord Jesus Christ,
(Both your Lord and ours, and theirs also,)
Dr. A-cworth, Horton College,
Rev. F. Clowes, do.
W. Whitehead, Dea. Ist Bap. Ch,
Bradford;
John Cooke, do. do.
Huai and Fanstla First.
Our American press and American people,
slaveholders and slave traders and all, are
particularly anxious to make Haiti appear be
fore the world as feeble, indolent and falling
to decay. These representations are gener
ally received through New Orleans papers,
and they reach the Northern, mind through
the New York Herald and kindred publica
tisns; yet facts do occasionally leak out,
even through these channels, quite contra
dictory to the dilapidated pictures which they
are wont to draw. We see it stated, that
that government has lately purchased two
brigs, (one Danish and one Swedish) and that
bufc ..ess is improving—that there is a great
deal of logwood in the market, and that
coffee has begun to come into Port-au-Prince
in laige quantities but these items are not
allowed to reach the American public, with
out a fling at his Imperial Highness, Faustin
Ist. He is said to delight in show and
parade rides round the city, attended by
some of his principal officers, and a body
guard of dragoons and the citizens re
ceive his black majesty with uncovered heads
as he passes.” Now, what is there in sll
this peculiar to a black sovereign! W*hat
evidence is there in it of an especial love of
show Does it indicate any greater love of
parade than the raeie etiquette would do, in
the case of a white sovereign Those who
would make such conduct appear ridiculous,
might find illustrations, on a more uragnifleent
6cale,*in every European State; yee, even a
little nearer home, in our democratic country.
It is but a few years ago, since a distin
guished slaveholder—a lord of the lasfc—
was drawn through the streets by democratic
citizens, instead of hones, as a mark of rev
erence. We understand, alee, that in Rich
mond, Ind., the bed slept in by the same dis
tinguished individual, was kept unarranged
for three days, to be viewed by curious spec
tators. Now, we are ready to wager a five
dollar hat, that Haiti, ignorant as she is pro
nounced to be, will not afford a more ridicu
lous and absurd illusttaiion of man-worship,
than this.— f. d.
Wb return our best acknowledgments to
the Hon. W. H. Seward, and the Hon.
John P. Hale, for valuable Congressum*!’
documents.—r.
We copy the following extract, containing
a portion of the Debate which occurred in
the Senate, on the 17th inet., on Mr. Bent
on’« motion to instruct Mr. Foote’s Com
mittee of thirteen to consider the admission
of California independently, and unconnected
with all other questions arising out of the
subject of slavery. This debate shows that
Mr. Clay has not forgotten bow to play the
dictator and that be is, practically, whatever
may be the character of bis hpaVt, the most
dangerous foe with which the cause of human
freedom, in this country, has to contend.-
r. o.
Mr. Miller. 1 wish to make a suggestion
in regard to the amendment of the Senatoi
from Kentucky. It appears to me to be ou»
of order, and net coming within the rules oi
the Senate. The Senator from Missouri
proposes to amend the original resolution by
the adoption of certain instructions to the
committee proposed to be raised. The Senatoi
from Kentucky moves to amend that amend
ment by striking it out, and to declare in
substance that no instruction* shall be given
to the Committee. So that the amendment
not only Btrikea out the amendment proposed
by the Senator from Missouri, but if adopted
it declares that no further instructions on any
other point shall be given to the committee.
Now, can that be done* If it can, I mistake
the rule in regard to a bill. Suppose this
amendment is offered to a bill, and a Senatoi
movea to strike out all of the amendment and
to substitute in lieu thereof a declaration that
no further amendment shall be made to the
bill; can that be done? The amendment goet
further than the amendment offered by the
Senator from Missouri, for it not only strikes
out his amendment,, but declares that no fur
ther instructions shall be given on any othet
point. Now, by the rules of the Senate,
when a resolution or bill is under considera
tion, it may be amended at any time, and we
cannot declare by an amendment that no fur
ther amendment shall be made to the bill.
Neither can we declare that no other or fur
ther instructions shall be made to a committee
We can strike out these instructions, but we
cannot by an amendment declare that there
shall be no ether amendment.
Mr. Clay. Of all unprofitable subjects,
these questions of parliamentary law and usage
are the most so. I have had, sir, in anothei
branch of this Legislature, some little expe
rience on this subject. But, sir, what is the
objection which the Senator from New Jer
sey makes upon the ground of order to my
proposition? The Senator from Missouri
proposes to affirm certain instructions which
1 propose to negative. Now, are we not at
liberty to vole in the negative upon those in
sttuclions 1 Well if we have a right to vote
against them, have we not a right to put that
negative in the form of an amendment and
vote for it? But I will state a case which ev
ery man of three days’ service in a delibera
tive body understands perfectly well. A re
port is made by a special committee—for ex
ample, on a claim. It concludes, “resolved,
therefore, that the claim ought to be allowed.”
Now, is anything mor- common in a legisla
tive body than to strike out the words “ought
not to” and to insert the words “should be?”
Every man at all acquainted with parliamenta
ry laws knows that if a new subject is propo
sed—one which has no connection with the
one under coneideraiion—it is not in order.
But whether thev are substitutes for the
amendment or propositions to amend it, they
they'ate precisely the same. They relate tc
instructions to the committee. The amend
ment of the Senator from Missouri pioposei
to give such and such mstiuction to the com
mittee. My amendment says that the Sen
ate will give none, and *n is perfectly ger
mane to the subject, and perfectly consistent
with all parliamentary law that 1 ever heard
of in any deliberative body.
Mr. Miller. Ido not make this point ol
order in any captious spirit, and the Senatoi
f»m Kentucky has not understood the point
I make, Ido not object to this motion that it
is a negative of the proposition made by the
Senator from Missouii. The Senator is per
fenlly correct there, but his amendment goes
further, and cuts off all furthet instructions
that the Senate may think proper to give tc
the committee. That is the point, six,
Mr. Clay. That is the design of the
amendment, and i ask of the Senator from
New Jersey, who I am glad has given up
half of his objection—
Mr- Miller. I have not given it up, for I
never made that (a which the Senator re
fers.
Mr. Clay. I understood ihe Senator from
New Jersey to object, first that my piopoai
tionjwas a negative to affirmative instructions.
Now I undetsiand him to say, his objection is
not that it comprehends all that was offered
by the Senator from Missouii, but that it laps
a little over; that, in other words, it declares
we will give no instructions to the commit
tee. And has not the Senate the right to da
that—to say that it will give no such instruc
tions? And has it not a tight either through
the medium of an amendment, or in any
othei form? There cannot be a doubt on the
subject.
Mr. Miller. That is the very point I
wish to raise before the Senate—whether the
Senate, by an amendment to a bill or resolu
tion, can declare that it will not give any in
structions to a committee?
Mr. Benton, (in bis seat) That’s it, sir.
Mr. Miller. That is ihe question. Can
a Senator, when an amendment ia offered to
a bill, move to strike out the amendment, and
declare subsequently that no amendment shall
be offered to the bill? Can you, in a resolu
tion where an amendment is offered tp in
struct, sttike out these instructions, and de
clare that no other shall be given? Why, we
have on the table several other instructions
offered by the Senator from Missouri, and
are they to be cut off?
Mr. Foote, (in his seat.) They have not
yet been offered, but merely suggested.
Mr. Miller. I may think proper to offei
instructions, or other Senators may so intend
and it cannot be done if this amendment u
adopted.
The Vice President. The Chair will
consider the point of order aa raised.
Mr. King. I hope the Chair will decide
it.
The Vice President. The Chair is ol
opinion that the objection is not well taken.
The amendment, which proposes to restrict
the action of the committee, is moved to be
stricken out by another amendment, That
is clearly in order, it is then proposed to
substitute, in lieu thereof, the declaration
that the Sanate do not deem it necessary to
express in advance any opinion, or give any
instruction, either general or specific, for the
guidance of said committee. The utmost
that can be said of the amendment is, that it
decides nothing. And, if it expressed noth
ing but the mere motion, it would leave the
matter just where it was left before the
amendment was proposed. Therefore,
lliough it may be a consideration to induce a
Senator to vote against it, it is sot a question
upon which to raise a point of order as to ka
reception.
Mr. Benton. This, which is called an
amendment, and which strikes me as being
nothing bat a rule of action, which the Sen
ate ia called upon to adopt for itself, was ob
jected to by me aa being nopai liamentary at
the time it was offered. But I was so onfor
oate as not to make the point of my objection
fntelligibie. I will endeavqpr to do so now
sod let it be seen that here is
Mr. King. If the Senator intends to dis
cuss the question of order, he must appeal
from the decision of the Chair. In the ab
sence of any such appeal, the decision is
binding upon the Senate, and every Senator
ia bound to acquiesce in it. The Senator
from Missouri, therefore, if be is dissatisfied
with the decision, must take so appeal be
fore he can discuss the point of order.
Mr. Benton. What I say is for the Sen
lit, sad not by way of appsal
The Vic* President. Dow tbe Senator
•PPMIt
Mr. B*n row. I am speaking merely to
th« Senate, and not by way of appeal, f w
speaking on the proposition submitted by tbe
Senator from Kentucky, and I mean to give
re *i!P n "i. T#t *.^P°° r b* sure—why
Uahould not be adopted. 1 take that to be in
The Vtc* PafiaiDEMT, Ye*, ,j r
Mr. W.H,
thing. It I cannot teach I can be ta ÜB ht
Yes, air, here is a proposition, which is J»jjl
ed an amendment, that the Sepate does not
deem it necessary to express in advance any
opinion, or giro any instructions, either gen
or specific, tor the guidance of said com
mittee. Now, here is a declaration, rery
proper perhaps lo be adopted in a caucus, but
not belonging to the Senate at all, by which
Ihe Senator asks that the Senate shill cut it
mi 8 K,r UU y OK'-
ing amendments to bills and resolutions whiu
going through.the body. All this might do
in caucus, but it wiH not do in the Senate
The Senate does not deem it necessary (whv
not deem it necessary!) to giro any inatruc-
Uona at all on any subject to the commie
It is a committee, as is frequently proclMpi^
ed—-though its appointmentia not yet enteßdßk
on the Journal— composed of distinguished
and leading men, and it may be that they
have all the wisdom of the Senate in their
ha n d !l. an A u^ at rhen J U ey nothing
will be left behind, and all the rest of the Sen
ate pul together can give them no informa
tion. ‘All this may be so, but it is the first
time that tbe Ameiican Senate was ever call
ed upon to make such a declaration, jt j* not
toduit m advance.. Why not do it in advance*
Has not the Senate been in tbe practice of
giving instructions to committees, from the
foundation of the Government to the present
day! Is it not done in regatd to alt commit
tees, whenever Senators choose? And was
it ever proposed before to tie up the hands of
the Senate by a previous declaration that
they will not give opinions in advance*
They may give them afterwards, and may
agree to what may be done, but beforehand
the body of the Senate is to do nothing. It
is not to give any instructions, either general
or specific., for the guidance of the said com
mittee! Sir, the objection is well taken by
the Senator from New Jersey that this goes
beyond the amendment which I have offered
and which is before the Senate. It goes be
yond what is before the Senate, and declares
at once that, no mattet what amendments any
Senator may have in his bosom, no matter
what may be offered, the Senate will not
consider them. This, sir, is a new declara
tion to be made in the American Senate, and
one of those, which, if it pass, will pass after
going through such parhamentaiy forma as
will matk it as an epoch in our parliamenta
ry history. Sir, it is a new method of ap
plying the previous question—a question nev
er applied in this body. It is a new method
of applying the gag—a thing never done in
this body. It is a new way of stultifying the
whole body of Senators, except thsse who go
out on the committee. Sir, all this is new;
and is it not as impotent as it is new? Supl
pose it is adopted. Suppose the Senate re
store itself into what seems tome to be noth
ing more than a caucus and adopt this reso
lution. What next? The moment these have
adopted it, has not every member here a par
liamentary right to offer amendments on the
spot, regardless ot what the Senate has deci
ded upon? The attempt is impotent. We
have a right to offer instructions after inatruc
tions, and when offered, the only way for
the Senate to do, if it will not adopt them
is to refuse them; that is, to vote them down
when presented. That is the only way—the
only sensible method. li the Senate adopts
this lesolution, that it will not give any in
structions, they cannot get rid of the question.
We have the right, every one of us, while wa
remain Senators, to offer our piopositioos for
instruction. And I presume there will be
enough to offer those instructions, and test
their parliamentary right to do so; and Sena
tor) will be brought to the point on each in
inst. action for itself, while there is enough to
call the yeas and nays to vote on each for it
self, AH this must be apparent. And now,
sir, why persevere in endeavoring to get a
I declaration from the Senate which is to cut
off a parliamentary proceeding, when you
cannot do it? It will end in impotency; of
that gentleman may rest assured. It is the
first time that ever such a thing was attempt
ed in the American Senate. It is cutting us
off from deliberation. It ia cutting us off
Irom our right of instruction, and it is fore
stalling debate. It is an assumption the like
of winch never before was known in this
body.
Now, Bir, this great committee-—we
have had their names in the newspapers,
though they have not yet been elected by
the Sen.tie. Grant that they have ail the
wisdom of tbe Senate, aud will carry it out
w ith them; yet the Senate is not to declare
upon this proceeding that it could give them
no instruction. They are not to adopt a
resolution which admits that the Senate can
not enlighten them at all. It is not for the
Senate to say that they would sit here in
Egyptian darkness, until the committee comes
in aod illuminates the Chamber. And now,
if it should be the fact that everything ia
ready, that the report ia ready, and that the
committee have nothing to do' in the world af
ter it goes out, but to come back again—like
the French king who marched up the hill and
down again—if such should be the case,
would it not better become the Ameiican
Senate that it should produced, and let us
have the illumination at once? Would it not
be better to produce the report at once,.and
act on this bill for the adtmasion ofCaJilornia
as it came along?,
Sir, the going out of that committee from
1 this Chamber might excite alarm throughout
the country. What do we suppose if we see
a physician hastening to the hquse? Why,
that somebody is sick there; but we ate not
yet alarmed. But if we see two doctors go
ing there, we suppose the case its difficult one
and if we see four, five,*six,or seven doctors
collecting at the house, we conclude iramedi
aiely that somebody is dying at that bouse.
Now, sir, if this great number of political
doctors are to sit on the body of the Republic,
what will the country suppose but that the
poor Republic is at the last grasp, and that
it take* thirteen doctors to sit upon the case
and save the patient. Sir. it is to alarm the
country. I tell you, from this proceeding
there must be an alarm, or there must be a
laugh. One or the other there must be.
From the sublime to the ridiculous is only ooe
step; and what in this case must have convul
sed tbe country in the beginning, has now
got where a step wouid cover it with ridicule.
Sir, suppose this committee goes oot and
comes back with a report, and suppose it is
nothing more nor less than (o convert this
Senate into the old Ijjacksmith shop at Gretna
Green, and making them join parties together
whether God ever sanctioned it or not; sup
pose the committee comes back with a report
cut and dried for the purpose of joining to
California four or five measures which the
Senate and tbe House have been talking of
for four or five months, past; suppose they
bring back nothing but what ia already pre
pared, and which is upon all our tables, in
wbat position will this great committee be?
We have read of the mountain that was in la
bor, and that was delivered of a mouse. But
it was at least a live mouse, for tbe fable says
it But heie it seems that gentlemen are
to bring out something that has been lying on
oar tables so long that it is dead—a combi
nation of measures which (has been so long
horn that they are lying helpless in their cra
dles.
Sir, there ia no medium. The country, if
not alarmed, moat laugh. But lam against
making what is equivalent to a proclamation
declaring tbe country in danger. The send
ing out ol such a committee as tbw is pre
cisely equivalent to tbe Senate’s tasking a
proclamation in solemn form thst the Repub
lic Ml in danger, and then almost giving jhe
dietahirial power of mamg tht Republic•attained, to a committee. I am again*
making this proclamation. Ido not belien
the Republic it in danger to-day. I believt
there has been aome danger. But that dan.
ger has passed by; and to be providing a
remedy now, would be the providing of a
remedy for what has past. I do not hold
that the country is in danger now, and I do
not think that we ought to undertake to alarm
the country by the solemn form of setting
thirteen physicians to consult over the critical
and dying condition of the Stale, and to
come in with a nostrum to save her. W hy,
air, it will be a very ludicrous thing if this
committee shall come in with our old nos
trum. If they should come in with a scheme
to join all these bills together, it will put us
in a ludicrous position, and one in which we
ought not to be placed. If gentlemen wish
to unite other measures with California, lei
them take up the California bill, and then
offei those propositions, and the opinion of
the Senate can be taken upon them, as the
Senator from Kentucky intimated some days
ago, when I complimented him upon proceed
ing in such a manly and parliamentary man
ner. That is the right way to do. Now,
sir, ibis thing which is called an amendment,
but which is nothing but a -declaramn, an
independent resolve—such a one as would b«
perfectly proper to be adopted in a cause, but
which cannot be adopted in the Senate—this
independent resolve, that we will give no in
structions of any kind whatsoever to guide
the committee, why, sir,'although the Senate
may vote it, they cannot prevent us ftom un
dertaking to give instructions to guide the
committee; and, although in point ol fact no
one of us may be able to suggest an instruc
tion that could guide this great committee,
yet, in the parliamentary sense we can—un
der the parliamentary law, we have a tight
to offer instructions to guide the committee.
And who is it, Mi. President, that makes
this motion that the committee shall not bs
guided 1 I hope no one of the thirteen whe
•re to be on that committee undertakes to
maintain this resolution; for, sir, although ii
may be true, true as gospel that they are su
perior to the rest of the Senate, and that we
cannot guide them at all, yet they should not
tell us so. It is we who should disqualify
ourselves, and no one of that thirteen, in my
opinion, should vote. Delicacy, reserve,
decorum, should make them Btand off, and
refuse to vote for a resolution which would
stultify all the other members of the body.
They should leave it to ourselves to sluitily
ourselves.
I have taken up more time than I intended
on this preliminary point. I consider whol
ly nugatory, that, after whal is called an am
endment but is nothing but a tesolve to gov
ern the action of the Senate shall be voted
upon and adopted—as it may be, though I
think, if the thirteen gentlemen who are to
compose the committee will abstain from vot
ing, it will not be adopted; and really, deli
cacy, 1 think, should forbid them to vote —af-
ter all that is done, I say it is nugatory; for
we shall undertake to exercise our parlimen
tary right of offering instructions, and we
think that some of us have been here just
about long enough to know how to do it, and
to get a vote upon every instruction, in some
form or other, that lies upon the table, and
upon every ina ruction that ntay hereafter be
offered.

Mr. Clay. I am very sorry Mr. President, 1
for this unneessary consumption of the time
of the Senate; but their are two or three re
marks which the honorable Senator from
Mistouii has made, which seem to require
aome notice. The honorable Senator has
spoken of a caucus, and intimated that there
hsajbeen one. On w hat authority does the Set
ator make such an assertion! I now pronounce
it a mistake—an absolute and entire mistake.
There has been no caucus, that I know of
although, God knows, 1 would attend a cau
cus of any and everybody, to settle this most
unhappy question, which is now distracting
the country; and I would attend it without
any feeling of reproach, from whatever quar
ter it might be ventured to be hurled. The
honorable Senator speaks of his rights. -Yea,
•tr; and other Senators have their rights also;
and other Senators are just as well ptepared
as the Senator from Missouri is, to assert their
rights. And the Senate has its tights. Now,
sir, i put it to the Senate and the country,
what has been the progress of this matter?
The Senator from Missouri proposes an am
endment embtacing our pmpoaitions, and, as
s sort of menace, 1 suppose, he shells out
eight or ten others, and speaks of his hav
ing others yet in reserve. Well, rny dear sir
—Mr. President, I mean —has not this
a right to protect itself? Has not the majority
of tins Senate a right to say whether they
will or will not create a committee without.aoy
instructions? The resolution will be adopted.
The Senator offers his set of amendments
for the purpose I will not say, because I have
no right to go into the intention of the Sen
ator —but the effect of them would be delay,
procrastination, embarrassment; and that ef
fect it attempted, or will be attempted to be
pronounced against these distinct and em
phatic expressions of the opinion ot the major
ity of this body. The question, then, comes
to this—whether the Senate shall or shall not
have the power—l speak always of the ma
jority of the Senate —to act? 1 say, sir. it
ought to have it; and I care not by what
name you call it. The previous question!—
ah, sir, not many years will elapse before you
will find the indispensable necessity of P‘is
valuable mode of(terminating a useless and
nni.ecessary debate in this house. In my re
flections upon the past, in respect to my par
hmentary career—my congressional career—
-1 look back to none with more satisfaction
than the introduction of that previous question
in the other wing of this building. But, sir,
it seems that all at once there has been some
extraordinary violation of the rights of the
Senator; and w hat is it T That we create a
committee witijou tgiving that committee anv
inflections—a thing which happens every
day, and sometimes two or three limes a day
of the session, either in this honse or in the
other.
Now, sir, is it not known that if you Tefei
a subjdkt to a committee, you must, to some
extent, confide in that committee; un;
trammelled, unshackled, to the exercise of its
best judgment? for at lau.twhen it does any
thing, it is reported back to you, subject to
your decision, to your power, to your control.
Sir, what was dene with the committee pro
posed in the caee of the very State which the
Senator represents, appointed in the other
Hojse in the year l#22 T Were any instruct
ions given to that committee? Not one. Was
any embarrassing, mode of procrastination
attempted on that occasion? And after
wards, in relation to the constitution of the
committee, that happened which had never
happened before, and which, perhaps, will
not happen again for many years. When 1
proposed in the Houaesof Representatives
the constitution of a joint committee to con
sist of twenty-three on the part of the House,
and s suitable number on the part of the Sen
ate, to consider the question of California
of Missouri, I mean. Why, sir, it is not at
all extraordinary that I speak of California;
for if we listen to the honorable Senator on the
other side of the house, their are no United
Slates—California has absorbed everything.
[Laughter.] When 1 proposed a joint commit
tee of twenty-three on the part of the House,
and a suitable number on the p *rt of the Sen
ate, was there any motion in 4: other body to
instruct, to manacle, to chain down that com
mittee? No, sir, they were left free as sir,
to explore through the whole region of patri
otic intellect for the purpose of devising a
mode by which that unhappy question should
b« settled. Sir, *bat i* proposed? The hon
orabte Senator has several times talked and
presented, in his wtuy and humorous manner,
the figure of a horse borne dowo by a griev
ous weight cast upon its back. Why, air,
the Senator kaowa perfectly well that the
whole amount of whatis intended by anybody,
is to connect and combine together the gover
nment of territories acquired in common, and
(9 establish for these territories a
form of government adapted to their respec
tive situations.
And, sir, what is the condition of the ease!
Let us look at the facts. There is a certain
portion of this body that is for California. Give
u California, California, and nothing bnt
California. There is another portion of this
body and of Congreaa that says, we sre will
ing to give you California, but we want some
thing more than California;we want to esta
blish governments for a people thrown by the
vicissitude of war and of political events under
our care. And to my utter surprise, I have
heard Senators upon this floor express the.op
inion that we should leave all New Mexieo
and all Utah—New Mexico with a population
of 100,000, and a military—yes, I have heard
Whigs express the opinion that we should
leave the military government which is in op
eration in New Mexico to continue; Whigs
who denounced the existence of the milittry
government established under the authority of
the late Administration during a season of
war; and yet now, in a state of profound
peace, it is proposed to pass Cslilornia, and
leave New Mexico and Utah to take care of
themselves. Sir, it is contrary to every ob
ligation of duty resulting from the treaty,
resulting from the constitution, resulting
from the position and character which we
hold as American statesmen and legislators;
and as soon as leave New Mexico and Utah
without government —of all others the por
tions of that country the most in want of
governments —I would, as a father, as lief
turn out tny son at the age af fifteen into the
streets of a corrupt city, <and say to him,
“Go, my boy, take care of yourself until you
are twenty-one, and then come back to me,
and I will tell you what honorable vocation
in life to select.” Sir, it is our duty, our
bounden, our solemn duty, to make at least
an attempt to establish governments for Utah
and New Mexico, and if we cannot do it after
making the effort, we shall stand reproachless
for not having done it. If we cannot do ii, it
will be the tesult of difference of opinion un
fortunately existing amongst us, which will
prevent its being done. Ths error of thoes
Senators who talk of leaving Utah and New
Mexico to their fate, is exactly this: they
begin where they ought to end. Begin to
discharge your duty; try to make governments
for these territories, and if you fail to do it,
you will stand unrepruached in the eyes of
God and man in having made the effort to
discharge your duty.
1 have said Ihat one portion of Congress
wants California, and nothing but California;
another portion, whilst for bringing in Cali
fornia, says, let us settle this distracting
question; let us establish territorial govern
ments without the proviso, and connect them
with California. And why shonld not we do
it? I have heard the “dignity of California”
alluded to, as if all the gold and dignity of the
nation had sought refuge and sought an as
ylum on the shores of the Pacific. I have
been utterly unable to comprehend this dero
fation irom the dignity of California. Sir,
go for both measures; both ought to be car
ried; both, in iqv opinion, ought to be assoc
iated together; and 1 do not see the slightest
evidence of disrespect to California or to any
body else in doing it.
Sir, I tramed rhis lesolution deliberately,
and 1 framed it for the purpose of getting rid
the unnecessary instructions which the Sen
of ator from Missouri has proposed and to dis
pose of any other instructions which his in
genuity—and no man possesses greater am
ount of it than he does—might suggest to be
brought before this body. Let my amend
ment lie adopted, and let the Senator offer
his other instructions, from one to uinly-nine,
if lie pleaces and we will see whether the
question of order will not silence them all.
Mr. Mr. President, the State ol
California is not here, and unless somebody
stands up for her, it seems likely that she will
go to the wall; for she not only gets hard
knocks, but she gets also what is called
thumps. She is spoken of to-day as absorb
ing the whole United Slates. So far as 1
see, she only wants to get in among the
United States—to be one of the thirty-one,
and to be the last of the thirty-one. That
is all I can see in her wants. But the Sen
ator from Kentucky not only presents Cali
fornia in this aspect, but he presented her
some days ago in an attitude which 1 did not
then remark upon, and which 1 should not do
now, but lor the manner in which he has
brought her up to-day. It was said by the
Senator from Kentucky lhe oilier day that
California had made a runaway match, and
now turned up her nose at her unmarried
sisters. Welt, sir, if she did make a runa
way match, she did not marry a runaway
negro; and if her unmarried sistera should
marry ipto that family, it may be that, when
they come about her and into her company,
she may noi only turn up her nose, but Biiub
their noses. California has made a constitu
tion for herself, and in that Constitution she
has left out slavery in every form, and ihe
proposition now to unite her with the fugftive
slave bill
Mr. Clay. Will the Senator allow me to
say that there is no such proposition?
M. Benton. The Senator form Kentucky,
it is due to him to say, has in his speeches
disclaimed it; but the Senator from Kentucky,
eminent as he is, and leading as he ia, is not
the record. The motion is to refer two sots
of resolutions. One is the honorable Sena
tor’s own set of resolutions, and the other
that of the Senator from Tennosaee, [Mr.
Bell,] and those two sets of resolutions do
include the subject of runaway negroes, and
the oiigina' motion now pending wilt cairy
with it all these subjects. Here is a pro
position, then, to unite California with a sub
ject of w hich she has washed tier hands, and
which has already delayed iher, is now de
laying, must continue to delay her, and may
m the end lead to her rejection. She will
have nothing to do with the slavery question.
There is nothing in her constitution about
slavery, because she did not wish to have it
impede her admission into the Union; but if
the territorial measures are to be. added, and,
those measures are to have the question on
slavery mixed up with them, then we shall
have a question brought up by which the
whole admission of California, after being de
layed for such a length of lime, may be lost
in disagreement between the two Houses.
Sir, I cannot be driven off the tiack by hear
ing it urged that there is nothing in this pro
ceeding injurious or derogatory to California,
in my opinion it is both injurious and dero
gatory: injurious already in the delay it has
created, dangerous in the conjunction which it
may make of questions which may result in a
disagreement between the two Houses, and
by which she may be lost. We all remem
ber the Oregon bill, and the contest between
the two Houses on that bill.
The honorable Senator from Kentucky says
that it may become necessary toinuoduce the
previous question here. Whenever the Senate
by resolve shall introduce the previous ques
tn?n here, though I shall struggle against ths
adoption of it, as 1 have done heretofore, fo
the utmost—for I go for full debate in this
chamber—yet, whenever the Senate adopts
the previous question, 1 shah submit to it;
but until the Senate adopts it, 1 will resist its
unauthorized and disguised execution upon
this body. Sir, we now have it admitted
that here is the previous question, in a differ
ent form from that which is known to the
pailimentary law; that here is ths previous
question, intended to cut off all amendments;
everything in the world which the previous
question contains, except the form and ex
cept the rule of the house which leads to it.
It is now a bastard rule, surreptitiously in
troduced and attempted to be forced upon ua
by a declaration that the Senate will not pass
upon any amendment. It is the previous
question, sir. and :t is moat revolting, and if it
were anybody else then the eminent Senator
from Kentucky who had proponed it, 1 should
•av that it was a most uuparlimentary motion.
But, Mr. President, this committed ia to
go out for compromise. Now, what is a
compromise, and how long are such things
kept 1 What was the validity of toe compro
miae made between the Senator from Ken
tucky and myself—how long was it inviolable*
I offered a aet of resolutions which I deemed
good ones; the Senator from Kentucky got
up and moved to have them amended by
stituting another aet. I did not think nia
equal to my own at all, but in the s P mt
compromise, I accepted them, and did what
a compromiaev ought to do, immediately give
up his own. And yet, what is the state of the
case to-day? i thought then that the Senator
from Keutucky was going to vote for his own
amendment; I thought he waa going to ac
cept the compromise which he had made; and
yet to-day, sir, lie flies from that amendment,
he does not stand to it; he objects to the whole
of his own amendment, which I accepted the
other evening in a spirit so conciliatory that it
ought to have brought us all to harmonious
conciliation. Now, sit, we are going to have
another compromise, a plan of compromise
with this experience of compromising before
our eyes. I have no great faith in compro
mises at any time. There are compromises
in the Constitution; they are fundamental,
they are premanent, they are obligatory; we
are sworn to observe them and these com
promises I wish religiously to keep! But as
for these, which seem to me like the compro
mises of lovers, made one evening to be broke
the next morning—as for these compromises
which I referred to, really after this exper
ience—this, I would say, flagrant experience
in the face ol the Senate, between myself and
the Senator from Kentucky—l do think tha.
the idea of bringing a compromise into this
body ought to be abandoned altogether.
Mr* President, we ask the yeas and nays
upon this motion; and if the Senator’s resolu
tion—for I can call it nothing hut a resolution
—for the guidance ancTconduct of the Sen
ate shall be adopted, we shall immediately
undertake to test it, and to see whether the
rules in your book are not in forcr which al
low Senators to offer instruction; and we are
entitled to a vole upon this resolution, and
which cannot be laid on the table without
carrying the whole subject with it.
The yeas and nays having been.ordered
on the amendment of the Senator from Ken
tucky, was carried,; so the Senate refused
to instruct the committee.
The Anti-Slavery Bugle has the following
classification of parties elected to the Consti
tutional election of Ohio
The Democrats will have a decided ma
jority in this body. The parties will stand—
Democrats 58, Whigs 42, Free-Soilers 8.
The Democrats claim to be the friends of
Equality. Now let us see if they will allow
all the people, without distinction of sex or
color, equal rights at the polls. If there ia
anything more hollow or knavish than that
Democracy which deprives Women and Ne
groes of all voice in the making of laws to
which they are held amenable, we confess we
don’t know where to find it.
Congress.—The Senate was engaged
throughout yesterday, in discussion a resolu
tion offered by Col. Benton, instructing the
committee of thirteen, to whom Mr. Clay's
and Mr. Bell’s resolutions were referted, to
report snparately upon each subject involved,
and not unite in one bill‘two or more incon
gruous subjects.
Mr. Benton s motion was laid on the table.
In the House, Mr. Richardson’s resolution
to appoint a committee to inqnire inis and
repent on certain claims that have been allow
ed by the present Cabinet, notwithstanding
their rejection by preceding Administrations,
formed the principal topic of disscussion,
and was eventually adopted.
Mr. Allen, of Maine, was confirmed as
Consul to the Sandwich Islands.
Mr. Kinney, ot the Portland Daily Adver
tiser, as Charge to Sardinia, and Mr. Hude
bert as Consul to Lyons.
No action will be taken on the nominations
of Lawrence, Maxwell, and Lewis, until the
return of the committee who are attending
the remains of the late Mr. Calhoun to South
Carolina.— Telegraph to the Rochester Demo
crat, April 23.
Allegheny Institute—This institution,
situated opposite Pittsburgh, founded by the
munificence of Rev. Charles Avery, and
designed to afford to colored youth, of both
sexes, the opportunity of acquiring ony or all
the branches of both an English and Colle
giate education, will be opened on Monday
next, A large and commodious building, de
signed for its use, is just completed. The
Institute is by its charier a College, invested
wiih the power of conferring degrees, and
.will go into operation as such whenever stu
dents shall be furnished. The first term of
the academic department will continue 15
weeks, after which the regular terms will
commence as follows: The first on the sec
ond Monday in September, the second on the
first Monday in January, and the third on the
first Monday in May’ Tuition, for the ele
mentary branches, $3 per term; for the higli
ei English branches, $4; for the Classics,
&c., $4 —in advance. The Institute is not
under the control of any one religious denom-j
ination, though the instructors are required;
by the charter to be professors ol Chfistianity.
Whether white scholars are to he admitted
or excluded, the circular of the Institute does
not inform us. The exclusive principle, if it
prevails, will be great bar to the usefulness
of the institution.—Now that so many of our
Colleges are open to colored students, they
will not be likely to resort to an institution
whose benefits are proffered to them upon the
condition that they shall recognize themselves
as belonging to a distinct caste.
A Kidnapaer Defeated—On Wednes
day evening of last week, a white man and a
colored girl stopped for the night at the
American House in this village. The con
duct and conversation, of the man, led to the
suspicion that he waa deceiving the girl, with
the intention of carrying her off to Virginia
and selling her as a slave. The girl, on
being questioned, said that she’formerly lived
with a gentleman in Columbiana, 10 miles
East of Salem, and had been at Olierlin at
School. The man was a citizen of the latter
place, named Taylor, who, being under the
necessity of going to Columbus for his wife,
had agreed, for a consideration, to come this
way for the purpose of conveying the girl to
her old home. According lo the girl’s story
he had offered her the grossest insults on
their way to this place, and her statements
were confirmed by his indecent behavior to
ward her while here. Some of the colored
people becoming acquainted with the circum
stances, interposed to save her from his brut
ality, and perhaps from being kidnapped and
sold as a slave. The name of the girl is
Caroline White; and we will thank any
friend at Oberlin who will give us such infor
mation as will serve to thiow light upon the
character and plans of Taylor. If he is a
kidnapper, the people of that place ought to
know it. We know enough already to pro
nounce him an unfit companion for any res
pectable woman.— Anti- Slavery Bugle.
Emily the beautiful slave girl,
for whom Bruin it Hill, the slave traders,
demanded $l,BOO, as the only condition on
which they would restore her to her mother,
is dead. So says a letter from Mi. Hill, da
ted Griffin, Gs., March 28. The letter says
that she died of scarlet sore throat, but does
not say where or when she died. Hilt pro
tosts that he had determined not to sell
Emily at the South, but to bring her back to
Alexandria and let her mother have her.
ID* Edmund Quincy, in. the Anti-slavery
Standard, says of Mr. Webster—“lf Massa
chusetts sub nit m patience to this insult to
herself, she is self-stultified indeed, and the
signal example# she made of Mason of Boston
and Shaw of Lanesboro’, in 1820 will be blot
ted on; in her submission to her more dam
ning ignominy of 1850. For surely the acts
of those men are white as wool when contras
ted with the scarlet infamy of Daniel Web
ster."
To the Friewis of Freed#* the
Frees.
The ladies of New York, in view of tbe
grea benefits resulting from the possession
of so organ devoted to the cause of freedom
and the elevation of there oppressed rice;
and being well assured that the “North Star”
is an instrument in that cause, which from
the zeal devotedness and intelligence of its
Editor is calculated to effect in a great mea
sure the object for which it labors—vi*., th
emancipation and elevation of the colored
people, and is therefore worthy of the pat
ronage of every American ciliaen, particular
ly those for whom it labots; —have formed
an Association for the purpoee of holding a
fair during anniversary week in May next,
to aid in sustaining said paper; that its bea
con-light may continue to shine until every
bondman shall behold and be cheered by its
rays. The association will also endeavor to
extend its circulation, hoping, that its truths
may penetrate every corner of that den of
oppression (the South) and cause ‘‘light to
shine out of darkness,” that its exposure of
the ctime and horrors of Slavery, of the tears
and groans of the slave, may soften the hard
hearts of their oppressors, and cause them
“to ptoclaim liberty throughout the land unto
all the inhabitants thereofthat the apolo
gist ol slavery a( the North, may reeeive
this light in union with the South, and tyian
ny anc oppression cease forever.
The association earnestly solicit the aid of
every friend of freedom and the press; and
sincerely hope that no one will lose this op
portunity of extending their generosity in a
noble cause. Every oerson must be convinced
of the power of the press, ajtd should there
fore, exert their utmost influence to sustain
it. The question then is, will you assist in
sustaining it? If so you have an opportunity
of so doing by contributing to the “North
Star Fair Association.”
A box of valuable articles has been received
from friends in a donation, and
the ladies of Philadelphia have promised a
donation of articles, also. Will not the
friends in other sections of the
ate these noble examples? Your co-operation
in this work is needed and much desired.
The Association invites the co-operation of
friends in other cities, in this work and labor
of love.
Donations will be gratefully received by
Mrs. E. Bastien, 6 Albany St; Mrs. E. Ber
rien, 80 Wall St; Mrs. J. E. Foster, 11
Thomas St; and Miss F. Tompkins, 180
Church St.
In behalf of the Association.
EMELINE BASTIEN, Directress.
Fanny Tompkins, Secretary.
OFFICERS OF THE N. 8. F. ASSOCIATION.
LMELINE BASTIEN, Directress.
CATHARINE ROBINSON, 2nd do
Fanny Tompkins, Secretary.
Elizabeth Jinnings, As’st do
Jane M. Forten Trcas.
Committee of Arrangements.
Rosetta Cowes, Frances Brown,
Eliza Berrian, Catharine Gaston,
Mary E. Ellis, Adeline Felix,
Christiana Ellis, Mary Leggett,
Mary Crummell, Mary Roselle,
Serena Downing, Maria W. Steward,
Maria M. Dsgrasse, Therese Timingham,:
Rebecea Downing, Priscilla Black,
Sarah Aldridge, Annette Ponteau,
Hannah Frances, Mary Pegrin,
Sarah Atkins.
O Slavery! thou art a Demon.—On the
last Sabbath in February, a local preacher of
the M. E church, named Mayhew from
Kentucky, gave out an appomtn ent to preach
near Antrim, Guernsey Co. Ohio, and a large
concourse assembled to hear him:
“Alter the sermon he deliberately walked
from the stand to the outskirts of the congre
gation and laid hold of a colored sister in the
church, who had a child of her own in her
arms and proceeded todraw a rope from his
pocket to lie her, claiming at the same time
that Hke waa a fugitive slave of one of his
neighbors, and saving that he was sent after
her, and took this plan to find her, in order
to secure the reward of $75 offered for her.
Upon remonstrance by some of the bystand
ers, he played the bravado, by displaying
sundry revolvers and bowie knives from his
pockets, and stated that ifany one would
dare to interfere they would feel the effects of
them; then deliberately put her in his buggev,
tied her, and drove off. The woman, II earn
is a widow that has resided in the country for
several years.”— Letter to the True Wesley
an.
Capture of a supposed Slaver—The
Ship Memmon, Capt. Gordon, arrived this
morning from Canton whence she sailed on
the 9th of February. On the 4th of March,
oft St. Helena, Capt. G. reports having spo
ken bark Caroline, under the command of an
officer and crew frotj the British steamer
Cormorant, having been taken by said steam
er off Rio de Janeiro, under the suspicion ot
being a slaver. The captain of the bark and
one of the crew were on board and mould be
tried rt St. Helena. The officer in command
said the bark was said to have been formerly
an American whaler, and the Captain in
command when taken an American.
Indian Starvation and Cannibalism.—
The Minnesota Pioneer of the 13th says: We
have heard from the Bois Foits” Chippewa
or Muskiegoea. who lived on the noith-east
■boundary of this Territory. They are in a
starving condition so much so that many
will be obliged, as they have sometimes been,
to eat their feli-.ws. Their rice crop failed
last fall, and the rabbits have, through some
malady, disappeared from all the upper coun
try. Among other items of news from the
quarter, there have been sent to some of the
Pillager and Mississippi Chippewa bands, to
bacco, as an invi.ition to join a war party to
collect this spring at Pembina, against the
S'oux. The party is led by Wat-ish-ana, a
hall breed of lied River, whose nephew, also
a half breed, was killed two years since by
the bioux. The party will number, it is
said, 1.500, men, Chippewas, Creeka, and
Assineboins.
Mr. Wkbstkr.—A letter from Washing
ton says that Mr. Webster recoils before the
avalanche of i ftisure which falls upon him
from the North, and begins already to back
out of his stimigest positions. He has giv
en, what by m> means his speech implied, at
the time of its delivery, an intimation that he
should vote for the admission of California as
Another incident, in proof of Mr.
Webster’s fear that he has gone farther than
the North can follow is this, that in revising
bis speech for puWicauon in Boston, Mr. W.
insetted a passage, speaking of the wrongs
of the North, especially of Massachusetts,
which was not delivered. The omission of
such an obvious point mss very unfortunate
bet the attempt to supply it in this indirect
way, is scarcely lea* maunate.
Five fires occurred in New Orleans, on the
sth mat., which destroyed $30,000 worth of
property. _ __
Tk« GoMta Chain and Watcb.
The annexed correspondence sufficiently
explains itself. On the slide of the chain is
engraved on the side, the inscription—
"To THE HONORABLE DaNIEL WkSSTKR.
THE DEFENDER OF fHE CONSTITUTION AND
the Advocate or the Union.”
_On the other side,—•
From G. W. EgUaion manufactured by
Woodruff <f Addison, San Francisco, Cali
fornia, September 28, 1849.”
New York, March 28, 1850.
To the Honorable Daniel Webster, Washing
ington, D. C.:
Dear Sir,—ln behalf of our fellow-citizen,
Mr. Geo. W. Egleston, now so California,
we transmit to you a Golden Chain, manu
factured under his direction, from the mineral
products of that portion of our country, and
which he desires to present you as a fitting
symbol of that glorious Union, of which you
stand pre-eminently the ablest defender.
As sons of New England, and merchants
of New Yew, we ask leave to unite in this
testimony of respect, by appending to it the
accompanying token, which we beg you to ac
cept as an evidence of our high sense of the
patriotism and aiblity which hare marked
your whole public career, —and never mote
conspicuously, than in your recent speech in
the Senate which maintains so strikingly the
necessity of fraternal feeeling between the
different sections of our common country, and
the solemn duty of adheriug faithfully to the
provisions and the spirit of the National Con
stitution.
With high regard we remain youT friends,
Charles L. Vose, George Griswold, Moses
H. Cirinnell, Caleb Barstow, John Thomas,
Alfred G. Benson, Joseph Hoxie, Paul Spof
ford, Tfiomas Ttlesion, J. W. Alsop, Jr.,
Henry Chauncey, George Warren, S. J.
Beals, Davis, Brooks b Co.
Washington, April 13.
Gentlemen, —Your communication of the
‘2Bth of March and the Gold Chain and
Watch accompanying it, have been safely
delivered to me by Mr. John R. Bacon.
Not having the pleasure of a personal ac
quaintance with your fellow-citizen, Mr.
Egleston, I may be allowed to regard his
elegant and valuable present ol the Chain as
a testimonial of his approbation of my efforts
to uphold and perpetuate the Union of the
states. I shall lose no time in communicat
ing to him my sense of his kindness, and of
signifying the value which I attach to his
favorable opinions.
But I have an obligation to acknowledge
to you, also, gentlemen, for the beautilul
Watch which you have appended to Mr.
Egleston’s gift.
I accept this from your hands as Sons o
New England and Merchants of New York,
with giateful respect. We are
known to one another, and I cannot desire a
measure af regard from any of you, greater
than that which I entertain for you, each and
all.
The evils of life have drawn you from the
land of our common origin to the great com
merc'ial metropolis of the country. You are
merchants; and under the flag of the Union
you hav prosecuted an extensive and use
ful intercourse with most of the civilized
world. At last you have seen your own
country stretch from sea to sea, and a new
highway opened across the Continent, from
us to our fellow-citizens on the shores of the
Pacific. Far as they have gone, they are yet
within the protection of toe Union, and ready,
1 doubt not, to join us all, in its defence’and
support. They are pursuing a new and an
absorbing interest. While we are engaged
in agriculture, manufactures,commerce, navi
gation and the fisheries, they are exploring a
region whose wealth surpasses fiction. They
are gathering up treasure, in a manner and
in a degree, hitherto unknown, at the feet of
inaccessible mountains and along those
streams,
"Whose foam is umber, and llieir gravsl gold.”
Over them and over us, stands the broad
arm of the Union, and long may it stand, as
firm as the arches of heaven, and as beauti
ful as the bow which is set in the clouds.
I am, gentlemen, with very true regard,
Youa obliged friend and o’bl servant,
DANIEL WEBSTER.
—Boston Courier.
Removal or Free Negeoe* from Virgi
nia.—The bill which had previously passed
the Virginia House, appropriating
per annum to the colonization of free negroes
of that Stale, in Aftica, is now a law, hav
ing passed the Senate, with an amendment
which imposes an annual tax of $1 upon
every male negro in the State from 21 to 60
years of age. The fund arising from this
source to be appropriated in like manner with
the 30,000 unless the legislature otherwise
prescribed. Anti-Slavery Bugle.
Our iriend at Skaneateles will accept our
sincere thanks for the beautiful selection she
has m.tde for our Eoet’s Corner of this
week’s paper. May we not hop-a for a con
tinuance of such favors?— f. d.MADAME ROLAND.
Before the tria] and execution ofthe
Girondists, M. Roland had effected
his escape, and taken refuge with
some friends at Rouen. Madame Ro
land had been informed of the place of
his retreat, aud found the bitterness of
her imprisonment alleviated Jiy the joy
she experienced in reflecting that her
husband was surrounded by faithful
friends. Her heart was also tranquili
zed, in the midst of the perils which
had gathered around her, by the tidings
that her daughter had found a home
with one of her most devoted friends,
and that thus, in the bosom of a hap
py family, she was encircled by almost
maternal love.
The Girondist party, though their
leaders had been guillotined, was still
powerful in France. Madame Roland
was its idol, and a kind of chivalrous
enthusiasm rallied many generous
hearts around her. The Jacobins, with
Robespierre at their head, deemed it
necessary to confirming their power,
that this idol should be destroyed.
When Robespierre first came to Paris,
a modest young man, Madame Roland
met him, and discerning his talents,
took him by the hand, and
his republican zeal. He often met
with the little circle of distinguished,
men who surrounded the table in Ma
dame Roland’s library, in their long
evening conferences, and the next day
he would speak eloquently in the Con
vention, when his companions could not
fail to perceive that his ideas, and his
expressions even, were those which he
had gleaned from the eloquent lips of
his distinguished female friend. But
gradually he withdrew from the Giron
dists in the waning of their power, and
took an undisputed position at the head
of the Jacobin party, now so rapidly in
the ascendant. Robespierre was a
stoic, and had steeled his heart against
every kindly sympathy. With no ap
arent relentings, he signed the|warrant
which jvas to bring that friend who had
so beneficently smiled upon him, and
before whose attractions he had so of
ten bowed, to trial, and as he wel
knew, to the guillotine.
Madame Roland was now committed
to the prison of I’Abbaye, to wait her
trial. Notwithstanding all her fortitude
and the heroic composure with which
she was able to contemplate the violent
death which was approaching, she
could not refrain from yielding, at times
to floods ot tears, as she reflected upon
her long imprisonment, and her cruel
separation from her husband and her
idolized child. The personal beauty
and the fascinating intellectual and
moral endowments of Madame Roland,
soon won the hearts of her jailers, and
they did all in their power to alleviate
the bitterness of her imprisonment.
The merciless Commissioners had con
signed her to a dungeon which no
beam of light might penetrate. But
the compassion of her keepers induced
them to assign to her a cell, where a
few rays of the morning sun could
struggle through the grated windows,
and where the light of day, though dim
ly, might still in some degree cheer
those eyes, so soon to be closed forev
er. The soul, instinctively apprecia
tive of beauty, will, under the most ad
verse circumstances, evoke congenial
visions. She was indulged with flow
ers, of which from childhood she had
been most passionately fond. Flowers
seem to comprehend and requite unaf
fected love. And the plants, at the
iron window ofthe prison, appeared to
grow with the luxuriance ot gratitude.
With interwining leaf and blossom they
concealed the rusty bars, till they
changed the aspect of the grated cell
into a garden bower, where birds
might nestle and sing, and affection
might love to linger. A few particular
friends were occasionally permitted to
visit her; and with books, and her nev
er-failing resource the pen, she be
guiled the weary hours. Her highly
mind with such philosophic
resignation yielded to the pressure of
misfortune, that many hours and days
even, of calm and pensive enjoyment,
illuminated her cruel imprisonment.
There is something cold and chilling
in the support which pride and philoso
phy alone can afford. Madame Ro
land had met with Christianity only as
it appeared in the pomp and parade of
the Catholic Church, and in the open
ly dissolute lives of its ignorant or vol
uptuous priesthood. While her poetic
temperament was moved by the sublime
conception of a God ruling over the
world of mind; revealed religion, as
her mind had encountered it, she could
not but reject. Her natural tempera
ment was serious, reflective, we can
almost say devotional. But she be
held in the pomp and pride and bare
faced deception of the Roman Catho
lic system, but a collossal monster, op
pressing the people with hideous super
stition, and sustaining with its super
human energies the corruption of the
nobles and of the throw*. In reject
ing the Papal system, she had no friend
to reveal to her the warm and shelter
ed and congenial retreat of evangeli
cal piety. She was conducted almost
inevitably, by the philosophy of the
times, to those chilling, barren, storm
swept hights, where the soul can find
no shelter but in its own indomitable
energies of endurance. These ener
gies Madame Roland displayed in such
a degree, as to give her a name among
the very first of those who by heroiim
have shed lustre upon human nature.
Many hours of every day rite be-
guiled in writing the memoirs of her
own life. It ia an eloquent end
touching narrative, written with the
expectation that each sentence might
be enterrupled by the entrance of the
gens d’arnes, to conduct her to trial
and to the guillotine. In this unveil
ing of her heart to the world, one aees
a noble nature, generous and 4frong,
animated with instinctive benevolence,
and nerved to resignation by fatalism.
The consciousness of spiritual loftiness
consti'uted her only religion, and her
only pn sent pleasure. The anticipa
tion of high reputation among men, af
ter death, her only heaven. The
Christian must pity, while he must ad
mire. No one can read the thoughts
she penned, but with the deepest emo
tion. Now her mind wanders to the
hours of her precocious and dreamy
childhood, and lingers in her little
chamber gazing upon the golden sun
set, and her eye is bathed in tears as
she reflects ot her home, desolated by
death, and still more desolated by that
unhonored union, whicn the infidel.ty
j of the times tolerated, where one look
the position of the wife, unblest by the
sanction of Heaven. Again her spirit
1 wings its flight through the gloomy bars
of her prison, to her beautiful rural
home, where she spent her happiest
years, and she forgets the iron and the
stone and the dungeon glooms which
surround her, as she walks among her
flowers, and through the green fields,
and at the vintage eats the rich, ripe
clusters of the grape. Her pleasant
household cares, her dairy, the domes
tic fowls recognizing her voice and fed
from her own hand, her library and her
congenial intellectual pursuits rise be
fore her, an entrancing vision, and she
mourns like Eve the loss of Eden.
The days of celebrity and of power en
gross her thoughts. Her husband ia
again Minister of the King. The most
influential statesmen and brilliant ora
tors are gathered around her chair.
Her mind is guiding the surging Al
lows of the revolution, and influencing
the decisions of the proudest thrones
of Europe. The slightest movement
dispels the illusion. She is a prisoner,
awaitipg death.—Her husband is a fu
gitive with human blood-hounds more
merciless than the brute,upon his track.
Her daughter, the object of her most
idolatrous love, is left fatherless and
motherless in this cold world. The
guillotine has already consigned those
whom she loved best to the grave.
But a few more days of sorrow can
dimly struggle through her prison win
dows, ere she must be canducted, sur
rounded by the execrations of the mob
of Paris, to the most revolting death.
Woman’s nature for a moment tri
umphs over philosophic fortitude, and
she finds momentary relief in a flood
of tears.
The hour for her trial arrived. She
was prepared to meet it. Conscious
that any attempt at defense would be
entirely unavailing, she submitted
without resistance or expostulation to
her fate. She was led before her inex
orable judges, and accused of being
the wife of M. Roland and the friend
of his friends. She smiled proudly, as
she admitted the truth of both of these
charges. The serenity of her eye was
untroubled, and the composure of her
disciplined spirit unmoved, save by the
exalation of enthusiasm, as she noted
the progress of the trial which was bear
ing her rapidly and resistlessly to the
scaffold. She heard the sentence con
demning her to immediate death, with
apparently as joyous a spirit, as if it
were her passport to a glorious immor
tality. With a light heart and elastic
step she rose to leave the court-rooin
and slightly bowing to her judges said,
with a bitter and ironical smile, “1
thank you for considering me worthy
to share the fate of the good men you
have already murdered.” With the
agility of a child, light-hearted and
happy, she tripped down the stone
steps which led to her dungeon in the
Conciergerie. As she passed along
the corridor, fellow-prisoners, haggard
with confinement and despair, came
from their cefls to meet her. She
smiled upon them, and drawing her
right hand across her throat, gave
them the significant sign that her deliv
erance was at hand. Her friends, who
had no tears to shed for their own fate
wept bitterly over hers.
The morning of the 6th of November
1793, dawned gloomily over Paris. It
was the darkest hour of that night of
terror, which enveloped the metropolis
so long in its gloomy shades. The
carts of the condemned that morning,
were burdened with an unusual num
ber of victims, as they rolled heavily
along to the scaffold. Madame Roland
was placed in the last cart, by the side
of a weak and infirm old man, whose
trembling nerves entirely failed him in
this severe hour of trial. She wa9
in a white robe, which she wore, she
said, as the emblem of her innocence.
Her black and glossy hair fell in rich
profusion to her waist. A keen No
vember blast swept the streets, under
the influence of which, and the excite
ment of the scene, her animated coun
tenance glowed with all the ruddy
bloom of youth. She stood firmly in
the cart, looking with a serene eye
upon the crowds which lined the
streets, and ever addressing words of
encouragement and support, to the fee
ble old man at her side. She bent
over the weeping sufferer, with filial
tenderness, and by her pleasantry, suc
ceeded even in winning a smile from
bis pale and trembling lips. The ex
cretions of the mob, who believed that
she was a traitor to the Republic, filled
the air, and they shouted franticly,
‘‘To the guillotine! to the guillotine!”
“I am goinp,” she replied, “to the
Cuillotine, a lew moments and 1 shall
e there. They who send me thither,
will ere long follow me. I go innocent
They will come stained with blood.
You who now applaud our execution,
will then with equal zeal applaud
theirs.”
They arrived at the guillotine. The
ax fell rapidly upon her associates,
and head after head dropped in the bas
ket. The executioners approached
the cart wnere Madame Roland, and
her fainting companion stood. With
an animated countenance, and a cheer
ful smile, she was all engrossed in en
deavoring to infuse fortitude into his
*oul. The executioner grasped her
by the arm. “Stay,” said she slightly
resisting his grasp. “1 have one only
that is not for myself.
I beseech you grant it me.” Then
turning to the okl man, “Do you pre
cede me to the scaffold. To see my
blood flow, would make you snffer the
bitterness of death twice over. I must
spare you the pain of witnessing my
punishment.” The executioner gave
a surly refusal, stating that his orders
were to take her first. “Surely,” she
replied, with one of her most winning
smiles, and with that grace which was
almost resistless, “you cannot refuse
the last request of a woman.” The
hard-hearted executor of the law yield
ed, and the poor o’d man, more dead
than alive, was placed beneath the fa
fa! ax.
Madame Roland, without the slight
est change of color, or the tremor of a
nerve, looked on; and then unaided,
with a firm and elastic step, almost of
joyousness, ascended the scaffold. By
the side of the guillotine, there stood a
coliossal statue of liberty. Bowing be
fore this statue, she exclaimed “O
Liberty! Liberty! how many crimes are
committed in thy name!” She then
surrendered herself to the executioner.
Her slender and fairy form was bound
to the plank. The plank fell. The
glittering steel glided through the
groove, and the head of Madame Ro
land, was severed from her body.
A RACE FOR LIFE.
Presence of mind is a life preserver
which, although never patented, is not
yet to be possessed by all men. Pres
ence of mind is the power of maintain
ing the operations of the mind in the
midst of danger,and against the assaults
of fear and surprise. It is invaluable to
the possessor as a personal safeguard,
and gives him the power to protect the
lives of his fellow men.
As an instance of this latter power,
we will relate a little incident told to
us by one who had seen much of the
world in various lands. He was at a
port in the VVest Indies. "With two
friends he went down to the water to
bathe.—While he remained upon the
dfcore, and his companions were spor
ting with the waves at a considerable
distance, he espied an enormous shark
making straight for the unconscious
swimmers. The first impulse ot a
hasty and inconsiderate peison would
have been to alarm the bathers by loud
outcries of danger. But our* friend
knew that such a course would, by
I frightening them deprive his compan
ions of all power of escape. He
therefore preserved his unconcern
ed appearance, and playfully shouting
to them, bantered them to a race, and
to increase the rivalry between them,
promised the one who should first reach
the shore a slight reward. Nothing
loth to try their powers of speed, the
two swimmers struck out for the shore
with all the swiftness at their command.
All this time the shark .had been silent
ly nearing his prey, and as they turned
for the shore he shoi through the waves
with increased rapidity. The race for
life, uncounsiously on the part of the
pursued, was now fairly begun. The
swimmers strained every nerve in their
friendly rivalry, while yet the shark
gained rapidlygipon them. Our friend
upon the shore, although inwardly tor
tured with anxiety, still preserved his
calm and smiling appearance as he
continued to throw out incentives to in
crease the speed of his unfortunate
friends. They were still a long way
from the shore, when one of them
sho ed signs of fatigue, and was ap
pi*ently about to relinquish the race.
That was a moment of great agony for
our friend. Still he preserved his pre
sence of mind, and shouting encourag
ingly to the tired swimmer, induced
him to continue the contest for the vic
tory. On came the shark, nearer and
nearer, his fins flashed in the sunlight.
The swimmers approached the shore;
the shark was so near his victims that
he turned upon his back to begin the
work of death; our friend rushed into
the water, and dragging hi# amazed
iriends upon the bank, pointed to the
baffled sea monster, now lashing the
waves with his fins. Then the swim
mers comprehended the imminent dan
ger from which they had escaped, and
one of them fell fainting to the earth.
They never forgot the unconscious
race with the shark, nor that it was to
admirable presence of mind of their
the friend that they owed their lives.—
Portlada Transcript.
This Beautiful World. l admit
that this world is sufficiently sorrowful,
and, to a certain extent properly term
ed “a vale of tears," yet I do not fully
sympathize in the sickly repinings at
its miseries and vanities, which are ton
commonly complained of; for the world
is the workmanship of God; and it is
correspondency beautiful; beautiful
surpassing description. Its mountains
and valleys, hills and plains, rivulets,
lakes oceans; its infinitely diversified
forms and colors—for it embraces ali
the hues of the rainbow, variously
blended and combined—ali are beauti
ful. Then the sun pours down upon it
a flood of glory by day, and the moon
mantles it with a silver radiancy by
night; and oh! is not the cauopy beau
tiful when it is scintillating with its mil
lions of s ars! And there is much of
moral beauty too, in this much-abused
world of ours, maugre all that the bi
got and the cynical philosopher may
say to the contrary. See, for instance,
.sternal love, “strong as death,"
bending over the cradle of infancy, and
the couch of affliction; see hearts uni
ted by mutual affection reciprocally
sustaining each other through long,
long years of trial and suffering; see,
in short, amidst the darker aspects of
human life, on which gloomy writers
are wont to dwell, there are transpiring
a thousand scenes to engage the appro
ving notice of all-seeing Heaven. Yes
this is a beautiful world.— Rogers.
Gerrit Smith's Lands.—A com
mittee in New York, on whom Mr. Ger
rit Smith devolved the duty of selec
ting ISO respectable people of color, as
recipients of his bounty, acknowledge
the receipt of 15 deeds of laud for as
many men, with 10 dollars for each of
them, and $450 for 75 colored women.
Deeds and money in the tame propor
tion have beeogiven to 425 men, aad an
equal number of women in other parts
of the Stale. These gifts amount in
the aggregate to $50,000,