ADDRESS OF H. W. JOHNSON,
Delivered at the First of August Celebration.
rtt. President and Fellow-Citizens:
I da not expect to be heard with
any degree of patience, after the able
and eloquent address to which all have
listened with so much admiration; and
perhaps it is the highest degree of van
tty in me to claim your attention for one
m upent, especially while there are oth
era-upon this platform who can occupy
the tirtie allotted to me to a much better
advantage.
However this may be, all will admit
that,the occasion is one that command*
the respect and attention of every friend
«f human liberty; that should call forth
the earnest congratulations of those
who have long been laboring for the
downfall of tyranny, not only in this
land,-but throughout the entire world.
I am happy to say, we assemble here
to-day under auspices more favorable
than those under which wc have assem
bled upon former occasions. We not
only commemorate that grand event*
properly called Freedom’s Jubilee, the
birthday of liberty to 803,093 crushed
and bleeding victims of oppression, in
the British West India Isles; but also
rejoice over the progress of liberty
abroad—over the fall of thrones, and
the destruction of tyrann/ in other
lands.
Recent events proclaim that the march
of liberty is onward; that the mighty
struggle which for ages has been going
on between freedom and slavery, must
result in the ultimate triumph of the
former; that however faint the pros
pect —however dark and gloomy may
be the clouds that for a while obscure
the golden hues of the rainbow of hope,
the friends of liberty need not despair.
Those dark clouds of apprehension that
now cover with gloom tho fairest pros
pects of freemen, shall yet be pierced
by the broad flash and bright sunlight of
truth.
Such are the hopes with which the
events which we are this day assembled
to commemorate, inspire us. Who, I
ask, does not rejoice at the prospect?—
One of the events to which I allude, is
more particularly distinguished as a
great moral triumph—as a victory
achieved, not by the sword and the
bayonet, but by the force and power of
truth.
After the able and eloquent remarks
made upon this subject by the distin-:
guished gentleman who preceded me,
it may be superfluous for me to say one'
word in addition; but I ask your in-*
diligence for one moment, while I refer
to one or two important effects it had
upon the cause of liberty in other coun
tries, especially in our own. In the
first place, it swept away that miserable
subterfuge behind which the oppress >r
ao long found a safe retreat, viz: the
danger and impracticability of imme
diate emancipation. It proclaimed to
the world, what every one ought to
have known before, that there is no
danger in ceasing to do wrong, and
commencing immediately to do right;
that there u no danger in restoring to
right*, hot
that the peril consul in withholding
those rights from him. But there was
a time when, with the idea of immediate
emancipation, nothing WM associated
but images of the most frightful nature
of fields uncultivated— property devas
tated—cities desolated and in rums
inhabitants murdered, and the emanci
pated, actuated by a spirit of revenge,
rnxitmg in the blood of their former
masters. But this great experiment (if
to restore man to the condition in which
his Creator designed he should live, can
properly be called to experiment,) has
THE NORTH STAR
falsified the predictions of the enemies
of emancipation.
Be it lecollected, it was under cir
cumstances thd most disadvantageous
to the whites that slaveiy was abolished
in those islnnds—circumstances that
rendered it not only possible, but easy,
for the emancipated to have dug the
i grave of every white man upon those
islsnds. So far did the colored popula-
I tion exceed the white, that, la the lan
guage of Wendell Phillips, One mo
ment’s rushing recollection of a cen
tury’s oppression, would have swept
every w hite man from the face of those
islands forever.”
Startle not at this declaration, but
listen for a moment to a recital of the
facts upon which it is baped. Jamaica
had 339,009 colored t*habitants, to
i 37,000 w* rites; Barbadees,*B7,ooo col
-1 ored to 15,000 whites; Antigua, 33,-
000 colored, to 81,600 white; and in
one of the islands, only 800 white peo-1
j pie were to be found in a population of
j 5,000! It was under circumstances like
j these, in islands far distant from the
1 protecting arm of the mother country,
surrounded on all sides by the waters of
a blue and boundless ocean, that the
chains were severed from the limbs of
800.000 crushed and bleeding victims
of oppression, amid the wildest predic-|
lions of ruin, carnage and blood. And
yet none of those frightful evils—none
of those awful scenes of blood and
butchery, which we were told would be
the inevitable consequences of this
measure, have occurred; but experi
ence, even under such circumstances,
proves the safety and practicability of
immediate emancipation.
Again: this event is illustrative of
that great maxim, so cheering to the
heart of the reformer, Truth is omnipo
tent, and must ultimately prevail.— I
say ultimately prevail, for let us not
forget, fellow-citizens, that this great
victory was not achieved in a single
day. It was the result of years of
long-continued and arduous labors.
Mighty, indeed was the great struggle
that preceded this event. The enemies
of emancipation contested every inch
of ground—the subtle foes of liberty
resorted to every plan which human
ingenuity could suggest, in order to
prostrate the designs of the friends of
freedom. They even had the effront
ery to carry their cause before the peo
ple of Britain, and there defended sla
very with all the fore* 1 of an overpow
ering eloquence. The m >st frightful
stories were conjured up of the awful
consequences that would ensue if tsla-
Yery were abolished—the most foul
mouthed slanders were ejaculated a
gainst the friends of freedom—the vilest
epithets in the vocabulary of the Eng
lish language were applied to the un
daunted friends of liberty; and the
blackest designs that ever found a lodg
ment in the human breast,were imputed
to them.
But all these were of no avail. The
inarch of lib *rty was onward. The
public mind had begun to be enlighten
ed upon the great and all-absorbing
question of human liberty. The gath
ering storm of public opinion finally
overwhelmed all opposition. In vain
was every attempt to impede its pro
gress; they might as well have attempt
ed to chain old ocean’s waves—to stop
the resistless torrent of Niagara’s thun
dering cataract. It rolled over thfcm
like the huge waves of the broad At
lantic. It moved on its majestic cause,
until it had swept slavery from those
islands forevfer!
Fellow-citizens, that was a proud day
for liberty!—it was a proud day for the
world! It was a glorious day for that
noble band of noble-hearted philan
thropists who for years had breasted
the storms and tempests of an adverse
public opinion; it was a glorious con
summation of their long-continued and
arduous labors. Truth had triumphed
—the slave was free!
Fellow-citizens, we are not only here
to-day to commemorate the dawn of
liberty in the British West India la
lands; but also to rejoice over the pro
gress oi liberty in other lands—if you
please, over the birth of a new republic.
Yes, a new republic has sprung into
existence. France has demolished her
throne, and reared upon its ruins a new
republic. Liberty—Equality—Fra
ternity,” are the words emblazoned
upon her proud escutcheon. Her acts
seem to correspond with her profes
sions. She has struck off the fetters
that bound the limbs of her colonial
slaves. She could not consent to es
tablish a partial liberty. Liberty in
France could not be confined within
such narrow limits as to be based upon
(he color of the skin.
t What!” cried one of the members
of her late provisional government—
Slavery in a Republic!” The idea
could not be entertained for a moment.
“Slavery cannot exist on French
ground.” No, not a slave can clank
his chains on that *niJ of liberty. What
friend of impartial liberty does not hail
with joy the rising sun of such a repub
lic? France, will receive the
warmest aympathies of every true friend
of human liberty. He will extend to
her the right hand of fellowship; he will
kneel at the same shrine, and partake
of the same waters of liberty that spring
from the deep-gushing fountain of free
djm!
Here permit me to remark, the
1 world’s history furnishes but few, if
a nr, examples of a revolution of this
nature having been accomplished,
against sack fearful odds, and within
the same time. Apparently, never was
I tyranny entrenched behind stronger
bulwarks; its triumph over liberty
seemed almost complete. The liberty
of the press, that great safe-guard of a
nation’s freedom, was trampled in the
duet, and overshadowed by the bloedr
[throne of despotism. Guarded on «U
RIGHT IS Of' NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD Is THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND WE ARE BRETHREN.
side* by batteries, bristling with cannon
—surrounded by n wall of bayonets,
with one hundred thousand of the very
flower of the French army at his com
mand, the citixen king” imagined be
had triumphed over the liberties of
France. But the Genius of Liberty,
looking out from her dark dungeon,
sighed for a more extended field of oper
ation. Frenchmen heard the cry, and
rose, as one man, in defence of expir
ing liberty. Tbe iron bands of despot
ism withered, and snapped asunder like
the cords that bound the limbs of tbe
strong man of old.
True, France baa been engaged in
other great struggles for politicafrree
dom. Tbe world knows well tbe result
of those efforts. Upon former occa
sions, the sun of her liberties has risen
with great splendor, butws the wheels
of her revolution rolled onward, her
iiky became overcast with clouds, dark
and lowering. Too frequently true
and genuine liberty is confounded with
that which has been properly denomi
nated wild and savage ferocity. Such,
unfortunately, was once the case in
France. Persecution and intolerance
prevailed—a reign of terror was estab
lished—her noblest sons were cruelly
murdered, in the name of liberty, and
her sun went down in blood. But from
the dust of those murdered patriots rose
that great champion of freedom —La-
martine. Yes, Lamartine!—a name
not only dear to France, but dear in
every land where freedom finds a
friend.
As far as the great question of hu
man liberty is concerned, France, to
day, stands on a proud and command
ing eminence. The world mu|t look
with admiration upon the noble stand
she has taken in behalf of Liberty—
Equality—Fraternity.” She Mds fair
now to become all that her former rev
olutionary patriots desired; an 4 if the
eyes of such men‘arc ever turned back
upon their native country, thoseSof her
former defenders of liberty imjst now
be looking down from the battljfments
of heaven with pleasure and (flight,
upon the proud pinnacle upoijlwhich
their country this day reposes. Jjlf the
spirits of great and good men elr re
visit their native land, those wf her
former defenders of liberty nitft; now
be walking abroad among her £ople,
infusing into them the same dev ion to
principle, undying hatred of oppres
sion, and ardent love of liberty, that
once animated their own generous bo
som*.
Fellow-citizens, while we are rejoic
ing over the triumph of truth and jus
tice, and the march uf freedom in Atker
lands,-permit fine for one moment to call
your attention to our own country, and
see what progress liberty is making
here; for can it be that the despotic
governments of the old world are in
advance of us? Are they such apt
scholars that they have learned our
lessons of republicanism better than we
know them ourselves?
Freedom, having forages maintained
a noble struggle for existence in the
old world, finally sought a home in the
Western i emisphere. The American
people gave her a welcome reception.
They responded to her call for aid, and
ran to her relief; and can it be that she
only came here to find a grave in the
wilderness?
The war of the revolution was called
a fierce struggle in her defence. In
that contest they started out with the
broad declaration that “All men are
created equal; that they are endowed
by their Creator with certain inaliena
ble rights; that among these are life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.”
The American people were called upon
to support the principle* contained in
this declaration, at the very hazard of
their lives. They obeyed tbe solemn
call; they were induced to leave their
homes, to forego the pleasures of peace,
and sacrified their lives upon the great
altar of their country, in support of
these heaven-born principles. Attract
ed by the sublimity of these truths,
many brave foreigners, in whose bo
soms glowed the fires of liberty, crossed
the blue waters of the broad Atlantic,
and poured out their blood freely upon
the American soil, to fertilize a land of
liberty.
The struggle of the revolution finally
terminated in a blaze of glory and the
brilliant triumph of American arms.—
Many supposed that the great un
changing principles upon which it was
based, were also established upon a
permanent basis. But how sadly dis
appointed were they! The seeds of
oppression had been scattered broad
cast over this land—from these seeds
sprang up that great tree of oppres
sion” whose broad branches are ex
tended far and wide over our country,
shading out the bright sunbeams of lib
erty. Yes, this soil, once watered with
tbe life-blood of the martyrs of free
dom, is now saturated with the tears
and stained with tbe blood of the slave!
And yet this is called a free republic;
and Americans call themselves republi
cans Oh, is not this inconsistency
the most irreconcilable—guilt the most
abandoned —hypocrisy the most un
blushing! But, 1 repeat, American*
call themselves republicans, and firm
believers in the great principles con
tained in their Declaration of Inde
pendence, they profess to love liberty,
and glory in the rights of man. From
eAriiest infancy, they have been rocked
in the cradle of liberty, and trained in
the great school of republican freedom!
Almost the first sounds that awaken
emotions in their bosoms, and! create
gladness in their hearts, are the; spirit
stirring snogs of liberty, and tkn lead
cry a freedom end equal right* Not
withstanding all these things, they dm
fight te deaf in oppressing. Trampling
in the dust the great principles ouoiam
ed in their Declaration of ladeyaod
r mi:..
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, AUGUST 21 f 1848,
eaee, they countenance and sustain one
of the most grinding and crushing sys
tems of oppression that ever stained
the dark annals of crime, or shocked
tbe high majesty of heaven. After the
remarks made by my eloquent friend in
regard to the guilty and oppressive acts
of this nation, 1 shall not dwell long
upon this subject. I will not open the
black and bloody pages of my country’s
history, and look over that dark cata
logue of crime, oppression, outrage and
wrong, of which she has been guilty,
from the earliest stages of her existeuce
down to tbe present moment. Let it suf
fice to say, that to so great an extent
does slavery exist In this country—no
far does it extend, that in all this land
-—this broad load—this wide extent of
country, washed on one side bv the
waters of the broad Atlantic, on the
other by the waves of the Pacific—
there is not one spot upon which a col
ored man can rest his feet, and declare
that he is free. Even the nominally
free man of color is liable at any mo
ment, when away from home and among
strangers, to be seized by the tyrant’s
cold, withering grasp, and hurried off
to the land of slavery and of blood, to
drag out a miserable existence in a
state of unrequited toil. If a panting
fugitive, through the guidance of the
North star —that star of hope to the
flying bonrlman—that star which, like
the pillar of fire that guided the chil
dren of Israel through the wilderness
to the promised land—leads him safely
from republican slavery ts a land wheie
he can sit down and enjoy liberty be
neath the grateful shadow of a mon
arch’s throne—that star which slave
holders would gladly see plucked from
heaven’s bright constellation—if, thro’
the guidance of that star, he succeeds in
making his escape to what we some
times call the free hills of the North,
there is not one spot on free Columbia’s
soil where he can repose his weary
limbs in safety. No matter whether he
be one of the last-born patriots of ’76,
or one of the sacred veterans of 181*2,
he finds no protection upon American
soil, through the operation of American
law. He may go to every battle
ground of the revolution —to every
haunted spot where freedom weeps over
the f ull of her noblest sons—he may go
to New England—proud and glorious
New England—a land consecrated by
the graves of the pilgrim fathers, and
watered by the first blood that was shed
in the great struggle of the revolution
—he may stop at the greenr of Lexing
ton—he may* go to Faneuil Hall, that
old cradle of liberty, that once rocked
wj4h the loud about*, of freedom' aad,
equfH rights, where once was heard the
Voice of Adams and Hancock, and
their compatriots of revolutionary times
—that sacred spot from within whose
walls was borne away the mangled form
of that brave black man, Benjamin At
tucks, from whose veins flowed the first
drop of blood that mingled with Ameri
can soil, in defence of American liber
ty—even there he finds no protection.
He may go to Bunker Hill; as he gazes
upon that lofty monument, a smile
comes over his countenance, and he
thinks beneath its proud shadow he will
find that protection for which he has so
long searched in vain. But even here
he is doomed to be disappointed. The
tyrant’s stern voice demands him to be
given up. In vain tloes that proud
monument of liberty give a groan—in
vain do the shades of the revolutionary
heroes, whose blood watered the soil
upon which it stands, mingle their
voices with every shriek that comes
forth from that weeping monument, in
opposition to this mandate—-even then
he finds no protect* >l3.
Where, then, must he go? Ab!
whither shall this heart-broken fugitive
fly for refuge? As a last resort, he
escapes to tbe capital of his country—
the capital of the freest nation on the
face of tbe entire globe. There he
beholds the broad folds of his country’s
banner waring in triumph; our proud
eagle perching high above it, his golden
wings dazzling in the sunbeams as he
soars aloft, and screams of liberty Un
til our broad, deep forests ring with his
piercing cry. But does he there behold
the graceful form of the fair Goddess of
American Liberty, with her thousand
varied charms, beramUing countenance,
with outstretched arm*, welcoming him
to her embrace? No! but, on Lie con
trary, he there sees enthroned the iron
jawed, grim-viiaged, and bloody demoo
of American slavery, with his loaf
black robes dripping with the blood
which ages of grinding and crushing
despotism have wrung from tbe veins
of his bleeding victims. This is Ame
rican liberty! This is the equality that
exists in this land! Oh, this model re
public this boasted land of freedom,
upon which the heroes of tbe revolution
are ever looking down from heaves to
bless!
But notwithstanding all these things,
loud demonstrations are made in tbis
country in favor of freedom. The
American people exhaust the great
fountain of national sympathy for tbe
oppressed of other lands, but are care
ful t. keep nooe in reserve for the
downtrodden and oppressed of their
own country. They boost, long and
loud, of “virtuous liberty;” and we
are told, “whenever a human being
pines ia chaios, these Americans drop
their teara.”
If the oppressed of ether lends en
gage in a noble straggle for liberty, (if
they be white,) they receive the warm
est sympathies of the American people.
When Greece was straggling for lib
erty. not only did almost every palnit in
oar land resound with eloquent plead
ings to her behalf, hat the whole coun
try was iiled with innMmr tones of
sympathy fee the
thsir aside straggle
When the South American States
endeavored to throw off the yoke of
Spanish oppression, and from their en
crimsoned fields root the cry for sym
pathy and aid, again one spontaneous
burst of sympathy gushed forth from
our great national fountain.
When Poland attempted to atrike ofl
the fetters of tyranny, and the best
blood of her children mingled with bei
freen soil—when her patriotic aons
issed the statues of their heroes and
swore upon the green graves of their
venerated sires—Poland shall be free!
and when at last, through treachery,
•he sgaio sank beneath the cold iron
grasp of her despotic masters— -mark
again, how the tear of sympathy flowed
from every American aye.
When we received intelligence of the
late revolution in France, what great
rejoicing there was in this country,
Resolutions expressing the earnest
sympathies for France, were adopted in
almost every part of the land. Con
gress joined the nation in this generous
expression of sympathy and some ot
those men who, but a short time since,
were down upon their Southern planta
tions, flourishing their whips over the
shrinking form of the bleeding slave,
were the most eloquent upon that occa
sion. Well, some of those men who go
along with their heads bowed down to
the earth, whose tears have bedewed,
and whose sighs have embalmed the
soil of our national Capitol, having per
haps, heard some of those eloquent
speeches upon liberty—thought they
would revolutionize themselves—that
they would change their form of gov
ernment—that they would no longer
submit to that odious one-man power,
but that they would stand up with the
dignity of men. Accordingly one night
dark and dreary to them, they went on
board of a sloop lying in the river, and
started for a land of liberty! But their
“guardian angel slept.” They were
pursued and brought back by those
men, who have so much sympathy for
France. Aud to-day, fellow-citizens,
9orne of those unfortunate victims of
oppression, are dragging out a misera
ble existence among the cotton
fields and rice-swamps of the far South,
those dark and dismal abodes that have
been the grave of so many of our crush
ed and bleeding countrymen, there
they are left to linger and die a most
cruet death, while their sighs for free
dom are borne back over the floating
waters of the Mississippi, upon every
breeze that comes from that slavery
accursed region. But this scene does
not end here; these men, who but a
short time si :rce, Ji ad ao*> loach sympa
thy for France, were roused te the very
highest pitch of fury and madness, be
cause these persons endeavored to ob
tain their liberty. Members of Con
gress were threatened with assassina
tion—a mob was raised in the Capitol
of our country to put down the freedom
of the press; and, when a noble-mind
ed Senator, who having partaken freely
of those waters of liberty that spring up
among the Granite-hills of New Hamp
shire, could consent no longer to be a
slave; when that man presented a bill
in the Senate of the United States, for
the protection of property in the Dis
trict of Columbia, against the violence
of mobs, he was very politely told, if
he would only come into a neighboring
State in this Republic, his form would
soon grace the tallest tree in the forest.”
Great God! and has it come to this?—
Are now our liberties so far gone, that
our Representatives dare not stand up
upon the floor of tbe American Con
gress, and speak out one sentiment in
favor of liberty, without being threaten
ed with a felon’s death? Oh, liberty!
is thi9 all that is left thee here?
Fellow-citizens, freedom exists only
in name, in this country; its sacred re
ality U gone. Plough up those hallow
ed mounds, beneath which lie buried
the remains of those sainted martyrs of
the revolution, who perilled their all in
defence of freedom! Demolish those
proud monuments reared in the name
of liberty. That immortal banner of
freedont, that once animated the heart
and nerved up the arm of the patriot—
upon whose broad folds were inserted
the eternal truths contained ia our de
claration of independence; that banner
which was first unfurled to tbe breeze,
Upon the green of Lexington—that
waived in triumphed over the field of
Saratoga, and was encircled in a bright
hafo of glory upon the plains of York
town—is now trampled beneath the foot
of the despot—and in its stead, upon
the dark ronparta of oppression, floats
in triumph the flag of despotism; upon
whose black sod bloody folds, are in
scribed—down with liberty Slavery
for ever
American liberty, to-day lies be
fore us a braised aad mangled corpse,
and before me, seem to rise up tbe hate
ful forms of her bloody assassins.”
Tbe poet, has truly said, happy is it
for mankind, that
God h*a wiaety kid tram bn «ifb,
TtednkdMWMrbnfoc"
For could the fathers of tbe revolution
hive foreseen an event like this, the
great American arm would have been
paralyzed! Their spirits would have
sunken, and hope died within their bo
loms, without even a faint struggle on
their part to be free. They would never
have toiled so ardoosly—bleed so free
ly and died so willingly, in order to
transmit to posterity, the inestimable
blessings of liberty—-had they known or
even dreamed, that before a century
had rotted away—while their oocoflm
ed hones were yet bleaching upon die
American noil before ail the great
heroes of *76, bad departed from among
m—before the sound of the great con
flict had died open the Amend* ear,
mid while dm triumphant shoots of
victory mill broke the slumbers of ear
forests and lingered amoag the distant
bills of our country, the traitorous arms
of their degenerate sons, would be rear
ed up to crush that liberty, which (bey
endeavored to establish upon a perma
nent basis.
Fellow-citizens, if it be not literacy
true, that liberty to-day lies before us
a mangled corpse, I ash if it be not true,
that if there be a spark of life lingering
in her bosrm—if there be a drop of
Kfe’a-blood flowing in thiggreins of Ame
rican liberty, sheis a tendering fugi
tive in this country Has she not been
driven from her last entrenchments
within our borders? There is not a
spot in all this land, upon which the
genro of American liberty can stand
it as her own. She may go
and rest upon the grave of the immor
tal Washington, but soon your read
eagle, with long beak and sharp talous
comes screaming after her She may
go and stand on old Plymntn’s rock—
that sacred spot where she first landed
upon these shores, under the fostering
care of the Pilgrim fathers, but soon
your bloody clawed vultures of oppres
sion follow in pursuit. Where, then,
must she go? She must retrace her
steps—she must go back over the waves
and find a home among the sunny hills of
Italy, or among the liilies of France!
At the conclusion of my remarks, in
reference to France, I spoke of the
happy feelings that would animate the
bosoms of her patriots, could they come
hack and behold the present position of
their country upon the great question
of human liberty. Think you, fellow
citizens, that your fathers would be ani
mated by similar emotions, could they
come back among you and behold the
present position of their country upon
this question? No! If the shades of
your great-hearted ancestry, could
come back once more to their native
land, they would not contaminate their
sacred robes, by suffering them even
to touch the soil now stained with the
blood of the slave. They might con
sent for one moment, to* hover over
their country and drop a tear over her
fallen liberties and then bidding her a
long farewell, wing their way back to
their eternal homes.
Fenow-citizens, what a spectacle is
this for an American eye to behold—
what a theme for an American mind to
contemplate before a century has
rolled away, all the great bulwarks of
liberty have been battered down, and
that sacred inheritance, bequeathed to
us by the fathers of the revolution, has
been equally wrested from our grasp.
Talk no more of American freedom, but
cover with sack-cloth and ashes, the
pi,ace whe re W arren fell—■plant a wcep
'tng* wiflow by thn grave o£ the immor
tal Washington cover its branches
with crape, then call back your soaring
eagle—let him repose upon the branch
es of that drooping willow—darken his
plumage—cover his golden wings with
the pall of mourning—muzzle his beak
—let him not scream, oh, no, for he
will not scream of liberty, but proclaim
a deep and solemn requiem over the
grave of American freedom.
THE DECLINE OF THE SLAVE
POWER.
The following article, handed to u 9
by Freeman Hunt, the editor of Hunt’s
Merchants’ Magazine, will be read!
with interest. Its statistics seem to be
accurately stated, and the inferences
drawn from them by the writer perfect
ly legitimate. After the census of
1850, the number of Representatives
from the slave States, will be greatly
diminished. But the tactics of those in
the slave interest will be displayed in
manufacturing slave States. No matter
how much more the free States increase I
in population than the slave States, the
power of the slave interest will be per
petuated by the Senate, so long as slave
States are added as fast as free States
are. A few years will throw Delaware,
Maryland, Kentucky, and probably!
Virginia, among tbe free States: but the
Strong probability is that we may in a
few years have to add the entire ofMex- 1
ico; and should the Missouri compro
mise be added, and slavery be estab
lished throughout the whole of Mexico
there will then be a complete and per-j
manent triumph of tbe slave power. But
this will never be, if the people of the
free States prove true to themselves,to
Liberty, in the crisis now at hand. Let
us take a bold and determined stand,
and adhere to it, and the boundaries of!
slavery will never strech beyond their
present limits.— [A*. Y Globe
Ia respect to the population of the
United States, as distiguisbed by the
existence of slavery, and by it prohi
bition. The whole population of the
United States in 1790 was 3,929,897,0 f
whom 1,971,372 belonged to the slave
states and territories, and 1,909,525 to
the free, or only 7,!53|f00re in the free
than in the slave division. This trifling
excess of only 7,153 in 1790 in 50 years
had increased to 2,403,592 in I*4o. and
1 calculate that at this time (1848) it
amounts to 3,500,000 and in 1850 will
amount to 4.000,039, The natural in
crease in the free state*; and besides,
four-fifths of the immigrants from for
eign countries, go into the free stages.
The white population of the Untied
States in 1790 was 3,172,531, of whom
1,371,483 belonged to the slave di
vision, and 1,901,016 to the free. The
«*cess of 029,558 ia 1790 in tbe free
division, had increased in 50 yearn to
4,939,526 in 1843, when there were
only 4.032,640 white persona in the
slave division—which is nearly 300,-
900 less than this excess. The excess
•f white persons in tbe free Mates over
the number in the *lsve Mates w st ibis
time nearly 6,039.090. The difference
of population in the two divisions will,
wo believe, continue to ioereoso Here
after, even notwkheUodißg any efforts
which may ha mods to saetata the
•InvoheWiag portion of the V
John dick, mmata
WHOLE NO.—W.
I will no# apeak of tin representation
m Congress from the two divisions oft be
states:—From 1793 to 1309 the whole
number of representati*ee in Congress
*as 105, of whom 57 or 64.2 k per cent,
were from the free states, and 45 0r45-
71 per cent, were from the slave slates.
From 1543 to 186$. exclusive of new
states since admitted and represented,
the number i«223, of whom 135 or 60-
54 per cent, are from the free states,
and 88 or 30/40 per cent, art from the
slave states. During this period the
gain of the free states has been 6 I*4
per cent, of the whole representation,
tnd the loss of tbs slave states the
same; and the? together constitute a
difference of l 2 1-9 per cent, ia the
representation of the two divisions of
the states. The number of represent
atives from (he free states is now about
three-fifths of the Whole; and it is obvi
ous that the propertion will be constant
ly increasing at each decennial epoch,
for the natural increase of tile federal or
representative population in the free
states, is greater than in the slave
states, and at least four-fifths of the
immigrants from foreign countries, all
white persons, (and now their number
amounts to between three and four
hundred thousand annually,) go into
the free states to swell their population.
There has been almost a constant
decrease of the proportion of the rep
resentatives in congress from the slave
states in each decennial period from
1793 to 1853. And; even to sustain
this decreasing proportion, it has so
happened that there have been nearly
3,000, more voters and nearly 19,000
more free persons on an average, in
each representative or Congressional
district in the free states than in the
slave states, for each term during the
60 year* from 1793 to 1853.
And further, the numder of toters in
the United States in 1844, was about
3,000,000 —It now is nearly three and
a half millions. fy has been estimated
that the number of slaveholders is
about 300,000, or not more than a tenth
part of that of the voters. Some think
that of these slaveholders, only about
100,000 are voters—l will suppose the
number to be about 200,000, or one to
15 or 20 voters. It would seem that
the number of those who have an inter
est in this slave property, cannot be
more than four times that of the slave
holders, and six times that of the slave
holding voters, or 1,200,000. This
number is only ode-seventeenth part
of the whole the United
States, or fourteenth part of the white
population. The white popohdiofi o(
the slave states, at this tjsgfv in probe-
my k litffe more Unit ffJuffi.lMM); so
that we may suppose that only about
one-quarter of this population have a’
pecuniary interest in slavery. The
whole population of the slate states is
now probably less than 9,000,000—50
that those interested in slavery are only
about one-eighth of the whole population
of these states.
It may be here stated, that in the
choice of Presidential electors in 1836,
1840, andlS44, the number of votes
cast in the slave states, including the
probable number in South Carolina,
where the choice was made by the
Legislature, was only about 30 per
cent..of the whole number, while in the
free states it was about 70 per cent.
The number of white persons in the
two divisions of the states, was in 1840,
32 53 per cent., and 67.46 per cent,
respectively—the right Of suffrage
being more extended among the whites
in the free than in the slave states.
Let the above fact# be duly Consid
ered, and thobgh the time of emanci
pation may be delayed, the event can
hardly be postponed many years before
the constitutional potter of the General
Government will be exercised by those
who will seek to limit, and Will limit
slavery where it Is, and will check its
farther extension. —Jeete Ckickering.
Ah Old Settler. —Mr. Elina Bas
sett, of Hampden, exhibited to us
yesterday an old land turtle, of the
terrapin order, —who shuts himself up
in his own dignity, and expands at his
own discretion,-—which he found upon
his farm nearly forty years ago, and
marked him for his own.” He bore
the initials on his under shell E, B.”
with the date of 1809,” which are
very plain and distinct. He does not
seem to have varied in size since the
inscription, and hence it may he in
ferred that he was of age at bis baptism.
How old he is now can only be conjec
tured, but be has as bright an eye now
as an infant child, as sound a covering
as an iron roof, and an apparent pro
mise of ss long a life as Methuselah's.
Mr Bassett has given him free ten
antry, with in atractions to his descen
dants never to disturb him. We only
wish the old creature could talk, that be
might tell to posterity who his friend#
are. Yew Haven Palladium.
Something in Looks.— r% man's look
is the work of years. It is stamped on
l bis countenance by the events of hi#
whole life—nay more, the hand of na
ture, and it is not to begot rid of easily.
There is, as it has beea remarked re
peatedly, something in a psrsoa’s
appearance at first sight which we do
not like, sod which gives us sa odd
1 twinge but which is overlooked in a
multitude of other circumstances till
the mask is I shea off, and we sea this
lurking character verified in the plain
est manner m tbs sequel We are struck
st first, ky chance, With what in
peculiar and characteristic. Also with
permanent traits and general effectv
These afterwards go off in a scfof ua
meaning, common piano fetaila. Thin
sort of prune facm evidence, then,
shown what a man in, hotter than what
he says or docs—for it shows at fe
bab* of his mmd which is the seam
under ill circumstances and disguises.
Net if co.

\nnxml Meeting.
The 6ih Ai.niral Meeting «f the Wests*!
Anti-Suvshv SoettTV trill bo held at, £>a
Era, Columbnna Co., on WeJnesdiy, Thura
.far. and Friday, the l«th. 17th, and 18th o
August. commencing at 10 o‘c!*>ck, A. M.
I/-1 a fail representation of the slaves
f: sends ecKne up on u»;s occasion from a!
part* ofrthe Givat West. The politicsvlead
i are marshalling their hp*ts for a conflict
.."ir foMewers are rallying by hundreds
houaanos to ttin support of their partv har
d*. TioKi, ami iwuney, ami labor sue. ei
idol to secure their object. And shall th
.ends oFfreedom, a b >wj faith should h
in tii potter of Truth, be lukcvrart
.1 i(idi^Tsn i4 while politicians are so cai
t In their laV»rs, so untiring in their zeal
-t ''t events of t!»>- pas; year should cneourag
to renewed cflorn, for ev«rv movement
•woort.mee which fas bant made, having an
may upon Uk: qur-bt.on of slavery, ton
-vtaJowa the destruction of the svsteia, ar.
i oppressors 1 id that a i».»o. The politic,
riles will mike a desperate effort to sa\
nSelves from t:i3 destruction their corruj
i has .brought upon them; and the eftbr
the aHofitivni*>t9 to rmantsin 'i*ul enforc
Right should l>e proportionable great.-
m. merits should be n.ade at th i comin
ting to conlinun the auli-slivery agitaiai
lie- the iiwitg sp. :i!i4>r, and to cj
1 more widely tbc circulation of ihu S<
*s paper—th Anti-Slavery Bugle*
a of jUie friends who can be there, abset
for any light eausc, for the prr
:cof ail, and the cotiosej of all i.a desir;
ij
i>K>jde? the friends of Liberty in the Wei
v. will hi pres nt ou the occasion, llknh
Wkioht and has. Bi rlkioh are i s
'.l to ha in •Uend i.icc, and paliaps othi
i nt.itius of the Fast.
LOT HOLMES, Rer .She.
Till; CALL.
the great national conven
AN OF COLORED FREEMEN of th
r S; itr‘s, will he he’d in Flkvklasr
k conimeneing on Wednesday, the sixt
»v "f September next.
Lathe Colored Freemen all rally to tli:
..i ‘ftant gathering. This is a i risks, an
thing we must and wiki* do
hope to see the East, North, Soul
i i st, come nj> iri one mighty, unbroke
j'b cix, to do battle for Cod and humanity I
med, by request of Illinois, Indiana
i 'jaa, and Ohio, (the Western parts o
v York and IVimsvlvania being ready.)
M. R. DELANY.
II .Milton, Ohio, June 0, Id 18.
Mystery, and all friendly papers, pleasi
FI at form of the Ifuffulo Convention.
hereas. W e bate assembled in Conven
>a union of Freemen, for die sake ol
F .Join, forgetting all past political dif
(.•us in a eoiimioa resolve to maintain the
_.i iof Free Labor against the aggressions
t!. Slave Pouei, and to secure Five Soil
t -r -t Free People
I whereas, The political Convention?
i.ily assembled at Baltimore and Phila
i t .na, the one stilling the voice of a great
nuency entitled to be heard in its delib
ous, and the other abandoning its
ctive principles fur more availability,
dissolved the National party organisations
More existing hy nominating for the
o f -Magistracy of the Foiled States,
u. i r slave-holding dictation, candidates
is-i* cr of whom can be supported by the
opponent* -of slavery extension without a
ihcc of consistency, duty, and self respect:
id whereas, These nominations so made
•r.;~h the occasion and demonstrate the
;sshy of the Miiiup of the people undei
banner oMrrce' ltaniocniev, in a solemr
u formal declaration of their independence
’lie ISlavfc Power, and of their fixed de
.iimatioa to rescue the Federal Government
i 11. it? control;
I -solved, then-fore, Tlrnt we, the people
f. ass -mblcd, remembering the example ol
Fathers in t!ic days of t!ie first Deelara
••u of Tndepc’iidence, putting our trust i;i God
i :!ie tiiumph i/f our cause, and invoking
..s guidance in our endeavors to advance it,
1 i now plant ourselves upon the National
i I tiforiu of Freedom in opposition to the
cliontl Platfoim of Slavery.
Resolved, 'l'hat Slavery in the several
v cites of this Union which recognize its ex
’."lie depends State laws alone, whicl
vnnot be repealed or modified by the Federal
ivernnient, ai.d for which laws that Govern
•mu is not resjionsible. We therefore
i iouose no interference hy Congitas witii
ivery within the limits of any State.
Resolved, Tiiat the Proviso of Jefferson, tc
g-diibit the existence of slavery, after 1800,
•i all the territories of the United States,
outhern and Northern; the votes ol’ six
and sixteen delegates, in the Congress
•f ITal, for the pi aviso, to three states and
veu delegates against it the actual exclu
on of slavery, lroin the Northwestern territo
by the ordinance of 1787, unannoousl}
adopted by the States in Congress and the
entire history of that period, elcarlv show
t tat it was the s -ltled policy of the Nation
n it to extend, nationalize or encourage, bui
t limit, localize and discourage, slaveiy am
‘i in..s policy, whrn should never have bea
departed from, th. government ought to re
turn.
Resolved, That our Fathers ordained th<
butislitutioa of l.ie United States, in order
among other great national objects, to e&ta
dish justice, promote the general welf.re
r»d s-cup* the blessings of Liberty; bj
expressly denied to the Federal Govern merit
which tin y created, a'l constitutional power u
d-onvc any person ot life, liberty, cr property
v/.'Uio ;t doe legal proct-i>s.
Resolved, That in ihe judgment of this
Convention, Congress has no more power tc
mke a slave than to make a king no rnort
power to institut' 1 or establish slavery than t<
institute or estabh.-h a monarchy no sucf
i>ower can be foiird among those spec ficalh
onierred bv the constitution or derivect bi
just implication tr.uu the n.
Resolved, J Oat it tiie duty of liie federal
govermnent to re!i -vc. its If lrtra ail rc-s; outi
i-Jity tor the cx.rt'-nce or coutinuance o;
iav *rv wherever that govern n nt i <-ss_*ss -s
constitutional autlifrit: to leg.slate m tha 1
-mVact, aril is t.ius resj>on£rjle ior its tx:si
ence.
itosolvH, That the true, anj in the mdg
uient of this Convention, tbc only safe ineaoi
•if j-r< venting the exno.bioii ol rlavery ini*
t -rritory i.ew fee, k to proh.h.t us a tc: c.
ui all M-cli V.rr:t( ny l y an net ol Cot.giebS.
Revolted, That he acct pt the lt*at whte!
the fclave power lori*ed upon t.;, and t,
topir demand for more slave tt dcs and nmr
l ave Urriitories, <mr calm hut fir.nl answer is
lonian slave states at d i.o more >hm ter
r.ir L;l the soil of our exu-ntivc d ina n
c over kept free, fur the hardy j vneers y
ur own land, aia the oppressed u:d bam&fiei
f oiiier lands, seckuig homcfc of conillrt am
Kclds of iMhlks *ln the new world.
Re?,,hud.Thar tflq bill lately reported h;
ibe 'irr.mittee of Eight in the Senate of th
tilted hjLatos, was no eomprwsise, but at
aso cvaturrendi-r of the lights ol the r.on
amledhcr* of all the .vutc* and while w«
y o to know tuat, a inuasore whu'h, whlh
pr.tiug the doer for the introducMoti of slaverj
i:rto terrtorirs row free, would also have
i perted the door to iit!gat;on and &trife arnonf
the future iatiabwants thereof to the ruin o:
f Mir peacerand Vf was defeated ir
me linos- of Ilepres* ntautre*. its pat-iage, it
l 4-ftaste, by a m*jor.ty, embrsctitg several
uators, who voted m open vinlaimn of the
V mwn will of their con&tiUiunu, ahwaid wan,
ne People to se. to it, that their repretenta
vi he cot #tiff«red to betray them—There
...at be to more eompronruaes with Slavery
iD'i dt vr'l repealed
I<*%rtv»?d. T| >t sHmad Freedom arv
extablidievl tn*! tutiona fut our brethren u
Orejrjd, now e»|«*sed to peril an.
by the reckl*a hosnirry of th
SUve jvowef |n the establishment' of Fre
Gorettuneat W Free TarrHor.es, sod not onl
for them, hut for our new brethren in Cali
forma and New Mexico.
And W hereas, it u due, not only to thi
eco-iwnn, but to the who!# people of lb
l mted States, that we should also declar
ourselves on certain other questions of Na
tional policy, therefore.
Resolved, That we demand cheap poetag
for the people a retrenchment of the ex
penses and patronage of the Federal Govern
•t^nt; the sboimnv of si) annecesnry office
andsalar.es; and the election hv the pe*ip|
of all civil ofteeis in the wiviee of the Gov
crurncui, so Ur as the same mav be practica
ble.
Resolved, That River and ITarbor Improve
merits, when d manded by tbc Safety an
convenience of commerce »uh foreign nation
or among the several States, arc objects o
nat..inal cof.ceni. and that it is the dutv e
Congress, in exercise of its constuutrona
jiowt-rs. to provide therefor.
Resolved, That the free grant to actua
ret tiers, in of the expenses the;
incur in making seftlcmoijiM in the w ilderness
which ar usually fully liqual to their actua
e*»M. and of the public benefits resultinj
thereform, of reasonable portions of tin
public lands under suitable limitations, is i
wise and just measure ot public policy, whicl
will piomotc, in various ways, the interest
of all the States of this Union and wi
therefore recommend it to the favorabli
consideration of the Atfierkran People.
Resolved, 'l'hat oldigatioes of honft
and patnoimm require the earliest practicabli
payment of the national debt, and we an
therefore in favor of such a tanf of duties a:
will raise revenue adequate to defiay tin
necessity expenses of the Federal Govern
inent and to pay annual instalments of ou
debt and the interest then on.
Resolved, 'That we inscribe on onr banner
Free .Soil, Free Speech, Free Labor, am
Free Men,” and undt*r it will fight on and
fight ever, until a triumphant victory shal
reward our txertiuus.
THE NORTH STAR.
1 ROCHESTER, AUGUST 18, 1848.
i _
Free Soil Movement—Buffalo Con
vention.
This grand movement, so long desired and
so long maturing, has at last assumed a defi
nite and tangible form, and is now fairly
launched forth upon the storm tossed sea of
American polities. Barnburners, Conscience
and Independent Whigs, Land Reformers and
Liberty men, met, deliberated, frater
nized, and now stand before the world as one
body, with one heart, one creed, and one
leader. Thesff men, holding, as they did,
widely variant and conflicting opinions, in
meeting together as they have now done, and
solemnly resolving to lorget old differences—
to “let by-gones be by-gone,” andk,firmly
uniting in a common platform, new, broad and
strong.upon which all may stand and confront
the slave power and slavery extension, have
astonished themselves, as well as mortified
and disappointed their enemies. Our own
observation justifies us in saying, that every
member of the Convention gained more for
his cause and greater concessions to his opin
ions than he had ventured to hope or imagine
on leaving home for that Convention. For
our part, we ha'd vprn little expectation that
the Convention could b£ harmonized and
brought to act together. There were three
distinct elements of discord—Democrats and
Whigs, Liberty Party men and Land Re
formers—all having the strongest preferences
for candidates, and each wishing to shape the
Convention and platform, according in his own
mould—to harmonize and unite such persons,
required no little skill. The members of the
Convention, however, were evidently tho
roughly imbued with the spirit of freedom,
and in one noble desire to accomplish some
thing immediately for this cause—to rebuke
the slave power, and break up the old, cor
rupt and slaveholdmg parties of the land, they
were led willingly to merge old differences in
a common resolve to meet the present crisis.
Whatever may be said as to the best mode
of meeting this crisis, all anti-slavery men
must agree that the question of extending
slavery is one in which they, as friends of
freedom, are deeply interested. There was a
time when some abolitionists professed to
believe that the extension of slavery could in
no wise injure the cause of freedom, or
strengthen the arm of slavery. The doc
trine, however, that no more slaves can be
added to the number already existing, by their
diffusion over vast and fertile territories, is
now of no weight or in place. The fact that
the demand for such extensions comes from
tiie slave holders —that they insist upon it as
being their only means of escape from the
advancing steps of human freedom, and the
scorching rays of anti-slavery opinion, (with
out a knowledge, of w hat everybody, must by
this time very well know,that the introduction
of slave labor is necessarily the expulsion of
free labor from the territories.) ought to sat
isfy all men that that demand should be firmly
resisted.
This issue is now upon us, and fairly
before us. Slavery has rallied- its frteuds,
and is proudly marshaling its forces under
the leadership of Cass and Taylor. The one
is a cringing sycophant—a deserter from, and
traitor to, the very cause which he is now
aiming to destroy; the other, s swearing,
swaggering manstealer and raanslaver, whose
only claims to the Presidency are based upoa
his heflLh criorraitisjs in Mexico.
Around these infamous leaders, the corrupt
and plundering, the reckless and profligate,of
the old political parties have gathered. A
pro-slavery and tin-sustaining church and min
istry Itave also rallied, in the p -rsons of their
most prominent members and miuisters, to
uphold the foul and w nhering curse of sla
ry. and to discourage the friends of human
lu- dom and progress. To sustain tbiscryiog
sin—to prolong the I'oslavcp.ient of cur loug
■ibut d and plundered fellow-countrymen,
these wolves in sbet p‘s clothing are doing
their tmust to dupe and hoodwink the simple
.nto the support of these two snns of thtdevtl,
under tl.e idea that they will thereby promote
the cause of righteousness. General Taylor
I* represented, on the one hind, as being a
humane and b -nevoleat roxn, and tln.rougly
in favor of the Wiltnot Proviso; while Gea.
Csss, being a Northern man, u is said that be
will tespect Northern rights, and though he
may not be aiJ that ut wxut, or could wish,
he u but x slaveholder, and therefore to be
ptferred to General Taj lor, who is a slave
holder. It is also said, that one ot the other
of <h»se* esndiditee nvait be tbt Piesideni o*
the Failed State*,-and that good total are
Itauod to ebeutaj imt beet ooe of tbe two—all
tens of argtahent* asd appeals aJJma—d to
patriotism aid Hfinhtarn are resorted tows
means of aectmeg one or the other of these
guilty men to rule over this country, end to
extend the curse of human bondage to soil
now free, and to impart new strength and
vigor to tbe whole system of American bond
age—tbe worst system of bondage (by tbe
confessions and delmrattoos of slaveholders
themselves.) that ever saw the son.
It is in this state of facta that the Free
Soil party** has come into being, and boldly
arrayed itself against the policy of these old
slavebolding parties. The intelligence, moral
worth, and philanthropy, and naineheal
strength, and high ground assumed by this
new but powerful party, makes it our doty to
inquire what course those who stand forth ss
r the friends of the slave ought to pursue to
rn ards that party. Are they to give it their
influence and encouragement, or ought they
to oppose it Ought they to encourage it for
the progress it has already made, or condemn
jit for not having made more What is our
duty in the premises? is the question. Tbe
free soil movement has virtually adopted the
leading doctrines and purposes set forth by
the American Anti-Slavery Society at its
formation, as the duty of the government.—
They declare that Congress has no mote
power to make a slave, than it has to make a
king. They declare their purpose to be the
abolition of slavery w herever they possess the
constitutional power to do so; consequently
slavery in the District of Columbia and else
where would be abolished. They projiose to
i free the federal government from all res|»onsi’
bility for slavery; he internal slave trade,
with all its attendant horrors, must therefore
•he abolished. They declare that there shall
!>e no more slave States—no more territories.
And they have placed on their broad banner,
j Free Soil,” Free Men,” Free Labor,”
J Free Speech,” and Free Stateswhile
I on the black flag of their opponents is “Slave
States,” Slave Tetritory,” “Slave Labor,”
and Slavery propagandism. If success crown
the latter, the slave power will be sirenglh
j ened— slave Slates will he admitted—slave
representation will be increased, and the
slavetrade, with all its heart-rending horrors,
will be quickened, and carried on to an extent
shocking to humanity. If the former suc
ceed, slavery in the District of Columbia and
Territories will be forever abolished—the
slavetrade discontinued the slave power
hurled fr *m dominion, slavery circumscribed,
hemmed in, proscribed, and detested, will per
ish and die under the nation's reprobation. In
view of the circumstances, What course
ought we, the colored people, and our peculiar
fuends to pursue? There are ways open to
us. We may stand off and act the part of
fault-finders—pick flaw's in the Free Soil plat
form—expose the weakness of some persons
connected with it—suspect and criticise their
leaders, and in this way play into the hands of
our enemies—affording them sticks to break
our own heads. Or wc may consign our
selves to oblivion—consent to die, or live as if
the Almighty did wrong in placing us on the
earth at this particular period of the wot Id's
history—live in the past, or so far into the
future as to be witollv unknown to tbe present
generation remain silent as if we were
speechless, and let things take their own
course, and thus morally to commit suicide.—
In neither of these ways can we go. We j
feel it our duty to pursue that course which
will make us in some degree a terror to evil-
doers, aud a piaiee to all that do well—to “act
in the living present”—to be a worker on the
anvil now before us—that whatever influence 1
we may possess, it shall be given in the right
direction.
While we are as deeply convinced as ever j
of the slaveholding charaster of the Ameri- j
can Constitution, aud are satisfied that it is
the duty of the free Slates to separate from
the slaveholding States, and are disposed in j
no way to abate or modify our testimony on
that point, we feel no hesitancy in proclaiming j
our deep and sincere God-speed to this free
soil movement. It is a movement springing
legitimately out of the principles which the
i American Anti-Slavery Society and Liberty
Party have long been proclaiming; and al
though it is not all we could ask or wish, it is
nevertheless such a noble step in the right di
rection, that we have no doubt that the
I movement will bo a progressive one. In view
of this movement, we bid the toil-worn bond
man to lift up his head with hope slavery,
with its many ills, shall not much longer
reign. The people at the Convention wore
evidently in advance of their leaders, &nd
showed themselves ready to take higjier
i ground, if possible, than that laid down .by
the Convention in their platform. j
Republic of Liberia.
On our first page will be found rather copi
ous news from this infantile Republic,Libera,
to which we call special attention. We pro
test any sympathy whatever with the Aimi'i
can Colonization Society—an association,2in
our estimation, as ill-deaigQing as it has bibn
unsuccessful in the attempt to carry out thin
designs.
Whatever good may result from thiaeolo-y-,
we are little disposed to give credit to .e
Cdoiuzaiiomsu, as it is the result of accident,
jn-1 not of their will. We cannot regard the
new government or State as making much
progress onward—not even arespectahle sem
blance of progress, while its heads and
chief men, continue to the notice of Ame
rican Colonizationists end slaveholders, wiih
the senility manifested in their letters. It is
somewhat amusing to see the interest n-ani-
Tested by the Mayor of Now York for Presi
dent Robert*, talking loudly of a Sister Re
public.” white the Republic of Haiti, but a
lew days* sail from our shores, u never
thought of by these pseudo philanthropist*.
We shall continue to advise our reader*
with news from thi* quarter, however nnia
terecuog.
Wisconsin xnn Faxx TexaiToar.—The
Legislature of this new State hare just adopt
ed a aeries of strung reads:isos ut favor of
•tee territory, by an overwhelming vole.
There were but them negatives in the Senate
aod five ib the Assembly, sod these wets sU
Casa men.
Potxto Rot.—A German physician
■ays a ewe u effected by pinching off half
ui inch Irons tbe top of the plant when «k
or eight inches high and repeal it in to or 111
«-e?k* on all the stems i
Bl*lh 4 PMtf.
it is amunaf—if ooe can fe* amawd at
approaching so nearly to downright
agony—to behold the trouble and caalusion
i which tbe prtfceediiifs of the great Free Soil
Coareatkm, held at .Buffalo last week, has
1 brought upon the old slavebolding party edi-
I ton of this city. Wa say tlm/tkoMinf forty
editors, because there are now virtually bat two
parties in this coon try. Ia same, there are
three but, in fact, tl ere are but two. The
Cass and Taylor parties, tbeogh separate in
name, are yet one in object —one in heart, or
one in tbe ylace where a 14 heart ought to Ae.”
They belong to slavery. Their casdidates
are the candidates of slavery's own selection;
and they both look to slavery as their present
help in this their time of need. One of the
items set down against that Convention by tbe
Amerkan of this city, is, that President Mahan
told the following irreverent story, as illus
trating the feelings of the slaveholding parties
of our land. He said that tbe present pre
dicament of the old parties, reminded him of
the story of a nun who went borne to his
family after drinking a little too much. His
wife said to him, “John, why don’t you come
to bed What's the matter with you ?—are
you drunk John, after remaining silent
lor some time, said; No, lam not drunk,
but 1 feel almighty discouraged The ex
ception taken to this' stony, and the solemn
lesson read to tbe President on the subject, is
paltry enough as coming from any quarter,
hut coming from the American, tbe advocate
of the bloodhound candidate— a profane mur
derer, whose every word is accompanied by
some blood-chilling oath —the man who, when
on the fields of Mexico, when surrounded by
thousands of the dead and dying, could cry
out with the fury of a demon, Give 'em hell
site 'em hell is entitled to the respect due
to the meanest hypocrisy.
It is most too late in the nineteenth century
for slavery to find a secure shelter from at
tack by crawling behind the sacred altar of
religion. The time ia at hand when it will
not do to bring piety to the aid of a man
stealer, and to the support of manstealing.—
The fact that General Taylor is a well-known
robber and hired assassin, stamps those who
sustain him for the highest office in the gift
of the nation, as being anything else than fid
lowers of our meek and ever-blessed Re
deemer. We long to see the day when these
slaveholding sycophhnts of the North shall
find their pretended piety regarded as vile in
the eyes of all people. We cannot under
stand the nature of that conscience which can
sup[>ort a wretch like Gen. Taylor, and yet
bs horrified at a word which may be tortured
into irreverence.
Domestic Happiness.
Happiness is tliat earthly enjoyment which
cheers the spirits, and makes good the heart
of man, in every position in life. There can
not be true happiness, where it cannot be
found in the domestic circle—around the fire
side, in the mutual affections emanating from
the bosom of man and wife, patents and
children.
Moments of*joy, it is true, raay rush for an
instant upon us; an imaginary pleasure may
assuage for the time our feelings; but ere that
fleet deceiver intrudes itself upon us, a transit
of reflection will again depress the spirits, and
the gloom of despair hangs heavily around.
Neither possessions nor w ealth can create
happiness; they can facilitate or increase,
but cannot create it. Man and woman, to all
intents and purposes, are equal, and whatever
disparity there may appear, is the result of
education, and not a defect of nature. In this
we mainly refer to the moral and intellectua
bearing of the subject; though we might ad
duce an argument to prove it even physically.
Is man physically superior, it may be tbe
result of a long-continued education of man’s
physical system, while that of woman is re
strained. Even in childhood the boy is per
mitted and encouraged in exercises that the
girl ts prohibited and men pursue livelihoods
that woman is denied. When the contrary is 1
the case, a contrary result is the certain effect.
For example: the Indian woman, whose
duty it is, from childhood, to till the soil,
grind the corn, carry the game and other bur-1
dens; while that of man is to*hunt, fish, and
join In the chass, is much abler to .withstand j
the fatigues of labor than the Indian man.—
The same may be said of the Hindoos, and
other savage tribes, whose men sre given to
idleness, while the women labor. We have
digressed, and must resume.
In all things common to both, (and in what
can either engage that is not common to both*)
man and wife should consult each other, al
ways endeavoring to counsel to the best ad
vantage, to the interests of both. A seeming
opposition to the opinions of each should be
carefully avoided—both endeavoring to harmo
nize with—always observing, without mis
trust, the most entire reliance in each other's
word—tbe roost unshaken confidence in each
other's integrity. Let every word be an ex
pression of kindness and affection between
husband and wife, and fbiawiH follow, as a
■water of course, with Ac children; the par- i
entsso acting, will so instruct their children.
To realize happiness, first, it must begin in
our own household within the bounds of our
own domestic circle. Every man and woman
should endeavor to make their owa boms a
place of happiness; this being accomplished,
w baterer may be the scenes with which we
are sammnded, we cannot fail to realize hap
piness.
Equality.
Remember, brethren, ibis cannot be obtain
ed without self-exertion. Nature creates hu~
inanity, but character makes the man. Each
peraon must necessarily make his own char
acter—this cannot be jrivee, but acquired.—
Society, despite you and us, regulates itself;
like water, it finds its level. In urder, time,
t w into this element, oar specific gravity
i should be equal.
By this we mean to say, there are several
qualification* entering uno the combination or
materials which eompeee society. These
aonieriais, from their nature, have an affinity
fiir their like; hence, as attraction is mutual,
materials of opposite qualities cannot adhere.
Whatever qualifies and adorns society. must
adorn and qualify as. We w ant dducatioo.
trades, tespecuble employments, as mer
chants, farmers, and idumrs in general.
We eee never nee to sqsaiay with the
dommsnt dam, while eeteeted end rfnl
pith the situation of We shall
speak to yon frequently ujou this subject.
thm OH i flat Herald*
The first numbs t ef the above paper hai
reached aa, which bails hem Pittsburgh, ai
the orgm» of the African Methodist Episcopal
Church, Her. Augustus Richardson Green
Superintendent of the book concern, Editor
This, as its name implies, is a religious paper
iaaoed trom the ofiee formerly of the Mystery
which establishment has been told out to th<
Methodist Church Connexion. Some may
manifest a disposition to reflect on the forroei
coodactors uf that paper for the course they hart
pursued, but none who know the sacrifice*
those gentlemen have made—the money from
time to time lakea from their private means,
to sustain that paper, will so reflect.
At no period danng the existence of th«
Mystery, did its subscription come near tti
expenses, and nose know this better than the
writer of this article; and bad it not been foj
the generosity of the Pittsburghers, by the
assistance of the ladies, in holding the Firs)
of August Levees, the paper would long since
have stopped. The paper had subscribers
sufficient, but they did not pay—one of the
evils of receiving distant subscribers without
the cash. But the proprietors determined to
1 sustain an enterprise so well begun, as well as
the credit of those concerned, made continual
heavy sacrifices, which they continued till the
present period. Although there must be
nearly one thousand dollars due them, at a
distance, they aie ia all probability in debt to
subscribers for advance payment. When we
left the Mystery, we did it with reluctance,
but for the purpose of entering into a more
useful position of labor; as in our connection
with that paper, it cost us not only our ser
vices, which we gave gratuitously, but money
besides—a portion of our time only being de
voted to the paper, such as we could spare
while in our present position the whole of our
time is devoted to the enterprise, either in or
out of the office hence, our efforts must be
more available.
We heartily commend the gentlemen of the
Mystery for the course they have pursued, as
an opportunity ensued in which they could
withdraw with credit to themselves, and thus
relieve them of a heavy burden.
One thing we are certain of: we are not in
a condition yet in ihis country to sustain more
than one good efficient newspaper—we mean
secular paper, try it who may and our ex
perience and knowledge in these matters are
equal to the best. Having made an estimate,
we find that at least, among the colored peo
ple, the ratio of subscribers is but twenty
five to one thousand of a population. Two
things are necessary before our people will
become supporters and interested in newspa
pers—intelligence, that is, common education,
and means. At present, we have not ar
rived at that point. We welcome the Herald
to our table.
Lost, Strayed, or Stolen.
In our walk yesterday, we fell in company
with two Mexican boys, accompanied by one
of the returned volunteers. We felt a con
cern for the unfortunate lads, so far removed
from their naliveiand,and desired to converse,
but they could speak very little English. We
asked the volunteer who accompanied them
how be came by them and who had them in
care he said one of them was his, and the;
other belonged to one of the officers. He said
that hundred small boys were to be found
roving about the country in Mexico, apparent-1
ly without patents, and that any number
dfiulJ be had for the trouble of bringing them
away The pooi little fellows appeared in
fine spirits, and seemed proud that they had
protector.— Pittsburgh Gazette.
This is but one of those monstrous evils,
the legitimate fruits of that most heaven- 1
daring outrage, the invasion of the free terri-j
tory of Mexico by an army of slaveholders, or
what is equally bad. the subjects of a slave
holding dynasty, as the United Stales may
now be well termed.
Not content with the design of establishing
slavery in territory heretofore free, untarnished
by the foot of a slave, but by the above it
will readily be observed that kidnapping must
have been among the most common outrages
committed upon that defenceless people, and
none will doubt but there is at this time many
a hapless youth, doomed to drag out a life in
Southern bondage, and disconsolate Mexican
parents, mourning their loss to know,” if,
indeed, they were nut slain in the bloody
sieges which ensued.
Common and daring indeed must have been
the infernal custom of kidnapping Mexican
children, when a pauperized or upstart Penn
sylvania private will dare bring to the benevo
lent,free city of Pittsburgh, a child, and claim
him as belonging to him.
The Cause. We held on Wednesday
evening, the 9th, an interesting Anti-Slavery
meeting in Buffalo, where we acknowledge
many fine friends, arooog whom are our much
esteemed Abner H. Francis and lady, at
whose bouse and table, we always find a
hearty welcome. Such persons make the
path-way of the weary laborer in the cause of
humanity, however dreary, a delightful way
—a way of pleasantness.
The meeting on Sabbath last, at Farmingloa,
was fraught with inmsst furmsny reasons
If there bad been nothing else to contribute to
our pleasure, the company of Joseph C. Hatha
way, a faithful friend of the slave and co-la
borer in the cause of the oppressed, sod his
excellent wife (Esther Hathaway) sod family
of interesting children, added to whom, was
the noble hearted Anna Adams, —these of
themselves were sufficient.
Heney A. Wise, late a Virginia bragado
cio of iho House of Representatives of the U.
S. t sad recent Minister to Brand, we believe
has turned sutneraet from the Whig to the
Democratic party, and to *H appearances, is
if possible, tenfold meaner than before, which
in all conscience, was mean enough. Wise
is fooluh.
Bj* A negro house belonging in Gov. John
son of North Carolina, was lately horned,and
*0 negro children penabed m the flames.—
Wat. Chrutmn.
We should like to know hew homty child
ren came to he is on house. Is this the
ootafon with which wo are told by their apol
ogists, the slaveholders provide for their
slaves! Can the Obidp»tell* Twenty
oegro children perished in the flamesnod
this is mpressed with as much iadiflnreaea as
though they had bean that assay aheap m
calves! Had it base a single whim child
whoa precious life bad thus fallen n prey to
boon captioned by tbw, or torn ooefc ox pen
won, Dreadful Calamity!" O! bnmamty,
whither hast then flown 9
•fcaaiatfea Moral Heard*.
Jostles a solar System or a fixed eefttre,
wound which all attributes or priacrpldi re
volve. approaching or receding, attracted or
repelled,m according to the bars by which
they are regulated, they vary ia their several
orbits. Liberty is in perihelion; Slavery bon
the descending node; humanity bin perigee
to America there wil 1 this year, be a transit
of manly independence from the nib of op
preeeioo, crossing Mason and Dixon's line to
the North; and there will be a number of
odipoes visible in Europe and America; dee
pots and tyrants will be eclipsed by free men
and women these eclipses take place morn
ing, noon and night, duration—an indefinite
period, visible in all the northern part of the
United States, in Prance, Piussia, Austria, the
German States, Italy, the southern part of
Russia, the Northern part of Africa, Algeria,
sod perhaps Spain and Cuba; in which case,
it will then be visible in the southern States.
Here is now a phenomenon, quite visible to
all, in the political sky. The satellites, |«o-
Slavery and Servility, have left their orbits
around the cold, stenie, opaque moon Oppres
sion, and can now be seen among the most
brilliant planets, revolving around the sun of
Justice, from which they now receive their
light. Equality will be the morning, even
ing and day star, henceforth.
On the 2d Tuesday, the 14th day of Novem
ber next, there will be a great storm through
out the Union, which will sweep with the
greatest force over the northern States; but
the South w ill suffer in consequence of the
over flooding of their country, by the proceed
ings and doings of freemen.
The Mexican Girl. —There has been con
siderable talk in the city about the Mexican
young woman brought by the Duquesne
Grays. She was first noticed bv the mem
bers of the company at Puebla. She attract
ed their attention by her devotion to the sick
soldiers. She furnished provisions to the
Americans, and did every thing her strength
and circumstances enabled her to do. Her
conduct excited the tnmityof her relatives,
and she feared 6he might not be safe at home.
This being known to Capt. Herron and Lieut.
Mann, she vas invited to accept the protec
tion of the company, and has been in the
ranks eveT since. In appearance, 3he is en
tirely Mexican, quite feminine in manners and
conversation and the soldiers say she is pret
ty and intelligent. She is eighteen years of
age. Her name is Trinidad.— Pittsburg Post.
Another evidence of the evils of this cruel
and bloody crusade. The idea of a company
of volunteer soldiers having ia their charge,
thousands of miles from hooie, a young wo
man, is preposterous—and that too, one such
as Americans are wont to deride and insult,
as we are told she is entirely Mexican, which
is to be understood as yellow or copper color.
We are surprised at the indifference with
which these things are noticed by editors gen
erally.
Haiti. —The last accounts, which are to the
24th July, represent matters as being in a
quiescent state but not so settled, by any
means as to wariaut the expectation that the
quietude would long continue. The Presi
dent (So)oque) was at Jeremie, with his
troops, where he seeins to have been main
taming a terrific despotism. Two men of'
high standing had been recently arrested fnrj
alleged political offences, and tried and con-!
deained, and immediately shot. The Presi
dent was expected at Port au Prince about
the Ist of the pres nt month and bis pres
ence was anticipated with interest. No posi
tion that he could assume, it is said, would
make things worse.—* Et. Paper.
Newspapers are misled in matters respect
ing this Republic. Intelligence res|iectiug
Haiti, usually crn-mate from New Orleans,
from whence tne truth could not lie expected.
T.ijse mil of tin Cris.eat City Delta and!
Dee, are the principal channels through which
these foul slanders flow.
Retaliatory Postage. —lt is said that the
Postmaster General has issued instructions,
requiring the following rates of posiage to be
charged on all letters going out of the United
States to or through the Kingdom of Great
Britain or its colonies, into the UnitedSiates,
hy any foreign packet-ship or other vessel.—
On each letter nut exceeding half an ounce in
weight, conveyed between the two countries
by a foreign packet, 24 cents and for each
additional hall ounce or fraction under, 24
cents. On each letter weighing half an ounce
or under, conveyed between the twocountnes
by any foreign private ship or vessel, 16 cents;
and for each additional half ounce or fractions
under, 16 cents. Outgoing letters to be pre
paid.
Each newspaper, or sheet of other printed
matter, to be charged with a postage of 4
cents.
If the above statement proves to be correct,
we fear the arrangement wBI compel us to re
linquish some exchanges which we greatly
value. But we shall see.— West. Christum.
Will some of the knowing ones” give us
a little intelligent information on this Re
taliatory P.mtage.” Has the Postmaster
General the power to fix postage at bis will?
The people desire light on this subject. We
are fearful that this whole matter ia concealed
in a Cave.
Church Rates. —The people in and shout
the Parish of All-Saints, (Suffolk, England,)
ulk of forming an association for the separa
tion of Church aad State. Recently, nineteen
pcaunas have bed distrainor for church rates
made upon them, their property seized to
twice the amount named, and actually sold at
public outcry. We desire not the religion
that must he purchased at such a price.
Prior Footer.— We have received a let
ter from an esteemed friend in Boston, anxious
ly enquiring about the schemes of Prior Foster
of Woodstock Institute” notoriety. For
information on that subject, he m referred to
last week's Star.
Homestead —Wisconsin, has established
the Homestead in that Stale. In the country,
forty acres aw forever exempt from execution,
thereby seen nog t» each family a home in
villages, a quarter of aa acre, with ail sm-
Rrmaueablc Lonoeyitt. Old Phil,"
a tenant belonging to Mr. Jas. Brent, of
Charles county, Maryland, died on the sth
met., at the age of one hundred and fifteen
years. Up to the day of his death, the faith
ful old aacvaal enjoyed almost naw tempted
health. —f manner.
Qwry.—had he ast been oppressed by tbs
nttbleaa robber, who nattl the day af Me
death, held bam in piratical imprisonment
bow much longer would “OM Phil” have
Hood! Tbst seondrol. shall yet have Haro
ward.
Dsnociacy in Browne*.-—A tang and
Vm Bwm Mating han bwn
bold in tbn nity of Piuehwrgfc, at wbiob maw.
urns were tafcea fur a regular alam organa*
tun against Caw and Bote.
YMI ts Fftiaflitpfcfru
M. R. Diusv will visit Philadelphia ot
Wednesday, the tfttb of September, sad will
spend several days hi that fifty, holding pebHe
meetings and soliciting sobeeribere la tha
North Star. There ia a largo entered pops
latioa m Philadelphia. Their character and
cooditioa baa a wide-spread influence oa that
of the colored people throughout the Uaien.
Every means should therefore be taken to
improve the hearts aad alevate the suede of
this large and influential population. Oar
friend aad co-worker, Dalaay, ia a maa fitted,
both in head and heart, to this important
work. We eall upon oar friends in Phila
delphia to prepare the way, and render our
friend every assistance ia promoting our com
mon cause.
Antf-« la very Meetings.
Frederick JDoiglam and M. R. Del any
will hold Ami-Slavery meetings at Victor, no
Sabbath next, the 90th ins*., at half past tan
A. M and half past two P. M.
ID* Hoc. Mr. Crowell, M. C., has oar
thanks foT a copy of his able speech on Sla
very in the District of Colombia.
Haiti.—Our readers will be pleased te find
in the issue of this week another interesting
favor from the pen of our Haitian corre
spondent, who is ever welcome. .We d«**ire
a private letter freca.hira concerning the boss*
ness of a person aft Buffalo, N. T.
Colored Freemen !—Remember the great
National Gathering of the oppressed, at
Cleveland, Ohio, on Wednesday, the sixth
of September. “Come as the waves come!”
Canada Postage. —The following instruc
tions have been received from the Postmaster
General, by the Postmaster of this city
P. O. Department, Ist Aug. 1849.
Dear Sir. —Yotirs of June 93d has been
received. You will charge for each letter
brought in or sent to Canada in steamboats,
if employed as mail packets by the British or
Canadian authorities, 24 cts and if brought
in or taken out in private vessels, 16 cents.
If sent in the United States Mail, the inland
postage will be added.
Let’ers may be sent from yonr office to
Canada in foreign mail packets, prepaying
24 cents; if in private veasels, 16 cents.
1 am, respect tally, yonr obedient servant,
C. JOHNSON.
Mr. Campbell, P.M., Rochester,
ID* Keep it in Mind, that private enter-*
prise, if permitted so to do, would tiny let*
lets to Canada for one cent each every cent
charged more than that is a robbery. How
much more of such foolery, Mr. Cave John
son, do you imagine people will submit to?
Why is not some rational arrangement made
between the two countries l
ID 3 Hon. Daniel Weester, the Com
mercial announces, apparently by authority,
will give a cordial and hearty support to the
nomination of Gen. Taylor, and has never
meant to do anything else.
H7* A London journal says that the nnm
bei of law yets in Lnrnn is r.o less than 41? ft
and that the amount bf their costs in 1846
‘47, was jC16.210.165.
The Massachusetts Volunteers have
‘been paid off and discharged. Some menu
received $4O and some as much as $l4O in
money. The average was $-60 each. Beside*
this they have of land at the West
or in exchange, if they preler, IQO of gov
ernment scrip. Meat of them chose the
land.
Newspapers. are 218 newspaper*
published in Pennsylvania, exclusive of mis
cellaneous publications. This, we believe,
exceeds the number published in any other
State in the Union. Ohio boasts of 174, and
New York of about 200.
The Crops throughout Ohio are unprece
dented. It is estimated that Ohio wiN yiehf
this year, 34,000,000 bushels of wheat over
one-third more than ever before in one year.
The Potato Rot has appeared in Mont
gomery and Bucks counties, Pennsylvania.
Peaches are very abundant in Philadelphia
—sell at fifty cents a basket.
Death. —The N. ,Carolina papers announce
the sudden death, in Tyrell county, in that
Sutc, of Hon. Ebenezer' Pettigrew, formerly
a member of Congress from the Eighth Dis
trict.
Lansing, 4he new capital of Michigan,
now contains about 1000 inhabitants. In
1845, the enumeration was only 88.
The Hudson Bat Company hsve made a
proposition to ihe Government u» sell to the
United States all their rights and possessions
in Oregon, south of 40 deg. N. latitude.
Thk Export of domestic cotton goods from
the port of Boston, for the month ending July
31, 1348, was in value 967,829 11. Total
since the Ist of July, $1,333,809 95. Far
the largest portioo to the East Indies.
The Slave Case- —At Washington, the
Jury on the slave abduction case, after twen
four hours' deliberation, gave a verdict of
guilty against Drayton, on the charge of
stealing negroes.
Fire at Niagara Falls.—The Table
Rock House and Stair Case on the Canada
side at Niagara Falla, were horned down oa
the night of the 24tb ult. A stable in the
vicinity eon taming several horses and car
nages was burned also at the asase tune.
Wisconsin makes the thirtieth State of the
Confederacy. It contains some 90,900 square
miles ot territory—**•-»birds larger than all
New England, and full aa large as New
York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania com
bined.
A Great Countrt. —Oregon is said tax"
contain 218.635,320 scree; Califi»rm* sod
New Mexico contain 500.000 souaro nuleot
They and the other territories of the Dakar,
equal at least 1,600,000 square Ottlea, or
1,024,000,000 square acres.
Mr. Emerson's Lectures.— Our rtadara
will perceive, by so advertisement ia our par
per this week, that Mr. Emerson is shunt ts
deliver a coarse ef lectures at the Literary
Institution, Poftmaa-squire. This fc, ve ho
lieve, the eoly eccasioa on which this dis
tinguished thinker will lecture in Leaden, pre
vious to his departure for America^— London
/ufterur, June ft.
T«« Wait Candidate.— General Taylor
•a reretvtaf areriy tMOOanmml salary from
N -“T** IT, r r. hw taut*
loamtlwptaf,!
iv wkkespo.ydeni g.
J. K, (hroi.. W. M. tntmi a No. W.
Oasm* sapply *s anwbsvs sf N<«+ War ra*uod.
i. h. MsK., PkilsftslptNs E. 8. crsdiisd ts
Ns. it.
J* J* 0., Osalnmii. O,—Tbs pye* Mnadcd
fcv Hsmmn Wiloss baro by Wftako bsro mat m
Wilast. They wiN bo found at As M
Offias. Papers ars sent this m** othw par
amaarowd; bnt in the sbasass dM.fi saw*
nmmy wfMhsr or set (hoy «ib ha sasdrosd.
Mffia fc Wsthsrbw, MUflod, N. H.—lfwnr paper
iassfdnrlysML Tbs rest Ofcsb Haro
this wash mat a dspbesss espy is Mfsnss sssL
0. P. C., Pom Oflhw, Ommbsu. O^Bywit
dTlJTTim, i. ..lloW
Communications
HUUUI Iti
Po*T-au-P*iNCf, July 4th, 1848.
Fiwim Doc*las* 4 Dkluit:—With
the reflection that thi* it the fourth of July,
comes the reeollectioa of the manner re
which it it celebrated it my naure land. In
fancy, I can see the bonfires and illumina
tions which signalise the return of thtt day,
enrolled on the tablet of history as one of the
great epochs in the progress of aril liberty—
of that day on which thirteen prori no* cast
themselves loom from their monarchical moor
ing#, and essayed, in the troubled waters of a
political sea, an untried and happier harbor
of that day whose memorable transactions
conferred nationality upon half a hemisphere.
With its anniversary, comes the gratifying
remembrance of the time when men, in the
maturity of that spirit winch they had inher
ited from liberty-loving sires, became utterly
regardless of the glitter of the crown and the
sceptre, and. deemed that the absence of the
pomp of royalty was more than compensated
by the enjoyment of constitutional privileges
and of those rights with which their Creator
had endowed them. And this gratification is
enhanced by the thought that the preaent
year has been called upon to wi'ness the ef
forts that other portions of the world are
making to do away with the time-honored
follies which have so long acted aa a dead
weight upon thei' advancement. Such re
flections aa these serve, in a measure, to miti
gate the bitter of the cup which otherwise is
not altogether of unmingled sweetne&s.
While France is rallying her millions under
the'gladdening words of Liberty—Equality
—Fraternity,”—while the nations of South
ern Europe are baring the sword in mainten
ance of liberal opinions—while the crowned
rulers of their Northern neighbors are trem
bling in view of the events which threaten
the downfall of their dynasties, we can rea-|
aonably indulge in the hope that the land of,
Washington and of Franklin will soon be in-1
Spired to retrieve the inconsistency of seventy
years, by breaking every yoke, by loosening I
every fetter, and by speedily converting into a
gkmous reality that declaration whose living j
language has ever been, in the light of its
practice, a high-sounding, empty lie. Glori
ous indeed will be.the •‘lndependence Day”
commemorative of this crowning epilogue in
the great drama of American liberty—the re
duction of the principles of ’76 to an impar
tial and indiscriminate practice,which,through
out all cumin u tune, shall equally endear the
fourth of July and its recollections to the
heart of the colored and the white American.
But our national holiday is not reckoned
among the dies albi of the Haitian calendar,
nor is its return celebrated with manifesta
tions of gratitude and of great joy.” Still,
this lanl is not without its fetes. Indeed, one
might almost say that their name is legion, for
not a month has passed since iuy arrival which
haa not been marked by the observance of at
least one or two. The principal one among
them, also, is the day upon which the inde
pendence of the island is celebrated. This I
i
have not had the pleasure of witnessing, as
it tak:s place on the first of January. But oil
those I nave seen, possibly a bsiif account of
one or twj might be gratifying to you. L*t
ua, then, commence with one which finds its
prototypes in the earliest history of man—in
the days when the mystic rites of Isis were
performed by those who had been blessed by
the annual overflowing of the Nile and the
Athenian, rejoicing in an abundance of corn
and oil, placed his choicest offerings upon the
ah rin •of Ceres. I refer to the Agricultural
Fest.va] of the first of May It was, indeed,
a gratifying spectacle, following, .as it did,
thj uiiiurtunale events of the preceding month,
to see the various branches of the Haitian
family, mingling together harmoniously, and
all joining together in a solemn Te Deum to
the great Milter and Giver of all things.—
The day was ushered in with the firing ol
cannon, the beating of drums, and all the
pride, pomp, and circumstance” of military
display. After the religious services of grat
itude and thanksgiving, an oration was deliv
ered, setting forth the charms and pleasures
of an agricultural life, and depicting the bene
fits derivable from a cultivation of the fields
The cultivators present, both male and female
then marched in procession to a repast w hich
had been prepared for them, each bearing
aloft a branch of the coffee-tree, the sugar
cane, or some other trophy of their toil. Like
the patriarch of all, they had wrestled with
an angel, and secured a blessing. For, true
indeed it is, that the declared determination ol
Deity, when our foreparents were driven from
Eden, that man should earn his bread by
the sweat of his brow,” is pregnant with
good for humanity. Man may regard it as a
curse, but it is only by conforming his life to
it that he can secure blessings. He may
look upon it as the stern deciee of an offended
God but let his life be in accordance wi:b it,
and he must fain regard it as tfre award of a
beneficent Creator. He ma scoff at it, and
oppose his puny arm to the will of Omnipo
tence but the thorns that he will reap, and
the thistles that he will be compelled to gar
ner, will soon leach him how deaily he must
pay for his presumption. Especially is this
**ue with tegard to Haiti, whose prosperity m
dependant entirely upon the cultivation of the
*°‘l. It U therefore gratifying to see a day
apart in honor of agriculture, and ob
•orved, too, with ceremonies, the simplicity ol
which recalls the fabled simplicity of the Ar
cadian days.
The FctcDteu, which is the same, I under
alaod, as the Corpus Chrwu of the Euglish
cal tvlar, is also the occasion of an important
festival. Then, in addition to the military
pomp with which most ol the holidays here
we g'aced, is super added all the splendid and
imposing pageantry of the Romufa Church
Upon that day an immense proorea,oo was
formed, bavmg at its head the various G.m
eraia m command of the cay and the depart
mania, attended by their staffs, a*i fo|| owed
by a larga body of soldiers, the Senators and
other officers of the Government. After
them, came a great concourse of citizen*
male and female, formed in a hollow oblong
square, in the centre of which marched the
pn«sts, under a canopy supported by their at.
lams. Here and thare, at comer* of the
throughout the etty, artificial grottoes
were erect sd, decorated with crucifixes and
picture* of the Saint*. These served ss
ie**»:g.pot«tc, where the priseta would pause
•w 4 few moments to blast the people. Many
children were ales in the pracessaon, drewed
•o as to fepftaefft angel», Ntot* W tpnstlia.
One lull.* sheet twdW years of age,
attracted my atieout»:i particularly-.Ure re
prctcnisiiTr of John the Baptist— tied in a
raiment of aheep-akin, and leading s bath.—
The waving of ceuaetn, the tofting of beads,
the chanting of hymns, ever and anon Inter
rupted by strains of martial music, and all the
various other incidents of this solemn inarch,
presented, to myself at least, a very novel
appearance. Ths ceremonies of the day
closed with religious service at the church.
I shall write to you again by the earliest
opportunity. In the meantime, 1 subscribe
myself, aa ever, Truly jouts,
HAROLD.
The Ohio Black Laws—No. 3.
Our State Government is an independent
organization. So far as acts of legislation af
fect the condition of the people, the action i f
the State General Assembly is of far greater
importance to us than that of the National
Congress. In theory, our State Government
is that of a representative Democracy. The.
law-making poweT is recognized in the people.,
They have all an equal voice concerning the
form of government they may choose to adopt; J
and any attempts to give to a portion this
right, belonging exclusively to the whole peo
ple, may in all cases be Cbasidered gross viola- j
lions of the equality brail men, so broadly
and so clearly laid down in our State Consti-;
tution.
The anvereignty of true Democracy, is the
equal voice of every citizen in the legislatives
power of the State, owing, however, to the 1
physical impossibility of their enacting laws|
in a body, they devise and provide, through
the ballot-box, for representatives to perform
that duty.
Necessary reference will have to be made
here, aa in ray last, to the first section of our
bill of rights in the Constitution of the State,
where it declares the Government founded
solely on the authority of the people, and
where it also declares, that for the purpose
ol protecting their rights and liberties, and J
securing their independence, they have at all!
times a complete power to alter, reform, or
abolish their government.” When laws are
legally passed, they are held the
fact that the subject of those laws are pre- i
sumed to have met thj approbation of a ma
jority of the people, whose votes are thought
to have been necessary to elect ihe represent
atives who passed them. If, on the other
hand, they either, in part or as a whole,
shall usurp powers not given to them by the
people, or shall so far go beyond their author
ity as to pass laws infringing on the rights
and liberties and the independence of those
they claim to represent, or shall impose upon
them grievances too great to be borne, does
political disease of any kind seize upon their
social system, they have the remedy equal to
them all —the ballot-box.
When legislation is required in order that
their condition may b:* improved, they cannot
consult a higher authority than their own,
through this medium, in accomplishing the
results they so much wish for. To freemen,
the exercise of the right of suffrage is sacred
next to religion. It is the gieat light ot
rights, because it is capable of righting many
wrongs—the purifying fire of politics, intend
ed to separate ths gold of truth and justice
from ths dross of error and injustice. If this
peculiar inherent and unalienable inheritance
is taken away by force, or the violation of the
laws of nature, those so deprived can no
longer receive the appellation of freemen.
Their slavery is complete just in proportion
to their dependency on the law-making power.
When this is taken out of their hands, they
cease to be a portion of the government;
I they are no longer in the enjoyment of liberty,
j Such are the lights and shadows of the gov
ernment and governed of this nation,
j With an abler pen, this argument might be
turned to bear w ith considerable force upon
the situation in which the colored people of
the free State of Ohio are now' placed. Pre
vious to the organization of our State Govern
ment, they constituted a portion of the people
claiming to be the natural inheritors of an
equal liberty. They had been taught this
lesson by the first and wisest of American
statesmen, who embodied it in the Declara
tion of Independence, and which afterward*
found its way into our Constitution, where it
says, All men are bom equally free and in
dependent.” Then if it be really so that we
ate bom free and equal, we can with propriety
i inquire, by what authority the Legislature
j passed laws sinking us below our natura
level, and by what power the same are al
lowed to remain in force against us. In ad
dition to the operation of the black laws al
ready spoken of in my two previous letters,
the right of representation is also taken from
us. We have uo voice tu selecting our rulers.
The right to vote for any to fill the pettiest
office in the gift of the people, is not allowed
to us. The deprivation of this great privi-
I lege, readers us entirely helpless. Our lives
and otrr property are exposed to the will of
those who hare decreed and legalized injua
j lice to the colored man. We are unprepared
to enter the field of political combat, for our
w eapons are takoi. from us. We look in vain
to the right and to the left for assistance.—
Our doom seems to rest darkly and heavily
upon us. The only hope is in the one chance
left us and that is, to Petition. This we do.
Our petitions are couched in language humble
ac„ respectful; we pray for the repeal of all
those laws founding distinctions according to
the color of the akin. Seeing no disj»o&iuoa
to grant ail that is due to us, we ask but lor
a part only—uot because we do not feel and
know them to be unjust, but that prudence
suggest* this as the bettci way to attain the
objects we are striving after. The success
attendant upon our labors can be told by u*
who have learned to experience disappoint
ment so often. Our prayers do not command
the same respect and attention as those com
ing fiora free white voters. No matter
whether we ask for the repeal of tha whole or
only a part of the black laws, our petitions
are always treated with the same ctdd sod
scornful contempt that ever marks the action
of our Legislature on this subject. Tbe rea
sons am Obvious- Tbe men in power have
oo responsibilities resting upon them of such
nature aa to require them to respect the
uglua of colored in the earno manner that
they do those a while etusone. They ate am
a constituent portion of the representative
population, and s— therefore he toooltod with
impunity, without tha possibility of ever being
ceiled updo to answer those who have been
the peostve objerts ef their ndrom a*d slan
der. They *i*»k Mutt nnMwhingty, tod tell
us thtt we hate fib moffc rights than w* smr
enjoy that we never were, tad never can be
parties to tbis Government and that 6m
Saxon race, in accord site* with certain pre
ordained law*, is demined forever to net had
rule.
We are often, by way of objection, told of
our ignorance and incapacity to vote, lit
would aeon very strange that ignorance in
this oeae should disqualify us from exorcwijig
ibis privilege that it should be tbe ground pa
which we are to be rejected, especially wtypo
it is uken into consideration that oar ignfr
soce is owing mostly to the direet action |of
our General Assembly, in withholding fnyn
us the benefits arising from tbe
schooi fund. It baa ever hgpo tbe policy |tf
our tyrannical master* to shut out the light ft
knowledge and truth from our minds, much
as they could, in order that we might tK«
more easily be taught the lessons of submis
sion and when ignorance, and all it* attend
ant depravities, follow, as necessary conse
quences, we are told that we are not qualified
for tbe enjoyment of the righto of manhood.
Notwithstanding the efforts to keep our
minds igftorant and uncultivated, we can, if
called upon, show facto quite to the contrary,
where, in spite of all these miserable difficul
ties thtt prejudice haa thrown in our way, we
have schools tnat flourish and prosper. True,
they are kept up at the expense of limited
means still, we sustain them without whole
hearts on the one object of removing this plea
of ignorance, attributed to us so ungenerously-
Those schools we can boast of having in ev
ery town and settlement in the State, where
there is a sufficiently extensive population to
sustain one. We have also our men of mind
and finished educations, all achieved under
these peculiar disadvantages, and through our
own individual exertions.
We now put the question, and ask if for
eigners can come into the country, ignorant of
everything that pertains to the duties and Obli
gations devolving upon them as citizens of a
Democratic government, ignorant of our lan
guage and our usages, ignorant in minds as
well as this education we are required to have,
and can exercise the light of suffrage in the
appointment of public guardians to protect
their rights and interests, why, in the name
of a common justice, are we not allowed to
do the same If the children of foreign par
ents, the next day after their arrival from the
old world, can be led by tbe hand into our
common schools, there to have their minds
prepared to enter into fields brightening w ijth
the harvest of the future, why are not tiie
same blessings and the same prospects ex
tended to the youth of American parents, cit
izens from birth of the State of Ohio 1 Al;|s!
the only answer that can be given is—thivy
are colored. A. J. A.:
Eaton, Ohio.
j.
Free Charch oa Slavery. jc
The Committee on Letters from American
Churches gave in a short report, and riralt|l
a latter to one ef the churches. O.oitttii-’
some congratulatory paragraphs, we 'gift}
those in the letter from the American chur«&i
r lating to the slavery question. Your lif
ter is chiefly occupied w.th your opinions an i
views of the system of slavery in thesa link
ed States, and remark* oil what you conceive
to be our duty in relation to that great sub
ject, both as members of the church and citi
zens of the State. As we do not deem fur
ther communications, on our part, o;i this sub
ject necessary, we refir you to our previous
letters, and to our letter to the General As
sembly of the Presbyterian Church in Ireland,
a copy of which we herewith enclose you, in
i our minutes for 1846. B reference to these
documents, you will be put in possession of
the sober, and conscientious, and scriptural
i views entertained by our body, and learn our
j tiue position in relation to slavery—a position
i which we have always occupied, and shall
continue to occupy in time to come. We beg
that you will repose confidence in us, and,
having perfect understanding of the subject in
i all its bearings and_ relations, that you will
leave us to discharge the duties which rest
I upon us in view of it, praying that in all
i things we may be guided by wisdom from on
j high.” We give the answer from the Free
Church enure
Edinburgh, 20th May, 1848.
Reverend and Dear Sir:—We have re
ceived the communication from your Attsem
j bly, dated Richmond, Virginia, 26th May,
1847, and we disire to express to you the
cordial satisfaction with which we hear ol
your continued prosperity as a Church ol
Christ, and your abundant labors in his cause,
both in your own and in other lands.
“On the subject waich ha# occupied a
prominent place in our correspondence hither
to, namely, the system of slavery it the U.
States, and what we conceive to be your duty
in relation to it, you refer us to your previous
letters, as well as to one addressed by you to
the Presbyterian Church of Ireland, and you
beg that we will repose confidence in you,
and, having perfect understanding of the sub
ject in all its bearings and relations, that we
will le ive you to discharge the duties which
rest upon you in view of it.
We shall not, of course, after such an
expression of your wishes, continue to in
trude our opiniuns and sentiments upon your
notice. At the same time, we arc bound in
faithfulness to say, that these opinions and
sentiments on our part remain unchanged.—
We hare all along thought, and stiff continue
to think, that the influences to whieh a church
is exposed, when situated in a country where
slavery is aanctioood by law, may be some
what unfavorable to tbe forming of tbe opin
ions, even of Christian men, upon the sub
ject and, in particular, we have not been
able to agree with you in some of the princi
ples, so far as we understand them, which
you seem to hold as to the mannei in which
the Church of Cbnst in any land may be
called upon to deal with such a social evii and
heinous sin a* we cannot but consider slavery
to be.
But without prolonging the discussion,
we content ourselves with the express on of
our earnest wish sod fervent prayer that
Christianity in your great country may speed
ily effect what in other countries it baa hith
erto accomplished, m the breaking of every
yoke, and letuog the oppressed go tree; and,
refemag to tbe great changes and revolutions
that are now going forwaid in tbe nations of
Europe, and to tbe measure for tbe immediate
abolition of slavery, which was ooe of tbe
verv first acta of the Republican Government
of France, we fed an increasing anxiety, not
only that such x speedy and righteous Adjust
ment of this question may take [dace as may
ensure the eoounuanoe of peaoe and order, as
well aa liberty and equality, within your bor
ders, hut also thtt this unspeakable benefit
may ledouod to the credit of the goepel ol
Christ; and »htt what the man impulse at
republican enthusiasm, without regard to the
word and will of God. has summarily done in
the empire of France, may he mure safely
and happily doe* among you, eoder the be
nign and blamed influence of the retype* of
Joaua.”
At e masting ef the F. C. Anti-Slavery
Society, held m Edinburgh cm the Ah ef
Jens, to oßeefier the above knar, it wee, ef
tor mature t—‘demise, enieimsesfy
Ist. ReSoltrd, That this letfsr tha most
unsatisfactory, and the hot* df conduct implied
in h deeply to be deplored; and
Bd. Thai h was obviously the duty flf Ore
ehcrefy puHfirly to doctor* tbit in tbe shape of
a pmtrot. torn fbetr scheme shook! be mm*-
tepreted into see appwbotonw they were very
for from feeling.
The reasons am whieh the Society ground
these resolutions, are the following: Ist, The
Free Church, in this letter, promises thtt it
will not any farther intrude its opinion* sad
sentiments” oa tbe subject of slavery on tbe
American Church or in other words, nevei
again lift its protest against itwhile, sec
ondly, the letter, though condemning slavery,
in the ofelratf, mo** beiooea sin,” yet, even
at this eleventh hour, lessen the matter of
Doo-commsmoo with the American Church,
on account ef their participation in that sin,
in a state of the moat complete ambiguity sod
doubt. The alternative of two diametrically
opposite modes of action is thus retained—a
style of policr at once unfair towards tbe
people of our owo church, aa well as unfaith
ful to the American eburch itself.
Hist the letter in question warrants such
conclusions, it is humbly thought that a single
candid perusal will prove; and it ia lamemabk
that the General Assembly of the Fret
Church should have thus, as many cannot
avoid concluding, declared Itself still In fel
lowship with the American church. Tbe so
ciety, therefore, while professing the firmes
attachment to tbe Free Church of Scotland
ia now obliged—for its members, and for tb<
thousands who, though not its members, share
its sentiments—respectfully, but strongly, ti
protest against such fellowship.
Case of Kidnapping.
Salem. Racine Co., July 20, 1848
Mr. Booth:
I hasten to inform you of an attempt u
kidnap two men, in the town of Wheatland
Racine co., who, with another man, had beet
ou and about English Prairie for some twi
months. On Monday last, while they were
at work in a harvest field in tbe ab >ve town,
they were attacked with pistols and l ound by
two slaves catchers calling themselves Parke
and Smith, with the Sheriff of McPenry co.,
Illinois, Constable Hathaway and a Mr.
Thrall, and carried across the line into Mc-
Henry co., when Sheriff White served a
warrant upon them tor felony. When I was
informed of whut had been done, I started foi
English Prairie, and with some 30 men weni
in pursuit of the kidnappers. We overtook
them at Woodstock, where we found them
lodged in jail. The next morning it was
found that uot a lawyer in the place would
act as counsel for the slave catchers, and they
sent to Chrystal Like with no better success.
Finally Nr. Bush consented to act for them,
in order to expedite the matter. It was known
that Parks claimed one of the men as a slave;
the other was free, but h d probably aided the
slave to escape, 'ihe counsel moved the
Court to discharge the prisoners, ou accoum
of the illegality of the arrest, and they were
acccordingly discharged. Tiiey were immedi
ately taken by the atm by Messrs. Huff and
Soles, of English Prairie, and with a crowd
of probab'y 100 persons, conducted through
the street to the waggon, and with a guard ol
some 49 men, brought back tu English Prai
rie.
It was pleasing to the friends of humai
rights (o witness the spontaneous exciletnen
throughout, to see the people leave their har
vest fields and rush to the rescue .ty hundreds
On our way hack, the people in their fields
would wave their hats and cneer ua —in lac
I have not seen so many smiling faces in
long time. Too much credit ouAnot he givei
to the people of English Prairie, fir within i
short time after the arrest almost every mm
from the immediate neighborhood was in pur
suit. and the watchword was rescue—and ii
they had not been discharged, you can guess
what would have been the result. There are
three ot these fugitives now on English Prai
rie, and the citizens have resolved that the)
may stay there; and they are prepared to pui
resolution into their resolutions.
When we left Woodstock the slave-catch
ers were under arrest, and 1 have just learnec
that they occupied the same cell in jail the
following night that the fugitives did the pre
ceding night, and were finally compelled tr
give bail, when they made tracks South as
fast as tha fugitives did North.
In haste, vours,
EPHRAIM WILCOX.
Cor. Milwaukee A/nrican Freeman
General Taylor’s Slaveholding Com*
mittee.
Gen. Taylor has, at last, put himself undei
the sunieilance of a Committee.” This,
we are satisned, he ought to have done long
ago. But such a committee! Tbe Lord
save the country, if it is to be ruled by a
coterie of which Balie Peyton is the head.
It having been asserted in Nsw Orleans thai
Old Zich” had repudiated the lepresenta
i tions made for him by the Louisiana delegates
j to the Philadelphia Convention, he authorizes
his Committee” to issue the following
card
A card. We are authorized by Gen. Tay
lor to say that the course of the Louisianna
Delegation in the Whig Convention, lately
assembled at Philadelph.a, meets with hu
entire, full and unequivocal approbation.
That he not only never doubted, but nevei
intimated a doubt that his honor and reputa
tion were safe in their hands.
Balix Peyton,
Logan Hinton,
A. C. Bullitt.
New Orleans, June 23. 1848.
Who this Balie Peytnn is, OOl
readers will doubtless remember. He was, a
few years since a member of Congress fro:a
Tennessee—ooe of the most notoriously infa
mous “slave bullies” thtt ever disgrace*!
the country. He has ail Urn violent hatred ol
Northern man and free institutions—all tha'
slaveholding and alavednving bkmd-thirstineai
that distinguishes Henry A. Wise, wiihoui
any of thoae redeeming qualities, w hich u
the css 3 of Wise, command the admiration ol
even those who abhor his general character.
Such is the mao selecteJ aa the chief coun
sellor of the Whig candidate for tha Presi
dency.—lnd. Dan.
From Cb»a.~Tbe brig Michigan, Captain
Vareev, from San Juan, Cuba, the *>ih
July, arrived at th» port Uua monung. AH
was quiet at San Juan whea aha sailed, bui
ail American vessel* leaving for the United
States were strictly searched for fugitives
The Michigan was sjarctu-d by the Govern
ment officers, h the expectation of finding
Gen. Lopes, who had. however, escaped i
we k prJvtoM fro* Mttamaa, and is bow u
New Y rk. At Crenfuegre several ef tb<
chic; .turn had been arretted on aoupicten ol
be eogaged in ph* overthrow the Gov
ern were in pnaen. Cap*. Varoej
heard of an tnmble tt Trinidad, and did not
believe that any bad nrcorred TraceUer.
First or Auocsr.— Ore anniversary el
Went indie Emancipation was cetobralad al
Lyon by a pfome. N. preaakA
and speeches were mode by Edmund Quincy
Wendell PWhp. of Bomoo,
Rev. Tha*. T. Stone ef Attorn, Rav Mr.
Shackfotd of Ljrno. W. G. Allen of TWy,
Mias Lucy Stone ef Were Brookfield, and
others. A Urge andinoeo wao present, u
who* the proooedcttffl wen a so*roe a thi
b,ghrit pifltiuie. ghdttM Qmmdt*
K7* The first message thieagb by tetoyrepft
from New York-to New Orioao* wan name
ed in the Utter oity ea the Ifith ok., treaoawt
tod oa thtt rnoaraf and received in ihi
Tax Dka» Aun !<—The Iri* Qea. Cnrj
•kon Tom Conrin m tmimaMh 4tmoi
iofaed m 1840, ha* made bis uMHM
thtMonp a hwor of Gm. CamTCfoa a
iwmi oeamtaa ha ma4a a nmu» «|m to
mm aMer Senator Foote UaM.
The Detract Adrajuaer repots him iathli
wmy:
Ware I aftin member of Congress, aaid
the Greenland iffy member should ml reduce
the aiavery dif—ins into that body, 1 would
rote to hare him tahenfirom the iU, and
tied to a WHIPPING POST, AND HORSE
WHIPPED FOR IT,” or words u> that ef
fect.
Geo. Caas has Some ctrirrfmus friends ia
Miss, and Michigan- f£te. Journal.
As lama Worn* of lotempenae habits,
naomd Mary Scott, died w Pruudeeoe, oa
Monday ia oooaeqoeoee of taking
an orer dose of pills.
A great many, am reckoned intemperate,
bare lost their tires from the same cause.
ITT* 656 emigrants arrived at New York,
mi Monday. Of their number 339 were from
Liverpool, 184 from Glasgow, 91 from Gotten*
burg and 117 from Hamburg.
Rhode Inland AaU*SUrerr Pair*
to thk friend* or the oppressed.
Dear Brethren and Sisters
Be not weary in well-doing;' ’—your
00-operauon is atili needed to carry on the
work of relieving the poor and oppressed. It
ia aaid, Gud works by means—then certainly
it does not become man tu discard instrument
alities. Do We not believe that this is God's
work? Then are we not ready to act as Hts
agents—to hold whatever is entrusted to us,
either of time, talent, or money, consecrate
to his service 7 Who can doubt that Liberty
and Human redemption are always objects of
tender regard and especial blessing with the
infinite Good Who can doubt that He is
unsparing in the means to promote this glori
ous end Who of us, then, will hesitate—
or rather will not hasten to be with the Ail
Good a fellow-helper 1 It is a glorious—it is
oca glorious privilege. To do good ia a
blessed privilege—blessed to the agent and
object; so blessed, that we could almost be
thankful for the world'sevil and wretchedness.
Then the patience and fortitude that come
from the strife with evil, and from continued
self-denial, are they not above all price
Now, friends, for your good, and the good
of our biethren and sisters in bonds—for the
good of the world, that the current of human
sympathy and kindliness that is beginning to
flow may be increased and hastened, we ask
you to assist in preparations now making for
our Annual Fair. Thanks to you for your
promptness and kindness in behalf of former
t ffnrts—be assured that many souls have been
comforted, and many distressed ones made to
rejoice. Before you decide how much you
will do, just review the numberless favors,
blessings and privileges yon enjoy—take s
view, also, of the deprivation and distresses
of your fellow-men. Then call to mind that
only article of the Philanthropist's creed—
-44 Whatsoever ye would that men should do
onto you, do ye even so to them.” Now de
cide, and we fear not the result.
We ask for anything that you have to give
—Money, Cloth, Produce, Groceries, Cloth
ing, Fancy Articles, the handiwork of the
mechanic, contributions from the Field, Orch
ard and Garden—anything that can be turned
to account, will be gladly received.
Our Fairs heretofore have been eminently
successful. As our resources increase, the
field of operation enlarges, and to meet the
demands of the present, the proceeds of this
should be larger than any former. Books,
papers, tracts, and the voice of the living
preacher are demanded. Will you help us
send them
Our next Annual Fair will be holden in this
city, on Wednesday, (commencement day,)
September 6th. Having sent us your contri
butions, then give us your bodily presence.
Contributions will be received at the Anti-
Slavery Office, and by the undersigned.—
If sent to the Anti-Slavery Office, please di
rect “Amarancy Paine, Anti-Slavery Office,
Providence, R. I.
EXTRACTS FROM THE LIBERIA PAPERS
OUR FOREIGN AFFAIRS
out Pore ion affairs.
Until the return of President Rob
erts, our expectations will be as various
as the wind. He left our shores clothed
with certain powers, the amicable ar
rangement of which, in the United
States, England, and with other powers,
will raise our spirits, and infuse new
I energies into every citizen. The iegis
lature knowingfnll well the importance
of having at the earliest day, foreign
i governments to acknowledge the Inde
-1 pcndence of the Republic, and at the
same time having no available resour
ces, wherewith to send Commissioners
to foreign Contis for the purpose,
found itself in rather an aw kward po
sition. Many plans were proposed for
carrying out these important measures;
but they were abandoned nearly as
soon as they were introduced. While
in a state of uncertainty as to the most
practicable course to be adopted, under
these untoward circumstances, it was
j intimated that the President intended to
make a foreign visit for the benefit of
the health of bis family. This seemed
to open a way, whereby a portion of our
most important affairs might be attended
to; but then there was a delicacy attend
ing the bringing of ihe subject before
the President; it being pretty generally
known that he had expressed a desire
more than fifteen months before that
time, to retire for a w hile from public
affairs; —and it was only at the most
j urgent solicitations of many of our most
prominent citizens from all parts of the
Republic that he consented to be candi
date for the Presidency. But there
was very little time for parleying: and
I it was proposed by some of the mem
bers of each branch of the legislature,
to seek an earlv opportunity of intro
ducing the subject to the President, and
if possible, obtain his consent to attend
to our foreign affairs while nbroad,
should the legislature be inclined to
clothe him with the necessary authority
to do so. The interview took place,
and the President, though disposed to
do all in his power to forward the affairs
of the State, was unwilling to be bur
dened with matters of so much impor
tance, when his object in going abroad
was to seek health. But he was not
permitted to have his own way in this
respect, without being further impor
tuned; and accordingly other gentle
men, not members of the legislature,
but high in tire confidence of the people,
and immediately identified with every
interest of the State, joined their voices
with those who first waited on the Presi
dent, and after considerable reasoning,
the President said, “that he would no
longer consider himself at liberty to
decline performing any duty, however
arduous, that the Representatives of
the people might be inclined to author
ise him to attend to.” No delay took
place before the legislature passed
resolutions clothing him with such au
thority and it must be gratifying to
the members of the legislature to hear
the favorable opinions coming from all
parts of the State, as to their action in
this respect. It is the decided opinion
of nearly every person who have ex
pressed their views on the subject, that
the legislature could not have adopted
a more feasible plan to bring our gov
ernment before the notice of foreign
powers. President Roberts is intimate
ly acquainted with every particular of
our affairs—more so than any other
person. For the last seven years, he
has been the chief Executive officer of
Liberia; and as such, has been obliged
to carry on correspondence with the
representatives of the government of
Great Britian, of a very important
character; and which to us, seemed to
wear a very threatening aspect.
And it is not improbable that some of
the subjects embraced in that corre
spondence, may be forced up for dis
cussion in England, when that govern
ment is called upon to acknowledge our
Independence. It is from that gov
ernment more than any other, that we
expect to recievo the most friendly
assurances. &c.,&c.
THE DEPARTURE.
On the evening of the4thinst., the
American bark “Nehemiah Rich”
Daniel L. Carlton master, left our har
bor for the U. States, via. West Indies,
The following named persons took
passage in her: President Roberts,
lady and daughter, and Mrs. John N.
Lewis—and Messrs. B. R. Wilson,
James S. Payne, A. F. Russel, Sion
Harris and lady, and Mrs. Ralph Moore.
The President and family, and Mrs.
Lewis, will go from the U. States to
England.
We do not remember having witness
ed before, the departure of so many of
our distinguished and interesting citi
zens, at any onetime; and we feel con
fident, that on no similar occasion,
has there been such a general mani
festation of interest and feeling by the
citizens at large, as was openly shown
on the afternoon of the 4th. Hundreds
of friends and spectators of both sexes
crowded the wharf, to wish the travel
lers a pleasant and interesting visit to
foreign kinds: and many a silent tear
was seen to trickle down the fair cheek
when the affectionate adieu waa hastily
given and received.
The French brigs of war Bougain
ville,” Captain Chaigneau, and Du
petit Thouers,” Capt. Protet, remained
m port some two or three days, for the
ostensible purpose of escorting the Pre
sident and his friends on board the
bark; and it was with no ordinary de
gree of pleasure that we noticed the
enlarged arrangements made by these
accomplished officers, to show respect
to the President of the Republic, and
his distinguished friends. They had
six boats in waiting, decorated with the
flags and penants of their country; and
the party net off in them from the" wharf
about four of the clock. The boats had
scarcely left the wharf, before the firing
of a national salute commenced at Fort
Norris, under the direction of Colonel
Vstes.
After Ihe passengers had reached
Ihe bark, the President made a short
visit to each of the brigs of war,and was
recieved on board with the boners be
coming his rank. SereraJ of our
prominent citizens accompanied the
President to the bark, and returned to
the shore after night-fall, in a large and
comfortable barge, placed at their dis
posal for the occasion, by Captain
Chaieneia.
Captains Cbasgnea* nod Protet, are
entitled te cur highest gratitude for the
honor they have thus shown the Re
public through hs Chief Mrgistrmie.
MONROVIA.
Oar town is rapidly improving. For
the last two years, a spirit of induMry
and enterprise seems to have taken
possession of our people; and though
1 the song of hard times” continues to
be beard on every side, the improve
ments of the last two years in buildings
of a durable and costly character, far
exceed in number and comfortableness,
those of any other period. It is really
gratifying to us, to notice the rapid
strides that are now being made by all
classes of the people to make them
selves comfortable. We counted a
few days ago, thirty-four new buildings,
many of them of brick and atone, and
j in a forward state of completion; and
arrangements are in progress for the
building of many more. Onr young
men are not behind the epirit of the
times. Many of them are honorably
exerting themselves to get into their
own houses. We would suggest to our
young ladies, the propriety of giving a
direct and unequivocal refusal to any
young ma?t who offered proposals of
marriage, unless he could lay claim to
a comfortable dwelling, and otherwise
well improved premises,
e
A SKETCH OF THE IMPROVEMENT OP
MARSHALL.
Our readers abroad, if not at home,
no doubt would like to hear something
about Marshall—its improvement and
influence over the adjacent native
tribes.
The town of Marshall is situated on
the North-West side of the Junk Riv
er. The situation of the town may be
thought by some to be located in an
advantageous place but we are in
clined to think to the contrary. Had
the town been placed about a mile far
ther up the river—in all probability it
would have been the means of inducing
many of the inhabitants of the different
settlements to have removed there.
Many of the inhabitants of the town
have been obliged to leave, and settle
permanently on their farms, some six
or eight miles up the river, where they
can, through all the seasons of the year,
reap the fruits of their labor.
The town is situated upon a sandy
part of the country, near the beach
and during the summer, the heat being
so intense, the parching sand will not
admit any of the kitchen vegetables to
thrive therefore to raise any of the
common garden vegetables, tiny arc
obliged to shelter them from the over
powering influence of the sun.
The inhabitants of Marshall live
principally in thatched houses—the
basements of them are plastered very
well, and have quite a respectable ap
pearance. The cause of this is obvious,
from the fact, that there are but few
sawyers in the place and they having
witnessed the bad effect produced by
working in the swamp have desisted
from such a source of occupation, and
turned their attention exclusively to
farming. There are many peculiar
circumstances connected with this set
tlement but taking into consideration
many of the almost insurmountable
barriers, we think the inhabitants of
Marshall have done well. And if we
should be guided by what we have
seen, and learned from others, she has
improved much, and bids fair to be of
great advantage to this Republic.
Though without any help through the
tide of emigration, yet many individuals
have found it to their advantage to re
move from this, and the adjoining
settlements, to Marshall, where they
can, in their estimation, more easily
obtain that sustenance which nature
demands.
There has bedn imported from Mar
shall to this place, during this year, two
thousand bushels of lime, besides a
considerable quantity of oysters, and
other staple products. The people in
general live quite independently for
they have no dealing with foreigners—
as most every thing in the eating line
is produced by their own labor—oys
ters excepted and these you can easily
obtain in great abundance form the
rivers in that vicinity.
The adjacent native tribes seem to
be more subject to the laws of this gov
ernment than we have ever known
them, and are becoming so inured to
civilized customs, that when they have
any disputes among themselves, as a
general thing, they come to a magistrate
to settle their difficulties. Such an
influence has long been desired by this
government, and we hope inducements
will be held out to them, that by some
means, yet unknown to us, our influ
ence may be exerted too far as to bring
about effeclt.ally, a total abolition ol
the slave trade, which is carried on so
extensively among them. The day is
not far distant, we hope, whea we shall
see the light of science, and the influ
ence of Christianity disseminated
among them. To witness scenes char
acteristic of the native Africans, there
are objects presented to us in their na
ture appalling. We hope, however,
that the influence that will be exerted
by this government, may bring about a
speedy reformation.
Ie a measure, we have already wit
nessed the salutary effect produced by
the progress of civilization in thir
country. It would indeed be a pleasing
sight to those true hearted friends of
other countries, who have spent time
and talent for the advancement of the
great Colonization scheme, to witness
on the Sabbath the many scores of na
tive children and youth crowding to the
different religious institutions opened
for their benefit. We are inclined lo
think, that they would acknowledge
that their hopes were already realized. 1
SLATE TRADE AT LITTLE CAFE MOUNT.
We learn from an authentic source,
that the Ware trade is earned on quite j
extensively, at or near Littla Cape
Mount, (distant about forty miles.) by
a Krooman named Do employed, as
we are informed, by that notorious
slave. dealer at New £esa. He baa
now on hand about seventy slaves for
that market. Cannot there be a atop
put to this nefarious traffic within the
limits of tkia Republic W« hope
there will be some prominent measures
taken bjr Una government that will
bring the repels to justice. This indeed
is grievous and eorrodiug to tba feel
ing* of aU feres philanthropists.
Some few months ago, there was s
similar establishment at King Gray’s
town, (dietan# about sixteen miles,)
and a goodly number of the citizens
volunteered their service* to go and
rescue the pose victims, doomed to
undergo the severity of their inhuman
masters, if some immediate assist sues
was not afforded. Is there not left a
spark df that spirit in the bosoms of our
citizens, that would arouse their feel
ings to such a loud caJAof humanity.
Remember fellow citizens, that we
came to this country for the ostensible
porpoee of stopping the progress of
this accursed traffic therefore wa
must endeavour to exert our influnnee
in such a manner, that it may be instru
mental whether directly, or indirectly,
tn benefiting the sable sons of Africa.
A SLAVER CAFTVRE*.
About two weeks since, r Brazilian
schooner, a prize to H. B. M. Ship
Fire Fly, went into Sierra Leone with
two hundred and thirty-five slaves.
She was taken off Gaboon—when taken,
she had on board two hundred and
seventy. These were croweed into a
uessel of such small dimensions, that
in the space of twenty days, thirty-five
of these perished. If these pirates
would only have vessels large enough
to preserve the lives of the poor crea
tures, it would perhaps render their
traffic somewhat less horrible on the
score of humanity, if indeed there can
be any modified grade to a crime so
high and heinous in the sight of God
and man.
Mr. Editor, —I take this opportunity to
inform you of the health of the late
immigrants under my medical care, at
the settlements of Virginia, and Mon
rovia. The company by the Amazon,
and twenty-nine of the company per
Barque Nehemiah Rich, fauna Ken
tucky,numbering all about seventy-five;
all of whom have been attacked with
the acclimating fever, and nearly all
may now be considered convalescent.
Ihave lost one, who died, however, noj
of fever, for he had been attacked, and
was in a degree, convalescent; but
while yet in a debilitated state, from
the effects of the fever, was taken with
an attack of cholera morbus, which
prostrated him at once, and he sank in
a state of colapse.
H. J. Roberts, M. D. Attending
Physician.
Medical Departmbnt, Monrovia,
May 10/fr, 1848.
Obetixg Orders.—While lying in a
Southern port some years’ since, the
master of a vessel belonging to New
England smoked her out for the purpose
of destroying rats. The next morning
about a dozen of these long-tailed gen
try were found and brought on deck.
Their sleek and fat appearance evinced
that they had been well cared for by
themselves, if not by others. The stew
ard came aft, and pointing to the heap,
inquired of the captain what should be
done with them.
“Done with them?” responded the
captain, who was something of a wag,
why, make them into a stew.”
Nothing more was said by either
party on board at the time. Several
gentlemen had been invited on board
to dine upon squirrels, which the cap
tain and a friend, who was a good
marksman, had barked” the day be
fore. Dinner was served up in good
style, and the appetites of all did justice
to the fare; but most of the party pre
ferred them made into a stew to any
other way.
Steward,” exclaimed the captain,
as he w as changing tbe dishes prepara
tory to setting on the pastry, “can’t
you give us just such a stew to-mor
row? You know there are some of the
squirrels left.”
Didn’t make dat out ob squirrels,
sir,” replied the African, with a hesi
tating attempt to smile, but which was
kept back by a slight tremor.
What then?” inquired the captain
quickly.
“Why, sir, ob de rats you ordered
me to
We call this a red- ification of orders,
and advise the captaiu hereafter to be
careful to whom he directs them, as he
should have known that an African is
born to obey!
Thrilling Scene at Niagara
Falls. —The Rochester Daily Adver
tser gives the following description of
an occurrenc at Niagara Falls, which
threatened serious loss of life:
During a severe gale of wind at
Niagara Falls, on Monday afternoon,
the Suspension Bridge was for a long
time in jeopardy, in consequence ot
its unfinished state, the fastenings not
being all it) place, tbe foot bridge was
made to vibrate until one section of the
cables slipped off the saddle, which
caused the planking to turn up edge
wise; but no other damage to this sec
tion of tbe bridge, One man only was
at this part when the wind atruck it, i
who made his way to the shore amid the
fearful commotion. He had reached
within a few feet of the shore, when a
flying section of the unfinished foot
bridge struck him, knocking him from
his position.but he was so near that two
men caught him, and saved him from
being precipitated into the fearful gulf! i
He was but just saved, yet not injured, j
While this was being enacted, the;
second foot bridge, which was planked
half way across the river, was broken j
near the shore, and a section of some;
forty feet carried away, leaving four 1
men floating fearfully in mid air. Their
case, though for a few minutes, was
one of the meat imminent danger vi
brating as they were over the fearful
gulf full 60 feet, holding on to whatever
presented itself, until the storm was
pest. They ft ere then relieved from'
their uneasy post by aoeans of the!
basket end ladder. They seemed little
worse for wear, and ready to resume 1
their work again yesterday, and by;
night had aU in plane ready agin for
the passage of foot passengers.
•Concha*l;*—Why is it necessary
to go to Enron* to understand the true
character of Lewis Cass