FATHER MATTHEW AND TIIE NE
GRO COMMISSIONER.
We clip the following from the
Pittsburgh Daily News. Who would
have thought it? But here it is in
black and white. There is no dodging
it. We commend the whole to the
British public for perusal and judg
ment.
|C7* We call attention to the follow
ing advertisement from the St. Louis
Republican, i,hewing the peculiar char
acter of the celebrated Roman Catho
lic temperance lecturer:
The good Father Matthew is
gone, and we feel a pleasure in calling
attention to the following highly credit
able compliment presented by him to
one of our worthy citizens, David O’
Gorman, under the Planter’s House:
St. Louis, Oct. 28, 1K"»0.
1 feel great pleasure in learning that
my respected friend and fellow-coun
tryman, Mr. David O Gorman, lias, in
addition to his other agencies, opened
an Office in St. Louis, tor the trails
mission of money to Europe. Ihe
high character for integrity, industry
and business habits, which Mr. O Gor
man has displayed, in discharging the
duties of the highly responsible situa
tions which he held in the old country,
offer an ample guarantee of the fidelity
and punctuality with which he will exe
cute any business entrusted to him. I
heartily wish him success. I know lie
will give satisfaction, and 1 therefore
recommend him to my beloved friends
and countrymen in the est
Theobold Matthew.”
The above is the endorsement ol
Father Matthew; and the following
shows the avocation of the friend,
whose success in business he is so anx
ious to promote. We leave it to our
readers to draw their own interferen
ces:
|C7* Negro Commission and Gen
eral Agency, 4G Fourth street, under
the Planter’s House, established for
the purchase and sale of healthy Ne
groes of good character. Ihe highest
price will be obtained by slave-owners,
and private families will always find
good sound negroes and valuable
house servants, on application to the
subscriber.
For sale at present, one man aged
‘23 years, one woman aged 21 years,
two smart girls 12 and 14, and a wo
man about 40, a careful nurse, cook,
washer and ironer all sound and heal
thy. David O’Gorman,
General Agent.
SCP Money remitted to Great Brit
ain and Ireland.
EXTRACT.
Fron, the Thirteenth Annual Report of the
Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Soeuty.
THE NEW COLONIZATION SCHEME.
It is a fact worthy of notice, and one
which may be properly mentioned here,
that almost simultaneously with the in
troduction of the fugitive slave bill in
Congress, was a project started for the
revival of the old scheme of coloniza
tion. Early in the session, a certain
Judge Bryan, of Alabama, memorial
ized Congress for authority on the part
of himself and “his associates’ 'to es
tablish a line of African mail-steamers,
to run between New Orleans and other
American sea-ports, and Liberia; one
of the principal objects of which, it was
professed, should be the suppression of
the African slave-trade. Mr. Web
ster in his infamously memorable speech
of the 7th of March, indirectly but
strongly lent his support to this move
ment.—A few years since, it may be
remembered, Mr. Webster, in declin
ing to act on a coriUnittee appointed at
a colonization meeting in Boston, said
emphatically:
“I understand the whole project, ll
is a scheme of the slaveholders to get rid
of lltetr free negroes. I jeill hare notic
ing to ao tpith 1 1.
But in his recent speech, he held the
following language:
“If any gentleman from the South
shall propose a scheme of colonization,
to be carried on by this government up
on a large scale for the transportation
of free colored people to any colony oi
to any place in the world, I should be
quite disposed to incur almost any de
gree of expense to accomplish that ob
ject.
“There have been received into the
treasury of the United States eighty
millions of dollars, the proceeds of the
„ales of the public lands ceded by Vir
ginia. If the residue should be sold at
THE NORTH STAR.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS, Editor and Proprietor.
.VOL. 111. NO. 50.
the same rate, the whole aggregate
will exceed two hundred millions of
dollars. If Virginia and the South see
fit to adopt any proposition to relieve
themselves from the free people of col
or among them, they have my free con
sent that the Government pay them any
sum of money out fits proceeds which
may he adequate to the purpose.
The tendency of this speech was to
prepare Congress to look with favor
upon the project of Judge Bryan,and in
the course of the session the naval
committee, to whom it was referred,re
ported in favor of its adoption. They,
recommended iftilt
per cent, stock, with a cred.t of thirty
years, be advanced to Judge Bryan and
his associates for the construction of
three mail steamers, to sail alternately
every month from New Orleans, Balti
more, and New York; that the Am *ri
ean Colonization Society shall have the
privilege ol sending at each voyage of
me of these steam-ships, as many as
1000 free colored emigrants at $lO
ipiece for adults and $5 apiece for
children; and that the government
ihall have power to take any and all of
said steam-ships for war purposes by
jaying cost of construction and a cotn
nission of ten per centum. r I he whole
iffair is an ill-concealed attempt to
five the support ol the government to
he scheme ot the American Ooloniza
ion Society, and to fill the pockets of
i few
il treasury, under the pretence of
luilding up the Navy, and suppressing
he African slave-trade. It finds favor
vith the slaveholders at the South, be
sause it promises to rid them of an ele
nent dangerous to the safety of their
ostitution, and pleases the negro ha
ers at the North by proposing to de
iver them from the objects of their
iversion. Viewed in any light, it de
lerves nothing but execration and op
lositiou from every true friend of the
iolored man. It proposes at each
nonthly trip of its steamers to carry out
o Africa 4000 free negroes, that is 18,
KM) a year. How such a number is
o be induced to go, whether by coer
;ion or persuasion, it is not stated, hut
rom the circumstance of its coming, as
t does, hand in hand with the law (or
he recapture of fugitive slaves, and
sustained as it is by the men who were
ictive in the passage of that measure,it
s not unreasonable. to suppose that
lome degree of force, direct or indi
rect, is ultimately contemplated. There
s such a thing as compelling people to
folunteerjv an expedient which the
Colonization Society, very well under
stand. Laws have been passed under
he influence of that society, iucreas
ng the burdens and diminishing the
privileges of the free people af color,
with the hope of inducing them to emi
grate; but thus far, thank heaven, they
lave most signally failed of their pur
pose. Our colored friends have until
his time been proof equally against the
persuasions and the persecutions of
their oppressors, and that they are now
going to change either their feelings
or their course of action on this sub
ject, we have not the least reason to
believe. They have with remarkable
unanimity opposed the American Col
onization Society from the beginning,
and denounced every project lhat con
templated their removal from this coun
try; declaring their purpose never to
leave the soil ot their natrvity, nor tor
sake their brethren in bondage. In
this they are clearly right, and deserve
to receive the support of all true friends
of freedom. Let them maintain their
position, and this new scheme for their
expatriation will fail as signally ns all
others that have gone before it.
THE UNION AND THE FUGITIVE
SLAVE LAW.
f A priva le Letter, communicated for the Tribune.]
Saturday Nov. 0.
After these remarks—
somewhat diffusive and excursive, it is
acknowledged—it is, I trust, unneces
sary for me to say I am, as I always
have been, for the Union, at whatev
er sacrifices, and at all hazards. I am
also, of course, for the Law, without
Which that Union would be a curse
rather than a blessing. I did not mean
to say that there is nothing in the Con
stitution or Law that would not admit el
a salutary change, but I do mean to
say, that it is the duty—the imperative
duty of an American Citizen, anywhere
and everywhere, to bow in obedience
to the Law, so long as it continues tc
bt the Law. Nevertheless, I am ut
terly opposed to the|principles of the re
cent Fugitiue Slave Bill, and will legit
imately contribute all in m> power to
ward its modification and repeal.
That it is unjust, I have no doubt;
but it can'readily be shown, so tar as it
is unjust, it is ineffective. That it is in
some respects unconstitutional, 1 have
as little doubt; but so far as it is uncon
stitutional it is virtually no Law, and
probably will be so declared by the ap
propriate tribunal.
It is unjust, because it offers a bribe
to the Commissioner who shall surren
der an alleged Fugitive to his claimant
Ten Dollars for Slavery and bul
Five for lAbertyt
It is unjust, because it allows exparlt
evidence—-or, to speak more criticall)
and technically, exparte testimony —tc
be received against the alleged fugi
tive; which, upon no principle known tc
the Common Law, could be received
upon the claim of a horse or a dog. It
is unjust, because it sacrifices the sov
ereignty and dignity of our own State
to a mean subserviency to the clamor,
rapacity and overweening pretension*
of other State*.
U is uncoMtitutmal, because it »p
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR; GOD IS T%£ FATHER OF US ALL; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
points commissioners, or rainer, au
thorizes United States Judges to appoint
them—which Commissioners are in
vested with high judicial powers in re
j gard to the liberty of the citizen white
well as black —wno is an alleged fu
gitive from service; for under this law
any white boy or man, in any State in
the Union, may be arrested and carried
into any other State, upon a mere sum
mary hearing, founded upon testimony
taken in his absence, and of course
without cool examination-o*
catiou of imyOf 1 ITiC USuaTteat. oftruth.
!f on I show Hie true color of this law
y divesting it for a time of the com
plexion with which it is usually associ
ated.
That Congress has the right to ap
point Judges no man questions. The
President nominates and Congress con
firms. Such is the provision of the
Constitution. But whence Congress
derives the authority to impart to the
Judges thus appointed the power to
create other Judges, under the title of
Commissioners, which other Judges or
Commissioners by their decision may
deprive their victim of the benefit ol the
Habeas Corpus.
I may be wrong in all this; I lay no
claim to infallibility, and all I can say
is thafi whenever I shall be satisfied ol
my error, I shall be most happy to cor
tect it.
You willpardon me for having thought
proper lo say thus much upon a subject
ro which the question in your letter ob
viously relates. My attention shall
now be directed to the letter itself.
You are perfectly right in believing
“that for the last .thirty years I have
been engaged as Counsel, in almost
every important case of alleged Fugi
tives from justice, brought before our
Judges and Courts in Philadelphia, and
always on the part of the fugitive.
And 1 hope it will not be immodest for
for me to add, that my services have
not been confined to this state; that
they have rather been the services of a
man to his lellow-men, a lawyer to hir
client, and that I have never upbn an)
occasion, here or elsewhere, or from
anybody received, one farthing’s com
pensation for my humble efforts on be
half of human liberty, and in vindica
tion of human rights. My only induce
ment was a sense of conscientious duty,
and, ask no other earthly reward, as I
have elsewhere intimated, than.this
simple inscription on my humble tomb,
“Here lies the friend of the frit ndless,”
Although, my dear Sir, I cannot say
of you, as you have said Of me that “you
have been engaged in L'ehalfof alleged
fugitives,” I will, at least, do you the
justice to say, though if may be consid
ered but a negative compliment, that I
have never during that period of time,
in a single instance, known you to have
been enlisted or engaged against them.
You ask me “if I remember any in
stance in which a colored man has been
delivered to his claimant, and in which
I have reason to believe lie had been
adjudged to be a slave, contrary to the
truth of the case?” I answer you very
frankly and freely, That I never have.
Thanks to the humane interference o(
that Society which was established un
der the auspices of Benjamin Franklin,
and aided by the zeal and talent of
such men as William Lewis, William
Rawle, Jared Ingersoll, John Sergeant
and others; and with thanks also to
those upright, impartial, and independ
ent Judges, by whom the rights of the
parties were finally determined. I
wish 1 could stop Acre; but I have known
hundreds, who have been illegally
and unjustly claimed; and I think you
will agree with me, that it requires lit
tle casuistry, to detrmine that such
claims or traffic, cannot be justified or
excused merely because, in their re
sult they proved unsuccessful. In ad
dition to this I have known attempts, of
the most shameful character, to impose
upon the alleged fugitive, in every va
riety of way*, that cupidity could sug
gest, or cruelty adopt.
Can you then wonder, mj dear Sir,
that with a mind imbued by such facts,
the friends of the oppressed should
look with great caution, great jealousy,
if you please, upon almost every claim
that may be preferred against these un
happy beings. There is no disposition,
or, at all events, no effort, to defeat
the legitimate claimant jn his demand.
All that is required is that he shall
show his title—show it satisfactorily—
to the Court, and there is an'end of it.
But when he selects doubtful agents,or
exhibits a doubtful title, or fails in
proof of identity, or purchases the
slave “running from any one who will
sell him, certainly the Constitution nev
er designed that such claims should
succeed. And such has been the gen
eral character of the claims that have
been defeated*
Very respectfully and truly yours,
DAVID PAUL BROWN.
[From the Pittsburgh Visitor.^
WOMAN’S RIGHTS CONVENTION
AND PEOPLE OP COLOR.
Dear Mrs. Swissiielm:— ln the last
Visitor, you say of a resolution relat
ing to people of color, offered by Mr.
Wendell Phillips in the late Convention
of Women, at Worcester, Mass.
“We are pretty nearly out of pa
tience with the dogged perseverance
with which so many of our Reformers
persist in their attempt to do everything
at once.”
And again:
In a Women’s Rights Convention,
j the question of color hat. no right to a
hearing.”
It seemed as though the usually
kindly spirit and good judgment of the
Visiter were a little wanting in these
two utterances. 1 should not have no-
ROCHESTER, N. Y., THURSfiAY, DECEMBER 5, 1850.
ticed it at ait in most? of the publii
i journals—indeed, 1 newer know noi
care what but few of them do say; foi
I should no more think of having then
e in my house, political or religious, that
I would of umoeulatieg the family will
i the foulest leprosy that unjointec
i the bones of a son of Abraham. Bu
I your Visiter finds ready ontrance anc
cheerful greeting, so that we are a
little solicitous about its bearing to
wards thft imw IT 111
we nave invited.
Dogged and perseverance” arc two
ugly words standing together, and Mr
Phillips has ever been very watchful to
prevent any other topic from creeping
to whatever platform he occupied; de
voted to any particular reform. And
those two worda look strange indeed to
some of us, standing in connection
with his name and the resolutions to
which you have taken exception.
But by way of explanation, (or if
you please, apology,) permit me to
say that colored persons arc held in
such estimation in this country, that
you must specify them whenever or
wherever you mean to include them.
Lyceums, circuses, menageries, ball
rooms, billiard-rooms, conventions, ev
erything, the Public are respectfully
invited to attend. But who ever
drepmed that "the public” meant any
thing colored? From church and the
atre; from stage-coach, steam-ship and
creeping canal-boat; from the infant
school, law school and theological sem
inary; from museum, athenaeum and
public garden, the colored race are
either excluded altogether, or are ad
mitted only by sufferance, or some very
special arrangement, and under disad
vantages to which no white person
would or should submit for a moment.
Fr e Masons must be white—both
face and apron. Odd Fellows, too,
must be constitutionally light of skin;
and even the Sons of Temperance, and
Daughters likewise, must be bleached
to the popular complexional standard,
or they are beyond the reach of sal
vation.
The Methodist Discipjine provides
for separato colored Conferences.”
The Episcopal church shuts out some
of its own most worthy ministers from
clerical recognition, on account of their
color. Nearly all denominations of
religionists have cither a written or un
written law to the same effect. In
Boston, even, there are
churches whose pews are positively
forbidden by corporate mandate from
being sold to any but ,v respectable
white persons.” Our incorporated ce
meteries are often, it not always, deeded
in the same manner. Even our hum
blest village grave yards generally
have either a “negro corner,” or re
fuse colored corpses altogether; and
did our power extend to heaven or hell,
we should have complexional salvation
and colored damnation, unless vre could
first blot the unfortunate, unfashionable
race altogether and forever out of ex
istence.
We have striven to separate the
Ethiopian from all claim to human re
cognition and human sympathy. No
body but abolitionists ever mean colored
people, no matter how often they speak
of the public,” or of their fellow
citizens.” or “fellow-sinners.”
We have proscribed our colored
brethren every way—everywhere; and
under the late Fugitive Slave Law,
everv colored man is to be presumed a
slave, unless there is proof positive to
the contrary; and if any one is only
claimed and sworn to as a slave, such
proof is at once made impossible. Be
fore this law was enacted, his life was
was a lingering torture —before, we
were killing him by exclusion and op
pression; now. we are murdering him
with fear. We have barbed the iron
arrows that pierced him. We have
poisoned the fangs which were already
tearing him in pieces—we have heated
red hot the chains that bound him as in
adamant before. We have separated
him from us by a gulf which has neither
shore nor bottom. So far as human
sympathy and regard are concerned,
almost everywhere the horse and hound
are as human as he.
And his race know it and feel it, as
we cannot. Even the women’s Con
vention demonstrated this, for scarcely
a colored person, man or woman, ap
peared in it.
On the large committees appointed to
carry out the plans of the Convention,
embracing many persons in all, not a
single colored member was placed. It
is to be presumed that nobody thought
of it, for we are not expected to think
of colored people at all.
Und.'r such circumstances, is il
strange, it unpardonable sin, is il
“dogged ponwerance,”to declare in
a Cnnv■•■ntiim culled to demand and
extend I n<; rights of women, that we
menu women of sable as well as sallow
Complexion ol the carved in ebony a*
well as the chisssled in ivory? If we
did thus mean, Jthe Convention should
not have been held, or being held, it
would only deserve the scorn and con
tempt of every friend of God and hia
children. Color was not discussed
there—it need not have been. But it
was needed that the declaration be
made in regard to it. Thai any women
have rights, will scarcely be believed;
but that colored women have rights,
would never have been thought of,
without a specific declaration.
Most truly yours,
pARKBR PILLSBURV.
Concord, N. H., Nov. 18.
Hon. James A. Bayard, it ia said,
will be elected by the Delaware Leg
islature to represent that State in the
U. S. Senate, lri place of Mr Whales.
MEETING AT WARREN HALL.
Wo copy from the Daily Spy tin
following account of the proceeding
1 at a pro-slavery lecture, given in this
city a few evenings, since, at which i
son of Senator Soule, from Louisiana
undertook to enlighteo the good peoph
of Worcester upon the subject of “con
quering their prejudices,” and support
ingthe fugitive slave law.
-'HI i_:—
plenty of it—JW w Orleans and nor
cester.
Decidedly the richest public exhibi
tion of the season came ofTin this city,
on Wednesday evening. It having
been announced during the day, by
means ol large posters, that Mr. Ne
ville Soul, son of Senator Soule ol
Louisiana, would hold forth at W ar
ren Hall, upon ihe subject of the fugi
tive Slave Law, and the importance ol
a union of all parties for the preserva
tion of»he Union, the hall was filled at
the appointed hour, and the meeting
was called to order by E. B. Stoddard.
Esq., who disclaimed all sympathy with
its objects, and stated that he consented
to do so, only through motives of per
sonal friendship for Mr. Soule, who
was a fellow-student of the Cambridge
Law School He informed the meet
ing that it would be necessary to choose
a chairman; but the liouor of presiding
not seeming to he coveted by any one,
and several unsuccessful attempts hav
ing been made*to induce some person
to take the chair, it was finally suggest
ed tlrat Mr. Soule should go ahead
with his remarks without a chairman,
which he di‘d at once, in a style which
we think would have done credit to
Senator Foote. He alluded to the
j contemplated meeting in Boston for
the purpose of recalling the people of
Massachusetts to a sense of their con
stitutional obligations, and read the
call for the same, with a list of some oi
the signers, first among whom in close
juxtaposition wo noticed the names of
Wm. Appleton, Daniel Webster, and
Charles Goidon par nobile frat rum.
He said it was the wish of the people
of Boston, that Worcester should send
a large delegation, and that after the
meeting any persons present could
have the privilege of signing the call.
Here the audience brake forth in peals
of hearty laughter, but Mr. S., not at
all abashed, dashed away into the mid
dle of his subject, and went on with a
doleful story about Northern aggres
sions upon the rights of the South. He
then flourished the sword of his rhetoric
about the head and shoulders of Henry
Clay, and shook out the political liver
and lights of that distinguished states
man, as a dog would a woodchuck.
He thought that Daniel Webster was
a true patriot, and deeply regretted
that the people ol Massachusetts had
turned such a deaf ear to lus counsels.
He then invoked the spirits of our an
cestors to the assistance of Mr. Web
ster, and assured the audience that the
threats against the Union, made at the
South, did really mean something, and
that if the ultraists of the North per
sisted in their course, they would rend
the Union. He then undertook to show
that it was necessary, in order to con
ciliate the South, always to preserve
the equilibrium of slave and free
States. Never would the South submit
to a majority. No, she had Letter sit
forever under the sway of Nicholas of
Russia. The North had shown her
power ir the 31st Congress. She had
trampieu on the South. [Laughter,
long continued, at which the speaker
seemed amazed.] VV e will resist, and
we will have the consolation, that the
harder the struggle, the more glorious
the triumph. You, have, in passing
the Calitornia bill, said he, violated the
Constitution and destroyed the equality
of shares. [Much laughter He then
quoted from Mr. Calhoun and Sam
Houston, and wound up this part of the
speech with the declaration, that no
civilized people were ever so oppressed
as the South was by the North, and no
other people would have so long and so
patiently submitted to the indignities
placed upon them. What is to be
done now? Submit? No! Death were
preferable to "such dishonor! It the
fugitive slave law is not enforced, do
you suppose said he, that the South
will submit? If they do, may they be
consumed to ashes, before it shall be
said as it was by Cromwell, 'the Lord
has delivered them into our hands.
Here the speaker paid another pass
ing tribute to the ex-Godlike Senator
from Massachusetts, and especially
commended the patriotic speech of 27th
of June, and then went off in a ran
tankerous explodation against Abo
litonists. Having exhausted, by their
redundancy in his rhetoric, all the
figures of speech be was master of,
he next proceeded to open the under
standings of his audience, by the
figures of arithmetic, and went into a
calculation, to show the pecuniary
value to the South of the slaves who
had run away in the last thirty years.
He estimated that forty millions of dol
lars would be required to satisfy the
South on this score, as the North had
sheltered the negroes, and not deliv
ered them, in accordance with the con
stitution, and they were bound in honor
and in law to pay’ this just claim of the
Sooth. *Tbe North owed it; it was
spoliation and robbery of the South,
and w’e all knew that t{ie refusal to
render indemnity for spoliations had,
in ail ag«a, been considered just cause
for baring the sword and redressing
wrong by that last resort. The North
talked about humanity, when the mean
ing of the word was utterly unknown
among them. [Laughter.]
But we have no time or space to
TERMS—S 2 Per Anniw, livariably A4vai<f.
s things said by this sprig of chivalry.
Suffice it to say, that we, in common
j with ail present, felt grateful to the
gentleman for his visit. As a lad re
-1 marked upon the stairs, after it was
over, “it was better than the theatre
and twice as good as the circus.”
When the gentleman had relieved
himself of bis pent up magniloquence,
upon a unanimous rail nf
1 -trrvrrnr&etr, 'Esq. "came lorward,
and in behalf of the meeting, thanked
Mr. Soule for the interesting exhibition
ho had made of himself. “But for his
kindness in coming here, many present
might have never had the opportunity
of listening to a real Southern speech,
such as the fire-eaters at the South
were in the habit of regaling them
selves upon; and it was indeed gratify
ing to all, to hear the talk of the young
gentleman from Cambridge.” Mr.
Maxwell then took up the points of the
gentleman’s speech seriatim, and in a
strain of eloquent railery and keenest
sarcasm, which kept the audionce in a
roar of laughter, and in which Mr.
Soule could not help participating,
showed the absurdity and folly of all
the assumptions of the gentleman from
the South. Other gentlemen addressed
the meeting in a more serious strain;
but was the prevailing sentiment
that ruled the hour. The meeting had
no chairman, but, with the exception of
irrepressible bursts of laughter at
Soule’s folly and Maxwell’s wit, the
proceedings were conducted with good
order and decorum, and the only re
gret among our citizens yesterday,
seemed to he, that a wider notice had
not been given, and a larger hall ob
tained, so that more might have been
present to see the fun, and participate
in the proceedings of a Union Meeting.
A unanimous vote of thanks to Mr.
Soule was passed by acclamation, and
the meeting adjourned in the happiest
possible mood.
W o had a'most forgotten to mention
that one signature to the call for the
Boston meeting, was obtained. To
Dr. H. G. Bates, ot this city, belongs
that distinguished honor, of putting bis
name, with his own hand, upon the
same sheet with the head kneaders of
Boston dough.— Christian Citizen.
MEETING OF THE COLORED CITI
ZENS IN MUSKINGUM COUNTS',
'*T 'l* —«-iwi u
An adjourned meeting of the colored
citizens of Zanesjiiile, Putnam and vi
cinities, was held at the M. E. Church
in Zanesv ille, on the ‘23d ult., to hear
the report of a committee on resolu
tions appointed at a previous meeting.
I he meeting was organized by calling
E. W. Fields, to the chair and appoint
ing J. McSimpson secretary.
The chairman of the committee sub
mitted the following Preamble and Res
olutions which were adopted.
“Whereas we hold these truths to
be self-evident that all men were crea
ted free and equal.
And Whereas the fugitive slave law
takes from us all these rights, and ur
ges on and supports slavery in all its
forms, in Free as well as Slave States;
and not only deprives us of our liber
ties, but infringes greatly upon the
rights of those of our white friends who
would do us good. Therefore,
Resolved, That we treat this law
with utter contempt: and that we will
never in any case yield to any of its
unjust requirements; first because it is
in direct opposition to the laws of God;
and secondly because it is detrimental
to the peace and safety of all clasess,
and parties in the United States.
Whereas The Fugitive Slave Law
gives us no chance of self protection,
nor self defence, neither by law, nor by
mig >t;
Therefore,
Resolved, That we will do.all we can
to have this law repealed, both by pray
ing to God for the outpouring of his
spirit to soften the hard and unfeeling
hearts of our law-givers, and by peti
tioning them for its repeal until it is
blotted out.
Resolved, That we will throw the
arms of protection around our fugitive
brethren and sisters, and that we wil
feed »hem and clothe them, concea
whem and assist them in their escape
from the Negro Hounds, and blood)
men, and we will perform all the deed:
of love and mercy toward them that lie;
in our power, let the consequences b<
what they may.
Resolved, That whatever dissection
there may now be among us on othei
subjects,—or whatever prejudices wt
may entertain against each other ot
any account, on this subject,—Free
dom to the slave and protection to the
ree, we will be one—one in heart
one in mind, and one in effort.
In case an individual is arrester
among us as a fugitive,
Resolved, That we will, on such in
formation, leave our several employ
ments and assemble at the spot where
the slave is held in custody, and there
by supplication, remuneration or othei
judicious means, endeavor to rescue th<
victim from his foe.
Resolved, That a synopsis of the pro
ceedings of this meeting be publisher
in the Ohio Standard, the Concort
Free Press, the North Star and the
Christian Herald.
Resolved, that our motto shall lx
“Watch, fight ano prat.”
E. W. FIELDS, Chairman,
J. McSimpsox, Seo’y.
|CP- Youth and age have too littl
sympathy with each other. If th<
young would remember that thev raa
be old, and the old would temembe
that they have been young, the worl
would be hapier.
WHOLE NO. 154.
medley.*
cornea were the onginS* wearciaot'
'rowgers. She say* that! tfth«t,«ti4fc*r
garment was worn in the bipemetf ftwm"
by the women ef ancient JNWliftt!*** 1 Tf 1
this is true, we,suggest that
nistorical step should he to show*
Eve was the first man. r
In the October number of tbeJKdin-
burgh Review Is an entertaining and
instructive article, upon the History of
the English Language. The writer is
down upon all inventions upon the
genuine Saxon, and especially that
classical vulgarity which exhibits itself
tn its more ridiculous aspects in such
sounding titles as “Eureka Shirts;”
“Resilient Boots,” and “Eupodistic
Bootmakers.” The style of Johnson
is well know to have been impure,
sonorous and cumbersome, and has had
many imitators who have carried the
defect of his manner to “ridiculous ex
cess. ,r An instance of extravagant
caricature of these imitators, is given
in the following new mode] of ft portion
of the 23d Psalm:
“Detty is my pastor, I shall not be
indigent. Thou
annomtest ray locks with oditerous
unquents—my chalics exhuberatesT
Sir T nte j jnnm -he aapww
to this absurd study the peroration of
Sir Thomas Urqubart’s Jewel:
“I could have introduced, in case of
obscurity synonymal, exargastic,
and palilogetic elucidations; for sweet
ness of phrase, anumetathetic commu
tation ol epithets; for the vehement ex
citation of matter, exclamations in the
front, and epiphonemas in the rear. I
could have used for the prompther
stirring up of passion, apostrophal and
prosopopoeial diversions; and for the
appeasing and settling of them, some
epanorthetic revocations and aposto
petic restraints. I could have inserted
dialogism, displaying their interrogato
ry part with communicatively-pysmatic
and sustentative flourishes, orprolep
tically, with the refutative schemes of
anticipationtion and subjection; and
that part which concerns the responso
ry, with the figures of petmission and
concession.”
Air. A. Bronson Alcott of Boston,
proposes to deliver seven lectures in
New York, the coming winter, or cer
tain individual's whom he takes to be
pecuiiary the representatives of New
England character and genius. The
topics and persons are as follows: Or
der, Daniel Webster; Progress, W.
L. Garrison; Popular Rights, Theo
dore Parker; Social Lite, W. H.
Channing; Women, S. Margaret Ful
ler; Literature, R. Waldo Emerson;
Humanity, Dr. Channing.
Mr. Alcott proposes to give the same
course in Salem, if sufficient en
couragement is offered. Enquire of
W. S. B. Ives.
Thomas D. McGee, Esq., will lec
ture in Lawrence, on Monday evening
next, upon “The Mission of the Irish
Race in Europe and America.”
At a meeting of the National Tem
perance Society, of New York, on
Monday, a mar sheeted out that he
would give $25 to niuks Daniel Web
ster a life member; and then offered
£25 for Heury Clay; a fhird would do
the same for some other distinguished
noafk, when a person in the gallery cried
out $5O for Frederick *>ougiass. Bah!
aaid some one sitting behind Henry
Ward Beecher. Let every one reply
in t.isown vernacular, instantly respond
ed the Rev. Mr. Wakly, turning to the
individual who bah’d, with a most sig
nificant gesture. A tremendous roar
of laughter followed this happy hit.—
Essex Co. Freeman.
Opimon of Slavery in New Or-'
leans. —We have noticed that, fer
some time, the ultra Southern papers
have not rauked Louisiana as among
the States likely to join the proposed
Southern Confederacy, or likely to aid
in its establishment. The following
which we clip from the N. Orleans
Courier, may be a sufficient explana
tion:
Startling! Abolition Strength in the
city of New Orleans!—ln conversing
with a very intelligent citizen of the
Second Municipality yesterday, and
who has resided in this city for many
years, upon the state of public opinion
here upon the slavery question, we
were altogether amazed and confound
ed to hear him declare his belief, that
if the question of the abolition of sla
very in Louisiana, were submitted to
the people of New Orleans, the ques
tion would be carried by a two-third
vote! Believing ourselves that so
monstrous a proposal could not com
mand a five per cent vote, out of the
whole population, we mentioned the
subject to several of our friends, and
though they all agreed that the opinion
expressed was extravagant and exces
sive, we were hardly less amazed and
confounded to hear them admit, as
they distinctly did, that upon such an
issue, it was doubtful, upon which side
the majority of the citizens of New
Orleans would be found! We are
constrained to admit that the gentlemen
referred to, have had greater opportune
ties than we have, to come to a safe
and soilhd conclusion upon such a mat
ter; but the solace we derive, from
the counter opinions which have always
been ours, are altogether too precious
and conservative of the peace and of
the rights of the South, to be parted
with and surrounded, but upon fuller
proofs; but at the same time we muat
concede, that the statements made to
us by persons of so jnuch respecta
bility and wirth, beWken a state of
public sentiment here, of the weightiest
import, and of which we had not until
now, the smallest conception!— Cin.
hoc. Enn.
Telegraphs in America. The
Ohio, Indiana and Illinois Telegraph
Company has now taken a new organ
ization. It is one of the moat extensive
lines in the world, and haa now 1600
miles in working order. Such is the
extension of the telegrah system in
the thinly peopled countries of the far
west, while it can hardly be said that
the telegraph is in general work in this
country. The announcement of the
length held by one company in the
United States, ought to be an encour
agement to operations here.— Louth
AeriUer.
Mr. Hiland Hall, of Vermont:' haa
been appointed Second Comptroller
Vice Gov. Paris, from Maine,“Christians and Philanthropists hear
—North Star Fair iu Buffalo.**
The Ladies of Buffalo, feeling bound by the
tiea of humanity to imitate, as far a* possible,
the philanthropic efforts of their sisters else
where to aid, in some humble degree, the
great cause of human freedom, which cause
they hold to be paramount to all others,
save that of the tehgion of Jesus Christ, and
believing that no mortal means can be used
with such great power and effect and no in
fluence so widely extended as that of the pub
lic press, and believing the “North Star,”
published and edited by that noble champion
of human rights, Frederick Douglass, to b
ir every respect worthy of our countenance and
support, and being aware of his great need of
pecuniary assistance, we feel determined to
aid in the advancement of the cause which he
has espoused by holding a Fair for the bene
fit, and sustenance of his paper, to commence
on New Year's Eve. The united co-opera
tioas of the friends throughout the country is
most earnestly solicited.
Donations and contributions may be for
warded to Mrs. Richard Jones corner of
North Division and Pine streets, or Mrs. Rich
ard Turner, No. 28 Pine Street, in behalf of
the Association.
Mrs. RICHARD JONES, Pree’t.
Union Meeting.—The Union Meeting in
Philadelphia, on the 21al mat., was attended
by nearly 7000 persons. Hon. John Sargeant
officiated as President. Speeches were deliv
ered by George M. Dallas. Josiah Randall,
Richard Rush, J. R. Ingeißotl, and others.
Among the letters lead, yete the following
from Messrs. Clay and Webster—
Ashland, Nov, 8.
Gentlemen—l have your letter inviting my
attendance at a contemplated Union meeting
of the people of Philadelphia. I should have
been highly gratified to have been able to be
present on such a distinguished occasion, but
the necessary attention to my private affairs
forbids my leaving home so soon after my re
turn from the late session of Congress. I re
joice in the proposed public demonstration and
other similar manifestations of public senti
ments of the North. The question before the
nation is, (it would be folly to blind or dis
guise it,) whether agitation against slavery
shall put down the Union, or the Union shall
be preserved, and that agitation be put down.
There is no alternative, and is there any pa
triot that can doubt or hesitate on sucli an is
sue 1
With great respect, I am, gentlemen, vour
obedient servant, H. CLAY.
Boston, Nov. 14.
Gentlemen —I rave the honor to acknowl
edge the receipt of your letter of the 11th of
this month, inviting me, in behalf of the friends
of the Constitution and the Union, without
distinction of parly, resident in the city and
county of Philadelphia, to attend a public
meeting in that city on the 21st inst. 1 most
sincerely wish that it was in my power to at
tend that meeting. That gr .‘at central city
is not only full of the friends of the Constitu
tion, but full, also, of recollections connected
with its adoption, and other great events in
our histoiy. lit Philadelphia the first revolu
tionary Congress assembled. In Philadelphia
the Declaration of Independence was made.
In Philadelphia the Constitution was formed,
and received the signatures of Washington
and his assocaiates; and now, when there is a
spirit abroad evidently laboring to effect the
separation of the Union, and the subversion
of the Constitution, Philadelphia, of all pla
ces, seems the finest for the assembling to
gether of the friends of that Constitution, and
that Union, to pledge ihemselvesto one anoth
er and to the country to the last extremity.
My public duties, gentlemen, lequire my
immediate presence in Washingion; and for
that reason, and that alone, I must deny my
self thn pleasure of accepting your invitation.
1 have the honoi, gentleman, to be, with
great regard, your fellow citizen and humble
servant, DANIEL WEBSTER.
Mr. (Jrittknden and tub Marshall oj
Boston. —Documents and affidavits concern
ing the conduct of the United States Marshal
and other officers in the case of William and
Ellen Crafts, having been transmitted to the
President, he submitted them to Mr. Critten
den, Attorney General, who, after a careful
examination, says
“Having perused them with care, and cer
tainly without any bias or prepossession in
favor of the marshal or h is deputy, I must say
that, though 1 Can see no evidence of any par
ticular activity n d energy on their part, it
seems to me there does not sufficiently appear
any cause for the censure of their conduct, or
the removal of the marshall from office.”
He thinks a mote commendable activity
might have been manifested by them, but
says that they acted in consultation with Mr.
Hughes, the agent, who states that he has
no ground of complaint against them.
Mr. Attorney General, in the closing para
graph of his communication to the President,
makes an indecorous display of his own feel
ings:
“If I could have discovered any satisfactory
evidence of the neglect or evasion of duty by
these officers in ibis case, it would have been
no less consonant with my feelings than with
my judgment, to have recommended their in
stant dismissal from the public service.”—
Nat. Era.
Increase of the Value of S; «.ves. —The
Fugitive Slave law has had the effect to in
crease the value of slaves in this State, in con
sequence of the greater apparent security of
that kind of properly. This security is, how
ever, merely ideal, as will be found next
spring. Slaves do nut abscond to any great
extent in the fa 1 of winter, preferring to
travel either in the spring or summer. A
statement has already been made through the
Telegiaph that a number of persons in this
State are preparing the necessary papers to
it rest and identify their property at the
North. Some few have done so, it is true
out the great majority of persons who have
lost slaves have as yet taken no action to re
cover them. It is desired at the South, and
will be urged in Congress this winter, to
amend the Fugitive Slave law by adopting
the amendment of list spring, (which was
then lost) to remunerate from the public
treasury the owners of such slaves, who may
fad to obtain them by due process, after they
may have identifier! their property. If the
North permits such an amendment, it may
anticipate paying for several thousand of
those who have absconded.— Balt. Cor. Tub.
Singular Proceedings.— Joe Barker, the
Mayor of Pittsburgh, who was elected whilst
in jail, on a conviction of street preaching and
street riots, is giving the goodly people of
the Iron City a great deal of trouble. He is
determined to show them that Joe Barker
is Mayer, and that his enemies shall taste the
sweets of the dungeon he so long enjoyed.
He has arrested the Sheriff for misdemeanor,
the Catholic Bishop am nuisance, and the
City Council for a conspiracy, and threatens
to imprison any Judge who on habeas corpus
discharges any of his prisoners. After he
had committed the City Council to jail, he
closed his remarks with the following em
phatic language:—
“We want (said he) one reform, and then
we will be able to get along. Hang all the
judges, drive out half the lawyers and put
down the grc£ shops.”
A White Man Escaped from Slavery.
—The last Newport and Covington, (Ky.)
Daily News, reports the escape of a white
man from Kentucky slavery. We quote
liom the Journal the following paragraph:—
“We learn that a mulatto man,a slave,es
caped from Georgetown on Tuesday last, ta
king with him a splendid horse and buggy.
He came to Covington and passed the ferry
without trouble; being straight haired and light
complexioned, he represented himself success
fully as a WHITE MAN.”
Those who are honest, as ths best palicy,
l»*K way to being rogues.
iljc Nortl) Slot.
ROCHESTER, DECEMBER 5, 1850.
VO 3 A second Lecture on Slavery will be
delivered by Frederick Douglass, in Co
rinthian Hall, on Sunday evening next, at
seven o’clock. The public are respectfully
invited to attend.
B 7 Wr beg to return our sincere thanks
to our friend Wilson Amistead, for his kind
donation of books for the Rochester Fair.
They have reached us safely, through the
kindness of our Philadelphia friend, and will
prove very acceptable.
The Clairvotast Family Phtsician, con
taining a course of treatment for all the diseases
prevalent in this country. By Mrs. Lucina
Tuttle, of Ryrsn, Genesee county to ba had
at D. M. Dewet’s, No. 1 and 2, Arcade Hall,
Rochester.
This is a Rochester book, and peculiar to
this region of country. We commend it to
the perusal of the curious, without undertak
ing to controvert or endorse its teachings.—
Books that come to us, backed up by the
affirmations of clairvoyants, ot the tappings of
spirits, are difficult to dispute with, because
they both Ifsslr from a alata of heins into
which we have never penetrated.—f. d.
A Word to Subscribers.—Two more
numbers will close the third volume of “the
North Star. We have had little to say, dur
ing the present year, by way of pressing the
claims of this journal upon its subscriber;
nor do we mean to say much now, nor in
future, to urge upon them the importance of
giving it a generous support; —but we do feel
at full liberty to solicit prompt payment of all
subscriptions. This is absolutely necessary to
the very existence of the paper. Few sub*
scribers are aware of the immense expendi
tures attendant on the publication of a large
weekly journal, like “the North Star,” —and
when they consider that the funds for this
purpose must, necessarily, come in very small
sums, they must know that the utmost prompti
tude on the part of individual subscribers, is
our only hope of success.
We, therefore, beg that such of our sub
sctibers as are in arreats, will favor us by
remitting to us immediately —and that those
who have already paid up, will lay us under
greater obligations by forwarding us as many
new subscribers as they may be able to get.—
F. D.
LECTURE NO. I.—Delivered by Fred
erick Dottflais, in Corinthinn Hall,
on Sunday Evening, Dee. Ist.
I come before you this evening to deliver
the first lecture of a course which I purpose
to give in this city, during the present winter,
on the subject of American Slavery.
1 make this announcement with no feelings
of self-sufficiency. If I do not mistake my
own emotions, they are such as result from a
profound sense of my incompetency to do
justice to the task which I have just an
nounced, and have now entered upon.
If any, then, demand of me why I speak,
I plead as my apology, the fact that abler and
more eloquent men have failed to speak, 01
what, perhaps, is more true, therefore
more strong, such men have spoken only or
the wrong side of the question, and havt
thus thrown their influence against the cause
of liberty, humanity and benevolence.
There are times in the experience of almosi
every community, when even the humbles
member thereof may properly presume tr
teach —when the wise and great ones, the
appointed leaders of the people, exert theii
powers of mind to complicate, mystify, en
tangle and obscure the simple truth—whet
they exert the noblest gifts which heaver
has vouchsafed to man to mislead ihe populai
mind, and to corrupt the public heart, tha
the humblest may stand forth and be excuse*
for opposing even his weakness to the torrem
of evil.
That such a state of things exists in thii
community, 1 have abundant evidence.
learn it from the Rochester press, from the
Rochester pulpit, and in my intercourse witl
the people of Rochester. Not a day passes
over me that I do not meet with apparently
good men, who utter sentiments in respect t(
this subject which would do discredit tc
savages. They speak of the enslavement ol
their fellow-men with an and
coldness which might lie looked for only in
men hardened by the most atrocious and vil
lanous crimes.
The fact is, we are in the midst of a greal
struggle. The public mind is widely and
deeply agitated and bubbling up from it«
perturbed waters, are many ami great impuri
ties, whose poisonous miasma demands a
constant antidote.
Whether the contemplated lectures will in
any degree contribute towards answering this
demand, time will determine.
Of one thing, however, I can assure my
hearers—that I come up to this work at the
call of duty, and with an honest desire to
promole the happiness and well-being ol
every member of this community, as well as
to advance the emancipation of every slave.
The audience will pardon me if I say one
word more by way of introduction. It is my
purpose to give this subject a calm, candid
and faithful discussion. I shall not aim to
shock nor to startle my heareis; but to con
vince their judgment and to secure their sym
pathies for the erslaved. I shall aim to be
as stringent as truth, and as severe as justice;
and if at any time I shall fail of this, and do
injustice in any respect, I shall be most happy
to be set right by any gentleman who shall
hear me, subject, of course, to order and de
corum. I shall deal, during these lectures,
alike with individuals and institutions—men
shall no more escape me than things. I shall
have occasion, at times, to be even personal,
and to rebuke sin in high places. I shall noi
hesitate to arraign either priests or politi
cians, church or state, and to measure all by
the standard of justice, and in the light oi
truth. I shall not forget to deal with tin
unrighteous spirit of caste which prevails
this community and I shall give particulai
attention to the recently enacted fugitive slav<
bill. I shall keep my eye upon the Congres;
which is to commence to-morrow, and fullj
inform myself as to its proceedings. In s
word, the whole subject of slavery, in all iti
bearings, shall have a full sod impartial die
caution.
A very slight acquaintance with the his ton
of Atonican slavery is sufficient to show tha
it is an evil of which it will be difficult to rit
this country. It is not the creature of a mo*
ment, which to day is, and to-morrow is not;
it is not a pigmy, which a slight blow may
demolish; it is*no youthful upstatt, whose
impertinent pratings may be silenced by a
dignified contempt. No: it is an evil ol
gigantic proportions, and of long standing.
Its origin in this country dates back to the
landing of the pilgrims on Plymouth rock.—
It was here moie than two centuries ago.
The first spot poisoned by its leprous pres
ence, was a small plantation in Virginia. The
slaves, at that time, numbered only twenty.
They have now increased to the frightful
number of three millions; and from that
narrow plantation, they are now spread over
by far the largest half of the American Un
ion. Indeed, slavery forms an important part
of the entire history of the American people.
Its presence may be seen in all American
affairs. It has become interwoven with all
American institutions, and has anchored itself
in the very soil of the American Constitution.
It has thrown its paralysing arm over freedom
of speech, and the liberty of the press and
has created for itself morals and manners
favorable to its own continuance. It has se
duced the church, corrupted the pulpit, and
brought the powers of both into degrading
bondage; and now, in the pride of its power,
n rvmi Threatens to onng aown tnat grana
political edifice, the American Union, unless
every member of this republic shall so far
disregard his conscience and his God as to
yield to its infernal behests.
That must be a powerful influence which
can truly be said to govern a nation and
that slavery governs the American people, is
indisputably true. If theie were any doubt
on this point, a few plain questions (it seems
to me) could not fail to remove it. What
power has given this nation its Presidents lor
more than fifty years* Slavery. What
power is that to which the present aspirants
to presidential honors are bowing Slavery.
We may call it Union,” “Constitution,”
Harmony,” or American institutions,”
that to which such men as Cass, Dickinson,
Webster, Clay and other distinguished men
of this country, are devoting their energies,
is nothing more nor less that American sla
very. It is for this that they are writing let
tets, making speeches, and promoting the
holding of great mass meetings, professedly
in lavor of the Union." These men know
the service most pleasing to their master, and
that which is most likely to be richly re
warded. Men may serve God for nought,”
as did Job; but he who serves the devil has
an eye to his reward. Patriotism,” obe
dience to the law,” prosperity to the coun
try,’’ have come to mean, in the mouths of
these distinguished statesmen, a mean and
servile acquiescence in the most flagitious and
profligate legislation in favor of slavery. I
might enlarge here on this picture of the
slave power, and tell of its influence upon the
press in the free Slates, and upon the condi
tion and tights of the free colored people of
the North but I forbear for the present.
Enough has been said, I trust, to convince all
that the abolition of this evil will require
time, energy, zeal, perseverance and patience;
that it wifi require fidelity, a martyr-like
spirit of self-sacrifice, and a firm reliance on
Him who has declared Himself to be the
God of the oppressed. Having said thus
much upon the power and prevalence of sla
very, allow me to speak of the nature of sla
very itself; and here I can speak, in part,
from experience—l can speak with the au
thority of positive knowledge.
More than twenty years of rny life were
consumed in a state of slavery. My child
hood was environed by the baneful peculiari
ties of the slave system. I grew up to man
hood in the presence of this hydra-headed
monster—not as a master —not as an idle
spectator —not as the guest of the slave
holder; but as a slave, eating the bread and
drinking the cup of slavery with the roost
degraded of my brother bondmen, and sharing
with them all the painful conditions of their
wretched lot. In consideration of these facts,
I feel that I have a right to speak, and to
speak strongly. Yet, my friends, I feel
bound to speak truly.
Goading as have been the cruelties to
which I hive been subjected—bitter as have
been the trials throughjwhich I have passed
exaspeiaiing as have been (and still are) the
indignities offered to my manhood, I find in
them no excuse for the slightest departure
from truth in dealing with any branch of this
subject.
First of all, I will state, as well as I can,
the legal and social relation of master and
slave. A master is one (to speak in the vo
cabulary of the Southern States) who claims
and exercises a right of property in the per
son of a fellow man. This he does with the
force of the law and the sanction of Southern
religion. The law gives the master absolute
power over the slave. He may work him,
flog him, hire him out, sell him, and, in cer*
tain contingences, kill him, with perfect im
punity. The slave is a human being, di
vested of all rights—reduced t 9 the level of
a brute—a mere chattel” in the eye of the
l*w placed beyond the circle of human
brotherhood cut off from his kind his
name, which the recording angel” may
have enroled in heaven, among the blest, is
impiously inserted in a mast r's leger, with
horses, sheep and swine. In law, the slave
has no wife, no children, no country, and no
home. He can own nothing, possess noth
ing, acquire nothing, but what must belong
to another. To eat the fruit of his own toil,
to clothe his person with the work of his own
hands, is considered stealing. He toils that
another may reap the fruit; he is industrious
that another may live in idleness; he eats
unbolted meal, that another may eat the bread
of fine flour; he labors in chains at home,
under a burning sun and a biting lash, that
another may ride in ease and splendor abroad;
he lives in ignorance, that another may be
educated he is abused, that another may be
exslted; he rests his toil-worn limbs on the
cold, damp ground, that another may repose
on the softest pillow be is clad in coarse and
tattered raimmt,that another may be arrayed
in purple and fine linen he is sheltered only
by the wretched hovel, that a master may
dwell in a magnificent mansion and to this
condition he is bound down as by an arm of
iron.
From this monstrous relation, there springs
an uneeaaing stream of most revolting cruel
ties. The very accompanyments of the slave
system, stamp it as the offspring of hell itself.
To ensure good behavior, the slaveholder
relies on the whip; to induce proper humility,
he relies on the whip; to rebake what he is
pleased to term insolence, he relies on the
t whtp; to supply <ke place of wages, as an
1 incentive to toil, be relies on the whip; to bind
t down the the slave, to imbrate and
I to destroy his manhood, he relies on the whip,
the chain, the gag, the thamb-sciew, the pit
lory, the bowie-knife, the pistol, and the
I>!oo<t |H^ k 'rheae are the necessary and
of the aysiem.—
Wherever alwtty found, these hoi rid in
struments aie also found. Whether on the
coast of Africa, among the savage tribes, or
in South Carolina, among the refined ami
civilized, slavery is the same, and its accom
panyments one and the same. It makes no
difference whether the slaveholder worships
the God of the Christians or is a follower of
Mahomet, he is the minister of the same
cruelty, and the author of the same misery.
Slarvry is always slavery —always the same
foul, haggard, and damning scourge, whether
found in the Eastern or in the Western Hem
isphere.
There is a still deeper shade to be given to
this picture. The physical cruelties are in
deed sufficiently harrassing and revolting; but
they are but as a few grains of sands on the
sea shore, or a few drops of water in the
great ocean, compared with the stupendous
wrongs which it inflicts upon the mental,
moral and teligious nature of its hapless
victims. It is only when we contemplate the
slaveas a moril and intellectual being, that
we can adequately comprehend the unparal
leled enormity of slavery, and the intense
criminality of the slaveholder. I have said
that the slave is a man. “What a piece of
work is man How noble in reason I How
infinite in faculties! In form and moving
how express and admirable! In action how
like an angel! In apprehension how like a
God The beauty of the world the paragon
of animals!”
The slave is a man, “the image of God,”
but “a little lower than the angels;” possess
ing a soul, eternal and indestructible; capable
of endless happiness, or immeasurable woe;
a creature of hopes and feats, of affections
and passions, of joys and sorrows; and he is
endowed with those mysterious powers by
which man soars above the things of time and
sense, and grasps with undying tenacity, the
elevating and sublimely glorious idea of a
God. It is such a being that is smitten and
blasted. The first work of slavery is to mai
and deface those characteristics of its.victimi
which distinguish men from things, and per
sons from property. Its fust aim is to destroy
all sense of high moral and religious respon
sibility. It reduces man to a mere machine
It cuts him oir from his maker, it hides frotr
him the laws of God, and leaves him to gropr
his way from time to eternity in the dark, un
d«r the arbitrary and despotic control of
frail, depraved and sinful fellow-man.
As the serpent-charmer of India is com
pelted to extract the deadly teeth of his ven
omous prey before he is able to handle hiu
with impunity, so the slaveholder must stnki
down the conscience of the slave, before h<
esn obtain the entire mastery over his victim
It is, then, the first business of the enslave
of men to blunt, deaden and destroy the cen
tral principle of human responsibility. Con
science is to the individual soul and to society
what the law of gravitation is to the universe
It holds society together; it is the basis of al
trust and confidence; it is the pillar of a]
moral recitude. Without it, suspicion woul<
take the place of trust; vice wouid be mon
than a match for virtue; men would prey up
on each other, like the wild beasts of th
desert; and earth would become a hell.
Nor is slavery more adverse to the con
science that it is to the mind.
This is slown by the fact that in ever;
State of the American Union, where slaver'
exists, excq>t the State of Kentucky, ther
are laws, absolutely prohibitory of educatio
among tbe daves. The crime of teaching
slave to read is punishable with severe finei
and imprisonment, and, in some instances
with death ilstlf.
Nor are the laws respecting this matter,:
dead letter. Cases may occur in which thei
are disregarded, and a few instances may bi
found where slaves may have learned to read
but such are isolated cases, and only provi
the rule. The great mass of slaveholders 100 l
upon education among the slaves as utterly
subversive of the slave system. I well re
member when my mistress first announced tc
my master that she had discovered that J
could read. His face colored at once, with
surprise ana chagrin. He said that “I was
ruined, and my value as a slave destroyed;
that a slave should know nothing but to obey
his master; that to give a negro an inch would
lead him to take an ell; that having learned
how to read, 1 would soon want to know
how to write; and that, bye and bye, 1 would
be running away.” 1 think my audience will
bear witness to the correctness of this philo
sophy, and to the literal fulfilment of this
prophecy.
It is perfectly well understood at the South
that'to educate a slave is to make him discon
tented with slavery, and to invest him with
power whieh shall open to him the treas
ures of freedom; and since the object of the
slaveholder is to maintain complete authority
over his slave, his constant vigilance is exer
cised to prevent everything which militates
against, or endangers the stability of his au
thority. Education being among the menac
ing influences, and, perhaps, the most danger
ous, is, therefore, the most cautiously guard
ed against.
It is ttue that we do not often hear of the
enforcement of the law, punishing as crime
the teaching of slaves to read,but this is not be
cause of a want of disposition to enforce it.
The true reason, or explanation of the matter
it this, there is the greatest unanimity of opin
ion among the white population of the South,
in favor of the policy of keeping the slave in
ignoranee. There is, perhaps, another rea
son why the law against education is so seldom
violated. The slave is too poor to be able to
offer a temptation sufficiently strong to induce
a white man to violate it; and it is not to be
supposed that in a community where the moral
and Teligious sentiment is in favor of slavery,
many martyrs will be found sacrificing their
liberty and lives by violating those prohibitory
enactments.
Asa general rule, then, darkness reigns
over the abodes of the enslaved, and “how
great is that darkness!”
We are sometime* told of the contentment
of tbe slsvee, snd sre entertcined with vivid
pictures of their hsppiness. We Me told thst
they often dance and aiog; that their master*
frequently give them wherewith to make
merry; in fine, that that they have little of
which to complain. I admit that the slave
does aoroetirnes sing, dance, and appear to bel
merry. But what does this prove? It only
prove* to my mind, that though slavery is
armed with a thousand stings, it is not able
entirely to kill the elastic spirit of the bond
man. That spirit will rise and walk abroad,
despite of whips and chains, and extract from
the cup of nature, occasional drops of joy and
gladness. No thanks t* the slaveholder, nor
to slavery, that the vivacious captive may
sometimes dance in his chains, his very mirth
in such circumstances, stands before God, as
an accusing angel against his enslaver.
But who tells us of the extraordinary con
tentment and happiness of the slave* What
traveller has explored the balmy regions of
our Southern country and brought back
“these glad tidings of joy” 1 Bring him cn
the platfoim, and bid him answer a few plain
q uestions, we shall then be able to determine
the weight and importance that attach to his
testimony. Is he a minister Yea. Were
you ever in a slave State, sir Yes. May
1 inquire the object of your mission South
To preach the gospel, sir. Of what denom
ination are you A Presbyterian, sir. To
whom were you introduced To the Rev.
Plummer. Is he a slaveholder, sir Yes,
sir. Has slaves about his house? v„ H j r
Were you then the guest of Dr. Plummer?
Yes, sir. Waited on by slaves while there?
Yes, sir. Did you preach for Dr. Plummer?
Yes, sir. Did you spend your nights at the
great house, or at the quarter among the
slaves At the great house. You had, then,
no social intercourse with the slaves? No,
sir. You fraternized, then, wholly with the
white portion of the population while there?
Yes, sir. This is sufficient, sir; you can leave
the platform.
Nothing is more natural than that those
who go into slave States, and enjoy the hi*
pitality of slaveholders, should bring back
favorable reports of the condition of the slave.
If that ultra republican, the Hon. Lewis Cass
could not return from the Court of France,
without paying a compliment to royalty sim
ply because King Louis Phillippe patted
him on the shoulder, called him “friend,”
and invited him to dinner, it is not to bo ex
pected that those hungry shadows of men in
the shape of ministers, that go South, can es
cape a contamination even more' beguiling
and insidious. Alas! fox the weakness ol
poor human nature “Pleased with a rattle,
tickled with a straw
Why is it Jthat sll the reports of content
ment and happiness among the slaves at the
South come to us upon the authority of slave
holders, or (what is equally significant,)
of slaveholder’s friends? Why is it that we
do not hear from the slaves direct The an
swer to this question furnishes the darkest
features in the American slave system.
1 It is often said, by the opponents of the An
ti-Slavery cause, that the condition of the peo
pie of Ireland is more deplorable than lhat o!
the American slaves. Far be it from me to
underrate the sufferings of the Irish people.
They have been long oppressed; and the same
heart that prompts me to plead the cause ol
the American bondman, makes it impossible
fur me not to sympathize with the oppressed
of all lands. Yet I must say that there is no
1 analogy between the two cases. The Irish
man is poor, but he is not a slave. He may
be in rags, but he is not a slave. He is still
the master of his own body, and can say with
1 the poet, “The hand of Douglass is his own.”
“The world is all before him, where tc
choose,” and poor as may be my opinion ol
the British Parliament, I cannot believe that il
will ever sink to such a depth of infamy as tc
pass a law for the recapture of Fugitive
1 Irishmen! The shame and scandal of kid
-1 napping will long remain wholly monopo
1 lized by the American Congress! The Irish
man has not only the liberty to emigrate from
his country, but he has liberty at home. H«
can write, and speak, and co-cperate for the
attainment of his rights and the redress of his
wrongs.
.The multitude can assemble upon all the
gieer. hols, and fertile plains of the Emerald
Isle—they can pour out their grievances, and
proclaim their wants without molestation;
and the press, lhat “awift-winged messen
ger,” can bear the tidings of their doings to
the extreme bounds of the civilized woild.
They have their “Conciliation Hall” on the
banks of the Liffey, their reform Clubs, and
their newspapers; they pass resolutions, send
forth addresses, and enjoy the right of peti
tion-. But how is it with the American
slave? Where may he assemble Where is
his Conciliation Hull Where are his news,
papers Where is his right of petition*
Where is his freedom of speech his liberty of
the press and his right of locomotion He is
said to be happy; happy men can speak. But
ask the slave— what iahis condition?— what
his state of mind? 1 what he thinks of his
enslavement and you had as well address
your inquiries to the silent dead. There
comes no voice from the enslaved, we are left
to gather his feelings by imagining whatour’s
would be, were our jouls in his soul’s stead.
If there' were no other fact descriptive oi
slavery, than that the slave is dumb, this
alone would be sufficient to mark the slave
system as a grand aggregation of human hor
rors.
Most who are present will have observed
that leading men, in this country, have been
putting forth their skill to secure quiet to
the nation. A system of measures to promote
this object was adopted a few months ago in
Congress.
The result of those measures is known. In
stead of quiet, they have produced alarm; in
stead of they have brought us war,
and so roust ever be.
While this nation is guilty of the enslave
ment of three millions of innocent men and
women, it is as idle fb think of having a sound
and lasting peace, as it is to think there is no
God, to take cognizance of the affairs of men.
There can be no peace to the wicked while
slavery continues in the land, it will be con
demned.and while it is condemned there will be
agitation; Nature must cease to be nature; Men
must become monsters; Humanity must be
transformed; Christianity must be extermina
ted; all ideas of justice, and the laws of eter
nal goodness must be utterly blotted out from
the human soul, ere a system so foul and in
fernal can escape condemnation, or thia guilty
Republic can have a sound and enduring
Peace.
George Thompson’* Speech.
Our leader* are aware, that Mr. Thompson
was not permitted, in cneeeqnence of the
riotcaa behavior of certain of the Whig* of
Boston, to pronounced the speech which he
had prepared for deliver* at the reception
meeting, in the city acmujed to him by bin
friend*. And now we can scarcely find a
Whig newspaper that does not justify the
outrage upon the sacred right of Jiheiiy of
speech. The New York Expiesa gives en
couragement to all patriots of the Rvnders
school, to expel Mr. Thompson from the
country and the editors themselves openly
advocate the propriety nf lynching him.
Here is what that immaculate sheet say*
editorialy upon the subject:
“Considering the present excited and al
most insurrectionary state of the public mind
in this country, we have no hesitation in say
ing that we hope this'counirv will be made
too hot for this Hon. feed British emissary,
in case be attempts to patrol our country, and
to excite and to exasperate one portion of our
countrymen against another. As wc would
repel a foreign enemy, we have a right to
repel him. As the British government would
hang an American in Iteland, there exciting
one portion of society to an insurrection
•against the other, so here we have the right,
not to hang this British feed Emmissary, to
be sure, but to silence him in every way con
sistent with the laws of our country. We
owe him no hospitality. We owe himVio re
spect. We owe him no decent taeatmeni.
He is an alien enemy, with a firebrand m his
hand; a paid alien spy, from portion of the
British people, who wish to destioy our
country; and the quicker he is made to feel
the ignominy of his traitorous misssion, the
i-t-lrer fie will go back, with his Gold, to the
mischievous hum Imre.''
The time haa been when a higher morality
th|n breathes in the above, characterized the
leading articles of the most influential organa
of the Whig party; but the apostacy of the
leaders, has corrupted the satellites; and it is
not to be wondered at, that with Daniel Web
ster, fallen to a level with the Honorable
Michad Walsh, prominent W higs should be
foremost in provoking riots, as in Boston, nr
that the sentiments of the Empire Club,
should find a voice in the columns of Whig
newspapers. Most unfortunately for ’hose
maligners of Mr. Thompson and his motives,
the speech which he had intended to have
given, was written down beforehand, and was
laid before the public through the colums ol
the Chronotype on the following morning.
While it carried upon its face throughout, the
most ample refutation of all the slanders of
his opponents, it showed likewise the too po
tent influence of a venal pres 3, over the pre
judiced, the unprincipled, and the vile.
We copy a |few brief extracts from the
speech as published,* without
from the authty, and ask our readers candidly
to judge if for the utterance of such sentiments
as these, the threat of the New York Ex
press should be carried out, and “the country
made too hot to hold the man who utteis
them.”
Mr. Thompson is speaking of the political
institutions of his own country, and says:
“Our system is a fetid duughill, out of
which springs with frightful luxuriance, under
the warm sun of every general election, all
kinds of rank weeds and poisonous plants. Ii
is a stagnant reservoir of putrid water,
breeding from year to year every pernicious
exhalation, and all sorts of noxious reptiles
to find their way at every election into the
regions of pollution and iniquity, and wh ch
are always to be traced by the filthy slime
thev leave behind them.”
This sounds very much like the language
of a feed agent of the British Government,
it must be confessed. He refers to Massa
chusetts and to Mr. Webster, as follows.
“Massachusetts has not forgotten the God
that guided the Mayflower to Plymouth rock
—and though the peerless intellect of Massa
chusetts may suffer from the stroke of a
Southern sun, the heart of the old Bay State
is sound, and still beats responsive to the
instincU of nature, the dictates of humanity,
and the claims of the trembling outcast who
asks a shelter on her soil.”
Relative to his advocacy of slavery emanci
pation here, he speaks as follows:
“If it be imputed to me that I have identi
fied myself with those who are held in sla
very on this soil, and have sought to promul
gate the doctrines of emancipation, I acknow
ledge the justice of the impeachment, and
plead guilty. My offence reaches far beyond
the limits of the United Stales. My aspira
tions for freedom are as wide as the soil pol
luted by the footprints of a tyrant. In advo
cating the rights of humanity, I know of no
geographical boundaries. I walk upon God’s
earth, among God's children, and wherever
I see one of them smitten down, I will de
nounce the aggressor, and demand the de
liverance of the captive.”
He makes an extract from the speech of
Mr. Webster at the Hungarian dinner, re
lative to Kossuth and the Austrian Govern
ment, and substituting Crafts for Kossuth and
tire South for Austria, makes it read as fol
lows:
“I see that the South demands of Massa
chusetts that the noble Crafts and his equally
noble companion should be given up, and I
see that this demand is in derision of the es
tablished law of nations. Gentlemen, there
is something on earth greater lhan arbitrary
or despQltc power. The lightning has its
power, and the whirlwind has its powei; but
there is something among men more capable
of shaking despotic power than lightning,
whirlwind or earthquake—that is the threat
ened indignation of the whole civilized
world.”— Worcester Spy.
Free Labor Intelligence.—A recent
letter from Trinidad speaks of the lively in
terest of the inhabitants of that island on the
subject of cotton growing, and of their in
tention to plant a large quantity of land that
has hitherto been lying almost waste. The
writer encloseJ a specimen ol native cotton,
which has been valued in Liverpool at nine
and a half per lb. Another account from
Jamaica speaks earnestly of the importance
of the people of Great Britain prefeiring free
produce to slave-grown, and of the probabili
ty of a large supply of free cotton being
grown in that colony at no distant period.
Other letters from the maker of the new
Roller-gin (a gentleman tt'&iding in Edin
burgh) tell of the hearty approval of his
machine by the manufacturers of Mancheiter,
after it had been elosely tested in that town;
and the writer adds, ‘‘l ain now engaged in
the construction of one for Australia, one for
Jamaica, and one for the East coast of Afri
ca. To-day, lam forwarding one to Natal.
I receive jCI2, 13s. each fur these machines;
but so soon as I receive an order to any ex
tent, and can make a division of labor in theii
construction, I will inform you of the lowest
price for which I can furnish them.”
It appears that this gin, which may be con
veyed to the West India Islands for about
10s., is all the machinery that is necessary
for the cleaning of cotton. How cheap and
simple a source ot comfort and revenue might
cotton-growing become to the inhabitants of
tnose loLi.dt!
Be it also remembered that the exuberance
of the West Indian soil and climate allow of
t vro crops of cotton being gathered in the
year, instead of only one. The frosts of
winter uniformly cut off the American plant, j
and call foi its being renewed each spring; i
while, in the West Indies and Natal, the
same shrub lasts for six, eight, or ten years,
and requires comparatively no atiention, ex
cept being kept clear of weeds.
Why, with this source of an abundant sup
ply within easy reach, ami only requiring a
spi riled demand for it to fill the British mar
kets —O »hy should the ladies of England
continos to clothe themselves in garments
wrung from the bondsmah’»sufferings? Why
should his back be fotever bleeding in their
service, and the holiest ties of love and affec
tion be constantly rent asunder to find
victims for the auction-block, and human cat
tle for the cultivation of the sugar plantation
and for the rieo and cotton field?
Slat* Catching in Jnduna.— White
W OMAN AMD CSiLD SEIZED AS SIATKS —Th«
following from the New Albany (la.) L*j wr
of Not. 13th shows that complexion is m»£-
cunty for freedom even in the nominally free
State* of out country:
Sinsular Fugitive Slave Case,— Three
persons were yesterday brought before Esq
Jocelyn, charged by a man named Dennis
rramell, of Arkansas, with beihg fugitive
he fugitives are—a woman
about 55 years of age; her daughter about S 5,
and a son of the latter, a boy of 7 or 8. They
were pm in jail till to-morrow, when the tes
timony in the case will be examined. What
is singular about this case is, that the so-calf
ed fugitives are, to all appearance,, while
persons. No trace of negro ot Indian blood
is discernible in the oldest woman nor in ihe
boy. Some few of those who have seen the
other woman think there is a slight reaera
blance to the Indian in some of her features
bat a large majority are of the opinion that
she also is of purely white origin. Theyhav#
been living m this city four months, during
which time the boy—said to be quite spright
ly—has been going to one of our schools,**
mingling with white children, no one suspect
ing him to be aught else than white like
themselves. About ten days ago, the family
wete enticed across the river, where they
WMHh, but when fa
neigborliood of Hawgville were (as tbev savl
put on shore by the passengers, and made
iheir way back here. The oldest woman
says that she is a native of Baltimore; tha"
many years ago her husband was killed by
Indians, and she and her daughter carried
away captive by them, among whom she has
ever since resided—latterly in Arkansas-but
are not slaves, and were nevertreated as such
l pon (he whole, this one of the most singular
ir_x h,he
Brazil and the Slave Trade.
7 o the Editor of the Times.— The follow
translated copy of an advertisement T„
the Rio pipers shows that the Brazilian* «,2
not indifferent to the gre-it purpZ Tthefr
calling as an independendent nation, and that
despue the abuse and and ill-ireatm* n
which they have been subjected by ouTCii
lative measures, there is a growing desir!
the country .tself, not only 0 abolish
traffic in slaves, but eventually 0 bring abom
a more legitimate means of cultivating ,h"
soil than by forced slave labor. neu
The question is a very nica and a verv
difficult one wfuch is proved by the Jong and
.nte.es.mg debates in the Chambers as to the
appropr.at.on of waste lands for the purpose
of colonization, and the encouragement of
emigration B™Uj no, OT g h „f
phene things by hamh and ill-ii mad InM
sures, such as have been lately resorted to bv
our cruisers on that coast. The advertise
“Boc.ety against the Traffic m African
and for Promoting the Colonization and Civili
zation of ihe Indigenous Population
“I he society, honored wth the imperial
approbation of Hu Majesty the Emjeror,
under a despatch from his Minister of State
w ill install itself solemnly on the 7lh of Sod*
tern her, at 5 o’clock p m., in the saloon Jf
Moresta, Bus da A/uda.
“On the part of the Provisional President
I invite all the members, and all persons
favorab to the end* of the society, to shed a
lustre by their presence on this solemn act
“V. CA LORE I)E EIAO, Provisional
Secretary.
It is only right the British public should
know that the acts of a few lawless men,
stimulated by the enticement of illicit gain
arising out of the anomalous position of Afri
ca, are not sanctioned by the intelligent and
respectable amongst Brazilians.
I am your most obedient servant,
t AN OBSERVER.
Liverpool, Nov. 5.
George Thompson, M.P.
1 iiere was convened last week in Faneuil
Hall, Boston, a meeting of the inhabitants of
that city, to receive once more, and welcome
tins noble and eminent British reformer to
America. A section of disappointed politi
cians, however, who are smarting under the
result of the late elections in Massachusetts,
took advantage of that occasion to disgrace the
hospitality of New England, and to prevent
this distinguished mm from receiving the con
gratulations of his friends, and from commun
ing with them for a lew short hours in peace.
Men, dressed in clothes that, according to the
nomenclature of the world, are called genteel
kept up a continual howl of cheeis for Daniel
Webster, for Millaid Fillmore, and for a cer
tain peisonage that shall Ire nameless; which
cheers were inteimitted with groans for Gen
eral Cass and for Horace Mann.
The meeriog on account of those pitiable
pioceedings, was adjourned to Worcester and
to-day Mr. Thompson will be amongst the
honest yeoman and thoughtful arttzansof our
fair city. Our Mayor and a majority of tbe
city government have headed an invitation of
our citizens to Mr. Ihompson, to come and
see whether we "country folks" understand
politeness as well as our urbane neighbors of
Boston. If we cannot boast of that high “Athe
nian’ polish wtiich pertains to our metropoli
tan country—if we are truly no mote than
the rude Spartans of New England—if we
are nothing but a rustic people, whose hands
are more familiar with the plough and ihu
spade, than with kid gloves and Eau die Co
logne—and if we do not know good manners
a tenth pail so well as do the Bostonians—we
hope show Mr. Thompson, and any man
that comes to us with half so good a charac
ter, that we can at least practice American
hospitality towards one of the most honest,
distinguished, eloquent and earnest Ketoim
ers of the Old World. x. D.
Despotism or Slavery. Some time
since, two Wesleyan Ministers, Rev. Jesse
M’Brnle and Rev. A.. Crooks, were arrested
and held to bail in Freensboro, N. C., on the
charge of circulating incendiary publications.
Their offence consisted in giving a tract to a
little girl, showing slavery to be a violation
oft he ten commandments. Their trial recent*
ly took place. Mr. Crooks was acquitted.
Mr. M’Bride was convicted, and sentenced to
one year’s imprisonment, to stand in the pillory
one hour, and to receive twenty lashes.
The Constitution of the United States de
clares that the freedom of speech and of the
press shall riot be infringed; that cruel and
unusual punishments shall not be imposed,'
and that the citizens of one State shall enjoy
the immunities of a citizen of the United
States, in all the others. These provisions
seem to be treated with utter contempt by the
courts and juries and sovereign people of
the South.—They have a “higher law"
there, under which they don’t hesitate to set
aside the most important clauses of the Con
stitution. The irresponsible will of 259,000
slaveholders is supreme North Carolina,
and hence when they command, without any
qualms of conscience, the Constitution is
trampled in the duot.— Tree Presbyterian.
K? Several clergymen of New Hampshire
have visited Daniel Webster. A correspond
ent of the Independent Democrat says that
Rev. Mr. Bouton addressed Webeter in s set
speech, and Daniel was greatly affected, even
wept.' However, a copious drink dispelled
bis emotion, and when dinner came Daniel
iuvoked a blesaing upon the reverend heads
before him, with an unction that would have
done credit to the late “Stephen Burroughs’’
himself in his best estate. —LotceU American.
Gov. Quitman and Disunion New
Orleans, Nov. 22.—The Message of Gov.
Quitman to the Legislature of Mississippi,
goes strongly for Disunion. He thinks it im
possible io save the Union, but is willing to
try the North by asking for a division of Cali
fornia. That refused, the message and tie
author assert that tne Sooth ought to secede,
Reception of George Thompson, -Great
Meetin f at tho City H«ll-B©aton Re
baked-Free Discussion Triumphant.
Last Saturday morning, was convened in
the city of Worcester, one of ilie largest and,
most enthusiastic meetings evei held in this
city, for the purpose of doing honor to one oi
the noblest, and lhlest defenders and advo
cates of human rights that the world has
erer known, Mr. George Thompson, member
of the British Parliament.
It is well known to all of our readers, that
Mr. Thompson visited this country some fif
teen years ago, when the Anti-Slavery move
ment was in ita infancy, and that he did most
effectual service to the cause at that time,
by his eloquent pleadings in behalf of the
slave. His conduct on the occasion of his
former visit endeared him to the hearts of
many who coincided in his views, and who
labored with him in the same holy cause,
and, after his return to his native land, he
continued to lake the deepest interest in the
progress of a movement in which he had
labored, and for the success of which he was
so deeply interested.
During the fifteen years of his absence
Mr. Thompson has, in his own country by
hie efforts in behalf of down-trodden, humani
ty, "on f° r himself ihe enviable position of a
place in the fust rank of England’s reformers;
and occupying such a position, he has of
course not been unmindful of the friends he
had left upon tuts side of the water, hut has
kept up a constant correspondence with the
“pioneers of progress’* in the United States.
Wishing to see with hisown eyes the indi
cations of progress, and to exchange gtatula
tions again with the friends of former yeats,
at the close ot a session of Parliament, he
resaUes to visit the United States again. His
personal ftienda being apprised of the matter,
determined to gue him, ae a token of their
regard and apprectrtion of his valuable ser
vices, a public reception in Fineuil Hall.
Iha meeting had no particular reference to
the anti-slavery agitation, and in coming to
this country the second tune, Mr. Thompson
had declared before hand to his friends, that
it was not his puipose to take any active pait
in the dicussions of the day.
Of the disagiet able proceedings in Faneuil
Hall; by which the meeting was broken up,
our readers are already apprized, and also of
the fact, that finding Free Speech forbidden
in B<iston, the meeting determined to appeal
to the heart of the common wedlh instead ot
the head, adjourn d to Worcesiet.
The meeting was announced to commence
at 10 o'clock, but long before the hour strived
the seats were filled. A special train from
Boston with five long cars brought some two
hundred and fitly passengers from the eastern
part of the state', who were determined not to
be deprived of the pleasure <>f hearing Mr.!
Thompson speak by the audacity of Boston!
Whiggery or the lenussness of the city ati-j
thorities to sustain the laws.
Ai the appointed hour, the meeting being!
an adjournment, the same officers were rem-!
stated, and Edmund Quincy, upon taking ihe
chair, addresseil the audience in brief but ap
propriate terms. After alluding to the cir
cumstances connected with the breaking up
of the Boston Meeting, and slating that it
was only a small part of the audience which
was engaged in those disorderly proceedings,
he said “Boston having thus disgraced her
self, it is for the heart of the commonweallh
to administer the rebuke; and we are here
to-day, [cheers] we have come to your homes,
knowing that here we shall be safe from dis
orderly interruption; and even if theie should
be evil disposed or riotous persons, vou have
here a Mayor and a Police who are able and
willing to do their duty. In the name of that
meeting 1 thank the citizens of Worcester lor
the welcome they have given us. 1 thank
them for having opened this spacious hall for
our accommodation, and that they are here in
such numbers to greet us.”
A series of resolutions was then offered by-
Mr. Garrison, a part of which were highly
complimentary to Mr. Thompson, and a
patt expressive of the strongest indignation
against the coriupiion t.nd venality of the
Boston press, and the remissness of its city
authorities in enforcing the law s. The ques
tion being upon the adoption of the icsolu
tions, Wendell Phillips of Boston was call-!
ed for, and came forward and said:
Mr. Chairman—l do not know that I can
add anything to the topics of w elcome w hich
the resolutions have suggested. They cover j
the whole ground of the reasons of the call
of this meeting, —that we are clieered by the
presence of an old ftiend in our midst, and
they exptess, with becoming indignation, the
feelings which every lover of the Common
wealth must cherish, at Ihe sensation which
his presence has excited in the capital of the
State. [Applause.] i do not know, Mr.
Chairman, but that we chose the time of our
meeting inauspiciou»ly in the good city of
Boston; we did not remember the staie ol
mind, in which the conservatism of Massa
chusetts was then existing. [Applause.]
We had forgotten that we call a meeting to
welcome to the shores of America, one of
the most eloquent and efficient laborers m the
auli-slavery vineyard, at a moment w hen the
spasms ol recently defeated conservatism, had
hardly paaaed away, [cheers] —that Massa
chusetts, to<! long passive in the hands of its
wealth and its capital, had atisen at last, as it
to sweep frotji the seaboard the pests that
have d.sgraced the policy of New England
for so many yeais. (Cheers.) Thus swept
by an avalanche of country indignation, we
could not expect, at such a moment, that ihe
minds of our fellow citizens in the capital
should be at ease in view of any new acces
sion ol strength, to the anti-slavery sentiment
of tt-e country. [Cheers.] We should have
paused; w'e should have given to the spoili
child us way awhile. [Applause and laugh
ter] But we had fondly hoped, that even
the Boston of 1850 was a very different city
from the Boston of 1835. We tried ihe ex
periment and were disappointed. But, for
one, when 1 look hack upon it, 1 am not sup
prised. The battle is not jet finished: it is
not yet at the hottest. [Cheers.] 'I he op
posing aimies have not joined in the conflict;
they are only marshaled lace to face.”
The eloquent speaker ihen reviewed the
gradations of progress in the last fifteen
years, a °d alter presenting a most graphic
iepresetitanon ol the day of small things,
continued follows:
“But, whfci do we see now. That little
contracted bano of laborers, hardly able to
hold up in the mio's-i of the dense miasma ol
national indifference, the flickering mich by
which they were endeavoring to ariest at
tention, —why, that torch has been seized
from our (altering hand by the great patties,
by the charming thousands of our country
men.— Ihe cause has been launched upon the
floor of Congiess, and there absoibed every
other political issue. The Tariff may be de
scribed—with a telescope, perhaps—lar back
in the distance, internal Improvements are
heard of m the last edition ol Emma Wil
lard’s History, and no where else. [Cheers,
and laughter Daniel Webster, who boasted
that he had never opened his bps on the sub
©i slavery, has at last been obliged to
•peak. Nevet did any man make such anti
slavery w°r» as he has done.’’
Mr. P. thv n alluded to the political contests
of the panics, particularly to ihe overthrow
of Henry Clay, by J. K. Polk, on the Texas
issue, when his party *t’3a iso well marshaled,
ed, and continued—
“l say, this is the difference in the Anti-
Slavery enterprise from wiiat it was. Instead
of going from town to tu*n on its mission ol
influencing individuals, it now sets up and
pu Is down pripces, gives or takes away repu
taiion, builds or scatters parties, and monopo
lises the attention of the nation. [Great a>
p auw.] On the rail-road, the ieam-boat,
at the private house, the church, it sw al
lows up every other question, it tt fhe na
tional question of this generation. The alive
power trembles in ihe balance, having
harked against it the strength, the mtelKci
the moral wealth of the country at laige!
Isay that we bat*, finally
conquered one half of the United States. No
thanks to ourselves, no think* to the P'*”
hated, despised abolitionist. N-o, thank Goc
that whom ho would destroy, he first make
mad (applause,) an J out of the madness
Webster and Clay, the attempt to fore
the fugitive slave bill of 1850 down the whi
party, and we find that the party is uot abf
to count the fugitives fr >m its own ranks.'
(Applause.) Mr. P. then alluded to the re
cent political contest in this State, and it
result, atid said he icjoiced, because we h<ul
in the great progress of the state, put dow,
a mile stone which the South can see. H<
tejoiced, because, potent as is the influence
eloquent as is the voice, and moat influentia
is the testimony of such a man as Danie
U r ebster in the United States Senate, w<
about to send tbeie a successor to him
would more truly represent the princi
were nd feelings of the State,
who Phillips concluded his eloquent addresi
pies a we:—l trust we shall see that anti
Mr. piinciples have so far multiplied it
as follohat even George Thompson can tnaki
a triumphal progress from state to state, am
fiotn height to height, through the limits o
this old state. Lei me hope he will ieapi
from triumph to triumph, and feel that wr
have given the beat pledges, the most palpa
ble, the most unmistakable, that, constitution
or no constitution, Massachusetts is free.”
On concluding, Mr. Phillips was greeted
with loud cheers, w hich were again and again
lenewod in the most enthusiastic manner or
the rising of George Thompson, who next ad
dressed ihe meeting as follows:
George Thompson's Speech, at the City Hall,
in Worcester, Saturday, Nov. *3, 1850.
Mr. Thompson rose amidst the most en
thusiastic applause, which was again and
again renewed. He spoke aa follows:
Citizens of Worcester —Ladies and Gen
tlemen:—l must acknow ledge, in very brief
terms, this, your very cordial welcome, to the
heart of ihe State of Massachusetts. My
speech must be wholly unpiemeditated; arid,
delivered under ciicumstances Ijke these, it is.
likely to be extremely imperfect and uncon
nected. For, however qualified 1 may be to
withstand opposition, and contend with preju
dice, and haired, and malignity, 1 do not pre
lend to be able, at any lime, to acknowledge
Bomplimenla to myself, or to make a suitable
return to those who are pleased, in their
partiality and friendship, io pronounce an en
comium upon mo. (Cheers.)
To me, it is much more congenial to
liavs to fight with beasts at Ephesus, than
to contend will the smile and approbation of;
those who sympathise with me. (Loud
-•beers.) Therefore, ladies and gentlemen,
if you expect from me, this morning, an
ploquent acknowledgement of ihe compli
ments which have been paid me by mv
fiiend, who has just sat down, you are doom
ed to disappointment.—And it you expect
tom me, a speech suited to the meridian ol
hat part of Faneutl Hall which is situated
immediately below the chandelier, you ex
pect a speech most inappropriate in the City
Hall of the heart ot Hie Old Bay Slate.
'Laughter and cheers.)
My friends, my advent in this country, an
lounced by telegraphic communication, made
known to the citizens of the great country,
with extraordinary celerity, and particularny,
seems to have created a great sensation; and
what is it all about 1 (Loud cheers.) 1 can
not understand. I come to this country upon
no special mission; those to whom 1 com
municated my intentions, a fortnight before 1
lell England, will bear me witness tha:, in
my own hand writing, 1 declared 1 did not
-ome to this country to undertake, as 1 un
de ilook in 1835, an anti-slavery mission; but
to see those with whom 1 had been privileged
lo labor in this land, in the days mat were
passed, and to have an opportunity of ascer
taining for myself, what you had been doing
in this country, during the period that hod
elapsed since my former visit. (Cheers.)
But it seems that 1 am to be identified, as
closely as ever, w ith the anti-slavery cause!
Be u so! (Loud cheers.) Jt appears ihai
again, in my person is to be tested tho right
of a man, m any part of the world, to ex
press his opinions upon matters connected
with the freedom and happiness of the human
race! Beitso!—Cheers.) it appears that mobs
arc again to be summoned to the easy work
of silencing my voice! Be it so! If i am
not to be peimilled to be a quiet sjieciulor,
and sojourner, and traveller, among you in
this country; if it must be so that 1 am lo be
every hour identified with your peculiar na
tional struggle, lor the freedom of three mil
lions of slaves; and made answerable fur the
principles and sentiments of such men as
those who sit on this platfotm! Bo it so!
(Cheers.) And further, if it be necessary, in
the year 1850, or 1851, for a man to endme
and suffer in defence of tho right of speaking
in any pan of the world, ins mind on ihe
subject ol human rights, I am content, h.i
the rcatof this year, lor the whole of next
year, until the question be settled, to remain
in the United States of America. (Immense
and long continued cheers.) I have nut
sought this controversy, but 1 shall not shun
it, (cl eers) and, should I live, 1 am determined
to have the last word upon it. (Ixiud cheers.)
lam biaudt das a loreigner! Weil, oit he
a crime, others are more responsible lor ji
than myself. (Laughter and cheers.) lam
told that speech is to be bounded by geo
graphical lines; they have not been as vet
defined; and lam perplexed. May J express
my thoughts upon American affairs, in Kmr.
laud? May 1 express them, while the vessel
that bears me here is gliding down the Mer
sey? May J express them, when we have
lost sight ot Cape Cleai* May 1 express
them half way over the Atlantic? Am 1 then
Iree to speak what 1 think of America in
connexion with hei domestic institutions her
peculiar domestic institutions? (Cheers and
iaughter.) May 1 speak all the way over the
Atlantic? Will ihe free winds that fill our
sailj, rebuke me? No! Will the chainless
billows that play around our ship forbid me?
No. Shall I meet with no rebuke, unless it
be from some fellow passenger, claiming ihe
right of insulting any man that lifts up bis
voice in behalf of the slaves that are weep
ing or bis plantations? (Cheers.) When does
my right cease to be a right? Why have 1
not ihe right here? I have yet to learn that
I have been rebuked by ihe voice of your
own institutions! Your forefathers, very
plainly and veiy openly, one fine morning,
spoke out their mmds, ami you are what you
are, to-day, because they declared, in the
face of the world, the light of £very human
being to free action, l>oes it rebuke me for
piocla ming this self-evident truth, that “God
has created all men free and equal?” (Cheers.)
But then the question is said to be Ameri
can, and lan to be put down! But, who
says so? Do the three millions of slaves at
the South say "Put him down?" If they
were not smittep with dumbuesa, by the rod
of ihe enchanter, they would answer that
they desired not that 1 should be put down!
Am 1 told to be silent by the five hundud
thousand colored persons, who are scattered
all over the free Stales of America? I have
not met with a single colored man who con
jured me to be silent in reference to the
wrongs of his race on these When
at Faneuil Hall, l was told that I had no right
to speak. By whom w.s 1 told this? By
the orderly and the decent? No. By the in
tellectual and moral? No. By the sober and
the patriotic? No. By any portion of the
community ot this great counliy, for whom 1
could entertain any respect, and by whose
judgment lam likely to be guided? No. But
by those who had come together to enjoy an
hours s amusement, in preventing even their
own citizens from being beard; and who. in a
temple consecrated to Liberty, insulted the
goddess at her own altar.—[Tremendous
cheers.] If lam to follow the advice of any
portion of the American community, shall 1
follow the advice of some hundred' and fifty
boys, who mingled their voices together on
ihe occasion referred to? Certainly not?
But, my friends, with or without permission
of such persons, 1 claim the right to speak
my thoughts, on the question of slavery, to
*ny audience, either here or elsewhere; and
shall not be terrified by any opposition 1
may meet with, whatever form that opposition
s may take! I will follow the example of Ame
f rica and Americans in this respect. 1 4 ltave
e travelled in many parts of this woild. 1 qave
i met Americans in all parts of the world; ami
3 I have not found that the cilizens of the
United States of Ameiica hare, of all men,
been the most prudent, or the most taciturn,
y in reference to their opinion of the institutions
cf the countries in which they have travelled.
3 I have met an American missionary on the
t shores of Madias, f have heard him stand
up and revile the gods of a hundred millions
I of the human rad!, and they the subjects of
I the British Queen. 1 have heard him de
nounee all that fps-most connected with the
prejudices, and intimately associated with
the government of the country. I have me)
with Americans, even .under the walls of the
great Mogul of Delhi! American mission
aries there grappled with the supeistilions
and eriors ot the Mahomed an, and I have
commended them for their boldness of speech,
I which led them, in the midst of danger, i«
declare “the whole counsel of God.”
I have before me at this moment, an illus
trious example. worthy of all imitation; and 1
shall take the liberty of citing, in my behalf,
this morning, a Senator of the United Stales.
The document which 1 have here, pnrports to
be a speech, delivered by Hon. Lewis Cass o|
Michigan, in the Senate, on Friday, 4th Jan.
1850, “on suspending onr diplomatic relatione
with Austria.” What does the honorable
Senator say
“1 heely confess that 1 shall hail the .''aj
w ith pleasuie when this Government, reflect
ing the true sentiments of the people, shall
express its sympathy for smuggling millions,
seeking, in circumstances of peril and oppres
sion, that liberty which was given to them by
but has been wrested from them by man.
I do not see any danger 4o the true independ
j ence of nations by such a course; and indeed
am by no means certain that the interchange
of public views in this solemn manner would
not go far towards checking the progress of
oppression and the tendency to war. Why,
sn, the very discussion in high places and
free places—and here is one of them —even
when discussion is followed by no act, is it
setl a great element ot retributive justice to
punish n when a atrocious deed is done, and
a great dement of moial power to restrain it
when such a deed is contemplated. I claim
fin our country no exemption from the decrees
of these high tribunals; and when we are
guilty ot a tithe of the oppression and cruelty
which have made the Austrian name a name
of reproach through the world, I hope we
.-hall leceive, and we s:.all well merit, the
upprobiium of mankind.”
“Now, sir, 1 say it without reserve, that a
power thus setting at defiance the opinion of
the world ‘Maik, lie speaks ot government
action, and not ot the expression of indep n
dent opinion by one individual.’ I—and'vio
lating the best feelings of our nature, in the
veiy wantonness of successful cruelty, has no
bond ot union with the American people.
The sooner the diplomatic intercourse is dis
solved—and dissolved with marks of indignant
reprobation—the sooner'shall we peiform an
act of public duty., which, at home and
abroad, will meet with feelings of kindred
sympathy from all, wherever ihrv may be,
wiio are not fit subjects for the lender mercies
of Austrian power.”
Finally, he commends the Sultan at Con
stantinople, tor having cherished ihe fugitive
slaves, that fled from the banks of ttie Dan
ube. [lronical cheers.] He thinks it highly
to the credit ot this head of (lie Ottoman em
pire, who has taken up, and sheltered, ihe
rotugees; and refused to yield to the remon
stiauce ot Austria and Russia. He says:
“The Divan, faithful to thp traditions of
Eastern hospitality, il not to the obligations
ot the law ot nations, fitmlv refused the deli
very of the lugiiives, and tflus spared another
“deluge of blood,” to use and words of the
great Roman historian, lit this sad drama ot a
nation’s oveithrow.”
Now; sir, 1 contend that the true reason
why m se and tiiera are denied liberty ul
speech upon American affairs, is, that there
is in your midst a system which cannot bear
investigation, and the opposition to which is
at variance with the interests and prejudices
and lusts of a large portion ol this community,
(cheers Hut, sir, were it nor so, still 1
should claim the right, on this and every oc
casion, of offering an explanation of my
views upon the question ol Slavery, and on
every question connected w ith the interest ol
mankind.
Rut, permit me to say, that England has a
peculiar right, in the person of any one of her
sons, to “interfere,” it the Booth will call it
in ihe question of Slavery. 1 have been
tuld, again and again, on the other side of the
Atlantic, that England is answerable for tins
insiiiuiion; thaVwe bought, planted, and wa
tered, here, from age to age, this deadly
plant; that to and upon England, and not on
America, rests the responsibility and the
guilt of this atrocious system. Well, be it so!
(cheers.) If this be the fact—and for the
present 1 am not going to deny it—certainly
an Englishman, who regrets that England
ever entertained tfie crime of enslaving any
portion of the human lace, may be permuted
lo come and make his friends an earnest ap
peal to the political principles, ihe moral feel
ings, and the religious sentiments, of ihe peo
ple of America, in behalf of the liberation of
the descenderits of those whom England en
slaved before the era of your revolution.
[Loud cheers.]
Rut, sir, is it not a fact, that the subjects
ol Her Majesty, the Queen of England, are
not free to go to any ol your Southern ports'
that the colored crews of vessels trading
Irom the islands of ihe West Indms are taken
out and imprisoned, not as the free subjects ot
another nation, hut as criminals, and are not
restored to liberty until the vessel is ready
again to embark upon the ocean. Sir, 1 as
seit that, as an Englishman, I have a right
to protest against tins. [Applause I con
tend that I have a tight to claim, for my col
oied fellow subjects, the liberty which every
sailor ori board United States ehips enjoys, on
entering the jiorls of England, «i any of Eng
land’s dependences in any part of the world.
[Loud cheers But, sir, I have the right to
complain of your inflicting upon the objects
ol reform in England, a most serious injury,
and ot retarding the progress of liberal opin
ions there, by enabling the enemies of human
treedom to quote the example of America, as
that ol a nation having adopted the form of
republican institutions, to erush closer to the
earth one-sixth ot her population.
Again, sit. let those who seek to silence
me in America, be consistent, and silence
the men they have sent over from thiscountrv
to the other side. Why, sir, it has been my
unpleasant task to track Americana over our
country, during the 15 years 1 have been ab
sent from you again and again—to make, in
deed, almost the circuit of the British Islands
—to luiKWi antidotes to the pro-slavery poi
son which Americans have disused through
our land. 4fLnud cheers
I hay have corrupted our churches; they
have shackled our ariti-aiavery movements;
they have misrepresented the abolitionists ot
this country; they have wholly caricatured
the condition of the slaves at the South.
Many of those who ran well lor a time in
England, have been turned aside from the
right course,by the effoits of men who, if not
lor this purpose sent over the water, one of
their objects, at least, on getting over there,
was to murder the public mind of Englaud on
ihe question of American Slavery, (cheers.)
In return lor the visits of tlieh gentlemen, 1
persume to offer myself to the attention of the
citizens of the United States of America.
(Loud cheers.)
Did. your hear of these gentlemen being
mobbed m England! Never! Did you bear ol
Deorge Thompson denying any his right to
speak! Never Some of them mtghl have
said they ownd a hearing in England lo
ihe humble individual who now stands before
you. (Applause.) The vilest proslavery
advocate, who may tread our shores, shall be
sure of a hearing, if it is in my power to ob
tain it for him. [lmmense cheering But lam
told, since I arrived here, lhat this agitatioi
must lie pot down, (a laugh.) 1 have do
been Jolt) how. I wail to bear. Do the gtea
tit3»«a of this countiv say lhat it shall be pu
down? Never lam afraid—-to use i
ciunmi ii English expression—that they havt
reckoned without th* ir host. (Laughter.)
am afraid they resemble certain mice we rea'
of in the table, who undertook to bell the cat
but then the question was, how the cat wai
to be belled, and the wisest among ihom fail
cd to discover the method. (Laughter.
They have fulminated anathemas against you
at Washington; but havt they put down th<
anti-slavery agitation Shall it he put down
[Jjoud cties of No Have they not to wai
wtih the very instincts of humanity Havt
they not, fiist, to silence the veTy sympathies
of tire country! And.they can oevet doit!
Sir, I might congratulate ihis assembly up
on the progress that has been made, since 1
was last here. (Hear! heat!) It was my
good fortune to be m Faneuil Ha l on anoth
er occasion than' that to which reference hat
been made by the chair, and to hear Mr
Charles Sumner deliver a most able nnd elo
qoeti. address in denunciation of ilie Fugitive
Slavs Bill. (Applause 1 could not forge
that 16 years befote, that Hall wis crowds
with persons anxious to hear one who caro<
there for the purpose of denouncing me, an<
of recommending to the people ot Massaclm
setts the passage ot a law, making it criminal
ever to discuss thequeslion of Slavery. (Ap
plause I could not hut contrast the state o
things then; and, had I taken ship for my na
tive country the following morning, I shouk
have' returned home with the congiction tha‘
the 15 years that had passed had been crown
..,l vJ.i. as great success in defence of humai
1 mtiw■K»«k top w>.
KeVfn the h'™’ ,he orld (cheers,;
Still, veu have only begun this great »,rug
gle; still you have mon’ than thr W millions o
slaves in your territories. falk h,s
try beinjf free! It is not An
lishm|*i, who is honest in opii."' ,on cannol
traveltm the country! Could I see
mothraveof Kentucky! lam obliged 10
content with seeing the representation on cJ' B
vass! [cheers.] But if I undertook a jout
ney to those caves, and lived to get there, do
you think I should ever come out! (Ap
plause.] I may gaze upon the rivers of any
other portion of jhe globe; but, may I gaze
upon the Father of Waters at tho South?
cioss the Potomac* or visit your western
wilds? Let Austria and Russia be railed at,
as General Cass pleases may I travel in the
sunny South, as I rnay in any portion of
these most despotic countries of Europe? Ap
plause. J If this he the case, that you cannot,
at the South, pronounce your candid opinions
of the Slavci v institution of this ceuntiy, is
your country free? (No, no.] And if your
country is not free, what must be the effect
upon other countries? Why, that every ad
vocate of Kingcraft and State and Priest
craft, in the Old World, quotes this damning
fact, and throws it in the path of those who
are laboring for reform under other govern
ments. [Applause.]
Why, my friends, I should not venture to
have any part in tlie anti-slavery agitation of
this country, if I felt myself tebuked fur any
lack of sympathy for the reform movements of
England; but 1 can truly say, that 1 have
never, in any public addresses that I I ave
made in my life, uttered one solitary senti
ment repugnant to the principles which you
cherish in this country. [Applause.] Ev
erywhere have I endeavored to prejmte men
)or a great struggle for‘the es’ablishanent of
those princ pies. Everywhere have i sought
to recommend whatever was aohle in vour
own conduct, to the imitation of those wt>o
sought to be free. Having done this, and
feeling quite sure thut it was my solemn duty
to promote the cause of Freedom, and being
confident that no man can quote anything 1
ever uttered, derogatory to the principles ol
other lands, or inimical to the intetestsof the
institutions of America; I think 1 may ask,
when I am invited to deliver an address, that
I may have perm ssion to do so, not wnh fear
and trembling, but standing erect, as a free
man amongst freemen, willing tha: my opin
ions should be canvassed, my principle*inves
tigated by what Ido to carry out the great
principles on which you have made the foun
dation of your own independence. [Loud
cheers
I shall not detain this meeting longer, this
morning, hoping to add a few additional
words in the after pari of the day. I will
conclude, by expressing my satisfaction at
finding in this great State, all the elements
that are necessary to make this great cause
triumphant. Ido riot think it necessary now,
for myself ot any other man to cum* tu this
country as a missionary, on tho sthject of
Fieedom. (Applause) When I was in this
country, before, I had audiences few in num
ber, and the sympathy in jhe princi|JpB I ad
vocated, was extremely limited and weak.
But I come among you to-day, and find you
have ically no need of foreign tnlerlerenoe.
You have eloquence of the highest order, vir
toe, courage, and self-denial, equal to any that
were ever exhibited in behalf of any Reform
movement in the world.— (Cheers.) You
have men and women amongst you w hom n. is
as idle to suppose can be put down, as that
Mrs. Partirigton could keep back the waves ol
the Atlantic, standing in her patten* and hav
ing only a broom in her hands. (L ughter,
and Cheers I venture to say, that not all
the statesmen of this country can put them
down. They are putting tlipmselves down,
from their high places of power aad cruelty,
and in thus addressing the abolitionist, they
might be made to speak of him as John the
Baptist did of the coming of Christ. “I must
decrease, but thou shall increase. (Applause.)
Lot no man, who expects to live seven years
longer, talk of putting down abolition. Let
no man desirous of fame; the aspirant for
honor, or any man, who wishes his name to
be remembered and cherished, when he is
dead, talk of putting it down. (Cheers.) No.
sir, jl is not in nature that these principles
can be put down, either by threats, or Reso
lutions, or laws themselves, and I have been
refreshed, as 1 have mingled with the people
of this State, to find that they have “conquer
ed their prejudices,” (laughter and loud
cheers.) and that they have harnessed them
selves lor the lace that is before them. (Con
tinued cheers.) I wish them God speed.
The cause of liberty is to be fought on your
shores! It is a sublime spectacle that the for
eigner is called on to behold in this country at
this moment.
It is hero that Christianity is fighting her
noblest battle? Looking over the face of the
world, I cannot find anything resembling the
battle ground between Christianity and Des
potism, similar to that I find here. I cannot
doubt, for a moment, the issue of that conflict!
I cannot doubt that y.-u will act worthy of
your ary-'-t•'»«. You w ill cany out the prin
ciples upon which v ui established your own
freedom; ami, be a surt <1 of tins, that we, on
the ulhti «nie, w ho arc seeking to elevate our
fel ow-subj vs to the enjoyment of ihat liber
ty which is jour birlli-right, wish you well,
and see With joy-the progress you make in
this great cause (Applause.) Therefore
beseech you, my friends, not merely fot
the sake of your own country, hut for the
sake of all other lands, where the freedom
that is man’s inheritance", is partially or en
tirely withheld; 1 beseech you, that you
siand fast m the great cause of the abolition
of slavery; and be assured that we, in the old
country, shall deeply sympathize with you in
all your movements, and rejoice in the suc
cess you achieve, (cheers.)
1 have now only to express my deep grati
tude to the people of VV jrcester fur the itcep
lion they have given me this morning, and to
beg that you believe, that whatever may be
the opinions entertained of me by those who
iiaie me, for the sake of the principles I rep
resent, that shall fee( the deepest and moat
lively interest in all that concerns your wel
raro, and be the first to hail the establishment,
n this country, of a true Republic,! Repub ic
.hat shall embrace men, not according to the
dimes it which they weie born, of whatever
Jomplex'bn they may be, recognizing no such
distinction, shall invite till, as brethren, to the
i enjoyment «l *ll tb© Slewing* which the Con
t atitutiun drawn by our fathers, intended u
i confer upon mankind ,at large. (Immense
t and tong continued applause.) l T po« motioi
t to that effect, the meeting then adjourned til l
i I S P M.
I Ths Next President. —The Tribune de
trotes a leader to the question, Who b ti
i he the regular Democratic nominee for the
neit Presidency V’ According to the Tri
bune, Gen. Cass’s chance to lose the Balii
mure nomination is fully equal to that of any
other man who is looking for it. Mr. Bu
chanan is a light stick at best for a mainmast.
CoJ. Benton may be used in Wisconsin,
Northern Illinois, &c., to elect Delegates
but when they come to tote in earnest, they
will not rote for him. Senator Walker from
Wisconsin must tarry at Jericho for a while
yet. The chance of Judge WooJbury, ol
N. IL, seems slender indeed. Col. Butler
of Kentucky, can’t go in. In short the Tri
bune is preparing to hear without amazement
that Gen. Sam Houston, of Texas, is the
regular Democratic candidate, and that Jnh<>
Van Buren and I). S. Dickinson will address
the United Democracy in advocacy of his
election If they Jo it first at some con
i vesient locality, we mean (says Greely) to
be among the auditors.— Chronotyf*.
Slaver Captured. —Capt. Merrill,
of brig Eliza at New York, from San
Juan de loa Reinedios, Cuba, 28th ult.,
reports that a brnzilian brig was under
seiznre, having landed a cargo ol
slaves at Cardenas previous to her ar
mal st San Juan.— Mass. Spy.
Charles Gibbons in support ol the man-hunt
ing law, says Ite is happy to know that hit
brother Aaneagrees with him. Wonderifthe
latter is not a lineal descendant of the Cain
mentioned in the Bible, who was doomed, fot
killing his brother, to a life of ignominy and
shame? There is certainly a rematkable sim
ilarity in the spirit of the two men.— A. S.
Bugle.
JO 3 It is a curious fact that while thi
“dofchlace” journals of the North are con
st,ant I y with arguments in favor of aiding
in ti.’e capture Fugitive Slaves, they are
dumb-in regard to arrest and imprisonment
of tree colored seamen at.. l,c ,s out b. Albany
Evening Journal.
Boston, 2.—Efforts are making her* 1 U
raise money lor ihe Georgia negroes win
have run away. ’I he money will be taised
and ihe negroes paid for.
KP Letters from Buenos Ayres slate that
the declaration of war between Buenos Ayres
and Brazil was daily expected. Business doll
ami produce scarce.
Kp There is a great emigration to Texas.
—About live hundred per week have arrived
at Galveston, and it is estimated that twenty
live thousand have arrived during the present
season, many bringing a targe number ol
slaves.
Ihe religion with which onr Holy Re
deemer invests his followers, softens the
character, sweetens ihe temper, and enlivens
all the ti nder affections of the soul, filling it
with kindness and love.— Christ. Cit.
Rochester North Star Fair.
I he Indies of Rochester, desirous of emu
lating the noble example set them by (heir
sitters ot New York and Philadelphia in their
efforts to sustain the above named papei, have
formed an Association, for the pnfpose of
holding a Fair during Christmas week, in aid
of “the North Star.”
To those acquainted with the character ol
this; paper, it is needless to speak of its merits,
nr of the untiring zeal, and sincere devotion
of ils Editor. Eminently qualified as Frederick
Douglass is to promote the elevation of hi.*
oppressed and despised people at tha Noffh
he is also equally qualified to sympathize wit!
our brothers and sisters, who are still ii;
chains and slavery at the South—to tell ol
their wrongs, to vindicate their rights, and (by
ihe’blessing of God) to “hasten the day ol
freedom to the tbiec millions of our enslaved
fellow countrymen.”
We, therefore', regard “ihe North Star”
as one of the most effective anti-slavery in
strumentalities now in the field, and in this
night of darkness and gloom, we look to it
as the beacon to guide os “until the day
dawn” and unclouded sunshine bursts upon
us.
We call upon all true friends of the •.slave
to give us their zealous co-operation on the
present occasion.
Friends of humanity shall we call upon
you in vain J A cruel and inhuman law is
banishing hundieds of our people into a dis
tant land, and bringing ruin and desolation
upon many once happy families.
Christian friends of Rochester, we call up
on you in the name of all you hold dear and
sacred, to extend your kind .aid sympathy
«o the daugters of an outraged and suffering
people.
We earnestly invite the co operation of
benevolent fuends throughout the country.
We appeal with confidence to our English
friends for aid on the present occasion.
Donations and contributions will be Grate
fully received by Mrs. Titus, 1 Division st.,
Mrs. Paul, 50 Exchange st., Mrs. Boyd, 111,
Main st., or by any member of the Associa
tion, and at the North Star Office, Rochester.
___
The North Star Fair,
The Women’s Association” of Philadel
phia intend holding their Second Annual
Fair for the stippori of the North Star, on
Christmas week.
We feel ihat no great work can be rightly
done, unless umii and women co-operate.
To our iiffie friends, whom we found
helps-mete” for our first Fair, we look
earnestlyand confidently. Brothers, you will
not fail us! m
To secure the hoany co-operation of breth
ren anil friends, at home and abroad, we be
lieve it is only necessary to announce our
j intention.
j Donations of Paintings, Engravings, Fancy
Needlework, article* of food, will be
STratefully received by any member of the
I Committee.
On behalf of the Association,
SARAH M. DOUGLASS.
MARRIED;'
On Monday, 28th November, after tne manner of
Frwnda, Herr? T. Willitts, (L I,) and
Mart Jar* Post, at the house of her father
Samuel Poat, in Piitaford, Monroe County.
In Brockport, Not. 14»h, 1850, by Rer.
Chandler, Mr. Prince Jtcison, Of AlWi,,
to Miss Sarah Ann Jackson, of the former
place.
THE HUTCHINSON FAMILY.
During a recent short stay in the
city of Rochester 1 went to Corinthian
Hall to hear the Hutchinson Family
sing, and made some pencil-marks from
which 1 transfer the following, with
such touching-up and softenings as i
choose to make.
It is Saturday night, aud rainy at
that. Corinthian Hall is finely illumi
nated. The people come in slowly, but
what they lack in numbers they make
up in respectability. I will take that
seat in front of the platform, so that I
can see the singers as well as hear
them. I wish some one would taketne
seat right before me, so that I can draw
those who draw so many others without
being noticed by the gifted objects of
attraction. lam lucky for once, for a
bouncing man and four beautiful wo
men have taken possession of the un
chartered seat. Suppose we look at
the hall until “the nest of brothers
with a sister in it” commence warbling.
This spacious room is truly magnifi
cent, The settees are handsomely
cushioned, and can accommodate near
ly two thousand persons. There are
thirty long, narrow windows, staring
like eyes of fire into the surrounding
streets. There are four splendid chan
deliers let down from the ceiling, and
gas-burners project from the walls with
fingers of fire like the mysterioas hand
whi::h wrote with the telegraphic pen in
the temple of Belshazzar. Hear that
aristocratic donkey in the next seat:—
“1 would like to hear Jenny Lind sing,
but Barnum is a showman, and it is
vulgar to countenance the company
with whom he associates.” Now, I
have no doubt the silly fool who made
that remark is a low-born fellow who
is indebted to somebody else for his for
tune, iflie has one. But
The s ngera have just made their ap
pearance. How can 1 write whils they
sing? There is Abby, with her laugh
ing lips and eyes; the harvest of brown
ringlets about her neck seem to vibrate
with vocal sweetness. See her sway
from side to side between two of her
brothers, as though they were magnets
and she idumc iu motion! Abby is a
dear fittle love of a woman, and her
husband must not be jealous if every
body loves her. It is not a matter of
wonderment tnat such a small body
contains such a large heart, for nature
puts up her choice articles in small par
cels. VVere diamonds as large as rocks,
they would not be so valuable as at
present. This American Jenny Lind
is apparently about twenty-four years of
age, has dark brown hair, a round,
pleasant face, and eyes that shine like
stars.
I am compelled to stop; it ig impossi
ble to sketch while they sing. Con
found the fiddles! they spoil the melo
dy. File saws while the.canary pours
out its rich music, if you will, but nev
er, Oh never, scrape catgut when the
human voice can bo heat'd amalgama
ting poetry with melody. There is an
indescribable liquid sweetness in Ab
by’s voice which is truly charming. In
its sober tones it seems like the sub
dued and distant voice angel from
the “upper deep,” Judson sings the
air, and makes the air sing Judson.
He looks like a live Yankee; his face
is long, thin, and closely shaved; his
hair is rather long, and blushed behind
his ears, which are not long; he is
pressed, as are the other two brothers,
in a superfine black cloth coat and pan
taloons, a white vest, silk neckerchief,
with collar down a la Byron.
He is unmarried, and is now giving us
the “Bachelor’s Lament,” amid roars
of laughter. He is no mean mimic.
The three brothers are now giving us
a funny thing, and, by-the-bye, it is a
®ppr thing. Some of the sourcroui
school are wondering if it ain't “vul
gar.” John sings tenor. He look*
ike a sailor in a citizen’s dress. He
lings the pathetic and thrilling sons.
"The ship on fire,' 1 admirably. It is
the very best thing tp which 1 have lis
tened for many a day. It must be
heard to be appreciated. John is not
quite so tall as Judson. He has dark
hair; I think his eyes are blue. He
wean a goatee, or tuft of dark hair un
der his chin.
But I must halt again for they are
singing now "the Crows in the Corn
field/’a piece which calls into exercise
their powers of ventriloquism, and the
room rings, reels, and reverberates
with jollity. "I Long to be at Home”
is a plaintive piece, which moistens
the eyes of those who, like myself, are
absent from home. Now we have "Un
cle Sam’s Farm”—a good song and
well sung. Asa sings bass, and is not
surpassed by either of his brothers. He
has a deep, full voice, that comes not
only from his chest but from the heart.
My impression is that he is the eldest of
the group. Jesse, who is the author
of several songs which this family
sing, was not present —at any rate, I
did not see him. There are some pe
culiarities which are prominently de
veloped by this company. One is the
happy and perfect blending ot their voi
ces in a confluence of sound like the
mingling of waters; another is the mor
al courage they manifest by introduc
ing songs in praise of the holy but un
popular reforms of the day.
The sunshine is the smile, the rain
bow the autograph, and music the voice
of Heaven. There is music in the
woods, where the birds hold concerts
and the wild-flowers have free tickets;
where the grasshoppers are worship
pers, and the whole insect tribe make
the temple of nature ring with song.
There is music in the clouds, when
shivered by the bolt-and shaken by the
thunder; and music still when the tem
pest has passed away, and the lark
sings where the lightning shone. The
cataract, with a voice of many waters,
shouts an everlasting anthem of praise
to Him who smote the rock and unseal
ed the fountain. The flocks and herds
sing on the hillside; the feathered min
strels sing in the forest; the waves, the
winds, the brooks, belong to the choir
of nature; but the chief singer, the
chorister, is man, immortal man, made
but little lower than the angels. There
are no notes that can compare favot a
bly with the human voice. The violin,
the harp, the piano, the organ,thc flute,
are tq»a degree sweet instruments, but
they are hollow and have no hearts.
The streams, the birds, and the ora
torios of insects, with their drums, pipes
and tambourines, make sweet music,
but there is no soul in their songs.
We should be grateful to the Author of
our being whenever we behold a
pleasant voice, and tnis we do most sat
isfactorily when in attendance at one of
the entertainments of the gifted, the
genial, the good Hutchinson family.
Crayon.
ARE WE TO HAVE AN EURO
PEAN WAR
It seems uot unlikely that the patiem
and noble people of Hesse otinsel
instead of being rewarded by the re
turn of the worthless Elector to wis
i dona, moderation, and loyalty, by the
complete restoration of their well-be
loved Constitution and the peacefu
enjoyment of their peacefully-assertec
r Ireedotn, will have the painful honor 01
furnishing a field for the tirst battle in
a great European war. The electoi
will neither yield nor abdicate; he will
not dismiss his ministers; he will not
be reconcded with his people; he will
not observe the law; he will not respect
the Constitution. He calls upon Aus
tria, Bavaria, and Wutiemburg to in
terfere in the name of the old departed
Confederation, to let loose their troops
upon his unoffending people, "and re
store him to the glory and happiness ol
despotic power. The Governments ap
plied to are perfectly willing to under
take the congenial business; they are
gathering together their forces, and
marshaling them around the devoted
Electorate. On the other side, Prussia
stands, sword in hand, ready. accord
ing to her own to meet
force by force, and beat back the in
vaders who shall first venture to make
their hostile appearance in Hesse Cas
sel. Eighty thousand Prussians are
within a short distance of the disputed
land, and can be brought together in
two days should an> hostile demonstra
tions on the part of the Austrians and
Bavarians ensue. Already, it is said,
two Prussian divisions have occupied
two roads through Hesse, the use of
which is secured to Prussia by treaty
It is reported likewise that the Ba
varians and Austrians have marched
into the Electorate; if go, it seems al
most impossible that blood will not be
shed; and, if one drop be shed, it is
pretty sure to be the prelude to an
ocean—one skirmish will be followed
by many battles. If Austria and Prus
sia will tight, Russia and France will
hardly be kept from following so good
an example; and if Germany insists
upon tearing herself to pieces, Europe
will scarcely be prevailed upon to leave
her alone in her glory.
Souse reckless prophets gives out that
1* ranee and Russia have already taken
their purt, and have resolved to take
advance of the happy opportunity of
partitioning Prussia, Russia making a
meal ol the grand duchy of Posen, and
France helping herself to the long
coveted Rhenish provinces We havt
a pretty ample faith in the mingled
vileness and recklessness of the present
French Government; we believe it
utterly lost to the cause of freedom,
and unblushingly reckless ot the rights
of nations. We believe that the spirit
which dictated the horrible expedition
to Rome is by no means extinct, and
are almost inclined to think
that the French Government would
have no objection to co-operate with
Austria and Russia in inflicting upon
the Prussian monarchy the destruction
which she assisted Austria to in
flict upon the Roman Republic. Bat
while we hold the present rulers of
France by no means indifferent to the
pleasure of extending her frontiers to
the Rhine, and base and reckless
enough willingly to lend a helping hand
m destroying a State from which they
have suffered no wrong, yet we hardly
deem even these men foolish enough
hus .kindly to labor for the aggrandise
ment of Russia, to bring the Cossacks
uUo the heirt of Europe, to remove
from before the country the bulwarks
i of a free and independent Germany,
and to purchase a temporary enlarge
i ment of territory at the expense of
t permanent national degradation and
almost inevitable destruction. For sup
i posing the monstrous league triumphant,
the infamous victory won; supposing
Prussia divided between France Rus
sia, and. tbe two spoilers become nexl
door neighbors, they could not con
tinue happy or harmonious ones; the
spoilers would soon long to despoil each
i other; and as a policy of aggression is
natural and becoming in Russia, while
i the championship of freedom is the
1 suitable policy and proper business of
France, Russia would not merely have
1 /extended her frontiers by the partition
of Prussia, but have added to her real
power, and strengthened her principle
1 of life and action; while France would
have diminished her power and im
paired her principle by the addition of
territory, '[’he result of such a strug
gle between the enfeebled and the in
vigorated spoiler would not be doubtful;
France would assuredly fall as she
would most richly deserve to do; and
Paris would be again occupied by the
Cossacks, not to be relinquished in a
.lurry.
But we do not look for the evil con
summation we do not expect such fol
ly, such wickedness, and such woe.
VVe have a large belief in the short
sighted ambition and utter want of
prinriplp of iK® President ana
his ministers; we have no.very ample
faith in their profound wisdom; but we
do not think them prepared for this
surpassing tolly. VVe do not then ex
pect this confederacy! of Austria,
France, and Russia against Prussia;
i but even were it realized, had the three
glorious confederates formed their de
signs and marshaled their forces,
should France march to ‘the Rhine,
should Russia fall upon Posen, and
Austria rush into Silesia, we should
s not even then, in face of these dread
ful odds; in face of this formidable con
i lederacy, we should not give Prussia
up in despair; we should not consider
her as lost. For if she went to war
wisely, she would not go to war alone;
1 she would have oppressed nations for
i allies, she would gather iu ber camp
1 the whole strength of Germany; demo
cratic Europe would take the field with
tier. Italy would strike a stronger
i stroke for independence than she
struck in 1840; Hungary would once
more grasp that mighty sword which
treachery alone could wrest from her.
i Prussia, with the nations at her back,
might in the end prove more than a
match for the three governments and
I the three armies, and the would-be
i spoilers might repent the reckless am
bilion which arrayed them against
l Prussia, and brought down the nations
upon them.
But we have left one nation out of
the account—we have said nothing of
one Government—a Government any
thing but faultless and acceptable in our
eyes—yet certainly not sold to the
despots of Europe—not shamefully and
recklessly indifferent to the freedom of
the world. What would England say
io such a league and such an aggres
sion? How would the English Gov
eminent take this threatened destruc-
I tion of the balance of power in
Europe How would the English peo
ple t ke this confederacy of the despots
against the nation? God forbid that
we should rusn hastily into war on an)
account, and in anjf case. God forbid
that our debt should be recklessly in
creased, and our blood lightly shed.
But, likewise, Heaven forbid that we
should stand tamely by and see the
freedom of the world trodden down—
that we should suffer a great kingdom
to be blotted out from the map of Eu
rope, and the free states of the Conti
nent parcelled out among audacious
spoilers. Self-interest, too, would not
allow us to remain unconcerned. A
confederacy between France and Rus
sia cannot but be a peril to England.
The Continent once crushed, England
would most certainly be assailed. After
the confederate hosts had made the
Continent their own, the confederate
fleets would pay a visit to "the invio
late island of the savage and free.”
Prussia and England are old allies,
connected by their common Teutonic
blood, and their common Protestant
religions, by a fellowship of race, a
fellowship of truth, and a fellowship of
glory. They have struggled and tri
umphed together before now. In the
Meven Years’ War they stood alone
against the whole of Europe. The
most successful war that England ever
undertook, she waged in company with
Prussia. The glory of Chatham and
the glory of Frederick the Great were
won together. Lord Palmerston to be
sure rs no Chatham; and the present
King of Prussia is a
Frederick the Great. But thepeople
of Prussia was nothing then, and it
counts for something now. The peo
ple of England, too, has more to do
with its own affairs in this century than
in the last; and a war which the people
undertakes, into which the people
'throws its whole soul, and casts its
whole might (unless, as in the case or
Hungary, treachery be udded to tre
mendous odds,) may begin awkwardly
and unfortunately, but is almost sure to
have a glorious and successful end.
Birmingham Mercury.
Baltimore, Nov. 18th.
A despatch from Nashville says: Dr.
Collies of Macon, Ga., owner of Crafts
and his wife, has received a long letter
Irom President Fillmore, of the most
satisfactory character.—He says the
Fugitive Slave law shall be enforced
to the very letter, and should any offi
cer fail to perform bis duty, he shall be
punished and dismissed; and he pledges
himself to employ the whole disposable
force ot the Government for the effi
cient execution of the law. The letter
has given unbounded satisfaction to the
people.
Jenny Lind Coming to Utica!—
The Buffalo Courier of Wednesday
states on the authority of Barnum, that
Jenny Lind will positively give one,
and probably two, concerts at Buffalo’
The Courier man has seen Barnum’s
list, which puts her down for one Con
cert in Rochester, one or two at Al
bany, one in Syracuse, and one in
Utica. Her 30th concert is to be
given at Buffalo. The above will be
given early next Spring..— Herald.
fFroniheChristian Cuius.]
London, Oct. 1850.
I am just returned from a lortnight’s
tour into tbe Weal, and have held large
meetings ia Bristol, Newport, Ply
mouth, Davenport, and Modbnry. I
never found friends more heart/ or en
thusiastic, or the Leagne cause more
promising in its aspect. Two or three
of these iseetings were in aid of the
Free Labor movement, and I had the
company Dr. Pennington of N. V.
A wish some of y ur Fugitive Slave”
law makers could have been present at
Bristol, (once the strong-hold of the
pro-slavery party in England,) and
could have seen the reception given by
2000 of its citizens to the fugitive slave,
the negro P. P. They stood up and
gave him three tremendous hurrahs;
and they manifested the deepest sym
pathy, as he detailed the provisions of
the last act of American slave legisla
tion. Surely, this iniquitous law must
ensure its own overthrow, and must
husten the final destruction of the
accursed system altogether. I think
that if the American people really knew
what an intense feeling of disgust and
contempt this measure has created in
England—what a weapon it has placed
in the hands of the despots here, who
taunt the men of progress, and say—
Look at .your pet Republic; do you
want to pull down our g.oYious consti
tution, and give us such liberty .as
Wb*t can we say? Why. I
tell our friends manfully to take their
own share of the odium—to say to
themselves, "Yes, it was England that
first introduced slavery in the Ameri
can colonies; it is English gold that
now mainly buys American cotton, rice
and tobacco; but now, in answer to
the American fugitive Blave hill, let
England run up the Free Labor flag,
and starve the system to death.”
I have been attending a large meeting
of ladies and gentlemen at the Anti-
Slavery office this morning, and we
have formed a* Central Free Labor
Produce Association. It was resolved
to open a warehouse in London for the
wholesale supply ot ail kinds ot free
labor cotton goods. The demand is
rapidly springing up, and it will soon
be found that capital cannot be more
profitably employed tharv in the cultiva
tion of free labor cotton. A colored
gentleman from Jamaica, studying for
the church in this Country, was present,
and informed us that much interest is
beginning to be felt in Jamaica in the
growth of cotton, and that the planters
in that island are looking forward to a
good division of the British market
with the Southern States. Garnett’s
lectures in the North have been much
and thousands are coming
into the movement.
1 cannot say what progress is mak
ing in the mediation between Denmark
and Holstein; but it seems certain that
the meddling protocol of England,
France and Russia, is the great obsta
cle to the progress of that mediation.
Denmark is so completely in the hands
of the great powers, that she cannot
freely act as she would. Still we hope
for ultimate success.
Friends are beginning to look for
ward to prepare for our next year’s
Bazaar with great enthusiasm. There
is no doubt that the attendance will be
immense. The Bristol friends say they
will charter a special league train, and
will bring up probably 500 visitors.—
Hurrah for the Rail bringing 500 peo
ple 120 miles merely to visit a Bazaar
and an Exhibition!
Edmund Fry.
The Boston Slave Case. —Mr. J.
Knight of Macon, Ga., publishes in the
Southern Press a detailed account of
his experience while in Boston en
deavoring to nab the slaves William
and Ellen Craft. The story is amusing
and well told, and had we room we
would print the whole of it Here is
the conclusion to which Mr. Knight ar
rives;
From all I saw, and heard, and ex
perienced while in Boston, lam con
vinced that public opinion there, in
regard to the Fugitive Slave Law, is
underg >ing a change, it is true the
Abolitionists and Negroes are very
numerous, and apparently have things
very much their own way "at present.
The business men, and men of proper
ty, with whom I conversed, generally
took but little interest in the matter;
but said the law ought to be executed
—that they wished to get rid of the Ne
groes, and that if it came to a trial of
strength the Negroes and Abolitionists
would be put down —-This, however
will take time.
I believe that Mr. Hughes will ulti
mately succeed in getting the Negroes.
My only regret is, that my own private
business compelled me to return home
before seeing him out. Had I leisure
and means to spare, I should return
with pleasure even at the risk of grati
fying certain gentlemen of Macon by
rotting in a Boston jail. i
What a pity that Mr. Knight is de
prived of the pleasure he desires.
The gentlemen in Macon to whom
he alludes, must be possessed of
most inhuman malignity.
Moore, the Poit.—A Scottish pa
>er says this fine genius,—and it is a
iad fact that intemperance is the cause,
—is but the wreck of the brilliant, ac
somplished, and witty being he former
ly was. He wus lately present when a
gentleman was requested to sing. The
gentleman sat down at the piano, and
in token of admiration, sung one of the
Irish minstrel’s own choicest strains.
When he had finished, the poet ex
claimed, “How beautiful! I have sure
ly heard that before.” There is no one
but must be deeply affected when they
thus strikingly find that
“The burp that ouee through Tara'a halls
The aoul of music shed.
Now Irnno a* mute on Tara’a walls
As if the soul were fled.”
Fatheu Mathew, the Irish apostle
of Temperance, arrived in New Or
leans on the 10th instant from St.
Louis. He is to remaio there a short
time, and then goes to Florida where
he will pagp the winter. His health is
said to be much improved. While at
St. Louis,' he administered the pledge
to upwards of ten thousand persons.
Fire. —About 20 buildings, mostly
owned and occupied by meebaoids,
were destroyed by fire at Medford,
Mass., Thursday night—loss estimated
at $50,000 —very little insured. A child
is reported to have n*riahf»H