PROTECTION OF PROPERTY IN THE DIS
TRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Agreeably to notice, Mr. Hale
asked leave to introduce a bill for the
Protection of Property in the District of
Columbia—making any city, town, orj
corporate place liable for injuries done
by mobs.
Mr. Hale —l wish to make a single
remark*’ iti order to call the attention of
4lie .Senate to the necessity of adopting
ihe legislation proposed by this bill.
The bill itself is nearly an aostract of at
similar law now in force in the adjoin
ing State of Maryland, and also in many
otuer States of the Union. The neces
sity for the passage of the bill will be;
apparent to the Senate from facts which
are probably notorious to every mem
ber of the body. Within the present
week, large and riotous assemblages of j
the people have taken place in the
District, and have not only threatened
to carry into execution schemes utterly
subversive to all law, with respect to
the rights of property, but have actual
ly carried these threats into execution,
after having been addressed, upheld
and countenanced by men of station in
society, whose character might have
led us to suppose that they would have
taken a different course, and given
wiser councils to those whom they ad
dressed. It seems to me, then, that we
have approached u time when the
decision is to he made in this Capitol,
whether mob-law or Constitutional law,
is to reign paramount. The hill which
I now propose to introduce, simply
makes any city, town, or incorporated
place within the District, liable for all
injuries done to property by riotous or
tumultuous assemblages. Whether
any farther legislation on the part ot
Congress will be necessary, time will
determine. But I may be permitted to
sav, that at the present in >ment, we
present a singular spectacle to the peo
ple of this country and to the world.
'File votes of congratulation which this
Senate sent across the Atlantic to the
people of France, on their deliverance
from thraldom, have hardly ceased,
when the supremacy of mob-law, and
the destruction of the Freedom of the
Press, arc threatened in this Capital of
the Union. Without farther remark, I
move that this hill he referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. Bagby —l rise for the purpose of
giving notice that whenever that bill
>«hull he reported by the Committee—if
it ever should be—l shall propose to
amend it by a section providing a suffi
cient penalty for the crime of kidnap
ping in this District. 1 was struck by
a remark made by the Senator from
Ncw-Humpshirc. He adverts to the
rejoicing of the people of this country
at the events now in progress in Eu
rope, and thence infers that the slaves
of this country arc to be permitted to
cut the throats of their masters. I shall
certainly, Sir, attend to this subject.
Mr. Hale—To avoid misapprehen
sion 1 purposely abstained from saying
a word in regard to anything that might
even be supposed to lie beyond the case
which it is the object of this bill tc
meet. 1 did not make the most distant
allusion to Slavery. 1 refrained from
it purposely because 1 wanted to pre
seul to the consideration of the Scuate
the simple question of the integrity ol
the law and the rights of property
unembarrassed by considerations of the
character alluded to by the honourable
Senator from Alabama. 1 shall ac
cordingly unite with that honourable
Senator in favour of a law agaiuat kid
napping. Because, if I am correctly
iiformed by individuals upon whose
THE NORTH STAR
testimony {dace the most implies
credit, that one of the moat ovtrageoui
cases of kidnapping was commute!
within sight of this Capitol, no longei
ago than yesterday, and that too in tht
i case of an individual having in hit
pocket an injunction issued by thi
highest judicial authority in this Dm
trict to restrain all persons from molest
ing him. Yet, in violation of tht
injunction, be was forcibly seised, n<»
only without law, but against law—noi
only in utter neglect, but in flagrant
contempt of the most sacred guarantee
jof the Constitution. This outrage wai
perpetrated within the limits of the city,
I in the very neighbourhood of the Capi
tol.—l will, then, go with the Senator
from Alabama, heart and hand in the
adoption of any legislation for the pre
vention of such outrage but I mint
say that that is very foreign to tbs ob
ject of the bill which I have introduced.
Mr. Benton —There is some very
pressing business awaiting the action ol
the Senate, and Ido not know that
the remarks whitch have been made
arc applicable to any motion pending
at present. May 1 ask if there be any
question pending?
The Presiding Officer —The question
is, shall the Senator from New Hamp
shire have leave to introduce his bill?
Mr. Calhoun —What is the bill
The Presiding Officer —The bill will
he read.
The Secretary then read the bill,
which is as follows;
['Die nature of the bill has been stat
ed above.]
Mr. Calhoun —l suppose no Senator
can mistake the object of this bill, anc
the occurrence which has led to iti
introduction. Now, Sir, lam amazee
that even the Senator from New Hamp
shire should have so little regard foi
the laws and the Constitution of the
country, as to introduce such a kill ai
this, without including in it the enact
ment of the severest penalties againsl
the atrocious act which had occasionec
this excitement. Sir, gentlemen ii
would seem, have at last come to be
lieve, that the Southern people anc
Southarn members have lost ail sensi
bility or feeling upon this subject.
know to what this leads. I have knowi
for a dozen of years, to what all this ii
tending. When this subject was firs
j agitated, I said to my friends, there ii
•but one question that can destroy thii
Union and our institutions, and that is,
this very slave question; for I choose
to speak of it directly. I said further,
that the only way by which such a re
sult could be prevented, was by prompt
and efficient action—that if the thing
were permitted to go on, nnd the Con
stitution to he trampled on—that if it
were allowed to proceed to a certain
point, it would he beyond the power ot
any man or any combination of men,
to prevent the result. We are ap
proaching that crisis, and evidence ol
it is presented by the fact, that such a
hill upon such an occurrence, should
he brought in, to prevent the just indig
nation of our people from wreaking
their vengeance upon the atrocious per
petrators of these crimes, or those who
contribute to them, without a denunci
ation of the cause that excited the in
dignation. I cannot but trust that Idc
not stand alone in these views.
I have for so many years raised my
voice upon this subject, that I have
been considered almost the exclusive
defender of this great institution of the
South, upon which not only its prosperi
ty, but its very existence depends. 1
i had hoped younger members who have
coine into this body, who represea
portions of the country at least as mucl
interested as that from which I come,
might have taken the lead and relieved
me from the necessity of ever agaii
speaking upon this subject. I trus
we will grant no leave to introduce thii
hill—that we will reject it, and if any
t ring be referred to the Committee oi
the Judiciary, it will be to make pena
enactments—to prevent these atrocitiei
—these piratical attempts on our owi
rivers (these wholesale captures) these
robberies of seventy odd of our slave!
tat a single grasp. Delay is dangerous
,on this question. The crisis has come,
and we must meet it—and meet il
directly—and I will add we have ample
means to meet it. We can put the
issue to the North, if they disregarc
the provisions of the Constitution it
our favor—-it their sea-going vessels
cannot safely come up into our porta
i we can prevent them from coming here
and thus make the issue at once 1
j the stipulations in the Constitution it
our favour are not to he respected
why should we respect those in others:
1 do not intend to make a long speed
on this occasion, but I would here fee
myself to be lacking in my duty j 0 tht
people of the District, to the people o
the South, and to the people of tht
United States, had 1 nit raised mj
i voice against the introduction of such i
bill on such an occasion.
Mr. H estcott I am not going t<
make a speech on this bill, for the sim
ple reason that 1 intend, after a fee
observations, to move to lay this mo
tion for leave to introduce the bill, upor
the table, and ask for the yeas an<
nays.
Mr. Calhoun —The bill is not yet in
i! troduced.
Mr. If ..toft—The Senator from Nei
■I H»mp*iire ulu k„e to introduce tht
i bill, and I move to lay it upon tht
table.
j Mr. Calhoun Better reject it. i
trust we will meet it directly and re
ject it.
Mr. Westcott- I did not understand
the Honorable Senator from Soutl
Carolina; but, now that I do, 1 an
pretty willing to adopt the suggestion
Mr. Calhoun I would greatly pre
fer to meet the motion directly and re
ject it.
BIGHT IS OF NO SEX-TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR-GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
Mr. WesUstt —l have no objection to
that, and bad taken hat another mode
of attaining that object. In answer to
the suggestion of the Honorable Sena
tor from Sooth Carolina, that it was
the doty of other Senators representing
the South, to speak on this matter, 1
will state one reason only why I could
not do so. I could not trust my own
feelings when I heard the Senator flum
New Hampshire introduce this bill.—
Sir, there has been no outbreak, so
violence in this District There has
been no disturbance except on the part
of a set of men wo, it seems, have come
into the District for the purpose of as
sailing slave owners in the peaceful en
joymept of their property, secured to
them by the Constitution which we have
allswqgp to support. There baa bcea
public indignation manifested by an
assemblage of those who have been
thus wronged; but has there been any
violence as yet?—any destruction of
property? No. 1 wonder that there
has not been. And when the Senator
from New Hampshire proclaims that
there is danger of this, I call upon him
for his testimony in relation to this mat
ter. Where does be get evidence that
any portion of the property of citizens
of this District is to be burned down or
destroyed? I was present last night,
as a spectator, at a large assemblage of
the citizens of this District. I heard
law officers of this District and other
gentlemen speak on the occasion, but 1
heard nothing by any means so incen
diary as I have heard since the Honor
able Senator took his seat upon this
floor. It is true, indignation was ex
pressed, but leading citizens of this
District and slaveholders declared that
they were averse to any act bf overt
violence. Indeed, this assemblage,—
which has been called a tumultuous
mob—peaceably appointed a committee
of fifty citizens to wait on the editor,
and request him to remove his incen
diary publication, which had provoked
this excitement. I have only to say,
sir, that I readily yield to the sugges
tion of the Honorable Senator from S.
Carolina.
Mr. Daris, of Mississippi —The Sen
ator from South Carolina has remarked
that he expected that some younger
member of this body would notice the
motion of the Senator from New Hamp- 1
shire to introduce a bill, the purpose of
which is the protection of incendiaries
and kidnappers. I have only to say,
that it is from no want of accordance in
feeling with that Honorable Senator,
but from deference to him who has so
long and so nobly stood forward in de
fence of the institutions of the Scnth,
that I remain silent. It was rather
that I wish to follow him than that I did
not feel the indignation which he has so
well expressed. The time has come
when, if this District is t 6 be made the
theatre of such contests, Congress
should interpose the legislation neces
sary for the punishment of those men
who come within our jurisdiction, act
ing in fact and in morals as incendia
ries—coming here to steal a portion of
that property which is recognized as
such by the Constitution of the United
States. Why is it that in this body,
looked to as the Conservative branch of
the Government—once looked to as so
dignified that it stood above the power
of faction—that wc find the subject of
this contest so iusulting to the South
so insulting always when it is agitated
and introduced on such an occasion
Is this debatable ground? No! It is
ground upon which the people of this
Union may shed their blood, and that is
the first result, if it be pressed any
farther; and if this Senate is to be made
the theatre of that contest, let it come
—the sooner the better. We who re
present the Southern States are not
here to be insulted on account of an in
stitution which we inherit. And if civil 1
discord is to be thrown from this Cham-:
her upon the land, let it germinate here,
and I am ready for one to meet it with
any incendiary who, dead to every
feeling of patriotism, attempts here to
produce it.
Mr. Foote Ou the 4th of March,
1636, the American people of all par
ties assembled at the Capital for the
purpose of witnessing the inauguration
of the President of the United States.
The President was a Northern man. I
had the honor of listening to his inau
gural speech, and in it he wisely and
patriotically asserted a principle of
which I approved at the time, which I
still admire, and which has a close af
i Unity to the question so suddenly pre
sented to this body. Martin Van Bu
ren dared to declare in his inaugural
speech, that though it was his opinion
aqd it certainly is not mine that
Congress has the power to' abolish sla
i very in the District of Columbia, yet
he conceived that it could not be done
without the most odious and uupardon
able breach of faith towards the slave
States of the Confederacy, especially
Maryland and Virginia. This declara
tion, not altogether unexpected, gave
1 temporary quiet and satisfaction to tke
South. I had thought until recently that
there were very few men in the republic
claiming anything like a prominent
standing among their fellow-citizens,
who entertained a different opinion
jfrom that thus expressed, or who, if
entertaining it, would uxdertake to ex
arena it in the national councils of thin
Republic. But the abolition movement
has not been quite so successful a* some
desire it to be, and now we see plain in
dications that individuals (for I cannot
conscientiously call them gentlemen,)
i asserting themselves to he champions
of freedom, have resolved to carry into
execution n scheme an attempt to re
move, by ear meins whatever, all tke
slaves now within this District, an that
those who have been in the habit of re
taining rinvna in their possession, will
be disc waged from bringing others
ROCHESTER, N. Y„ FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1848.
here; and that dtmenn who may hero
after settle hers, will, of noaim, an the
principle of obvious pecuniary policy,
deckee bringing sack property with
them; and that then, in this covert sad
insidious manner, the abolition of sla
very in the District of Columbia may
be accomplished.
The attempt to legislate directly upon
this subject in the national councils, is
at war with the Constitution, repugnant
to all principles of good faith, and in
violation of all sentiments of patriotism.
With whomsoever k originates, this
movement, made directly or indirectly,
within Congress or out of it, which has
been so quietly denounced by my col
league, is simply a nefarious alteiujt to
commit grand larceny upon the owners
of slaves in this district. I undertake
to any, that (here is not n non who bos
given hi countenance to this transac
tion in any shape, who is not capable of
committing grand larceny; or, if he
happened to he a hero, as such men
are not, of perpetrating highway rob
bery on any of the roads of this Union.
He is not n gentleman. He would not
be countenanced by any respectable
person anywhere. He is amenable to
the law. I go farther, and I dare say
my sentiments will meet the approbation
of many who do not live in slave States,
and I maintain that when ihe arm of the
law is too short to reach a criminal, he
may justly be punished by a sovereignty
not known to law. Such proceedings
have taken place, and there are cir
cumstances which not only instigate,
but justify such acts. I am informed,
upon evidence on which I rely, that this
very movement, out of which the bill
originates, has been instigated and
sanctioned by persons in high station.
It is even rumored, and it is believed
by many—l am sorry for the honor of
this body to say so—that a Senator of
the United States is concerned in tbe
movement. Certain it is, that a mem
ber of another body, not far distant
meeting in a certain Hall, was yester
day morning engaged in certain repre
hensible contrivances, and but for his
abject flight from tbe place of bis infa
mous intrigues, he would have been
justly punished, not by the mob, but by
high-spirited citizens, convened for the
purpose of vindicating their rights so
unjustly assailed.
Why is it that this question is con
tinually agitated in the Senate of the
United States—that it is kept here as
the subject of our perpetual discussion?
Is it simply that gentlemen wish to be
popular at home? I suppose so. Is it
because of their peculiar sympathies
for that portion of the population which
constitutes slavery as recognized in the
South? What is the motive? Is the
object to attain popularity? Is it to
gain high station? Is it to keep up lo
cal excitement in some portions of the
North, with a view of obtaining politi
cal elevation as the reward of such fac
tious conduct? But I care not for the
motives of such acts. I undertake to
say, that in no country in which the
principles of honesty are respected,
would such a motive as that now at
tempted be proposed, or even counte
nanced for a moment. I feel bound on
this occasion to say, that the hill pro
posed could not have any good object.
What docs it declare It declares that
any attempt on the part of the people
of this District, though the only means
which they may have in their power, to
protect their property, and prevent it
from being taken from them either by
stealth or open robbery, shall subject
them to be mulcted in heavy pecuniary
damages! It amounts, then, to this,
that if hereafter any occurrence similar
to that which has recently disgraced
the District should happen, and the
good people of the District should as
semble and proceed to the vessel in
which their property had been placed,
and the Captain of which had become
the agent in the nefarious transaction,
and should then and there use the only
means to prevent that vessel from sail
ing, and their property being taken
away before their eyes, they would be
compelled to pay very heavy pecuniary
damages. It is a bill, then, obviously
intended to cover and protect negro
stealing. It is a bill fox the en
couragement and immunitity of rob
bery. That is its true character, and
whatever opiuion the gentleman's own
self-sufficiency may induce him to en
tertain of his own conduct on this occa
sion, I only tell him now the judgment
which every honest man will pronounce
upon it. If tbe object of the Senator
was as 1 have described it, and is ap
parent on the face of the bill, he is as
guilty as if he had committed highway
robbery. I regret that I am obliged
to use harsh terms, but they are true.
Tbe Senator from South Carolina as
serted with great truth, that the time
had come when the South should not
only let her voice be beard, bnt disclose
to all her enemies that she not only
knows her rights, but knowing, dare
fH*ji|i*iß them —maintain them by all
constitutional means—by all legal expe
dients— necessary, by bloodshed.—
The Senator from New Hampshire is
evidently attempting to get op a sort of
civil war in the country, and is evident
ly filled with a «»nf of insurrection and
incendiarism. He may bring about an
ovent which wifl end in the spUtiag ol
1 human Mood. I to ham, however,
let him come forward boldly, and take
the proper respoasibdtfy. Let kirn
say, “Now I am ready to do battle in
behalf of my friends, the blacks, tke
slaves of the District of Columbia.
Let Mm buckle oa his armor; let Mm
mnheath Me mwi and at once com
mence tbe contest, and I have no doubt
he will have a feir opportunity of shed
ding Ms btood ia this holy cause ou the
sacred sod of the Dhtrict of Columbia.
If be is really m eatnc*, he is bound,
w a conscientious ana, to pursue this
cowrie, which cannot he persevered it
without those awful scenes of bloodnbec
and desolatioß long anticipated by good
men m every pert of this Republic.—-
When, I ask, was it that Soothers mi
ever undertook to invade the quiet and
happiness of the North? I hope I may
be pardoned in making the suggestion.
I do not wish to insinuate any invidkxM
comparisons. I thsnk Hearea I hare
an abiding confidence in the good sense,
the virtuous patriotism, and regard fix
the rights of property, of my Northern
brethren; end I believe that there are
many of them, of both parties, who are
perfectly sound on this question, and
who will condemn the set of this morn
ing. The South has been forbearing.
She has exercised more than complais
ance— more than forbearance. But
when, I ask, has any Southern man,
occupying a seat in cither House ol
Congress, attempted to interfere with
any local interests in the North?
AM must see that the Courts of the
Senator from New Hampshire is calcu
lated to embroil the confederacy to
put in peril our free institutions to
jeopardize that Uuion which our fore
fathers established and which every
pure patriot throughout the country de
sires shall be perpetuated. Is he so
enlightened friend of freedom, or even
a judicious friend of those with whom
he affects to sympathize, who adopU
such s course? Who does not know
that such men are practically the worst
enemies of the slave? I do not be
seech the gentleman to stop; hut if he
perseveres, he will awaken indignation
everywhere, and it cannot be that en
lightened men, who conscientiously be
long to the faction at the North oi
which he is understood to be the head,
can sanction or approve everything that
he may do, under the influence of ex
citement, in this body. I will close by
saying, that if he really wishes glory,
and to be regarded as the great libera
tor of the blacks if he wishes to be
particularly distinguished in the cause
of emancipation, as it is called let
him, instead of remaining here in the
Senate, or instead ot secreting himself
in some dark corner of New Hamp
shire, where he may possibly escape
the just indignation of good men thro’-
out the Republic—let him visit the good
State of Mississippi in which I have the
honor to reside, and no doubt he will
be received with such shouts of joy as
have rarely marked the reception of
any individual in this day and genera
tion. I invite him there, and will tell
him beforehand, in all honesty, that he
could not go ten miles into the ioterior,
before he would grace one of the tall
est trees of the forest, with a rope
around his neck, with the approbation
of every virtuous and patriotic citizen,
and that, if necessary, I should myself
assist in the operation.
Mr. Hale —l beg the indulgence ol
the Senate for a few moments; though
I did not exactly anticipate this dis
cussion, yet I do not regret it. Before
I proceed further, as the honorable
Senator from Mississippi has said
it has been asserted, and he thinks on
good authority, that a Senator of the
United States connived at this kidnap
ping of slaves, I ask him if he refers
to me?
Mr. Foote —l did.
Mr. Hale —l take occasion, then, to
say, that the statement that I have
given the slightest countenance to the
procedure is entirely without the least
foundation in truth. I had nothing to
do with the occurrence, directly or in
directly, and 1 demand of the honora
ble Senator to state the ground upon
which he lias made the allegation.
Mr. Foote —lt has been stated to me,
and I certainly believed it, and believ
ing it, I denounced it. I did not make
the charge directly. My remarks were
hypothetical. I am glad to hear the
Senator say that he haa had no con
nection with the movement; but whether
he had or not, some of his brethren in
the great cause in which he was en
gaged no doubt had much to do
with it.
Mr. Hale —The sneer of the gentle
man does not affect me. I recognize
every member of the human family as
a brother. 'Once for all, I utterly deny
that either by counsel, by silence, or by
speech, or in any way or manner, bad
any knowledge, cognizance, or suspi
cion, of what was done, or might be
done, until I beard of this occurrence
as other Senators have beard of it. And
1 challenge any one who entertains a
different opinion to the proof, here,now
and forever. I go farther than that.
I never have counselled, advised, or
aided in any way, and with my present
impressions, I never shall counsel, ad
vise, or aid in any way, any encroach
ment upon the Constitution in any of its
provisions or compromises. If the Con
stitution be not broad enough for the
protection that I claim, I will go without
it. I trust that on this subject I have
been sufficiently understood. I deny,
in general and particular, not only con
nivance, hot all knowledge of any such
movements.
Whilst I am op, let me call the at
tention of the Senate to the ease of a
man whom 1 am proud, here and else
where, to call my friend, the editor of
the National Era. This gentleman, in
a card published in the National Intelli
gencer of this day, declares:
A rumor having been circulated
that the office of the National Era was
concerned, dirctlr or indirect!y, m the
recent attempt of a cumber of slaves to
escape on the schooner Pearl, it is doe
to the respectable citizens of this place
and to ayaetf; to giro a plain, M, and
unequivocal denial to the import
yioM no r£ht to
which no true hearted American will be
ungenerous enough to demand—l fry]
it to he my duty to do all I can to re
morm a uriww nusapprebenston, ctk«*
lated to provoke unpltutiil excite-
The position which be lies take* is
tkee laid doers is the first ooraber ol
his paper, and he republishes it is his
card:
“Believing that the extinction of sla
very can be effected in accordance
with the Constitution and law, and that
this is the better way, no unconstitu
tional or illegal measures will find in us
a supporter. We cannot work with
contradictory means. Whenever con
vinced (hat such measures as the laws
sanction or do not prohibit, are insuffi
cient tor the accomplishment of the
great object we aim at,we shall frankly
say so. The magnitude of the cause
in which wa are engaged, justice to our
feDow-citrzens of the South, snd sound
policy demand tint no movement be
made in relation to this important ques
tion, except with the utmost openness,
frankness, and fair-dealing.
The declaration I then made, em
bodied the principles upon which I had
always uniformly acted in relation to
slave™; and in not a single instance
have I, or any one in my office, as far
as ray knowlede extends, violated it. 1
cannot, consistently with my views of
what honesty and fair-dealing dictate,
to say nothing of sound policy, engage
in any way, directly or indirectly, take
part in any movement which would in
volve the necessity of strategy or trick
ery of any kind.
“My paper has been published six
teen monts in this city. Its columns
are open to inspection. Those who
have taken the trouble to read it, will
testify that I have counselled no mea
sures repugnant to the foregoing; that
I have abstained from invective and de
nunciation; and addressed myrelf to the
reason, the conscience, the patriotism,
and sense of honor of the slaveholders,
many of them being near relatives and
personal friends. Not one of my nu
merous exchanges in the South, how
much soever opposed to my view's, has,
|at any time imputed to me ill temper,
or a clandestine policy.
With this plain exposition of my
course, it is hardly necessary for me
jto say, that in the recent transaction:
which has excited so much feeling,
nsither myself nor any person connect
ed with me, had any share whatever—
that the transaction, in fact, became
known to me only through the general
report.
I write this to disabuse the public
mind, so that those who do not person
ally know me, may not be imposed
upon by any misrepresentation of my
position. Certainly I feel a great re
pugnance to being assailed for w'hat I
have never done or dreamed of; but if
legal violence be inflicted upon ine for
writing and printing freely about Sla
very, or any other subject which it
may suit an American to discuss, then
I will suffer cheerfully, in the confi
dent hope that when passion and pre
judice shall have been dispelled, jus
j tice will be done to my character.
But I will not suppose that those who
are rejoicing in the enfranchisement of
the Press in Paris, will put fetters up
on the Press in Washington.”
Mr. Calhonn. (in his seat) Does
he make any denunciation of the rob
bery
Mr. Hale —he had quite enough to do
in defending himself, and it was no part;
of his duty to denounce others.
Mr. Calhoun, (ia his seat) —I under-;
stand that.
Mr. Halt— l appeal to the sense of j
justice of the Senate, and ask what jus-
tification there can be for assailing the i
character and property of a man who
knew no more of this occurrence than
any of its members? I appeal to the;
honorable Senator who spoke so elo
quently of the high and chivalric ideas
of right which are understood in this
section of the country—
Mr. Foote —l ask the Senator, and I
beg to remind him that twenty millions'
of people are listening to his answer, in
the circumstance of the case, evidently
known to him, does he suppose that this
i occurrence could have taken place
j without extensive countenance and aid
from men of standing in thia District,
whether members of Congress, or!
others?
Mr. Hale —l have no doubt that those'
1 persons could not have got away with-
I out some aid. It is enough that I have
disclaimed all knowledge of it. I
thought that when the honorable Sena
tor was speaking, more that twenty
1 millions of people were listening. He
invites me to visit the State of Missis-
sippi, and kindly informs me that he
would be one of those who would act
the assassin, and put an end to my ca
reer. He would aid w bringing roe to j
public execution—oo, death by a mob!
Well, in return for his hospitable urn*
I tat ion, I can only express the desire
j that he would penetrate into some of
the dark corners of New Hampshire,!
and if he do, I am much mistaken if be
would not find that the people in that
I benighted region would he very
happy to listen to his arguments, and
;eiq;age m an intellectual conflict with
him, in which the truth might be elicit
«d. I think, however, that the an
nouncement which the honorable Sena
tor ban made on this floor of the fate
which awaits no humble an individual
j« ray self in the State of Mississippi,
j most convince ever y one of the pro
priety of the high enlegimn which he
pronounced upon her the ether day,
when he spoke of the high position
which aba occupied among the States
of this confederacy. But enough of
this personal matter.
1 think, if I did net misunderstand
the honorable Senator from South Car
•oCna, that ha as snrpriaad at the temeri
ty of the Senator frees New Hampshire
in introducing this hill. Let me ask,
WILLIAM C. SELL, Tsstisesa.
JOH.N DICK, rater ta.
WHOLE N 0.—20.
What is the bill? W'hat is this iacta
disry bill that has elicited Mkh a tor
rent of invective? Has it been saos
hMUcil Abohtioa
istsf W by t it is copied, almost void
rar word, from a law on the statute
book, which has bees in operation for
years, in the neighboring State of Ma
has no allusion, directly or
indirectly, to the subject of slavery
Yet 1 am accused of throwing it, as a
firebrand, and in order to make war
I U P°® the institutions of the South!—
How? In God’s name has it come to
this, that the American Senate, and in
the year of grace, one thousand eight
hundred and forty-eight, the rights of
property cannot be named, but the ad
vocates of slavery are in arms, andex
claim that a*ar is made upon their in
stitutions, because it is attempted to
cast the protection of the law over the
j property of an American citizen, who
appeals to an American Senate!
j It has long been held by yoa ibat
your peculiar institution i»incompatibly
with the right of speech; but if H be
also incompatible with the safeguard*
of the Constitution being throw n around
property of American citizens, let the
country kuow it! If that is to be the
principle of your acli« n, let it be pro
claimed throughout the length and
I breadth of the laud, that there is an in
stitution so omnipotent—so almighty
that even the sacred rights of life and
property must bow down before it!
Do not let it lie said that 1 have in
troduced this subject. 1 have simply
i asked that the plainest provisions of
common law—the clearest dictates of
justice—shall be extended snd exer
i cised for the protection of the property
of citizens of this District; and yet tbe
I honorable Senator from South Carolina
1 is shocked at my temerity.
Mr. Butler —Allow me to ask cno
question with perfect good temper.—
i The Senate is discussing the subject
i with some feeling; but I ask him
whether he w’ould vote for a bill, pro
perly drawn, inflicting punishment on
persons inveigling slaves from the Dis
trict of Columbia?
Mr. Halt —Certainly not; and why?
Because I do not believe that slavery
should exist here.
Mr. Calhoun, (in his scat) If*
wishes to arm the robbers, and disarm
the people of the District.
Mr. Halt— The honorable Senator is
alarmed at my temerity—
Mr. Calhoun, (in his seat) —1 did not
use the word, but do not think it worth
while to correct the Senator.
Mr. Hale —The Senator did not usa
the term?
Mr. Calhoun —No. I said it was
brazen in the Senator, or something like
that.
Mr. Hale The meaning was lha
same. It was strange, then, that I
should introduce a bill for the protec
tion of property in this District—a bi 1
perfectly harmless, but which was rot
rtrued into an attack upon the ftouth,
I ask the Senator from South Carolina
and the country wherein consists the
temerity 1 suppose in the section of
the country from which it con oj. He
says we seem to think that the S< nth
has lost all feeling. Ah! There is the
temerity. The bill comes from the
wrong side of a certain boundary.—
Why, did the Honorable Senator from
South Carolina imagine that wo of the
North, with our feces bowed down to
the earth, and our backs to the sun,
had received the lash so long that we
dared not look up? Did he suppose
we dared not ask that the protection of
the law be thrown around property in
the District to which we come to legis
late?
I desire no war upon the institution
of slavery in the seusc in which the
Senator understands the term. 1 will
never be a party to any encroachment
upon rights guarantied by the Consti
tution and the law—not at all. I wish
no war, but a war of reason, of per
suasion, of argument; a war that should
look to convincing the understanding,
subduing the affections, and moving the
sympathies of the heart. That is the
only war in which 1 would engage.—
But it is said that the time is come, that
the crisis has come, snd that the South
must meet it. In all candor and hon
esty, then, let me say, that there could
not be a better platform on which to
meet the question, than that presented
by the principles of this bill. There
could not be s better occasion than this
to appeal to the couutry. Let the
tocsin sound. Let the word go forth.
Let the free North be b id that her
craven Representatives on the floor of
the Senate, are not at liberty even to
claim the protection of the rights ef
property!
j The right of speech was sacrificed
l° n g *S O Bst now it is to be proclaim
ed (hat we earmot even introduce a bill
looking to the execution of the plainest
provisions of (he Constitution, snd tho
clearest principles of justire, f/r tho
j protection of human rights, because
gentlemen choose to consti uc it into
attack upon that particular institu
tion
I ask agsin, what is it that has pro
i duced this step, called up there desun*
i clarions, excited all this uivecrite which
has been pouted out open me as if I
had been guilty of all the cnm«» ia the
decalogue I call upon the f* aate and
the country to takjh notice of it. lack.
s on wkat dv gentlemen of the booth re*
j ly for the protection of any in* it wtiooo
on which they place any value? It
will be answered, Upon the Const it o
*tioo and the law. Well, then, if the
i safeguards of the Conetautimi are reo
dered inadequate to the protection of
one species of property, how emu it be
aeppseed that there will he protection
1 for any? ft is because I desire to main
rain m all their strength and shifty, the
safeguards o t Ac Constitution, that I
hare introduced this bill for the pruttc
i ttM of in this District. And
i hero let m tell the SArtor from Ala*
bams, that ha will have my foil eo ape
ration in any measure to prevent hid*
I n«PPin«» «nd 1 shall expect him to re
deem his pledge. Again 1 am shocked
to bear the honorable Senator denounce
this bill as a measure calculated to ro
prcaa those citizens from the expreaaoa
of their just indignation.
Mr. Calk*** —lf the Senator will al
low me, I will explain. 1 said no such
thing. Bat I will take the occasion to
say, that 1 would just as soon argue
with a maniac from bedlam, as with the
Senator from New Hampshire, on this
subject.
Several Senators—Order, order.
Mr. Calhotm —l do not intend to eor
i rect his statemeta. A man who says
I that the people of this District have no
j right in their slaves, and that it is no
robbery to take their property from
them, is not entitled to be regarded as
in possession of his reason.
Mr. Hale —lt is sn extremely novel
mode of determining a controversy by
throwing the mantle of maniacal irre
sponsibility over one’s antagonist! But
the honorable Senator puts words into
my mouth which I never used. 1 did
not say that the owners had no property
in their slaves. I said that the institu
tion exists, but I have not given any
'opinion upon the point to which the
i Senator alluded. I have never said any
j thing from which this sentiment which
he imputes to me could be inferred. It
I does not become me, 1 know, to mca
-1 sure arms with the honorable Senator
i from South Carolina, more particularly
since he has been so magnanimous as
to give notice that he will not conde
scend to argue with me. But there is
more than ono man in this country,who
has, whether justly or unjustly, long
since arrived at the conclusion, that if
I am a maniac on the subject of sla
very, I am not a monomaniac, for I am
not alone in my madness. But, Sir, 1
am not responsible here or elsewhere
for the excitement that has followed the
introduction of this subject. I intended
simply to give notice of a bill caicu
lated to meet the exigency. The hon
orable Senator from Florida calls upon
1 me for proof of the necessity of this
legislation,. and says that no violence
has been committed in this District. I
don’t know what he calls violence.
Mr. fVe stcott —There has been no
evidence, except the running away with
some negroes.
Mr. Hale —Well, I believe that some
j hundreds of individuals assembled in
front of a printing office in this city,
j and assailed the building with missiles,
obliging the persons engaged in their
usual employment to abandon their le
gal occupation. If that does not come
up to the gentleman’s definition of vio
lence, I do not know what does. I was
desirous of introducing this subject
without an appeal to any matters which
might be supposed to lie behind. 1 be
lieve that these matters have nothing to
do with the subject under consideration.
But other gentlemen have chosen to
give this subject a different direction.
Now, in the bill which I have had the
honor to introduce, the provisions are
almost identical with the law which has
been in existence in many of the States,
and is now on the statute-book of Ma
ryland. To its enactment here, ex
ception has been taken, and I am quite
willing that the country should know
the grounds on which opposition is
made. If the subject be painful, it has
not been made so by me. As to the
threats w hich have been made of blood
shed and assassination, I can only say
that there have been sacrifices already,
and there may he other victims, until
the minds of all shall be awakened to
the conviction that the Constitution w-as
made as well for the preservation of the
freedom of discussion, as for the pro
tection of the slave-owner.
[to be continued.]
N o t i t c 8.
National Convention of the Liberty
League»*
The undersigned committee appointed at Macedon Locks in June last to call a National convention some time in the year 1848 do invite those who wish to provide equal civil securities to the rights of all men to meet in Convention at the City of Rochester on the 31st day of May next, at 10 o’clock A.m. fo the purpose of nominating a candidate for the Vice Presidency, and the transaction of such other business as may come before the convention.Notice - Agreeably to the recommendation of the Liberty Party Convention, held in Auburn, January 12th and 13th 1848 will be in the city of Buffalo on the 14th and 15th days of June, 1848. This convention from the fact that it is expect to nominate candidates for President and Vice President; and to take high and effective ground in behalf of personal liberty, free trade, free soil, exemption from war, and from other violation of the equal rights of all men, will probably attract a large concourse of persons and be of deeply interesting character. State League Convention. A mass convention for the nominate state officers, to be supported by the Liberty League at the ensuing fall election, will be held at Rochester on the second day of June next, at 10 o’clock A.m. Let our friends see to it that the various parts of the state are well represented. F.S. Gilbert, W.D. Barbitt, Wm. R. Smith, Hiram Pitts, A. Pennel Central Coal. of the Liberty League.
Hon rove. Feb. 29th, 1848.
Notice. —Messrs. E. R. Dunlop and S. II.
Day are not agents for the Colored people of
Upper Canada, as is generally suppose*! and
if they have collected money in their name, it
has bacn done on their own responsibility,
and not of the British American Abolition
Society in the city of Toronto. Mr. Dunlop
was dismissed from his agency for .said society,
outlie first day of December, 1817. Mr.
Dunlop was sent out with Mr. Day, fox the
•olft purpose of getting signers to {establish a
paper in the city of Torcmto.
In behalf of the Executive Committee of
tfie 11. A. A. Society,
CHARLES- FREEMAN, See.
April 21, 1+547.
The Prisoners,
A niTliug was held in Boston on flic 25th,
in relation to the recent attempted escape of
the slaves from Washington, and the iinpri
roniueni of thus.? concerned in it. A com
mittee was appointed, and we publish below a
Circular issued by them. We need not com
mend it to the attention of our readers
T> t!»f Fritnh <]f Liberty tU thr U.i'tcrt
St t's:
The undersigned, at a public meeting of
citizens of Boston, held at Fuuenil Hall, on
in relation to the recent arrest,
at VV asliingtim, ot' threi men, charged with
awisting the e.v’ap jof fugitive slaves, were
authon/.iid to collect money and employ coun
sel, for the purpose of defending these men,
and of bringing before the Supreme Court of
the United States the question of tlia legality
of slavery in the District of Columbia.
Our action in this matter can furnish no col
or of pretence to charge us with meddlesome
inteitpreuce. Whatever may lie the case in
the States, slavery in the District of. Columbia
is a national affair our affair. Over that
District Congress possesses sole and exclu
sive jurisdiction. It is the citizens of the
United States who are tber jailors of
men.
We deny that the Constitution confers on
Congress any power to establish, or to main
tain slavery, tu territory over which it possess
es exclusive jurisdiction. This is a most im
portant question, in reference not only to the
Jbstrict of Columbia, lnit to tlm territory
about to be acquired from- Mexico. We w ish
to bring it before tin* Supreme Court, and to
have w> presented there, along with some
other closely related questions, by the very
ablest counsel. To do that, money is needed
and wc call on you, friends of liberty, to fur
nish it. Even pirat *s and murderers arc en
titled to counsel —lmw much more, guilty
only of an act of humanity, prisoners in thi
midst of a hostile community, surrounded by
enemies thirsting lor their blood This enll, t
we know, will not be in vain. We suggest
the expediency of s -tting subscriptions on loot
in t!i principal towns. AH remittances to
our 'l'l’easiircr, .1. I*. Blanchard, or to Samuel
E. fcvnvall, 10 State street, or Francis Jack
son. 27 St ale street, or to any member of the
AMttiuUe J, w ill be acknou lodged through the
public prints, and the expenditure duly ac
counted for. Editors friendly pi liberty arc
requested to give this a few insertions.
SAMUEL MAY,
SAMUEL G. IIOWE,
SAMUEL K. SEWALL,
RICHARD HILDRETH,
ROBERT MORRIS, J R i
FRANCIS JACKSON,
KM/UR WRIGHT,
JOSEPH SOUTH WICK,
WALTER HANNING,
J. W. BROWNE,
HENRY 1. BOWDfTCir,
WM. F. CHANNI.NO,
JOSH. P. BLANCHARD,
J AMES M. WHITON, I
iiARLES LIST. i 1
Boston, April 23, 1313.
l\j‘ The bail fixed upon is $70,000 J
aWtit $lOOO for each prisoner.
Lafayette aud American Slavery. 1
A correspondent of the West *rn CtUzon,
IbAing rather wnaitive, a* an American, u»
ih i rebuke administer! d «iur pro-slavery go
vernment by Lafayette, comes to the rescue,
regretting that Clarks >n ever used the lan
guage attributed to him, and Volunteering an
opinion that he (Clarkson) bad no authority
for so doing. The editor, however, prove*
that the correspondent is the only one w ho
41 has overshot the mark/’
Tbo quotation from Lafayette, un the
authority of Clarkson, which is the subject ol
ibe cnntinuuicauou above, is in the following
woids I would n?vcr have drawn my
nworl m Ihc c.vuse of America, if I could
haw- row«ived that thereby I wa? fotmdmg a
laud of alavwy/’ Tba I nter in which Ulark
s*rt gives Uus stsUi.nent lathe world, WtoioM
of Ihr last written bv tlm* pluhwUhcpjabt, and
was first puUi'hoJ Lwto or litre** yearn ag**, to
thp lab*Ttv B IT, ftruhicb it was specially
wrdt -a. lion. J fl. Pilfn*y, in his speech
y» (*ongn*«, on the P<*littcs| As|*ccts of Sla
very, nukes the same quotation, in precisely
tin.- sane Ittigur.ge. So it apjicaw that we
have so:ne very g swi autlM+ntv with tw to flic
*i;pp that t!*ij l.i i"a ig»* is aotkeutiv.—'.
Non* of the watchful defenders mf 4ywy ir
i Fongr deny tt,ii*rNnvii|«iii
J-afafette
Jjt orV.* would w
I hare JUfT h p K open VmWurt by th
lrt Pl. w Sa c R*Mfo dues I
1® whi*
Mr liffmn -hire ftHen wits apretacy fmt
that principle which layette labored to ea
aw the hope of Kurope—or he wntth
n»»t mnjine that be Mtr 1 jfijnija
fn the present pro-slavery charaiewoT o'u
nation.
“Lafayette eameto (hie rmintrv not nwreli
10 overthrow the |wwrr of the English kir.j
in th** colonics, but work out an important
:jri Thliii iTaiift 1 1 Iwtei if Hr
kfWM WHJ iWrfM Iff, «tH 'WT*ff S* TIH
ismjde ot he American colonics. Ife saw
iht*! nation hnttt np off the principle I f natura
oqvahty of nil mm.- and'he rxptWed. Ih eofn
n,r> l wth Jeflbim, Washington. KmMb
i wd G*h-r», t!iat Uic slave*should have a par
t m ’l** Wrings olrftu ied l>jr the independence
j at, J *hat the v too would 1* ((jttc. lie left ltd
i country, and immediately entered with eticrg}
Mitu measures and exp -aments for the aboh
of shrert m the FVctk h West* Tndi
i lie w»w aba with Frank ho n member of !h<
tifrt abnimoa aocistv formed in thin country
.Say» a biographer of Lafayette:
For the purpose of applying bin priori
|des to mm ol color, he purchased a pjanta
ti-»!i |;i l r i c'i pniaiia. ilia first step was t»
coflerf affifie whips and other instruments o
torture aid ptnt*!iWtrt, and tank-* a bonfire o
them, in pre«s(»ce *»f the assembled slave*.—
Ho th n instituted a plan «.f giiintr a portior
of his time to each every week, with a pro
mi# tual aatoyn as auy ooehad earned monet
enough to ptirebaec aa additional day of the
week, he should I*e entitled to it; aud ht
should have tint and feo on, until ho w ni
master of bit* w hole time. In the then state
<»f Anti-Slavery this gradintl and
sifting process was denned norcssarr to form
the cinr.icter of slaves, and to secure the
«fc«y of tltc masters. Abolitionists would
i n elect this inode now. They would turn
slavrts at once into free hdiorors, or lease
holders, on the same estate, if possible, w here
they had been as glares. Hull, thore is not
an American afxditisuist who would not nc
joice to sec n single Southern planter ropy
I the plan qf Lafaywtte, or take any other step
tending to emancipation, however remote.-
Before liaTayette'g views were fuljyexocutcd,
the french resolution occurred, which inter
rupted his operations, and made tho slaves
free at onoe. But mark the conduct of the
r ungrateful and Mood-thirsty Mark*. "While
other slaves in the colony availed themselves
ol th j first moment of ftcedoas to quit the
plantations of their masters, Lafayette's re
mained, desiring to work for their humane
and generous friend.”
‘•Jle was then also a member of the French
Abolition Society called the Amisdea Noirs,
the Friends of the Blacks.
It was at this tune that the Revolution in
Ifayti occurred. lie was then a member of
th National and in this body ho
was among tl;= foremost in behalf of the.
slaves and the free colored people of that
Island, voting not only for the immediate abo
lition of slavery, but lor granting to all of the
colored people rights equal to and in" common
with the white people. Ho was also in fimir
ol alt tlm-e-just measures in relation to Hayti
which our modetu republicans have slan
derously reported as being fraught with the
horrors rtf' St. Domingo abolition.’ Those
horrors’ were not the result of abolition, hut
ol an attempt to. enslave them after they had
once by the government bee* set free. La
fayette must not only bear the odium in this
country of having snid that he would not liave!
fought for slavery, but also of precipitating
th revolution, the Moody revolution pf Si. r
Domingo. It was resistance to Liberty
tint drew that blood from the veins uF tire!
planters.
After the surrender of Cornwallis, in'
which campaign lie bore sonic conspicuous
part, lie was complimented by the State of Yir-,
uinia, w ho had reaped the fruits of his suc
cesses, and he replied, by the expression that
liberty might he speedily extended to all men,
without distinction.
“After lie had returned to France, and had
seen with pride the growing prosperity of this
country, and with sadness bis own nation
sinking hack from republicanism into the arms
of monarchy half smothering the intima
tion that European emancipation frtim kingly
power had failed through American apostacy
I and refusal to giant omaueipaiioa to her slaves
—lie says:
VVhile indulging in my views of.
can prospects, and American Lihoyty, it is
mortifying to.!x- told that ill that very country
a large |*ortion of tl;c pctqile aTC slaves'! It:
is a dark spot on the face of tiie nation. Such
a state of things casmot always exist. I* «ee
in the papers that there w u jdan of gradual
abolition of slavery in the District of Colum
bia. I w ould bo doubly happy of it, for the
measure hi itself and because asci.se of Ame
rican pride makes me recoil at the observa
tions of the diplomatist. and other foreigners,
who gladly improve the unfortunate existing
circumstances into a general objection to our
republican, and (saving that deplorable evil,)
our matchless system.’
Cut rage.
Mr. Wrn. Daily, one of the most respect
able colored cilizms of Richmond, who has
resided some time m Liberia, but within the
last three years returned;to America, a short
portiui of which lime lut hue sjxmii in Rich
mond, the place of his birth, aud residence of
his time and care-worn parents, was, a few
days since, arrested for no other criitie than
being found upon the soil eti which lie
breathed his first infant breath, aud required
to give security willdu five days, to leave the
state in ten, or remain iu prison until he was
able to leave. But peiad venture he should
not be able to pay his jail fees, according to
the w isdom of Virginia law-makers, he must
be wild from the auction block, to the highest
bidder; and there arc not a few cases on!
record w here like victim* have become slaves
for life.
What a glutmus commentary upon tl»e pro
fessedly institutions of Republican A
mcrica! One bieezc heaves upon bosom
the w arm, generous and enthusiastic shout ol
sympathy in behalf of the comparative free
men of Kurope in their struggles for man
hl»ertv, whilst the next heralds the arrest of a
uomiiially tree citizen lor simply Ijeing where
it pleased las Creator to give bun his
birth.
11 the sun of heaven shines upon a country
more redolent with hvpoerisy and base ii,con
sistency, to say’nothing of cruel oppression,
than slave-dealing America, it is onlv surpri-'
sing that Jehovah through the liglitning’s
power lias «ot, loeg ore this, sbaueretl it, uito
tt:i llioujand atoms.—K.—.V»/.Wcry.
1 hu» is lacted out to (olvrai American®.
If white u*eu wcie subjected to surii indi*-’
nities, one might saldy predict the speedv
atiuilulalion of the aeeur>od slave system.’
If the cold-hearte«t pm-shiveitcs of the de'ren
erate North were victims to the peculiar in- 1
stitufion hut for a shoit sca«cn,it might result'
m opening flteir eyes to its horror*; but'
while others than themselves, and those, too
tinged with the haled ftaiu, are ihu«» outraged,.
Uiey have no *JM, ws, or /k*r/, t Q la k e
coguiaauce of the foci. WhaA a*
tone would issue from the Northern puljiit*
and press, if some re»{>ectaUe white citizen
on visiting the borne of Iris youth, j
cast into prison, as would he the case with
colore-d ni’*n nowr residents of tlte North, if
they renturc Wieth U> exchange greetings
w ith .their friends of relatives. If U»is is not
Jesjxilism, will not some zcalotts defexuh i of
Amencan msUtutious set u» right.
‘'Atsrt, t’*A.wbii, ltt|if*y Iwsls'’—«. c. r.
R)»(tntfc)r vitii Pniwv.
Rjarge of pennn* of b^WOBt
JOw of that ijgifc^rw
the chair, and made a brief addresn; aAe
which resolutions were presented by the con
Emitted of artanyfeibcim, iumngal vftifch wef
the following
Resolved, Thai to decreeiw thf aMitio
of Negro SlaTerjr, jf'ih|tce .bid iliei
self with higher honors than war couhl girt
iHiTliH
greatest which it is penniued to men or at
uooa toaaieeve. 9**
Rewdved, That by avowing ibe fnwdhii
ship of Labor, awi the prntecuoo of ua jot
rights a* a .cardinal d«i| c»f .the constitute
authorities, tfift Provisional Goyeriiiiieitt c
France has given aeauraiicg of its design t
1 accotnpb*h in an enlarged sense, and an cl
factti*l manner the greatest gmxtof the great
i eat number. r
Resolved, That we cherish aobcaitaiiag
unwavering, and inviociWe confidence in lit
picnrwilitjr of republican government, an
that vre helierc the time approaches when th
Joseph* ahull role, and King* sh ill fee', evgr
where as in France, before a righteous piopu
jj lar HMliglTitlOQ.
>k Resolved, That the addition of e*ph.i
t punishment for nolitic.il offenew, by tin
French Provisional Government is a refom
worthy of the age, awl is another demoustra
lion of the triumph of moderation and rCasoi
over prejudice and passion.
Aid. Grcig, Aid. L. Ward Smith, Hon. S
S. Bownc, John C. Churaasero, Esq., Hon
W. C. filoss and others, addressed the meet
in K-
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHKSTKR, MAY 12, 1848.
CIfILLICOTUE, April 20, 1348.
Dear Douglass r I arrived here frotr
Columbus to-day, after holding two meeting*
among the c dored citizens alone,having vainly
endeavored to effect a meeting among the
citizens of the place generally. When upon
the evo of leafing, I was informed by a gen
tleman, tli,it provided I staid another day, a
meeting could be effected. Hut my time be
ing precious, and having already spent suffi
cient in the place, I could not consent. I am
of opinion, that the failure in the first place
was more the effect of timidity on the part ol
the applicants than anything else.
For 'want of room in my last, I omitted to
mention some incidents peculiar to the Na
tional Road, which came under my notice,
travelling from Lloydsville to Columbus.—
\Y hen I arrived at Cambridge, having stopped
at the Temj er-nce House,*’kept by Mr.
Carey, and the only Anti-Slavery hotel on
that rood, I was requested to «op and lecture
that evening. It being on the Sabbath day, I
was requested by the officiating Methodist
clergyman, who sent for me to call at the
church to see him, who proposed, after the
sermon, to give me an opportunity to speak to
the people. Hut this I decliuedi for two
•reasons one, that I desired to get on to Con
cord, to hold a meeting there that eveuing,
consequently could not take time to refresh
the other, that however much I-may have
been inclined to speak, I should not hare
availed myself of suehan opportunity, ts, at
best, religious meetings are the most unfa
vorable to lecture before on the subject of
slavery; and,still more so, immediately after
a sermon, and that, too, a funeral sermon, as
was the case in this instance. For me to
have attempted to expose the hypocrisy of
pro-slavery religion, by rebuking the infernal
system of American slavery, as I most as
suredly would have done, before such a con
gregation, and at snob a time, would have
been a sin unpardonable.
Cambridge is the place in which that
fearless advocate of human rights, M. R.
Hull, was shamefully and basely mobbed
e/rr n times, and finally, being unable to bear
the continued heavy loss consequent from such
attacks upon his property, was driven to Con
cord, a lew mile* west. Although I have
spoken in many of the most pro-slavery pla
ecs since I have been in tins State, even
where there had never before been an Anti-
Slavery lecture, yet, at the most shameful
treatment received by Hull, I felt so indig
nant, that I would not speak m the place. 1
was entreated hv the few unti-slavcry friends
there tn stay and liold a meeting, but per
emptorily refused. In this I may have been
wrong, and if so, plead guilty to the charge,
hut could not at the time persuade myself
that there was ajiy duty iixumbeut on me
as it appeared to me, that those that are
righteous, shall be righteous still,” and as to
the others, they were given over to a hard
ness of heart.*’ I went on to Concord, but
held no meeting in consequence of the ab
sence of Mr. Hull. Saw his wife, but did
not make myself known to her.' The people
of Concord whom I conversed whh, though
evidently anti-mobocratic in feeling and prin
ciple, yet appeared as little concerned about
anti-slavery as they were about the piracy on
the Northern coast of Africa.
Although I have met with enough to rebuke
in almost every place I have visited, yet have
never met, nor did I eijn-ct to meet, with any
thing like the miserable truckling to the slave
power, and low servility manifested at most
litery bouse upon the rued, and in every town
ihrough which I passed. Indeed, I cannot
permit mvself to believe that there is in either
Asia or Africa, short of the most eon&uin
raati ly ignorant, and degradedly barbarous, a
ribc or clan of heathen that can ho found*
imong whom a stronger, of whatever nation
>r clime, would not meet with more rniiny,
ban a colored person—-at least than I received
from Lloydsville to Zaneeriilu upon this “Ne
:iuual Road, and that, too, a road which is
me of the greatest highway thoroughfares in
lie country —a thtewaghfare along which
pwqde of all kinds and grades are continually
passing. There in a manifest depravity on
its part of many of the people in this country,
s hicb, if it be not speedily remedied, ViU as
now apparent militate greatly to lb© delx>
nent of the National prosperity. It is tae
■eeklecs dirt-garil of the rights of individual*
hat causes the tottering fabrics of nations to
all. This constant and unmitigated rioting*
ipoo the right* of wan cannot sonttuae (hr
»er. No! there is a just Gud in heaven,
md Uis justice cannot forever sleep.
Aged men and w oaten, young mm and
naidcna; yea, ymmg faff/*’and ct+rttniri
f*» Ihw w fa fWCr such;) the
iis Aril ikapig lfte
pouting dfthc finger lK|b in face,"in
r j ug atones and Mock*, are among the indigo;
I ties a colored perron meets with from thes
Ndtmnal Road fcnifilte J&riericin' ITepiibl
i can Christians! Respectable-looking womet
here goes a niirtrmr f'' m Kwi a ntim of -toll
cmWrpfi iroiiM toswer fo the call, who, poc
A k«Je doars— the maJmrf wh:<4rtht>y
r»tbew innnoeot lktte rastatho and showrt! fttei
i teeth manifested evidences of great cmotio
B«f the afaencc of their mother's trains.
,j should be recreant to the cause 1 hare es
pt>used, did I fail to rebuke tbi* msufferabl
j despotism, which only requires the penaiaakx
of law, to corue forth in, all its hideous de
hirniKT, and terrible consequences., i, an
L not you, am alone responsible Sat what
j write.
1 would simply observe to the friends e
humanity who uny pass alone this read, hot!
1 Colored and white, that our frumd Carey, ii
Cambridge, keep* an Anti-Slavery and Tern
poranoe hotel, directly opposite the stngi
(twee, and his friends greatly'complain, am
nhat,‘too, not wrtlioot a jdst cause, that anti
sherry men frequently pass through Cam
bridge in private vehicles, and plop at pro
slavery houses instead of his. Of tins kiudo
preference,. there perhaps are none ssure cul
pablc than the colored people who reside it
the surrounding neighborhood, who frequently
ride to town on the Sabbaah, none of when
ever as yet hare patronised his house, aithougl
they are aware that it is art anti-rlavefy ant
temperance house, patonizing the pro-slavcrj
house in preference, the inmates aqd pioprio
tors of whom even sneer at them oo their ap
proach, and care nothing more about itherr
thau their money is concerned. I hold it tc
be a boundcu duty for anti-slatery and tern
pciancc men and women to support anti-sla
very a«»d temperance houses, in preference tc
any other. r
Friday evening, the 21st, delivered a lec
ture before the colored citizens, in the African
M. E. Church, on the subject of our moral
elevation, laying the claims of the North Star
before them. On Saturday evening, I lec
tured again in the same church, and on Sab
bath accompanied a largo number of males
and females to the Uniontownship Settle
ment,” nine miles from CkiKicothe, and lec
ttired to a very large assemblage of respeeta-
I bio colored farmers, in the colored Baptist
Church, holding another mcetingon the same
evening two and a half miles distant, in a
Methodist Church. Monday, 23d, lectured
in the Colored Methodist Church, Chiilicoihe;
and on Tuesday evening in Frankfort, 12
miles west of Cbillicothe. On Wednesday,
2Gth, lectured again to a crowded house, in
the llapiist Clutch, which closed uiy meet
ings for the present in this region. J
I. could not succeed in obtaining a church
here to lecture in, so utterly indifferent arc the
Christians here to the cries of the groaning
millions m the land. There is, notwithstand
ing, a desided ohange in the general character
of the dominant people of Chillicothc—l mean
the w hites. Four years ago, like most of
places, so servile wcie the people here, that
a strange colored person was scarcely per
mitted to pass without ridicule and insult.—
Nay, you could not make inquiry at the post
office without meeting insult from its clerks;
and, indeed, this species of petty despotism
was dealt out toward the colored citizens of
the? place, as well as strangers. But now,
there is generally that kind of courtesy and
civility manifested towards one, by those with
whom he may have dealings, that become peo
ple professing to be Christians. One may
now pass along the streets, and enter the post
office or a hotel, without incurring insult at
the threshhold at least.]
There aie quite a number of respectable
colored mechanics in Chillicothc, all industri
ously employed also a large number of free
holders and more farmers round about in this
neighborhood than I have ever yet met with.
This is highly creditable to the colored in
habitants, and will do more towards elevating
us, than all other human efforts this of
Mason and Dixon's line.
1 would observe that altogether the young
society in this place is not quite so commend
able nowr as when I visited here four years
since. There are some most excellent excep
tions to this but there is great room in gen
eral for improvement. There does not appear
to be the general intelligence here now that
there was then, though the manner in which
they, as well as the old people, crowded(othc
churches, attentively listening to discourses
upon their moral elevation, certainly mani
fested the greatest desire to gaia information.
There are now oo good schools—indeed, no
school at all for colored youth in Chillicothe;
and upon the heads of the authors of the
abominable Black Laws let the execrations of
outraged humanity rest. If should be borne in'
mind that all the schools, or nearly so, aiuoug
the colored people of Ohio, are supported at
their own private expense, while they are
shamefully and tyrannically compelled to pay
taxes for the education of the whites.
There are some rare spirits among the
young men and women, who are endeavoring'
to get an efficient library, to supply themi
with useful information, and improve their!
time and talents. I have appointed here, as
in Columbus, male and female agencies for!
the North Star.
Of those ladies and gentlemen who render
me service, I will writo more particularly i
hereafter. I leave in the mo rum g, a route
for Cincinnati.
Yours for God and humanity,
M. R. I>.
r»;-t i"• r*-*- 1
Ex’ Win. A. Andrews, an overseer of 1..
W. Perkins, Miitowippi, attempted to ehas*
Use see of the negro boys who seined n stick
and prepared to do battle. The overseer told
ite boy to lay the stick down, at be *ooW
■hoot him he refused, and the overseer then
fired his prated, and shot the boy in the face,
him instanfly. The jury of inquest;
found the verdict, that the said Wtp- A.,
Andrew* committed the lulling in self-do*,
M to i
E? Tbe tily of
rbmituaud lasi Friday; sight, is celebration
>f the events m Europe.
BiO foe the prjtat4onp
1 ofCo,tt b a |toil
lil be found elsewhere, mtmS
e Wmt, H.ll of interest, lie invefe
much advantage in that dlarussion. John C.
f'alhoon marshalled hi* crowd of barhanam
p t against the Senator for New Hampshire- He
complained that he had long been the de
fender of Southern institutions, and wished
t i*r* <,n cr mclß ,cr »ould relieve
It ttlmof that doty. There are two positions
ia whah is mu m ilyrndm—f~«*a|
r not very reputable, for a man to be placed—
-1 namely, as the AdHider of injoifce, iftd m
cXcvhrtor of a country's sentence upoc
Mr. Calhoun perhaps begins tc
I realize some of the unpleasantness of hh
position as the defender of slavery; and
t 4 therefore the complriat. It, is nsTtaiafy too
i, much to expert one to do all the dirty work
-I The complaint bring* a host up to the rescue;
1) not the feast valiant of wbnmwaa the re
I iumacd Mr. Foote of Mississippi. The old
patriot thinking that the thing oi
f* the greatest valnc reform! to by the oracle,
i 1 as necessary to be sacrificed for the salvation
i of his country, was bravery, did not hesitate
to precipitate himself headlong into the yawn
i n K atyss* The American republican form?
estimate of the Amanda ©1 bu
t country. It is doubtless a stnnqg, though
■J sot an unprecedented exhibition of patriotism
fo* a member of Senate to offer himself as a
r candidate for the high office of hangman.
Mr. Foote ef Mississippi declares himself
i trifling te undertake that high office. An
aimtetir Jack Ketch? There have been
i amateur players, dancers and lawgivers; and
i; Heaven knows there arc amateur scoundrels
i. and villains enough j but an amatenr hang*
J man, and tliat a member of Senate 0
it/Njtoru! O mores!” The sublime and pn-
J triotic aspirations of the Senator for Missis*
I aippi are smely deserving of encouragement.
I W ill not some artist take the subject into im
f mediate consideration, and give to the world,
that it may be preserved among the cherished
memorials of patriotic self-sacrifice, a like
ness of the distinguished Senator for Mis
slssippi, in the act of performing the duties
of his high office.. There could not be a
more appropriate criminal selected, than John
j P* Hah?. Perhaps John C. Calhoun will
f consent to be represented as chaplain on the
oeaasion; and the Southern memliers gener
ally, Westeott, Bagby, Davis, &c. &c,, will
of course be most happy to be represented as
witnesses of the solemn spectacle of the in
fliction of the law’s last penalty oti such a
j notorious offender against the peculiar in
slitution.”
j Mr. Foote, of Mississippi! prepare your
j brow for the laurels by which it must speedily
be eucircled. Yours is a patriotism of no
common order. Let the Roman Curtius and
the Mississippian F<wte henceforth go down
tp posterity hand in hand as the intrepid self
sacrificing saviours of their country.—j. d.
James Fnfcr:M\V Clarke.—The last Chris
tian World contains the valedictory of this
devoted friend of humanity, who has for
some time past occupied its chaii editorial.
Mr. Clarke is one of that faithful band of
I Mafisacliusetls clergymen, ready and zealous
to do their duly on the great question of
American slavery. Some five or six years
since, I remember bis preaching in Boston,
at the Pitt Street chapel, when the claims of
the suffering bondmen received legitimate
attention. It was much more of a cross then,
thair it is now; still he shrunk not, but re
membered those in bonds, as bound with
them. lie has from that time to the present
manifested a warm desire for the elevation of
the nominally free colored man; and on one
occasion, w hen solicited to address one of
their societies in Boston, he promptly res
ponded, assuring them that it afforded him
more heartfelt satisfaction to appear before
that body, than if he had been the recipient
of a large sum of money for lecturing before
the societies of the more favored in the com
munity. The Committee of correspondence
did not fail to circulate tlio gratifying intelli
gence among the colored people aud their
friends, whose grateful hearts yet love to
refer to the noble offering.—w. c. n.
HUP The Cincinnati Herald of May 3d, in
forms us tint M. R. Dclanv was soon expect
ed to deliver anti-slavery lectures in that city.
We hope for a large list of subscribers as the
result o f his Western tour.
Mr. Douglass is now East, laboring for
the paper, and the cause generally. The
friends of the Star in both suctions should now
improve the opportunity to forward their names
and subscriptions. tl i, 4
s- r
Tub North Star.—With Number 28,
Friday, Jane 23, 1848, will terminate the first
six months. We therefore notify those whose
terms will then expire, that they may have
sufficient time to, othance their subscriptions.
The facilities for rendering the Star an inter
esting paper, and valuable Auu-.Slavcry in
strumentality, are daily increasing. Able
correspondents in and out of the country, will
contribute to its columns. It is the intention
of all connected with the paper, to avail them
selves of every means of its improvement,
and confidently solicit the co-operation of its
friends.
Xi«’» die day, and nowthe huor.”
Practical Abolition. Captain John
Warwick, of Arnhem county, Va., who died
a short time since, manumitted by his will all
his staves, {between 70 and 80.) He has
also made ample provision for their removal,
outfit, and settlement in one of the Western
States.
Conscience the best Policy.”—A last
day Sermon, delivered April 6, 1848, at New
Bedford, Mam., by Rev. John Weihw. Wo
liope to ftarwish aa extract for our mins.
U richly dr serves the oommendatmoß be
stowed upon tt by the press.
j -ru Hi- y-’ I
TO CORREBPON DESTB.
E- W. wsdu
Dv Be—<rh. Cwfed S Ns. fh Hops
u* paMkh his rs—■"sisaiius. s .1
A. H., (Merits.—Give yisndf m BBMsm.
IW Btar •Ufl ha forwarded.
Ijrtmißpsß .The pqns tbs deuh «f Mscic
rux-f M>
Par&plM m to fe sdtt er+j day, in
newif&k w 4 jiliHiwdiuiiM fetor of lead
ing. |b fe t* lr a psmgfepfc «gn»n»t read
inf, orffehcr fegjtißat fee M«e of it. It k
good tlleadf |at it fe not mI to read everj
book. The odfe|er of boo%tb*t are merelji
uaelcMts already Legion wluW tbe numbei
of tbooe whose tendency fe positively injuri
ous, fe increasing to a deplorable extent. Or
looking oter the counter of any popular boot
store, it fe truly lamentable to find bow large
a proportion of tbe books and pamphlet;
whose price renders them accessible to tht
y «f renders, febflMS MfctfpiW
There mSy be seen, in all directions, staring
tbe in the face, like murderers sluuuo
less of their crimes, books with such titles a<
“The Bloody Hand,” “Tbe Crimson Dag
i*’ 1 The Bloodstained House and
i another description-such as, The
Haunted Hall,” “The Apparition/* fee.
pretending, as their titles would indicate, te
be stories shoot vesurcctiOnmcd gheuts, which,
feasmuck as they are what they pretend ro he,
are wretched enough but these also contain
scenes, which, as may be discovered by
merely glancing at the heads of the chap
fers, are not a whit less sanguinary than the
others. The scenes portrayed arc such as
there never was and never will be the m**«l
distant resemblance of on earth—probaldv
not in hell. They are scenes of horror from
beginning to end—relying, in feet, spon this
i soe fixture, for all their interest. The
writers seem to imagine, that the more hor
rible, unearthly, and unnatural they nuke
their productions, the more popular will they
be. Where these miserable abortions find
rentiers it is difficult to imagine. Mo one will
read them who has the slightest regard for bis
peace of mind, and who does not wish to
have his night visions disturbed by apparitions
of spectres and hobgoblins, and men welter
ing in blood, is the last throes of an agonising
death. A book, that it may be fit to be read,
must have at least the shadow of rationality.
Such books as those with the above titles,
have not. They store the mind and imagina
tion with, at best, nonsense—with, at worst,
vice. Such books are to be shunned as a
moral leprosy. Let them sink deep down,
down, into the lowest depths of a merited
oblivion, if not iuto the still deeper abyss of a
shameful infamy.— j, i>.
Rev. Mr. Sluer. —This man, the Chap
lain of the Senate, on the morning that the
infamous Hope 11. Slatter and the poor ne
groes lie had bought to make merchandize
of,” were about to leave Washington City,
stepped into the cars, and had a pleasant
rieudly chat with tho soul-driver
Communications.
extract trots s Sermon,
Preathtd at Tray, X. 1", tn a company »f Mr. Grr
rti Smith's Grantees, mi the ere of their departure tn
their lands, by Henry Highland Gurnet, Pastor a)
the liberty street Church.
Isaiah, 57 Chap., 13,14. Ife that put
tetli his trust in mo, shall pnssass the land.
Cast ye npcast yo up, prepare the wav,
take up the stumbling block out of tiie way
of my people.”
The first great duty of man is to honor the
living God. For this he has all the necessa
ry capacities. He is endowed with thought,
and affection, and the one is capable of being
turned lovingly upon the Lord, and the other
can be improved illimiubiy.
And there is another duty which a righte
ous man will perforin. Ho will labor to pro
mote the happiness of his brethern of the hu
man family to remove if possible, the sor
rows that may gather around them to wipe
away the tears from thoir eves; to soothe
their aching hearts, and to lead them by pre
cept, and example to the bosom of die univer
sal Father.
Iliere is yet another great duty devolving
upon men a duty which the majority of man
kind place first upon the list a reyn-d for
one’s own happiness. This blessing so eager
ly sought, but which is so seldom found, can
only be secured by the discharge of tl»e two
former duties. Love to God and man, opens
the road to happiness. Love asrl obedience
united, produce this happy state of mind. He
who Uvea the holiest life, enjoys the happiest
spirit; so it has been since men or angels
have had being, and so it ever will be. He
who loves God, and his fellow men, receives
the approbation of Jehovah, and his conscience
is the witness. Perfect love flows from the
heart in several directions, and like a stream
from the brain, of a mountain, it gladdens every
spot through which it flows. It prepares us
to maintain all the relations of life. We be
come faithful patriots, friends, brothers, com
panions, parents and Christians.
Tim upright man will love his native coun
try. A country every man has. For every
one there is some tract of land to which he
can point with more than ordinary pleasure,
and say, there is my country.” He nay
rail himself a citntcn of the w orld, and such
he may lie as far as jmasible, but still there
is one laud, which his mind and memory hr
ror above all others. Famine may w aste it,
and the sword may devour, nevertheless the
magnet of bis soul” will point to it. Hrotiicre
may prove to be monsters, and the archers
may shoot at him, and hate him, hut nothing
ran take away the magic from the words,
the land of my fathers/’ So thought Jo
ieph. Although he sat on the throne next to
ibe King, be could not refrain from tears as
his brethren led his mind over the scene* of
tiis youth. So thought Montgomery who hsd
become acquainted with the hard fore of a
prison, which east its shadows upon his na
tive land. With a warm heart, he asked
41 Breathes there a man «ith *mi! to dead,
Who never to hhaself hath said.
This is sty own, toy native bust w
I have been speaking of a precious casket,
tot there is a gem within it, that is for more
lovely, and attractive. There is one eadeax
sd spot in our native land, aroaad which the
leadrilsof owr hearts emwiae. That fover
ta place imHme, Home, ok, who does net
love and value home! No matter where we
eande*. No matter how wide the distance
ihat separatee tar from the scenes of our early
lays whether we cJinah mountains, or travd
hrongh valfejs, and pfoias, or wade though
Jdniinp sands, qar whether w<* stand on rooky
JtoW* that are chafed by the Ocean; either
s a but, txt a palace, tf pre but bear the word
‘home” memtopod, our hearts will thrill with
i joyous emotion which eanuut be dcacxihed^
I W*T<? tb*t it h Cod*# design 11,3# fw
man laU h*T© a fctmc. Tl.»s grand d™*,,
will be consummated a# fast as mr T)
enlightener! and just. The complete i*. l£rn
of gos pel principle*, will iatrofkee a r f< r
system of agrarianism. The day ml] 0 rrv
when every lining man Atfre a permanent
habitation, and wlien the survivere of the
will not be compelled to take the bread fro
the months of Orphan children, to bay b,. r!a
places for the bodies of their dead parent*.
There is something solemn, and importaef
in the settlement of erory ndw country.
is like entering into a new world. The f r
mOcra of a country are to a great extenr, the
index, to the history of succeeding general***
New England w» settled by refugees fro**
religious persecution and intolerance. Tfc
South was colon fled by bands of selfish i<\.
venturers, and mardcrers. Mark the difli-r
-enee. Look at the index of the two sertitvi*
of country, ami tlien turn to the history.
Brcthem you are soon to leave us, for your
homey in the wilderness. While I commend
you fur your wiso decision. I must severely
feel the low of your society and counsel. My
I mind reverts with pleasure to the profitaUe
a»*d sweet communion whit h we hare had t.»-
gethrr.
It is fi>r you to say w hether that country
shall lie a P.ir.»dir or an abode of sin. If
'veto belter, that the forest should never Is*
subdued, and that the sounds of the wood
man a axe should never be beard in the wildur
n*»s, than that region should hef peopled by
those who fear not Cod.
Would you possess the Land? Then put
your trust in C«d, and do your duly.
Would you remove tlie stumbling-block*
from the paths of your injured brcthem
Then you must cast up the old way. Set
them an example of Midejiendence. Show the
world the falsity of the old doctrine, that we
are doomed to be hewer* of wood, ami draw
ers of water.
Go with the love of God in your hearts,
and with sincere respect for his trulh.
The grove* were God's first tempi,vs.”
Let the first offerings that you place upon your
family altar* be pure.
Go with the Bible in your hand. Head
and understand that blessed Hook.
Go with a detenuiiiation to remember the
Sabbath day, and to keep it holy.
Take with you the spirit of freedom. Plant
the trea of Liberty upon the mountain.plains,
that it may spread its branches far and wide.
He interested in the political affairs of the
nation, and see to it that your first and last
votes an* given in the fear of God, and for
men who do not oppress, am! enslave their
fellow men. Hotum; to vote for those, who*
will give honor to oppressor*. hrethem
tic faithful to your duty at the ballot box.
There give expression to your prayers.
Train up your children in the way they
should go, and be the patrons of education.
Be industrious and frugal, and you shall!
have plenty.
He temperate, and you shall prosper. Al
low no room for alcohol. Let rum jugs, de
canters, and vv hiskey* barrels, be as scarce
among you, as the grace of God is in the
hearts of Hecr-distiiling deacons.
Build up a church on the Gospel plan.
Take the Bible for your creed, and the Fa
ther, Son, and the Holy Spirit fo, your Head.
Leave party names, and other rubbish behind
you.
Abhor and repudiate sectarianism, that
bloody, and cruel offspring of the devil.
Brethren, farewell, may the love of God
dwell in your hearts, and mercy and peace
attend you
J i
American Slavery—its F licet* npon flia
Mights auil Interests of the North.
If a people assist in fastening' one c;-.«l of
a chain around the limbs of another, inevita
ble fate will sooner or later fasten the other
etui around their own necks.”
We rejoice that it is an immutable law of
Providence, in the regulation of human af
fairs, to order that individuals or communities
cannot disregard and trample upon the rights
of others without affecting their own rights and
int ire,-its that he has established the nidivis!—
Inliiy of lire human race an identity of theur
interest. W c need no more infallible illus
tration of the workings of this Providentiak
law titan is presented in reviewing the un
hallowed connection and criminality of tho
North in relation to slavery, and the effect*
of that institution ou the rights at.d interest*
of the North.
In the frcioutiou of a constitution for the,
government «l' the confederacy, the North
ihU not ouly mortgage every particle of its
soil a»a hunting ground tor the bloodhounds of
slavery, bij>cd and quadruped, to dog the
track of, and worry tlx* panting fugitive from*
the worse than death-like vale of Southern
oppression they did not only pledge cvrry
strong arm at the North to go to the~south.
in case the slaves, goaded by oppression,,
diouhl imitate the “virtues of their fore
lathers, ami vindicate thflh rights by sub
senhinjj to llie doctrine of Algernon Sydney—
that r -sisUuwv- to tyrants is obedience to.
t»od ——and crush them in subjection to their*
g&lliaf yoke; hut in the spirit of compromise,
ind Sorter, stipulated that the slaveholder
thould have additional power in proportion as
tie became the great plunderer of humau.
rights, the more insolent to the great declara
tion of fundamental principle, the substratum
>f all democratic institutions.
They agTced, in Art. Ist, Section 2d, of
he f'onstitutiou, that representatives, sad dir
tet taxes, shall Ire apportioned among the
icverai Stales which may Ire included within,
hts Union, according to tlietr repeetive num
revs, winch shall be determined Hy adding u*
he whole number of free persons, including
hose bond to sen iee for a term of years,
md excluding Indiana not taxed, three-fifths
rf all oilier person*.
Tl.is provision allows slaveholders to count
wary live of ihotr victims an Uuee freeoieu ui
he apportionment of wpteeentoUves to tho
popular band* o i o*gw»e—t(repreneuiauoo
wkiek the lamented Inin John Q. Adams de
rksred was an ontwaad shew, a representation
rf persons held in bondage; in (act, a repre
of the masters— the oppressor re
presenting the oppressed—an exemplification
>f the ait of committing the lamb to the ten-
Ici custody of the wolf. By this arrange
alnveboMex claiming two bundled of
to* Wlow-bemga as property, in a goveru-
HCBI pmfewsedly free,” has tho same weight
>a the aatioqek. council one hundred and
twenty ef tun Northern brethren.
1v advantage that the Xorth mippnwx
th,-v would. derive, a* the
was, that the South should oontri
huto in a like proportion to the ropport of lb
government; but here they irot theit h«t ii
It,” for, armed with this overwhelming am
consolidating political power, the South wo
departed from thr* system, and ifcrrmf the in
.lin'd ux system, by which th<y threw th.
burden of supporting jr»Temtn<irt almost ett
tir. lv upon the shoulder* of the North. Th
adoption of the impost system almost relieve
tlie South from a partition in the support
government, as the principal porta of import*
tmn, as well as the principal consumption
imported goods are at the North. It is prett;
w.*ll known that the laboring class at th
S outh do not luxuriate in cloths and silks
wine* and teas from abroad; mid with thes
facts Ik-fore him, one may venture to guess
thoagh no Yankee, who contribute* most t
the support of government; so our ankci
pedlar nuhl his budget of political p-.wer fo
naught.
Having shorn Sampson of his locks. He
lila set about to got the green wisps where
With to bind him; the fn«t ibat pr**s.*nt«litnel
to her comprehensive vision was lamisisna.
It was in vain il'.at Jefleiscn, who was no
oremerupulocs. declared that the Conrtitt:
tion was framed for the government of terri
lorv »b fiiK to be I'nited States territory by
th;-treatv of I? s -5; that the framers of tba
instrument never eonlemplatod in its provit*
ions the admission of l'Jipland, Holland, 01
any foreign State, into the I'nion. For s
lime our Sampson struggled. The North stood
up boldly for the Constitution; but the coy
maiden insisted on liav mg this jewel to decor
ate her casket, alid what could he do {»ooi
impotent soul —hut yield; and thus was the
constitutional harrier broken down, and the
South strengthened and secured for a time in
her political ascendancy. Hut owing to the
influence of slavery upon the industrial class
es, the tide of emigration rolled North-west
ward, where it would not come in competition
with that institution. Territorial governments
were springing up as if by magic of a wand,
and knocking for admission into the confed
eracy of Stales; the Northern Sampson’s
locks were growing out, and I).-lila was fear
fid of losing her power over him. The Con
stitution having been broken down, it was an
easy mailer to march through the breach.—
Florida and Texas were other wisjs to bind
the North with—were other jewels to decor
ate the political cask t of the South. Against
each of these the North made a J'rint resist
ance passed any number of rhetorical” re
solves, well guarded with compromising
huts and ifs,” and might have exclaimed,
Thy genius has triumphed, oh Delila Ami
Sampson Imjvs him to the dust; for these rc
solve* were as impoteut as famous whin
man's resolution” in relation to I‘resideu
Folk's indemnity will prove to be.
Hut in the national Constitution are incur
jMiratcd some guaranties for freedom—tin
right of speech, the freedom of the press, tin
right of a citizen of one Slate to the privi
leges and immunities of citizenship in anotlici
Slate* these have been carried out exten
sively at the North for although the hand of
violence has been raised against those that
should dare he so hold :is to contend for a
practical application of the principles of “70,”
the sons of the South may stand over the very
graves of those who struggled and fell in
defence of these principles, on the very spot
enriched bv their patriot blood, and insult
their hallowed memory hy declaring that
slavery is the corner-stone of democracy,
that all communities must settle down into
classes of employers and laliorers, and that
ik" former will sooner or later own the
I liter,” and no hand of violence will be raised
again** them. This is right. We want no
ivcajujus hut those of truth and right to com
hit these deluded sophi.-trics, even w hen
hacked bv tlu- learning, talents and sagacity of
the 'alhiiims. McDuffies and lllictts, or any
'tlery of the model'’ republicans of the
Faliaetto State. annons, brickbats, clubs
iind proscription, are the weapons of tyranny
auud wrong.
Out vhuubl any descendant of those win
fought for liberty when it meant something
else «jbau a lhetoricul flourish,” who felt a«
the French Republicans of 'lB (honor tc
them felt, that liberty is the boon of heaven,
the birthright of man. Go to South Caro
lina. or most any of the slaveliulding States
iitiJ advocate a practical application o
be*e principles to the toiling masses w e are
informed by modern democrats that they
will l>e seized upon, tried and hung, in spiu
of the interference of all governments, not
excepting the general government of tin
Tinted States.”
In 18lg, this government contended with
the most powerful maratime nation on the
glulie for free trade and sailor’s rights,” the
immunity of national flags, and yet in several
of the Southern States, in violation of the
Constitution, citizens, seamen from the North,
are imprisoned, and if their captains, after
h -ing unjustly deprived of their services, will
not pay the ransom of slavery, they are sold
a» chattels. The fact that they stand upon an
American vessel, with an American com
mander, w iih the world-renowned stripes and
►tars floating above their heads, is no indemnity
against such outrage.
IMd Massachusetts, among whose granite
lulls arc lurking w hatever principle of freedom
that remains tothe degenerate sons of the pilgrim
fathers, felt aggrieved at this treatment. With
a Faneuil Hall and a lloston harbor in her,
how could she fail to see that the tight to im
prison one of her citizens involved the right
to imprison another, and with these old-fash
ioned, obsol. te view ft, she sent commissioner?
to |Souih Carolina and Ixiuisiana to take
cognizance of such cases, with a view ol
bringing them before the supreme tribunal
for adjudication, lint these amliassadors. on
tin* peaceful and lawful mission, were driver
from the soil of a si*tcr State (I) hy threat!
of viulepce, oml one who felt his puritanic
blood, and was not easily affrighted, was
promised a coat of tar and feathers to assist
him in making his flight, hy a committee ol
•Southern gentlemen m*d thus wa* the so
vereignty of a State insulted, in the person of
her representative, and her constitutional
rights trampled under foot. Had some bar
barous state in tltc Indian Archipelago, or in
the gulf of Mexico, refused to acknowledge
the aristocratic title* of some Amo Mean agent,
the thunders of the Northern would eo-oper
atc with the Southern line iu pronouncing
v* iig< inicfc upon the barbarians, and the cry
future, »owUx<aw‘*l WWW
and legislative hallo, and be re-erhaed in er
-1 ox J £T»g-*hQp tf»i»<’gU*H*l»'tbe I*M* The
CoMJitHUen r*e*er\lhi*g;»% U* rmppcrauM*
■i in fcwof
'1 in «f filrte* fuedwin i
Whe* tvwth*** tn«mb«V<* tfce
\\nn of the Co*i«mtutK*rf «f fce State «T Fl**
rid* for iliirrattfirsrtimi'ef r<mgte*,-
|i {r v that enr of tb^pTbtfsfrttfreftn
-1 dieted with the national f’or.stWuuon, aSotifli
f{ ern representative ro*c with lhai air uf coro
mat id and arrojrawc peculiar to SoUierocrs,
J arH o-uf!; We of Uw South aonuljiiaca find
r it ucco*ry to enact law* fbi o*,r oreonai
aafcty, anti when we find it *o mxewary, we
care not bow many rbuww there are m jw
amMttvM* allow®* or dhnftowtng it, we will
enact them.” The onsthufion i» bwt annthet
proof *»f the futility of tmy attempt atcompTO
s between liberty and idarery, right and
wrong they are incompatible, incongruous,
and wrong murt ever strengthen at tbe ex
pense of riglit. i
Having shown some of the effects of *la
-1 very upon the right** aod liberty of Jbg North,
we will now reset, t sonic fevr statist* of
1 rx<cuiitar? consideratwn, f r prudent, calcu
latmg Yankees. It has lieen estimated, by
ii,oso well calculated to know the relative
proportion that the contribution of the'North
to the national treasury by the impost system,
is that of three Ui one; and it must be recol
lected that all territories that have been pup-1
cliased, and all wars in support of them, have
lieen paid for out of tlie nation* purse;"
j and it must be further recollected, that all
such territory has bee* exclusively for one
section; that slavery, that fciltor-degradiug
institution, lias been esttblfshed in ihem, and
i the self-r ’sj>eclitig, working freemen of the
North have been effectually axel tided from
anv benefit of nccni ation, vvhi’st it was
t purchased out of the product of their indus
try. And now lei us make a few calculations
of the cost of these territories to the North
Ijonisiann purchase, 15,G00,(HK)
Florida, do. 5,000,000
Texas’ public debts, 15,000,000
Mexican purchase and respon
sibility, 18,000.000
Hlack Ilawk war, 9.000.000
Seminole war, 20,000,000
Florida war, 15,000,000
Mexican war, alx ut 100,000,00®
Total amount, $227,250,000
Of this enormous Aura, th e Nortlt contri
i hute one hundred and seventy millions tuo
hundred and fifty ihousttml dollars, or three
fourths of the whole. This is indeed paying
pretty dearly for tlie ]>rivilegc of upholding
slavery, catching fugitives, ann living trtrrrd
and feathered, to say nothing of the extra
hills in the way of disabled soldiers, and
widows of soldiers, made pensioners by these
wars; hot Jonathan is a good-natured soul,
and is content to tall this national glory.”
There cau be r.o diversicm of the national
j treasure foy the improvement of rivers and
harbors by which the hardy, industrious free
laborcrs of the North-west may lie enabled to
bring their products to market on the sea
board, without jeopardizing life and property.
Oh no! the Executive, the embodiment of
slavery, wants it to sustain the national honor,
and fght for a piece of Mexico. T arn forct
blv impressed with the truUifuh.ess of tjie de
claration of the Jlon. J. 11. (biddings, tliat it
the North cease to give pecuniary support to
slavery, it would die of starvation in a single
twelve months.
J. C. H.
Uiicoki.vn, April 17th, 1818.
National Character.

i Many people seem to he very much trou
bled with the idea that the Abolitionists, bv
exposing national sins, are defaming national
character. Admitting the existence of gan
grened spots upon the body jnilitie, they
seem to think it is better to let them alone,
persuading ourselves that they will disappear
in time, if they are not disturbed, ahd leave
the body in a perfectly normal slate. .The
American people emerged into ait ind-pendent
j national existence with a dark slain upon their
j national character, which has been deepening
and spreading, until the whole material Iras
become tinged with its peculiar dye. The
i eyes of the world are fixed upon it, not as an
abstraction, but as an arbitrary fact, which
j neither apologies nor evasions can disguise or
conceal, and which can be erased only by an
j atonement commensurate with the crime.
Judging from the vaunting tone of a large
j portion oi the Americau press, one would
suppose that the national character had never
i been sullied by a single stain, and that the
I nation was advancing with rapid strides,
j through scenes of rapine, rohbcrrv and car
nage, to the acme of human greatness.—
scents that the martial prowess of the na
tion was not sufficiently established by the
tlnee wars preceding the present, and that
i there was danger that the American people
1 would become a peace-loving nation of cow
ards. And there was also danger that the
institution of slavery, so dearly loved and
warmly cherished by a portion of the people,
pent up within circumscribed limits, would
j lose its vitality, and fail of henig transmitted,
I unimpaired, to future nges; therefore, in or
dor to secure the national character against
the imputation of cow ardice, aud u> preserve
tlie institution of slavery from present ami
future danger, it became necessary to involve
the nation in a war with Mexico, the barbar
ous details of which future ages will find re
corded among the annals of our national
crimes. We do nut snlficiuiiUy realise (fie
fart, that a national character *pry,g* from,
and is sustained by, individual accuns and
we Wish to apply that remark to the American
iicople in particular; for no other people po».
acss the facilities which they posses, for the
formation and development of a national char
acter. There is no other nation in the woild
J ,he institutions of which are so completely
uud< r t oulrol or the people— of 4* whti
P«»l’l<% as arc the tnsututiuns of W 9 omj|
country; for they emanate, or shst ld oma
fuate from the (maple trwmsolve*; thondoie,
the w hole people participate alike in the gl„ rv
or shame—in the blessing or curses, which
they produce.
How will the national character of ifo
j present age be regarded by future ages! I 0
hat light w ill our institutions be regarded by
th« people of Ut* i»eft ouuury 1 Wh*t rank
slkd! we «cupy in the acaie of civthuium and
hiteiiaimy when tlie promt LS numbered
with loe pant, and Mr mstitntioa* arpei-7
»r* wfiAmi^nliai^nna
fi** wnnflF iFttr*
beep ]*y.
;=a*ret&2n£
muwlule udWucc!
Tbw rasutsiMO* «f n ssrino sffMhfe have
enurisw bswhich tojndgs «T tbs* emtaa
ih* and Otfsmmey Mid posterity wilfW*
♦sign to w* that mitfc lb the wale of eWihalW
and thfististiiir to drhfcb Wt* a* joM?j chti-*
tied V oitr hufetntfooa. like flimsy covering*
which wane penile attempt to throw over thc\
audit will stand forth iu native 4*-j
11 fonaiXy, fpfifem representative of a nation jn*
1 letnetphif front bcubatwraiatothe twihghi o#
i civttirr.il two.
There w a great deal *rid about Northern
4 and Southern institutions; and many peugV*
■■seem to think that the inhabitant* of one aec-j
>ion of the not reafn.iwibie for the
|institutions of another feefeof, even frhiJ
(they are sustained by the same Coustitutxa
t Those institutions which are embraced wiihmi
j—which form a part of theGonsrittitisn of*
the United State*are'imsonsl inatthtthmtr;—
they belong to the people, f 0 the wtoifr pco-j
[do, and the people are r**pflirt*!bfc for. (hr
cutmrqucnc-'* whk b result fhrai them. ft is'
of no esc to attempt to fasten them upon lb*-'
North or upon the South, for thqy aro nationaJ j
institutions; and the impartial historian of fiu- 1
lure ages will regard them as «oek, while he
jis investigating the elements of oor national:
l diameter, in order to assigned us our just
place aiming the nations. j
The vaanting spirit of the present age*
.will elicit a smile of contempt from future*
1 ages; for they will find our national character
to be afi unique compound of democracy and
j hypocrisy—possessing, at least, the merit of,
j originality. Our ii.sti tut ions must and will be,
chaiigod and unless they are overthrown by.
f a sudden and violent revolution, tike irresista->
j blc current of progress will gradually under- j
mine them. Fragment afrer fragment will
disappear, and fotute ages will look upon their'
ruins as the mementos of an age which ex
tilted in the profession of the first crude prin-
eiples of democracy.
Harriet n. torrey.
Parkmvx.O., April 20, 1848.
__
•It Salem, 0., March 22, 1848.
Friend Dor or. ass :—Partly because lie'
may hive omitted it, and partly because he.
might feel some delicacy in say ng what 11
may say, I will lell that M. R. Delany has
been in this place, where lie addressed one j
audience on National Reform, and two on
I Anti-Slavoty, all, so far as I hare ascertained, i
with general acceptance. lie is one of those 1
cases to whom reference may be made in
proof that black persons may he elevated— j
i j that is, that by industrious application, iudi-1
''duals, net of the privileged class, may rise
to intellectual respectability. I could wish
1 j attention might lie unceasingly called to ob
-1 serration of this fact, not knowing of a more
effectual mode of producing conviction of our
>i common brolherliood: It may well be ques
tioned whether the.improvement, whatever it
may be, of earth's concerns, enn be tmeed to j
superior organisations, or superisr instruc-!
tions, so certainly as to untiring efforts for
,self-improV(*nent. At wide distances are
fctars of the first magnitude but the light we
.receive from the second, third, Ac., exceeds!
I all that the first shed upon us. My hopes'
are based on the careful culture of ordinary
minds they outnumber all above and below
them, and are conscious .that their chief reii-
jancc must be oil theiriindefatigable in-J
1 iluslry. i- r •-»V*
kV hen I had written the above, the North
Star came from the Post Office. On looking
mcr its pages, I saw an article under the
caption, Education,** and that recalled to
j memory that in back numbers I had been
pleased to observe that the subject had claimed j
(attention. 1 hope it will Continue to do so,,
for on.education everything future depends
I mean the kind of education, and who gets
s jit. More than most others, perhaps, I have
I desired that it might Ihj liberuily extended to:
all persons of color now excluded by law!
I Irom its benefits. Thirty years since, I en
deavored to impress upon audiences of free'
colored people the important relation in which'
they stood to their brethren in bonds, and that 1
they could not aid in their enfranchisemenimore 1
efficiently than by rising in their intellectual]
and moral character. We could not long,
j hold men in slavery whom we feel to be our
equals mid as Uu; North is the great slave,
i holder, the North should be enlightened or
the eqiial susceptibility of improvement.
If I felt myself warranted in offering *ugw I
gestions on sny subject, it would be that Re-'
formers, in all departments, would make edu
cation prominent; that publishers should make
tit conspicuous in their periodical*, and it'
would delight me to set! the North 3tar in!
the lead. i
There is work to be done, and operatives;
should be look mg at their urvrl, and not at us
'projector*. A Jpretiy good illustration of tbei
results of doing is in Marlboro’, west of this
place. A set oif real working Abolitionists, 1
not having tjie fear of the school law before 1
their eyes,” have for rears admitted colored 1
children in sehool on common terms hut not
satisfied with this, they have had for Director
Charles who is uot elargcabfo
with a, <Uop of Anglo-Saxon bloud coursing
in hi* veins. This was effected by working,
preitv hard work, and that cusfetmad, but it
succeeded, and ever must with judicious per- i
severance.
Seven or eight years ago, I passed port of
a winter in New York city. My acquaint-'
ancc with the people was very limited. I do 1
i not remembCT but otie colored person, aqd
that one was good Thomas Van Rensselaer,'
who mapifested cordial sympathy throughout.,
t Ten sqch as he then w as, would greatly ben
efit. if they could not save a city. Rut 1 must
clow. i
AMOS GILBERT.
1
Collodion.—This new preparation recently
Hnvenud by Mi. S. Bigelow, of Boston ib*j
the bulling of w ound*, consist* of a. solution;
of gun eottoo in ether. The cotton is entirely
dissolved, and the preparation accn in a phial,
,i* clear u water.—When applied to
cut or wound, it hardens into flesh Colored
water proof coaung. As the coaling dries, R
,contracts, and thus draws the lipe of the
wound cfese togebNV protecting it from writs*
Hi*u, and leavtaf *h»pereihfe scat.
}*9 djft ji
Tlsapti on the lengw of Universal
I tal vfcio r JkwihnriNaiNU t* m
ipiniiHwfsidertrt—kfy «ju£
r 3n%t?s ils’is
fer tbs sUitiiss if Rl wor, and ebs «pi: it |J «l
tW —uMte>Wtn«» <d wsr, tim wP—I the mmU j Ur
the sUAtwn of,#! restrvrffiMM ngMi mutkOtotsii
sofvrS|x>i»>nrc »isdfHi*f»Jb 'iuep«V.j|*rle t sad Jt fcM
cT«r sue estdsrts waits «wwtiw«r orpr*-
Uaur hwtwn m psTWid ho fee
ihe -t-btios of alt unfits•<. 1 VU-Uxju iK>
Wat sol rwp**t TO* l<Sd?** of O anil
humsut bruthcr meutv uso, ui whatever tWyculor,
at oroditioy id hwa*Biii»” f
TJwae words, Urtjrtm off If ahtawri Bk*
iherhood,” are, m themselves, so suggestive,
w> wdfeexpianatory. Au* to enter upon their
expbnatioii my appear to be tmly w say or
write what most arise ia every one** rniwl on
giving thfcm a few minutes •eetkels cotisidera
tion. Ydtlt is a snbjcgt so purely ih aceemf
aned with the piincipJqs which the “"North
Rfar” has arisen to advocate; so j»ure!y iu
accordance w ith evetjthing tluit is loyely
and of g'Nxl report,” that a few words from a
humble pea aa vhi* ii spiruvg theme may per
haps not l|r wholly ua.wjoptabfe, *nd cerutMi
ly will wet be whollc usoleee, if they may hr
the means of inducing some, wbe have not
hitherto given ilmocfi thought, In turn their
attention to tlm beautiful and God-like idea of
a Bond of Universal Brotherhood.”
fhM <>i tt i
liic strong and broad feundatsoos on which
the League is .based, arc, simjdy, the evorlast
ing gospel of Jesus Christ, the doctrines
which he promulgated, and the spirit breathed
through every word, action or safieringof his.
It is formed for carrying out those sublime
truths which He announced to the wr.rfd, and
cspedally recognizes the Divine authority,
and deep obligation of the solemn .command,
Thou shall love thy neighbor as tbv
sclf.”
r| rf :h mt
Standing on suck a ground, and embodying
such glorious prmdphs, the League of Uni
versal Brotherhood may bn well characterized
as the most heavenly vision which has blessed
these latteT days and those who hate the
interests of humanity at heart, will feel that a
debt of gratitude is due to the privileged be
ing whose far-seeing eye caught the first flint
rays of tills morning star of promise., from
those pure spiritual heights which seem to bo
his native sphere, and who announced its
arising to tite world, as a pledge of hope and
joy, and of the speedy dawn of a brighter day
than has, as yet, gladdened this temporary
home of man’s immortal spirit.
But if the foundation and {he principles ol
the League are thus broad j and uo'ule, hardly
less so is the scope of its capacity and action,
liove is its esseucc and spirit, and consequent
ly it is unboundedly expansive and elastic;
it excludes no human being from the pale of
its fraternal sympathies none are so outcast,
aftne so sunk or degraded, that it would not
rejoice to assist and raise them. But it forms
no fellowship with evil; those whom it unites
are united in tlye holy endeavor to break every
chain of mental or physical thraldom, and to
'leave man as free as when ho came from the
hand of bis Maker, acknowledging alone the
bond of that electric chain of imperishable
love, which, begtnning and Gliding in the
Father's throne, and passing through the
heart of every human. unites lima for
ever to all humanity and to Go<f. In an espe
cial m.mner,are the Leaguers pledged against
all those hateful prejudices of 'color and
caste w hich are the very groundwork of op
pression and tyranny in an especial manner
would they reach out a helping hand to the
downtrodden millions who are at this day
toiling in the midst of an enlightened and
civilized nation, under all the horrors of sla
very, aggravated by every circumstance oi
cruelty and hardship.
They also strive earnestly for the abolitiou
of all restraints upon international communi
cation, and advocate a free and unrestricted
commerce in thought, as well a* in the inure
material necessaries and accessaries to outward

existence.
But whilst no sphere is fetus too wide for
the action of the principles of the League,
and the world itself cannot' contain” the
spirit which pervades it. so also is no sphere
too narrow or too limited for the exercise of
the duties which it enjoiris. Wherever a liv
ing, beating human heart is enshrined within
a tabernacle of clay—be it amid polar snows,
or beneath tlic glare of a tropical sun, or in
more favored or gcuul, climes, under whatever
circumstances, or in whatever situation —there
is ever a broad and aoi(dc scope for the action
of these glorious principles. They iwqiect
not alone the out word deed, but inquire into
and influence the hidden thonght. Not only
are they opposed to the manifestations, but
equally so to all the spirit of war.” Where,
then, is a col so lowly, where a hying so for
saken, that the spirit Wf tlic bond should not
enter that dwelling and kindle a fresh glow
around tlic hearth—and that heart, to give a
new vigor and joy to its vital pulses! There
is hardly as actiou of public sr of private life,
hardly a thought of the statesman, or mer
chant, or scholar, or citizen, or of wuman in
any of her social positions, which not
be beautified and purified by a wraft from
the wings of this gentle and loving spirit.
In the human heart, this principle should
be an eminontly growing wd eyer-expanding
rag 4i U* supply from tUoouu
great fountain of light, and bio, nod loxe,
primarily and duecily from peinuttod com
munion with him, and seonsdinlr through
those channels wkch hs has gu«cd us the
glories and wonders of Hi* outward creation,
whether surveyed with the simple, trostisg
eye of a cfcild like love or through the more
glowing and rcsplcijdant vistas of scientific
lore. Thus nature, reason, and above all,
the testimony of Jesus, axe visibly on the
•deaf the^principle* poife*»d kj the Lcsogtra;
whilst p ith three, Ml the g«*| toudtresk* oi
the femes are iHUth* Uke so many AAria?
hot hirereinni huss, re fata Assure tr<* «4
hope whisk bonds wsclf ©ser tk* sitkwtebscn
plons of the right snd the true.
Yes, fiuth and ho# hare Jong been eheej.
Uig on the God-hke of earth in their cease
less struggle for fera advaoconre* «i horeawiy
—waving tfeerr ckamh wrags, Aojr hare long
moled tboor fotnsirclj»re**M As kereofoom
rest, asd Ist of ttW.
dav kos cons few lore re take her plsos as
fernssre oftfco Nrereolf Lre kwr,
sttbosoAd. Oishiag snd.'tshhrtTsa!. fill yd
4ci; amt nee l be IwMmCAgss -h—"
li?
2>tT* vJS "fiHj**! w*
j, 0 0 3 P
forgtrtful r»f Jftfe 4i*Jftpla9a.pl
m-i :t> STiitjjrt i ftl»iA luffl mt Inna
j" V'fT!
XUf piud siSKf jttadmi kjt
b* -M rf bwrtt; tii— mwl «ml
}4ho*tfcTiifl t liiofcti Ot* tMf V'XW.Att* Mhn
tarer its frustrate ruir» and nrostte! rts
t ted daptmri, the whfte ftij of tmtfi tt»«J *fht
4t*i»fc/and in£?Ht +Xrsft oftec man'.
celebrate the ivy»n of Peace on earth agvJ
v:: ,:w.'
j, \va W ruAVKy,
1 fro»pc:b of ficial i*4 Europe,
Ufcjut ibarc loaf directed R»y ai-
UttUua 3» 4l» pXuioX ao'Laoctal soodstMa X
Ibo ptrepte KxdNnd 5 mX ba»a not bene
an irddferwt observer of those miffcrv events
now takto* jdaxf «m ibo cmuimni X Bnrofwr.
fit in a queatwb wtoeft detrsmst an answer,
Wltat is hlWrAofej tlm effect nftlaste events
|on Ehdfimd f Tbe answer will depeniT a)u>-
j jeeUior on tha course that may be adirptod by
the Government. True wisdotn w<utld dictate
to out riders, the adoption of the |triucifit»
Inf bow nvugaisatl by France,
j Bjl^ium,Qenmay and Italy, an i about tn be
'extended still iuitht-s. Will they tie this*
No; tbc House of Common*, as »l p*ree«i
coasmoted, is chiefly ieteetH lit the mkhlle
clasajs, wlm, politically arc the nswt ignof
»ant part of flte peri pi 1: of Great Britain. The
l middle class is composed chiefly of dissenters,
j wlm, in general wish themselves to be under
.stood as tlys most religious'; hat who, with
1 few exceptions, know very little about prac
tical religion.
John Bull bos his ow n way of doing every
thing, and his route is generally a rather cir
cuitous one. 3Le has such a high opinion ol
1 himself, that no one can teach him. But he
has one virtue, and rtiat .stands out in bold
relief. His stubbornness has scarcely any
parallel' iri the history of humanity and 0.1
j this one virtue and its proper use at the pro
sent time, his whole hope of safety depends.
I If he briug3 it to bear upon the government
in a right way, he may forte Lord John Rus
sell or aomd other of our Prime. Ministers,
to give such reform* as the time* demand.
I, Euro;'! presents a change aspect. A Rr
f public i« France seems quito a settled matter.
(J :nnanv has at Fast one republic tit prrispoct;
for although the King of Prussia is manmu
vering and trying to cajole and hoodwink his
.subject*, they perfectly see through him, and
appear to be using him a* a tool to serve their
present purposes, while he goes ou believing
that he can manage them to secure his own
ends. From this view, I would not lie sur
prised to soe one largo Republic established in
1 the scutre of Europe in a frw months, on the
ruins of the many small duchies and kingdoms
lof Germany. Italy is fldit marching to the
same conclusion. Hungary' ta already said to
b: form-’dinto a republic, and will in all pro
j haliility swallow up Moldavia, Wallachia, and
probably Servia, to the great indignation of
the autocrat of Russia. Belgium and llol
land must also become republic is self defence,
1 for uo Kingly Government can long exist in
ilia midst of Democracies.
When the world is thus jumping as it’ wpre
1 at once, to a rational system of government,
j what is to become of England?' Can she
stand still in the midst of progress? It is im
possible. An agricultural nation might possi
lily do so; hut for a commercial and manufac
turing country to attempt it, would be the m
plus xdU'-i of madness. Freedom is the soul ol
trade, and the institutions of England must be
I 1 0
1 the freest of the free, if slie is to maintain hoi
position amongst the nations. She cannot
exist without commerce. She may for a time
retain her Queen and aristocracy but not long.
She must get rid of her d'bt, and reclaim her
establishments the wealth of the country
must be di.-tributed, as it is, it can no longer
yield a revenue to meet the wants of the go
vernment, without uterly distroying the mid
dle— the shop keeping class. Reform is
more the interest of this, than the working
class, They have not yet learned this fact,
but they will ere long. The only inode of
access to John Bull's brains, is through his
pocket, and it is amazing how clear-sighted
he become* whenever that in touched and J
now expect to see the principles of freedom
-extend much more rapidly than the mo9t san
guine have hitherto supposed possible.
1 Loxido:i, April, 1848. T. D. K.
A Difficult Cask. —The Quakers in Vir
ginia seem to be placed in a peculiar relation
to the laws of Virginia. The Yearly Meeting
of Baltimore, to which they belong, has
charged all its members to educate the free
colored people. The laws of Virginia forbid
it, and the Friends have addressed a memorial
to the General Assembly X the Mate X V ir
-1 ginia, asking liberty to pursue the advice X
their Yearly Meeting. If liberty i* »ot given,
we do not know what course the Friends will
take. 1
to-*-
Likckty .or JJtATU. —We find the billow
ing paragraph in the Wetuutpka (Alabama)
State Journal:
f Drowned.—The body of a negro mao,
belonging to the estate of Sprattlio, was
found in the Coosa river, a few hundred yards
below the landing, on Sunday morning last.
It seems the bov had been runaway fora
week or two, ami ow lost Wednesday, an
attempt was rustic to aries* b*in, the chase
ending with the boy jumping ui the river
after which, nothing more was seen or heard
X him. till bis body was found.”
Patrick Henry has been itmuorUlixcd fur
givmg'Xtetshri* to* that glonoor sentiment,
rts or tL alh But here is a poor de*-
ptsod, smsw-cuiduo mao, who scM out tha
beotntsret w bicb th* orator is*wl]f gantdomsod
and yd how few wiH beotow a oeouad thwaghl
apoa tbe tragedy- Eca*
Co lob m Rtrt BtfCJtx*.—By reference to
the weoount X the great Repnbttcaa meeting
,in Philadelphia, Hornby last, tt wd) he
seen, that tbo<«lo«sd mea X thatswy got up
a fcuoulumeqmi xmeamt ImfcpeXoaaß
1 Square. Xu obieeiioo was «M*lo W Uw do
ration bv the authorities, and tbo meet*
mg is spoken X in the Philadelphia papers,
las haviwg been very mrtht»*asiic and spirit^!.
Tb» Get doss booor to PtMUddpbtt and to
tbe spirit X bar adored otttsms,
vrba, mare tb»a *WJf other otais, ho«a ttrnrnm
to rejuiee to the osubhahmeat of a repoMm,
W bid* has dnemsd UiJ freedom X iboosMd*
1 X their brothers 1b fends.— PiU-tSmrg Skulg
Usurer*.
t,.
JUbc CowT«irri«.—Wooeoby tha
mkmvaw oavrespsodent X ths Nstssaal Ere,
that a Colored IhviM at ike Sam of Ten*,
permee in vhss city, Imp been forced to dis
bud sad that too at the instance of one pro-
a Inemher X that- gco
cialTV. lratcrwy
u g l
IddrewX HomgSL oOrost
r «rw Saw York.
L Uodw a deep and abiding nprerm XUw
reoretemHißsl m sndUd’orto pereever* fe tliWr
Mmspprsmul and merino UVn#-
gmiM.d r hW t Mtlb rqrnooi Mahog aoreanitMl m tfre
gralrequsfltly
ted *5; u fcr Bum ii.ter.,* W
**<o «dy rire tV fVble*. cue
hstaraaa. MthrecvH «o ib«reH aiat n*n4ottate
I out races X their tyna«tmLlMM«r» ru>4 tm+T
.wejns} hut there me daily Hwaamao Of T*m
v*ienog. tha new m nature, thus«qi»-
ratipi? thtnu lotcvur. And ran wc exp* ci soy
tliirigWleP—cm we look ftir bitytolewr or
fiob fhci a syst-rn so foul and fiend*
l "d» as *darvi*ry T ft would he nnruasonaM’.
?b»rerenn»*jß twmipt tree cannot bring finth
Iruit. Therefore, knowing thX xntH
;owt ivaadativo actio* we caaoot rroder eS
iCieot to this holy caun:, w e aibcimnatjlv
j invite the co-operation of the uUseiis X Rosh
an d the public g 'ncraOy. W e askihsm
|ld bear in tnind the mjuncnoiis of Jeju;s,"AU
things wlwtsrtever yc would men shduM do m
nan, do yA even So to th m.” Rcmendior.
abo, the htnatiful pvraldc in which he cwlts
(«U attention to the sick and to those who are
j in prison, and conelmL-w by the forcible usaer
tion,‘‘lnasmuch as ye have dune it monc of the
least of these, mv brethren, ye hnve done K
unto me." We feel assured all that have
htxirtA to ford, and are V##aTto attsnd to the
lomutiofts nf eonscinnee—nil who are dcler-
>nu»«d to live for tbe good of o«r rare, mstead
l"f dovotmg all their time to thrirown p r-
I Wise—Xl who fuel feamd to improve the
f precious time allotted to diem here, bv pto
i mating as uwich as possible the cause of truth
and rightt?ousiicss in the earth, will came for
ward m the work X laboring to banish forever
ihe demon X slavery from tmr luml; and in
»o doing, instead X an example of comipiien
and w ickedness, we »liouhl be a light to the
t world,”
\Ve hope no one will fed too poor, nor any
too rich, to edi-a in this holy eaus.-. The
('hrtstrin’s inflneticc, ia whatever situation, is
always salutary, and will certainly produce its
good effects. We ask fiw the aid of men and
of women;—ws call oh llw old and the
(young, the farmer, the rrmrh;rmc. and the
j merchant. We ask all aid every one to give
us their hdp to devote w hat they can spare,
t either of money or of the frujts of their la
‘lior, to the work of restoring men and women
to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights
and blessings with winch they wore endowed
by our k’reator.
i For this object, we propose holding a Fair
in December next. We ask the females in
the adjoining towns and country around, us, to
fget dp sewing circles, and prepare such arti
cles as will he most saleable, and to come, fnr
nwb tables, give us their company, and help
Mis, not only in selling those things thus pre
pared, but m convincing the public mind of
i the necessity of our p*Mvc*vermico and fcklity.
and thus be helpers iu hastomngr the day ul
emancipation.
Abigail Brsn, Rochester.
1 Sarah D. Fish, do.
Sarah L. llallowkll, do.
Mary 11. llallowkll, do.
Sarah A. Burtis, do.
Maroarct A. Larson, do.
Elizabkth Sully, do.
PiiEßfT Treadwell, do.
Charlotte S. Wilbur, do.
i lluloa. Anthony, do.
Riioda De Garoio, do.
j f’ATIIARINK tj. BraITUVVAITK, do.
Sarah E.Thayer, do.
Catharine A. F. Stebcixs, do.
Amy Post, do.
Henrietta Platt, Bath.
Si’san K. Doty, Farmington.
Maria Wilbur, do.
Elizabeth Smith, do.
Esther Hathaway, do.
Caroline Halstead, Walworth.
Julia Parker, do.
Eliza Cooper, Williamson.
Amy Mott, do.
M. C. Carbon, Auburn.
I Mrs. Hamlin, Port Bvron.
Maroarkt Prioo, Waterloo.
j Mary Ann do.
Laura Murray, Victor.
Mrs. MackiStyp.e, Darien.
j The Love of Freedom.—Xoqc can love
freedom heartily but go »d m jii the rest love
not freedom, but license, which never hath
more scop; or more indulgence, than usder
tyrants, lienee it is, tyrants are ixa oft
offended by, nor stand much in doubt of, bnd
I men, *s Ixiing all naturally servile-; but in
I whom tirtne and true worth ire mon emin
ent, them they fear in carnrrt, as by their
'right mxster.s; agiin-tt th n .n lies all their
■i
hatred ;utd suspicion.— Milton.
The Recaptured FUGITIVES, 
The following letter is from the Albany 
Evening Journal.Mr. Slingerland, the
writer, is a member of Congress from this
Stale.
Washington, April 22. j
Friend Weed, —Last evening, in
passing the Railroad depot, I saw quite
a large number of colored persons
passing round one of the ears, and
from manifestations of grief among
some of them, I was induced to draw
n:ar and ascertain the cause. 1 found)
in the car to which they were so eager- 1
ly gazing, fifty colored pertotu, some of
whom were nearly as white as myself.
A large majority of the number were
those who attempted to regain their
liberty, last week, in the schooner
Pearl. About half of them were fe
males, a few of whom had but a alight
tinge of African blood in their veins; j
they were finely formed and beautiful, j
The men were ironed together, and
the whole group looked sad and de->
jeeted. At each end of the car stood
a ruffian-looking guard with canes in
in their hands. In the middle of the'
car stood the notorious slave-dealer of
Baltimore, who is a member of the
Methodist church, in good and regular
standing. He had purchased the men
and women around him, and was taking
his departure for Georgia. While ob
serving this old grey headed dealer in
the bodies and souls of men, the
Chaplain of the Senate, a Methodist
brother, entered the car, and took his
brother Methodist by tbe hand, chatted
with him for a short time, and seemed
to view the heartrending scene before
him with as little concern as he would
look upon cattle. I know not whether
he came to sanctify the act, or pro
nounce the parting blessing; but this
1 do know, that he justifies slavery.
A Presbyterian Minister, who owned
one of the fugitives, was the first to
strike a bargain with the slave-dealer,
and make merchandise of God’s image.
Some of the colored people outside, as
well ss in the car, were weeping most
bitterly. I learned that many families!
were separated. Wives were there to|
take leave of their husbands, and hi»s-
bands of their wives; children of their,
parents, and parents of their children.
Friends part mg with friends, and the
tendcrest ties of hmaauify severed at a 1
single bid of the inhuman slave-broker
before them. A husband ia the meri
dian u#' life, begged to see tbe partner
•f h» bosom. He protested that she
wee free—dut ake had free paper*,
U»t she wee tore ever from him aad
•het «p ia (he Jail. He ctanbered vp
to oae of the windows of (he car to see
hie wife, aad, ae the wee reaching for
ward her head (a ham, the Mackmeart
ed slave-dealer ordered him down. He
did aot obey.
The husband aad wife, with (ears
streaming down their cheeks, heeoaght
him to let them speak to each other.
But no? he was knocked doom from
the car, and ordered away! The by
standers could hardly restrain them
selves from laying violent hands upon
the brute. This is bat a faint descrip
tion of the scene wLicb took place
within n few rods of the Capitol, and
under enactments recognised by Con
gress. Oh, what n revolting scene to
a feeling heart, aad what a retribution
awaits the actors. Will not their wail
ings of anguish reach the ears of the
Most High? Vengeance is mine—l
will repay, saith the Lord.*’
You have already heard of the fugi
tive case and the mob here. A very
exciting'fliscossion has been going on
in the House for the last two days,
growing out of these riots. The gal
leries were thronged, and the most
intense interest was maintained while
j Northern and Southern members were
I discussing.
1 have the honor to be yoar sincere
friend and obedient servant,
JOHN S. SLINGERLAND.
THE EXAMINATION^
The following i* extracted from the editorial
correspondence of the Cleveland, (Ohio,)
True Democrat:—
Washington, April 20,184&
“I closed my letter yesterday by in
forming you tiiat I was going to attend
the examination of those charged with
the crime of removing slaves from the
District. Having procured an attorne
in the city to accompany me, I again
went to the jail, and demanded my right,
as counsel of the prisoners, to converse
with them, and prepare their case for
examination. I was admitted to the
entrance in the second story leading to
their cells. While conversing with
them, the same gentleman who had in
sisted on our departure in the morning,
came up and informed my associate
counsel and myself, that it was danger
ous for us to remain there longer. He
said the owners of the slaves were down
stairs, much excited—that two of them
had followed us, and that it was not safe
for us to remain longer with the prison
ers. For niy part, I paid no attention
to him, but continued conversing with
the prisoners until the hour arrived for
their examination.
The court, as I remarked, was held
in the jail. None were admitted but
the owners of the slaves, the witnesses
and attorneys. The District Attorney
appeared on behalf of the United States
as prosecutor. He was furnished with
a chair, a table, peu and ink; the two
justices also were furnished with chairs
and seated by a table, but the attorneys
for the prisoners were left to stand, and’
without a table on which they could
take minutes of the case.
lt appeared from the testimony, that
Edward Sayres of New Jersey, was
captain of a vessel named the Pearl, j
Chester English was a hand employed
on board of her, and she was chartered
by Daniel Drayton of Philadelphia.—
The vessel started from Philadelphia
for this city. At the mouth of the Po
tomac they took on board a load of
wood which they brought to this city
and sold. They arrived here on Satur
day last. On Saturday evening about
eight or nine o’clock, the slaves com
menced coining on board in gangs of
from six to eight, until between eighty
and ninety had arrived. About two
o’clock on Sunday morning, they left
the wharf here, and sailed down the
river until they reached the mouth.—
Their destination was Philadelphia.
On arriving at the mouth of the river,
the wind blew from the north so that
they could not make progress to that
destination. They accordingly run in
to a cove, cast anchor, and all went to
rest. Here was th**ir error. Had they
put out to sea as they might have done,
they soon would have been beyond the
reach of danger. Instead of this, how
ever, they foolishly lay by, waiting for
the wind to change.
During the examination, the slaves
were all brought forward, and I had an
opportunity to see the whole of them.
1 here were a large number of them
who had infant children in their arms,
whose color and features did not fail to
proclaim their paternity. Some ofthem
appeared cast down, others reckless.
One woman being asked the name of
her child, gave it, saying, we always
name our children after big men, and
generally don’t miss much.’* What
a writhing sarcasm! Another, on be
ing asked how she could leave so good
a home, replied, I wanted liberty,
wouldn’t you, sir?” The name of an
other being called, she replied, Here
I ain, sir; once free, again a slave.”
Another, a fine-looking, intelligent mu
latto girl, about seventeen, turned to
the prisoners, shook them by the hand,
exclaiming, "God bless you, sirs, you
did all you could; it is not your fault
that we are not free.”
M. CREMIEUX, THE ISRAELITE.
This celebrated Jewiah advocate is
one of the ablest members of the Pro
visional Government of the French
Republic. He is also a distinguished
and earnest abolitionist. He was a
member, in 1840, of the great Anti-
Slavery Convention held in London, at
which were present delegates from near
ly all parts of the world. Mr. Whittier,
in the last number ot the National Era,
reports the following remaks as having
been made by him on that occasion:
In thia assembly of Christians, 1
a Jew, demand the complete abolition
of servitude. My enthusiasm is equal
to yours. Abolish slavery, proclaim
equality it w a noble and glorious mis
sion. The glory of this mission belongs
to two great nation# long divided by
war, now uniting ia the cause of the
world’s civilization. The words ot
England and France will he henid by
the world. How sublimely have they
been re-echoed already from the very
Republic of America, where so many
private interests oppose the emancipa
tion of the blacks! How many getter
mm ImiU m im bmfmgmty Ur
tbm m crsd tosrssls of hwnitrl 8m
Umnt itptmtilim in this balluailiag
with those of Fnaoc sat E*b«l.—
Ye*! we ahaU attain the abject of our
wiebea, Tbe hale alb ear a lha united
will of Franca and England proclaim
tag tbe abolition of bmnan slavery, wbo
can reei«? This is the happiest day etf
my extoence; 1 shall dwell with de
light on tbe recollection that 1 bare
been permitted to gfcre utterance to my
sentiments in an aaaembly like tbe
present; and from this moment my life
will acquire in my eyee more conmaten
cy and more real importance. H
FVmb ike It—y E«<m| l—L
CONSISTENT BEPtJIUCAJtIIX.
Tbe extoence of Domestic Sarny
in the United States, it a source of deep
mortification to every friend of Freedom
m tbe old world. It is cast in their
teeth, in season and out of aeaaoo,
by those who woo Id have tbe aroused
subjects of crowned beads believe that
our government is bypocisy embodied.
To avoid this cause of offence
to their brethren, tbe French Pro
visional Government wisely abolish
ed slavery in all the colonies of France
upon the very first day of their acces
sion to poorer.
The Colored and Mulatto citisens of
Paris—among whom is classed tbe cel
ebrated Dumas—rejoicing in this act of
justice, designated a deputation to ad
dress the Provisional Government.
They were replied to by M. Cremienx,
one of the new Cabinet, in the following
beautiful address:
Fellow-citizens, friends, brothers
—I am happy to hail you in the name
of the Provisional Government of the
Republic, every part of which has en
tertained the great thought of emanci
pating such of your fellow-countrymen
as still remain in slavery. Slavery,
slavery in the midst of liberty! Why,
this is the most odious, the most afflict
ing inconsistency. Distinction among
men! This is a violation of the law oi
God and man. (Loud applause.) We
have only proclaimed the principles
which dwell in the hearts of all man
kind. Yes, the National Convention—
that grand, that immortal assembly, had
restored yon all to freedom, but the
error of a great man again placed you
under the yoke which you had believed
was broken forever.
You, who, having been slaves, had
become freemeu, rendered to the liberty
which had been restored to you such
great and important services you
yourselves were cast back into servi
tude! The new Republic will accom*
plish what the Republic proclaimed.
You shall again become free. There
shall no longer be a slave on the soil oi
liberty. In our colonies as well a;
continental France, every roan who
inhabits the land shall be free. You
will prove yourselves worthy of it, foi
you ever have been so. And when
slavery shall have disappeared, oui
descendants will exclaim with pride—il
was to the revolution of 1848 that the
final abolition of slavery was due. Vive
la Republique!”
This was re-echoed by the repeated
cries of Fire la Rcpvbltqve! Five l*
Gouremment Pi-ovtaoireF*
FRENCH SYMPATHY MEETING.
A preliminary meeting was held at the
Court House, to take measures with regard
to the call of a general meeting for an expres
sion of sympathy with the people of Franc, in
their efforts to establish a Republican Govern
ment.—The Court Room was filled and crowd
ed at an early hour.
A Committee was appointed to complete
the arrangements for a mass meeting on May
Bth. Addresses were delivered by Alexander
Mann Esq., Wm. C. Bloss Esq., and others.
The following report, is from the Democrat,
of April 29
Mr. Frederick Douglass was call*
ed upon for a speech, to which he
assented, and spoke as follows: It was
quite unexpected by me that I should
have been called upon to speak here
this evening, especially at so early a
stage of the meeting. I hoped to be
allowed to remain in silence, and hear
others present express their feelings
freely on this subject. But it might be
well supposed that on such a theme as
this, I would have a word to say. I
ain a Democrat in the largest sense of
the word—a friend of equal rights, and
1 believe that I live in a nation which
has nothing to do whatever with the
graduation of human rights. I am a
friend not only to Democracy—radical
Democracy—but 1 deeply sympathise
in this grand movement resulting from
the declaration of France to become a
republic. I regard France as some
thing more than a republic, as we are
accustomed to understand it, and to see
in the example of other republics. I
am glad that the people here assembled
appear to have seen more in the pre-1
sent position of France, than the mere'
establishment of a republic. I see on
all sides here the working-men and
mechanics of Rochester. Their hearts
vibrate in sympathy with the grand
movement of France. And whyße- j
cause she is aiming not only to establish J
a government of equality for herself,
but takes into view the rights of labor- j
ing men, as well as those of other men. 1
Because, with a glorious consistency,
which puts oar own country to the
blush—and I ask no allowance in mak
ing this remark, because justice comes
into court with her hat on, and makes
no apology—l say, if anything can put
our republic to the blush, it is that
glorious consistency with which the
Provisions] Government of France has
made and set in operation measures j
which must bring about the entire
overthrow of Slavery in all her domin
ion*. The other day, my heart was
thrilled when I saw, in reading the
public papers, an address delivered by
one of the members of the Provisional
Government, to a party of mu! at toes j
and negroes who bad met to express
ffccir sympathies with the republican
government. What laag uage do you
*npnoae the Provisional Governmeat
held towards these negroes (niggers)
and mulattos.? It was this: “Citi
wns, friends, brothers!” “Brothers/**
without thin act on the part of tbs
Provisional Government, bar demo
true/ or her revolution would have
bean all a sham. Ha hoped that the
(ions would bear this in mind.
Aid. Greig spoke at mm length,
very effective)/ sad patriotically .expree
na| Iris satmetioa at the fact that
France, in establishing her new govern
ment, had commenced in the right way,
by elevating labor, aad fraternising the
whale peoak; setting aside her nobili
ty, aad reducing all to a cm mm cm equaii
ty of civil rights The day whea the
boot-blacker and the Senator should he
regarded as alike noble by nature,
would be the moot glorious period in
the world's history. By this he did not
actnaa equality of wealth; for that
would reduce the whole idea to a hum
bug—but be meant aa equality of so
cial and civil rights. He was frequent
ly applauded in the course of his re
marks, and especially when he observ
ed that he was exceedingly happy in
the thought that he had not a red cent
in his pocket—he bad not upon bis hon
or! If he had, it would be a canker
and a drawback upon the spirit of glo
rious independence which he felt crawl
ing all over him.*’ He also alluded to
the measures taken by the Provisional
Government to abolish Slavery, as one
ofthe proudest and best acts which a
people coi.ld perform, in ridding them
selves of the shackles of monarchy.
Mr. Douglass was again called to the
stand and spoke at considerable length,t
the great gratification of the people as
sembled, who frequently interrupted him
with cheers snd applause.
Aid. L. Ward Smith spoke briefly
and eloquently, believing that akhough
he might be regarded as presuming, in
attempting to speak, after the eloquent
speeches which had been made, yet he
believed that this was a subject upon
which every American might freely ex
press himself.—France had been our
only ally and friend in our Revolution
—she had assisted us in attaining liber
ty—we should not be slow in encour
aging and assisting her—the country of
La Fayette and Rochambeau—to like
wise become free from the restraints of
a monarchy which, receiving its pre
rogatives from the people themselves,
had begun with professions of liberali
ty, and had ended in making itself rich
and powerful, rioting in corruption, and
trampling on the rights of the people.
Mr. Kelsey was loudly called for,
and addressed (he people briefly. He
had felt some hesitation as to the most
proper time for making a sympathetic
demonstration; but he was prepared at
all times to congratulate those who w ere
making efforts to extend the principles
of free government in any part of the
world. He was especially ready to
sympathise with the people of France.
He ardently desired that they should be
successful, and that the Government
which has been erected upon the ruins
of a throne, should be established se
curely and permanently.
The following were the Committee:—
The Mayor, Messrs. Kelsey, Wm. Pit
kin, T. Cempshall, J. Gould, A. Mann,
F. Whittlesey, P. G. Buchan, J. Grieg,
E. Stone, F. Starr, J. Haywood, D.
Rees, E. Peck, S. D. Porter, C. Morse,
A. Elder, E. W. Bryan, A. Hubbell,
N. E. Payne, J. M. Fish, I. Hills, H.
L. Winants. L. W. Smith, J. Williams, j
THE CRAFTS IN GERMANY*
The different crafts in Germany are
incorporations recognized by law, go
verned by usages of great antiquity,
with a fund to defray the corporate ex
penses, and, in each considerable town,
a house of entertainment is selected as
the house of call, or harbor, as it is
styled, of each particular craft. Thus
!you see, in the German towns, a num
ber of taverns indicated by their signs, l
Mason’s Harbor, Blacksmith’s Harbor,
&c. No one is allowed to set up as a
master workman in any trade, unless
be is admitted as a freeman or member
of the craft; and such is the stationary
.condition of most parts of Germany,
1 that no person is admitted as a master
workman in any trade, except to supply
the place of some one deceased or re
tired from business. When sueh a
vacancy occurs, all those desirous of
being permitted to fill it, present a piece
of work, executed as well as they are
able to do it, which is called their mas
ter piece, being offered to obtain the
place of a master workman. Nominal
ly, the best workman gets the place;
but you will easily conceive that, in re
ality, some kind of favoritism must
generally decide it. Thus is every man
obliged to submit to all the chances of a
popular election whether he shall be
;allowed to work for bis bread; and
that, too, in a country where the people
j are not permitted to have any agency
in choosing their rulers. But the re
st rail ts on journeymen in that country,!
are still more oppressive. As soon as
the years of apprenticeship have ex- j
pired, the young mechanic is obliged,;
in the phrase of his country, to wan-,
der" for three years. For this purpose,;
he is furnished, by the master of the
j craft in which he has served his appren
ticeship, with a duly authenticated;
wanderiog-book, with which he goes to
seek employment. In whatever city be
arrives, on presenting himself, with his
credentials, at the house of call, or.
harbor, of the craft in which he has
served his time, he is allowed, gratis,
a day's food and a night’s lodging. If
he wishes to get employment in that
place, be is assisted in procuring it. If
be does not wish to, or fails in the at
tempt, he must pursue his wandering;
and this lasts three years before he can
anywhere be admitted as a master. I
have beard it argued, that this system
had the advantage of circulating knowl
edge from place to place, and impart
ing to the young artisan the fruits ofj
travel and intercourse with the world.:
But however benefieisl travelling may
be, when undertaken by those who have
the taste and capacity to profit by it, 1
cannot but think that to compel every
young man, who has just served out his
time, to leave home, in the manner I
have described, must bring his habits
and morals into peril, and be regarded
rather as a hardship than as an advan
tage. There is no sanctuary of virtue
like home.—JSserctt's Address.
Rim a wava —The slaves in Cecil
county, Maryland, are running away j
Rich Ann Pooa.—Laxy rich
make rich men peer, while industrious
poor girls make poor men rich.
CItCVUf or TM* WOOPETOCI
■AWPAt 1-4801 UWTITIfE.
The Woo»itoci Mamval Lam
Irstitut* for colored people and <*h
•re, ie pleasantly located m Ike town el
Woodstock, Lenawee Co., Michigan
It is fifty-fire nilea froei Toledo, b>
the way of Adrien. Tke ltd com*
eceieent here was me de in Ike woodi
in 1914, by Prier Foster, a colored
man, for tbe special benefit of bis op
pressed and iojered brethren. At first,
prejudice and opposition were expert*
sliced on every side. A petition was
soon presented to the Legislature for s
charter,but without success; for a time,
things appeared discouraging to the
ext rente. But the Lord has caused tbe
dark clouds of discouragement to pass
away; prejudice and opposition bare
almost entirely disappeared; enemies
hare become friends; the Legislature
bare, during the past winter, granted a
liberal charter, and our prospects for
success and usefulness are now much
better than they have ever been before.
By the laws of Michigan, the colored
people have more of their rights se
cured to them, than in any other of the
western states. Since last fall, the in
stitution has been under the core of
Rer. Mr. P. Russell, formerly of Bos
ton. There have been forty students
in attendauce. About five hundred
acres of land have been procured.
One institution building, fifty feet long,
thirty-five feet wide, and two stories
high, is up and enclosed. Though not
very comfortable yet, it has been oc
cupied during tbe past winter. This
we hope to have finished before next
fall. Some other smaller buildings
have also been put up, for the benefit
of the institution, and for the accomo
dation of families and students. Stu
dents can receive employment on the
farm, or at mechanical business, by
which they may defray a part or all of
their expenses. The land around the
institution is good and easily cultivated.
Lots of from one to twenty acres may
be obtained by colored people or others
favorable to education, for a very rea
sonable price. As the institution is
especially designed for the benefit of
colored people, it is hoped that they
will avail themselves of the privilege
which is now presented, of acquiring
an education, and of qualifying them
selves for exerting a salutary and ex
tensive influence in the world.
The Hon. J. G. Birncy was ap
pointed by the Legislature as one of
trustees of the Institution; but he in
forms us, that “the clumsiness and
feebleness of his voice, the difficulty
of his enunciation, the ill state of his
health, and his faint expectation of ever
again going out of his county, have led
him to decline all such appointments.”
The Trustees at present are, Messrs.
P. Russell, Prier loiter, W. Jackson,
Joseph Hervet, Joseph Foster, Ethel
Judd, Jason St. John, Edward Bird
sail, and Nathan Powers. A pait ol
these were appointed by the Legisla
ture, and the rest have been elected
since the charter was granted.
We have been enabled to progress
thus far, by the donations of kind
friends, to whom we feel exceedingly
grateful. But our circumstances are
such, that we are under the necessity
of appealing again to the benevolence
of those who are interested in the edu
cation of colored people. We arc still
in great need of funds. They are
needed—
-Ist. To liquidate certain debts which
are against the Institution for land, the
erection of buildings, making improve
ments, &c.
‘2d. We need assistance to finish
those buildings which have been com
menced, also to erect others for the ac
commodation of students and teachers,
3d. As many of the colored people
are unable to defray all the expenses
of an education, we wish to be able to
offer such instruction without charge,
so that while they labor with their
hands to earn their board and clothing,
they need not feel the additional bur
den of paying also for tuition.
Will not the friends of the poor and
oppressed lend us a helping hand in
carrying out our benevolent design of
elevating and educating those who have
so long been deprived of privileges
which they need? We stand in great
need of at least two thousand dollars
during the present year.
We have established a scholarship
system, by which any one contributing
a hundred dollars, shall have the right
of sending a scholar to the Institution,
for five years, free of charge for tuition.
William W. Jackson and Dr. L. Sa
bin,our agents, are now abroad, and we
cordially invite all the friends of* hu
manity to contribute as they may be
able.
If any one desires further informa
tion, it may be obtained by addressing
a line to any rf the officers of the
trustees, directed to Jackson Mills,
Michigan.
In behalf of the Trustees,
Wm. P. Russell, Pret.
D. C. Fuller, See.
Edw. Birdsall, Treat.
Prier Foster, Gen. Agent.
Woodstock, April 27, i&i&.
COMMISSION
To Prier Foster: —You lievc been
appointed and are hereby commissioned
by tbe Trustees of the Woodstock
Manual Labor Institute, as general and
travelling agent.
This Commission to authorize you
to transact any pecuniary business and
to travel in the name of the Woodstock
Manual Labor Institute, and to collect
funds for tbe prosecution of our benevo
lent object, in educating and elevating
tbe oppressed and injured colored peo
ple of *>ur country.
Given at Woodstock, Lenawee Co.,
Michigan, thie seventeenth day of April,
in tbe year of Our Lord, Eighteen
Hundred and Forty-eight.
W. P. RUSSELL, Pres.
David C. Fulled, Sec.
ICP Tbe New York Sun states that
tbe underground abolition railway, for
•testing staves, is said to have been
exceedingly busy for a few weeks past,
as many as 10 or 15 runaways having
passed through New York daily. R
would bass sounded much batter bad
the Sun said, restoring slaves to their
natural hgbla.—Boston HTkig.
SUtoerttetmcnte.
UNIVERSE COOKING STOVES.
rHt Marfan an Mifa I* in# this inraluat,'.
Cuolu«| Sturt, designed for Coil or W
f «■*—*d to net I any other stove ever
ever patented,) and warraMed to hale u
■7. W r 1 Fo *7 •«J CT ..vwd
whufaeafa awl retail, *4, Exchange
H. BI'SH k CO.
OWEN MOKRI8 r 'cITV BISPER T
Tup lumui
MR. MORRIS voi in die nnplny of Mr. Marros
**or»e far seven years, and doring that t.n*
pnrnrnd far him three Silver Medal*, far ih*
specimens of Book Binding, exhibited at the U e
rhaater* Fairs held in this ray and Buffalo.
Gentlemen** Ijfaaries fitted n ami repaired
Music Paper ndrd; Mask ami Periodical* Uutd
and finished to any pattern. Blank Art-Mint Bm,k*
executed at this establishment have givrn unequalled
sotisfartion, by tbrir (hnrabdit) ami rlrganre. Strict
attention is always paid to the quality of p.p«r u*ed,
to render them etnas! to the best <a the l inter! State*
or those imported.
laerie*’ Scrap and Goard Rooks, A Thoms and
Portfolios, in all tbrir varieties, manufactured to
1 order in the hrst style.
j Banks, Institution*, Societies, kr., irav Lo
a sawed of work bring done on the moot advar.tagme,
terms.
Gentlemen rrsidiit; at a distance, by packing »rd
forwarding rolmnes to the above direction*, statute
price ami style, may rely rpon their la-in” at II I i uihl
on tlie most brnraiik trims, also curefuliv ami
punctually retained.
NJI. The proprietor has spared no expense
fitting tip the otablishniriit, and introducing into
Western New )«rk the latest improve aonl* in
Book Binding.
OWEN MORRIS.
City Bindery, under the Museum.
BONTOft' mfiRT!gEMKKTjir~~
CLARKSON,
LONDON EDITION—WITH T ITRAIT-
A FEW copies of CLARKSON S 111. STORY
OF THE ABOLITION OF THE SLAVE
TRADE, with prefatory remark# on ihr mlsequent
alwlitinn ,d* Sb\m; a heuutilul Ia nd<<n edition,
with a fine Portrait of the Author, tknc on strci,—h
book which rouki not hr imported lor k »s than three
1 dolktis, ran he had at 21, Cornl:ill, if a| pi od l< r
immediately, at the ten- lour pi ice of O.v r Don. tit
cash. Alm, EILOGIUM ON CLARKSON, by
Ai.kx.oukr ri wwkll, at the reduced pi ice Jt
I twehre and a half cent*.
ROBERT MORRIS, Jr., Attorney ami Coon*
sell,nr at laiw, Braarr’* Building, State Sticet.
JOSEPH H. TURPIN would invite the lUtention
of hi* friend* and the public to hi* DAGLEK
RIAN GALLERY, A"o. 138, Ifauorrr ftrrit, where
he pledges himself to execute Miniature* with a life
like finish, and on a* moderate teiuis as any others
i the profession.
MACON B. AI.LEN, Attorney and Counsellor
at la»w, Massachusetts Bl* ch.
BOVS’ CLOTHING~
OAMIF.L YYIIjSON, 11, Brattle Stm t, having
o niaile recei t addition* to hi* stock, i.- pr« part'd t<»
furnish BOYS’ (LOIHINts, ,4 a* 50t.1l niatciial
and fit, anti at a* cheap pi ices, as cun he obtained in
the rit>.
NEW ENGLAND SECOND HAM>
CLOTHING STORE,
j No. M>, Union Strket, Boston.
JOHN WRlfilll ket ps constantly on hand a
gieut variety of New anti Second Hand Clothing
Goods of all kinds, snch a* okl clothes, W. 1. "noth,
1 Watches, Boots and Slm:cs, lie., exchanged tor new
clothing. Cash ailvanrctl on all kii.ds of roods
from one to one hundred dollui*.
TOHN I) REVAI.EON, Hair tuning Salts.,,.
O and Perfumery Emporium, 114, Blacks!,,,e-M.
THE DELAWARE ABOLITIONIST.
A th alu,rf name w ill he puMidtcd in
fl. Y\.lmin f ton 1, by the Delaware Anfi-Maverv
Society. It \>,H lie edited b> a Committee, and will
lie published on a half medium sheet, at twenty-firo
rents |>c year, or for twentv-fonr minder*. It wilHe
devoted to emancipation in Delaware, and will
V'leale it* areomplisbintnt by all lawful mear*. »t
wii be published senii-tiHinihly, if nuans ate ju
lorded, or as often as the means Van lie id laired.
JAMES 11. BROOKE
l’iibli»hiitg A item.
