MEETINGS OF COLORED CITI
ZENS OF NEW YORK.
Below we give reports of two meet
ings held by the colored people of this
city within the past few days. The Re
port of each was made in part for the
Standard and in part corrected from
that of the Herald. As we do not pro
fess to give much more than a sketch
of the meetings, of course, the drift
merely of the speeches can be given;
they are full enough, however, to in
dicate the spirit which animates the,
New York colored people. It would
be exceedingly difficult to take a fu
gitive publicly from this city, but unfor
tunately the work is done secretly and
in the dark.
The Reception Meeting given to
Hamlet, who had been purchased by
contributions made through the Jour
nal of Commerce office, and who was
brought back on Saturday, was the first
public meeting ever held by colored
people in the Park. It numbered sev
eral thousands, and went off with the
greatest enthusiasm. We are glad to
be able to state that the death of Mrs.
Hamlet, which was reported two or
three days before, was incorrect, and
that the joy of the reclaimed slave was
made complete by the welcome of his
wife and children. The story of her
death, we are told, arose from the fact
that she was, at one time, thrown into
convulsions and was supposed by the
bystanders to have ceased to live.
MEETING OF THE COLORED POPULATION
THEIR DENUNCIATIONS OF THE FUGI
TIVE SLAVE BILL.
A meeting of colored people, with a
slight and visible sprinkling of white
Abolitionists, was held yesterday even
ing at the Zion Chapel, Church street.
The building, which is capable of hold
ing 1,500 persons, was crowded to ex
cess, two thirds of those present being
women ot color. The following is a
copy of tile handbill by which the meet
ing was convened:—
THE FUGITIVF BILL!
THE PANTING SLAVE!
FREEMEN TO BE MADE SLAVES!
Let every colored man and woman
attend the GREAT MASS MEETING
to be held in
ZION CHURCH,
Church street, corner of Leonard on
Tuesday Evening, October, 1, 1850.
for your Liberty, your Fire-side is in
danger of being invaded! Devote this
night upon the question of YOUR DU
TY in the CRISIS.
Shall we resist Oppression? Shall
we defend our Liberties? Shall we be
FREEMEN OR SLAVES?
By order of the Chairman of the
Committee of 13.
Shortly after seven o’clock, William
P. Powell was, on motion, called on to
preside.
The V ice Presidents were—Messrs.
J. M. Smith, J. Powers,Rev. S. White,
D. Cash, Rev. S. E Cornish, E Har
rington, J. H. Putnam, Rev. J. T.
Ramond, J. Harris, S. I)rayt on, R«fv.
H. Wilson, A. Lyons, J. J. Jefferson,
J. Jailers, J. Purnell, R. H. Cousins,
H. Williams, Capt. P. Hawkins, E.
A. Potter, and P. Guion.
Secretaries.—T. J. White, M. D.;
C. H. Reason, R. Hamilton.
The meeting was opened with pray
er by the Rev. Mr. White, who sup
plicated for victory over their enemies,
and besought the omnipotent power to
guide and protect those who are go
ing to Ine land where men do not tiam
pie on one another.
Ihe President, in addressing the
assemblage, said: Fellow Citizens In
all things (hat have beauty, there is
nothing to man more comely than lib
etfk. Give me the liberty to know, to
ulfer, and to argue freely, above all
liberties. (Cheers.) A more impor
tant sdbject than this, never in the his
tory of this country, came before the
American people, and it is nothing'
nor less than this—Shall the iniquitous
Fugitive Slave bill, which subjects ev
ery free colored man, woman and child,
to be seized upon, handcuffed, and
plunged into perpetual Slavery? Shall
the blood-thirsty slaveholder be per
mitted by this unrighteous law to come
into our domigils, or workshops, or the j
placas where we labor, and carry off
our wives and children, our fathers
and mothers, and ourselves, without a
struggle—(loud cries of‘‘No, no,”)—
without resisting, even if need be, un
to defcth. (Cheers) Or, shall we sit
down and tamely submit pur necks to
v j
THE NORTH STAR.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS* Editor aid Proprietor*
VOL 111. NO. 44.
the halter, *and our limbs to the
shackles, and clank our chains to the
sweet music of passive obedience.
(No, no.) And every step which we
may take, whether it be backwards or
forwards, will be followed by conse
quences too vast, too momentous,to be
considered by any one present; upon
your decision this night hangs supend
ed the fate of millions. This “cove
nant with death, and agreement witi*
hell,” must be trampled under |oot, re
sisted, diattbvyad, anct rtoWnett at all
hazards. (Cheers.) When the moth
er country imposed upon the inlant
colonies the three-and-a-half per cent
tax, and the stamp act, the very first
blood that was shed was shed in resist
ance of the odious act by Attuck,a col
ored man; and the first martyr to
American independence, nobly led on
the mob of white men, and was the first
to receive the fire of the British sol
diery, and throughout the revolutionary
and late war, colored men stood side
by side with white men, and achieved
a most glorious victory in the name of
liberty. We have met this night to
r decide, not whether we will pay the
government a three-and-a-half cent tax
or an impost duty, but whether we will
suffer ourselves and families to be
made slaves. And oh, Powerful Good
ness, Bountiful Father,Merciful Guide,
increase us in that wisdom which dis
covers our truest interest. (Cheers.)
Strengthen our resolution to perform
what wisdom dictates. Let us be uni
ted as one man, regarding our rights
as inherent and inalienable. There
are a thousand and one ways by which
the unsuspecting colored man, woman
and child may be entrapped into the
hands of the blackhearted villanous
kidnapper, and spirited awyy into Sla
very almost instantly. The case of
James Hamlet,the fugitive, is in point,
and if the information which I have re
ceived be not incorrect, I am told that
his wife died this morning of a broken
heart. (Murmurs, and oh! oh! from
the females.) There is one victim.
Will you submit that there may be
more. (Loud notes.)
Hear ye no rumblingg in llie air; 1
Hear ve no earthquake* underneath,
L’p, tip, why will ye slumber where
The deeper only wakes in death!
You are told to submit peaceably to
the laws; will you do so? (No, no.)
You are told to manacles that
bind you; will you do so? (No.no, no.)
The law is made by the people. The
people have told you that you must do
so; will you obey them? (No.)
In company with Mr. Lewis. H.
Putnam, 1 called upon Mayor Wood
hull to know whether the civil authori
ties wouid protect fi ?a colored persons
from being carried into Slavery. Un
able to find His Honor, we addressed
the following communication.
“September 30,1850.
To His Honor, C. S. Woodhull:
Sir:— The undersigned take this
method to address this communication
to you as the Chief Magistrate of the
city of New i ork, to ascertain whal
protection, we, the free colored people,
may expect under the operation of the
Fugitive Slave Law. The peculiar po
sition we occupy in this State—de
pending upon the magistery of the peo
ple of New York, to defend her citizens
against the operation of unjust law, we
solicit in the name of our families that
information from you which the nature
of the case demands.
Respectfully, fitc.
WILLIAM P. POWELL.
LEWIS H. PUTNAM
N. B.—Please answer* and address
William P. Powell,
330 Pearl street.
Up to this hour, seven and one half
o’ clock, Oct. 1, 1850) that functionary
had not thought it worth whi*£ to give
an answer.*
The several sections of the Fugitive
Slave Bill were then read amid inter
ruptions, execrations, and cries of
shame. At the conclusion a voice in
the gallery asked was there no more of
it. an interrogatory which excited the
risbilities of some, which were, how
ever, checked by the President, who
told them it was too solemn a question
for merriment.
The following letters were then read
to the meeting:
LETTER FROM AI. AN SON NA<*H.'
New York, October Ist, 1850.
Gentlemen:
I received your communication of
the 27th of September last, requesting
my opinion as to the constitutionality
of the recent law of Congress relative
to Fugitive slaves. In reply, I state
that the law £g passed by Congress
has many objectionable features in it.
Indeed, it obviously infringes upon the
Constitution of the United States, in
several particulars:—
h irst. It suspends the writ of habeas
corpus contrary to the second subdivis
ion of the ninth section of the national
constitution.
Second. It is in violation of a por
tion of the fifth article of the amend
ments, which declares that no person
shall be deprived ol Life. Liberty, or
Property without due process of Law.
Third. It is m violation of the sev
enth article of the amendments, which
declares, “That in suits at common
law where the value in controversy
shall exceed twenty dollars the right of
trial by jury shall be preserved.”
Fourth. It is in violation of the spirit
and force of the Constitution of tile
United States, which declares that the
Judicia! Power of the United States
shall be vested in one Supreme Court
and in such Inferior Court* as the Con
gress may from time to time ordain
and establish according to art. 3, *ec.
1, of said constitution. In as much m
yd bmumib y(d* Im asaw fhb
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR; GOD IS THSV"riI|R OF US ALL; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
the Fugitive Slave Law confers judieia
powers of the very highest nature upoi
commissioners who are not judges o
any court, nor can, they have judicia
powers conferred upon them withou
constituting them in .direct terms t
Court.
A U. S. commissioner is an inferioi
officer: he is no judge: he has no clerk
he holds no court, and his proceedings
are not subject to review.
Ik* Owtjgurss or (he United States
possesses no power to pass a law that a
citizen of the State of New York shall
be taken and carried to South Caroli
na, and, in the latter State, to be tried
whether he is a free man or a slave in
New York.
The doctrine that a man may be sei
zed in England and carried to France
and there tried whether he is a free
man or a slave in England is contrary
to all known laws.
And so far as the rights of citizens of
the State of New York are concerned,
the arrest of such persons here and the
sending of them to other Slates for tri
al of their rights under the laws of the
State of New York is as much a viola
tion of law as though the man had been
seized in England and carried to
France to try by the judicial tribunals of
ihe latter country the rights of the man
so seized in England.
The whole spirit of this Act called
die Fugitive Slave Law, takes away
the rights and personal liberties of the
citizens of each State.
The ninth article of the amendments
to the Constitution of the United States
are in these words:
“The enumeration in the Constitu
tion of certain rights shall not be con
strued to deny or disparage others re
tained by the people.”
So article tenth of the amen dments
jays that—
The powers not delegated to the
United States by the Constitution nor
prohibited by it to the S ates, are re
lerved to the States, respectfully or to
;he people.”
Nor the powers reserved to the States
and the rights retained by the people
:onsist among other things of those ©f
a trial by jury, where life, liberty, orf
property are concerned.
And also, the right of each State ho
letermine whether its own citizens ai*e
ugitives from service or not.
Congress has not power to pass law's
hat shall deprive a citizen of this State
af his life, liberty, or property, or of
areventing each citizen of calling to
iis aid a trial by jury, wljen either his
life, liherty or, property is involved.
The writ of habeas corpus and the
right of trial by jury for each citizen
are amply provided for by the Consti
tution, and the laws of the State of New
Fork, and whenever a person is arrest
ed under the Provision of the Fugitive
Slave Law, such person has the right
:o a writ of habeas corpus and trial by
ury under our own State Laws.
There is one feature in the late law
>f Congress relative to slaves which
seems to be a full recognition of the
principle: That all slaves brought into
he State by their masters are thereby
made free.
And also that all children born in a
ree State of a fugitive slave mother
tre also free.
The Fugitive Slave Law no where
orovides that a person making oath un
ler this law, and swearing corruptly
ind falsely shall be guilty of perjury or
iable to any pains yid penalties for
:ommitting perjury. Nor does the
aw make it obligatory on the claimant
>f a fugitive slave to take him back
>vhen reclaimed to the place whence he
iscaped. But a man from Charleston,
South Carolina may arrest a free man
n New York and carry him direct to
the slave pens at Baltimore and sell
t»im to a negro trader and then land
him directly into the awamps of Louis
iana, whenever he can obtain a certifi
cate from a commissioner, rightfully or
wrongfully.
The constitution of the United States
evidently contemplates that the people
of the several States shall be deprived
of no rights which are guaranteed to
themby the State Laws and Constitution.
The Constitution of New York de
clares that the trial by jury in all cases
in which it has been heretofore used
shall remain inviolate forever.
And further that no member of this
State shall be disfranchised or depri
ved of any rights or privileges secured
to any citizen thereof unless by the
law of the land and judgment of his
peers.
In this latter section tne word mem
ber is used in contradiction to the word
citizen.
The people ol this State have intend
ed that every person in this State shall
have the benefit of our laws.
The stranger who sojourns here, be
his color black, white, or red,is equally
entitled to the protection of our laws.
The great Bill of Rights called the
Magna Chart a declares that no man
shall be seized or imprisoned or exiled,
or in any manner destroyed or con
demned or passed upon unless by the
lawful judgment of his peers, or by the
law of the land.
It is the birth right of every man,and
the people of the States and of the
United States have never given up this
right to Congress to pass laws to take
it away. Suppose a man arrested is a
slave, who knows most about it, his
family and friends, or his claimant.
Suppose he is a freeman, who is to
determine this question? Is a com
missioner ex parte in a secret session?
And without a hearing of the allega
tions from the accused, or a Jury who
ROCHESTER, N. Y.. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1850.
r LETTER FROM THADDEUS STEVENS.
Washington, September 29, 1850.
o Dear Sir: I Can give but little hope
that the infamous Slave Law will be
s declared unconstitutional. 1 can ad
vise nothing better than that the sub
f. jects of it put themselves beyond its
reach.
j With great respect,
Your obedient servant,
J THADDEUS STEVENS.
W. P. Powell, 330 Pearl st. N. Y.
Mr. George T. Downing then read
the following resolutions, which were
received with cheers and expressions
ot approbation:—
i Whereas, the Congress of the Uni
ted Stales has passed a law for the
avowed purpose of reclaiming persons
owing service in one State, apd esca
ping into another, and approved by
Milliard Fillmore, the President of the
Uuited States, on the 18th day of Sep
tember, 1850;
®And, whereas, the operation of said
law allows any person in the Southern
States to go into any court, or before
any Justice of the Peace, or any other
person authorized to take depositions
in any State or organized Territory of
the United States, and swear that any
colored person owes him or her ser
vice or labor, and has escaped there
from, and ma.y take out a warrant for
the arrest of such person in any United
States Court, in any State or Territory,
and seize su«eh person, withor without
a warrant, and command the assistance
of bystanders to make the arrest;
And, whereris, any person so ar
rested may be taken before any United
States Court io« any State or Territory
of the United States and deprived of
his or her liberty in as ummary man
ner, by any Judge, Justice, or Com
missioner of th*e United States;
And, whereas, any person so arrest
ed and tried, is stripped of the right of
trial by jury, deprived of the writ of
habeas corpvs contrary to the provis
ions of the Constitution of the United
States^
And, wheritas, any white person
may seize and arrest any colored per
son, and drag him or her, by violence,
before any Unit ed States Judge, Justice,
or Commissioner, and swear away the
liberty of any person so arrested;
And, whereas, any person assisting
another to escape, either before or after
trial, or is known to conceal a person
claimed as a slave, is subject to a fine
of one thousand dollars; and thus in
every way placing the liberty of color
ed persons in every Slate or Territory
of this Union, completely at the mercy
of slaveholders, or their agents, with
every safeguard of liberty stricken
down—Therefore,
1. Resolved, That we utterly repudi
ate the law and its provisions; that it is
so repugnant to every principle of Jus
tice, that it can have no binding force
whatever upon us; and that we do here,
in the sight of God and before all men,
declare that should any one attempt to
execute its provisions on any one of us,
either by invading our home or ar
resting us in the street, we will treat
such an one as assaulting our persons
with intent to kill, and, God being our
helper, will use such means as will re
pel the agg lessor and defend our lives
and liberty.
2. Resolved, That we are worthy
neither of our homes nor of the confi
dence of our wives and children, unless
we are prepared to sacrifice ourselves
freely, if necessary, on the altar of
freedom and in their defence.
3k Resolved, That the teachings aad
examples of oar countrymen, the
promptings of our nature as men, as
well as our duty towards God, leii us,
that whenever tbs unjust provisions of
this law against God and huin&mty
•hall be attempted to be enforced
against either of us, it were far better
that a thousand fives wrish in the re*.
I [Friday, Oct, 4 1, |MKRh
Honor the Mayor has me
f “that in case of arrest of he
has forbidden the PolicetSHPan)
t other officer of the Corp4jff|Hfrnni
assisting the slaveholder ttvHping
slaves uuder the late act ofrflHK&s;
but as to what course the iflHbrecj
people ought to pursue HVlFss wmt ol
seizure, not bavin* re»4 Fugitive
Law he was unablato sSL-a
his Honor that in the event of my friend
Robert Hamilton (who was present)
being arrested under the Fugitive act
with intent to reduce him to Slavery,
that we would not allow him to be taken
out of the city— to which the Mayor
made no reply. W. P. POWELL.
Once send a man into Slavery,under
a Commissioner’s Certificate, and how
is he to obtain his freedom when wrong*
fully wrested from him?
A person once condemned by an
United States Commissioner to Slavery,
is forever deprived of his freedom. He
is a slave for life, and all his fraternity.
He might as well expect to get an
audience of the Monarch of Great Brit
ain as to obtain relief through any Ju
dicial Tribunal in the Slave States, or
in those of the United States.
The door is forever shut to him after
he has once passed into a Slave State.
I have- no doubt that in all cases
where a person may be arrested in this
State, under the late act of Congress,
that he is entitled to, and he and his
agent or friends can sue out, a writ oi
Habeas Corpus in our State Courts,
and there try the question whether he
he is fugitive slave or not. Here he
will at least have a fair trial.
I am, very respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
ALANSON NASH.
To Messrs. Powell, Smith and others,
Committee. &c.
TERNS —*z Per Ann, lifarlaMj l> A4raace.
cue, than that a single human being
being permitted io be dragged from our
midst htto hopeless bondage; and that
we desire no grave prouder than that
over which shall stand the monument,
and no page of history prouder than
that which shall record the deed of such
rescue.
4. Resolved, That it has ever been
our aim and. earn©** to be got>d
l **«*ftb*<l*"« citizens, and that
strive such to be; nevertheless,we can
not, for one moment, entertain the idea
of compliance with the terms of that
biM, its force being lost in the fact that
it is at variance with the laws of our na
ture and of God; and further, because,
we believe it to be at variance with the
spirit and letter of our Declaration of
Independence, and of the Constitution
established under that Declaration.
5. Resolved, That the provisions of
the Fugitive Slave Bill of 1850,leaving
us no other alternative, we must adopt
he motto of our sister State, Virginia—
Resistance to tyrants is obedience
to God.”
6. Resolved, That we declare to Ma
son, and the aiders and abettors of this
arbitrary and despotic law, in the lan
guage of Daniel Webster, “that there
is something on earth greater than ar
bitrary and despotic power; and the
lightning has its powor, and the earth
quake has its power—but there is
something among men more capable of
shaking despotic power than lightning,
whirlwind, or earthquake—that is, the
threatened indignation of the civilized
world.”
7. Resolved, That “God willed us
freemen—man willed us slaves—we
will, as God wills, God’s will be done.”
8. Resolved, That inasmuch as des
perate efforts are being made to re
claim fugitives who have fled for liberty
to reclaim them at all costs, we, sym
pathizing with such fugitives, and be
lieving that they would be justified
therein by the promptings of nature,by
the precepts of Patrick Henry and of
Washington, by the glorious example
of Madison Washington, do council
them to do as we would—to arm them
selves with the surest and most deadly
weapons; to resist unto death, for
which, if they be not prepared, we ad
vise them to repair, with all possible
despatch, to where the law, as well as
nature, proclaims them free.
9. Resolved, That in giving ten mil
]io*ns of dollars to the South, for land
which the South never owned in
promising to pay one thousand dollars
U* the South, for every bondsman
who maT escape therefrom—in con
verting hi'r once free soil into a hunting
ground for the panting fugitive, and in
offering to own citizens a bribe on
the one hand lo join in the chase, and
fine and imprisonment on the other
hand for refusing to do so, the once
free North has sold herself, body and
soul, to the dark spirit of Slavery; and
has, through her chosen President and
subservient members of Congress, de
clared, “in tones that will pierce the
ears of half the human race, that the
last great experiment of Representa
tive Government has failed,” and has
“caused millions of eyes of those who
fed their inherent love of liberty upon
the success and prosperity of the Amer
ica example, to turn away from our
deep disgrace, with dissatisfaction and
disgust; and has caused the doctrine of
the divine right <of kings to feel,even in
its grave, a returning sensation of vi
tality and resuscitation
10. Resolved, That we call upon all
American citizens who have any regard
for constitutional law, or any reverence
for the history of our glorious past, or
any pride in our -national reputation
abroad, to join in the cry of repeal—
repeal the infamous hill, which barters
the life* and liberty of a freeman for the
oath c.f any wretch who may swear that
he is a slave.
11- Resolved, that ww will circulate
petitions to the Legislature of this State
calling for a law to protect its free col
ored citizens from Slavery; and for res
olutions instructing the members of
Conf ross to urge the repeal of the Fu
gitive Slave Bill.
12- Resolved, That we will send pe
titions to Congress praying for the re
peal of the Fugitive Slave Bill of 1850.
13. Resolved, That abated by noth
ing other than pure humanity, in at
tempting to curry out these resolutions
whenever necessity requires them, we
will for further endeavor to infuse their
healthful spirit into the minds and hearts
of our fellow-citizens.
14. Resolved, That the President of
this meeting be appointed to receive the
names ot ail persons who may be wil
ling to act on the secret committee;
and all persons who are fugitive to re
port themselves to the Chairman of the
meeting,who must have their real name,
and the name of their master, in order
that the secret committee may know
what to «do in the premises.
Mr. IJ'owning then said that he had
nothing to remark but that these reso
lutions, thoug strongh, were the senti
uvents of his heart, and he declared
that whenever he saw the “panting
slave’* be would assist him by every
means in his power. (A voice.—And
se will th e white men, too.) Mr. D.
continued.—We have to come to this
determination—to die, or to teach the
individual who undertakes lo carry out
the proviaii>ne of this bill* that his Mfe
is in danger. I am a father, andjbound
by every lie to protect my wife and
children, and here 1 declare that if
any man—any fien<? in human shape—
dare to erase the threshhold of my
caetle, I*ll send him toh—fl before he
ferous cheese.) I have u used that
h«»h word fceoausf do be/wra that
WHOLE NO. 147.
1
any one who eugages in such a mis
sion is a servant of the d—-I, and dying
t in that service he must go to h—lt.
(Cheers.) By the provisions of the
bill, I might be liable to be seised. And
i suppose I am not, how mahy'-jarr there
1 er not held' aa prominent a’
position as I do, and *ho may be made
i liable to the bill _ With them i. feel.
I (Hear, hear.) I call on you, not to
battle, but to arm yourset ves
for liberty, mt. I>o wrung' uurnW
by reading a letter which tho com
mittee had sent to Horace Greeley,
asking him to explain some matters
with respect to the course of Presi
dent Fillmore on the question, but
which Mr. Greeley, for reasons best
known to himself, had not answered.
Dr. Smith rose and said, in the
year of grace 1850, and, 74ih of our
Independence, which we had reason to
be thankful to Divene Providence, it
has pleased the American Congress to
suspend the habeas corpus act. The
papers to-day, if Queen Victoria had a
blister on her toe, or some freeman
were shot down in a petty German
principality, would be out in full cry
about the melancholy etent and the
horrible butchers. We would have
Extra Heralds and Extra Tribunes
■houting it through the city: but when
the charter of human liberty is sus
pended, there is not a single whisper
about it. But, thank God, we stand
here, to-nizht, not as slaves cowering
under the lash of our tyrants—no; we
i stand here as free American citizens,
and, with the blessing of God, we'will
not desist until this odious bill is re
pealed. I wish to know if, in a few
months, when Daniel Webster is sit
ting at his fireside, in Marshfield, and
an officer comes with his papers, des
cribes him as a large dark man, with a
large head and big as that of Henry
Clay, what would Mr. Webster say il
he were carried before a magistrate,
and after that hurried away as fast as
steam can oarry him, to Alabama, or
somewhere else, where he never would
afterwards be heard of? He advised
that one of their first duties was to
have a committee of two appointed,
who would be always on hand to give
evidence and aid in favor of the poor
fugitive. He further advised that sub
scriptions should be immediately en
tered into by all the colored people, to
assist their colored brethren who would
seek their liberty in the Eastern States;
and described the death of Hamlet's
wife, and said that a corner’s inquest
should be held on her body—that Mil
lard Fillmore, Daniel Webster, and
Hon*ac%Greeley should be summoned
as witnesses; and that on her tomb
should be written “the first victim to
the act of Cpngress of 1850. Dr.
Smith then sat down.
Il was then announced that a collec
tion would be taken up to defray the
expenses of a number of fugitive
slaves who are now in this city on their
way to Canada.
John S. Jacobs, a fugitive, then
came forward and spoke nearly as fol
lows:—He said he came here to-night
to give some advice, and to extend the
hand of fellowship to his colored
brethren. He said: My colored breth
ren, if you have not swords, I say te
you, sell vour garments and buy one.
He regretted that he was not here in
time to hear the resolutiens rcsd, to
know if they were strong enough. If
there be any man here to-night who
wants to know my name, tell him it is
John S. Jacobs, of South Carolina,
and that lam an American citizen,
that 1 never denied that name, neither
did 1 ever disgrace it. They said that
they cannot take us back to the South;
but I say, under the present law they
can; and now I say unto you, let them
only take your dead bodies. Tremen
dous cheers.) This is no time, my
friends, to laugh; let us go to the
bouse of mourning, and see the dead
body of the wife of Hamlet, and her
surviving infants. \Vell, I would rather
see her body dragged to the stake than
see her dragged back again into Sla
ver/. I would, my friends, advise
you to show a front to our tyrants, and
arm yourselves; aye, and 1 would ad
vise the women to have their knives
too. But I don’t advise|you to trample
on the laws of this State, but advise
you to trample on the aws of this
State, but 1 advise you to trample on
this bill, and 1 further advise you to let
us go on immediately, and act like
men. He then advised the colored
race to lay aside their religious and
political feelings, or anything that may
tend to separate them, and suggested
that a registry should be commenced
with the name of every slave, his own
er, and all other particulars, that they
might tend to give him every assis
tance; and concluded by advising the
fugitives not to suffer themselves to
be taken.
Rev. Charles Gardiner said he did
not rise to make a speech, but he could
not help telling the meeting that God
was with them. He saw the minister
ing angels hovering around them. He
said that he had been travelling through
the East for the last ten weeks, and
that there is but one sentiment in re
gard to this bill—-that it is a flat denial
of the Republican principle. He told!
them in Pittsfield, and other places,
that they, the colored race, should go
to war with the United States, or ac
knowledge themselves slaves. They
were sold, he said, by Daniel Webster,
the veriest blood-hound to the United
States, and, by both houses of Con
gresss, to the South, and I call this an
infamous Union, a Union cemented in
blood and robbery. Yes, I sty rob
bery, because Slavery was began by
the robbery of the sons and danghters
of Africa. Ho said that eyerr editor
in the United State* skulked this bill,
by hiding it from the public, and I tar
that thoy are all a ant of v.llians. It
was a secret combination, at which
Daniel Webster and the editors were
at the bottom of, to dries the colored
people to Africa the appropriation of
three millions of dollars, was proposed
for that pourpose. He said ha was
almost disposed to cut loose altogether
from the Presbyterian church He was
disgusted with the ministers of that and
the other churches—they were all
combined sgsinst them. ‘He advised
his brethren and sisters to be on their
guard, and take the life of every man
that attempted to deprive them of their
liberty. He considered that liberty
was the greatest and only blessing they
enjoyed. He said that evary colored
church should be opened on the first
Monday every month and a concert of
prayer held for the panting slave. He
could hear them pray for everything
but the poor slave, and he assured them
that Slavery progressed upon them in
proportion as they separated them
selves from the Lord, y
Jacob It. GHbbs, colored, then ad
dressed the meeting. He said tfce
resolutions had met his approbation*
entirely. (Hissing, order, order.) If
be only got men to give him their
names, and stand with him, they, would
<Wnihn infamoMaJlw. In Mary
land the law was equally SPlebe, but
he risked, bis life and put it down. If
ye submit to this law, ye are not the
men I take you to be. Let us tell
them at once we will not submit to it.
Let us tell them we will not submit to
the yoke, and theu we shall have
peace. Had he been in time to rescue
Hamlet, he would make New York tell
a tale; but the next time he would
take care to be up to time, and if he
gets six men to go with him, the offi
cers will have another story to tell.
He will give assistance and shelter to
every fugitive that wants it, and the
bloodhounds of the law are welcome
to take his life. He was ready to lay
it down.
A man in the gallery cried out that
they had wandered from the object of
the meeting. They had heard some
fine speeches, but while we are speak
ing hero, the fugitive slaves are fleeing
from the city, from their families and
their firesides, and if liberty is worth
fighting for anywhere, it is worth fight
ing for here. He concluded by calliug
on them to appoint a committee to ad
vise the slaves to remain, and the first
that is taken, to rescue him; and that
would have more effect than all the
resolutions you would pass to-night.
Junius C. Morrel, next spoke to the
resolutions.—He said that in commo
tions in a great community the first in
quiry always was, what occasioned
such commotion? Just so it wa9 with
us. I would ask you, then, what
I brought us here to-night? It was their
famous Fugitive Slave Bill. I would
I not tell you what to do, but I will tell
I you what I w ill do. lam a freeman,
and I care not for the constitution or
the laws made by man. The is a law
above them; and 1 tell you that before
they drag me into Slavery they will
have to take my life. The mau that
would cross the threshold of my door
to drag me into Slavery, although I am
not a fighting man, but when I am put
to the wall I will use this right arm,
and deal death and destruction around
me. But, my friends, be not the ag
gressors —keep the peace; but always
be prepared. I don’t agree with my
fellow-townsman who spoke here to
night, that we have no sympathy but I
say we have, and if we deserve' it we
will have more of it. He then gave
an account of a fee colored man named
Charles Frisbee, who was kidnapped
in Philadelphia, and sent into Virginia;
and a man named Stansbury, a mem
ber of the Methodist church, who was
also arrested, and, if it had not been
for the testimony of Mr. Titus, a
member of the Society of Friends, who
was produced as a witness, and swore
that he knew Stansbury for several
years before the time it was said he
escaped, and who also swore that Stans
bury was at the battle of Bladensburg,
under Commodore Barney, he would
heve been condemned and sent into
Slavery. He said they would have
plenty of such cases. (Here a voice
in the gallery said he would have been
claimed in 1838 as a fugitive slave,
only that he was in the naval service,)
Mr. Morrell said that, in viewing the
church ,he other day, he found the
Church of Rome had its head—the
Greek Church had its head—the Eng
lish Church had its head, and so has
the American Church; but the head of
the American Church was the demon
of Slavery. (Cheering.) The orator
then went on to tell a story that hap
pened in one of the down east church
es, Wttch nearly led him into infidelity.
He said that after the performance of
some splendid ceremonies, in which all
the white brethren and sisters joined,
and old aged gentleman, with hoary
locks* and with one foot in the grave,
and the other on the brink, came for
ward and said, now iny colored breth
ren and sisters, it is your turn; we are
all the same in Jesus; come and par
take of the communion. This, my
brethren, is the sort of religion that
had nearly led me into infidelity; but
if we act like men now, we will soon
have no negro pews, and no sending
us around about. He concluded by
advising them to be prepared but not
to be the aggressors.
Jerimiah Powers, next addressed
the meeting.—-He said that the black
men fought side by side with their
American brethren, and had a share
in tho most glorious battles that were
fought in this country, from the first
revolution to the late war with Mexico
the only argument he would use against
this hell hatched code— the Fugitive
Slave bill—was the bowie-knife and
the revolver. They want to drag the
black men and black women out of this
country; but I tell you we have as
good a right here as any white man or
woman. He then said the locofocos
went to Syracuse, to eat up John Van
Buren and all the free soil niggers. It
was the negroes elected Mr. Fillmore,
and now he pays us off with big bills,
and that i 9 the reason they kept dark
about it; and only the election is near
at hand, Horace Greeley would pub
lish it. r
Mr. St. Remmy, from Canada, next
•ddressed the meetiog, He related
several old anecdotes in n ferencs to
Rochester North Star Fair.
The Ladies of Rochester, desirous of emu
lating the noble example set them by their
‘sisters of New York snd Philadelphia in then
efforts to sustain the shore named paper, htre
formed an Association, for the purpose of
holding s Fair daring Christmas week, in aid
of'Mhe North Star.”
To those acquainted with the character of
this paper, it is needless to spepk of its merits,
or of the untiring zeal, and sincere devotion
of its Editor. Eminently qualified as Frederick
Douglass is to promote the elevation of hi*
oppressed and despised people at the North,
he is also equally qualified to sympathize with
our brothers and sisters, who are still in
chains and slavery at the South—to tell of
their wrongs, to vindicate their rights, and (by
the blessing of God) to “hasten the day of
freedom to the three millions of our enslaved
fellow countrymen.”
We, therefore, regard “the North Star”
as one of the most effective anti-slavery in.
etrumentalities now in the field, and in this
night of darkness and gloom, we look to it
as the beacon to guide us “until the day
dawn” and unclouded sunshine bursts upon
us.
We call upon all true friends of the slave
to give us their zealous co-operation on the
present occasion.
Friends of humanity! shall we call upon
you in vain! A cruel and inhuman law is
banishing hundreds of our people into a dis
tant land, and bringing ruin and desolation
upon many once happy families.
Christian friends of Rochester, we call up
on you in the name of all you hold dear and
sacred, tO extend your kind aid and sympathy
to the daughters of an outraged and suffering
people.
We earnestly invite the co-operation of
benevolent friends throughout the country.
We appeal with confidence to our English
friends for aid on the present occasion.
Donations and contributions will be grate
fully received by Mrs. Titus, 1 Division st.,
Mrs. Panl, 50 Exchange st., Mrs. Boyd, I 11&
Main st., or by any member of the Associa
tion, and at the North Star Office, Rochester.
Brewer's Panorama of the Mammoth
Cave.—We have no hesitation in saying
that this is one of the best, if not the best
exhibition of this kind ever presented to the
people of Bosron, We would recommend
our readers to visit this splendid panorama.
It opens with a fine view of Boston common.
The views of Fairmount Water Works, the
Niagara River and Falls, especially the win
ter scene of the jailer, and the Prairies are
beautiful.
That portion of the painting devoted to the
Mammoth Cave, says the Atlas, closes the
exhibition. A visitor to this painting has a
belter opportunity to behold its wonders, than
can be obtained by an actual visit. Two or
three torches serves, as the artist observes,
but to make “darkness visible;” but at the
time of Mr. Brewer’s visit to the cave, he
had, by the permission of the proprietor,
three or four hundred lights to illuminate, the
chanbets, when he made his sketches. Few
persons have any idea of the extent of the
Mammoth Cave. It has 246 avenues, vary
ing from half a mile to sixteen miles in length,
and altogether forming an extent of over four
hundred miles explored. There is probably
as much of the cave unexplored as there is
explored, and daily discoveries verify the
truth of this assertion. The most noted and
beautiful of the chambers and h&l/s of the
cave are faithfully portrayed in the painting
bv Mr. Brewer, and the panorama closes with
a view of the beautiful Fairy Grotto, —not a
painted, but an intimation grotto. This exhi
bition affords an excellent and highly instruc
tive entertainment for a couple of hours.
Books descriptive of the panorama, containing
a full acconnt of the cave, may be obtained
at the door for a slight increase of charge.
Mr. Brewer himself explains the painting to
the spectators. His voice is clear and dis
tinct, and can be heard ia all parts of the
hall. This is quite a consideration. He is
the mode l of panorama explainers.—Emanci
pator.
ID" The New York Evangelical Congre
gational Association passed the following
Resolutions, at a meeting at Poughkeepsie,
on the Bth inst.:
Resolved, That we cannot recognize this
law as of any binding force upon the citizens
of our country. Ist. Because it is coxtrary
to the express command of God. Deut. 28:
16, 17—“ Thou shall not deliver unto his
master the servant which ia escaped from his
master unto thee. He shall dwell with thee,
even among you in that place which he shall
choose in one of thy gates, where it liketh
him best: thou shall not oppress him.” 2d.
It is in opposition to the great law of Chris
tian benevolence, which requires us in all
things to do unto others as we would that
others should do unto us. 3d. It conflicts
with the provisions of our National Constitu
tion. 4th. It prostrates those two great safe
guards of human liberty, habeas corpus and
trial by jury. sth. It is revolting to the spon
taneous promptings of humanity. 6th. It
brings upon our Nation the reproach of in
justice and inconsistency, and impairs our
influence upon the world for good. 7th. In
short, this law outrages every principle of hu
man feeling of humanity and religion; and
thus, so far as the principle is concerned, it
endangers the iibeity of every maf W.
Resolved, That while we recognize the ob
ligation to obey the laws of the land, we make
a.i exception in the case of all such provisions
as contravene the “higher law” of God.
Resolved, That we advise all arsons to
render every needful aid and comfort to Fugi
tive Slaves, just the same as if there were no
law in the land forbidding it.
Wiiat a Western Lady says of Queen
Victoria.—A lady correspondent writing
from London, gives a very interesting account
•of the prorogation of Parliament by the
Queen in person. Our American ladies may
be interested in what one of their countrywo
man says of the Queer.. The lady corres
pondent represent her as “too small in
but she has a pleasing face, and was dressed
magnificently, and she ia remarkably easy,
raceful. and dignified, in her movements.
ter speech was written on foolscap, which
she rested on her hand as she read aitting.
She ie a beautiful reader. Het enunciation
was slow and distinct, her manner was calm,
dignified, and self-possessed. To republican
eyes, it was a strange sight to* see a body of
men, standing grouped before a lady to re
ceive orders, and it sounded strangely to hear
her say, ‘My Lords and gentlemen, I have
the satisfaction to release you from the duties
of a laborious session.’ But she said it with
.wonderful grace and dignity, as well as
authority. Her sf>eech was short; every word
of it was heard distinctly by every one
present.”— Ex. Paper.
ID* A correspondent of the Tribune says
that a negro man living in Lodi, New Jersey,
was accused of theft and pursued by officers.
They met him in the street snd attempted to
arrest him, but he, supposing them to be
Slave-catchers, made bis escape and went
home. The policemen followed him to his
house, where they found him armed, and
awaiting them. In the affray that followed,
a constable received a severe and it is feared
fatal wound. The negro, it was subsequently
ascertained, was entirely guiltless of the
crime charged, and bad he known the reason
for which the arrest was attempted, would
have made no resistance.— Democrat.
sljt North Slot-
ROCHESTER, OCTOBER 24, iB6O.
We beg to inform our New York friend,
that his paper has been regularly mailed.
The delay must rest with the Poet -Office.
The British Government are taking raeas
utes to construct a powerful aqoadron of
steatnem for the suppression of the slave-trade
on the coast of Africa.
We made s request to our correspondents s
short time since, to the effect, that they
would be pleased to pre-pay the letters with
which they favor us. Recent experience
compels us to repeat this request, and to beg
that all letters sent to “the North Star Office,”
be paid.
Fugitive Slave Law.—A large meeting
of the colored citizens of Williamsport, Ly
coming Co., Pa., was held on the evening of
the Bth of Oct., 1850. After hearing the
different opinions, it was unanimously
Resolved, That we denounce the late Fu
gitive Slave Law as being unjust, unconstitu
tional and at variance with the laws W God
and Humanity.
D j* The friends of humanity in Detroit ere
determined that the colored man recently ar
rested there as s fugitive from slavery shall
not be returned to bondage, and have resolved
to buy his freedom, if he fails to establish his
right to it otherwise. The man says he has
purchased his freedom, and was allowed one
week’s delay, in order that he might send
to Cincinnati for hit papers.
The Washington Union has the following
from its Baltimore correspondent.
“A great excitement has sprung ap among
the blacks st the North relative to the opera
tion of the fugitive slave bill, especially aa it
is well known that hundreds of owners of fu
gitives are now scouring the north in search
of their property. Many owners know of
the whereabouts of their slaves, having met
them in their travels and are now perfecting
their arrangements for securing them.”
ID 3 Referring to the indignant reeeption
meeted out to the infamous Fugitive Slave
Law, and to the determination of some of
our people not to join in the chase for Fugi
tives, the Richmond Whig says:—
We cannot believe but that any resistance
on the part of the madmen of the Abolition
party, to the legal authorities, will be met
promptly and with the moat decisive measures.
The bullet and bayonet, if it must needs be
so, will effectually suppress the mutinous
manifestations of these fools, and should re
sistance indeed, come, we do not doubt that
such arguments —in this case, the ultima ra
tis—will be addressed to them.
The Recreancy ol the Press.
Men who can twist therßible to suit their
own extreme opinions, disregarding all pre
vious interpretations by the most learned and
pious commentators; men who have the
hardihood to pretend that slaves are not once
spoken of in the New Testament, and that
Philemon was not a slave; men who are
governed by a higher law’ than the Consti
tution, viz their own private judgment of
what the law should have been, are not to be
trusted in a case where their feelings, sym
rathiea and prejudices are so deeply*enlisted,
t was for precisely such men that the severi
ties of this law were introduced.”
The foregoing words are quoted from a
recent editorial article in the N. Y. Journal
of Commerce and have reference to (bat
portion of the Fugitive Slavs Law which
strips its victims of the right of trial by jury
in the State where the arrests may be made,
thereby annulling the most sacred feature of
English law.
The spirit embodied in this editor’s produc
tion alluded to, is in perfect keeping with
the eourse of that venal print during a long
period of years. The Journal of Commerce,
ever since we fust knew anything of it, has
been the fast friend of its Southern task
masters, ever paying a willing service to the
demonise spirit of its pro-slavery age. It has
not regenerated one whit since the Rev
erend David Hale passed from his post to
receive his deserts for deeds done in the
body.” He was a faithful servant of wrong!
No ray of hope, no word of kindneas for the
oppressed of hit country, was ever observed
in the productions of his pen, to lend them an
unwonted glow and give their readers an evi
dence that they were not Ute outbirth of a
spirit of darkness.
We dislike exceedingly to speak in terms
other than commendatory of such as have
passed from our immediate sphere. But it is
a miserable charity which refrains from con
demning the perpetrator of wrong, merely
because he has, by one of nature’s sternest
laws, been placed where he can no longer do
violence to those whose humanity, made
Christ their brother and him their enemy.
We refer to this journal for the purpose of
instancing it as a fau specimen of the pro
slavery press of our country. It is sui
generis,” evil and time-serving; snd those
who rule its columns are ever ready to
Bend the pliant hinges of the knee,
That thrill may follow fawning.’*
It is cheering to turn from such odious ex
amples to the fresh and generous pages of
those journals whose columns evince a better
purpose, a loftier morality, and a truer piety,
than that which swells its cant in the
leaders” of a hireling press.
There are men in our country who had
rather suffer wrong than do wrong.” They
honor their profession, let it be What it may
whether it leadathem to the editor’s table, the
legal tribunal, or the Christian pulpit. They
are those who will not bow themselves to
falsehood, nor sell themselves to the bid of
Mammon. Let sa instance the New York
Evening Post and its able poet-editor, William
Cullen Bryant. That* paper is out-spoken
and fearleea on all occasions when any great
principle demands its utteranoe. Aa far
aa we can remember, it has stood firmly and
battled nobly against the tide of oppreeaioo
that would have swept it out of existence,
had the wish been tfee parent of the means.
Its former editor, Willutm Leggett, a man
whom we love to remember as imbued with
an earnest devotion to liberty, had more of
the better attribute of humenity in hie soul
than all the rest of the Democratic party,
whom he served so ably and toe well.
Let the Beeches, the Leggetts, end the
Sumners of our day do their whole duty, and
ere another session of our Etatiooal legislature
•ball have closed its labors, the people of this
0000 try will have blotted from its statute
book ibis brutal enactment—this record of
theit shame!—a*
hvm the Editor.
Boston, Oct. 15th, 1850.
The meeting held last night in Faoeuii
Hall, to oonatder the ooodition of the colored
citizens of Boston end its vicinity, consequent
upon tbs enactment of that hell-black scheme
by our free American Congress, for the re
capture of fugitive sieves, was a powerful de
monstration. The vast Hall was crowded to
its utmost limits; many were compelled to
leave, unable to gain admission. There could
not havo been fewer piesent then five thou
sand. The spirit of the occasion equalled the
numbers. I have never seen a meeting more
unanimous end strong. It wss easy to see
that the vast multitude had assembled under
the influence of emotions of no ordinary char
acter. There was a manifest eagerness, eveiL
before the appointed hour, to have the speak
ing commence .foot merely because they wanted
to bear, but because they wanted their own
strong and impressible. feelings expressed.
They felt a daep sympathy for their alarmed
aod terror-stricken fellow cilixens, upon
whom the late congressional cloud was'about
to discharge its wrathful thunder, and they
desired that speech, earnest, and strong,
should erive th«ir qui<*lr-k«**<iig hearts relief.
Hence, when that noble man, Francis Jack
son, (whose very countenance proclaimed him
fn«i>d to the oppressed) came forward to call
the meeting to order, he was hailed with pro
longed and deafening cheers. His presence was
regarded as an undication of what they might
expect to follow, for he ia known of all met
in tbie region as the inflinehing friend of the
slave and of the oppressed black man. You
will, doubtless, see the proceedings of this
meeting as reported for the daily papers, but
I must be allowed to say a few words re*
speeting them; for, good as those reports are,
especially those of the Chronolype and Trav
eller, they fall short of conveying to the read
er the real feeling which pervaded that as
semblage; nor can I expect to do so. It is be
yond the sphere of pen, ink, and paper to do
it. To understand what that meeting was,
seeing and hearing were indispensable. The
congregated thousands must be visited, the
universal buzz and confused clamor, common
to auch masses, and the sadden hush and fix
ed attention of such a multitude to one cen
tra) point, must be seen to be appreciated.
The Chairman of the meeting, (Hon. C.
Francis Adams,) made the first speech. It
was chaste, lucid and earnest, and was re
ceived with many tokens of applause. The
speech, though excellent, was not the only
reason of the applause which followed it. The
audience saw before them an Adams, a son
of John Quincy Adams, and a grandson of
John Adams, illustrious names in the history
of the nation. A bust of the grandfather,
and a portrait of the father, were both seen
just above the worthy Chairman, over the
rostrum ot Faneuil Hall. The people saw
these, and, democratic as they doubtless are,
they could not free themselves from the influ
ence of the aristocracy of noble deeds which
they saw there represented. The grandfather
a, leader in the American revolution, a
statesman and an orator, who had sounded all
the depths of honor and glory—the father
equally illustrious. These things, talk aa we
may about aristocracy, do command respect.
But let them pass.
At the close of the Chairmans address, I
was called upon for a speech, and especially
to state the condition of the colored people
under this new act for their oppiession. 1
had rode all day, was tired, excited, and un
prepared to launch into suoh an undertaking,
still I did not feel at liberty to decline, and
therefore did the best 1 could. At the close
of my speech, came a letter from the Hon.
Josiab Quincy. It was and able snd important
document. Mr. Dana, who read the letter,
made a few very appropriate introductory re
marks. He called upon the audience to lis
ten to the letter ss coming from a venerable
souroe, a man whose claims to be heard in
Faneuil Hall were not surpassed by,those of
any other man in the commonwealth. My
readers shall have the letter in the “North
Star.” It is a valuable history of the legis
lation of our country, in rsepect to fugitive
slaves, from the very commencement of the
government until now. When the reading
of this letter wss finished, a thousand voices
shouted for “Phillips “Phillips Wen
dell Phillips! He came upon the platform,
his countenence glowed like sparkling iron
newly drawn from the flaming coals! The
shouts which greatedhim, bespoke the speak
er known. Without saying more, it is enough
to say that his wss the great speech of the
evening. It was brief, concise, and power
tul. Mr. Phillips was followed by Mr. James
A. Briggs, of Cleveland, Ohie, a.talentedtfree
toiler. His remaiks were wel! received.
Speeches wete also made by Rev. Theodore
Parker, Charles L. Remond, W. B. Spooner,
snd Rev. Nathaniel Colver. The latter closed
his speech by offering the following as the
last resolution in the series:that, law or no law,
constitution or no constitution, union or no
union, the slave-master shall never drag
any man from our midst, under the provisians
of the late Fugitive Stave Bill. This was
carried by aflSlaimation. Six deafening cheers
were given, and the meeting adjourned.
It was said, after the passing of the Fugi
tive Slave Bill, that the Union is saved and
quite, is restored. The arch compromiser,
Henry Clay, exclaimed exultingly that peace
and harmony now reign throughout our bor
ders. Daniel Webster in the very eestacy
of patriotic enthusiasm, broke 'forth, in the
language put in the mouth of the perfidious
si-d murderous Gloster by the immortal poet,
“Now is tbe winter of our discontent made
glorious summer.” But is it so? Have tbe
land-storms and cold blasts of winter sub
sided snd have the bright sunshine and
flowers of summer come 1 No. There is no
peace yet; nor can there be thia aide of re
pentance. Never waa there a time when the
Eternal Father more signally vindicated his
authority in the affairs of men. He bae con-*
founded the wisdom of tbe crafty, and brought
tbe counsels of the ungodly to nought. Our
wise men have attempted to get respect for
their laws by trampling upon the law* of God,
and to heal the wounds of the confederacy,
by infiicffng wounds on the negro's back.
Their efforts are vain. The whole North pre
sents a scene of agitation such as has never
before existed. Every paper I take up here
in Boston, is loaded with tbe subject of the
injustice, cruelty, and villany of this horrid
kidnapping law. 1 am happy to state that
tbe puMie meeting held here last night, ha*
done much towards quieting the colored peo
ple, and towards removing the apprehension
and dtesdfc which they were at fint oppress
ed; I supposed that mut will return
who hadied elsewhere ie alarm. Indeed,
this rescan is bsoeming pretty geowal
amony oo people throughout New England
They uksolviag to May, aod to teat the
40Mu4Ak1 to this decisioQ, I, for one, giw
||>REOERICK DOUGLASS.
mj Letter No. YU.
«a» Mas. Howitt My daily
thougHgftd nightly dreams are now so en
tireiy-rSme subject, that my coriespoodence
i» in wet of being bereft of every charm
of noreijr or variety. So, however, it ia;
and my tiends must bear with me. The
gi detestable Fugitive Slave Bill,”
e present, be in the foreground ol
ure I paint. Were you within
ts enactment, and could you bear
r yourself its present direful effect
upon {fas colored people of this land, aure am
I that jfcu, dear friend, would be in a some
whnt ifnilar predicament; and whether you
wete listening to the sweet and refreshing
strains pf your old friends, the Hutchinson*—
guxinfoo that refined and beauteous work ol
an, Powets’ Greek Slave,” or holding con
vene with the gifted and intellectual Fred
erika Bremer, yon would find that you sought
in vaia a brief mental respite from the pres
ence ol the hated bill.” The hideous and
much-dreaded incubus would be over with
you, to oppress and alarm, to soare and to
terrify.
American tidings now wing their way with
such accelerated speed across the broad At
lantic, that you are without doubt ere this in
possession of many facta relative to this new
monstrosity. The whole country, frem Dan
to Beersbeba, ia in a state of excitement and
agitation. A just indignation pervades the
minds of all honest-hearted people. As yet,
there are no signs of the glorious summer
anticipated by Webster, while “the winter oj
our discontent becomes daily more apparent.
I envy not the feelings of the inventors of
the diabolical scheme. I believe it will recoil
destructively on their own heads. The gal
lows, so carefully and surreptitiously erected
fot the lowly and despised Mordecai, may yet
serve for the execution of the haughty and
tyrannical Haman
It seems to me that these most worthy,
grave,” diplomatic, compiomising and treach
erous politicians have, in some respects, sig
nally failed in their object. As the school
boy whistles to keep up his courage when in
nightly terror he runs through the church
yard, so have they uttered a feeble cry of
"peace, peace;” but, in response, comes an
eaithquake; and lo! ihe land rocks from
centre to circumference. The learned states
man, Henry Clay, with his keen sagacity and
wonderful presence, failed to foresee the com
ing convulsion. The modem Mirabeau, Dan
iel Webster, with hts giant intellect and
colossal mind, believed that all the clouds
were
Id the deep bosom of the oceaa buried,”
and was fully prepared to bask in the sun
shine and take his siesta in a summer of his
own creation;
“And all went merry as a marriage bell;
But, hush! hark! a deep'sound strikes liks a rising
knell!”
These humane and worthy coadjutors,
though deaf to the voice of lamentation,
weeping and great mourning,” which ia
ascending to Heaven from hundreds of terror
stricken and outraged fugitives,"whose parted
bosom clings to wonted home,” as they pur
sue tbeir weary way into exile, are never
theless constrained to listen to the unexpected
and simultaneous burst of indignation which
goes out from the people of these Not them
cities. As yet, they know not of what it ia
the precursor; but if it be true that con
science makes eowards of us all,” they may
well tremble. One drop will sometimes make
the cup overflow. How often, when perusing
the history of by-gone ages, have we seen
that mighty revolutions appeared to hang
upon trivial incidents.
There -has been a rapid augmentation to
the ranks of the abolitionists. Let these
friends of the slave watch—stand fast in
faith —tpat them like men—be strong and,
as in days past, the counsel of Ahitophel
was turned into foolishness,by Him who
dooth according to his will in the army of
heaven and among the inhabitants of earth
so, note, may he cause the cruel machinations
of perfidious politicians to prepare the way
lot the opening of the Southern prison-house,
and the more speedy delivery of the captive.
There needed something to awaken the dor
mant energies of many nominal friends of the
slave in our midst. As some who say long
prayers,” never “pray” in heart, so, I be
lieve, may we repeat an anti-slavery cteed
until it becomes a dead letter. Now, however,
the time for words has passed. The time foi
action has come. The curse of slavery, with
all its accompanying horrors, ia at our very
doors. 1 incurred the penalty threatened to
him that" hideth the outcast last week, and
I will incut it again on the first occasion that
presents itself. That noble man, Henry Ward
Beecher, pronounces the new Fugitive Slave
Bill "the most powerful anti-slavery ieaaoner
that ever shook our Northern forum.”
I trust that the fresh impetus given by it to
anti-slavery agitation, will be ever renewed
until alavety’s days are numbered, and no
longer slave shall succeed to slave through
yetis of endless toil.” Ever yours,
Rochestkk, Oct. 91st, 1820. J. G.
R. I. Anti-Slavery Society—Annual
Meeting.
The Fourteenth Annual Meeting of the
Rhode Island Anti-Slavery Society will be
held in Mechanic's Hall, in Providence, on
Wednesday and Thursday, Nov. 13th and
14th, commencing at 10 o’clock a. m.
Distinguished advocates of emancipation,
from other States, have been invited to be with
us, and it is expected that their presence on
this occasion, will add to the inteieat of our
meetings.
What, now, we ask, is an earnest and
faithful response from the people of oar own
State, who profess abhorrence of the constant
ly increasing evils of American slavery—evil*
that are every day developing themselves, in
•ome new phase, in the moral, s°ei»l and
political communities in which, they move,
aril for whose existence no man not wonrae
in our State may deny their prof* l of
wepooaibility. It is not a time when we may
properly shrink from the duty our reason
points to, sad which oar faith
mtkai binding upon us. The bounds of the
*l*tre gang no upon the track of the fugitive,
armed with the weapon* of law, and eager
for those tiiomph* which only fienu* can shoot
over—the triumphs of slaverv, and its curses
and its chains, over the liberty which makes
a boon worthy of thanksgiving, and which
some few of the dark sons of Africa have
been so fortunate as to purchase for them
selves and their wiVea and children, if We
have hearts, and remember the professions
we have made/we shall not foil to come to
gether on this occasion, and utter, in nohleand
earnest language, our detestation of sn un
righteous law, and our determination to re
member, in tbe hour of his trial, the haunted
fugitive from the South’s dank prison house,
as well as those who still clank Ihe heavy
and galling chains of American servitude.
In behalf of the Rhode Island Anti-Slavery
Society.
JOHN BROWN, Pres.
Amaranct Pains, Sec'y.
Cleveland, 0., Oct. 1., 1850.
Friderick Douglass :—On arriving here,
I find no little excitement about the Fugi
tive Slave Bill.” Since President Fillmore
has unchained the tiger,” by the use of
t*‘* poo. on the I Sill or Sept, exerting his
power for the glory of God and the liberty of
man, I have felt an irdent desire to have some
religious-political watchman tell us what
the signs of promise arefor the world ia
expressing its opinion freely respecting that
enlightened and Christian enactment called
the Fugitive Slave. Bill,” the sentiment of
which is doubtless the result of the inspiring
influence of his Satanic Majesty, the climax
of his infernal wickedness.
It seems to me that the world has misun
derstood, till the sitting of the last United
States Congress, what the real and true mis
sion of that government is. Is it not a mission
of bonds and death Our race have been
i taught to think that it was to be the example
of all coming human governments, it bein'g
itself the model of heaven, as soon as it
should act upon the principle that “there is
a higher power than the Constitution.” But
all must confess, that were all legislative
governments to follow the example it has set
of late, that earth wou’d be anything else
than human.
It may properly be asked, would not the
Devil do well to rent out hell and move to the
United Slates, and rival, if possible, President
Fillmore and his political followers! If he
can beat them at the game of sin, the change
will be well. Would not fallen angels make
wise and humane Senators, compared with
Cass, Clay and Webster The fugitive slave
might have rejoiced had these men have had
the experience of a lost being, or Fillmore
the soul of Satan. The woiid must be con
vinced that damned spirits would do better
and honor more the representative hall, than
such men as Bissell, Brower, Buel, ElLott,
Fuller, Gilbert, Hibbard, Mann, Miller and
Walden. God grant that
Tlwir names may rot
Op the scroll of time.
We are proud to say that even fugitive slaves
pity the nation that makes colored men slaves
and white men kidnappers. But I pity the
man who willingly becomes such a slave and
beast of burden, for
God has a bolt usburled
For such in store.
I have often been struck with tbe great
contrast between King James of England and
President Fillmore of America. One with
stood the corrupting influences of irreligion—
resisting demagogues, priests and tbe .pope—
writing for God and in behalf of man—giving
the the poor, and sustaining its hu
mane and God-established institutions. Tbe
other floats on the popular current of infidel
ity and oppression—opposing the truth, unless
humanity be a lie, and seeking to sunder
every cord that rivets creature to cteature, and
the finite to the Infinite. Also the different
influence of these twe men upon their fellow
creatures. James’ right position, decision of
chsrscter, and virtuous actions, bound the
good will of his subjects to hitn with liga
ments of etetnal love—fixing the foundation
of his throne not in the pleasure of any des
pot, but in the confidence and affection of his
loyal people. But Fillmore’s heartless posi
tion, indecision of chsiseter, and the want of
a virtuous soul, have rendered him despicable
in the eyea of tbe good, and contemptible in
the just opinion of the bad. In seeking to
please tyrants, he has lost the favor of all.—
And alas, the true church of Christ can no
longer pray for the success of his truckling
administration. It has given their souls to
the oppressor, and their bodies to the prison,
if they dare do their duty in obedience to
Christ. In view of such fads, it is my candid
eonvictiun that the tecoid of the infernal
regions can exhibit no blacker deeds than the
American archives, and the accursed Fugitive
Slave Bill. Upright humanity cannot uphold
the hand that signed that bill of abominations,
unless it first does violence to its own nature.
God is against the man who owns the hand
Ha is weighed in the balance, and found
wanting. Such men as do him honor,
The Devil fear*,
And slaves hate.
This truth will be exemplified, I believe, in
certain parts of the country, in the attempts
to take back to slavery and to death—yea, in
the American bell itself—the dejected, poor,
and panting fugitives. In honor of humanity,
I am proud to aay.tbat Patrick Henry’s motto
is mine—“ Give me Liberty or give me
Death.” I am frank to declare that it is my
fixed and changeless purpose to kill any ik>-
called man who attempts to eoalave me or
mine, if poeaible, though it be Millard Fill
i more himself. To do this, in defence of per
i aonal liberty, to my mind, would be in aet
l of the highest virtue, and white Americana
mast be real hypocrites if they say not to it—
amen!
i Do they not saint the spirits of ’76 for
i their noble defence of their inalienable right*?
r Why then damn m# for doing the same
>Tis the 4th of Joly. Hark! What meant
I that cannon’s roar Tis the joyful voice of
i a free people, eulogiiing the man who exter
urinated tyrants, and gave to the American
i colonies freedom. Why, on a public day,,
i those oratoric sounds, falling from human'
I oracles—those words that burn—word min
gl«d with eloquence divine—word that raise
i the dead They are because of deeds done
by our coentry’e fathers, when they war* op
preeeed and wronged. Such words tell hew
they obtained their earthly heritage, sad mde
ties, tad liberty forever for oar hopeful po»-
tetity. Who that it oppressed himself, is
not ready to do the like deeds for his nee to
cornel Life is aaefht to loee. tam ready,
willing, and should rejoice to die; and I glory
in the foot that so many of my brethren in
inhalation are of the same mind, and feel de
termined to be sacrificed rather than be en
slaved. God grant that their number may be
increased a thousand fold. Then shall ty
rants know,
Thrice armed it he
Who hath hie quarrel jest.**
And now, friends of the beloved Jesus, esn
you and will you stand quietly and see your
Savior kidnapped in the person of his poor
Remember, if you suffer it to be dooe unto
one of the least of his brethren, you suffer it
antler it (obe done unt^him.
Professors of religion, can you and will
you permit, silently, the American Congress
to pass a bill bidding all its citizens to aid in
the enslaving of the Son of God It is your
duty to let the word repeal! repeal!! tr
peal go forth, backed up by the Chris
tian’s motto, "resistance to tyrants is obe
dienoe to God.”
And you, my brethren, the objects of hate
and the victims of opptpssion, can you and
wilt you allow yourselves to be made the
dupes of despots and the slaves of tyrants,
without resisting even to death I hope not.
Disgrace not your nature. Be not recreant
10 your God. Allow not posterity to curse
thy memory and disown -thy name for a base
submission to avaricious knaves.
That you may show yourself a man,” is
the constant and ardent prayer of
Your brother in bonds,
W. P. NEWMAN.
Pittsburg, Oct. 13th 1850.
Freossick Douglass: D*ar Sir:—
When you were in Pittsburg in July last, si
a public meeting held by you in the Wesleyan
Chapel, Mr. Lewis Woodson of this city,
in reply to some remarks made by you, dis
tinctly and positively said and repealed, per
sisting in his assertion, that when he was in
the city of New York in May last, that while
silting in an upper room, of the house of a
friend, that he saw Thomas Van Rensselaer
formerly Editor of the Ram’s Horn, playing
billiards on the Sabbath day. This he said
and repeated in our hearing.
But hit denial through the Liberator need
not be wondered at, when, on the evening in
question, he appealed to the while citizens
present for a proof of hit integrity. Being Te
quested to refer to the colored citizens, he
promptly replied, that he was not acquainted
with the colored people, noth withstanding, he
had been for jears a school teacher, preacher,
and member of two churches among them.
We fully testify to the truthfulness of your
statement concerning him.
M. R. DELANY,
J. B. VASHON,
P. BLACKSON.
Maas Meeting of the Colored Citizens of
Buffalo.
Pursuant to public notice, s mass meeting
of the colored citizens of Buffalo was held at
Clinton Hall on Thursday evening, 17th inst.,
for the purpose of considering in relation to
the Fugitive Bill. At an early houT the
house was crowded with our citizens, both
white and colored. The hour having arrived,
on motion, Mr. Nathaniel H. Dunlap was
appointed President, and Messrs. James L.
Thomas, William Qualls, and John McLane,
Vice Presidents, and George Weir, Secreta
ry. The meeting being duly organized, on
call the Chairman arose and stated the object
for which the meeting had convened, earnest
ly inviting the hearty, and united eo-operation
of all present, assuring them that the meeting
ha<| not convened for the purpose of adopting
measures fur "Physical Resistance” in pref
erence to the "better way,” but to adopt
such measures aa would at "all hazards” and
under "all circumstances” prevent the recap
ture of one of our brethren, with a view of
reducing them to slavery. At the close of
the President’s remarks, on motion s commit
tee uf five was appointed by the Chair, con
sisting of Messrs. A. H. Francis, James M.
Whitfield, J. P. Campbell, R. S. Brown, and
Henry R. Thomas, to prepare business for
the meeting. During the absence of the
committee, "the Rev. Leonard Whiting oi
Canandaigua, Agent of the Chaplin fund”
was cslled for, who came forward ainid loud,
and enthusiastic cheering, and spoke at some
length, in behalf of that great, and good man,
Gen’l Wm. L. Chaplin, now confined in a
Maryland Prison. The Committee then re
ported the following Resolutions.
Whereas, the fugitive slave bill, recently
passed by Congress, is a southern measure,
intended not only fot the more effectual secu
rity of that species of property, under the
laws thereof, but back of this a measure to
bring the general government an acknowl
edged party to their right, to hold man as
property, Therefore
1. Resolved, That the fugitive slave bill,
passed by Congress, not only violates the sa-.
cred guarantees of the Constitution, but is
Anti-Republican, Anti-Christian, and unwor
thy the support of enlightened freemen.
2. Resolved, TJiat we do not consider our
selves bound under no law that violates the
Constitutional obligations by which we are
governed, therefore we consider the fugitive
slave law, no law to govern our actions, but
will be resisted by us at all tiroes, at all pla
ces, and under si) circumstances.
3. Resolved. That we will give our support
to no religious or political party whatever,
which wjll not most faithfully repudiate this
law, and seek its immediate repeal, with that
of every other slavery enactment in the land.
4. Resolved, that we deeply sympathize
with Gen’l Wm. L. Chaplin of this state,
now a prisoner in Maryland, formerly a pris
oner in the city of Washington, D. C. for
fordoing what God, and humanity approves.
Attempting to deliver the oppressed from the
baud* of the spoiler, that we will raise what
funds we can for the Agent now present,
(Rev. Leonard Whitney of Canandaigua) to
assist in obtaining his freedom.
.5. Resolved, That we prepare and circulate
a petition for signatures, to be presented to
the next Congress, for s repeal of this odious
law, the fugitive slave bill.
0. Resolved, That we hold a political mew
ing Monday evening next at the Vine sweet
Church, to settle the question in relation to
our future political action.
The Report of the CommUtee having been
reed, was accepted. On motion, Resolved,
That the Resolutions be token up separately
for adoption, which were severally read, and
all, with the exception of the fifth, unanimous
ly adopted. On the fifth, a few diaaenting
voices ware heard, but it passed by a large
majority
Pending the adoption of the Resolutions
they wen warmly and aUy discussed by the
Hen. S. H. Addington, Ryton Hams, Rev.
J. P. Campbell, Horace C. Taylor, Esq., of
Ohio, Hon. Seth C. Hawley, Mr. Myers, of
Massachusetts, Rev. Leonard Whitney, and
others.
The proceedings of a large and spirited
meeting held in the city of Cleveland, Ohio,
was next read by the Secretary.
A collection having been taken os in Be
half of the Chaplin fund, the meeting adjourn
ed. N. H. DUNLAP. President.
JAMES L. THOMAS,)
WILLIAM QUALLS. V. Presidents.
JOHN Me LANE,'
George Weir, Secretary.
Meeting of Colored Citizens of Elmir*.
At a meeting called by the colored citiaene
of Elmiri, which was held at their church
oe Tuesday evening Oct. Bth, 1850.
On motion, J. Johnson, was chosen chair
man, and J. W. Jones Secretary. The ob
ject of the meeting having been stated, on mo
tion, the proceedings of the great mass meet
ing which was held in the Park, New York
on the sth inst., were read by T. F. Adkins.
On motion a committee of five wero ap
pointed to prepare resolutions expressive of
the object of the meeting. The following
were appointed such committee. S. S.
Brant, J. W. Jonas, J. Lee, P. Card, T. F.
Adkins.
The Committee reported the following
Resolutions, which were unanimously
adopted.
Resolved, That we, the colored oitioona of
Elmira, do hereby form ourselves into a so
ciety for the purpoee of protecting ourselves
against those persons (Stave catcher) prowl
ing through different parts of this and other
States since the passing of that diabolical set
of Sept. 18, 1850; which consigns freemen of
other States to that awful state of brutality
which the fiendish slaveholders of the south
ern aisles think desirable for their colored
brethren, and are not willing to try it them
selves.
Resolved, That we do hereby protest
against it in all its features and consider it a
disgiace to those who passed such an act in
this enlightened age. That we have hereto
fore always wished to cherish and obey the
law, but we are determined to resist this
law at the sacrifice.of our lives, and that we
do not intend to emigrate from this place
though every one of us be assassinated.
Resolved, That as we have been sustained
in our course by the citizens of Elmira, we
declare that if we discover any person or pet*
sons in the act of aiding or making them
selves a tool of the slave-catcher, we will be
prepared to meet them as enemies. That
we return our thanks to the citizens of El
mira for the sympathy which they have
manifested towards us.
Resolved, That the proceeding of this
meeting be published in the village papers,
the New York Tribune, the North Star and
the Impartial Citizen.
J. W. JONES, Sec’y.
Slave Bill in Boston.
The Rev. Pharcellus Church, D. D., in a
sermon preached yesterday at the Boston
square Baptist church, in a moat impressive
manner denounced thi* bill anulling the trial
by jury and habeas corpus as follows:
Nothing can be more.innocent than the in
terest we take in our political relations. In a
government constituted like ours, a solemn
duty is imposed upon us to interest ourselves
in elections and the course of legislation. Its
permanency and its success depend not upon
the power of the Government, but upon the
feelinga of the people. It lives in the sun
shine of the popular favor. We have tou
ranch at stake not to be interested. Our pro
tection in person and property, the obligation
we are under to show mercy and justice to
ail, require that we should do everything we
oan to insure the wisest and best laws. Im
perative, however, as may be our political
duties, do they no expose us to the danger of
sinning? Elections involve party contests
which tareiy leave those enaged in them free
from guilt. We seem to dismiss sll the ordi
nary considerations of obligation in our po
litical transactions, and say of those who are
elevated to office what we should not date te
say of them as private individuals. Is theia
no danger also that we may be implicated in
tbe iniquitous measures of government?
Though I never wish to appear in active
political life, 1 must be allowed to express nf}
opinion, because my deepest feelings prompt
me to it, on a question which is justly agitat
ing the community. 1 will not dwell upon
the constitutional aspects of the subject, but
I cannot fail to pereeive that the elementary
principles of English law, which we havu
adopted in our government, have been aeii
ousfy violated. Ido not believe there ia a
high-minded Court in the universe that would
not so decree. I allude to the Fugitive Slave
bill. A moie cruel act of legislation can
hardiy be found enacted by any government
ip modern times. A great outcry was raised
against Austria tor her treatment of the
Hungarians. And yet has Austria passed
laws coercing a portion of that ill-fated peo
ple in perpetual slavery? Has she sent her
officers over Hungary, to drag a portion of
the citizens into captivity in another part of
the country, there to chain them and lash
them to service? She has done no such
thing, thank God.
It was reserved for "the home of the brave,
and the land of the free,” to convert its
national police into man-catchers and slave
dealers. It was left to us republicans to com
pel peaceful citizens and honest tax-payers,
who helped to defray (he. expenses of the
government —to compel them, and their
children, to be forced forever into a condition
of hopeless bondage, "one hour of which,”
as one of our former Presidents said, "is
worse than centuries of that oppression our
fathers engaged in a seven years conflict to
overthrow.” —How can such an act as this go
unavenged? "I tremble for my country,”
said Jefferson, in speaking of the cruelties of
davery, "when 1 remember that God is
just.”— Atlas.
IFF Aa a proof of what sort of means are
retorted to to discover and arrest fugitives, see
the following dispatch which a Boston paper
publishes as received by Marshal Tukey of
that city:
"One hundred dollars reward. Stop the
thieves. Stolen, a large lot ol clothing,
$lOO in cash, and a silver watch. Runaway
from Edward W. Duval, living, in Bladens
burgh, Prince George’s county, Matyland,
two negro men, aged between 21 and 25
years—one about 5 feet 4 inchaa high, dark
color, grim countenance, ooe a copper, color,
5 feet 4 or 6 inches high, likely in appear
ance. They were seen on the 28th of Sej»
teraber, going over the Columbia Bridge, in
Pennsylvania, in commany with a mulatto
supposed to be free.
We beer of attempts at arrests and escapee
also at Hartford, Ct.
Fugitives from the far South pass through
this erty by scores every week. While
•re writing, we hear cf a woman- with six
young children, arrived to-day, on Uteir way
Northward to join the husband and father,
who, being in greater, had preceeded them.
Unfortunately the means to aaaist these poor
creatures are very limited and sometimes
wholly wanting. Doubtless, there are many
who would be glad to spare from their abuntl
a nee to assist in such cases. We shall be
glad to reeeive donations for that purpose, and
will attend to their judicious application.—
Standard.
Fugitives.— On Saturday night *Bth nit.,
a whole family of slaves, consisting of the
mother and four children, the property of Mr.
Jaeob Feaster, about five miles sooth of Mid
dletown, Md., and also two doves belonging
to Mr. John Simmons, of the same amgbbor«
hood, left for parts unknown. A'Urge re
ward U offered for their arrest.— Tbit Dm*
ocrat. w
Fugitive Slave Meeting la Faneuil Hall.
Frederick Doug!a*a addressed the meeting.
—He said that he appeared in behalf of a
suffering and horror-stricken people. He
was not aware until a few moments previous
that he should be called upon to state the
condition and wants of his colored brethren.
He came not here for the purpose of de
nouncing slavery generally, nor to promulgate
to appeticulai theory for its suppression, but
men, ialtothe audience as men, humane
peoplen behalf ot a Buffering aud terrified
people.
They were aware, he said, that by the
law lately enacted by Congress, and signed
by the President of the United States, any
man in any part of our country who shall
make oath that he has lost a slave, may pur
sue that slave, —any othei answering that
description, and that slave or alleged slave
may be seized anywhere, ironed, and carried
back to bondage.
back to bondage.
This law, he said, has carried consterna
tion and despair to many families in the
North, and in this city. That there is this
alarm he had abundant evidence. Within
two days, he said he had travelled five hun
dred miles, and in this route he met with
many ut his brethren on the way from this
land of boasted freedom to Canada.
In many towns in the West, nearly the
entire colored population, freemen and fugi
tives, are so alarmed, that they are disposing
cf their property, and making their way to
the British shores. Many even in this city
are anxiously inquiring what they
many who have lately arrived here are in the
utmost terror and alarm. Tney are airam
that the hunters of men will appear here, in
the city of Boston, under the shade of Bunker
Hill, and seize them.—They dread a re
turn to slavery worse than death itself. The
crime of escaping from slavery is considered
by the slaveholder as the highest crime. Il
he returns, therefore, he return to gratify a
deep seated revenge. This is the active tto-
live in pursuing a slave. It is generally un
derstood by slaveholders that one who has
once tasted of the sweets of liberty can never
again make a profitable slave. They there
fore pursue the slave in order to make evam-’
pies of them; and the slave knows that if
returned, he will have to submit to excru
tiaiing torture.
Hence these tears, and this train going out
from the land as if fleeing from death. Many
of them are without the means to live, and
are going to a severer climate, and to face
colder winters than they ever dreamed of.
Those who remain, he said, ask you whal
you will do to protect them from this bond ol
bloodhounds. Many of them have escaped
from slavery with great sufferings, and have
endhred tortures, and if such acisof heroism
give any claims to freedom, they can claim
il.
The speaker then proceeded to desciibe
instances of suffering in escaping from sla
very; in one instance mentioned, the fugitive
tied himself to a tree during the day, and
fled at night. He asked if they would con
sent that these fugitives should be taken
back. He was greeted with a universal No.
He instanced also the case of a female fugi
tive, now in New Bedford, who hid herself
in the hold of a vessel. They smoked the
vessel, as was the custom, aud the woman
lay there in the hold, almost suffocated, hut
she resolved to die rather than to come Ibrth.
She had been, be said, a fugitive several
times before, and had been recaptured. At
one time, to punish her, her master took her
out, tied her up, and stripping her to the
waist, laid on the lash until the warm blood
dropped at her feet; he then washed het back
in brine, and nailed her by the right ear to a
fence rail, and in her agony she tore off the
outer rim of her ear. He asked the audience
if they would let the slave-hunters carry that
woman back. A universal No. was the re
ply.
The speaker staled that his own family
had been thrown into the greatest alarm by a
telegraphic despatch that the alavehuniers
were after him, and although, he said lie
stood there a freeman in consequence of the
payment of s~soin British gold 10 a demo
cratic slaveholder in St. Michael’s, Mary
land; although this was known, although he
had a bill of sale of himself, he felt, he con
fessed, some fear that there might be a flaw
in the document; and learning some of these
Southern gentry were about to make him a
visit, he resolved to meet them at home; and
as his house was rather small, and the party
probably rather large, he went up to a trap
door in the attic, in order to receive
one at a lime, and tf they had made their ap
pearance, he should, he said, have endeavored
to greet them with a hospitality befitting the
Klace and occasion; and many of his neigh
jrs had adopted the opinion, that when men
act as bloodhounds, they should be received
as such.
In conclusion, he said that if the people ot
the United States weie determined to carry
this law into execution, the colored people
could not it. They were at their
mercy. How can half a million poor and
oppressed people a law, backed up, if
it be backed up, by 18,000,000 of whites?
We, therefore, he said, proclaim no united
resistance to this law. Alter the fullest de
liberation, we one and all, —without the
slightest hope ot making successful resist
ance,—resolved rather to die than to go
back. If you are, he said, prepared to see
the streets of Boston strewed with innocent
blood, if you are prepared to see sufferings
such as no country ever witnessed, just give
in your adhesion to the fugitive slave hill—
you,' who live on the street where the blood
first spouted forth in defence of freedom; and
the slaveholder will he here to bear the
chained slave back, or he will he murdered in
our streets.
Wendell Phillips was loudly called for and
appeared upon the platform. He began by
stating that the action of our city representa
tive has thrown half a million of our people,
two thousand of whom inhabit Boston, com
pletely at.our mercy. He wished lie said,
he could trust them to the public opinion of
Massachusetts. Letters had been received in
this city by fugitive slaves, slating that men
are on liter way even to Boston, to pul thia
law into effect, lie could not talk of vio
lence; the colored men were at the mercy of
the whites. He expressed wish that
public opinion was as powerful here to nullify j
a law opposed to the general sentiment of
the people as it was in South Carolina.
hoped that some future historian whould have]
it to record that the panting fugitive, when
he set his toot in Massachusetts, could feel
himself at rest. We say, he said, that this
law is utterly unconstitutional; we are not
here/or other issues: we beg on our knees
for the poor boon of the Constitution. This
law allows a matt io arrest any one whom he
may claim as his slave without appeal: but a
man, thank God, is primafacia a man, North
of Mason and Dixon’s line until proved other
wise. He spoke of the impossibility of his
proving his freedom before a Southern jury,
where, according to their, laws, his fnrndr
and relatives cannot testify. He spoke of a
scene in Cincinnati, where six men -armed
with revolvers seized an alleged fugitive in
the open street, and asked who knew that
he was a fugitive slave as was alleged. In
this law he said the bulwarks of liberty arc
all broken, and it is a base libel to call it a
comutuiionai law. We have, he remarked,
one Eliot in Boston and he wished he could
doubt that we had eleven more to make up a
jury. The path to the jury box lies through
defiance of a law; if he concealetfa slave he
was liable to a fine of 1000, but a jury
must try him. The remedy, therefore, lies
in defiance; end a jury met least reached in
a defiance of the law. We must look to It,
said he, therefor to place sufficient living
men in the way of the slaveholder to make it,
ro the language of Daniel Webster, extreme
)y inconvenient for him to reclaim his slave.
We trust, he said, trample the law under
our feel. There is no treason in that. The
law expects die obedience, provides for diso
bedience, and God ferbid that it should b<
disappointed, He did not knew how it might
be in Button, bat in the country the Jew
coaid be sustained. By peaceful remittance,
he said, we must interrupt the slaveholder,
and make it not worth bis while to attempt
reelsiraaiions; we must say, that the man
who has once touched the soil of Massa
chusetts and breathed its air, shall never go
back. This, at least, we can say. The Con
stitulion we claim, with its jury trials. There
are many fugitives who have been here fiom
twelve to twenty years, who have children,
and we are not, he said, going to people
Southern plantations with men born in Massa
chusetts. If we do bow down to the Consti
tution, he said, don't let us bow a jot lowe
than Otis and Adams did of old. He dared
not, he said, advise the coloied man; but be
knew what he should do if the nation should
expel him from its laws; and he advised them
to do the same. He advised them to disobey
this law; and if, like the unjust judge, they
rule it constitutional, contiuue to disobey it
until you weary them out, and they rule it
unconstitutional.
Mr. Jatm>s A. Briggs, editor of a Free
Soil papenln Cleveland, Ohio, next addressee
the meeting. He said that we owed obedi
ence to the law, but not the law which assai Is
right. If the fugitive were not safe here, he
said, Jet them dee to Giddings’ district, In
Detroit they now had a fugitive slave safe in
jail, and they may take him ,through Michi
gan towards the South, but they can’t take
him through Ohio. It can'tbe done.
He gave an account of the escape of a fe
male slave, with her babe in her arms, from
the Kentucky to the Ohio shore, across the
dotting cakes of ice. A crowd had assembled,
be said. on liie Cincinnati shorn hrouoht to- 1
gether by the sight, and as the weman leaped
from cake to cake, and death seemed to stare
hei in the face, the shout went up 1 “Cour
age, woman, courage.” When she reached
the shore in safety, she was grasped in the
arms of a Kentucky slaveholder who had
witnessed the scene, and who cried out in a
loud voice, “She has won her liberty and
she shall have it.” She was thea placed by
him in a carriage and conveyed to a place of
safety. That slaveholder, he said, is now
Editor of a Free Soil paper in Ohio.
Theodore Parker was the next speaker.
He gave some facts relative to the arrival and
depaiture of fugitive slaves to and from Bos
ton. Within the last ten days ten or twenty
liave gone from here to foreign lands; and
ivithin a few days fifty or sixty fugitive
slaves have arrived here from other places.
Jn the 4th of this month a person from the
South writes that several police officers are
jetting affidavits intending to come here and
:laim fugitives, and the fugitive was advised
n the letter to buy in his liberty of his mas
er. Instead of that, he went to Dock square
md bought—something else. This very
norning, a wife whose husband has fled to
Janada, received a telegraphic despatch from
ter husband, asking if it was safe to come
lack; and the question he wanted to ask was,
Will you let him .come back, and how many
*il) defend him to the worst? [Here a hand
'ote was taken; at first a few appeared, but
rradually about two thirds of those in the
lall he'd up their hands.]
Mr. Parker gave his tribute of.praise to
he course of Mr. Winthrqp in the Senate in
egard to this matter. He also spoke in
ermB of condemnation of the course of Mr.
Sliot. He advised a recourse to peaceful
iolence to protect the fugitive. Let not
langerous weapons be resorted to, but use
hose which nature has provided to impede
he progress of the slaveholder.
Mr Charles L. Remond, colored, the next
peaker, seemed to think that the resolutions 1
lid net go far enough; he would have resolu
ions go out; so far as the colored people are
oncerned, of (a definite character to the 1
laveholder. The fact he said that their
tghts are taken away is sufficient to make
hem rebel, and if to avow this was treason,
le gloried in it. They had resolved never
o go from this state by any process conjured
ip at the South, but as a last resort would
ell their lives as dearlo as possible.
Mr. Wm. B. Spooner, a merchant of
3road street, said that he wished he could
inswer the question that had brought them
lere —“Can the fugitive remain here in safe
y?” He would reply, after mature delibera
ton, that he thought as a a body they could.
erhaps one or two might be carried off, but
iven for them, like the slave Hamlet, their
trice would be quickly raised, and they
vould again return to feedom. For such an
tbject he belive that even Mr. Eliot would
reely contribute. In conclusion, he advised
hem to remain here quietly, and they would
•rot ec ted.
Mr. Douglass again addressed the meeting,
md related an anecdote of the President of
he Syracuse and Utica Railroad, who upon
teing applied to said that no fugitive slave
hould be carried ironed over his road to the
South, and gave orders that if any ironed
lave was put intp the cars to stop the train,
ake off his non, and set him at liberty.
The Rev. Mr. Colver was the last speaker,
ie thought the resolutions hardly went far
mough. He thought that an amendment
night be added of something like the follow
ng tenor:—Resolved, That, Constitution or
io Constitution, law or no law, we will not
tllow a fugitive slave to betaken from Massa
.•husettts. Mr. Colver interspersed his speech
tfith sundry humorous anecdotes. He said
hat an athletic traveller heard on his journey,
:ries of distress proceeding from a cabin; he
mtered and found a man beating his wife;
Irawing the man away from the woman lie
infolded him in his strong embrace until his
tones cracked, crying out how I love you,
rntil the poor husband was obliged to call
tut for mercy. Now, said the speaker, if
he slave hunter comes here and nobody else
will love him in this manner, 1 will. At the
:lose of his speech the meeting, which was
low reduced to about one half, called out for
he putting of the’ resolution, and it having
teen slated by word of mouth by Mr. Colver
o substance as stated above, it was passed,
md the meeting adjourned aftev appointing
he following Committee of Vigilance:
Timothy Gilbert, Robert E. Aptkorp,
George Adams, Heniy P. Trask, Wm. C.
Noll, Ellis Gray Lortng, John R. Manly,
Lewis Hayden, Nathl. C. Nash, Chas. Bar
stow, Alex. Wilson, Wm. W. Marjoram,
fohn T. Hilton, Geo. M. Rogers, Theodore
Parker, Geo. Russell, Benj. H. Green, W.
1. Dale, Stephen Smith, Edw. J. Jones, W.
A. White, Jrancts Jackson, Samuel May,
Jr., John P. Jewett, Joel T. Bishop, John
A. Andrew, Hy. 1. Bowditch, Joseph K.
Hayes, Benj. W.Gage, Samuel Hall, Sami.
FI. Sewall, John Augustus, John W. Brown,
lohn L. Emmons, Joshua B. Smith, Chas.
List, John Gove, Isaac Osgood, James W.
Stone, John M. Spear, Henry T. Parker,
Oeo. Minot, Robt. Morris, Wm. H. Whit
man, Chas: G. Davis, John S. Roffera, Thus.
T. Bouve, Chas. F. Hovey, John B. Gibbs,
Bela Marsh.
The Fugitive Slave Daw.— -Pursuant to
a public call a meeting of our citizens was
held at Ametican Hall last evening to “ex
press in a calm and dignified, yet firm and
explicit manner their disapproval of the law”
for the arrest and return of fugitive slaves.
The Hall was filled at an early hour, and or
ganized by the appointment of Hon. A. M.
Collins as Chairman, and Messrs. Hawley
and Bourne as Secretaries. Prayer was of
fered by the Rev. Dr. Robbins, after which
John Hooker, Esq., offered a series of resoiu
tton| setting forth the reason why the law is
unconstitutional and odious, and asserting
that our citizens will not assist in the arrest of
fugitives from slavery, but will aid them in
their endeavors to enjoy the rights left them
by the tsws of the land, and calling upon Sen
ators and Representatives in Congress to ex
ert themselves to effect a modification or re
pealoftheDw recently enacted.
The resolutions were discussed by Messrs.
Hooker, Parish, Stuart, Alden, Dibble of
North Carolina, and Rev. Messrs. Ray, Pat
ton and Fox, and adopted.— Hart. Courant.
Adversity is always most oppressive, just
before it haa reached the turning pout to
ward prosperity.
The Fugitive Slave Law.
At a public meeting held on Tuesday even
ing, October 8«h, which filled Minerva Hall
almuat to overflowing, and which waa as
spirited aa it waa large, the following resolu
tiona were passed unanimously and wiih the
moat emphatic acclamation:—
Resolved, That the circumstances which
have made this convention necessary are such
aa require in ua the solemnity and earaeatness
becoming to a moat momentous occasion, and
a spirit of wisdom and prudence which God
alone can give, and that we apply ourselves
to the business before us with the feeling that
we have fallen on times in which principles
must show themselves in practice and philan
thropy in manful and, perhaps, self-denying
action.
Resolved, That we coasider the “Fugitive
Slavq Law' 1 recently passed by Congress,
unconstitutional in that it abrogates the rights
of “habeas corpus” and trial by jury, and pre
scribes a form of pincedure against the fugi
tive which overturns the moet essential princi
ples of common and constitutional law; and
Resolved, That we consider this law im
moral in that it forbids the exercise of hospi
tality to the innocent way fater, and requires
men to become hounds upon the track of the
wronged and hunted fugitives; therefore,
Resolved, That we regard this law as not
binding, and void, and hold ourselves bound,
nor only not to obey, but positively to disobey it.
Resolved, Thai we are bound to disobey
this iniquitous law: lai, by aiding the fugitive
slave whenever opportunity offers; 2d, bv
withholding the assistance which United
States officers will oliim in summooinu tim
■posse cmnmuiuus tor me purpose or aTreST
ing the fugitive, and 3d, by impending by any
means not inconsistent with morality, the civ
il process by which the slave-hunter will en
deavor to secure his prey.
Resolved, That we warmly commiserate
the condition of the thousands of fugitive
slaves at the North and elsewhere, to whose
homes and hearts the recent law has carried
terror and woe; and that we promise that
they shall receive from us, until fines con
sume our means and prisons confine our bod
ies, such shelter and aid as we would ask for
ourselves; were their circumstances ours.
Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with
our true-hearted friend and brother, William
L. Chaplin, and pledge ourselves 10 stand by
him to the last, by a devotion of our time, en
ergies, and money, to bail him from prison,
ind defend him before the tribunals of the land.
Sixty dollars were raised for the benefit of
Chaplin, and at a late hour, the meeting ad
ourned “sine «6>.” HENRY WRIGHT,
Chairman.
Henry E. Peck, Secretary.
We insert the above proceedings at the
tpecial request of the respectable clergyman
whose name is appended aa Secretary. But
nasmuch as it ia not out custom to lend our
tolumns for the purposes of those who eom
>ine to violate the Jaws, and to urge upon
heir fellow citizens as a duty bloody resist
ance to the legal authority, we deem it prop
;r to accompany their publication with a few
emarks.
No unpopularity which may attach to the
xpression of our honest convictions shall
under this journal fiom beating its emphatic
estimony against the doctrines put forth in
hese resolutions. They are subversive of
aw and order.—They lead lo violence,rapine i
Jid murder. If the principle upon which i
hey are baaed shall be generally received as
i rule of action, we may bid farewell to gov
ernment and civil society.—What is that
►rinciple? Simply this: That any citizen
las a right to disobey and resist the execution
>f any law which he may deem immoral or
ontrary to the law of God.
Now we run little risk in assuming that
he Rev. Henry E. Peck considers the law
equiring the mails to be carried on Sunday,
>f that character. Is he therefore to get a re- j
'olver and ahoot ail the post masters and mail i
igents? If it ;s the duty of every fugitive
lave to shoot his pursuers (and so we undei> i
land the meeting, of which Mr. P. waa sec-
etary, voted), then it certainly is no less the j
luty of every negto in bondage, at the South
o spill his master’s blood, as ft means of i
'anting bis liberty. Do we understand this
obe recommended? It is a legitimate infer- i
ince from the premises asumed at the Mi
lerva Hall meeting, and if carried into prac*
ice, would cover the ground of thirty Stales
with murdeied victims.
Ihe law, which is so vehemently denoun- i
ed may be uocorisututional—if so, let that
>e declared by the Supreme Coutt. But till j
o pronounced, it is binding, and as much lo i
»e obeyed as any other enactment of Congress.
['he Constitution says expressly, that fugi-1
ivea from service “shall be delivered up.”
I his is to us of the North, a painful require- j
nent. But are we therefore, freed from its
►bligation? Shalt minister of God tell us J
what we are? The truth is, that a large por-
ion of the citizenn of the Norih intend to vi-
date that requirement of the Constitution.
They do not mean to “deliver up” fugitive
■laves. This is the simple fact; and it ia as- j
ounding that good men, preachers of the gos-
►el, and influential presses should urge men
o resist unto blood, the execution of the
undamental law.—How long can the gov-
iinment be maintained, if this doctrine con
inues to animate our people?—How cs.ll we
:ail upon our brethren in other quarters of
he confederacy to observe the Constitution,
vhile we ourselves tread it under foot!
It may be that we shall incur odium by the
itterance of such sentiments in the present
‘Xcited and morbid slate of public opinion, j
iVe do not think it worth while to indulge in j
irofessions of regard for the colored people, I
vhelher free or slaves. It may be that in all
iractical legal efforts to aid in their elevation,
ab shall do as much as those who incite
hem to bloody collision with the laws. But
ve abide the dominion of legal authority.
We respect the constitution and shall endea
ror to obey it. We shall counsel none, black
>r white, bond or free, to resist its execution, i
ind we cannot but regard those who do as
memies to peace, good order and liberty.—
l’fiey are doing all in their power to over- i
urn the foundation of all prosperity, safety
ind happiness as a nation.— American.
The Fugitive Slave Law,
The Slartdard has received the following
eport of a meeting held at a New Brighton,
Beaver Co., P.:
October 10, 1850. f
Friend Gay —At a meeting of the in-!
labitants of New Biighton, held in Temper
inee Hall, Oct. 9. 1850, called to consider the
recent Fugitive Slave Law, and ihe best
means to resist its execution, the following
leoslutions were offered by Henry C. Wright,
and, after a full and animated discussion by
him and others, were adopted with great
unanimity and enthusiasm:
1. Resolved, That all slaves owe it as as a
sacred duty to themselves, to their children,
and to Iher bod, lo escape from Slavery, by
run.ng away, or by such othor means as, in
their opiniou, are right and beat adapted te
secure to them and to their children their in
herent and inalienable right to liberty.
2. Resolved, That that the man of the
woman who, under any pretext whatever,
shall refuse lo help slaves to escape from
Slavery, as opportunity offers, by secieting,
harboring and feeding them, and by furnish
ing means to elude tbe slave-hunter, he or
•he should be regarded and treated as a kid
napper, and as a traitor to God and Hu
manity.
3. Resolved, That any man who, aa Judge,
Commissioner, Marshal, Deputy Marshal, or
assistant, or who in uny way, officially or
unofficially, shall aid in or abet the execution
of tbe recent Fugitive Slave Law, is a deadly
enemy to the virtue, peace and safety of tts
and pur families, and ought to be regarded
and treated as hone thieves, highway robbera,
murderers and other high criminals are
treated, inasmuch aa be prowla about among
us aa a beast of prey, seeking to consign ue
and our fiuulies to tbe pollutions and horrors
of American Slavery.
L Resoived, That we wil] do what we can
to jsld up to the contempt and exercration of
on children, and of our friend* and neigh-
S< p, all who, officially or unofficially, shall
aii jn carrying out Fugitive Slave Law, or
sh i, in any way, be acoeeaofy to the capture I
an I murn to Slavery any man, woman or j
ch fl, who shall come to an for protection i
ag eut slaveholders and their agents.
I Resolved, That those ministers and
ch icbes that da not openly and publicly array j
thi lselves against said Fugitive Slave Law,
to event its execution, area* ministers and
ch cbes of Christ, but otm£* to be regarded
am treated, by every friendofGod and man,
as e ministers and synagogues of Satan.
1 *ted, That Henry C. Wright be a com- j
mil ie to procure the publication of the above
Reflations in the newspaper* of this vicini
ty ajpd elsewhere.
HENRY!?. WRIGHT.
The Fugitive Slate Law.
Acthe call of Josiah Quincy, and two or
three Hundred others, a meeting assembled on
Mondty evening in Faneuil Hall, to consider
the late Fugitive Slave BtIL More human
beings were never crowded'it once into the
old Cradle of Liberty; antk seldom, it may
be added, have our citizens been summoned
to that place for more weighty reasons. Hoq.
Charles F. Adams was called to the chair,
five Vice-Presidents and two Secretaries were
appointed, and prayer waa offered by Rev.
Dr. Lowell. Mr. Adams made the opening
speech, in language peculiarly chaste and
calm, but firm and clear in. its condemnation
tWorfdimAia, Uii ■ai"**" 1 1 ihai
any edict of Rome in her worst days. n n I
Mr. Adams was followed by Frederick
Douglass, who spoke nearly an hour. He
stated that his own family had been thrown
into great consternation by two telegraphic
dispatches received in one hour, giving in
formation that slsve-hunters were in pursuit
of him. He was absent, but hastened home,
not feeling quite safe, though his freedom
had been purchased with British gold, and he
had in his pocket a bill of sale of himself?
He related some cases of great suffering on
the part of slaves escaping from bondage,
named their residence and condition, and
asked whether tho people ef Massachusetts
would suffer such persons to be taken from
them and returned into slavery. To every
such question the immense congregation an
swered, No, no, in almost deafening tones.
A letter from Hon Josiah Quincy, who
was not able to be present, was read by
Richard H. Dana, Esq. It was a calm and
thorough exposition of the new law, and un
qualified condemnation of it as unconstitutional
md wicked, and a decided expression of be
lief that it could not and would not be en
orced in Massachusetts.
After the reading of this letter resolutions
.vere read by Mrr Dana, and followed by ad-
Iresses from Wendell Phillips, Esq., Theo
lore Parker, Mr. Harris of Ohio, Remond,
Spooner, &c. These speakers, I wish dis
incily to say, exhibited great moderation and
:oolness, considering the occasion. None of
hem recommend violence or threats, much
ess flight on the part of the colored people.
They left the fugitive to his own choice, as
o death or slavery in the last resort, some of
he speakers simply offering what they would
10. The effort of the meeting seemed to be
o create a public sentiment which should
nake the enforcement ol the law impossible.
—N. Y. Evangelist.
The Fugitive Slave Law and the Con- j
REGATIONALI9TS.—At a meeting of the New
fork Evangelical Association, held at Pough
keepsie October 8, the following Resolutions
vere passed with reference to the recent Fu
rtive Slave Law.
Resolved That we cannot recognize this I
aw as of any binding force upon the citizens
if our country. Ist. Because it is contrary to
he express command of God. Deut. 33,16,
T—‘Thou shalt not deliver unto his master
he servant which is escaped from his master
into thee. He shall dwell with thee, even
imong you in that which he shall choose in
me of thy gates, where it liketh him best;
hou shalt not oppress him.” 2d. It is in op
msition to the great law of Christian benev
ilence, which requires us in all things to do
into others as we would that others should
lo unto us. 3d. It conflicts with the provis
ons of our National Constitution. 4th. It
irostrates those two great safe-guards of hu
nan liberty, habeas corpus and trial by jury,
ith. It is revolting to the spontaneous prompt
ngs of humanity. 6th. It brings upon our Na
ion the reproach of injustice and inconsisten
cy* and impairs our influence upon the world
or good. 7th. In short, this law outrages
■very principle of human feeling of humanity
ind religion; and thus, so far as the princi
>leis concerned, it endangers the liberty of
ivery man.
Resolved, That w hile we recognize the ob
igation to obey the law! of the hind, we make
in exception in the case of all such provisions
is contravene the “higher laws” of God.
Resolved, That we advise all persons to
ender every needful aid and comfort to Fu
jittve Slaves, just the same as it there were
to law in the land forbidding it.— N. Y. IVi
nine.
Fugitive Slaves and Hubeas Corpus.
We understand Mr. J«y to say, at the
neeting on Friday, that he had tried all the
Fudges of this city and had been unable to ob
ain a writ of habeas corpus. It is hoped that
ie and other legal gentlemen will examine
urther into the subject—that no legal effort
nay remain untried, and if they cannot suc
ieed, that they will give the ground of objec
ion on the part of the judges.— Det. Trib.
We hope this matter will not be s'urred
iver, but put to the extremes! test. It has
>een alleged here by sound thinkers, that the
Habeas corpus cannot be suspended in any in
stance, and that a judge who refuses to grant
t w rit of habeas corpus in such a case would
render himself liable to impeachment. The
sooner this question is settled the better.
‘Agitation” will not cease while it is admit
ted the recourse to this great popular right
cannot be had in the case of a fugitive arrest
ed under the late law.
The Detroit Advertiser says that five hun
dred dollars have been raised and paid to the
claimant of Rose. If so, the chance of test
ing an important question ia probably lost.
A correspondent of the Buffalo Courier
slates that the negro belonged to a brother of
the Hon. R. L. Rose, of Ootdlio county, in
this Stale.—The owner pocketed the money
and departed.—We have no doubt that slave
holders and their agents will be vere ready to
take advantage of this example, and northern
people can have as many slaves as they ate
willing to pay fox.—Rochester Democrat.
The Fugitive Slave Bill.—A mass
meeting of the citizens of Athburnbsm, was
convened in the Town Hall, on Mooday even
ing, Oct. 7th, to express the judgment of
free men upon this infamous bill. William
P. Ellis was appointed Chairman, and Francis
A. Whitney, Secretary. The bill was read
by the Secretary. It was then commented
on by G. G. Parker, Esq., Elnathan Davis,
Rev. A. A. Whitemore, and Jonathan L.
Estey, Doct. J. Potts Gilman Jones, Enoch
Whitemore, Francis J. Barrett, and others,
men of all parties, and in terms of severest
condemnation. The hour being late, the
meeting adjourned to the next evening.
Pursuant to adjournment, a larger meeting
still assembled in the same place on Tuesday
evening. After a calm, but full and deep
denunciation of the bill, the following eenti
ment was unanimously adopted by the meet
ings— Christian Citizen.
The fugitive Slave Bill!—inhuman—un-
christian, and abhorrent to the Almighty; j|
should be utterly aet at naught by all who
fear Him! wi feel towar<fit J*korrZ
t by contmtpi for the BASE
TRAITORS who enacted it! We will leave
no liuii'eou* means unapplied to smite it dis
honored to the dust m 99
The people of Asfcbunibaiß wooM soonei
sc* another FLOOD sweeping throng* theii
enterprising village, leaving a deeper and
wider veaoiation, than to tee the bumbles!
fugitive that ever fled /torn the house ef bond
age, kidnapped by the hounds of injustice
God bless them!
Glorious N*we!— Another Victory
—The use of our military has at last been as
certained beyond a doubt. At the arrest of a
fugitive slave in Detroit, on Tuesday, three
companies were detailed as a guard over him.
Jonas, run the banner out over the street!
Get the great gun and slap her off three eev
eral times, for the greatness of our republic!
Three companies of soldiers—regular noong
dum-dardies, to capture one poor negro' Ah,
what a glorious thing is liberty.— Vox Popvb
Anti-Slavery Meetings in Western N.Y.
David Green Wheklbanks, a Fugitive
Slave, will hold Anti-Slaverv meetings on
Sunday, Oct. 20, at East Henrietta.
Monday, 21, at Webster.
Tuesday, 22, st Ontario.
Wednesday, Oct. 23, at West Walworth.
Thursday, 24, at Walworth.
Friday, 25, at Palmyra.
Saturday, 20, at Marion.
Monday, 29, at Williamson.
Tuesday, 29, at Pultneyville.
Wednesday, 30, at Sodua.
Thursday, 31, at Red Creek.
Friday, Nov. 1, at Oswego.
Saturday, 2, at Fulton.
M t-y, AX o,M«iM<llle.
Tuesday, 5, at Jordan.
Wednesday, 6, at Weedsport.
Thursday, 7, at Port Byron.
Friday, 8, at Clyde.
Saturday, 9, at Newark.
Monday, 10, at Macedon.
Tuesday, 11, at Egypt.
Friends of the Slave we call upon you in
this crisis to “do your duty.’’ Now is the
time for action. Convene large meetings in
your respective towns, to listen to the appt aj
of one who has felt the iron yoke of bondage
and tasted the bitter cup of slavery. We
commend D. G. Wheelbanks to your care amd
attention.
The North Star Fair.
The Women’s Association” of Philadel
phia intend holding their Second Annual
Fair, for the support of the North Star, on
Christmas week.
We feel that no great work can be rightly
done unless men and women co-operate.
To our male friends, whom we found
helps-mete” for our first Fair, we look
earnestly and confidently. Brothers,you will
not fail us
To secure the heaity co-operation of breth
ren and friends, at home and abroad, we be
lieve it is only necessary to announce our
intention.
Donations of Paintings, Engravings, Fancy
Needlework, articles of food, Ac., will be
gratefully received by any member of the
Committee.
On behalf of the Association,
SARAH M. DOUGLASS.
rCootioiMd fro* o fi rrt i
in Canada* Many jears -go* slave
waa arrested under the pretence of
atealiac watch; but in fact, he waa a
fugitive slave, and waa thrown into
prison for several weeks, and was
finally conveyed off by bis master.
Therefore, he said, if the slave seeks
Canada for refuge a better organiza
tion must be gone into; good lawyers
must be engaged; yes, I mean good
ones —lawyers who can command res
pect, or the Judges will be against
you; one Judge in particular —I mean
Judge Sherwood. You must gentle
men, to the rwcue. It mu at be done
I. for myself, will do my part. lam
willing to take my revolver and take
my own part. I say find, '‘rescue the
fugitive slave,” second, send him to
Canada; and, thirdly, “aelf-defenc
We will not fight, willingly; we do
not intend to proyoke a fight; but let
us protect the slave here. We ought
to aspire to something more than ser
vile labor; let us dig the ground and
not black the shoes. (Applause.) It
is a fact that all the colored people do
not know how to read, but they know
how to fight. After the noise had sub
sided a little, the speaker continued.
The white gentlemen uphold their
respect by fighting duels; and, my
friends, if you want to carry your
points, and command respect you must
fight. (Overwhelming applause, and
exclamations of “we will, that we
will.”)
Mr. Downing, then announced that
he waa informed the wife of the fugi
tive slave, had died that day of t»
broken heart, at Williamsburgh, and
proposed to raise a subscription, for the
purpose paying the funeral expenses;
he said it would be a shame to allow
any other persons to do that honor,
than this meeting. Accordingly, the
hats and plates were handed around,
and $14.80 was soon collected. After
the money was counted,
A person rose and wished to know
if the sister of Mrs. Hamlet was
present; if so let her comejforward, as
the fact was necessary, to know if she
was dead. He said that a number of
persons were present from Williams
burgh up to a late hour from that place
and none had learned the fact of her
death. After many calls for the sister
to come forward, no one appeared, and
it was finally concluded that the state
ment was false—that she was not dead.
But, whether dead or alive, said one
of the speakers, the money collected
shall be appropriated for her benefit;
but we do not wish to collect money to
bury a woman who is not dead. (Laugh
ter.)
Benjamin Stanley, a very dark com
plexiooed man from North Carolina,
(said to be, by several colored men
present, a distant relation of Mr. Stan
ley, the menber of Congress,) ad
dressed the meeting with a good deal
of spirit. Said he, go to your homes,
good wives and prepare them to receive
your husbands and friends wuh bruised
arms and broken heads, tor his part,
he recommended them to arm the slaves
with bowie knives and revolvers; and
arm yourselves, like men, and rescue
yes that is the word —you must do
the work. The poor fugitive slave,
you must recollect, has not the courage
of you men north, nor of the men who
have escaped from slavery for several
years. No, gentlemen they are fear
ful, and know not what to do—they
are trembling in their boots, in fear of
their master conveying them back to
bondage. Yet, gentlemen, shame to
relate, you suffer a man to be taken
from your midst.—Yes, in a population
of 25,000 colored people, to be seized
at noSnday, the manacles put upon
him, and he carried off, by force, back
to chains and Slavery. I say again,
the fugitive slave is not safe here; but
if they do remain here, you must pro
tect them; they have not the courage
necessary to protect themselves; you
must do it, and show that a population
of twenty-five thousand colored people
will not allow the fugitive to be con
veyed back to bondage. (Great cheer.)
New York must be the battle ground.
We cannot battle at the South, and
therefore it must be done here. (Ap
plause.) If it is not worth fighting for
here, it is not worth fighting for at all.
(Cheers and applause.*) An Albany
paper remarked, the other day. that it
was good to get rid of a worthless
population. What would they say to
put a white loafer—yes a dirty white
loafer, who rolls about in the mud
gatter, into chains? Aud will you
stand by and see one of your own color
thrown back into chains and Slavery?
(Immense excitement, with cries of
“No, no, no, never!”) And let me
tell the fugitive slave to supply himself
with a bowie knife; and if he cannot
get arms to defend himself, let him
hollow ont, when seized and placed in
to a*carriage, “kidnappers;” and will
you stand peaceably by and allow him
to be thus carried away (Loud cries
of “No, no.”) Therefore, how much
better it is for the fugitive slave to stay
here, and, if he must die, to die with
his triends; for, if he goes to Canada,
he may be taken at last [Cheers.]
Edward V. Clark, almost as black
as the former speaker. He skid that
he did not agree exactly with the for
mer speaker. Said he, I am well aware
that the fugitive slave law, just passed,
is now the law of the land, and as to
the principle of dying before your time,
it waa much better in theory than
practice. For my part, I was very sick
the othor day, and thought I should
die; but still I had no inclination to
leave this world. [Laughter. Go on.]
I am opposed to conflicting with the
law. 1 don’t know what I might do
with a bowie knife or a revolver* 1 am
greatly averse to taking lite. Sup-
C, in defending one, we lose the
iol seven. You see it would be a
loosing game, you see dearly we lose.
Now, I go for secreting the slaves;
keep them private; Bhift them about,
let each slave report himself to the
•ecret committee. The law has been
passed and it must be carried out—and
sufficient force will no doubt be called
to carry it into effect. However odious
this law may be, still it is a law and all
the lives we lose in opposing it, will be
a dead loss to us. [Laughter.] I say
again, keep thu fugitive secreted. We
can do it. If any of them have obtained
a little money or property about them,
let them at once make it over to some
pther person and move off out of reach.
We shall gain nothing by fighting
against the law.
Rev.' Charles R. Ray roee and
announced that at 5 o’clock that after
noon the balance of the money had
been paid in, making up the $BOO, for
the liberty of Hamlet, the fugitive slaw
taken the other day to Baltimore;
therefore he would come back to hit
wife mid family. At this information
great xheering took place and soon af
ter the meeting adjourned, it being
then near 12o’clock.—X 5. Standard.
THE MANSTEALING LAW.
We copy from the Lowell American
the following abstract;
It is necessary that the people shall
be acquainted with the kidnapping law
recently enacted by Congress, and as
we cannot keep in type, the entire law,
we have made a brief but correct sy
nopsis of it. Here it is:
But in the first place let us give Dan
iel Webster’s endorsement of the bill/
The following is from his speech of the
7th of March, 1850:
Every member of every Northern
Legislature is bound by oath to support
the Constitution of the United States;
and this article of the Constitution
Which says to these States that they
shall deliver up fugitive slaves is as
binding in honor ana in conscience as
any other article; and no man fulfils
his duty, under his oath, in any State
Legislature who sets himself tn w*— 1
rn find excuses, evasions, escapes from
his constitutional duty. My
friend at the head of the Judiciary
Committee has a bill upon the subject
now before the Senate, with some
amendments to it which have been
offered. I propose to support that bill
with all proper authority and provis
ions in it, to the fullest exteut—to the
fullest extent.”
Now here is the substance of the
“Bill”:
Duties of Commissioners.
Commissioners who have been or
shall be appointed by the Circuit
Courts of the United States, are au
thorized and required to exercise and
discharge all the powers and duties
conferred by this act.— -Sec. 1.
Appointment of Commissioners.
The Superior Court of each organ
ized Territory shall have the same
power to appoint Commissioners as the
Circuit Court of the U. S., and the
commissioners appointed by these Su
perior courts are to possess the powers
conferred upon those appointed by the
Circuit Courts.— Sec. 2.
Officer's to be appointed.
The Circuit Courts and the Superior
Courts shall have power to enlarge the
number of commissioners with a view
to afford reasonable facilities to seize
fugitives.— See. 3.
Duty of Commissioners.
The Commissioners shall grant cer
tificates to claimants, upon satisfactory
proof, with authority to take fugitives
to the State or Territory from which
they have fled.— Sec. 4.
Duties of Marshals Penalties.
Marshals and Deputy Marshals are
commanded to obey and execute all
warrants and precepts under this act,
under penalty (for refusal or neglect)
of a fine of $lOOO to the use of the
fiaiamnt. See. 5.
Marshal’s penalty for slave’s escape.
If a fugitive shall escape from a
marshal or deputy, after his arrest,
with or without his assent, he shall be
liable on his official bond to be prose
cuted for the benefit of such claimant
for the lull value of the service or labor
of the fugitive.— Sec. 5.
Bystanders required to aid the man
stealers.—Commissioners are author
ized to appoint persons to execute their
warrants, with authority to summon
and call to their aid the by-standers or
posse comitatus when necessary. All
good citizens are commanded to aid
and assist in the prompt and efficient
execution of the law whenever their
services may be required.— Sec. 5.
Fugitives may be seized without process.
When a man has escaped from ser
vice or labor, his claimant may pursua
and reclaim him, either by procuring a
warrant from the court or commission
er, or by seizing him without process
and taking him before the tribunal.—
Sec. 6.
Case to be decided summarily.
When the fugitive is thus taken, it
shall be the duty of the commissioner
to decide the case in a summary man*
ner, and upon satisfactory proof that
the fugitive does owe service or labor
te the claimant, the commissioner shall
issue his certificate, authorizing the
claimant to take the fugitive, and to
use such reasonable force as is neces
sary to carry him back to slavery.—
Sec." 6.
Certificate to be sufficient evidence.
A deposition or affidavit, certified in
proper form by the court of the State
from which the fugitive escaped, shall
be considered satisfactory evidence of
the fact of escape, and also of the
identity of the fugitive. These certifi
cates shall be conclusive of the right
of the claimant to remove his prey, aftd
shall prevent all molestation by any
process issued by any court, judge,
magistrate, or any other persons whom
soever.—See. 6.
Fugitive’s evidence wA to be taken.
In no trial or hearing under this act
shall the fugitive’s testimony be admit
ted in evidence.— Sec. 6.
Penalty for obstructing the man-stealer.
Any person who shall knowingly and
willingly obstruct, hinder or prevent
the claimant, his agent, or attorney, or
any person or persons lawfully assist
ing him from arresting the fugitive,
with or without process, shall be sub
ject to a fine not exceeding $lOOO, and
imprisonment not exceeding 6 months,
and shall moreover pay to the claimant
the sum of $lOOO for each fugitive so
lost.— Sec. 7.
Penalty for rescuing a man from the
manstealers. —Any person who shall
rescue or attempt to rescue the fugitive
from custody, is liable to the same pen
alty.—Sec. 7.
Penalty foi harboring a man from the
pursuit of the manstealers. —Any person
who shall harbor or conceal the fugi
tive, knowing him to be one, is liable
to the same penalty.— Sec. 7.
Bribe to f&e Commissioner to deliver
the fugitive to the manstealer. The
Commissioner shall be entitled to a fee
of ten dollars if he shall deliver the
fugitive into slavery, but only five in
cases where he shall not deem the
proof sufficient to send him back.—
Sec 7.
Manstealers to be aided in can of an
attempt to resene —Upon affidavit by the
claimant that he has reason to appre
hend a rescue, the officer making the
arrest shall take him into slavery, and
shall employ as many persons as aie
necessary to overcome the force—the
United States to pay the bill.— Sec. 9.
What constitutes testimony.
When a fugitive has fled, his claim
ant may make satisfactory proof of the
fact to any court of record in the State
or Territory from whence he escaped,
and the said court shall cauae a record
to be made of the fact, and a descrip
tion of the fugitive and a transcript of j
this record shall be full and conclusive
evidence in the tribunal where the fugi
tive may be found, and upon its being
produced, the fugitive shall be delivered
up. In the absence of such transcript
of record, the claim shall be deter
mined by other satisfactory proof, com
petent in law.— Sec. 10.
Approved Sept. 18,1850.
MILLARD FILLMORE.
PUBLIC ACTION oa the FUGITIVE
SLAVE LAW.
At meetings called for the purpose,
Oberlin, Oct. Ist, 3d, and 4th, the fol
lowing resolutions were fully discussed
and earnestly adopted:
Resolved, That we regard the late
fuffitive Tv uaTK age
and a tyrannical government; and that
we acknowledge, with mortification and
shame, this evidence that barbarism
and oppression in our country have tri
umphed over the spirit of liberty and
of progress.
That the provisions of this bill are in
plain and flagrant violation of the Con
stitution of the United States, in the
following particulars: It suspends the
action of the writ of habeas corpus, in
a case not warranted by the Constitu
tion. It deprives a citizen of the right
of trial by jury, in a case transcending
in importance every pecuniary consid
eration; and it* deprives persons of lib
erty in entire disregard of the course
of proceedings which a due process
of law” would demand.
That a union which brings us under
the law of slavery, and enjoins upon
us the loathsome work of slave-catch
ing, shall not be numbered among our
precious things, and that if our submis
sion to such disgrace is to be the con
dition of its existence, we cannot pay
the price.
That we contemplate with mingled
emotions of humiliation and disgust, the
action of a congress that could pass,
and of the President who could sign,
a bill containing these iniquitous pro
visions; and that we find in this dis
graceful event a melancholy proof of
the oft-repeated assertion, that the
slave power not only rules in the South
but has poisoned our national legisla
tion, and made the national Executive
a catch-poll for the recovery of its
victims.
That while we regard the command
to hide the outcast, and not to bewray
the wanderer,” and not to deliver unto
his master the servant that is escaped
from his master, as embodying princi
ples sanctioned by the highest Law
giver, and while we regard this law as
forbidding what God commands, and
as commanding what God forbids—we
will study to obey the law which tran
scends all human enactments, appeal
ing id the language of the apostle, even
to those who have decreed this un
righteous decree, whether it be right
in the sight of God to hearken to you
more than unto God, judge ye.”
That we tender our thanks to the
Congress and President of the United
States for having advertised the people
of file North of the meanness of the
work demanded of them and the miser
able venality of the men who are to
figure as the tools in this abhorrent
business, by offering the pitiful bribe of
five dollars to the Commissioner who
will decide to consign a fellow-being to
slavery on the testimony of robbers and
men-stealers.
That the Northern man who, as
Judge, Commissoner, or Marshal, or
in any capacity, shall consent to aid in
the execution of this law, has too little
of the man about him to claim our pity
or move our contempt.
That while by the provisions of this
law the area of slavery is virtually ex
tended over the whole country, and the
entire power of the General Govern
ment arrayed on the Ride of the claim
ant of slaves; yet we hereby solemnly
affirm that while our fugitive brother
remains in our midst, we will stand by
him to the last, to protect him by all
justifiable means in our power.
That those Northern men who voted
for the so-calied fugitive bill, knowing
as they must the feelings of their con
i.tituents, deserve the condemnation
and execration of all good men, and
we believe their names will go down to
posterity a hissing and a by-word.
That J. M. Root, our fearless Rep
resentative in Congress, and those who
labored with him, are worthy of our
hearty thanks for the noble stand they
have taken in the cause of liberty.
That we recommend the holding of
Mass xVleetings throughout the Noith
to express and embody the feeling of
the people against this Bill of Abomi
nations, and that various measures be
prosecuted immediately to secure its
repeal, and that we call on the con
ductors of the press, the members of
the Bar, and the Ministers of the Gos
pel, to unite their efforts to annul this
statute so at war with Liberty, Law
and Religion.
That we see in this act fresh and
convincing proof that the Constitution
of the United States must either be
given up to the slaveholders, or be in
terpreted as all laws should be inter
preted, and thus be rescued from sla
very, and made to subserve the great
ends for which it declares itself to be
framed.
That the above resolutions be pub
lished io the Cleveland True Democrat,
Elyria C urier, Elyria Argus, Oberlin
Evangelist, Ohio Standard, North Star,
Impartial Citizen, National Era, Lib
**r»y Party Paper, and all other papers
opposed to the Fugitive Slave Bill.
J. H. Fairchild, CUui.
H. Hill, Sec’y. 9
ICF* In Chicago no one has yet been
touad who will accept the appointment
of Commiaaiooer to carry into execu
tion the Fugitive Slave Law,
whig meeting at rochiiteh
Pursuant to the call published ,io
our column*, a meeting of the Whigs
of Moan* County was held last even
tog is Irving Hall, for the purpose o!
appointing three Delegates to repre
sent the County in the Utica Conven
tion. The Hall was filled to ovefflow-
motion of Dr. Kelsey, Hot. F.
F. Backus was appointed president.
On motion of W. H. Burtis, Mortimer
F. Reynolds and James H. Kelly were
appointed Secretaries.
On motion, the Chair appointed the
following gentlemeq a Committee on
resolutions, viz: Thomas H. Kechea
ter, Alex. KeJsey, Selab Mathews S.
W. D. Moore, A. Mann. On motion
the following gentlemen were appoint
ed by the Chair to report the names of
Delegates totheConventional Futica,
viz: Leonard Adams, Jonathan Child,
William Kidd. The last named Com
mittee reported the following gentlemen 1
as such Delegates, who were, on mo
tion, unaninfbusly appointed. Seiah
Mathews, of Brighton, Thomas H.
Rochester, of Rochester, William G.
Lacy, of Wheatland.
Dr. Kelsey being loudly called upon
addressed the meeting in some elo
quent remarks which were louly
cheered.
The Comuuttae o„
purred the following which were unani
mously adopted.
Resolved, That we are Whigs, and
that politically we are nothing else;
and that we ardently desire and will
earnestly labor for the success of the
Whig nomination of our State and
Country.
Resolved, That we recognize in
Millard Fillmore, a Whig ol approved
fidelity; that is truly national policy
and wise moderation in a period of
unexampled difficulty and perplexity
have produced the happiest results and
entitle him to the gr atitude of his
country, and that his administration is
eminently deserving of support from
the entire whig party of the Union.
Resolved, That we deeply lament
the apparent, and as we trust, tempo
rary division of the Whig party of this
State, caused by the extraordinary ac
tion of the majority in the Syracuse
Convention in rejecting the excellenf
and conciliatory resolutions reported
by the regular committee on resolu
tions, and the adoptions of others which
censure by necessary implication a
large number of Whig representatives
who thought it their duty to vote for the
settlement of the Bundary Controversy
with Texas, as recommended by Presi
dent Fillmore in his Message of the
6th of August last.
Resolved, That the inexorable re
quirement of the majority in the Syra
cuse Convention that the majority
should render “especial thanks” to
Gov. Seward, for acts in which he
separated himself from all his Whig
associates in the Senate, which our
judgment cannot approve, and form no
part of the Whig creed or platform,
was tyrannical, and directly calculated
to destroy the harmony, unity and
efficiency of the party.
Resolved, That in our opinion it is
the chief duty of the Utica Convention
to counteract the mischievous conse
quences flowing from this conduct o(
the majority at Syracuse, by declaring
to our brethren of this State and of
other States, the true Whig ground on
which we stand and have always stood,
and by taking measures to secure the
election of the S*ate ticket, without
making ourselves or our candidates
justly liable to the imputation of Sec
tionalism, Abolitionism or any o’ther
destructive heresy sought to be fast
ened upon the party.
Resolved, That while we are dis
posed in good faith to carry out all the
requirements of the Constitution, ns
well when they do not accord with our
interests and sympathies, as when they
do, we nevertheless approve of the vote
given by our immediate Representative,
Hon. A. M. Schermerhorn, and the
other Whig members from this State,
in Congress, against the Fugitive
Slave Bill, in asmuch as we deem its
provisions harsh, oppressive and at
variance with the usual course of legal
pioceedings in the Free States.
Gems of Truth. —Duty is not only
pleasant, but cheap. Every man’s
actions from a centre of influence upon
others; and every deed, however
trivial, has some weight in determining
the future destiny of the world. The
good fruits of human life are the pro
duce of mingled smiles and tears, as
th<* fruits of the field require sunshine
and rain. As without clouds there can
be no rain, and without rain no fertili
ty; so without sorrow there can by no
tears, and without tears the heart jvould
soon be barren. A cloud upon the
soul shrouds and darkens the earth
more than a cloud in the Armament.
The spectacle is in the spectator.
Every deceased friend is a magnet that
draws us into another world. They
who are independent in love .are gen
rerally so in everything else. If weak
in this respect, they are generally weak
in other respects. How rarely do we
accurately weigh what we have to
sacrifice against what we have to gain!
One act of beneficence, one act of real
usefulness, is worth all the abstract
sentiment in the world! It is happy
enough that the same vices wich impair
ones’s fortune frequently rum the con
stitution, that the one may not survive
the other. —British Banner.
Fugitives is Canada. The To
ronto Globe of the Isth says: Great
numbers of escaped slaves still coutinue
to pour into Canada from all parts of
the United States. Most of these ref
ugees go towards the Elgin (colored)
Association, in the Western District,
and are 'here, we understand, pur
chasing land from the Rev. Mr. King,
the President of the Association, as
fast as he can sell it to them.
"Families are separating, leaving
their homes, and dying in all directions
to seek in Canada, under the British
flag, the protection denied them in tne
Free Republic!
We would not feel called upon to
remark upon the bill, were it not likely
to prove injurious to ourselves, by driv
ing immense numbers of slaves to set
tle among us. But in flying from dan
cer, it is quite natural that they should
direct their course to the nearest place
of safety, and that place is Canada