SLAVERY AS IT IS.
We dnubt whether those of our fel
low-citizens who were active in defeat-,
ing the Emancipation party at the into:
election, and who are doing all in their'
power to perpetuate indefinitely the in
stitution ol negro slavery, have ever
devoted an hour’s serious attention In
the consideration of‘'Slavery as it is.”
even in the rniid form of its existence in 1
Kentucky.
There is, as appears to us, such a
wide difference between freedom and
slavery, that if the one is right, the
other must be wrong; if the one is nec-j
essary for the promotion of our spinfu-J
al health and our temporal well-being, j
the other must necessarily he produt-j
live of deep ignorance, degradation and
suffering.
This proposition would seem to he so!
plain as to render argument superflu
ous; and yet Christian men, with the 1
Bible in their hands, and words of pat
riotism and piety on their lips, can
openly defend human slavery, and treat
those wild would remove it with ridicule j
and abuse.
As an illustration of one of the phases j
tn which negro slavery presents itseli j
to a professing Christian people, we
would ask attention to a few statements;
of facts, as taken from one of our daily
papers.
In the Louisville Democrat, of ’23th j
December last, we find ir.is paragraph,'
under the head of Police reports:
“A negro was arraigned on thej
charge of stealing clothes from the.
store of B. B. Anderson Su Co.
'‘The Judge asked where were the
articles stolen t
“The Marshal said the gentleman
had retained them, and did not come
into court to prosecute.
“His Honor directed the Police offi
cers to bring into court all articles found
in the possession of thieves—as it was I
the only means by which they could bej
induced to come forward and prosecute.
In the present case he ordered the ne
gro to be discharged—remarking to the
officers, that when they found a negro
pilfering, to take him out, and give him
just a$ many as he could t cell bear, and
not bring him before the court.
Now, if this direction of the Hon.j
Judge to the Police officers of tins city,
is the law of slavery, (and we have noj
reason to believe H is not, wiutt seen-I
rity lias the negro against unjust vio-;
lence? The police officers are the uc-
cusers, witnesses, judge and executionvj
ers, with no limit to the punishment j
they may see fit to inflict, except the
capability oj the negro to bear it. Nav, j
more: suppose the officer under the. in
fluence of those passions to which wo j
are all liable, should “give the negrol
rather more than he could uell b ar
and death should follow as the cou*e-j
quence, by what law could you punish j
the officer? The crime (if it he a emu
under the instructions of the Hon Po-j
lice Judge, j could only be denomina
ted “a mistake as to the cap thd ty ofj
the negro to bear a whipping.’
Now, we do not say that this state oF
things is unnecessary and wrong, »1
slavery be right; for long-continued
slavery may have made the negro so
ignorant, degraded and brutish, as to
render it necessary that he should be
summarily punished m h >ut a form o:
trial The negro, we suppose, furnish
es no exception to the <*id adage, “treat
a man like a dog and he will become a
dig, hut we beg leave to suggest to*
those of our fciiow-citizcns who regard
these unfortunate creatures as endowed J
with the feelings and failings of our
common human.ty, whether it becomes
us us an honorable, high-minded, .A.itL
Christian people, to punish them for the
b'gitimjte consequences of our own
conduct. Surelv, it were the ai-lm
policy to labor diligently and earnestly
for the removal of an evil which cr ates
1 necessity for such manifest injustice, i
THE NORTH STAR.
—As a further illustration of the na
ture of slavery, as it must necessarily
exist, if it exist at all, we give anothe
statement of fact taken from one of ou
daily papers. In the Courier, of Oct
oth, we find this statement:
“Negro Max Shot. A negro mat
belonging to Howard Christy, Esq.
was shot about 6 or 9 o’clock ou Wei
nesday night, on Penrl street, nea
Walnut, by Mr. Wm. Forwood. Mr
Forwood saw the man steal a saddle
from a horse opposite his house, and ot
attempting to arrest him he resisted
and while endeavoring to escape. Mr
F. shot and wounded him. On th*
matter being represented to Judge
Jove*, of the Police Court, he refusec
to lake cognizance of the case. We
were told last night that the ball passec
entirely through the body of the negre
man, and that he was not expected tc
live.”
And on tiie succeeding day the fol
lowing appears in the same paper:
“The negro man who was shot by
young Mr. Forwood, on Wednesday
night last, died yesterday morning.”
Mr. Forwood is well known asoneol
our most respectable citizens, and is an
active, and intelligent member of the
Baptist church. We suppose he acted
in this matter in conformity with what
he considered to be his duty, ns he vol
untarily came into court the next mor
ning, and submitted himself to the ex
amination of the lawful authorities.
The Judge, it would seem, refused to
take cognizance of the case, and here,
so far as anything has been made pub
lic, the matter is at an end.
Now, we seriously submit the ques
tion to those of our fellow-citizens w ho
recognize the negro as a human being,
subject to all the frailties and sins ol
our common humanity; redeemed by
the blood of a common Saviour, accoun
table' to a common Father, and to be
judged at the same solemn judgment
seat, whether this state of things is right,
and whether it is the proper vocation of
Christian 'Ministers, to labor heart and
hand for the perpetuation of a system
that renders it necessary for negroes to
be thus treated.
Is there not something singularly ab
surd in the species of Christianity which
protesses to recognize the negro as a
brother, and vet in many respects treats
him like a horse or a dog? and can
there possibly be sincerity in the pray
er which is so often ode red by slavery
defending Christians in the presence of
whites and blacks, commencing with
those words of touching simplicity and
fearful sublimity, “OUR FATHER
WHICH ART IN HEAVEN,” &c.
Wo might add much on this aspect
of human slavery, as exhibited in the
extracts here quoted, but we prefer to
submit the facts t?> the consideration of
of all sensible men, just as they ore,
being sensible that they plead more
powerfully for the cause of an oppres
sed and deeply wronged race of people,
than any comments we can offer.—
Louisville Examiner.
From the New York Evening Post.
NON-SLAVEHOLDERS IN SLAVE
STATES.
It has ever been the policy of slavery
to deny education, social position, po
litical rights, and even the means of
living, to the poor white men, the non
slaveholders in the South. The planter
takes his northern newspaper or his
southern magazine, but no cheap lite
rature is provided for the families of the
poorer non-slaveholders, who comprise
three-fourths of the white population of
the Slave States. On this point, Mr.
Wise spoke for the planter, when he.
said on the floor of Congress, “There
is no newspaper published in my dis
trict, and I hope there never will be.”
The planter sends to the colleges of the
North, or aids in building at the south
expensive institutions, for the education
of the sons of the wealthy; but the chil
dren of the poor must grow up in all the
ignorance and degradation of semi-bar
bnrism. In their social condition* ‘poor
white folks” are considered by the mas
ter, and even by the slave, as one step
lower down in the scale of social life
than either. There is no escape for
these, while they continue in a slave
State. Their minds are in two height
ened a state to learn any of the mechan
iciarts, or avail themselves of any mod
ern invention. To labor by the side of
the slave when they may, and starve
or steal when they must, is their only
resource. For political rights, even the
right of suffrage—the only one they
nominally possess —is legislated away
from tHern, for the system of voting viva
voce prevents its being an expression
of their own will. In Kentucky, at this
moment, they are just being to discuss
the propriety of introducing the ballot;
and in the Palmetto State, they have
now- n man in jail, and hope to accom
plish his death, because he has dared
to come between the w hite slaves of the
south and their masters—his only crime
be i fig the circulation of an address to
poor white folks, showing them their
rights, and how to get them
Of the means of living allowed by the
land and labor monopolists of the souih
to those that have “waxen poor beside
them,” we have hardly need to speak;
the wretched remnant that do contrive
to escape ucross the Onto, and that are
i seen in one horse wagons ,D dog-carts,
'in go-carts, and ou foot, making their
wav to the interior, tell the std story
not only of their own sufferings, but ol
the greater number left behind to min
ister to the wants of some whom even
the very slaves make c»n iribution
among themselves, and solicit charity
front the planters.
Although these things have been and
are yet truo ot the poor whites in the
south, there is still hope for them. A
I little of th« light thrown out by the
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
printing press, has reached them. They,
too, have beard the echo of the shout!
sent up by .‘he millions of Europe ai
they burst, although but for a moment,
the chains they had for ages worn.—
The imprisonment of Barrett is but one
of a chain of events destined to wake
the democracy of the slave States.—
Read an article signed “Union,” re
cently published in the Danville, Va.,
Register, for the author of which the
editor vouches is “Irom the pen of one
of the first statesmen in the State.’'
The intention of the article is to show
that the objects of Mr. Calhouu and Mr.
Garrison are one. I will transcribe for
you a few extracts —first as to Mr. Cal
houn and his schemes:
“Extremes meet. The ultraist of
South Carolina, and the ultraist of Mas
sachusetts, are holding out their hand
to each other. That the leaders o!
South Carolina are ripe lor dangerous
action, there is no doubt; and the only
hope of escape, a faint one it i 9 true, is,
that the people will repudiate their rash
advisers. The State, weak as she is
in numbers, in territory, and in wealth,
is nevertheless potent for mischief.”
On this point we think “Union” mista
ken. Not even the politicians of South
Carolina are so benighted as to hope to
sustain, in this age of the world, a slave
State as an independeut existence, with
no resources of freedom on which to
draw, as need be, for character, or
men, or money. Some of these diffi
culties arc referred to in the paper, but
the portion of the address most worthy
of special notice is that which records
the present position and past efforts of
the “poor folks” of the South to attain
some of their rights.
“It is asked why the free laborer at
present is not voting against the slave
holder? The answer is at hand—the
free laborer is in a hopeless minority.
Give to him a hope of success, and you
will find him with the new allies which
disunion will give to him. Did not a
very faint hope of success in 1832 draw
out an alarming abolition vote in Vir
ginia? Did not the great slaveholding
county of Albermarle sustain at the
polls one of its Representatives who led
the abolition movement? When asked
how lie came to be returned, his char
acteristic reply was, ‘I appealed to the
poor folks.’ This appeal has always,
been responded toby the poor folks,!
and always will. Can any one point to
u single individual in Virginia who has
been weakened in popular favor by aid
ing with abolition in 1832." Is not Mc-
Dowell, who won his first and greatest
laurels as an orator by an abolition
speech, cherished by the democracy?
Has Preston lost caste with the whigs?
Or has the Richmond Enquirer had its
subscription list curtailed by the lapse
of
The drift of the address is to show
the monopolists of the south, who hold
twelve hundred millions in human flesh,
and nearly all the lands, that the whigs,
the conservative party of the country,
who go for things as they are, and not<
as they ought to be, can alone save
them from yielding the government of
the country to the masses, “each free
laborer having the political power of the
master of a hundred slaves.” It is
quite as useful in showing the free de
mocrocy of both north and south where
in lies their strength, and who are the
enemies of freedom. W. E. W.
From tlie Liberty Almanac.
WIIY DISCUSS THE SLAVE QUES
TION
Because it is a question of great im
portance, and the”great diversity of sen
timent respecting it, is evidence that it
needs to be discussed.
I am bound to examine and to under
stand the subject of slavery, because I
am a man, and whatever concerns the
condition, the character, and the desti
ny of human beings, concerns me.
I am bonnd to know the fact in re
lation to this subject, because they are
within my reach. lam bound to know
the principles upon which this question
is to be settled, because God has re
vealed them, and because they are the
principles by which all my actions and
aims are to be regulated.
I am bound to apply correctly those
principles to tiiose facts, and govern
my actions accordingly: because I am
bound to do this on all great moral ques-,
tions and cannot otherwise discharge
the duties growing out of the va
ried relations in which the Providence
of God has placed me.
The question of slavery, as a moral 1
question, involves the question of a
pure or of a corrupted religion, and to
be able to discriminate between reli-,
gious truth and religious error, are rea- 1
sons why I should understand, and
therefore investigate, the subject of
slavery.
The question of emancipation or sla
very, is the question of freedom or of
chains to thousands of my countrymen.
It involves, therefore, the question of
free or despotic institutions, in my coun
try for ages to come. Can I blink the
I discussion of such a question?
The question ofabohshing slavery is
(the question of education and enlight
*enment, of civilization and of human
progress. On these vital subjects I
cannot take an interest, or become in
telligent, without earnestly and suc
cess fully investigating the slave ques
tion.
The question of slavery and of its
t abolition, is a question of political econ
omy, involving one of the most impor
j taut financial and commercial problems
i ever propounded in any nation, and
bearing directly and irresistably upon
all the pecuniary interests of the coun
try agricultural, mechanical, manu
-Ifit u ring, mercantile and monetary.
On these subjects, and in special rela
tion to my ov* country, with which my
i own personal interests are indissolubly
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1849.
connected, l must content myself to b<
profoundly ignorant, unless I make my
self master of the slave question,'inclu
ding a knowledge of the comjyarativi
workings and effects of free and slav«
labor, upon the productive industry o
the country.
Withiu llie last twenty or thirty yean
the discussions of the ablest theolo
gians, moral philosophers, politics
economists, statesmen and philanthro
pists in the civilized worid, the conse
quent action of civil governments it
both hemispheres, and especially the
grand experiments and the practica
workings and results of abolition in the
different parts ol the globe, have uni
tedly thrown a flood of new light on the
whole subject; correctiug old mistakes,
revising old theories, and comepllint;
the most profound observers and expe
rienced statesmen to confess their for
mer mistakes. Not to avail myself ol
these important advances in knowledge,
by a careful study of these discussions
and experiments, would be to fall dis
gracefully, behind the times; to live in
the darkness of past generations, rath
er than in the light of the present; to
linger on the confines of ancient bar
barism, instead of tilling an appropri
ate place in the existiug stage of hu
man progress.
The slave question not only ought to
be, but has actually become, and must
continue to be, (until it is settled.) one
of the leading questions of the age, es
pecially in this land of boasted Chris
tianity and Freedom, where the exist
ence of slavery creates an anomaly too
glaring to be overlooked; and where
the antagonistic influences of such dia
metrically opposite elements cannot
fail to secure an agitation that cannot
possibly be quelled, but by the disap
pearance of one or the other of the bel
ligerent forces, leaving the other in
possession of the field. The experi
ment of combining two such elements
in the same religion, and under the
same government, has proved a mani
fest failure, and the nostrums once em
ployed to produce temporary quietness
can no longer answer the ends of those
who use them.
Into every struggle the slave ques
tion inevitably enters. Scarcely an im
portant national question can be deba
ted without introducing it. And the
statesmen most intent on stifling the
question of slavery, are nevertheless
compelled to discuss it themselves, and
to place themselves and the country in
a position in which the discussion must
inevitably he pushed forward. The ac
tion of the federal government, in its
foreign and domestic policy, cannot be
understood by any person wiio does not
understand the nature, the character,
the tendencies, the affinities, and the
influences of*slavery. From these con
siderations it is evident that, by every
intelligent American citizen, the slave
question must, of necessity, be examin
ed in all its diversified bearings. Notj
to understand the subject of American
slavery, is simply to be ignorant of the
politics of my country. And to say
that I will not diligently examine the
subject, is to say that I will content my
selfto remain a citizen of a republic,;
t!ie politics of which I cannot or will not
understand.
The question of slavery or of its abo
lition in America, is a question w hether
the self-evident truths of our Declara
tion of Independence, with the republi
can institutions based on them, siiaii
be retained and preserved, or whether
they shall be undermined by the oppo
site powers of despotism. Which
would we do, if we could? And what
can we do? These are the problems
for solution. Do they not deserve our
attention?
Christianity enjoins the inquiry on
this subject by commanding us to do s
unto others as we would have others do I
unto us; to “remember them that are
in bonds as being bound with them;”
declaring that “the righteous consider
eth the cause of the poor, but the wick
ed regardetli not to know it.” It ad
mits of no excuse or apology on the
ground of ignorance, when the means
of necessary information is within our J
reach. “If thou forbear to deliver
them that are drawn unto death, and!
those that are ready to be slain; if thou i
sayest, Behold, we knew it not; doth
not he that pondereth the heart consid
er it, and he that keepeth thy soul,
shall be not know it? And shall he not,
render to every man according to his
works?”
WHIG STATE CONTENTION AND
SLAVERY.
The Whig State Convention recent
ly assembled at Syracuse to nominate
Slate officers, issued an address and
I resolutions professing strong, decided
ground against the extension of Sla
j very So much, in the opinion of the
“political profligates” who made up the
I majority of that Convention, was nec
essary to cover up thejr shameless
ABANDONMENT OF FREE PRINCIFLES at
the election, when they supported a
Slaveholder for President, who was
nominated by a Convention which dar
ed not pass a single Resolution. Then,
they might have secured the election of
a President ami Congress true to free
dom, but on the contrary, they allowed
a declaration in favor of freedom to be
toted down withort a word in its defence
they claim to be the ardent and
exclusive champions of freedom. Was
ever hypocrisy more apparent? We
copy from the Syracuse Reveille, a
neutral paper, the following notice of
the jmsiti.m of that party on the Slavery
question:
“Resolved, That recognizing the re
striction of Slavery within its present
limits, a* one of the cardioal principles
of our political faith, we pledge our
setvea to our fellow citizens end the
country, to exercise to the utmost all
the power we may posses*, to preven
the extension of Slavery over a singl<
foot of free soil.**
This, says the writer, is the length
and breadth of the Whig platform ol
I this State on the subject of Slavery.
Is this what the Whig party expect'
ed? A distinct recognition of Slavery
"within its present limits," is a clear
sanction of its continuance in the District
j of Columbia. It keeps up those accCß*
sed Slave Pens under the eyes of the
capitol, and recognizes the sending oti
of SCARRED AND CHAINED DROVES Or
SLAVES FROM THE MARKETS AND SHAM
j BLES OF THE CAPITOL FOR THE RICE AND
j SUGAR PLANTATIONS OF THE PrESI
i dent, on the shores of the Mississippi
i and the Rio Grande! Notone word
is said in favor of the power and duty
of Congress to abolish Slavery and the
Slave Trade in the District; but on the
contrary, the existence and CONTIX
j UANCE of Slavery within its present
tirniis is put forth a 9 a cardinal point
of the Whig creed!
The truth cannot be disguised, that
the Whig party is ruled l>y that class
j of men who kicked the Wilmot
Proviso oct of doors" at Philadel
phia—whose professions are loud in fa
vor of freedom, but who fail to exem
plify their professions by their acts.
That party is composed of men who dif
fer, as the New York Courier and En
t quirer says, about important principles,
j yet can agree to act in harmony, to se
cure valuable spoils.— Wayne Sentinel.
TIIE SLAVE TRADE AT THE CAP
ITOL. ITS SUPPORTERS RE
WARDED.
The following is an extract from a
report in the Western Reverse Chron
icle, of a speech recently delivered at
Framington, Trumbull county, Ohio,
by Hon. J. R. Giddings. Note the
i facts which show how the Northern
traitors to freedom are rewarded by the
present Administration:
"Slavery and the slave trade exist in
the District of Columbia by a law pas
sed by the Representatives of the whole
people. It is a national law—it is the
law of the people, and as such supports
slavery there. The guilt of slavery
and the slave trade is upon the entire
people of this Union. It is for them to
free themselves of the guilt. It is for
you to tree yourselves of the guilt. He
said if the audience could but have
been at Washington on the 17th April,
1848, and have seen a band of fifty
three slaves march over Pennsylvania
Avenue, in the Capitol of this nation,
then they could appreciate the mon
strosity of this guilt. That coffle was
headed by Hope H. Slatter, the notori
ous slave-dealer of the District, aided
by a half dozen slave-drivers, with
clubs and bowte-knives, who were ar
ranged on each side of the procession.
There were inon in that procession he
knew. There were the Edmondsons,
and who has not heard of them? There
were two sisters of that fiflnily, as (air,
as comely, and as accomplished as any
of the ladies of Jefferson county. There
was also a brother of the girls, who had
been reared in refined society, and was
a perfect gentleman. He was a man
ofstrong mind and superior intelligence.
In his intercourse with man he exhibited
equal it not superior intelligence and
refinement—more mind and genius
than your President ofthe United States.
And these persons so refined, so intelli
gent and accomplished, were being
marched in the Capitol of your nation
for a Southern plantation, their soon to
end their miserable existence under the
lash of the merciless slave driver. In
that procession there was agony and
anguish unutterable, despair was de
picted upon every countenance. In
the procession was a wife torn from her
home m the absence of her husband.—
He followed up, and attempted to take
a last farewell, and instantly the club
of a driver felled him, quivering and ap
parently lifeless, to the ground. Such
are the occurrences at your Capitol,
under the national flag. Last winter,
Mr. Gott introduced his resolution to
abolish this traffic. This was done
without consultation. Parties had not
time tadrill their members. Each man
voted as he felt, and as hi 9 principles l
dictated. The resolution passed by a
large majority. Taylor was elected
President. The party began to see
where it would lead them; unless some
thing was done. Northern men could
not expect favor from the new Execu
tive. A motion was made to reconsid
er. Wentworth moved to lay this mo
tion on the, table, which would have
disposed of the motion to reconsider,
and the resolution would have been in
force. A vote was taken on the motion
of Wentworth, and twenty-six Northern
VVhigs and twenty-two Northern Dem
ocrats voted against the motion. The
motion was lost. The motion to recon
sider was then postponed for two weeks,
then debated, and finally went into the
calendar, and was not heard of again
during the session. The motion of
Wentworth was dodged by several
dough-fafHgs, among whom was Jacob
Collamer of Vermont. It was known
that he was a candidate for a Cabinet
office. He was in bis seat and voted
immediately preceding and subsequent
to the vot i on Wentworth’s motion.
General Taylor soon come to Wash
ington. He gave Collamer the office
of Post Master General at a salary of
$6,000. He offered Truman Smith,
who voted against Weotworth’s motion,
the office of Secretary of the Home De
partment. Owing to the position of
parties at home, Truman’s friends ad
vised him not to accept. Caleb B.
Smith, Alexander Irvin, Jasper E. Bra
dy, T. O. Edwards, and several othen
from the North, who voted against
Wentworth’s motion, and in favor ol
the slave trade, have all received lucra
live appointments from the President.
What man that voted for Wentwortk'i
(motion has received au appointment.'
Not one. General Taylor had not giv
en a word or a smile to those who voted
if on the other side; or, in other words,
voted against slavery and the slave
I trade.
Mr. Glidings asserted that a more
gross, palpable, and outrageous prosti
tution of Executive patronage to sustain
the slave trade'and slavery, never had
been known or heard ot in thisnatiou.”
AFFAIRS AT WASHINGTON.
Washington, Oct. 30.
It is believed that the new French
Envoy will reach Washington,during
the month of November, and that he
will come with instructions to present
j immediately for adjustment, the two
I claims which lead to Poussin’s disaster.
By this means the French Cabinet will
recover from the appearance of conces
sion, in the prompt appointment of M.
Poussin’s successor. But Mr. Clayton
is quite certain that this intercourse
with M. Bois le Compte will be of the
most friendly character, and that the
matter in dispute will be disposed of
very readily, and in a manner altogeth
er satisfactory to all parties.
There is no ground for the statement
i that Mr. Rives, when in London, held,
under instructions from this Govern
ment, an interview with Lord Palmers
ton, as to the Nicaragua metier. That
affair is entirely in the hands of Mr.
I Lawrence, so far as our diplomatic
agency is concerned, and I have rea
son to believe it will be speedily and
i fairly adjusted.
Speculations are rife at the Capitol
j in reference to the Speakership of the
next House. Mr. Holmes, of South
Carolina, is now in Washington, and
the tenor of his remarks on the subject,
does not indicate that he and his assoei
ciate “Taylor Democrat” from South
Carolina, are for Mr. Winthrop. He
is of the opinion that a va'y different or
ganization will take place from what is
generally predicted. But whatever
course Mr. Holmes may pursue, it is
very clear that no organization at all
will be affected, until rfftera protracted
wrangling. Messrs. Giddings and Root,
of Ohio, and Allen of Massachusetts,
are fully determined to make themselves
conspicuous. They will vote steadily
for some “man in the moon.”
Secretary Meredith is at work night
and day on his report; and it is said
that it will be a voluminous document,
and will exhibit some astonishing facts
and figures connected with the past Fi
nancial Policy of the Government.
The first Report from the new De
partment is looked for with much inter
est. It will be a terse and business
like document, presenting many strik
ing facts concerning the vast and vari
ous interests in charge of the able Sec
retary.—Courier fy Enq.
RUNNING AWAY FKO.K HAPPI
NESS f
Since our last we have chronicled the
passage of sixteen slaves, who have
made their escape through this city.—
Eight of whom are from Kent county in
our State, and eight from near the Head
of Sassafras, Md., about 20 miles from
Wilmington. Some of the slaves from
Kent county applied to the steamboat at
Short’s Landing, but were refused a
passage, but afterwards made their es
cape up the State by land, crossing the
Wilmington Bridge under the very nose
of the constables who were watching
for them. They brought intelligence
to the abolitionists here, that a few more
were concealed some few miles from our
city, but did not like to come m for fear
of being caught. One of our most ac
tive abolitionists sent a messenger in
search of them, and after looking for
them for a day without effect, at last
found them being conducted into the
city, by a man whom they had no sus
picion of being an abolitionist. At the
same time four more from near the
Head of Sassafras, Md., also made their
escape. A day or so after, a colored
man attempted to get off his wife and
family, who were slaves to Mr. George
Davis, of the Head of Sassafras, Md.—
The brother of his wife betrayed them,
and when they got about eight miles-on
the road, they were overtaken, and had
to take to the bushes—the pursuers
took after them—the man attempted to
save one of his children, and ran with
it on his back for some time, hut at last
had to abandon it to make his own es
cape. His wife and children were cap
tured.
The above mentioned case we are in
formed, is one of peculiar hardship.—
The colored man (who is free) has been
working for several years with Mr. Da
vis, his wages being kept to pay for the
freedom of his wife and family. His
wages, it is stated, amounted to ten'dol
lars more than the price agreed to be
paid for their freedom—but when he
demanded it, Mr. Davis 'old him to
•‘clear out,” and if “he come on the
place again he would shoot him.”—
j Whiie Mr. Davis was in chase of the
above mentioned colored man’s family,
four more valuable slaves belonging to
him took that opportunity of running
away. They reached this city, and
i made good their escape to the North.
If the statement of tne case of the
colored man’s wife and children, men
tioned above, is correct, it is one of pc
i culiar hardship, and it would be wel
I for the citizens of diary land to enquir«
into the matter. Such instances serv<
to prejudice the mind of the people mor<
j forcibly against the slaveholder. If in
correct, we shall cheerfully publish i
refutation.
We have reason to believe that tbs
above are not all tha slaves who hsvi
made their escape through our city re
ceotly. The abolitionists are extreme
ly active, and we have every reason u
believe that the] underground railroac
JOHN HICK, Pt blums*.
WHOLE NO. 100.
j extends a considerable distance down
the State, and that branches hare even
entered Maryland. Slave property is
very insecure both in Maryland and
Delaware. If they run away in our
i State, as they have done lately, we
shall not have a slave worth keeping.
The young and hearty who are able to
1 work, run away, leaving behind the old
j and children, too young to be of much
service.”— Hllminsion Chicken.
REV. CHARLES B. RAT
The labors of Mr. Ray are confined
almost exclusively to the colored popu
i lation of the city of New York. By an
understanding with the Executive Com
mittee, he has been permitted to de
vote the greater portion of his labors
for the past year to the church which
he had previously gathered. They
have not been blessed with any special
outpouring of the spirit of God, yet a
good degree of prosperity, external and
internal, has been granted to them.
The number of permanent and regular
members of the congregation has been
increased. The church, at the date of
Mr. Ray’s report, consisted of thirtr
five members. During the Summer
months the Sabbath School has con
tained more than forty scholars; in the
winter the number was less. General
missionary labor in the street and from
house to house, although receiving less
attention than in former years, has not
been entirely neglected, and the Col
ored Home has been regularly visited
as heretoiore. This year his duties
will be more those of a missionary in
general.
In concluding his Report, Mr. Ray
calls the attention of the Committee,
and the patrons of the Society, to a
prominent obstacle in the way of the
progress of religion among the colored
population of a large city. Excluded
by a cruel prejudice from the edifices
erected for religious worship by their
white brethren, or driven into a dis
graceful corner, they have been com
pelled in self respect to seek places of
worship, where, separated from the
prejudices which have hitherto oppres
sed them, and prevented the progress
of the gospel, that they might worship
God and cultivate their religious affec
tions without opposition, and free from
the contumelies under which they have
suffered. In a few instances only have
they been able to accomplish this.
They cannot like their brethren among
the whites, even when possessed of
equal wealth, secure an eligible situa
tion for their assembling together.
The prejudice that meets them in what
ought to be to them a sanctuary, fol
lows them as they seek to purchase or
to rent a place in which to worship God.
In the church it manifests itself by shut
ting them up in a corner; in the street
by enhancing the price of property al
ready almost beyond their reach, until
they are entirely unable to procure it,
or by raising objections to having loca
tions they might select, occupied by
colored congregations. It is respect
fully submitted whether an impartial
Christianity does not require that wo
should do more for this proscribed
class, and that all missionary bodies
should so direct their labors, as to
break down the prejudice which
strengthens the bonds of the enslaved,
and crushes the upward tendencies of
the free.— Jimer. Missionary.
lIOW TO GET Ot' f OF IT.
Once on a time there was a gentle
man who won an elephant in a raffle.
It was a very fine elephant, and very
cheap at the price the gentleman paid
for his chance.
But the gentleman had no place to
put it in.
Nobody would take it off his hands.
He couldn’t afford to feed it.
He was afraid of the law if he turn
ed it loose into th© streets.
He was too humane to let it starve.
He was afraid to shoot it.
In short, he was in a perplexity very
natural to a gentleman with moderate
means, a small house, common feelings
of humanity, and—an elephant.
France has won her elephant at
Rome.
She has brought back the Pope.
She is at her wit’s end what to do
with him.
She cant’t abet the Pope and the
Cardinals, because she interfered in
the cause of liberty.
She can’t abet the Republicans, be
cause she interfered in the cause of the
Pope and the Cardinals.
She can’t act with Austria, because
Austria is absolute.
She can t act ugamst Austria, be
cause France is conservative and peace
ful.
She can’t continue her army in
Rome, because it is not treated with
respect.
She can’t withdraw her army from
Rome, because that would be to siulti
ty herself.
She can’t go forward, because she
insisted on ti:c Roman people going
backward.
She can’t go back, because the
French people insist on her'going for
ward
Sh*» esn’t choose the wrong, because
1 public opinion forces her to the right.
She can’t choose the right, because
her own dishonesty has forced her to
the wrong.
In one word, she ou the boras of
a dilemma, and the more she twists
the more sharply she feels the points
on winch she is impaled, like a cock
i c hafter in a cabinet, for tbt inspection
|of the curious m the lighter and more
whirligig species of political etymology.
Poor France—will nobody take her
precious bargain off her hands? Rome
is her bottle imp. She bought il dear
enough, but can’t get rid of it "At any
price.”—Punch
Black Laws - Case at Wooster
Dorcas Pat tenon brought her act on against
the Trustees of Woosier Township, for
$26,00, under the oth action of the Act for
the relief of the poor (Swan's Statute* page
0S0) the same was tried before John H.
Harass, a Justice of said Township. The
plained proved upon the trial, that she had
tendered one Polly Terrone to the Trustees,
that they refuted to take charge of her, that
plaintiff had furnisher) said Polly w ith tempo
rary relief and support, that said Polly was
in great want, &c. and in truth, all these
facta were not denied by the defendants.
The defendants rested then defense on
the ground that aaui Polly Tenone was a
black person, and not a proper charge upon
the township of Wooster, and relied upon
2nd Section of said Act (Swan's Statute,
page 635) which reads aa follows
Sec. 11. "That nothing in this Act shall
be so construed as to enable any black or
mulatto person to gain a legal tcttkmf.nl in
thia state.”
To which the Plaintiff, by her counsel
urged that this action was for the temporary
relief and support of said Polly, and quoted
the 7th section aforesaid, which reads as fol
lows
Sec. VIII. "The overei-ers of the poor in
each Township shall also afford temporary re
lief or support to any person in their Town
ship and not having a legal settlement in the
same, when such relief or support is needed.”
The Justice took time to consider and make
up his opinion of the law, which he announc
ed, in substance, as follows: ‘That he was
not entirely clear in his mind, but thought
blacks and Mulattoes were not within the
provisions of the law for the support of the
poor,’.and non-suited the plaintiff.
Believing this not to be a correct construc
tion of our present laws, counsel advised an
appeal, which has been perfected.
1 make no comments here, further Ilian to
aay, that if this is the Wue construction of
our present laws, then they are still “Black
Laws.”
Counsel for Plaintiff. Eugene Pardee.
John McSweency for the defendants.
Morn about the Californian Convention.
The Empire City brought about thirteen
thousand letters and one. thousand newspapers,
besides over a million of dollars in gold dus*.
The most important intelligence relates to
the action taken by the inhabitants of Califor
nia for the formation of a State. The fol
lowing synopsis of this action is given by
the Alta California
The bill of rights, as adopted in a com
mittee of the whole, embraces twenty sections,
of the usual character of such provisions.
The only point upon w'hich it was supposed
a coniroveisy would arise—the question of
slavery, passed without debate, and unani
mously prohibiting slavery. Some were in
favor of submitting the malter to the people
fora separate vote; but it was not contended
tor with any show of strenuosity, and was
voted down unanimously.
The suffrage question was the source of
considerable debate but was finally disposed
of by admitting all male citizens ‘of the
United States, six months resident in Cali
fornia, and twenty-one yeatsofage, (Indians,
Africans, and the descendants of Africans,
excepted,) to the privileges of electors.
The Legislature is to consist of twp bran
ches, an Assembly, and a Senate, with such
general powers, privileges, and duiics, as arc
usually given to such bodies. Banking cor
porations and lotteries are prohibited, and all
other corporations, except for municipal pur
poses, are to be established under geneial
laws, the stockholders to bo individually liabL
for all debts.
The members of the Assembly are to be
elected annually, and the members of the
Senatejare to hold their offices for two years,
Odo half of the Seuate is to be elected annu
al y. No person can be a member of the
Legislature who has not been a lesident oi
the State one year, in addition *o other quali
fications.
The number of members of Assembly is
never to be less than twenty-four, nor more
than thirty-six, until the number of inhabi
tants, in this State shall amount to one hun
dred thousand, and after that period at such
a ratio that the whole number of members of
Aasembly shall never be less than thirty, nor
more than eighty. The Senate is never to
consist of less than one-thiid, nor more than
one-half the number of the Assembly.
Some division of opinion arose on a prnpo
silion to prevent fiee persons of culm from
settling in California, and also to prevent
slaveholders from bringing slaves into the
State, for the puiposo of liberating them. It
finally passed the committee of the w hole,
but aa it has been looked upon since as jeopar
dizing the ratification of the Constitution by
Congress, and as this feeling was gaining
ground, the House probably will strike it
out.
A Coventor, Lieutenant Goveinoi, Secre
taiy of Slate, Comptiolier, 'lieasurer. Attor
ney General, and Surveyor General, consti
tnte the Executive Department. They are
all to hold their offices for two \ears. The
Governor and Lieutenant Governor are to be
elected by general ballot; the Secretary of
Slate is to be appointed by the Governor, bv
aud wall the advice and consent of the Sen
ate the Comptroller and three oilier State
officers are to be elected bv the Legislature
in joint ballot for the first term, and after
wards by the people at the General State
Election.
An effort was made in the Committee of the
Whole to strike out the olfieeof Comptroller,
but it failed. It will, however, In; again
pressed in the House, aud as the office to
tally unnecessary we trust the motion will be
successful. The Governor has the usual
powers, including the veto, and the privileges
and duties of bis ullice do not vary materially
ftotn those of all other States in tne Union.
The other State officers corecapond m duties
and powers with those generally ascribed
them.
The article relative to the Militia, as passed
in the committee of the whole, is substanti
ally such as is found in other State Con-titu-
Uons, as is that also relative to amendments.
The Boundary, Judicial and Educational
questions weie not decided upon at last ad
vices, but it was supposed the Convention
would adjuurn in all the fust week in October.
There is also intelligence of great discov
eries of gold mines— particularly bv Col.
rreinont, who is reported to have failed upon
untold fortunes.
New Mexico Moving.
The Santa Fc Republican, of the 2oth Sep
tember reports the preliminary proceedings of
portion of the people of New Mexico on
the subject of forming a Government f., r
themselves. A meeting was first held at
Santa Fe, on Slat August. The subject was
discussed at length. On the following da\
tb« discussion war resumed, and, at last, a
long preamble, with a long series of resolu
tions, was adopted. The seventh resolution
>s as follows:
"7. That Lteuteoant Colonel Beaii, com
manding the troops in Santa Fe, the capital
of the Territory, tie requested to recominc ad
to the citizens of the several counties to as
semble in mass meetings as follows, to wit.
The counties of Sama Fe, San Miguel del
Bade, Bio Arriba, Sima Anna, and Bct
naiillo, to hold one meeting each at the court
boose of said copQlie», for the county of
Taos, two places of meeting are r< corn iicnd
ed —one m«eung to be held at the court house
in the town of Don Fernandez de Tans, for
the election of two delegatee to leprcsent
said town and the neighboring towns and m
habilaota, aud the other in the town of Lodi
Mora, to elect one delegate to represent earn
town and adjacent towns and inhabitants fur
the county of Valencia, it is recommended to
have four*place* of meeting—one lo be held
in Dona Anna, for the election of ooe dele
gate to represent said town and the towns
and inhabitants fouth of if one at Soeorro,
lor the election of one delegate to represent
said and adjacent town and inhabitants one
at Sabinal, to elect one delegate to represent
said town and adjacent towns and inhabitants;
and one at Valencia, to elect two delegates
to represent said town and the balance and
northern part of the said county of Valencia.
The said mass meetings to on the
10th day of September. 1849, at two o’clock
in the afternoon, for the purpose of electing
delegates to a general convention, to be held
m the city of Santa Fe, on the 24th day of
September, 1849, and that the rate of tepre
sentauon be regulated by the organic law of
the Territory, adopted by General Kearny.”
Lieutenant Colonel Beall approved the pro
i and issued a proclamation accord
ingly.
Independence in Cuba.
lh« “New-Orleane Crescent” translates
from the Spanish, the following extracts of a
private letter from a wealthy planter in Cuba
—dated the 16th ult:
Fhe patriots here are fast recovering from
i the depression and discouragement occasion
ed by the proclamation of the hero of Buena
i sl and by thn measures adopted by his
Cabinet.—Many who, before the late events,
had not given a thought to the subject of in
dependence, or who doubted its feasibility,
have been brought by the action of, the
American Government, and by the alarm
caused to bur authorities by the Round Is
landers, to reflect serio sly upon the matter, to
discuss it with their friends, and to examine
the competency of the means proposed to
achieve the ends desired. The consequence
has been a belter understanding among our
selves, and an increased confidence in our
ultimate success. So you may rely upon it,
the good spirit is abroad again through the
land—the spirit of Independence and Liberty
It pervades all classes, and has crept into the
very ranks of the armv. The Havana Regi
ment, lately sent by Roncali to Pueilo Prin
cipe, to fight the much dreaded Hound Is
landers, revolted against their officers, and
threatened them with death. The revolt
commenced with shouts of‘Liberty and Gen.
j Lopez!* The Captain General not daring,
i in the present critical situation of affairs,
to visit the Regiment with all the severity of
military law. has divided them into four parts
j and &ent them of! to distant and separate
stations.
"I need not tell you that the spirit of de
testation which the oppressed natives of this
Island bear to their important masters, as
sumes a mote decided character as the pros-
I poc: of getting iid of these master* draws
1 nearer.
"The persecution of the creoles suspected
of disaffection has commenced, or rather re
sumed its accustomed course. There are
two prosecutions for conspiracy now’ going on
r in Trinidad and in Mantanzas. The accused
are numerous. Many others are now in jail
for the same olTcnee. I will keep you ad
vised of whatever may turn up worthy of
publication.
I “A new spy was sent out from here to
1 New York bv the steamer Ohio, and anoth
er is ready to be shipped lo New Orleans by
the return of the same steamer. These, spies
have been elected from high life, the belter
to dul, suspicion and to enable them to pene
trate into every circle,”
THE NORTH STAR.
I ROCHESTER, NOVEMBER 23, 1849.
Letter from the Editor.
Pkovidence, R. 1., Nov. 16.
There is always more or less interest felt in
1 absent friends in the meetings and conventions
of those laboring upon common ground for
i the overthrow of slavery. While the anti
slavery cause is neglected and despised—
while those who- are engaged in it are the
subjects of miarrpresentation, calumny and
h abuse, by a corrupt press, and a canting pul
pit —and while abolitionist, are bound togeth
!t r by the strong ties of common suffeiings
and sympathies, this interest will continue to
be felt to the most dislant extremeties of our
ranks. Anti-slavery meetings are a sign of
i anti-slavery life. Discussion—bold, hot, and
j exciting, is the natural element of the latter.
It delights to meet the people face to face—to
look into the eyes and hearts of men. Speech.'
speech! the live, calm, grave, clear, pointed,
warm, sweet, melodious and powerful human
voice, is iis chosen instrumentality. The pen
j is not to be despised, but who that knows
anything of the might and electricity of speech
as it bursts from hearts of fire, glowing with
light and life, will not acknowledge the supe
riority over the pen for immediate effect. As
tronomy, Zoology, Botany, Conchology,
Chemistry, and Geology, are fit subjects for
the pen, but humanity, justice and liberty, de
mand he service of the living human voice,
j aud the power of exalted eloquence, as their
exponent.
Slavery can use the pen at the North with
considerable impunity. It can gild its deadly
poison w ith beautiful aud attractive colors, and
escape 'with little harm. Ink and paper have
no sense of shame—they cannot blush under
exp -sure, nor smart under rebuke and indig
nation. But just let slavery present its bra
zen front to the great congregation of living,
breathing human beings, and its ugly "phiz”
is at once covered with confusion. The pro
slavery clergy, and dough-faced politicians
know this, and therefore, seldom venture into
onr meetings fot the purpose of opposing us
face to face. They silently, basely lay in
wait to catch us in our words, that they may
use our mistakes and foibles against us when
we are not allowed to reply. They know
that slavety is a poor orator when confronted
by an abolitionist, and they wisely keep si
lence. But enough.
I took up my pen to give a hasty account of
the fourteenth annual meeting of the Rhode
Island State Anti-Slavery Society. It com
menced iis deliberations in this city on Wed
nesday morning at II o’clock, and continued
till Thursday night nearly 11 o’clock. The
occasion lias been one of a highly gratifying
'•haracier. 1 he spacious Mechanic’s Hall
i was at times etowded at every point with a
v «y respectable class of people, who listened
l w nil profound attention to the glorious thoughts
and truths that poured at limes from the plat
lorm Hie first morning meeting w*s but
tb.nlv attended—the abolitionists themselves
bad not come in and at the hour appointed,
the vacant hall presented a sad appearance.—
Abolitionists should be prompt on such occa
sion, as much depends upon a right com
mencement for a happy conclusion, though
the ptesent meeting may sem, tobe s contra
diction to tins statement, We started vad
and desponding but ended in the most cht*r
fui and hopeful spirit. The speaking
commenced on Thursday morning by C. C.
Burleigh, who, in his usnil masterly style,
reviewed the present aspect of Anti-Slavery
i
iffa.rs. North and Sooth. The coed—ien
from w hich was, that anlr-sUvery men have,
the strongest ground for encouragement. Hie
speech ess listened to by the scattered few
with a thoughtful stillness which showed that
his words were received into good and baoeet
hearts. Mr. Burleigh was followed by Dr.
Walter Chanoing, of Boston, in a highly in
teresting and touching speech. He alluded,
in a delicate and feeling manner, to the name
be bore, and the state of bis birth. Congrat* j
ula ted on on the goodness of oar cease, and.
the certainty of ita success; described his emo
tions while listening, in the British Parlia
ment forty years ago, to a speech from the lipe
of the meek-spirited bat dauntless Wants*
force contrasted the Wilberforce of that
day with the Wilberforce of history, and ar
gued therefrom a day of triumph and glory to
the present anti-slavery movement. He said
he had seen William Lloyd Garrison dragged
through the streets of Boston, only a few
years ago, with a halter about his person; but
behold the change! The man thas persecu
ted, has become great in the land, and his
opinions have overspread the country, and are
echoed on the banks of the Pacific by a hun
dred thousand voices. This sentiment was
loudly cheered by the audience, showing that
they appreciated its truth as well as its beau
ty. The Dr. was in the city on a professional
visit, and was compelled to leave at an early
period, greatly to the regret of the audience
The morning session ended by a few remarks
from myself. In the afternoon the meeting
was much larger than that held in tbe morning,
and presented a livelier appearance. The fa
ces of old and dear friends greeted me, from
various parts of the hall, which told me that
anti slavery was not dead in Rhode Island,
that there were yet a chosen few who were
not weary in well doing. Eider Cheeney
was upon the platform when I reached the
hall. Some one had informed him that
thoughts were entertained of abandoning the
R. I. Anti-Slavery Society. He had only
heard that the thought had been entertained,
but the bate mention of it had called him to
his feel—and he poured forth hia feelings and
arguments against it in a strain of eloquence
which frequently elicited the hearty approba
tion of the audience. Mr. Cheeney referred
to the religious views of Mr. Garrison, and
declared that though a believer and a minister
of the gospel of Christ, he felt happy to occu
py the anti-slavery platform with William
Lloyd Garrison. Here a theological alterca
tion took place between the speaker and Mr.
Ray Potter, who denounced Mr. Garrison aa
an infidel, and a pope and said that when
Mr. Garrison had any influence in the Rhode
Island Society, he (Ray Potter) had never
been treated with respect and courtesy in its
meetings. This controversy soon spent itself
by letting it alone, and the proceedings again
went on regularly. The annual report was
read by Cyrus M. Burleigh. A business
committee to prepare resolutions was appoint
ed, aud several pertinent speeches were made,
and the meeting adjourned to meet again at
half-past six o’clock in the evening.
At the time appointed, the house was crowd
ed, and the platform reinforced. There was
no lack of speakers C. C. Burleigh, Charles
Lenox Remond. C. M. Burleigh, George
Bradburn, Mrs. Sophia Liitle, Ray Potter,
and Mrs. Redlow, besides many of the rank
and file who could give tongue to the cause of
the bondmjn, were present, and ready to work
when opportunity presented. The evening
meeting was first addressed by C. C. Bur
leiglt, on the importance of keeping the sub
ject of anti slavery before the country in ita
most concentrated form. He was followed by
our friend Charles Lenox Remond, who spoke
with great effect, showing the pernicious in
fluence of slavery upon all classes of the peo
ple of this country—tho white as well as the
black man. As a colored man, under the ban
of a wicked prejudice and cruel proscription,
1 listened with pride and admiration to the el
oquence of this accomplished colored orator.
If he stood alone, without another in the land
to vindicate the manhood and mental power
of ray oppressed, despised and plundered peo
ple, his single example would be sufficient to
put to silence and to shame the miserable and
degrading theories with respect to us. Mr.
Remond was followed by Mr. Bradburn, who
spoke with unusual ease and effect. The au
dience were pleased with his wit, and laughed
heartily at his humorous manner, and his sin
gularly extravagant gestures. 1 must not
pretend to report his speech for fear of mis
representing him.
After Mr. Bradburn, the writer was called
to the platform, and addressed the assembly
till nearly ten o’clock, when the meeting ad
journed to ten o'clock Thursday morning.—
Of the meeting during Thursday, I must refer
my readers to its official proceedings. I may,
however, say a word of the evening meeting.
It was the greatest and most interesting of all.
The vast hall was densely crowded, and being
brilliantly lighted, presented a grand scene.
There was light and life there. Hearts to be
touched, and judgments to be convinced.
There were heads and face# that evinced the
presence of age and experience, and told the
speakers that intelligence and dignity were
expected to characterise the occasion. A se
nes of resolutions was on the table, involving
the whole question of a dissolution of the
Union. Those front the business committee
affirmed the doctrine of disunion, and those
from Mr. George L. Clarke were of an oppo
s: j .racier. It was evident to all that a
reluctance was felt on the part of some of
the Providence friends to hn this subject din
cus»~U Mr. Davis, a member of the Slate
Assembly, ar 1 a member of tbe Rhode Island
State Anti-Slavery Society, hoped that the
subject would not be brought forward that
evening. It was, to hia mind, a question
better suited to smaller meetings, composed
entirely of abolitionists. After numerous re
marks from various speakers as to the propri
ety of bringing forward the subject, it was
agreed that each speaker should decide for
himself which of the resolutions, or aeries of
resolutions should form the basis of hia re
marks. The writer at once took the platform,
and in a speech of about thirty minutes open
ed the whole subject of disunion; whereupon
Mr. Bradburn was called to hia feet, and -~4t
ooe of the best speeches I ever heard, against
the doctrines of the Americas Anti-Slavery
Society, on the subject of disunion. He spoke
nearly an hour, and was rapturously applaud
ed throughout. He evidently bed the sympa
thy of tbs audience wuh him, sad sat down
with an air of triumph. But the «ti»wpk was
then. Charles C. Barkigh amended the
platform, and proeoaded to addima the
mg for a time ia a strain of convincing elo
qneoce, not even alluding to ih« *P eech to
which the audience had j«*t listened. This
wan, for the most part, to dear away tbe
meaningless and useless rubbish with which
the great central question bad been surround
ed. He went from point to point with the
spend and agility of an Arabian racer. First,
bn vend the resolutions; second, he referred
to the different aspects of the question to
which they related then gawe statement oi
the various points in their logical order. The
audience were atilL All bad been laughter
and pleasantry before —all was still now.—
On went the speaker. Truth had mounted
her swiftest chariot. The great lessons of
duty were made to shine like stars in the blue
firmament. He at length baited, and took up
a bit of paper; it was a paper containing the
points of Mr. Bradburn*a speech. One by
one he took them up, turned them over, re
plied to, and triumphantly refuted them.—
Mr. Burleigh was several times interrupted
by Mr. Bradburn, witn questions and replies,
but these formed no barrier to the iron strength
of Burleigh’s argument. They only called
forth finer and brighter qualities of mind from
the speaker, than be had before displayed, and
subjected the restless objector to more com
plete and disastrous defeats. Aside from
the glorious truths vindicated, and my sincere
interest in them, the debate on intellectual
grounds was worth going the whole journey
from Rochester to Providence to hear.
During the meeting, a hall was provided by
the anti-slavery ladies, where dinner and tea
were prepared each day, for the accommoda
tion of friends from the country. I have not
time just now for farther comment upon this
meeting it was a great and glorious one.—
F. D.
The Disfranchised American
Is the title of a new publication of small
size, we suppose intended to be issued weekly,
devoted to the interests of the colored people
of Philadelphia. It ia respectably edited artd
printed. If we may judge from the two first
numbers which we have received, this paper
will eapeciallyjrepresent the views of the pro
slavery religious and secret societies of the
colored people in Philadelphia. To speak
our mind candidly, we may say that we con
sider this new* publication uncalled for and
unnecessary. We cannot conscientiousry
wish it success. To do so would be equiva
lent to praying for the prevalence of igno
rance, bigotry and division to the overthrow
of which, our energies are constantly di
rected.
The "Rochester Anit-Slavery Fair”
has been postponed till the 16th of January,
to give time to make more extensive prepara
tions —neariy all the old articles left over
from other fairs haing been disposed of. We
notice by a report in the North Star, that
articles for the benefit of the cause, are now
sold at eleven different places in the vicinity
of Rochester. A box of goods has just been
received from Europe which will prove a
valuable accession to the collection on hand.—
It ia intended that the approaching fair shall
be equal to any of its predecessors in splendor
and variety.
We find the above notice in the Democrat
©f this city, and copy it for the purpose of
correcting a mistake into which our neighbor
has somehow fallen. Aiticles are not, so far,
mwe are aware, sold at any one place, for
the benefit of the cause, either in the vicini
ty of Rochester, or elsewhere. During the
last few months, Fairs have been held at
eleven different places; at some of them with
satisfactory success. From the statement
of this fact, in the report of the Committee,
published last week, this mistake has probab
ly originated.
The Rochester Annual Meeting.
The Western N. Y. Anti-Slavery Society,
will hold their annuafmeeting on the Bth and
9th of January in the city of Rochester,
which our friends in the city and country are
earnestly invited to attend. We feel that the
injunction "neglect not the assembling of
yourselves ought most faithful
ly tobe adhered to, remembering it is by uni-,
ted efforts that the bonds of the fettered slave
must be broken. We know that the laborers in
the great work of refotm are comparatively
few but, "Truth is mighty,” and we are
encouraged in believing “that the day of re
demption draweth nigh as we are assured
that the faithfulness of the few tried and devo
ted friends of freedom has already sundered
the chains and set at liberty many a despon
ding captive, and the reflection stimulates us
to a greater devotedness, knowing full well
that the corrupting and demoralizing effects
of slavery on our white as well as our colored
brothers and sisters, call loudly and impera
tively upon our holiest feelings, for energetic
action, while opportunity is yet afforded.
Considering the disabilities we are laboring
under, and the apathy of the mass around us,
on this vitally interesting subject, much has
been done in these parts during the past year;
but a steady, petsevering, uncompromising
devotion ia indispensable, and we hope that
while we labor with untiring zeal to strike at
the root of this infernal system, we shall re
member that bursting the fetters should be
followed by the genial influences of sympa
thy and elevation, and, that during our delib
erations some suggestions may be made with
regard to devising means to place the escaped
bondmen in situations in which their long
boned intellect, their manhood shall be called
out, that they may be prepared to receive the
truth; that they may be recipients of God’s
love, and thus be enabled to enjoy the boon of
liberty, of which they have so long been rob
bed. We again say to our fneods far and
near, Come op to our annual gathering, u beie
by a free and spontaneous interchange of sen
timent, we may scatter seed that will eventu
ally yield a rich harvest.
Frederick Douglass will be pi event, and
speakers from abroad will be invited to at
tend.
sarah d. fish, car. sac>.
Rochester,; Nov. 19th 1849.
D ax assort to Jou South.— Two young
men from the North came near getting into
trouble at Richmond, Va., recently, in eonse
qneoee of one of them jocosely asking a negto
waiter at the hotel if be would not like to go
to the North with them. He replied that he
wooU. Nothing more was thought of the
—ww until towards night, when they were
HWMd by a police officer and taken to jail,
where they spent the night. Tbe next rootn
ing they were brought before the magistrate
tho chaigo of tampering with a slave.—
Upon bearing tho cireumnunces they warn
The XfittvlMf jUffißf Mo»U
tegs for UmUftUM.
At the beginning of last week, some of
onr eitixsoa were well mg b eurtled oat of
their propriety, by the announcement, through
sdrertiseinenis and hand-bills, tbit a pahlic
exhibition of the “Jfytfersms Noses, s«p
posed to be Supernatural," which hare for
some time past been beard id thi* city, was
about to be given at Corinthian Hall. On
the evening appointed, Wednesday, the 14th,
a good audience assembled some of them,
we doubt not, really expecting to see a live
ghost exhibited. Mr. Capron, of Auburn,
late editor of the Anburn branch of the Na
tional Reformer, appeared bn the platform,
accompained by the two young women,
through whom “the spirit,” or whatever else
it mav be, makes itself manifest. Mr. Cap
ron commenced the proceedings, by deliver
ing an address, chiefly on the difficulties al
ways attendant upon the introduction of any
new science—which was all very true and in
teresting but in the present instance, as we
apprehend, rather foreign to the subject the
object of the meeting being, aa we under
stood, to prove whether or not this thing had
any claim to a scientific origin, not to apolo
gise for its imperfections and unpopularity.
After this introduction of the subject, the
lecturer proceeded to give an account of the
i rise and progress of the rapping. The story
j of the murdered pedlar, and the noise heard
in the bouse where the deed was supposed to
have been done, are too common-place to
i be repeated bete. From this story, vulgar a*
it is, the whole affair seems to have arisen.
Not a very satisfactory origin for what is
claimed to be the opening up of a new world
—the discovery of a new science. But be
i this as it may, it cannot be denied, that noises
were heard in that house, which, to this
day, have never been satisfactorily explained.
By a process which it would take too much
space to describe, it was found or imagined,
that this noise was intelligent, and answered
questions put to it, by rapping. The ques
tions being always such as could be answeied
affirmatively. A rapping was understood to
mean Yes a want of rapping to-mean No. It
was then found that this tiling could spell out
sentences by the slow process of rapping at
the !etters of the alphabet, gone over slowly
by the person in communication. This ia
the present state of “Me science The
moving of tables, pulling of coat-tails, and
other matters attributed to “the spirit,” may
be true; but as we have not seen them, we
1
cannot be expected to vouch for their truth.
The assertion that “the spirit” has learned to
write, and has begun to communicate its ideas
through pen, ink and paper, is also sufficient-
I ly problematical. We shall believe that it is
so, when we see the writing done.
During the delivery of Mr. Capron’s ad
dress, the knocking was distinctly heard at
the most distant corner of the Hall. It was a
hollow sound, as if of a slight blow with a
I mallet, followed by a rebound, on the boards
of the platform. It was always near or imme
diately under the feet of the two young wo
men before mentioned. Mr. Capron stated,
as the reason why lie appeared on the plat
i form, as the expounder of this thing, that on
a recent visit to this city, he had received a
j communication appointing him to the office
that he was very unwilling to engage in any
'such undertaking, and went home; that the
spirit or whatever it was, followed him to
Auburn, and rapped to him in his own house;
that it 6pelt out the words You had better go
there.” “Go where?” said he. The reply
speedily was, “You had better go to Roches
ter.” So he was not disobedient, but came.
At this meeting, a committee of five persona,
well know n to have no connection with the
matter, was, at the command of “the spirit,”
appointed to investigate, and report on the
next evening, in the same place.
On Thursday evening, a large number as
sembled. The Committee reported that they
had spent almost the entire day in testing the
genuineness of this affair, and could detect
nothing. On this evening Mr Capron again
lectured, in nearly the same strain as on the
evening preceding, and read a well known ac
count, of something similar, which was beard
by the household of John Wesley’s father.—
On this occasion, however, it is worthy of re
mark, that in relating the command given
him at Auburn, he stated it thus You had
better do that.” “Do what?” “You had
better go to Rochester.” Theie is a slight
discrepancy here which seems to. require ex
planation. Cither form of communication is
short enough, and we imagine might have
been accurately remembered, especially when
it was supposed that it came from “a spirit.”
On this evening another Committee was ap
pointed, to return to a meeting on the follow
ing evening.
On Friday evening, ihe Commttiee reported
that they had not been able to detect any im
posture. One of them suspecting that the
sounds were produced by ventriloquism, ap
plied the stethoscope to the chests of the
young women, and ascertained that such a
supposition was unfounded. It may be stated
that this iood committee heard the noi*e not
only on ihe floor, bat on the wails and doors
of the different 100 ms where the investigation
was made and that they were careful to se
cure, in order to avoid collusion, that no men-1
lion should be made of the place where they j
intended to make the investigation. On this;
evening, still another Committee was appoint
ed. Saturday evening, a very large concourse
assembled. Judge B.ssell was called to the,
chair. The Committee reported that they
had associated w ith them a Committee of la
dies, to »earcb the clothing of those young
women; that they bad found nothing, and,
were as much at fault as their predecessors.
One of this Committee confessed to us pri
vately, (though we conceive such confession
to b« premature), that he did not believe the
young women made the noise. On this last
evening, an amount of rowdyism manifested
itself, which we did not think it possible that
Rochester could have flung together. The
chairman himself was the leader of the mob,
and if any violence had been done, he would
juatly have been held responsible for it. The
whole affair may be a very glow fraud we
have been all along of opinion that n ia; but a
resort to the barbarous code of Judge Lynch,
imposture or no imposts cn, is clearly to be
"oodemned, and affords evidence of the exist
•nee of s very low state of public moiality.—
For a Judge to be the leader ia such outra
ges, is above all reprebeaaiblc. A week’s
lodging is tho jail would do soeh earn aa the
Judge who occupied the chair, a l *miU
amount of good. Let impostors be gxposed,
but by lawful and rational means
Io this state at present rests the matter.—
The sounds are supposed to be made by two
young women, end most, of course, continue
to be so supposed until suflfctent proof is giv
en to the contrary. Il they make this noise,
bow do they do it It ia not by any machin
ery fastened to their clothing for that would
have been discovered when they were exam
ined by the ladies' Committee, as we under
stand, “in a state of nature,” the noise-going
on as before. It is not done by ventuloquism,
as has been affirmed by the medical man who
applied the stethoscope, and who ia well ac
i customed to the use of that instrument. The
question has been asked, Has elecuieity any
thing to do with it The answer is, that it
has not; fot the persons have been placed up
on tumblers set on the floor; still the noise ia
heard, on, or rather under the boards. And
it ia heard, moreover, notooly in one room ol
one house, but in any room of any house
I where these two persons are. It does more
than rap. We ate told that this spirit, goblin,
imp, or hobgoblin, good, bad, or indifferent,
i also moves chairs and tables, and pulls people
by the arms and coat-tails. If this be true,
and if as “the spirit” says, tins thing will
soon be genera), oh! to be a school boy once
again! We might pull onr worthy preceptor’s
tails with impunity, and he would never take
the trouble to look round, under the impres
sion that it was only one of his mischievous
familiars having a pleasant romp. But what
is it?
Seriously, we must confess ovtaelves puz
zled. When asked if it is a spirit, it raps,
which is an affirmative answer. It professes
to be now not one nor many spirits, but aa
would appear any and every spirit. In oppo
sition to this idea, may be urged the very
blundering and silly mode of its communica
turns; arguing, at all events, a meaner intelli
gence than that of man. Then it pretends to
j know many things which men do not know.
We have asked the question and got the an
swer. But upon putting a definite question,
1 and getting an assurance of its knowledge on
some particular subject, and then following
this assurance up by a test question calcula
-1 ted to demonstrate such knowledge, it has in
variably failed to give a correct answer. Il
a spirit at all, it is therefore a lying spirit,
i Mr. Capron argues that this thing depends
upon some scientific cause; that it is spiritual,
but manifested in accordance with 9ome law ol
nature, which we do not understand. We
can readily agree, that if it is there at all, and
is spiritual, such must be the case but it
wants the first element of science—that is
certainty. The pedlar must doubtless have
been an old bachelor, for such a whimsical,
fidgetty mortal was never seen in any othei
situation. Atone time he (or they) will talk
without ceasing at another time in exacily
I similar circumstances, not a single rap can be
got. But what is it We do not think that
jwe are called upon at present to decide. The
matter is under investigation, and will no
doubt be made manifest. J. d.
A few words to Henry B. Brewster.
In the last No. of the North Star, I per
ceive a communication from thy pen in reply
to Wm. P. Mclntyre and J. W. Randolph of
Albany. The latter part of thy reply contains
some very plain and strong if not convincing
language. To one imbibing in early life the
idea, that man-stealing was a great crime,
and that American Slavery being founded up
on the system of manstealiug, could not be
much better, it was I confess rather startling
to read from the pirn of a professed religious
instructor, the solemn gsseveration of the be
lief that American Slavery is ordered by the
Almighty Ruler of the universe, and that “it
is the greatest blessing, next to our national
independence, this country ever enjoyed.”
If my opinion is one of the errors of my
youth, and thine correct, in order to convince
me and others in the a-me dilemma, of thy
sincerity, thou wilt probably take those step
daughters of thine in Troy, to the south on
thy return there, that they may participate of
the “blessing.” Or if they object, or the
measure otherwise fails, thou wilt probably be
willing to test the thing personally, say for a
year, or at least a month. And in order ful
ly to experience the blessing without any mis
take, it may be proper to place thyself in the
power of some master about to fail and become
bankrupt and perhaps use a little effort to
be sold to some one going to the rice swamps
of Georgia. I have suggested a very short
time for thy service aa a slave, in order that
thou might live through the most plentiful
bestowment of ihe “blessing” in its various
forms. Thou may perhaps have some chil
dren now at the south experiencing the “bles
sing.” In thy uezt letter please state wheth
er such is the fact. Humility is indeed a vii
tue and the compliance with the suggestion
proposed, would at strikingly exemplify it
as thy expression, that thou bast “absolutely
shed tears at the sense of thy own insignifi
cance.” j L. M.
Coluxs Cem/ier, N. Y. Nov. ISth 1849.
Natiomal Layout ox thi People op Col
or. —Frederick jtfougiasa is, at the present
tune, endeavour to form a National League
of the colored pvgo’e of America, in w hich all
their difference»ltt sect, party and elan, and
sit petty jealouiS and feuds, shall be abeotb-
ed and forgot the one great object—
“the right* and promotion
ol their The proposal generally
meets with s approval from U*.e more
intelligent of and will, e trust,
lead to more »ony and a closer unity
among them, i, otr petty divtsiooa sod feuds
perpetuate their wrongs. They are tno weak
to afford to taauate the quarrels of their op
pressors bat such a people can never be sub
jected and oppressed if cordially united in
feeling and action.— London Inquirer.,
Cot. Butov ivSt. Louis.-—Ax imciout.
—-Ai a meeting in the Court House, bt.
of the friends of Col. Beotoo, tbe
following incident occurred, while he wss
addressing the assembly. A paper contain
ing tbe follow tog inquiry was banded bun by
Judge Bowlin;
“Colonel Benton: As a constituent of
yourst 1 beg to aek tbe following question:
Should a territory south of 90 deg. 90 min.
ask for adnuaston into the Union aa a state,
with a clause recognising the institution oI
slstery, will yon vote for its admission pro
tided, iu constitution w republican iu its
form?”
The St. Louis Era. a Whig paper, says
that Col. Benton rneeited the little bit of pV
pnr upon which it was written, and Winging
h» quoting glass to bear upon it, at tbe
same ume following up h» remarks, i«dig
eantly spurned it from bun into the rruwd,
and u foil at the font of the man who preson
tediu without any farther netme fame bun
If. Y. Em, iVff-
Foreran Newt of Ike Week
Tbs America (Ctpt. Judkins) arrived st
New York on Saturday last, and brings in
tel I (gence one week later from Europe
E.NGLAMD.—The Address of ths Canadian
i Annexationists is exciting considerable suer.
uon in England, and supplies the newspapers
with a subject. The Times *»y» that “it re
flects great credit on the tact, skill, tod adroit
neaa of its authorsbut adds in refereitcs
to the assent of England to tbs measure—-
j’*lo surrendering Canada, they will take cars
t not to surrender one jot of sea or land ihs
i poasesaioii of which really and effectively con
i cerns the maritime and commercial impor
isnee of Giest Britain They w ill not cede
Nova Scotia they will not cede Cape Bre
ton they will not cede those sea boards and
harbors which mast ever command ;he moutft
ol the S>t. Lawrence, and protect the trade of
the Atlantic.”
•‘doming Chronicle has a leader on
the same,subject, and tn a somewhat similar
I T ein. It speaks of the idea of dismembering
i Abe empire “amicably and peaceably,” ass
i“kind of grave irony,” which it should be
ow t 0 impute to the first merchants, land
(holders and professional men, of any city in
j the Queen's dominions. It calls the attention
j Lord John Russell to thesubject, and warns
11 him that agitation “which has now a
i j good deal of the appearance of a nucuvess*
platsanierie may assume a shape seriously dis
agreeable to a First Minister of the Crown,
i *nd practically inconvenient to the tax-pay
i ing public.”
One Lieut. Gale, an aeronaut, tn a lettsi
to the Morning Herald proposes a novel plat,
for the discovery of Sir. John Franklin. He
volunteers bis services, as an aeronaut, to ac
company any party who may be engaged in
the service of the government, and states hi*
conviction, that from his experience in navi
gating the air, some benefits must result. Hu
slates, that at an altitude of two miles, s pan
orama of at least 1300 miles would be placed
within observation. A correspondent of the
Sun, at the instance of Capt. Reid, of the
Pacific, who has a brother with Sir John
states that lie (Capt. Reid) feels assured that
the natives have not seen ’the missing vessels
His ieason for coming to such a conclusion i*
that the distance overland between the two
points spoken of, is only 215 miles, and that
if the natives had been there, they could and
would have brqught some intelligence from
the parlies.
The papers give an account of an inquest
before Mr. VYakley coroner, on the body of
an American merchant, named James Miller,
residing in Northampton square, London. It
appears from the evidence that the deceased
1 had suffered much from gout and erysipelas,
from which he had partially recovered, and it
was supposed the commission of the act wa»
attributable to the fear of a relapse.
The recent disagreement among the Wes
1 leyan Methodists, is creating a great sensation
in that body. A meeting was lately held in
the Free Trade Hall, at Manchester, to pro
mote Wesleyan reform, and, listen to addre*
ses Irom the expelled ministers and their
friends. Between six and seven thousand
persons were present.
The Clyde steam packet arrived at South
ampton on the 2d inst., with the mail from
the West Indies and, has brought $820,000,
which had been received at the Isthmus of
Panama.
On the 30th ult. the Hecate steam sloop
was ordered in commission to convey Sir
Henry L. Bulwer, ambassador to this country.
It was expected that Kossuth would arrive
at Southampton on board the Peninsular and
Oriental Company steam packet Sultan, and
preparations were being made for the illus
trious Magyars reception. The Sultan was
expected to arrive on the oth inst.
The Queen Dowager Adelaide has had a
serious illness, and it was thought was getting
worse.
In Ireland, evictions are still going on, in
some places by the wholesale. The Limerick
miner states that seventy-four lamtlies
have been evicted fiom the property of Col.
Wyndham, m the county of Clare. Theii
dwellirgs have been left, with few exceptions
—•“hideous heaps of ruins.”
A Roman Catholic clergyman of Dublin,
in a forcible letter, repudiate* the revival ol
agitation either under the guidance of Mr
Gavan Duffy or of Mr. John O’Connell. He
had been solicited by circular to take part in
the grand national conference which is shortly
to come off. In reply Rev.C. P. Meehan says
“Concilliaiion Hall is s very cheap con
cern, and a person of ray apostolio mean*
might easily get access to all its fun and re
eraw-isms for the moderate sum of Id. a
week, which, after all, is but l-2d more than
I used to pay when a child for a peep into sun
dry show boxes far more amusing than that
one set up by Mr. John O'Connell at Bmgb
quay. Join you I won’tfor, although thq
fact of so doing might not, could not, sho»*' 4
not, would not, and ought not to
qualified lor a lunatic asylum, n* vertfielees,
were Ito join you, some of my we iwtahtrt
would begin to think tha» j WM tap#log |a|#
that state of mental imbecility wbich u j t
from softening of lhe brain.”
Napoleon has dismissed
his mioi**‘ ert t ap p Mr 30th
*ll U>' d ministers, with the exception of M.
Q’iillmi Barrot, assembled in council, at the
I Elysee. M. Louis Napoleon addressed them,
*nd after eapressing his sympathy and esteem
for the person of each, declared that in bis
opinion his Cabinet had not known how to
preserve its independence towards the majori
ty of the Aseewbly. He then alluded to the
recent discussioo on the sffkire of Italy, sod
concluded by giving them to understand that
they no longer possessed hit confidence, and
that ho intended to coll other persona to his
councils. At two o’clock on the same day, s
decree ot the Piesideot, signed by himselt
alooe, was published in the Mootteur, appoint
ing the new ministry. They ere complsioed
of as unknown men. Amongst them are M
Ferdinand Barrot, Home Department; M. A’
D. Kaynval, Foreign Affairs; M. Dumas,
Commerce and Agriculture. At hsif-past
M. Dupin communicated a message from
the Pi evident to the Legislative Assembly,
in hieh Lou j states his reasons for dismis
sing the former ministry. Ihe Times corres
pondent says, that ths general opts ton pro
son need on this message, a, that it “is not
the act of s man who believes that his power
ts to come to so end at the penod fixed by tho
oowstttuuoa; the igrtmic** put of the |<epsE
particularly striking.” The Globe
correspondent says that “the message gives 
notion, with the exertion of that part in I
which he speak* of Napoleon, and of himself
it the ejected of the lOtli ot December.*’ The
sudden change i* the sole, topic of conversa
uun in Pari*. The various political parties
are much enraged. The Legitimists and
Bv'urbonists abuse the President, awl the Red
Republicans, because the latter indicate a film
determination to resist all attempts to create
anarchy. The general opinion is, that it will
be favorably received in the provinces.
The President's firmness in the crisis has
pTcduced a great sensation It is now gener
ally believed that the conductor the Ministers
in shelving or officially throwing overboard
the Present's letter has contributed princi
pal to their downfall.
The Debatt describes the affair as a coup de
theatre. The Xational designate* the mes
sage as the act of one who w ill be a despot on
the morrow if he care. The Reforme isequal
lv violent. The Constitutional and Ptem
are silent; the latter, probably, from Guar
din'* absence. The Legitimist journals,
among other* the Gazette de France which
warns the President of Charles the Tenth's
fate, are all furious. The Steele alone is l
friendly.
It appears that the President is determined
to hold aloof from the Red and moderate sec
tions of the Republicans. I
Roms. —The financial and commercial dif
ficulties of Rome continue to increase. No
constitutional maxims are allowed to prevail
with the cardinal triumvirate, respecting the
method of raising money or levying taxes.
An extraordinary edict has been issued, tax
ing the proprietors of lands and houses to the
amount of one-sixth part of the annual prop
erty tax contributed by that class of citizens.
The preamble sets forth the penury of the gov-'
ernment resources, the necessity oi procuring
cash. &c.; but as might have been predicated
of a clerical government, never hints at the i
immense resources at the disposal of the
church.
The time of the Pope's return ol course
depends entirely upon the decision ol the
French Cabinet; and that these are expected
to be favorable, appears from the preparations
going on for the reception of His Holiness.
Austria and Hungary. lhe Russians;
have now entirely left Hungary. The Coun
cil of war at Presburg, on the i2oth ult. sen
tenced eignt more persons u} chains and im
prisonment lor having taken part in the insur
rection
There has been a special committee ap
pointed for the purpose of securing the plun
der of Count Louis Batthyany’s estate, which
the milnaiy sentence confiscated.
The Emperor is already beginning to vio
late the solemn pledge he made to his sub
jects not to re-establish the eensoiship.
Strict orders have been issued to all lhe book-.
sillers of retina not to publish any book,
whatever without the permission of the police.
Russia and Turkey.—'The Parisian jour
nals publish the following telegraphic dispatch j
from Gen. Lamouciere
To the Minister of Foreign Affairs
St. Petersburg, Oct. IS, 1819.
Count Nesselrode notified yesterday to the i
Ottoman Envoy that the Emperor, laktng in
to consideration the letter ot lhe Sultan, con
fined himself to a demand that the relugees'
should be expelled from Turkey. Fuad Et
fendr regards the attair as settled.
The following letter has been addressed by-
Gen. Bern to the Sultan
‘Sire;—l have always fought against the
Emperor of Russia, your enemy and ours. 1
latterly went to Hungary, sail impelled by
the same feeling. Your Majesty is aware ol
the obstacle* winch stopped the success ot our j
arms. I now come to place my teeble means
and lav nay devotedness at the service ol vour
Majesty, to combat the common enemy, the,
Emperor of Russia, and to offer you a guaran
tee of my zeal, and my devotedness, 1 de
clare my wish to embrace islamism.
No less than 300 of the Hungarian refu
gei* have become converts to Islamism.
Sir Stratford Canning has sent passports to
Gen. Guycn, the Irish officer; and the Brit
ish subjects, who had been in the service ol
Hungary. They were daily expected at Con
•tantmople.
The Emperor Nicholas has addressed a
Jitter to the Sultan, informing him of the ter
mination of the Hungarian war. In it he
charges Prince Radzivil, who was to present
the letter, to inform the Sultan of all the de
tails of the late events in Hungary. He
praises what he calls “the wise, fwm, and
correct attitude of the delegates of the Sub
lime Porte, at the time ot the aimed in
vasion attempted by Bern in Moldavia, the ob
ject of which was to ptovoke an insurrection.
He then comes to the matter in hand
“It will be the object of steps which 1
charge my representative to lane with tie
Sublime Porte relative to certain Polish relu
gM», who alter havirg rendered themselves
guilty of high treason toward my govern
m.„i, tuve more recently taken c™“
pan m the events which have desolated Hun
g *Wrfh the sincere desire that no cloud may
arise between our two empires, 1 attach a
high price lo lhe satisfactory solution ot this
affair.”
Sfain.— ln lhe midst of frequent changes
in almost every other a ale in Continental Eu
rope, this country usually so disquieted and
turbulent, has preserved a remarkable tran
quillity, not even relieved by a change ol
Ministry or a Cailist using. But on the lbtn
nit the alrong rule of Nartack »a» anJJcnlv
b.okn" upo". hi Um, Ury d S ,S
Tb« n,s,ry VTIZ
...j with Gen. Clonard at tta Iread. l»n
ihg new Ministry wa*
dava later, however,
j a Vtarvad reinstated. A teie
dimussed, end Narvsez
orauhtc diapatch lo Pam .Uarward. at,
[,minced tlieeecoud disrmaaal cf
the re-appointment ol Clonard. J
teat news, however, gives yet another change
-namely, that Narvaez has once more retur
ned to power, and has taken ample vengeance
oo all who were instrumental in tripping up
his heel*.
The new American Minister has forma y
presented himself, and has disclaimed, in the
name of the President, the doings of the par
tv who proposed to seize upon Cuba.
{Nwmo Citizenship- The Republican re
commends that a colored man be elected to a
seat m cbe Legislature, for the purpose of set
fling the question, whether a coloied man can
he cmxio or but. A colored man, if ou.
memory be correct, was elected a member ol
tut House of Representatives, tome years ag«J
-noun® questioned his right u> a seat, but he
»ti persuaded to resigu before entering upon
•hi discharge of hw duties a* a legiSiStor
Muuon Pott.
The National Lengne— Objection*.
Colombia, Nov. Uth, 1849.
FaiKND Douglass The object of a "Ns-;
tional League." or a union of the oppressed
for the sake of freedom, “i* a subject of aocb
magnitude" and importance, that those ta'ho
may not regard it as being attainable under
the present civil and religious organizations of
this country, are inexcusable for remain,ng
silent.
You have well and truly said, "let no one
hesitate to speak because he thinks he sees
insurmountable difficulties in the way of the
movement. We want discussion—we want
action.”
The expediency of ah organized union j
among our people has long engaged my atten
tion, and I do most freely confess that it ap- j
pears to me to be a subject that is fraught w ith
difficulties and dangers, as well as promises
and blessings. 1 have neither the time nor
the necessary qualifications to engage in pub
lic discussion, and have been anxiously wait
ing to aee some able polemic pen engaged in
the fruitful theme. My present object in wri
ting is to afford you an opportunity of more
fully explaining the principles and measures
necessary to its accomplishment.
I believe that the motto, "Union of the op
pressed for the sake of freedom," will be in
terpreted by the pro-slavery press, to mean an
union of the black against the while man, and
the overthrow of Ameiican Institutions. For
however strange and unnatural it may appear,
it is nevertheless true, that the success of any
movement among ourselves is more dependent
on the praise of our enemies, than the labors
of our friends. For of late our denunciations
have been as unerringly directed agai .st ab
olitionists as slaveholders. When you shall
have launched the "League" in the pro-sla
very current of this nation, you will be obli
ged to answet the nautical questions, viz
“From whence do you hail 7 What is your
object 1 and to what port are you destined?"
or receive a broadside.
You well know that we have no security
in the divine nature of our object, for that be- j
ing interpreted in the popular tongue, means l
“devil incarnate,” and vestal purity of mo
tive —a rapacious desire to corrupt all that is
"good and holy" in the affections of the mul
litude. So deeply seated are the religious
and political prejudices against which we have
to contend, that virtue and vice change their
character to suit the complexion of the actor.
During the recent eventful-period of nations,
the press has been teeming with the fate of
"Leagues" for civil and religious reform, and
the proclamation has gone forth that God is
on the side of the strong.
It will be useless to say that this is not a
complexional question, for its success would
depend on so stating it, —and the collision
springing from its action against public senti
ment, would be more likely to increase and
concentrate existing prejudices, than scatter
and disseminate them. It is, therefore, no
less a dictate of interest than humanity, to
avoid a “complexional issue."
I therefoie assume, that while we have no
national existence “as a people," w’e can have
no national institutions; and if this position
be true, the "League,” in a national point of
view, falls to the ground. 2dly. That the
history of nations shows that a distinct civil
and religious code has been the only success
ful rallying point calculated to unite any peo
ple—and as the colored people of this county
are for the most part disfranchised, and with
out any distinct religious faith from that ot
their oppressors, they are without the elemen
tary principle calculated to cement them in
the bonds of confederation. 3dly. We have
the example of history that the religious in
stitutions of both ancient and modern nations
were made subservient to the civil power, and
so regulated a 9 to.aid in securing and trans
mitting temporal, as well as spiritual blessings
among the people. Now, the colored people
of this country are almost destitute of civil
and political power, and are also without a
distinctive religious faith calculated to promote
their temporal interests, but have (what in
my humble opinion is worse for them than no
religion at all) copied and adopted the pro
slaveiy tenets of American Protcetanism as
they exist in the Methodist,Presbyterian, Epis
copalian, and Baptist denominations, whose
consolidated point of union is a belief in the
existence of God, and the natural inferiority ol
the colored people. Il cannot, therefore, be
expected that people who have sincerely and
honestly (though unfortunately.) adopted
those creeds and theories which have (for a
series of years) been enforced by interpola
tions of scripture, hewn out by cunning and
scientific theologians, for the purpose of per
peluaiing the infernal dogma of our inferiori
ty, can have a just respect for themselves, or
feel within them those vivid pulsations, whose
soul-inspiring throbs a:umate the bosom ol
manhood. No, it cannot be—every iaw ol
the human mind rejects such an affirmation.
Man is naturally a religious being. His re
ligious nature constitutes his highest element.
If he stoops from his naturally erect position
before lus God and his follow man, and copies
the religious theory of his aggressor, he then
feels religiously happy in whatever makes his
oppressor happy. While the former thanks
IIS God that he was born to rule, the latter
thanks God that he was burn to serve.
The religion of those Protestant sects is so
antipodal to the freedom and prosperity of our
people, that no w hite man can successfully
advocate our equal claims to citizenship with
out first losing caste in the church, and there
repudiating lus religion altogether. In my
i humble opinion, if our people ever become
j united in the prosecution of objects for the
promotion of their common welfare, it will be
j w j,en they have erected ihe altar of a new re
ligion over the grave of Sectarianism
WM. WIiIPPER.
j Collins Free] Produce Association- its
odvantages, dec,
i The people of Collins, are very much like
the people elsewhere, being quite willing that
a few of their number should do all the labor
aud have all the honor of a work of reform
i until H is nearly consummated, when they are
equally willing W share in ihe triumph if any
»lo lie gamed by Tim remark ~11
apply politically although intended foi anoll.-
er purpose.
•j 1..1 aome year. *hc.e bate bee"
vicinity i.o petaona »hd notcomeni ■lib
ihe uaual done. of the Abolitions, “W*
common acceptation of that leno. They have
cl,oa.n to apply their labor, to direction
calculated to cripple *ha eoergiea of ihe aU»o
power or hmen the overthrow of slavery.
Accordingly they hate singly and alone ap
plied the abstinence principle to the products
of slave-labor. More recently finding some
to sympathise with them and a consequent in
crease in numbers, there has been an organ't
nation formed bearing the name of the head
ing of this article. The members of this oi-
calculate beforehand about how
much sheeting, sugar, calico, die., they will
need respectively, and pay the estimated cost
m advance, which is forwarded to New York
or the American Free Produce Depot in Phil
adelphia, accompanied with the account of the
kinds and amount of goods wanted. They re
gard slave products the price of blood and op
pression. The advantages as already to tome
extent witnessed are: Ist. A testimony against
slavery that will ere lung be felt and appreci
ated, and without which no Abolitionist can
be consistent. 2nd. The removal of the sec
tarian bigotry and prejudice previously
exhibited. 3d. A discouragement of the fur
ther multiplication of the Non-producers in
the world. Aside from the subject of slavery
then, there is this decided use it prevents
mercantile monopoly and saves the profits on
the goods for the use of the consumer. When
this system is perfected, there must of course
be mote producers and consequently less op
pression.
It is to be hoped that the contemplated Na-
tional League ''ill incorporate the fiee prod
uce principle into its constitution.
I w ould ask, that the readers of the Noith
Star would seriously consider whether they
are not iosing much of the influence they pos
sess by neglecting the scriptural injunction ot
“touch not, taste not, handle not the unclean
ihing,” the present use of which is rendering
sucli aid to slaveho ders. L. M
Collins Center, 11th mo. 1849.
Proceedings,
Of the fan Maryland State Contention of the Colored
Protutmt Methodut churches held in Baltimore,
Md. onjhe morning of Saturday Oct. 18tA 1849-
Pursuant to public notice, a number ot
clergy arid laity of the different colored Prot
estant Methodist churches assembled at
10 o'clock A. M. The Rev. Nathaniel Peck
of Israel church called the convention to or
der. Singing and prayer by the Rev. Adam
S. Driver. Divine service being ended, on
motion the Rev. Nathaniel Peck was called
lo the chair, and the Rev. S. W. Chase was
employed to act as Secretary.
The following list of delegates entitled to
seats was presented by the chairman and on
being called was answered toby those present.
Israel Protestant Methodist Chuich Baltimore.
Rev. Nathaniel Peck, Rev. Adam S. Driver,
13to. Wit:. Anderson, Bro. Henry Gross,
l3ro. John D. Burgess, Bro. Anthony Wil
iams, and Bio. Henry Martin. Providence
Protestant Methodist church Elkton, Md
Rev. John S. Scar and Bro. James Ross.
Rear Hill church Md: Bro. Aquda Scott.
3t. Thomas's Protestant Methodist chuich, i
Slate of Delaware; Bro. Henry J. NV lUiiams.
The following brethren of sister churches
were mviied to sit as corresponding members
,f the convention: Presbyterian church Bal. j
Rev. S. W. Chase. Zion Meibodist Episco
>al church Balt. Rev. John J. Moore. Col
,red religious society of Quaker Brothers,
Via Bro. Washington Gray and Bro. Luke
The Convention being duly organized, the
Rev. A. S. Driver made a few laconic re
marks in relation to the object of the conven-.
lion. He stated, that the professed object of
ihe convention is to excite and combine a plan
more systematic and efficient than has hereto- j
fore been accomplished in the colored Protes-,
tant Methodist churches, and to unite in one
inseperable interest all the colored Protestant
Methodist churches in the United States, j
And in order to accomplish this object, be
advocated the propriety of calling a geneial
convention of colored Protestant Methodists
to meet at such time and place as this conven
tion may deem proper to recommend.
Immediately after the conclusion of the re
marks of Bro. Driver, the following resolu
tions weie passed unanimously:
Resolved, that this conventionde em it expe
dient to call a general convention of colored
Protestant Methodists, to deliberate upon the
must efficient plan to advance the general in
terest ot the church and the kingdom of our
blessed Loid.
Resolved, That the said general conven
tion bo held in the city of Philadelphia, on
the morning of the first Monday of June, in
the year of our Lord one thousand eight hun
dred and fifty.
Resolved, That we appoint a committee of
five brethren to issue a call for the general
convention, and to recommend to the colored
Protestant Methodist churches located in the
several states to call Stale conventions or con
ventional meetings to appoiut delegates to
represent n.em in the coming general con
vention.
Resolved, That the following brethren be
the committee: Rev. Nathaniel Peck, Rev.
A. S. Driver, Pev. John S. Scar, Bio. Hen
ry J. Williamson and Bro. Henry Martin.
Resolved that the committee be authorized
to issue a thousand Ciiculars in letter form
for the call of the convention, and that each
church here represented pav an equal portion
of the expenses.
Resolved, That we adopt for oiagovern
meet such portions of the di&ciplu.e of the
Protestant Methodist church as will suit the
condition of out people until we can provide
a discipline for the government of the color
ed Protestant Methodist churches.
Resolved, That the Rev. Nathaniel Peck,
and A. S. Driver, be appointed missionaries
to visit the different colored Prot* stanl Meth
odist churches, or any others wishing to be
come connected with the Protestant, until the
sitting of the general conve^Jon.
Resolved, That the proceedings of this con
vention be published in the Baltimore Sun,
Pennsylvania Freeman, Noith Star and Anu-
Slavcty Standard.
Resolved, That we adjourn lo meet on
Monday morning at 10 o'clock in this church.
The convention met acoording to adjourn
ment on Monday 15th inst, and was opened
by the chairman with singing and piayer.
The proceedings of Saturday were read and
approved of, and on motion it was Resolved,
That the convention adjourn sine du.
NATHANIEL PECK, Chairman.
S. W. Chase, Secretary.
The Electric Telegraph.— Forty col
umn* of the October number of the Edinburgh
Reimc [N. Y. editioa by L- Scott] are occu
,.,ed with an essay on the progress of the
Electric Telegraph a special work on which
>a announced as being m preparation by
Bit ish electrician. The
work onelectiic telegraphing [Pans, 1849,]
i, scaled to be the only systematic treatise on
the subject yet before the public—well-order
li. methodical and peispicuous—lively eo
and instructive, and “peculiarly
,e V al hU*for Its ample diecuaaion of the rela
2its*/***--
hare contributed to tbe perfection of the tele
graph.
He it a little herd, in tbe body of ha tree
tbe, upon Profeieer Mw*e. whom be areesea
of claiming too much adding, by way of?
justification of the Profeoaor, and of ba oura
judgment upon bun, that ‘Frere Jonathan eet
tret exalte, de sa nature
“Bv dissolving a few pieces of reeial, con
nected with a long wire, we can develop in
stantaneously, a thoutand miles off. a force
which will apeak for us, write fur us, phot I
for us, and so far as the conveyance of our
thoughts is concerned, annihilates apace and
time —Shaksperc’s Juliet. refers u» ‘the t
lightning that doth ccaae to be ete one can j
say it lightens.'
The reviewer, albeit no one baa yet given
a categorical answer to the question What
is electricity l and although the learned do
not understand the nature of light, beat and j
magnetism, has no objection to discussing the
changes which matter undergoes when illumi
nated, heated or magnetised, lie finds that
‘‘the electricity of the friction-machine of an i
insulated steam-boiler, or of a thunder-cloud,j
has extraordinary.intensity, while its quantity 1
b oxcessively small. The whole electricity
of a destructive thunder-storm would not!
suffice for the i lectro-gtlding of a pin, so in- j
significant is its amount. A small copper
wire, dipped into an acid, along with a wire,
of .nc, would evolve more electricity in a
few seconds than the laigest fnction-electncal
machine, kept constantly revolving, would in j
so many weeks.
The essay in the Review is very instruc- i
live, and its descriptions lucied and concise.
Among other things, it throws out a hintj
(pages 245 and 246) that may yet be im
proved upon for sending electricity and its j
marvels across the Atlantic without wires, as j
it is now sent ccross the Thames iu England, j
Tribune.
Canadian Annexation.—M. Papineau,
the French leader in Canada, has written a
letter strongly in favor of the annexation of
Canada to the United State.
The Martyr age in Kentucey.—The
fact below is communicated by a correspon
dent of the Christian Chronicle of this city,
a religious paper, which we fear would hard
ly be roused to speak in a manly tone against
slavery, if a score of the ministers of its
church were lo be lynched and driven from
the south by the cowardly tyrants who trem
ble at every free word they hear.
“YVe are pained to learn that among other
consequences of this state of things in Ken
tucky, some of her best men are to be driven
out. The Rev. J. M. Pendleton, A. M.,of
Bowling Green, surpassed in piety,
activity and influence by no Baptist minister
in the State—born and educated there, and
himself a slaveholder has been so vilified
and alienated from his friends, on account of,
his open advocacy of the cause of freedom, 1
that lie can no longer be useful in Kentucky,
and has resigned bis church—a church which
for twelve or fifteen years has delighted in his
pastoral services, and grown up under them, i
but where he is no longer welcome. —lie
will remove with his family to a free State.” j
W/vc/n* Tm mill nsrtt
Notices.
Western New York Annual Anti-Slave
ry Fair at Rochester.
Thi9 fair will be opened the 16th of Janu
ary next, instead of December, as has been
before contemplated and published. The post-’
ponement will doubtless meet the approval of j
all concerned. Wc shall need more time for
preparation, as the old articles are nearly all j
disposed of, and this year we must have an j
entire new stock. We hope there are already i
many sewing circles formed* in different parts,
who are zealously engaged in making up the
great variety of useful and beautilul articles,
that are usually presented at oui fair. Mr e
ask every abolitionist, and every friend ol the
cause in this State especially, as well as
friends ia every other State, to feel themselves
bound to be represented, either personally or j
by donation, at the Rochester Fair. Let none
feel themselves excused from laboring earnest
ly to make this Anti-Slavery Fair worthy of;
the cause.
Some of our warm-hearted European friends, j
have already prepared and forwarded a box of
articles to aid us in this movement. Truly,
their disinteresteduess and devotedness ought
to tinge every slaveholder’s cheek with shame
stir every northern abettor’s heart with re
moise, and stimulate every abolitionist to
double zeal. The North Star we intend to
sustain, and we ask the zealous co-operation
of our friend* in so doing. Lectures are much
needed, and in this section of the State there
is a wide field for profitable exertion.
Seed diligently sown will yield a hundred
or a thousand fold, and the bread of truth cast
upon the waters will return after many days.
The personal attendance of anti-slavery f riends
at the fair is earnestly solicited, and confident
ly anticipated, and we trust that we shall be
able to make it more worthy the patronage ol
the community than any that has preceded it.
On behalf of the Fair Committee,
AMY POST
Appeal of the Philadelphia Association
The “Women’s Association of Philadel
phia” appeal to a benevolent public, and to
the friends of the Slave everywhere, to aid
them in their approaching Fair, the ob
ject of which is to sustain the “North Star
To those who are familiar with tne pages of
this paper it is unneceaary to speak of its
merit To those wbo have not seen it we
mav say, that we regard it as one of the very
best auU-slavery instrumentalities now in the
field.
We are the more interested m it, because
the editor is one of our oppressed race, and
admirably qualified by hisulents and moral
worth, to perform with credit the arduous
task of editing a paper devoted to our eleva
tion. We believe and trust that our fneods
will give us their liberal aid.
To our own people we look earnestly ank
hone full?. Sisters, Brothers, shall we lood
in vain! The iron has entered into your souls.
Ye go heavily, bowed down to the very dust,
dispirited, crushed bytbe weight of oppre*-
J, Ye hear the tennis of the enemy,
“Th<>v are so ignorant and unrefined. 1 bey
are jealous of one other! Ye. they unite
but it is only to put down one who is more
intellectual than the mass' P‘ ofe lhe
unerring langntge of conduct thst these as
sertions so often thrown in our faces are ma
licious slander*. Sustain F. Douglass, be
cause bis talents and correct principles de
mand your respect and confidence Seetain
him because ili*rtgbtto do so, and becaus
.weel peace the performance of so wot
1; ».usij jo-*-
b "T“e’'Fßr will be beW oe Ckriel— week.
Donation* for it may be sent to
H 4RRIET SMITH, 319 Lombard-street,
R 4CHEL LLOYD, 303 Pioe-sneet,
AMY M CASSEY, i 13Lombard-street,
Or to any number of the Association.
EjLmJ Am. Ltou A.-. Be.rax,
U.|f BiUOTT, riSTTI outs,
Lot?is* BaisTOL, Hclm
SARAH M. DOUGLASS, Cor. Sec’y.
aAnArt j{ 0 M MuUberrjfcl.
Philadelphia, eth
Pi TUT. A New Tyindoa gold *ek«r, i»
i letier to bis friends,.thus sums up tbo mo- 1
fii'OQ of affairs ia California '—**lt
neinest plane that stands not of doors, and
lie meanest cKrnate; not fit for a white man
lira it; blowy, din?, hot, odd, and aicklj.
[f you know when you are well off say in
ild New London.’’
Wistam’s Balsam or Wild Caiut
Ibtiii. J. E. W irwr Co., Utica, N. Y
Items lor fWi W. Fowie. Gantlemei*, l|
ia re seen wot ce« of com performed by “Dr. W w
ssr’s HaUam of Wild Chwry I hare bee troo
ped with in toy throat, atteoled with
lertß a>«d painful rough- I am now confined 10
ay boose in stormy awl four weather, cold winds,
tx. My bodily health ia &ebie, and 1 am non
ibout fifty-foe years of age. This tenderness off
nr tbn «t ca ne on abwt the year 1906, and baa
ruubted me ia my private sad profeasioael bo»i
ms*. so that 1 havs aerer been free from it since.
think my case is hard one for a trial of yoor
ne ticiae, hot! enclose to vou one dollar, which l
mderstand is tbs price. Phase a«od me a bottle, j
(f this baa a good effect, I shall need to send to
t Ts7K!!al*.
Lenox, Madison Co. N. Y., Oct. 18 IS4B*
J. E. M|rrer A. Co.,—-Gentlemen, a boot iwo
weeks since, you sent me a bottle of Wtstar’s B:»l I
quo of Wild Cher.y. I bare taken nearly all of it,
»nd find so much relief in using it that I inclose two
jol art for two bottles more. My cough wh ch had
wcome rerj serere, and was wearing me oot eery
Ea«t, has n arly sul*shind. I raise without much j
effort by coughing, and the tenderness in my throat
is serv much rebered. It seems to me to be the
xjly medicine to which I can look for permanent re
lief. Respectfully yours,
J. S. PALMER-
Lenox, Not. 13, 18*8
Alwavs signed I. BUTTS on the wrapper.
For sale by Post Willis; also byWm.,
Pit ki9.
The Greatest Article Oct.— Mr. A, B,
FanDoren, Milwaukee, i».
S«r: Please send hy the staee for the enclosed,
"ash f* Kir doif a of Sloan’s Ointment. 'lt t» the
freatut article out for all purposes for which it is
recummtnded. Truly yours, c
H. S. CARY.
THE RATTLESNAKE HUNTER! j
BY J. U. WHITTIER.
“Until my ghastly tale is told,
My lieai t within me burns'.”
During u delightful excusions in the
vicinity ofthe Green Mountain?, a few
years since, I had the good fortune to
meet with a singular character, known
in many parts of Vermont as the Rat
tlesnake Hunter. It was a warm, clear
day of sunshine, in the middle of June.
I saw him for the first time while en
gaged in a mineralogical ramble among
the hills. His head was bald, and his
forehead was deeply marked with ti.e
strong lines of care and age. His
form was wasted and meagre; but for
the fiery vigor of his eye, he might
have been supposed incapacitated by
age and infirmities for even a slight
exertion. Yet he hurried over the
huge ledges of rock with a quick and
almost youthful tread, and seemed ear
nestly searching among the crevices
and loose *crags, and stinted bushes
around him. All at once lie started
suddenly, drew himself back with a sort
of shuddering recoil, and then smote
fiercely with his staff upon the rock be
fore him. Another and another blow,
and he lifted the lifeless form of a large
rattlesnake upon the end of his rod.
The old man’s tyes glistened, but
his lip trembled as he looked steadfast
ly upon his yet writhing victim. “Ano
ther ofthe accursed race!” he muttered
between his clenched teeth, apparently
unconscious of my presence,
I was now satisfied that the person
before me was none other than the
famous Rattlesnake Hunter. He was
known throughout the neighborhood as
an outcast and a wanderer, obtaining a
miserable subsistence from the casual
charities of the people among the rocks
and rude hills, where his only objects
seemed to be the hunting out and des
troying of the Crotalus horidus, or rat
tlesnake. 1 immediately determined
to satisly my curiosity, which had been
strangely excited by the remarkable
appearance of the stranger; and for
this purpose 1 approached him.
“Are there many of these reptiles in
this vicinity?” 1 enquired, pointing to
the crushed serpent.
“They are getting to be scarce,”
said the old mau, lifting his slouched
hat and wiping his bald brow: “1
have known the time when you could
hardly stir ten rods from your door in
this part of the State without hearing
their low, quick, rattle at your side, or
seeing their many colored bodies coil
ing up in your pain. But as l said be
fore, they are getting to be scarce, :he
infernal race will be extinct in a few
years, and, thank God! 1 have inysell
neen a considerable cause of their ex
termination.”
“You must of course, know the na
ture ofthose creatures perfectly well,”
said 1. “Do you believe iu their pow
er of fascination or charming?’’
Th« old man’s countenance fell.
Jshere was a visible struggle of feeling
within him; and his lip quivered, and
he dashed hi* brown hand suddenly
across his eyes as if to conceal a tear;
but quickly recovering himself, he an
swered in the low, deep voice of one
who was about to reveal some horrible
secret.
“I believe in the rattlesnake’s power
of fascination as firmly us I believe
ia my own existence.”
“Surely,” said I, “you do not be-
lieve that they have power over
man bcinga?”
‘I do, 1 know it to he so!’ and the
old man trembled as he spoke. ’You
•re stranger to me,’ he said slowly,
as he scrutinized my features for a
moment, ’but it you will go down with
me to the foot of this rock, in the shade
there,’ and he pointed to a group of
leaning oaks that hung over the de
clivity, *1 will tell you a strange and
sad story ot iny own experience.’
It may be supposed that I readily
assented to this proposal. Bestowing
one more blow upon the rattlesnake, as
if to be certain of his death, the old
man descended the rocks with a rapidi
ty that would have endangered the
neck of a less practised hunter. After
reaching the place which he pointed
out, the Rattlesnake Hunter commen
ced his story in a manner which con
firmed what I had previously heard ol
his education and intellectual strength.
‘I was among the earliest settlers in
this part of the country. I had just
finished inv education at Harvard, when
I was induced by the flattering repre
sentations of some of the earliest pio
neers into the wild lands beyond the
Connecticut, to seek my fortune in the
new settlement—My wife,’ —the old
man’s eyes glistened in an instant, and
then a tear crossed his brown check—
‘My wife accompanied me, young, deli
cate and beautiful as she was, into this
wild and rude country. I never shall
forgive myself for bringing her here,
never! Young man,* continued he,
‘you look like one who could pity. You
shall seethe image of the girl who fol
lowed me to the new country.’ And
he unbound as be spoke, a ribbon from
his neck, with a small miniature at
tached to it. It was that of a beautiful
female, but there was an almost child
ish expression in her countenance, a
softness, a delicacy, and a sweetness
of smile, which I have seldom seen in
the features of those tasted
I even slightly the bitter wears of exist
ence. The old man w atched my coun
tenance intently, as I surveyed the im
age of his early love.
‘She must have been very beautiful,
I said as I returned the picture.
‘Beautiful!’ he repeated, -you mav
well say so But this avails nothing. J
have a fearful story to tell—would tc
God I had not attempted it; but 1 wil
go on. My heart has been too often
stretched on the rack of memory tc
j suffer any new pang.”
‘We had resided in the new country
nearly a year. Our settlement had in
creased rapidly, and the comforts anc
delicacies of life were beginning to bt
felt, after the weary privations ant
severe trials to which we had been sub
jected. The red men were few’ anc
feeble, and did not molest us. Thr
beasts of the forest aud mountain were
ferocious, but we suffered little from
them. The only immediate danger tc
which we were exposed resulted from
the rattlesnakes which infested out
neighborhood. Three or four of oui
settlers were bitten by them, and died
in terrible agonies. The Indians often
t told us frightful stories of this snake,
and its powers of fascination, and al
though they were generally believed,
yet for myself, I confess 1 was ratltei
amused than convinced by their marvel
lous legends.
‘ln one of my hunting excursion:
abroad on a fine morning, (it was jus
at this time of the year,) I was accotn
panied by my wife. ’Twasa beautifu
morning. The sunshine was warn
and the atmosphere was perfectly
clear; and a fine breeze from the north
west shook the bright green leave:
which clothed to prolusion the wreath-
I ing branches above us. I had left mj
wile for a short time in the pursuit o
game; and in climbing a rugged ledg<
of rocks, interspersed with shrubs aim
dwarfish trees, I was startled by i
quick grating rattle. I looked forward
On the ledge of a ioosenod rock lay i
large rattlesnake, coiling himsef as i
for the deadly spring. He was withit
a lew feet of me, aud I paused for ar
instant to survey him. I know no
why, but I stood still aud looked at th<
deadly serpent with a strong feeling o
curiosity. Suddenly he unwound hi:
coil, as if relenting from his purpost
of hostility, and raising his head In
fixedhis bright fiery eye directly oi
my own. A chilling and indescribabh
sensation, totally different from any
thing I had ever before experienced
followed this movement of the serpent
but 1 stood still and gazed steadily am
earnestly, for at that moment then
was a visible change in the serpent
His form seemed to grow larger ant
his colors brighter. His body inovet
with a slow almost imperceptible mo
tion towards me, and a low hum o
music came from him, at least it sound
ed in my ear a strange sweet melody,
faint as that which melts from th<
i throat of a humming bird. Then tht
tints of his body deepened, anc
S changed and glowed, like (he change:
of a kaleidoscope; green, purple, anc
gold, until I lost sight of the serpem
entirely, and saw only a wild and curi
ously woven circle of strange colors
quiyering around me like an atmos
phere of rainbows. I seemed in the
I centre of a great prism, a world ol
j mysterious colors and tints varied anc
darkened and lighted up again arounc
me; and the low music went on with
out ceasing until my brain reeled; and
fear for the first time came over me
The new sensation gained upon me
rapidly, and I could feel the cold sweat
gushing from my brow. I had certain
ly no danger ou my mind, and no defi
nite ideas of peril; all was vague anc
clouded, like the unaccountable ter
rors of a dream, and yet my limbi
shook, and I fancied I could feel the
blood stiffening as it passed along my
veins. I would have given worlds tc
have been able to tear myself from tbc
spot —I even attempted to do so, but
die body obeyed not the impulse ol
the mind, not a muscle stirred; and 1
stood etiii as if my feet had grown tc
the solid rock, with this infernal music
of the tempter in my ear, aud the bale
-1 tul colorings of tins enchantment before
me
‘Suddenly a new sound came on my
ear. It was a human voice, but it seemed
strange aud awful. Again, again, bul
I stirred not and then a white form
plunged before me and grasped my
arm. The horrible spell was at once
broken. The strange colors passed
from before my vision. The rattlesnake
was coiling at my very feet, with glow
ing eyes and uplifted fangs; end my
wile was clinging in terror upon me.
The next instant the serpent threw him
self upon us. My Vife was the victim!
The fangs pierced deeply into her
hands; and her scream of agony, as
she staggered back from me, told me
the dreadful truth.
‘Then it was that a feeling of mad
ness came upon me: and I saw the foul
serpent stealing away from his work.
Reckless of danger, I sprang forward
and crashed him under my feet, grind
ing him upon the rugged roek. The
groans of my wife now recalled me to
her side, and to tha horrible reality of
her situation. There waa a dark livid
spot upon her hand; and it deepened
into blacknesses I led her away.—We
were a considerable distance from any
dwelling; and after wandering for a
short tune, the pain from her wound
became insupportable to ray wife, and
she swooned away in my arms. Weak
and exhausted as I was, I yet had
strength enough left to cifry her to
the nearest rivulet, and bathe her brow
in the cool water. She partially re
covered and sat down upon the bank,
while I supported her head upon my
bosom. Hour after hour passed away,
and none came near us, and there alone
in the great wilderness, I watched over
her, and prayed with her, and she
died!”
The old matt groaned audibly as he
uttered these words, and as he closed
his long bony hands over his eyes. I
could see the tears falling thickly
through his gaunt fingers. After a
momentary struggle with his feelings,
he lifted his head once more, and there
was a fierce light in his eyes as he
spoke:
‘But I have had my revenge. From
that Jptal moment I have felt myselt fit
ted and set apart by the terrible ordeal
of affliction, to rid the place of my
abode of its foulest curse. And I have
well nigh succeeded. The fascinating
demons are already few and powerless.
Do not imagine,’9aid he earnestly re
garding the somewhat equivocal ex
pressions of my countenance, ‘that I
consider these creatures as serpents,
only creeping serpents, they are ser
vants of a fallen angel—the immediate
ministers of the infernal gulf!’
_ a. a
Years have passed since my inter
view with the Rattiesnuke Hunter; the
place of his abode is changed—a beau
tiful village rises near the spot of con
ference, and the grass of the church
yard is growing over the grave of the
old hunter. But his story is fixed upon
my inind, and Time, like enamel, only
burns deeper the first impression. It
comes up before me like a vividly re
membered dream, whose features are
too horrible for reality.— The Rover.
From the National Era.
PREJUDICE—A CONTRAST.
One day I watched a curious looking
nest of caterpillars, those worms that
are so daintily dressed up in their long
far. All were busily spinning out theii
silken webs, except a few, who were
pushed away because they had black
stripes through their fur. So they curl
ed themselves up, and rolled away, tc
spin their webs as best they could.
I came another day, and found they
all had wings of purple, or gold, oi
crimson spotted. No two were alike,
but all were so beautiful that they could
not tell themselves, which were the ones
that had the black stripes, when they
were nil wrapped up in their fur.
The morning sun beamed brightly
upon hill and valley, and sent its cheer
ful rays even among the dark glens and
woody dells of Edendale; fit name for
the wild and picturesque beauty of the
Susquehanna where Nature has been
lavish with her smiles and frowns. A
quiet and pretty villa graced Edendale,
and its beautiful loneliness was cheered
by a happy circle within.
A young boy, who made their heart
glad, skipped merrily forth, and, in a
freak of mirth bounded over the banka
and through the glens. The wind tos
sed his close curls as he ran, and bro’t
a warm glow to his dark olive cheek.
Away he went, shouting joyfully.
Hours passed, and the child waa
gone yet. Where can he be? Is he
lost? Is he drowned? were the breath
less inquiries. The mother grew fran
tic, the father anxious and excited.—
“Louis! Louis!” was shouted through
the woods, and resounded among the
rocks; but no Louis was there. Dave
and weeks dragged on, but notidings ol
Louis.
A crowd was gathered at a slave auc
tion in one ofthe large Southern cities.
One, another, and another, was sold
and then came upon the stand a youth
ful boy, whose beauty filled all with
surprise and interest. The terror
stricken child gazed around with a be
wildered stare. His little heart beat
wildly, and tears chased rapidly down
bis cheeks; but frightened at the threats
of the auctioneer, he pressed his hand
tightly over his mouth, to smother the
violent sobs that shook his frame.
There were the same glossy cluster
ed curls, the dark sparkling eye, and
the rich olive complexion, that marked
the joyous Louis of Edendale.
_“Going—going—gone!” and the
heavy stroke ofthe hammer, as it fell,
told that Louis was a slate.
He was quickly pushed aside; but,
as they were about to lead him away, a
horseman came with furious speed down
the street, and checked the reins ab
ruptly as he reached the auction stand.
Every one gazed at him in astonish
ment, as he leaned forward and looked
intently and breathless among the group
of slaves.
“Father! father!” screamed a strug
gling child, with a wild cry.
An instant more, aud the man, with
one bound, sprang upon the platform,
and gf a ped his boy. The slave-dealer
cowered before the imposing dignity of
the noble looking man who stood before
him, with his eye bent upon
him in rage and indignation, and his
quivering lip scarce finding power to
speak. The throng looked on eagerly,
expecting to see hts uplifted arm strike
the offender to the earth, as he claim
ed
“My child a slave! a slave? Have
you dared to setae and sell a te kite
child?”
The sympathising and excited crowd
could no longer restrain thair indigna
tion. Murmurs and threats broke forth,
and then cries of “Down with the kid
napper!” issued from tbc throng. The
story buzzed through the city, and the
gathered multitude were appeased only
wheo justice was meted out to the slave
dealer and his accomplice.
A young girl was seized and sent in
to slavery. She had been stolen away
from her old blind mother, who had
none else to care for her want*. Every
hour separated them farther and farther
as the young slave trod her way weari
ly under a blazing sun. She wrung
her hands and wept in agony as she
thought of the fate of her mother. “She
will strive with her sightless eyes to
find me all the day long Her feeble j
voice will call Lizzy! Lizzv! and she
will hear no aoswer but the lonely echo.
She will wonder why I am gone so long.
I cannot sit by her side again, and she
will not hear the voice of her child any
more, reading to her the Bible she lov
ed so well. How cheerless will be her
days, and how sleepless will be the
nights, for she will hear by and by that
Lizzy is a slave. Oh, my mother! my
mother! I can see you no more.”
She looked back with longing, ach
ing eyea, to where the woods and sky
seemed to meet, as though to catch a
parting glimpse of her home.
“On! on!” shouted the driver, aud
his long lash curled about the shrinking
form of tha weeping Lizzy.
In vain she plead when they sold her.
In vain she told them she was free.—
Who cared for her grief? Who was
there to give her justice? Who thought
of the mind, the soul, that was to be
trammelled? Alas, none! for her skin
was not fair! None sympathized with
her she was a black slave.
W T ho dares to despise the creatures
whom God has created in iiis own im
age, stamped with the glorious seal of
immortality, and for whom He sent his
well beloved Son to die? Is there a
Christian who cherishes such scorn or
indifference in his heart? Know thy
self!
Auburn, Oct., 1849.
HOW DO YOU SPELL “TURNER?”
“Mr. Reed,” said a Mr. Turner,
one day to a friend with whom he had
been conversing; “I have just been
thinking that your name is about as
changeable as any I know.”
“YVhy, how many ways of spelling it
are there?”
“Reed, Rede, Reid, Reade, YVrede,
Wread, and I don’t know ho\ many
more—ha! ha! lam glad my name is
not Reed.”
“Not quite so fast,” Mr. T. “you
have little to boast of in your own
name. lam inclined to think you will
find it undergoes as may varieties as
my own, if not more.”
“Imposible!” ejaculated Mr. Turner.
—“T-u-r, fur; n-e-r, tier, Turner; how
otherwise, pray, should you spell it?”
•'We shall see, said Mr. R.; “in the
first place you may spell it thus Thur
ner.”
“But on what ground do you use the
7%?”
For the same reason that you have
these letters in Thames, Thomas, rc.
If Th represents the sound of T in
Thomas, why not in Turner, or rather
ThumerV
“Well, this is but one change; what
others can you show me?”
“Oh, several. You are not perhaps
aware that the sound of u as in Tur,
and that of e as in ner, are each rep
resented by various vowels in our lau
gage, as well as by several combina
tions: thus, the u as in Tur by attorney,
our journey, motion, &tc.; aud the c as
in ner, by medlar, ea/th, stir, soldier,
answer, &.c.—Thus we may legitimate
ly spell your name Thornar, Thorner,
Tornear. Thornir, Thorneir, Thorn
wer, Thurn'ar, Thurner, Thurnear,
T' urnir, Thurnier, Thurnwer, Thour
nar, Th
“Hold there,” cried Mr. T., in as
tonishment. “I see you are never
going to stop. How many more
changes were you going to ring?”
“To tell you the truth,” replied Mr.
R., “I scarcely know where to end, for
1 have shown you but the twentieth
part of the changes your name might
undergo. But how do you like it spelt
thus—Tholognyrrn
“That’s far too much like Dutch for
my liking,” said Mr. T. “By what
process do you arrive at such an out
landish combination of letters to repre
sent Turner?”
“By a very simple one,” continued
Mr. R.: “In the word colonel, the
combination colo is made to represent
cur, and, by parity of reasoning. Tolo
or Tholo will represent Tur. In the
word gnaw, gn is the representative of
the sound of n, and why not use it for
the same purpose in yonr own name?
As in myrrrh, the combination yrrh
stands for the sound er, so gnyrrh will
of course be ner. Thus we get T-h-o
-1-o-g-n-y-r-r-h—Turner. Ha! ha! I
am glad my name is not Turner.
Fashionable Manners. —There is e
set of people whom 1 cannot bear—the
pinks of fashionable propriety—whose
every word is precise, and whose every
movement is unexceptionable; but who,
though versed iu all the categories ol
polite behavior, have not a particle ol
soul or of cordiality about them. We
allow that their manners may be abun
dantly correct. There may be ele
gance in every gesture, and graceful
ness in every position; not a smile out
of place, and not a step that would not
bear the measurement of the severest
scrutiny. This is ail very fine; but
what I want is the heart and gaiety of
social intercourse—the frankness that
spreads ease and animation around it
—the eye that speaks affability to all,
that chases timidity from every bosom,
and tells every roan in the company to
he confident and happy. This is what
I conceive to be the virtue of the text,
and not the aiekeniog formality of those
who walk by rule, and would reduce
the whole human life to a wirebound
system of misery and constraint.— Dr.
Ckahmer’i Sermons tn Posthumous
Works.
Thanksgivings. —The following’ days
are already appointed: Florida Ist
Nov.; New Hampshire, North Caroli
na, Isth Nov.; Massachusetts, Ver
mont, Connecticut, Maine, New York,
Maryland, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and
Washington City, 39th of November.