LETTER FROM WILLIAM W,
BROWN
London, Nov. *2*2d, 1849.
To Wendell Phillips, Esq.:
Dear Friend, —I observe in the A
merican papers an elaboratetliscussion
upon the subject of passports for color
ed men. What must the inhabitants of
other countries think of the people of
the United States, when they read, as
they do, the editorials of some of the
Southern papers against recognizing
colored Americans as citizens? In
looking over 9ome of these articles, 1
have felt ashamed that I had the misfor
tune to be born in such a country.—
We may search history in vain to find'
a people who have sunk themselves as
low, and made themselves appear as in
famous by their treatment of their fel
low men, as have the people ol the
United States. If eolored men make
their appearance in the slave States as
seamen, they are imprisoned until the
departure of the vessel ll lliey make
their appearance at the capitol of the
country, unless provided with free pa
pers, they are sold for the benefit of the
Government. In most of the States we
are disfranchised, out children are shut
out from the public schools, and em
barrassments are thrown in the way of
every attempt to elevate ourselves.—
And after they have degraded us, sold
us, mobbed us, and .done every thing
m their power to oppress us, then, if
we wish to leave the country, they re
fuse us passports, upon the ground that
we are not citizens This is emphati
cally an age of discoveries; but I will
venture tile assertion, that none but an
American slaveholder could have dis
covered that a man born in a country
was not a citizen of it Their chosen
motto, that ‘all men are created equal,'
when compared with their treatment of
the colored people of the country, sinks
them lower and lower in the estimation
of the good and wise of all lands In
your letter of the 15th ult., you ask if I
succeeded in getting a passport from
the American Minister tn London, pre
vious to going to Paris to attend the
Peace Congress. Through the mag
nanimity of the French Goverriment, all
delegates to the Congress were
ted to pass freely without passports.—
1 did not, therefore, apply for one
But as I intend soon to visit the Conti
nent, and shall then need one, I called
a few days since on the American Min
ister, and was furnished with a passport,
©1 which the following is a copy. If it
will be of any service in the discussion
upon that subject, you are at perfect
liberty to use it.
Legation of the United States of
America in England.
Passport .Vo 33.
The underaigned, Envoy Extraordi
nary and Minister Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America, at the
Court of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Ireland, begs all whom it
may concern to allow salffly and freely
to pass, and m case of need, to give aid
and protection to
MR WILLIAM W. BROWN,
a citizen ol the United States, going on
the Continent.
Given under my signature, and the
unprint of the seal of the legation in
fjondon, Oct. 31, 1849, the 74th year
of the independence of the United
States.
For the Minister,
JOHN C. B DAVIS,
Secretary of Legation.
so you see, iny friend, that though
we are denied citizeuship in America,
and re (used passports at home whan
wishing to visit foreign countries, they
dare not refuse us a passport when we
apply for it iu old England There is
o public sentiment here, that, hard
hearted as the Americans are, they fear
When will the Americans fleam, that if
THE NORTH STAR.
they would encourage liberty in other
countries,they roust practice it at home
If they would inspire the hearts of the
struggling millions in Europe, they
should not allow one human being to
wear chains upon their own soil. If
they would welcome the martyrs for
freedom from the banks of the Danube,
the Tiber and the Seine, let them libe
rate their own slaves on the banks of
the Mississippi and the Potomac. If
they would welcome the Hungarian
flying from the Moody talons of the
Austrian eagle, they must wrest the
three millions of slaves from the talons
of their own. They cannot welcome
the wanderer from the battle-fields of
freedom in the old world, as long as the
new world is the battle field of slavery.
Should the Kossuth* and the Wimmers
t visit America, they would be reminded
of their friends they left in chains in
Austria, by the clanking chains of the
Americau slave.
When we see the efforts that are
made in America to spread slavery
over new territory, and to put back ev
erything like emancipation, we .must
admit that our country is in a deplora
ble condition. But this, instead of dis
couraging us, should make us to labor
with renewed zeal. We must not give
the Americans any rest until slavery is
abolished. There was a time, in the
history of Athens, that the people want
ed the passage of more wholesome laws,
and to keep their wishes before the
law-makers, they wrote them upon the
wall of the city until they gained their
point. We will not write our wishes
upon the stone wails in America, but
we will write them upon the hearts of
the people of the entire world, until we
shame the Americans into good man
ners.
I was asked a few days since, at a
meeting, if 1 was not afraid that the ab
olitionists would become tired, and give
up the cause as hopeless. My answer
was, that the slave’s cause was in the
hands of men and women who intended
to agitate and agitate, until the iron
hand of slavery should melt away, drop
by drop, before a fiery public sentiment.
Yours for the slave,
WM. W. BROWN
MR. CLAY ON SLAVERY AND THE
NEW TERRITORIES.
Mr. Clay reached Baltimore from
Philadelphia on Thursday last, and met
with an enthusiastic, greeting. The
Baltimore American, after giviifg a
glowing account of his reception, says:
At 11 o’clock yesterday morning,
Mr. Clay, in accordance with previous
arrangement, took his position between
two of the parlors on the lower floor o.
the lioletr Both the capacious rooms
were immediately filled almost to suffo
cation, and the wish being loudly ex
pressed from alUfarts of the room that
the venerable matesman should address
them, Mr. Clay gratified them by mak
ing a few remarks.
After referring to the warmth of the
reception which had greeted his arrival
here, and the strong evidences of friend
ship evinced towards him by those who
then surrounded him, Mr. Clay pro
ceeded to remark [so far as our memo
ry serves us, for the crowd prevented
the taking of notes] that the gentlemen
of this city who had directed the letter
to him had referred in connection with
his return to the Senate to the grave
questions which had yet to be settled
there, great, threatening, and alarming
questions, wnich had arisen out of the
war with Mexico, and the annexation
to our Republic of territory formerly
belonging to that country. All who
were acquainted with these territories,
he thought, must have reached the con
viction to which his own mind had been
brought, that under no possible circum
stances was Slavery likely to be intro
duced into the Territories of California
or New Mexico. The climate, the
character of the country and its inhab
itants, and their industrial pursuits, all
forbade the likelihood of Slavery ever
being introduced there
That question had, however, divided
the people to an unexampled degree,
and created animosities to a most la
mentable extent. On the one side the
prohibition of the introduction of slave
ry into these territories is urged with a
resoluteness- and perseverance which
would indicate that those who urge it
really believe that if this prohibition is
not passed, slavery would be introduc
ed On the other hand the prohibition
is opposed with an energy and a perse
verance that would also seem to indi
cate that with them the belief exists that
if the prohibition be not passed, that
slavery might certainly be introduced.
But, gentlemen, (said Mr. Clay) I ap
peal to you—is there, under existing
circumstances, any probability that the
institution of slavery could be introduc
ed into these territories
Indeed, so far has the excitement
growing out of this question arisen as
to threaten the dissolution of the Union.
1 might have consulted prudence by
saying nothing in reference to these
exciting questions —bat asyou have re
ferred to them in your letter, 1 have
deemed it proper to thus notice that re
ference, and I would further say that on
one point 1 stand pledged under all
circumstances and in all storms—that
is, TO STAND BV the Union!—[enlbusi
astic applause.] In its dissolution I
cannot see the remedy for any evil,
whether real or imaginary—nothing,
nothing could be gained—all would be
lost by*it. By the diasolution of the
Union I see introduced with it all the
calamities, all the misfortunes, and all
idle horrors of civil war. [Cheer.
Untangling foreign alliances by the
severed portions of the Union would
follow dissolution, and wars—bloody
■desolating and continued wars would
succeedfuntU some bold and unscrupu
lous military chieftain should aaize the
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF -NO COLOR-GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN
liberties of all, and convert the whole
into one militaiy despotism. We should
then need no history of our'eountry, but
all that had' been written in that of
Greece—in that of her Phillip and her
Alexander—might be read as applica
ble to us. [Renewed and continued
applause.]
From tbe Oberiio Evangelist.
STATE OF JAMAICA^
The correctness of one position which
I have taken in showing the state of
things in Jamaica is questioned by
some, and I wish to look at it and ex
plain a little farther.
I say—“As the cultivation is devoted
almost exclusively to exports, and the
wants of the people are supplied by im
ports, the true state And prospects of
the Islaud may be very nearly deter
mined by comparing them for a given
year, and by comparing each, one year
with another.”
I am asked—“ Does this follow of
course?” It is acknowledged that in a
state of slavery it would probably be
true; but not in a state of freedom, on
the ground that the emancipated may
consume a fnuch larger part of the pro
ductions, and be in a prosperous condi
tion, though there should be a large
falling off in*he exports; and that the
imports might vary greatly, and yet the
Island be in a prosperous condition. I
am not here discussing the comparative
comfort of the inhabitants of Jamaica
under the system of slavery and free
dom. If I were to take up that ques
tion in the series of articles I have com
menced, many of the facts I have bro’t
forward to show the commercial and
agricultural state might then be view
ed in another light. On that question
I should show that the emancipated
people, at least the majority of them,
have gathered around them very many
comforts to which they were strangers
in the time of slavery, except as they
became acquainted with them in the
aggravated manner of seeing others en
joy them at their expense. I should
show, also, that the people consume
much more of the products of the Is
land than they did formerly. Ido not,
however, see but my statement is sub-|
stantially correct, since the peoples’
consumption of their own products will
not give them means to pay for the sur
plus of imports, and those imports are I
no', permanent stock which forms real
estate, or in any way increases the
wealth of the island, but are for the
current consumption of the Island, aod
are really consumed by the inhabitants.
The falling off of imports would not ar
gue the want of prosperity, but the
contrary, if the deficiency was supplied
by *boir productions, ttULJCbUA. iLtt
met by the capital of the Island, or for
the want of capital which is available
for such purposes, the surplus of im
ports becomes a debt in the shape of
mortgages in the hands of foreigners,
we think there are decided signs of de
cay unless a foundation is laid by the
process for a resuscitation of capital to
meet those debts. I see no way in
which this is being done, unless it is in
the discipline the inhabitants are pas
sing through to prepare them for wiser
and more economical management in
the future.
Yours truly, Wm. H. Evarts.
BAPTIST GAGGING FOR ANTI
SLAVERY OPINIONS.
From the Concord (N II.) Independent Democrat
Andrew T. Foss has been excluded
from the Salisbury Association. This
is a matter for New Hampshire anti*
slavery to mark. It is no sectarian af*
fair—it looms above the confines of the
Baptist denomination into the region ol
common humanity, it is extra-cathedral
No sect, no party, no church, no coun
try, can confine the anti-slavery cause.
How can the Salisbury Baptist Associ
ation?
This is no personal quarrel between
Foss and the Salisbury Association, any
more than sectarian. The phylacteries
of his creed are as broad as the mosl
popular “divine” among them. Hie
moral character unquestioned, his stat
ure as full, his form as comely as when
his hand penned theit;records —his chi
rography has not changed. For none
of these things do the Association care.
The President of the Baptist State Con
vention thinks “he is a Christian, and
would go to Heaven,” —“anhonorable
man,” but “his course injurious to the
cause of Christ,” and the Salisbury
Association exclude him—for what?
Because he will plead the cause of one
hundred and twenty-five thousand
brethren of their own faith who are rob
bed of their dearest rights—and degra
ded to the level of beasts—because h«
will labor for three millions of human
beings crushed under the ponderoui
wheel of American Slavery. I call up
on the anti-slavery men and women ol
New Hampshire, to. note this, that, in
the person of A T. Foss, whom the
Baptists of New Hampshire have spurn
ed, they are scoffed at and scorned, and
the cause they have cherished as the
apple of their eye” is spit upon and de
spised The Salisbury Association
have closed their doors against the
faithful Foss Let 4he heart of every
abolitionist be opened to him! Wel
come, Brother, to our heart. As long
as you stand upon the platform of anti
slavery, I will not flurry myself abort
the high heeled soles of your theology
If my toes are not crowned into the
same fit, and the cowhide boots of creed
are not used to grind into the dust the
already down-trodden dart, I will stand
side by aide with men of ell creeds and
colors', to labor for mankind, though 1
stand only on the cuticle hardened by
use that God ban given roe. And 1
venture to proffer you the welcome
of the abolitionists of New Hampshire
invite you to the ConvenUoo ol
free souln the country through-the
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1849.
world over. Yes, sod when that great
Convention shell assemble, end when
they shell coos from the North end die
South, from the East end the West, to
sit down in the kingdom of God, Christ
will invite you to e seat with the angels
and all the just made perfect, to reign
with him forever,|
The cause of anti-slavery is a dura
tion cause, and it becomes all true lov
ers of Christ to notice how the arch
fiend of this sham Republic is scaring
the consciencee of the "professors.”—
How he is gagging their mouths and
pressing them into his service—take the
Baptists, as they are just now in oar
minds. See bow they ere joined with
Slaveholders on one side, and striking
numb those who would undo the heavy
burdens, on the other side.
The American Baptist Missionary
Union's Constitution and Treasury are
open to slaveholders, although there is
a pretended separation. The Constitu
tion of the Union says:
"All the members of the Baptist
General Convention who may be pres
ent at the adoption of this Constitution,
shall be members of the Union. Other
persons may be constituted Life Mem
bers by the payment, at one time, of
not less than one hundred dollars."^
There is no prohibition hery or any
where else of slaveholders and their
money. The only requisite for office
is, "members in good standing of reg
ular Baptist churches." Here they in
vite merr who buy and sell the image of
God, and keep their brethren in a worse
condition than heathen, to participate
in their meetings and labors for evan
gelizing .the distant heathen, and in
teaching them a slaveholding religion,
while A. T. Foss is excluded from their
sympathy for his anti-slavery faithful
ness It is not only through this Union
that slaveholders are recognized as
Christian, but by fellowshiping the
American Foreign Bible Society and
the Publication Society; and by sending
an agent in the slateholding States the
past year to collect funds for the Union
Treasury. I merely allude to these
facts to show the true position of the
Baptist professors who are attempting
to vote down anti-slavery in the person
of brother Foss. I leave him to enlarge
upon it.
I know that it is pretended by most
of these sectarians that they h&va the
cause of the slave near at heart. How
much they love the cause will appear
from the following extract from an ac
count of the N. H. Baptist State Con
vention by one of its members. The
Convention was held October, 1549.
Eld. Worth, of Fisherville, presented,
a paper containing rules of order for
the obsfervahceof the Convention
There was nothing of special interest in
these rules, except the fourth; this was
substance as follows: when any subject
shall be brought before the Convention,
and any member shall object to its be
ing discussed, the President shall im
mediately put the question,—Shall this
subject be discussed If the Conven
tion vote in the negative, no discussion
shall be had thereon. As the question
oi adoption was being put, 1 objected to
the rule.
Ist. As unprecedented in any delibe
rate bodies, civil or ecclesiastical in our
State.
2d. As destructive of sound rights in
its operation. I called the attention of
the Convention to the operation of this
rule in our State Legislature, which is
strongly democratic, —that the rule
would deprive the Whigs of the right
to speak at all upon any measure, how
ever they might deem it of vital impor
tance' unless their Democratic brethren
might by courtesy vote them the indul
gence. That no political party in the
State would desire such unrighteous
advantage, none would submit to it.—
That it had been tried in our National
Congress, and after a brief life of infa
my it had gone to the grave, to be re
membered only with mortification and
regret. No reply was made to my re
marks; I did not expect it—the subject
would not have borne discussion. Ten
voted for it, fewer against it, and so
the rule passed—and will show to the
world the singular and humiliating fact,,
that the miserable rag of despotism
which some years since was torn from
the back of the American Congress,
has been picked up by the N. H. Bap
tist State Convention, and for one year
at least, at most, I hope, she wears the
shameful deed.
A report was read by Eld. Wright,
Chairman of the Committee on the A.
fc Foreign Bible Society, highly com
mending the Society. 1 moved to amend
the report by adding at the cloae, the
words ‘we deeply regret that this Soci
ety sent the pest year an agent into the
alaveholding States to collect funds for
its Treasury." The motion being sec
onded, I commenced some remarks in
support of the amendment, but here the
Convention found an opportunity to try
their new made fourth rule, and it work
ed admirably, closing aM lips in silence.
Previoos to the enforcement of the rule,
Elder Wright had said we bad no evi
dence that such an agent had been sent
to the South l proposed to ask the
agent, Elder Seaver, who only a few
days before bad acknowledged the fact,
and expressed bis regret that the Soci
ety had so done. It was at this point
that the rule was applied, it was a case
where it was greatly needed The
agent of the PoWication Society was
received with great pleasure, and every
facility was granted him to promote the
interests of bis Society. A report w«
made on this Society hy Prof. E. fr
Smith, commenting the Society toM
churches of the Stale. Now this Sect*
tw.
may manner whatever separatee iron
slaveholders; the Society is now, sail
ever has been, connected with the fiashj
mongers of the South in jibe closest
fraternity
Thera was present the astral somber
of agents, Eld. CnMßcott represented
the Northern Baptist Education Socie
ty, and the Missionary Union. Elder
Seaver the Bible Society. Eld. Fuller
the Home Missionary Society. Elder
Metcalf the Publication Society end
Eld. Piper and myself, the Free Mis
sion Society. Each of these agents bad
time appropriated to them to advocate
the claims of thair respective Societies.
I moved that brotbsr Piper be allowed
fifteen minutest some of the agents
used more than an hour, but I asked
but fifteen short minutes for brother
Piper to be beard, in setting before the
Convention the condition and prospects
of the Missions connected with the A-
B. F. Mission Society.
But they voted an emphatic No.
There were other developments bear
ing upon the same point*, which cannot
be presented in one article.
Christians and Abolitionists, ponder
these facts end.be stimulated to renew
ed exertions. Truth wit! prevail, though
Salisbury Association ao pass resolu
tions and Baptist Conventions enact
Gag Rules. H. O. S.
fEXTENSION OF SLAVERY.]
Letter from Mr. Foot*, of Mwusippi, to
Mr. CUngman of North Carolina.
Washington, November 10, 1840.
Sir —Being casualty informed ofjour
recent arrival in this city, I seize the
opportunity of invitiog your attention
to a subject of high importance to the
whole country, and of especial concern
to the Southern States of the confede
racy—one of which you have the hon
or to represent in the councils of the
nation. The session of Congress is
almost at hand, and indications are
abroad, and every moment multiplying,
which seem to render it quite probable
that the Wilmot Proviso, and the Abo
lition of Slavery in the District of
Columbia, will be again brought for
ward, either in the Senate or House of
Representatives, and supported by the
zealous and unscrupulous advocates or
these mischievous measures with in
creased violence and confirmed perti
nacity. It is most evident to me that
the Union itself will be put in serious
leopardy by the movements thus mena
ced, as I hold it to be certain that no
State of‘the South will patiently acqui
ssce in cither of the aggressions alluded
;o. I regret to perceive that there is
in erroneous impression widely preva
lent tat the North, that the South is
neither in earnest nor united in any
icheme of opposition and resistance to
;he insulting encroachments now so
lercety thr*s4«n«d. It lhim imprsssiqn
s permitted to remain uncorrected un
il either of the meditated outrages re
ferred to shall have been perpetrated,
t is to be feared that it will be to late
o save the republic from consequences
:oo dreadful to be contemplated witb
>ut a feeling of patriotic solicitude and
ilarm; whereas, it is my firm convic
ion that, if the the sober, thinking men
)f the free States could once ascertain
:he danger that demagogues and fanat
cal agitators are fast bringing upon
:hem and their unoffending brethren of
he South, by the advocacy of schemes
rf injustice and oppression, which can
not possibly result in practical benefit
to any section or State of the confede
racy, they would rise up, without fur
ther delay, and say to the agents of se
dition, who have heretofore I sported
with their credulity and abused their
confidence, that the period has at length
arrived when they will no longer per
mit them* in their name, to trample the
sacred provisions of the Constitution
under foot, aud embroil the Legislative
councils of the nation in unseemly and
wicked controversy. Taking this view
of the matter, and knowing that you
have had an opportunity of conferring
freely, during the past summer, with
pour fellow-citizens of North Carolina,
venture to lay before you the resolu
tions recently adopted by the Southern
Convention of the State of Mississippi,
and eall upon you to say whether or
not you approve of them, and whether
they are, in your opinion, approved io
the State of North Carolina, and the
South generally. Being a prominent
member of the Whig party, you will,
doubt lesa feel authorised to apeak in
language too explicit to be misunder
stood, as to the probable action of our
political associates in the South, shook)
the present seetional contest be carried
to extremities. In the Convention of
Mississippi, you will observe, both the
two great political parties of the coun
try were equally represented; the res
olutions, unanimously adopted by that
body, may be therefore regarded as
declarative of thefriews and feelings of
the whole State. However it may pos
sibly be elsewhere, I can assure you,
mom confidently, that the people of
Mississippi look upon the Slavery ques
tion, in its existing aspects, as above
pasty lam satisfied that this is the
condition of things generally in the
Soetb; and I hope that you will feel
justified in expressing a concurrent
opinion.
1 bad the honor of addressing, a few
days since, inquiries similar to those
now propounded to you, to your dis
tinguished colleague, the Hon. Willie
P. Maogum, who proposes, so soon as
the physical indisposition with which he
is at present afflicted will permit, to de
clare bis views on the whole subject, in
a Hmm m Mrti nt **V Anna
a some worn ennweaiorn. iam grat
ified tn know, and to he specialty au
thorized to state, that he felly and
warmly approves the proceedings of
ear Mississippi Convention, as was cer
tainty to be expected from ooe always
ready heretofore, aa be has been, to
defend the honor and safety of the
South against; aggressions, either ac
-t
j teal or meditated, from whatever quar
ter they might emanate.
I have the honor to be, very cor
dially and respectfully, your friend anc
obedient servant,
K. S. FOOTE.
Hon, Thomas L. Cuxcxax.
Reply of Mr. CHngman to Mr. Foot*.
Citt or Washington,
Not. 13, 1849.
Dear Sir—Yours of the 10th u.st.
baa been received, in which you ask
my own views, as well as my opinion
as to wbat will be the course of the
South in either Of the contingencies
referred to. Your position as a rep
resentative .of one of the States, and
the consideration due you personally,
merit alike a prompt reply.
Having on former occasions given
my views in detail with reference to the
whole subject, it is not necessary fur
me to do so at tVs time. I proceed,
therefore, to give you simply the gen
eral results of ir.y reflections.
The Federal Government, because
it is the goverrment ’of the United
States, is the trustee and agent for all
the States and their citizens. Every
Dower, therefore, which it can ightfnl
,y exercise, it must of necessity exer
cise for the benefit of all parties to i».
The territory of the United States, be
ing the common property, the Govern
ment is bound to administer it as far ns
practicable for the benefit of all the
States, as well as their citizens. A
difference, however, exists among
them in relation to the institution oi
Slavery. When the Constitution was
formed, twelve of the thirteen States
were slaveholding That instrument,
though it has cluuses expressly inser
ted for the protection of the rights and
interests of slaveholders, contains no
provision for the abolition of Slaver*
anywhere. If the Government, there
fore, can properly exercise such a pow
er in any instance, it must be because j
its duties as a general agent, acting so
as to meet the interest and view of it>!
principals, require it. But fifteen of!
the thirty States of the Union still nnin-1
tain the institution of Slavery. It isj
obvious, therefore, that the Govern
ment could not, consistently with its;
powers as a general agent, exclude the;
slaveholders as a class from nil partic
ipation in the enjoyment of the territo
ry pf the United lt is, on the
contrary, under srlemn obligations to!
respect the rights of all. It lias always j
heretofore, as I understand its action,
shown a sense of this obligation.—
When the much-talked of ordinance
was adopted, by which the territory
north of the Ohio river was made free,
all that portion of the country south ol
the river to the Gulf of Mexico was
toft to beimrajtted uy slaveholders.-
When Slavery was abolished in the
northern part of the Louisiana territo
ry, the southern portion, regarded as
most suitable for slaveholders, was left
so to be occupied. On the annexation
of Texas, when a provision against
Slavery north of 36 deg. 30 min. was
incorporated, much the larger and more
valuable portion was still left for the
use of slaveholders.
But now it is proposed to adopt the
policy of excluding slaveholders, ns,
such, from all the territory of the Uni-;
ted States. This would be an entire
revolution in the action of the Govern
ment—a revolution which could not oc-j
cur without a total violation of the spir
it and essence of the Constitution.—-!
Since those citizens who do not own
slaves are permitted to occupy every
part of the territory of the Union, it!
has been doubted by many whether the j
Government can rightfully exclude,
slaveholders from any portion of the j
common property. But even if there
should be a power to divide the public
territory, for convenience, between the 1
two classes, it is perfectly clear that
there can be no right to exclude one j
class entirely. I have therefore said
that I should regard such an exclusion
as being as great a violation of rhe:
Constitution as the Government could!
possibly commit. But even if this ac
tion should be viewed simply as an en
ormous abuse of power, it would not be
the less objectionable. The Govern-
ment has unlimited powers in relation
to the establishment of Post Offices!
throughout the Union. If, however,
it were to withdraw all the Post Offices!
from the aiaveholding States, on the
ground that the citizens of those States
were not worthy of the countenance
and aid of the Government, we should j
have as much reason to complain of
such action as if it involved a clear in
fraction of the letter of the Constitu
tion.
j In a word, if the Government should
adopt the policy of excluding slavehol
dera, as such, from all Hie territory of
[the United Stales, it 4ould, in soh-.
j stance and effect, cease to be the Gov
ernment of the United States. While
the form of the Constitution might re
main the same, its character would be
essentially changed.
Ought the Southern States to a cqui
esce in this great organic char ge in
oor political system’ Ought they to*
remain members of an association'
which had, in utter disregard of plain
constitutional guaranties, degraded
them from their position of equality
!As history furnishes no record of any
peophr who bays prospered after they
bad forfeited their self-respect; by sub
mitting to be degraded to a state of
political vassalage, 1 hold it to be the
doty of the Southern States to resist
this change. That resistance, to be
effectual, should bo commensurate with
,tbe riofenee of the attack. This they
owe to the cause of constitutional lib-
to justice, and to their, owe
honor.
j With reference to the nhohtkm of
Slavery in the District of Columbia, I
‘will simply say, that waiving all eoe-
JOHN DICt Pr*tfw*«
WHOLE NO. 108.
•j troversy m relation to coQstitattenaJ
r, ghl» arid obligation to the adjoining
State#, if such an event were to occur
at this time, it would not tike place in
obedience to the wishes of the citizen
the District, but would be brought
about at the instahe* of the inhabitants
ot the States. But these persons have
no i jnht to control the local affairs of
this District. Should Congress, there
fore, thus act at their instigation, it
would be guilty of an act of tyranny,
so insulting and so gross as to justify a
withdrawal of confidence from such a
{Government.
You ask, in the second place, what I
believe likely to be the course of the
South, should such a contingeny oc
cur? There was but oneof tbe States
having any considerable' number of
i slaves, in relation to which I had any
doubts From her position,
and the powerful influences brought to
bear upon her, I had some fears as to
what might be the action of Kentucky.
But I have been gratified beyond ex
pression by the gallant siaod which
that noble State has recently taken.
She has thereby shown that she will
not abandon her sisters in tbe hour of
danger, but that she will if Accessary,
take the front rank m the struggle for
the preservation of the rights and lib
erties of the white race of the South.
1 he union of both parties m Mississip
pi is a type that will occur elsewhere.
The Southern States ought to have but
one feeling on this question, as they
can have but one destiny, i have no
doubt but that over the entire South
there vvouJJ be a vastly greater unani
mity than existed in the old thirteen
slave States when they decided to re
sist British aggression. If a few indi
viduals should attempt to take a differ
ent course, they would be swept away
in the general current. Long before
the trouble should come to the worst,
the South would present an unbroken
front.
I am net aware, sir, that in making
so brief and concise a statement of my
views, I incur the risk of misconcep
tion and misapprehension; but I should
(eel that I did not appreciate the mo
mentous nature of the subject if I
could attach consequence to mere per
sonal considerations.
Very respectfully, your obedient
servant, T. C. CLINGMAN.
Hon. H. S. Foote.
P. S. Since the above letter was
written, it has been submitted to my
colleague, Mr. Mangum, ortd he con
curs lolly in all its general conclusions,
and avows his purpose to make known
his views at length at an early day, and
entertains the opinion that the Fede
ral Government has no power to legis
late or tl.e subject of Slavery, either
iiFfhc States or Territories, and tnat
all precedents, whether legislative or
judicial, because adopted without due
consideration, are not obligatory.
T. C. C
Flora the Snm'oeky Mirror.
THE SOUTHERN GAME-LOOK
OUT
Already the word has gone forth
that Calhoun and his followers wiilep
pose the admission of California as a
Slate, because the proposed constitu
tion prohibits slavery south of 36 deg.
30 m., the line of the Missouri Com
promise. Of course they will, but on
ly for securing their grasp upon Desa
ret and New Mexico. Any quantity of
bluster will be let off in opposition to the
admission of California, until doughfa
ces enough can he found lo admit Des
eret and New Mexico with territorial
governments containing no prohibition
of slavery To that end the whole in
fluence of the Taylor administration is
directed. 4 No matter whether slavery
is prohibited or not.” is already the
W hig shiboleth. And the South will
Compromise, [that’s the word] by ad
mitting California, if they can stave
the Jefferson Proviso from TwcATbjkds
OF THE TERRITORY.
We repeat in solemn conviction that
this will result in a usurpation of those
territories by slavery. As for New
Mexico, it adjoins Te\as: it is expo
sed to Arkansas, Missouri and other
Southern emigrations: U. S officers
already hold slaves there: and the
South are willing to run the risk of riv
eting slavery on the soil, if they can
have that territorial government, con
taining no provision on the subject.
W ell, how is it with Deseret, which
claims a W'estern boundary on the
116th parallel of longitude, and wilt
probably be suffered to extend to tbe*
Sierra Nevada in 116 degr Thai peo
ple have already adopted a territorial
government utterly silent as to slavery
and New Mexico, wc have reason to
to fear, will present a similar draft at
the next session of Congress. Do you
say that slavery will nst go into Dese
ret? It has gone there already. JU
cently, intelligence was received of
lurge agricultural operations earned oa
m me Great Salt Lake region by slave
labor, and the W ashington correspon
dent of the Baltimore Suo, writing un-.
der date of Nov. 14 saya:
“Another Sum will probablv be
founded on tbe Pacific by the 'Mor
mons, aud it is said that they ere slam
holders to seme extent, toed do not intend
to exclude slavery. So there will be an
other bone for the free-toilers to pkar*
And yet the entire whig pres* will
cry •'peace! peace?” “no pretest Car
agitation” Kc fcc., and when tha in
iquity U consummated, and by metHM
of a Clayton Compromise, a large pro
portion of our acquisitions are expeeed.
fatally exposed to the inroad of slavery,
then will it be discovered bow ftarittl
is the sacrifice of freedom and tuiitea
el honor, which tbe whig party have
concurred with tbe South to make,
rather than embarrass the Taylor ad
ministration. Freemen be on the alert.
California - the New Constitution
TWe new* by the Crwtern Cily differ* very
•lightly from that received a month *nc*
The Constitution agreed upon by the Cos*
venttoo of delegates has been presented 10
the people for ratification.
Gen. Riley, the ptemmt governor, has
uied a proclamation, calling upon the ettixena
to form a government fot themselves, and sta
ting hu wilimgnees to reaign his power* to
whomsoever the people may designate at his
atKressor.
The Constitution constats of twelve Arti
cles r t. Declaration of Rights; 2. Suffrage;
•3. Distribution of Rowers; 4. Legislative
Department; 5. Executive Department;—
6. Judicial Depattment; 7. Militia; 8. Slate
Debt*, 9. Education 10-j Mode of Amend
ing and Revising the Constitution; 11. Mis
cellaneous Provisions; 12. Boundary.
The first Article has twenty-one sections.
The following are among the moat promin
ent
Sec. I. All men are by nature free and in
dependant, and have certain inalienable rights;
among which aie those of enjoying and defen
ding tile and liberty, acquiring, possessing,
and protecting property, and pursuing and ob
taining safety and happiness.
Sec. 2. All political power is inherent in
the people. Government is instituted for the
protection, security and benefit ot the j•to
pis and they have the right to alter or re
form tiie same, whenever the public good may
require tt.
Soc. 3. The right of trial by jury shall b«
secured to all, and remain inviolate, forever;
but a jury trial may be waived by the parties,
in all civil cases, in the manner 10 be prescri
bed by law.
Sec. 4. Ths free exercise and enjoyment
of religious profession and worship, without
discrimination or preference, shall forever be
allowed in tbit State and no person shall lie
tendered incompetent to be a witness on ac
count of hie opinion in mailers of a religious
belief; but the liberty of conscience, hereby
secured, shall not be so construed as to ex
cuse acts of licentiousness, or justify practi
ces inconsistent with the peace or safety of
this State.
Sec. 5. The privilege of the writ of habeas
corpus shall not be suspended, unless when,
in cases of rebellion or invasion the public safe
ty may require its suspension.
Sec. 7. All persona shall be bailable, by
sufficient sureties unless for capital offences,
when the proof is evident or the presumption
great.
Sec. 10. The people shall have the right
freely to assemble together to consult for the
common good, to instruct their representa
tives, and to petition the legislature for re
dress of grievances.
Sec. 14. Representation shall be apportion
ed according to population.
Sec. 17. Foreigners who are, or who may
hereafter become, bona fide residents of this
State, shall enjoy the same rights in respect
to the possession, enjoyment and inheritance
ot properly, as native bum citizens.
Sec. 18. Neither slavery nor involuntary
servitude, unless for the punishment of crimes,
shall ever be tolerated m this State.
The second Article refers to the right of
suffiage. The hist section is as follows
Every white male citizen of the United
States, and every white male citizen I Mex
ico, who shall have electcJ to become a citi
zen of the United States, under the treaty id
peace exchanged and ratified at Quaret.uo, on
the 30th day of May, 1848, of the ape 01 j
twenty-one years, who shall have been a res
ident of the State six months next preceding
the election, ‘and the county or disitiet in
winch he claims his vole, thirty days, shall be
entitled to vote at all elections which aie now
or may be hereafter authorized by law. Pro-1
vnled that nothing herein contained shall be
construed to prevent the Legislature, by a I
wo-thirds concurrent vole from adiniliingj
to the right of suffrage, Indians or the de- i
scenoanis of Indians, in sucli special cases as'
such a proportion of the legislative body may
dceiu just and proper.
The Article on Education has the follow
ing provisions:
Sec. 2. The Legislature shailencouage, by
all suitable means, the promotion of intellect
ual, scientific, inoral and agricultural im
provement. The proceeds of all lands that
may be granied by the United States to thus
Stale for the support of the schools, w hich
may be sold or disposed of, and the five thou- j
sand acres of land granted to the new states I
under an act of Congress distributing the pro
ceeds of the public lands among the several
states of the Union, approved A. D. 1841
and all estates of deceased persons who may
have died without leaving a will, or heir, and
also such per cent, as may|begranted bv Con
gress 011 the sale of lands in this State, shall
be and remain a perpetual fund, the interest
of w hich, together with all the rents of the
unsold land*, and such other means as the
legislature may provide, shall he appropria
ted to the support of common schools through
out the Stale.
Sec. 3. The Legislature shall provide for
a system of common schools, by which a
school shall be kept up and supported in each
district three months in eveiy year; and any
school district neglecting to keep up and sup
port such a school, may be deprived of its
proportion of the interest of the public fund
during such neglect.
1 he Boundary is thus described
Commencing at the point of intersection of
the 42d degree of north latitude with the
120th degree of longitude west from Green
wich, and running south on the line of said
120th degree of west longitude until it inter
sects the 30th degree of north latitude, thence
running in a straight line in a southeasterly
direction to the River Colorado at a point
where it intersects the 35th degree of north
latitude, thence down the middle of the chan
nel of said river to the boundary line between
the United Slates and Mexico, as established
by the treaty of May 30th, 1848, thence run
ning in a northwesterly direction, and follow
ing the direction of the Racific Coast to the
42nd degree of north latitude, thence on ths
hue of said 42nd degree of north latitude to
the place of beginning. Also all the islands,
harbors and bays, along and adjacent to ths
Pacific Coast.
The Alta California of Nov. Ist, has the
following on “Politics in California.”
I lie new constitution has been submitted
to the people of California, and is to be voted
lor or against on the 13th proximo. The
adoption of this instrument will be almost
unanimous, it is believed.
The political fires which have slumbered
long remain pent up no more. Inconsistent
with the character of the inhabitants, the nature
of their occupation and the immediate re
quirements ol California a* it may appear
our cilixeua have in mass meeting ievived
political distinctions, zealously advocated ex
items if not ultra meaauies, and plunged into
the unhesitating support of party principles,
abandoning, tu many instances business pur
suits, and wholly forgetful of the chief desire
of their live*.
Ikm heated slate of public feeling is con
fined almost exclusively to the district of San
Ftanciaco The mass meeting of 1 lie friends
of Mr. T. Butler King held in tins city on
the 23d in si., was a firebrand thrown in the
magazine, a step from which lire democratic
poitioo ol this community dissented, arid the
following day an appeal 10 the paity was
made and answered by a strong demon
stration.
This meeting ol upwards of 1800 adher
ent* to the Democratic party, after prelimi
nary measures lor organizsuon, sdjourned,
and on ths 25th nisi., assembled again, ap
*w*ni#d a day lor ths election by ballot of a
«ommtuee to decide party nominations.
The iasoe el the approaching election may
be determined hi this district by a reeoene to
party politics. Ji is hand to asy which party
is ths strongest in this place- Whig ot Demo
crat.
There are nerneroua candidates daily pre
sented for the offices to be filled by the tfsc
tion of the 13th November. For Governor,
we have the names of Petar H. Burnett, W.
M. Stuart, W. 8. Sherwood; for limit.
Governor, J. McDougal, F. J. Lippi tt.
For Representatives to Congress, Edward
Gilbert, R. M Prine. G. W. Wright, L.
Dent, W. Shannon, and a list of names be
fore the people, of ths aspirations of which,
with the qualifications and prospects, wa
know nothing.
To the Senate of the United States, Cali
fornia will semi J. C. Fremont, and the
choice for the remaining seat will be probably
T. Butler King or H/W. Hal leek.
Gold is still to be obtained, by hard Jabot.
Says a correspondent of the Ban, writing from
San Francisco.
“From the gold mine* I bear varied ac
count*. —Several friend* of mine who have
returned from the mines, say that gold dig
ging is very “hard work." One says ha
averaged $l6 a day, for more than a month,
“but" he adds, “I have dug cellars in San
Francisco at $8 par day mining four times
harder work, but he would remain here earn
ing $6 per day rather than to return.
“Sickness prevails to some extent at the
mines among those who drink intoxicating
liquors, and expose themselves by over exer
tion, to the heavy dews. The expense of
living at the mines is enormous; 40 cts. per
pound for hard bread, everything else ip pro
portion.”
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, DECEMBER 14, 1849.
Oar Paper and its Prospects.
Now that the second volume of the “North
Star” is nearly completed,—that the closing
days of another year of varied life are hover
ing around us, and that the light of a new
year is soon to dawn, —it seems a proper (i tide
in our own affairs,” to offer a few words upon
“our paper and its prospects.” During the
present year, we have purposely refrained
from afflicting our readers with narrations of
our own personal toils, cares, anxieties and
difficulties. We hate anything like whining
1 and shall indulge in none of it now. If we
did not assume our piesent position intelligent
-1 iy, we did assume it voluntarily, and have,
therefore, met its responsibilities and duties
j most cheerfully; and shall continue to do so
w hile we continue to occupy it. Of regrets,
losses, disappointments, dangers and discour
agements, we shall say nothing here. They
I are the common lot of most men who under
take any great w ork for the welfaie of man
kind, and we are not singular in having a
large share of such dispensations. Besides
this consideration, we have the consolation
that the grace ol God has ever been sufficient
lor us; and for all sorrows, troubles and hard
ships, we have been doubly repaid in the sat
isfaction which ever accompanies a faithful
discharge of duty. Our joys have far exceed
ed our sorrows, and our experience has im
parted to us much that Will be valuable to us
through life. All this we deem a full com
pensation for our past labors and trials in ef
foits to keep our ''sable witness” in the field.
We shall, therefoie, make no complaints, but
dispense at once, with the past, and look to
the evei bright and evei hopeful future.
The first queMion which the friends of the
paper will ask, and to which they wish a defi
nite and decided answer, relates to the con
tinuance of the North Star. Do you mean
to continue the paper 7 To this we answer
in all sincerity, Yes, we do most certainly
mean to continue it. That much has been
fully, and we hope, advisedly resolved upon.
We have put away all doubt, timidity and
hesitation. “The North Star” must, and
will, remain a “fixed star” in the anti-slavery
sky, as in the “brave old overhanging firma
ment.” It was not at the suggestion of a
fitful impulse, or an effervescent aspiration that
we commenced the publication of this paper.
We considered the demand for such a paper
counted the cost —surveyed the gtound—and
engaged in the enterprise with a full pur
pose of heart. Our course is onward, and we
shaii neither turn back, nor turn aside and if
our earnest endeavors shall not be crowned
with success, the responsibility and reproach
shall fall elsewhere than upon us. With as
warm a heart, and with as much zeal as that
with which we have commenced, and with
which we have until now persevered, we shall
continue. Happily for us, thus far we have
fulfilled our hugest promises to the very let
ter, and this is the best assurance we can now
give to our readeis, of what they may expect
for the future. The North Star ought, must,
and (as far as our fiat can go) shall be sus
tained. Let all doubts be removed, and let
readers and friends unite to help those who
are at least deserting it—in that they display
a willingness to help themselves. Remember
that the most successful mode to defeat a
praiseworthy undertaking, is to fold our arms
and doubt— seriously doubt —if the undertaking
will succeed.
The stern necessity which called the
“North Star” into being, exists now, with all
its former force, palpableness and intensity.—
The radical evils it was designed in some
measure to eradicate—the malicious assaults
it was designed to ward off—the gross and
dangerous errors it was designed to correct
and dispel—the strong, overwhelming, and
almost resistless tide of cruelty and injustice—
it was designed to stay-~and the great and
glorious truths ofltberty, and human brother
hood, which it was designed and established
to vindicate and promote—call as loudly and
as forcibly now for the continuance of our
humble sheet, as when it was first summoned
into existence. The field is wide, the work
i is greet—there is woik for all to do, and none
need lay aside his implements or armor for
want of room to toil or to fight. The “huge
monster” slavery—the gteat central enormi
ty o| the nation —bulwarked by the church—
proiected by the State—sanctioned bv the re
ligion—and guarded by the clergy, ts yfMna
king earth a hell to millions their cries of
bitter anguish ascend to heaven by -day and
by night, unceasingly. 'Hie ear of the Al
mighty M disturbed—judgments, awful, terri
bl« and threatening, overhang the country.—
The obdurate aUvtholdet is bardemog bis
heart, and h now, more than ever, resolved
lu perpetuate his infernal doemn too. The
people of the North are yet banded wttbSomb
ern flesh mongers—the traders in the bodies
and souls of men The colored man, through
out the land, remains depressed, scorned sad
contemned. The foul, unnatural, unreason-
Hf and earoneonnhlo spirit of casts which hi
so long hunted, maligned and oppressed the
Mack mao, and which baa embittered all hie
joys, ia still rampant, and exulting in ita mie
cfaievoos and amadaliaa victories. By thia
aaholy and abaminally wicked prejudice, we
are excluded from equal mcwn—dcrinn in
the use of lev mhos is excluded from raspect
able hoists—excluded from Massons, Lyce
ums, Concerts, and aumy other places of pop
ular and useful resort ia this country. It
has denied us admiarioa to the jury box
compelled ua to be tried and adjudged in mat
ters involving panparty, and even lift itself by
men who cherish towards as naught but tbs
moat malignant contempt and hatred. It has
demanded respect for laws which we have bad
no 'voice in making—taxed as to support a
government which delights ia open disregard
of our rights—and forced an into allegiance to
a State which denies ua the meet needful pro
tection. It baa meanly driven our knowledge
seeking children from the gates of common
schools—our industrious boys from the werk
shopa—our girls from the factories—insulted
am) outraged with impunity our men and wo
men in the streets —expelled os from all the
favorable avenues of wealth, booor and im
provement—and with an iron sway compelled
us to gain a livelihood by the very least lucra
tive, menial, and (in the eyes of the commu
nity) degrading employments. This is no
fancy sketch, hut a simple picture of stem
and bitter every day realities. They have
long existed, and do now exist—and while
they continue to exist, they will continue to
demand, trumpet tongued, all true hearts,
right minds, and industrious hands, for their
complete overthrow and abolishment. We,
therefore, say again, and with additional em
phasis, that the necessity which called the
North Star into existence, now_ imperiously
demands its continuance.
But to these general reasons, there are oth
er and especial ones, which may be properly
added to the startling catalogue already addu
ced. We are especially singled out from all
other people under the whole Heavens, as the
objects 01*degradation. We are the injured—
it is meet that we should especially contend
lor redress. We are the victims—it becomes
us to appeal. To say that we suffer griev
ous wrongs, is more touching than to say
that they suffer wrongs. But above all, it
is needful that the colored people should have
a living, constant, palpable, and unmistakea
ble example to present in confutation of the
slander which] insists upon the natural inferi
-1 ority of our race, with which we are so per
petually and so injuriously assailed. And
what, may we ask, is a better example than
the regular publication of large weekly peri
odical, conducted by a fugitive slave, who
has never had the advantage of a single day’s
schooling, and has spent the best educational
period of his life under the dark and deprav
ing yoke of American slavery It is said
that we might be betted employed as a lectui
er than as an editor. We answer that none
need complain on that score, since we do both,
and have probably delivered as many lectures
—traveled as many miles—attended as many
meetings—and labored, as haid during the
past two years as any anti-slavery lecturer
now in the field. What we have done, we
mean still to do, while life and health and
slavery endure. It may be said that we say
this boastfully. Be it so—hut who can say
that we say it untruthfully No man. Well,
let no man who lias an anti-slavery heait in
his bosom, refuse to aid the North Star on
the unfounded pretence that its publication
would prevent our more useful and more suit
able occupation of the lecturing field. Many
of our warm friends have entertained this no
tion, but they must now see that ihejiolion is
unfounded. We admit the desirableness of
having efficient colored anti-slavery lecturers
in the field, and that a part of these should be
fugitive slaves; and of the latter, those who
have more recently escaped are, to our mind,
decidedly to be preferred. They tell their
story with a freshness and simplicity which
commends its truth to the hearts of those who
hear while the older and more experienced
speakers, who confine themselves to their
narratives, be thejf never so touching or har
rowing, their effect upon the heareis is soon
lost in the frequency of their reiteration.—
We should have long since failed to make
ourselves useful in the anti-slavery field, had
we confined ourselves to our simple story.—
But even if this were not the case, this de
partment of labor is now.better provided for
than at any former time. The Clarks, Browns,
Bibbs, Watsons and Crafts, have all been oc
cupying the field of late. Their
narrations are doing a glorious work, and we
thank (Heaven that such witnesses against
slavery have been so rapidly brought forward.
There will be more of the same make and
mould raising their manly brows above the
surface of ignorance, oppression and slavery.
These men are an evidence that Ethiopia is
indeed, reaching forth her hand unto God.—
Her sons are rising from degradation to re
spectability—are seeking to do something no
ble, worthy of manhood.
To our old subscribers we would say, there
is not one among you all that we can afford to
spare. You are all needed upon our list, and
yet mote; we need your aid in extending the
circulation of the paper. You have kind
ly borne with the early imperfections and
shortcomings of the editorial department, ol
the North'Star. Don’t quit us until we give
signs of having ceased to improve. The busi
ness of editing a large weekly journal like
ours, may be easy enough to men of educa
tion aud reading, but it will certainly not be
considered a light task for ooe who has to ed
ucate himself, and instruct others at the same
time. But wg promised to make no poor fa
ces si the commence meat of this article, and
we shall now shun the very appearance ol
such an evil.
We close this article by expressing our
neart-felt gratitude to our kind transatlantic
friends, who continue to notice and appreciate
our humble labors, and who have never de
serted uv in the hour of need. They kindly
supplied us the means with which to com
mence our present work, and have faithfully
stood by us through good sod through evil
report, since that commencement. We would
also mention gratefully, the generous saemt
ance rendered us ounag the autumn by the
Western New York Ami-Slavery Society.
and the noble efforts of the Women’s Aseoct
stion of Philadelphia. We hope these deer
friends and cu-workers, wdJ never have cause
to regret their generous co-operation with us.
Aud if a faithful application of our energies
i to the redempoowuf the ala a«i the sleva
Uoo of the eokoed man ui h» rights and dig
nity m an, can jmrvent each a leeult, the
niapie shall not Mr wanting—*. o.
1 Mr. Whippet*! Qjjmisi* Wlk Pwpo*
m
1 Necessary and unavoidable engagements
•brood, most be mu only apology for not
sooner replying to Mr. Whippet’* ia<e letter
00 the “National League,” published in the
1 North Star. No.<Jp. Anything from that
source, touching the interests and prospects
of the oppressed and proscribed people to
whom we belong, is entitled to very high re
-1 spec*. He is a geotletnan of acknowledged
1 ability, a profound thinker, an aioqaent and
1 forcible writer, and withal an earnest friend of
1 liberty. From such a man we always differ
1 reluctantly. Hi* letter before ns, display* all
1 the qualities of bead and heart which we hare
with pride and pleasure, ascribed to him; and
while we differ widely from him in his rea
-1 *onings and conclusions, upon the subject in
question, we are aiocerely glad that so able a
1 pen as his, should be wielded by a sable band,
and that he has felt called upon to record pub
-1 licly, hi* opinions, with respect to the project
ed League. Perhaps it will not be assuming
I too much, to account for the difference be
tween us and our esteemed friend, on the
ground that we are more practical and less
1 theoretical than h«. With abstractions, and
1 theories, he is at home, and in these he can
easily find objections to measures which we
1 daam of immediate and practical importance.
1 He sees a seeming (ceitainly not real) incon
aistency between the end, and the means by
which that end is proposed to be attained.—
With him the necessary, but rude scaffolding
must not be arranged, lest its awkward ap
pearance should obscure the magnificent edi
fice proposed to be erected.
As an illustration of the truth of what we
hare just remarked we take the following
r from his letter
The expsdiency of an organized union
I among our people, has long engaged my at
i tention, and I cfo most freely confess that it
appears to me to be a subject that is fraught
with difficulties and dangers, as well as prom
-1 ises and blessings.”
1 Haring confessed the difficulties and dan
gers to be apprehended from the formation of
the proposed League Mi. W. gives his rea
sons for those apprehensions as follows:
“I believe that the motto, “Union of the
oppressed for the sake of freedom,” will be
interpreted by tie pro-slavery press, to mean
an union of the black against the while man,
and the overthrow of American institutions.
For however atangeand unnatuial it may ap
pear, it is nevertheless true, that the success
of any movement among ourselves is tnoTe de
pendent on the praise of our enemies, than
the labors of our friends. For of late our de
nunciations have been as uneiringly directed
against abolitionists as slaveholders. When
you shall have launched the “League” in the
pro-slaveiy current of this nation, you will be
obliged to answer the nautical questions, viz
“From whence do you hail 7 What ts your
object? and to what port you ate destined 7
or receive a broadside.
You well know that we have no security
in the divine nature of our object, for that be
ing interpreted in llte popular tongue, means
“devil incarnate,” and vestal purity of mo
tive— a rapacious desire to corrupt all that is
“good and holy in the affections of the riiul
titsde. So deeply seated are the leligious
and political prejudices against which we have
ts contend, that virtue and vice change tlieii
character to auit the complexion of tlie actor.
During the recent eventful period of nations,
the press lias been teeming with the lute ei
“Leagues” for civil and religious reform,
and the proclamation has gone' forth that God
is on the side of the strong.
It will be useless to say that this is not a
complexional question, for its success would
depend on so stating it, —and the collision
springing from its action against public senti
ment, would be more likely to increase and
concentrate existing prejudices, than scatter
and disseminate them. It is, therefore, no
less a dictate of interest than humanity, to
avoid a “complexional issue.”
Here then are the reasons alleged against
the Leagne plainly and strongly slated. Let
us examine them. The first point made is,
that such a “League” will be interpreted by
the pro-slavery press “to mean an union ol
the black against the white man, and the
overthrow of American Institutions.”
It may be said, in reply, that the objection
is an old one, and is as true as it is old. Foi
never since the day that Moses called upon
the Egyptian Monarch to let the Israelites go
free, until the day that William Lloyd Garri
son startled this guilty land by a similar de
mand, has there been a movement against
slavery and oppression, but w hich has had in
its course, to submit to the embarrassment ol
mij-interpretation, mis-represent at ion, and
even slander. It is the common Baptism ol
all great movements. It is the forty day;
fasting in the wilderness to try the faith, and
to test the integrity of their projectors. Lei
him who cannot stand mir-interpretation, nev
er attempt to stem the popular current, foi
such an one will only attempt, to fail. Bui
after all, we think the apprehension* of out
esteemed correspondent are much greater thar
the occasion will justify. If the public mint!
were as dark now, on the subject of human
rights, as it was twenty years ago, and such
a movement had been proposed, the ground*
urged would wear a more rational aspect.—
But now, when colored men cau speak, wnte
and publish their views to the world, with th*
utmost impunity in tbo Northern Slate*, ii
seems almost worse than timidity for u* tf
hesitate in the adoption of measures for oui
improvement and elevation, from the fear ol
mu-interpretation. There is now in this com
trj a willingness, nay, a waiting, to h-.ai
what we have to say. We are, therefore
folly able to set ourselves righl before the
community. In the first place, we should at
tempt nothing but what would be right, ju t.
and secondly, we should, of course, have the
sympathy of the wise and good of every c* loi
*0 out righteous endeavors- Bet, says *<ui
friend, any movement among ourselves it
more dependent on the grout of' our enem *«a
than the labors of our friends A stuguhu
notion truly. Are our movements then to b*
shaped to the pleasure of our enemies* An
we then to conform to their wishes to secure
then praises 7 Shall we adopt such measures,
•ad soeb measures only, as shall secure t!*e
•ppmhauon of oar oppressors No—wo do
aot believe that friend Wkipper would b*»«
us pursue any such unmanly, cringing, sod
contemptible policy, and yet such might emu-
Jfc inferred from the idea thrown out by
huff Wo do no* know what -he means shen
ho mye, “Of late our denunciations have be-*u
unerringly directed against abohuomj-u ts
slaveholders If n,*, be we are out
aware of it, and the offenders ought to he ex
The “Nautical qonstions which the
L**«w will bare to utim, or recoiro a
broadside,’* ate Mcfa u B»J be easily and
pvonAjr answered, slow «a wwaion will be
open and above board. Tiro “Frnte 0/ the
fftoa," m eloquently nfnnd w, baa no
I terrors to os. They relied upon the sword.
“Oor weapons ate not The dilfcr
enee is groat. Bat the grand argument against
the formation of the “Langne” is, that it will
present a “ctmpt'jiomal ism* This is a
danger to be avoided. But is it true of this
movement Do coloted men, by associating
themselves together for the purpose of obtain
ing equal rights with all other citirons, there
by mako a “crifnplexiooal issue” with their
white fetlowjEOOniryiaee So it don not
seem us. It strikes us that the issue is ten
dered from the other side. 'The ground baa
already been taken, that colored men shall
not possess equal, etvil, social, and political
advantages with white men, leaving us no
other alternative bnt to submit, or to resist.—
Now, shall we tamely, quietly submit? shall
we remain io die house all day, when others
are at work, and merely sally forth in the
dark unseen, lest we should seem 10 make a
“complexional issue?” We sre not to say
to treacherous Pennsylvania, restore th e black
man’s right of suffrage, for fear of making
“complexions! issues." Wt are not to ask
admission for oor children into common
schools, to avoid “complexional issues.’’—
W e-are not to go into the cabiu of steamboats
among 1 chut men, dial we may void “com
plexional issues." But seuously, the objec
tion is too palpably absurd to require the aid
of ridicule to expose it, and yet it has its advo
cates in high quarters.
For our part we wish colored men could be
induced to make any kind of an issue. We
want some sign? of life—some evidence of a
common desire to improve ourqiresent condi
tion and to take some position in the moral
world. At present we are for the most part
dead. We ate seen in the World’s activities
only by proxy. An occasional head is seen
to rise above the surface, but his legs soon
give way for the want of sympathy and he
fall?—perhaps to rise again—perhaps not.—
Now an organization such as that suggested
hy the “League,” would at least put us in
the way of doing something. It would give
us a position. But says our Correspondent,
“the thing is impossible—the oppressed have
adopted the religious creeds of our oppres
sors, &e.’“ This is true, but onlv true of a
pat tof us. There are some among us who
repudiate at least, most part of the religion of
the land, that assumes the natural inferiori
ty of the colored uiau. We must, however,
stop here, simply by saying that whatever
may be the difficulties, dangers and hardships
attending it, we are for the formation of a
colored National League—and hope to have
the influence of our esteemed friend Whip
pet to help forward that result.—r. o.
Father Mathew in a Difficulty. —The
State Temperance Cen vent ion, assembled at
Marietta in Georgia last summer, tendered,
through Judge Lumpkin, of that State, a
cordial invitation to Father Mathew to visit
Georgia, in furtherance of the temperance
cause. But the Judge having subsequently
learned that the name of Father Mathew had
been attached, in company with that of Daniel
O’Connell, to a well-known Anti-Slavery re
monstrance, w rote to the re-erend Father,
inquiring whether he hadtieeu correctly in
formed, and it so, whether lie still entertained
the same sentiments on the subject of slavery.
After waiting one month, the writer received
a “very brief reply," marked “private,” and
which lias not been published. “In the
meantime,” says the Judge, “the several
temperance associations in the State had pas
aed resolutions revoking the invitation, so
far as they had been parties to it.” The
Judge then wrote once more to Father
Mathew, complaining that his reply explained
nothing, and intimating that in these circum
stances, his visit to the South could be pro
ductive of only evil to the temperance cause.
No reply has been received to this com
munication, and here is the summing up of
the whole matter by the Judge.
Under these circumstances,with a clear com
prehension, i trust, of the responsibility thus
incurred, and with the most profound regret
as to the miscarriage of our hopes,! herewith,
so long as 1 have the power, at least, and
with the hearty concurrence and approval of
the Executive Committee of the Convention,
withdraw the invitation so cordially and sin
cerely offered. Viewing our cause as we do,
as the chief hope of man, we must not per
mit it to be wounded in the house of its
friends. We will welcome no one, knowing
ly, among us, who fraternizes himself, or
encourages otheis to do so, with a faction
which would recklessly shiver the Union into
fiagmeuis, which would reck its unhallowed
hands red as crimson in human blood—which,
in a word, seems 10 combine m one mass all
the woist elements of thought, action and
feeling peculiar to our troublous times.
Thus it is likely, that Father Mathew, io
trying to meet the views of the North, without
offending the South, will find himself deserted
by both. This is exactly the treatment be 1
deserves for seeking to he neutral in tbe>
cause of human freedom. May he profir by 1
ihe experience.
To Ibe Anti-Slavery Friends of Wester*
New York and Elsewhere.
We nee, with regret, in the Anti Slavery
Standard, of the 6lh mat., that tire 15th of
January is fixed upon for holding the Syra
cuse Convention, only ooe day previous to the
time we had published our intention to bold
the Rochester Fair. In older to allow an op
portunity for the friends of the cause to at
tend both, it will be necessary to again change
the tune for holding the Fair. We, there
fine, poetpooe it another week—Wednesday,
Jan. d3d, 1860. AMY POST,
On behalf of the Fair Committee.
PaasavTcaiA.Hs vs. Slav«y.—iSome of
the New School Synods mod Presbyteries of
the West, seem but little satisfied with the
recent actiou of the Mew School General
Assembly at Philadelphia. Resolutions have
been adopted by the Otiowa (III,) Presby
t*ry recommending the exclusion of slave
holders Iron the pulpit and the communion
table—-disapproving the course pursued by
the GeneisJ Assembly,, and declaring the
formal withdrawsf*of the Piesbytery from
that body. And rn the Stood of Illinois, a
resolution was reported and discussed declar
ing slavery sib, and the action of the late
General Assembly w reference to this matter
•o unsatisfactory, that the Svned of Illmota
ought publicly and solemnly to separate itself
from that body. After much discussion, the
original proposition was mod tied by th j sub
stitutioq of declaration; —Thai, while
they feel very anxious to bo delivered from
all puniapatKio m the sin of slavery, they do
not fed, at preset*, willing to be separated
from the General Assembly.
TIIBTY-FIKST (HOlttSr
FIRST IKMtOIT.
Tbs Bsbatc.—Pqpding tfce organtut ion of
tbe Hosss, so Hiin— is transacted in the
Senate.
Hons of RimnnftTius. —Still hallot
inf for Speaker. Day after day passes by,
without any conclusion being arrived at; and,
so for as appearances show, party differences
are as nearly adjusted now, as thee were ten
days since. Mr. Cobb, of Ga., was for some
days the choice of the Democrats. He was
dropped, and they seem now unable to unite
apoo any person. Mr. Potter, of Ohio, had
a pretty strong vote, on severs! ballots; on
the 11th, he was withdrawn. Mr. Brown, of
Indiana, then bad the largest v<4e on the Dem
ocratic aide. The Free Soilers put Mr. Wil
mot, of Pa., in nomination. He received
some 8 or 10 votes-
On Monday, the First Ballot resulted
Winthrop 102, Potter 7®. Scattering 46.
Total 224.
Second Ballot—Winthrop 103, Potter 77.
Scattering 44.
Third Ballot—Winthrop 101, Potter 78.
Scattering 44. Total 234.
After the second ballot, Mr. Levin, of Pa-,
offered the following resolution.
Whereas, the precedent has been establish
ed by which all the seats in the House have
been disposed of by lottery, therefore
Resolved, That the Speaker’s chair be dis
posed of in .like manner That the Whij*
party proceed to place the name of one mem
ber in a box, the Democratic party another,
the Native American a third, the Free Soil
ers a fourth, and the Taylor Democratic party
a fifth, and that the gentleman first drawn be
Speaker of the House.
This resolution created much laughter, am!
on motion of Mr. McClellan, it was laid upon
the table.
After the a motion was made
to adjourn to the Ist of January. It was lost.
Morse,sf La., said, we can no longer trifle
with the wishes or inteiests of our constitu
ents. They look to ns to proceed with the
business of the country, with all practicable
despatch, and can see no good reason why
there should be further delay in the organiza
tion of this House. Members may endeavor
to console themselves with the difficulties of
1839, as a precedent, but the cases are not
parallel. At that time the delay was occa
sioned not by the Speaker's election, but by
the disputed seats of the New Jersey election.
As the case now stands, the obstinacy of one
or two individuals may prevent forever an or
ganization, and it is therefore due to the Leg
islation of the country that the Whigs and
Democrats, the two great parties, should unite
on some plan to put down that disorganizing
spirit which has manifested itself.
On Tuesday, there were six more ballot
ings for Speaker, without effecting a choice.
The last stood Winthrop 101, Brown, of Ind.
109, WilmotT, Morehead 5, Durkee, Bing
ham and Me Dowall each 1.
Mr. Winthrop withdrew his name, and in
so doing, delivered an address as follows
“It is well known to my friends, that I
have not sought the place to which their pat
tiality.has long been' striving to elevate me
and it is known too, to a considerable majority
of them, that 1 would have withdiawn at the
start, if they would have concentrated their
votes on any other. .But in this matter, my
own wishes, if not my own judgment, were
overruled by gentlemen in whom I have the]
highest confidence and I therefore yielded
all along to their opinions. 1 have all along
expressed my own desire that the House
should be organized, and 1 have believed that
further delay would be detrimental to some of
the best interests of the country.
I need not add, then, with how much re
luctance 1 saw myself the instrument of that
delay. My friends, however, would not suf
fer my name to be under my own control
and it was not until to-day that I could obtain
their consent to retire from the position in
which I have been placed. 1 beg leave, there
fore, now to say, and to say publicly before
the House, what I have before often said in
private, that 1 can consent no longer to be in
the way of some kind of organization, and
that I now withdraw the use of my name. j
I desire publicly to thank those who have]
all along been voting for me, and to express
iny very warmest hopes that they will be bet- 1
tei able to concentrate their votes on some
other.”
On the delivery of this address, great ex
citement and confusion prevailed, and an ad
journment was moved and earned.
Doings at Washington—Southern Whigs
seceding.
The Correspondent of the New York Ex
press, gives an account of a meeting of the
Whig members of Congress, held to arrange
a course of action, which came to a rather
interesting termination, showing symptoms
of division and disoigautzation in.the Whig
camp, which will help to bring Northern men
of that party to declare themselve more deci
dedly than they have yet done, in favor of
freedom ;or, as is quite as likely, quicken their
movements in perpetuating and strengthen
ing their ignominious subserviency to the
slave power. It is in substance this
Mr. Toombe of Georgia, immediately af
i ter the organization of the meeting offered a
j resolution to the effect that Congress ought
not to pass any law prohibiting slavery in the
territories of California or New Mexico, nor
any law abolishing slavery in llte District of
Columbia.
The reading of this resolution of course
produced great excitement. The mol ton was
seconded, and several speeches made in favor
of if by Southern men. Mr. Hilliard of Ala
bama asked
“If it was agreed that the Wiimot Proviso
was no part of the Whig creed, and that it
was not Whig policy to abolish Slavery in the
District of Columbia, why not say so V’
Mi. Owen, of Georgia, warmly urged the
adopt mu of theresol alum. It was necessary,
be said, to settle these matters now. We
could not act together unless they were set
tled. We mutt understand ouivelvet aud
each other.
Mr. Stephens of Ga. said
“As to slavery in the District of Columbia
—a matter m principle, to the South, of the
utmost importance—all be had to say, and be
said not this in threat, but in sorrow, and for
information, that if attempted and persisted in
by the men who now had power—that ts. the
numerical majority m this Union—the Union
must and would he dissolved The Union
could not be held together— it was not in the
power of <ta best fiwndv in the South to hold
«together,—if alavety in the District of Col
umbia was abolished by the action Cult
fiens.'*
Mr. dtngmao, of North Carohos, was fa
vorable to the resolution, and should vote fur
it, if pressed so to do, but ho it-git- wd Us
iptroductMO here, six! hoped Mr. townha
would withdraw it.
t Mr. Toombe midi, he had well oousideied

*h» whole (Batter, tod under no circmnsu n-
P *k<w!d be withdraw it. He hoped to Me
it met, fairly and manfully.
Mr. Brook*, of New York, .Mr. Ashman
af Massachusetts, and other Northern mem'
hew opposed the passage of the resolution
A motion waa then made to postpone, which
was carried.
m When this rote was announced, Mr.
TvonAs of Georgia, rose and left Me room,
and with him four other gentlemen, who were
followed by Mr. Milliard of Ala-
he had left to avoid misrepre
sentation, om that be should take pleasure m
voting for Mr. Wmthrop for Speaker
Things bb4 Doings in New York and
Brooklyn*
Wm. Smith and the ease of for uster Franres
—An Imposter tag ed~ Jamaica t U I
Mission
BKOOK I.VS ,L. 1., Nov. 27th.
Ms. Editor —I avail myself of the pres
ent moment, to take up my pen to inform you
ot what is going on in this region that mav be
interesting to your readers. We have had
quite a stirring lime of it in these “dtggins
for the last two weeks.
First, the ease of Frances Smith. The tacts
in the case are theae the Smith family were
claimed as the propeity of the late Judge
Gaston of Newbern, North Carolina. The
younger Smiths are quadroons. I pon the
Jeath of Judge Gaston, his heirs, alter consid.
•erable consultation, permuted Wm. Smith to
go to work, with the view of purchasing him
self, for which purpose he repaired to the city
of Washington, and by his own industry, has
succeeded in paying for lus own freedom At
the time of the sale of the “property” of
Judge Gaston's heirs, William prevailed upon
one Amos Wade (merchant) of Newbern, to
purchase his mother and sister, in order to
save them from being sold to the far South.—
He has since redeemed his mother at the price
of fifty dollars, which; together with $533,00
paid for himself, makes five hundred and sev
enty-three dollars he has raised by his own in
dustry. He now appeals to the liberality and
humanity of the people of the North, to assist
him in rescuing a young and beautiful sister
tromthe New Orleans market, and save her
from what may yet be, it she is not rescued
a condition worse than death. Amos Wade
writes that “She is a good girl, and I believe
a virtuous girl. She is a member of Church,
and is respected by the members of her church
as a Christian. I have been offered one thou
sand dollars for het by traders, but if your ob
ject is to free her, 1 will reduce the price to
$600,00.”
A Christian girl—a virtuous girl, 1? years
old, and handsome, and one thousand dollars
offered for her by traders' What means
this' Oh, ye Christians and republican* of
the North, blush to think. Meetings to sym
pathize with and assist Mr. Smith, have been
held in Brooklyn and New York. But lam
ashamed to say they were very thinly attend
ed. Had these meetings been exhibitions of a
monkey with a red jacket on, the churches
which were reluctantly granted for them to be
held in, would have been filled to replet: in
but when a brother comes to the much-bo ist
ed of, and miscalled free North, appealing for
to piotect a young and virtuous sister, all
our great men (tor New York is filled with
great men, at least in their own estimation,)
•land aloof. The meeting in Brooklyn waa
addressed by Messrs. Jeremiah Powers, Wm.
Kay, George Hogarth, J. C. Morrell, and C.
C. Hanington. The meeting in New York
by the Rev. Mr. Secost, and Messrs. J. Pow
ers, and J. C. Holly. r I lie collections were
liberal for the small numbers present. The
spesksrs answered the several objections urg
ed against paying for persons claimed as
slaves.
Ist. That we do not recognize the right ot
the slaveholder to property in his fellow-be
ings any more than the traveller recognize*
the right ol the robber to his purse, when he
surrenders it rather than his life. Bdly. That
while laboring to overthrow the whole system
ot slavery, we must not harden our hearts
and resist individual appeals, as we would not
be feeling for those in bonds as though bound
with them. 3dly. That every person redeem
ed, even by a compliance wuh the unjust de
inands of the flesh-monger, is one less in ti,«
luesnes ®l slavery, and one more fn tin* h>»st
ot Ireedom, 4thly, and lastly, That if our
own mother, sister, or daughter, was about to
be sold to the “harems” of the South, all
other means failing to redeem her, we would
not withhold the perishable dust on principle,
but would meet it as a practical question, and
rescue our dear relative, with a firm laiih that
it would be repaid in enjoyment and pro-pei
ty, and that the slaveholders would he no
richer in the end.
Ihe second topic of interest to the friend*
of the slave is, the capture and caging of Gto
Liu Hon, a stout, athletic, black man, who h
t?en going around ettiodling the anti-slavery
public for the last twelve or fifteen months.—
He represents himself as a fugitive jusi arriv
ed “last night” from the South, awl by tin*
means obtains money and sympathy when.'
evet ho goes. He was caged ahum twelve*
months ago, tor playing tlie same game Itts
causes that led to his arrest at this tune, tie
these He has been calling on geutlemen ut.r
king lus false representations, and when they
send to the “Vigilance Committee’ he walk*
out. He called on a gen tinman of tins place,
»nd alarmed him very much with his fears of
recapture. The gentleman sent to the office
61 John street, N. Y.. and the ever vigilant
Jaeoh K. Gibbs hastened to bis relief; bet lo
the fugitive was gone. The gentleman des
cribed him, and Mi. Gtbbs informed him that
be was an imposter He afterward went out.
upon the street, and saw the “coon.” Hein
formed him that the gentleman where he had
been wished lo see him, They weot to the
house together, when the gentleman informed
turn that Gibb* would take ears of him. They
started for New York, but having seen Gibhs
before, they had not ptoengded fax before he
told G. that he waa not going to New York
with him. “But,” said G., “you have ap
plied lor aid and protection, and we will pro
tect you tf you ate a fugitive." He pet east ad
16 that he would not go, and ihreateo
e»j Gibb* if he did not go away wheieupon
I bad him wrested, aad be waeeemimtted
examination. He was arrested on Friday
Lkn Monday last be was examined. J.
B Gibbs and J. T. Hopper identified bun
a public swindler. A pettifogger rsjovcmg us
the couplet of Col. Jack. (and. by the way,
be in JmA ia move than name) and who boasted of his reputation end experience as a
Itwver'' ot twealv year* standing. *olunt*«r- i
ei to defend this brother. He “«o.i rttpect-
tu.lv •übmmed to his wlmUmt taMM
entertain for one moment, charge from pet
who tmlxr the l»»« Unioo, and
induce al a vet «o run away tromthe.r master*.
I htt such people Jo not deserve protection,
d that Im» client had committed n« crime.”
Oi.e mtfh( ,hat U came b r hw
|i>mr f t onesilv Kut notwithstanding all this*
in nt was re*commmed lor further exam
'.,3t,„n on Wednesday .he‘2Bth, when I hope
w pet what he justly deserves.
Mr h'.vr-rett lectured*!* the Colored
M t m this place, on thn aub-
M Z lire I TW Reverend
t u Mni-e he had been in this
gentleman vitd uu
i a«ked bv both friends
ountrv. I*e nau
W.re,.-o .he
.rreeni bwu-i nil' He amnered, Wh.t
ii» v rtii 111< 'n 11 to doubt that 3
Jo you mean oU ,nt aH
fitter ort when he owns himself than
v n owned ha another’ If have one’s
'.■tbbaihs better than to not know it Iron.
4 v other da\, they are better nil. It it be
■etter to have a school to send one's children
(0 lHn t„ see them driven in the field, under
lash of ib<‘ cruel task master, they are
oil.” He then went on to say that the
vjbhath was us generally observed—more
r f erallv observed, than m Ohio and New
;ir k States That the number of w hites on
Island is about 15,000 ihe number ol
'i.lored or mixed, about 08,000 and the
/wiiiber ut blacks or unmixed descendants ol
Africans, about 250,.WW. I hat .he torniei
At e morally hopeless, falling extravagantly
ii.io all the vices of the West Indies. That
the second are rery poor, in consequence of
living been generally tree when it was te
parded as disreputable tor any but slaves to
a oik, and thereby having a desire to shun
uork, and now having no slaves to work for
diem. Hie iaiter he regarded as the most
i.opetul class they are rapidly improving in
intelligence aie industrious and thrifty, and
recently one or two have, for the first time,
made their wav in.o the Colonial Legislature.
He says they are tar from being civilized in
their domestic habits, ss the women and chil
dren rarely ever s,r down at the table with
ihe husband and father, or v\aik beside them.
From Ins account, the men are perfect “Dom
bevs. Yours, J- H.
The Boston Tragedy.
\\'e make the following extracts from tin
account given by the Post, ut the iecent nag
,eal occurrence in Boston, which has createt
-vich intense excitement in that city
Dr Parkman'» Boot supposto to hi
tuVND—Arrvst or Dr. Webster.— The an
iiuuucement on Saturday, that the body oi Dr
George Parkinan had been found in a vauli
under ibe chemical laboratory in the Medica
College, North Grove street, and that Dr
John W- Webstei, professor of chemistry,
had been arrested at Cambridge for the niur
of Dr. Parkman, created a tremendous
ens jti°n throughout the city and its vicinity,
Vi,; un '■ueslionable tacts. were appalling to
the last de‘ ree a "d the rapid circulation ol
unfounded razors tended to magnify the hor
rors of Hie reality. 1 e lb,e as he a f d,s
covery was, several arsons, who had care
fullv considered the ."trcuu. stances ot Dr
Parkman s disappearance, v e re not surprised
at the result of the persevering search under
the college buildiny. All the inquires t in ev
try direction, beyond as well as \vi?bin the
State, left but three undoubted tacts toaci M P"
an, tiz that Friday.. Nov. 23d, about
one o'clock, be made some smalt purchases
al Mr. Holland’s grocery, corner of Vine
-treet, and that he went out saying lie would
leiurn m a few minutes and take the articles.
Next he was seen by many witnesses going
...to the Medical College There Dr. V\ eb-
M er said he saw him, and paid him 483 on
u mortgage. The payment was made at the
desk in tin*lecture room ot the chemical de
partment ol the Dr. Webster
said that, upon receiving the money, Dr.
Parkman left the bduie room by the upper
door the common enhance. Here all clue
JO his iin»t muenis cea cd. All the statements
about Dr. Paik.iiau’s having b,-en seen at the
v l|U tb end, uni on C.agld bridge, and at
I i-i imbiidge, on that afternoon, were as
.;t,tamed lobe incorrect, the narratois having
mistaken Thuisday lor P inlay.
Bv Monday lasi, people, according to their
-urns of mind and means of information, re
oectively settled down upon the tollowmg
.appositions Ist, that Dr. Parkinan had com
mitted suicide by jumping overboard 2nd,
that he had been inveigled into some house,
robbed, murdered, and the body secreted
and 3d that be bad been killed within the
walls ot the Medical College, and Ins remains
disposed of there. Therefore, while large
iawards were being otlered to any person who
should find the Doctor, dead or alive, else
where, the college building was kept under
The strictest surveillance. The cellars, coal
bums, and other recesses m which a body
mil*lit be easily concealed, were searched in
•,am Then the large vault, or subterranean
*,.closed recess, under, but connected with
U,e dissecting room, was searched with no
better success. But Dr. Webster s peculiar
premises lemamed unexamined, and also the
space between jhe interior foundation walls
under bis laboratory, forming m fact a very
V*ge vault, with no opening uito it except
ih, yugli Dr. Webster’s water closet in the
labo.** 01
Mr Ephraim Littlefield, steward and gen
eral su vefintendeni of tbe building, reported
ne* the principal persons connected
iT.ih ihe college, two unusual circumstances
in relation Ur. Weboter’s movements in the
laboratory v'Z that he had been keeping up
gieat tires’iii t furnace, a ui Lad locked up
the laboratory mghts, instead ot leaving tt
open to be set at rights, and to have the fire
kindled m ibe mornings .ill die excep
tion of Wednesday evening, Di. Webster
did not work in tbe laboratory alter his usual
hours, but on that evening h* sent Littlefield
up to Mr- Foster’s store, in Howard street,
Aith an order for a turkey for us I hanks
giving dinner. Littlefield started tor us tur
key between 8 and 9, and when be got back,
Dr Webster had locked up and gone
The question of searching the premises un
der the special control of Dr. W ebster was
submitted to Di Bigelow, who decided bat
UU attempt to get into the vault under them
should ti made first. On Frida) afternoon
Mr. Littlefield descended lluougb M P
among the foundation walls. W»d went to
work upon one which he calculated mutt be
nearly under the lalxiratoiy. He dug away
seveial hours and at last made an opening
through, and savs limbe directly under the
M.otl occupied b> Ibe warn closet above
Shocked by the eight, Liub.ii Id horried up
stairs to inform Di Bigelow, b t was so «»jd
with amazement that be could not explain
himself lor *orne seconds. As t oon ss the
doctor could make out from i ts statements
what lie had seen, lie sent om of the police
officers in attendance lor the o y marshal.
The hole m the wail was ihen nlarged so as
to admit ihe ingress of Lutl eld and two
officers, who brought the j oi the body
out. They consisted of the *vei paru, ol
iht body and lops* in one piece, .mi the right
thigh and right leg. without the foot, in sep
irate pieces and .’.ere defiv rid over to of
ficer Clapp
The next step "as to bleak pen the door
af the laboratory, wheie another xtraordinary
discovery was made. In the furnace were
fyuod calcined fragment* oi a skull, mineral
t*«th feted into a lamp, half-melted fragments
of coot button frame*, and small portion* of
melted gold and other.
After o abort coosulation, officer* Clapp,
Starkweather and Sport were despatched to
Dr. Webster's residence in Cambridge, with
instruction* to arrest him. They arrived at
the houee about nine o'clock, just as Dr.
Webster waa showing a visitor out The
officers met him at the gate, and told him that
the college officers were met in eonsehatioi.,
on the aulMBCt of l>r. Parlun as'a disappear
ance, sod had sent tor him to attend it. He
made no objection, and while on the way to
Boston he coaverred cheerfully and freely,
and, referring to Dr. Parkman* having been
at the college, oaid that be atojiped at the
doctor'a house on Friday morning, and re
quested him to call at the college for his
money between one and two o'clock that
day. The carriage waa halted at the jail,
and the patty went into the office; and then
for the brat time, Dr. VI ebster began to per
eeiva that there was something strange in the
proceedings of tbe officers, and asked what
they had come to the jail for, when their des
tination was the college in Grove street, re
marking also that they had come out of the
way. Clapp then aaid—“Dr. Webster, it is
no uae to disguise our purpose any further.
Y ou are under arrest on suspicion that you
know something about the death of Dr.
Parkrnan, pqrta of w hose body have been
found under yonr laboratory. We shall look
no more for the body.” Upon hearing this
accusation, Dr. Webster staggered back
wards, as if struck to the heart, and uttered
various exclamations about hi* family arid
children, and also saying—“ The villian! I
am ruined or, “The villian! He has ruin
ed me.” All who wete present agree that
he did not sav, he was “betrayed One of
the officers think, from some broken sentences
that he caught, that the prisoner said some
thing about some one having placed the limbs
where they were found for the purpose of
obtaining the reward, and that the discovery
of them there would involve the prisoner’s
rain.
When asked if he was willing to go to the
college and view the remains, he consented,
and was carried rather than led to the car
nage.
After he returned to jail ihe prisoner be
came somewhat more calm. He stated that
no one had access to his apartments in the
college but himself, and could not have such
access but with his keys. He not only had
the keys of these apartments in his posses
sion, but also the key, a large one, of the
water-closet, under whieh the lemains were
found. This closet was within the laborato
ry, and not accessible from without that apart
ment and tbe door was locked w hen the
limbs were found below.
Saturday morning brought with it still fur
ther discoveries. Officer Rice, in arranging
things in the laboratory, found, in a recess
formed by the'brick-work of the furnace and
chimney, a tea-chest, apparently filled with
specimens of minerals, but emitting a strange
odor. He at once upset the chest, and found
in the bottom, bedded in hemlock bark, the
left thigh and the half-roasted trunk of the
body. The skin had been wholly burnt or
■tripped off from the trunk. The thigh was
only stained with the bark. All the parts
found are such in size that they may very
well have belonged to Dr. P.’s body. The
missing portions, and supposed to have been
burnt up, are the head, contents of the body,
left leg and foot, arms and hands, and right
foot.
Among the secondary facts, it may be
stated that four bloody towels were found in
the vau.t; a very laige clasp knife, with
hunting figures on the blade, was found with
the trunk in the tea chest; some grapples,
made of cod hooks, with lines and lead
sinkers attached, were found in Dr. Webster’s
apparatus room. This room is in the rear of
the lecture room, and connected with it by a
door. On the inner side of the apparatus
room is a large closet w ith several hundred
bottles of chemicals arranged on shelves.
Near the door of this closet, on the floor,
commence scattered marks of blood, which
extend the whole length of the apparatus
room, and appear on nearly every step of ihe
stairs leading from the room down into the
laboratory. —Dr. Webster’s official duties as
a professor required of him no handling of
bodies, nor was it allow able to have subjects
in that part of the building. Early last week,
Dr. Webster ordered a tin box, three feet
long, one foot wide, and 18 inches in height,
of Mr. Waterman, in Court street. 'The
cover w as to be fitted so as to be soldered up,
when used. On Sunday, a pair of trowsers,
marked with Dr. Webster's name, and with
marks of blood upon them, were found in
the large closet also, under a settee in the
room, a pair of slippers, marked with spots
of blood; also, a small saw, with, a blood
stain.
On Saturday afternoon, Col. Pratt,coroner,
summoned the following jury of inquest
Osmyn Brewster, foreman; John L. An
drews, Lewis Jones, Pearl Marlin, Thomas
Restieaux, and Hiram Merrill.
At 4 o’clock they proceeded to the college,
examined the remains as they were laid out
on a board, and the contents of the furnace,
and then passed them into the hands of Drs.
Winslow Lewis, Martin Gay and J. B. is.
Thacher, tor such further examination as
can be made of them.
The doctors mentioned entered upon the
investigation of Sunday, and found fragments
of calcined bones fiom each of the missing
parts ol the body. r lhere was something
like the appearance of a wide stab on the
left side of the trunk, but it was not made
absolutely clear whether the incision was
made before or after death.
It is said that Drs. Parkman and ebster
wete classmates in college, tor a quarter of
a esntury or more, Dr. Webster was occu
pied a distinguished position id the scientific
world as professor of chemistry and miner
alogy in Harvatd University, of which the
Medical College in Boston is a branch. Dr.
Parkman was once an associate editor of tbe
Medical Journal, published by Wells
Idlly. At the same utne, Dr. Webster was
an associate editor of a general scientific!
journal, whose title has escaped us, publish
ed by Hilliard, Gray At Co.
Some of Dr. Parkman’s friends, assuming
that Dr. Webster killed Dr. P., suppose that
au angry altercation occurred at the interview
on Friday, and that Dr. Parkmam who occa
sionally used very blunt language, said some
thing which so exasperated Dr. Webster that
the latter suddenly dealt him a mortal blow
with some implement at hand, and then, to
conceal the rash and fata! deed, resorted to
ihe means far disposing of the body which
have iteen described above.
In consequence ot threats against the medi
cal college, the military were ordeied to be at
their quarters on Saturday night, fully armed
and equipped, but no hostile demonstration
was made. Similar ordets to the militarv
were issued yesterday, and they remained in
quarters, but without being called upon to
act.
Professor Webster Before the Police
Court. —Monday afternoou tietween J and 2
o’clock, Professor John W. Webetei was
brought up before the Police Court, Justice
Cushing ou the bench, upon the charge of
having wilfully murdered Di. George Park
man, on the afternoon of the 23d ult. Tbe
warrant issued for bis ai rent w as read to him
by the Hon. Franklin Dexter, who appeared
as fats counsel, and by hts advice sod consent,
he waived so examination. He was then
remanded back to jail until the first Monday
of January next, at which time he will be
brought before the Municipal Coutt to hear
the result of the investigation of the Grand
Jorv in reference to the charge. Prof V\ eb
i-ter looked about the same as usual, appear
ing perfectly calm, without any perceptible
ag h*ii°rtaled tb»» f Pr fe Y° l
Web*ter very anxious *»ee bun, but her
friends bare dissuaded faer ffw» vuui »ng too
at present. Sfa# soot loth* Marshal a office,
yesterday, a basket of book* and seme am
:ks of comfort, which were forwarded to
be jail for bun. Mr. Andrews, the jailor,
dates that Professor Webster asserts due en
tire innocence of tbe charge preferred against
turn, and that be does not believe tbe re
mams found attha College are those at Dr.
Parbman; and further, that ha hss no know
ledge by what means they were placed where
they were found. Professor W abater is 57
years of age, a native of Beaten, and tbe
ton of Dr. Redfleld Webster, who for many
years kept s drug store st tbe North end, and
practiced as a physician.
Foreign R«w» of tka Week.
Tue steamship Euro pa arrived el Boston
on Sunday rooming. Sbe brings see week's
later intelligence from Europe.
Encland. A new agitation baa been set
oo foot, under the name of tbe Freehold
Land Movement. It proposes that every owner
of land to the value of 40*., should have a
vote in tbe election of members of Parliament.
A Conference of tbe friends of this move
ment was recently held at Birmingham. Mr.
Cobden, Mr. Bright, Mr. Heywood, and
other members of Parliament, and persona ot
influence, were present. A public meeting
in connexion with this Conference, was bald
hi Birmingham. Mr. Cobden is reported to
have said.
“I do not stand here to advocate the exten
sion o( the 40*. suffrage as a perfect scheme.
I have recorded my opinion tn favor of the
good old principle of giving every Saxon
household a vote—(cheers.) That ia the
oldest fianchise in this country. It is a thou
sand years old. The franchise which we
come here to advocate—the 40s. freehold —is
four or five hundred yeareoki; but the house
hold franchise is one thousand years old.”
At the close of his 'speech he parsed an
eloquent etilogium on (hat veteran reformer
Joseph Hume. “It is given to few men (said
he) to possess his physical strength,his massive
endurance, his powerful energies, his impas
sive temperament. But few men have the
power to do what he has done.” Mr. Geo.
Thompson was present, and spoke at this
meeting.
It is worthy of reraaik that although the
meeting did not separate until eleven o’clock,
at night, yet the Daily News and Morning
Chronicle (London papers) of the following
morning, contained full reports of the
speeches.
We find in the Birmingham Mercury a re
port of a Temperance meeting htld in that
place, at which President Mahan, of Oberlin
College, spoke. His very radical sentiments
on the subject, one of ouf English exchanges
characterises as “ridiculous nonsense.” He
is repotted 10 have said that he was the fa
ther of seven children, and he would rather a
daughter of his were caged with a bear,
than united to a moderate drinker. Pretty
strong language, no doubt, and better in theo
ry, than in practice; but it is well to be
zealously affected in a good cause. Probably
the President will never have his faith put to
the test exactly in that way.
The first of the great lubes of the Britan
nia bridge has heen finally lowered down to 1
its permanent bed of plates and rollers. It
is expected that the first line of tubes will be
opened for traffic on the Ist of March next.
France. On the 15th ult., the High
Court of Ysrsailles pronounced sentence, par
contumace, of transportation for life, on Ledru
Rollin and the thirty-three other persons, im
plicated in the June election.
The Momteur contains a ministerial order,
organizing a commission charged to report
upon the means of establishing in Paris, and
all the large towns of France, w ith assis
tance from the State, public baths and wash
houses.
A letter from Montpelier states that a silver
mine has been discovered in the department
of Herault, which produces fine silver of the
value of 80 fr. from *2OO pounds weight of
ore.
It is stated that the question of the reduc
tion of the French army has been seriously
discusssed by the ministers of Louis Napo
leon but the repoits of the prefects of the
departments were not such as to justify
any proposition for reduction, except to a
very small extent.
Legal proceedings have been ordered to be
instituted againsi the editor of La Liberte, for
exciting hatred and contempt of the govern
ment of the republic.
The Paris papers state that Mdlle. Rachel,
the celebrated Jewish actress, is about to be
married to a M. Rodriguez, a merchant of
Bordeaux.
Rome. The pope was expected at Rome
on theSlsl iust. A new loan of one million
sterling had been concluded.
A rumor was in circulation, that Cardinal
Antonelli (one of the triumvirate) had re
signed,
In the Italian States, a large levy of troops,
going on in Lombardy has caused great discon
tent. All who are able to fly, are doing so.
TuRkEV. Advices from Widdin slate that
all the Hungarian and Polish refugees had
been transported from Widdin to Shurnla.
They left in three portions the Poles,
under the command of Gen. Bern; the se
cond porti ou commanded by General Stem,
the Magyars headed by MM. Kossuth and
Balog h.
General Duhamel has received ftorn Onaer
Pasha the order of his cabmer to withdraw
from Wallachia and Moldavia, xll tioopa ex
ceeding the stipulated number of 10,000.
The troops which remain, are 10,000 Cos
sacks the rest have entered upon their march
to Laore, where they will join the Russian
troops, which are returning from Transylva
nia.
Spain. The Minister of Foreign affairs
has officially announced that orders have been
given for the return of the Spanish troops
from the Roman States.
The President of the Council gate a grand
dinner, oo the 15th nil., to Mr. Barringer,
the new minister of the United States.
The coipse of Marland, the celebrated
»rJM.aui, who made a balloon ascent some
weeks ago, from Barcelona, and bad not since
been beard of, has been discovered on the
Spanish coast, near Rosas, hot mo details of
bis death have been published. It was this
gentleman who lately crossed the Alps in a
batyoon.
AirsTStA. The moat important news from
Agists the sodden change ef the cabinet
to sort of free trade policy Some modi
fi auon of the import duties ute Aestrts ap
pears to be generally anticipate#.
India asp Cnwn- In conaaynnnoe of re
newed plotting by the rebel chief Chatter
S ngb, hie foareone on# momj other of the
Sikh leaders* who took «Mitl psrtmtho
late MMnMiBS, ban been M«d by the as
dent of lm4 IMunm, sa4 henceforth they
inabe rigorously coolntd within the tnh
of a prison
Tbd Chinese Covnmisaiooer at Canton
had powiort of the bead and band of tbe
murdered governor of Macao, but refaaed to
give than up until three Chinese, who were
detamed by ihd Portugese, were liberated.
As these men are required aa evidence of the
recent events, the Pattugaese hare refused
to give them up. The presence of the Eng
lish, French and Ajsencan mcn-of war an
the station, has hitherto prevented any oet
break.
Tbe piratical vessels which infest the
Chinese waters become more numerous than
ever
Jf o tires.
The Rochester Ainal Meeting.
The Western N. T. Anti-Slavery Society,
will hold their annual meeting on th£ Bth and
9th of January in the city of Rochester,
which our friends in the city and country are
earnestly invited to attend. We feel that the
injunction “neglect not the assembling of
yourselves {together,” ought most faithful
ly to be adhered to, remembering it is by uni
ted efforts that the bonds of the fettered slave
must be broken. We know that the laborers in
the great work of reform are comparatively
few but, “Truth is mighty,” and we are
encouraged in believing “that the day of re
demption draweth nigh as tie are assured
that the faithfulness of the few tried and devo
ted friends of freedom has already sundered
the chains and set at liberty many a despon
ding asplive, and the reflection stimulates us
to a greater devotedness, knowing full well
that the corrupting and demoralizing effects
of slavery on our white as well as our colored
brothers and sisters, call loudly and impera
tively upon our holiest feelings, for energetic
action, while opportunity is yet afforded.
Considering the disabilities we are laboring
under, and the apathy of the mass around us,
on this vitally interesting subject, much has
been done in these parts during the past year;
but a steady, petsevering, uncompromising
devotion is indispensable, and we hope that
while we labor with untiring zeal to strike at
the root of this infernal system, we shall re
member that bursting the fetters should be
followed by the genial influences of sympa
thy and elevation, and, that during our delib
erations some suggestions- may be made with
regard to devising means to place the escaped
bondmen in situations in which their long
buried intellect, their manhood shall he called
out, that they may be prepared to receive the
truth that they may be recipients of God’s
love, and thus be enabled to enjoy the boon of
liberty, of which they have so long been rob
bed. We again say to our friends far and
near, Como up to our annual gathering, where
by a free and spontaneous interchange of sen
timent, we may scatter seed that will eveatu
ally yield a rich harvest.
Frederick Douglass will be present, and
speakers from abroad will be invited to at
tend.
SARAH D. FISH, Cor. Sec’y.
Rochester, Nov. 19th 1849.
Appeal of the Philadelphia Association
The “Women’s Association of Philadel
phia’’ appeal to a benevolent public, and to
the friends of the Slave everywhere, to aid
them in their approaching Fair, the ob
ject of which is to sustain the “North Star.”
To those who are familiar with the page 3 of
this paper it is unnecesary to speak of its
merit. To those who have not seen it we
may say, that we regard it as one of the very
best anti-slavery instrumentalities now in the
field.
We are the more interested in it, because
the editor is one of our oppressed race, and
admirably qualified 6y his talents and moral
worth, to perform with credit the arduous
task of editing a paper devoted to our eleva
tion. We believe and trust that our friends
will give us their liberal aid.
To our own people we look earnestly auk
hopefully. Sisters, Brothers, shall we lood
in vain l The iron has entered into your souls
Ye go heavily, bowed down to the very dust,
dispirited, crushed by the weight of oppres
sion. Ye hear the taunts of the enemy,
‘They are so ignorant and unrefined! They
ire jealous of one other! Yes, they unite
but it is only to put down pne who is more
intellectual than the mass!” Prove by the
unerring languige of conduct that these as
sertions so often thrown in our faces are ma
licious slanders. Sustain F. Douglass, be
cause his talents and correct principles de
mand your respect and confidence. Sustain
him because it is right to do so, and because
of ‘.he sweet peace the performance of so wor
thy an action wilhassuredly bring it into your
bosoms.
The Fair will be held on Christmas week.
Donations for it may be sent to
HARRIET SMITH, 319 Lombard-sueet
RACHEL LLOYD, 303 Pine-street,
AMY M. CASSEY, 113 Lombard-street,
Or to any member of the Association.
Elizabeth Affe, Lydia Ann Bustill,
Maby Babbott, Hetty Bcbb,
Louisa Bbistol, Hclcn Johnson,
Hcsteb Bustill, Eliza JoM£p,
Charlotte Mills.
SARAH M. DOUGLASS, Cor. Sec’y.
No 54 Mullbeny st.
Philadelphia, 6th mo.. 25. 1849.
Keceifts
Far tkr Noam Sta*, from tkt 4*trf la* mckmtm
ledgmnt to Dec. lz, 1849.
Geo. R Fueoaon, .Naehoa, fIH I.W
Philip O Am ditto OB
Enoch Wilbwr, Sjcamon, Ohio
Em Clark Twineborf. Okie 1 i<
Nil« Brown Wayfcld Coraere 2
CT Beech Ea*Otto
Tbeodor*G»iar*, Wiaetead, Coen
P W Van Hon-n, Pratuburf
Ditto Donoiio* ’’J®
Kaihea P Cope Maoiertowa, Ohio
Beej. P Geo~, Mkh MJ
A J Shaw JJJ
donation
UojdSCOM o«
Celia Anthony. Coeeotry 1 *fT
Pawtucket Aau-Shron f"
Choi lee Peano, Pa* tocket
BUee k Co
Robert Shore dido*
E Crowe! Shown, dido J
M W Shore iku ‘T
Ab _ flhort dido 9
Aapa SNPn do II
Nary A d***® 5 fl#
Potter ACo *«o TjJ
H -rT f”, -D SJt
SSSr IS.
m;
W»
John M’AJopeee dido JJJ
Hr. A Nre. Grbnaa Clark® ANo
AIM Wymaa dfcto M»
Iml#> diis* Mi
Harriata WyMi Aim M®
inHw Aim M§
8 WHyAff. Fttchburg.Maae Mi
abMiOir Aim Mi
J«fe W Aim Mi
M Collator, Gardaer, Maes L«®
J D mm*; B*. ajlwmr. Mm*
9— el Grift*, Priaertea, Meat M®
GSBtmaa Aim Mi
JumVEkM Aim M®
9 i Burpee, East Prmcetae, Mm* M°
Hrory Mi
Charles O Nkfcofc «m M®
Mary Am Harris Aim l
E B Foster Aim
Wai. W Tam Aim M®
E Harwaod, Oxford, Mass
Mary Pearse, East Gwrawich, ft I w
A 9a—daw. Fa 4 fever, Maas M»
Gilbert Wafer, Worcester, Ha* M®
Naeeyftefeaaa Aim iM
W ft BKas ditto
D H Baaaru Aim M®
W B Drary f Aim I,®»
Charles Hill ditto I,o®
E L Capron dim 2,00
H K Thayer ditto M®
E F Brooks ditto M®
J L Tattoo* ditto
Fraakiia Hathaway ditto I.o®
S J Halt ditto MO
Asa Mootfomery ditto *>®o
C L P rooty ditto 1,00
Dr O F Harris ditto *,OO
Caleb Cuttiag ditto 14»
Samuel A Potter ditto 1,00
D F Wet bet bee ditto 1.00
Charles E Gates ditto
Lucia W Drew, HaTeth.ll Mass 1,00
John Banks, Proridence R I 2,00
Benj. Thomas, Shaanock, R I 2,00
S K Knowles, East Greenwich R I 20
James Mott, Philadelphia, Pa 4,00
Ditto donation 1 >OO
Darid Wright ditto 4 00
Ditto donation 1,00
Dennis Carter ditto 1
j Samuel H Barrett ditto 2
Mrs Mary Johnson, Fort Madison, lowa 2,00
Among the many blessings attendant upon im
provements in the social condition and the advance*
of our race in intelligence, is the prolongation of
human life. With the increase of intelligence ha?
grown up a knowledge of the elements of health,
and a regard for them, and commensurately with
the strides of science have we acquired the mean?
of arresting disease, and averting its ravages.
Notwithstanding the progress we have made, sta
tistics show that even now, one sixth of the whole
population die annually of Consumption.
One of the most important discoveries of the age,
in ameliorating the condition of this large class of
suffering humanity, is DR. WI .STAR’S BALSAM
OF WILD CHERRY.
Nunda, Livingston Co N. Y., June 20,1848.
Mr. S. W. Fowle,—-Dear Sir- Prompted by a
sense of gratitude for benefits received from the use
of WIST Alt’S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY,
I submit the following statement: Previous to
my taking the W’ild Cherry, I had been obliged to
give up my business in consequence of a severe
affection of the lungs. InjUiis distressed state llwas
ordered to try your remedy for CONSUMPTION.
I did so, and in the course of a few weeks, I was
restored to comparative good health, so thai I h:t ve
since been able to attend to ordinary business. In
deed, my present state of health far exceeds my
sanguine elutions.
None genuine, unless signed I. BUTTS on the
wrapper.
For sale by Post A WiLtts; and also by WM.
Pitkin.
From Wisconsin. —M. W. B. Sloan—Dear
Sir: We have of late been in the habit of purchas
ing your Horse Medicines and Tannin Paste from
your travelling ageut, the demand for them is so
great that we have never besnable to keep a supply
on hand from the time of purchase, until the agent
come round again. If agreeable to you, we will act
as your General Agents for this section f country
In this way you could keep us constantly supplied
j-,nd we should consequently be able to dispose of
manv mors of your medicines chan we now do.
""yJ^TrespeSfSr, LADD* WILLIAMS.
Shullsburg, March 13, 1849.
(JCF See Agents’ names at the head of Sloan s
Column. For farther particulars and testimonials,
get pamphlets of agents
Cap*. Job* Hull tu tba mint-mla
ter of Maasachoaetts, and coined all
tba money that m made there. He
wae ia a new line of business, for, in
the early days of the colony, the cur
rent coinage of the people consisted of
the gold nod silver money of England,
Portugal and Spain. These coins be-!
mg scarce, the people were often forc
ed to barter their commodities, instead
of selling them.
For instance, if a man wanted to bay
a coat, be, perhaps, exchanged a beafa
skin for it. If he wished tor a harm
of molasses, be might purchase it with
a pile of pine boards. Musket bullets
were used instead of farthings. The
Indians had a sort of money caled
wampum, which was made of clam
shells, and this strange sort of specie
was likewise taken in payment of debts
by the English settlers. Bank bills
had never been heard of. There was
not enough of any kind, in many parts
of the country, to pay their ministers
—so they thad to take quintals of fish,
bushels of corn, or cords of wood, in
stead of silver or gold.
As the people grew more numerous,
and their trade with one another in
creased, the want of money was still
more sensibly felt. To supply the de
mand, the General Court passed a law
for establishing a coinage of shillings,
sixpences and threepences. Capt.
John Hull was appointed to manufac
ture the money, and was to have about
one shilling out of every twenty, to
pay him for his trouble of making
them
Hereupon, all the old silver in the
colony was handed over to Capt. John
Hull. The battered silver cans and
tankards, 1 suppose, and silver buck
les, and broken spoons, and silver
hilts of swords that had figured at
court—all such curious articles were
thrown into the pot together. But bv
far the greatest part of the silver con
sisted of bullion from the mines of
South America, which the English
Buccaneers, (who were little better
than pirates,) had taken from the Span
iards, and brought to Massachusetts.
All this old and new silver being
melted down and coined, the result
was an immense amount of splendid
shillings, sixpences, and threepences.
Each had the date of 1652 on one side,
and the figure of a pine tree on the
other side. Hence they were called
pinetree shillings. And for every
twenty shillings that he coined, you will
remember, Capt. Hull was entitled to
put one shilling in his pocket.
The magistrates soon began to sus
pect that the mint-master would have
the best of the bargain. They offered
him a large sum of money, if he would
give up that twentieth shilling, which
he was continually dropping into his
own pocket; Capt. Hull declared that
he was perfectly satisfied with the
shilling. And well he might be; for
|so diligently did he labor, that, in a
few years, his pockets, his money
bags, and his strong box, were over
flowing with pine-tree shillings. This
was probably the case, when he came
in possession of a grandfather’s chair to
rest himself in.
When the mint-master had grown
very rich, a young man, Samuel Sewel
by name, came a-courting his only
daughter, whose name I do not know
but we will call her Betsey; who was a
fine hearty damsel, by no means so
slender as some young ladies of our
own days.
On the contrary, having always fed
heartily on pumpkin pies, dough-nuts,
Indian puddings, and other Puritan
dainties, she was round and plump as
a pudding. With this round rosy Miss
Betsey did Samuel Sewel fall in love.
As he was of a good character, in
dustrious in business, and a member of
the church, the mint-master very readi
ly gave his consent.
Ves, you may take her,” said he,
in his rough way, “and you will find
her a heavy burden enough.”
On the wedding day, as we may sup
pose that honest Hull dressed himself
in a plain colored coat, all the buttons
of which were made of pine-tree shil
j lings. The buttons of his waistcoat
sixpences, and the knees of his small
I clothes were buttoned wiih three-pen
j ces. Thus attired, he sat with great
dignity in his grandfather’s chair; and,
being a portly old gentleman, he com
pletely filled it from elbow to elbow.
On tbs opposite side of the' room, be
l tween the bridesmaids, sat Miss Bet
j sey. She was blushing with all her
might, and looked like a full-blown
peony, a great red apple, or any other
round and scarlet object.
There, too, was the bridegroom,
dressed in a fine purple coat, and gold
lace waist-coat, with as much other
finery as the Puritan laws and customs
would allow him to put on. His hair
was cropped close to his head, because
Gov. Endicott bad forbidden any one
to wear it below the ears; but he was
a very respectable young man, and so
thought the bridesmaids and Miss
Betsey herself.
The mint-master was pleased with
his new son-in-law—especially as he
had said nothing at all about her por
tion/ So, when the marriage ceremo
ny was over, Capt. Hull whispered a
w ord or two to his men-servants, who
immediately went out, and soon return
ed lugging a pair of scales, TTiey were
such a pair as wholesale merchants use
for weighing; a bulky commoditv was
now to be weighed in them.
“Daughter Betsey,” said the mint
msster, “go into one side of the
scales.”
Miss Betsey, or Mrs. S#wel, ns we
must now call her, did as she was bid,
like a dutiful child, without any ques
tion*. or why or wherefore; but what
her father could mean, aniens to moke
her husband pay for bor by the pound,
n **Y ch would have boon a
dear bargain, she had not the least
idea
"And now,” euid honest John Hull
-'•"X* Ihx W> IM
IV. W. llM
i ed, was a buss Muare
eabnu dnsT•nThm'u£!.h
'tHoZs'wk fa t±y
I TWn»mi
■hub, but could not lift Ibis onaoua
AmJ M m (C —kfl— ftn
•■Hu ftTCrC ilftvllj
drag it acraH tin floor.
Copt. Hull dm took Itoy out AT
bin girdle, unlocked tbo chest, ond lift
ed its pooderooa lid. Behold? It won
foil of bright pine-tree shillings, from
tbo mint, end Samuel Sewnl began to
think that hie fatter-in-law bod got
possession of all the moony Hi Massa
chusetts Treasury But it was only
the mint-master's honest share in the
coinage.
Then the servants, at Copt. Hull's
command, heaped double tiandnfutl of
shillings into one side of tbs scales,
while Betsey remained in the other.
Jingle, jingle, went the shillings, as
handful after handful was thrown in,
till, plump and ponderous as sba was,
they fairly weighed the young lady
from the floor.
“There, son Sewel!” cried the hon
est mint-master, resuming bin neat in
grandfather’s chair, “take these shil
lings for my daughters’a portion. Use
her kindly, and thank heaven for ter.
It is not every wife that is worth ter
weight in silver.”
The children laughed heartily at this
legend, and would hardly be convinced
but that grandfather had made it out of
his own head. He assured them faith
fully, however, that be ted found it in
the pages of a great historian, and had
merely tried, however, to tell it in a
somewhat funuier manner.
“Well, grandfather,” remarked
Clara, “if wedding portions now-a
days were paid as Miss Betsey was,
young ladies would not pride them
selves upon a fine airy figure, as many
of them do.”
KING COAL.
With the hearth-wand, to housewives
known as a poker, we have begun our
coal-compelling spell. There? right
iu the yielding heart of the fire. And
small white jets of flame blow and
blow—and the fire talks—talks audi
bly. Another ten minutes and the
spell works—the show begins. King
Coal, now so mighty in England and
upon the seas, shows us, as in a burn
ing mirror, his earliest history—the
beginning of his vegetable life, ere
mineralized into the black wealth he
now vouchsafes to man. Yes? in King
Coal’s own fire, we see, in dissolving
views of sapphire, topaz, and ruby,
here and there emerald-tinted, the sto
ry of his growing majesty. The fire
burns hollow. A red sky rests above
a burning earth, where many colors
live, and creep, and change into one
another. And now grow up ferns and
trees, thick and tall—King Coal in his
vegetable days, when not a beast or
bird stirred his leaves or rested on his
boughs—when ail was silent save the
solemn heaving* of the early sea. And
there in the fire grows the forest of
King Coal, and strange flowers, of all
tints, run up his trunks and hang upon
his branches. And now the forest
falls—King Coal is thrown upon his
back and burned—deeper and deeper
buried. And there he lies hidden out
of sight, crushed and crushed, and
changing and changing. Another wave
of the poker! A few thousand years
have passed, and negro King Coal is
awakened from his transforming
sleep, to do all sorts of service. We
see him at work in the embers. There
he is!—smelting iron, hammering it,
melting it. There is a village, a (own,
a city—and King Coal is wanning eve
ry hearth, for we can see him respir
ing from a thousand chimneys. The
fire falls—and then a burning ocean—
and in it a burning ship—a naked ship,
with a fiery pennant. That is King
Coal, gone to sea in his new steamship.
Another dissolving view. A thick built
town, with tall chimneys shot into the
molten sky. That is Cottonville; and
there King Coal, with his new work
ing-companion, Steam, is tearing cot
ton, teazing, spinning, weaving it.
Again, a glowing sea—and thousands
of ships, with dusky sails, like* black
swans, swimming onward—all the ships
of rich King Coal.— Punch.
From ibe Life for ibe Lazy.
PROVERBS.
Misery Loves Company” —Do you
mean that the gentleman with a jump
ing tooth-ache takes pleasure in the
society of another gentleman similarly
afflicted? Do the overcrowded inmates
of the middle-of-August omnibus greet
with becks and smiles and like en
couragements the new comers?—Do
you suppose the merchant without the
wherewithal to pay his note, is enamor
ed with those in a like fix at half-past
two? Does sea-sickness court it?
Would it assuage the pain you suffer,
if, while you are having your teeth
filed, a saw should be undergoing the
same operation in your immediate
neighborhood Does the dog with a
tin-kittle tied to his toil seem to exult
nr show any signs whatever of the
conviviality on the occasion of the ex
traordinary retinue oi four-footed
delegates who are called into Con
gress by the unusual display? Hating
the mumps—the good,* old fashioned,
Henry the Eighth looking, double
mumps, in the which you can’t even
grin, and bear it—would you care to
have a companion, face to face, a sort
of memento, not mori, but of more un
der-jaw than you ever anticipated see
ing appended to a countenance, ate
knowing that you are looking into a
human mirror, a personal reflection?
Then what do you mean by “misery
love* company?”
Take care of the pennies; the Pounds
will take care oflkemtelrtt.” —-Pleasant-
ly illustrated in an engraving I have
somewhere seen of an eldarly gentle
man seated at his desk near an open
window, through which a draught of
wind is sending a scattered bundle of
bank -oot es, while he is clutching a
pits of coppers. It is a dangerous
maxim, ate, foe fear of sccidooto,
should walk arm-in-arm with “Don't
at re at tte spigot ate last ft tte
hang.** A few Hvt cent pieces proa
iscaoasiy cherished may caaaa many n
heartburn in tte end, ate tewteadsiata
isiraa&fsuS
hri'il*nir H. »M Till! I
Kr k tmi Im* a
w*; a* hi* NMM K bo
wiM aft te ateims
rr*:*
&C7SI
higgling with a strawberry women;
there kste, “I’mnot toteswunflod”
looking about ten as he worries the poor
•wi dawn creators from his farlor
trindow into porting with five sixpen
ny baskets for two shillings; bat to see
ten in hu glory, foftow him into on
auction-room, ate behold him there,
if oot {oo much hidden ty the dust
from that second-hand carpet which te
in no closely examining with n view to
purchase “if It doesn't go too high;**
that specs Inti ve look which te is now
patting on, in caused by a measurement
in his mite of tte third story beck
room of his palace in Waverly Place,
ate not from nay misgivings as to
small-pox; but csJculstions are to no
purpose; the woman in the rusty black
dress will bid over him—God help
him! ate has no pounds to take care of
themselves.
—I can't sport on such a subject.
Somebody, whose name I have not time
to racteect, said that “a just man
struggling with adversity is a sight
with which the gods are pleased; but
the devil himself must sneer when he
seess rich man in sn auction-room!”
“Aftoimndkitmoney are toon parted”
—Not founded on fact, not a great
favorite with merchant princes, and
cabmen on the occasion of their hav
ing, in their respective callings, suc
ceeded “in doing” a liberal customer.
With what gusto does the “gent” re
lets to his partner, over a bottle at his
country-seat, how easily the green
horn took the bait: “An entire cargo
—ten per cent, above the market price
—said he supposed it was all right—
would take my word for it. Ha! ha!
ha! “a fool and his money are soon
parted. And listen to the humbler
but not meaner chuckling of the hack
driver over his gin-twist: “Charged
him a dollar from Whitehall to the
“Aator”—forked over the tin without
a word! “A fool and his money,”
etc.
The fact is, that an avaricious inau
sees no wit in liberality or open deal
ing. Shylock began: “This is the
fool that lent out money gratis!” Ita
all wrong. A Wall-street broker ol
uncommon respectability once inform
ed me that the hardest man to “shave,”
as he technically expressed himself, is
a fool.—“ Sir,” said he, warming and
rising with his subject, “you don’t
know where to have ’em; you can’t
stick soft cheese onj a hook!” Now I
put more confidence in the experience
of my informant, (well to do in the
world is he) than in all the proverbial
ists.from Sancho down to him who ought
to have dropped his pen before he
wrote “Hoctenses.”
Extraordinary Discoveyy in Cali
fornia.—-The following is an extract
from a letter written to his wife, by a
New Yorker, now working in the
mines of California, dated August 26
1849.
There was a gold mine discovered
here (what is called Murphy’s Dig
gings) one week to-day; it is evidently
the work of ancient times—llo feel
deep, situated on the summit of a verj
high mountain. It has made a great
excitement here, as it was several day:
before preparations could be made tc
descend to the bottom. There was
tound in it the bones of a human being,
also an altar for worship and some
other evidences of human labor. Frow
present indications, it is doubtful whe
ther it will pay to be worked, as it ii
mostly all rock, and will require s
great outlay of tools and machinery tc
work it.
This discovery, if properly pursued
by competent observers, may prove ot
the highest historical importance. It
will establish the fact that the minera
wealth of that region has been known
to preceding generations, and the relici
which may have survived, may enligh
ten us as to the nationality of the peo
pie, who first pierced the mountair
210 feet, and will doubtless suggest ai
inquiry into the reason for abandoning
the pursuit of gold in a country is
which it seems to abound, and when
its discoverers had found encourage
ment to make such extensive excava
tions in former times.— A*. Y. Pott.
Dreadful Scene at an Execution
—A Rockingham (N. C.) correspon
dent of the Fayetteville Observer
gives the following scene at the execu
tion of a man named Robert Hildreth,
at that place, on the 3d instant:
The axe glitters, the trap-door falls
and Hildreth swings by the neck. Fot
half a minute he remains motionless
Is he dead? Can his own weight,
without falling one inch, have broker
his neck? No? Poor fellow, he ex
pected one pang, and that hi* last
But the fatality which often leadi
Sheriffs to gross negligence in execut
ing the law, must cost him now a world
of woe. With a convulsive effort he
reaches the platform, and stands again
on earth alive. The cap had fallen
from his face. The blood was already
fast rushing upwards. But his large
and musqnlar neck prevented the rope
from tightening. Even tteu his meek
ness did not leave him. He spoke,
without complaint, in a clear voice,
that was heard with awe by every ear
—“Come here and fix the rope' it
won't choke me to death!” The Sher
iff did go to him. First with an axe,
then with a piece of scantling, he eo
deavored to knock away the boards.
At last he pushed Hildreth’s feet from
the scaffold, and hung him, inefficient
ly, a second time. The poor fellow
made no further effort to recover him
self. Finding that te was bung in a
way which produced the most excruci
ating, because gradual suffocation—
with the blood slowly collecting on bio
brain through a circulation only parti
ally impedod—the unfortunate man,
compelled by the pangs which momen
tarily grew greater, drew up his legs
as hign as possible, then, with ell his
force, threw them down to tighten the
cord. Three several times, at intor
vals of a minute, be did the same
again. Then his struggles ceased; his
eos of paan. Tte soeae el Recking
lift mm gßftftkioo ftftftftMv stock in*
f f
puftteterat inflicted in Jitestii
Col W R King end Judge Colman
Have been elected to the United States Senate from Alabama.
