From Parker’s Letter on Slavery,
Effects of Slavery on Law and politics
I now call your attention to the influence of Slavery on law and politics, its local effects on the slave states in special, its general effects on the politics of the Union. In the settlement of America only
the People came over. Nobility and
Royalty did not migrate. The People,
the* Tail'd Instate, of course brought
the Institutions and Laws of their na
tive laud these are the National 1 la
hits. so to say. But they brought also
p ditieal Sentiments and Ideas not re
presented bv the Institutions or the
Laws; Sentiments and Ideas hostile
thereto, and which could not be made
re;il in England, but were destined—as
are all such Ideas—to form Institutions
and make Laws in their own image.—
There are three such political ideas
which have already found a theoretical
expression, and have more or less been
made facts and become incarnate in
1 list itutioiis ami Laws. These are,
first, the Idea, that in virtue of his man
hood, each man has unalienable rights,
not derived from men or revocable
thereby, but derived only from God;
second*, that in respect to these Bights
all men are created equal; third, that
the sole design of political government
is to place every man in the entire pos
session of all Ins unalienable rights.
The Priesthood, Nobility, Royalty,
did not share these Ideas—nor the Sen
timents which led to them, These
Ideas were of the people; they must
form a Democracy, the government oi
all, for all, and by all—a Common
wealth with no privileged class—a State
without Nobles or Kings—a Church
without Prelate or Priest.
These Ideas, in becoming facts and
founding political Institutions to repre
sent themselves, modified also the an
riont and C ommon Law. 1 he Laws
of England,” said Sir John bortescue,
in the lifieentli century, the Laws of
England favor Liberty in every ease;’
let him who favors not liberty be
judged impious anti cruel.” After the
natimal and solemn expression of the
above Democratic Ideas, the laws must
favor liberty yet more, and new Insti
tutions come into being. Accordingly,
on the free States of the North, where
these Ideas have always had the fullest
practical exposition, ever since the
devolution there lias been a continual
advance in legislation —laws becoming
more humane, universal principles get
ting established, and traditional excep
tions becoming annulled. In Law
the theory of these Ideas —so far as
expressed in Institutions and habit*—
and m Society—the practice thereof, so
Liras thev have passed into actual life,
<acre is a constant levelling upward;
the low are raised—the Slave, the Ser
vant, the Non-Freeholder; the lofty
not degraded. J u the constitutions of
nearly all the free States, it is distinctly
stated that all men are created equal in
rights, und in all it is implied. They
all are advancing towards a realization
of that idea—slowly, but constantly.
They have lost none of the Justice em
bodied in the Common Law of their
ancestors —hut gained new Justice, and
embodied it ill their ow n forms.
This Idea of the natural equality of
all men in Rights, is inconsistent with
Slavery; accordingly it is expressed in
the constitution of hut one slave State,
Virginia. It is consistently rejected by
the politicians of the South. This dif
ference of Ideas must appear in all the
lii-tuutious of the North and South,
and produce continual and conflicting
modifications of the Common Law of
THE NORTH STAR.
England, which they both inherit; if the
one idea adds Justice thereto, the other
takes it away.
\.»w among the Institutions inherited
from England were the Trial by a Jury
of twelve men in all matters affecting
liberty and life; the Presumption in fa
vor oi* life, liberty and innocence; the
Wight of every man under restraint to
have a legal reason publicly s .mnn for
his confinement, by a writ of Habeas
Corpus. The form of the latter is in
deed modern, but its substance old, and
of uncertain date. These three have
Jong been regarded as the great Safe
guards of public justice, and in the le
gislation of the free States remain un
disturbed in their beneficent action, ex
tending to every person therein. In
the slave States the whole class of bond
men is in fact mainly deprived of them,
all. 'I
By the customs of England and her
Law, while Villanage obtained there,
the rule was. that the child followed the
condition of its father: Filita ScquUur
Palran. Hence the issue of a free
ni.tn, though horn of a servile mother,
was always free. In virtue of this
maxim, and the legal Presumption in
favor of Liberty, a presumption ex
tending to all classes of men, the child
of a female slave, which was born out
of wedlock, was of course free. It j
was possible the father was a free man.
The child gained nothing but existence
from bis unknown father, and the Law
would not make that a curse. 'I he child
of a slave father, but born before the
father was proved a slave, retained his
freedom forever.
If a freeman married a female slave,
she became free during the life ot her
husband, and the children of course
were free.
The slave, under certain circumstan
ces, could possess property, acquired
by devise, by gift, or other means. It
was so, as a general rule through all
the North of Europe; the more cruel
maxims of the Homan slave-code never
prevailed with the Teutonic race.
The Have could make a contract with
bis lord, binding as that between peer
and peer. He could in bis own name
bring an action against any one; in
some cases even against bis master.
He could, in all cases, and in his own
name, demand a Trial by Jury in a
court of record, to determine if he
were born a slave, or free. To deter
mine against him, it Was necessary not
only to show in general that he was a
slave, but that he was the slave of some
one person in special. If it was simply
shown that the man was a slave, but
was not shown to the Jury’s satisfac-t
tion that he was the slave of the par
ticular man who claimed hint, the slave
received his freedom at once, as one
derelict by bis master, and if legally
claimed by nobody, he naturally be
longed to himsell.
He could be a w itness in any court,
even when his master was an adverse
party; though not possessed of all the
privileges of a citizen tcgalis Homo—
not admitted to hold oflice or serve
on a jury, yet he could testify on oath,
even in criminal cases, as any other
man.
If a slave ran away, and the master
for oue year neglected to pursue him
with public outcry and prosecution ol
his claim, the slave was tree by adverse
possession oi himscli. W bile he was
m Hight, and in actual possession ol
freedom, the master could not seize on
his children or on his possessions. He
must legally possess the Principal, the
Substance, before he could touch the
Subordinate and Accident thereof. Did
the slave flee to another borough or
shire, a jury of that place except in
certain cases, when the trial must take
place in another county —must not only
convict him as a slave before the master
could recover his body, but must con
vict him of being the slave of that spe
cial claimant.
If the slave took orders in the
Church, or became a monk, lie was
free from his master, though this was
an exception to the law in most Catho
olic countries. If violence were of
fered to a female slave by her master,
she had redress as a free woman.—
Slaves had all the personal rights of
freemen except in regard to their own
respective masters, and in some cases
even then. There was no hindrance to
manumission.
In America the laws relating to sla
very are in many respects more severe
than the English laws, since the Nor
man conquest, respecting villains—re
gardant or in gross. I’lie child’s con
dition follow* that of the mother. This
American departure lruin the Common
Law was early made by statute, and;
the opposite maxiin, the rule of the,
Civil Law, extended over the slave
States; —Partus sajuihtr Vent rein. Il
legitimate children of female slaves
were of course slaves forever, though
the father was free. But for this altera-!
tion, many thousands of men now slaves'
would have been free.
Contrary to the old Common Law of
England, but in obedience to the Ro
man code, the American slave, in law.
is regarded merely as a thing; “doom
ed,” as Judge Ruffin, of North Caro
lina, sorrowfully declares, “to live
without knowledge and without the ca-t
parity to make anything his own, and 1
to toil that another may reap the
fruits.” In *on»e of the slave States,
Trial by Jury is allowed to him in uil
capital cases; sometimes with the con
currence of a grand jury, sometimes
without. Sometimes he is allowed to
challenge the juror* for cause,” tho*
not peremptorily. But in South Caro
lina, Virginia, and Louisiana, the slave
is not allowed a jury trial, even when
his life is in peril. In *otne other* he
has the protection of a jury when ar-;
raigned for inferior offences. But in
every slave State he may he beaten to
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR-COD IS THE FATCIER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE AR$ BRETHREN.
the extent of thirty-nine lashes wcl
laid on/' without the verdict of a jury, bui
by the decision of a body of justices o!
the peace, varying in number from twe
to five. In all cases he is fried by met
who regard him only as a thing, nevei
by a jury of his peers—not even by i
mixed jury of slaveholders and slaves
Some States have made humane pro
visions to guard against popular ex
citement, removing the trial to anothci
county; now and then humane deci
sions are made in their favor by jusl
men. But these arc exceptional spots
of humanity amidst the general gloom
of the slave code. There is some dif
ference in the legislation of the several
States, justifying the remark l«»ng age
made in Europe, that the condition ol
slaves was mildest in the North—hard
est iu the South.
Since the slave is a Tiling, he is not
allowed his oath; sometimes lie may
give legal evidence for or against an
other slave, though without any form ol
solemn affirmation. There are laws in
all the slave States designed to restrain
the master from excessive cruelty, still
they afford but incomplete protection to
the slave; he cannot biing an action
against the oppressor in his own name
—for, as a Thing, he has no Rights.—
No slave, free negro, or mulatto to the
fourth degree of descent, is allowed to
testify against a white man; as if this
were not enough in South C aroliua and
Louisiana, if a slave is injured or killed
when only one white person is present,
and the presumption of guilt fall on the
one white man, he is allowed by statute
to clear or exculpate himself by his
own oath. This law is worse than
the code of the Romans, “whose his
tory was written in the blood of van
quished nations.”
The slave lias no legal right of self
defence against his master's assault and
battery; the female none against brutal
violation. The law of Georgia directs
that “if any slave shall presume tc
strike any white man, such slave shall,
for the first offence, suffer such punish
ment as the justice or justices shall see
tit, not extending to life or limb; and,
for the second offeuce, suffer deat
In South Carolina, on his owner’s ac
count, he is allowed to slrke even a
white man, and the offence is capita]
only when twice repeated. In Ken
tucky, the penalty is less severe, bui
applied to free menjof color as well as
slaves.
A slave cannot be a party to a civil
suit. indeed, when his condition is
dobtful, he may apply to a court, and
the court authorize some man to act as
“guardian,” and bring an action iu the
slave’s behalf, and have investigation
made of his servitude. But the bur
then of. proof remains on the slave’s
shoulders—to show that he is free. The
presumption that he is a slave Pre
sit mpfio Jtlalcc Partis —prevail in all the
South, except North Carolina, where
the slave-code is perhaps more humane
than elsewhere, and is thus declared by
statute in South Carolina and Georgia:
It shall always be presumed that ev
ery negro, Indian, mulatto and mestiso
is a slave.” No adverse possession of
himself, however long, makes a negro
tree, or his offspring horn while he is in
that state. In Mississippi, every negro
or mulatto not able to prove that he is
free, inay he sold by order of court, as
a slave forever. If an applicant for
freedom is cast in his suit, the ccurt is
“fully empowered to inflict such pun
ishment, not extending to life and limb,
as they should think fit;” the guar
dians” shall pay the costs; and in
South Carolina, double those costs,with
damages to the owner of the slave. In
Virginia, such a guardian, if defeated
in his application, may he fined £>loo.
In such a trial in Maryland, the master
is allowed to challenge peremptorily 12
jurors. How difficult to find a guar
dian” willing to incur the risk; how
more than difficult to secure justice
when a negro is wrongfully claimed as a
slave! Yet notwithstanding the general
spirit displayed by such legislation,
some decisions have been made in the
Southern States remarkable for the
nicety of legal distinction, and the ex
actness of their justice even to the
slave.
Since the slave is a Tiling in many
States, a conditional contract which the
master has solemnly made with a
slave is not binding on the master, even
after the slave has fulfilled the contract
in spirit and letter. This is notoriously
the law in South Carolina, and even in
Virginia. A contract made with a spade
or mule binds no man—with a slave no
more; the court cannot proceed to
“enforce a contract between master
and slave, even though the contract
should be fully complied w ith on the
part of the slave.” This is a depar
ture from the Common Law of Kog
laud, and oven from the customs of the
Saxons and Germans.
The Common Law of England jeal
ously defends the little property of the
slave; his Pecultnm. By the common
law of Villanage, in England and Ger
many, he could acquire property as it
was said above, and could transmit it to
his heirs. Something of the sort was
allowed even at Rome. Rut in all the
slave States this is strictly forbidden.
A slave cannot hold property solemnly
devised to him by testament, even by
that of his master. This provision, en
forced by statute in Virginia, North
Caroliua, South Carolina, Georgia,
Mississippi, Kentucky, and Tennessee,
and perhaps ail the slave States, is more
rigorous even than the black codes
of the Spanish and Portuguese co
lonies.
By the Common Law, the marriage
of a slave was sacred as that of a peer
of the realm. The Customs of Turkey
regard it as inviolable. Even thfe Ro*
man code respected that, and the Com
mon Law, by making marriage a sacra-
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1818.
Iment rendered it perpetual: Neither
bond nor free may be separated from
the sacraments of the church,” said the
Decretal of Gregory; “the marriages
among slaves must not be hindered.]
and though contracted against their,
master's will, ought not on that account
to be dissolved,” But in the American
law, the slave cannot contract mar
riage. In North Carolina, no marriage
is legal between whites and persons of
color, including in the latter term all
descended from a negro to the fourth!
generation.
[to he continued.]
From the Herald.
j MRS. MADISON A SLAVE DEALER.
I The Albany Patriot contains a letter
frnjp its W ashington correspondent* re
lating certain facts concerning Mrs.
Madison and her slaves, which have
occasioned us more pain and shame
than any other narrutive of horrors that
has yet reached us from the pandemo
nium of Southern Slavery. The facts
are not at all without parallels, familiar
and frequent, but the person implicated
is one w horn it is terrible to regard with
j the feelings which her conduct chal
i lenges. Mrs. Madison is above eighty
years of age, the widow of one of our
most honored Presidents, and herself,
we have been glad to believe, worthy
of all the love and reverence which it
does the heart so much good to render
to those in whom the most glo
rious associations of our country cen
tre.
Three years ago she sold an old
slave, who had been nurtured on Mr.
Madison’s farm, and had been his bar
ber and dressing-man for a quarter of
a century. He was purchased by a
i Northern Senator to save him from the
cotton field, and is now working out the
price of his freedom with his own
hands. Among other slaves,” the
i writer says, “she owned a mothersoodd
years of age, and her daughter of fif
teen. About three months ago, the old
lady called this girl into the parlor one
day, nominally to bring her some water,
I but really to show her to a Georgian,
as the colored people call the slave
drivers. The girl was quick on the
scent, and at a glance perceived that
she was to be sold. Her mistress, Mrs.
Madison, agreed with the purchaser to
send the unprotected child to the pump,
at a certain hour ou a day fixed upon,
when he could conveniently seize and
i carry her off. The gi,i embraced an
early opportunity to retire behind the
scenes, find has not made her appear
ance on the stage since.
Immediately after this event, Mrs.
Madison, either piqued a little at the
loss of the daughter, or from her ne
cessities, offered the mother for sale.—
By great good luck she found a family
in the city in want of a colored woman
like herself. The price was paid
to her mistress, and she is now at
work with the prospect of freedom
sometime. The reason assigned for
Mis. Madison’s conduct in these cases
is, that poverty and want forced it upon
her.”
Mr. Madison, it is said, left a good
estate, including one hundred slaves.
Mrs. Madison received $*20,000 a few
years ago from Congress, for her hus
band’s manuscripts, and is now boring
lor s*io,ooo more for the balance of
those same papers. Mrs. Madison is
herself a mother, (by her first mar
j riage,) and no degree of want that she
j could possibly suffer could tempt her,
if she has u heart, to sell another’s
child away into Southern bondage. It
was unmothcrly, it w*as unwomanly, it
I was brutal to barter away the maiden
I virtue of that poor child; and it would
have disgiaced her w idowhood no more
t to sell her husband’s dead body to the
i surgeons, than his old barber to the
soul-driver. His horse or dog would
be treated w itb more tenderness by
any washerwoman with an American
heart in her, than his body-servant re
ceived from his wife. Out upon her—
it would degrade our manhood to re
l spect her if she were our own mother.
Can it be true Mrs. Madison a deal
er in human flesh—-a broker of maid
enhood! “We wish we had not
heard it.”
j
From Honitt’a Jowual.
TIIE INFLUENCE OF TRACT*.
'-It is my conviction that more will
have to be dune through the press, than
by any other means. Lecturing and
preaching are great things, but they
are not the greatest. I hey can do
something which the press cannot do;
but the press can do much which they
cannot do. Tracts can go evei vwhere.
Tracts never blush. I racts know no
fear. Tracts never stammer. Tracts
never stick fast. Tracts never lose
their temper. Tracts never tire.
Tracts never die. Tracts can be mul
tiplied without end by the press. Tracts
can travel at little expense. They
want nothing to eat. They require no
lodgings. They run up and down, like
the angels of God, blessing all, giving
to all, and asking no gift in return.
You can print tracts of all sires, on all
subjects, and in all languages. And
tracts can be read in ail places and at
all hours. And they caa talk to one as
well as a multitude, and to a multitude,
as well as one. They require no pub
lic room to tel! their story in. They
can tell it in the kitchen or the shop,
the paHar or the closet, in the railway
carriage or in the omnibus, on the
broad highwar or in the footpath thro
the fields; and they dread no notsji
or tumultuous interruption. They take
no note of scofls, or jeers, or taunts;
of noisy folly or malignant rage. Thej
bear all things, endure all things, suffei
all things, and take harm from nothing
They can talk even when the B«i« i*>
so great as to drown all other voices;
and they stop w hen they are bid, or a:
least when they have done. They
never continue talking after they have
told their tale. No one can betray
them into hasty or random expressions.
And they wiH wait men’s time, and suit
themselves to men’s occasions and con
veniences. They will break oft at any
point, and begin again, at any moment
where they broke off. And though
they will not alway s answer questions,
they w ill tell theii story twice or thrice,
or four times over, if you wish them.
And they can be malic to speak on
every subject, and on every suhject
they may he made to speak wisely and
well. They can, in short, be made the
vehicles of all truth, the teachers and
reformers of all classes, the regener
ators and benefactors of all lands.
I want my friends to give this sub
ject their attention. I teel persuaded
that the importance of the press as a
means of spreading simple gospel truth,
and promoting simple Christian piety,
is not yet fully understood. Or it it be
properly understood, the press has
never vet been employed as it ought to
be in this great work. Luther w rote and
published no less than eleven hundred
works, in a few years, most of them
small tracts or single sheets. He pub
lished at one time from two to three
hundred in a single year. It was the
multiplication of these tracts and hooks
by the press, and (heir plentiful distri
bution among the multitudes, that gave
pow er to the reformer’s principles, and
shook the power of the popedom, and
worked so great a reformation. It was
chiefly by a plentiful supply of cheap
tracts, that Wesley gained his influence
with the masses of our countrymen,
and worked such happy wonders in our
land. It was chiefly by means of a
plentiful supply of cheap tracts, sold
cheap or freely given away, that the
early Quakers shook the nation, and
in spite of some excesses in their con
duct. and some mysteries and errors in
their opinions, almost frightened the
priests and sectarians out of their w its.
It was chiefly by means of tracts that
Joseph Livesey and some of his fellow
workers, roused the country on the
subject of tce-totalism, and gained for
the principle such a firm and general
lodging in the souls ot the community.
Livesey did not lecture so much, hut
his tracts, the fair expounders of his
principles, were always speaking. Live
scy did not visit one place in a hun
dred; but his tracts went everywhere.
Livesey could speak only English, hut
his tracts were soon made to speak
both Welsh and German. His tracts
made others become lecturers, and
supplied the lecturers with truths, and
facts, and arguments. And it must be
chiefly by tracts, that the principles of
a pure and practical Christianity must
be spread through the w orld. Tracts
have already done gootV without end,
and they may easily' be nuhlc to do still
greater good. Let tracts he freely
and plentifully circulated, and they will
rouse the whole country; they will
shake the foundations of every corrup
tion in the land, and bring people in
I multitudes from darkness to light, from
superstition, and error, and sin, to the
wisdom, and purity, and blessedness of
the gospel of Christ. They will not
only set people a thinking, but a talk
ing too. They will raise up lecturers,
and help to qualify them tor their work.
They will bring about a reform w hich
will bless all ages, and spread purity,
i and freedom, and peace, through ail
the countries of the earth.
Frmn the Pcim. Freeman.
LITTLE INSTRUMENTALITIES.

Reader, did you ever go out among
your neighbors, to circulate auti-sla
very petitions, to distribute tracts, orto
solicit contributions for the slave’s
treasury, and return weary, sad and
discouraged because success seemed
not to attend your efforts? Was the
contribution denied, the tract received
with indifference, the petition ridiculed,
the argument and earnest remonstrance
coldly heard Did a half-lormed
1 thought rise to your lips, it is of no use
•to try Did the sadness of your re
flections on the apathy, the selfishness,
j the hard-heartcdiiess of those in w hose
breasts you sought to awaken an inter
est for the slave, weaken your faith in
the power of truth? Then listen while
we tell you of an incident which oc
curred in this city. A few weeks since,
a young man came into the anti-sla
very office and asked for some tracts.
Entering into conversation with him,
w e found him deeply interested in our
cause, and w filing to give substantial
evidence of ins love for it. He inform
ed us that his interest iu the suhject
was first awakened by a visit ol two
anti-slavery women to a store in Mar
ket etrect, where he was employed as a
clerk Their errand was to solicit d<*-
nat ions (or the anti-slavery treasury.—
Their con versa! ion attracted his atten*
tion, and the tracts which they left were
perused by himself and another
clerk in the store, and both of them be
i came deeply interested in the cuus? of
the slave. One of the partner* in the
firm also avowed himself an abolition
ist. We were not surprised at thi*
young man’s (aith in the efficacy of
tract distribution, or by hi* generoo*
1 „ffcr to contribute and to collect mmey
to pay for the publication of these little
1 but mighty. rai**ive» of truth. They
who sowed the seed from which this
good fruit has sprung, perchance know
nothing of the result of their labors. It
mav be that they account that day ’»labor
as lost, and were at k»Mo*e, as weary,
sad, disheartened, a* you have some
times been. Yet their good seed sank
in good soil, and while they were giving
their thought* and their labors to othei
efforts, or perchance lamenting the dif
cullies in their way, it was tending out
roots, deep and wide, and upbringing
freshness and beauty.
Reader, will you remember this little
incident, when you are tempted to de
spond.' It may inspire a new resolu
tion; it may hear to your soul a gill ot
strength for a new deed of love; it may
revive your drooping hope. \e whugu
forth with anxious hearts, bearing pre
cious seed, doubt not that ye shall come
again rejoicing, bringing sheaves with
you.
CHARACTER IMPORT VJiT TO A
YOPNIi MAS.
An aged man may, as an individual,
be eminently good or evil, but his char
acter is constantly losing its impor
tance in reference to the world. So far
as the relations of life are concerned,
Ihe is constantly, either voluntarily or
involuntarily detaching himself from all
around him, and becoming an isolated
l being. He reiiics from the bur, the
pulpit, the senate chamber, the cx
change. He withdraws from business,
aiid makes preparation to pass his
houses and his lands into the hands ol
others, lie has no powers now to he
cultivated in which the world feels any
interest; he has no passion to be re
i strained, from whose development the
world would have anything to dread;
I he can form no plan stretching into fu
ture years, on which the world would
look with cither hope or fear. He will
indeed be respected if he is virtuous,
but he will hot be feared if he is wick
ed; and whether the one or the other,
the weapon which he strikes in favor ol
virtue or vice, will be like that in the
hand of the aged Priam
ti lum imbellc siik* k-tu.
We may love him as a father, venerate
him as a sage, honor him for his past
services, or pity him on account of his
I infirmities; but we cease to rely on his
1 arm in the defence of his country, or
his eloquent voice in favor of a i ight
eaus cause; .and we cease to dread him
as a foe.
Not so, however, w ith a young man.
Everything is passing into his hands.—
The key of every warehouse, of every
hank, and of every insurance office,
j every professor’s chair, every deed and
every bond and mortgage; all the en
dowments of colleges and asylums; our
libraries, our dwellings, our farms, our
gardens; all the. offices of the town
l ship and of the nation; all the entcr
prises of national improvement, and all
the plans of benevolence Iruits ol
many prayers and of thoughtful wis
dom—all these things are soon to* be
committed to young'men. In effcry
i pulsation of the heart of a young man,
therefore; in every plan that he forms;
in the development of every feeling and
purpose, the community has the deepest
interest. And when the eye is dim
with age, and the frame is weak and
j palsied, if there is anything that will
kindle up that eye with momentary bril
liancy, or inspirit that frame, it is the
expanding virtue of a s n, and the
feeling that the coming generation w ill
J not be unworthy to receive a trust so
dear to a departing Chiistinn and pa
triot. So the aged patriarch Jacob,
when he was borne down under a
i weight of years, and he felt that he
j was about to die, assembled his sons
around him; and, animated by the
prospects before them, his departing
j soul was stirred within him. He pro
nounced his last benediction in lan
guage of the loftiest prophetic inspira
tion; committed to them the great in
terests of truth and of religion, and
having made an end of commanding
1 his sons, he gathered up his feet into
i the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and
was gathered peacefully unto his peo
pie.”-—lieu. xlix. —Barnes in .Yul tonal
Preacher.
THE FORCE OF HABIT.
The public have been so often lec
tured upon the force of habit by reform
ers of alt descriptions and qualities,
f that it is much to be doubted if the
I most eloquent objurgation would have
i great weight with our readers just now
j in inducing them to abandon any prac
tice which they may consider innocent,
though confessedly of a dangerous
tendency. If the following anecdote
will not convince the most obdurate
mind of the perils which attend the
indulgence of any of our appetites,
whether natural or acquired, there is
no force in illustration, and argument
is worse than idle.
We knew a youth at school, (in fact
he was a friend of ours,) whose seat
was at the end of the bench next the
school house door, so that when the
door was opened he was screened from
the sight of the school master. Taking
advantage of this circumstance the sly
rogue used to take a quiet nap every
evening during the summer time, when
the do<*r was set ajar to admit of a
circulation of fresh air. It so happened
that the master stalking about the
room, one hot afternoon, espied the
delinquent dozing away against all
discipline and scholarly behavior.
Our school master was not a member
of the anti-flagellation society of teach
ers, and accordingly aroused ibe juve
nile dreamer in a way comprthen-obic
only to those who have spent their early
years in the neighborhood of the birch
and other like switch-bearing tree*.
Teachers now a- days would have only
reprimanded an offence like this, but
not so the pedagogues of yore. They
taught the young idea How to shoo! by
i the help of such applications as sounds
like the explosion of a percussion cap,
and those hoys that were not naturally
so they made smart by Ibe most infal
lible remedies.
The next eveutng our school fellow,
WIIXIAM C KKU 4 Nuiiaui.
JOHN PICK, i’airrru.
WHOLE NO-XVI.
tli nking that surely the master would
not Misled him of sleeping in school
tiim* again, as lie had been ft und out,
sunk sweetly into a deep snooze from
which he was startled by sundry sensa
tions about the hack and shoulders
which he first mistook for the scratching
and biting of dozen or so eats. He
however w as soon ‘brought to a iousci
usness ot his being again discovered
i. sleep, and tins time the teacher con
t lined to wake him up” l<»ug alter all
igits ol drowsiness had vanished.
1 he next and the next evening our
fiend still fell asleep. He had got in
fo the habit of it, and would delude
himself by one sophistry or another in
to the belief that he would not he mo
lested. Vet every day the school
master administered to him the most
convincing proofs of his w atchfulness,
and growing a little accustomed to the
exercise, not to rny Horn! of it, would
take good care to open the door widu
against the bench as if on purpose to
give his victim a better chance to enjoy
his nap in peace. This v\«s kept up
in school for a considerable length of
time. At last our school fellow was
completely cured of his habit of sleep
ing; hut before this was effected the
school master got into one of w hipping
him tv rv afternoon, which he regu
larly did for three years, whether he
was asleep or not. A remarkable
instance, this, of the force of habit,
SLAVERY' AND METHODISM.
An occurrence recently took pluce
in Charleston, South Carolina, which
displayed in a remarkable degree, the
arrogance and assumption of slave
holders. The Methodist Book of
Church Discipline, from the days of
Wesley to the present time, has con
tained a clause declaring Slavery to lie
a great evil.” V\ hen the Methodist
Church in this country separated, the
Southern branch endeavored to have
the objectionable clause expunged.
But from motives of policy, or the fear
of assuming a position so contrary to
the tirst principles of justice and sound
reason, it was suffered to remain. A
short time since, a gentleman called at
the Methodist Book Depository in
Charleston, and purchased a copy of
the Discipline, which he showed to a
person present, requesting him to note
the time and place of the purchase.
Shortly after, the keeper of the Depo
sitory was summoned before the mayor
on a charge of circulating an incendiary
publication; and to escape the penal
ties of the law, which are fine and im
prisonment, or the penitentiary, we do
not remember which, he, in company
with the Methodist preachers stationed
I in the city, and the editors of fRiT
Southern Christian Advocate, were
obliged to give bonds that no more of
the books should he circulated in
Charleston, nor at the missionary sta
tions established in various parts of the
State for the religious instruction of
slaves! The slaveholders will now
probably demand the expurgation of
the offensive clause; and it remains to
he seen whether the Methodists will
submit.— Hoik. Dun.
TRANQIIIIiIZING EFFECT OF
FUTURE’S,
Every good picture, by which I mean
every picture that has something good
in it, is not mere surface and color J it
has a countenance, like the counten
ance of a friend or lover, of which
extent certain expressions are revealed
only to certain eyes at certain moments.
1 hen there are the associations ot long;
acquaintance; accidental gleams of
lamp or sunshine have lighted up tho
shadowy no< Its, and startled the eyo
with revelations of hidden beauty an d
meaning; or, in hours of lassitude and
sorrow, hours when the “fretful stir
unprofitable of this painful actual
world, lias hung heavy on the spirit,
the light breaking from behind the trees
of far-off distance, stretching away,
and leading the fancy after it, till it
melts into Elysium, or rural groups,
revels of sfttyi*, or clouds, or thee of
pure-eyed virgin or serene saint, has
arrested the troubled course of thought,
and stamp* d a consecration on certain
pictures which it would he a pleasure
to see commemorated, hut which no
accidental visitor can enter into. 1
caniK t express to you,*’ said a most
distinguished statesman of the present
day, as we stood in the midst of his
beautiful pictures, “I cannot *xpn ss
to you my feelings of tranquillity, of
restoration, with which, in an interval
of harassing official business, I look
round me here.” And while he spoke
in the slow quiet tone of a weary man,
he turned his eves on a forest scene ot’
Kuysdaal, and gazed on it for a minute
fir two in silence—a silence 1 was
careful not to hreak—as if u» coo|
dewy verdure, Us deep seclusions, Us
transparent waters Mealing through lho
glade, had sent refreshment mto bis
very soul—. Vex. Jobuxou't ('umjaut J
to Pirtnrt OofUrits of London.
Hr.xi.Tii trrr.cTEp m tiik M ixo—
In the work of Dr. Metcalf on the si h
jeet of caloric, he lays down the p ex
position, that nothing contributf no
much to lif alth and longevity, a* a
happy and tranquil slate of mind,
which is to be sought for tn a tetnper
ate exercise of all the physical, intel
lectual, and moral faculties.
volence, friendship, J«r*. I con
science, with tender, refilled, and
elevated thought*, irb never-failing
source* of health and delight; whereas
pride, envy. jeilousy, covetousness
auger, and all the passions, habitually
indulged to excess, not only cm kilte r
our happiness*, ztfd (hat of all around
tta, but sap the Awndatton of health,
and shorten the period of existence.
Fourteenth Anniversary Of the American Anti-Slavery Society.
The Fourteenth Annul Meeting of the
Aolmcmnr .Vu»-Blav«ry Society, will bo held
m tbs Brand* at TaWnadc, New York, chi
Tuesday, the Ninth Day of M*y, at 1(1
W <d*wh, A. M.
yrcH*ni aspect of p*ihlie a ft*!m in thii
jskufttrty ch «oUI make tlwi* meeting one ol
mom linn inr- 1 -—p-- 1 i»
Southern boundary of American Slavery
which, sifter* this Society was firmed, hsj
Vcn removed front th? Sabine to th? Nnccss
ft is now proposed by it* guardian* to remove
still further into the froc territoiy of a sistci
Republic. We have little r<a*on to ex|»cc
a more favorable termination to tlie two years
war waged, at an enormous expanse of hlooc
and tre&surc, for the stmt purpose of extendinf
the worst system ol human bondage by con
<p»est. Whether the Abolitionists of th<
cmmfrr can arrest the perpetration of tht
stupendous national crime, or not, it is no les
their duty to make th? effort. The la*
public protest they may have the op|»orlunitj
to record against it, should be earnest am
unanimous.
The necessity of the moment should al»
feiuiud us of how much of the work is still t
be don*, which tins Society, fourteen year
ago, resolved to do. Sitter its formation, Sla
very has not bean abolished in a single Sfat
«l the Union. A million more of our conn
trymea have been born to the lot of slaves.—
Hat that this Society arid its auxiliaries havi
aroused, to a certain degree, a universal Anti
Slavery sentiment at the North, and hav
made t!te topic one of alisorbing interes
throughout the country, is Uie best evideno
of the wisdom of tb-ir measures, and shook
h; the strongest incentive to still more strenu
ous and self-denying toil.
The oh! and tried friends of th? raus?
and those who have been hut rcecntl
aroused to the necessity of ih? overthrow o
the felon system of American Sluvciy, ar
urged to make of this meeting a grand rail
for freedom.
WM. LLOYI) GARRISON, Pres t
Wt:\m:T.T, Phillips,
S. H.Oav,
John S. Jacobs, a self emancipated slar
from North Carolina, proposes the following
HMii js of meetings, relying upon the inflame
of th friends in each place to aid the caus
along.
Westfield, Mass. Wednesday, April 5
WareesfT, Thursday, 6
Providcnco,- R. 1., Friday, 7
Newport, Sal. Sun. R 9
Fall Itivcr, M;lss. Monday, 10
Nantucket Tucs. Wed/If 12
Fairhtfvon, Friday, 11
New Bedford, Saturday, Jfi,
Cambridge, Tuesday, 18.
South Boston, Wednesday, 19.
ILP The liberator will please copy.
.WESTERN NEW YORK ANTI
SLAVERY SOCIETY.
A Special meeting of the F.xecutive Com
irmteo will be Ireld at the Anti-Slavery office
25, Huff.do Street, on Tuesday evening
April lBtli, at 7 o'clock precisely. It is con
lidenlly expected, that every member will Ih
present. The emergency calls for it.
W. C. NELL, Rec. Sec.
\nti-Slvvkry Meetings-.-— -C. L. Re
Mono and J. C. Hathaway, Agents of th<
Western New York Anti-Slavery Society
w ill hold meetings us follows
Millport, Sat. Sund. April 8 9
I tinea, M Olid. Tucs- 10 11
Spnngport, Tlmrs. Fri. Id 11
Frederick Douglass will attend tin
above meetings.
THE DOUGLASS TESTIMONIAL.
'The absence of Mr. Douglass suggests tin
publication of an extract from his letter t«
English friends, relative to the testimonial o
a printing press and materials. The lettci
was inserted in llowitt's Journal.
The tone of the British press, on the sub
ject of my exclusion from the saloon of the
steam t»htj> Cambria, during Iter April voyage
from LrreT]KK»l to Boston, has been all, am!
more than all, I had ventured to hope or ex
j«ct. How nobly and successfully has the
press performed its duty—that ot vindicating
Ib*‘ right, denouncing the wrong, and throw
ing its broad shield of protection arouni
humanity in its humblest and mast defence
less form. Their promptness in this instance
Ins done m-ore to impress me with a s mse o
your nation's honor, than all the other tnei
dents connected with my visit to your land
1 feel that my mission would have been in
complete without this crowning chapter in it*
history. It is a nation's press defining i
n ition's position in a question of the greates
importance to my down-trodden and long
abused race. I will point Americans to tha
drluiition, and with its testimony I will con
found those who slander your country (ar
many h r<* are wont to do) by the charge oi
prejudice against color in England.
You speak of the printing press, and ask.
shall I like to have it 1 answer, yes, y«s 1
The very bent instruni mtalities are not t«H
g.»od for this cause. 1 should feel it quiu
improper to express myself tints, if the pro
pased pres'.it were nt?relv ati expression ol
pers-m d consideration. I look upoll it as an
aid to a great caus and I cannot but aec *pi
<d th? b*-*t gift* which may be offered to it
I hope to be able, to do do a guot
w<»rk in behalf of my race with it.
Yours r -s|»‘ctfullV,
F. IX)I'GLASS.
||7*The friends of humanity ,espcciaMy tlicsr
of ftbein w ho are readers of the North Star
will he gratified to learn, that though Uu
editors arc for a time absent from their j ost
they are elsewhere laboring assiduously in tin
cause of the oppressed. 'lie* following
notices will give some idea of their where
about*, and of the estimation 111 w lucli thet
labors ar? held:
FtumUttcifr lhii CLASs, the celebrated col
ored orator aaJ advocate, together will
Charlks L: Sox Hmovo, aoolhdi uloquen
champion of the rights of man, have bot-i
speaking to crnwdvd'and delighted audience
m tins village lor die' past two days. \N
liaro Iward iuanv eloquent speakers aod mud
th at lee* b.*»n rail *<l eloquence, Nit we tnv
never h.-arJ Frederick Jlouglass excelled
ii is certain] v an extraordinary man, ami hr
has a.i extraordinary uiLsion. He h* ye
prohibit' in t*iecuninoiicement of liis career
a career whiidr ptotiw- not only to she*
r iiowii upoi Imnv.df, Init tirls'stow tin* pr»
coustwei of Liberty irt• n* mr{ rur
oppress*! brethren. He has the good wi*!ki
ot a of frecrne^— ru
On Toss-iiy Opening lagl i levtnfet
named Utfany, Spoke m tli#?rwi«*tantchscrfa
in tins flare. fl.iny of HDtr wlkg dfcxatt
sAj r-fiffr’d to.aftcrtd the Brooks' hi -eting on
tit* r<My previous, aviated in sacking up
the audience of LL-Unv. They could tum
out and h**ar even a negro rather than «w ol
their own party who was unwilling to take
•idea against the U. States in us war wnli
Mexico. —Pat not 'JAIh.
'Oic manner and a-nrit of this notice may be
r ‘?ht, but it dou’. look ao 1 1 some of us. Wc
think that the advocacy of the tualteuabk
Aghi* «4 mill—•tha doOtABS Alt. Holsot SS»
tamed, which many distinguished men toughi
tor against kuigly rule about JO years ago,
ami winch no real democrat repudiates—is ol
quite as much importance as the upholding ol
a war of aggression, let who w ill su-tain it.
N\ liethcr those who attended ihc negro’s
moeting Were mostly Whigs we do not know,
but it i» thought the congregation in this res
pect was quite miscellaneous. If the Whig?
have any defence to make for not attending
uD3 meeting and attending the oih r they art
eomjietenl to uige it and the Palladium is
superabundantly able and exceedingly will
ing to enforce it. It is not probable that
neightior Morgan intended to bnild up preju
dice against color—the very thing Mr. Uelany
opj•• skid—but Ins article will have tiiis effect
it U has any.
Mr. JJ. did not speak of national reform at
was expected, because there w as no afternoon
meeting. Aurora, Actr /aVxm, O.
MEETING IN BOSTON,
Of the Anf -S!<nay Snarly, to (Hd/ratr tltr immedioU
ah’ hti m of Slavery by rrpuUu tm Fratu*.
1 The following notice of this interesting
meeting is taken from the Boston Bee of the
7th inst. We shall probably furnish a more
detailed account next week.
The meeting at the Melodeon, last evening,
convened by the Abolitionists to express then
sympathies with the French in their glorious
revolution, by which .Slavery is to he Iranished
fnun the French Territory, was very numer
ously and respectably attended. Wm. L.
Garrison presided and opened the proceeding*
with an expose of the object of the meeting,
The address of the Provisional government it
the Planters of the Colonies was then read
following which, Kdmund Quincy ptesenteda
aeries of resolutions and supfsirted them in an
earnest speech. Speeches were also made by
Wendell Phillips, Theodore Parker, and Win,
11. (’banning.
The vote of the Senate at Washington was
severely commented upon; and Mr. Phillips it
his speech gave the Daily Advertisers of the
country one of his hard raps for the course
pursued hv them in givi g the cold should*
to the transatlantic revolution.
Mr. Parker slid, in allusion to our refusing
to congratulate the new republic on the score
of uncertainty as to whether the revolution
would result favorably, that it was not usual
when a man child was born to postpone oui
j congratulations to the parents till it had grown
I up, because there was a chance it might die
in infancy; the child was horn in Frauce, a
live child, a good looking one and of good
parentage; and we had every .reason to hope
for a vigorous manhood.
'1 liere was a great deal of enthusiasm mani
fested, and at tl»e conclusion of the speeches,
the resolutions were adopted by acclamation.
A committee was ap|H»inted, composed ot
some; of the principal leaders of the Anti-
Slavery society, to send the resolutions to the
Provisional Government.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, APRIL 14, 1849.
EDITORIAL CORRESPONDENCE.
Saturday, April Ist.—l am still in Bath,
in company with C. L. Kemond and J. C.
Hathaway. The meeting this evening closet]
the scries in this place. The interest in the
subject is unabated, and were we at liberty,
we might profitably remain a week longer.—
The desire to hear is great, and many wishes
arc expressed that Bath may soon have anothei
and similar visit. For a county town, the
people of Bath are decidedly candid aud lib
eral. I have as aversion to addressing men
on moral subjects in such towns. They are
generally dead to everything but sectarianism
and politics, and it i» hard to reach them on
any other subject.
Our meeting this evening was interesting
throughout. Prejudice against color was
the subj<-ct. Its immediate bearing on the
question of equal rights in the new districi
school, made it a practical subject for the
whole community to consider, and gave point
to the discussion. The Chairman of the
School Committee, a liberal-minded gentle
man, w as present during the whole series, and
though apparently much interested at the
former meetings, he apjiearcd much more w;
at the last one and if he docs not favor the
admission of colored children into the districi
school, it will not be in consequence of any
ja rsonal objection on his part. The friends
of human equality here will wait with much
anxiety the decision of this question. There
are powerful influences operating against the
rights of colored children. The church aud
pulpit, as usual, enlisted in the cause of
popular oppression, on the side of the strong
against the weak. The Methodist ministci
nf this place asked his neighbor indignantly,
Ho you think 1 would put myself on a level
with a nigger?” How like his Heavenly
Master !—huw meek —how like the early
qiosllcs!—how like Phillip,who could be seat
'd in a chariot witha“ nigger! —how worthy
i believer in the scriptures, that declare the
iineness of the human family and a common
Clod, Creator and Saviour! Such minister*
Jo more to degrade religion in the eves of the
people, than all the combined hosts of infidel
ity put together. They steal the livery of the
;ourt of heaven to seive the devil in. They
ire wolves in sheep’s clothing— professing tv
love God, while they despise God's children.
“Suffer little children to come unto me,” aayj
Christ, and forbid them i.ot.” But this j re
tended full iwer of Christ would ask. Shall
I suffer black children to come, and thereby
put pure white children on a level with nig
gers!” Now, miserable .hypocrite, put ofl
the sheopsliiQ, and let th wolf appear.
There was one serious drawback upon our
meetings, and that was the absence of our
valued friend, F.. L. Watt. He was com
piled to leave home on business tins day be
fore our arrival in town, very much U> his
md our regret. There arc few meu in the
rank and file of Auii-Sla\ery like hurt. He is
i real workingman. Before leaving town, he
issued handbills and made all the ooeessarv
arrangement* for On* meetings, and Ins good
aly, a co-worker with him, made u*wel
nn i under his ro if during our stay. It
iuch unodcii'i mi liW-is to whstn we h-cl
n sf gnt f.il, and upon wUo.n, v.e ’kJuvu,
those ready Id fenrii wi
#ith our fellow laborers tod frieods Pf n,,
tM IT nib i|# jk~niii took leave of our fiM>ds fl
j§ath, andafter five hours ride lhru«|||
teauuful valley ofdifc Conbuetno, we
Horning w heiiT a meeting is appointed R»f
Utw evening in tfce Methodist Epbcopa
Church. j j.
Tbit is a youthful town and of wooderfu
growth seven yean ago, the place where i
stands was a silent wiiderpesa, now <i coo
tains an active population of nearly tw<
i thousand aonla* and is rapidly tarr timing mi
ia burry; streets are laid out among stumps
houses are going op amidst trees. Coratitj
possesses the advantage of being at onoe lh<
terminus of a Railroad and a Cana). It is a
the head of the Chemung Canal and tin
ISlubatargh Railroad, and being well ailuatei
on the Chemung river, it bids fair to become i
populous and flourishing town. Ihe presen
principal source of wealth to its inhabitants
rathe fine quality and pleuliful growth of tun
her surrounding it.
The population, (a most indostnoas ant
enterprising class,) almost to a man, are coo
nected and occupied with the lumber business
They spend their winter in the sturdy wori
of culling and sawing timber into boards ant
other useful and saleable forms for Ute mar
Wet. Their saw-mills are gene rail) near tin
river side, and the timber is brought to then
in logs on large sleds built tor the puqiose ant
drawn by oxen. Much of it is cut on th
very tops of the mountains, and is rolled dowi
in places prepared for the purpose. It mus
be a fine sight to witness those huge logs le
loose on the steep mountain side and ftirioush
whirling from summit to base. In the spring
as soon as the wiutcr is broken, the timber i
firmly rafted and put under the managemeu
of a skillful pilot, by whom it is s tee re*
through its winding way” a distance o
more than three hundred miles down the beau
tiful Susquehanna, till it reaches the broai
bosom of the noble Chesapeake it is me
there by lumber merchants from Baltimor<
an.l Philadelphia, by whom it is bought an<
variously distributed between those two grea
cities. This river is now full of rafts cob
as it is, men are standing nearly waist dee|
in water, collecting the lumber and forming i
into rafts. While some are being preparei
others are moving off on their five days vov
age to Port Deposit. Seven or eight hundrei
rafu have already passed on their way. Wi
should like to descend the river on one of them
;it must be a romantic voyage, not quite s<
wild now perhaps, as when Louis Philippe
Ex-King of the French, in company with tw<
Indians made the voyage in a canoe. Then
has been some change in the scenes here, a:
well as in his experience, since that time
civilization on one hand and the spirit of liber
ty on the other, have left an indeli.de impress
ion on both—but to the rafts They are rude'
ly constructed vessels without sails or paddles
j and are completely at the mercy of the swifi
rolling current except a broad oarby which the)
are steered. For miles they float smoothly anc
silently on the unruffled bosom of the tranquil
I Susquehanna—passing through some of the
wildest and grandest scenery in the country
There is however, some interruption of this
smooth sailing the journey is not without its
hardships and dangers, and at titfcc* require*
much energy and skill in order to its success
ful performance. 'There are some uglv places
1 in the stream—whirling rapids to be descend
ed, where the utmost care and activity is re
quired to prevent the raft from being wrecked.
Canawaga Falls is talked of by these iuland
j sailors, in much the same strain as tars”
i speak of the Gulf Stream. It is said they
are quite difficult of navigation, and a safe de
scent over them, is regarded as a bad job over
with. As there is no ascending the river, the
current being strong, men that go down on
the nifts from here return home from their
Southern journey by the way of Philadelphia
and New York. These raftsmen, we should
judge, are pretty wild boys many of them
go down with j>ockets and only the.
prudent return w ith full ones and the fools
among them, though with full purses at the
mouth of the river, often find themselves mon
eyless on leaving New York.
It requires some intelligence and much vir
tue for persons in their situation, to escape
the skillful networks of the wicked, almost
everywhere set in large cities to entrap the
I stranger. There are a good many colored
Iversons engaged in the rafting business, some
i of whom arc men of the most praiseworthy
industry and perseverance. Our friend E. L.
Platt, (to whom more than all others, we arc
indebted for active co-operation with our cause
in Bath,) is engaged in this business, and
makes .n anuual voyage down this river, and
being a merchant withal, he avails himself of
the opportunity thus afforded of purchasing
his summer supply of goods in Philadelphia
and New York. It is a source of great en
couragement and hope, to see colored men
entering into mercantile as well as other
branches of respectable and profitable employ
ments. We say to every colored man (not
with the motive of Iago) get moacy in thy
purse—get money in thy purse.” White
men can afford to U poor, we cannot; a poor
w hite niau is better off in this country than a
rich black man; we advise therefore, in order
to anything like equality—get money in thy
purse.
Tuesday, April 4th. Our meetings here
have been most interesting and heart cheering.
The Methodist meeting-house last night pre
sented a perfect jam, and if I do not misappre
hend the character of the audience, the effect
of the several addresses was of the best order.
We had been invited to this place by a large
number of persons, for the express purpose of
,d< fiwng what is meant by real radical (Jam
toman This work was assign
ed to J. C. Hathaway, the general agent of
the Western New York Anti-Slavery Society,
and most faithfully did he discharge the duty
assigned him. lie gave a clear, concise, and
eloquent statement of the views first f
1 ed and set forth by the American Anti-Sla
j very Society traced the history of that so
ciety from its formation to the prewmt—-stated
the divisions winch havs taken place in the
AuU-Sbverjr ranks—and examined into the
causa* of those divisions, mad planing the re
sponsibility where it rightly belongs. He>lso,
roruudeved the present unhsppy predicament of
th- liberty League and Liberty party, and
•bowed the tnp *fi«mly of the disunion ground
uvi-i lush these forms of Anti-Slavery.
1 have neter heard the wutk doue better.— j
3
-T
i of his opponents to his own tcrauL
l We Imre h**ld meetings here throophotr
the ilny, nod though the scsm* m
Cbaisy one in this piace, we hmre had respect*
l Me numbers during the day, snd i» the eve
ning crowded meeunf. Caning b te
mow hmte table ror ill huiftArteaT
i stew fat ttegn—wlwte——tnf te people
We have never met with more refinement it
f any newly settled town than in thin place
To us, no fart is ?nore significant of elevate*
l sentiment in any comm nity, than that lift
1 ladies attend public meetings and arc interest
l ed hi the movements of the day, for promotinf
l the Well being of mankind. Go into «1h
i i country towns, where corruption is gilded wit!
t' shallow conventionalities, and you wifi seam
see a lady present at your meetings but gt
into the sober, industrious farming towns, ant
I you will sec the moral superiority over th<
fatter in the very presence of the ladies, wht
will throog your meetings. The ladies it
Coming, seamed deeply interested in th<
contemplated fair to be held in Rochester, ant
are intending to form a sewing circle for the
purpose of aiding it. Out Rochester friend*
should feel cheered by the prospect of sucl
I co-workers. It is delightful to see ladies
lending the aid of thcii sympathy as well at
the charms of their beauty, is carrying for
i ward such a cause, and he is a tyrant wht
t; would oppose a straw in the way of such cf
r forts.
j Wednesday, April sth. In Ehnim, seven
i teen miles from Coming and in the same va’
t lev. Through some misnndcrstanding hen
among the parties to whom the general agen
f addressed his letter, informing them of our in
tended visit to this place, no appointment ha*
been given out for this evening’s meeting.—
t It was somewhat difficult to get a house ii
which to held the meeting. The Methodis
Church was applied for and refused. W<
t finally got the Temperance llaH, a placi
I owued by a religions society which hasseced
oil on anti-slavery grounds from the Presbyto
rian Church. Two hours notice was suffi
I cient to crowd the Ilall.
Thursday, April 6th.—Our meetings thi
I morning and aficruoou were quite small. Thi
5 people here are unused to day meetings, ex
cept Sundays, and they will not attend them
The meeting this evening was more than t
compensation for the thinness of the fore am
afternoon meetings nnd the tone of feeling
evinced was such as showed a deep anr
i general interest in the subject. We shal
remember with grateful pleasure Mr. Sila*
Billings and family for their hospitable atten
tion to us while under their roof.
Friday, April Bth.—We rest this evening
j in Pine Valley, about two miles from Millport
and are made at home i:i the family of Mr
Bradley, who, though not an Abolitionist
I in the technical sense, is nevertheless a fneni
of free speech, and one who is not withou
sympathy w ith the Abolition cause, and mucl
esteem for the men* engaged in promoting
that cause. We shall remember with sincere
i pleasure the kindness of las dear and intelli
j gent family. They are among the few wht
have not only risen alxivc tho mean-spirited
prejudice agaiust colored persons, but art
also too independent to defer to the cormpi
sentiment about them, by refusing to carry
out their views on this point,
i o 1
Saturday and Sunday, April 9th and 10th.
j—C. L. Remond, Hathaway, and ourself,
lickl six meetings in Millport. They were
well attended from commencement to con
clusion. Our next meetings are to be ai
Ithica, Springport, and Auburn.
F. D.
Hanover, 0., March 27tli, 1648.
Dear Douglass:—Since I last w rote to you,
I have held meetings in New Garden, Han
over, and in the neighboring country.
I should have mentioned in my last lottei
that I was refused the Friend's meeting-house
in Columbiana, and, consequently, held my
meeting in the private house of our friend
Lot Holmes, whose doors were thrown open,
and rather over a hundred persons, male and
female, crowded in the two parlors, wht
faithfully gave ear to testimony against the
crying sin of American slavery. How can
these misnamed “Friends” reconcile them
jselves to their course in this respect? I can
not coocrive that there is much Christianity,
where tliere is no humanity. The slave
groans and suffers, while their dry meeting
houses stand with closed doors, as stubljorn
monuments of their deaf indifference. In ev
ery other place, previous to my arrival here, 1
have had the doors of meeting-houses, church
es, and school-houses readily thrown open
to me.
I In Palestine, my horse was kept at the
1 tavern of a Mr. Robinson, who rendered me
many other kind services, and who refused
pay because I was laboring in the cause ol
downtrodden humanity. Mr. Robinson is a
Democrat, and non-professing Abolitionist.—
The course of this gentlemen was fair, man
ly, and humane, and worthy of comtnenda
tion.
In this place, (Hanover,) I was refused the
t Methodist and Disciples* Churches, after the
promise of both, on the ground of infidelity,
i It was enough for them to know that I was a
Mora) •Suasion Abolitionist to ensure opposi
tion. But the people of Hanover, at least a
great many of them, desired to hear the sub
ject of slavery discussed, and were quite
disappointed when the doors of these Chris
j tian churches were closed against me.—
Among these were many Presbyterians, who
i at this crisis of the matter, opened their house,
by for the largest and finest in the place, and
the slave, despite ail the opposition of the con
servaiives, had two most respectable and at
tentive hearings of the most respectable men
1 and women of the place, old and young. Mr.
-Sloan, a staunch friend of the slave, of the
j Liberty Party, was foremost in granting the
Presbyterian Church though I am credibly
informed that several profossed liberty men,
one in particular, were foremost in endeavor-
I ‘“lt to prsvent a meeting,
i 1 have no doubt but there are many—very
I many, who only require s fair and impartial
investigation of the subject, in order to be
-omo firm friends to humanity. The inees
•ant pouring down of the equmexia] rains,
I having rendered the toads impassable, has
SLme by the way yfai
y, iSa ron tend of a*, «#te H
persons illogrther,
the country, ji^ew^
qmie a crowd nf intelligent people, of *ll
i sexes and ages, to sympathize’ with the suffer
it# sines. Cosing hack, we were ssrapltiely
drenched in the rain, when some ooe ol*
setting the fact—“ What is that,” answered
one Of the fetnalcs, to the sufferings of lb«
tftrtWtrhddcn 1 bondsmen! Sure enough,
what was it enmpnwd with the W?
I bate, up to the present, been treated like
amen, without exception, at every hotel at
w Lich T stopped since travelling in this State
(Ohio.) At New Garden, the proprietor oi
Uw hotrl, Mr. Ayrr, white I stopped, kept
ray borne, aad otherwisetraafatd me with kind
favors, sod refused to take pay. The finenrit
of the slave are many is this place, and lUa
all other places where I have visited hr fMi
State, I myself staid among then. T shared,
in this instance, the hospitality of our friend
Pickens.
i There is some hope of my leaving here to
day for Augusta, where I am to bold a meet
ing to-morrow evening. From there I pro
ceed to Corrulton, Leesburg, Cadix, New
Athens, Georgetown, Lloydsvillo, Concord,
Zanesville, with all important places and set
tlements, to Coiambus, thence to Cincinnati,
from whence I shall be able to give you an
other description of my course. In and about
this neighborhood there are several colored
families, all of the most respectable and
praiseworthy kind. They are generally far
mers. Of them I shall have occasion here*
after to'say much more.
Yours, in behalf of our oppressed country
men, M. R. D.
SPRING!
What mnsic there is in the word! Th<
biting blasts of winter are gone; the snow i«
gone the ice is gone. Earth is drinking uf
the fertilizing showers, and is slowly an<j
i softly putting on her green mantle. The
buds are sweiluig out on the trees, and arc
well sigh ready to buret forth into new
and luxuriant verdure. The violet, and
the primrose, the crocus, and the crowfoot,
j here and there appear in modest beauty. Tht
i' morning sun shines forth joyously in the deep
azure, lighting up a thousand miniature ro
ftoctions in the crystal bosom of the dew
drop. The soft southern breeze? gently fans
i the smouldering ashes of a by-gone vegeta-
I tion into renewed life, youth, and loveliness.
Welcome Spring, emblem of hoping, trustful
I youth—gentle, generous, promising
I Of all the seasons, Spring is that to whicl
we look forward with the m< s‘ hopeful anti
cipations; it is the season of hope—of pro
mise. It is really and trnly the beginning o
a new year. It is a new life—a resuscitation
a revivification. The days of darkness an
past; the days of deadness and dreariness an
past; the days of frost, and snow, and cold
are over ami gone. The time for the singing
of birds has come the time for the budding
forth of flowers has come; the time of cheer
ful sunshine and radiance has come. Wc
will greet thee, youthful Spring,with a kiss ol
welcome! And as we scatter plentifully the
1 seed which we expect will grow up and riper
in due season into a plentiful harvest; let us
not forget to sow also bicadcast and with a
liberal hand, the seed of truth: this, too,
will take root, and grow up, and ripen, ami
bring forth abundantly.—j. d.
A CAtir. —The subscriber having obtained
some means of temporary relief for himsell
i and cause, and the assurance that his friends
will not forsake him in future times of need,
is now on his way to Canada West, to pursue
j his work of philanthropy, in the Fugitive*!
Asylum, with brightening prospects. He
regrets that the impression was made, a short
j time since, in the New-York Evangelist, that
j he had relinquished his work in Canada, and
j that he was unsuccessful in correcting th<
mistake, as his letter may not have reached
the editor, though he carefully mailed it ir
Boston, and paid the postage.
Utica, Feb 23, 1818. HIRAM WILSON
Henry Watson. —This friend is now lec
turing in the State of Rhode Island, and cir
j culating the Narrative of his sufferings in the
Prison House of American Slavery, at the
same time he will exert himself in behalf oi
the North Star. We commend him to the
attention of the friends of humanity wherevci
he may labor.
IE? The negro population of St. Bartholo
mew, in the West Indies, have forwarded ar
address of thanks to the King of Sweden foi
their liberation from slavery on the decree c
October last.
Population of the French Colonies.—
From the following census, published by the
French government in 1834, it appears that
the number of slaves to be liberated accord
ing to the late decree of the Provisional Gov.
eminent, is much larger than is generally
supposed:
Frte Whites. Kl*vm.
Isle of Bourbon 17,037 45,080
Gaudaloupe 28,748 00,085
Martinique 36.7GG 78,233
Total 62,546 219,917
Gen. Taylor and the Wilmot Proviso.
—lt is said, that Gen. Taylor has written an
other letter, which is being circulated pri
vately in ex|>ediency circles at Wasbiagloa.
declaring against the Wilmot Proviso.
Howitt's Journal. —The monthly par
(or March of this ably-conducted periodical
has come to hand. Its contents are, si
usual, varied and interesting. The American
Agents fur Lite Journal are Bedford 4c Co.,
New York; Crosby sod Nicholls, Boston:
and it may also be bad st Dewey’s, in th<
Arcade, in this city.
TO CURIUMS PO.N LHuVrsT
A* R.. Kmiw-twuk.—Your list of Sshscriberi
looks earooraging.
J. C H.—-Three last communications with samel
are acknowledged. A ankle Rst.
A. M., Ahaay.—Tosr hut favor, names, ud
cash, gimtrfcßy acknowledged. We are aadrr re
newed lAliyeiiua.
M. If., A thorn, will accept oar thanks Ir press
ereiag aflbrt* ia behalf of tha Vanh ttur.
8. 11. 6., New York..—. Name alhsJed SB is oe
list, and has hesa htwanU trguUHjr.
L. L., Host VsIW). —Alt right.
8. B-, Saint*, U.-tBh March received,
Ik V., Alsou.—Favor received. Thanks.
fcMi Till f
C WtnwnnimttofT*
tUTRJgE ITfCW THE lIDRISGTOI
RJULKOAUf
fart?* Docn|4f>9: L>u# foight we ha
4nr of the meet exciting TtiWfirtg* that th
citnnu of this law and order’’ city hav
had since the Dorric war. The moving cii
cumstanccs were as follows
A few data ago, a respectable colore
gentlemen, an AnU-SlareA' and Temperanc
lecturer, had occasion to take the cars on th
StoningtoQ Railroad* in order that Jia-migli
go to Hopkintnn. His name is Jeremiah Mj
«a, a resident at Athol, in Massachusetts.-
Ha sppftsd for a ticket at the Providence d<
pot, aiid the clerk gave himnne forth® sccon
I class. Mr. Myers told him that he did no
want that ticket, and he received one of th'
first class. He then repaired to his seat, bu
as he attempted to entcT the car, he was me
by a puppy of a conductor, who told him tha
there was a car provided for niggers, and b
must go there. Mr. Myers told him that 1*
should go where his ticket directed, where
upon the ruffian railroad servant threw hi«
from the platform, endangering his life. Mi
Myere did not go, or was not soffered te ge
as a man.
The friends of freedom, white und colored
made this outrage a common cause. estcl
day, flaming handbills were put out, and lai
night the spacious Mechanics’ Hall wa
crowded with fifteen hundred people. Mi
I George Clark was called tu the chair*indOti
Richardsou was appointed Secretary. J
business committee of three was appointed
who retired to report resolutions, durinj
whose absence Mr. Myers took the stand, am
made hi 3 statement, which was listened t
with the deepest interest. He was follower
by Mr. Richardson.
Mr. Garnet, of Troy, N. Y., moved th<
adoption of the resolutions, and said that hi
arose to preach a short sention. and his tex
was, the aristoeratie, purse-proud and over
bearing Stonington Railroad. (Laughter.)—
Of all the lines upon American soil, this wai
the meanest and the most iniquitous. II(
knew of no reason why it should be so, un
less it w as because the steamboats belonging
to that line, on leaving New York, passec
through llell-Cate,” and received specia
orders from the keeper of that far-famci
j place, (laughter and applause.) No money
no appeal, however humble and tender, couh
save a portion of the travelling public from
outrage and abuse on that road. A few years
j ago, the Rev. Theodore S. Wright, of New
York, together with his venerable father anr
the Rev. Alexander Crummell, and hunsel
I took passage on this line. The night w as oni
of the stormiest he ever w itnessed upon ih<
Sound. All the passengers, excepting thii
company, had retired to the cabin, and no
until then did they venture upon the after
deck. They had been there but a fowr min
utes before one of the. boat’s crew orderei
them to go forward. Mr. Wright mildly re
monstrated, whereupon he was seized by th<
throat and was thrown to the deck. (Shame
shame!) They were compelled to go for
ward, where they remained until aboi.t elevci
o’clock, shivering in the storm. At that hour
the cook kindly invited them into the kitchen,
where they slept in chairs until the ncxi
morning, when they arrived in Providcr.ee,
tin city of Roger Williams. On that same
line, the wilb of Mr. Wright, war
indirectly murdered. (Great sensation.) Slit
was a lady of delicate and feeble health, ami
in travelling on that route, she was so mucli
exposed that on her return home she took It
her bed and died. These things the law har
not noticed. The people have suffered them
to exist, and that, too, in a laud where it it
boasted that the people govern. Tin? church
had known this, and the priest and the Levitt
in too many instances passed by tbe who!,
matter. That Railroad company, through its
servants, treated thatr wives and daughters
worse than they did brutes. He had seen
ladies in the first class cars with their poodle
dojrs in their arms—white ladies lie meant—
but respectable, intelligent and Christian
colored people were thrust out, and were
sometimes beaten. Well, what did all that
indicate It showed the tastes of the com
pany, and the clean, del irate ami refined ladies
and gentlemen, who could noi suffer a person
of color to conic between their nobility and
the wind, except in the capacity of a servant.
They were welcome to their preferences. It
was an old adage, that birds of a feather
would flock together,” and he knew not w hy
dogs of the same breed,might not prefer to
live together on the Stonington Railroad.—
(Great laughter and applause.)
It was on that same road that his beloved
j and able friend, Frederick D< uglass, had
1 been dragged from the cars, and beaten.—
(Shame This was the only road in 'New
1 England where such barbarism was tolerated.
On the whole chain of road from Maine to
the shore of Lake Erie, there was no such
outrage perpetrated. Rhode Island stand*
alone, among her New England sisters, in
such iniquity. This was a bud of “law and
order, and we should make the case of his
friend Myers a common cause. What wai
done to one, was done to all. (True, true.)
t He hoped that there was spirit enough in the
people to carry the ease before s tribunal ol
justice, as the resolution suggested. He
would advise his brethren always to remon
strate, and resist in some way or other, when
abused in this manner. Resistance would
seeure respect from friends and foes. He
would not pretend to say bow they should re
sist, but they should retut. For ha part, he
generally hugged the seats, and sometime*
they would go with him as a w hole or in part.
(Laughter.)
If every colored man who should be molested
on our railroads, would give their assailant*
affectionate embraces, after the mode of tht
grizJy bear, these upstarts would soon become
j weary of such manifestation* of brother))
fore, (Lung applause.) llu would not saj
i that it would bo wett-to fight* hut would sine
Pty *»y, hug those gentlemen. He was the
last colored person that was pulled from the
cars of the Utica St Schenectady toad. Then
it required four stout men to do it, notwith
standing he was compeßed to support himsclj
upon crutches. Very sooo after that iranaac
rioo, the company altered the odious ar
range men!. No good was secured in thii
w or Id without suffering and sacrifice. He be
liovcd that the whole of this oppression wai
in violation of the tempaay* charter. If tht
charter allowed Otero to practise :f
then it w» unconstitutional, ai d
legally tested.
r He was happy l« see such an orcnrhrj m
meeting tonight, and be hoped that th*
I in S wou W won in rebuki B?
villa nous conduct, the perpetration of
had sp generally aroused tW puldn-.
pis use.) Mr. Garnet resumed Ins t r
The rerfejing was further addrrired T
I Messrs. Davis, Jlammond, \Vheeler \f,
Richardson and the Chairman. f 7>
i Thc adopted a pet We* lo
i Legislature, praying that a law may be
f prohibiting such ontrigcs.
Many of the meet TCspertaMc eftraen,
j Prevalence were present. The «hide lsVjf
I j My fotwwlod of at leat one thousand f\
hundred jiersons. The meeting adjourned
quarter past ten. It was one of tin* most
thusiastic meetings ever held hi this city
LIBIiRTAS.
'i Providence, April 4, 1848.
5 I
THE SMITH LANDS,

Tlie Northern St3r and Colored Farrijf r
published at Albany, has been lately n]., r
and much improved in its general appearamy
an*f i* ex.;rung a heoeficial influence anw( J
those w ho are aiming to elevate thfii.*c|v«ei l
the scale of being.
Its indefatigable Editor, Stephen Myers, J r
1 has just returned from a visits XV* Ysrti
and the river counties, a34 rqiorts
j lows:
“We find that a large number of pmor*
are making arrangements to go on their lard*
early in the ensuing month. Every per*> n
that can raise sufficient means to leave thfoty
of NeW Yi fi and emigrate to iheir lan.ls, aP9
j doing so. We bid them God speed m their
1 enterprise, and hope that their u.duMry w.ff
i be rewarded by the speedy possession of a
1 comfortable home.’’
The same paper contains the proceeding, r f
a public meeting at Albany on the evening of
March 23d, to devise plans for the occupation
of lands given to colored citizens by Germ
Smith, Esq. Committees were appointed,
and plans proposed for more definite action.—-
This looks encouraging, and must warm the
heart of that good man, whose munificenco
has thus been noldy tendered.
The papers are making mention of the*
man w ho cut the first tree in the wilds of Ohio.
He is still active, and resides on a small farm
in Oneida county, in this State. His name is
Daniel Cushvve.il, and his age is 80.
Who, among the settlers of Essex and
Franklin counties, will there fell the first
1 tree The North Star w ill hail the name and
hand it dow n to posterity
A meeting is proposed in New York city,
on the 20th inst., to aid the Essex and Frank
lin settlers. The call is headed, Hurrah,
for the Smith Lands! God spe« d the
plough —\v. c. n.
INFIDEL Fn.VNFE—CHRISTIAN
I AMERICA.
i

j France has throw n olf the rolics of roy
alty, and clothed herself in the ruin s of Re
publicanism. The former she had outgrow n r
and the latter well become her. This is in
dicative of true growth. The fact in itself is
replete w ith interest to the mind of the gen
uine lover of liliorty but the munrer and
ease by which the change was effected, gives
moral sublimity to the whole transaction. It
was accomplished far more by moral than
physical power. No revolution of any na
tional government was ever effected with less
sacrifice of human blood. It is a heaulili I
exemplification of the efficiency of moral
power. Every honest and earnest utterance
ol the truth, touching the great question of
Human Rights, lias contributed to this result.
Not one word has been i< st. The fires of
freedom, kindled in the heart of one true man,
havo extended to his brother, ar.d the electric
spark has passed throughout the world-
Franco has gathered up this power wherever
it was to lx; found, and her people, in. its
strength, luive asserted their rights.
lilt* words of Daniel O'Connell have not
Ixieu uttered in vain Any revolution pur
chased at the expense of a drop of blood, is
purchased at too dear a iate.” The labors of
the Thompsons, the Row ings, and JSturgrs,
of England—the Smesls, of Scotland, and
the liaughtons of Ireland, have not been in
vain. America, too—blood-stained, slave
cursed America—has furnished her quota of
power. William Lloyd Garrison, Henry C.
Wright, Elihu Burnt, Adin Ballou, havo
done much to stay the effusion of blood in the
late revolution in France. The whole Anti-
Slavery host of America have been toiling for
king-ridden France. Few are aware of tho
mighty influences w hich the Anti-Slavery agi
tation in our own country has had upon this
movement.
He who settle* Freedom’* principle*,
Write* the death-warrant of all tyrranny.”
lTicf reneh have just conceptions of Human
Rights. The Puritans fled from oppression i*
the Old World, and hung Quakers ami witch
es in the New. The American Colonists,
threw off the yoke of King George th«i
I bird, aud imposed one, far more grievous Us
he borne, upon one-sixth of their own populs
tion.
But the Republic of France, this youn g
Republic, to her immortal glory and honor,
among her first acts, hns declared, coolly,
calmly .deliberately, that Every citizen ban
elector Absolute Freedom of ThougLt
and Liberty of the Press; Right of Political arul
Industrial Associations to be secured to all;"
and, to crown the whole, buvvcar is to et
Abolished at oxck. 44 liberty. Equality,
Fraternity.”
France is in6<lel—America b Christian
Will Christian America follow the example
of infidel Franco, or *rs Humanity and
Freedom to gain more ftom infidelity than
Christianity
People have been startle,! and frightened
when told by the Abolitionists that Ajiwurm
slavery would be much more easily and
speedily abolbhed if American rehgwu were
at ouce annihilated.
I yraooy and oppression are never so for
midable and terrible as when tyrants and op
pressors put on the mantle .of religion. It
becomes sacred and Indy when baptised, and
men forbear to lay rude hands upon it. The
spdl must be broken. Peoplo must be taught
difference between religion and Chris
lenity* and by the lute they bear for tbs ooe,
kc induced to repudiate and abhor the other
'‘hen they conic b conflict.
P. C. A.
T. HOPPER AND DAVID
1 RIMMIkKfta yit
While at Albany Hu* f«H* 1 enjoys! the
MUh&rtiun of taking by the hand that veae
xMv frwwi of the fugitive, Isaac T. llof>pcr.
ll«* ua* m attendance at the rapttol on a mi*
aion of benevolence. Hi* prrecne* at once
iggreted a train of rrt«*c i mi relative to the
undrrgrownd railroad, to which many
American slave* hare owed their ftftoape
from the prison house of the pceuliai institu-
Uon.
Friend Hopper is about seventy-six years
of age, Imt pnwesse* mtieh of the activity
and vivacity of healthy middle life. His
eagle eye is not dimmed, tior hi* natural force
abated. He wonderfully ru-einblea Napoleon
Bonaparte. 'Lite high aquiline n<ne, tlie fla
ming eye, the atfawanlinr. marble forehead,
the delicate firm mouth, the same undcr-siae
aiul peculiar lorn, tho stooping shoulder*
neck, and singular set o| the liead, no distin
guished in statutes and busts of the Little
(krrporal and he speaks like hirn,and moves
like him; clear in conversation,v tthout repeti
tion ot spaiv word, or hesitancy ol thought or
spceeh. All he says is as trim amt fit for the
press as hi* tales of oppression,’which he
narrates from memory, and without any refer
ence to record, except the record made on his
vivid recollection hr the events themselves.
The wonderful acuteness, without educa
-"-tTor, as a lawyer, with w hich lie has uurav
elkxl the most complicated stories, and foiled
che utmost cunning of the slave-hunlers—by
which hundreds of fugitives have been retain
ed at the North—should commend him to our
heartfelt gratitude; and w hen his work is
done on this earth, and he retires to rest with
his fathers, the tears of many a son and
daughter, whose parents owe their liberty to
his exertions, w ill plentifully bedew his grave.
The collection of his Tales of Oppression”
in a single volume, would form an excellent
manual, which might tie consulted and aid in
the assistance of other fugitives. The time
will conic when they will he the storehouse of
romantic incidents for the pen of the future
novelist.
In tins connection, there is no name so ap-,
propria!e as David Buggies—a man who has]
lieen instrumental in .securing the liberty of
six hundred human beings from Southern sla
very. On the Ist of August, 1841, the
friends of freedom in Boston tendered him a
soiree, in commemoration of these services.—
It was a joyful occasion, for with this tribute
wxs blended the anniversary of West India
emancipation. The hour and the won were
alike remembered. I look back w ith pleasure
to the hearty response which was elicited by
ft statement of the number aided by his efforts,
iu reply to which lie remarked
4 1 have had the pleasure of helping 000
persons in their dight from Ixunls. !ii ihis 1
hive tried to do my duty. Bv Jehovah’s
help 1 have tried to do it, and mean to still
Incan to persevere oil the last fitter shall he
broken, and the last sigh beard from the lips
<W a slave. But give tin* piai.se So Him who
sustains us all—w ho holds up the heart of the
laborer in the rice-swamps, and cheers him,
when by tli tw inkling of the north star lie
find* Ins wav to Liberty. .Stielt men bring
wnli them the strongest testimony to the
value of fire *doni. Six hundred in three
years I have caved had it lieen in one year,
1 should have l»«i*n nearer my duty—nearer
the duty of every American when he reflects
ttrct it was fh blood of colored men as well
a-* w hite*. wliiHi crimsoned ihe b iu!e-ficld.sof
Hunker-Hid and the rest, in ihe struggle to
sustain the principles emoodicd in our Djcla
ln*o <d’ Independence.”
David Buggies, since then, has been sub
jected to a rare combination of trials; but
with a spirit inflexible to defeat, he has jwr
•evered against olrstfteh’s vvtiieh woubl dis
hearten the major purl of mankind. Though
suffering from an almost total delect of vision,
he ha* est ihlishcd a Water Cure Infirmary at
Northampton, Mass., where, by his superior
tort and tahnt, (his sense of touch being won
derful!}' acute.) lie is sought for by invalids
from every section of the country, who are
daily testifying to bis successful treatment,
May his future days be full of Junior. and the
grateful confidence ef all classes his rich re
ward —may the substantial comforts of hi*
age Ik* a solid evidence how fully his early
labors, and sacrifices have been appreciated by
all who claim to l»c friends of man, irresjicet
ivo of color ami clime.
ilop|>cr and Buggies have done their duty
in colonizing men, women and children not
from America to Liberia, but from •'Slavery to
Freedom. To the shame of Republican
America, lx; it proclaimed, that many of the«r
jointed slaves could not be free until landed in
.Canada, under the protection of Queen
Victoria.
Abolitionists are sometimes asked bow
many slaves thrij lone emancipated. If the
•comparison between their labors and those of
the Colonization Society is wanted, it may no!
.lie amiss to mention that since 18If» there have
jmt been more than (5,(H)0 transported to
Africa, while Anti-Slavery has forwarded to
•Canada, by the Car of Freedom, near
20,000.
Charles T. Torrey, too, who now sleeps at
Mount Auburn, hurried to an untimely grave
by the decree of slavelmlditig justice, for the
crime of “doing unto others as he would
(that they should do to him hut he las gone
before.
Torrey, Hopper, and Buggies!—how
justly to each may l>e applied the words of
the poet
Think it<.( the g<x*t, tin- v’entlr ihr.lt
Of mercy thou ha»t dune sliaU die forg.iltra ail;
For tlio*« who daily own ihe efforts of thy luiml.*,
«idl Ut heaven, ami pull a on ilmi-.' 4
\V. C. h.
TIIE FI'bITIVE.
1 read, a feu months since, the touching
mpl; story told by a fugitive slave, of the
death of bis wife, amid the hills of Virginia,
while uu their way to anaJa, aad her burial
by his ww’s baud* alone, m ibe silent woods
ftt tbs iiooii of night.” li was but one of
the sad scenes of which many occur m the
toilsome passage of the slave from a land of
bondage to one where he is' safe from the
grasp of the trafficker in human flesh.
The incident* of the story are and ever w ill
h« fresh in my mind and I give tbsm in such
words as suggest themselves to me.
NifUt after oiflu U*ey had their way,
OuuleJ by ihe North Bui, urged on t«y L
Of laUerty, ilearer to ika than hl«.
Ity day, liic welcome gk*«iu uf the dork car«,
The dr> .uy iwanip, tlw m»*ifnial dtaprry
Of il* more li.tniiMg from tin- cyptSM Urr,
Oi dte <U* fiml't gl win had In I ilkui hum
i i* eye of
i
What llwragfi the mkr he kissed
Upon them, kraAradj* «*f* mm
Their cruuciiiaj lusfc *0 lie s«f*W«l wolf had bowfed
In wvnge wrath Mtedi their billing |iUot,
Or the hu2< alhfntnr raised hie head
Above the sr«wi ofA* pool,
And rwn*l the sihmt ochra* ni»h hi* Car-
Hnrh eraode were phiwo> of,
Were nwiidt row*|ette»l tu the dread errand
Of hum.in voice* other than their own.
Tiw iiMrane ***»k«, the add besu* U the k«re*t,
Were ts»i rWol oMpeMun, when they thun*ht
(yf the »kive-lriwc\i bnle—of thn kraj year*
Of nynrr and wot thn had sndurrj
V
In slavery..
iu sikevoe they Moved on
Through the deep (awt, toihn* wearily
(>ver He* hrwfcett gnnurd, their (deeding fret
Timed In thr thorn*, tl* ir garment* turu lij (he
It.iigfi rtnjjgla ith the tangled umlciv trad,
'Through which they iurr*d (heir way.
Non their |«th lend*
Along the reeky ledge; esch (outstrip leave*
Its stain ofMuoJ upon (he (finty stunc;
f And now they Cfd the stream, shivering wkli cold,
As the chilled water* Orach their (cverwJ limb*,
The red stain mingling e ith the crystal flood.
The husband walked with firm, though wearv steps,
His strong frame Ira vet I the toil of the long way;
For ’tis a strung Iwart bests within his breast—
His eye, the window si his sowl. brained Cwth
A vvoil lof high reroh-e—of that firm will
hirli Iwiffr-ts every obstacle, and makes
A victory of trial. By his side
Walked, with a trembling step the wife, leaning
I pon his atm f»r aid, lest she rink down,
U’ereoote with toil. Her frame had never lieen
Hardened In daily Llmr in tlir field;
Her cliain had been a git led one, her tasks
Nut wearisome. Vet site had {L-lt, liad known
That slie was Isit a slave! Unit the rich gifts
Of Isxly and of mind, with which site was
Endowed, would all but help to make her lot
More terrible. The yearning hopes, the love,
The mp.itliy of her ynung womanhood,
rSlw knew were price less jewel* that a slave
Would Is* sneered at f*r striving to keep |*tre.
The gildrd chain she loatbeJ the more titan though
It bail !k-cli honest iron; her lot stented
W or re than that of those who toiled front
Eailirst dawn tu latest eve, whose 1 Jodies’ wants
Were poorly cared for, in keeping with the
I’iter disregard of all Utc holiest
Ties, tlie iHildest aspirations common
To each oik’, Istl n in tlw* image of our
Great Creator. Disease had proved upon
Her strength, sharp pain* had racked lier tender
frame,
Her s\e had grown more brilliant, yet iu light,
Though beautiful, tol l of that dread disease
hich ever seizes on tlie gifted one*
Of eailli. A Iteetie flush upon lier rlteek,
Hecn through its darker lit**, too plainly s;>>ks
Of life’s fast coming close. Site oft had felt
That life could not Ist long; Imd wished and hoped
'To resell a land where she could brent hr five air.
She had felt, too, the quickening life lienratli
Her liusnin; had k own that soon her ear
Might hear the lecbl wailing* of her child;
Her eye might fondly gaze ujion her own,
Her luisljtin Ts I’altc .She coul I not hear the thought
Tli.it halie win»nl 1 lie a slave. Her inotliet’s heat t
earn -.1 tu leave in the free arms of him she
Ijovo.l, tie* dear pbdga of their sweet aftecti »n,
Where lie might guard it from the felon clutch
Of tlie slaveholder’* hand; then emiM she die
C’ontrnt. [t was this hope lia Ile i her <m
'The way so wearisome to that free land
She lunged to reach. But there among tlie hills,
In the dark forest* of that slave -cursed land,
.She was tu die. Her rich voice trembled as site
said,
Hnsliand, I am toe weak to walk,” and sank
I |*Ml flu- dry leaves underneath their feet,
lie stooped an I raised her in his arms; hi* strength
drew tenfold g eater, and lie felt that if
She rottl I Imt live, ’twoul I lie an easy task
To Ix-ar her slender form niglit after eight,
I' util tiny reached tlie journey ’send.
But soon
She s;vike agtiu: Ilesbnivl, I cannot live—■
Oh, lay me down, my head ujsm thy breast.
That I may gaze upon thv mucli-ltwe I face.”
A tear stood in his eve; with tender rare
Ih heaped the leaves together, and then laid
His precious burthen mi them, knelt him duwn,
Resting her drooping head ujsni his breast.
All was still. The stars shone down,
Jo silent ltrillianey, like heavenly witnesses
Of tlie sad a ear.
Her eye was fnll of meaning,
l.ove unutteiable, tender regret,
Deep sorrow at tlie thought that they must part,
Mingle ev’n then with a sweet jov that he
Might lire a freeman. She spoke a few
Ruint words ot their past joys, of his fire future,
Ol a time when they shout I meet, and never
I’.ut again. Her voice was hustled, Imt yet the
(death* pressure of her liaud toll of her
hiunwt love, and the deep sad gaze of her
Bark eye spoke more than many words.
Her breath
(drew fi-ehlc* Husband, one last kiss,” He. bent
And pressed her lips,w liile tears streamed on her face.
A few lou murmured words, scarce audible,
Ot Messing f»r her Inishand; a low Voice—
Our child—oh love, farewell!” And site was dead.
lie sat Ik* s* le the corpse, watching the fare,
Vet lovely e'en in death. At length lie rose,
Scooped with his liands a grave in tlie damp ground,
Arranged with sad, full I wart the simple dress
Ol the Iwloved one, knelt hiiu down ami gav*
Oik* last long look, nmriuucfd a prayer for strength,
And wept as tlioiig!) hi» very heart would break,
1 hen rising, went lu* w av alone.
G. B. S.
RornES-rr.R, N. Y., March 25, 1848.
FREEDOM of OPINION.—INFIDELS
AND FREETHINKERS,
i he world is full of hughcnr.i it is almost
frightc eel out of its w its by them. Tlu.ro is
no new idea elucidated—tu* ohl unjiopular idea
brought to light, which, if suc h means were
capable of accomplishing the cud, would not
Bj>eedily U* hugged out of existence by them.
lieu Jenner, anxious to save humanity
from one of iu most grievous and most pre
vailing scourges, labored unueanedly to
to bring into universal application his world-
Ulessing discovery of vaccination, the buglers
were let loose upon him: he was blas
phemer and a counteracter of the laws of
Providrnca—an infidel and a freethinker!
Tin we who first brought steam into use as the
successful conqueror of wind and tide, were
m like manner beset; and let aiy oae, now
adays, make a disco very or euforee i truth
Which does not chune with the orthodox and
fashionable sentiment, and he too may Uy his
account with being liberally baited by the
same adversaries.
lint how absurd and irrational is all this
Tru.se who are the leaders n these onslaughts
ujK,n discoverers, are generally loud m their
professions of anxiety for the advancement of
truth; bow, then is it, that they are thus
zealous in lbetr ttfTurt* to stay the progress of
uepiiry l Ask them, What u truth! and
their answer will m amount he, that their
opinions, and their ojunuma only, are true.
And they are so: these, atul none else, arc
true to them; and yet their opinions may be.
from beginning to end, only a tissue of f»l M
hfHxl. Though palpalde and self-evident to
others, every thing else u» naught but fiUac
huod and error to them; and every one who
j preterda lo believe ShaJ 40 be,true to him,
which has nut become his as it Were by right
1 c*«qoest, k simply and a ujkf fcr aod a
bypocrke.
There would seem to be no truth two**
palpably sdterideat ikm thm. That cutty<
man Ma right to think (hr himself. Nn
one can be deprived of tLiu right, so keg asj
he remain* ie fnaaraaua of (ho faculty
thuojrht; yet hohr often has the prepodte'nW
attempt beoo made, to force mao to the adpf-'
boa of opinions by forcible and eottipulsory]
♦meawnttil Tim <fos* to possess and to ex-1
jen ise powe r f ao common m uneducated and J
unphilosophic'minda, baa oftea led men null
only to make others act under their direction,!
and subject to their control, but %ko to aim arj
j depriving them of the inalienable right nfi
thought. Even those who hare sifffered the 1
i most from such tyranny bare often been,!
j whea opportunity presented, ferocious in fctJ
exercise. Scarcely had the reformers of F.u
t”pc succeeded in wooing themselves from!
j <ho miad-debaeing thraldom of Popery, when
Calvin, acajous for the prevalence of his
opinions, sanctioned the burning of Sermus
as a heretic. So. in Kngkad, during the
reigns of Henry VIII., Mary and Elizabeth,!
Popery and Protestantism being alternately in
the ascendant, alternately oppressed ami al
i ternatefy suffered. And when the Scottish 1
Covenanters, after being hunted from roouu-,
tain to mountain, and from glen to glen, for
daring to bold opinions different from those in
power,succeeded in establishing their right;
to do ao, they also endeavored to thrust the
solemn league and covenant down the,
throats of all who would associate with them
in action.
«t* 4 j
VY e have many manifestation* of this per
secuting spirit, originating in the same desire
of power, in the present day. It is no unusual
thing to find men endeavoring to force thei
adoption of their creed, by the arm of the*
law, or bv the equally uncivilized means of
excommunication, detraction, and calumny.|
At one time, legislative acts ar* passed to*
“prevent the desecration of the Sabbath,"
at another time, those who do not see their
obligation to hold any day sacred, but con
sider everyday alike,” arc branded as in
fidels and freethinkers. If they do not
believe in the divine authority of a Christian
ministry,” they are infidels and freethinkers J j
If they oppose and expose our so-called
Christian churches, for their indifference to 1
the cause of humanity, and the shallowness'
of their professions, as proved by thei*- sanc
tion of the accursed slave-system, they are
.infidels and freothinkers! Abolitionists are
all infidels and freethinkers? Probably they
are. Very possibly they do not believe in
the Christianity which these churches believe
in. Poor indeed, and worthless, and soulless
would be their belief if they did. Preserve
me from the adoption of such a creed It is
cold, miserable, heartless, producing no fiuit,'
j implanting no principle, checking no vice.
W hen a man makes any discovery, he docs
not strive to hide it. Truth will net he hid
it does not wish to be hid it courts the light
of day and the most searching scrutiny and
th ere is no more sure ground on which the
falsehood of any theory may be premised,
than that those who maintain*it are unwilling
that it should he subjected to the ordeal of a
full and free examination.
And this, after all, is the only of
discovering the true, and of detecting the
false. It is to very little purpose to pio-j
duce a book of authoritative appeal, and to>
say of it, This is all true; I lielievc every
word of it; those who do not believe what
this book says, do not believe the truth.” Tim
Mahometan has as good a right to say I
(as he does say) this of the Koran, the'
Chinese of the books of Confucius, and even!
the savago idolater of the irrational doctrines'
of his belief, as the professing Christian of
the Bible. The Koran is no authority to the
disciple of Confucius the Bible is none to
the follower of Mahomet; and altogether—
the books of Confucius, the Koran, and the
Bible, are utterly valueless as a final appeal,
lo the man who abjures all infallible authority.
Everyone who values wliat lie considers the
truth, will be anxious that all should adopt
hia views. But thcro is only one way of
compassing this object. It is not by the force
of law it is not by the force of excommuni
cation it is uot by the force of calumny but'
only by making our truth the property and
[msst'ssion of others. It is ours we prize it!
highly; it is engrafted upon us—become a
part of ourselves. When it is so engrafted
upon others, they also will sec its value, and
it will have become a part of them also.
Men will still think for themselves, in spite of
all the efforts of law, aud the calumnious 1
aspersion infidels and [freethinkers! lo
spitfc of all such opposition, tbc truth will
triumph—the thought will out, as from!
Galileo's dungcoo—“ The earth moves still.” 1
Those who know what truth is, and its irre
sistible power, can calmly say, in the words
of the immortal Milton: Let truth and
falsehood grnpple. Who ever knew truth put
to the worse in a free and open encounter!
She needs no policies, nor stratagems,
nor licensings, to make her victorious those
are the shifts aud Ute defences that error uses
against her power.”—j. d.

Pithy Prayer.—A short but comprehen
sive prayer was once made by a Scotchman,
a* follows.—“ Keep tny purve form the
lawyer —and my body from the doctor —and 1
my soul from the dcrU." He couldn't have
asked for more in fewer words.
The Bealtics of Law.—A suit lias re
cently been terminated in Wyoming county J
N. Y., in which the amount involved was
$23, and the costs reached 800, or 1000. i
The Court of Common Pleas, now in session
here, was engaged a whole day in the trial of
a cause, in which the sum at issue was about
2 50. The plaintiff succeeded in getting a 1
verdict in his favor—amount $l. Law is a!
whistle that one pare dear far blowing. In
nine cases out of ten. a person had better
suffer wrong than to have recourse to it.
Freedom axd a fit ovt. —The Cincinnati
Chronicle notices the arrival there, from A O-1
gusts, Georgia, of s colored woman and her
twelve children, recently set frae by the last
will aad testament” of a wealthy old man of
that place. The woman was his favorite scr-j
vaut, and beside giving her and her children
their freedom, he haa also bequeathed them
between 40,090 and $5O/100.
CCDS.
KU* 4A*aaJvl:
tttfttittd Vfefcabnrt Ur Rttrape.
Gb.fr UL
fmmm if C«A /wjr W *f for Aut TViwe—
f A|free>v b
tob. Amm**}— tVsrlitr dre »-ST tf/Jfcw.;
Every* arms! fro* Borepe bring,
genre of further commotion ami revolution.
There eotrtinues to be much in
Frimee. Report* ate in circulation of medi
tated changes in the English Cabinet. The
Allowing, m ref.-rence to these reports,
from Wi liner and S null's European Tunes;
Without giving premature credit to thorn,
we may remark, that it has b*m lon* f-b
that no essential Uilforesce of ojiinioo etun
between the numbers of laird John Russell's
adm-uiat ration and the I.*ading friends around
■Sir Robert Peel. The animosity, amounting,
to persona! rancor, which still prevails against
the ex- premier, amiHVgwt a forge auction of the
House of Commons, must perhaps for s long
period of time preclude the Right Hon. Bar
onet from takiag office, even supposing he
fait so inclined.
*I J 1 4 I
The following is from a London Corre
spondent
Losiww, March 18, 1918.
e Public affairs are by no means in
a satisfactory state. Tlie French are terribly
embarrassed by financial difficulties, as mutt
necessarily be the case, w ith a violent revolu
lion like that which has just taken place.
The bank of France has stopped cash pay
ment there has been a ran upon the Savings
Banks, which hare also suspended, and only
pay four-tenths of all sums above two hundred
francs in cash the remainder being paid by
bills and stock. M. Ledru Rollin issued a
very violent circular on the subject of the
elections, which th« other members of the
Government have disowned. Some violent
scenes are said to bare occurred in conse- j
quence. The mob are greatly in favor of
Ledru Ilolliu, who threatened his colleagues
that be would address them from the window.
M. Gamier Pages said he would pistol him,
if hs moved to do so. They have just issued
a proclamation on the subject of the comiug
elections, which appears to have been written
by Lamartine. It breathes throughout a
kindly and moderate spirit, and declares that
all they desire is, that the conscience of.
France” may speak in the approachingt
assembly; that lh;ir power is only tempor
ary, and will be lakl down the moment the
nation is organized, and has appointed a
regular government. Austria refuses to have
any diplomatic relations with France. The
King of Belgium is said to have called his
Ministers together, and to have told them
that if the nation desired it, he would abdi
cate but he would not allow a single drop of
blood to be shed, to keep him on the throne.
The Ministers implored him to keep his
throne, out requested leave to propose some,
reforms. Leopold answered, Reforms! we
must have reforms; you and tho representa
tion are responsible if the required reforms are
not immediately made. lam only an elected
king, and must reign as the people wish me.”
The king of Holland, also, has requested h«s
Parliament to draw up such a measure as will!
meet the wants of his subjects. All sorts of,
movements are going ou throughout Ger
many. I ain sorry to say, that there has
been much violence in some places, chieffv
Wurtemburg. The Duke d’Aumale and the
Prince de Joinvillc, have quietly given up
Algiers to the Republic.
There have l>ee:i a great many Chartist
meetings in different parts of the country; and
it seems evident that we are going to have a
renewal of agitation. The difficulties of the
government aad the disgust of the middle
classes, in consequence of the grievous bur
den of taxation, will help on the movement.
W e have had the guns firing in honor ofj
the birth of a princess, which took place tliisi
morning at Buckingham Palace.
Yours respectfully,
R. 8.1) 1
Fkan'CS. A grand demonstration took;
place, March 27th, in the Champ du Mars,.
(Paris.) Great numbers of workmen, ar-'
companiod by innumerable flags, assembled
around the Tree of Liberty, which had'
been planted the previous day, and which the
clergy of Gros Caff lon had consecrated. In
compliance with the wish expressed by a de
putation who waited upon him, M. Ledru
Rollin, Minister of the Intetior, went to the
spot and addressed the people.
M. Ledru Rollin recommended the work
men to return to their labor to the cry of
Vive la Republique!” The cry was imme
diately echoed by the crowd, and shouts of
Vive Ledru Rollin were also heard.
Prussia.— By the Cologne Gazette of,
March 22d, we have news from Berlin to the'
20th inclusive. The Poles have been set at
liberty, and bud celebrated the event with a
great triumph accompanied by the people.
The king has nobly and promptly re
deemed his pledge to forget past auimusi- 1
ties. The following general amnesty appears
in the AUgamne Prtusick* ZtUunf, of
March 21
Yesterday, I declared that from my heart
I had forgotten and forgiven. But, in order i
that no doubt may remain of my whole peo
ple being embraced in this forgiveness, and t
because 1 will not have the great future of our’
Fatherland now dawning upon us dimmed
with painful reminiscences of the past, I here
by proclaim pardon to all who ba«e been ac- 1
cused of, or convicted political offence or
offences perpetrated by tbe instrumentality of]
the press. My Minister of Justice, Uhden, is)
charged to give effect to this am
nesty.
FR HD FRICK WILLIAM.
Berlin, 20th of March, 1818.
Thus, by degrees, everything has been
granted change of Ministry, release of
prisoners wade during the night, and with
drawal of the troops, it was a tine sight to.
see the retirement of the soldiers from the
fearful service in which they had been en-.
gaged, the people showing their joy by »a
vuig wh te nags from the windows, arid by
songs and shouts ctf joy
Tlie king granted tlie release of tbe prison- 1
era in pnmon, appearing for that purpose in
the balcony of the palace.
Bavaria. Tbs King of Bavaria has
abdicated; no dates«r **bet particulars arc
given, the telegraph being interrupted by
weather.
Russia. —We read in a letter from St. Pe-
trraburgh, of the 4th, that on learning that a
revolution had taken place in France, tbe Ern-
Eeror appeared indifferent, Hut said, France
as become wild, and the French are mad.”
There was a talk the day after of extraordi
nary military measures having been resolved
on, which appears to be confirmed; fur we*
learn, under date of the l lib, in a send-off* tal j
manner, that the emperor has given instruc
tions to the Minister of War to place the
unops on a war footing. His Imperial Ma
jesty feels bound In adept this step by the
terms of existing treaties with other powers,
and, in tin* evcot of a necessity arising, for
affording all the protection in his power to the
rbims of fegHunaef against the destructive
adt ause of revofotromsts and anarchists.
ADDRF.s* or AmflUtRBT fTO
tfmri#wsfrcß3( new vohk,
‘‘-i -r.-..
Uwlfr «tfccft and riw&ng hnpruißiH gf tf»
duty we owe ur€M sal out fcfow Mnr>.
the AiTt|*Sfafre<y toeni of lUchretor IM
oonstKuard todtatimr to prrsevere n thro
effort* foe He led wiffiswijj buwd
men oho still remain tmknjK unrequited in the
Southern prtaoa inner.. We nre frequently
brought painfully to remember that not ooljr
Ls their h&nr «rrtote4 fVom them onretminere
lad; not emtp do they Aiflbt frirn mumse- bn»-
gtraod er»W; not *m\y are the female*, or*
sisters, subjected to the cruel ami pwnonnste
Mitrstres of their tyrannical masters and over
toers but there are daily instances of sun
dering tfie ilrairtt ties in natitre, thus arpa
raling them forever. And can me expect any*
thinghotter—can tn? took for benevolence or
hie feelings lmm a owm so foul and fiend
ish m abeery h W ooid he anitmtmnaMe,
txxree n corrupt tree cannot bring forth
irooj fruit.*’ Therefore, knowing that with
out associative action we cannot render 15-
rient aid to this holy cause, we affectionately
invite the CMipcration of the citizen* of Roch
ester and the public generally’. We ask them
to bear in mind the injunctions of Jesus, “AU
things whatsoever ye wouhl men shookl do tu
you, do ye even so to them.” Remember,
also, the beautiful parable in which lie calls
our attention to the sick and to tlkwe wbo are
in prison, and concludes by the forcible asser
tion, “Inasmuch as ye have tlone it tooneofthe
least of these, my brethren, ye have done it
unto roe.” We fed assured all that have
hearts to feel, ami are careful to attend to the
monitions of conscience—all who are deter
mined to live for the good of our race, instead
of devoting all their time to their own per
sonal ease—all who feol bound to improve the
precious time allotted to them here, by pro
inoting as much as possible the cause of truth
and righteousness in the earth, will come for
ward in the work of laboring to banish forerct
the demon of slavery from our land and in
so doing, instead of an example of corruptioa
and wickedness, we should be a light to the
world.”
W e hope no one will feel too poor, nor any
too rich, to enlist in this’holy cause. The
Christian's influence, in whatever situation, is
always salutary, and will certainly produce its
good effects. We ask for the aid of men and
of women we call on the old and the
young, the farmer, the mechanic, and the
merchant. We ask all and every one to give
ns their help to devote what they can spare,
rither of money or of the fruits of their la
l>or, to the work of restoring men and women
lo themselves, to their manhood, to the rights
and blessings with which they were endowed
By our Creator.
For this object, we propose holding a Fair
n Deemnlier next. We ask the females in
he adjoining towns and country around us, tn
ret up sewing circles, and prepare such arti
cles as will be most saleable, and to come, fur
lish tables, give us their company, and help
is, not only in selling those things thus pre
pared, but in convincing the public uiirnl of
he necessity of our perseverance and fidelity,
ind thus be helpers in hastening the day of
emancipation.
From the New York Gazette and Times
LORD BROUGHAM.
By an American in England
Wandering about the House of Lord
t in an easy, careless and familiar man
nrr, at one time approaching the ba
and talking over the rail to some visi
ters—again seen taking a friendly cha
with the Lord Chancellor on the woo
sack, and sharing a seat with him then
now on one bench with a group o
members about him—and a few minutn
after on another bench with an entirelj
different group, may be seen a plain
j Clumsy looking man, both in drew
and person, about sixty-five years o
age, with long face subjected to
nervous twitching, a nose inclined t<
turn up, large and looking as if it hat
been abruptly cut otf at the end—hii
hair coarse and thick, and grizzly brown
growing far down on his forehead am
carelessly rubbed down as smoothly aj
such hair will admit. One shoulder t
little depressed and a side way move
ment in walking.
I no sooner put my eye on him that
I enquired of a gentleman standing
near if that was Lord Brougham. Hat
i been standing at poet’s comer anc
1 asked the same stranger if the structure
about me was Westminster Abbey’
I could not have excited his surprise
more.
Certainly sir!” was his reply, anc
1 looked at me enquiringly or wonderful
ly, as if doubting there could be an\
man living who stood in nerd ofthe in
formation I asked.—There is something
so entirely sui generis” in the ap
pearance and manner of this “learned
Lord,” as he is termed iu debate, that
no one who has seen Punch” and
i other Caricatures whose sketches show
up the odd outlines of his Lordship’t
head and face could for one moment
hesitate in selecting him out at first
sight.
He speaks on almost every subject
that conics up—and his voice and ma
nor are as peculiar as his appearance.
Whilst speaking he has the habit of
I pressing his elbows to his side and turn
-1 ing the palms of his hands upward—
suys what he has to say in rather
a crack’d and husky voice, and
keeps up a constant jerking and sway
ing his head, and shrugging his should
ers, and indicating by his general man
ner that the subject matter as well as
the entire circle about him arc equally
at “his fingers’ends,”—seldom fails to
raise a laugh in one quarter at the ex
pense of another he is said to be al
most incapable of letting an opportunity
slip by unheeded which admits of a
crack at some opponent. Among the
numerous anecdotes of this nature, re
lated of him, I will here state one illus
trative of his temper and manner.
It occurred at the time Mr. Webster
was last in Fngland, and at a period
when the then Ministry stood in a totter
ing position and were expected every
hour to throw up their hands and give
place to others. Lord Brougham ac
companied Mr. Webster one evening
to the House of Lords and placed him
in rather a conspicuous position, and
wending his way among the members,
chatting to one and another, and evi
dently letting them know that a distin
guished visiter was present, for those
he spoke to would turn and take a look
at “our Senator.” Shortly after a
member rose and asked the postpone
ment of some resolutions which had
been marked down for discussion that
evening, and in the course of his re
quest expressed a hope that it would
meet the approbation and assent of the
“learned Lord.” Whereupon Lord
8., nodded assent; this done, another
similar request was made by another!
member in regard to another resolution, j
and also hoping it would meet the assent I
ofthe “learnedLord,” —this drew from!
him a like assent, with an extra nerv-j
ous twitch of his nose and check. And!
strange to say, a third similar request
followed, with an equally special hope 1
that it would also meet the assent of the
“learned Lord;” whereupon his Lord
ship rose, and taking his peculiar ntti
tude, remarked that when he came down
to the House that evening, he did not i
suppose that so much honor and per
sonal distinction awaited him—that he
had scarcely got his seat, before one
noble Lord made a direct appeal to'
him for his assent to the postponement
of one question, and this followed by a
second appeal from another noble Lord,
and now again comes a third, equally
looking to his special acquiescence—
Why, me Luds, this is strange, in- 1
deed; aud not less embarrassing to me.
Should any distinguished stranger be
now present, (and here he turned and
looked toward Mr. Webster, and near-'
ly every head turned instinctively in
that direction also,) I say, me Luds, if
any distinguished stranger were here,
present, he would really be led to sup-1
pose that I was a man of some conse
quence here—when it is well known to
your Ludships that I have at this pres
ent moment no more weight or influ
ence in this House, than (here he
paused, and looked over the table that l
separated him from the Ministerial:
bench, and making a bow in that direc-j
tion,) than anv of His Majesty’s Minis
ters.”
This, of course, brought a general
chuckle, in which the Ministers them
selves could scarcely refrain from join
ing—though probably not so joyously.
After describing, as I have attempt
ed to describe, the |>crsnnal appear
ance of this distinguished man—it might
be deemed discourteous to trace a re
semblance to any distinguished person
at home—and yet there arc handsome
and ugly likenesses traceable between
individuals.
If the Hon. C. J. Ingersoll of Penn
sylvania, wore his hair less closely cut
and its color was a shade or two lighter,
his resemblance to Lord Brougham
would be very marked—he has, I think,
a decided advantage over his Lordship,
as well in jiersonal beauty as intellect
uality ofexpression. There nre vari
ous features in the House of Lords
during the session of peers, that give
an air of dignity to it, but take away
the lawn sleeves and ample clerical
dress of the Bishops, remove the big
wig and gowm of the Lord Chancellor,
cut off the associations that w ill instinc
tively gather around men who are there,
and whose as well iu the field as
m tba aahmet, bavq ape*- amid
•ccue» and events of attrsinf interests,
forget that within that narrow compass
are gathered the noblest sad best blood
of Eaclaod, in a word* atrip swap all
titles earned by merit or inherited by
accident, and look it and listen to
them as a body of men assembled to
i get her to legislate for a nation, and the
House of Lords falls very far below our
f Senate, as well in personal appearance
of its members as in eloquence and
ability.
lIO*. JOSHUA B. GIDDIMGS.
Few of our public men enjoy so
large a share of the heartfelt respect
even of their political enemies, as Mr.
Giddings, the distinguished member of
1 the House of Representatives, frera
j Ohio. He is emphatically the distin
guished member, and next to Hon.
i Senator Corwin, the greatest public
man of that great state. Mr. Giddings
has obtained this enviable distinction
not so much by bis great learning or
1 great talents—though by no means
deficient in either of these—as by his
great moral courage—his fearless man
ner of pleading and voting for what is
right, rather than for what is thought
1 to be expedient. Moral courage is
always admirable, but doubly so at the
present day, from its great scarcity.
1 Most of our politicians, are so exceed
ingly afraid of doing wrong, that they
scarcely ever dare do what is right.
Not so Joshua R. Giddings. From his
first advent to public life, he has made
i war, heart and hand, upon the aggres
sions and iniquity of the slave power.
Buffeted and scorned at first, he redou-
I bled his blows the more he was reviled,
till he has compelled that power to
abate much of its arrogance and listen
with respectful attention.
But our object at present is not to
eulogize Mr. Giddings, but to introduce
a scene between him and a Southerner,
and to commend to public admiration
the manly course and nobly reply of
1 Mr. Giddings on that occasion. It
1 occurred on the floor of the House in
February, 1842, just after Mr. G. had
made a speech on the bill for the relief
of the slavers, owning the slaves on
board of the slave ships Gomel” and
Encomium.” The correspondent of
the N. Y. Tribune, from whose
sketches” w f e select the facts in this
case, censures this speech of Mr G. as
“too much a philippic—too little an
argument—too violent and recrimina
ting in its character,” —a fault to
which, it must be confessed, Mr. G. is
rather inclined. But though sometimes
bitter in expression, he never loses
his self control, or becomes murderous
in thought or bloody in deed, as the
following encounter sufficiently proves:
A scene followed the delivery of
this speech, such as never occurred i
before, and for the credit of the House
and country it is to be hoped never
will occur again. A personal assault
.was made upon Mr. Giddings by a
Southern member.
The newspapers of the day contained 1
the particulars, of the affair, from some i
of which the following scene is con- J
densed:—
While Mr. Giddings was speaking, j
this member w r as seen standing in front
of the clerk’s desk evidently much ex
cited. After Mr. Giddings had ceased
he was observed to approach the aisle
where Mr. G. was standing and vio
lently to push him out of it. As Mr. G. i
turned round to see who his assailant
was, he passed close by him with his
right hand inside of his vest, apparently
taking hold of his bowie-knife. Mr.
Giddings recognized him and addressed t
him by name; he stopped, and with his
hand still on his knife, came hack to
within some four feet of Mr. Giddings l
and placed himself in a menacing j
attitude directly in front of him.
Mr. Giddings inquired “Did you
push me?” and looked hnn directly in
the eye as he spoke.
I did,” was the reply,
Intentionally?” usked Mr. G.
Yes.”
For the purpose of iusult?” again
demanded Mr. Giddings.
Yes,” again was the answer.
“Well, sir,” replied Mr. G.” we
are in the habit of leaving those men
who w antonly insult others to thei
contempt of public opinion.”
By this time the friends of the mem
ber interfered, and led him from the
hall. The excuse offered for his con
duct at the time was partial intoxica
tion.—Express.
THE PRESS.

The art of printing is perhaps the
mightiest instrumentality ever contrived
by man, for the exertion of moral influ
ence. Rev. Dr. Adams, in his late ad
dress at Yale College, remarked:
In the city of Strashurg, on the i
eastern frontier of France,there stands,
in the principal square, a bronze stat
ute of Guttenburg, the inventor of the;
art of printing with moveable types. It j
is a full length figure of that fortunate
individual, with a printing press at his
side, and an open scroll in his hand,
with this inscription: “And there was
light.” Upon the several sides of the
high pedestal on which the effigy
stands, are four tableaux in bas-relief,
designed to represent the effect of the
art of printing on the general progress
of the world. In one stand the names
of the most distinguished scholars, phi
losophers and poets of all times; in an
other the names of those who have
been most eminent for their achieve-)
inents in the cause of human freedom;
conspicuous among which is an allusion
to our Declaration of Independence, i
with the names of Washington, Frank
lin, Hancock and Adams. On the
third side is a representation of Philan
thropy knocking off the fetters of the
slave, and instructing the tawny chil
dren of oppression in useful know ledge,
and on the fourth is Christianity, sur
rounded by the representatives of all
nations, and tribes, and people, receiv
ing from her hand, in their own tongue,
the words of eternal truth. Chris
tianity! Heaven-born Christianity!—
Divine Philosophy! look down with
indifference or disdain on that bearded
man at work with tools in his smutty
shop away on the Rhine! Affect to
overlook and undervalue him as a me-'
chauic! A mechanic! why, out of!
those bars of wt>od, and poonds of
uietal, and ounces of ink, ho is con
structing a machine to make the natiouV
[think!. Hi St —rnirngh fer
Cfuktiiiiit; herself, which shall bear
her, with the music of her silver truo*
pet, to au toe abodes of men.”

r j,.i
TrwlwH 6mm dfc Fwadi mi Mwhwr PdtnH by
Nn. L. M. ChiU.
I THE GODDESS OF POVERTY.
f Paths sanded with gold, verdant
I' heaths, ravines loved by the wild goats,
great mountains crowned with stars,
wandering torrents, impenetrable for
ests, Id the good goddess pass through,
the Goddess of Poverty!
Since the world existed, since men
have been, she traverses the world, she
dwells among men; she travels singing
and she sings working—the goddess,
the good Goddess of Poverty!
Some men assembled to curse her.
They found her too beautiful, too gay,
too nimble, and too strong. Pluck
out her wings,” said they; chain her,
bruise her with blows, that she may
suffer, that she may perish—the God
dess of Poverty!”
They have chained the good goddess,
they have beaten and persecuted her,
hut they cannot disgrace her. She
has taken refuge in the soul of poets,
in the soul of peasants, in the soul of
martyrs, in the souls of sinners—
the good goddess, the Goddess of Pov
erty!
She has walked more than the Won
dering Jew; she has travelled more
than the swallow; she is loder than the
Cathedral of Prague; she is younger
than the egg of the wren; she has mul
tiped more upon the earth than straw
berries in Bohemian forests the god
dess, the good Goddess of Poverty!
She has many children, and she
teaches them the secret of God. She
talked to the heart of Jesus, upon the
mountain; to the eyes of Queen Li
bussa, when she became enamored of a
laborer; to the spirit of John and Je
rome, upon the funeral pile of Con
stance. She knows more than all the
doctors and all the bishops—the good
Goddess of Poverty!
She always makes the grandest and
most beautiful tilings that we see upon
the earth; it is she who has cultivated
the fields and pruned the trees; it is
she who tends the flocks, singing the
most beautiful airs; it is she who sees
the first peep of dawn, and receives the
last smile of evening—the good God
dess of Poverty!
It is she who inspired the poet, and
makes the violin, the guitar and the
flute eloquent under the fingers of the
wandering artist—it is she who carries
him on her light wing, from the source
of the Moldau to that of the Danube;
it is she who crowns his hair with
pearls,and makes the stars shine for him
more large and more clear—the god
dess, the Goddess of Poverty!
It is she who instructs the ingenious
artisan; who teaches him to hew stone,
to carve marble, to fashion gold, silver,
brass and iron; it is she who renders
the flax supple and fine as a hair, from,
the fingers of the old mother, or of the
young girl—the good Goddess of Pov-'
erty!
It is she who sustains the cottage
shaken by the storm; it is she who
saves rosin for the torch, and oil for the I
lamp; it is she who kneeds bread fori
the family, and weaves garments fori
summer and winter; it is she who feeds
and maintains the world—the good God
dess'of Poverty!
It is she who lias built the grand
churches and the old cathedrals; it is
she who carries the sabre and the gun,
who makes war and conquests; it is she 1
who collects the dead, tends the
wounded, and hides the conquered—the
good Goddess of Poverty!
Thou art all gentleness, all patience, i
all strength and all compassion O, good
Goddess! It is thou who unites all thy
children in holy love, and who givest
to them faith, hope and charity—O,
Goddess of Poverty!
Thy children will cease one day to
carry the world upon their shoulders;
they will be recompensed for their
trouble and toil. The time approaches'
when there will he neither rich nor
poor; when all men shall consume the
fruits of the earth, and equally enjoy
he gifts of God; but thou wilt not he
brgotten in their hymns, O, good God
less of Poverty!
They will remember that thou wert
heir fruitful mother, their robust nurse,
ind their church militant. They will
>our balm upon thy wounds, and they,
vill make the rejuvenated and embalm
'd earth, a bed where thou caust
it last repose—O good Goddess of
Poverty
Until the day of the Lord, torrents
tnd forests, mountains and valleys,
maths swarming with little flowers and
ittie birds, paths which have no mas
ers, and sanded with gold let pass i
he good Goddess —O, Goddess of

Energy. —Who ever became a man i
>f influence by sitting under the harrow
>f despondency What slow poke 1
;yer benefited the world, his friends, or
limself There is nothing like action i
ioupled with cheerfulness. We see it'
jverywhere. Who is he sitting on
hat empty barrel on the wharf? A
nan with no energy—a prey to grief.; i
He does not know what to do, and how
:o start. ho is that man w ith folded
irms standing in the market-place A 1
azy do-littlc sort of vagabond, who
fiardiy cams his bread and butter. Do
►ou wish to become such a character?
Fhen arouse yourself! away from the
lrm chair! up from the gutter! out oi
the downy bed! Move your arms,
kick your feet, and stir about; give'
he blood a chance to circulate through
(rour vcius, and the air of heaven to
enter vour lungs. Seize the first job
presented, and despatch it at once; up 1
for the pay, and get another forthwith; i
rou will soon earn enough to purchase j
ft wheel-barrow or hand-cart, and then
pou will begin to live. Who knows
shat you may become? Energy is;
iiaif omnipotent. Small beginnings end
in large gains; a penny well turned
brings a fortune Resolve, then, to do
mnething and he something, and, our
rord for U, you will bless us to your
lying day for preaching thus faithfully
:o you.— Chromotype. j
Error of opinion may safely be tolcr-;
ited, when truth is left free to combat
t.— Jtff'ts n.
BrrfeACT,
Fmmtb OmimtfW. M. Siwm f fAr Ass >tk
<Jo«i QVixct Abxtta, Mmtik&n tkrLrg
mUtmrr 4*. St*"fNm r«4, m i/ht Grl
V. INk r
W» in it Ar mUm tf extrsordfnsry
British Amrricao CWiWim i«4 BpiaUi Amer
ksr Society bm c**ote iaio collision, rack ta iu
fullest maturity. The Amnes «f tbt N *nb htn
ami Reuaea
dr la Palma, passed 'he for:r**or* rf .Mommy,
and rolled hath ipoo be Ueart o( Mexico Uw so
avai Kg tide of a»m*»» re*i*anre f oni the m<*an
u. in arte of Barna Vista. Martial csfootas are
wetaprd an ibr coas t ad Ctliima, while San
Jaan oTifoa baa lail*n, ami ibe invader* bam
j swep' Af forge of Certo Oonto—carried ParUi
and Prrrr, and planted the ba*.arr of barwhn
alar* and ever mulnpymg stnpea oa the towers of
j ike city of ibe Asttea.
Tbc Thirtieth Coegress a Kembles ta ibis ron
pne are, and ibe Debates are stdevne, earnest aad
i bewilder of. Litrresi, Possum, Con retrace. Free
dom aod humanity, all have ibeir advocates
Shall near ham aad lev.es he framed ro prose
rate Mill 1. ft her a war ro g'ortoas, or shall M b
ab<ndonet>! Shall we be cooient sri.h ilo* ham»l
aiion of ibe to, or ahall are complete hia subjtiga
linuT Wcu'd that arvmty be magnanimous, 01
evra j >at I Nay, ia the war Ji*t t VVh..
1 provuwnt.sml by what nnfsrdoaabie ffnee. thw
i diaastross Strife be'ween two eminent Rej.ob ic^
»o reaadsloaa io Drmoc a re f istitn'wnsf Wnere
shall we trace anew the t ver advancing l:ac of oar
'ii pirel Shall übe drawn on the shore ol tlx
Il o taisnrfe, or on :be ramm t of (he Sierra Ma
dret orsh»ll Mexican I id-pendenc** be ex»in
gushed,*! d ar eagle cioo- hit adventurous pm
t ions only when he looks off upon ibe waves tba>
repa ae u< Irora ibr I dirat Does Freedom own
and accept ear protore obhrmna ofßioo<J,or
does ehe rrject Hie aacnfi e! Will these cor-
I q rests ex emi her domain, or w.ll they be tallow,
rdb, ever crasping Slavery I WhatrfTctwih
this i-ew 1 o*n ambition have upon oorvelves
W ill it leave oa the viriae io eo«Lnw the career
'ofa« al progress I llow shall we govern the
conquered people! Shall we incorporate then
inii fled races with rs reives, or rule them with
he deepori*in «f pro ron-ular p>wrrs? Cia we
preserve the e remote and host le possessions, >a
any way, without forfeit ng »or own blond bought
heritage o( Freedom I Steam and Lightning
which have become d ole messengers,make the
Am-iicaii Pcrp’e lis enere to this iltgi D -bate,
and anxi-iy, and interest, intense and universal,
abooib them all. Suddenly the Coonc I adii«o!v
ed. Silence ;s in ibe Capiiol, and sorrow ha»
thrown i>s pal I over 'he Lnl. What new event
ts this? Has some Cromwell dosed the Leg ala,
live Chambers! or ha* me Cb ar, returning
from Ins distant cor qiea e, passed the Rubicon
seised the purple, and f«t en in the Senate be'
iteatn the swords al srli'tppoin’ed executioners of
his country'* vengeance Nu! No bmg all
this. What mean*, then, th a abrupt end fearful
■'il. nee 1 W hai unlook* d lor calamity ha* q idled
the debates ol the Senate and calmed the exeie
ninii of the People An old man, whose tongu*
■mce indeed was el qi*n', but now through age
had v* ell nigh Inst i's tu .tit.tg, has fallen into the
swoon of D«aih. He was no* an actor In thr
(Jmma of c-i q teat—nor hid li> L-tblc voice ye>
ntmg'ed in the |.»liy argument—
A gray-h;»ire'l sire, whn*eeye intent
\V» on me visioned Fuiure bent.**
And now he iiasdream-d out at last the troubled
dream of life. Signs of unavailing grief ascend
to Heaven. Panegyric, fluent in long-si fi d
prtiis-*, performs ns office. 'I he Army and th
Navy pay conventional honors, with iltr pomp of
na'ionai wo, an I then the hearse moves onward
It rrsteappropriately on ms way in ihe Hall where
I nd< pend nee was p oclainted, and again unde
tie dome where Freedom was born. At lengit
the loinb of Jons Aihjus opens to teceive a «on,
who also, b<>rnc sulj-ci of a King. had stood as a
Representative of h s emancipated country, be*
fore Principal,ties and Powers, and had won by
mrri'.and worn with* u’ reproach, the Honors of
he Republic.
During the ndministration of John
Quincy Adams, he was really the Chief
M.-igistnlc. Ue submitted neither his rea
son nor his conscience to the control of
any partiznn cabal. Mo man was ap
pointed to oflice in obedience to jtolitical
dictation, and no faithful public servant
was proscribed. The result rewarded his
mngnamity. Faction censed to exist.—
When South Carolina, a few years after
word, assumed the very ground that the
ancient Republican party had indicated as
lawful aud constitutional, and claimed the
right and jrower to set aside within her
own limits acts of Congress which she
pronounced void,because they transcended
ihe Federal authority, she colled on the
Republican party throughout the Union
in vain. The dangerous heresy had been
renounced for ever. Since that time there
has been no serious project of a combina
tion to resist the laws of the Union, much
less of a conspiracy to subvert the Union
Suchwat'he Admini 'ration of John Qumcy
Adams. San ly it exhibits enough done for duty
and for fame—if the ancient plulos >pher said tru
ly, ihai the day of a S alesman was to make the
citizens happy, to make them firm in power, rich
in wealth, splendid in glor, and eminent in vir
tue, and that such achievements were the earnest
and bes' o all the wn-k* of men.
But the measure of duty was not yet fulfiled.—
The Republic thought it no longer had need of
the services of Adants, and he bowed to his com
mand. Two years had elapsed, and Io the
Priest was s*en again beside the deserted Altar,
aud a brighter, purer, and more lasting flame
arouse out of the extinguished members.
He l*M»fcrd in yea X. itnt>n bis year* were seen
“A youtbiul vipur,; a autumnal gri en.”
The Republic had been extended and eonsoli
lated but Human Slavery, which had been in
corporated in it, was extended and consolidated
i!so, and was spreading, so as to impair the
strength of the great fabric on which the hopes of
the nations were suspended. Slavery, therefore,
must be restrained, and without violence or in
uftice, must be abolished. The difficult task of
removing it had been postponed by the Slates t en
if the Revolution, and had been delayed arid for
gotten by their successors. There were now
resolute hearts and will.ng hands to undertake it,
mi who was strong enough, aad bold euough to
esd? Who had patience to bear with enthusi
ism that overlespt its mark, and with intolerance
hat defeated it* oau generous purposes? Slave
folders had power, nay, the national power and
itrangero say, they had it with the nation’s con
tent and sympathy. Who was bold enough to
provoke them, and bring the execrations of the
aation dowu upon his own head 1 Who would
io this, when even Abolitionists themselves, ren
irred implacable by the manifestations of those
irotiment* of justice sod moderation, without
rhich the most hums. cau depending on a
rhange of public opinion, canuot he conducted
safely to prosperous end, were r ady to betray
heir own champion into the handsof the aven
»er? That leader was found in the person of
lo .oQaiocj Adams. He took h*s aral in die
House of Representatives in IKH without a*-
umpiion omstentatioa. Abolitionists placed in
tis hand, peuuona for the suppression of Slavery
wiil*to the District of Coluuiba, the seal of the
Federal authorities. He offered them to the
House of Representative*, and they were reject
*J with contumely aad scorn. Suddenly the
ilarm went forth, that the aged and venerable
rrvant was retaliating a; on his country br i .sii
•aiingn servile war that such a wsr must be
ivoided, even at the coot of aocnAciag die free
loin of IVtilioo and the freedom of Debate, and
hat if Free States, would not consent to make
bat soenhe, then the Union she id be dissolved,
rbts alarm bad its desired eff-ct. The Hooseof
Representatives in I (ji7, adopted a rule of disci
pline, equivalent to an net, ordaining that no pen
non relating to slavery, nearly or remotely, should
tie read, debated oo coostdered. The Senate
wloptrd like edict. The State authorities ap
proved. Slavery was not loss strongly entrench
rd, behind the bulwark of precedent* w the room
A law, than in the fixed habits of thought and
ictioo among the people. The people even in
[he free states dmoonred ike discussion of slavery
tod suppressed it by unlawful force. John
uiacy Adams stood unmoved aimed the storm.
He knew that the only danger incident to politi
cal reform, was the danger of demymg it too long.
I*hr French Revolution had anode ibis ao axiom
d political science* If, indeed the dtcosaiou
if sin very was so baxardows os we pretended, it
>nd been drferrd to ktog already. The odvo
•tes of slavery hud committed u fatal error.—
f’hey hod uhultshed freedom of up ech, and ftee
bmi of petition to save ao obnoxious institution,
ksaoooootho jm-'c ah o old subside, the praptr
could demand the /estorsboo of thoso pserioos
ighls, aod would scrutinize with froalemsfidelity
Ue cause for which they hud been suppressed
II« sfiered petitiao after wiin j rmh balder tad
more important thee tbe last. ll* debated
got A tea*, kindred ta tboar which were forbidden,
w ih the fitment and frrvnr ad Mfl a«M* aatare.
far afe.
ua4 w tga nehoi Ibe open u«ih
Abe fler> rrhtarMt m yomt
Bona be gained tpao hi* ada Marie*. Diatrie*
after diatnat aeotebamptoa* tobisafoe. Staler
reconsidered and irreired ia bia behalf. He aaw
the tide was turning, and then rituca on bold
blow, not bow for Freedotn of Petition aad of De
bote, bat a stroke of bold aad retalmttog warfare.
He offered a lewriatioa declaring that the follow
ing aineoda rate at the Conauiarioa af tbe United
States be oabmitied in tbe People of the several
States far ibeir adoption s—
From and alter tbe fourth day of Jorjr, 1*42
there ahall be, fhiwegfcout Ibe'United States
aaaui rm Sutur, bat on aad after that day
every child beca within tba United States shall
be Fans,
With tbe exception of the Territory of Florida
there shall henceforth, never be admitted into
tbit Union, any Srm the Constitution of which
shall tolerate wHbta the same time the existence
tfSuTisr."
In 1d45, the obnoxious Rule of the House of
Representative* wn» rescinded. The Freedom of
Debate and of Petition was restored, and the un
restrained sad irrepressible Discussion of Slavery
by the Press and Political Partiea began. For
ibe rest, tbe work of Emancipation, abides the
action, whether it be slow or hist, of the moral
sense of zeal aad firmness only of tbe Reformers,
but on rbeir wisdom and moderation also. Stoicism
that had no charity for error, never converted any
human society to virtue; Chaisiianity that re
members the true nature of man,has encompass-*!
a large portion of he globe. How long emanci
pation may be delayed is among the things con
cealed from our hnowleifge, bat not >o the
certain resuls. Its perils are already passed—its
difficulties have alieaJy been removed—when it
shall have boen accomplished it will bo justly re
garded as the noble effect which rendered the Re
public imperishable,
He dwelt often and emphatically on the
words—
Let it be remembeaed, that it has ever
been the pride and boast of America, that the
Rights for winch shecontemfod, wi re the rights
of Human Nature. Uy the blessing of the
author of those Righto, they have prevailed
over all opposition, and formed the liasis of
Thirteen independent States. No instance has
heretofore occurred, nor can any instance be
exjieeted hereafter to occur, in which the una
dulterated forms of Republican Government can
pretend to so fair an opportunity of justifying
themselves by their fruits. In this view, the
citizens of tlie United Suites, *re responsible
for the greatest trust ever confided to a noliti
society If Justice, Good Faith, Honor,
Gratitude, and all the other qualities which en
noble the character of a nation, and fulfil the
ends of Government, be the fruits of our es
tablishments, the cause ofLiberty will acquire
a dignity and lustre which it has never yet en
joyed, and an example will be s.n, whic h can
not but have the most favorable influence on
Mankind. If on the other side, our Govern
ments should be unfortunately blotted with the
reverse of these cardinal vrrtues, the great
cause which we have engaged to vindicate, will
be dishonored and betrayed; the last and fair
est experiment in favor of tbe Rights of Hu
man Nature, will be turned against them, and
their patrons, and friends e posed to the insults
and silenced by the votaries of Tyranny and
usurpation.”
Senators and Representatives of the People
of the State of Nem York: 1 had turned my
steps away from these Halls, long since, as 1
thought forever. I conic back to them by your
command, to fulfil a higher duty, and more hon
orable service than ever before devolved upon
me. I repay your generous confidence, hy of.
feting to you this exposition of the duties of
the magistrate and of the citizen. It is the
same which John Quincy Adams gave to the
Congress of the United States, iu his Oration
on the death of Janies Madison. It is the key
to his own exalted character, and it enables us
to measure the benefits he conferred upon his
country. If then you ask, what motive ena
bled liim to rise alsivc parties, sects, combina
tions, prejudices, passions, and seductions, I
answer, that he served his country, not alone
or chiefly because he knew her duties, and her
destiny, and knew her cause was the cause ol
Human Nature. If you inquire why he was
so rigorous in virtue as to be often thought aus
tere, I answer, it was because Human Nature
required the exercise of Justice, Honor, and
Gratitude, by all who were elothed with author
ity to act in the name of the American People.
If you ask why he seemed, sometimes, with
apparent inconsistency, to lend his charities to
the Distant, and the Future rather than to his
Kindred ami Times, I reply, it w as because be
held that the tenure of human power is oneon
dition of its being lieneficieutlv exercised for
the common welfare of the Human Race.—
Such men are of no country. They belong to'
Mankind. If we cannot rise to this height of
virtue, we cannot ho|»e to comprehend tbe char
acter of John Quincy Adams, or understood the
homage paid by the Anuricau people to his.
memory.
Nejd it be said that John Quincy Adams
studied Justice, Honor, and Gratitude, not by
the false standards of the age, hut by their
own true nature. He generalized truth, and
traced it always to its source, the bosom of God.
Thus iu his defence of the Amistad captives he
began with defining justice in the language of,
Justinian, Constans et perpetua voluntas jus
suum enique tribuendi.” He quoted on the
same occasion from the declaration of ludepen- j
dmee, not by the way of rhetoru a! embellish
ment, and not even as a valid human ordinance
but as a truth of nature, of universal applica
tion, the memorable w ools, We hold these
truths self evident, that all men are created
equal, and that they are endowed by their f're
ator with certain inalienable rights, and that
among these rights are Life, Liberty, and the
pursuit of Happiness.” In his vindication of!
the Right of Debate, he declared that the prin
ciple that religious opinions were altogether be
youd the sphere of Legislative control, was bu
one modification of a more exteusive axiom
which included the unbounded Freedom of the.
Press, and of Speech, in the communication of
Thought in all its forms. He rested the iavio-!
lability of the right of Petition, not ou Consti
tutions, or Charters which might be glossed,
abrogated or expunged, Imt in the inherent
right of every animal creature to pray to its
superiors.
Th- model by which he formed his character
was Cicero. Not the living Cicero, sometimes
inconsistent; often i-resolute too often seeming
to act a studied part; and always covetous of ap
plause. Rut Cicero, aa he aimed to be, aud as he
appears revealed in tboae inimorla' emanations o!
his genius which have been the deity hi and guide
ol intellect and viriue in every succeed.ng «»e,
Like the Roma Adam# was an orator, but be;
did not iall into the error of the Roman, in prac-.
tiesliy valuing eloquence more than llie beoefi
ceace to which it should be devoted. Like him
he was a Statesman and Magistrate worthy to be
called “The second founder of ibe Republic,”—
like him a teacher of Didactic Philosophy.of inor
als, and evea ol bis own peculiar art; and like
hun be made ait liberal learning tributary to that.
noble art, w hile Poetry was the inseparable com
panion of bis genius m its house of relaxation
I rum tbe la bora of be Forum and of the Capitol.
Like him lie loved only the society ol good men,
and by hia general praise of such, illustrated the
Roman’s beautifal aphorism, that no one can be
euvioaa of good deeds, who baa confidence ia bis
own virtue. Lite Cicero, lie k«-pi himself en
trained by social or omestie vices: preserved ser
enity ood cheerfulness cherished habitual rever
ence for tbe Doily, and dwell continunlly, not on
the mystic theology of the schools, but on the
hopes of a better ufe. He lived in whs I will be
regarded aa tbe virioooa age of bis country, while
Cicefb was aurrouaded by aa overw helm.ag de
ff aeraey. He had tbe light of Christianity fur
hia guide aad iu sublime motive* aa iotilemraia
o virtue; while Ciorso had only tbs *onlu>sdtn»
otroclioasof tbe Car nan Msbtols, aud saw amb
ing certainly attainable but present applause and
furore f®me. Jn moral courage, the,effort heex
ceiied bra model aad Availed Cato. Bat Cato
visionsij, who instated upon hi right to act
al ways wtbout ■efirtense ta Ibe condition of mao*
k»od, as hr sboaid have acted ia Plato’* imagina
ry RepaMie. Adams stood tn this arspret Mid
way between the impracticable title* and tbe two
flexible Academician. He had aooccasion tossy
a* the Grecian oral as did, that if he had some lime,
acted eantntay la htarari& bn bad never acted con.
trary to the Republic but be might justly hav r
raid, as the coUe Ron.an did, ”1 hsh* rvudetc
ill
to my ron a try *ll (Jw gml amice* which do
wse wiUtog to rrceive mmy hand*, and I have
•aver larboard a tM»ghu«cic«raiaf her that mi
•»l divine.
More fortunate ftwa Cicero, who frff a eir>*
lim of ewil war* which b# oosld mnt, Ad
am* ara* pr named to Imge r upon earth, no.
til the generations of (he future age. for whom
tie had tired and to whom he appealed trom
from the condemnation of eotrmponrries, esme'
ui* feeders the rurtain wh eh bad shot out Im*
sight, aod rom anced over hun, as he wa*
si. king into the grave, their judgement of Ap
proval and Beneoiftion.
The distinguished characterstirs of h?a
lifrwere Bcneieient labor and Contontraeat.
He never sought wealth. Yet by a practice
of frugality and method, lie secured il*c er>j y
ment of dealing forth continually no slimed
C larities, ar»dd «d in affluence. In every sisge
of Ms progress he WHS Constant. Ho was
content to be I’resident, Mint ..lor, Represents*
live, or Ci zen.
Stricken in the midst of his service, in the
very act of rising to debate, he f»*R info the
arms of Conscript Fat hers of the Repnbie.—
A long lethargy sup rvetied and oppressed his
senses. Nature rallied the wasting powers,,
on the verge of the grave, tor a very brief pe
riod. But it was long enongh for him
The re-kindled eve allowed that the recollect*
ed mind was clear, calm, an i v gonms. II s
weeping family, and his snrrowii g compeer-,
were mere, lie surveyed thesn n•, and know
at once its fatal import, lie hail left no duty
unperformed, he la 1 no wish unsatisfied to»
ambitien un-Uaincd; no regret, no sorrow ry>
tear no remorse. He could m>< shake otfiite
dew sof death t»af ga hered on his brow, Ifrr
could not pierre Ihe tb i k shades ;lint r use* Uf>
before him. But he knew that Eternity layr
c ose by tne short sof T«me. He know tka*
hie redeemer lived. El <juenre,eveu in'Jut
h »ur, inspired him with his ancient subJiu •‘y
o! utterance. •‘This,*’ said tie dying
I his is the end of earth.” He passed for
moment, and then added, *‘l Bin content.”—
Angels might we.i draw aside the skiea tub ok
down on such a scene—a scene that approxi
mated even to that scene of unapproachable
sublimity, not to be recalled without re\tr-*-
en. e, when in mortal agony, one who spake ~a
never man spake, said,‘‘lt is finis: ed.’
tini\ t«»*oye ir» ufitr ilte Uit-.h Ji.hu Quincy A am*
late .|i, lied i>n itn l>|. n<l in the M< 4 omi «mi
a i)U..-.u S >.ra, mm I) b *rn,« sUmmJ w.ili m.ulj.n
-m. wiuio it t e reunl.ntnc iliics «f .histlt e a u H«-
iitVoleme Mb Ch A la mi* kiii m suck aattliWi mV
tVaniet’. A like cu-et r t-in-il u» i.oi>i r.i l.ke A<l*
mns.a 'inject of a Kins— ike cliildiif iimn V nml ih.es.
like tiim.bkc :iii *in e iriy life a;* >i n*i an«l m til *.-n «f»
lie A-h»u urea h r|>uli.tr. I.ih« Aii.-im» he Ice i hie **r
vice tu ilie Slue iu r roc <u> juuth, aml in ns hour
ueed.iinil won 111 cuttAiieD :e. Mm unl.ke Atnius lie
cuiilii nut wail thei.uli delay*»;»>w uud Ul’cr.oti*. I lit
•urcKitiA ceineni. lie i.ght Power by u.e Italy ni.ul
liv lends ttiru.ivh held' in r »»e. nnd be l> cmiio
like Adams, a Supreme Magistrate, a Consul.
But there were other Consuls, lie was not
content. He thrust them aside, and was Con
sal alone. Consular power was too shoTt. He
fought new battles, aod was General lor lift.—
But Power, confessedly derived from the Peo
ple, must he exercised in obedience to theiv
will, and must be resigned to them again, at
least in death. He was not content. He
desolated Europe afresh, subverted the Rcpub
lio, imprisoned the Pumareh who presided
over Rome's comprehensive See, and obliged
him to pour on his head tho sacred til that
made the persons of Kings divine, and there
right to reign indefeasible, lie was an Empe
ror. But lie saw around him a mother, broth
ers and sisters, not enabled w hose humble
state reminded him, and the world, that he was
born a Plebeian and be had no heir to wait
impatient lor the Imperial Crown. He scour
ged the earth again, and again Fortvue smiled
on him even in his wild extravagance. He l»e
-stovved Kingdoms and Principal.lies on lim
kindred—pul away the unvoted vviteol lus
youthful days, and another, a daughter ofilaps
burgh’s Imperial house, joyfully accepted his
proud alliance. Oilspring gladdened his ob
noxious sight, a diadem was placed on its in
fant brow, and it received tin; homvgc of Pnn
ees, even in its cradle. Now ho was indeed a
Monarch—a legitimate Monarch—a Monarch
by Divine appointment —the lirst of an endl. f*
succession ot Monarch*. 11 ui then |vvere cthv r
Monarch* who held away in the Earth. Ho
was not content. He would reign with l.i*
Kindred alone, lie gatherdd new and greater
armies from lus own land—from subjugated,
lands. He called forth the young anil bravo—
one from every houst hold—from the Pyrenees
to the Znydt Zee—from Jura to the Do an
He inarched them into long and majestic col
umns, and went tbrth to seize that universal.
Dominion, winch seemed almost within his
grasp. But Ambition had tempted Fortune too
far. 1 lie Nations ot tire Faith resisted, repel
led, pursued, surrounded him. 'The pageant
was ended. 1 lie Crown fell from his presum
ptuous head. The wife who bail wedded hint
in his pride, forsook him in the hour w hen fear
came upon him. His child was ravished from
his sight, llis kinsmen were degraded to
their first Estate, and he was no longer Ei
jieror, nor Consul, nor General, nor even
Citizen, but an Exile and and a Prisoner, on a
lonely Island, in the midst of the wild At lam
—Discontent attended him there. 'The way
ward man fretted out a few long years of hn*
ytt unbroken manhood, looking oil' at the ear
liest davvn and in evening's latest twilight, to
wards that distant world that he had only just
eluded his grasp. His heart corroded. Death,
came, not uulookcd tor, though it caine even
tin welcome, lit* was Sirttclied on his bed
Within the fort which constituted his Prison.—
A fdvv fast anil faithful friends stood around,
w sth lire guards vv ho rejoiced that the hour of
relief, from long and wearisome watching, was
it hand. As lus strength wasted away, delir
ium stirred up the brain from its long and in
jurious inactivity. 'The Pageant of Am bn ion
returned. He was again a Lieutenant, a Gen
eral, a Consul, an Emperor of France. 11c
lilled again the throne of Charlemagne. II is.
kindred pressed around him, again reinvested
with the pompous pageantry of Royalty. Thi>
Daughter ot ihe long line of Kings again,
stood proudly b yltts side, and the suuy face of
Child shone out from beneath the diadem that
encircled its flowing looks. The Marshals of
Ihe Empire awaited hi* command. The legion*
id the Old Guard were in the field, their scar
red faces rejuv enlatcd, acd their ranks, thin
iied in many bat tbs, replenished. It osfdn,
I nissia, Austria, Denmark, and England,
gathered their mighty hoMatogive him bank*.
Once moie he mounted h.s nopal cut linrger*
and rushed forth to conquer. J!e waved his.
sword aloft and cried—“ Tele ITArmee.”—-
ilie feverish vision broke—the mockery wan
Prided. Ihe silver Cord was loow d, m dlho
warrior fell back upon his bed a lifeless coip*#.
Ibis wa»the end of Earth. The Corsican
was not content.
Statesmen and Citracus 1 'The contrast sug—
put* its own impressive moral.
Thf, Crisis of me Revolution.*--.
riiist decisive fusilado—which appears
to have turned the doubtful issue of tbs
day, changing the demand for reform
into the vindictive cry for Revolution
was, however, 'result of an acci
dent! A musket casually discharged
from one of the w indows of M. Guizot's
bote!, struck a troop*r*k horse, which
plunging in its agony, caused a con
tusion ut the ranks; so that the captain
became impressed with the idea that
Ihe people were rushing on the troops:
wider which erroaeoa* belief he gave
the fatal command to fire. An evo
witness told me, that five minutes
uuMfribl(t imn, iufoi uiccl
of his error, was tearing his hair ami
rolling htuiseß on the ground in the
bitterness of unavailing self-reproach.
So narrow are the chances on which
all power sot based in justice depends.
So futile and unceHain are dynastic
mtriguca! A trigger snaps untimely—
A horse plunges in the dark—and itv
the toafasion that emue* a throne i*
swept sway, and the high-reared fabric
of kingly ambition falls toppling to tho
ground!—Corr. Weekly Chronicle