From the Boston Chronotype.
Sermon ON THE MEMORY OF
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
The little State of Rhode Island
could produce organizing mind enough
t organize the Potomac or the Missis
sippi—yes, even the cataract of Ni
agara ioto a cotton mill, but the State
of South Carolina can manage both the
North and the South, and make the
whole nation turn its wheels. So the
South gives laws, because her chief
men turn their hau ls to politics. It is
so in peace, but in time of trouble,
convulsi >n, revolution, like the old one, j
then you see men of tall heads come
up from the shops and taints of the
North, from the oflice, the bank, and
the shoemaker’s shop. They are born
discoverers and organizers, the aristo
cracy of God. They come up from
everywhere and sit in the councils ot
the nati »n, and control the State. Ihe
North made the Revolution. Ihe
South made the Constitution, and the
South breaks it just when it pleases
(Great sensation.) No Northern poli
tician ever had much influence at
the South. None has ever been twice
elected for President. V\ e think it
a great thing even to get a Northern
man lor Speaker in the I louse ot Re
presentatives.
The South is an aristocracy which
the democracy of the North would not
tolerate one year, if it were in the
North. Now it has the Northern de
mocracy completely under its thumb,
democrats and whigs both. If the
South says, Go, they hasten. If it says,
Come, they say, Here we are. It it
says, Do this, they obey in a moment.
Does the South say, Annex, it is done.
Does it say, Fight, Northern men put
on the*color, they lie lies, and declare it
moral treason even for the humblest,
the most insignificant clergymen, to
preach against the war. These things
arc so. (Great sensation.)
Mr. Adams, 1 said, was a Northern
man, with Northern aims, methods,
ideas and habits, and therefore how
could such a man, whose business was,
as of the rest of the New Englanders,
to gain empire over nature and not
over men, contend with men whose
business lay all the other way? That
is the explanation of a great many
Northern defeats of past times. And
I d >ubt not it will explain a great
maiiv Northern defeats that are yet to
conic.
In a brief discourse like this, I can
say but very little in detail respecting
the events of Mr. Adams’ life.
He was born in 1707. In 1777 he
went to Europe with his father, re
maining there most of the time till
176.*. Then he returned and entered
Harvard College. He graduated there
with distinguished honors in 1767. He
studied law with the celebrated Judge
Parsons, of Newhuryport, till 17!K).
He practised law in Boston till 17!M.
This may be called the period of his
education. He enjoyed the advantages
of a residence abroad, to acquire a
knowledge of foreign tongues, of for
eign inode* of life and habit* of
thought, which gave him an advantage
all his life. H»* father* position
brought (tint in contact with the ablest
hi -ii of the nation. And thus he be
came acquainted w;itli I* ranklin and Jef
fers mi hi bis very boy hood. The three
years spent under Judge Parsons, one
of the most extaordinary men of New
England, whose hard philosophy, wide
THE WORTH STAR.
learning, and exact habits of thought,
were seldom exceeded, and more than
that a pem*d of intense moral activity
in America aud Europe, the character
and objects of which claimed human
attention to the laws which lie at the
foundation of human society, when the
State, the Church and the family;
were discussed as never before, were
the influences which educated him.—
Mr. Adams drew in Liberty at his
mother's breast. His cradle was rocked'
by the Revolution. His lallaby was
sun" by Bunker Hill, Lexington, Con
cord, Brandywine, Monmouth.
Mr. Adams’early attention was drawn
lo the most important matters. And
hat was one great advantage. In 1794
re was appointed, by Washington,
Minister to Holland, and remained
ibroad in various departments of diplo- 1
italic service, in Holland, Russia and
England, until 1801. Thon.ontheao
:ession of Jefferson, he returned. His
csid ncc abroad during the formation
>f the two great parties, was of great
idvantage. He was not. necessarily
nixed up with either. lie was elected
o the Senate of Massachusetts in 1802,
ind in 1803 to the Senate of the United
states, though not by a strict party
'ote. He resigned that office in 1808.
n 1803 he became Professor of Rhet
»ric in Harvard University, where he
emained three years. In 1809, lie
ias sent to Russia, and remained till
817, in various ministries. In 1817-
ic became Secretary of State aud filled
hat office till 1825,when he w as chosen
’resident. From 18*29 to 1831 lie
vas in private life. From 1831 to
1818 he was- in the Hbuse of Repre
tentatives. f
Such arc the eveats of his life. The
10th of May will be 54 years since he
jntcred upon public life! What did lie
tiin at in this long course of public
ife? Sometimes it is very easy to secj
lie aims of men. Thus with Mr. Clay,
lis constant and persistent effort is to
build up what is called the American
System, by protective duties. Mr. Cal
h u i, on the other hand, aims to build
up free trade, and in that respect these
two men are exactly opposite to each
other. One is the north pole and the
other the south pole of American poli
tics. lsut in these two men we see an
other aim, and in this they agree,which
is, to build up the institution of slavery
at the South; and this is the main poli
lical aim of each of these men, to
which Mr. Clay is ready to sacrifice
:he tariff, and for which Mr. Calhoun
would forego free trade. There is a
continuity of action in Mr Clayi
md Mr. Oaliionn. At first sight you]
lo not see that apparent continuity of
ictini and unity of thought in Mr. Ad-j
uns. He has worked with every party
ind against every party in the land.—
All have claimed, none have held him. j
Sow he opposes France, then England,;
hen nullification; then Gen. Jackson, j
who put down nullification with a rough j
land. Now he is for the United States
Hank, against Free Trade, against Ma
jonry, against Slavery, for the whole
of Oregon, then against the whole of
Texas, and now, it is said, covetous for
Ihe whole of Mexico. There appears
no unity in his plan of operations. But
there is one sentiment and one idea
which runs through his whole life. And
that sentimeut is an intense love of
Freedom, not for himself only, but for
every man and woman—for every slave.
There is an idea, also, that ran through
his whole life, that every man, n> mat
ter how humbly born and bred, lias in
alienable rights. These, too, are what
I call the American sentiment and the
American idea. Mr. Adams had them
in a heroic degree. For brevity’s sake,
let me cail both together the principle
of Freedom, meaning by that the love
of Freedom for all men, and the idea
men have of inalienable rights. This
is the golden thread w hich runs through
all Mr. Adams' works. On this his jew
els are strung,and some things that arc
not jew’cls. Remembering this, his life
seems pretty consistent.
He saw very easily the peculiarity of
the American government, that it rested
on the natural rights of man, not on
form, not on power, but on rights. This
explains his adherence to the Constitu
tion. But with him the Constitution
was not an idol, but a means of gaining
an end. He looked back of the Con
stitution to the Declaration of Inde
pendence, to learn the ideas of the Con
stitution. And he looked behind the
Declaration of Independence, to under
stand and verity the ideas of the De
claration, lie looked to human nature.
He saw that the Constitution of the
United Stales was a compromise with
the ideas of the Declaration of Inde
pendence, and while lie I nnored the
ideas, he could not so much honor the
compromise. He had this American
sentiment and idea in a heroic degree.
1 think no tnan now living ever ex
pressed it so fully. Now a man like
him, having a good deul of pugnacity,
aud no great power of organization,
would uaturally developc it iu the nega
tive form of opposition to the wroo"
oftener than in the form of organization
of the right. This would especial!v he
the case if brought into collision with
men building up and supporting posi
tions which contended with his idea.
Accordingly in him the principle takes
this shape, of what he called the inal
ienable right of resistance to oppres
sion. He thought the Indians were
unjustly treated, aud cried out against
the wrongs of the American Govern
ment. And, when President, endeavor
ing to secure justice to the Indians in
Georgia, be came into collision with
Governor Troup.
He saw that England opposed the
American idea, and he forgot the ser
vice that England bad rendered in the
(same cause, and he hated England,and
the Commercial Policy which restricted
RIGHT WOf NO HEX—TRUTH IS OP NO COLOR—OOD IS THE FATHER OP VS ALL, AND UIL WE ARE BRETHREN.
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1818.
Mr trade, her legislative policy and he*
21 octarchy and her aristocracy. Ami
pet he loved the English blood, and the
English name, and thought it no small
honor to be able to speak the language
>f Milton and of Chatham. The rea
lon why he hated England was, he
bought she stood in the way of free-
Jom. He defended the right of peti
tion in the House of Representatives as
10 other man dared to do. He cared
not whether it was the petition of a ma
ority or a minority, of men or of wo
nen, of freemen or of slaves. To him
here was one nature in them all, in
nan and women, in bond and free. It
vas human nature, and every child,
hough born of the lowest beggar that
;rept through the streets, had inaliena
de rights, which aM the powers of the
votftf, though bound into one mighty
irm, could never take away, could not
*ven abate, though it might ravish and
injustly hold at naught.
This principle it was which led him
o oppose tyranny in the House of
Representative*, the tyranny of the
majority. In this spirit he exposed and
>pposed that infamous GAG LAW, by
vhich the South stopped the mouth of
he North. And the North was quite
;lad to have it stopped, for the North
lid not want to speak upon slavery.—
3ut though it stopped the mouth of the
there is one mouth it didn’t stop,
—the mouth of the pi:rae. (A general
smile.) Take away from the North its
lonors and its rights, and it will not
:omplain. But if you touch the dollar,
straightway there is an uproar. Mr.
\dams loved the dollar as well as most
ncn. He provided carefully for its in
come, and he guarded against its out
-50. He has never been proved to be
generous —he is said to have been close,
ind sometimes it has been hinted that
lie was mean. He loved dollars as well
■is most men in New England, but he
loved Freedom more, honor more, in
alienable rights more, far more than he
loved the dollars, or more than New
England men love their dollais.
This principle of freedom led him to
oppose any violation of the Constitution.
The Constitution was an instrument for
the defence of the rights of man, lut
only to be used as the people told
The Federal Government was not so
vereign. The State government was
not sovereign. But the people were
sovereign, and he therefore guarded
against every violation of the Constitu
tion, .as a wrong done to the people.—
If Jefferson wished to take Louisiana
by a confessed violation of the Constitu
tion, Mr. Adams opposed it, If*the
Federal Government wished to collect
a revenue from it before it was a
State, Mr. Adams opposed that too, be
cause it was government without the
consent of the governed, and therefore
ivas unjust and wicked. This principle
of freedom led him to hate and oppose
slavery, especially in its most wrongful
form, negro slavery. He hated nothing
as he hated this. He fought against
this with all his might. It was a lion
in the path of freedom, a lion which
frightened most of the North, East and
West, a Hon whose roar could still the
clergymen of the North, which could
silence the forum, the bar, the pulpit
and the press, which rent the Constitu
tion, trampled the Declaration of Inde
pendence under foot, and tore the very
Bible to pieces. But Mr. Adams was
ready to go into that lion’s den, and
take him by the beard. He opposed
the annexation of Texas, the Mexican
war, and, wonderful to tell, he actually
voted against it, and never took back
his vote. (Great sensation.)
This now was the great idea of his
life. It was not what free trade is to
Mr. Calhoun, nor what the tariff is to
Mr. Clay. It was more than that. It
was what the institution of slavery is to
both of those gentlemen. He germs
inconsistent with himself, and yet his
general course is in that direction. It
began so and ended so. In the Massa
chusetts Senate, in 1802, he found a
majority Federalists, and the minority
Democrats. He stood out for the mi
nority on the ‘27th of May, and won the
day by putting Democrats in the Go
vernor’s Council. That was the very
first of the legislative actions of John
Quincy Adams. In the House ol Re
presentatives of the United States, in
18511, the first thing he did was to pre
sent fifteen petitions from the State of
Pennsylvania for the abolition of sla
very in tiie District of Columbia. The
last act of his ilfe was this: A resolu
tion was before the House, giving me
dals to the men who had distinguished
themselves in the Mexican war. The
previous question was moved, a trap
often sprung to prevent debate in that
and other Houses, and Mr. Adams for
the last time voted NO with usual em
phasis —the great and loud NO of an
old man going home to his God, full of
the inalienable right of resistance to
oppression, the great NO on his dying
lips. There was the beginning, there
was the middle, there was the end. And
they were all three in the service of
man, not of party, not of the country,
but in the service of man. And they
were all three alike.
Somebody asked him what were the
great recognized principles of politics.
Mr. Adams said, There are none auch.
None such? he was asked again. No,
for the recognized principles are bad,
and therefore not principles but pre
cepts. But is not this at leant a good
one—the greatest good of the greatest
number? No, said Mr. Adams; it is
the worst of ail, because specious and
erroneous, for in that case what shall
the minority do» This is the only rule,
ihs greatest good of all. It waa worth
I a long life to have said that. Such was
his chief idea. Ido not say thee* were
no exceptions to this. There were some
not easy to explain.
la early lift ha was evidently araw-
Uous of place, rank and power. I roust
ronfH*. it se<?n»#to me that sometimes*
fie vaa not scrupulous enough as to his
modes of obtaining influence. He has
been censured for his rote on the Em
bargo, in 1807. His vote in that mat
ter mar, however, easily hare been an;
Honest vote. It seems to me it was
honest. Bat his defence of it I cer
tainly cannot think was an houest de
fence. I am not here to praise a man
because he is dead. It is no great mer
it to die. The Egyptians judged their
kings more severely than American citi
zens. I know what coals of fire are
under my feet when I speak of this
matter. I know that they are veryj
thinly covered «p with a coating>
if ashes, that with the slightest
ureath of Hartford Convention,” or j
‘Embargo,” those ashes are ail scat-j
ered away, and the old fire blazes out
(gain, in the forms of federalism and
lemocracy come to life. You know
he story of the Embargo. The mes
sage of Mr. Jefferson came to the Sen
ltc, was given to a committee, a bill
vas draughted, debated,passed and en
grossed, and alt that in about four hours
—a bill of Embargo which involved
he whole commerce of the United
States and prostrated that commerce—
bill which involved the welfare of
Hundreds of thousands of men.
In that debate, if such it could be
called, Mr. Adams said: “The Presi
dent has recommended the measure on
(lis high responsibility. I would not
consider, I would not deliberate, I
would act. Doubtless Mr. Jefferson
has reasons which will justify the,
measure.” That was the worst act ol
his public life. I could not justify it.—!
I wish I could find some excuse for it. i
The Massachusetts Legislature cen
sured Mr. Adams. He resigned his
place, and was sent to Russia, and his
father said, Aristides has gone into
banishment, he was too just.” Judge
of the temper of the times when such a
thing could be said by a man who hadj
been President. When a famine oc-j
rurs, most frightful diseases, unknown!
before, take possession of human bo-j
dies; and in times of political strife!
may arise similar mental and inutab»
diseases. No man who did not live in
those days can easily understand the
mental obliquity, the moral depravity of;
the age, which displayed itself even
among otherwise good men. This
remark of Mr. Aduni3 in the Senate,
was the worst act of his public life.—!
Where were the rights of man at that
time? Where was the sovereignty of!
the people He wofttd not consider, he!
would not deliberate, but he would act
without doing either.
It is a shame to say it. It would have!
disgraced a Senator in St. Petersburg. 1
What would Mr. Adains have said it)
Jackson, Tyler or Polk had sent such
a message, and their tools had coun->
soiled acquiescence without considera
tion or deliberation? Would not the
tempestuous eloquence of that old mafti
have caused the Hall of Representa
tives to ring against such a departure
from the first duty of a statesman?—,
This is particularly glaring in Mr. Ad
ams. The North very often sends men
there who might have done this without
any great inconsistency. Men, whose
weakness is not in the head, but in the
knees and the neck; who bend before
the slave power just as the air gives
way before my hand. Mr. Adams
never was accused of weakness either
in the knees or in the neck. It w’as,
therefore, more palpable and glaring in;
him. He was forty years old. Not
very old, but old enough to know bet
ter. [At this moment a heavy roar, as
of distant thunder, was heard, and a
partial obscuration of the sky-lights
took place, causing considerable sensa
tion in the audience.] I wish, resumed
the preacher, the imputation couM !idc
off froinffiis character as easdy as that
snow' has slid off from our warming
roof. But can it be?
While he was President, Hayti be
came free, but he did not express any
desire that the United States should ac
knowledge its Independence. 1 here
are circumstances,” he said, “that had
hitherto forbidden the acknowledge
ment;” and he mentions additional rea
sons for withholding the acknowledge
ment in the instructions given to the
commissioners to the Congress of Pa
nama, He says he is not prepared
now to say that Havti ought to be re
cognized as on independent sovereign
power. He does not think it proper to
recognize it as a new state. And the
reason is plain enough. The Hayti ana
were negroes. And for us to say that
negroes ought to be free, and were
free, would be dangerous to Southern
institutions. He was unwilling to en
courage the independence of Cuba, fi>r
fear ot an insurrection of slaves, which
would endanger the safety of slaves at
heme. The duty of the U ited States
would be to defend themselves against
the contagion of such near and danger
ous examples. When we consider that
to imply all the means necessary to
their security that it would be necessary
to put down tlsc inalienable righta of the
blacks, it becomes painfully inconsist
ent with bis guiding principle. The de
fence that his eyes were not yet opened
is e good defence, if a true one, and it
seems to me a true one. Even the great
est do not always open their eyes in ad-
I vance of others, especially if they are
I not discoverers or organizers.
There are some other things which
must meet the censure of just men, as
his justifying the conduct of England,
is forcing opium into China at the point
of the bayonet. One excuse waa, that
the Chinese had abut themaelvea up
from the rast of the world. But who
told Mr. Admass, and who gave him a
right to tell the 900,000,1100 of dm
Chinese that they had no right to be
1 governed by their own views of the laws
of nature But the En*li*b were
Chnaiuu, and carried Hib.t». If that
were true, the Chinese might well be
fustified for refusing Christianity, when
it came in the abape of opium and can
non balls. He utter!/ forgot his old
hatred of England, his devotion to hu
man freedom, the sovereignty of the,
people, and the inalienable right to re
net oppression.
He justified the American claim to
She whole of Oregon up to M o 40.
He did not sulhciently establish the!
right of America thereto by the law of|
nations and of nature, but he cut th;
matter short and claimed the wh- le ot
Oregon on the strength of the first
chapter of Genesis. The argument
here was very subtle and not easily un
lerstood. The human race claimed j
She earth from the command to possess
ihc earth, be fruitful nud multiply. Af
terwards it is said iu the Psalms, spo
ken to the Messiah, I give thee the
lieathen for thine inheritance and the
uttermost parts of the earth for thv
possession.” Here, wlmt was origi
nally given to the whole human race,
ivas pre-eminently given to Christians.
Then Christ, when departing from life,
jaid, Preach the gospel to all na
tions.” Thus it was supposed the i ight
r»f eminent domain was given to
Christians. Therefore Christians had
the supremacy by the right of emi
nent domain.” This argument is not
drawn out at length, but appears in
quite early productions of his hand.—
This notion seems also to have influ
enced him in justifying the Chinese
war, end would have led him to con
tend for the absorption, as it is called,
of the whole of Mexico. Certainly,
for consistency’s sake, he should have
gone for that.
These are the exceptions to the gen
eral rule of his life. I wish they were
not there. Put 1 should not dare to
stand up in this place and pretend to be
a Christian minister, if I undertook to
gloss over these faults, and say they
were not there. Let us be guided l»y
their guiding light, and warned by their
warnings.
When President, his chief aim was
to promote internal improvement, espe
cially for communication between the
States. For this purpose roads and
canals were built by the United States,,
and more than four millions of dol
lars were voted in his
tion. Yet he was exceedingly carefuf|
to observe the limits of the Constitu
tion. In this respect no man was ever
more conscientious. To hint’ the Con
stitution-meant something, atidfhe oath
to keep it meant something. As a pub
lic servant he had many great qualities,
seldom united in the same person. He
was simple, unostentatious, humble,
modest, and retiring. He carried the
simplicity of a New England man into
the President’s house. He spent less
than a fourth part as much in tour years
successor. The most important
thing in it was the master 1* the house.
The man was never eclipsed by his
brass and mahogany.
[TO BE CONTINUE#".
From the Lilertj Bell, for 1846.
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF AN
ANTI-SLAVERY AGENT.
Few persons have any just ccncep-i
tion of the trials and sacrifices, incident
to the settlement of a new State. To
be understood, they must be met in ac
tual encounter.
To besiege and subdue a moral wild
erness is accompanied with still severer
endurances. A sketch, from iny note
book, may afford a faint idea of some ot
them. It describes no murderous mob,
but only scenes of every week’s occur
rence.
It was iu the forenoon of a cold, cloudy
day in November, in the year 4t*42, thp
wind at north-east, (and prophesying an
autumnal snow storm,) that I entered a
small village in one of the back towns
in New England. The village consist
ed of a number of indifferent houses,
dropped irregularly on a long street,
which widened at the western end into
a broad green. Surrounding this, and
on it, stood a gun-house and liberty
pole, the town-pound, an academy, and
two meeting-bouscs, besides the hearse
house over at the north, by the grave
yard gate. On either side of the street
stood a gri*7.Jy looking tavern, with a
well-stocked bar,—the patron saint of
patriotism and pro-slavery. A few con
sumptive maples adorned the village,—
planted hardly within hailing distance
ot each other, —and at this season, un
drest of their foliage, standing as rude
organs, oo which the mournful East
m ind played th* funeral dirge of depart
ed summer.
With my valise and umbrella I bad
walked several miles that morning,
over rough and hilly roads, and was in
a condition of both mind and body, to
need, a very different reception from
that which awaited me. Nor had I yet
forgotten the advenlnres of the preced
ing night, passed at one ofthose wretch
ed country caravansaries, known by the
name of “Meadow Hay Tavern. The
surly landlord wanted my change,
doubtless, the Whig doctrine of paper
currency being at that time no part of
my practical griefs,) but hedrraded the
efft-ct of patronage so dark clouded as
mine, on the reputation of his house; a
foresight that I could not but approve,
in bis particular ease. He finally con
sented to keep**#®, which ha certainly
could do, without inconvenience!© oth
er customers; the house being, that
l aubt. as usual, without them.
was left to sit afooe. to eat alone,
and to sleep alone. This had been no
caaee of complaint, only that my par
’lour bad neither fire nor furniture; the
table was almost without food, and the
bed without comfort or clothing. On
retiring, I had the precaution, before
A
midi toning tnrv.siiuc iL lid. llk
net-work of the cord hud oa it a •light
layer of straw and feathers, that appear
ed to hare seen much service. The
sheets, —but 1 forbear. I opened them,
and closed them, as I now do this de
scription of them, forever. 1 bad drawn
their dbarmeter, but with loathing and
disgust I dashed it out. They gave me
another bed.
Such a night, and mr long walk that!
morning, had not, I confess, schooled
me into the most felicitous frame of mind
for worse encounters. Depositing my
luggage in the best looking tavern, I
went to the Post-office, and a-ked
whether anybody in tow n took the Lib
erator or Herald of Freedom. There
was one, only,—a subscriber to the
Herald.—hut they said lie lived three
inilcs off, was very poor, and without
influence, a common description ol
Abolitionists, at that period.
I next called on the Orthsdox minis
ter, and respectfully solicited his co
operation in an Anti-Slavery lecture.—
He answered me, as gruffly as any sav
age,—“ I heard of you, and want noth
ing to do with you;*’ at the same time
violently seizing his pen, and resuming
his w'riting. I said, Will you con
sent that your vestry be opened for a
meeting “I am writing a lecture,”
he indignantly exclaimed, “for the
young people, on the existence of a
God, and wish not to be disturbed by
your further impertinence.”
The Baptist minister was absent, but
the tones and looks of his family, when
I called on them, were fearfully instruct
ivc. My stay there could not well have
been shorter.
I applied to the committees of both
meeting-houses,—but it was in vain.
For school-houses, I succeeded no bet
ter. The tavern halls were also denied;
though one landlord cursed the bigotry
of the church committees, in no mea
sured terms. They hud censured him
for selling ardent spirits.
By this time it was long after noon,
and I had taken neither breakfast nor
dinner through the day. The w ind was
howling mournfully through the leafless
trees, the two meeting-houses seemed
to be scowling at me, the pound and
gun-house grinned in derision, and the
lank liberty-pole looked down and
laughed., Fatigued, hungry, borne- j
sick, and sad, there I stood, like a new
settler, surrounded by devouring wolves,
!ny nearest neighbor full ten miles off.
1 was about to surrender in despair,
when a rough and shaggy specimen ol
the mountaineers bailed me».w|th “Hey
there, you nigger-mnn/got a place for
a mcet’n yetr” I told him, none.—
“Well,” said he, thcr’s that are old
shop ’ll hold all you’ll get out on this
ere abolition business. You’re wel
come to that; and if the mob tears it
down, why d n ’em, let ’em tear.
It ’ll save me the trouble, for it’s got to
come down next spring, if it don't
afore.”
I accepted his rude offer, with a
bounding heart, and immediately posted
some printed notices which I had in my
valise, in every conspicuous place in
the village. Almost as fast as they
were put up they were torn down, but
the tidings flew as cn the wings of the
wind.
For sixpence I next filled my pockets
with raisins and buisouits at a neigh-,
boring shop, anti took possession of my
building. I piled its ample stone fire
place w ith wood, and kindled u tiie. J
breakfasted and dined on the contents
of my pockets, and then commenced iny
preparations for the evening. I pro
cured a pound or two of tallow candles,
and a few large potatoes, (a pile of
which lay in my meeting-house,) cut in
halves, and drilled, composed my can
dlesticks. Boxes, benches, and rough
boards, furnished ine with seats, and a
corner by the fire-place was my pulpit;
and, by the time my arrangements were
completed, the people began to assem
ble.
The house was filled with men and
boys, some smoking pipes, some cigars,
and the rest chewing tobacco, —all la
boring in their respective vocations
most industriously. The greater part
heard w:th respectful attention, some
even taking kindly part in the discus
sion. A few raged and swore at my
doctrines, hut more complained of the
barbarous treatment I bad received at
the hands of the church and ministry.
At the close, 1 was invited by the on
ly abolitionist present, to accompany
him home. He lived three miles off,
and owning no horse, w as there on foot.
The clouds had all pawed away, the
moon shone brightly, but the wind had
changed to the north-west, and it was
piercing cold. We scampered over the
three miles in little more than half an
hour. The house stood on a high hill,
facing the west, a very old two rtory
structure, and glass was a luxury of
which the chamber windows had never
boasted. Indeed, bundles of tld rags,
and the remnants of last year s j.a’in
leaf bats, m the lower windows, “stop
ped many a bole to keep the wind aw ay.
Clapboards were a superfluity not in
dulged in, and the feather-edged board
iing was fast “dissolving the Union”
with the rotten timbers beneath.
There was no yard about the bouse,
nor a tree to shade it in summer, or
break off the w ind in winter. Green
brush and decayed stumps composed
the wood-pile. We entered by the
front door, over a broad flat stone, into
the room where the family lived, and
where the wife and sundry chidren were
already in bed. A light was
twit it was too late to think of a fire, and
j so I hurried away, sick and supperless,
to my room.
The north front room was s«s«gmd
to me. The doors were all feoee, r
windows rsttled, and their
curtains waved in the
Cnimney shot away towards the slty,
ttILUOI C. SILL. Pm—ift.
Kill 4 l>K'K, f
WHOLE NO.-XIV.
liirough which whole varda of the m.!k/
w»y might be seen. and which, b.td it
•H*en set wwh apprnpnatr u mu would
h»vr mailed H*rarhel^ie|r^ t >pe. In
that rtxjn, on tnat night, it certainly
waa not needed tor purpose* of ventila
tion.
The bed was harder than a mat trass
though it was nut a uiattrass. The
covering wasof copper-plate, that sbono
in the moonbeams like a pond of ica;
and to dive under it, was to me, almost
a* great a suicide as if it had been one.
The house airorded but one candle, and
so my excellent friend waitedunlil i was
disposed into bed, and then took it
away; wishing mo a good night to
which I responded, amen—aHimugh I
thought he must have prayed with a far
more fervour than faith.
Sleeping, sickuess, and shivering, at
length brought me to the morning. I
dressed, and went into the kitchen to
wash. The water was in a milk-pan
that stood on a rough wood box, and the
towel indicated the close of the week.
The sorrv tact was, the mistress of tho
mansion was most unfortunately organ
ized. The children were numerous,
but unwashed and uncombed, inwardly
and outwardly. The cooking was sadly
defective. Perhaps fasting one day
more might have led me to judge mom
charitably; hut as it was, 1 was in little
danger of eating to repletion. Some
kind ot meat was fried in a spider on
the coals and ashes. When it was
cooked, and thd table was spread; the
spider was removed to it, and occupied
the place of n platter,— with the addi
tion ofa iron rusty spoon, ofgravy tureen
to boot. Nor was the table-linen so
white as to suffer the least inconveni
ence from so close contact with the frit
ot its sooty neighbor. Indeed it would
have been difficult to decide, which wua
the best entitled tube ailiictcd with thut
fashionable disease—" prejudice against
color.’
I need add nothing relative to the
breakfast accompaniments. 1 hastened
away, sad at (lie condition of my kind
hen ted friend and his family, ifo wes
an excellent man, and a true abolition
ist; happy and patient under circum
stances at which 1 almost wept. Two
years afterward he sickened and died,
and his family removed to a distant
dilate.
Such is but a specimen of much of
the experience of those Anti-Slavery
agents who were early in the field.—
They have endured trials known only
to themselves. Self-crucifixion, neg
lect, and poverty, attended them at
every step.
One word more about iny meeting.—
It was the beginning of good days ill
that town. 1 have often been there
since, and hern welcomed to the gene
rous hospitalities of the best families m
the village. County conventions have
been held there since, attended and ad
dressed by Tne most distinguished ad
vocates —both editors and orators—in
the cause. But they little knew what
it cost to lay the foundation of the Ant
Slavery structure they so nobly budd
ed.
PARKER PILLSBURY.
Concord, New JlAMrsiiiuK.
WORTHY OF IMITATION.
Six hundred and sixteen cl erg} men
belonging to the denomination of the
Free Will Baptists—comprising, wo
suppose, a large majority of their num
ber—have united in public protest
against slavery, and formally withdraw n
from ('hrhtiau and church fellowship
with slaveholders. The material part
of their protest is as ft Hows:
Believing as we do, that the sym
pathy of no holy being in the untvers*
can for a moment be given to this foul
system, and that neither the principle*
of the gospel nor indications of Provi
dence constitute the least apology for
its continuance, we wish publicly to
withdraw all implied or supposed, vol
untary, political, or moral support of
this enormous evil. Our necessary and
involuntary connection with the civil
and social organizations now existing,
which seems to give to each of us the
character and refutation of the body,
unless by personal public dissent from
their errors and crimes we throw tho
responsibility exclusively upon those
who support the evils of which we com
plain, renders it more necessary for us
to announce our unwillingness to sanc
tion the system of slavery in any man
ner whatever. 'l'he view, thus taken of
this subject, will render it perfectly in
cousixtfnt for us (o give our suffrages
or religious influence fur the support of
slavery.
**\V e,therefore,by refusing to support
slavery, its principles, or its udvccstts,
and ny withholding Christian ami
church fellowship troni ail guilty of
the sin of slavery, and by
those in (Minds, as bound with tbcis,
would wish to wash our hands from the
guilt of this iniquity'.**— Gcms«t Ream
gi/iW.
Pkeivdicc. The Ua wMe and
beautiful delineation of prejudice issarrj'iedby
Hugh Worthington, a late English dnu»e, to
the celebrated Dr. Pnee.
Prejudice may be rornpsied to a mk*f
morning is October, a SMS foes ft* l
eminence, sod so M tbo sums* of a
neighboring hill Bgura apparently IPf***"
lie stature, f"T such the frfaifa* *edm»,
throegb wbicb be is *iew*il. P»k« him
appwsr: be g
iho thrum edisassa towards bun lbs awe
|llT M ib»y mppnmrh ihoy draw still
nearer, sod #**ra««Tdi*anr appearance m
irndtisily but sensibly diminished, sod si bit
ihfv nuvH, *ud perfcsf* the person whom be
ha i taken far a monster, proven to b* bis own
brut her.
Johv B. OotMiM, the well-known
advocate of temperance, is kctwruig
to New York.
Notices.
No union with slaveholders
Fourteenth Anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society
The Fourteenth Annual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society will be held in the Broadway Tabernacle, New York, on Tuesday, the Ninth day of May, at 10 o’clock AM. The present started of public affairs in this
country, should make this meeting one ot;
nr*re th in mmal import-mice and interest. Thef
Southern boundary of American Slavery
'is-h, Ptreo’ this Society was formed, ha>,
Hec.i removed from lha Sabmc to tha Nnecee
it it now pmpos: d liy its gtmnliai* to remove i
*l.ll further into the fr.»e territory of a sistei
Republic, Wo hare little reason to expect i
a more favorable termination to the two
war wafred. at an enormous expense of blo**d
and treasure, for the sole purpose of extending
the worst syst'tn of human bondage by con
.«lupm. Whether the Abolitionist* of the
country can arrest the perpetration of thn'
stupendous national ersnsy m uM, it is no I*®-
•t-*ir duty to make the effort. Tire las',
public protest they uny have the opportunity
to record against it, should be earnest ami j
unanimous.
The necessity of the moment should al*
remind us of hmv much of the work is still to'
b- done, which this Society, fourteen yean
ago, resolved to do. Since its formation, Sla
very ha* not been abolished in a single Stau
ol the Union. A million more of our coun
trymen have been bom to the lot of slaves.
Hut that this, .Society and its auxiliaries have,
aroused, to a certain degree, a universal Anti-!
Slavery sentiment at the North, and have;
mode the topic one of absorbing interest,
throughreu the country, is the best evidence
of the wisdom- of their measures, and should!
be the strongest incentive to-sfill mure strenu
ous and self-denying toil.
The old and tried friends of the cause,
and those who have been but recently
aroused to tbe necessity of the overthrow* of
the felon system of American Slavery, are
urged to make of this meeting a graud rally
for freedom.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Prest.
Wendell Phillips,
H. Gay, Secretaries.
ANTI-SLAVERY MEETINGS.
Jonathan Walk hr, from Florida, and
John S. Jacobs, from North Carolina, will
address the people at the following named
JltecT* and times. Will the friends of hu
mnuity at those places make the necessary
arrangement, and assist them from place to
place 1
Fairport, Saturday, March 18.
Egypt, Sunday, 19.
Penfield, Monday, 20.
West Walworth, Tuesday, 21.
Corners, Wednesday, 44 22.
Willianmem, Thursday, 23,
Marion, Friday, 24.
Palmyra, Saturday, 25.
Rochester, Sunday, £G.
Scnccs Falls, Monday, 27.
Syracttsc, Wednesday, 29.
Whiteaboro, Thursday, 30.
Utica, Friday, 31
lattlc Falls, Saturday, April 1.
Manhoitn, Sunday, 2.
Join Jacobs* a self emancipated slave
from North Carolina, proposes th;; following
.-s of meetings, relying upon the influence
of t!i: friends in each place to aid the cause
along.
Westfield, Mass. Wednesday, April 5.
Warcestcr, Thursday, G.
Providenco, 11. 1., Friday, 7.
Newport, Sat. Sun. 8A 9.
Fall River, Muss. Monday, 10.
Nantucket Tues. Wed. 11&I2.
Fairhaveu, Friday, 14.
New Bedford, Satutday, IG.
Cam! nidge, 44 Tuesday, 44 18.
South Boston, 44 Wednesday, 44 19.
IO» The Liberator will please copy.
West Winfield, March, 1848.
Mr. F. Dolclass, —Sir Will you have
th? g<«slncss to insert in vour paper the fol
lowing, sod confer a (avovon a poor fatherless
snd motherless boy.
L. G. THOMAS.
West Winfield, March 18, 1818.
Information Wanted. —John, James and
Bridget Dunlin, three orphan children, whose
parents died in July last, of ship lever, while
on their passage from Ireland to Quebec, in
the ship Virginia, having by some casualty
b?com? separated and lost from each other.
Information is now solicited by James, who
now lives at W est Winfield, Herkimer coun
ty, Siam of New Yotk, relative to the
whereabouts of his brother and sister above
named and could any person to whom this
notice may come, give such information by
mail to West W'mfield, they would confer a
favor on a friendless boy.
James donlin.
ITr* Publishers of newspapers will please
copy.
The Bark rat Family.— These skilful and
accomplished vocalists were greeted on Friday
evening with a large, and if we may judge
bv the attention given and th*' frequent main
fc-irtatuNis of appiauso, a d .‘lighted audience.
If tb.*r« was anv disappointment, it was at
h “aring better music tluu had been aulicipa
t-J. The Barkers take rank among the first
vocal families, of which there are many in the
country, and richly d-*scrve the rninmenda
n«t.u winch th press and the public have so
hbirally awarded them.— Troy Daily Post.
--Frederick Douglass, (J. L.
Rintend aud J. Hathaway, Inured or
Saturday evening and Sunday morning am
afternoon in Liberty Hall, aud Sunday at A
o'clock and in the evening, in the Buptts
m icting house, on tire subject of Slavery, h
large aud attentive, and wc presume grutifie<
an hones. Til* lecturers are eloquent ai*
powerful as public *puiketo.—-1 of** Gvutit\
Whiff.
Anti-Sk taiuaxism. —The church atTro;
N. Y., proud -J over by It. 11. Garnet, ha
re arntlv made an advance atop against aorta
noutsm. We had intended tin
r. solution* pate*-1 by them, bet hate unfor
tytaulv ninduid our **«>py.
APPROPRIATIONS FCB CDLOftBH
SCHOOL*.
Friend Smith Permit me through your
paper to call the attention ut the colored peo
ple of this State to the foHmswg few, appro
l riatir.g sum of money t# defray (he expense
of sc bools fur the exHnsivfc instruct ioa of col
ore*! children, pamod May 12th, 1847
There shall be paid from the income ofj
the United States deposit fund to the trustee* j
of every incorporated village, which shall, du-!
ring one year from the passage of this act,!
i support for three mouths or more a school for'
the exclusive instruction of colored children,
the sum of twelve dollars m month during the
time such school shad he kept, not exceeding
m months, to he applied to defraying the ex
penses thereof; but no money shall br paid
as aforesaid for any month during which the
Bum! er of scholar* attending such school shall
be, oj t!ie jv rage, less than ten, and (br this
purpose »hr *;im «4" five thousand dollars of ibe
svd income is hereby appropriated/*
1 fmd by inquiry at the (‘omptndler's office,
that but turee schools have availed themselves
of the appropriation. It cannot be, that it is
i generally know a that such an appropriation
has been made. If you and other editors
friendly to the colored people will publish th.s
article, you will confer a favor upon them.
T. S. B.
Albany, March 22d, 1348.
CoLoRKn Schools.—AU perrons through
out the State who are interested in the estab
lishment of schools for colored children, are
referred to the communication of 44 T. S. 8.,”
It is important that the appropriation alluded
to, should be drawn and employed as intended,
eUe the law will be repealed, and the further
appropriations for this good object withheld.
The above, which wc copy from the A&wny
Erjtrrxs of the 27th, in*t., should awaken
general attention to the subject of Etchuirc
Co'or'd Schools. it can be easily shown, that a
system of equal school privileges will obviate
every disadvantage and confer lionor upon the
Umpire State: but this question will soon be,
further noticed by the editors.
SKETCH
Of the nperonf rrmnrktrf Wnvlfll Fhillipt f before the
Committee on the Duunv n Petiti> n*.
Mr. Chairman :—As one of these petition-'
ers, I appear before you this afternoon to en
force, as 1 may be able, the reasons stated in
the petition itself, for a Dissolution of the
Union. I oliserve that one of the morning
papers presumes to dictate to the Committee,
and expresses the opinion that any attention
paid to these petitioners, is waste of that 1
time which is paid for by the public.” It'
would be idle to look for candor, independence
or consistency in that or any other political!
p»*css but perhaps we might lie pardoned for
imagining that a decent respect lot the com
mon sense of readers, would lead the papers,
just now, to touch with a reverent hand any
thing relating to the Right of Petition. The
grave has just closed over Adams, amid testi-.
monies of national respect but once, if ever, j
before equalled on this side the ocean. What j
is it that has blotted from our memory tbe'
many bitterly disputed acts of his lii’e
What has taken his name from tho list of
every day statesmen, and made it a household
word—lulling tho strife of parties, and turning
every angry tone into eulogy It is the last
ren years, the heroic years of his life—years
during w hich he lias linked his memory for
ever with freedom of speech, with the* right
of the humblest human being to Ire heard by j
the government.. It was for presenting the'
petitions sf the few and the despised, that he!
was threatened w ith censure. It was for pro-1
suiting petitions whose request he thought the
j Legislature had no authority to grant, lhat he
w as threatened with expulsion from the House
of Representatives. Let us hear no more,!
'then—at lust till the snows of one winter
have melted from his grave—of disregarding
petitions, because, in the opinion of the ma
jority, the object itself is not constitutional.—
.Sir, the majority never petition—they legis
late. Of course, it must always be the mi
nority who petition. It is through this chan
nel that the first humble utterance of a new
thought, or an unpopular and unheeded prin
ciple, finds its way to the Legislature. Who
ever limits the right of petition, destroys it.—
Through it, the humblest and the most un
popular must have leave to speak on all sub
jeets, and propose measures of every charac
ter otherwise, the right is but a name. If
they are to receive attention only after they
have grown numerous and powerful, the right
of petition is a mockery for then they can
command it in readier ways. If they are to
be allowed to ask only what eveiybody thinks
best and legal, they may as well be silent
s'nce it ts nothing hut an interest in principles,
generally denied, trampled under foot, or lost
hi the clamor ot interest and party,that brings
them to the door of the Legislature.
Whatever, therefore, Mr. Chairman, may
be the opinion of the Committee, as to the
expediency, or even legality of our request, at
least w hile these walls are shrouded in mourn
ing for Adams, you will not make that opinion
any reason for refusing us a candid and atten
tive hearing.
Mr. Chairman, you may think it idle to
urge upon the Legislature the consideration of
a measure so generally denounced as the Dis
solution of the Union. But this is not the
first time that the abolitionists have approach
ed the Legislature of Massachusetts. While
these seats are filled, year after year, with dif
ferent individuals, we may be said, in the
French Convention phrase, to be in [terms*
nent session.” Under a sense of duty that
Will not allow* us to rest, we have eomo up
here year after year. Our first appearance,
with any new proposal, inet with the scorn of
a w eathercock press—the half indifference,
half indignation of tbe Legislature— and
sometimes the insults of its Committees. But
we have ypt to meet our first failure. All!
that we have hitherto asked has been granted j
Twelve years ago, a few women asked the
State to change its law as to marriage a
statute a century and a half old. Yeu re
member the insulting epithets, the labored
contempt with which they weru visited. If
you will open the Statute Ifook of 1843, you
will find, in four shortlines, the result. Weshall
eenainly persevere till our ardor is damped
by one defeat; and we confidently trust that
the day is not distant when the Legisla
ture, recognizing its own principles. wUI be
w illing to draw from them the very inference*
which we are to urge upon you this aflcr
noon. j
We ask for Disunion, and we are read? to!
meet with all the obloquy which such a pro
-1 position Iwgels. Disunion is not a rare word
in our national history. Disappointed ambi
lion has often, for a moment, longed for sepa
rate confederacies, in u Inch there would be
more Presidential chairs than one. Parties,'
m the hour of defeat, have talked of revolu
tion, when revolution w as their only chance ot
success. And sometimes even a .State,
thwarted in Us favorite purpose, has tbreat
•*ncd to shoot madly from its sphere. But the
ibolitiouists are the only men who have ever
i calmly, soberly, and from mature conviction,
I proclaimed, M the outset, their purpose to seek
tbe dissolution of this American Union and
ibis from no bitterness of personal or party
i disappointment, but solely at the bidding of
principle and front a sense 4>f duty,
j! These petitions are called revolutionary.—
We accept the description. Tliey are in
tended to be. We hope they are, m another
sense, revolutionary— that is, akin to the
j neasurcs and principles uf our ITTrt. Wise
j lawyers doubt, it is said, whether a ran
*onstitutif>na!ly secede from the Union. N' o
natter huw* that question ts settled. We du
iot propose this aa a constitutional measure.
!f such a course be nut allowable under the
t onslituUmi, there is such a thing as going
»\er it. Tbe right of tbe |*eoph* to alter the*r
j briu of government has never lieen denied
i i re. It tf that right v.c stand, the sa
pped right «f nprebtion. If ap tbe Svalb he*
Ip codpuutw contended, torcession *lt c*»-
Mitutiena! light, vrgj| are will txxmaMU the
fptsonferi chalice to her lips. Indeed, it «rifi
m* be in bar MMth to question the Papatfcto
ttonality of the course recommended in these
Mti> om. But if tU heller law of N«« Eng
land rejeria that doetnne— well al*o. There
to a right beneath, and more ancient than the
parchment,—the right of each generation In
govern itself.— Liberator.
JL
Frost the Bbchstose llroucW.
PUBLIC HEARING OP THE MAS
SACHUSETTS PETITIONERS.
The Judiciary Committee gave a public
hearing to the petitioners who ask fi*f the
peaceable secernon of Massachusetts fn m the
American Union on Friday .art, in tho Rcpre-
H'ntativc*’ Chamber. Messrs. (Jwiiiswo »«d
Jrhillips appeared for the peutienew. 1*
ilk? fint tunc 10 good m clubcc bad been of
fered them to present their cause before a Le
gi-lative Committee, they having on former
occasions been obliged to do h m the green
room. Nobly did they de'end their position.
I am very far from adopting, as an Ant Sla
very measure, the prowl which these gcntle
ueu propose nor do 1 wtah you to advocate
these or the view s of any other party ia your
paper. But believing you intend, from time
to time,to keep your readers informed reepect
ing the different reform movements, without,
as a public journalist, taking sides with any
parly, I aend yon a few thoughts which that
debate suggested to my own mind.
The hall was filled some time before the
Committee took their scats, with gentlemen
and ladies, snd a pretty fair sprinkling of
members nf the State Government. Mr.
PAillit s opened the discowien, and proceeded
to matte one of the most brilliant and eloquent
addresses I ever heard. It was listened to
throughout by the large audience in attend
ance,with profound attention and most evident
satisfaction. Admitting his premises, that
the encroachments of ihe Slave Power are
such as to demand ihe immediate secession of
the Non-Slaveholding States from the Union
that there is no remedy in any other meas
ures that salvation cannot be looked for from
any other effort; and his logic is a chain of
steel links—his conclusions irresistible. It is
impossible to give you anything like a sketch
of whar he said. Yo say it was beaiuiful,
heart-stirring and cha«e that it was the soul
of eloquence, embodying itself in the simplest
and purest forms of speech that it was the
spontaneous gushings forth of Liberty in all
her glowing nature, and fitted to charm tbe
despot even from his deeds of wrong, and
cause him, half repentant, to forego the
wickedness which his soul proposed, is to say
nothing. To be appreciated, it must have
been beard. No second person caa pen it
down. 1 cannot report him »f I try, and
therefore will not attempt it. Many persons
who listened to his manly eloqeeuce, were
convinced that the slave institution is the great
trouble in our national affairs—the paramount,
the absorbing question, which we must meet
as men, and decide foT humanity. Net a f«jw
of the members of the Legislature have re
marked in my presence since, that if the slave
power continues to make its encroachments,
this question of Seccession is only a question
of time that Dissolution or Slavery are the
only alternatives for Northern Freemen. This
t do not advocate, and my 'prayer is, God
save us from slavery* and preserve ihe Union
inviolate.
It was nearly six o'clock whon Mr. Phil
lips finished his speech. Mr. Garrison then
arose, aud after ascertaining that the Commit
tee could not! give them another bearing, pro
ceeded to address them; but the circumstan
ces under which he labored were embarrass
ing. It was night—the shades cf evening
had already closed in around us. Many peo
ple arose and left the hall; having been grati
fied with the eloquence of Phillips, they
wished for nothing further. Mr. G., howev
er. went on in his usually calm, argumentive,
and solemn manner, llis reasonings were
impressive and forcible, and, however absurd
the measures he recommended may appear to
many, yet that the advocate was a sincere
and honest man, an ardent lover of his race,
possessing a soul overflowing with a world
wide philanthropy, was na-doabt the irresisti
ble conclusion of every peraen who listened on
that occasion.
The debate was closed before seven o'clock,
and nil r.ovv feel anxious to know what the
report of the Committee will lie. It is not at
all probable that ihey will favor the prayer id
the petitioners. Neither do 1 think tliey will
report leave to withdraw. b.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, M iRCIi 31, 1848.
March 27th, 1818.
Dear Readers:—W'e are again absent from
our editorial post, though not from Anti-Sla
very duty. The urgent demands upon us to
attend and address public meetings, and the
absolute necessity of increasing our subscrip
tion list, and the fact that we can do much
towards the latter result by attending public'
meetings, will, we fear,for the present, make'
it our duty to travel much more than we con-,
tcmplated, at the establishment of the North'
Star. The difficulty of combining success
fully the duties of the editor with those of the
lecturer, will be readily seen. The two posi
tions are so dissimilar, that to be proficient in
the one, is to be almost necessarily deficient in
the other. One feels little like sitting down
at the close of an exciting meeting, in the
midst of warm friends of the cause, anxious
to exchange opinions, and write an editorial
article. There may be those wlto can do so,
but we have not the gift. When among our
friends, we are one with them. We love too
well to sail alung the pure tide of social re-
gard and intercourse, to leave the cheering
circle of friends, cither to read or to write.—
Besides, the duties of the Anti-Slavery lec
turer are not completed by an address from the
platform. To be effective, he must enlist the
interest of the social circles in which he may
have the privilege to move and to do this, j
and travel from lace to place, as wc now must
do, will leave little time for writing. We
will persevere, however, and do the very best
we can and our publisher and printer doing;
the best they can, will leave little cause for;
complaint on the part of our readers during
our absence.
Wc find a strong desire in the ptiblie mind
of this region to hear Anti-Slavery set forth
in its most radical form. The field is white
fur the harvest, and it is sad to think that the
laborers are so few. Western New York’
looks almost forsaken, deserted and desolate,
for the want of tbe voice of living, earnest
and disinterested Anti-Slavery laborers.
Even tbe liberty party is inactive. We roam
over miles snd miles of fos region without
finding s living represcnlstire ef that party,
no lecturers or tract distributers. The vein
of James C. Jscksoo is silent seder tbe hand
of affliction, William L. Chaplin is at Wash
ington, snd there seems tabs none to take
their places. The dtvistoes ia the ranks of
Liberty party are wwstwmy the strength of
her strong men—their wea| «o» betog turned
agaisst each other. We thrnk these division*
mm mlr kr tab* ky towwf Arir fini|
Imre ami their first work, which toss to car
tort, Tthtagfi xad modify tbe etofupt tana)
snmmewt afflto North, by ptoiaot
Bad pereevatiag eafom mrl el tbs great pdn
dples of tritli aod justic* »poo tkte coomim
6ou of thp poople. TkelKtrg spooler ought
to be sent forth into every town, village and
hamlet ia the land, and, ia the burning word*
of Whittier, to “pour the bring coals el
truth on the nation's naked heart,” W herever
else abolitionists may differ, here at least,
they mm agree. The people are attiring
for Anti-Slavery truth, and it is the duty ot
the Aeti-Stemy forces to creaking and give
them tbe needed bread.
The Western New Tork Anti-Slavery So-}
eiety is puttiag forth its best efforts to en
lighten and purify the public mind of this re-,
gioa but they are few snd of small means,;
and therefore cannot cover tbe whole ground.,
Wc call upon Abolitionists everywhere, to.
suspend their jars and divisions, and come up j
to the greet work of strengthening pebfie
opinion against our common foe, slavery.
We proceed to give our readers an account
of our meetings and movements thus for. On
l Thursday evening, 23d March, we held, in
company with J. C. Hathaway aod Charles
Lenox Remood, a meeting in Canandaigua
The churches of this place being closed
against Anti-Slavery lectures, we held our i
j meeting in s hall belonging to our staunch
Anti-Slavery friend, Mosher. The meeting
was opened with prayer by Rev. Mr. Whit
t»ey, and ihough thinly attended, the interest j
manifested by those present was satisfactory j
and refreshing. We were cordially wel- j
comcd, and kindly made at home, in the
family of ©or esteemed friend, Henry John
son, who is one of the few colored men at the
North who understand and appreciate the
humble efforts of the Anti-Slavery men to
improve and elevate their condition, as well as
to emancipate tbe slave.
Friday, 24th March, we went to Rnsh
ville, a town about ten miles distant from
Caoaadaigva, where a meeting was appointed
for us at two o'clock that day. The roads
wcie in very bad order, and in some places
almost impassible. On arriving in Rushville.
Remond, Hathaway and ourself were invited
>o make our home at the house of Mr. Oliver
Harwood, a writ known Anti-Slavery man,
during our stay. The kindness, hospitality,
and religious interest of this dear family in
the cause of the slave, made our visit to
Rushville exceedingly pleasant, and leads us
to look forward with pleasure to the time
when we shall enjoy the privilege of meeting
there again.
Our meetings on Friday afternoon and eve
ning were held in the Congregational Church,
and were very well attended, and tbe spirit
which pervaded them showed that some good
was done. Friends Remond and Hathaway
both performed noble work for the cause.
Saturday, 25th March, Penn Yan.—We
found here quite a spirit of opposition to,
our meetings. The Rer. Silas I fa wifi/, Pas-!
tor sf the Congregational Church in this,
place, being bitterly averse to ourself and
friends,and for some time previous to our arrr-!
valhad been busily engaged in circulating pre
judicial reports against us, and charging us
with infidelity and various heresies. Through
the kindness and faithfulness of our friend
Jacob Platt, we obtained the use of Liberty
Hall, a room which would accommodate
about three hundred persons. This was
I densely crowded by a rcspeclable and intelli-1
gent audience. Friend Hathaway and our
self occupied the attention of the audience
during the evening. At the closs of this
meeting, three were announced to be lield on
Sunday, during the hours of religious wor
ship, and with this announcement, we an
nounced our intention 1o attend to the case of;
Rev. Silas Hawley, as well as the revival go-.
ing on under his auspices.
Sunday morning, at the hour appointed,;
the Ilall was again crowded by an interesting
and earnest audience. After a hymn, and
a prayer by the Wesleyan minister, who, by
the way, gave up his own meeting, and urged;
his congregation to attend ours, thus making 1
common cause with the slave and his friends,
we proceeded to address the audience on the
subject intimated the previous evening. We
were followed by Mr. Hathaway in a speech
of great force, exposing, in a masterly and
earnest manner, the insidious and despicable
pro-slavery manceuvreings of Rev. Silas
Hawley and his sympathizing friends. Before
our forenoon meeting came to a close, the
trustees of the spacious Baptist Church, in a|
spirit worthy of the faith cherished by Knibb
and Burchell, champions of West India eman
cipation, generously offered tbe use of their!
church for our afternoon meeting at four
o'clock. This kind offer was thankfully ac
cepted. Wc however commenced our after
noon meeting, at two o'clock, in the ball, and i
adjourned from thence in a body to the Bap
tist Church, at four o'clock. Mr. Remond
and myself addressed the meeting.
An evening meeting was appointed, and
though quite rainy, we again enjoyed a large
audience, who appeared to listen with an in
creasing interest from an early boor till near
ten o'clock. Tbs meetings in this place have
been the most interesting and successful which
wc. have attended since nor residence in
Western New York and if we do not very
much misapprehend tbe character of the peo- 1
pie who attended our meetings, a large dud-
her of them have been permanently attached
to our holy cause. Thus has the cunning of
a crafty, pro-slavery, canting priest bsen con
founded, and his designing schemes brought
j to nought.
About two years ago, an Anti-Slavery agi
tation took place in Penn Yan, which resulted
in rupturing the Presbyterian Church in that
place. The seeeders from that organization l
justified their course apoo the ground that it
fetlow&hipped slaveholders as Christians. An
Anti-Slavery church was formed and placed
under the pastoral charge of Ovid Miner. A
commodious budding was erected, the doors of
i which were thrown wide opes to all classes of
j abolitionists for the advocacy of the cause c tf
the slave. At the piesoet time, tbisebuiGbis
under the pastoral control of Silas Hawley.
They are engaged in a revival nf religion,
and the doom of tho house are boked and
barred against Anti-Slavery agents. Among
other reasons for abetting set tbs advocates of
the Rave, H ia urged by the prominent mem
hers of that ehsreh, that the discussion of this
subject would have a tendency to retard the
progress of the revival.
I The Auti iJkrrcrj character, aad sf course
(fee Christo Acrlw, of this mirakaf
hfroa.may hejnffged of from the foc| tfoi it j
is caned fomri lM|aioalj by tkafob*
ter and mimhute of the Presbyterian Cboarb,
win atiO tod m reKgwos foOowahip with
BWSHrtealo* aid the professedly Anti*£U very
usmhtrr and church member* of the Sece
ding Church. P. I).
M. B. DEL4XT.
The following notice*, will we ye—w,
be (raufying lo the reader* of the North Star.
Mr. DeUav nan tour Weal ward, to pro
mote the calculation of the paper, cunacqnnat
ly we anticipate a large accession to our sub
scription hat through his efforts in that region.
Hie Aurora, New Luton, 0., thee aotiees
Mr. Dclany
Lectures on Sumi and Ntnosti
Btma.
“M. R. Delany, late of Pittsburgh, but
now of Rochester, New York, will lecture at
the fallowing places and times. As lie is a
good and taleresting speaker on any subject
he discusses, turn oat and give him a hearing
At Salem this afternoon and evening, and
to-morrow at sueh tunes as they may appoint
At Franklioaquare on Monday, 1 o'clock.
At Cod Spring on Monday evening, on na
tional reform.
In this place Tnesday at 3 o’clock, on na
tional reform, and in the evening on slavery.
The question of national reform, has never
been discussed here in the way of a lecture,
so it will be something new. Like slavery,
national reform is one of the great topirs of
the day: it interests every body, to every body
should go and hear. Altho’ Mr. Delany is s
colored man, and labors under tbe disadvanta
ges of that claw, yet he is represented by
those who have heard him, as an entertaining j
speaker, and will please any reasonable man.”
The Ohio Anti-Slavery Bugle, thus notices
one of his meetings:
Dr. Delany, one of the editore of the North
Star, lectured oo slavery in this place on Sun
day afternoon and evening. The chief points
upon which he spoke, were the cruel and ag
gressive principle upon which slavery based
its claim, the expediency of emancipation, and
tbe absurdity of prejudice against color. Al
though the weather was very unfovasahle for
meetings, he had good audiences,, and his dis
courses must hare deepened the opposition of
his hearers to tbe peculiar institution. He
speaks with vigor, and h» illustrations were
clear and pointed.
Slave Trade. —Prom statements made to
the Enclish House off Commons, it appears
thntdurisg the past year, 210,000 negroes
have been shipped from Africa to slave mar
kets, and it is computed dial 179,000 of them
died on the passage.
Death of ah Editor. —N. Perviance, Esq.,
editor of the Steubenville Herald, says the
Chronicle, arrived in New York on Saturday
last, and took rooms in the Broadway Hotel.
He was in the last stage of consumption, and
expired on Sunday morning about nine o’clock.
His remains were deposited in a vault, to
await the arrival of his friends.
Fast Day. —The Governor of Massachu
setts with advice and consent of the Council,
has appointed Thursday, the 6th day of April
next, to be observed as a day of Public Fast
ing, Humiliation and Prayer.
Porter P. Pierce. —The body of this
unfortunate young was found on the 26th inst.
near the mouth of the Genesee. The genera)
belief that he was murdered has been con
firmed by the examination of the body. A
deep mystery hangs over tbe transaction.
Right to Hold Real Estate. —lt is sta
ted that a bill will be immediately introduced
into our Legislature to authorize any person
to hold real estate in the State of New York
who may pay for the same. It is said that
large amounts of French capital and many
French citizens will avail themselves of this
liberal law.
Cannot take case or Themselves.”—
A letter from Oberlin, states that Mrs. D.,
is teaching a eolored school of about 40
scholars, almost every one of whom have
emancipated themselves, and are now sustain
ing themselves here, paying their board, tui
tion, &c. Bro. George Thompson a few
evenings since, addressed the eolored people
on the subject of the Kaw-mendi mission, and
at the close $75 were subscribed for his out
fit. This was subscribed by 31 individuals,
every one of whom had tasted the sweets of
Slavery.”
Santa Anna’s Retirement. —There is
no reason to doubt the troth of tha report
brought by the Edith, (says the N. O. Delta,)
that the great Mexiean whose energy has sus
tained this war and communicated whatever
of vigor has characterized the defeneeofMex
ico, has received his passports from our Com
mander in Chief, and ere this has arrived in
Vera Cruz, on his way to foreign parts. A
gentleman now in this city saw the letter to
Gen. Twiggs from Gen. Scott, directing the
former to allow Gen. Santa Anna to depart in
peace from Vera Crux.
IT? There are in the Empire State 5,800
taverns, 353,000 formers, 21,000 merchants,
13,000 manufacturers, 125,000 mechanics.
3,500 lawyers, 4,600 doctors, and 4,300
preachers of the gospel.
Colored Singers. —A family of colored
minstrels are giving exhibitions in the interior
of New York—the Harrison family .composed
of father, son, and two daughters, the eldest
child being but eleven years of age. The
editor of the Herkimer Freeman, in speaking
of their concerts, says;
But to us, the music did not constitute
tbe sole accomplishment; for Mr. Harrison,
bis wife and children, evinced a refinement
of manner such aa well might put some
negro-haters to the Mush. We wish this
family success wherever they may chance to
display their musical talent; ami we trust
where they go their appear*nee will lend
much towards removing prejudice against the
colored people.
H 7 Hon. J. G. Palfrey will accept oar
thanks for Congressional documents.
TO COllftESrO* DENTS.
M. R. D. received toteferdw wafeer.
J. P. M., Wribab, OW^—W* l»» i«w
mcivnl eopjr rf IVA—f.
W. l n Traf, —ifedwfwhHy.
k »!'Lf!Akau—TWßar lutaifcwW
par Irtar «f Fcfc.lt*, fart pat h» Mt pat
R. F. W-, la—. 11* art. mibil
Second cl aaa»ifaina bare baa aartad,■kick
awl a«ai *e K»*a’* mn.
I
ffommunfeothmn.
JORATOA* WALKER AND JOHN
S, JACOBS#
On today —llllll, Match S 6&, Mi
nerva half was crowded (era beyood the san
guine expectation of (Heads) by an audience
who seemed eager to learn of tbe American
Inquisition, from those whose personal experi
ence coaid defy refutation.
Jonathan Walker, bo it knows, was ac
cused sad found guihy of “attemjting the es*
cape of a few of his fellow beings from bond
age* h which they were subjected for no
cause over which they or their ancestors had
say control, but becscse they acre of the
weaker party, ted had sot the power to assert
their rights among men.” For this crime he
had been imprisoned at Fiorida eleven months
—subjected to the pillory— a heavy fine—and
branding in the hand with the letters “S. 5.,”
meaning slave stealer, but which have received
their appropriate interpretation of elate etb
rrntr.
j Captain Walker’s narrative excited an in
tense interest among the audience, many ul
whom could scarce conceal their surprise and
indignation in view of the facts; —a citizen ol
the American Republic thus inhumanly tor
tured, for endeavoring to rescue seven men
from a far worse bondage than was evet
dreamed of by our revolutionary lathers, who,
1 in consequence of a three penny tax on tea,
waged a seven years’ war with the mother
country.
John S. Jacobs eloquently presented the
wrongs of the American slave, and though
liis own sufferings were far from being as
grievous as the majority in the Southern pris
on house, yet he could testify that slavery,
disguised in sny form, was indeed a bittei
draught. His experience and observation
were narrated in a manner and earnestness
which carried conviction to the hearls of his
audience, aad in summing op his reasons foi
hating slavery, and every influence supporting
the infernal system North or South, the sea
of upturned faces” gave a concurrent expres
sion, We too hate slavery.”
Friend Jacob*is a young man, who made
good his flight from bondage acvsu years
since, and is now naßly doing his part to dif
fuse information on the subject of slavery and
the means of its abolition. He is eminently
deserving large and generous audiences. His
soul is interested in the subject. His devotion
to the cause, and his integrity of character,
are well known and esteemed among ths
riends of the slave in Boston and vicinity.
In September, 184 G, the city of Boston wai
the scene of an excitiug battle for liberty. A
slave had escaped from New Orleans in s
merchant vessel, and landed on the soil o
Massachusetts, supposed by him, as by man;
others also, to be sacred to man and his God
given rights. He was hunted like a pat
tridge on the mountain, secured and sent bad
to hopeless bondage. The friends of lreedon
put forth their power to save him, but thi
wicked slaveholder, aided by Northern mm—
Boston men, triumphed. In the struggle t<
save this flying victim from the peculiar do
raestic institution,” many men performs
wonders; but none among them was man
i zealous or more executive than John S. Ja
j
cobs. For one whole daik night, (aftei
vainly seeking for help in his chosen plan 01
i rescue,) he was w atching on the islands in the
harbor, hoping to secure freedom to hit
brother. None tbe less praiseworthy was hit
effort or those of others, because not crowned
with success.
This, and many other deeds under my own
observation, in the cause of the panting fugi
tive, justify me in a grateful acknnw ledge
ment to his merit. It may not be amiss here
to add, that the abduction of this man from
Boston was the occasion of the largest meet-
I jug ever held in Faneuil Hall, the old cradle
of Liberty, and which was presided over by
the lamented John Q. Adams.
John S. Jacobs (as will be seen by a notice
in another column) proposes a series of meet
ings in Massachusetts. All w ho love liberty
and hate slavery, will be interested aud re
warded by an attendance.
Thu exercises at Minerva Hall were inter
spersed with several Anti-Slavery effusions by
Geo. W. Clarke, the liberty vocalist. The
song, Be Free, Be Free,” and Whittier’s
Branded Hand,” seemed to inspire the audi
ence with the true sentiment of freedom.—
r rhe allusions to that Branded Hand as
appropriately expressed by the vocalist, point
ing repeatedly to Captain Walker, was not
without its influence upon tbe meeting, at the
close of which many gratified their curiosity,
and deepened their horror of slavery, by an
inspection of tbe branded hand.”—w. c. v.
LEGISLATIVE WISDOM.
It was long since remarked, that the
w orld does not know by how little wisdom it
u governed.” Strange to say, this is as true
as ever of the world. The world's governors
have been stammering along, nuking experi
ments here sod experiments there, without
having any fixed principle to guide them in
the science of government; and rather titan
be doing nothing, they w ill do mischief. In
deed, it doubtful, whether government
has ever been reduced to a science. like
what is called the science of medicine—if one
prescription foils, try another —keep trying;
never mind if you poison the patient. There
is only one thing that is never forgotten by
legislators, which may probably be considered
tbe principle of law-making—that is, the pro
tection of the interests of class and property.
Now it aanumeu one form, and now another
At one time the law is fiamed for the pro
tection of the man who has property, to the
injury of the man who has none; and again,
it a to protect the white, in oppressing the
block man. Now it is for a tariff in one
place, and a corn law in another. Various
are the inodes and the ostensible reasons; bui
they they are all branches of one stream,
flowing from one fountain-head, and termin
ating in own rent aeena of error and falsehood
Said John Quincy Adams—“ Tha only prin
ciple of government is, the greatest good e!
all.”
Among Be Ohio Black laws, is one reject
mg the testimony of a colored witneaa in asui
where a mb* man is a party. The folkreria|
is mid to be the history of ifo origin, as ai
Okie Ramie, though it leaf before forma
pen of the inverted justice of the slave States
Before the wmcfmrnt of Una law, on 1
certain night, the Load Office at Cineiunat
was broken into and robbed. The ro' her
seen emerging at a window by a teg To Thw
white robber was indicted and foi.-i,d gt-iltv.
upon the testimony of the black man. A
n.otwn was made for a new Inal aid granted.
The case, upon some pretext, was roaimocd
at the next term, and then the buyer wj.o
defended the accused, came to ('oh.mbus, and
through his influence, procured the pusag#
of the present law, and thus enabled the goihv
to escape justice. Well may it be said cf
1 this law. if this is a true history, that “a M
'conceived in sin and brought forth in u,v
quity.”
Upon what principle of equity the pcr|e
trxtois of this specimen of wadem, can
I justify their act, it is difficult to imagine.
Probably, they never attempt to justify it,
except on the ground that might make's right.
Ohio is peculiarly prolific of w:te laws!
Other daughters have done virtnoi.sly, bi t
thou cxcelk’st them all.” Here is another
instance:
Education or Cotorrn Children in
Ohio.—-A bill passed tbe Ohio Hoi on the
Bih inst., relative to the education of colored
children in that State. It provides that m
every town, village or township, where there
are twenty colored children, a m boo! may be
organized for such children, wt;h director*ar.d
officers for such schools. It a.'so provide* that
school taxes paid by colored erfcoi.s tfic.ll bo
appropriated te such folsred *rhos!s*. It fj.
pre*sly excludes colored children ai d refuels
organized for them from all pnrlinpanry in or
benefit frem thu school fun), but gives si h
schools the benefit of any money or pru| erty
I devoted t 0 them. It alto provides il.at i«
colored child shell be admitted into ccl.co’*
with while children, tb enjov the s;:me bene
fits, where any parent of a w hite child in such
school, or any legal voict, whether havirg 3
child at such school or not, ahull make any
objection to such child being to admitted.
How cunningly this law is devised for the
purpose of fostering prejudice against color,
and for preventing colored children from re
ceiving the advantages of education! It
provides, that in every town or village, where
there are twenty children, a school may be
organised; may he organised, if there are
any in the town or village sufficiently the
j friends of ihc colorod man to take the trouble
to get directors and officers for such school.
It excludes colored children and schools from
any participancy in the school fund, probably
because they are least able to support them
selves. And it winds up with a provision
which is of course all-sufficient to prevent
colored children from entering the doors of
the schools for children not colored—namely,
that no colored child shall be admitted into
such school, if any legal voter, whether
having a child at such school or not, shall
make any objection.” The doctrine of the
transmigration of souls is surely no fable.
I Solon has appeared again in the shape of
these Ohio lawgivers!
Illinois seems desirous of rivalling her
‘elder sister Ohio—indeed, bids fair to outstrip
her in the race of injustice'. Here is an
instance of Illinois legislation
The returns, fcir as received, show a
tremendous majority in favor c-f the I\tw
Constitution and it is also probable, that
j article excluding free negroes from a tcsidtiictr
111 the State, has been adopted, though not by
so large a majority."— Nat. Intel.
Can this be so? What offence have fn*
j free negroes committed? Talk of d s>poiic
land unjust laws of monarch* and emperor*!
1 here is nut 011 c —there never has been one
who would not blush to have his <1 amt; asso
ciated with such a base act of irrational
despotism. The Hottentot and the Russian
would be ashamed of it! The veriest barba
rian among the South Sea savages would he
ashamed of it! Man, in ?hs lowest state of
degradation aud destitution, among the bear*
j of Greenland and Labrador, has still too much
of generosity and of God left in his soul, to
perpetrate such an atrocity. What a com
mentary is this Illinois violation of the rig lit j*.
of man on the nation’s boasted words, All.
I Men are created equal, and endowed hv ihehr
Creator with inalienable rights—the right t<»
life, to liberty, and the pursuit of happiness!”
Has the negro no inalienable rights He
has rights, but they are not inalienable—fi r
l the American people have rohlxd him of theuv
i all. Not only is he robbed of his rights—he
i» robbed ot himself. Across the stage of
j time the nations pass in solemn pomp of their
historical procession. A happy people
comes, some with shut Bibles in their hards,
some with the nations laws, some uttering
those mighty truths which God has w rit on
man, and inen have copied into golden words.
I 1 hen comes, to close this panorama of the
world, the Negro Slave, bought, branded,
beat.” As a freeman, the Negro fares but
little better. He is insulted, robbed, aud, by
this moustrous act of Illinois legislation,
outcast and exiled. The darkest hour pre
cedes the dawn.”— j. o.
THE lIL'Tf'fIINXONS.
New Yorx, March 29, 1848.
Frederick Douglass— Dear Sir :—I oh
serve in your last paper an article commenting
somewhat severely on the Hutehiotoih Fam
ily for singing before Henry C|ay at la* re
cent visit to this city. )uu wrote the article
from information received by reading cur city
papers, and of course was not in possession of
the facta in the ease.
The Hutchinson* not only sang the im
promptu song of Jesse's, but sang several
others, among which were the Good timo
coming,” and “The Old Granite State,”
both of which songs were filled with Anti-
Slavery sentiments, several new verses having
been added to them.
The Anti-Slavery sentiments were sung
I with great boldness and heartfelt expression
and truly this little band were noble cham
pions of tbe noble cause which they advo
cated.
Several Anti-Slavery friends were present,
and we all felt as though a great work had
been done for the slave, for Harry of tire
VVeat” hark never before listened to anti-sla
eery troth in sueh a soul-stirring form. The
efleet on tbe old man was good; hia heart was
touched, and tear* trickled down over his
aged face as lie listened to the melting vuiun
of these minstrels of freedom. Would to (red
that the Hutchinson Family ought smg before
every slaveholder ip the land; the effect
would be to greatly hasten on the good
time eomi&f,” when every slave should b*»
emanripaard, and maakind ’should love each
other.
Tha tflfeet of yoor article is injurious loth#
reputation of the Hutchinson Family, whose
only motive in singing to Henry Hay waa to
do good lo mankind, by spreading the great
truths of freedom and brotherly love.
Henry Clay is a non of great influence,
and here waa aa opportunity to try aad to**
that ihleenc* on the side of freedom, «m
i im only will diadoee the effirt of their visa
1 pray God that the trtihs which were m
eloquently advocated in song hy our friends
the Ifutchinsmns. may sink deep into th<
of the aped stateamaa, and that he wil
in due tunc bring forth fruit meet for re
prnUnce.
Thus you sec the mot ire which induced #0
friends to siag w» a good one. Our eitf pa
per*, in piung as arr »nmt of the proceedings
refrain*! frv*nt mentioning the Anti-Slaver
and Tempersncs scntfinenl* that were song
and so a false and erroneous impression ha
gone abroad.
'l'he Ilutrliinsons are still the same fcarlce
and able advocates of freedom xh ever, ar,<
nightly at their concerts sing Anti-Slavery, u
its broadest terms. L- T.
From i!k I’c m. Fireman.
The HuTCMixsoNft.— This fenuilr willvist
Philadelphia, on thr ir way to M ashingtisi
next w eek, and w ill give their first concert 11
the Assembly Buildings, on Tticsday eve
ning, the 2*th mat. To the disgrace of th<
city, thev have been unable to gain admisrioi
into the Musical Fund flail or the binesi
Museum, except upon the odious ami slavisl
conditions of excluding colored people, an<
omitting anti-slavery songs. These con
ditions th-*v refused, as self-respect and a re
gard to principle aliko required that they shouli
do.
Their fidelity to their avowed principles,
though it mav eo't them the favor and patron
age of a few of ilia negro-hating aristocracy,
will a icure to them the respect even of those
slavcocratH who would have triumphed in their
fall, and despised them for their cow ardice,
had they suenimhed to their demand. The
rchuke which they have given to the unchris
tian, unmanly, and contemptible prejudice
against color, and the servile pro-slavery feel
ing which prevails, both among churches and
people, will he felt. Not many years will go
by, we presume, before the proprietors of
those halls will he heartily ashamed of their
conduct, and glad to redeem their character
from the shame which thi/ir present course is
branding upon it. We hope that our friends
from the “Old Granite Statu” will he wel
comed to our city by a generous patronage and
overflowing houses.
WHAT THE WORLD THINKS.
It is an old saying, hilt more false than it is
old, that What everybody says, must be
true.” This everybody has often been most
cggrcgiously mistaken. Kverylwdy is a very
dull and untouchable monster, much more
ready to act than to think, and that blunders
along, always attempting to do something,
but as oft on doing wrong as the reverse.
Everybody, however, is more to Ire pitied
than blum;d. lie means, for the most part,
to do right—he tries to do right; and when
lie is doing the greatest wickedness, will
sum 'li nes even imagine that he is doing God
•‘•■rviet. The worst trait in the character of
everybody is, that he stops his cars against
the words of those who would instruct him.
He says, I don't want to hear you w hat
you s.iv is fils I don't know what it is, but
I know it is falsa. You are a fool—you are
a fanatic—you are mad f
This is melancholy, and vet it is in some
Hsur.; useful it is one of the means hy
which truth is tested. Some men are fools
—some nr f matins—some are mad. Every
man is so, more or less, in the opinion of his
neighbor. One man holds certain opinions,
and a neighbor who does not hold the same,
calls him a fanatic and perhaps that fanatic
thinks the other a fool. .Said one maniac to
another, looking through tiic window of the
cu id house—“ See those mad people outside
Th -v think we are mad They arc all mad
—we are not.”
There is a picture of I)a Caus, the French
discoverer of steam power, which I can never
contemplate without emotion. Treated as a
in imae, he is exhibiting the title of his work,
D -s h.fos do In apeur.) from the grating
<>f his prison. There are a number of people
around, who are laughing and hooting t
hi ii. The Marquis of Worcester, who w s
engaged in similar pursuits, is one, of the on
lookers. lie listens to what De Caus has to
sav, am) in an off-hand manner, remarks,
There may be something in it.” The
world, in the end, always comes to see its
error, as it has done in this case.
It would almost seem that the world lias
hated its prophets and teachers. Jeremiah,
for prophesying the truth against his people,
is let down into a dungeon where there is no
water, hut mire; “so Jeremialwsunk in the
mire.” Him of Nazareth \U3 called mad,
and killed. Paul of Tarsus was called a
babbler, and killed; and so on, through
sacred and profane history, down to the pre
sent day, the world has always endeavored to
stop the mouths of its teachers. All this, of
course, lias no effect upon ths man who has
any truth to communicate. It is not of the
slightest consequence to him whether the
world calls him a fool, a fanatic, or a mad
man. O.ie or other of these, or a similarly
opprobrious epithet, he must but be called.
But it moves him not. The truth is all to
him everything else is nothing. He is by
no means careful to make friends with the
world for the world will not be on friendly
terms with him, unless he will tolerate its
errors. This he w ill not consent to do. Truth
is utterly intolerant. It can make no com
promise. There are no such words as expe
diency, policy, compromise, in the vocabulary
of Truth. It ceases to be Truth, as soon as
it consents to join hands with Error. As
soon as it docs so, it becomes a mixture of
truth and falsehood. So with the man who
lias discovered the truth —to whom it has
become a reality. Everything else must
give way to this. -With Jaither, lie aavs, 1
can do no other.” He rests his foot firmly
on that rock, and unshaken, unseduced, un
terrified,” remains there immovable.
Our own day is not without its manifesta
tions of this spirit. And probably it arises
out of the fart, that it is much more easy to
call names, than to reason. Almost any one,
with the help of a dictionary, can find a hard
word to cast at those who take the liberty to
differ from him. But, after all, it may not
mean much. The hardest word m the dic
tionary docs not mean much, it only means,
when spoken of a person or thing, that it is
the term which he who applies it, considers
applicable—sometimes not even so much as
that. The man who savs it may possibly not
be any more infallible than Uie man about
whom it is said. You are an a*a,” said
a loafer to his companion.-—“ You are an
other,” he retorted. Whereupon, they went
to fisting each jtiluir —a pretty conclusive
proof that they ware both right, though the
mare fact that the one said to of the other, did
I by no meym pro** it. JioriMo another ex.
ample of this vety rational and interesting
practice of calling names, cot from one odour
city papers;
DUMUTC9I or r«e Oo FrvJbr, the
1 u> the Man—* bmrHw Legi-lafe. t« d*»»
tvkittvia of (be L *m, «cm beard ktw tlte Jadi
riary (>«innuee. by rowasel. Tbe pctitM*
j. itpifti by over l(W) bauci.
j Fanatic ia a word that is easily said—
it is easily written. It does Dot prove any
r thin* of conseqiienee either way, however. It
only prove*. that the writer of the above par
i' graph thought that a fit name to apply to tl
j 1000 who signed the petition. Perhaps the
may be of opinion that some other ter
2 would be a little more applicable, though the
i do not quarrel much with that. Whetb
the 1000 fanatics may not hare somethin
to any in this matter, we leave him to jadgi
One hat do not rarer aH the wurtd a brain*
1 The most infallible of mntials ia still bt
human. Think again, friend Editor—“ lh*i
may be something in it.”— j. d.
i.f
Slaves in thk Dismal Swamp.—Thi
i gloomy swamp is not without its interest; ia
i it serves as a hiding-place, a city of r*
luge,” for the poor slave. I am told ths
there are hundreds of fugitives who bar
sought an asylum from oppression in thi
damp and dreary region, and heie they hav
hitherto been secure. So extensive is tl.i
place, and so inaccessible to the population
that many of its inhabit ant* have never aeei
a white ntan. Many of them receive thei
sustenance by laboring for slaves who tun
their tasks in parts of the swamp. A plant*;
sends a faithful sen ant to get out shingles, an*
gives him his task, and promises to give bin
so much for every task, and not unfrequentl;
ilia slave takes once in two weeks a banel o
pork and two barrels of Hour, etc., etc., am
at die end of the two weeks his rations an
gone, lie has performed so many tasks, am
his master pays him as he promised, thus on
couragiug the runaways. Hut recently, par
tics of young men, with dogs, have huntet
out these poor createrr*; a id, to use flu
expression of my informant, hare shot then
down like partridges.” A few weeks since
j a company of them were discovered, and mad*
|resistance, as they were arm'd with pistols
they fired, without effect, and then were firet
lon by these man-hunters, with their longei
•nd heavier guns, and four of them shot, anc
others wounded so that they could not re
treat. One of them, in particular, was shotir
the knee, whieh was badly shattered. lie
was then brought out to the place near when
1 am now writing, when a surgeon dressed his
wound, and placed it in a box prepared tt
keep it stroight and still. When his m3stei
arrived, he was so enraged at seeing him,tliai
he stamped upon the poor man’s face where
1 he was lying, in a most shocking manner.—
My informant was a witness, and is a respect
able man.
So many of these poor wretched fugitive!
'have been shut and wounded, that others hav*
become so alarmed that they have come oul
and return ’d to their former masters. Query
I R the slaves are happy in their present condi
tion, would they prefer a resilience in thf
Dismal Swamp to it ?—CW/"<.ti»y;u/i rue Xioti'i
ll.r ild.
ADDRESS OF ANTI-SLAVERY WO.
MEN OF WESTERN NEW YORK.
Under a deep ami abiding impression of the
duty we owe to God and our fellow beings,
the Anti-Slavery women of Rochester feel
constrained to continue to persevere in their
ellorls for the oppressed and millering bond
men who still remain toiling unrequited in the
Southern prison house. We are frequently
brought painfully to remcmlier that not only
i-> their labor wrested from them unremunera
ted not only do they suffer from intense hun
ger and cold; not only are the females, ova
sisters, subjected to the cruel and passionate
outrages of their tyrannical masters and over
seers but there are daily instances of sun
dering the doarest tics in nature, thus sepa
rating them forever. And can w e expect any
thing b-tter—can we look for benevolence or
fine feelings from a system so foul and fiend
ish as slavery! It would be unreasonable,
because a corrupt tree cannot bring forth
good fruit.” Therefore, knowing that with
out associative anion we cannot render effi
cient aid to tliis holy cause, wj affectionately
invite the co-operation of the citizens of Roch
ester and the public generally. We ask them
to bear in mind the injunctions of Jesus, “All
things whatsoever ye would men should do to
von, do ye even so to them,” Remember,
also, the beautiful parable in which he call*
our attention to the sick and to those who are
in prison, and conclud es by the forcible asser
tion, “Inasmuch as ye have done it looneofthe
least of these, my brethren, ye have done it
unto roe.” We feel assured all that have
hearts to feel, ami are careful to attond to the
monitions of conscience—all who are deter
mined to live fur the good of our race, instead
jof devoting all their time to their own per
sonal ease—all who feel bound to improve the
precious time allotted to theta here, by pio
moting as much as possible the cause of truth
and righteousness in the earth, will come for
ward in the work oflaboringto banish forever
the demon of slavery from our land; and in
so doing, instead of an example of corruption
and wickedness, we should be a light to the
world.”
J c hope no one will feel too poor, nor any
too rich, to enlist in this holy cause. The
1 Christian s influence, in whatever situation, is
always salutary, and will certainly produce its
good effects. e ask for the aid of men and
of women we call on ths old and the
j young, the farmer, the mechanic, and the
j merchant. AN c ask all and every’ one to give
us their help to devote what they can spare,
either of money or of the frmtsof their la
bor, to the work of restoring inen and women
to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights
j and blessings with which they were endowed
j by our Creator.
For this object, we propose holding a Fair
in December next. We ask the finales in
the adjoining towns and country around us, to
get up sew ing circles, and prepare such arti
cles as will lie most saleable, and to mme fnr
-1 nisli tables, give us their company, and help
us, not ouly to selling those things thus pre
pared, but in convincing the public mind of
the uecessily of our perseverance and fidelity
and thus be helpers in hastening the day of
emancipation. 3
Ab.gail BI’SH, Rochester.
Sarah I). r!&H, j 0
SakaH L. lIaLLoWELL,
M ary H. Hallow ell, Ho
Sarah A. Burtis, jo
Margaret A. Larson, do
Elizabeth Sully, do
Pit ess Treadwell, j q
Charlotte S. Wilbur, d o
Hilda Anthony, j 0
Rhoda Dp Garmo, j q
Catharine C,. Bra lT hwait«, do‘.
Sarah E. J haver, do
Catharine F. Stibbins, do
Amy Post, do
IUs.'ETI.PI.T,- Bltb.
Si.., R-Dorr, l‘i: mingtOft.
Maria WtLart, d o.
Elizabeth Smith, do.
Esther Hathaway, do
Caromnb Halstead, Walworth.
Julia Parker, do
Elua Cooper, Willmßwon.
Amy Mott, do.
Rebecca M. C. Carbon, Auburn
Mrs. Hamum, Pot, Bvioh.
Margaret Prior, Waterloo.
Mary Ann McCuntoti, do.
Laura Murray, Victor. i
Mrr. MA(Rr.NTVRE, l>*n*a 1
-f'orttjjn Netos.
t- The news from Europe by the Caledonia
(thirteen days later,) is aS-importaot and in
y teresting. A Repabkc baa been aueccasfull:
n established in France, and recognised _b;
y Great Britan, Belgium, and tbe Uaitea
t Sutcs. AU tbe European States share ii
g tbe excitement. Commercial difficulties, n
was to be anticipated, am to s considerate
l extent experienced, ia tbe midst of thiscbaaffi
it and shaking of governments. We give if*
c more important events, na they have occurred
in sa condensed a form as possible.
Pui'JF’eb. 25.—The municipal guards arc di>
g I «o!vrd. The guard ol the city of Paris is eniraa’v
r o ibrnational guard, under >hen'd»rsnf MXant
a*, coouaaadsat of b aaueasi guard
t P>r a.
e. F-b 20—. The exciiement carfinaf*, b*> ba
aken a irore lav arable <uru. Tbe UFinm
I tv provisional government aye producing vti
s i onteM. All lln «Rib l rma>.e «fn» of r« y»l'yih«v
t Vfii taken damn or draitnyd Prince L*of Na
i t>oVoii‘s name baa beea met wib tbe cry «f“Viv
r I’Empr ov.”
j Thr P.»*«e says: Five limes daring the dry 8
fr Latnar'ine sddreseed the pro|de un
j ler 'be w,n lowa of the H 'tel de Ville.
I rrtcltmatiriu
The Sovereign People declare,
F 7*ll*l the goverttnieni, having betrayed its trot!
I is dr /acts and dr jure dirolvrd.
Consr4,aeiitiy,
1 The people resume the Isli ex*rc Srs of the.
1 S'Verrignity, and teeter aa follow*:
The chamber of peers, which n!y represent
he Interest iof tbe sriarocracy, hi* pened.
The chamber of deputes, which is the men
"eprearnisiion of the pnerlrge, monopoly ant
I corruption, and the ro-j riiy of wbuae member
have beru pa’tictpatora m 'he uupardooib e crimt
1 ot the government which s ihjectrd the citi
sens to a murd< roua fire, is brrei-y.aud remain:
1 dissolved.
The nation, from ibe present moment, is con
sumed o republic.
Ail cit tens should temain in inns and defend
heir barricades until they acquired the rrj j•
j ment of all their rights ascitixros and as opera
live*.
Every citizen who has attained his majority ii
a notional eu»rd.
Every cit z-n is an elector.
Absolute frtedom of thouxht and libe.'ty of tbe
press, right of )ol tic.il and indasina* association,
to beseemed to all.
A* the government of the fstorr can only res
pect ihe witfus and the interesia of all all
Frerchmen should aasemb'e tnge her in the ns
pectivc communes, in de.fiera'tve assemblies, in
order to elect new and real representative- ol the
couoiiy.
Until the nation has formally declared its will
on this head, e.’ery atteinpi to restore absolutr
1 owrrs mm be demed an usurpation,and it is thr
lu y of every ci tzen to rcsi.t any such attempt by
j ore*-!
Brethren let as be calm and dignifi-d, in ihe
name ol liberty, equality, and human fraternity I
To-day the s reels are crowded with all rank*
1 if people; but perfect order reigns.
No business has yet been done at the Paris
Bourse. Ou Saturday tbe following notice was
posted up at the gate:
FRENCH REPUBLIC.
UPTICK TO MKX IS BUBIHKSB.
By an order of the provisional government, da
ted Feb. 2u, the operations of the Bourse remain
suspended until further orders.
Febtuary 2J, 1843.
Paris Feb. 27.—Paris is this morning perfectly
tranquil, and as much so as it lias been lor the last
month. The weather has been treiuenduuus. A
tempest has raged all night, and torrents of raiu
have fallen.
The republic was officially announced yesterday
by M. de Lamartine,surrounded by the other mem
bers of lie provisional government and the four
secretaries. M. de Lamartine de cended (he steps
of the great staircase of the Hotel dc Vtlle, aud
presenting himself in front of :he edifice, with a
paper iu his hand, thus expressed hinuetf:
l Citizens,—-The provisional government of the
republic has called upon the people to witness its
gratitude lor the maguificeiit national co-operation
which has just accepted these new institutions.
(Prolonged acclamations from the crowd and na
tional guards.)
The provisional g vernment of the republic has
only joyful intelligence to announce to the people
here assembled.
1 Royally is abolished,
i The republic is proclaimed.
The people will exercise their political rights.
National workshops are open for those who are
1 without work. (Immense acclamations
I The army is being reorganised. The national
guards indissolubly unites itself with the people,
Iso as to promptly restore order with the same
hand that had only tbe preceding moment con
quered our liberty. (Renewed acclamati ms.)
Finally, gentlemen, the provisional govern
ment was anxious to be itself the bearer to you of
the last decree it has resolved on and signed i
this memorable sitting—that is, the abolition a[
the penalty of death lor political matters. (Unau
imous bravos.)
I I Ins is ihe noblest decree gent|<*m»o, ihvt has
I ever issued fiom the mouths of» people ihe d y
slier their victory. (Yee, yea.) I• is the char*
1 icier of the French na'ion which escape* in.one
pnntaneoosery from ihe tool of its government
i (Yea, yes, b avo.) We have brought it with ua,
*nd will now read it io you Th<-re not a
more becoming homage to a people than the spec,
tae'e of its ow n magn irvmi'y.
The organisation as National Gaanis of 50,000
of the eitixeas of Paris who effected the :evoinuoo
is nearly complete.
c Tbe city of Paris is again restored toquiet. The
xcitement occasioned by the first flush of triumph
hss subsided, and peace ia not likely to be agato
disturbed.
M. rortails, the new proenreor-geaersl, on Sat
urday entered on office, and commenced his func
tions by issuing a warrant to arrest t te late min
isters who are now in flight.
Ports, Feb. 2d.—The city continaea tranquil.
Tbe provisional government of France receives
numerous declarations of adhesion from all
and the general naval and military officers are has
tening to make offers of assistance. A conjoint
meeting of M. Barrel and his political friends, and
M. Thiers and hia party, and MM. Bilaalt, Da
faure, and the few soldiers of their small battalioo,
took place on Satnr ay, sod it was then and there
unanimously and enthusiastically decided that the
member* of ibe Thurs-pmrti, the gasrcA*. sod tbe
centre gauche should give in their adhesion to the
new government, without any rcatr etton or re
serve.
The banking houses have all renamed basnets,
headed by the Bank of France. That book dis
counted 7,000,000 fr. worth of paper on Saturday,
•nd the Provisional Government has lodged t a as
coders two hundred millions of franca.
The hospital fist show* that the aamber of
wounded ia 438, of whom 350 are civilians, and
78 military.*
Paata, Fch 93.
Tbe city continaea very qaiet, and! tbe news
r r mi the provinces is of a moat favorable charac
ter. It was aammoced here in day that ihe asm*
a-rt of the Argr mine Bepablie and of ihe Re
public of Urstasy ofli :tally ree< gained the new
government on Monday.
Mr Rash, ambassador of ibe U 8, neesmpan
-td by Mr. Mann and M*jw P*o#».a, likewise
watt'd on thr members af t e protisi *nalgovern
ment, in whom he dehveied a amt flmmag sd
•frets. Altboaeh fatly awai ed, it has tnached a
cately the member* of ibe provisional govern
•neai, and after an interview, ia nh ah ware ex
h«aged tie airoog eipnsr as, they, in a body,
vecotn ponied <bis r-p-»wuiativ- of a great aatron
io the ibr sabot d H ihe bn«ef dr Vide, na a proof
4 the asadi I stows whseh mas. rvorcxasl br
ibe Aawriesa and French pah, as.
Mr. Rash Urns spake—
Gentlemen—A* isprrarntattta sfdaP. ifa*aa
charged wob thr ear a# tbe rights mad Matin as
of my Conwrry, pad nf my fclnw
w Fniw.ind bd»f« t««. unt a fl,«*ncs i
•waft imhwom, I war Am T>ifirw>pw<Mafi
«f«frriaflay that m
***niaK9t m»U i|» Mry at abac*
fc**e wkra «bc iatai >.ve. I u»| am wot n>
ai a-J yam that tSr *1! aitre aii#Vrk»4n y wfcfel
(tdvfta kmMiHrf Frwrr ||J fW o 1$ are aa
■H*i*e4- I »ai crr*«.a that i hadaad humt
uprliiiatfiy w. 4 *nw u mj cvarnry W th
toapiiiw*# France M
J<r IV inati<a»>o m wh eh she w u'm tuatigara**
eamk t »4f HT the w* I of tba aafhut. A met
Ksnawttl Irier sa sHeat toft that atxfcr rtk
wtadaaa at F im thrtr bloat was tl have fc
he »h*4*' kaiu r»*» *raOia of wh ch -he max
■t-.aiMCcai e**n4aet mi the la (be late evrot
•ff-«r>lMh>f U.idrr nmilar iiwtta
tlah*<hr U 4 haeeetj-yed ft 70>ear«sa fa
tat-iai piag»rn»y, h a mi aa***
r tavraptnlautwUiy »m 4 if the U -mm iav-maU
trtvea lo vb t cwaainet 'he fr*r choic-of gov rn
tarot, w ilkmii any mtetfrr oee, it wifi “it»>a-a»l
-l f gratified >B •eri-’P ■iwlrt great nauafl fl -or
I ah under iiati'Ow wtwJi have non| to theta
•4*<a the beta-ti« at a *ct«i mJ-t and p iWtc liber
:f. Petatit n»e,f-n leao- a, tn etap'oy 'he «t-ri
1 4 the treat and excel.rnt XV. a ui.gtmt, ifw in
t raarul funder t.ar repaht e, lei by him an i
a mi ar meet »m> •o »be y*<~ori*t, and >a lermraet
tay adireaahy aSd.og to tuy c-neratsiattana tb
i -atae* hope thu «h« trtem!a tp*4 the lam p «u
Iks nay be e» au-naivr with their da atm.
Mr. Arago repl ed that- the w*-mbro of >h
jw-rhiirni reoeteeJ withoat earpr but tat-i
iiert) pfetsarr. the ren iai-aia expressed by tb
w4wtifir ot the U Ftaaee exacted aale«
j fom an ally with whota abe piace.l herarit a
a<«fe to toutr rcla iuaa by the p uciamattoa of
republic.
**The provisional Rwrommeniyhe add*,"thank
f fra lor 'he good w si-es «<a en'ertain t*>r ik
greatti- aa at«d pn>aprrtiy ot F jnee It ia de
r tiftituigto re-cbutlte wu-chtof \Ya.-h ngfoi, aa
■t ha- a arm Miai;c<- b I 'h e wurda w*J iiuloa
y be a e* rr b n r. a ty
If Dupont de i’E t.e, then addreaHng the am
tnd
“Permit n»«, air, tr off ring you my haad, t<
anate y..a hai the French p o.ie lenders a ham
oi trie dahip to tl e American nation.”
When theae gvntlmirn q-nited the ffote' d-
Ville, the eoirda prra-uiod irmt, and criea o
**Vi*e la R-ptihl q'ie dea EttU Unia!"aila'ed ih<
itpbiertdor.
Victor Hugo had been appointed mayor of thi
r 9th arroodiaaemeot of Faria.
M. de Comienin had been appointed vice-pres
idenl of the council of state.
Lord Normandy had a long interview this morn
ing with M. Lamartine. Jt was uoderetood tba
1 his lordship was instructed to state that the Brit
ish government would not only recognise the re
public government of France, but that they wert
most desirous of cultivating the most friendly feel
ings towards France.
The ambassadors of Austria, Prussia, end Hol
land, to whom M. de Lamartine bad officially an
nounced the proclamation ot a Republic, had re
plied that they could not recognize the govern
ment until they should have received instruction!
to that effect from their courts,
Paris, March I—Nothing had occurred to sug
gest fears that hostilities with any foreign powei
whatever would be provoked-
The following proclamations has been issued,
abolishing all titles n France
The provisional government, eon idering thai
equality is one of the great principles of the French
Republic, and that it ought, io consequence, u
he immediately earned tulo effect, decrees as fol
lows
All the ancient tiltes of nobility are abolished,
and the qualification which were attached thereto
are prohibited. They cannot be used publicly, oi
figure in any public document whatever.
Al ,r-*hal» duu.t, .Motiior, HeiM-on -m, litij-eaiul. Peli
te, and bode da I t B uuters, htJ seut in llteir adhesion
uithe newU veri.iuenr
The eiaci am- u it of mnney at the ill (V'sat of the
iiinount* t HKI.UOo (Mb of wuirh 8 U WW U. 0
-teiMisited lu ihe Bunk of Prance, ard 5j 0001 Om ui th
f'reatury. *1 he j rice of £«ild has fallen *.S |e. ct smr-
Mooday.
Pa is, March 3.
The Pari* p’pers of Thors tay unit on a lons sene
of decrees a. U ordiuaneea ot' (lie Hr vUittnal It- vern
uiei t nmt of the newly u|»pi lme-1 fnncUoDariet, wbicb
w> re oi-raily siaraknis. r>gtrde,l wi.h litvor.
The (tnblic works had been resuuud in Paris with
con-t leruble nei'vify.
Pari* was perletl.y tr Brjuil.
The Rink or' l.ille luvuj I, ob< g-:-! to *n*peml
|Sym-#l in rp- cie. the Mini.ter Finance had p ace
1 5 tLdO )l’at tan ithpjsl iif it Itireitors.
The in. me tl the I’mvi-io.iil Co.sruiuent shall h
he* a ci nvertedi to a .luisite Uoverninenl liy the N i
lionnl A-sinily, the tlnslutt vovernmeiit will accredi:
,t< Anihassuil «r to the French Re, uiil.C.
Paris. M ireh 4.
The er -at «v-nt of ihi-iduy It the sr,ud imml n v
en l>) the Kej u.dic to t .e v.c'iin* of the 3.M, 3 hi, use
■Jtth Februiry. Ihe solemnity was certainly a verj
imyo in; one anluseileci w k* greatly Lcr.iusJ b,
iirilUut weather anil mt-M ie
The ap|ie trouce of the Uuuievnr-I* was mo*! ettra
ordinary, andsti. h iieroaps us wa< never seen bri-ire
Along tie whole it- nee from the itasli e t the M ide
lein i. (ne ,riy three uii s t >e line of march uas Inins
on bo h dj* wit i tr. col, red dia,*erie*. e-.itnccted to.
g»the. b\ H.ems of o»ls. b-aii t shields oi b.ack cloth
—in whico were ms* ril-ud tl.t w-nus—
»E-«p«-:irr
L'X
MA via
fIRA
VI« T.ME3
OGB
*’d 231, an I h FKV.IIRR.
Triu-olored ll ,s were 8 i.n-aj Ir on all the p ibl c
btl I lugs anil many private i i u-h. The crowd w in so
■ieii->e that ilia sb( almost lie mu >sineJ (bat every |<a«t
of thec ipii.,l h:vd sent orth it» mhuhitsi.t* loc.icb par
tiesiarquanc. aloi-g the line uf pri-rtwku.
My a deers ilateu -Saturuav. ih- .\lia-si.-r of Finance
denidt s tb it the payment of the half y<-ar*« interest on
the Kivr, F -nr and a Half, and Four p r rent*, tailing
lue on the 321 M irch, shall he iu ote at Paris 'roaitbe
if h i> siant, a-id in t->e deptrtmen f our toe 15th.
oiatery t» to be ah<>lislied aloure.
FkENfH REPI BLIC.
J.ibsrty—-Eq lullt, Fra ercity.
The Provisionnl G-*vcri meet of (be Republic, roe
si, le mg that no French land -h mid any longer Immi
slave*, decrees: a e •mitiiision i* in*' lit>‘d under the
lonal minis e of colonies and ihe marine, lo pre
pare w t on ift-i sh -nest delay Fie act i->r the imaieUi
emanripatl n of the si ves iu at. Ihe co'unie* ol
me Rei u >'ie. F. ARAGO.
Dated Paris, March 4,*1-48.
be fci.r ifue. minni «if ai has addresseJs letter ot
cm.g'atuUlion io i| e Prov sioe il Government.
Paris, Marchd. Ihis hts b*en a Hay of
greai excitement in Farid, though of a differ
enf nature from that to wttich we have been
accustomed for aome pa* The tailor*-
uf the great house of Uuuiu Co. ha* crea
ted a complete (rttnic.
Theproviaioual government yesterday received
deputation ot upwards of citizeusof the Lrui
teti States. These gentlemen walked in proces
sion to the Hotel de Veille, and amongst them
was borae the American flsg snd that of the
F en h republic united together, and flowing from
the tame staff.
Mr. Goodrich, in the name of his country
men, presented an adJres3, congratulating the
Fredch people on the succossful issue of their
struggle for the great principles of liberty and
equality.
On o. the American gent!ea»en then mmL—
The Americans la e presrat req its’ y *u to
oee- pt I :rg* two fltgs united--they «re ibe eiet
ml *mblrm of the alii ;c* between France an«ii
the Unit d 8 a*es ol North Anv-nct. (Tn
members of the depauoon We swear K by oa
bl.od
M. Arago—We receive the color wth grau
itade P sh It fe phe~d >a the lluarl de Viile
and 1 trax 'h it nevr wifi d-ao mn attempt tv
s latch u iheuca (LwJ appl a*e
Th dmotr flag *sac ih a ptac*.d ia the Salle
des R cep: ions-
T«e depatstH-a then withdrew amid reiterated
cries ot ‘Viveta R'l-ah q*e
America* Resident* i* Pari*.—A
numerous meeting of the most respecta
ble American residents in Paris took place
nt the residence of L. Draper, Esq., Rue
Richer, for the purpose of considering the
propriety of immediately presenting t«
the provisional government of the French
republic, an address declaratory of sym
pathy and admiration of the conduct of
tlte French people during and after the
late revolution. The proceedings com
menced by G. W. Irving, Esq., of Mas
sachusetta, formerly ambassador of the
United States in Spain, being called to the
chair. After the purport oi the mee'ing
vras explained Irons the chair, the fo!low
ing gentlemen were appointed to form a
committee to draw up an appropriate ad
dress, viz:—Messrs. Goodrich, Shimmin
and Coleman, of Maflsacbu*etts: Corbin,
of Virginia, and Harry, of Connecticut
Those geaifomen then retired, aad after
a short delay, returned with the document,
(a vejiy elegant piece of literary compo
sition) which, wbea read to the meeting,
waa loudly applauded, and adopted by no
clamnlinp. M#» Make*, of New York,
slated that as aoon as it was ascertained
when the prorimal government could
receive the addm, antic* would be givet
OaiigtMuiTt Messenger, the National
I and the Prune, of the da? and the plan
of taect'ng, fbr th* American citizen* t<
i proceed iti |itnCeMirm to the Iln*rfrfe V»|f«
Thanks were rated to the venerable chait
J man for his dignified conduct in the chair
and, after a rote of acknowledgment vi
i pttsset! to Mr. Draper. f»r hit politeness ii
afforvling the use of his apartment, th
meting separated. The arid re** and pit
actuation will be found in the proceeding
of March 7, in another column.
Fans, Thursday, Murdk 9.—Last advice
from Paris represent the city as tranquil,hu
the financial crisis continue# nnabate 1, an
some eminent huoses are spoken of as bein,
ia difficulties, but no farther failures bar
been announced.
There was a rum ir in Liverpool, whe
the Caledonia sailed, that the Emperor*
II i*da hnd refused to acknuwlmtge th
French refMihjk:.
Englaml —Ministers yielding wiilmt
a struggle tlieir pr»»j*ci tor increasing th
income tax from three to five per ernt.
aod although the bouse of common* hav
j virtually consented to lira continuance c
an income tax for a limited period,'* n
Monday evening tha debate on the sutye*
re-«pened the great questions of free trad
wifi direct and indirect taxation, durin
which Sir Ihibertl'eel came to the rescu
J of the ministry, and declared his iutentiu
I to vote for the income tax during thre
i yeirs longer.
The recent political events which have fa
ken place in France, and are daily occurrin
in almost all parts of the continent of Kurop
combined with the turbulent proceedings
mobs which have para-led the streets of Lot
don Man chester; E iinburgh, and Glasgow
during the course of the past week, have ha
i an injurious effect upon the t-ade of this com
try. All parlies engaged in innnufaclurin
and commercial pursuits feel a distrust as t
the permanency of the present order of thing
in France. The transactions in alt kinds c
produce have, therefore, notwithstanding th
abundance of money out and the ens
terms on which it can beobt tiueJ—been lim
ited whilst in most descriptions of goo 1
exposed for safe, a decline on our last <j iota
tions has taken place. The position anJ pros
peels of trade in the min’ifacturing district
continue dull, hut not more than was to b
expected from the turn that political event
have taken in those places to which cunsid
ern'de portion* of our manufactured good)
are exported The demand for manufacture*
iron has.not been so active as at thp date o
j our last publication. The advices which w<
have recently received from various parts o
the continent announce several failure*.
We lure to note mother decline in the v»ln* o
almost all descriptions of cotton of from t<
dto J ner |h., shewing a fall of fully I to I pei
Ih. iu the couise of the two week* ending; M ircl
10. The couiniiitees quotations on the 10th foi
fair cotton are-—l| for bovveJ, 4j lor .Mobile, ant
df I for Orleans.
Mu ll quietness his pervaded all brane es of the
corn trade The transactions iu wheat, (lour, oi
India i Corn are very fritting, H nd without any
mitt-rial i-hanqe in value of any article. Ou the
(ith inst wheat cosnuianded prices varying
I Irom 55s to .ic's per quarter.
Tlie revolution in France is now nn fail
accompli The abdication of Louis Plnl
lippe. the appointment and rejection of a
regancy, the complete triumph of the Pa
risians over the army, tli establishment of
a provisional government, the election of a
republic, the overthrow of the house of
peers and titles of distinction the preeipit
ate, abject flight of all the members of the
Orleans family with their misguided minis
ters, »u E lgtand or to other places of exile
—the immediate recognition ol the new re
public of France by Great Britain, Belgi
um. Switzerland and the United 3tiiu>s
have all Ihilj.veJ i.i rapid succession.
M. Lamartine has put forth a manifesto, an
nouncing to tbj uorlJ the principles which
will guide the future policy of France. The
new S.x ret ary for Foreign afftirs ..isposas in a
few Hues of the treaties of Vienna, which no
longer exist in the eyes of the French republic
bat the territorial limits of those treaties are
facts which she admits as the basis of, and the
starting point in, her relations with other na
thins. The new guarantees for the peace of
Europe are to be “the good sense, modern-!
tion, the co;usc ousness, aud the prudence ,ol
the republic
Likl vxd.—The excitement produced through
out the entire country by tha news of the
French revolution, has been most intense, ami
particularly so in the south-east and west.—
The corporations of Dublin and Kilkenny have
already drawn up addresses to the Fiench peo
ple, congratulatory of their success. In Cork,
Drogliedi, Limerick, Clonmel, Hoscrea, Hor
risokunj and other places, illtunimtions, bon
fires, and rejoicings have taken plae and a
general masting has bean convened, to be held
in every parish in Irelmd, on the 17th of March,
(St. Patrick's day). The citizens of Dublin
will h ive a monster” meeting on the subject.
The military in that now wear their side
arms in the streets—a practice w hich has been
dropped since the contemplated Clontarf mon
ster meeting in 1844. Unusual activity pre
vails at Dublin Castle, and the general officers
are reported to have been consulted on divers
serious matters by his excellency.
A special meeting of the confederation was
hold iu Dublin on the 9th inst., Mr. Crean, an
ojierative, presiding. Resolutions, expressive
of a desire to forget all differences, and to unile
with all sectio n of rapealers, were brought for
ward, and unanimously adopted. The rumor
was prevalent in Dublin on the 9ih, that the
privy council hail decided ou suppressing or
preventing the demonstration throughout Ire
land on tli a l/ih, but no pruclamatiou h ul been
issued up to that day. It was, however, daily
looked for.
Several of the prisoners sentenced to death
at the late special commissions in limerick,
Clare, and Tipperary, hare been executed.—
On tbs Ist lost., Henry and Philip Cody and
.Michcal Louergan suffered at Clootnel, after a
terrible scene, and amidst imprecations and
curses.
Sratx.—The news of the revolution in,
Franca produced the deepest alarm at Madrid.
Repeat'd conned* of ministers were held, and
Queen Christina was so much effected by the
news from Paris, that it was found necessary
lu bleed her twice. The garrison of Madrm
was kept under arms, the guards and seutiio
were doubled, and it was said that an army of
observation of 50,000 men was ordered to the j
Pyrenees. There appears to be no doubt but
that the details of the act fur suspending the
constitution and creating a virtual dictatorship,,
proposed by Narvaez, will be confirmed.
A letter by tb* Cologne Gazette, dated,!
Coblentz, Sd inst., says—“ The Duchess of*
Oi leans amvod here last night with her two’
sous, the Count de Paris and the Due de
Chsrtres, aeeompamed by the Marquis of Mon
tesquieu and M. de Motnar. Ti*ey came all
the way from Pans to Aix-i*-’ bapdle m a
ona borej brougham. They there took the
railway to Cologne. They slept at Duetz
under the strictest incognito, and took the
steamer from thence to obl-ntz, from which
place th?y proceeded to Em*, where they pur
pose remaining for the present.”
KciiU. —A Berlin correspondent, under j
date Feb. 29, in the Madeghurg Gazette, stales
that dialorbaac had broken out ia the Russian
capital, and that aa attempt had been made no
the emperor** Kfc-
SwrrzriL**® as in ecsUcy at the hte event*
ia Franc-?. The Pruswao part? to the canton
of Neufchotel had fallen before a popular
msmfomamm The gorernmetw rrstem-d au
the aaaraiag of the la taut. The sent of the
new nrwMMA was transferred from NtruP I
chmd to Cbajufe-de-Foods. A prammonal
government was named. The Pruwuaa sove
reignty was overturned. The intelligence of
the proclamation of the republic in Krone*
had predated the feqeif seamtioa at lVme.
Ia the avemag of tha 27th (he l*un held as
extEumimarr mrvttn«r, to raw'd r the Bipe*
tfiency of tint Banetfmt* feotgiiirei of il*
Freisd* ftafMbTr. Tho »fllN*t»remtt>l of
which was greeted «t Latwanro With a aalcte
i°f 101 pirns- The n«ncil of stale of Vaoff
laet on tfce B&J> «k. and adopted a icsoluUi#
m fc»m of th#M|rutil!c. a inch was ntfjriallj
pwnmu ic '**«t t* lire French rroris.twil to
vcrnmenl.
Mbai* M-*—lVann Irani Knar*
wwmkw in finatli and Antwerp,
iand tho foremmtwi was fcttifv** treat* r
tuwaa *«ere was a rua on the bank of IkK
pum.
ArsTCi*,—The of Prion* Mrt
s* Wretch was a snincnl for crdimij m Paris
t! on the 8»h uwt. The arvra of the en rols at
1 j Paris Lad cauml a at \icnoa
2 A grand cyuueU of ail i’w aum.'-u.-rs was natn<'-
pj datdjr held. Cosrior* wens dispatched to aH
ffirecqoos. Count dc FJauhaut, the Frrtw-h
n nn’NtsAadar at ilic mart of Vienna, is sjid to
I* hire fainhii on krorift* the news of the ahdt
t <*aft»»a of the kinr. He started the next da\
r tor Kagland. T flirty Uintrand different tnH»j
are to adrauce to Italy without delay,
l! ParasiA.—.V cnrrespootit-rU at Cologne
e writ,**:—“ TUj middle classes of Ptussta, as
well as of thrr oth.-r Rhenish states, are deter
r rained t« achieve their political md-'pewtoTtre.
j 1 and to have a potential votee ia the £**v;?rn
i m**nt; they are peaceful, hat resolutely «ic
n| voted to their mnnu v, and firm m asserting
:I t tUeu nghts. Already petitions fin- re lor a i
e have ixvn prepared, which are lying at tin
g different hotels on the Rhine and in the Rhe
e nish provinces; the burghers flock in crowd.*
h and sign them to a man. Such a state nl
t things is unheard of in Fnnwia to take tin
1 initiative in so decided a ra vnne r bus nevrr be
fore occurred to her citizens and we all know
op n’tsf ywr k premkr pan ytn rettfe.”
P; SictkV.—latest advices fmm Naples stale
that the king, once more viijating his solemn
>i word and promise, has earned fire and iht
sword mlo the city of Messina, which has been
V bombarded during forty-two hours by the my a!
d troops. The Porto Franco is almost entirely
•j hurijt down, causing, from the destruction ol
i this entrepot alone, a loss of 10,000,000 francs.
It is said that the Mcssincsc have attacked the
citadel of that city, dnd taken it by assault. It
was rumored at Marseilles that the king of Na
ei pies had complied with the demands ol thc pete
f pie of Sicily. Tlw ministry has resigned.
JJararia. —On the 4th of March a serious
movement lock place, 'IV people demanded
the immediate convocation of the chambers,tin.
liberty of the press, that judicial trials should
bo public, that an electoral reform should b
granted, and that the army should take an oath
.I to observe the constitution. The king tefused
I to convoke the chambers before the end of May.
It was announced that the new minister,Prince
I VVrode, had called out the troops, ami had
i promised the king that they should lire upon
j the people. The arsenal was attacked aliout 2
I I o’clock by the people, and captured after a
short engagement. More than 6,000 men,
p armed with muskets, s thros, hatchets, lances,
and halberds, marched against the royal pal
i ace. Having arrived at the market place, the
crowd met the troops; but neither the cuiras
seis nor the troops of the line would charge
when commanded to do so. Cries of The
Republic forever,” were raised. At length
the king yielded to the demands of the people.
Prince Charles, tl»e King's brother, rode up
to the crowd, amt assured them, on his word
'of honor, th it the king had conscMited to
convoke the che.ubers for the 10th of March,
and that he granted all that the people de
sired
Italy —The Jesuits have already quitted
the city of Turin. The journals of Turiufully
appreciate the tendency of the French revolu*
i turn, and are now encouraging the king to put
himself at the head of the national forces, ami
to endeavor to effect the salvation of Italy. Ai
Alexandria, and throughout Piedmont, all the
warlike preparations are complete. The Aus
trian army is no longer an object of fear to the
constitutional states of Italy. Advirea from
Genoa announce the arrival of an American
i squadron in that i»ort on the 3d of March.—
Lombardy openly declare that they will not
even pay the supplementary tax. All corre
spondence between Lombardy and France
prohibited. Letters from Rome of the 28th nil.
state that the committee appointed by the pope
to prepare the constitution was actively en
gaged on that task. There are to be two
chambers; the one composed of cardinals and
clergymen, and the others of representatives of
the people.
JOHN G. PalFrey
An Eloquent writer says of Mr. Palfrey:
Opinion followa hfm now, at at last
it nhritys will follow a food man, who
knows the responsibility he takes, and
takes it firmly, and carries it through
with the countenance and power of a
man. The cause to which Mr. Palfrey
has given himself, shall increase, and
mount above all other causes, if the
nation live down this war. We owe
him our gratitude. We pay him nor
gratitude. We hail him with the de
votion of longings fulfilled. 'Fite cause
of human liberty has at length found a
heart anti tongue devoted to if irr Con
i gresa, adequate to its great import.
Gravely has that tongue fulfilled a sa
cred ofiioc of utterance. It has stated
what a high and righteous patriotism
I thinks of the republic, in the house
where such patriotism is a stranger.-
He loves his country with a deeper
love than the politicians who gsrthrr
tlicre, and hence his words have a cor
responding depth of tone. lie has
made duty and morality parliamentary.
Hail to the schoolmaster who teaches
the south our lessons. He shall pre
vail.
The cause of man shall live. To
this Mr. Palfrey has allied himself. It
shall exalt him. Another generation
shall know his name. He is doing the
work which they stall feel as their in
heritance of blessing, and therein he
will be theirs. The reputation which
wc find in the strifes of to-day’s inter
ests, will then be dead, and the name
built upon it. What a man has done
i for man, for the cause of man, ideal
izes his name aud upholds him to com
ing ages. The rest goes to sleep in
the grave of to-day’s interests, when
the sun is set.
The man who perpetuates himself by
attaching his life to the eternity of a
principle, he shall live. A devoted
man mounts an idea, and it becomes
j 7
air and wings to him. It gives to him
its own space and time. It becomes
j his measure. When he is in his grave
his spirit walks the earth in its life, and
acts in its virtue.
The future shall know Mr. Palfrey.
The future shall pronounce that he has
done manfully in his work from begin
ning to end. The future shall stand
by him, in his firm will, and in his way.
If these United Startes liavc a national
existence continued into a peaceful
future, it shall only be by wills and
ways like his. A great will makes a
great way. Greatness lies in a great
purpose, more than in great gilts.
The salvati on of this union to another 1
generation, requires a Northern nature)
in Northern mens henceforth. North-!
cm men, yielding to, or adopting
Southern principles, have led the Union
to this crisis of its history. If it sur
vive this generation, it is to he by the j
consent of Southern men with North-!
era principles, to Northern men w ith
Northern principles, all breathing to-
gether, or ia a glorious conspiracy for
liberty. Mr. Palfrey has given the
sign for that consent. Thereupon the
eloquent old patriarch of Congress, the
tongue of fire, now silent in death—
that never faltered with fear, or favor,
or hope of reward, thanks God. God
be praised.’ said Mr. Adams, at the;
close of Mr.. Palfrey’s Speech, the
scads are broken, now' the door is open.’
And an eye-witness, describing the
scene of the speech, says, ‘it was
especially interesting to witness the
eagerness with which the Southern
men crowded around bis seat, and lis
tened to his discourse, and as fre
quently, in his philosophical manner,
he would illustrate some of their weak
points, particularly those of Clingman,
in his famous historical erjwse, they
wore quite unable to contain them
selves, and slapped their sides in
childish glee. It was the first anti
slavery speech I ever saw slaveholders
listen to patiently.* What power is
in the Northern man with Northern
principles! What respect waits upon
his words, when they represent con
science in Congress before the South!
Southern men cluster round him with
eagerness to listen to his principles,
and slap their sides- in childish glee at
the ridiculous absurdities of their own
principles, which have ruled and well
nigh ruined our country. And what
was true in Congress ut tine speech of
Mr. Palfrey, was always true there.
Northern conscience would always
tave had its respect tlierc, if Northern
conscience had dutifully set itself to
I speak. It is late now, but not too late.
The seals are broken—the door is
open. Through that door, those who
have the will to save their country,
may enter in, to their sacred work.
THE NATURAL AND THE SPIR
ITUAL.
“The impressions made upon the sands
of human actions and human passions
during the year that is passed, are now
hardened and fixed in stone. As the
soft substance of clay receiving the
impression of the waters and marking
their motion, course and flow, becomes
at length a rock, whose imperishable
engravings are read by succeeding
generations, and as the growth and
products of trees and the anatomy of
animals of different ages, make their
impressions in the earth, w hich anon,
hardening into stone, reveals their
form* and characteristics,to subsequent
periods, so the tablets of time passed,
retain and reveal the actions, the pas
sions, the cvc i ts w hich are to be fully
disclosed when fv* strata shall be bro
ken up and the deposit of different
ages und every race shull be read in
the great day of final revelation. This
is the true Eternity of temporal things.
Who would think that the yielding
sand in w'hich the footstep of the passer
by leaves its impression, should reveal
that foot-print a thousand years after
wards to the men of a remote genet a
tion? Who would believe, uniess it
had been *o abundantly proven, that
the figures wrought in the soft clay,
made in sport, which the next rain
might be expected to wash away,
should appear in another age graven in
die rock as with a pen of iron? These
results science has demonstrated in the
natural world. They are, in the moral
world, indicated by experience and al-
I te*ted by revelation. What hi extrt
ordmary sad beautiful analogy is this!
As in the natural world the most mi
nute traces of the lowest forms of ac
tion are disclosed by a process at once
universal and exact, so the words wa
speak, the thoughts we conceive, the
actions we perform, remain fixed in the
eternal record. Philosophers say that
the atmosphere retains and reverberates
every uttered sound forever. We make
our thoughts, our words, and our ac
lions in time, our companions through
eternity. With what importance does
this view clothe the life that now is,
with what power the things which we
are apt to regard as idle dreams, which
seem to perish as they pass, but whose
shadows falling on the curtains of eter
nity are fastened forever. What an
event is the beginning of a New Year,
in which we are to write Jor the world
ito come, on the strata of which—to
pursue our geological figure—all ac
tions are to be graven as with the point
Jof a diamond upon a tablet of adamant
1 for an everlasting record How do
these thoughts dignify the passing mo
ment and the passage of the years of
time, on whose fleeting sands are writ
ten, the enduring records, w'hich,
for good or ill, we are to read through
out the cycles of our endless exist
ence.’*—Dr. Lord.
GEORGE THOMPSON, 3f. T.
There is not a public man in England
who has risen so rapidly from the
crowd of common men into public j
notice, as George Thompson, reputed
to be one of the most eloquent men
in Britain, now M. P. for the Tower
Hamlets. The progress of a man of
genius is an instructive lesson, illus
trating, as it does, the inherent strength
of an independent mind, and its gradual
victories over seemingly invincible cir
i ctrmstances. The history of George
Thompson gives powerful evidence of
high intellectual courage and moral
firmness; and it afso shows to what
seemingly fortuitous and trivial occur-i
rences meu may owe the bias of their)
lives.
George Thompson was born in
Liverpool, and received a common;
education. We do not know that he;
was bred to any profession in youth
he, however, early began to educate,
himself as a debater. The active minds,
that were being developed in Britain,
'during the first quarter of the nine- j
{tcenth century, associated themselves!
i into clubs, for the discussion of the 1
various political questions that agitated j
society and George Thompson, when'
.quite a youth, was a prominent member;
of one of these. Young as he was, and
strong as the passion for intellectual
victory would assuredly be in a young
man conscious of his talents, he formed i
a resolution, which w f as as creditable
to his heart, as his life-long adhesion to j
it has been honorable to his consistency, j
It was, never to argue in favor of what:
he did not believe to he right.
Less than twenty years ago, a lady j
1 called at a certain mercantile house in
London, soliciting a situation for a
young man to whom forty pounds a
year would be an object. The applica-!
i tion failed and, luckily for himself and
his country, George Thompson was
left awhile longer on his own resources.
—Some time subsequently, a vestry:
meeting took place in Clerkenwell, for!
the purpose of levying a rate, in order;
to carry out some scheme in c jnnection
with the State Church. Pompous, j
portly men, who had hitherto settled ail
these things in their owa way, assem
bled, and engaged in grave debate.
The people w ere not so well schooled
then in opposing corporate mandates,,
as they are now, and they looked oil i
and listened to the serious process ol
pocket-picking that was going on be- 1
fore them, but had not power to oppose, i
j At last a young man who kept a coffee- j
house in the church ward, rose and
raised his voice feebly, at first, and
falteringly did that eloquent tongue 1
utter its first public protest against
corruption. Deacons and vestry-men
looked great and grave and profound,
and there was a sort of traditional ven
eration attached \o their names and:
station, which the orator fell, as he'
looked at their fat, spectacled faces,
turned up to him in wonder and ainaze
mciit. But he was not to be frowned
down, and a few encouraging demon
strations from his astonished fellow-j
citizeqp dispelled his timidity. He
warmed with his subject, and as he
w armed he rose in courage and clo
(quence, until he fairly overwhelmed
the venerable clique with derision and
sarcasm, and led the people to reject
the proposed rate by an overwhelming!
majority.
An account of this meeting, and of
the party played in it by the coffee
house keeper, reached Henry Broug
ham, then engaged in the struggle for
negro emancipation and the result
was that George Thompson left his
business in Clerkenwell to some less
talented or more congenial spirit, and
mounted the public rostrum as the
advocate of the slave.
Mr. Thompson is a most accomplish
ed and splendid orator. He possesses
every qualification of such, and from
the lips of Lord Brougham, himself at
one time styled the British Cicero, he
has received the highest laudations for
his eloquence. Eloquence is not the
highest of George Thompson’s qualifi
cations, however; he possesses in an
eminent degree the quality of moral
courage. No matter how strong the
prejudice agaiust his principles, or how j
virulent the opposition manifested to!
himself—this fearless man never
faltered.
In 1H32 and 1833, he traversed
Great Bntain, lifting his voice against
the apprentice probation, from boudage
to liberty, which was to continue in;
operation for seven years in the West j
Indies. In 1834, the negroes in the!
British colonics were free. In 1835,
full o fjoy st the triumph of justice and
liberty in his own land, he went to
America in order to |peed the advent
of emancipation there. But the spirit
of Slavery was far more virulent in the j
land of Franklin and John Quincy
Adams, than ever it had been in Bri-1
tain for in the city where stands old j
Fancuil Hail, the tar kettle was heated
and the gibbet erected, in order to
debate with this foreigner, who bad
i dared to come from a land of monarchy
and aristocracy to tell to republican j
Awcri.’Rlhat Americans were men.
if the mb uf George Thump— could
have secured freed*** to the American
stare, we believe that he would have
cheerfully USd ft down: hut neither
defy nor utility culled upon him to weed
leaely expeee htepreewms life to the
fbry of a pro-slavery mob; and so,
shaking from bis feet the dust of New
England’s ground as testimony against
her, he returned home to speak in
favor of freedom where bn at lend dared
to speak. He was engaged by the
Pence' Socirty of London, to propagate
their principles, sod to edoeate public
opinion regarding an international
arbitration policy mid he also lifted
bis voiee for the repeal of the Corn
Laws, while the country was agitated
to her core upon that quest ion.
Five or six years ago, he went to
India with the celebrated Parsec mer
chant and philanthropist, Tagore Baboo
Dwaranatb, and returned, after a short
residence in the East, the accredited
representative of the Emperor of DeL
hi. While in India, Mr. Thompson
turned his attention closely to the policy
of that corporation of merchant kings
who sit in London, and sway the desti
nies of a great continent; and be made
discoveries which were neither credka
hie to their honesty or humanity. Aye,
if the recking blood-stained soil of Xir
dia had a tongue, there would arise
such a voiee of accusation against
British cupiditv, as would make this
nation tremble. The pretence of re
straining despotism, and of carrying
civilization and good government into
India, has enabled the East India Com
pany insidiously to extend its territory
over almost the whole of HiodostaOj
and Northern India, from Belochistan;
in the North-west to Assam in the East.!
Ah! it is not benevolence, or love of;
liberty, that prompts a merchant com-j
pany to maintain thirty thousand fight-j
ing men. The sons of the British aris- j
tocracy, after a short residence, come
home fortune-laden from these sunny
climes. These fortunes are too often
purchased by crime.
While in India, Mr. Thompson be
came cognizant of a case of flagrant
injustice which had been perpetrated
on the Rajah of Sattara by the East
India Company. With his wonted;
courage and zeal, he took up the case 1
of the injured man, and began,
he returned to England,'the hopeless;
task of appealing to the Company’s di-|
rectory. He could hardly obtain a
hearing, and wa3 treated with a con
tumelious disrespect which might have
disheartened one less firm. The electors
of the Tower Hamlets, by the largest
majority ever known in England, have
placed him in a position, however, in
which not only the East India Company
but the whole British Government shall
listen to him pleading the rights and
wrongs of India.
In 1840, fie made one of his mo3t
brilliant public displays against slavery, t
and electrified the people of Scotland!
with his adjurations to the Free Kirk to
send back the money which she had
meanly consented to receive from Ame
rican slaveholders. If oratory could
havs carried moral conviction to the
hearts of Candlish aed Cunningham,
the money would have been cast out
from the coffers of their treasury as an
unclean thing. If humanity and justice
could have been enthroned in the bo
smos of these Reverend doctors” by
the force of eloquence, Scotland would
soon have been free of the shame of
that money. But, alas, our countrymen
have the bad fame of loving gt Id too
well—of worshiping Plutos too devo
tedly; aud verily, these Free Kirk
doctors have conduced to deepen this!
national stain. They uttered a few mys-
tical, metaphysical sentences, con-j
deinnatory of slavery in the abstract;
and then they followed these sentences
by a few others, approving of it in the
concrete. They shouted down the mem
bers of tfieir own Synod who dared to
talk broadly out in condemnation of the
acceptance of that slave money; and
they scornfully derided memorials that j
were presented to them by their Chris
tian fellow-countrymen, in favor of cur|
poor brethren in bondage. They wrote j
a few sophisms, which they called a re-t
remonstrance and testimony to the l
Churches in America against slavery;!
and, hear it. ye of Gath, publish it
abroad in Askelon” they kept the
money.
George Thompson is above the com
mon height, and possesses a handsome,
active frame. His form inclines t«
lightness in its proportions, rather than
strength; yet hi* shoulders are broad,
and his fine flexible voice issues from a
well-formed, capacious chest. In com
plexion, Mr. Thompson is dark. His
features are thinnish, but his face is
highly intellectual. His eyes are espe
cially keen and piercing when they are
lighted up with that enthusiasm which
appertains to his fine nervous tempera
ment. He made his debut lately in the
House of Commons, and it was a suc
cessful one. Canning and Sheridan,
two of England’s most accomplished
orators, during the days when the Brit,
ish Parliament was engaged in debating
Parliamentary reform, and in the im
peachment of Warren Hastings, both
failed w r ben they first attempted to ad
dress the House.
George Thompson’s maiden speech
was in connection with Indian affairs,'
and it was Well delivered, and as well'
received. He is now studying Eng-1
lish law, in order to qualify himself for!
(he duties of a barrister; and as un-,
likely things have come to pass as that
be may yet be High Chancellor of
England, and sit upon the wool-sack!
where his first patron sat.
If George Thompson has attained to
wealth and lame, it has never been by
worshiping the wealthy greater spend-'
ing his talents in defence of wrong,
however powerful. He has erar pled
the cause of suffering humanity, with a
strong, earnest, eloquent enthusiasm,'
since the day he threw dismay amongst
the vestrymen of Clerkenwell, to the
hour when he delivered his last oration
in the halls of St. Stephen*
Edinburgh, Scot. V. s. s.
The Cocxtbt iw Erouxs.—The
country in Enbland ia everywhere pic
turesque and beautiful. Its peculiar
greenoeaa, the ric bo sea of fto hedges,
the venerabtenesa of its trees, the
abundance of ite streams sad rivulets,
and the beauty of the cattle which dap
ple ka meads, are unrivalled aad almost
a« resembled.
M ABBIAGE Qf TUCAIf AXD
i reinm.
At Eng
land.oatbaoccaaioa of laying the iorner
stone of e new balding for the Sheffield
Athens i» and Mechanics' Institution, j
Lord MerpHb aada m admirable
speech, ia the coarse of which he made
allusion to the fabdota story of Token 1
end Veoae ia the fottmng happy
mimrr*
Those of you who have opportunity
of cuo—hmg the old legends mod classic
mythology, are aware that among the:
fancied deities with which they peopled
their world, one, more especially, was
regarded as the god of labor and handi
craft, Vokan by name, who was al
ways represented as employed in huge
smithies and workshops, hammering at;
heavy anvils, blowing huge bellows, j
heating furnaces, and begrimoaed with j
soot and dirt. Well, ladies aad gentle-
men, for this hard-working and swarthy j
looking divinity they wished to pick out
a wife. (Loud laughter.) And they did
not select for him a mere drab—a per
son taken from the scullery or kitchen
dresser, but they chose fb* him Venus,
the goddess of love and beauty.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, pick
out for «Mthe moral of* this tale; for 1
believe that nothing ever was invented
casta inly not by the polished and bril
liant imagination of the Grecian intel
lect—which has not its meaning and its
moral. 1 have nodonbt that all the le
gends of our own country —that the one
even of your own neighborhood, the
Dragon of Wantley itself—has some
appropriate allegory and meaning, if
we only knew how to find them out.—,
But what is the especial meaning of the
marriage of Vulcan and Venus—of the
hard-working artificer with his laughter-1
loving queen—of labor with beauty j
what is it, ladies and gentlemen but j
this; that, even iq a busy hive of indus
try and toil like this—even here, upon
a spot which is in many respects no
inapt representation of the fabled work
shop of Vulcan—even here, amid the
clang of anvils, the noise of furnaces,
and the spluttering of forges—even
here, amid stunning sounds and sooty
blackness, the mind—the untrammeled
mind—may go forth, may pierce the j
dim atmosphere which is poised around j
us, may wing its way to the freeer air;
and purer light which are beyond, and
may ally itself with all that is most fair,j
genial and Jovely in creation. (Ap- J
plausc.)
So, gentlemen, I say, your labor,
your downright, hard, swarthy labor,
may make itself the companion, the
helpmate, and the husband of beauty.
I dare say, and have reason to believe,
from the inspection which I aim able
even now to command, and I have no
doubt a more intimate acquaintace with
your wives, sisters, and daughters,
would enable me to prove that I was not
wrong in my illustration. But above
this beauty, say your labor may ally
itself with intellectual beauty the
beauty connected with the creation of
genius—beauty such as painting fixes
upon the glowing canvas—such as the
sculptor embodies in the breathing mar
ble—such as architecture developcs in
her stately and harmonious proportions I
beauty, such as music clothes with'
the enchantments of sound. But there j
is a beauty of a still higher order, with
which I feel more assured it is still open
to unite itself. I mean with moral
beauty—beauty connected with the af
fections, the conscience, the heart, and
the life. (Loud cheers.)
It is true, that in the busiest and i
blackest of your workshps—in the most j
wearying and monotonous tasks of daily
drudgery, as also in the very humblest!
of your own dwellings—by the smallest
of your firesides, you may, one andj
each of you, in the zealous and cheer- j
ful discharge of the daily duty, in re- j
sped for the just rights, and in consid
eration for the feeling of others—in a j
meekness and sobriety of spirit, and in I
the thousand charities and kindnesses
of social and domestic intercourse—!
even this you may attain to, and ex-'
hibit, the moral beauty of which I have
spoken—beauty beyond all others in I
degree and excellence, because, in pro-j
portion as it can be reached, it makes
up the perfection of man’s nature here I
below, and is the most faithful reflection
of the will of his Creator, (applause.) j
And thus 1 will close my explanation of;
the marriage of Vulcan with Venus, of
labor with beauty.
Fran the Pruoner’f Friend.
JOHN Q. ADAMS ON CAPITAL
PUNISHMENT.
In looking over the life of Mr. Ad
ams, each party w’ill doubtless seek
out his opinions; each reform will claim
him. We confegs that while we would
not rest the whole question upon mere
human opinion, that we do think the
views of such a man are worthy of the
deepest consideration. It was his in
tention at one time to introduce a bill
into Congress for the abolition of the
death penalty. His words now come
to us in solemn tones. “He being
dead, yet speaketh.” No man had a
more perfect history of human govern
ment. No man knew better the folly
and madness of attempting to stay the
shedding of blood by taking the life of
the murderer. Ho was iovited to at
tend a meeting of the National Society j
for the Abolition of Capital Punish
ment, at the bead of which is Hon.
Geo. M. Dallas, Vice President of the
United States. The following was his
I do therefore heartily wish and
pray for the success of your efforts to
protnofe the abolition of Capital Pun
ishment, and if you can shape the laws
of the land to a disclaimer of the right
of Government itself to take from any
human being the life granted him by
his Creator, 1 would welcome it as the
harbinger of a brighter day, when no
individual of the raee of naan shall ever
lose his life by the act of another.
I am very respectfalfy, gentlemen,
your friend and fellow citizen,
“John Quincy Aoams.’*
In an interview which we had with
Mr. Adams, we asked which was the
most cruel coda on earth. We tamed
to Virginia with her aeveaty-one capi
tal offences for the bhel mao, end one
for the white. He said that was the
went code on earth. The above letter
speaks for itself. We make no further
comments el freer nt. —c. s.
LITE—LB? UTB-HELF LIT*.
Utere are three aorta of |*ople in this
world, who ma; he characterizes by
the moooajrUahlea above. First, there
are those who take fer their motto—
Lire—live, regardless of ©there—live,
if others die—live for one’s self and to
one's self. Sock persons care for no
bod/ but themselves, —they think of
nobody else. They have got on in the
world, k may be without much aid from
others* and others most get mi at they
can, or stick by the way, it is all one to
these, it is none of their business; they
are act their brother’s keeper. These
are isproM/tf selfish men.
There is another class of men among
us whose motto is—Live and let live.
They are glad to have their neighbors
Jive sad prosper; but it mast be with*
out their help. Their first and great
inquiry is, Who will show w any
good?—How will this affect my in
terest?—ShnH 1 gain any thing by it?
If such men can be quite sure that any
thing they may do for another will re
turn ultimately to their own benefit they
will cheerfully lend a helping hand.
And in some cases, they will even help
a friend in need, if persuaded that it
will in no way operate to their disad
vantage or inconvenience. Otherwise
they are as deaf as dead ruen to all
who approach them.—These are simp
ly selfish men.
There is yet a third class of men,
(rorte ores) whose motto is—Live and
help others to live. They are not in
attentive to their own affairs or their
own interests; but they seek not their
own exclusively. They are not merely
willing to let others live around them,
but they are wiUing to help others to
live, and even to subject themselves to
inconvenience and trouble in order to
do this. And all this they will do
without first stopping to ask—shall I
fet my reward if I lend a dollar, shall
get two in return They are men
who act either from the impulses of
kind and generous dispositions, or men
whose principles of action have been
derived from the teachings and exam
ple of him who went about
good,” who sought not his own but the
things which were another’s, who was
never unmindful to do good- and com
municate as he had opportunity. These
are truly benevolent men.
We have now finished our discourse,
and leave it to each reader to say,which
is the better man? and to which class
he himself belongs.— Traveller.
EFFECTS OF CHLOROFORM.
To guard against the abuses of the
new remedial agent is of very great
importance, not merely to prevent its
perversion to injurious and demoraliz
ing purposes, but that its utility may
be perfectly established by rational and
enlightened experience. Much is yet
to be learned as to the modes of its
preparation and preservation, so that
it may be of uniform strength; which
is known not to he the case with that
procured from different venders, and i
hence the variation in the results re
ported in different experiments. So
also, the best mode, and safest propor-!
tions, for its administration, cannot he
said yet to be ascertained. Nor, in
deed, can we yet decide how far it is
reliable, without a still greater number j
of trials, in many of the emergencies'
in which its adaptation is theoretically
inferred. Especially dors it remain
to he established how far it is judicious
and appropriate to empl >y the inhala
tion of chloroform, with the view of
suspending conscious suffering during
maternal travail.
Thus far, experience and authority
will lully justify a resort to this agency
in the various forms of preternatural,
complicated or instrumental labor. In
deed, on the occurrence of any patho
logical condition duriug labor, which
involves extreme suffering or hazard to:
the mother, a failure to avail ourselves!
and our patients of this new resource
would be inexcusable; but its inno
cence and safety should he more fully'
confirmed by the testimony of expe
rience before it would be discreet to,
employ it indiscriminately in natural
labor, when the mother is in health.;
That it may be thus used by mercenary
members of our profession, is one of
the dangers attendant upon the pub
licity which chloroform and its effects
have received. Let us beware lest t
this blessing be turned into a curse,
and this by carefully discriminating be
tween its u«e and its abuse. If this
can be effectually done, the chloroform
promises to be a precious boon of sci
ence to suffering humanity. Boston
Medical Journal.
INSECTS IN THE WEST INDIES.
The Rev. Sydney Smith gives the
J following account of the swarms of)
insects and reptiles which infest the
West Indies Insects are the curse
of tropical climates. The bete rouge
l lays the foundation of a tremendous
ulcer. In a moment, you are covered
with ticks. Chigoes bury themselves
in your flesh, and hatch a colony oC
young chigoes in a few hours. Theyi
will not live together, but every chigoe
sets up a separate ulcer, and hatf its'
own private portion of pus. Flies get
entry into your mouth, into your eyes, i
into your nose; you eat flies, drink
flies, and breathe flies. Lizards, cock
roaches, and snakes, get into the bed;
ants eat up the books; scorpions sting
you on the foot. Everything bites,)
stings, or bruises; every second of
your existence you are wounded by i
some piece of animal life that nobody
bas ever seen before, except Swam
merdam and Mariam. An insect with 1
eleven legs is swimming in your tea
cup, a nondescript with nine wings is
struggling in the small beer, or a cater- j
pilfer with several dozen of eyes in his j
belly, is hastening over the bread and
butter! All nature is alive, and seems
to be gathering all her entomological
boat to eat you up, as you are standing
out of your coat, waistcoat, and
breeches. Such are the tropics. All
this reconciles ns to our dews, logs,
vapors and drizzle—to our apothe
caries rushing about with gargles and
tincture* to our old British coast it
t tonal cough, sore throats, and swelled
facef.
Tim. Cb.«ob—FraUa”. Bather
in-law thought that he could not live in
America, when he started his paper,
j because—them was “one paper in
j America already.
ESTATES OP THE ENGLISH AND
SCOTTISH MOBILITY.
There is something patriarchal in
the immense possessions of the English
and Scotch nobility, in those estates
covered with inhabitants; in those po
pulations which depend ahnost entirely
on their lords, and who might be their
fathers.
These large properties of the nobih
ty, which sometimes entirely exclude
the small proprietors, produce a me
lancholy impression. >Yhcn 1 have
been walking in one of those beautiful
English parks, so fresh ai.d
so dotted with stately trees, charming
with the grace.ul undulations of the
soil, and with their beautiful lakes, 1
occasionally felt an indescribable sad
ness. I saw nothing but foliage upon
foliage; the only sign of life was the
cawing of the rooks, necessary inhabit
ants of these velvet glades. “Oh,
who can restore me,'* thought 1, these
smiling habitations, the delighted ham
lets, the lively villages of my ov. n
Switzerland I gazed anxiously
around, trying to discover among the
trees the appearance of a roof; and
could 1 but perceive the slightest trace.
I ran forward that 1 might see some
peasant, man or woman, —some symp
tom of lile.
This is still more striking in Scot
land. You may travel for nnl«»
through the Highlands, without incit
ing other inhabitants than thousands
of sheep feeding in solitude. “I*
Switzerland,” I said to mysil.*,“ the.
hill-sides would be divided among
several owners; here would he a farm,
there a chalet, and everywhere the
animation of a free people.” Vet
there are some exceptions. When l
drew near that charming site at the
extremity of Loch Tay, close by the
romantic Kcnmore, on which rises the
stately palace of the Breadallmiif»,
(many Genevese will ri member that
•he present Marquis of Brcadalhnnc,
then Lord Glenorchy, visited their citv
twenty-fivc or thirty years ago,) I was
delighted to find the country dotted
with cottages, covered with roses, and
to see the healthy ruddy children play
ing before their smiling homes. It was
like an oasis created by the beneficence
of a Christian lord. But in grneial
there is a desert. It is not long since,
instead of the system of small fauns,
the landlords have substituted large
ones, and the unfortunate small farm
ers, finding themselves outbid, have
been obliged to forsake their beloved
mountains, ami emigrate either to the
antipodes, to New Holland, ov to throw
themselves into the ever-open and ever
devouring gulf of the manufacturing
towns of England and Scotland. It often
happens that one lord is the sole pro
prietor of a whole county, from one
sea to another; and he can, as has
often been done w ithin these few years,
refuse the Christians who inhabit his
estnte, a site of thirty feet square in
which they may worship God. It
would be a glorious task for the states
men who preside over the destinv f
Britain, and whom no difficulties Van
deter, to seek some legal means of
establishing small propeities in Scot
land, and delivering the country from
the oppression of a few lairds.—Or.
Mtrlt D*-iubignc.
“Why jUo.n’t wt Grow?”— The
Louisville Examiner contains the follow
irig answer, to the question often pro
pounded in slave States—“ Why don't
w e grow r”
Slavery costs us millions. ho bad
now tilled our feitiie lands if the State
had been free? yV hat now would have
been our annual earnings if slavery had
not blacked our soil? All around'u»—
in sight of our first settled It ines—pro
gress marks and makes everything in
the free States—converting wilderness
countries into thick settlements, swell
ing villages into towns, towns into chit s,
and cities into mighty marts rf a
thriving commerce, and we stand still
stand stock still, as if an incubus were
upon us, and we had no power to heavo
it off—as if we were the slaves of a bon
dage as galling us any man can suffer.
Let it be so no more! The world
bids us play the part of men—let us do
it. Christianity appeals to us with a
trusting, living spirit—let us answer In r
rightly. Self-interest urges us to set
free the slave—let us do it.
A Naturalist in Trouble. —One
morning I was very successful in col
lecting butterflies, and a great number
of birds were shot by myself and com
panions. I carefully unpacked them,
and had hardly laid them for a moment
in the snn to dry, when a servant came
in with the news, Master, crows
come, take yellow birds!” 1 looked
round, and, sure enough half the birds
were gone. I hastily caught up the
remainder, and brought them in-doors;
but in half an hour, perceived that
millions of microscopic ants had picked
the skin clean from the feathers, not
withstanding the arsenic I had applied
to it. A peep into my insect-box com
pletely floored me: the whole collec
tion was turned into dust and dirt. The
crows sat very quietly on the open,
door, as if in mockery of my luxation;,
and the ants marched in a long Hack
file to my glass of sugar and water,
which they tilled w ith then* carcases.—
llujjuitiiltr't Ltltrrs.
Female Education.— lt was a ju
dicious resolution of a father, as well
as a most pleasing compliment to hi*
wife, when, on being asked what he in
tended to do with bis girls, ho replied.
I intend to apprentice them to their
excellent mother, that they mav lesrn
the art of improving their time, and bo
fitted to become like her, wives, moth
ers, heads of fsmlies, and useful mem
ber, of society Equally just hut
bitterly painful, was the remark of the
unhappy husband of a vain, thought
less. dressy slattern, “hi, hard to
say it, br if my girls are to have »nv
chance of growing up good for any
thing, they most be sent out of the wav
of their mother’s example.”
Liaixixo.— He that wants good
j* unhappy in having learning,
for T thereby more ways of cx
poaiaf himself; and be that has sense*
that learning is not knowledge,
hot rather the art of aeing it.
Truth hath its foundation in Ktcr
i ally, and is ever-enduring; Error is
the offspring of Time, and ha* but a
temporary existence.