To my colored brothers and sisters in the
Free (so called) and Slave States of
America:
It has been a long time impressed upon
my mind to send you a few lines to the
North Star, expressive of my deep
sympathy for you, my dear friends, in
your mock Republic.
From a child, my mind has felt your
persecutions and bonds, as being bound
with you, and every day my humble
breathings are towards you, and longs
for your deliverance; and I hope the
time is not far distant when the rightful
Ruler of the universe will stay the
hands of the proud oppressor, although
every way at present appears closed
up. When I first read of the Ameri
can Congress passing the fugitive slave
law, I cannot express to you the burn
ing indignation which filled my bosom,
as I perused the statement in “Lloyd's
Gazette.” Oh the heartless wretches
who could frame and support such a
fiendish production! I pity them from
the bottom of my soul, and would a
thousand times sooner be a flying fugi
tive than the wretch who could sign j
or put in force such a satanic law.—
Surely there never was a conclave in
the darkest ages of the inquisition, but
would have shrunk from such an inven
tion of cruelty. Your oppressors may
have white faces, but their hearts are J
as black as the botloiuiets pit. I’hey
are graves and sepulchres which are
full of all uncleanness and iniquity;
and how is it possible that men commit
ting such deeds can expect to escape
the damnation of hell, which sentence
I am sure was soanded in the ears of
much less guilty hypocrites of old.
After reading the passing of that in
famous hill, 1 settled down a little,
hoping the freemen in the North would
never prove 6uch traitors to humanity
aa to deliver up the noble fugitive; hut
when I heard of our friend Hamlet
being seized by Northern men in New
York, and sent back into slavery, I
was surprised. Oh. the condign dis
grace that ages will heap upon such
traitor’s names. I loathe them and
their acts with perfect j; ”.gust, and so
does every friend of humanity on this
aide of the water. Indeed, but little
else is talked of here but the atrocities
in your mock model republic and boast
ed land of freedom. The names of
your Congressmen who framed and
aided the passing of that infernal bill,
will be handed down to posterity as the
vilest of mankind. They may think
that they are the great ones of the
earth, but they may rest assured that
their names stink in the nostrils of ev
ery honest-minded man; and as sure 1
as day succeedeth night, they will re
ceive the reward of iheir doings. If
you, my dear friends, act up to the
light which a Divine band has stamped
upon your hearts, you will make a much
more peacelul end than your oppress
ors, and your names will be held in
everlasting remembrance. Therefore,
envy not the oppressor, and choose
none of his ways, for when the wicked
grow up as the grass, aud when all the
workers of iniquity do flourish, it is
that they shall’ be destroyed forever.
What honest-minded man could envy
the life and character of a Zachary
Taylor, or a Calhoun, with their cruel
deeds and rocky hearts—yes, hearts as
hard as a millstone, which could not
be penetrated with the cries of our
common humanity. And what can 1
say of the recreant lick-spittle, Daniel
Webster, or the fawning, spaniel
minded Millard Fillmore, the servile
cruucher to Southern lords and human
flesh-mongers, and the head of a Con
gress of vipers, who appear to be rap
idly filling up the measure of their ini
quities, for their acts are an outrage
against every child of man.
You, my dear colored friends, are
infinitely better (although many of you
are in cotton-fields) than those vile
men who are the slaves of avarice,
the covetous whom the Lord abbor
etb,” and robbers of the fatherless and
widow, the oppressors of the poor, the
offenders of the little ones of Christ’s
flock, the enslavers of the bodies and
•ouls of downtrodden humanity, and
all for Achan’s portion.
Thou cursed lust of gold, what myr
iads have sacrified their all for thee!—
Take courage, my dear friends! your
deliverance draweth nigh, for the Lord
shall fight for you; only be followers of
truth and righteousness, and you shall
»ee the salvation of our Lord. Don’t
THE NORTH STAR.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS, E*it.r ill Preprlf lor.
VOL. IV. NO. 4.
join in the wicked and vain customs
which may tempt you on every side,
and particularly the drinking customs.
If you are desirous that generations
yet unborn should be happy, then cast
the drinking customs from you, both in
root and branch; and next to them,
cast overboard that dirty, filthy and
disagreeable practice of using tobacco,
with every other useless and vain ap
pendage; for what is so beautiful in
creation as a matt or woman with a
virtuous mind, and untrammeled with
artificial wants. Real worth and virtue
want no outward trappings to recom
mend themselves; their own merits
commend them both in the sight of our
Heavenly Father and the truly good
among mankind. You whom a kind
Providence has blessed with abundance
of this world’s goods, always esteem it
a favor to assist your less favored
brethren, and labor for their best wel
fare. The liberal soul shall be made
fat, and he that vvatcreth shall be wa
tered also himself.” “There is that
which scattereth and yet increaseth;
and there is that withholdeth more than
is meet, but it sendeth to poverty.” Is
it not a great pity that there should be
so many narrow-minded souls in exist
ence, insatiately grasping at that which
never gave, nor never will give, true
happiness
Be true and kind to each other, for
you shall certainly be delivered by a
high hand and an outstretched arm, for
hear you not already the sound of the
chariot of freedom. Its sound is in
every breeze, and rustles amongst the
leaves of every tree; it murmurs in
every running stream, and roars in
every ocean’s surge; the echo is re
peated with every new fugitive, and it
throbs in the pulses of every living
thing, and it shall come upon your op
pressors like a thunder-storm, and their
reign of cruelty and blood shall cease
forever.
From your affectionate brother,
A British laborer for
Equal Rights.
Lockport, 12th mo. 2d.
Frederick Douglass: —l enclose
$2 to pay my subscription to the North
Star the current year. May its course
be onward until it shall have witnessed
the entire emancipation of man from
slavery. The infamy of the fugitive
slave bill is showing itself in its nat
ural deformity, and the poor white
slaves of perjured kidnappers at the
North stand up in all their beauty.— j
Mr. U. S. Commissioner Ingraham, ofj
Philadelphia, a man of eminent legaL
attainments, but totally .lost to every
sense of humanity and justice, is a fair
specimen of the wretches that infamous!
law clothes with authority to sit in
judgment on 'he liberty of freemen.— i
The idea that even a jury of twelve
impartial men may even be clothed j
with power to decide whether I shall be
sent a slave for life to a southern cotton
field is terrible! but when such men as
Ingraham, with an offer of a bribe, are
to have the sole power of deciding
whether I shall be a slave for life to
someSonthern man-stealerev, ery feel
ing is aroused, and one involuntarily
exclaims, Give me liberty or give me
death.” Is this in accordance with
American freedom —to make laws
clothing bribed wretches with power to
send freemen into slavery Hold up
to the gaze of the world the represent
atives who dared sanction, directly or
indirectly, such a law, the President
who approved it, and the slaves who
dare execute it! There is infamy
enough for the whole tribe to cover
them so deep in disgrace that the
sound of the arch-angel’s trump will
never reach them.” Surely, such men
—no, wretches—can never be “count
ed worthy to attain” any resurrection
hut that of deep, lasting and damning
disgrace.
It has been suggested by a silver
grey” and Huiflter,” that Ingraham
should be removed from office. I think
however he should keep his place.—
He is the right man to hold office lin-;
der the fugitive slave law. No man
having a soul or conscience would for a
moment think of taking office under it. j
The law is approved by the Northern*
dough-faces, and ought to toe adminis
tered by Ingraham to show fortS its
beauties. 1 hope the removal ot In
graham will not be urged. Indeed, I
regret having signed a petition to repeal
the law. Its working will do more to
open the eyes of the people than two
thousand anti-slavery lecturers. So
please say nothing about repealing this
law, this bantling of Northern dough
faces, and under the special protection
of silver greys and hunkers.
Very respectfully,
L. A. Spalding.
S e U t lions.
AMERICAN SLAVE EMANCIPA
TION AND BRITISH POLITICAL
REFORM.
On Tuesday evening a public meet
ing of the working classes and others
in this cit/ friendly to the emancipation
of American slaves, and a just measure
of political reform in the British House
of commons, was held in the City Hall,
Candleriggs Street, to adopt resolutions
against the infamous Fugitive Slave
Bill recently enacted in America; and
in favor of political reform in this coun
try. The following gentlemen occu
pied the platform;—James Turner,
Esq. ofThrushgrove, Robert Simpson,
Esq., Wm. Smeal, Esq Andw. Paton,
Esq., Andw. Inglis, hat manufacturer;
Messrs. Malcolm Macfarlane, Thomas
Brown, James Rattray, Matthew Cul
len, James Hoey, James Wilkinson,
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR; GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
John Stephenson, Cooper, Alex
Simpson, Andrew Cortoy, a person of
color, &c. &c.
On the motion of Mr. A. Simpson,
Mr. Matthew Cullen was called to the
chair by acclamation.
The Chairman, in a clear and effect
ive speech, stated the objects for
which the meeting had been convened,
and which, he said, had been wholly
got up by working men, to affoid their
fellow workmen of this city an opportu
nity of expressing their sympathy with
the oppressed, wherever they were;
and he was happy to see, from the nu
merous attendance before him, that
their efforts were appreciated, and that
oppression or the oppressor found no
sympathy in their bosoms.
Mr. Malcolm MacFarlane then came
forward amid loud cheering and pro
posed the first resolution, which de
nounced slavery as subversive of the
most obvious principles of reason, jus
tice, and religion, and calling upon
America to grant immediate emancipa
tion to the three million slaves she
holds in cruel bondage. He enforced
the sentiments of the resolution in a for
cible and argumentative and feeling ad
dress, which was listened to with mark
ed attention, and elicited frequent and
prolonged applause.
Mr. Wilson seconded the motion,
which was carried by a unanimous
show of hands.
Mr. Thomas Brown proposed the
secqpd resolution, which repudiated
the unchristian and degrading doctrine
should hold properly in man,
and denounced the Fugitive Slave Bill
as a flagrant insult on humanity, and
not binding on the conscience of any
good citizen. He enforced his motion
in a most eloquent and thrilling speech,
which made a deep impression on the
audience, and met with frequent mani
festations of approbation. He then
made a few remarks as to the nature
and effects of slavery, ard proceeded
as follows:—I shall, sir, with your per
mission, read a few of the more atro
cious clauses ofthis Fugitive Slave Bill,
so that you may judge for yourselves
whether the men who framed it, or the
men who sanctioned it, had any desire
to let the oppressed go free. And will
it be believed Uiat the defenders of
such a bill, the supporters of a system
which consigns to a felon’s doom the
man who is humane enough tosuccor
the flying fugitive—will it, we say, be
believed that the defenders of that bill
have publicly secured the sanction of
some of the most eminent theologians
of America/ Leonard Woods f and
Thomas Stuart, men of Europeanf ce
lebrity in theological literature? Both
of them approved of the information to
the course pursued by that arch-apos
tate, D. Webster, for his treachery to
the cause of liberty, by adhibiting their
names to a congratulatory address,
thanking this endorsing his declaration,
that the north was under a moral obli
gation to the south to send back the
caped of the oppressed, as if, forsooth,
there could in any circumstance t>e a
moral obligation for an immoral act.
Yet these are the men who talk of the
fanaticisms of the abolitionists, the ex
travagance of their language, and the
heterodoxy of their sentiments, as if,
forsooth, men who had made a cove
nant with death and an agreement with
hell were fitted to occupy the posts of
senators. We are not here to defend
the abolitionists—we are not here to
say amen to the sayings and doings of
anybody, but this we will say—that for
the errors of the abolitionists, where
they have erred, we have to thank the
apathy, the lukewarmness, the stolid
indifference, and the determined oppo
sition of the churches of America.
Such language may seem strong, but it
is not stronger than the crisis requires.
It may be objected to as personal by
those who have a morbid dread of per
sonality. There is a class pretty nu
merous in our times, with whom your
words are all very well ao long as you
deal in sage generality, so long as you
shoot your arrows in the air, they ad
mire the archery and applaud the
archer; but the moment you begin to
take up arms they have done with you;
j the moment you begin to specify, you
are deemed horribly personal. Those
men forget that a duty is not created by
smiles, so neither is it annihilated by
frowns. We are not then to be deterr
ed by any posthumous fear of offence
from the utterance of our honest indig
nation against a system of iniquity,
which is the aim ofvillany. The course
of America in the matter of slavery is a
downward course, its steps take hold of
i hell, going down to the chambers of
death, unroused by the fat* of the great
republic of antiquity. This greatest of
modern republics is standing fast upon
the rock, on which they split. She is
rousing the vulture (hat is yet to prey
upon her vitals. She is now sowing
broadly throughout her ample territory
the dragon’s teeth, which shall ere long
spring up armed men. And yet she
hears not the steps of doom along her
future windings. While the nations of
Europe are shaking from their fetters—
while the spirit of freedom is summon
ing the nations from their slumbers,
and they are shaking from them the
dust which has for ages clung around
them, re-appearing in renovated glory,
America seems ready to wrap around
her the night clothes of old Europe,
and has cast aside the thing more close
ly to her—chartered freedom. It is
deeply to be regretted the compromise
into which the men who achieved her
independence entered with the slave
power. It has worked as all compro
mises ever work, in vitiating the good
worker*, without in the least reforming
the bid. During the ware of the Rev-
ROCHESTER, N. Y., THURSDAY, JANUARY 16, 1851.
olution the prejudice against color had
little or no existence. The negro
messed at the same table with bis com
panions in arms, and mingled with them
on a footing of at least equality. Frank
lin was the President of an Anti-Sla
very Society, and Washington eould
write letters to a colored woman. But
prejudice has grown apace, it has sto
len along with woollen feet, and has
struck at last with iron hands. For
merly slavery waabarely tolerated, now
it is a venerated thing, a pattern insti
tution; andtfcv slaveholder over-work
ing the man, it is now their delight to
honor and execute his behest. The
American people have prostrated the
manhood of their nation, by constituting
themselves the watch-dogs of the plant
er. It is vain for political tricksters to
shut from the eyes of the woild the in
famy and odiousness of the position of
Mr. Webster. Talk not to us of law
demanding the degradation. There is
a law nobler and fairer than any parch
ment enactment, which spurns it—that
law written by the finger of the Creator
in the human soul. Respect for the
laws of earthly authority is good; but
when human laws are in opposition to
the divine, th»en the path of duty is plain.
Let us then endeavor io sustain this sen
timent in opposition to the obsequious
hindrances to mere authority, without
reference to the fact of whether that au
thority is legitimate; and let us remem
ber that as all power is of God, so
whatever power is not a copy of the di
vine will is a power unworthy of being
obeyed, and holding such principles, let
it be known that such are our princi
ples. Let us hold them in the face of
tyrant magistrates wherever we meet
them. Let our master know he may
break, but they will not bend us; so
shall we, by our unswerving attach
ment to our principles, cheer on and
sustain our transatlantic friends, who
are at this time bearding one of the
fiercest and most despotic tyrants that
the strife of party or the war of princi
ples ever ushered into existence. Up
then, we say to our brethren—up in
freedom’s manly part, from greybeard
old to fiery youth, and on the nation’s
naked heart scatter the burning words
oftruth. These are stirring times that
are parsing over us—times fitted to test
our faith. The truth-throes of a new
epoch are upon us. Society, enfeebled
and decayed, seems like some weath
er-worn edifice, on which the storms of
time have done their work, and over
whose ruins these storms are ready to
sing the death Nevertheless,
amid the 'clouds and darkness which
now eurrfflPßTTia, as glorious a dawn
of truth may arise as ever the sun in
her zenith shone upon. Mr. Brown
concluded amidst loud and continued
cheering.
Mr. John Stephenson having second
ed the motion, it was unanimously car
ried.
Mr. James Rattray (hen moved the
third resolution, protesting aaginst the
policy which deprived so large a por
tion of the people in this country of the
elective franchise, which being sec
onded by Mr Andrew Paton, was also
carried.
Mr. James Hoey after a few perti
nent observations, read the following.
APPEAL AND REMONSTRANCE.
To the working men of the United
States of America, who are invested
with the elective franchise.
Fellow-Workmen. We, the
working and unenfranchised classes of
the City of Glasgow, in North Britain,
have resolved at a public meeting held
on the 26tb Nov., 1850, to address you,
our brethren in the United States, rel
ative to your connection with the insti
tution of slavery in your country, and
more especially in reference to the re
cent passing of the Fugitive Slave Bill
by the Legislative Houses of Assembly
and Congress respectively. As re
gards the propriety of the course we
thus adopt, let us state in substance
that our claims upon the industrious
portion of Western Republic, are
such as enable us to throw aside all re
serve in giving a full and open expres
sion of our thoughts and feelings, and
we feel ourselves perfectly free,in using
the language of expostulation, remon
strance, and likewise reproof. The
circumstances in which we are rela
tively placed admit of candor as well as
plainness of speech. Having a com
mon origin, a common language, and
a common ancestry, we feel in some
measure bound to you as brethren of
one family, although the restless waves
of the great ocean incessantly roll be
tween the places of our habitation; be
sides, there is also an undisputed kin
ship in our relution to the universal
brotherhood of men. We are disposed
to hold last by the truth of that declar
ation that “God hath made of one blood
all nations of men that dwell upon the
face of the earth.” The aimospherer
ic act ion of certain latitudes may tinge
our complexions with divers colors, yet,
notwithstanding, human identity is com
plete. In the inner man there are the
same kindly affections and generous
emotions among every race under
heaven. The negro mother of Central
Africa is possessed of ns much fervent
love for her offspring as the most fin
ished lady in London or New York; the
law of maternal sympathy being equal
ly inscribed inside the sable tabernacle
of Ethiopians as within the purest cov
ering of white, that any female inhabit
ant of Europe may inherit, your maid
en slave of South Carolina, and the
most delicately formed of the daughters
of your Northern States, are alike fash
ioned by the unerring hand of the great
Creator, and if these things ore so,
the simple question ie appropriate,
Who hath made thee to differ
Most certainly you cannot “by tak
ing thought add one cubic to you
stature.” Our impotency in these
things is without doubt. Men may buy
and sell their brethren for a p’ece of
silver, but to change their raven locks
into the similitude offlaxen fibre is be
yond their power. But if, after all, it
is found that some are less honorable
from no fault of theirs, then the divine
law respecting such is, the bestowment
of more abundant honor on these mem
bers that are less honorable It is an
exalted Christian virtue, for the strong
to bear the burdens of the weak, and
not seek his own profit in their oppres
sion. Then again all men are alike
as regards their destiny. In the place
of sepulchres invidious distinctions are
unknown. Our fathers where are
they Those of them who fought, bled,
and died for the liberties we possess in
Old Caledonia, and your fathers who
fought, bled, and died for that measure
of freedom you claim in the western
world, have* all gone to rest along with
the sable children of St. Domingo. The
colored descendants of them that did
so valiantly in behalf of independence
in that distant isle, have equal cause
with us to cherish the memories of their
heroic ancestors. Toussaint L’Ouver
ture, their general in chief, was a man
not a whit behind our Wallace or your
Washington in those qualities that are
requisite for leadership in any great
struggle where truth and freedom are
at stake. As it is with all ihese, so
sure will it be with us but a few years
hence. Our hatred and our love will be
alike forgotten in that place where “the
slave is free from his master, and the
weary are at rest.” But perhaps you
are ready to say that these relation
ships are too general by far to warrant
our interference witn the internal ar
rangements of any confederacy or na
tion. In answer to such an objection
we remark that in the ordinary and le
gitimate legislation of any community
no neutral party has a right to inter
meddle. Neither would we seek in
any instance of common policy to take
the same course we now feel called up
on to do, were it not that millions of
our brethren and sisters are enslaved
in our midst; bought and sold in the
market for an earthly consideration—
many of whom at this present time are
fleeing from the hand of the spoiler,
seeking refuge on the cold, and to them
inhospitable, soil of the Canadas, in
preference to the land of perverted and
despotic republicanism. Another rea
son for our leeling more at liberty to
remonstrate with any people as to their
misdeeds, lies in the fact, that we have
eo franchise ourselves. Being thus lit
erally without the pale of the British
nonstitution, we hold ourselves to be
more the citizens of the world. On
that account the prudential coquetting
of diplomatic agency we care little for;
hence our directing with you the law
makers of another country. But yet
you may taunt us with being in bond
age to the aristocracy of this nation; to
a certain degree, we admit that we are,
although they have not as yet put any
of us or our children up for sale on the
auction block. Nay, some of them did
a noble work for slave emancipation in
the West Indian colonies; and, without
abating one jot of our'hatred of aristo
cratic misrule, we believe that a repeal
of our colonial emancipation act would
be altogether an impossible thing—
whereas in the boasted democracy of
the west, fugitive slave bills are quite
the order of the day. We have pro
tested long and struggled vigorously
for our due share of political power, but
ever and anon we have found the spir
it of domination ready to find an ex
cuse for our exclusion from it in the
misdeeds of others rather than our own.
The land'ord and other dominating
classes of this country are quite in the
habit of nailing ua up to the cross be
tween Napoleonism in France and the
slaveocracy of America. To you,
therefore, our appeal is made to re
move this latter stumbling-block out of
our way. You have the power; let the
world and us have the benefit of your
will, in the overthrow of a system
which has done more to retard the pro
gress of genuine liberty than any other
cause known to civilized man. The
enslavement of three millions of human
beings iu the heart of a boasted democ
racy is a living argument to the up
holders of despotic rule throughout the
world. We have heard of your indig
nant protest against the invasion of pa
triotic Hungary by Russian hordes.
Be it known to you that such a mani
festation offeeling is ungraceful on your
part. Russian despotism has consist
ency in its favor, whereas republican
ism with you is but a snare, to entrap
the simple-minded negro, making him a
prey to the most villanous scheme of
oppression on which the sun ever
shone* A French army at Rome in the
name of a Republic, to beat down Ro
man liberty, is a feeble representation
of that spirit which holds in servile
bondage, the weak and helpless of our
race. The despots of Europe have
some credit for fact and ability in their
successful resistance to majorities of
men claiming elective power as their
birthright; but to find a majority of any
commonwealth crushing the lesser
number with an iron hand, brings out a
state of feeling peculiarly mean and
despicable. We can hardly believe
that you have considered fully the rela- i
tion you bear to the hideous wrong of
which we complain. Tha elective con
stituency of this nation have their faults
in abundance. To their detestable ex
clusiveness we are at perpetual war;
but to be a party to the vile and odious
selfishness which «induces a man to
claim proparty in hit brother, is to all
TERMS-—s 2 Per Asua, Invariably Kb Adraiee.
intents and purposes to sum up the en
tire account of injustice and atrocity.
Then the dissimulation connected with
the distribution of power both in Great
Britain and America is apparent. The
theory of the constitution which profess
es to shield us from all political wrong,
is that taxation without representation
is robbery. Then on the other hand,
the theory of the constitution of the
United States, as you well know, is that
all men are created free ar.d equal,
having a right to “life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness.” What now is
the practice in this nation, and in your
commonwealth? In the former every
sixth or seventh male inhabitant has, or
may have the privilege of being repre
sented, while the great mass are pas
sive instruments as far as law-making
is concerned. With you, again, there
are millions of veritable slaves to grace
the greatest Republic that ever the
sons of men have witnessed. Hence
the law-makers of these two vast com
munities stand before the world con
victed as a combination of dissimula
tors, forming within themselves an “or
ganized hypocrisy” wanting faith in
their own professed principles, the fruits
of which are misery and woe to all on
whom their baneful influence may op
erate. We would here bring under
your special notice the reaction upon
your own interest which the abuse of
political power has excited. You stand
as one barrier in the way of cfbr en
franchisement; the tendency of this is
to perpetuate the laws of primogeniture
and entail in this country, whose ruin
ous operations has the most direct ef
fect in overcrowding the labor market
in all its departments. The conse
quence of this state of things must be
seen at a single glance. Emigration to
America is the most natural outlet to
the over-abundance of willing hands on
this side of the Atlantic. Be not then
churlish and rude to the Scotch, Eng
lish, or Irish artizan, although ho finds
a place beside you in the work-shops oi
any city or township in the land where
you dwell. He is there not so much ot
his own will,*as, according to the law of
supply and demand—a law, bythe way,
which the landlord class of Britain and
you, the democracy of the Far West,
have stultified in its legitimate opera
tions, bringing want to many a home in
these islands, and, as a natural result,
subjecting yourselves to a pressing
competition which we understand is by
no means taken at its true value in the
various localities where it exists. And,
farther, we had long cherished the
hope that the yoke of bondage had un
dergone a process of decay, which at
no distant date would terminate in utter
extinction; but in the passing of the
Fugitive Slave Bill, our most ardent
expectations have been completely dis
appointed. In it we have an indication
that the hearts of your legislators are
“fully set in them to do evil.” Would
that we could bring ourselves to the
conviction that they are not the true in
dex to national feeling in America.
Late exhibitions in the cities of New
York and Boston are so much accumu
lative evidence of an unaccountable
perversion of the most common ideas of
justice and fair dealing. Men who ought
to have the highest honors conferred
upon them that is in the power of any
people to bestow, have been thwarted
in their good intentions, and bullied
by a lawless mob. Tlhe noble hearted
Garrison, with his heroic and coura
geous coadjutors, stifled and put to si
lence in one ol the centres of civiliza
tion, will stand a spectacle of lasting
disgrace to the place and people where
the infamous deed was perpetuated.
And what of Douglass?—the man on
whose countenance we have, looked,
and to whose eloquence we have listen
ed to with ineffable delight; wondering
all the while whether there was any
place of repentance for the vile miscre
ants that would rob him of himself, and
count his person a thing of just so much
value in the market or auction-room.
Our indignation has been of the most
intense description on hearing of the in
human treatment his manhood has re
ceived at the hands of an educated and
professedly Christian community.—
There i 9 within the whole range of
those indignities heaped on the colored
population, a brutish and barbarous
heartlessness of which demons them
selves might well be ashamed. As a
mere matter of self-interest, we con
ceive that any community within the
Union who are unable to discern the
representative powers of Frederick
Douglass, are wholly at fault. In all
earnestness our opinion of him is, that
he would do honor to the most gifted
legislative assembly in the world, and
from such statement you may possibly
draw your own conclusions as to what
interests we would confide to his care,
were it in our power to honor such an
one with our suffrages either in matters
municipal or parliamentary. Perhaps
it is not known to you, that your preju
dices have* left you much behind na
tions with less pretensions to free gov
ernment. In the Jamaica House of
Assembly there are no less than six
men of color, invested with all that dig
nity belonging to representation; some
of whom are acknowledged to be more
profound in the abstract sciences than
any of their compeers within or without
the precincts of the Legislative Assem
blies. We call, upon you, then, by
the seconsiderations, and by others e an
of higher import, to wipe away that
foul stain upon your national character,
which unchristian prejudice has en
gendered, to the irreparable injury of
those whom God hath chosen to create
according to the inflexible laws of his i
own universe. Let nothing stand ia
the way of latent aspirations which
WHOLE NO. 160.
may exist, for crowning all men with
the dignity and privileges of manhood.
Th Polic yor religion which
quire your acquiescence to the impious
and atrocious praet««« of making man a
marketable commodity is “aattkly, sen
sual, devilish.” That church him
claims on your reverence which would
parcel out pews to its colored members.
Throwing up a partition wall in the
sanctuary, whereby the house may jje
divided against itself, i» not aort ludi
crous than wicked and detestable ewsti
to the last degree. A slavehoMltfg
ministry, whose work professedly Is Jo
“preach liberty to the captive anil us
opening of the prison doors to tbfpi
that are bound,” is one of the meet
sickening spectacles the world can wit
ness. Certain of your most eminent
theologians we find are defending tfie
Fugitive Slave Bill in all its
and in the plenitude of tbeir fwiadign
“search the scriptures’* for a commis
sion to the man-stealers. Tbs charac
ter of such men is most amply dettrifeid
in the very same book on which tbfiir
pretensions are founded. They “*#ll
the poor for silver, and the needy foqa
pair of shoes.” To give the red-feate!-
ed slave-hunter a mandate from Abm
ham, from Moses, or from Psul, is per
haps the mast miserable subterfuge
that can be had recourse to it. The
latter, we are sure, has never' givjbn
one single attestation in favor ofslavery
far less such a document ns the Fugi
tive Slave Bill. And as to tha Mosiftc
economy, it was characterized by the
Apostle as a system of “weak and beg
garly elements, which he and his
fathers were unable to bear.” May
we not demand that theological slave
holders carry out their own principles
and take unto themselves two wives, as
did Abraham; the one a bond maid and
the other a free woman. It would hot
be more preposterous in Moses Stew
art or Leonard Woods to have slave
handmaids a-piece to share tbeir love
with some of the fair daughters of the
free States, than it is for them to justi
fy the enslavement of their own Chris
tian brethren by an appeal to the ex
ample of Abraham. But to have done
with, such heartless ecclesiasticp, we
turn to you, the sons of toil—you who
share with us and others in all the la
bors that are done under the sun. W«
call upon you, by every consideration
that can influence the hearts of men to
vitruous action, to make the slave
catching bill a dead letter in your
midst. And as you value your own
civil and religious liberty, we entreat
that you be no longer a barrier in'the
world’s progress, by the prostitution of
your suffrages to the inhuman slave
power. From this time hencefoitht let
the nations ot the earth have an exam
ple of fortitude and virtue, by
ceasing and heroic endeavors to re
model the constitution of society in the
land of the pilgrim fathers. In the
name of everything that is worthy to be
he.'d in reverence, we conjure you to
go ‘'allbough the bills be re
moved,” let justice be done to the
bondsmen of the south. And that you
may in all things approve Youftelves
worthy to be remembered by coming
generations, is the sincere aqd fervent
desire of your brethren in labor. We
are, in the name of the working men ot
Glasgow, (Signed)
MATTHEW CULLEN, Chainß*n.
JAMES HOEY, Coiwftiar.
And others.)
Mr. Hoey concluded by moving that
the appeal be adopted and circulated
as extensively as possible in this coun
try, and that it be reprinted in at least
four newspapers Liberator, North
Star. Standard, and New York Trib
une] in America which he named, and
in as many more as could be obtained.
Mr. William Smeal, in seconding the
motion, paid a just compliment to the
working-classes, as having always ad
hibited by far the largest number of
signatures to the anti-slavery petitions
sent from this city. He expected the
Fugitive. Bill would be the death of
American slavery. <‘And Oh, saith
my soul,” exclaimed the good man,
“the sooner it is dead and buried the
better!”
Mr. Cortoy moved a vote of thanks
t<rtho chairman, and the meeling sep
arated.
Southern Intolerance.— A friend
of ours, who has resided several years
at the South, but whose misfortune it
was to be Dorn a Yankee, in a recent
letter gives a moving account of some
of the tribulations and perils be has
passed through in the State of Quattie
bumia, since ‘he fresh excitement broke
out on the slavery question. He waa
promptly discharged from his employ
ment, when the discovery camo out
that he originated in Yankee land; and
the story having got about that he waa
a little tinctured with abolitionism, the
South Carolina Society (which is the
inquisition that overhauls all the sus
pected) took his case in hand.’ A series
of letters written five years ago, were
some evidence against him, which with
later proof would perhaps have shipped
him, had he not told the committee
that he held himself responsible to
laws, not men; that he was in fact de
termined not to be put down for think
ing merely. A couple of friend* hav
ing been found who were willing to
answer for our Yankee’sgood conduct,
the gentlemen of the inquisition gra
ciously permitted the matter to remain
in statu quo till something new should
turn up. During the excitement, our
triend several tunes found himself at
tracting more attention in tha street
than was usual or agreeable, and once
overheard the remark, “That is him.”
A paper also dropped a hint about the
danger of letting suspicious persons
reside in the community; but luckily
ihe tar-and-feather argument was not
called into requisition.
Our correspondent statea that the
Hon. Truman Smith, of Connecticut,
passed through Charleston, 9. C., some
eight weeks ago, stopping one night at
the Charleston Hotel. The ne*t morn
ing the following handbill was stuck up
at the corner of the streets:
The Hon. Truman Smith, of Con
necticut, (the celebrated abolitionist,)
is in this city, and can be seen at the
Charleston Hotel.
P. S. Tar and feathei*.”
The Debt or Texas.— According to
the report of the Comptroller *nd Au
ditor, made to the Legislature of Texas
at ita late extra session, the total os
tensible debt 9f Texas is $13,882,440,
and the real or par value of# the same
$6,812,936. 
“Impious Vagabond.**
The following chaste bit of “liberal chris
tfcmitv,” we take from the last Congregational
Jkvmal:
“Frederick Douglass. The country has
Mt contained a more insolent or impious vaga
bond than this fellow Douglass.”
This language, did we not know that the
•ditor of the Journal is now fishing to get the
printing of the U. S. Laws from the States
man, would surprise us. As it is, it only
aoccues pity. The man who can speak of
Yiederiek Douglass as a “vagabond,” must
fold his owu manhood as cheap as he does
his principles and be willing to pait with
both for two or three hundred dollars’ worth
•f “pottage.” We trust we enteitain all
due respect for the talents and character ol
the editor or the Journal. No consideration
Should indues us to apply to him terms which
fo applies to Douglass. We would despise
•ursejvea if we could do it. But we are free
to say, and we do say, that we deem such
language as justly inapplicable to Frederick
Itoaflasa as to him. With all reverence, in
point of genius, eloquence, power as a writer,
•obleneas of heart and soul, we do not deem
the former inferior to the latter. Nay; es
timating his early disadvantages, the first
twenty-five years of his life being spent in
slavery, Frederick Douglass has not his su
perior in America.
And yet ha is denounced by a professedly
friigious paper in New Hampshire, as an
“impious vagabond.” And why* What
lias he done, or refused to do. that entitles
him to this denunciation 7 Why, forsooth,
fo has dared speak and write against the
Mcuraed system of American Slavery, whose
iron bolts have pietced his own soul and the
Mala of hit brethren, lie has dared protest,
ia strong and indignant language, against an
inhuman law for reducing him and them
again to a bondage worse than death. He
has dared hold up to us recieant sons, the
aanliments of our fathers, as recorded in the
Detlaraiion of Independence, that “all men
are created equal, and have an inalienable
tight to liberty.” This is the sum of his
offence. And for this, he is denounced by
the craven apologists for oppression. It is
fit that he should be. Let them denounce.
But let them know, also, that for all these
denunciations, God and a right judging poe
erity will bring them into judgment.— lnde
tndent Democrat.
T
Matlock, Derbyshire, Eng., Oct. 3.
My Dias Garrison :—Stait not when I
announce to you that 1 have engaged a pas
sage to Boston in the Canada Mail Steamer,
which sails from Liverpool on the 19th inst.,
and that, should no accident happen to me or
the vessel, 1 hope to take you by the hand
on or before the Ist of November.
Now for the objecis 1 seek by this trip fot
the second time to the shores of the United
States.
1. I have an ardent desire to tevisit your
country, and to renew my acquaintance with
those who were my friends in 1835, and. to
hsoome acquainted, also, with those who,
sines that eventful period, have become the
friends and champions of ihe cause i advo
eated, and may therefote be disposed to give
a not unfriendly reception to one, who, like
yourself, was early in the field, and did not
shun either the reproach or dauger to which
abolitionists were exposed during the reign ot
mob-tuptemacy. Believe me, it will be most
lefreshing to me to mingle with the whole
hearted reformers of your city, and of the
old Bty State. I gave you some reason to
expeet me more than two months ago. My
visit st that time, however, was impractica
ble. Parliament was not up, and when it did
rise some other engagements, as well as the
stale of my domestic affairs, prevented me
from carrying my wish into fulfilment. I now
think I ace the possibility of my being absent
for four months, without the disregatd of
any claims upon my time or labors in thin
country.
2. In addition to my desire to see you and
tha friends of our common cause, I have a
project to carry out, of which America is the
fold. For some years before 1 entered Parlia
ment, and at the lime 1 entered it, 1 had been,
and was, in the receipt of an income sufficient
to meet all my wants, and to support the po
sition to which I aspited. In less than three
montha after 1 became a legislator that income
wholly failed me, and for three years I have
boon supporting myself and my family upon
that which 1 had hoped I should be able tc
Isave behind me. lam now poor; but hope
ful, with unimpaired mental energy, wiih a
constitution yet sound and strong, and a
character unassailable by any imputation ol
selfishness or corruption.
In these circumstances, my thoughts have
been turned to the way in which 1 might, by
honorable, independent and useful exertion,
itpair, in tome degree, my shattered fortunes,
and provide things honest in the sight of all
men. It has occurred to me that, by a visit
to the United States of America, at that sea
son of the year when lectures are most in re
qnest, I might realize not only enough to pay
my expenses, but something also to sustain
mo for a time after my return. I have, there
fore, so far resolved to act upon this idea, as
to engage a berth in the Canada, and shall
try the experiment, if encouraged and aided
by m> personal friends in Boston. My visit,
than, will be of a business character.
Wore I alone in the world, I need not
visit America to find the means to live.
Could I bring myself to prostitute my talents
to party purposes or base objects, I might
live here and sustain those 1 love. Could 1
consider to ask favors, 1 might perhaps find
employment, and matters and dictatois, as
well aa labor and its emoluments. lam not
alone in the woild—l cannot misuse my
powers —l will not ask favors of those above
am—and lam determined to preserve my in
dependence and my freedom of action as long
os 1 can. These circumstances have appeared
to me sufficient to decide meonexporung my
self, my lectures, and my self-supporting pro
joct, to the shores of New England. 1 should
bo truly glad if I could land in Liverpool next
spring with the reflection that 1 was master
of enough to carry me over the session of
Parliament, and keep the pot boiling at home,
while I rebuked the mmistet from my seat,
aa the unpaid representative of the people.
Well, in the prospect of my being speedily
with you, what do I ask of you as an old
friend F irsl, that you will receive me as
the friend who, when the road lo fame and
fortune was open to him at the bar of Eng
land, cast in his lot with you, and took joy
fully his share with you in the perils of the
•Id campaign. That you will believe me as
warmly as ever the advocate of the cause of
the slave. This, let the last refugee that has
come to our shores testify. That you will
not believe me mercenary. I could sing in a
garret, with a crust before me, if 1 had but
myself to care for. That you will believe it
is only the love of independence and of my
family, and my desire to be here, the incor
ruptible and unpaid advocate of the people,
that makes me devise this scheme for putting
money in my pocket. That you will not
think the worse of me, because 1 do not come
se throw myself, as I did before, into the
ooti-elsvery cause, exclusively; but to dis-
Marst on topics that will bring those to hear
ms who will not refuse to pay their 25 or 50
•sots for thsopportunity. Finally, that you
will aid my plan. 1 authorize you to com
municate the contents of this letter to Fran
ce Jackson, Wendell Phillips, and Edmund
Qainey. and such others as you or they may
see fit to take into your counsels. I authorize
T*u to make it known, through the most con
venient channels, that I shall be willing to give
leetoros. if invited to do so, on the term* of
•that foreign lectures. I authorize you to
arrange for my beginning to lecture within
ms week ot my landing. can remain with
yea till the last day of February. If care
ful, 1 shall be three lectures a week,
sa or out of Boston. These I should like to
be able to give, and not more to be deliver
ed in such places, and under such circuro*
aasoess, as promise the best result.
tJoail lam with you, 1 cannot decide the
tepies of my lectors. All branches of Indian
History the rise snd progress of the
British power—the resources, condition and
prospects of the country, &c., &c., I am
familiar with. Lectures on the state of
parties in England, the representative system,
&c., you may hare for the asking. But
of this, when I am on the spot.
While thus pursuing with ardor my own
personal ends, think not that I shall play the
part of a Reed, a Cox or a Mathew. If not
committed already, enough commit me
again, until 1 shall not, eveu in the heel, be
free from the baptism of ultra abolitionism:
but at the same time, enter, as a brother, a
father, and a friend, into my object, and suffer
me to accomplish the purpose upon which I
hare set my heart. If the first trip answers,
you may see me annually; and 1 know not
but I may lay my bones in the soil sanctified
by the foot-prints of the Pilgrim Fathers.
I hare been working very hard lately for
the refoim movement. The voyage will Te
cruit me. Farvell till we meet.
My affectionate remembrance to all around
you. Yours, dear Garrison, ever most truly,
GEORGE THOMPSON.
sl)e Nortl) otar.
ROCHESTER, JANUARY 16, 1851.
E7* The Bth Lecture of the aeries will
be delivered by Frederick Douglass, in Co
rinthian Hall, on Sunday evening, Jan. 12th,
at 7 o’clock. The public are respectfully
invited to attend.
EF The friends of the North Star,"
whose subscriptions are now due for the
Fourth Volume, are most respectfully but
earnestly reminded that this is a time when
their subscriptions are much needed, and ought
to be paid, as it is exceedingly important to
the well-being of the paper that it ehould pass
into the new year unincumbered by debt:
which were necessarily incurred in the old
year. Pay your dues —give us a generous
support, and we willmake the“ North Star”
a paper oi which even a white man need not
be ashamed.
EF Will our Rochester subscribers have
the kindness to leave their subscriptions for
the jiiesent year of the North Star” at our
office at an early period I
EF Our British friends are respectfully
requested to forward their subscriptions, for
the present year of the North Star,” to
Mrs. Henry Richardson, 5 Summer Hill
Grove, New-Ca3tle-on-Tyne.
George Thompson, Esq.
For the last few weeks we have been
appiehensive that this distinguished and elo
quent champion of human freedom—against
whom the accumulated wrath of slaveholding
malignity has arrayed itself—would not favor
Western New Yotk with his presence during
his brief sojourn in the United Stales; but
we have now the unspeakable pleasure of
announcing to our readers in this region, that
George Thompson will visit Syracuse, Peter
boro, Rochester and Buffalo, duiing the
month of February next. He will be re
ceived with enthusiastic admiration by all the
friends of the slave, of all parties, throughout
Western New York. Our readers will see
how completely the miserable slander, that
Mr. Thompson comes to this country in the
pay of the British Government, has been re
futed by his private letter to Mr. Garrison,
which appears in another pattof this paper.—
r. d.
Aati-Fuf itive Slav* Bill Meeting at
Syracuse.
This was not such a meeting as we ex
pected would be held, judging from the object
as set forth in the call, which convened it;
but it uas just such a meeting as the advo
cates of slave-catching (alias blood-houndism,)
will probably set up a fiendish shout of de
light over. Not, however, because there was
anything said or proposed in the convention,
with which the latter can unite, but simply be
cause there was not that harmony of opinion
exhibited which might have been expected
from a slight perusal of the call in question,
and which was so much to have been desired
on such an occasion. It must be confessed
that the meeting was very stormy, and to
wards the close was very discordant. A body
of men and women were brought into a
Convention, who, while hearty and unani
mous in their opposition to the “Fugitive
Slave Bill, are nevertheless greatly divided in
respect to doctrines and measures touching
the great question of Slavery generally. And
as ft is almost impossible to talk about slave
catching, without talking about slave-holding
(for the greater includes the less,) there
was little unanimity in the action of the Con
vention, and a portion of the original parties
to the call, finally adjourned, and separated
while others remained behind, and adopted
the resolutions and address out of which the
controversy arose. While we lament these
circumstances, we do not see how they could
have been avoided, and we do not, therefore,
feel like censuring any of the parties con
cerned. Men and women spoke out their
honest convictions as to the best mode of
action against the Fugitive Slave Bill; and
as far as we could see, they were animated
by no factious spirit; and although they could
not agree, we do not think that the Fugitive
Slave Bill will gain a single friend, nor lose
a sirgle opponent, in consequenc* of that disa
greement. In many respects the meeting was
truly glorious—it was so in the numbers
which were in attendance—and in the earnest
eloquence which it called forth against the
whole system of human bondage. There
were times when the scene was sublime.
The last session of the meeting continueduntil
mid-night, and the City Hall was still crowd
ed. We shall have more to say about this
Convention next week, and shall speak
more particularly of certain points of differ
ence which came up for discussion. —f. d.£
“Commonwealth Si Emancipator.”—
This is the name of a newj Free-Soil daily
paper, published in Boston, Mass. It has
sprung up, not exactly from the ruins of tbe
Chronotype, and the Republican newspapers
of that city, but, we should think, from their
prosperity, for it would take two very pros
perous sheets to make one equal to this Com
monwealth, a copy of which is now before
us. This paper was to have appeared under
the name of “Compass," but it seems that
of Commonwealth has been prerred, by the
Trustees of the paper. He who would htve
an able Free-Soil Journal from New Eng
land, as the largest size, cannot do better
than to send at onoe for the “Commonwealth
Voice of tie Fugitive.”—This is
Henry Bibb's paper, published every other
Wednesday, at Sandwich, Canada West.—-
Terms, one dollar, alwaya in advance. The
Voice of the Fugitive” is to advoeata giving
Bibles to the slaves,” and the colonisation
ef free colored people in Canada,” and ii
will oppose the annexation of Canada to the
United States. The first number of the
paper is well printed, and gives signs of abil
ity and spirit.—r. d.
Bullard's Panorama is to be exhibited ts
Concert Hill, Rochester, every afternoon and
evening this week; and on Thursday, Friday
and Saturday, Jan. 16th, 17th and 18th, there
will be an exhibition in the forenoon at
eleven. See advertisement in another
column.
LECTURE No. YII., Delivered by Fred
erick Douglass, in Corinthian Hmll,
onjSnnday Evening, Jan. 12th.
I tise to give my seventh lecture on Amer
ican slavery under feelings of very deep seri
ousness. The return of Henry Long to all
the horrors of a life of endless slavery, hss
shrouded my spirit in gloom. But a few
days ago, he walked abroad in the streets of
New York in the full enjoyment of freedom,
his mind occupied with thoughts, hopes and
aspirauons becoming the mind of a virtuous
freeman. But, in a moment, he has been
snatched away by a hand moie dreadful than
that of death. His hopes snd aspirations,
plans and purposes, have been cut off and
destroyed. From a man, he has fallen to a
chattel; and instead of breathing the free air
of New York, in the pride of his liberty and
in the society of freemen, he is now doomed
to the appalling condition of a slave, and
must drag out his life in Virginia, under all
the horrors of the whip and fetter.
Henry Long is the second victim surren
dered by New York under the inhuman and
barbarous provisions of the fugitive slave
bill; and there are some circumstances at
tending his surrender, which make it even
mote alarming and distressing than the case
of James Hamlet. The latter was arrested,
tried and delivered up in a most seciet and
hasty manner, without the legal and friendly
aid which might have been rendered, despite
the furious haste required by the fugitive
slave bill. The case of U on g 8 different.—
Between the time of his arrest and the time
of his surrender, there was ample opportunity
for rendering him all the assistance of which
the law and the case would allow. His
artest was known, and his trial open to public
gaze. There was time for the vigilance of
his friends to be exercised and that vigi
lance, to a certain extent, was exercised. Yet
Henry Long was surrendered, and, in broad
day light, dragged out of the city of New
York, without even an attempt being made
to rescue him.
It is stated that there was not a sign of
disturbance when the unfortunate man
was taken to the ferry from which he departed
for the South, and that the only thing unusual
in that vicinity at the time, waa the appear
ance of Captain Isaiah Rynders, parading
about with rifle in hand, swearing vengeance
against abolitionists. If this be so, it is a
shame and a scandal which the colored people
of New York should seize the first oppor
tunity to wash out. It is humiliating in the
extreme, that, in a city with a colored popu
lation of more than twenty thousand, such a
high-handed and daring atrocity could be per
petrated without any intervention on the part
of any among them. 1 know not what would
have been the chances of success had any
attempt been made to rescue Henry Long.—
It is possible that no chance of success ap
peared in his case. For the credit of the
colored people alone, 1 hope that the latter is
true. It ought not to be said of a people
like those of New York, that they stood
mute spectators of a scene which might well
have roused the courage even of dastards to
deeds of blood. Some explanation, spme
apology for the apparent indifference and
utter inaclivity manifested by the colored
people of New York city, is demanded. 1
say again, I do not know what the chance of
success would have been in an effort at the
rescue of Henry Long but this I do know,
that the absence of any attempt to break the
jaws of the oppressor, and to rend the victim
from his horrid clutch, will form the strongest
possible ground of encouragement to other
slave-hunters who may be disposed to prose
cute their infamous business in New York
city. I am free to say that nothing abort of
physical resistance will render the colored
people of tho North safe from the horrible
enormities which must result from the execu
tion of the fugitive slave law; and I had
rathet have heard that coloted men had been
beaten down by the two hundred police men
employed on that occadbn, than that there
should have been no manifestation of physical
resistance to the re-enslavement of poor Long.
My very blood chilled, and I felt myself de
graded, when 1 reao that the demand of the
slave catcher for a sufficient force to remove
Henry Long from New Yotk was answered
by Judge Judson to the effect that he ap
prehended no disturbance *‘No disturbance!"
Doom the innocent to perpetual boodage, and
no fear of disturbance Why, when a
guilty felon ia to be hanged, a murderous
assassin, who, for the love of gold, hss
plunged his dagger into the heart of an inno
cent brother, such are the sympathies of
human nature, and such is the proneness of
man to forget the crime of the criminal in
reflecting on his horrible fate, that, even in
such a case, there is always danger of dis
turbance” for his rescue, snd provision made
against such an occurrence. But here, in
the case of an innocent man—a man un
stained by any crime, and against whom
there is not even the shadow of an allegation,
we see him huiried sway to s fate more terri
ble than death itself, snd no disturbance
on account of it ia apprehended. Thia re
veals a popular acquiescence in the execution
of this inhuman ltw, which is at once dis
graceful snd heait-sickening an acquies
cence which will not fail to inspire with hope
other two-legged bloodhounds who are medi
ating Northern excursions in pursuit of their
prey. The contemplation of these things
makes me sad. But more saddening atill is
the present aspect of the public mind through
out the North.
It is impossible not to see a determination
on the part of men in high places to pot
down, if possible, all efforts made to promote
snti-elsvery sentiment in this country. Poli
ticians, in and out of office, are evidently
conspiring ag»i<Mt the agitation of the qoes
lion of slavsry, and are exerting themselves
to the utmost to quiet the public mind on the
subject. Distinguished individuals, both of
the Whig and Democratic party, whose
voices rang through the land last winter, pro
claiming manly hostility to the slave power,
are now as hushed as though slavery had
ceased to exist, and the slave power were no
more. Meanwhile, the pulpit is sending
forth sermons, in pamphlet form, boldly and
shamelessly advocating obedience to the fugi
tive slave law, and, in the sacred name of
Jeaua Christ, defending the slave system.—;
The Kev. Dr. Lord, of Buffalo, in a sermon
enjoining obedience to the fugitive slave bill,
says: But there is higher authority for
“the determination of this question, than
anything we have yet suggested. The ex
istence of domestic slavery was expressly
‘‘allowed, sanctioned and regulated by the
Supreme Law-giver, in that divine economy
which he gave lo the Hebrew state. Ihe
fact is open and undisputed. The record
and proof of it are in the hands of every
man who has in his possession a copy of
the Bible. All the ingenuity of all the
abolitionists in the United States can
never destroy the necessary conclusion of
this admitted divine sanction of slavery,
1 that it it an institution which may lawfully
exist, and concerning which governments
may pass laws and execute penalties for
their evasion or resistance.” Dr. Lord is
the minister of a Presbyterian Church in
Buffalo; and to gratifying waa the sermon,
of which the above extract is a fair sample,
that nineteen of the respectable gentlemen
and Christians of his church sent him a letter,
requesting it for publication. With this in
quest it seems he cheerfully complied, and
his seimon now appears before the public in
a pamphlet of 32 pages. Another Doctor ol
Divinity, the Rev. Dr. Lathrop, of Auburn,
has signalized himself by devoting Thanks
giving day” to rebuking disobedience to the
fugitive slave law, and exhorting his brother
Christians to a faithful discharge of their
slave-catching duties. On the same day, the
Rev. Dr. Shar|ie preached a sermon in Bos
ton to the same end and we aie informed
that sundry learned Doctors of Divinity have
come out on this, as on tht Lord's side in
this struggle for human freedom. Dr. La
throp says that the fugitive slave law is the
law of the land, “enacted by the powers
that be,” and that “are ordained of God.”—
What, then,” he asks, is the duty of the
Christian and the citizen V' and he adds—
We answer, lhat both patriotism and reli
gion require that the law should be obeyed.”
Suppose,” says he, that we deny the
right of property in a human being, and in
sist upon it that one man has no moral
right to hold another as his propeity still,
we must admit that, for the time being, he
has a legal tight, according to the consiitu
tion and laws of the State in which he lives.
“Other Slates entering into a confederacy
with this one, have agreed that it may hold
slaves as property, and manage its own in*
ternal concerns in its own way. The con
federacy is entered into for the security of
other and commanding and common inter
ests, which are of paramount importance.
If by any act of legislation by this confed
erated required to re
store to ihcm that property to which they
have a legal right, however much w© may
doubt the morality of lhat claim, or the law
upon which it is founded, the duty of good
citizenship, and the claims of true patriot
ism, would demand obedience to the law.—
The responsibility in regard to the morality
“or the wisdom of the law, rests not with
“us. That lies somewhere else. But-with
us is the lesponsibiltty of obeying the
“laws of the land, which have been estab
lished by the powers that be, and that are
ordained of God.”
In a lecture delivered in this hall a few
evenings ago, I undertook to show why abo
litionists are often called infidels. If 1 did
not satisfy my hearers on th t occasion, with
the causes which first led to that populai
cry, the foregoing extracts may succeed in
doing so. Here we have all that sacred in
heaven and earth—God, Christ anj the Apos
tles, the Bible, Christianity and patriotism,
all blasphemously paraded in su port of sla
very, and in justification of obedience to that
concentration of hellish cruelty, the fugitive
slave lavA
I believe this audience will agree with me,
that tbe true enemy of the Christian religion
and of the Bible, is not he who uniformly
appeals to them in support of justice, mercy,
and goodness —not he who regards them as
on tbe side of the abused and eiislaved; but
rather be who, though clothed in sacredotal
robes, and assuming tV be the chosen minis
ter of God, dares to quote the Bible in de
fence of robbery and wrong. Such men do
more in one hour to undermine ibe reverence
of mankind for the Bible, than the most
skillful infidel could effect in ages!
I do not believe that the Bible sanctions
American slavery. I do not believe that
Christ and his Apostles approved of slave
holding, nor of slave-catching. From the
depths of my soul, I appeal with confidence
to the pages of Holy Writ, in behalf of my
imbruted and plundered fellow-countrymen.
Despite the teachings of American divivinea,
(slave though 1 have been,) I will continue
to look to God and to Christ for support in
my humble efforts for the emancipation of my
rase. But here 1 will say, that should doc
tors of divinity ever convince me that the
Bible sanctions American slavery, that Christ
and his apostles justify returning men to
bondage, then will I give the Bible to the
flames, and n* more worship God in the name
of Christ; for of what value to men would a
religion be which n<H only permitted, but
enjoined upon men the enslavement of each
other, and which would leave them to the
sway of physical force, and permit the strong
to enslave tbe weak What better would
such a religion be than blank atheism, which
knows no God To defend slavery in the
name oj God, is simply to redoes mankind
absolutely to the law of brute force. It
places men in relation to each other on a
tooting with tbe wild beasts of the forest
which live and prey upon each other. If you
may enslave tbe black man in America, of
course the black man may enslave the Amer
ican in Africa; and as the Bible is made for
all mankind, of course, if it sanction slavery
at all, it may be quoted by the African priest
in favor of enslaving the white*, with as
much propriety as it can be quoted by the
white* a* authority for enslaving the blacks;
and the God of the Bible would be at once
the God of slavery to all mankind. The law
of force would in this case take the place of
the law of lose, and tie who could succeed in
man-stealing on the moat extensive scale,
would best reptesent the attributes of the Di
vine mind.
But away with this revolting and blasphe
mous theory And away with those hypo
critical Doctors of Divinity! They are
wolves in sheep's clothing—thieves and liars,
who wrest and torture the pages of the Holy
Bible to sanctify popular crimes 1
The fact that such sentiments as those
which. I have quoted from Dr. Lord and Dr.
Lathrop can be taught with impunity from
Northern pulpits, implies a depth of more
debasement and blindness in the commu
nity beyond the power of human language to
describe.
The teaponsibility of politicians for slavery,
is great; but infinitely greater is the guil l of
the American clergy. They frame a tangled
web of arguments in support of slavery, of
which politicians would never dream, and
urge them with a show of piety which, in any
other men, would but provoke popular oon
tempt and acorn. -Common men would be
utterly ashamed to shield villany under such
sophistry. in discussing the question of
American slavery, 1 would far rather encoun
ter twenty lawyers, than one Doctor of Di
vinity, for if 1 ahould convict the former of
self-contradiction and falsehood, blind as the
public are, they would decide according to
the facts it is only the doctor of divinity who,
skulking in the shadow of his prieatly office,
is able to affright e common people from
forming an intelligent estimate of his char
acter and conduct.
The abolitionists of the niled States have
been objected to on the score of using harsh
language but what language is sufficiently
stern and denunciatory to characterize the con
duct of men who, while acting as the consti
tuted guardians of the public morality, and
claiming the reverence and respect due to
those who hold their commission from the
most high God, yet bring the whole scope of
their influence to the side of the oppressor
against the oppressed, to propup system in
which aie combined every sin and pollution
that has a name. When 1 speal* of such
men, 1 can find no more appropriate language
than the words of our Savior to the Scribes
and Pharisees; and if any here deem the lan
guage I have already used harsh, oi denun
ciatory, 1 commend to them the burning
words of our Savior, applied eighteen hundred
years ago to the same class of men as those
who are now standing in the way of the
slave’s redemption. Woe unto you, Scribes,
Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye pay tithe of
mint, and anise and commin, and have
omitted the weightier matters of the law,
“judgment, mercy and faith. Ye blind
guides, which strain at a knat and swallow
a camel. Woe unto you, Scribes and
Pharisees, for ye are like unto whited sep
ulchures, which, indeed, appear beautiful
outward, but are within full of dead men’s
bones, and all uncleanness. Ye serpents
ye generation of vipers, how can ye escape
the damnation of hell 1
It would be easy to preach a sermon from
jthese passages of acriputure, and to show
i their literal application to the pro-slavery
church and clergy of out day but this is, I
hope, unnecessary, as I have already had
much to aay on that subject in a previous
lecture.
I turn, therefore, for the present, from the
pro-slavery church, and its clerical defenders
of slavery. The slave has nothing to hope from
either. They are moved only as they are
moved upon by popular sentiment; and when
that becomes anti-slavery, they will become
anti-slavery, and will be among the first to
arrogate to themselves the glory of the
achievement.
Not many weeks ago, a State election took
place in this State; and important anti-slavery
veaults WBre said to be depending upon that
election. The Whigs and Democrats came
before the people with their respective claima.
Hunt aud Seymour were the candidates fot
Governor of the State. Seymour was openly
in favor of measures adopted by Congress, as
a complete settlement of the slavery question.
Hunt was represented as a Seward Whig,
and, of course, as opposed to the fugitive
slave bill; but how little there was to choose
between the two, may be seen by perusing the
recent message of Governor Hunt. Not one
word can be found in it condemning the im
morality, the inhumanity, and the unconslilu
tionality of the fugitive alave law there is
not one word in it recommending the repeal,
or the modification of that atrocious enact
ment. There is not one word of dissatisfac
tion with regard to the law; not one word of
apprehension for the safety of the colored
citizens of this State but there ia to be
found in it, what in all the circumstances
muat be regarded as a cheerful acquiscence in
all ita horrid provisions. The Governor says
Notwithstanding the violent discussions
which have agitated the country, and the wide
diversity of opinion which exists in respect to
the questions involved in the recent action of
Congress, a general disposition ia evinceJ to
acquiesce in the measures referred to, and to
regard them as a final settlement of these tei
ritorial controversies. The people of this
State continue to indulge a strong desire that
harmony and mutual good will may prevail
between all portions of our widely extended
Republic. They are a law-abiding people
they cherish the most friendly sentiment to
ward their brethren of the South and have
always conceded to the slave States the entire
right to maintain and regulate Slavery within
their own limjts, and to exercise sll those
rights without abridgement or hindrance which
the Constitution confers. More than this
ought not to be claimed or expected.”
The fugitive slave law ia not named espe
cially here but it is easy to see when the
Governor assures the South that the peo
pie of this State are a law-abiding people,
and that there is no disposition to abridge,
nor to binder the slaveholding rights, which
the Constitution ia alleged to confer, that the
fugitive slave bill is in hia mind, for that is
the only measure to which resistance is likely
to be made, and about which there is any
serious dispate between the politicians of the
North and South. Rightly to appreciate the
tame and submissive character of this part of
the Governor’s message, it should becontraai
with the message of southern Governors.
They are lood and boisterous in their accusa
tions of faithlessness on the part of the North,
high and proud in their demands; there are no
fawning and sickly expressions of friendship
for the North their love of onion is ever
bold subject to their love of slavery. They
ou« for the North just is they care for their
sieves —<miy so for as they sre served by than.
This is open, snd above-board and, if not
generous, it is, at least, frank and if we
cannot honor the men of the South in adopt
ing this policy, we certainly cannot despise
them. Their tone is bold and uncompromis
ing—we know where to find them but not so
with Northern politicians. They are ever
anxious to be understood as a most harmless
set of beings, taking the world as they find it,
and especially desirious of peace and concord.
With them, th« Union is above all earthly
blessings; and to save it, they are willing to
sacrifice liberty, justice, and all manly inde
pendence and although they have ever been
repaid for their undue devotion and deference
to their self-imposed task-makers, with the
bitterest contempt and scorn, yet they have
not even the spirit of the fugitive slave to
make their escape. This readiness to con
cede everything to the South ia not only dis
graceful, but is a great political mistake on the
part of the North. If there be one political
truth more evident, and more frequently illus
trated than another, it ia, that concessions to
slavery only invite new demands and encroach
ments. The more they get, the more they
want; and the more tamely tine North may
submit, the more imperious and arrogant will
be their Southern masters. Nothing is more
ridiculous and absurd than to suppose that the
reatleas a&d ambitious spirit ol southern slave
holders will be content with their present
advantages, when they know that they can
have more at any time when they shall make
the demand.
There is no history axtant in which is fur
nished a more striking illustration of what a
few men can do in the way of getting posses
sion of political power, than in the history of
the American Government.
The actual slaveholders are a mete fraction
of the American people, and a very small mi
nority of the people in the Southern States.
Three hundred thousand is the largest esti
mate ever made of them and I have seen cal
culations with great show of accuracy, set
ting their number at one hundred and fifty
thousand yet these men rule, speak for,
and represent the whole fifteen Southern
Slates, as completely as though there was net
a white man in the whole South besides
themselves. They are the governors and of
ficers of the State, and they enjoy a complete
monopoly of all that pertains to the govern
ment of the State. They mould the politics,
the morality, and the religion of that entire
section of country, and the white werking
men are but a step removed rrom the slaves
in their servility to this lordly and imperious
class of men.
You who reside in ihe free States, can but
poorly understand how absolute is the author
ity of slaveholders, and how abject is the
servility of iheir white dependents in the
■lave States. There is scarcely a shadow of
difference between the cringing obsequiousness
of the slave to the slaveholder, and that of the
poor white man who is not so fortunate as to
own a slave. But the power of the slave
holder is not confined to the Southern States.
Slavery is the only interest represented by
Southein men at the Capitol of the nation
and he is a fortunate man that is elected from
the South, who is not himself a slaveholder.
The purchase of Louisiana, her immense
south western territory; the millions expend
ed upon Florida the annexation of Texas
the war with Mexico; were all measures
commenced and carried fotward to their con
summation by that mere Jraction of the Amer
ican people the Southern slaveholders.
Governor Hunt, in his recent message, thus
confesses the readiness in which New Yuik
has ever bowed to the arrogant dictations
and imperious policy of Southern slavehold
ers and he assures them of the continued
contentment of New York, in her servile con
dition. He says
“Great injustice is done in assuming that
we have intended oi now meditate encroach
ments upon the just rights of any poition of
the Confederacy. During the entire period of
our tiational history, the people of New York
have manifested a spirit of kindly deference to
the feelings and prejudices of our sister Slates,
and a readiness to sacrifice but
principle and honor for the of Union and
concord. Their course has be§n distinguish
ed by a broad spirit of nationality, elevated far
above the indulgence of local views or sec
tional partialities. The limits of this commu
nication, will not permit me to recall ail the
evidences in which our history abounds of the
generous spirit of concession which New York
has uniformly manifested as a prominent mem
ber of the Federal Union.
For more than three-fourths of the period
which has elapsed since the adoption of the
Constitution, Southern statesmen, elevated by
ihe aid of her voice, have filled the Presiden
tial office. Eveiy peaceful extension of our
Southern territorial limits was made with her
concurrence, until by successive steps all the
Slave territory on the North American Conti
nent was brought within the boundaries of
the United States. Although every new ac
quisition diminished the relative weight of
New York to the National Councils, she
waived all views of Slate power or aggran
dizement, and yielded to the considerations
urged by other sections in favor of annexing
the contiguous countries.”
A more true and humiliating statement
never dropped from the lips of any Governor
of any sovereign State of this Union and 1
put it to you, citizens of New York, how
long will you continue to manifest a spirit of
kindly deference to the feelings and prejudices
of Southern slaveholders? How long w.ll
you allow youiselvea to compromise the dig
nity of this “the Empire State,” by making
base concessions to the ever hungry slave
power, whose cry, like that of the voracious
horse-leach is, “give, give give."
It would be interesting on this occasion, if
I had time, to enter into the causes, and the
means by which this small knot of tyrants
have acquired such indisputable powewjn the
councils of the nation how they have drawn
the reins of government into theii own hands
how completely they have brought both polit
ical parties le do their bidding snd how ut
teily impossible it has been for Northern
statesmen to withstand their influence.' I say,
it would be interesting if we could go into a
minute description of the causes of these
things, for it is a marvel, until now, how
readily every great man (iom the Noith has
been made to bow the knee to this mysterious
power. There is one obvious explanation ofalJ
this. There is but one interest at the South
I mean there is but one that can get repre
sented in the Cong ress of the United States;
and that is slavery. All other interests are
cast into the shade by the colossal greatness of
this one, and around this allabsorbing and
all commanding interest, both the great politi
cal parties of the South rally, and make com
mon cause. The South is united as one mao
and nothing divert* them from the oae ooa
mon object, which is the meiateneeee, pros
perity, end propagation of slavery. They talk
of their “pectiftar institute ns,” and about
Southern rights;'* but the only thing meant
by these eupboneous terms, is slavery.''
For this they are ready to sacrifice th* Un
ion," the Constitution," the fraternal feel
ing between North and Sooth, and the glory
of this great Republic. They make n# hesi
tation in declaring to the world that opoe that
question, there is but one party in the whole
South while the North is divided, and sub
divided, the South is united; and it is hex
unity of action which must account for the
success which has attended her in every
grand controversy which has oocurred in the
politics and legislation of this country.
Until the North shall be as true to liberty
as the South has been to slavery until she
shall coase to worship the Union at the ex
pense of everything good and g reat; until she
shall be inspired with a true self-respect, and
shall be represented in Congress by independ
ent and high-minded tuen, men to whom
Presidential honois are utterly worthless in
comparison with sn honest and faithful die
charge of their duties ashmen, as patriots and
as Christians. Until then, the North must con
tinue to be the mere cringing vassal of tbs
South; and she must expect to receive the
wages of her servitude, in an accumulation of
kicks and disgrace.
Flax Cotton.
The London Chronicle gives a long no
ticj of M. Doulan’a improvement in prepar
ing flax, which, by a combination of chemical
and mechanical meant, avoids all the ex
penses connected with steeping. The fibre
may be prepared at a coat considerably be
low that incurred in the present process, and
may be made applicable either for fabrics of
the coarseness of mail bags or canvas, or of
the fineness of the most beautiful Brussels
lace. M. Claussen has, by anether invention,
adapted the flax fibre to cotton machinery.
The patent granted to M. Claussen for Eng
land is lor the preparation of flax in a short
staple, so as to produce a substitute for wool
and cotton capable of being spun tfpon cotton
machinery, and also for the mixture of the
materials thus obtained, which can be carded
together with silk, cotton or wool, or separate
ly, as cotton for spinnning into yarns. The
right is also secured for preparing long fibre
as a substitute for sil.k for bleaching, in the
preparation of materials for spinning and felt
ing, and also in yarns and felts. The Chroni
cle jays of its practical resu Ila that from one
half cwt. of the flax fibre prepared and
cleaned upon the unsteeped process, one cwt.
of a substance, identical with clean cotton,
can he produced at a cost for material of lets
than half a crown. The cost of manual or
mechanical labor required in its preparation,
including the expenses of bleaching, an opera
tion performed in a few seconds, does net
amount to mure than 7-16thof a penny per
pound. The mixture of the two substances,
viz., wool with flax reduced to a short staple,
forms a fabric exceedingly durable, while its
cost may may be judged by the fact while
wool cost 4s. fid the flax prepared and
ready for spinning may be obtained for six
pence per pound, so that with flax and woo]
spun together in equal quantities, the cost
would be reduced by nearly one-half. The
Richmond Whig, alluding to its improvement,
says
If it should turn out, upon further trial,
that flax, prepared in a peculiar way, can be
substituted for cotton, so as to enable Great
Britain to dispense with our Southern staple,
a mighty effect will die produced upon the
value of property in the Southern States.
The pneu of land and slave property will at
once be diminished, and business arrange
ments eiyered into upon the present value of
that species of property, will, after they
have matured, produce a crash that will ba
felt over the entire country. A lesson would
thus be read upon the mutability of humao
affairs. The political consequences resulting
from the change would be most important
A considerable diminution in th* wealth and
power of the Southern States would of itself
have a marked effect upon their political re
latioxs with other States—the impoi lance of
their friendship as well as the dread of their
enmity would thereby be decreaeed.
The Cotton Treaty to be negotiated with
England, which not long since, we had oc
casion to discuss, and through which the
Southern States were to cure all the evils of
Disunion, would vanish into thin air, and the
Southern States be thrown upon their own
resources. Should flax be made to supply the
place of cotton, then will be exemplified the
impolicy heretofore pursued by the cotton
States, of relying on one leading interest to
the exclusion of all others.— Public Ledger.
ID 3 The Legislature of South Carolina has
adjourned, leaving the Union as it was for a
few months longer. Its session was an svant
ful one, in “sound and fuTy.” Men in Ken
dal green and buckram out-vapored Falstaff
himself.
Numerous bills, indicating warlike iatca
tions, whre left as “unfinished buaineao.”
There were:
A bill to restore and secure to the eitiiena
of South Carolina their righta under the third
clanse of section second of the fourth artiele
of the Constitution of the United Statea in raj
laiion to the rendition of fugitive tlaves.
A bill to increase the penalties fox circula
ting or bringing within this State tor circula
tion, any written or printed papers, print or
engraving, or pictorial representation, with
intent to disturb the peace or seeurity of tha
same.
A bill to amend an act entitled “an act to
amend the law in relation to the harboring of
deserted seamen.
A bill of non-iutercourae with the non
alaveholding States of the Union that have
passed acts or enactments to prevent tha ra
covery of slaves, and given an opinion contra
ry to our policy and detrimental t* our inter
est in regard to our slave population.
A bill to provide a police in relation to par
sons coming from states hostile to tha institu
tions of ihe South.
A bill to provide for the purchase of ordi
nance.
Fooitivk Slavs Cask in SpßiMoriiLD.
A man from Schenectady, N. Y. f came into
Springfield, and claimed a black woman whs
resided here, married aud with a family, as a
slave. She was taken before Geo. Bliaa,
Esq., where the claim was established ac
cording to the law in each cases. The wo|
man was given up as the claimant’s property,
when several of our benevolent eilisens, in
cluding Daniel Lombard, Esq., one of otu
most estimable men, obtained terms, elubbed
together, purchased hei of her master, for the
sum of 100. Mr. Lombard bolds the bill of
sale in his possession. The tsars of sorrew
exhibited by the afflicted woman and the fans
band from whom she was about to be asper
ated, were thus changed to teats of joy, and a
more happy pair probably never were sees.
This is the operation of the fugitive slave lew
in Springfield. There was no excitement, or
disturbance. The law was allowed take he
course.
The N. Y. Commercial Advertiser in copy
ing this paragraph, omits to say that the ease
occurred forty yeart ago.
The price of Fugitivee "is ria,” since Mr.
Peter V. Geyseling, of Schenectady, went te
Springfield to claim bis slave Jenny.
Rumor in High Lira.—Tbe Bor too
Transcript ni»ea it aa a rumor, that Miao
Caihaime Lawrence, aecond daughter of Ah*
nott Lawrence, American Minuter at the
Court of St. Jamea, is about to be married te
the Marques of Grafton, the eldest son of the
Duke of Routlaid,
Frederick Douglass :—ln transmiuing iu
you, in behalf of the Fair Committee, the nett
proceeds of the Buffalo North Star Fair, the
Committee regret that the result, in a
pecuniary point of view, was not in keeping
with the spirit of the age or good feeling
which swells the bosoms of this benevolent
community. The great cause for the small
amount realized, I do not hesitate to say
originated from the large number of similar
movements for benevolent purposes, gone into
but a few days prior and from which large
amounts |were realized. Although other
causos combined had their effect—being New*
Year’s Eve, a time when the noble and igno
blo have their attention drawn into the vari
oua channels which an important day like it
baa from time almost immemorial produced,
and the delinquency of feeling towards the an
ti-slavery cause produced in this Fillmore re
fion, by acquiescence to Fillmore logic and
Fillmore degeneracy this, in connection
with the short notice for holding the Fair, at
once explains the cause. The Commute nev
ertheless (eel to thank God and take courage.
Much has been effected by the gatherings
(though small,) the thiee successive even
ings on which the fait was held. To know
the fact that a few choice spirits remained in
Buffalo, who were willing to rally around the
atandard of Libeitv, to act and to listen to ihe
urgent appeal* of him, who, but a few years
•ince, writhed under all the cruelly and injus
tice which the infernal system of slavery ne
cessarily engenders, will not be without its
benefits. A great effect also was produced by
the three lectuies delivered by you on the
opening each evening of the Fair- many new
and warm personal friends were mace lor
yourself as well as for the cause. The
acathtng rebuke which was given, in your
first lecture, to that arch fiend and hypocrite, J.
C. Lotd, D.D., whopreachedon last Thanks
giving the justice of the fugitive slave law
and slavery in general, was a decided triumph,
and had its good effect. The second lecture
on prejudice against color, proving that it wa9
condition and not color, was not only highly
approved for its literary and historical char
acter, but for the incunirovertable truthfulness
•f the position assumed. The thud lecture prin
•ipally treated upon the false charges hurled
agaiAst you on the ground of infidelity, was fi
nal and conclusive in the minds of many who
have heretofore opposed yuu on religious
grounds, that all such accusations have been
false and malicious exonerates you forever from
this charge in Buffalo. In presenting you the
nett proceeds, $54,1/, allow- me to assure
you, with such friends as Mr. and Mrs. Rich
ard Jones, Mrs. Turner,. P. Harris and fam
ily, Mra. Shields, Mrs. Simpson, Mrs. Cezar,
Mia*. Hawkins, Mrs. Francis andothers, that
no lack of energy shall be w anting to aid the
cause of universal emancipation. In behalf of
the Committee, A. H. F.
Philadelphia, Jan. Ist, 1851.
Frederick Douglass,—Dkak Sir:—l
have intended subscribing for the “North
btar" for some time, and have been prevent
ed from doing so earlier, by the accumulation
of newspapers that I already receive, making
it difficult for me to find time to read them all
without infringing oti time that should be
devoted to my business.
I regard however the fact that good News
papers, so ably edited by Colored men as the
“North Star" and “Impartial Citizen,’’are, as
amonj, the best vindications of the capacity
of colored man to fill respectable positions in
society, creditable to themselves, and to the
best interest of the world and shall therefore
be glad to see all such, papers have an ex
tended circulation, not only among those for
whose advancement they were particularly es
tablished, and who, therefore, are moot
•specially bound to bupport them well, and
thus increase their influence. But also
should 1 like to ha'e them read by those who
need information as to the capabilities ol our
colored population lor other pursuits besides
waiting on table, blacking boots, or wheeling
barrow. 1 heir elfoits for mental improvement
as exhibited by their Papers, and the talente
they there show themselves to be possessed of,
must lead to the successful assertion of their
rights. Desiring to aid in a small way towards
sptending information of this kind, I en*
close five dollars, for one year’s subscription
to the “North Star” for myself, and the
balance you will please appropriate to sending
copies of the paper occasionally to prominent
Southern men, members of Congress and
others, where you think they will do the}
most good. 1 forwarded to you a short time
since several of our city newspapers, showing
the practical working of the new Fugitive
Slave Law, exemplified in the case of Adam
Gibson, arrested as a slave, and sent without
s trial, and against evidence, to a slave State,
from whence he was returned as a freeman.
This ease had aroused considerable feeling
on the subject here, and will no doubt do
much good.
1 had intended writing to you before this,
to thank you for your courtesy, in publishing
s letter 1 addressed to you in the summer on
the subject of Colonization, knowing as I
well do the very strong prejudice that you,
in common with most of youi readers, enter
tain against this cause. 1 fully appreciated
your libeiality in presenting it to your readers.
While 1 have no desire to make myself con
spicuous in this way or any other, I yet fee!
so strong an inteiest in the prosperity of the
young Republic of Liberia, and consider that
the successful establishment of an independ
ent and enlightened government on the
continent of Africa, conducted entirely by
colored men, is so intimately connected with
the best interest of the w hole race over the
woiid, that 1 am glad of every opportunity of
spreading correct information on the subject
among the colored population of the United
Slate, even should it come from none other
than myself, claiming to be well acquainted
with ?he objects and tendency of measures in
which 1 have taken an active part, and wiih
all the means of infotmalion that any one can
possses*. 1 feel well assured that the new
Republic, even in it* infancy, is already ex
citing an influence, favorable to the entire
race, by whom its government is conducted
and that as it increases in population and
extent of territory, with ie n>tional aug
mentation of both physical, and moral power,
It must contribute largely lo ih* of
Anti-Slavery sentiment, over ihe civil iae d
warld Whether, therefore, you regard the
indiieot, the reflex influence of a powerful
Republican Government on the continent of
Africa, condacted on truly enlightened and
Christian principles, by colored emigrants
.from the United States, or whether you view
it in its political aspect successfully com
peting with America, in the culture of cotton,
that one product of our Southern States, the
large profits of which have in my opinion
been the principal if not the only cause of
the continuance of Slavery in the United
States, you will have to acknowledge that
Liberia isdestined to accomplish—yes, is now
in the full tide of a most important Anti-
Slavery work, and for this reason alone
should be regarded with especial favor by
every true friend of the colored race. That
cotton of excellent quality is raised in Africa,
has been known for a long time; and now that
English capitalists and the British Govern
ment have turned their attention to it, I think
it will be proved that it can be taised in any
quantity, and cheaper, than in the United
States. On this subject, allow me to refer
you to President Roberts' letter to Lord Pal
merston, and the report of the “Chamber of
Commerce, and manufactures ofManchester”
in regard to the samples of cotton transmitted
to them. Should this new discovery of the
process of preparing flax prove successful in
lessening the demand for cotton in both Ep
rope and America, and if the information on
this subject is eorrect, flax must supersede the
use of cotton to a great degree. Why should
not the markets of Great Britain, and the
United States, be supplied with cotton en
tirely from Africa? Slave iabor being then
unprofitable, will not slavery be abolished at
ance? Will not the patriotism and philan
'hropy of the whole people be aroused to
ienounce, so anti-republic and anti-christian
in institution, “that was forced on us by
jreat Britian against our wishes, not regard
ng our emphatic protest against it?” °And
nethinks it will be difficult to find many who
’ver approved of the system. Verily we are
in an age of progress, and certainly human
Slavery will not prove the only exception to
be change that is taking place in the world.
Liberia is destined soon to become a joyful
Hepublcan Government. The English are lay
ng the foundation of future states south and
jastof Liberia, and with their colony of Siera
Leone, and the settlement on the Gambia at
he north, must ere long b) united in a pow
erful confederacy that shall command the re
spect of the world and your childron may
see the day if you and I shall not, when
he United States of Africa, shall be con
sidered as one of the most enlightened and
listinguished nation of Christendom, rivalling*
n all that Constitutes true glory, the United
States of America. Then may our children,
while revering the name of their fathers, be
ible to point to his nam who, once an Ame
rican Slate, lent the weight of his talent and
the power of his press, to aid in consummating
so great a work. When you look at the
question in all its aspects.—(l care not what
you choose to regard as the origin to the Colo
nization Society—what motives you may still
insist on attributing to its founders) —it is im
possible that you should not feel a strong in
terest in the prosperity and rapid progresa of
the young Republic, that you should not
sympathize with your brethren there, identi
fied with yourself in all that pertains to the
suffering of the past and the prosperity of the
future, many of them, like yourself, having
experienced the iron rod of Slavery in Ame
rica, and now with yourself working out the
redemption of your race. That you should
in any way oppose the triumph of the ami
shvery cause, through the aid of the free
men of Liberia, because the Colonization So
ciety should thereby receive a share of the
glory, I am entirely unwilling to believe.—
It is entirely opposed to true nobleness—ir
consistent with that sincere devotion to the
welfare of your race, which I believe you to
possess, and in a word unworthy the name and
fame of Frederick Douglass. 1 shall there
fore expect you to give your readers such
information as may be interesting to them
and affecting any portion of your people,
whether in America or Africa, and shall take
the liberty of sending to you occasionally
documents from Liberia, and will be glad if
you will copy into the North Star the last
letter from President Roberts to myself,
which you will find in .the “Colonization
Herald. I should also be gratified if you
would copy from the “Pennsylvania Free
man’ of last week, an article on the subject
of the slave trade, in which Sir Charles
Hotham speaks of the agency of Liberia in its
suppression. Yours, very truly,
BENJAMIN COATES.
Kingshead Hotel, Hortlepool,
Dec. 20th, 1850.
Dear Douglass :—You will have seen that
the press of this country has been unsparing
in its denunciation of the Fugitive Slave
Bill. Of the many acts of cruelty and in
justice committed by the American Legisla
ture against the colored people of the United
States, none has done so much to crown them
with infamy, and to cause the people of this
country to detest and abhor the American
character, as the enactment of this new law.
It ia an ancient fable, that the eruptions of
..Etna were produced by the restless move
ments ot the giant Enceladus, who was im
prisoned beneath. As the monster turned on
this side, or stretched his limbs, or struggled,
ihe conscious mountain belched forth dames,
fiery cinders, and red-hot lava, carrying de
struction to all who dwelt upon its fertile
sides.
The slave power of the United States is
the imprisoned giant of the new world and
its constant struggles for more power, have
and will cause eruptions of evil to the people,
in comparison wiih which the flames, the fiery
cinders, and red-hot lava of the valcano, are
trivial and transitory. The Fugitive Slave
Bill,” and its consequences, is the all-absorb
ing topic for conversation in this country.
Within the last three weeks, I have at
tended several meetings upon the subject ol
the fugitive slave bill. Sir John Fife presided
at the meeting in Newcastle in Shields, the
Mayor was in the chair. The Sunderland
meeting was presided over by one of the old
est and most venerated of its citizens. At all
of these meetings, stringent resolutions were
passed in favor of the anti-slavery movement,
and against the fugitive bill. The minds of
the people of England wer: never in a better
state to hear the question of American sla
very discussed than at the present time.
President Fillmore's message has come to
hand, and his approval of the new law, and
I bis seeming datenainatioo to see it enforced
I is to some extent claiming the attention of th<
public. What words can tell the inhumanity
the atrocity, of that doctrine which, from ex
ailed office, commends such a law to the favo
of Christians, as the deliberate counsel ant
practical wisdom of a great and enligh tenet
nation What indignation from all the worlt
ia not due to the government that puts forth
its powers and strength to execute such ar
obnoxious law 1
But I did not sit down to write a long let
ter; my only object was to give you some lit
tle account of the Crafts. I received letters
from Boston some days since, informing me
of their flight from that city, and their intend
ed visit to this country. My connection with
William and Ellen, on tbeir getting out ot
slavery, two years since, and their attendance
upon my meetings in Massachusetts, caused
our New-England friends to suppose that orr
reaching this country, they would find me
out. A few days ago, while in Newcastle, I
received information, in an indirect way, that
the Crafts had arrived at Liverpool, and were
at Brown’s Temperance Hotel, where you,
and I, and many more of the American abo
litionists have made their homes, oa reaching
Liverpool. I immediately wrote to William
Crafts, telling him that if I could be of any
service to him, it would give me the gieatest
pleasure. Yesterday’s post brought me the
following reply, written in his own hand
writing: V
Brown’s Hotel, Liverpool,
Dec. 18, 1850.
My dear Brown .—Yours of the 16th came
duly to hand, for which you have my best
thanks. I need not inform you that I was
pleased on getting your letter, but I should j
have been much more so, to have seen you.
We will come to you, but we cannot leave
Liverpool until Thursday next, aa Ellen is
not very well. Hoping to see you in a few
days, 1 remain yours most truly,
Wm. Craft.
When I met with William Craft, two years
ago, he scarcely knew one letter from anoth
er. And although he has had to labor for
his living since his escape, the composition
of his letter does his head more credit than
the one tent to him by the slaveholder
Hughes, while in pursuit of th<s noble fugi
tive in Boston. I don’t know what will be
their plana, as I have not yet seen them. But
as I have lying before me an invitation to
visit Scotland, I have but little doubt but that
Wm. and Ellen Craft will accompany me,
and that Edinboro’, the capital of the land of
Burns, will be the first to give a welcome to
Wm. and Ellen Craft, the first fugitive slaves
who have landed in this country, chased from
the land of their, birth by Webster’s fugitive
slave law.
The people generally are deeply interested
in the history of Wm. and Ellen Craft, and
it is not at all unlikely that the fugitive slave
bill hat added one more mouth-piece to the
anti-slavery agitation. The hearty and en
thusiastic welcome that these two fugitives
will get at the hands of ihe people of Great
Britain, will cause the cheeks of the Ameri
cans to mantle with shame, if they are not eu
titely lost to everything of the kind.
When I left Boston, in July, 1849, for this
country, the Crafts accompanied me to East
Boston to see me off. And as the steamer
had left the wharf, saw among the last vis
ible objects in the crowd, on the wharf, the
white handkerchief of Craft waving in the
breexe, above the heads of those 1 around
him, bidding me farewell. I hoped at that
time, that 1 should soon return and find him
at hia own home, aa I had left him. But the
Crafts were too noble specimens of our race
to be permitted to dwell in peace and quiet
ness, after the passage of the fugitive slave
law. The people of the North should no
longer boast of their independence of the
slave power. And, instead of the people of
Boston pointing to the Bunker Hill Monu
ment, and boasting of the heroic deeds of
their fathers, they should pull it down, and
erect upon its ruins a monument to Webster,
and engrave upon it in characters not to be
mistaken, “No protection here for the op
pressed.” When I heatd of the passage of
the fugitive slave bill, I had some faint hope
that the people there would protect those who
had fled to that city for safety. But when I
heard ot the flight of the Crafts, I gave up
all hopes of the fugitives being safe on any
soil over which the stars and stripes” float.
But 1 must bring thia hasty letter to a close.
And before doinj that, I must make a aingle
reference to the reception given to our
friend George Thompson by the Bostonians.
Those in this country who understand the
position of the political affairs in America,look
upon the disturbance in Faneuil Hall aa tbs
last and crowning act of infamy of the defeat
ed Whig party of Massachusetts. But thia
will cause this noble friend of the slave to be
more and more admired in this country. I
understand a testimonial ia to be presented to
Mr. Thompson on his return to England.
Coshocton, Ohio, Not. 10, 1850.
To the Rev. Aug. R. Green. —Sit—li
may be considered presumtuous in the esti
mation of you and youi followers for me to
attempt to reply to your soul stirring remarks
in defence of your church, delivered in the
city of Zanesville, on the evening of July 39th,
1850. I shall now take occasion to descant
upon your literary abilities, and the fame
which will naturally result from such as
tonishing powers displayed upon that evet
memorable occasion. To encouiage raTe
genius, to foster true greatness and magna
nimity of soul, and more particularly, to at
tract the attention of the world to the possessor
of those rich and glorious attainments, will
be the grand object i have in addressing or
noticing anything you have said and while I
hold you up as a pattern of excellence to the
rising generation, it will not be surprising if a
spice of iiony should be mingled in the picture
I present, for the rapturous feelings which
your arguments produce, naturally lead to
extravagance of thought and reflections.
W ere it not for the identity of language and
sentiments which flow from a heart fired as
yours is with all the sensibilities and polished
attainments of a gentlemen and a scholar,"
you would be entirely lost to human vision;
but as all great men have their eccentricities
and peculiarities which distinguish them, so
you have characteristics which toijj forever
identify you in whatever character you may
assume and whatever part you may act in the
groat drama of life, in every shape, form and
color, and under whatever name you may
seek to hide. The image of morality which
nature has fixed upon you, the prominence of
your genius, stand out ia bold raliaf, not only
giving tone to all you do, or say, or write,
but marked with unerring certainty the re
splendent destiny of your career. Wherever
found, in whatever attitude you are placed,
you exhihit the same great attributes of your
nature, love roa tee Araiam Episcopal
Church, possessing a certain amount ol
equanimity of temper, un mixed and unmfngled
with the follies attendant upon low ambi
tion," audthat supercilious arrogance peculiar
to men of depraved hearts, and empty brains.
The variety of your talents and the versatility
you exhibit in whatever state or condition
you are placed by the guardians of your fame,
it truly astonishing. At one time we find you
in the retirement of yeur "sanctum," drawing
pictures of fancy, and breathing into them so
much of the living upiritof your own feelings,
that one would scarcely distinguish the ori
ginal, except in the outward form. Again;
with descriptive efforts of a Bulwer,” or
sven the sublime flights of “Byron,” you
mount the sunny side of Parnassus, drink in
spiration from its pebbled fountains, and sound
forth the harmony of your thoughts in poetic
numbers unto an admiring world. And still
again, should the falling fortunes of the Af
rican Methodist Episcopal Church wsnt
a defender, you can step forward at their
bidding, and with a heart melting with sym
pathy, and touched with all the tender and
refined emotions of your nature, you can
sstch the echo of their displeasure, and send
t thundering upon the world below like rocks
orn from the mountain side, leaping and
lashing from crag to crag, as they down the
irecipice go to the awful vortex which yawns
relow.
Such, sir, i 3 the variety of your task and
slents, as were displayed on the memorable
svening of the 29th of July, 1850. in the
:ily of Zanesville— (to say nothing of thi
Hole-cats, catamounts and other wild ‘varmints'
i lluded to.) I had at one time almost believed
rou to be some superior intelligence sent
lown to us from another sphere, whose errand
m earth was designed to soften and refine the
Lsperities of man, and still the troubled
vaters that distract the world. And in this
ige of progress, and spiritual communica
ions’' would it be too great a stretch of imagi.
lation to suppose you may be one of those
vinged beings somewhat in the resetnbalnce
»f a man, brought to view some years since,
>y the light of “Herschell’s Telescope in
tis human observations and cloihed a 1
iresent in the garb of a Methodist
md more particularly as you present some of
he characteristics of a truly honest and praise
worthy man. Be this as it may, your argu
ments tincture with all the sweetness of your
imposition, and happy style of thought and
jxpression peculiar to yourself and with a love
of whatever is lofty in sentiment and grand in
diction you have proven beyond cavil, I had
almost said the possibility of demonstration
ihe purity and honesty of the leaders of the
African Methodist Episcopal Church,
{yourself being a sample and how deserving
|s your temporal advancement to hand down to
coming generations.
Again, sir, you stand like a blazing light
in the midst of thick surrounding darkness,
unconsciously drawing aside the curtain and
exposing to our view some small specimens
of the mode and temporal honesty of the Af
rican Methodist Episcopal Coherences, and
tell us public opinion is manufactured and sent
forth to the world, pure And undefiled like
the flow of gushing waters from the fountain,
head. I hope at some future period you will
lift the curtain atill higher, and let the radiant
light of your effulgent genius, illuminate the
datk corners of your packed conferences, and
explain to the world, in your accustomed
courteous and polished manner, the machinery
by which certain interests, south of Mason
and Dixon’s line,” have been obtained, and
certain privileges secured; and whether chi
canery, corruption or bribery, have ever
touched the wires. But, sir, with all the
flourish of your rhetoiic, ip nothing have you
been so fortunate in drawing upon the feel
ings, and sympathies of your hearers, as your
allusion to the brave, the eloquent and the ven
erated Rt. Rev. R. Ablen, who braved the
tempest of his day in behalf of religious lib
erty to himself and fellow-coadjutors, aiming
at the true principles of the elevation of that
class of his fellow-countrymen who were pro
scribed (I might say for opinion’s take) and
not like you (and many you are classed with)
he came out boldly on the side of the op
piesaedwithout any attempt to screen hmi
velf from any for the sake of policy. If such
a man, with intrepid boldness should dare at
that dark day, to mount the battle walls of
freedom, and theie and then assert a right to
worship God in freedom and truth, and suc
cessfully lay a foundation for a church of
which it seems that you are a member, par
ticularly ot its law-making department, 1 ask,
in God Almighty's holy name,” what
apology have you and your twenty thousand
followers in remaining silent Respecting the
“damning sin of American slavery!” Nothing
that you said in Zanesville, in my humble
opinion, has put to silence that all-important
question. In conclusion, all I ask is, that
chrisliaus and Christian gospel oumstors, more
especially they who are particularly identified
with the three and a half million, nf bondmen
of the United States, should awako. Awake
Isay to this all important subject, I have
done. W.H. BOrShAM.
The African Slave Trade.
An officer on board one of otn ships on the
African station, thus wntes upon this subject.
The letter is copied from the Boston Jour
nal.
“I very much regret to say, that for a
long time ibe greatest facilities for carrying
on the slave trade have been afforded by the
prostitution of our flag. I believe full one
half of the negroes shipped h run the Congo
southward, have been made in vessels under
it* cover.
The position which the United States oc
cupies upon the right of visitation and searoh,
ir such that a “bona fide” American vessel,
cannot be molested by a British cruiser, even
with a full cargo of negroes on board. Eng
land by treaty orcouveution, has secured the
right, under' certain restrictions, of visiting
and searching all suspected vessels, except
those wearing the American flag;—such, are
sacred, and thus guarded, may embark hun
dreds of slaves under the gups W the British
Commodore himself, svoid all interruption
from foreign countries, and by hoisting the
Brazilian flag tnay escape Capture by our
own.
Now, I believe 1 know my duty as an
offiqer too well to find fault with the acts of
my Government, but s(ter two years’ service
f nd experience as an African cruiser, and not
wholly without observation, I am free to sty
’hat could the United States, authorities
consistently make an exception to the general
rale, no as to allow vessels notoriously en
gager! in the slave trade to be detained by
British erttisera and delivered up to own, the
disgraceful traffic would be greatly curtailed,
r and especially would the vile prostitution of
our flag be prevented.
As to the entire suppression of the slave
trade by the present system of blockade, I
must confess lam thoroughly sceptical. In
spite of the sleepless vigilance and constant
motion of the numerous cruisers hovering
along this coast, it is estimated that not less
than thirty thousand were, during the pas!
year, sent into bondage from the southward of
tbo Voltse. Sir Charles Hoth&m, the late
able commander of Her Britannia Majesty’s
naval force on lhe African (West) station,
having at his disposal a moat effective force,
and after two year 9, of active arid laborious
service, failed to do raortlhan partially inter
rupt it, and is clearly of the opinion that other
instrumentalities must be used for its eradica
tion. The means he relies most upon is
Colonization —particularly as exemplified in
the Liberian Colonies, a fact which is no less
interesting than pleasing to Americans, being 1
a just tribute to the sagacity and enlightened
philanthropy of the founders and friends of
our Colonization scheme.”— Penn. Freeman.
Loando, the capital of the Portuguese pro
vince of Angola, has a fine harbor, and looks
well from the sea—but it may well be said
that “distance lends enchantment to the
view.” It is emphatically a “whited se
pulchre.” When then slave trade was at
the zenith, Loando was a place of great opu
lence, ae evidenced in the numerous large
and palace like residences, the grand and
magnificent churches, convents, and nunneries
—the latter with few exceptions, being in a
state of ruin or decay. The Jesuits early
turned their attention to Angola as a field for
their operations and their fortunes seemed to
wax and wane with the slave trade while
this prospered, they flourished, and the mon
uments of their zeal and energy are numerous
and striking. But their zeal and energy have
outstripped the decadence of the traffic—the
fraternity is now unrepresented by a living
man—their splendid temples are now the
habitations only for the moles and the bats,
or the work-shops for convicts guilty of the
foulest crimes.
df 3 Ihe Charleston Mercury has become
convinced of an important thruth, Speak
ing of the fugitive slave law, it says
“At to the practicability of putting into
operation any of the feature* of the bill, we
do not think that Northern fellings and pre
judices will admit of it.”
YOUNG MEN, READ THIS.
A day or two since we learned from
a gentleman of New York city a few
facts relative to Mr. Bullard, who is
now exhibiting his Panorama of
Broadway in this city, which at the
time they were related very much in
terested us, and we have no doubt they
will interest all who have struggled
and are now struggling with poverty.
Mr. Bullard is a native of the town of
Howard, Steuben Co., N. Y. His
father was a farmer, and young Bullard
remained at home and worked on the
farm until he was fourteen years of
age, at which time the father declared
that he was “too lazy” to make a
farmer. When he ought (as the father
thought) to be at work on the farm, he
out ot shingles the por
traUs of every boy and girl in the
neighborhood. The father not being
able to control the bent of the boy’s
mind, put him with Augustus A. Olm
stead, Esq., of his native town, to
learn the trade of sign painting. He
remained with Mr. Olmstead seven
years, till he became 21 years of age.
After completing his trade with Mr.
Olmstead he painted some 20 portraits
of different individuals living in How
ard. For painting these portraits he
received some $25. With this amount
of money he started for New York
city.
He had expected to find the Na
tional Academy of Design open on
Exhibition, and to see the Paintings,
and become acquainted with the Ar
tists, and to find if possiblo some one
to instruct him in his favorite art. He
arrived there, and found the Exhibition
closed, which very much disappointed
him. He roved round the great city a
day or two, and was unable to find an
Artist to instruct or encourage him,
and his purse becoming very low, he
went to Hartlord, Connecticut, in the
vicinity ot which place be had friends.
He remained in Hartford one year, re
ceiving instruction in his Art from an
artist by the name of Hewins. After
leaving Mr Hewins, he went into the
country from Hartford, and Painted
Portraits, and realized money enough
to pay the debts he had contracted in
Hartford for board, Ac. During the
year he was in Hartford, such was his
extreme poverty that he attended
church but six times, because he had
not clothes to wear that were suitable.
After meeting with various reverses of
fortune, he returned to Howard in
1841, and was married to Miss Ange
line A. Olmsted, a daughter of the
gentleman of whom he had learned the
trade of a Sign Painter. From 1841
to 1845, he was in various parts of the
Union, engaged in painting Portraits.
From 1843 to 1846 he was a resident
of New York city, and at work at his
Art receiving instruction, and continu
ally improving till now ha is “at least”
a promising artist.
In 1846 he conceived the idea of
painting his great painting, the Pano
rama of Broadway, and found a noble
hearted Englishman, George Docl,
who furnished the means to go on with
the painting. Mr. Bullard and from
three to seven men were at work on
this great work four years; Mr. Doel
promptly paid the bills as they became
due-—in all fifteen thousand dollars.
The painting was completed on the
first day day of November, 1850.
What a lesson here is for every
young man? Is there a young man in
our city who has felt the tears of pov
erty rolling down his cheeks, who,
when he has become fatigued with the
labors of the day, sat down in his room
by the side of his desk, and rested his
head upon his hand, and there under
the lid of his desk were his board bills
and others too numerous to mention
unpaid, and he has at those times felt
almost discouraged and said to himself,
it is no use to try? If we say, there is
•uch an one, he will be encouraged by
reading this, and glory in the success
of Mr. Bullard. Is there not a good
deal of difference in Mr, Bullard’s
feelings now, when he is receiving hit!
one end two hundred dollars per dayj
from pereons who go to look at his
Panorama, and when he was at Hart
ford, and could not attend church, be
cause he had not elothes to wear that
were decent? So it is in this world,
“God help those who help them-1
selves.”
We say to Mr. Bullard as the con-\
verted Heathen said to one of our Mis
sionaries, goon, go on, go on.
Since writing the above it occurs to
us that we some time since read the!
Life of Mr. Bullard, in the American
Biographical Sketch Book, of self-made
Men.— Rock. Herald, Jan. 6.
THE PROPER USE OF THIS
POPE’S KfNDIfESS*
We have welcomed the Anti-Papal
agitation in no narrow spirit and with
no sectarian bitterness, but we trust
with the enlightened earnestness ot
thorough Liberals, of far-seeing poli
ticians, and progressive Protestants.
We have joined our humble voice to
this outburst of Protestant feeling not
to embitter its expression—not to in
flame its virulence, but to ennoble and
uplift it—to purify its current, and ele
vate its objects. Our aversion to Rome
is not the petty hatred which sect bears
against sect, nor the small jealousy
which priest and prelate cherish
against priest and prelate; it is derived
from far broader and deeper sources
than any party rancor or any sectarian
bitterness. Our warfare with Rome is
not waged in behalf of a menaced
Episcopacy, or an outraged Royal
Supremacy; it is carried on in the
name of sealed Scripture and fettered
thought, of intellect most grievously
insulted nnd coerced, of conscience
most heavily laden, of civil and reli
gious freedom most outrageously and
perpetually violated—in the name of
three million Italians whom the Papacy
grinds down under the lowest and most
debasing form of temporal bondage,
and of millions and millions of souls
whome she keeps in the depths of
spiritual degradation. We have hailed
i this manifestation of Protestant feeling
in no extremity of alarm, in no fury of
indignation, but in all the fulness of
hope, in all the earnestness of glowing
anticipation. We have looked upon it
not as a refuge from danger, not as a
burst of passion, but as an instrument
of progress, an opening into a fairer
future. We would turn the aggression
on the Pope to the detriment of the
Papacy; we would use this outburst ol
Protestant feeling for.the advancement
of Protestant principles. We would
win from this encroachment of the
spiritual despot strength and nourish
ment for the freedom of the English
people, and the freedom of all nations.
We would have England the freer for
this display of foreign insolence; we
would have her more Protestant for
this onslaught upon her Protestantism.
The warfare that we recommend,
that we ourselves would wage, is the
only vigorous warfare—the only war
fare that can end in complete victory.
It will not do to encounter so formida
ble an antagonist as Romanism with
feeble resources; it will not be possible
to overcome her with half our strength.
The contest must not degenerate into
the conflict of rival episcopaeies and
opposing supremacies. To be a suc
cessful war it must be a war of princi
ples; we must endeavor to carry out
every principle which Rome condemns,
and summon into full activity every
power, spiritual and temporal which
she struggles to keep down. To assert
the Queen’s supremacy in matters ec
clesiastical is not to put down the
Pope’s; to maintain the divinely ap
pointed authority of Anglican prelates
is not to destroy the credit of Romish
bishops. To beat Romanism back we
must push Protestantism forward; to
turn the Pope’s aggression against
himself we must become aggressive
ourselves. The true answer to this
Pontifical presumption is a further de
velopment of the principles of the Re
formation. The Pope, in the plenti
tude of his ignorance and assurance,
thought to make England wholly papal
in a few years; we trust that his foolish
intervention will have the very opposite
effect of rendering her Protestantism
still more Protestant. There lingers
I far too much of Popery about English
Protestantism. English Protestants
have been much too fond of dealing in
Romish devices they have been afraid
of their own principles, and trembled
at their own strength; they have re
fused thoroughly to search the Scrip
tures, fully to employ their intellect, to
use their whole freedom, and to speak
all their thoughts; and yet Rome can
be only successfully encountered by this
thorough searching of the Scriptures,
and this entire exercise of the intellect
—this complete assertion of lreedom,
this unreserved utterance of the truth.
If the Church of England would
fairly fight the fight with her adversary
of Rome, and finally come off con
queror, let her renounce the prnciples
and forsake the practices of her rival.
There is no practice more thoroughly
and genuinely Romish than that of res
training and corrupting the intellect by
religious tests—by interposing sub
scriptions to creedis and articles be
tween learning and its rewards We
would earnestly recommend the
Church ot Englan/d to put away from
herself this papal stain—to answer the
Pope’s Bull by making this advance in
true and vital Protestantism. To open
the English Universities would, indeed,
be a new and glorious manifestation
of English Protestantism. To make
admission to the Universities independ
ent on subscription—to remove the
barriers of articles and creeds from
the path of able, aspiring, but coa
sciencious youth—to make the precious
privilege of a rich and various culture
unconditional on the sacrifice of truth
and the impairing of the soul-—to leave
off defrauding intellect and learning ol
their proper career and national re
wards, because they happen to be
joined with honesty and tenderness of
conscience—to do this would indeed be
magnificently to improve the present
opportunity—to turn the Pope’s ag
gression to the vindication and exten
sion of the great principles of Protest
antism—and greatly to advance the
cause of spiritual freedom.
Such 4s a sample of the anti-papal
tactics that we would recommend to
the Anglican Church and to 'British
Protestant* in general; not to revile j
Popery, !>ut to combat it—first, by re-
nouncing every lingering vestige ot it
in themselves, and then arguing against
it in its great external avowed develop
ment—not to assail it by statutes, and
persecute it by penal enactments, but
to fight against it by trusting to tbeir
own strength, and rally carry out tbeir
own Protestantism. The opening of
the Universities is only one of the
various suggestions which we have to
offer for the improvement of this grand
opportur' y, and for the purifying, en
i nobling. extending, and strengthening
jof English Protestantism. Burming
ham Mercury.
“NO HIGHER LAW.”
A Picture, with this title, ha* just
been published, and is for sale by
William Hared, Agent, 61 John
street, New York, which will, we trust,
meet with a ready sale, and be exten
sively circulated.
The subject is a personification of
American Slavery, with particular ref
erence to the Fugitive Slave Bill. The
size of the wood cut is about 12 by 18
inches. Slavery ia represented by a
Tyrant, seated on his throne, with a
whip, and fetter in his right hand,
brandished over his head. His head
rests on his left hand, the elbow being
placed on a Bible, which is nearly hid
by a scroll containing the words, “Fu
gitive Slave Bill.” Underneath is a
circle of human skulls, emblematical
of the crushing and direful influence of
slavery.
Under the throne is the head of an
allegorical wild beast, over which are
the words, Sacred to Slavery and
underneath the word “Law." On the
left, beneath the skulls, are three slave
men, one black, one mulatto, and the
other nearly white, with a most abject
and forlorn expression. Farther to
the left is the figure at full length of a
late Senator, who is in the attitude of
speaking, with a scroll m his left hand
in which is written, “I propose to sup
port that bill to the fullest
extent —to the fullest extent.” The
skulls are looking him very significant
ly in the face. Behind the Senator
stands a figure representing Liberty in
advanced years, with a desponding ex
pression, bending and holding in his
right hand a crown on which is written
“Freedom,” and in his left a staff, with
the cap of Liberty trailing in the dust.
In the back-ground, on an eninence,
directly opposite the Senator, a statue
f of the Goddess of Liberty is repre
sented as falling from a pedestal.
On the other side is a minister —not
of State, but of a Religion he dishonors
—in sacredotal robes, with one hand
puting out a libation to the enthroned
slave-monarch, while with the ether he
is pointing to the Union flag, which,
surmounted with the national eagle, is
r floating at the head of a staff at the
side of the throne. Partly obscured
by the rising incense are seen two
pursuers on horseback, preceded by
some half a dozen blood-hounps, in
hot pursuit of a family of Fugitives.
The Father, with Herculean strength,
is battling with the dogs, one of which
lies dead at his feet, another being held
at bay, while a dagger is plunged into
j the throat of a third. In the back
j ground appears a woman at the door
of a cottage with extended arms, in
_ viting the slave-mother, with her little
t son and daughter, to find an asylum in
her dwelling.
This picture will be a permanent
j record of American slavery, while it
t personifies the iniquitous Fugitive
Slave Bill, that has carried so much
e distress into the hearts of the colored
population, and filled the white people
B of the free States with indignation and
j horror. It should be hung up in every
s place of public resort, and be in the
3 possession of every family in the coun
t fy-
SHALL ENGLAND ASSIST THE
CONTINENTAL TYRANTSt
Much aa Mr. Cobden pleased his
numerous audience on Tuesday, he
still more delighted a still larger num
ber of listeners on Wednesday even
ing. It must be recollected that the
majority of mankind take much greater
interest in a general question than in a
particular measure; but it must also be
acknowledged that as the apostle of
peace and the advocate of arbitration
he took more pains and put forth niore
strength than as the panegyrist of Free
hold Land Societies. His recommend
ation of the Freehold movement was
practical, earnest, and persuasive; but
his rebuke of past aggression and
atrocities on the part of England, and
his indignant anticipation of similar
misdeeds on the part of our enlightened
government was still more earnest, ap
proached much nearer to eloquence,
and made a still more absolute conquest
of the hearts of the audience. We will
not at present dwell upon his denounc
ing of a possible war with China for
the purpose of creating a trade; we
will for a moment contemplate the
much nearer danger and stronger pro
bability of an immediate intervention
in Schleswig-Holstein against the Hoi
tteiners and in behalf of Denraark~of
the speedy employment of the naval
strength of England in conjunction
with the armies of the Continental
tyrants to pull down German nationali
ty and German freedom in the Duchies
—a monstrous abuse of the strength of
mighty England, a hideous belying of
the feeliogs and trampling on the
sympathies of liberal England, which
I Mr. Cobden most powerfully rebuked,
I and which Professor Worms denounced
with all the earnestness and enthusiasm
lof a devoted German patriot, and all
the ease, fluency, and eloquence of an
accomplished English orator.
Most admirably did the men of Bur
mingham express the feelings of the
English people in the enthusiastic re
ception which they bestowed on the
patriotic Professor, the intense sympa
thy which they manifested for the
righteous cause of Schleswig-Holstein,
German rights and European freedom,
and the determination which they
evinced that the English name should
not be degraded, English sympathies
belied, and English power abused to
the detriment ot their German kinsmen
and fellow-freemen. The Queen's
Ministers may have signed a protocol,
binding them to support the claims of
Denmark, and crush the liberties of the
Schleswig-Holsteineiv, who cordially
received our admirable townsman,
Mr. Sturge, and his high hearted co
adjutors, and consented to abide by
the decision of impartial private arbi
trators. The ministers may have
signed such an agreement; but we are
strangely mistaken if the English peo
ple will suffer them to carry it into ex
ecution. We feel assured that the
Whigs will not be suffered to put upon
us this shame. No English treasure
shall be wasted in the cause of Den
mark; no English man-of-war shall
deal out destruction among our Hol
stein kinsmen. The noble British lion
will not allow ita wretched self-styled
keepers jo put forth one of its psw
against a gallant young lion of its
kindred while valiantly struggling
against a savage troop of wolves and
tigenC If England is ever so unfor
tunate as to go to war again, it must he
on the side of the weak, not in the
service of the strong. If she once
more unsheathes the sword, she shall
at least draw it in the right cause, for
the nations and against the despots.
And yet these small men, these des
picable Whiglings have pledged our
sword to the despots—have pledged it
in compan) with that of Greek and des
potic Russia, of tyrannic and Papisti
cal Austria, of Romanised and per
verted France, in despite of free and
Protestant Holstein. Will the people
of England redeem this pledge?—Bur
mingham Mercury.
GOOD. ADVICB FOR KNJOYMEIfI
OFj A HOLIDAY.
A* you close the door of your house,
leave all thoughts of business behind
you. Never mind about that bill—
that appointment —or that tea caddy
you have left open or that key in the
cellaret —but surrender yourself un
conditionally to the thought of the day’s
enjoyment before you. Be at peace
with all men and with all things, but
more especially with yourself. It is
indispensable that you should be in the
highest good humor, with a soul above
trifles except to laugh at them. Hold
out a hand to the world and shake il
with all the heartiness of a friend yon
have not seen for many a week. Then
take its arm and saunter forth, with
your heart upon your face, determined
to enjoy yourself. Look at nature
through a smile. Let a rainbow en
circle all your thoughts. Begin the
day by giving something to a beggar.
Do not imagine lie is an impostor, bul
thoroughly believe that he is in waul
of it, and, if your charity has gone no
farther than a penny, you cannot
fancy how much better you will feel
for it. For thnt day—for the smiling
space of four-and-twenty hours —let no
black thoughts flit across the pure
heaven of your mind. If a dog runs
between your legs, if a chimney-sweep
blackens or a barber whitens you, or
your gloves burst, or your boots gape,
or your creditor sits opposite to you in
the omnibus “all the way to Mile end,”
let no hard monosyable drop from your
mouth, as if you had learnt your man
ners in Cursitor street. You must be
liberal, for meanness and enjoyment
are two things that never yet ran to
gether. So give the reins to your
liberality, keeping a curb over it all
the while, for unbridled expense will
throw you, if you have not care, be
fore you have travelled through half
the day. Prudence, also, must be
your guide,'for it will never walk six
miles at night, because you have not
reserved sufficient to pay for your
omnibus home. You should likewise,
keep a watchful eye upon the time,
for the hours run around with two pair
of hands when you are enjoying your
self, and you may have to sleep in a
damp bed in an unsavory village inn
because you did not start five minutes
earlier to catch the last train. Be de
termined to enjoy yourself, anti that
being first half of the enjoyment
gained, it is wonderful how quickly
the other half will follow it!— Punch't
Holidaya.
AMERICAN HURRY.
A writer in the Age thus discourses,
very sensibly, and to the point:
‘Look at the theatre—the people
come rushing in the middle of a piece;
and before the curtain begins to fail,
or the tag to be spoken, or the moral
explained, up start a hundred people
in a tremendous hurry to get out, as
if their very lives depended upon be
ing somewhere else within two minutes
and a half. How many fine effects in
a play—how many chef d* aeuvres in a
concert have we seen utterly destroyed
by this ill-mannered and indecent haste.
‘Cross a ferry; and look before the
boat arrives two thirds of the passen
gers are crowded at the head of the
boat, ready to jump ashore, risking
life and limb to save ten seconds of
time—a child is knocked overboard—
a boy’s foot mashed, or a young man in
youth’s first bloom crippled for life!—
what mailer! That man now walking
leisurejy up the street, get ashore
nearly half a minute earlier than he
would have done had he not run the
samejrisk, and caused perhaps the
accident.
‘Ggjnto an omnibus, and with one
lbot oft the step and the other inside,
the driver pulls the door to, whips up
the*horses, and you are pitched, head
first, ipto a stout old gentleman’s dia
phragm, or settled down by the stern
into a sentimental young lady’s lap.
‘Ride in a Harlaem car—you beckon
to the driver to stop, but no! he is in a
hurry too, and you have to run after
the lumbering vehicle and clamber up
while it goes along. You ring the
bell when you wish to get out, and if
you are patient the car will stop in
time,Jbut before you get your foot off
the platform, it is in motion, and you
are lucky if you are not landed hori
zontally in the mud.'
‘Now, what in the name of wonder,
is the cause of all this->do we gain any
thing? No! Do we onjoy anything
in this everlasting rush? No! Do we
live longer, or die more happily?— No!’
Goon times at the South. —The
Mobile Avertiaer, says the people of
the South were never more prosperous
since the country was settled tbao
now. Every kind of property sells
readily, and at fair prices, while cotton
is selling at 14 cents, and negroc* are
worth somejeight hundred dollars each.