Selections.
WOMAN’S RIGHTS CONVENTION.
At a Convention, held in the ffnita
ria i Clurch in the city of llocheater. on
the 21 day of August, 13H, to consider
the Rights of VVo nen: politically, so
cially, religiously, and industriously.
A>iv Post, called the meeting to or
der and rpported 1 >n behalf of the Com
mittee, the following persons to serve
as officers; Abigail Hush, President;
LauraMurrav, Vice President; Cath
arine A. F. Stebbixs, Sarah L. Hal
lowell, and Mary 11. Hallowell,
Secretaries.
Prayer by Rev. Mr. Wuicher.
Toe iniitttea of the preliminary inert
ing, were then read; at which time,
tour} anxiety was manifest concerning
the low voices of the women, and when
reading or speaking was attempted,
cries of louder, louder, nearly drowned
them, without giving time for adapting
them to the size of the house; and the
President remarked that we present
<d ourselves there before <Uein as an
oppressed class, with tremoliug frame!
and faltering tongu *s, and we did noi
expect to he able to speak s as to be
heard by all at lirst; but she trust
ed we should have the sympathy of t
•.odieuee, and that they w »u;d bear will
our weakness, a>w hi the in'ancy a;
we were of the movement; that oui
trust iu the omuipotency of right win
emr mdy failh that we should succeed.’
XV. C. Xell then r<!iid an add.es.
highly commendatory of the energies
and rare derolt.in of women iu ev. io
g »d cause, illustraied by facts in proo
ot her equality with man—adding tha:
he sh uld never cease to ma d thi
grateful bun ige of iiis heart for theii
zeal, in l). half of the oppressed class
with w.iieh he stood identified.”
Lucuf.tia Mott, said s ie must be
all I'ved t i object to some porti ms of it,
uuch as calling woman the better hull
ut et egti *n —ma i bad become so
jtcctMtoiued t i xpeak of woman in the
language of lUu*i»i<g compliments, that
he indalges io it i*Maw.i.*es t th there
*re some evidences of iiuproveir,eut—
instance the re forte in tno liteiatue of
the day—the sickly sewtiieentality of
thd Ladies Department,” is last dis
appearing, it being perceived that her
mind requires more substantial food.—
Bhe also objected to calliug man a ty
rant, it is power that makes him tyranni
cal,and w *man is equally so when she
has irresponsible power. We shall
*ut place woman in a true position until
we form a just estimate of mankind as
created by Ci id.
Wh.li*m C. Nell, disclaimed all
imcuttiot., tlattery, he did not think
that flattery, w.iich is spoken in truth.
A Due.- tr i n t!UT Smith was
read expressing his deep interest in »he
objects of the convention, and regreting
his inability to be present.
The following declaration of senti
ments, adopted at the Seueca Falla
CouvenUon, submitted.
-When, in the course of human eventi, it
become* for one portion of the fam
ily ot nun to assu.nt among m*
f»rdi a posit..,n difTcreut fro n that which they
have hilheno occupied, but one to winch the
Jaws of oatar* and of nature'* (j j wtjl
a>e(B. a doocui reapoct u, th* owr m ,tu ol
mtnlciod requiro* that they aho dd declare me
causes that impel them to such a course
We hold these truth* to be s*h-ovidsm
that all men and woman are created equal;
that they ar* endowed by uitu Creator with
eertaia inalienable rigbta; that among th<*«
are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happmee*
that to aeoorn these rights govemm nu an
inMituted, durivtnir tltar jost (Miwer* ir,„ n u, t
9oii*?nt of tlie governed. Whs.ieter ant film
pf Govern itsui become* deairucuve of thus,
end*, u i« the right ul those who suffer fVoa
(4 to tefiwe allegiance tu it. and in ep*«t
THE NORTH STAR.
(be institution of a new government, lavinj
Ins foon ton on s.icb prutcipks, and oig»t-.i
zing its powers in such tonu as tu tneui slisJ
seem most likely to etiecl lOeir saicty at.<
j Happiness. PruJeucc, indeed, wilt detail
liiul government* long established MuiuJd no
be changed lor light and transient caw#- a
ami acvu.ditigly, an experience bath show*
tnat uunnind are tnuie disposed to butler
wiiiie ewis -ire sud'erauie, Uiau to right them
«el%ev bv anoltshiug the lorms in winch litcj
j are acc.-blw-uad. Ilut when a long train o
ahuaes and usurp iiiu.m, pursuing invanablj
me same oliject, evinces a destgu to reduc<
Mum under absolute despoitsm, a is mei
jut, to throw oil such government, and it
proVije new guards lor their lulu re security
Ouch has been the aueul b .li.Xaooe oi iih
woaieu under tins g« eruio ml, a..d snen it
I now tue uec- boity whicU ooi.suraius theai tt
deuit.id Ine equal »Uuuu to which lu.-y arc
entitled.
I ..a It sTory of mankind is a history of re
je.te.i i t ,i.u» a.id usurpalions uu toe pari
~4 u i ird wtiuian, hawng in direci uuj-.ci
t u co. i Hi an uhsoaule Ijiunuy uiei
i, r. j i U let taels 0e suUuiiiled it
iCd i J*ci «;j ts.
i,e ..us nevur permitted h**r to exercise hei
niaoenaaie tigiil 10 Ittr elective irauCtilsc.
lie iias c •mpehed her to suUmll lo laws, it
the I .rm itiou ot wh en sue had no \o.cc.
11 lias wuntie.d itum ner ngnls winch ar.
given lo the «n.»st ighora..t a..u uegraacd met
—holli natives and luie.gi.e-s.
Having deptiVcU her ui this first right of
cmij.i, me eiecu* e traiicinse, thereby teavn.j
her witiiout representation hi the hahs o
1 g si i.oii, he lias oppressed her uti ail sides.
il h is made her, .1 married, lu the eye o
the law, civilly dead.
lie nas luion 1 1 utn her all right in property
even to me wages she earns.
lie has made net, morally, an irresi»onsibl<
being, as she can commit many crimes will
impunity, provided they be clone in the pres
ence ui her husband. In uie covenant o
marriage, she is compelled to promise obedi
dice to Iter husband, lie becoming, lo al
intents and purposes, her master —the lav
giving him power to deprive Iter ot ner liberty
and t.> administer chastisement.
He has so trained the laws of divorce, a:
I to wiiat shall be lue proper causes ot divoice
m case ot separation, to whom the guardian
ship of me children shall be given; as to b
wind!, regardless ol" the happiness of woiuei
die law, in all cases, going upon the falsi
supposition of the su, retnacy ol man, am
giving all power into nisha-.ids.
Aitei depriving her »d all rights as a marriet
woman, il single ami tin; owner ol property
he lias taxed her to suppotl a govermuen
which recognizes her only when her propert;
can he tuadeprufiiahle in a.
He lias monopolized nerly all the prnfitnhli
employments, and from those she is permute*
to follow. she receives but a scanty reinuuera
lion.
He closes against her all the avenues t<
wealth and di»tii.c;ton, which he consider:
mosi lionorable m himself. As a teacher o
theology, medicine, or law she is not known.
.He has
ing a thorough education—ail colleges being
closed against her.
He allows her m Church as well as Stale,
bill a subordinate position, claiming Apostolic
authority,for her exclusion from the ministry
a id, with some exceptions, from any public
patlicipatnm tu the affairs of the Church,
lie has created a false public sentiment, by
giving lo the world a different code of moral:
tor men and women, by which moral deiiu
1 qncncies which exclude women from society
are not only tolerated, but deemed of hilh
account in man.
11-* has usurped the prerogative of Jehoval
himself, claiming it a* his light to assign fo
her a sphere of action, when that tbelo.igi
lo k -r conscience and her God.
lJ has endeavored, in eve-y way that hi
etutld to destroy lier confidence in her owi
opwers, tu let-sen her self-respecr, and t<
m.die her wiliuig lu ead a dependant ant
abject life.
life expression of Sentiment on thii
Declaration being invited by the Presi
dent, Elizabeth C\ Staxtu.n, ho pet
the invitation would be accepted, am
desired opposers would be more gener
oils than to withhold objections until fn<
convention was dispersed—as at Sene
ca Falls, where the'ininislers reviewet
it i i toeir pulpits on the Sabbath da;
where j -ey c-*u!d not he met.
Mr. Co *o-oi of New Karen, fel
£T< at inteit st ;.i toe -ause, saying “ht
i >ved the ladies as well as they lov<
tin inseJ.es, but lie w mid not have wo
man excel her proper sphere; he though
her place was at h me; it was her em
pire and her throne—should deprecate
exceedingly her occupying the pulpit.
L. Mo i t said, he represented a largr
class of community whose educatior
had led them to limit the sphere of wo
man—she desired him to read his Bibk
again and see if there is any thing there
to prohibit her being a religious teach
er, th mgh it was not strange that he
had imbibed such views coming as he
did, from New Haven, Chain.; said wc
had derived our views, too much from
the Clergy instead of the Bible.
Hon. \V. C. Bi.oss, admitted that
good results would attend the exercise
ol tbe eJcGtAte franchise by woman, bul
portrayed many obstacles in the path ol
that reform, and inquired if there wa;
n* t a natural disqualification; dtd n<»f
boys and girls exhibit dissimilarity ol
taste in the choice of play-things, th«
one preferring the noisy hammer or the
hoop, and the other the darling d »fl ui
home; n id were not these same trait
only ro »re fully developed in after life:
Rebecca M. M. Sanford nt Anr
Arbor, eloquently advocated the ju*i
claim of woman to an equality wit!
man. Her remarks were listened tc
with close attention acul produced
marked impression upon the audience
At the request of Mott, Eliza
beth M’Clintock read some line* from
the pen of Mari ah \V. Chatman
styled The Times that try Men’i
Souls,*’ and signed Lords of Crea
tion,” in reply to a pastoral letter writ
ten aoioe years since.
M. D. Cuddi.no objected to that pan
of tbe declaration in regard to p ditica
action, he th night it sufficient for wo
men to vote through their fathers, hue
bands, tod brothers, but concluded bt
wishing them a hearty G-*d speed! H<
was asked whether he voted by proxy
that he thought il to desirable far wo
men
Frederick DotroLifs, rereirked
that the only true basis of rights, wai
Hie capacity of individuals, and tu foi
right is of no sex—truth is of no color— ood is the father of us all, and all we are brethren.
I himself be dare® not ctaitn a righ
which he would not concede to wuoko
1 In relt-rence to the enii auchiseiut nt o
women, it need not he questionec
w bet her she would use that right or not;
he contended, that man should not with
i hold it from her; he alluded to toe op
pr<«»ive customs in the Old World
which so wronged woman, that the}
subjected her to the most laborious u
well as degrading menus for a liveli
hood. He would see her elevated tr
an equal position with uiau in ever/ le
latiou ol life.
afternoon session.
A Urge nydicoen convened. Op
portunity for pra/er was given. A
long and mtcrcvlmg Utter from James
i C. Jackson, approving the objects 01
the couv nti-.’D was read,
j Sarah C. Owen then resented an
address port. aving the evils to which
women ore su. je« t.
Sarah U. hisH.als read an address
setting forth some ol the causes of wo
man's degradation, and urging hei
earnestly to come torward to the work
of elevation. Several resolutions wer*
i read, wnich L. Mott ably advocated;
though she thought them too tame—she
wanted s unething more stirring.
Mrs. Roberts reported the average
j price of labor for sempstresses to he
from 31 to 3d cts per day, board from
io to $1 60 per week to be deduct
ed therefrom, and they are generally
obliged to take half or more than hall
in due bills.
Mrs. Gawley, corroborated the state
ment, having herself experienced some
of the oppression of this portion of oui
citizens, and expressed her gratitude
that the subject was claiming attention.
Mis. Stanton, offered a resolution
respecting the wages of house servants,
which she thought too low for the lab i
Ithey perform, and urged the necessity
of reformers commencing at home.
Mrs. Mott said, our aim should be
to elevate the low ly and aid the weak
I She compared the condition of wornai
j with that of the free colored population
1 and dwelt upon the progress they had
m made within the past few years, urging
1 imitation of their perseverance through
opposition and prejudice—and said,
while woman is regaidcd as an inferior
1 being—while the Rible is brought for
ward to prove the right of her present
position, and while she is disposed to
feel satisfied with it. all these efforts
can do hut little. VVe cannot expect to
do much by meeting iu convention for
those borne down by the oq[uessur, un
less the oppressed Iheinselvesftel and act
and while so little attention is paid to
education, and so little respect to wo
man. She spoke of the education ol
j boys and girls in England. The coin
tnon schools for hoys show 7 an improvc
j tnent, mathematics and many of the
higher branches being taught; while
the girls learn little more than to read,
write and keeffc their little accounts
sewing being the principal object of at
-1 tention. The teachers say it will not
do to educate them, you unlit them
i for servants.” We grant, that wo
i man's intellect is feeble because she
I has been s long crushed. Does one
inan have fewer rights than another,
because his intellect is inferior? if not,
why should woman be denied her rights
f»r that reason? Let her arise and de
mand them, and in a few years we shall
see a different mental development.—
lie regarded this as the beginning oi
the day when woman shall rise, when
i she shall occupy her appropriate posi
tion in society.
Many pertinent remarks were made
'j bv E. C. Stanton, RhooaDe Gar.wo,
j and Ann Edgworth,
Elizabeth W. M’Clintock, r ad
some notes taken of a sermon preach
ed at Seneca Falla. Sunday following
'the Convention held there, reviewing
their declaration of sentiments, to which
Elizabeth C. Stanton, made an able
reply.
The meeting adjourned until 7 o’clock.
EVENING SESSION.
The Declaration of Sentiments was
again read, and 107 signatures ob
tained.
Mr.ScLLv wished to ask fathers if they
j h*dc msid *red this subject—what cfTect
this equality would have on the happi
ness of a family if the wife and husband
should differ in regard to politics or the
education of a child? Mrs. Mott re
j plied by asking, Which is preferable,
j ignorant or intelligent differences?’’—
Mr. Sullv farther said, When the two
heads disagree, who must decide?—
There is n<» Lord Chancellor to w'iom
to apply; hut does not St. Paul strictly
enjoin obedience to husbands, and thar
rnan shall he head of the woman? Mrs
Mott replied, that in an extensive in
tercourse with the Society of Friends,
she had never known any difficulty to
arise on aecount of the wife’s not hav
j ing promised obedience in the marriage
contract. She had never known any
other mode of decision except a resort
to argument, aa appeal to reason; and
although in some of the meetings ol
this society, women are placed on an
equality, □••oa of the results ao much
dreaded have occurred. The opposers
!of women’s rights, who, though they
bid u« obey the bachelor St." Peul,
themselves reject his coeosel—he ad
vised them not to marry. In general
answer, aba would qu *e, “One is your
master, even Christ. Alih »ugh Paul
aajoina silence aa w tinea in the church,
yet ha givaa directions how they ah *uld
appear whea ther an speaking; and
i wa have scriptural ace runts of h-raor*
hie wcxjien not a few who ware reli
gions taachees Phaba, Priscilla,
Trvphe%a, Tryphosa, and the four
daughter* «f PHdip, and various others.
Mrs Sf atpov thought the gentleman
could he easily answered: the strongest
I I will nr the n mrior intellect sow g overs
the hiasjhiH as they wall in the
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, AUGUST 11, 1848.
m r
outer; she knew many woman who
to all intents and purposes, is at tlx
bead of her family.
The resolution* were then read, ant
Amt Post moved their adoption. A
discussion ensued, in which Mrs. Mott
i Mrs. Sta.nton, and Mr. Pickard, par
ticipated.
Mr. Pickard asked. Who, aftei
marriage, should hold property, ant
whose name sKould be retained? H«
thought an umpire necessary; all bust
ness must cease until tue consent o
b«.th parties be obtained. He saw ar
impo.-aibi.ity of introducing such a rult
into society. The gospel has establish
ed the unify «i the quarried pair—they
two are one.
Mrs. Staxtox thought property migbi
1 he held jointly, and the choice of namei
discretionary with the parties. The
custom of taking the husband’s name is
not universal.
The following res dutions were now
adopted, with but two or three dissent
ing voices:
Resolved, That we petition our State
Legislature for our right to the elective
franchise, every year, until our prayei
be granted.
Resolved, That it is an admitted prin
ciple of the American Republic, that
the only just power of government is
derived Ir in the consent of the gov
erned; and that taxation and represent
ation are inseparable; and woman be
ingtaxcdequally with man .therefore she
ought not to be deprived of an equal
representation in the government.
Resolved, That we greatly deplore
the apathy and indifference of woman
in regard to her rights. It restricts bet
to the occupancy of an interior reli
gious, political and domestic station ir
society; and we wish to inspire hei
with a desire to stand on an equal basis,
claiming her equal right to think, speak
and act on all subjects that interest the
human family.
Resolved, That the assumption ol
law to settle estates, when men die
without wills, leaving widows, i 9 an in
suit to woman, and ought to he regard-
I ed as such by every friend of l ight and
humanity.
Resolved, That in the persevering
and independent course of Mrs. Black
well, wh<» recently intended n series
of medical lectures at Geneva, and ha*
now gone ,t-» Europe to graduate as a
'physician, we see’a harbinger of a day
when woman shall stajid forth “.edeem*
•ed and disenthralled,” and perforit
those important dunes which are sc
truly within hoi* sphere.
Whereas, the husband has the legal
right to litre out his wife to service,
collect her w ages, and appropriate them
to his exclusive nr independent benefit;
and whereas, this ha 9 contributed to
establish that hideous custom, the pro
mise of obedience in the-marriage con
tract, effectually, though insidiously,
reducing her almost to the condition ol
a slave, whatever freedom she may
have being granted her as a privilege,
not as a right: therefore,
Resolved, That we will seek the over
throw’ of toe barbarous and unrighteous
law, and encourage woman no longer to
promise obedience in the marriage con
tract.
Resolved, That the universal doctrine
of the inferiority of w -man, has ever
caused her to distrust her own powers,
and paralyzed her energies, and placed
her in that diffident position which re
quires the most strenuous and unremit
ing efforts to overcome, but which will
he effected by faithful perseverance in
the practical exei ci-e ol those talents so
long wi i pped in a napkin and buried
iu the earth.”
Resolved, That those who think the
laboring class of women are oppressed,
ought to do all in their power to raise
their wages, beginning with their own
househould servants.
Resolved, That we tender a vote ol
thanks to the Trustees »l the Unitarian
Church, for kindly granting the use ot
it to ibis Convention.
Resolved, That the friends interested
in this movement gratefully accept the
kind offer of the Trustees of Protection
Hall to hold our meetings whenever we
choose.
ABIGAIL BUSH, Pnexideitf.
Lacßa Me HR at, Vice-PnsAuiroC
Cathiri.Ul A. F. j
Mart 11. 11l clow ali., J
Earlt Cl«si*o— Evemijig Hours.
What have evening hours done for
mechanics who had only ten hours’ toil?
What in the moral, what in the religi
ous, what in the scientific world! Heark
en to the*** facts! —One of the beat edi
tors t e Westminster Rrieie cnu!d ever
boast, and »ne of the inoat brilliant wri
ters of the passing hour, was a cooper
iu Aberdeen. One of the editors of a
lv»nd >n daily journal was a baker in
Elgin; perhaps the best reporter on the
Timet was a weaver in Edinburgh; the
editor of ihe Wine** was a stone-inn sou.
One of the a »le* ministers in London
waa a blacksmith in Dundee; another
wa< watchmaker in Banff; the late
Ur. Milne of Cbiua, was a herd-boy io
Rhynie; the principal of the London
Misaonary Society’s College at Hong
Kong was a saddler at Huntly; and one
of the beat Missionaries that ever went
|to India was tailor m Keith. The
lending mechanic on the London and
Binueoghna Railway, »«h £7iK>ayear,
i was a mechanic m Glasgow; and per
haps ike richest iron founder is Eng
land area a workingman ia Moray, bn
Jamae Clark. H*rM*jw’s physician,
was a drugs* ia Banff; Joseph Hums
waa a sailor,* Mr. Macgregor, the mem
bar for Glasgow, was a poor boy ia
•1 ftosMhire; Jam*» WUs the meiubei
for Wertborjr, plowman in Had
dington; and Arthur Anderson, the
member foe Orkney, earned bis bam*
bv the sweat his brow in the Ultima
j Ttenfo ..VsHhef Mmd
From tW Cartsd States Qmtm
MINTS FOR WIVES.
Obedience is ft very small p«rt ol
conjugal duty, nod in most cases easily
performed. Much of the comfort of a
married life depends upon the lady; a
great deal more, perhaps, than she is
.aware of. She scarcely knows her own
how much she may do by
persuasion—how much by sympathy—
bow much by unremitted kindness and
little attention. To acquire and retain
such influence, she must, however,
make her conjugal duties her tiret ob
ject. She must not think that any
thing will d tor her husband—that any
wine is good eonigh tor her husband—
that it is not #nrtb While to be agreea
ble when there is only her husband by
—that she may close her pisno, or lay
aside her brush, for why should she play
or paint merely to amuse her husband?
No —she must consider all these little
arts of pleasing, cl.i»fly valuable on his
account—as means of perpetuating her
attractions, and give permanence to his
affections—she must remember that her
duty consists not so much in great and
solitary acts —in display of the sublime
virtues to which she will only be occa
sionally called; but in trifles—in a
cheerful smile, or a minute attention
naturally rendered,and proceeding from
a heart full of kindness, and a temper
full of amiability.”
In looking over a late paper, I met
with the above valuable hints on the
duties of wives to their lords, pointing
out the modes in which they were to
secure, in the husband, the chivalric
devotion which had characterized the
lover. The most infallible specific, or
the one most strongly insisted upon in
rules of this kind, is a “smiling coun
tenance.” No matter what a wife’s an
noyances may have been during the
day, her countenance be always
wreathed in smiles on the approach of
her husband.
Being one of those fortunate individ
uals who have hitherto escaped the
noose, 1 have had leizure to give to
these subjects that profound reflection
I which characterizes those situated like
i myself.
for if there’s anything in which I thine,
li* in anang.ng all my frien affairs.
Not having of uiy own domestic cares.”
It has often recurred to me, there
fore, that it was rather singular that all
this good advice should always come
froiii one side. How it is that there
are so few guide-posts to point the way
to innocent young gehtlenien, who'have
recently submitted their neck to the
noose and the halter?” Why is it
not ofiener insisted upon, that the hus
band should always return to his fire
side with a smile, and endeavor to
soothe the perturbed spirit, that has for
hours been subjected to the thousand
annoyances of the nursery and the
kitchen.
There is many an unfortunate Mrs.
Rogers among my acquaintance, with
“nine small children and one at the
breast,” who need all the soothing ten
derness erst bestowed by the lover, to
enable them to forget the troubles so
wearing to the nerves —by the way, it
has sometimes occurred to me whether
it was not Mrs. Rogers who was the
martyr and honest John a most fortun
ate individual, to get so well out of
the scrape” of being obliged to make
adequate provision for the filling those
ten small mouths, and the clothing those
ten small bodies.
Compare for a moment the lot of
Husband and Wife, in what is called a
well regulated family.” The former
takes his seat at the breakfast table,
where his taste and comfort have been
silently consulted, so far as is practica
ble—on his wife devolves the care of
preparing the nine small children” to
take their seats there also, and in some
degree of regulating their conduct.—
Breakfast ended, the husband goes
f.rth to the workshop, his counter, bis
counting-house or his office, greets
pleasantly his acquaintances by the
way, and passes the day among the
ever-varying scenes of evCry-day busi
ness life. The wife, meanwhile, amid
incessant clamor, must renew the tread
mill task of yesterday—must wash the
same faces, make the same beds,sweep
the same rooms; must give directions
for the succeeding meals, and perhaps
assist in preparing them; must settle
disputes in the kitchen, and quarrels
among the nine fallen little sons and
daughters of htr Jldon i; stid amid all
occupations, must find occasional
moments to “stitch—stitch —stitch” the
innumerable garments needed in a
family.
Let her look to it, according to the
sapient and oft-reiterated advice shove
ailudtd to, that she acts thr wigh this in
time to clothe her barraased and care
worn visage in tb-we “wreathed smiles”
so tndispensible toward maintaining the
g >od humor of her liege lord. He
too has had troubles to encounter, for
from trouble no one is eaeinpt; but n* t
of that petty, harrassing kind that are
wearing away the spirits and the life of
the partner he has chosen.
Night comes— the husband finds the
repoee ao much needed to enable him
to meet the unavoidable cares of to
morrow, and sleeps as as quietly as
the babes io the wood,” while the
wife surfs at the slightest noi-e, to min
ister to the comfort of the restless in
mates of the trannel bed mod the crib,
alt of whom are sore to be astir at the
earliest dawn, and demanding the im
msfistt rare of the mother, who riots
SrwV :t whether she always can,
is a debatable question. I insist, there*
fore, that the husband should have a fuli
share of the advice so lavishly bestowed
no the wife.
Until a better state of things eaa h
brought about, 1 am firmly resolved to
contiuua AN OLD MAID.
Hurts os the duty of Obedience shall
appear hereaiter.
FIRST of AUGUST CELEBRATION.
The following- outlets of the celebration ol
the fir&t of August, we take from the patera
of this city
First or August. The anniversary
of the day of the einancpaiiou of eight
bundled thousand colored jueo m inc
Bruub West India Islands, was yester
uay tvieiutltd iu appiopnate style iu
tins city. A great many colored peo
ple Ij-oui the ocigiuioiuig villages aim
citizen* were present. At 12 o crock, a
large add »e**pectaSle procession was
luriued at the Colored Church in Ford
Mieet, winch marched, accompanied uy
excellent music, to W asluugtou Square,
where ail the uccowuieuaimn* lor spac
ers and hearers u»uui ou such occa
sions, had heeu prepared. Alter the
uppoiuluient of oikceis, and music by
the hand, Mr. Frederick Douglass, ol
this city, delivered an able aud inter
esting oration. He spoke with much
eloquence and effect ol the great events
now transpiring in Europe-, compared
the piesent condition and tutu re pros
pects of France with those of England,
and although in either country there
was much to encourage tue patriot, his
hopes were chielly confined to England.
For “wnut iu France was bloody revo
lution, in Britaiu was peaceful rt/wmo
tiun.” Mr. D.’s allusion to his kindred
still in bondage was beautiful aud af
fecting. He called particular attention
to a declaiatiou made iu the .British
Parliament by .Lord John Russell, to
the efiect that the emancipated slaves in
tne W est India Islands weie better pro
vided lor, more coiulortable aud tbnlty
Ilian any other peasantry in the world.
His declaiatiou was based upou evi
dence elicited by committees appointed
by Uarliaiueut to inqune into the condi
tion ot the colored people iu the Y\ est
India islands. Mr. U. was 101 l owed by
Henry YV. Johnson, of Canandaigua.
Mr. Remand, wtio was announced, was
not preseut.
'lucre were some 1500 or 2000 per
sons present. Ihe proceedings were
conducted with entile decorum and pro
priety throughout.— Jiintricun.
The First of August. —The jubilee
of the colored people yesterday pussed
off witn much eclat, aud without any
thing disagieeable occurring to mar tne
general good feeling and happiness
j which seemed to prevail among the par
j ticipants in the celebration. The city
was tilled with people of color, many ol
them coining from a considerable dis
tance, and all appearing very respect
able.
The procession passed through the
streets at about 12 o’clock, led by Ad
ams’ Baud, and with banners and the
gay ribbons of the marshals, and the
line attire of the ladies, both on foot
and in carriages, made a fine appear
ance.
At the Square, speeches were mnde
by Frederick Douglass, of this city,
and H. YV. Johnson, of Canandaigua.
Both were eloquent and appropriate to
the occasion. Mr. Remond, who was
expected to speak, did not arrive in time
to take part in the exercises of the day.
The following are the names of the
officers of the meeting:
President—James Sharpe, «f Ro
chester.
Vice Presidents—John Thompson,
Geo.Wtire, Jas. W. Duffin, T. Dickey,
T. Grant, R. Gordineer, L>. N. Davi
son, of Illinois, J. F. Platt, Rev. VV.
Whatson, of Ohio, VVm. Bromley, E.
L. Platt, YV.York, J. Green, 1. Jeffree,
A. Cooper, of Pliila., H. P. Lucas, T.
James, P. YVhite, YV. Johnson, H.
Washington.
Secretaries l J. B. Morris and Wm.
C. Nell.
The evening was spent according to
the various tastes of the colored folks.
The Fair and the Ball were each well
attended, aud alike gratifying. Yester
day was a great day, indeed, for the
people of color.— Democrat.
The Colored Celebattor Yes
terday.—Tie annirersary ofthe eman
cipation of the slave* ia the West In
dies, was celebrated in our city by a
large collection of the colored popula
tion. In addition to those residing here,
there were a considerable number from
abroad, and amongst them a few from
Canada.
After a preliminary organization, a
procession was formed under the direc
tion of the Marshals, headed by Adams*
Brass Band, and marched to Clinton
Square The number in procession,
ia carriages and on 6x4, wss some four
or five hundred of both sexes. On one
of the banners borne in the procession,
we noticed the following: Ethiopia
stretches forth her band* to God." On
another, carried by (be colored chil
dren, were the words, Knowledge is
power;” while oa a third, was a well
executed representation of the Cross,
over which was inscribed, With this
we overcome."
The principal Address at the Square
was made by Frederick Doug lass, edi
tor of the North Star, and are av
sared by those who were present, that
it waa a creditable effort, though soa*-
I what mixed with that bitterness which
j is apt to characterize the speaker when
contemplating tbs wrongs dona bis
brethren by the curse of slavery—
the foulest blot that reset upon our (air
fame.
f Altar the exercises at the ffquarw.
'the pncamion again brand and re
t twrar-d t~ ffwrnhareh, wham they ware
tbsmisaml. Email bins passed oil in
admirable order. Ah
and the weal the at
moat harmony. Throughout the day
and t —rrg iadUvidnals in attendance
1,, 'll A ..o*-
JOHN DICK, Pvaumißß.
WHOLE NO.—BB.
ruling btck «o 4 forth, viewing the
city and enjoying dim freedom in the
highest degree. We fnnt that the
peculiar institution,” the overthrow
j ot they met to commemorate,
n *y not be extended over broad acres
and fertile lands bow free from its stain.
—•ddterltatr
CelesAatiOx or Avgust Ist
This event passed off on Tuesday last
in a manner gratifying to all apeclafori
and participants. The procession was
numerous, the address eloquent and ap
propriate, and the conduct of (he active
participants such as to draw oot appro
batory remarks from those who have
before ridiculed like celebrations. We
j believe that all who witnessed the ex
excises of Tuesday, mast acknowledge
that a change is public sentiment bat
j taken place even within one year.
YVe noticed at the Square a good repre
sentation of all sorts of people,(and the
only instance of blackguardism that we
coaki note, emanated from the Roches
ter Courier office, as the colored people
passed, and from that source we might
expect anything but gentlemanlike con
duct, for that concern has nothing to
lose in the estimation of good citizens.
The day will be remembered by our
citizens with pleasure, and we would
express an humble w ish that our fourth
of July might in ail future time be as
orderly and appropriately celebrated by
our white friends, as was the first of
August by onr colored citizens.—Ab
tional Reformer.
tTHAT K TO BECOME OF LAXARe
TINE f
The London Times of July 10th, hns
the following reflection touching this
subject:
“A strange spectacle is visible at this
moment in Tar is—a spectacle not only
stiaoge, hot inexpressibly touching.—
There is a man in that capital of friv
olify and revolutions, who has, within
the Compass of a lew weeks, expert
tnced all the perils and vicissitudes of
I statesmanship. Yesterday, he was re
vert need almost to idolatry; to-day, ho
is shunned as if the touch of his hand
or the sound of his voice were contam-
I inating—yesterday, he was the glory of
the republic; to day he is the victim.
Who is this man? He is the poet
j whose s«ul was intoxicated with the
I beauty of freedom, and from whose lips
1 c»me those words of eloquence which
only a day or two back thrilled through
the beau of Christendom.
“Every citizen of Trance felt U*
I sincerity of this toWa .enthusiasm—it
was attested, indeed, hyfthe purity, the
j consistency, and the dignity of a wholfe
life. And it is again*! this man, “un
der whose nostrils/’ to use an expres
sion lately uttered by the Hentaine, “she
had recently burned the last grain of
her incense”—it is against this man that
the slanders of all parties in the repub
lic are now directed, ns by a species of
unanimity. It is upon his head that the
jealousies of all—legitimists, commun
j Bonapailists, the carriers, the
I bourgeoiae, and the aristocrats are be
mg poured out to-day like asheg. It j«
against him that the obloquies of the
j Parisians are being thrown unstinting]/,
i if to afford to future historans a new
and unparalleled example of the mutft
j bility of political fortunes, of the vicis
situdes of popularity, and the fickleness
of the people.
“But there is doubtless reason for
this sudden charge in the opinions of
French citizens. Oh, yes! there ars
reasons. When it was said, after the
first insurrection, that Lsin&rtine had
conspired with the insurgents of the
15th of May, Lamartine himself an
swered that accusation from the tribune
of the National Assembly, he said—ev
erybody remembers it, Yes! I have
conspired with those men—l have con
spired with them as the lightning con
doctor conspires with the thunder
cloud!” The metaphor Was splendid,
and has been verified by events. The
lightning conductor of the revolution,
otherwise the fame of Lamartine has
been melted, warped, literally blasted,
by carrying off the terrible electricity
of the conspiracies. To shield France
from peril, the poet statesman called
down upon his head the lightnioga of
terrorism. Lamartine has secured the
salvation of the republic, but only by
the sacrifice of his immense and magni
ficent popularity. As has been nobly
said already of this great man, by ona
speaking from the opposite side of the
Channel, “M. de Lamartine was no!
actuated by ambition, but was a patriot
to the extent of self-sacrifice; he con
sented, with his eyes open, to pulvarix#*
his name, in order that be might pre
serve the National Assembly/* Thai
is the explanation of this otherwise in
explicable problem—that is the solution
ot the enigma of the downfall of the ex
ecutive commission—that is the clue
which can alone guide our reason thro’
the labannth ol these tgtraordinery
and bewildering occurrence*. Hubert#
there have been only whispering# t#d
inaendoea ia deprecation of Laamrttoe's
character, and, in s Musi on I# these
tame whispers sad louendoeS, he has
himself thus written to the ConatUß
lionnel: Thera is no answer, there in
only a cry of ind.gnatica »kicb rises
from the bottom of my soul, and wfeiefc
pray yoa s imply to register.” Ulti
mately the troth wifi be revealed; bat
meanwhile, to Alphoaao de Lamartine
himself, ia tbo midst of his undeserved
Desolation, can fancy that that
Mournful verse must sometimes recur
 waist he wrote ie the garden of Gethsemens, on the dean of hit young
Daughter
Religion should be a garment worn next to the heart, too many people make a cloak of it. 
The 6th Annual Meeting of the Western Anti-Slavery Society will be held at Salem, Columbiana Co., on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 16th, 17th, and 18th, of August, commencing at 10 A.M.
Let a full representation of the slaves
Friends come up on this occasion from all
parts of the Great World. The political leaders are marshalling their hosts for a conflict
Their followers are rallying by hundreds of
thousands to the support of their party banner. Time, and money, and labor are ex
pended to secure their object. And shall the
Friends of freedom, whose faith should be
Strong in the power of Truth, be lukewarm
and indifferent while politicians are so ear
nest in their labors, so untiring in their zeal
The events of the past year should encourage
us to renewed e libra, for every movement of
importance which has been made, having any
bearing upon the question of slavery, fore
shadows the destruction of the system, and
the oppressors feel that it is so. The political
parties will make a desperate effort to save
themselves from the destruction their corrup
tion has brought upon them; and the efforts
of the abolitionists to maintain and enforce
the Right should lie proportionably great.—
Arrangements should be made at the coming
meeting to continue the anti-slavery agitation
by the lips of the living speaker, and to ex
tend more widely the circulation of the So
ciety's paper—the Anti-Slavery Bugle. Let
none of the friends who can be there, absent
themselves for any light cause, for the pre
sence of all, and the couesel of all is desira
ble.
Besides the friends of liberty in the west who will be present on this occasion, Henry C. Wright and Chris C. Burleigh are expected to be in attendance, and perhaps other representatives of the East. Lot Holmes, Rec. Sec.
HE GREAT NATIONAL CONVEN
TION OF COLORED FREEMEN of the
United States, will be held in Cleveland,
Ohio, commencing on Wednesday, the sixth
day of September next.
Let the Colored Freemen all rally to this
important gathering. This is a crisis, and
something we must and will do f
We hope to see the East, North, South
and West, come up in one mighty, unbroken
phalanx, to do battle for God and humanity
Signed, by roquett of Illinois, Indiana,
Michigan, and Ohio, (the Western pruts of|
New \orlc and Pennsylvania being readv.)
M. R. DELANY.
Hamilton, Ohio, June 0, 1848.
TO* Mystery, and all friendly papers, please
copy.
Defeat of the Compromise Bill.
The bill for the organization of Govern
ments in Oregon, California and New Mexico, j
has been defeated in the House of Repre-!
sentutives. It originated in the Senate,
having been reported to that body by a select j
committee of eight members.
A motion was made to lay the bill upon
the tabic—a summary mode of rejection, j
This MOTION PREVAILED BY A VOTE OF IIS
yeas to 97 nays—a majority of 15. A mo
tion to reconsider was made, which failed by
a majority of 18. The bill cannot therefore j
be taken from the table during the present j
session, and is LOST.
The Washington correspondent of the N.
Y. Express gives the following account of
tho proceedings in the House:
The bill was finally reached and read by
its title.
This done, one half of the members were
probably upon the floor to submit a motion or
obtain a hearing.
Mr Boyd of Ky., as the successful compe
titor, hoped the bill would be relened to the
Committee of the whole, —he hoped, too,
that it would pass, and trusted in Heaven, it
the House would not pass it in its present
shape, they would put it in a shape by which
it might pass. He would warn men to be
ware ol the consequences of the rejection of
this bill, and of the account they would have
to give to their constituents if they voted
against it.
Tne question was here called for, and Mr.
Stephens of Ga., moved to lay upon the ta
ble.
Mr. Boyd said he had not yielded the floor,
—but left it to!
Mr. Me demand, of Illinois, who in the'
same strain, called upon the House to pass
the bill, or to coneider it. The House ac- j
cording to the member was bound to pass this
bill in order to give the people a good govern
ment; otherwise tho territories might be
without a government.
Mr. Cleinand yielded.
M. Smith, of la., was sure that a refer-!
ence of this bill would do no good whatever.
The bill before the House w ould not add to;
the agnation in the House and the country.
He regarded it as no compromise whatever,
but rather as a measure for the extension ol
slavery in the territories of New Mexico and j
California. The House would have an op
portunity to act upon this subject.—The!
Committee oti Territories would report bills,
and tho House would have an opportunity to
«ct at a proper time. He hoped the House
would do so before an adjournment. But for
this Bill be cou;d not vote agreeably to hu>
pledge; he closed with a motion to fay upon
the table, and for a call of the House.
[The aisles of the floor and the area in
front of the Speaker were covered w ith mem
bers at this time, and an intense excitement
pa vaded the Hall.
Mr. Smith was urged to withdraw his
motion by Mr. BavJy of Va., Mr Smith de
cent d, and all sides of the House entreated
him net to do so.
Mr. Buyly vociferated unfair treatment,’
foul play,” and other words not heard. He
w*, however, put down amidst vociferous
Of ea of order.”
The Speaker said he would hear no motion.
and put no question u,nnl order was teaioreu
d members took their oeau.
Order rtigntd for a uiue.
Mr. McLane said the double motion foi a
call of the Holsc,” and to Jay upon tht
isMe,” was not in order.
The Speaker maintained this decision, and
the I’ltgly motion for a call ol the House.
T ie Speaker aunouuced that two hundred
sod nine membei* were present, and the call
was suspended.
Mr. Ashu.uu obtained the floor, but yiel-i
ded it.
Mr. Stephens was anxious for harmony
nd for peace— most anxious—but he did hoi
taliere this bill would bring it. There wen.
provisions m the hill, winch hs coAd cot
maintain, and which he regarded ss endanger
lig the iotereoisof the South. Moreover, he
thought this was not the lime to act upon this
bill; and he was the more convinced cf thu
f-onn th« stale of public feeling upon it. Lei
tie bill be laid up**n the table. —Let Cengr«*>
s I jour a and this question be sstiied in t
inter sod better moment.
The motion to lay upon the table was put.
and rsAukUd ss follows. Yeas, Hi, nays,
t 7.
The*vote was no sooner announced than a
dozen members ruse to move a consideration.
Mr. Pollock, of Fa., submitted the motion,
•*d the yeas and nays were ordered. A mo
uou followed to lay the proposed reconsiders-!
*lOO upon the table. The yeee and pays were j
ordered, a ad the vote was— yea* 114; nays,
3®*
More of a defeat than at first.
[Mr- McLsne, of Md;, hesitated to rote
far a long tune upon the bill, hut after a long
oonvttfaauoo with the Pteeident’e Private
Jfeereisry, gar* the vote agamst laying upou
the table. The long pause before voueg the
i uponsnen of the question, the breathless
a marked interne*
of mm in thn hall. I mention it to now
how Jjloo'Uy everything even <r'e*tved.—
übtit any vote ever caused no tiuch or sue!
ioteww among the member*.}
FREE STATES:
DEMOCRATIC VOTER* AG* INST THE BILL.
Bingham, Mich., Petrie, N. Y.
Collin*, N. Y., Smart, Me.,
Darling. Wisconsin, Smith, 111.,
Farm, Ohio, Starkweather, X.\
nm, Ohio, rßtm-
Sammons, Me., Strong. Pa.,
Henley, Ind., Thompson, Pa.,
.Jenkins, N. Y., Thompson. lowa,
I Laurence .N. Y. Thurston, R. 1.,
Ivord, fCY Wentworth,lll.,
Lvnde, \Yisronain, Wtlev, Me.,
Maclay, N. Y.. Wiltnot. Pa.,
McClelland, Mich., Lahm, Ohio,
Nicoll, N. Y., Clapp, Me.—2B.
j *lavcs states votes AGAINST THE BItL.
Buekney. Ky., Stephens. Ga.,
Trozier, Tenn., Adam*, Ky.,
Donnell, N. C., Thompson, Ky.-7
Pendleton, V*.,
I w w m
ABSENTEES.
Chase, Tenn., Morse, La.,
Curauuos, Ohio, Murphy, IN. Y.,
Duncan, Ky., Phelpo, Mo.,
Haskell, Tenn., Richey, Ohio,
Hunt, N.'Y., Roman, Md.,
Johnson. N. 11., Root, Ohio,
lows, Wilson, N. H.,
Litvin, Pa., Games, Ky.—l 6
From the above yon will see that the Nor
thern vote* alone could have laid the bill upor
the table, and would hare done so had all the
Southern members voted against laying upon
the tabic.
Every W.Yrg' from the Free Stales voted tc
lay upon the table.
Mr. Haskell, of Term., desired permission
to lay the bill upon the tabl>.
Every member from New York voted
against the Bill (to lay upon the table.) Ava
burn Birdsall, Roa-in-law of Mr. Dickinson,
alone excepted. These are among the
intercsti !g incidents of the tote.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, AUGUST 11, 1813.
Sulutatory.
I congratulate myself on the pleasure of
a return to duty, after seven months' absence,
thereby enabling me the more effectually to
assist in doing battl*, side by side with my
able and unflinching colleague, who so ably
has sustained the cause of justice and of right,
against tyranny and oppression, the basest
that has ever obscured the light of human
vision. M. R. DEL ANY. j
Sell-Elevation.
Self-Elevation can only be effected by per
sonal effort —each acting for himself. A
friend may speak, assert and declare, endear
oringto prove a third person entitled to all the j
rights common to our nature but all this, in I
itself, abstractly considered, proves nothing, j
The proof rests with the third person, or sub-
ject of the declamation, who alone can verify
the truthfulness of the allegation.
To prove ourselves equal, we must be able,
in a measure—yea, really, to accomplish that
which is accomplished by others—possess the
ability to do that which is done by others.—
To this end, it is necessary to possess the
knowledge possessed by others.
For this purpose, we must use the means
used by others, without which our efforts
must prove fruitless. To do this, will be to
effect an cud. Every end must have a means,
which means must be adequate to the end tq
be accomplished.
Our aim is elevation. By elevation, we
mean entire equality to every right and privi
lege to which man by nature is entitled.
Equality, then, is an end which, according
to the premises, must have its antecedent.—
There cannot be an equality of persons, where
there is not an equality of attainments. At
tainment, then, is tue antecedent or means, by
which the substantive, or end, equality, is to
be attained. The means, then, we have pre
mised, are knowledge, which knowledge con
sists of something. It is, then, but necessary
to learn the nature and character of this some
thing—to possess a knowledge of the tiling
itself.
To this end, we must obtain literary ac
quirements—a knowledge of the mechanic
arts a knowledge of agriculture, mercantile
business, the learned professions, as medicine,
theology, and law, and all other attainments
possessed by others.
This, we do not mean to say, is necessary
tor all of us but we wish distinctly to be un
derstood, that we, in order to attain this
equality, must posses* the attainments in a
ratio proportionate to that of those w hom we
contend with for equality. This can alone be
effected by individual exertion—each acting
for himself. Brethren, think of thia, and act.
The Great National Convention.
Never was there a time—nevor a. period,
1 when action on the part ol American Colored
Freemen, waa as loudly called for as the
present.
The world is in commotion—subjects are
1 shaking down kingdoms, and asserting their
j rights as mtizens —the right of aelf-govern
ment. Serfs are, with manly bearing, repcll
j ing the daring tyranny of their assumptive
lordhngs and bondmen—yea, slaves, in the
colonies of the Aauilaa, have risen up in the
majesty of manhood, dashed into fragments
the fragile remnants of that moat foul, mao
debasing and heaven-daring scourge and curse
of the human femriy—slavery. While this
irresistible upheaving of the long-stifled lire
of man soul is convulsing the whole earth,
can we, the oppressed freemen of America,
bearing burdens and wearing yokes much
1 more grievous than those borne by many who
i risen in *beir might and stood forth in
fearless array, clothed wuh the proud panoply
of the everlasting truth of the living God,
that man wa* created in the image of hi*
Creator," eaaaotmiiy drruic, to high and holy
purposes, to hare sod hold, in common, do
minion over the earth—over all inferior csea
md being*, created a little lower than the
angels”—can we rest content, unshaken, un
moved—passing through the thrilling scenes
1 as unconcerned as the usurped cx T
Colored Freeman of America’—mao and
brethren! if ever there was a period in which
the assembled wisdom of a people was re
quired, that period is new. Never in the
history of the human family was them e fee*
pie ao singularly situated, and unfavorably
conditioned. Though in our native land,
having interests in common with, fled inse
parable from, others identified as are are
with the doings of every act ie society, either
Church or State, vet denied every privilege
Whatever prfo&gcs we may enjoy, the;
arc granted to tis a* a favor, and not a light
by those wb»» bear rale over us. Thowgh wt
readily comply with the taxation and tributi
demanded of oa to all departments of tin
municipal provisoes, *ull do we occupy I
position in society, to oar common country, ai
nothing note than nonentitm. Turn tom
face* in every direction, whithersoever yot
may, and where is there a pariah, county, oi
ungle corporation, in which the Africo-Ame
rican is entirely free free in the civil meamnj
of the term—free potiucaJly—free to the fuli
enjoyment of al) those rights and privilege!
common to American citizens Not oce.
They let u*, each and every one, deter
mine aa men. that we will no longer be slaves,
but on the sixth day of Septpmber, from the
South, West, East and North, shall be found
in Convention, in Cleveland, Ohto, assembled
by hundreds, to devise measures for the furth
erance of our elevation.
Woman’* Rights Convention.
A Convention for investigating the wrong!
I daily perpetrated against the footsie portion o!
society by reason of erroneous customs anci
j barbarous laws, a full official report of whidi
will be found on the ootside of this week’i
issue, met in this city on Wednesday morn
jing. the 9d mst., in the Unitarian Church
North Fitzhogh st. We are sickened with tht
continual childish objections, offered by those,
too, who cill themselves tmn, against tht
rights- of woman to an equal share of all llie
j privileges to which man by nature is entitled.
The cause, the means and arguments,which
have for centuries oppressed and degraded
the colored man in America, have, in all ages
j and countries, robbed woman of her dearest
rights, nuking her subservient to another’s
will.
Inferiority by natnre —incapacity for self
-1 government—the necessity of having a guar
dian, or one to “take care of them,” are
among the manv objections urged by their op
posers—objections unsustained by a single
truth—aa lame and frivolous as they are im
peitinent and insulting.
They tell us that in all her faculties, moral
ly, mentally and physically, woman displays
inferior developments to man. Were this
true, which, as a general rule, we may, for
argument\it?ake. grant, it would prove nothing
more than the legitimate effects of the absence
of a proper education of those faculties which,
in man, are educated to their utmost ca
pacity.
Doubtless, indeed, is it whether any num
ber of men could be found who could excel
those ladies in the propriety and wisdom of
their deliberation. Among them, and niust
prominent, could be seen the ever-present, un
tiring, and amiable philanthropist, Lucretia
Mott, like a goddess in sacred councils, dcjliv
2ring advice for the benefit of her sex, \\:fy>se
words fell like the inklings of divine inspira
tion. Mrs. Sanford, of Michigan, a lady of
high order of intellect; Elizabeth M’Clintick,
of Seneca Fails, a talented, promising voting
lady, and Elizabeth C. Stanton, of the sortie
place, a noble representative of her s*s, an
excellent woman and tree philanthropist;
Rhoda DeGarmo, one of the best of.wompn
all stood up in defence of their rights, com
bating error and rebuking wrong.
Mrs. Abigail Bush, President of the Con
vention, did great credit to the office —presid
ing with much dignity, as well as the other
excellent ladies, Laura Murray, Catharine A.
F. Stebbins, and Surah L. Hallo well, who
assisted as A ice-President and Secretaries.
The time cannot be far distant u hen this
monstrous wrong w ill be remedied, and woman
testored to her dignity.
Ladies’ Anti-Slavery Fair.
We are happy to be able to state that we
learn that the colored ladies of Cincinnati and
Columbus, Ohio, are about entering into some
measures preparatory to the holding of An
nual Anti Slavery Fairs, ot Bazaars, the pro
ceeds of which will be appropriated to the
North Star, similar to those yearly held in
Boston, for the support of the Anti-Slavery
cause, particularly the sustenance of the Lib
erator and Anti-Slavery Standard.
A friend recently wrote to us, inquiring
what proportion ox how much of the proceeds
of the great annual Bazaars go to the support
of the North Star. We now, for the informa
tion of that much interested friend, answer
that and ail other inquiries, we wish it to be
distinctly understood, that there ia no part
whatever of the pioceeds of these Fairs or Ba
zaars goes to the support of the North Star.
Ol this we do not complain, for the best of
reasons. Those Fairs were got up by the
Anti-Slavery ladies w ho sympathize with the
doctrines of the American Anti-Slavery Soci
ety, the principles advocated by the Liberator
and Standard, long before the existence of the
Star, which papers are the organs ot that
society; and although we are members of
the society, our paper is eotirely independent
of it, end we control. Hence, although an
Anti-Slavery paper, sympathizing with the
American Anti-Slavery Society, did ever we
receive anything from the proceeds of those
F airs, it would come as a favor and not a
right, (t is by this means those excellent pa
pers are sustained.
We do not look up to the ladies of the
American Anti-Slavery Society, but should
we desire assistance from any such source, 11
will be mainly to the colond Anti-Slavery
ladies we shall look fnr such assistance.
For this end, we wunld suggest the forma
tion of societies in different cities, to be known
aa societies for the moral elevation of the col
ored people, tiie ladies of whom shall hold
annual Bazaars, si radar to those held in
Boston.
For this, s great degiee of industry is ne
cessary. The ladies must bold their weekly
fireside meetings, to devae the best ways and
means for the -unbersßee of the object.—
Fancy eitielea, articles of wearing apparel,
and needle-work of every descuption, sie
among the articles which constitute these Ba
zaars. There is no end thgt can be obtained
without the application of the means neces
sary one of the great mesne by which we
are to ha elevated, is a good end effimeat
newspaper, w«U sustained. Aa tbe Sue we
•mood shall be such a paper, we am so lee*
durmiaai it ebwll he sustained j braes, ear
perseverance. With os, them i> ae such
thing aa fail— we are folly sufficient for the
thffir. What others do, we are certain we
can—this we will.
crlt you wall to t.otf tniogdmmoj.fol
mammUamriimaeariftM
Tit Bilals nm twisi.
Bepstt I'liUrfllfc
“"'‘“itep'ir*-]
Me. Dick Although 1 left Rochester at
three o'clock yesterday afternoon, auch waa
the extent of the train, every seat and nook
of which being 1 crowded with people, we did
not attire here deal eleven o'clock hat night;
thaadisappointing hundreds ef anxious spec
tator a, who had filled the church, and staid
until ten o'clock, looking for us, according to
previous appointment.
The following persons eonadtnte the officers
of the Convention President, Cbae. Frncis
Adams, (son of the venerable J. Q Vice-
Presidents —John Miller, Connecticut; D. L.
Rodgers, New Jersey; E. D. Gaxaam, Penn
sylraoia I. W. Wright. Indians; B. Kjb
bon, Wisconsin Mr. Miller, Iowa; R. Gor
don, Maryland G. Craigg, Virginia; R. H.
Danforth, Rhode island; A. H. Dixon, Del
aware L. P. Noble, of Columbia;
Mr. Spindler. The Venaent, Near kurk,
Illinois, Michigan, and Missouri delegations
not yet having made their nominations up to
the time of writing.
The principal speakers are Messrs. Earl, of
Mass.; Gan. Nye, qf N. Y. Husband, N.
Y. 11. B. Stanton, N. Y. President Ma
han, Oberlin Wade, N. Y.; Dr. Snodgrass,
Md. Gen. Miller, O.; Lovejoy, and others.
I see also among tuef mass, Ed. Smith, J. R.
Giddings, S. P. Chase, Mr. Briggs. J. A.
Mills, Jr., and other prominent persons.
It is not among the least forebodings of the
great lushing event, that S. R. Ward, Capt.
Malvin, Henry Bibb, and other colored gen
tlemen, are among the lecognixed delegates
of this mighty national gathering; and this
morning, one of the speakers alluded to Fred
erick Douglass as one of the great instruments
by which this event was brought about, when
there went up three cheers for FYedencA Doug
lass.
The President, C. Francis Adams, is at this
moment speaking—the Park filled to its ut
most capacity, 'and the great avenue, Main j
street, crowded from end to end with strang
ers—delegates who cannot get even within
bearing of speakers.
This is truly a mighty up-gushing of the 1
long pent up waters, which have just found
vent through the channel of truth and justice.
Neither of us has yet spoken, hut both may.
We hold a meeting to-night in the Methodist
Church, in lieu of the disappointment.
Yours for liberty to all mankind,
M. R. D.
P. S.—Ward and Bibb have spoken.— 1
Douglass has been loudly called for, but at
present declines.
BufrALo, Aug. Bth, 1818.
7 o'clock, evening.
The great Convention- met this eve ning in
preliminary mass at the big tent in the patk.
Many calls for speakers from the crowd but
none appealed lor a time, the people were
coming—kept coming—the city swarms with*
strangers; every hotel, every boarding-house,
steam-boats, main street, the by-ways, pri- j
rate families are all fofl, crowded and jammed.
The cars come laden w ith freemen—the steam-!
boats from the West are crammed with live j
men—meetings til night cn the boat.-.—it a
one revel for freedom—men are mad and they j
don't know exactly what about, but much is
said of the Slave power the Slave power
the Slave power
Mr. Bibb, a fugitive from Detroit, address
ed the Convention. He is a light mulatto,
intelligent and a fine speaker.
Mr. Jesneoan, (Whig) of Indiana, spoke i
with power for an hour, discussing the Pro- i
vise, Constitution anJ the Slave power.
Mr. Gilover, (a Barn-burner,) was called
and spoke one hour and a half. Mr. G., an- j
nounced the Bth of August overling, as the j
Anniversary of the introduction of the Wilmot j
Proviso in the House, which Proviso and its
history he discussed at length.
S. P. Chase of Cincinnati, was called and
spoke an hour. Mr. C., is a strong man and
drove home with great power the Proviso
principle upon the Constitution.
J. A. Briggs Esq. of Cleveland, next came
and although it was 10 o’clock, he thought
they would'nt go home till morning. Mr.
8., is always musical and racy—said many
spicy pungent things.
The meeting adjourned at a late hour. All
yetis confusion and doubt—things look Van
Buren-wise with a broad platform against the
Slave power. Ohio is strong for Hale and
Giiidimgs. At the announcement of whose
names the meeting gave three cheers, loud
and long for Hale and Oiddin'GS. Union
Union! against the Slave power, is the cry.
Aug. 9th, 8 o'clock.—The mass assembled
in the tent, and the first man who could get
it took the chair. Lewis Clark, the fugi
tive, was called on, and addressed the meet
ing an hour, showing up the slave power
with force and ability.
Ma. Miller, of Vermont, was next called
out. He has the biggest gab of aey man in
the Convention, and bit big mouth went off
for freedom of itself: be simply opened it.
Mr. M. s remarks were plain to the point—
eloquent, pungent, and went home with force
to the hearts of the vaat auditory, who
shouted loud and long.
F. Docglass was loudly called, but bis
diseased throat prerented him from respond
ing.
Ma. Earl, of Worcester, Mass,, earn 3 for
ward. and read a report from J. M. Boots, i
showing that Gen. Taylor had pledged him
self against the Proviso, and Manned that hit
normnaitoe was t fmud.
Ma. Nye, of Madison county, Barnburner,
was next called, and with "dearness and great
force reviewed the position of the country as
touching freedom; welcomed Md., Va., aod
Del., which States are said to be represented
in the Convention.
J osar a D. Hcsbakds, of Rochester, Barn
burner.—His father was from Barbedaes
Island, sad s slaveholder, it is believed. Mr.
Husbands is sn eloquent speaker, sad takes
high ground in favor ef the slave—reoogniaea
him as e man, and proposes to meet him and
hia rights as a man. He annoences the name
of the world-renowned Frederick Douglass,
the fugitive, %nd aqw editor of tbs North
Star, of Rochester. A great about wwt ap
for Duegtasa, f Mr. R goes for Utuoo, Frs
*««uiy, end \Mt* sent against (be time
H. B. St AUTOS!, foe ehysnl liberty
Pnrty anan, n brave a md and n big. heart,
Convention, who irggvw holding preliminary
meeting* in vaoooa place* by State*, will
meet at 18 o’clock, and than a regular insur
rection Will begin among the people againal
the slave power. Mr. Stanton goes for
Liberty—l' rnoa—Fraternity. To this the
people shout, and declare, not anothet inch of
slave territory shall ever be added to the
Union.
Pres. Mir an, of Oberlin, was called, and
spoke half aa hour, but the general confusion
prerented hit being heard. The stand gave
way, and upset man, repea tern, beys, and
about all, and finally thp meeting adjourned
to the four corners of the Park, while the
stand is repaired. Many speeches were de
livered during the repairs.
At 13 o'clock, Mr. Sawyer, of Oliio, was
appointed Chairman pro tern., and called the
meeting to order. Secretaries were chosen,
and Preston King, of N. Y., came to the
stand, and reported a basis of a permanent
organization, and a Committee of ooe from
each State, was chosen, to Teport officers for
the Convention.
After a scene of confusion rather agreeable,
during a speech from Samvel R. Ward, the
celebrated colored oTator, in which he declar
ed in favor of free soil women &c.,
and, also from Owen Lovejoy, on various
topics—Mr. Chase of Ohio, was chosen tem
porary Chairman to produce older, but it
seemed to operate the reverse.
Preston King, Chairman of Committee
on organization, presents the name of C.
F. Adams of Mass., for President. Commit
tee of 2— Chase and Rath burn appointed to
inform him. Mr. Adams, is on the stand and
is greeted by cheers.
Secretaries,
C. V. Dter,
Tkos. Bolton,
R. Catlin,
J. E. Snodgrass,
A. M. Johnson,
T. Tavlor,
Ma. Adams speaks to the Convention;
asks their aid to make hi» labor light; says,
we are assembled from a principle, and do
sires harmony of action, and sees in tire mass
before him the response to that principle.
Says the time has come for a test, and thinks
it v, ill be had at this election, and we shall
show the world that we arc not going to give 1
up the control of Government unto the South.
Old pirty organizations are unworthy uf a
free people** confidence.
Mr. Giddings, of Ohio, is called, and is
greeted with loud and long cheers; says, if
J. Q. Adams could h ive lived to see this hour
and Convention, he would have said, as one
ol old said, Now let thy servant depart in j
peace, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation.” j
Mr. G. alluded to the landing of the May-
flower on Plymouth Ruck, and the Dutch i
ship, in the same year, landing in Jamestown, j
loaded with the sighs and groans of humanity, j
and were sold; and from that hour the two
antagonistic principles have gone on, shooting
their roots downward, and bearing fruit up
ward, till we found ourselves surrounded by
an overshadowing power—moulding our laws J
—guiding our armies, and absorbing the North J
into her Maelstrom of rnui and death. Mr.
G. spoke of the late Whig party, and be
wailed the political death of Mr. Clay; said
he died by the hands of the slave power;
(Did the Liberty party kill kim and still 1
thought him right, and for being so, he was
defeated in Philadelphia; ami Van Huron
having been rti the same boat, was also upset i
by that hoary-headed power that bids defiance
to the North. Mr. G.'s remarks were at j
limes eloquent, arid elicited a deep response
and when he alluded to his facing his foes, he j
said he felt at home but now‘he niissed his
sword, and faltered ia this battle among
friends.
Mi. G. introduced Mr. Crtvea, of N. Y.,
who spoke with point and pith—denounced
the slave power—denied any guarantees of 1
the Constitution in favor of Slavery—of Gid’
ding's censure in the House—Lovejoy's death
by the hand of a mob, and a deep response
went up for that noble martyr's blood, who
died for the defence of the press, guaranteed
by the Constitution speaks of the death
blight of slavery on the soil alluded to Vir- j
ginian desolation, and her land smitten with
mildew by the pestiferous breath of the
blighter. lie pictures the fugitive, Hying
from the South by the light of the North
Star, sleeping by day and flying by night from
the hounds on his track and at last we see
him land across the Niagara in free Canada,!
shoaling, “Freedom! I am free!” Pic
tures Adams presenting petitions, and South
Carolina kicking Mr. Hoar from her borders.
The Committee on Resolutions is announc
ed. They look, so far as 1 know, towards a j
Barnburner nomination, which will probably
be made by taking some less obnoxious man
than Van Buren, and run a Whig with him. j
All, however, is doubt as to the man.
B. F. Butler is introduced. He is a
clean-faced man —speaks well—recant* no
errors, but proposes u> do right in future—
goes strong tor the Proviso, the Declaration
again*! the South, sod confining slavery where
it is. G o'clock, evening.
Woodstock Institute.
We were favored by a call by Dr. Lorenzo
Sabin, who has been on business East, and
acting as a financial agent of Woodstock
Institute.’*
We were pleased to see the Doctor and
[earn of the naming prospects before them j
but utterly decline giving our lufluencs in
favor of tbs project, as ooe of the editors, the
person who pe ts this article, having once been
feceived in that project by Mr. Prior Foeter
erho wss (bin, as he now is, General AgenJ
•f the Institute, and to all appearance the I
principal person, until Mr. Foster answers j
uttisfactorily the inquiries so frequently made
xmceraiog his Con nsr course in this matter, j
We speak adneadly when we say there is
s wrong—a deep and abiding wrong, lurking
n this matter, aod fcr be it from os to endorse
Mwfc doings. W* say again, before we css
five credence to tbs doings of this Institute,
Mr. Faster mast give the wuhJWeion demand
'd- We once accepted of aa Agency is that
aattar, and declined in Serve, after baring ez
bqoka, accounts, dfcc., seeing ifce high
W 4 with which the game wss ifcfad.'’
87 The Hus. Horace Maas fcfl» ear
basks far s copy 4 tbs report, is rwUV
bna. af hm skis speech as the gapvuf Cm*
frees to exclude sieve territory from the
Imposters.
the Attention at our readem to the
following note. We deem it of importance,
|m it gives timely warning against impostors,
too many of whom now flood our country as
“Agents for benevolent objects. We regret
j th: not appear sooner.—Ex*.
i Toronto, July 14, IS4B.
Mr. Editor Sir Last evenings at a
fCjrular monthly and quarterly meeting of the
j Dmish American Anti-Slavery Society, it was
j TCS °l ve 'l that any person or persons going from
Canada to the United States, or elsewhere,
on a mission to beg money, except they hare
authority from some denomination or from the
British American Anti-Slavery Socieiv, the
public should be aware of them. lam au
,sh >rized by the Society to forward this to
you for publication, and desiis you to request
other papers to publish the same.
JAMES D. LINSLEY,
Sec y of the B. American A. S. Society.!
j Strike and Riot.— The Philadelphia Sun
has, information, hy telegraph, that Alleghany
.city, near Pittsburgh, Pa., was a scene of
lireat excitement ou the 31st of July, in con
sequence of a riot among the factory opera
tives. A strike had taken place to force the
mill proprietors to let the4en hour law go into
operation. Some of the operatives had re
sumed work in the Pennsylvania mills, ms
withstanding the owners refused to grant tneir
demands, and in consequence, the other mal
contents attacked the mill, broke the doors and
windows, and finally dispersed the sheriff 's
pos*e, called out to suppress the outbreak.—
The sheriff, and several of the police officers,
and other peisons, are reported to have been
badly hurt. The operatives, it is said,gained
the day, and fears were entertained that they
would proceed to further violence. They
were, at the last account*, in possession of the
null.
We think the operatives in the Pittsburgh
mills, the factory girls and their friends, carry
their claims to too great an extent, as in such
casts nothing can be expected by violence.— j
We sympathize with the operatives in the
justness of that for which they ask—time,
simply time but disagree with them, ia the
means used to obtain it. The strikers should
persist in huTdingout, though needy they may
be, and thns-compel the employers to comply
with their terms but should any operatives
choose to work, the effort to compel them to
desist is worse than the oppression com
plained of.
Facts ir the Like ok (its. Tailor, the
Cuba Bloodhound Importer, the extensive Slave
holder, and the Hero of the Mexican War. By
Charges Stiarsj. For sale by Bela Marsh,
25 Comhifl, Boston.
A copy of this little vrerk haa been sent u».
Let every Taylor man read it, and learn the
character of him whom he would elevate to
the Presidency. Let every conscientious and
humane rnan, of wha.ever party, road it, and
have his hatred deepened of the abominations
of war and slavery, of which Zachary Taylor
is a notable personification.
Looking Up.
We are highly pleased to learn that Mr.
G. W. Guinea, of Philadelphia, favorably
known as one of the first barbers in that city,
has retired from the former business, and
established an extensive Intelligence and
Agency Office. The papers speak in high
terms of Mr. G hues’ prospects. We hate
always looked upon Coines, as well as manv
otti3 v having been intended by nature for
a bjttc cviiing th o ih snap and brush.
Wives and Disbands. —A wife should lie
obedient to the husband to ail things a hus
band should be obedient to the wife in all
tilings therefore, to be husband and wife, i&
mutually to agree m all things—love, affec
tion, and harmony abounding in the house
hold.
ITT 3 With pleasure we announce the visit
to our city of Rev. W. W. Watson and lady,
of Cincinnati, Ohio. Mr. Watson spent with
us the first of August, lie was chosen one
of the Vice-Presidents, and also acted Chap
lain of the day, sojourning with us two or
three days alter. The tune and occasion were
one long to be remembered.
Errata. —In the letter of M. R. D. written
from Cleveland, in describing the location of
Detroit, the paragraph should have read thus:
“In a great district of coumry, including
Detroit, which was originally a French settle
ment, the lands were laid off into farms, two
acres wide, beginning at the margin of the
river, extending three milee back. This ar
rangement was established for the parpoee of
giving each family fishing privileges in the
Detroit,” ii. c.
Without this correction, the description
would neither be an item of news, nor intelli
gently undei stood.
dF The New York True Sun says that
i»ur Volunteers have returned from Mexico,
covered with glory.—and with but very little
else.
Domestic Slavs Trade— At a recent
term of the U. S. circuit court at Newport,
me grand jury presented the domestic slave
trade as a nuisance. Judge Wimdbury very
pertinently iwiuired of them, under what
statute of the Umied States tney proposed to
try the offence f —Procidmce Journal.
Immigrants.—There arrived at New York
during the month of May, 32.977 immigrants,
at the rate of ueaily 400,000 per annum. Of
these, there were from Germany, 11,036,
Ireland, 15,539; England, 3,771; Scot
land 999; France, 5®4; Holland, 526;
Swu*.;rland, 193 Italy, 16; West Indies,
39; Spain, 69; Denmark, 7; Walea, 207.
lbe arrivals for the previous month were
14,931.
A Mistake.—Two bearded Brazilians, who
landed at Cork last week, were surprised by a
vi»u irotn a deputation of Repealers, who had
mistaken them for Lamartine and Ledru Rnl
itn!—British Banner.
Cincinnati Correspondence
EoltofS: —Agreeably to promise
1 n< w proceed t»> give you aome account o
dmne* m tK»r Western Queen. Politician
h.-rc ate dumb-foundered.atnick withaatootah
nieot and awe. The political borrxm wear
a checkered bus here and there may be eeei
•treaka of red and black, bearing ocninoe
p esages of fearful catastrophe. The attrolo
gert turn over their musty pages, but fiix
therein no soliurj line by w hich to clearh
prognosticate the I'utuie. The friends of Caw
appear to be very much cast down, whilst tin
Taylor men are cutting their coatt agreeably
to the doth. Still, I should not be much sur
prised if, with all the awomaoce of the Taylor.
s >me of them should be unable to hide then
nakedness.
For tbs last three cf four days, out colored
cotnrnuniiy baa been thrown into someu bat ol
an excitement. It appears that some eight or
ten slaves took into their heads a disposition
(those contracted by the cunning art of Na
ture) to try the realities of that liberty w hich
the F.ench have been fighting so hard for,
•nd the Americans boasting so loudly of.—
Well, sure enough, with this same natural
disposition which poor human nature is prone
<o, they left their good and pious master,
(who, by the way, is a deacon in a church,)
and fled towards the Northern lights. There
are other uses of the North Star besides pi
loting the sailot on the mighty deep. They
landed on the Ohio banks on Friday morning,
three miles below ihe city. There they en
countered an honest Dutchman, bearing vege
tables to market. How much to haul us in
your cart!” said the spokesman of the fugi
tives. a tall, eagle-eyed looking fellow, with
strong determination traced upon his sable
brow. Nothing, more than you are able to
give,” said the honest German. He saw the
haggard eyes, the parched lips, the lacerated
f:ct of the women and children around him,
»od hts heart yearned with kindness. Why
should they suffer so much for liberty, if they
are so happy and contented in slavery 1
The arrived in the city, and as Providence
would have it, they fell into the hands of the
confraternity, who immediately struck for the
under-railway—a road known to none but
(hose initiated into the mysteries of Syble.—
On Saturday, hot and heavy, came the blood
hounds in quest of their prey—bowie-knives
in their pockets, and revolvers in their hats.
Onward marched the invincible myrmidons, to
make an attack on a worthy old gentleman
lby the name of Burges—a man, too, that is a
-cripple. Here they made some very boister
ous, chivalrous, and Soul hern-like threats,
which.ever and anon the old man replied by
(he shake of his crutch. They then repaired,
afi- r recruiting their numbers with the assist
ance of a horse-stable bullv by the name of
Jtyder, to the residence of Mr. William Ca
se v. Here tit-v .y,r threo of them held Mr,
Cuev, wt le tb3 rctUjatchel the premises.
Tncy told hup Jhey were hunting horse
(loeves. Cstfey tu!J ihe.c they lied they
were looking lor slaves,; hut .they never
would »'ie them unlest they could£.ce to D>
(run from Ciucuiuati.
Here -lie women began go gather tteuni
from adjoining houses, umil the Amazons
were about equal to iho Myrmidons—the ,lwr
iiner with shovels, to igs, wash-boards ant 1
rolling-pins the latter, with tUmi revul urs
sword-canes and bowie-knives. Finally,
however, without coming to blovs,.the be
siegers decamped, leav;gg the Amazons i;i
possession of tbr (it id the jeers and loud
huzzas of the cccwd, fur many were the curi
ajus spectators there to vvitu the fearful en
counter! On Monday, 4 o'clock, they gath
ered around the school-house kept by Mr.
Childs, formerly ty Mr. Giluiore. They
wished to search his premises without a war
rant. This he refused to suffer. What’s
the reason you can’t lei us search, you darned
abolitionist?” inquired a luihunlv, dirty-look
ing Kentuckian, who appeared u> be a white
•lave of the Deacon. Gentlemen, if you
are Looking for any property you have lost,
you may search my house without a war
rant.” Well, then, sir,” said the Deacon,
“let us go in and look for those negroes.—
They are my property as much so $s your
cow or your horse are your property.” Upon
saying this, two or three of them made a step
or two towards the door. Hold, gentlemen,
if you please if you break that door, you do
it at your peril. You n?ust suffer me to differ
with you, sirs. I am one of those strange,
yet natural kipd of men, who cannot believe
that property cat’, consist ro man. Therefore,
I command you not to enter my house for if
a slave should be there concealed, the which I
do not aver, I should be accessary to the cap
ture of that slave, if you should iitid it there.’’
Here a fellow cried out at the top of his
lungs, “La's surround thi house;” and 1
away they scattered, ioidi one way, .and
some another, until they had quite surround
ed.it.
Then, could some wit have seen them
crawling under the school-house, amidst dirt,
fl.-as, hogs, and rata, wkich, as disturbed by 1
the Kentuckians, broke forth from their “own
•jeluded dwelling.”
O' tjraJ some power the giftie gie us,
’to tec ouraeU as oilier* nee us!"
Amid the laughter and jeers of the crowd,
l »ey sneaked off quite chop-fallen.
Ttie ladies have commenced holding a fair
in bethel Chutch, to raise money to build i.
n ;w church, much larger than the old one.—
7 k e lr u Vfc ry hue af/air, by the way, if
beauty, wii, and merriment can make it so.—
,Gud b-esa the ladies of Cincinnati! they are
ahead in every -jood WOfk No mope
Ywur cincjnnatus.
CttCWSATI, July 3, 1&48
,,w UaCMCR.O., July 4.
Fwcmd Dotcx-aits —I promised Mr. De-'
lany, when I subscribed for the North Star at
Cincinnati, that on my arrival hum-, I would'
wrue you oecaatonally eooceming our pro
frea*. 4» tl>* rain has prevented our goingi
into the baivaet 6sU to-d*y, I tho.gbt it
would not be amiss to yi) down aad udk with
th«*e afar off who are laboring for the to
demption of the downtrodden and oppressed.
T h colored people here are giving the lie
to the eld, ought-to-be worn out dogma,
4 *The niggers can’t take oar* of themselves.”
You are probably aware that the Mercer
peunty Settlement in Ohio was settled pnder
cueemofiooea mom unfavorable. When my
moved here about ten years it was
an almost unbroken forest for several mile
around. We bad to go about thirty miles fc
prm isiors, and then par an uncommonly big
price for fh I mcotiob throe fact* to shot
we are an wi .'prising people, 6»r none «*the
(hunter* excepted) will undertake the inevita
b!e hard slope »n the settlement of a ner
country.
In 1839, there were only nine families re
siding bnre. and most of them came that year
The united number of colored people «u di
more than forty. The land cleared was nn
more than forty acres; and most of this clearei
by squatters,” w ho came here to hunt, &c
Wc boast now of sixty or seTcnty familie
of us, industrious and intelligent individual
as the »uirouuding country can afford. Os
of this number of actual settlers, there an
not more than half a dozen heads of familie*
but what own from forty acres of land to fin
or mx times this amount. There arc very feu
farms lest than twenty acres of land, ant
many twice this amount. I will not dwel
upon this point, as we have Croat time to tinit
published these fact*.
I now say, without fear of authentic con
tradiciion, that in point of iutclligence am
mental improvement, the colored people o
Mcrccr county ate fir w advance of the sur
rounding whites. In agriculture and mechan
ism, the whites are not ahead, though they
have had every advantage. We have the best
total abstinence society in the country, and
the best library of books in North-western
Ohio. Tin library was obtained from Mr.
Charles Whipple, of Newburvport, Mass.—
lie gave it as a present to the settlement.
The circumstance* concerning this present,
and why it was given, I may give you some
other time.
The Randolph excitement has not deterred
us from oui onward and upward march to
useful improvements. We are earnest and
uccoropremising in the cause of suffering hu
manity. The panting fugitive is always a
welcome visitor here, and a cheering onward
to repose under the mane of the British
Lion,” ever attend* him. God speed the
day when, through the indefatigable labors o|
those sincerely engaged, the chains and fetlert
fall off—when life, liberty, and the pursuit ol
happiest shall be extended to all mankind.
Yours for the redemption of the down
trodden and oppressed,
M. P. H. JONES.
(From our own Correspondent.)
London, July 21, 1818.
Dsar Douglass,— Doubtless you havt
heard ere this, that the Archduke John, o
Austria, has been elected Regent of Germany
(or Administrator of the United Germai
Empire,) by the Parliament assembled a
1' rank fort. He is the uncle of the reigning
Emperor, and has reached his sixty-sixtl
year. In his early career, and during th*
stormy times of the first French revolution,
he was thrown into active life, and in 180 C
he was placed in command of an Austrian
army, and became extremely popular. When
relcaseJ from military duties, however, he
preferred living the si npJe life of a mountain
eer in the Sty nan hills, to a residence in the
capital. Bat veil in the campaigns of 1813
frnd 1815 but when peace was restored and
the arbitrary and oppressive ministry of Met
teriupli cv.ctvepccd, which this noble mau
eyar .condemned, but had no means of active! v
opposing, he separated htroielf entirely from
tiie court, biearp an exile from Vienna, and
lived for m?nv years in retirement at Grutz,
Metternuji feuugg Loth his popularity and
his opinions, kept a strict wptch on hts move
ments. He revisited the Tyrol in 1845, and
was so enthusiastically received, that bis said
the "V iennese press were prohibited from
publishing an account of his reception. Out
anecdote told of him is, that, at g. ppb'ic
dinner held a lew years since, e gave tht
toast—* 1 No Austria—no .Prussia.,
united Germany and it is added, .that Jim
has secured him much fcf bis present popu
larity. \V nea the recant revolution in Vi
cuna bioke out, he at once re-entered public
life,, and prevailed on Metternich to resign,
Now, that once all-powerful minister is in
exile, and the Archduke is regent of Austria,
and chief of the German empire.
The latter event is, unquestionably one ol
immense importance in the history of Ger
nwty. In Berlin, of course, the feeling on
the subject is of a mixed character. The de
putation from the German Parliament arrived
in ienna on the 4th iost., arid was greeted
enthusiastically by the citizens there. To
their appeal the Archduke responded form
ally and on the 11th inst. the newly ap
pointed Regeat entered the good old cit of
Frankfort in triumph—where, it is said, the
joyous acclamations of the people were un
precedented. Since then the last sitting of
the long famous German Diet has been held,
and the President thereof has resigned ail
power into the hands uf the Regent. A new
miniary is formed, uuder the direction of
Baron Gagero. Joyful demonstralious of
every kind are taking place during this im
portant via t of the Regent to Frankfort and
the enthusiasm saem* to be universal. You
can well imagine, that, throughout Europe,
the future course and proceedings of thi* ex
cellent Prince will be watched with exceed
ing interest.
In my last, I enteral somewhat fully into
the affairs of France, and the recent insur
rection in Pans. The latest reports state,
that all remains tranquil there, and confidence
is increasing. QeQui.il Uavaignac has con
tinued to prove himself equal to the emer
gency in hich he wa* placed *i,d with all
his confessed mildness and humanity has dis
played great promptitude aud firmness in re
pressing all attempts of a seditious character.
Arrests are being hourly made of persons
compromised in the conspiracy; large sums,
of money have been foun J on many of them
and at present the affair is shrouded in great
mystery. 4. corraspondaui of tha Daily
News says, Doeumsut* of the highest im
portance have been *e.#d, which will chow
from whence proceeds the money distributed,
and who were really the chiefs of the insur
rection.” Ere Lmg U>e truth must bo
eliryted. f
Thai great sod good nan, Lamartine, baa
published sa eloquent loner, in reply to the
infamous suspicions propagated against him,
to which he states, that to see tumself trana
formod into a professor of oml war, and
preparer of carnage, makes a cry of iodigaa
uon nee from ibo impost reoeoMs of hisso*)."
Ho w shoot to qeit Frsaoo aad hie ftbltia
mioded countrymen, for the East-
To lock at home for a monrsot. Oae n
he recent events here baa ben the trial a*
cqovicttoa of tbs China* leaders, Janes
Fusee!, Sharpe, Vernon, Williams ant
Looney. With the evidence educed, the cot
elusion arrived at must have been (be only oat
expected. The sentence lenient—twt
rears imprisonment for each; a mild allow
ance of punishment, oanaidering what tht
result of their efforts, if successful, might
have been. Great tranquility preraila among
the Chartists in the metropolis and through
out the country. The debate on Hums’a re
form motion in the House, terminated on the
6th inst. On the dirisioo taking place, there
were For the motion 84
Against 351
Majority against ‘W!
This debate has served to test the reform*
spirit existing ia the House of Commons.
As Mr. Ilumc's plan did not go far ennogh
for the Chartists, they, to a mao, stood alooi
from it; while many who would probably
have toted for one or two of ih: points, may
not at present have been able to accept the
whole as an entire measure. Still good ban
been done, and our country owes a debt oj
«ratitude to Mr. Hume and his supporteis for
this effort in the cause of British freedom.

Free Soil.
i
At a Free Soil Convention held in Norths
ampton Mass., ou the 25th ult., the fol
lowing resolutions were adopted.
Resolved, That the policy of the Nations!
Government, with reference to the extension
of slavery—a policy artfully conceived, boldly
and recklessly prosecuted, during successive
administrations—involves the grossest abuse
of the powers and priuciples of the Conslitu
tion.
Resolved, That while the promoters or
human slavery are bent upon their purpose,
annexing foreign territory, declaring war, dis
membering 3 neighboring republic in order to
people and cultivate h with slaves; devoted
only to success, and reckless both of Right
and law it becomes the duty of every friend
of the Constitution snd of the Country, ot
Freedom and Humanity, to shake off all
lethargy, to forsake ail vain confidence, and
to stand up to the conflict manfully and avow
edly.
Resolved, That the establishment or suff
erance of slavery in the territories whose
governments are about to be formed, is the
gr'at question, resulting fro.n the long pursued
policy of the government, which now agitates
the nation that it is one which the people, if
true to freedom and themselves, cannot fail to
recognize in the approaching election that it
is one which the people will not leave to the
President, or to their Representatives in Con
gress, but upon which they will act by requir
ing the surest and most distinct guaianties of
boldness and fidelity from every one proposed
for their suffrages —it is a question which
the people can understand, and on which they
ask no counsel from their leaders or thcii
presses.
Resolved, That this question is thnisi upon
us by th r abettors of slavery, and th it ;b;i
responsibilities of the contest are with th"-:
and not wiih us and that we will siand lot
the defence of that soil which is now fee,
and contend with slavery when it encroaches
on freedom.
Pungent.—At he celebration of the elori
ous Fourth,’ at Fitchburg, Miss., several
smti moots were given at the dinner table,
which had a stronger flavor of truth and hon
esty, than of tee ‘patriotic’ cant with wrhich
people usually befool themselves and others,
on tbit dav..
We subjoin a few specimens:
Liberty. —Th.> leaping waters of ihe Xi tgg
ri outdone! The sublimes! sight in our day
'he lenp of the slave to the Canada shore.
Says Mlrab au—Men live by one of three
ways; by work, yb begging, or by stealing.
By which does the slaveholder live?
ihc Gallows and Presidential Chair—The
highest gifts of tho people. Th" one for the
slayer of one man, tho other for the shyer of
;hyusands.
Gar country —Of doubtful virme; as Liber
ty and Slavery are her twin offspring. May
she go and sin no more.
The II -to of Sale n—Dick Crowriingshield
—Prevented by a preinature death from being
a worthy competitor for the Presidential Chair
of this nation in 1848. Peace to his ashes.
Daniei. Werster not for Taylor. —A
writer mth 5 N. V. Evening Post of July 14,
says that Mr. Webster was invited to address
the late ratification Taylor meeting in N. Y.
city, but declined, and gave his reasons. The
Taylor Committee have tried to keep them
secret, but they have leaked out. They aie
to the effect—
That Southern statesmen have monopo
lized the highest offices i* our government
four fifths of the time cince the Declaration
of Indepen Jenco, to the exclusion of North
ern men equally gifted and equally capable,
and he thinks the moment has now arrived
when 3 Hand should be taken by the North;,
for his part he cannot support- neither will be
publicly oppose, the election of Gen. Tav
lor,”
ID 3 If is said that the letter of Gen. Tav-;
lor accepting the nomination contains a
reiteration of his assertion that he will not be
considered the exponent of whig doctrines,
It is also said, that on this account the whig'
managers have refused to publish it, We
know nothing of this matter, but think the 1
story quite probable, as we can see no other
reason w by the letter should not be published.
It is also said that tbe Gen. did write a letter;
taking etroog ground ageinst the Proviso.
Ttiss we think also very probable, though we
think there was no for it, as erery one!
must know, wtiat-ever he nuy say, that he is!
a strong anti-Proviso man. —{Racine Adc. 1
Hope H. Slxttxr.—The Boston Times
states lhal Hope H. Slrttei, the notorious
slave-dealer, who has acquired a princely for-!
tune by buying and selling human beings,!
has taken the stump to advocate the election!
of the old homicide, Zack Taylor. We know
not upon what authority the Times makes!
this statement, but we see no reason to discred
it it. Slaveholders and slaretraUers must!
naturally feel 19 ra confidence in tbe disposi- j
tion and ability of Taylor to promote their?
interests, than they can in Case, notwuhstand-i
ing the ready servility of the latter. —Charter
Oak.
ID* Cass's frieads think th;y can
his political exists 10c by mutiipjywg bras of,
him. He has now nearly as many ss an ordi-*
nary grimalkin. Washington convsi*>adeat{
of th.* N. Y. Express bos seen fin —ea. q
Jifforiug from ihe others, and all deal ned i d
suit d-if rent quarters of the Uuion. liuij
after November tie will have only one ie.i—>
w hich it will be his fate to pass oo one of tfu*
tranche of Salt River. -r Lru ngtton Union^
At a National Ifeform meeting held in Nevi
York city, on the 6th July, u pas a
Resolved, That we respond to the sarnies,
tion of Uervit Smith ssd W«. Wait, ae<jj
that we repudiate the questioning of any ache V*
candidates, with any idea of aabsutnunf them
for oar own.
ID* A Urge sseatisg, composed efcieiy of
Democrats, was held at Chnrteiten os tho 1
30U) mat., wh*h unanimously resolved to
sustain Geo. Taylor for President, and Geo.
Busier for Vies Pfeafosat.
BGT X# 1 masse to mankind, tnoa tbs or
ganisation of aoctotj. weald bo Meal in
atrocity to sat of him who would lift hi-
ET Rents is abutting barsalf up. No ie
peHiicaaa. not even Amsrioan tmeeUsts, are
permitted to cross the fitetnt.
.foreign Kerns.
TVs »:earner Amtritm, Cipi Judkins, unve
at N«v Turk about S o'clock on Priday aft«n*N*r
Irani Liverpool, whence she raihnl uq the 224 ei
bringing erven day*’ later taslhgaeca. Beta
viU be bad a digest of bar rant importan
new*,
IRELAND.
Tie Irish Bbia««tM Beacrai tiailai
A letter front Dublin, dited July 17, stater tha
the Club Orgauizatna it daily awummg a mor
alarming aspect—more went in th# mole of pro
I mdar. bat mare eaneestrated ndmtaarfuai
i while branch Clubs are extending far aoJ arid
I mtu the rural districts. Tb* recent proceeding
in VT aterfurd and Limerick, in connection wit
the prosecution agumt Mr. T. K. Meagher lur
shown boar liflicuit it is Ac tbo leader* to reatraii
th* chthtesfe from a “premature outbreak.’ hi
may be considered uumluc**, and it ia nothin)
sb**rt of n '•duty but tlio evil i* th»t the lean don
<erous and if sotae deeiJed stvps be not takei
C r the stippre-swi of the Club*, the ant Jeplur
may be »pf«boiilid
A I’rivy Council ItclJ at Dublin Cattle «h
the 18th, at wine Uu Lord- Lieutenant preside*]
wlien it was resolved to |>mclaitd the falkiwtn.
pi ces under the Coun ion act: County and Lit]
of DuMm, aKinty and city of Owk, eo and city o
Waterford, andCo.mty of the town of Drogheda
The Government have been prompt in follow
’ing up the proclamations i*»ue*l on the 18th, bj
notification-*, retting forth the day* and placed ap
pointed for granting licenses to keep arm* Th*
Commissioners oi Police in Dublin trailed a notic*
that they will attend at their uflLe in the Lowe
Cattle-yard, -or some day* to re>eive application
f*>r li.-eiite* Simitar notice* hare beeu issued u
all the proclaimed districts.
The police have received information that de
poU of arms exist in ao ue parts of die metropolis
and Unit they were to make strict searches iu th*
I suspected localities.
There has been a “brush’* at Carrick-on Suir.—
A Clonmel correspondent thud describes the af
fair
“The Carrick people on hearing of the arrest o
i tome of tho Club members, and the ruuv>r th
o ie *f their own curates was marked out fur ar
rest, rote en maxte, and with irms iu their h uid*
con-fating of rifles and pikes, repaired to the autli
orities and dcm.ui led the release of the prisoners
who were at unco *telivered up to the.u. They
tlien rung tlie chapel bells, wlteu 4,000 men do
sounded Ironi the neighboring lulls, armed to tin
teeth, win remained in Carrivk all night, lest an
attempt -.houlJ be made to arrest Father ILnie
The delivery of the prisoners, »md (lie With m*w,e
of the few troop* were cou*i<level as a Iri.iuipU
there is n«> mistaking tlie national feel mg.'
The intelligence of the rising at Carriok-ou-S a
was received all through Tipperary with euthj-m
asin. On Monday night the m mutants were ail
ui a blaze with tires, from Slievebiooin to Slieve
iitunou. and tlie peasantry cru.vde 1 around them
ui large masses. The c.ieer.ug along the Water
ford range was distinctly heard in Clonmel, auJ
the club. turned out (o d* homage to the general
enthu-iasm. They marched hmugh tlie town in
sections. The military Were under arms, prepur
ed, if n.-cessary, for repressfon.
I’he systematic efforts made by writers in the
pay of the Lsriu-h Government to cause it to be
lad.eved that the lie|xml Clubs of Ireland are
organized for the purjiose of pillage and massa
cr and for the overthrow of religion and social
order, render it expedient that wo should define
the real objects oi the Club organization:
lie it, therefore resolved mi declare I—
That the puqiose and end of our organization
are tlie uvurtlirow of the power of the ihtUsh
Legislation in this Island,
That we are firmly resol ye*] to ahstaiu jit our
,*o!Ufaul capacity, from any interference ip mat
.«*rs *if a religious or sectari m character, we are
not the less desirous that religion should bo up
held, and die legitimate influence of its uiinfaters
maintained iu its integrity.
That so far frouj *|i*siriitg to overthrow s**ci»l
order, and to suhe. t «mr t*mi)try to universal an
art*hy, our first anxiety has been, and is, te se
cure tlie legislative mJcpoudcn.-e of our country
with tlie lead possible iiyury to any class of its
inhabitant*; and in tlie accumplidnnent of these
our designs we liope to put au end for ever to the
sufferings and disorders which have never censed
to alfliet our people under the sw *y *»f Britain.”
Tlie Roman Catholic Priesthood are beginning
to take alarm at tlie Club.. Twenty-one Priests
of the Deanery of Tuara luva protested against
tlie n. Rev. Mr, Costello, Limerick, disavows
them; Rev. Tims. Dixon,of Cast Passage, Wa'er
furJ, denounce* them iu the strongest terms; and
Rev. Mr. Ilenebry, ol Riithg.mnac, County Water
ford, has virtually kicked out of his parish a de
putation of ‘organizers’ from the Dublin Clubs,
telling them in pl.un terms that .Ultchel des«rvcd
all he got.
Devin Reilly speaks and prints his thoughts.—
lie says, further:
Flog them (tlie Irfah) at the triangle, deco
rate them with the |<iull cap, let tlie lamp-posts
bear their warned vintage, till at last they be
compelled to =>q aelch yt) y<> i as a hideous nuisance,
to escape agouy—to take you by the neck, tyraut,
gaoler, assassin, and Imrl you aad your dommiuu
oil this Irish soil iu the sea.”
Orders have beeu given from the Commander
in-chief's oflice, to all officers belonging to regi
ments iu Ireland, on leave of absence in London,
to repair im mediately to rejoin their respective
regiments quartered in that country. His Royal
Highness Prince George of Cambridge left by
the mad tram o i Wednesday night for Live, pool,
en route to Dublin, als i tne Marquis of Worces
ter, to join the 7tb H.uuurs.
Several parts of Ireland, Dublin among tht
lasi, have been proclaimed under martial law.—
Rev. Mr. Byrne, of C UTage-on-Suir, was arrest
ed for sedition, but the populace released him.
Meagher, Doheuy, <tc., are addressing meetings of
SU,U*>J even at midnight In several places the
authorities were obliged to open the jails.
Latest
The People Aaitisa.
The purcliase and manufacture of a; ms is pro
ceeding in Ireland.
Last week eighty stand of arms were purchased
by the Dr. Coyle Club, of whic Mr. Dady ol tlie
Xatton, is tlie PreuleuL 20,000 i>tan*L of diaU
sed military fl.nt muskets have been put chased in
Lo .d*ai for the of the uiaurgeot-s and all are
coming over in UtUhea
fly land, the noted p.ke maker, has left Dublin,
fur Carlow with a large o*aeagunjeui of pikes.
Hie reljela have prepared a map of tlie City ol
Dublin sulalivided mto dtairtils, »n eachof winch,
the point* at which tins cm*« are re*pe. lively L
unifier, and where barricades are to be thrown
up, are indicated.
it is now arranged that it npm the furinatimi
of the jury to try Duifey or lu* fallows, it dali
appear probable that a c*mv. ntsuu wid t*e had.
tlie rlube are to no* iiamedtatety and prevent
the trial by an anticipator., and, a* they hope a
successful outUeak.
fr—ti
XLECTioM op raaaincxr.
k'aai*, Jujy 1%
Tha unusual interest attadiad to Uie of
a president of tlie Satmoal Assembly, vacant by
die nuimnatiuo <<f M. Man* to tlie Ministry of
Jmute, attracted a very «Ueraltraee of mem
bunk
'I be ooqiratjay betwteo 3L Marot, rapport
ed by the moderate Republicans, and M. Lacnra
se, a member of the uhi Chamber of Deputies, i
~!u,*g with the Centre Gauche. The eiectaai ot
tne Lter would racwdragly mark what wane j
nd call the pragmas *4 Urn react*m. a *d oth-1
.MJgrowing asceodeocy *4 Ura Thiers'Ramci
At *faqr t/dodt Ole duimra tnnnaoce*l the tv-
ou t as fallows: MambsPs 780: iheittr
m-wwsnv, ML Fur M. Marrast, Sh 6; far M. U
MA M. Bra* 47. As the absolute
liv was **’obtained by the candidal—,
a uew ballot was nerwssary. The UslhM, a though
■ud—iwve, snows ,ufli.ienti/ the state of the jw-
Uea
auosuu uun.
Mud .*4ll
fafMMW
JQac.•••••••••»•*•*
M. Mrarrat 4eetara*tn hppr#;
The fate] uranher ef iurarnut tdwra rw
MMMcteeraftedjMMU to U nhouttesthon
Th* lAth teat «fu»
We era aranrad *k fan—im il fa
ssuvsrssssss^ri
Navarra* A N*tr of Carii'ti bi bm wn
ptelrly rartwl to <bo —Mahn w> tt> to*
»«ra kilted and tira token pru><ocr% of *bun
thrra orno udkor*.
Letter* iHrect from the frontiers of T-irnm
«*r that the C«rtm m«urTert>»« bee -ttftted
rrn rheih in the |wmh of natty of the ifcrf*
General lliartis ml Zubui. porraed by U»
Queen's trunpa. Wave been obliged to take refum
in France, u well as Celooei Lnncteri-*, am
Sebum*
Eastern Enrtjf.
The ear between the Xifnr* eoJ Sctevoniao
a carried on with grout Airy. The Hitofariam
hara stormed the dty of Yarasri. hot hero bet
detested with grant teas at 3a MAaly. The Hun
ftfiua anay numbers fi2,000 men. There hurt
again been frightful nuveem ut Carksaitx.
Ceflus4«-Thc Wrathrr un4 the Crepe
The reports that hare lately routed at fron
all part-* of the UaiteJ Kingdom respecting tin
•tale of the eropa, Ac, fc* very enconra|(mg. an
iftel proof that we shall, sbcuM th
weather continue as (krorable as heretofore, tun
a mo't abundant and timely harvest—[a*dime
A Smith.
Add rase of Awti-SUvar jr M’diaea of West
era Near York*
Under a deep and abiding impression uf the
doty we owe to God and our teliuw beings,
the Anti-Slavery wo.neu ot‘ Rochester feel
constraineJ to continue to persevere in their
efforts for the oppressed and suffering boqd
men who still remain toiling unrequited in the
Southern prison house. We are frequently
brought painfully to remember that not only
u their labor wrested from them uoromuoeia
ted not only do they suffer frqm intense hun
ger and cold; not only are the females, our
sisters, subjected to the cruel and passionate
outrages of their tyrannical masters and over
seers but there are daily instanoes of sun
dering the dearest ties in nature, thus sepa
rating them forever. And can we expect any
thing better—can we look for benevolence or
fine feelings from a system so foul and fiend
ish as slavery f It woulJ b 3 uaroisaaabla,
because a corrupt tree cannot bring forth
good fruit.** Therefore, knowing that with
out associative action we cannot render effi
cient aid to this holy cause, we affectionately
invite the co-operation of the citizens of Roch
ester and the public generally. We ask them
to bear in mind the injunctions of Jesus, “All
things whatsoever ye would men should do to
you, do ye even so to them.” Remember,
also, the beautiful parable in which lie calls
our attention to the sick and to those who are
in prison, and conclud3S by the forcible asser
tion, Inasmuch as ye have done it toone of the
least of these, tny brethren, ve have done it
unto rao.” We feel assured all that have
hearts to feel, and ar? careful to attend to the
monitions of conscience—all who are deter
mined to live for the good of out raoc, instead
of devoting all their time to thiir own per
sonal ease—all who feel bound to improve the
precious time allotted to them here, by pio
inoting as much as possible the cause of truth
and righteousness in the earth, will come for
ward iij the vyork of laboring to banish forever
the of slavery from our land and in
so doing, instead of an example of corruption
and wickedness, we should be a** light to the
world.”
We hope no one will feel too poor, nor any
too rich, to enlist in this holy causa. The
Christian’s influence, in whatever situation, is
always salutary, and will certainly produce its
good effects. We ask for the aid of men and
of women we call on the old and the
young, the farmer, the m ;chanic, and the
merohant. We ask all and every one to give
us their help to devote what they can spare,
either of money or of the fruits of their la
bor, to the work of restoring men and women
to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights
and blessings with which they were endowed
by our Creator.
For this object, W 3 propose holding a Fair
in December next. We ask tha females in
the adjoining towns and country around us, to
get up sewing circles, and prepare such arti
cles as will be most saleable, and to come, fur
nish tables, give us their company, and help
us, not only in selling those things thu3 pre
pared, but in convincing the publin mind of
the necessity of our perseverance and fidelity,
and thus be helpers in hastening the day of
emancipation. 
From the NY Tribune
Remarkable case of a free american citizen being held for eleven years as a slave in the land of Cuba, and rescued from slavery by General R.B. Campbell, the American Consul at Havana.
On Thursday last arrived at thia port
a§ a passenger from Havana, in the
bark Rapid, a colored man named John
I Lytle, a native of Philadelphia, who
returns to his country after an absence
of twelve or fourteen years,aril hin which
period his history has been a singular
and interesting one.
Some short time ago, a gentleman o(
this city, while travelling in the Island
of Cuba, stopped at the ingenio, a su
gar estate of a wealthy planter named
Don Gaepar Hernandez, about twenty
miles from Matanzas. While exam
ining the machinery of the sugar
works, he was addressed in English by
one of the apparent slaves employed
j about them; and the result of a guarded
conversation that ensued was, to in
form him that the slave was in truth a
free American citizen, wrong folly held
in slavery- His story was this: He
had been shipwrecked many years be
fore on the coast of Africa, hi the shi|i
Jupiter, employed in the service of the
Colonization Society. With the rest ol
the crew, he had made his way along
the coast for about 130 miles to the
slave station at Gallivas, where he was
well received by the proprietor, Don
Pancho Ramon, who promised him pas
sage in the first vessel to Cuba, from
which island it would be easy to reach
the United States. The slave cargo
which he thus accompanied being duly
landed in the neighborhood of Matan
zas, Lytle was cooped with the rest of
his color in the “barracoons,” and soon
found himself at work as a slave on the
estate where he was thus found by a
stray wayfarer from his own country.
He had made more than one unsuccess
ful attempt for his freedom, and had at
this time given up tlie thought of it in
despair. Conscious that secrecy was
the first condition of success in any at
tempt to procure his liberation in that
couutry, where he soon would have dis
appeared irrecoverably and without
trace, the gentleman thus providentially
made acquainted with his situation, ab
stained from giving him any other hope
than a general remark that he would
not forget him. The result of the mat
ter was, that, after farther inquiries had
becu made, the case was laid before the
Secretary of State, who fully entered
into it, and readily responded to the
call made upon him to demand the lib
eration of the man, and to urge it. if
necessary, with all the energy of the
Government and Xation, on the same
grounds as though its subject had been
the highest in the land, instead of a poor
and oppressed negro. Our popular and
excellent Consul at Havana, Gen. R.
B. Campbell, of South Carolina, also
entered into the spirit of the instructions
which he received from the State De
partment, with his characteristic zeal
and ability. Great caution and pru
dence were required, the danger being
that no such slave would be found on in
quiry, if a suspicion of the object in
view should have p eceded the effective
action of which its attainment was to
he secured. The upshot of the whole
has been the arrival of the man, as a
freeman, at this port, ns above slated,
with a sum of money of $2,211 34, as
his wanes during the li years of his
servitude, with interest, besides his ex
penses home.
Gen. Campbell’s conduct of this mat
ter is entitled to all praise; the moie
so, that he is a South Carolinian, and
not a Northern Barnburner. The letter
in which he announces the result of his
efforts is so creditable to him, that we
have asked permission of the gentleman
to whom it was addressed to publish
the following extracts from it:
On the 10th day of June, I receiv
ed certain instructions from the Secre
tary of State, accompanied with a let
ter from you to him in relation to the
free negro, John L. Lytle, in the pos
session of Caspar Hernandez. I have
this day, July 7th, received the negro,
and shall to-morrow dispatch him to the
United States, under the charge of mv
son, Lucius Campbell, to be delivered
over to the Secretary as a freeman,with
$2,211 33, as his own property, after
expenses of small outfit, passage, &c.,
are paid. I thank you for refer ring the
Secretary to me as a suitable person to
accomplish your object and secure to
the negro those just rights which have
been so long and cruelly withheld from
him. It has cost me some trouble, time,
rmney, and odium also, with a certain
class; but these are all trifles in com
parison with the victory achieved, the
rights asserted, wrongs redressed, and
the happiness, I hope, conferred on an
unfortunate man who had so unjustly
been made the creature of another's
will, and the degraded victim of the
taskmaster; for, although not an aboli
tionist, I feel as strongly for the kid
napped black as for the oppressed of
another color.
You are aware my dear sir, that
my proofs were deficient, and that the
Courts here have already decided that
I the possession of a slave is satisfactory
j evidence of the right and justice of >1
jmssession, unless the negative is prov
ed. Under these circumstances, 1
deemed it advisable to secure certainly
the liberty of the negro under the most
advantageous compromise possible, and
I flatter tnyself that the compromise
made will meet your approbation.
4 The records of the State Depart
ment, I am t .ld, will show that John
was claimed in Tacon’s administration,
but the best terms that could be made
was the freedom of the negro upon
!»a>mg the amount of the purchase
•n >ney. In this instance, and with me,
Gen. Roneaii has behaved with great
propriety.’* 0
Another letter from an American
gentleman in Havana, received at the
same time, thus testifies to the merits
of Gen. Campbell’s skilful and effi
cient proceedings in the matter:
Gen. Campbell has been exerting
himself strenuously in favor of a col
ored American Citizen named Lytle,
and l think he has succeed*! *d<n:r
ably. X should be much gratified that
you should lend him v<*ur truthful
testimony among such of your friend*
as imagint it very ce«jr lo aoefaio and
aarvy forth their principles, no matter
on what sod. or amid what people aod
institutional A timely compromise has
done away with tfit chance of danger
ous measure* on the individual for the,
removal of proof of the act. The
Captain General bae lent a ready co
operation in this case, and again l think j
that the Consul deserves much credit
for his agency. Reaeosable wages,
with interest, and expense* homeward,
are quite favorable terms especially
when you learn what Gen. Tacon an
swered on n previous examination of
the earns case during bis Government;
also, I think, at the request of eome
American agent. It was to the pur
port that the man should obtain bis
ransom by paying for it."
Gen. Campbells hospitable kindness
to all bis countrymen arriving in Hav
ana, and satisfactory performance of
the duties of hit office, have long made
him eminently popular as our Consul
at Havana: as be had formerly been in
Washington in his former capacity as
a member of Congress from South
Carolina. Whatever may be the
chances and changes of parties, it is to
be hoped that such an officer may long
be allowed to serve the country in the
poet which he both graces and liunors.
Two curious circumstances, as we
understand have occurred in the history
of his case, the first is, that when
Hernandez at first learned the man to
be an American, and not an African,
he required the Slave merchant (Mar
tinez) to take him hack, but the diffi
culty of the defective title was got over
by reducing the price to a quarter of
the sum first agreed upon showing
that the precious pair of bargainers in
Free, flesh and blood perfectly under
stood what they were about. The deal
er on the African coast (Don Pancho
Ramon) had anted fairly by the men.
and given him a letter to the house in
Havana, explaining his true character.
The damages which have been now
paid to Lytle have been, we understand,
contributed equally by the two.
The other circumstance is, that at
the time of his being landed and taken
to the barracoon, Lytle-sent a letter to
the American Consul then at Matanzas
(named Shoemaker, according to h s
recollection,) and had an interview with
him, in which he claimed protection.
The functionary was on the point of
sailing for the United States, and re
plied by telling him to go and renwin
quietly at the estate of Hernandez, for
a month or two, and he would see about
his case. Lytle never heard farther
from or of him and twice, when he
made his way to the Consulate at Mat-!
nnza<s, he was told by the person iiii
charge that there was no record of the
case on the hooks of the office.—Now,
we know nothing of the manner in
which the aforesaid Consulate of Mat
anzas has been filled through this per
iod, but we commend these statements
of the rescued free slave to the atten
tion of those who may.
TIIE AUCTION.
Slavery. —l am happy, gentlemen, to
he able once more to offer the Presidency
of these United States, with nil its pat
ronage for the next term of four years,
to the lowest bidder; aod as we met at
the South do things in a summary man
ner, I shall receive but one bid from
each individual.
Who bids?
Liberty. John P. Hale.
Slavery. —Understand me,gentlemen,
I said the lowest bidder. Give us a bid
League. —Gerrit Smith.
Slavery. —Do not trifle, gentlemen;
I feel the importance of the occasion.
This is probably the last time in which
I shall have it in my power to make
such an olfer. I find that my health is
declining, and ere another four years
shall come round, I may be like Samp
son shorn of his locks. Now is your
opportunity, gentlemen; who bids?
Democrat. —Lewis Cass.
Starery. Thank you, Mr. Demo
crat; you could not have done better in
so high a latitude. Mr. Cass is offered;
who bids lower?
Wiig. —Zachary Tatlor.
Slavery —Enough, enough: you can
go no lower. Once, twice, three times
—gone. And I am astonished, Mr.
Whig, that a man of your arrogant
professions should even make such
a humiliating concession; especially
that you should be the last man to nerit
and receive this boon at my hands; and
although it may produce the speedy dis
solution of your body, yet be assured
that such a patriotic act of self-abase
ment will not be forgotten while the
name of Whig endures.
More lasting fame by thi* you w ill acquire,.
Than Nero g A by setting Rome on fire.”
AN INTELLIGENT JURY.
The Editor of the Richmond (Va.)
Southerner, who is travelling through
the State, furnishes occasionally quUl
an amusing picture of life in the **Old
Dominion." At Westmoreland Court
house, he was much struck with the in
telligence of a jury in a litigated case
of long standing.
About dark, the sovereign arbiters
came d wn, the way they went up,
and stood in court. The clerk called
their names, and then asked them what
they hsd been about, aud in whose favor
they had east judgment. The foreman,
with great dignity aud suavity of man
ner, replied:
“The defendant* have got the case."
Here the counsel for the parties wanted
to know which party it was they called
the defendants. The jury looked at
one another with bewildered eyes and
blank faces, to fiud their wbereab uts
The lawyers still pressing the matter,
several of them said for one party, and
several for another. At last one of th**
jury said, “We gin it to tlie wiin»uins,"
and then they all snid, “Yea, that's it.’
This decisiou led to such laughing and
swearing as we never knew over any
jury verdict. Tha parties threw away
the jury's judgment, and compromised
the matter.
DzrosTMENT —Be reserved, hut not
eoor; grave, but not formal; brid, bat
n-4 rash; bambl*, but not servile; pa
tieat. but not insensible; constant, but
am obstinate; cheerful, bet not jitfi*.
Kaiher b« sweet-tempered rather t!s%i
wider; aod fotintale with very few,
aod with tnoee few upon good grounds.
THE CONDITION Of PARTIES.
Both of (he great political parties ol
this country are broken up. Th*
Baltimore and Philadelphia Conven
tions dissolved both int»their original
elements. Both are without candidate#
or principles upon which they can unite
even a tolerable degree of their party
strength. The wide dirersity of opin
ion exhibited by the members of both
Conventions, was the mirror like reflex
of the sentiment of the country, and o
their constituents. From first to last,
it waa perfectly apparent that Ibe bond
of party onion had been weakened; that
old issues had become obsolete; in
abort, that it was impossible lo unite
upon a common platiom. No comprom
ise could be made without compromi
sing essential principles, consequently
all endeavors to that end proved idle.
The candidates finally nominated by
the Conventions b*»th tailed to recieve
l the unanimous endorsement ot the dele
gates after they had retrieved sufficient
number ol ballots t entitle them to the
nomination; and both bodies broke up
amidst the declarations ot some mem
bers not to support the nominations
made. These Conventions, we reptat,
were but ihe embodiment of the senti
ment of the couutry, which, in the pro
-1 gross it has been making for the last
few years, has gradually freed itself
from" sympathy with old issues and
i principles, and now detnaurls soine
i thing new, and more in accordance
with the spirit and necessities of the
times.
We believe the old parties have re
cieved a shock which they cannot rco
ver from. Both in their day have ac-
I complished some good, but both have
outlived their usefulness and populari
ty. Syracuse Star.
To Young Ladies. Young maiden,
who hast merely gone l> tanizing into
the land of romance, and there picked
up tliy knowledge of men and tin*
world; who on the enti un-e into society
anticipates wit 1 a feuriul pleasure, t:>at
the men will b sy themselves about
thee, cither as the butterfly about the
rose, or the spider about the fly—a
word to thee. Be at rest; the world is
not fearful. The men have too much
to d with themselves. Thou wi t have
to experience that they will inquire no
more after the than alter the moon, and
somt times even loss. Thou annest
thyself, fhnu of seventeen years, to re
sist the storm of life; ah! thou wilt prob
ably come to have more to do with its
inaction. But let not thy courage fail,
there are life and love m rhe world in
the richest abundance, not often in the
form of which they for the most part
are exhibited in romances. Tlie roman
cer distils life; he makes a day out ot
ten years, and out of a hundred grains
of c >rn draws one drop of spirit; it is in
his trade. The reality proceeds in an
other inauner. Rarely come the great
evetus, the powerful scenes of passion.
They bel mg, in every day life, not to
the rule, but the exceptions. On that
accou it thou good creature! sit not and
wait, or thou wilt suffer tedium. Seek
not the affluence of life without thee;
j create it in thy own bosom. Love
heaven, nature, wridoin, all that is good
around tliec, and thy life will become
rich, the sails of its air ship w ill fill with
the fresh wind and so gradually soar up
the native regions of light and love.—
Miss. Bremer.
Change or Air.— An occasional
change of air may he said to he almost
necessary to the perfect well being of
every man. The workman must leave
his workshop, the student his library,
and the lawyer his office, or sooner or
later his health will pay the penalty;
and this, n matter how great his tem
perance in eating and drinking—no
matter how vigorously and regularly he
uses his limbs—uo matter how open,
and dry, and tree from sources of impuri
ty may he the air of tlie place in which
he is employed. 111 the slightest case
of impaired health, the sleeping in the
suburbs of the town iu which the life is
chiefly spent, or even the spending a
few hours of detached days in some
accessible rural district, at a few miles’
distance from the dwelling, may sutfic
t restore the healthy balance of the
bodily functions, a:i d maintain the bodi
ly machine in a tit state for its duties;
or in cases of somewhat more aggra
vated character, a more decided change
of air, lor even a lew days, once or
twice a year, may suffice to adjust or
restore the due econ >my of the system.
Robertion on Diet and Regimen.
Flowers and the Human Heart.
—How much fl <w.*rs resemble the
young heart, in its bright m >r.mig ere
it has stained Lie plumage of its sinless
years. Traditi »n of them tell mb that
they were once like youth even in this
—that they loved, a id talked, and had
j a«sion& like luis. Wh. her the go.d
en age of flowers has past <.r not, they
are still invested with t sew suscep
tibilities in song. H»w >ftea and how
fondly the poet revels in the held o.
flower*. Do they not talk of him?
W ho that ha* heard the soft, lo«r whis
pers of the preen leaves and brighr
flowers on a spring morning, who did
not tee! rainuow gleams of gladness
running through hi* heart? Like beau
ty in the human form, flower* hint and
foreshow relations of transceudaut deli
cacy and sweetness, and point to the
beautiiul and unattainable. From the
garden favorite to the dainty wild flow
er of the in matain, all have a charm
iaexpressable, a beauty unapproachable
leading the way, and wooing the spirit
onward and upward. How sweetly and
instructively the flower hows its head to
the breath of night, or the rude storm.
At morning it yield* it* fragrant crimson
boros to tiaaven on tbs soft wings ot
the dew-drop. This the heart learns to
bring a holier offering to the shrine ol
all good.
Caterpillars. An English agricultural paper gives the following
method of destroying caterpillars, which
was accidentally discovered, and is
practised by a gardener sear Glasgow.
A piece of woollen rag had been blown
by tbs wind into a current bush, end
when taken out was found covered with
ftftlerpiUeitk Taking the hud. he itn
■tedlately placed pieces of woollen
cloth in every bush to hia garden, and
found tha next day that (he caterpillars
find universally taken to him for shelter. In this way he destroys thousands every morning. 
