CONVENTION OF COLORED
CITIZENS.
A Convention of Colored Citizens
has been in session for several even
ings during the past week in this city.
No report of their proceedings that we
know of has been published, though
they have been travestied in the Her
ald at considerable length. The fol
lowing reports from Committees, how
ever, which appear in that paper, are,
we pesume, genuine, and will be found
important and interesting.-Anti-Sla
very Standard.
Mr. George T, Downing read the
report on Emigration as follows:
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON EMIGRATION.
Many considerations arise in the re
view of the question of the immigration
of the colored American from the place
of his abode, the land of hia nativity, to
any foreign place. Among the most
prominent and important are—that this
is our native land; that here we live,
and have lived; that here we hope, and
have hoped; and that no amount of per
secution has driven, or will drive us to
any inhospitable region—to any region
whatsoever, save that to which death
•hall convey us.
Our fellow-countrymen have selected
Africa as the place for our future
abode, and give as a reason why we
should leave this, our native land, that
in this, our native land we can never
hope to be elevated socially and politi
cally; further declaring, that Africa is
the land of our forefathers, and that
she needs to be regenerated—civilized.
What a libel upon our country —our
countrymen. The colored American
“can never hope to be elevated so
cially and politically in this country.”
It is false. We do hope, predicating
that hope upon a basis everlasting, and
which the signs of the times indicate—
Truth crushed to earth will rise again,
Tlie eternal years of God are hers.”
As to t.ie practical ability of colored
men going to Africa to better their con
dition, it is fallacious. The means by
which we or any class can better their
condition,is the acquiring of wealth and
education. The facilities to possess ei
ther, are far more abundantly afforded
the colored man at home, than they are
in Africa. It needs but the exercise of
the disposition —to acquire which dis
position is the same in the same per
son, whether he be in Africa or Amer
ica. There are large tracts of land in
this country, fertile and beautiful,
which the colored man can occupy—
live an independent life, where he can
command respect and consideration—
thousands of acres of which are already
owned by colored men in this State.
There are many trades and professions
of respectability and influence open to
him. He needs but the cultivation of
the above disposition. As fcr the ac
quiring of education, the facilities are
growing more and more abundant
dailv. The first seminaries of the land
are being open for the reception of
colored students. In the eastern
States, there are exceptions, where a
colored student cannot be admitted. In
our own Slate, two young men of rare
talent have been elevated to profess
orships in one of her colleges. As an
illustration of the superior advantages
offered us here, to those enjoyed in Af
rica, we would state that the dignita
ries of Liberia send their children and
relatives to this country to be educated
—instance, Rushworm’s sons, Robert’s
relatives.
But we claim no affinity with Africa.
This is our home. We have beheld no
other sun save that piercing the clouds
that tip our noble Alleghanies—which
glistens on our own rolling Hudson, and
gives vegetation and life to the green
fields, where our fathers lie—“ The
land of our forefathers.”
What more this to us than to all
other Americans? Go ye “home to
the places your fathers voluntarily left;
our forefathers were forced there; their
sons will not be forced away.” Fur
ther, we do not trace our ancestry to
Africa alone. We trace it to English
men, Irishmen, Scotchmen; to French
men; to the German; to the Astatic as
well as to Africa. The best blood
of Virginia courses through our veins.”
We sympathize deeply with poor be
nighted Africa. We wish her disen
thralment from the deep superstition
sad idolatry in which she is sunk. We
yrould see her regenerated—civilised.
THENORTHSTAR.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS, Editor aid Proprietor.
VOL. IV. NO. 16.
"We do not love Cesar less, but Rome
more.” We hare been persecuted.
Despite of it—despite of all that has
been visited upon us by our fellow
countrymen—we love our country
still.” We would defend her honor
while we mourn our shame. A fair
destiny awaits her—a destiny shadowed
in the landing of the Pilgrim Fathers—
our glorious Declaration of Independ
ence—in the present times. What else
is it but that it should be reserved unto
ne« tif'Wlumiißii complete tne idea oT
universal brotherhood—including even
the despised and abused, the rejected,
the cast down. How the fact will be
yielded to that effect—the fact that the
first martyr, Wm. Attuck, the first man
that fell in the Revolutionary struggle,
fighting in vindication of the fact of the
equality of man, and in defence of the
rights of mau, in favor of the idea of
brotherhood, was a black man; gloried
be his name! What else could have
created the passiveness which has been
remarkable in the persecuted and out
raged colored man? What else have
disconcerted the many movements of
the slaves to be free or to die glori
ously? It is the finger of God. He
purposes a glorious destiny—our Union
will be preserved. He hath suffered
this persecution to be. The persecu
ted and the persecutor will join hands.
The world—future generations —will
have evidence of the truthfulness of the
idea of universal brotherhood. Pre
vious to the declaration of this grand
idea by the fathers of ’76, all England
had faith in the idea of inequality in
man, and it is left unto our country to
give form and expression to its oppo
site. Look upon the man/ reforms
which engage the general attention,
and behold how all of them go to make
up a sentiment which must annihilate
Slavery, and cast it from our otherwise
fair country. Its happy influence will
operate upon the world in general.
This consideration causes us to be more
deeply fixed and inflexible, if possible,
in our determination to abide here—
our home. Countrymen! Americans!
why will ye strive to alienate us from
our home? why will ye continue to op
press us?—God wills us to be with you
—we will as He wills.
We are linked with millions who are
here held in bonds. Nothing should or
can separate our interests; they are
mutual and inseparable; it would be
cowardice on our part to disconnect our,
interests from theirs; cowardice, as
those who are linked with them in op
pression; cowardice, as Americans at
tempting to avoid the responsibility of
battling against the shame and degra
tion that arises at the mention of Amer
ica, because of her holding men and
brethren in bonds. It would break
down the sustaining prop, the hope
which bouys and sustains the shame; it
would give security to the slave mas
ter; it would have the effect to lessen
the happy sympathy, the beating heart,
which is beginning to throb in the
American breast. Aye, this sympa
thy, this beating heart, is observed in
no manner more forcible than in its op
position to the fugitive slave law, inter
ested parties attempt to conceal the
fact, as they may and do; Castle Gar
den meetings may be held; Union
Committees formed; Websters become
the paid subjects of Wall and State
streets; Footes invited to desecrate the
name of Washington; Fillmores may
issue their proclamations to make
themselves ridiculous—all (£is may be
done, and more, but there is no con
cealing the fact, that Northern hearts,
with a few exceptions, have no sympa
thy with the fugitive slave law and will,
whenenever they can, nullify its pro
visions.
We are not to be forced or enticed
from our native land* Nay, if they fin
ish their steamships with even more
splendor, and make their tables groan
with viands more rare, than those lound
in our steam palaces, yet they will
Lay rotting on the was,
ere they will be regarded as an induce
ment for us to leave our homes. The
Ebony line is an idea to lull, to satisfy,
to cover over, to smother the sympathy
for us, and against the fugitive slave
law; but it will signally fail. Aye,
even the magic influence of Henry
i Clay cannot effect it. We could sup
pose that he would be one of the first
passengers, in the line, sooner than
1 we, for in Liberia he might become
President, were he not impressed with
the fact that, in a short—very short—
time, he will wing his flight to heaven,
I or somewhere else.
1 We have not as yet secured for our
selves a character—reputation. We
are but the immediate descendants of
those who have been reared under all
manner of depressing influences, in ig
norance, in an ignorant section of the
country, and Southern plantations; we
have not had a fair trial; our position
has been a stooping one. We are be
ginning to feel the necessity of standing
erect. We have too generally occu
pied menial positions, which has been
urged against us. This must be
changed; this is being changed. Our
children—the children of those who oc
cupy menial positions—are being edu
cated to a more refined taste. Not
however, to discard honorable labor.
They will possess all the requisites to
success and advancement. They in
herit a spirit of endurance, a virtue
necessary to success. I’hey ate sen
sitive, which creates perception. They
have strength, being the descendants
of muscular frames. They are being
educated, let their children be op
pressed as they are. Keep them op
pressed, cast down, as we have and our
fathers hare been, and you have ac
complished that which to us seems phy
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR; GOD IS.THE FATHER OF US ALL; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
sically and morally impossible. They
will be respected here socially andty>-
litically. Believing this and admiring
the principles of our Government; be
lieving that the country is by nature,
blest with advantages far b&yisnd those
afforded in Africa, or anywhere else,
how can any one expect, even Horace
Greeley himself, that the colored man
will leave this country No; Horace
Greeley will go first, for he seems, of
late.to.hav* a Y erv lively Interest in Af
rica. TVot but that there will be cases or
individual emigration; this may be ex
pected. It betakes efa spirit of enter
prise in keeping with the progress of
our people; but no such emigration
should extend to a committal of our
people, to an alienation of our people
from their country, to a disconnec
tion of interests, responsibilities and
hopes, with other Americans.
Your Committee read with sorrow
and regret, the communication in The
New York Tribune of the 10th instant,
relative to the Liberia Agricultural
Association,” it being evident, from the
reading of the same, that it is an aux
iliary and ally to the Colonization
movement; that its members, its de
fender, and recommenders, are bedfel
lows with the leading Colonizationists
of our city, and that it must necessarily
receive our censure and condemnation.
The British Government is consider
ing the feasibility and profitableness of
our people emigrating to the British
West Indian islands. We regard the
spirit dictating the plan as selfish, be
sides, it would not afford a pecuniary
inducement to the mass; at the same
time, all the objections urged in this
report against emigrating to Africa ap
ply to it, with the following differences:
The Colonization Society of this coun
try is dictated by hate; these encoura
ging emigration to the West Indies are
not; that the African climate is more
enervating than that of Jamaica;
that in the case of Liberia, it is a pro
scriptive government, excluding men
because of their complexion, whilst the
other knows of no such distinctions.
Your Committee would recommend our
people to remain firm, in the face of all
threats and inducements, to their oft
repeated resolve, to live, die, and be
buried in the graves of their fathers;
to remove to the country to become
tillers of the soil; that if anyone be
determined upon emigrating from the
country, that they emigrate to Ja
maica, and not to Liberia; that per
sons emigrating to Jamaica, or other
places, to engage wherever they can in
commercial trade with those they leave
behind.
All of which is most respectfully sub
mitted.
Geo. T. Downing.
This document was received with
the moßt enthusiastic-applause.
Dr. James McCune Smith read the
following document as Chairman of the
Committee of three on the condition of
the People of Color:
Report on the Social Condition of the Peo
ple of Color around New York City, and an
the best means of ameliorating the same.
The subject, social condition, embra
ces domestic economy, social inter
course, standard of morals, habits of
thought, and general aim or tendency.
These are too great a variety ol mat
ters to be well discussed in a single
paper, and some of them are hardly
pertinent to this Convention The
most immediately practical among them
is, domestic economy—the most im
portant, the general aim.
On these two subjects a few remarks
will be made and one or two sugges
tions offered.
That we aim to advance, in common
with the rest of the American people, is
true, because we are constantly be
seeching them not to bar our progress
by unequal laws.
That we do advance in the teeth
of the most tremendous opposition ever
encountered by men, is a point on
which I must, for the present, waive
the expression of any decision. We
are so mixed up in the heat and the
smoke of the battle, that we can see
too little of our absolute or relative po
sition. Three or four facts, however,
are noteworthy:—
1. Accident has, on two recent occa
sions, enabled a few colored men to
save the State to the Whigs, and the
Whigs have courteously thanked us by
frowns and curses, and by introducing
a bill into the State Legislature to ap
propriate $20,000 per annum for our
removal to the coast of Guinea.
2. It has become more current than
ever to talk of our removal from this
country, as if we were .wild Indians, or
tares growing among the wheat.
3. Balls and feasts, in which we have
expended some ten thousand a year,
are losing caste among us, and have not
paid this winter.
4. From some causes not well de
fined, there is a very general restless
ness among us; a determination to do
something more than we have been
doing.
CAN WE DO ANYTHING MORE?”
Hitherto we have acted with little
concert, and less organization, yet we
have done fair fight; we have now a
reputation for endurance and plasticity
from our worst foes. If we organize
thoroughly we can do much more.
SHALL WE ORGANIZE IN THE CITY?’*
The advantages about city life with
us are, Ist, that a larger number of us
can be within short distance of each
other, and thereby may easily organize
without such disadvantage as would
grow from the same number being
banded io a single county.
We get forge amount of friction
without being so condensed as to be
ROCHESTER, N. Y., THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 1851.
reached by a law for removing us from
any rural locality—such laws as expa
triated Indians and Mormons. We car
be, if we will, much better provided foi
in the matter of education j n the city
than we could in the country. We
can, if we choose, throw vastly more
trade of our own and of other people, in
the way of each other in the city, than
we cnuld in the country*
The disadvantages of our city life, I
mean those peculiar tuies —for all city
me is, alter all, a kind of hot-houae for
cing of human beings —a, Q the follow
ing—Our lives are much ehoriened.
Look at the preponderance of widows
and children among us. They so far
exceed the calamities of mere sickness,
that our benevolent societies have been
obliged to cut off the widows and or
phans, in order to heal the sick.
Next, the seductions of the city—
policy gambling, porter-houses, with
their billiards and cards, create a gang
oflazaroni of both sexes; women has
tening through the streets, with their
bonnets untied; men, shirtless and
shoeless, hanging round the corners,
or standing, walking, gutter-tumbling
—signs which our foes call the type of
our condition.
3. Ci*y life shuts us from general
mechanical employment; white jour
neymen in the cities refuse to work
with us, and colored bosses have either
too little capita], or too little enterprize
to bring up and employ apprentices and
journeymen.
4th. From the necessity of seeking
employment in the city, as servants,
porters, &c., our manhood is, in a
measure, demeaned, lowered, kept
down; and I doubt much whether man
hood flourishes very much among citi
zens of any class.
sth. The enormous combination of
capital which is slowly iavading every
calling in the city, from washing and
ironing to palace steamers, must tend
more and more to grind the face of the
poor in the cities, and render them
more and more the slaves of lower wa
ges and higher rents.
No sane man can doubt, from this or
any comparison of the kind that coun
try life is the better choice for our peo
ple; not consolidated, isolated country
life, but a well mixed country and vil
lage life. The matter of education,
the great disadvantage of country life
might be remedied by concert of ac
tion.
I seriously hope, therefore, that this
convention will, among its first acts, ap
point a committee and place funds at
its disposal, by which it may be enabled
to concoct some efficient plan of remo
val of a large proportion of our people
into the rural districts—partly as far
mers, partly as business men, partly as
mechanics.
In the meantime, let us not forget,
that while there is a certain and posi
tive limit to our advancement in the
city, there can be no such daily in
creasing barrier in the country.
In the meantime also, while prepa
ring to leave the city, let us look a lit
tle practically into the social economies
in practice here in the city, an econ
omy, which of itself, would save enough
to send into the country and snugly set
up one out of every ten city families
per year; and first, about
HOUSE RENT.
In the rear of No. 71 Laurens street,
is a back lot, which cost $2,500: on it
are erected two buildings, which cost
$O,OOO. Total $8,500. Interest on
which at 7 per cent, is $595; and add
for taxes, insurance and wear $lOO,
making full cost as $695 per year.
These two buildings arc occupied by
twenty colored families, who pay an
average of $7 each per month; that is
$1,680 per year. Here is a clear
profit to the landlord of $985 per year,
above interest and expense.
Here then, in the single item of rent,
twenty families are paying enough to
fit out two families a year most amply
and abundantly for the country.
Again; if those buildings were owned
by a colored Saving Institution, whose
surplus funds should be devoted to set
ting up colored young men on farms,
such institution, after paying deposit
ors six per cent, would have a splendid
surplus for starting farmers or men in
other business. If we take a larger
view of this matter of house rent, the
results are amazing. According to tho
above estimate, each one of the twenty
families in the rear of 17 Laurens
street, is paying thirty-five per year
too much for house rent.
There are some 2,500 colored fami
lies in New York and its vicinity; say
that each family pays only ten dollars a
year too much for house rent, and that
these families could, by organization,
retrench, and accumulate that sum per
year; and we would save, in thia one
item, $25,000 per year.
FUEL,
Is next in importance. Our 2,000 fam
ines consume at least two and a half
tons of coal per year, making 4,500
tons. At least two-thirds of these
2,000 families buy their coal by the
bushel or peck, thereby paying two
dollars per ton more than the market
price, which is a sacrifice of $6,000
per year. Then, if theae two thousand
families combined to buy their own coal
at the wharf, they could aave, by pur
chasing cargoes, one dollar on each
ton, at least, which is $10,500. Al
lowing the nire of a coal yard at $BOO
each, there would be a clear gain of
$B,lOO in the single matter of ctal, if
we would thorougly organize thia Shat
ter
By similar calculations, it can be
shown that we could easily aave $20,-
000 on groceries and food, and $lO,OOO
on wearing apparel; besides setting up
in successful and commanding business
such men as are capable, intelligent,
and trustworthy.
Hence the entire saving that would
be effected in those domestic econo
mies would be $53,000 per year.
How can this saving be effected
It may be effected by a thoroughly
organized mutual savings’ bank. Not
a common five or six per cent savings’
bank, which is, according to Proudhon,
a sign of misery, but an efficiently or
ganised hank, wki-i. «ii th« deposit
ors should at the time be shareholders
and full participants in all the profits.
Such an institution, Jo be practica
ble, would require the exercise of a
large amount of mutual faith and mu
tual confidence; faith enough in col
ored men to entrust them with large
sums; confidence enough in their bu
siness tact for the successful manipula
tion of their money.
The bank will require a structure
somewhat different from our ordinary
banks. Ist. It should have power to
buy and sell real estate. 2d. It should
have power to discount good paper.
3d. It should have power to loan mon
eys on bond and mortgage on real and
personal estate. 4th. It should have
power to buy and sell merchandize.
I am prepared to go into further de
tails about this bank. Other gentlemen,
members of this convention, have paid
sufficient attention to the matter to
make an immediate report. I would
respectfully suggest that a committee
be appointed to report on this matter.
VVeare in condition to adopt and
carry out such report immediately.
We have sufficient capital already
stored in the savings banks to start one
of our own, of the kind we need.
What end should we aim at in this
economy? By a savings bank?
We must not regard this bank, nor
its economies, as an end; it is only a
means to help out the more desirable
ends of our advancement in the com
munity or State to which we belong,
and the larger end of advancing the in
terests of the community at the same
time.
To do this, we must leave the city,
its seductions, its oppressions and bale
ful atmosphere, and seek to expand our
elbows, our lungs and our energies in
the free air of the rural districts. We
arc already provided with land in a
rapidly growing section of the State.—
Let us economize enough to go and
settle that land, by five or six families
at a time; and by and by our economies
can extend to the exchange of the
country products, timber, cattle, pota
toes, for goods bought by our banks in
the city, and forwarded at low rates.
Another suggestion. There is enough
in our condition to cause us to meet
frequently and discuss it calmly, search
ingly. This American people is, after
all, like a large and energetic stomach;
its powers of assimilation are tremen
dous; it can knead together Dutch,
Irish, brickbats, mountains of stone or
gold, arctic regions and torrid heats—
“a very capable stomach, that,” you
will say. So it is; but then it has a
left-handed trick, which, like all things
coming from that direction, is sudden
and fearfully energetic —it has the
trick of casting out, disintegrated and
ground to powder, whatever it cannot
assimilate. We must either go in and
assimilate, or wake up on some fine
morning and find ourselves spewed over
the broad Atlantic!
We had better look to it. We
should meet twice, better three times a
year, and talk over what we have at
stake, and what we bad better do.—
Domestic economy, as I said, is but
part of our social relations; it is the
foundation of social contentment.—
When we have settled and consolidated
this, we may go into our social sins and
short comings and amend them.
The Doctor, after concluding the
reading ef the report, said that there
wero $40,000 or $50,000 of the colored
people invested in savings’ banks in
Wall street, and he then presented the
following resolution:
Resolved, That a committee of three
be appointed, with power to present the
form of a mutual saving institution, em
bracing the matters of house rent, fuel
and other domestic wants; and that one
of the conditions of membership of said
institution shall be, a pledge to abstain
frem policy gambling.
Mr. Louis H. Putnam read the report
of the Committee on Political Rela-i
lions, as follows:
REPORT ON POLITICAL RELATIONS.
Mr. President and Fellow-citizens:
As a Committee on the Political Rela
tions of the colored people, we beg
leave to submit the following report as
the result of our deliberation.
It is no ordinary task to prepare a
document sufficiently comprehensive to
convey a correct idea of the necessity
and the intention of this report, and wc
can only console ourselves with the
pleasing reflections, that in discharging
the duty which has devolved upon us,
we were governed by the strongest
inclination to serve the interest of our
people.
On a careful examination of our po
litical history, we have arrived at the
conclusion that, since 1811, there has
existed in this country a disposition to
extinguish the rights and privileges
which were enjoyed by all freemen pre
vious to that date. The spirit by which
the American people were governed
during the revolutionary war, was man
ifested in the first constitution of this
and other States of the Union, by ex
tending to all freemen, above twenty
one years, the right of franchise, irre
spective of complexional considerations.
The fact that wa exercise the privi-
TERMS—S 2 Per iiiu, Invariably Ii .Urticc.^
lege under a proscriptive provision in
the Constitution, and that in New Jer
sey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, and in
the Southern and Western States, our
people are deprived of it entirely, is a
sufficient proof that a less liberal feel
ing exists towards us. The baneful
effect which has resulted from proscrip
tive legislation, has developed itself in
all the ramifications of our existence in
this country. The principle which has
prompted these proceedings against the
colored people, is based upon the false
xtia an j n f er i or
race, and are incapable of exercising
sufficient judgment in the political af
fairs of the country. If this slander
could be sustained by a single fact, it
would afford us some satisfaction to
know that white men are not free from
this weakness. The report of the com
mittee of the Common Council of this
city, in reference to the use of convicts
to vote for respectable candidates,ought
to be sufficient to destroy the objections
against extending the franchise to the
colored people. But the same principle
has developed itself in caucus meetings,
composed of persons who consider
themselves far superior to us in point
of morals; and although the tendency
is to destroy the purity of the ballot
box, yet there is no remedy for this
evil. We do not allude to these trans
actions with hopes of receiving any
consolation for'the treatment we have
received, but to state the fact that there
are colored men, who are deprived of
their right, if they were in possession
of it, they would not debase their man
hood by bartering away their votes.
The line which has so distinctly di
vided the colored and the white people
in this State, has placed us in a position
so anomalous, that even in cases where
the preponderance in favor of the suc
cessful party was the result of our
votes, yet it has never yet been ac
knowledged by those whose political
interests were subserved by it.
The conclusion arrived at from these
facts will show, that our efforts to pro
mote the interests of either of the poli
cal parlies, are gratuitous on our part;
and for the future, we ought to be gov
erned by such means as will enable us
to subserve any design which may be
deemed necessary to defeat either of
the two, if their principles should be
considered at war with our interest. To
carry out this idea, we must abandon
our individual connection with the old
parties, and establish an organization
throughout the State, to enable us to
support such candidates as are known
to be men who will defend the rights of
the oppressed. We have five thousand
colored voters in this State, which are
sufficient to enable us to control the
State or Presidential elections, except
ing under extraordinary circumstances,
such as governed the political element
during the campaign which resulted in
elevating to the Presidency the late
Gen. Taylor.
To view this subject superficially,
and in connection with the fact that
there are more than four hundred thou
sand voters in the State, it would ap
pear not only egotistical in us to as
sume so much in favor of our ability,
but it would be considered by many as
an absurdity. But as these assumptions
should be sustained by some facts, we
will present such as will be sufficient to
bear out our premises. The political
parlies in this State are so nearly equal
that less than two hundred votes were
sufficient to carry the election last No
vember, which does not exceed the
number of colored freeholders in Wil
iiamsburgh and Brooklyn. In 1844,
the majority for the Electoral Colleges
was 1,500, which will show that, under
the most favorable circumstances, no
party could succeed if opposed by five
thousand voters, unless there should be
a great change in the relative strength
of the whig or democratic party in this
State. There are times when the State
may be parried by a very large vote,
as in the election of the late Governor
Wright, and also his successor; but it
occurs from want of harmony in the
ranks of either of the cortfending par
ties. But in this review, no inference
could be drawn which can in anywise
change the main features of the prem
ises upon which we have based our cal
culation.
But the most important question that
presents itself in this connection, is,
whether the Anti-Slavery party will
assume a position which will harmonize
with the ideas embodied in this report.
The answer to this question cannot
emanate from us, but from those to
whom it refers.
The necessity of identifying our
selves with the liberty party, has been
before us for the last twelve years; but
as we could not see how our interest
could be promoted by that organization
we have acted on a different basis.
The important questions to be de
cided in this State by the next election,
makes it imperative that the colored
people ano the liberty party should
unite upon a plan that wilt enable us to
act in an effective manner, in all the
counties in the State, against any com
bination which may have for its aim the
suppression of any measures which may
be deemed as involving the interest of
freedom.
The propriety of acting on the prop
osition of your committee may be ques
tioned by some, but every man in this
country who appreciates the motives by
Svhich we are governed, will commend,
and not censure it. On former occa
sions, we have pursued the course
which would harmonise with the views
,of the party we designed to support;
hut as our organizations were not suffi
ciently extensive to command any re
spect, many who owed their iloetiOß to
WHOLE NO. 172.
our votes were the most active in op
posing our interests.
From this cause, the liberty party
as slo °d out from other organizations;
but as the time has come for ns to oc
cupy a position in defence of our rights,
let no man shrink from the responsibil
ity which may devolve upon him.
The objection which has been urged
against the old political parties for their
want of honesty, is not sufficient to jus
tify us in leaving them In possession of
the field, unless we had the means to
Promote our iuterest without their aid.
r our committee believe that the banner
that waved over 120,0(10 freemen in this
State in 1848, will again float to the
breeze; and, in spite of all proscriptive
organization against it, its cause will
triumph.
W e approved of the principle of the
party, upon the ground of its national
feature; and, as it involved the ques
tion of freedom in the territory, it was
sufficient to command our support.
The position we occupied in ihe con
test may be reviewed at the present
time, to illustrate the idea in reference
to the future; and, as our actions were
in (harmony with the liberty party, it
will be a sufficient justification on all
occasions, when we may be called upon
to|act from the same motives.
In 1849 and ’5O, we supported a dif
ferent ticket, and the result of the elec
tion in November last will give a better
idea of our strength than anything we
can say in this report; but unless the
«<wa« a position that will enable
them to command the conndtme* of tk*
people, it is clear that they cannot
maintain their anomalous organization.
We wage no war against the whig or
the democratic party, but against the
servile principle that prompts men to
act in opposition tc their honest convic
tions.
Mr. Chairman and fellow-citizens,
in contemplating upon the futuie his
tory of the State of New York, we
strive in vain to suppress the deep emo
tion of our feelings, and in spite of her
oppressive treatment we are not un
faithful to *her interest. We havesuf
ficient confidence in the people of the
Empire State to believe that we have
their sympathy; and although time
serving men may deceive them, and in
terpose between us and our rights, yet
justice will execute her will in behalf
of our oppressed race.
Signed, respectfully, by
Lewis H. Putnam.
Robt. Hamilton.
George Combe on Si.aterv.— ln all
my wanderings in foreign countries, I
have found intelligent men, eager to
inquire into the condition and prospects
of the United States of North America,
when they heard that I had visited
them; aud the descriptions which I
gave cheered the hopes of the philan
thropists, and animated the efforts of
political reformers. But there was one
dark stain on the fair face of the mighty
Confederacy, which it was impossible
for me either to hide or palliate—that
of slavery. Again and again was the
question put to me in sorrow, and not
in anger. ‘‘But how is it possible for a
people so moral, religious, enlightened,
free, to defend and practice slavery?”
What could I answer? The contradic
tion between every principle which
lies at the foundation of the American
Institution, and of the Christian re
ligion and slavery, was so complete,
that an angel from heaven must have
stood ashamed and dumb before every
virtuous man who asked him for an
answer to this question. I explained to
my inquiring friends, that the odious
system was begun under the British
Government, long before America was
free. “But why does it continue?”
was the instant rejoinder to this state
ment. If there is a living being in the
United States who does not lament
and shudder at this scourge of humani
ty, he is dead, not only to the voice of
conscience and of patriotism, but to
the sense of shame and the honor of
his country. The grand moral lesson
which the United States is reading to
the world is neutralized, nay, converted
into a bitter mockery of reason, by
slavery; and in every part of Europe
where I have travelled, is this deplora
ble truth known and lamented by the
good, but hailed with pleasure and
pointed to with triumph by the op
pressor and his tool.
Ages of the Different Reignino
Monarch* and Princes in 1851.
The following are the present ages of
the different reigning monarchs:—
Great Britain, Queen Victoria, aged
32 years; Austria, Emporor Francis
1., 21; Russia, Emperor Nicholas 1.,
55; Spain, Queen Donna Maria Isa
bella 11., 21; Portugal, Queen Donna
Maria 11., 32; Prussia, King Frederick
William IV., 56; Holland, William
11., 59; Belgium, Leopold 1., 61; Den
mark, Frederick VIII., 43; Sweden,
Oscar II 52; Popedom of Pius IX.,
56; Sardinir, King Victor Emanuel,
31; Turkey, the Grand Sultan, Abdul
Medjib, 28; Hanover. King Ernest 1.,
80; Greece, King Otho 1., 36; and
France, Louis Napoleon, President,
43. It will thus be seen that there are
three reigning queens, England. Spain,
and Portugal, and one President of
France. The King of Hanover is the
oldest monarch. Minor States:—The
Two Sicilies, Ferdinand II; 39; Wir
tenburg, William, 66; Saxe Cobourg,
Ernest, 63; Tuscany, Leopold, 11., 49;
Bavaria, Louis, 61; Oldenberg, Au
gustas, 64; Baden, Leopold, 57;
Saxony, Frederick, Augustus, 50;
and the Brazils, Don Pedro 11., 22,
Emperor
love of right and justice is
an element to be recognized and culti
va'ed. By this, wisdom and power are
equalized. The civil liberty of a coun
try is to be measured not by the condi
tion of the richest, but by that of the
poorest of its citizens. The spectacle
of other ages has been noble—of men
defending their own rights. But the
spectacle of ours is sublime—of men
taking* care of those who are too weak
to help themselves. Christianity must
be bankrupted, or liberty must become
universal. Neither you nor I believe
that the banner will be torn from the
hand of God! H. W. Beecher.
Thi United States. —According to
the official returns for the census of
iB6O, the white race numbers 19,879,-
311; the free colored, 500,000; the
slaves, 3,205,492; in all, 23,674,706.
The increase in ail classes of popular
tion is within a fraction of fort/ per
Speech of Mr. George Thompson.
The following is a sketch of the speech of
George Thompson, delivered at the Rochester
Ami-Slavery Convention, as reported for the
Anti-Slavery Standard:
Mr. Thompson spoke of the condition of
the co'ored people of this country, and of
the hatred and prejudice which meet them,
both bond and free, in every direction. “You,”
said Mr. Thompson, “who profesa to believe
that all men are created free and equal, have,
in the face of Heaven and Earth, given the
lie in your professions; you have proscribed
and set span as unclean the entire colored
population of the land three millions of them
you have doomed to a hopeless bondage; and
thoae who, by birth or oiher circumstances,
t»re not slaves, you deride, scoff at, hate and
oppress, because the same God who made
gave them a color unlike your
own! I can sympathize with my colored
brother who sees but darkness around and be
fore him, but 1 do not share his feelings of
despondency. 1 agree with the views of my
excellent ftiend, Mrs. Foster, who, yesterday,
gave us words of cheering and of hope. I
believe that his redemption is not far off; for
all the elements of tyrannv in the land are
now in full operation to rivet the chains of the
slave and to make complete the work of op
pression this is very encouraging for twenty
years we have been trying to get the people
of this nation round upon the subject of Sla
very the siupor and indifference which
marked the early days of the Anti-Slavery
cause have disappeared, and now the whole
land is awakened to the subject now the
sirength of tyranny is to be tested in an open
war with Freedom now the phiUnit%*-rt*7i
the humanity and the true Christian principle
of this land is brough to bear upon this dark
system of robbery and pollution and who
can doubt that the issue will be glorious for
Freedom*
1 see sitting in solitary grandeur the friend
of my youth, the man who, by his gigantic
efforts and matchless courage, brought this
question of Slavery before the American
people; thru man is Win, Lloyd Garrison.
I with him look back upon the career of the
Anti-Slavery cause during the twenty years
past, and 1 looked at that cause as it stands
now before the world it is not now the ques
tion between “a few silly women” and some
pert upstart clergyman in his pulpit. It is
not now a matter for the sport and laughter
of the heartless and the shallow brained it is
a tiling of reality. Now the Press, the Pulpit,
and the Legislative bodies of the land are
engaged in its discussion now the contest is
between the United States Government and
the justice and humanity of the people now
has the proclamation of the President gone
forth now is the battle set in array the
ground is measured, the orders given, and
the trumpet sounded for the onset; now the
contest is between God and Moloch and we
rejoice that ihe battle is at hand, for we know
that He w ho is the God of the oppressed is
with us, and that certain victoiy awaits us.
But 1 w as speaking of the proscription of
the colored man. It is true that in this land
you make ihe cruelties you practice upon a
portion of the colored race, in making ihem
slaves, a reason for hating and persecuting
those who are not slaves you conspire to
prevent ihe colored freeman from obtaining
respectable employment; you drive him to
the necessity of taking up with the most
menial employments to obtain bread for him
self and his family you conspire to prevent
his obtaining the education he needs you,
with few exceptions, shut to him the doors
of the Colleges and Academies of the land,
because the chain of the Christian is on his
brethren at the South you at the North
scorn and spit upon the free colored man,
because Ins race ate imbiuted at the South;
you deny the free colored man at the North
the respect and honor doe him as a man! \et
it was your God and Judge who made him.
He it was who gave to him the form and
color for which you hate and despise him It
was His “Lamb” who died tor him It is
your G id and his who will call you to ac
count for this peisecution and haired of your
colored brother by daring do do this, you
place yourselves in array against God you
seek, by indulging this feeling of prejudice,
to arraign His wisdom and by trampling
upon the rights of the coloied man, you vir
tually seek to dethrone the God of Heaven
Think of it —three millions of God’s child
ren, equal to yourselves by birth, invested by
their Creator w ith all the sacred rights of
men, equal in all things pertaining to the
dignity of the human race, with the proudest
of the earth, equal to the President of these
United Siaies or any of the proud statesmen
or oppressors-of the land—three millions!
held by their fellow-men in fee simple, goods
and chattels to he made to toil unpaid to
be spit upon laceiated by the whip the
wife to be torn from the arms of the husband,
and the child irom the embraces of the parent
and all this in a land professedly Republican
—in a land of Bibles, of Churches and ol
Sabbaths The mother in travail wails noi
till she lias brought forth her offspring snd
rejoices at the birih of her child, but before
it sees the light she cuises her own existence,
and curses the day when her offspring are
born into Slavery; for the Christians of a
land like this, the Republicans of a land like
this, have connived together for evil, and they
bettay the negro from the womb aye, more
horrible still—they doom to Slavery millions
yet in the loins of iheir parents They have
built up a system of w rong which shall seize
and enslave millions of God’s creatures
through ages to come And in enslaving
the body, you crush the soil! The soul!
who can the vast capabilities of the
soul! who weigh the hopes and fears of
only one soul and you have placed beneath
your feet three millions l three millions oj
slaves You cannot giasp the number you
think of it, but do not comprehend it; go to
the eea side and pick up the pebbles on the
beach till you have accumulated the vast
number of three millions and let each peb
ble stand for one slave, and think of the
stupendous nature of that one slave’s soul;
think of the grandeur of its powers thiuk of
its linmotlal destiny, and remember that to
enslave it 18 to put out the light which God
himself has kindled within it! that to enslave
it is io make it dark, to crush its powers, to
covet it with moral pollution and then multi
ply this guilt w hich tongue cannot speak by
the guilt of enslaving three millions and
grasp if vou can the fearful aggregate ol
crime!
We look over the wateis of the Atlantic to
see the exemplification of Chtistian principle
in this land at the South we see, without a
parallel, lust, incest, cruelty and murder. In
the free Slates, even in New England, we
pass by the proud churches and the prouder
priesthood ol the land, and we find the exhibi
tion of that Christian principle we seek among
compaiatively a few men and women un
known to fame, gathered out from every sect,
party and condition of life, closely and peri
odically leagued together by one oommon
bond ot deep and constant sympathy for the
slave. And these men and women are by
ihe legislatures of the land, set without the
pale ot the law, for no other crime than their
halted ol wiong and oppression —denied for
twenty years the protection which even the
criminal receives, viz the defence of the
police from the violence of lawless men.
They are and have been outlawed by their
own legislators, simply because they have
loved truth and humanity, and by these legis
lators and officers of the law have been
deliberately given over to tbe meicies of the
mob. I saw tnyself, in Faneuil Hall, two
hundred ruffians, in the presence of the
Mayor,' the Chief of the Police and the
Police force of Boston, mock at and trample
under foot the dearest rights of 35,000 of the
purest and best of the lax-paying citizens of
that city To this hour the ruins of Pennsyl
vania Hall tell of the power of Slavery in
this land to crush the ngbi of ftee speech and
utterly destroy the freedom of the citizen
and all this because of the prejudice which
you have fostered and kept ahve toward the
piloted race* Thai hatred of tbo blaok man
has poisoned your hearts, and you ex
hibit it in every relation of life- 1 i have
a citizen here in Rochester, whose residence
in any city of the Unioo would be an honor
to that city—a man of rare intellect, a man
from whose writings the first newspaper in
tbe English realm is proud to quote, a man
who is sppreciated and admired not only in
England but throughout all Europe— hia
name is a household word in the proudest
mansions on the other side the Atlantic, his
briilisnt thoughts are treasured up by the
scholars of the land, his soul-stirring elo
quence yet echoes in ihe haila of that land,
and upon the Royal Exchange hia bust is
placed among thoae of the great of nations.
That man is Frederick Dougiasa. And here
at Rochester, and in America, he, in the esti
mation of pampered priests and heartless poli
ticians, by the rich merchant and the hard
working mechanic, is but “a nigger.” To
what depths of degradation does the prejudice
against color sink those who cherish it! To
what meanness and wickedness will not men
stoop, who, giving themselves up to the in
fluence of a shameful prejudice, teach them
selves to hate without cause their brother
whom God hath made. But courage pooT,
scorned and insulted man of color! The day
is coming when in your case the parable of
Lazarus and Dives will be realized let the
proud and rich and the mighty scorn and
hate you the bosom of an impartial God is
wailing for you, and foi your oppressors is
waiting that wrath which the God of the op
pressed has reserved for the tyrant who
tramples His image in the dust.
When, my friends, do you expect this
hatted of the colored man, this crushing on
pression in u- wl *i cease
You cannot tell I will tell you. It will
be when you yourselves repudiate it. Do you
expect the Press of the land will become
pure and just It will become so when you
have become so, and not till then. The
Press is a mirror, it reflects the mind of the
public; the mass of the people of this coun
try are indifferent to, or directly favorable to
ward the cause of oppression. The greater
portion of the Press of the land reflects that
indifference or openly advocates oppression.
Let the people of the land put on the form of
humanity, and see if the Press does not reflect
back that humanity against the outrage which
Slavery commits upon the race.
How is it with the Pulpit* any better than
the Press No w ashed and more decent,
but no better for when at all risks the fuig
tivo has escaped from his shackles, as he
passes through free New England the
hunter seizes him, and the priest from the
altar lends him his aid to send him back to
Slavery, and seeks to make the Bible sano
tionthe crime he has committed in thus sus
taining oppression. Look now at the Pulpits
of the land; hear from the voices of the
Sharpes, the Deweys, the Rogerses, and a
host of others advocating the claims of the
man-thief and robber as paramount to the
higher law of God When will the Pulpit
of the land be cleansed when you the people
shall be pure, and shall teach the recreant
time-serving ministers to respect the claims
of Humanity and the law of the blessed God.
The work then is to be done with you and
through you the people All reforms have
been begun and been carried on by the people,
and to them we look in this dark day of
tyranny.
And new take the question home to your
own bosoms feel for the slave, for he needs
your pity ;do your duty to him and the re
ward of the righteous shall be yours—a peace
of mind which the selfish and the tyrannical
know not; the happiness of knowing that in
the day when tyranny was strong, and the
wrath of the oppressor was hot against the
friends of truth and of human freedom, you
defended the poor slave and did what you
could for his emancipation. Choose you this
day whom ye will serve If the Lord be God,
follow Him —lf Millard Fillmore, follow
him!
1 have given above nothing but a sketch of
the speeches of Mr. Thompson. To convey
to those who have never heard him any ade
quate idea of his power as an orator, is im
possible. To those who 4 have heard him, even
sketches of his speeches are not wholly un
acceptable, as they serve to bring to mind the
look and manner of the splendid orator. Il
you, Mr. Editor, could make the summer!
breezes at times blow gently across your
columns—anon bring up the full sweep of
the tempest; cause the thunder to roll along
the page and the lines sparkle with fire
then the leader who has never heard George
Thompson could feel something of his power,
and feel the blood start through his veins,
and his heart swell with the strong emotions
of an awakening sense of the vastness of the
subject of which Mr. Thompson speaks, and
the great responsibility of each one of us in
relation to it.
News from the Old World.
The Canada’s Mails arrived Irom Boston
on Saturday morning.
Rights or British Subjects in America.
—lt may be in the recollection of our readers
that we drew attention some month ago to the
case of Isaac Bowers, a British subject, who,
on iho ground of his color, was taken out of a
vessel at Charleston, and locked up in the
town jail during the ship’s stay in that port.
This public notice of the subject was followed
up by inquiries in the House of Commons,
and eventually by an application on the part
of our Government to that of the United
Stales. The case has now assumed a com
plexion of the most extraordinary kind; in
deed, it is hard to say what confusion may
not be generated by the action of this un
lucky incident, on the internal politics of the
Union and the commercial relations between
that country and this. It should be under
stood that two distinct authorities were found
to be interested in the question, and a corres
ponding division of responsibility was of
course involved.
The treaties regulating the intercourse be
tween Great Britain and the United States,
and contracted between Hex Majesty’s Gov
ernment on one hand, and the Supteme Gov
ernment of the Union on the other, secure to
the citizens of each of the contracting powers
the free right of entering, departing, and re
siding unmolested within each other’s bound
aries and it was on the strength of this stip
ulation that our Government remonstrated
against the gratuitous incarceration of one oi
its subject*. The independence, however, ot
the several States composing the American
Union has only been partially surrendered to
the Federal Government; and it was in the
exercise of a right assumed to be legally re
served that the local Legislature ol South
Carolina enacted the ordinsncmsMie'r which
Isaac Boweis was imprisoned.
The Carolinas, as the reader Is aware, are
slaveholding States, and with such jealousy
do they guard their institutions that the ap
pearance of a free black in their towns is ab
solutely forbidden, and hence the law provid
ing for the incarceration of all such during
the stay of ihe vessel which shall have
brought them to the country. On ihe one
hand, therefore, by plain treaty engagements
between the two countries, Isaac Bowers was
free to enter, reside, and depart at any point
of the American territory without molestation
or annoyance on the other, by known local
laws, he was amenable to imprisonment at
Charleston in respect of his skin.
The first application of the British Govern
ment was made, of course, to the Cabinet ol
Washington, as the representative of the
American Union in its relations with foreign
State*. Mr. Clayton, in reply, acknowledged
the violation of the treaty in the act com
plained of, but charged the consequence upon
the peculiar character of tbe Federation,
which remitted to each constituent State a
certain private sovereignty, in virtue whereoi
the law in question had been passed
Whether this reply was made entirely in
good faith, or with the wish io elude a trou
blesome controversy, we shall not attempt to
determine, but the results hive been singuiai
in ihe extreme. On the receipt of Mr. Clay
ton’s answer, by which we were virtually re
ferred for satisfaction to tbt Government ot
South Carolina, Mr. Matthew, the British
consul at that port, vai instructed to make
his appeal accordingly, and he forthwith ad
dressed a communication on the subject to
Governor Meant, who acknowleded his note
with eqoal courtesy, and laid the matter at
once before the Legislature of the State.
There teems little calculated to create dis-,
turbance in the proceedings we have here de
scribed. The British Government made its
appeal in the proper quartets, and transferred
it upon proper recommendations to others.
The Government of South Carolina accepted
the remonstrance in good spirit, nor is there
any teaaon to doubt that some adjustment
will be attempted between the assumed inter
ests of the State and the plain rights of Brit
ish subjects. The consequences, however,
have been most remarkable. The circum
stances of a correspondence between a for
eign Consul and a local Government has been
seized upon and denounced is a precedent ot
the most dangerous kind, tending to nothing
less than the establishment of provincial sov
ereignties in derogation of the Federal
Power.
In ordinaty seasons the effect of such asser
tions, perhaps would not be serious, but it hap
pens at this moment, as the reader will re
member, that the Southern Stales have been
agitating for a dissolution of the Union, snd
the incident in question is clamorously quoted
as an overt step in the direction of independ
ent sovereignty, inasmuch as negotiation with
foreign powers is one of the privileges ex
pressly reserved by the Constitution to the
Federal Government alone. Such, there
fore, in this view, has been the excitem«»‘
ocra .;~»-J, Tenement call® nave been
made upon the Executive to revoke the exe
quatur of our consul in consideration of his
proceeding, and to withdraw from him that
warrant of recognition under which he acts
a measure which would be equivalent to the
abrupt dismissal of an ambassador from a
friendly Court. Failing in this immediate step,
the Cabinet is menaced with impeachment,
as loaning itself to secession, disunion and
treason.”
This declamation, indeed, might perhaps
have few results, but more remains behind.
In remitting Lord Palmerston’s application to
the Legislature of South Carolina, the Amer
ican Government is understood to have added
that, in default of redress from that State, it
would be optional with the British Govern
ment to leceive notice tor the abrogation of
the treaty thus infringed. This treaty is
nothing less than the instrument under ihe
provisions of which our commercial inter
course with the Ststes is now conducted, aod
its abrogation would reopen an infinite ques
tion of duties and tariffs. In this way the
mere political question is complicated, not
only by the interminable topic of Slavery, but
by considerations ot local interests and advan
tages.
The Northern States are not only Abolition
ists, but manufacturers, and moreover, are
Protectionists withal. They have lately been
agitating for a Protective Tariff, especially in
respect of iron, and they seek in this instance
for a favorable development of those chances
which they conceive themselves to have gained
in the fortuitous accession of the present Ex
ecutive to power. They are not unwilling,
therefore, to push our Government to the al
ternative of either silently draping its com
plaints or annulling a treaty which they would
fain see superseded by a different understand
ing.
The Southern Slates, on the contrary, are
both anxious for the recognition of local sov
ereignty in the settlement of the imprisonment
question, and desirous in the extreme to pre
serve those advantages which they are well
aware of enjoying under the present treaties.
We may mention, indeed, as one of the re
markable points brought out by the pending
discussion, that the Carolinas confess some
thing very like an obligation to Great Britain
for the condition under which their produce
is imported into this countiy. A letter on the
subject, attributed to a well-known dignitary,
plainly indicates that our supplies are only
drawn so exclusively from American ports in
consequence of our own indifference and mis
conceptions, and that if his countrymen per
sist in hugging the conviction that rice and
cotton equally good and of sufficient quanlitv
cannot be produced elsewhere than from the
United States, they would live to see and re
gret their error.” We recommend this ob
servation, which we have literally transcribed,
to the notice of those who think it hopeless
to look for cotton markets in India or Aus
tralia.
Those acquainted with the dashing style ol
American journalism will not be surprised to
hear that the whole embroilment has been
traced to the insidious perfidy of our foreign
office, as an intregal portion of a scheme for
dissever.ng the Union. In point of fact, our
interests are nut immediately involved, ex
cept in so far as it is impossible to contem
withont concern the breaking up relations
like those which subsist between the two
countries. We should, no doubt, extend ev
ety consideration to a Government so situated
as that of South Carolina, but the question is
beset with difficulties. It is doubtful, in the
first place, whether any satisfactory adjust
ment may be found practicable between the
broad claims of the British Government on be
half of its subjects, and the inveterate tenacity
of the Southern States on the point of their
institutions.
In the next place it is uncertain whether
this independent action of a local Government
will be permitted, while it may be taken as in
contestable that the State in question will nut
submit to the intervention of the Federal
Power in respect of a law regarding the
management or control of slaves. The mat
ter therefore is now dubiously resting with
two distinct authorities—that of the Legisla
ture of South Carolina, before which the
question has been laid, and that of the Su
pteme Government, which will probably be
driven to cancel its decision, Great Britain, in
the meantime, being absolutely committed to
a peremptory demand. Such are some of the
evils ol Slavery, and eveiy year’s experience
tends to prove that there is scarcely any affair
ot Government or Slate which is not liable to
be complicated and embarrassed by the influ
ence of thisever-preaent institution.— London
Times.
Confession under Torture.—There are
we havo no doubt, a great many good people
who believe that the torturing of criminals for
the purpose of extorting contession is a bar
barism quite unknown, except as a historical
fact, in this ago of light and law. But we
lead, nevertheless, in the city papers this
week, of a confession of some trifling in
fringement of prison rules having been made
under the torture of the shower-bath by a
prisoner al Sing Sing a few days since. This
method of torture, which is ot quite modern
invention, is said not uufrequenlly to produce
madness on those subjected to it. It is capa
ble of producing very exquisite as one
may well conceive from this description of it
to a morning paper:
By the way, we may as well give a de
scription of the prison bathing apparatus, as
it is in some points essentially different from
those in general use. The person who is to
undergo the operation is seated, and his legs,
arms and head ire firmly fastened with wooden
clasps, so that hs cannot get sway from tbe
water, nor use bis hands to bteak as force.—
The water falls about six feet, and at the tale
of about a barrel a minute, through a piece
of iron pierced with quarter inch holes. The
one inflicting punishment leu on snd shuts off
the water by means of a cord attached to a
valve. Since the lash was abolished, this
mode of punishment has been found very
efficacious.”
Efficacious no doubt of it. Waa not tbe
thumbscrew and the iron-beet? And why
should not the shower-bath be so also A.S.
Standard.
Rowland Hill made s good remark upon
hearing the power of the letter H discussed,
whether it were a lettef or not. If it were
not he said, it would be a very serious affair
for him, for it would make him ill all tbe days
of hie life,
sljc Nortlj Star.
ROCHESTER, APRIL 10, 1851.
ID" The speech of George Thompson,
Esq., delivered at Corinthian Hall, Rochester,
March 23d, is for sale at the Office of the
North Star. Price 3 cents.
To oua Subscribers.—We beg to state
that a number of out subscriptions for ihe pres
ent year yet remain unpaid, and we shall es
teem it a favor if our friends, who are in
arrears, will enclose them to us by mail with
out further delay.
UJ° Mr. Ebenezkr Black having kindly
consented to become agent for out paper in
Philadelphia, we shall esteem it a favor if our
friends in that city, whose subscriptions for
the present year are due, will immediately
forward them to him.
ITT* We are requested by the Secretary of
the New York Ladies Association to state
that she omitted on a recent occasion to ac
knowledge the donations made to the Fugitive
Slave Fair by Mr. F. Douglass, and also by
the Rochester friands, favored by Miss Grif
fiths.
Boston overrun br Si»ve-nuni«rs.
We have sometimes been reproved for our
want of faith in successful opposition to the
inhuman Fugitive Slave Law—but it will
be seen by ieference to another column that
our worst fears are likely to be confirmed.
There is little doubt that Millard Fillmore
and Daniel Webster will succeed *n their
fiendish business even in Boston.
Meeting at Royalton, N. Y.
Immediately after the Anti-Slavery Con
vention at Lockport, we were invited to speak
thrice at Royalton, a neighboring town —an
invitation with which we gladly complied.
We found, in the Wesleyan Methodist
Minister (:he Rev. Mr. Frink) a warm ab
olitionist, and in his congregation great readi
ness to hear and heartiness to receive anti
slavery truth.
The meetings in this place were in every
way gratifying.
The house, on each occasion, was crowded
to overflowing, and presented the assurance
of much good done to the cause. Ope of
our meetings was held on Sunday afternoon,
and was addressed severally by Mr. and
Mrs. Foster, and Fiederick Douglass.
We shall remember this visit among the
farmers of Niagara County with satisfaction
and shall welcome another opportunity of
visiting them with pleasure.—f. n.
Anti-Slavery Festival.
We learn, with sincere pleasure and grati
tude, that our warm friends, and distin
guished co-laborei in the field ol Philanthropy,
George Thompson, has signified his intention
to attend a grand Anti-Slavery Festival, to
which he has been invited by a numerous
Committee of Ladies in this city. The pre
cise time for holding this contemplated enter
tainment, is not yet fixed; but, we are au
thorized to say that it will be during the last
week oj the present month. A spirited Com
mittee of Ladies have the matter in hand,
and they have already secured ihe spacious
Corinthian Hall lor the purpose. We antici
pate a highly-interesting occasion for we
are sure that no efforts will be spared by the
committee, and we know that the name of
GEORGE THOMPSON in Rochester, is a
host of itself. The Rev, Samuel J. May has
also signified his intention of being present
and we hope yet to hear from others.— -f. d.
Letter from the Editor.
Toronto, C. W.
He who can act in the capacity of his own
chronicler without at the same time appearing
egotistical and ridiculous to others, possesses
a talent for letter writing of which I find my
self greatly deficient, if not wholly destitute.
It is true that minute accounts of my own
public movements have appeared in the col
umns of the North Star; and it is also true
that I have pretty nearly abandoned the
practice of inserting them—but certainly not
before it had become thoroughly distasteful to
me, and perhaps equally so to my readers.—
In again sending a letter to the Star, infotm
ing my readers of my doings, I can plead, as
stoutly as Gen. Cass, the apology of circum
stances. It is now my fortune to be the
travelling companion or George Thompson
and of Samuel J. \Ly, champions of free
dom and friends of my enslaved people, in
whose every movement I feel the most grate
ful and lively interest; and if, in recording
their good works, my own are inferred, let
my own gratitude to tkera plead my apology
for what must be unavoidably complimentary
to myself.
On Monday morning, March 31st, Mr.
Thompson and I started from Lockport,
(where he had been delivering addresses to
highly delighted audiences during several days
previous,) for Toronto, via Lewiston. The
ride from Lockport to Lewiston was performed
partly by steam power and partly by horse
power. The road between these points is
one of the oldest in the United States, and
perhaps the most dilapidated. Snake
heads” are abundant; and the traveller feels
tar more apprehension on account of these
than from any liability of being thrown off the
track, for the highest speed attained on this
road does not exceed ten miles an hour. In
passing through tbe Indian Reservation, we
saw a number of Indian cottages or huts, in
which Mr. Thompson seemed to take much
interest. Now and then, there would appear
at the doors, sons and daughters of the forest,
whose aspect seemed to halt between the
rudeness of the past and the civilization of
the present. I never look at an Indian with
out having my feelings depressed. 1 regard
him as a brother in affliction—as smitten by
the same hand which has prostrated my own
people.
We leached Lewiston from Lockport in
about two hours, where we were met by the
Rev. S. J. May and Hiram Wilson, who
were waiting to join Mr. Thompson in hn
Canadian tour. Lewiston is situated on the
American side of the Niagara river, and is
seven miles from the falls” on one hand,
the lake ou the other. There is nothing very
interesting in the appearance of the village,
but its environs are beautiful. A range oi
lofty hills on the north—a broad and fertile
plain airetching off to the esai, dotted with
good farms, interspeted with grand old
woods, with the picturesque banka of Niagara
river on -the Canadian aide—the Suspension
Bridge on the South, (connecting two peace
ful nations) over the contending waves of the
river below, make the location of Lewiston
exceedingly beautiful.
From Lewiston, we took the Canadian
steamer, Chief Justice, for Toronto. I
was very soon made to feel, on board of this
steamer, that I was leaving the United Slates.
The captain, officers and passengers, main
tained a deportment and bearing towards me
altogether un-American. On being intro
duced to the captain, he touched his hat,
made a graceful bow, and advance! to take
me by the hand, indicating that, though an
Englishman, he did not despise manhood in a
sable hue. There was a total absence, in tbe
countenances of the passengers, of that ma
lignant aversion with which colored persons
are usually regarded by white people when
they travel by steamers in the United States.
The trip from Lewiston to the lake is very
beautiful. The deep gorge through which
Niagara river passes, as viewed from the
deck of our steamer, cannot fail to tivet the
attention of the lover of nature. The beauty
of the scene is equally divided between the
United States and Canada, the whole distance.
At the mouth of the river, it was easy to see
that we had been passing between the domain
of two nations. Fort George,” on the
Canadian aide,” and Fort Niagara,” on the
American, presented their menacing fronts,
and unfolded their rival banners, all smiling
that day to be sure, but at the same time in
dicating the power to do something else not
quite so pleasant or agreeable. Fsur hours
on the placid Lake Ontario, and we were
hrowing out our lines to the wharf at
Toronto.
We had scarcely reached the shore when
our steamer was boarded by the Rev. Dr.
Willis, President of the Toronto Anti-Slaveiy
Society, accompanied by Mr. Hamilton, Mr.
Brown, and Mr. Henning, the Secretary.—
We were very cordially received by these
gentlemen, and escorted to the North
American Hotel”—a hotel conducted in real
British style.
Toronto preserves surprisingly its distinctive
character. Though within three or four hours
of the States, and in daily communication, it
is, in its general appearance and in the man
ners of its inhabitants, a British town. We
had not been in Toronto but a few hours, be
fore we were invited to breakfast in several
directions. This is a custom almost unknown
in the United States, but quite common in
England and Scotland. On the evening of
our arrival, wc attended the Committee of the
A. S. Society, the Rev. Dr. Willis in the
chair. During the evening, a very enga
ging discussion took place respecting the
different anti-slavery organizations of this
country, and the occasion was rendered there
by somewhat exciting as well as interesting.
It was evident that some of the members of
the Committee (pethaps ail of them) had
had their minds abused by misrepresentations
of the character and opinions of William L
Garrison. The spirits of detraction from one
of the noblest advocates of emancipation has
not been confined to our own shores, and the
American Anti-Slavery Society, with its be
neficent desigi} and catholic platform, had
shared in the fate of its leader. The old
charges of ulterior objects,” sifting in
extraneous topics,” “infidelity,” “socialism,”
and what not, were here to be met upon the
threshhold.
To thia work, Messrs. May and Thompson
earnestly applied themselves—vindicated the
American Society from responsibility for the
opinions of its individual membets on subjects
aside from slavery. Mr. Thompson showed
himself to be a true friend of the absent, by
nobly standing up for Mr. Garrison. The
conversation was brisk on both sides, and at
times warm, yet good tempered. Rev. Dr.
Willis displayed much magnanimity and
catholicity of sentiment. He would work,
he said, for the overthrow of slavery with
anybody, so long as he was not required
thereby to endorse opinions which he consid
ered false and injurious.
It seems that the Committee had been in
communication with the American and Foreign
Anti-Slavery Society, and they had been
advised by the Secretary to subscribe for the
National Era,” as the best anti-slavery
paper. Nothing, it seems, had been said of
the National Anti-Slavery Standard,” the
Liberator,” the Pennsylvania Freeman,”
the “Anti-Slavery Bugle,” a .d the “Liberty
Party Paper,” and we found the commiiteein
need of much light as to the leading instru
mentalities in the United States.
Mr. May gave a history of the separation
of the American Anti-Slavery Society in
1840, which was listened to with attention by
the Committee, and doubtless he did much to
remove the unfavorable impressions enter
tained by the members of the Committee
towards that Society.
The meeting of the Committee was closed
by prayer, as is usual in meetings for philan
thropic purposes among the British people.—
The voice of earnest prayer for the freedom
of the enslaved, is ever grateful to the feel
ings of the true abolitionist.
On Tuesday evening, a crowded assembly
met in St. Lawrence Hail, (a splendid build
ing,) to listen to an address by George Thomp
son. 1 was curious to know bow the eloqaent
man would sustain himself before an audience
so different, and whose relations to slavery
are so diverse to those of the people of the
United States, to whom he bad so recently
addressed his thoughts on this great subject.
The result was mote than gratifying. With
an aptitude almost marvellous, he readily
adapted himself to his hearers, and delivered
a speech which seemed to thrill every heait in
the vast auditory. He enchained hia audience
for more than two hours and a half. If I had
not so often said of his last speech, that it
surpassed all its predecessors, I should tay of
this, that in beauty of diction, compactness of
logic, analytical acuteness, splendor of rhe
toric, depth of pathos, and in burning rebuke,
it far transcended his best efforts in Corinthian
Hall. I have heard Mr. Thompson often—
even day after day for weeks together—and
can say that 1 have never heard eloquence so
varied aa hia. The fertility of his imagina
tion, and his command of language, seem il
limitable. Great powers devoted to a great
and glorious ciuse and I thanked God, while
he spoke, that the anguish-stricken bondman
had auch an advocafe.
On Wednesday evening, a meeting was
called especially for the colored people of To
ronto, who were to be addressed by Messra.
May, Thompson sod myself. In oooaequeoce
of imperfect notice, and some offence received
st its form, there were very few preaent of the
class for whom the meeting was primarily
intended yet the occasion was in many re
spects a serviceable one. Mr. May addressed
tbe meeting at considerable length, and gave
many valuable hints to our people sa to how
they might improve their condition, and pro
mote their well-being. Mr. Thompson and I
followed him, on topics suggested by his
speech and st s late hour the meeting ter
minated, with many expressions of satisfac
tion. The object of Mr. May’s mission to
Canana at this time, is to obtain information
respecting the present condition and future
prospects of the fugitives who have been
driven, by the inhuman legislation of thia Re
public, for freedom aud safety, into Canada.—
Hundreds of these unfortunate and terroi
atricken people have been thrown, by barba
rous Republicans penniless, upon the charity
of the generous subjects of a monarchy.
On Thursday evening, a meeting was con
vened in St. Lawrence Hall for me, which
was well attended. The object of my address
was to make my Canadian friends acquainted
with the appalling facts of slavety, and to
show them how they might bring their moral
and religious influence to bear upon the great
iniquity.
A licit: IB rn vaitoua, am tax xxiigrantl, a gv*.
eral anti-slavery sentiment; but there is also
(as I think) a too sedulous regard among them
for the feelings of Americans. They think
it in good taste to let the Americans manage
the question for themselves without the aid ol
what they term the injudicious interference ol
foreignets. It is a little surprising that this
feeling should prevail among a people who
deem it meritorious for men to go as mission
aries to China, to Hindostan, to the Feegee
Islands, and to the ends of the earth for the
avowed purpose of turning men to righteous
ness.
Why should America, with her three mill
ions of chained, scourged and benighted
victims, be regarded as an exception! 1
pronounce this nation a barbarous nation, and
one in far greater need of the gospel .of lib
erty, than any other nation on the globe and,
(if for no other reason.) because no nation on
the globe is more really adverse to the spirit
of that gospel.
On Friday morning, I bade adieu to tbe
hospitable shores of Canada, leaving mes
sieurs Thompson, May and G. W. Putnam
in Toronto further to prosecute their mis
sion. (The latter gentlemen had joined us
on the previous day.)
I take great pleasure in expiessing my
gratitude to the members of the Toronto an
ti-Slavery Committee, and also to the Mes
sieurs Carey, to whom I am indebted for
many offices of kindness during my stay and
likewise, for their efforts to exteud the circu
lation of the North Star.”
On Friday evening, I again lectured in
Lockport, at the Lutheran Church, on the
fugitive slave law.
I had intended to give a somewhat length
ened account of the A. S. Convention and of
the subsequent meetings held in that town
but other pens have called attention to this
subject, and have removed all necessity for
my doing so. 1 will however, say that my
visit to Lockport brought me in contact with
many, whose friendship for me, and whose
devotion to the cause, did much to cheer ray
spirit, at this trying crisis.—f. d.
Letter from Calvin Fairbank.
Boliver, N. Y., March 31st, 1851.
Dear Douglass:—l can well exclaim,
O fora lodge in some vast wilderness!
Some boundless contiguity of shade!
My ear is pained, my soul is sick with
Every day’s report of wroug and outrage.”
Standing as 1 do, between New England
and Ohio, though I see a mighty odds be
tween the two, yet there is much of every
day that must give pain to every Christian
heait, and cause it, sickened, to turn away
from such republicanism, such somerset re
ligion as ours.
I hear of a fugitive taken here and there,
on all sides of me and I hear people say,
“O, well I s’pose its all right, or it would
pot be allowed.” What cold consolation to
the slave, that! Fugitives from all parts of
the country are selling out, and going to
Canada. Going to Canada God bles9 that
lion! May Hferneck grow thick with mane
for the slave to settle in, for he found no
rest in the eagle’s nest. So he nestles in the
mane of the lion.
At the Smith Settlement on the Oswego,
commonly known as Oswego, there is quite
a number of families living in a respectable
manner—clearing up* farms, and living as
other industrious people live. There was
not, and there is not at this lime, any danger
to any ot them, for I think, that if a miscre
ant should come on such an errand, the wax
in his eats would get one warming before he
left.
Bui then people felt unsafe. Honest,
Christian men who, when they worship “un
der their own vine and fig tree with none to
molest or make them afraid,” are obliged to
be armed with knives and pistols, were afraid,
and have sold out their right to the soil in
the United States, and are now on their way
to Canada.
On Friday last, I was noticing a good
looking waggon coming with one man rather
dark. It waa a new thing in this place for a
white gentlemen to welcome people of color
to his table. I met them aa they stopped,
and learned that they were on their way to
visit their friends on the Oswego.
They were Mi. Hough and a part of hia
family. I invited (hem in. They accepted
the invitation. Dinner waa prepared, and
we partook. Several of the neighbors sent
over to know if these people were fleeing
from slavery. Mr. H. is a comfortable far
mer, just as too many colored people are not.
They went to take their last visit with those
unfortunate fugitives, who, after clearing off
little farms, and establish log themselves other*
wise comfortably, must leave all but a mere
pittance, and go in search of new homes in
the North. They are gone, the fugitive act
cannot reach them there. I love the land
that protects them. They are gone from thia
free country.
See the honest, the free, sad brave,
'l’he denizen of the soil:
He wrought, and knew no slave,
Inured to constant toil.
He swept away tbe tree,
By the steady manlike stroke,
He labored, and was free;
And then the chimney’s amoks
Marked where the cottage stood,
While the fcithfid has bead’s arm
Wrang music from the'wood,
The wife—wm* there no charm*
She watched the returning morn
With more than a watchman's Mai;
The wheat and the blade of corn.
She grew for tbe winter's meal:
The corn's last ear wms banging.
And the ebony darling saw.
While the ebony lather was singing,
These words, “so hiohkr law!"
Hsrtchel all was still and fearful!
The night was wet and drear—
The mother's eye was tearful,
But the fai tier's arm was near.
Rouse up, ye men, and hast ye'
For the bloodhound’s on tour track,
Lest the eagle’s talton waste ye,
And the Christian send us back.
They’re gooe! the fields are lonely,
The Marshal calls the swain,
They left not houses only—
They nestle in the lion's mane.
Yours in behalf of the slave,
CALVIN FAIRBANK.
Letter from Mr. Thompson.
We copy the following letter from the
Liberator
Lockport, N. Y., March 26th, 1851.
Mv Dbar Garrison :—Would that 1 had
time to do justice to my feelings and convic
tions while I write you in reference to my
late meeting at Rochester The bell is ring
irv*a tko fival nAsftitn I* llm pAnoor.tinn Karo,
and I must leave the solitude of my chamber
for the business of the anti-slavery meeting
and yet I cannot let anothei post gj out,
without bearing to you a memorial, however
imperfect.
I bade adieu to the city of Rochester on
Monday evening, accompanied by Mr. Hallo
well, one of the truest of the true among the
abolitionists. I slept at Buffalo, and yester
day came here spending, on the way, one
hour at the Falls. No more of the Falls. I
felt them. Their image is before me. Their
solemn anthem is ringing in my ears. I can
never forget them.
I spoke seven times in Rochester; four of
my addtesses were on Slavery, two were on
India, and one on British Reform. My last
was on Sunday evening, when Corinthian
Hall was crowded to its utmost capacity by
one of the most intelligent audiences I have
ever addressed. The North Star of this
week will contain some report of my speech,
though I need not tell you that my notes do
not, when printed, give a full representation
of my speeches, i am much more indebted
to the inspiration of the moment for anything
that moves my heart rs, that to prepared
notes, or subsequent preparation for the press.
I have reason to speak well of Rochester
The citizens have nobly rebuked the papers
which sought to mislead and petvert the pub
lic sentiment; or, worse, to create disturbance,
riot and violence. Publicly, they have acted
towards a stranger and a foreigner with a
courtesy and a magnanimity worthy of any
city in the world. I estimate the treatment
1 have received in Rochester the more highly,
because it has been at the hands of persona
who did not belong to the ranks of the aboli
tionists. I asked to be heard, and I was
heard. In no town or city of England was I
ever listened to with more attention. It was
mv desire to be heard by audiences comprised
of politicians and religionists of varying hues
and sections. My desire was gratified to the
uinoost. I sought the opportunity of saying
freely all I felt, thought, feared, hoped, de
sired and puiposed, on ihequuslion of Ameri
can Slavery. 1 enjoyed that opportunity to
the extent of my lime and strength. I did
not expect to be heard approvingly—suit less
to be cheered by overwhelming plaudits—
and, least of all, to be surrounded by hun
dreds at the close of my lectures, anxious to
grasp my hand, and to utter the fervent God
bless you in my ear. Yet such has been
the case, as thousands in Rochester would
testify. In private, the hospitality of the
city litas been extended to me without mea
sure. Night after night, parties of fitly, sixty
and seventy have met me, each one emulat
ing the rest in showing me tokens of confi
dence and affection. What can 1 say to each
arid all of these friends, but, ‘God bless you 7
O, I will believe in the triumph of the anti
slavery cause, while one who like me shuns
not to declare the whole counsel of God, is
thus cherished by the citizens of America f
Will politicians and clergymen henceforth
have no faith in the truth Will they see
its triumphs, when preached by a reviled and
hated Englishman, and still remain unbeliev
ing God forbid!
But I am called away, and can add no
more at present.
God bless you, also, my beloved brother!
I have met with many who know you not,
and therefore feel coldly towardsyou. What
you would have done by your radiant pre
sence, I have, with a brothers heart, humbly
tried to do, and notin vain. Continue to be
lieve me, as when I gave you my pledge in
1833, Your steadfast friend,
GEO. THOMPSON.
O 3 The Free Negro Law passed by the
Delaware Legislature, makes any free negro
or mulatto coming into that State from an*
other, subject to a fine of $5O; and in case
of non-payment and failure of security to
leave in five days, he or she is to be sold out
of the Stale, for such amount as will cover
the fine and costs. These penalties also stand
against any free colored person who has left
the State for sixty days, and should return
again, except they left as servants or seamen,
or are traders from Maryland. Those in the
latter classes are allowed to come into the
State as usual. There is a fine of $2O also
against assembling at any political meeting
or treat, and $lO at any out door me King
or camp, except with white people. There
is a penalty also of $2OO against any com
mander of a steamboat, for knowingly bring
ing into the State any free negro or mulatio,
to attend a camp or other meeting.— Phil.
Ledger.
W. L. Chaplin.—This distinguished man
passed through Syracuse last week to the
western counties. He talks of visiting Ohio
to meet the friends of freedom thete.
Some anxiety is felt for his safety—no dan
ger at all. He is not a fugitive—he is a man
on bail. Our Governor can’t give him up f
demanded without a gross usurpation of
power—nor does he intend to give him up if
demanded.
If the Governor of Maryland demand him,
it will not be because he has confidence in his
right to do so—but fiom fear of the slave
holders of the smaller sort who control the
politics of Maryland, just as the rum poli
ticians control the politics of New York.
He would be as safe in Ohio as in New
York.— L. P. Paper.
Georg* Thompson, Esq. —With the single
exception of the Rev. Hugh M’Neill, of Liv
erpool, George Thompson is the most finished
declaimer we ever listened to. True it is,
that since we last saw him in England, which
ia many years ago, time’s hand has been laid
upon him with no gentle pressure his physi
cal energy has suffered considerable abate
ment—and there is an indistinctneaa in his
articulation which mars the effect of his origi
nally powerful and melodtou* voice. All thia
admitted, however, we repeat that Thomp
son, at the present moment, has no superior
as a popular orator. The style of his elocu
tion is faultless, and his gesture graceful, sub
dued, and expressive.— Toronto Patriot.
Ma. Thompson’s Lkcturc. —The Lutheran
Church was crowded to oveifiowing Sunday
evening—every vacant place in the gallery,
aisles &c., being filled before the time for tbe
lecture to commence, and large numbers were
obliged to leave, not being able to find a
place in the church to ait or stand. He spoke
not leas than two hours on the subject of the
moral and religious bearing of Am?L«aa alto
»«y.— Niagara Courier,
Another Anti-Slavery Meeting
Last Night
The third of the series of Anti-Slavery
meetings was held last evening in the St.
Lawrence Hall; Rev. Dr. Willis in the
chair.
In his prefatory remarks, the Chairman, or
the part of the Toronto Society, disclaimed
all animosity towaids the United States, in
the efforts which are now being made to
strengthen the cause of the abolitionists in
that couniiy.
Mr. F. Douglass commenced his address
by a forcible description of the Anti-Slavery
question in the Ameiican Union. In the first
instance he touched upon the various circum
stances and causes, legal and social, which
impart strength to the pro-slavery interest,
grappling with the allegation that the North
ern states are not responsible for the per-
Stuation of this peculiar Southern institution.
e maintained that it is not a local or state
institution, but a national one; for while the
free States are pievented from interfering
with it, with a view to its abolition, they are,
under the present constitution of the country,
solemnly hound to render theit civil and mili
tary power to keep the slaves in subjection to
their masters. He traced the character of
slaveiy, the boisterous passions to which it
gives rise —the constant struggle between
master and slave—the cruelty and tyranny
which it begets on one hand, and the silent
resistance and mental and spititual darkness
which it necessitates on the other. Cruelty,
he maintained, is indispensable to the pro
longation of the relational pof master and
slave; and cases or ,uai ■_
murder-*-were cited to sustain the assertion.
Those, then, who vindicate slavery as a Bible
institution, ought to be prepared to show that
the Bible sanctions the perpetual use of whij s
and whipping posts, ol gags and branding
irons of bowie-knives and blood-hounds, as
means of keeping millions in bondage. The
ministers of the South bring all the influence
and organization of this mis called Chris
tianity to prop the system they preach, and
kidnap men—give thanks, and rob Cod s.
own afflicted poor—talk of Christian liberty
and then boll hard the captive s door. So
comp'etply is this carried out, that revivals
of religion, and revivals of the slave trade go
hand-in-hand together. That slave-holders
and the clergymen by whom they are sup
ported are not honest in thier opinions, may
be in lei red from the fact that they will not
tolerate argument, and from the precautions
which their unquiet consciences lead them to
take for their bodily safety. To avoid the
misapprehension which some expressions used
last night (and reported in yesteiday’s Patriot)
were calculated to produce, he aveired that
he is really a friend of the slave-holders, who
may be considered more unhappy than their
slaves. He yet repeated that the slave-holder
who ventures to hunt down a slave, would
receive nothing but what he richly deserved
if he should meet his death at the hands of
the man whose liberty he attempts to take
away. The speaker* then portrayed the ex
tent to which both the great political parties
of the Union—Whigs and Democrats—are
subject to the institution of slavery express
ing a conviction that the political parties were
never more completely under this influence.
To the question, why slavery exists in the
South I he answered, because it is reputable
why reputsb'e 1 Because slave-holders are
reputable, and they are so, simply because
they are Church members, lor on that account
alone are they everywhere considered. Ha
therefore called on the people of Canac to
use their moral influence to make the Ameri
cans feel that we in Canada regard slavery as
a high-handed, foul, damning crime against
man and God. Admitting that as a general
rule it is unwise and unseemly for the citizens
of one country to parade their grievances
before the people of another, he nevertheless
contended that inasmuch as the church, the
press, and the political parties of America are
identified with slavery, it is politic and propei
to bring the moral power of the world to bea;
upon this wrong, with a view to its destruc
tion. Herein, then, lay ihe justification ofi
his visit to Toronto, and of the agitation in
which he and his co-abolitionists are engaged
He then entered into an exposition of the
fugitive slave law, its unconstitutionally, its
inhumanity, and the startling anomalies that
are manifest in its procsedure and closed
with a highly flattering tribute to the oratory
and services of Mr. Thompson.
The address occupied nearly two hours and
a half in Us delivery, and was concluded
amidsi loud and prolonged applause.
Mr. George Thompson said a few words,
jocular, pathetic, and practical. The “practi
cal” portion being confined to an appeal on
behalf of the North Star, an abolitionist jour
nal, edited and published by F. Douglass at
Rochester.
The meeting soon aftetwatds separated.—
Toronto Painet.
Rev. Dr. Pennington nn Exile from
liis Native Land.
We learn from the Hartford (Conn.) Reli
gious Herald, an able and influential organ of
the Congregational Church, that the reason ol
the protracted absence of this eloquent and
distinguished clergymen in Europe, is that he
fears that, should he return, he would be
seized and carried into slavery, under the op
eration of the fugitive slave law. Says the
Herald Penn Freeman.
He has written to a legal gentleman in
th city to know whether it will be safe for
him to leiurn. He is a fugitive slave, having
escaped from Maryland some twenty years,
and fears, that if he resumes his ministerial
labors in New York, he will be seized, parted
lrom his wife—an estimable woman whom he
mimed in this ciiy—dragged from bis church,
and sent to a southern plantation. We had
supposed that he had purchased himself, and
was tn possession of free papers, but it ap
pears that we were mistaken.
“Think of this, professors of the religion
of Jesus Christ —members of the Church,
which he purchased with his blood! Your
biother Christian, a minister of the blessed
Savior, is driven from his pastoral labors, and
forced to shelter himself in a foreign land,
last under the operation of our laws, which
both the political parties are pledging them
telves to maintain, he should be doomed to a
life of slavery What must the Savior think
of a law, or of an article in the Constitution
as generally interpreted, which delivers up
one of his ministers as a ptey to the op
pressor Would the iniquity be gieater it
for Rev. Dr. Pennington we should substitute
Rev. Dr. S,mng of the same city? Not at
ail. Yet what an exclamation of honor would
go forth, if Dr. Spring should be forced to flee
the country lor no crime, but merely because
the la# allowed the editor of the N. Y. Ob
server to claim and hold him as property.
We read of the barbaious customs of former
ages, and thank God that we do not live in
such limes of darkness, while there are deeds
transacted under our eyes which are worthy
of the darkest days of Rome, pagan or papal.
We receive persecuted Christians from Ma
deira, and send our own refugees to Canada
and Great Britain We put it to the con
science of every Christian. Do you believe it
would be tight to drag Dr. Pennington back
to slavery 1 Could all the sophistry of youi
political papers, or of the N. Y. Observer, or
ol such divines as Drs. Spencer, Lord, Spring,
Adams, and Wheaton, satisfy your conscience
on that point, or make you aid in the deed
But if it would be wrong for you, is it not
wrong for any one else f ll it would be an
outrage to use Dr. Pennington thus, is it not
equally an outrage to treat any man in the
same way Is not the whole Fugitive law
wrong then* If so, will you, for any con
ndera'.ion, give it your support* We trust
not. A law that would send our brother
Pennington into slavery never proceeded from
God, and comes clothed with no divine au
thority. Will our readers remember this
when they go to the ballot box, and will they
be careful to elect only those who are pre
pared so repeal such an iniquitous act
The New York Independent adds to ike
above«
Dr. Pennington is at present connected
with the Thiid Presbytery of this city. If he
has read the sermons of some of his co-Pres
bytert and brother Doctors and the Union
safety letters of his former pastor* and takes
these as the exponent of Christian sen
timent with regard to the fugitive law, we
do not wonder that he is afraid to return to
hie church, or to pul himself within reach ol
his titled ecclesiastical associates.”
*Dr. Cox, wlk> at the Edmonson meeting in the
Tabernacle pronounced an eloquent eulogium upon
Dr. P.’s native talents, scholarly attainments, pro
lessional standing, and moral excellence, pointing
to them as proofs demonstrative of the inherent
equality of the African race with the whites and of
the nioustrocity of holding them in slavery.
[From the Spy.]
The Seal of Government.
Mr. Editor—l am one of those quiet and
contented individuals that do not trouble
themselves mucH%bout new projects, unless
1 am satisfied beyond all doubt, that the
proposed change is really a good and neces
sary one Consequently, 1 have never, up to
the present lime, taken a deep and absorbing
interest in the removal of the seat of govern
iment from Boston. I have often answered
the zealous advocates of a change from Boston
to Worcester, or some other interior town,
with the old adage, “let well alone.”
But I have passed over to the other side
of the line now. Boston is not what it used
to be. A foul and pestilential atmosphere
has settled down upon the tri-meuntain city.
The breezes which have blown for eo many
tbsi* Ht'iii laws i|»lv l.flfvi v Ivw^
with the air of freedom, but are tainted with
the miasma of slavery. She too has bent the
knee to the lords of cotton. Degenerate sons
bear the names that history, and revolution,
and liberty have immortalized. Her princely
merchants of the last century, that were
ready to sacrifice their last drop of blood, and
their last faithing, for the sublime purpose of
resisting oppression and wrong, are to-day a
band of servile slave-catchers, ready to obey
the first nod of their southern masters. And
they have finally published their infamuus
treason to the great principles of freedom and
the rights of man, by one public act that over
shadows ail others, and heralds to the world
their incomparable infamy. The Municipal
officers of Boston have refused to open
Faneuil Hall for the free dLcussion of the
Fugitive Slave Bill 1 shall not blame any
man for his incredulity, that indignantly pro
nounces the statement an impossibility—a
malicious lie. I own that I did not belive it
when 1 first read the news in the public
journals, and it was only after I had seen ac
cumulated evidence of the fact, that 1 reluc
'intly admitted its truth. Freedom throttled
at the very threshold ot her holiest sanctuary!
The right of free discussion strangled upon a
spot more memorable than the Tennis-court
of Versailles, where the undaunted French
Deputies assembled in 1789, after the doors
of their hall had been closed against them by
royal authority, and swore never to separate
till they had given a Constitution to France;
—a spot more celebrated than the Tellsplatto
in Switzerland, where the heroic Tell landed,
and ahoved the tyrant Gessler off into the
raging lake; —more renowned than the
heights of Rutti, where the Swiss con
federates swore to deliver their country;—
second in the hearts ot every true lover of
freedom, not even to the consecrated edifice,
from which the Declaration of American In
dependence was promulgated to the world
Faneui) Hall closed against what? Not
against any set of men who may wish to dis
cuss the tarff, and inquire whether iron and
broadcloth, silk and wines shall pay a higher
or a lower duty. Not against any who
propose another United Stales Bank, ot who
oppose such a measure. Not against any
who are the advocates of a railroad to Halifax
or San Francisco or another line of steam
ers or a shorter cut by water to China. Not
against the toadies of any leading politician,
who may wish to assemble within the holy
edifice to feast, make speeches, and get drunk
for his honor and their own gratification. Not
even against those who sustain the Fugitive
Slave Bill. But simply against the people
ot Massachusetts who claim the right of
peaceably assembling there, to discuss, and
take measures to repeal the most infamous j
law that has disgraced the Statute Books of
the Federal Government, since the formation ol
the Constitution.
How the Nicholases, and Hapsburgs, and
Bourbons the Haynaus, and Metterniches,
and Hadetzkeys, and the whole spawn of
tyrants, big and little, upon the other side of
the water, will chuckle with delight, and
hug the comfort and consolation to their
breasts, as they read in the public journals,
that the authorities of Boston have sealed up
the doors of their temple of liberty, against
the right of the people to discuss any law, I
and especially the very one that most of them j
would never dare to incur the odium of en
acting and promulgating
The atmosphere of Boston has become too
foul for wholesome and salutary legislation.
1 am persuaded that those who have become
so callous to all decency, as to defend an act
of legislation so immural and outrageous as
the Fugi ive Slave Bill, and shut up Faneuil
Hall against free speech, would npt hesitate
to cajole and bribe those who are set to frame
laws, and cairy out the wishes of a majority
of the people. We are no longer safe with
such a den of iniquity for our Seat of Govern-,
ment. It is time to be up and moving in this
mailer, before our code of laws bears evidence
of the coiruftion in the midst of winch our
legislators exercised their functions. Circulate
the petitions fora change—l care not to what
spot, that is removed from the baneful in
fluences of commerce, and every honest citi
zen in the interior, will speedily comprehend
its necessity, and second the effort.
FRANKLIN.
Kidnapping Children.— The Pennsylvania
Freeman copies from a private letter to a
gentlemen in Philadelphia the following state
ment of the manner in which the Baltimore
Shambles are supplied with young human
flesh
1 hoard nearly opposite one of those dens
so common in the South, a negro-market
the proprietor has a very fine house, in the
tear is a large building about 100 feel long,
every window strongly barred with iron, with
a strong brick wall about 25 feet high the
scenes hete are enough to melt a heart of
stone. But this is not the worst part of the
picture. There is about 25 or more young
men.er rowdies I ought to say, who make a
practice of enticing away from Philadelphia,
poor neglected colored children, and bring
them to this market; and, from outward ap
pearances here, they take into Slavery more
every year than all the Anti-Slavery Socie
ties take from it. Oh, that I had more
strength, 1 would gladly spend it to save these
little negroes. Will not the friends of hu
manity do something for this class in Phila
delphia* Canuot some one Blart in this
matter 1”
A Letter from Shadrach.—We give be
low a copy ol a well-written letter from Shad
rach to a friend in this city- We have been
requested to state that the rumors in regaid
to the probability of hia return to this city,
are without any foundation m truth.— Com
mon wealth.
“Montreal, Feb. 28th, 1851.
Dear Sir:—l feel it my duty to forward
you the account of my arrival in this city.
reached here last Friday evening, a journey ol
four days. The weather was very severe
during the time, and we had to cross the ice
twice; once the distance was nine miles. My
heath ts not so good as when 1 left, but I hope
a few days wilt restore me. lam at a loss
for words to express the gratitude I feel to
(hose kind and deat friends in Boston, and
believe me I shall always consider it my duty
to pray for their health and happiness.
Please to remember me kindly here, —and io
the ladies. And in conclusion, permit me
to subscribe myself, Your greatful servant.
Frsohick Minkins.
Convention at Chicago.
At the Christian Anti-slavery Convention
held at Cincinnati, May, 1850, the under
signed were appointed a Committee to hold
under consideiauon the general subject of
Christian action against slavery, and other
palpable wrongs tolerated in and by the
Church, and were empowered to call another
Convention at such time and place as shall be
deemed proper. Since the time ot our meet
ing in Cincinnati, we have watched with
great interest the influence which the pro
ceedings of that assembly have been exerting
upon the public mind, and we feel great plea
sure in being able to state, as the opinion of
the Committee that the hopes of the friends
of that Convention have been more than real
ized, in the salutary and wide spread impres
sions which have been made. From that
mee inp and various other movements which
have followed as its consequences, truth has
gone forth to reach and arouse thousands of
minds and the result is, a preparation far and
wide for a more extensive union of the friends
of our cause, and for more important action.
The new combination of parties, in which
interests the most diverse are allied against
freedom the melancholy subserviency of a
large portion of the church to secular dicta
tion the attempt in Church and State to
strike down the great principle of Protestant
ism—the r'ght of private judgment; the at
tempt which the slave power is making to
seize upon our territories, and even to subvert
the constitution of California, efforts, which,
if successful will exclude freedom and a free
gospel from all these vast regions of our com
mon epunirv these thinps constrain us to be
lieve that the time nas couie lor renewed and
more strenuous effort.
We believe that a reform in the sentiments
and policy of the Church is indispensable to
the preservation even of the liberties of the
country and that Protestantism itself is en
dangered by its alliance with slavery, and its
teachings in defence of its position teachings
which allow the sanctions of the religion ol
Jesus to manifest and acknowled wrong.
Feeling that in and through Christ alone,
any effort for Church reform can be success
ful, hoping and praying that the guidance ol
the Holy Spirit may be granted unto all who
may engage in the work, we invi'e our lel
low-Christians of all denominations to meet at
Chicago, on the 3d day of July next, for the
piyposeof carrying forwaid what has been
so auspiciously begun, by deliberating upon
the most suitable methods fur uniting and
rendeiing effective the strength of all evangel
ical Christians, who desire to dtvoice the
Church from slavery, and who are willing to
exclude from Christian fellowship all palpa
ble sin, and trust the consequences to God.
C. A. Boynton, E. H. Nevil,
E. Goodman, John G. Fee,
C. A. Benton, Geo. Whipple,
W. H. Brisbane, Lewis Tappan,
Samuel Lewis, J. Blanchard,
Wiilum Goodell.
Cincinnati, Feb. 14, 1821.
Webster at Annapolis.
The telegraphic speech of Daniel Webster
at Annapolis was bad enough, but the fuller
report which comes by mail in the New York
papers completes the treachery of the bribed
Secretary. With a contemptible whine,
characteristic of the hyj»ocrite, he spurns the
State which warmed him into life—and for
what? For throwing the shield of law be
tween the personal liberty of the citizen and
the avarice of the slaveholder—foi refusing to
participate in a crime This is the very man
who, as Senator, drew up a fugitive slave
bill preserving the right of Trial by Jury
We put his infamy on record by an extract
from his speech as most fully reported.
Gentlemen 1 concur in the sentiments
expressed by you all—and I thank God they
were expressed by you all—in the resolutions
passed heie on the 10th of December. You
say that the Constitution of the United Slates
has accomplished all the objects, civil and po
litical, which the most sanguine of its fra
mers and fiiends anticipated and that the af
fections of the people of Maryland are justly
rivetted to its principles by the memory of the
characters of the wise and good men who
frmed it, as well as by the blessings they lib
erally bestow throughout the world. That is
'my sentiment. My heart is in it. [Ap
plause.]
I live and breathe, I walk and sleep—l had
almost said, I pray to God daily in the verv
sentiment of that relation. Now you go on to
assert a sentiment equally just. You say that
a proper appreciation of these blessings would
lead every Slate in the Union to adopt all
such measures as may from time to time be
necessary to give complete and full effect to
any provision of the Constitution, or the laws
'pursuant thereto, intended for the protection
of any part of this great common country.
True; every word true. And allow me to
say, that any State, North or South, which
departs one iota from the sentiment of that
1 resolution, is disloyal to the Union. [Great
applause.]
Further, so far as any act of that sort has
been committed, such a Stale has no portion
of my regard. Ido not sympathize with it.
1 rebuke it wherever I speak and on all occa
sions where it is proper for me toexpress my
sentiments. If there are States—and lam
afraid there are—which have sought by inge
nious contrivances of State Legislators to
thwart the fair exercise and fulfilment of the
laws of Congress, passed to carry into effect
the compacts of the Constitution that State,
so far, is entitled to no regard from me.
We have here placed in italics the most
deliberate and shameful insult to the Free
States, which was ever ventured by one of
their too numerous recreants. It needs no
comment. It is an insult founded on a lie,
for the basest of purposes.— Commonwealth.
Report on Slavery.
The Joint Special Committee of our Legis
lature, on the subject of slavery, have made
their report. It consists of thiileen sections,
and is too long, perhaps, for you to print en
tire yet the substance of it, and its bearing
on the Fugitive Slave Law, should at least
he given. 1 will say, then, that the first sec
tion makes the law of this Slate passed in
1843, called an Act further to protect Per
sonal Liberty,” applicable to the Fugitive
law of 1850. The second section forbids any
officer, or other member of the volunteer mili
tia of the State, to act at the call of any
Marshal, or any Deputy or Special Marshal
of the United Slates, in the arrest and detec
tion of any person claimed as a slave, and the
offender in this matter is made liable to the
penalty provided for in the act of 1843. By
section third, any corps of volunteer milita,
acting at the call of a Marshal for the arrest
ol an Alleged slave, is to be disbanded/ and
any officer so acting is to be, upon conviction,
degraded trom office. Section fouith makes
it the duty of District Attorneys to act
promptly and vigorously, within their dis
tricts, for the defence and discharge of persons
claimed as slaves. Section fifth forbids the
lemoval from the State of any person not
held to service or labor,” or who has not
escaped from service or labor,” within the
meaning of those words in the Constitution,
under penalty of a fine not exceeding $5,-
000, and imprisonment in the State Prison
not more than ten years. Any peison in
ured oi endangered by an arrest, contrary to
the foregoing provisions may, by section
sixth, maintain an action before any compe
tent court. Section seventh establishes the
presumption that every person in the State is
free, and lays the burden of proof upon the
claimant. Subsequent sections establish the
right of habeas corpus, and trial by jury, and
make the decision of such jury conclusive and
final. There are other points, designed chiefly
In guard and fortify those already named.
Such is the reported Act in Addition to an
Aet Further to Protect Personal Liberty.”
It is to the honor of t Legislature that they
have appointed s Committee capable of pro
ducing such a (sport. Its progress through
the two houses will be watched with eager
interest by all partite.—JV. Y. Evangelist.
The Fugitive Slave Law and the
Citizens of Lynn.
i
Lynn, Mass., April, 3.
I A meeting was held yesterday afternoon in
this place by the Loco-Focos of Essex County
for the purpose of giving Hon. Robert Ran
toul, Jr. an opportunity to define his position
since his return from the U. S. Senate. He
rpoke an hour and forty-five minutes, and he
Bead the following resolutions as containing
his views on the Slavery question. At the
close of the meeting he was unanimously
nominated as the Loco-Foco candidate for the
representation of Essex County in Congress.
The following are the resolutions read by
the honorable gentleman, after having ad
dressed the meeting:
Resolved, That the Constitution of the
United States has not conferred upon Con
gress the pow er to enact any law authorizing
officers of the United States to determine the
slavery or freedom of persons found within
the territory of any State, and to carry them
out of the State wherein they are found to be
held as slaves in another State.
Resolved, That no person in any State of
this Union can be lawfully deprived of his
liberty, without due process of law, which
process, in the case of an alleged fugitive from
service, is a suit at common law, wherein the
fact whether said fugitive was lawfully held
to service in the Slate ftom which he is
alleged to have escaped, shall be determined
by a trial by Jury.
Resolved, That such trial by Jury should
precede the delivery into the hand of the parly i
claiming him, of such alleged fugitive, and
should be had in the vicinity where thealleged i
fugitive is round.
Resolved, That in the determination of the
question of liberty, all presumptionof law and
fact, are and ought to be in favor of liberty.
Resolved, That the Fugitive Slave Law,
enacted by the Congress late expiied, contra
vening these principles is unjust, unconstitu- i
lional and in derogation of the fundamental i
maxims of the Government, and ought to be
speedily and forever repaled. i
The Last Fugitive Cask in Boston.—
Boston, April 4 —Thomas Simms, the
fugitive arrested last evening, was brought
before Commissioner George T. Curtis, this
morning.
Hon. Robert Rantoul appeared as one of
the counsel for the fugitive. Mr. R. raised
the constitutional point, and the case was
postponed until to-morrow, at half past 10
A, M.
The slave, in the mean time, will be con
fined in the Court House, which will be
guarded with a strong foice. There is very
little excitement about the matter.
I learn that an application tor a writ ot
habeas corpus in the case has been unanimous
ly refused by a full bench of the Supieme
Court.
Shortly after the arrest of Simms last night,
I 1 letcher Webster, Esq assaulted a watch
man for pulling a bell in Kings’# Chapel, sup
posing it to be a ruse to collect a mob.
Mi. Webster was arrested and taken to 1
jail. He was, however, soon after released
by giving bonds in the sum of $2OO.
At the examination of Simms this morn
ing, sundry depositions from persons in Sa
vannah, werejread, to prove the identity of the
fugitive as the slave of James Potter, who
claims him. It is said that Simms has a wife
and children who are free in Savannah, and
who were about to join him.
Boston, sth.—Afier the crowd which had
gathered in Court Square last evening had
dispersed, four or five negroes, who had been
lortering about the square throughout the dav
and evening, continued to remain in the vicini
ty till about 3 o’clock this morning. They
demanded admission into the armory of the
New England Guards in Franklin Avenue,
where that corps were quartered for the
night. I hey were told that there was nothing
for them to see, and as they had no business
there at that late hour, they bad better reiue.
I fits the negroes refused and continued to
annoy the company and cause ao much dis
turbance that Capt. Bramlee, and Liut. Col.
Boyd called the watch, who arrested and
committed two of them. Upon their persons
were found pistols, wiih powdei and ball and
a large carving knife ground sharp on both
edges, in an aitilicial hilt around the blade
next the handle.
The American Fugitive Slaves —The
scenes following eacli enforcement of the Fu
gitive Slave Bill are as gall and wormwood to
the people of the nothern States. The Bill
mav yet prove the most effectual means of
rousing Northern sentiment on the subject of
Slavery. A coloted woman was arrested
three weeks since in Philadelphia as a fugi
tive slave, and examined before the United
Slates Commissioner. She is the mother of
six children, the youngest at the breast. It
was admitted by the claimant that she had
been absent for over one-and-twenty years.
Her children were born in Pennsylvania, the
eldest being about seventeen years of age. A
writ of habeas corpus was issued in her be
half, by which she was brought before Judue
Kane of the United States Circuit Court.
\fter a protracted examination of evidence,
Judge Kane decided in favor of the woman,
and she was discharged from custody. Her
release occasioned much excitement among
the colored population. She was taken, with
her children, to the head-quartets of the
colored people, the Philadelphia Institute,
where speeches were made, huzzas indulged
in, &c. The horses were then taken out of
the cariiage in which the poor woman and
her children were placed, a long rope was
attached to the carriage, which was taken
hold of by as many of her colored friends as
could crown on to it. She was thus dragged
to her home, amid the shouts and songs and
rejoicing of hundreds who surrounded the
cortege. Her alleged “master” is, as many
slaveholders are, an ostentatious professsur of
religion. The Master said in his examination
that he knew the prisoner by her general ap
pearance, and was certain of the time she ran
off, because “he was converted to religion the
year before, and had placed the date in his
Bible, into which precious book he looked
perhaps a thousand times a year*” —British
Banner.
True Courage.—Rev. Adam Crooks, a
Wesleyan clergyman in North Carolina, has
offended some of the plantation chivalry, by
daring to question the divinity of slavery. In
Montgomery county, a meeting of citizens
passed a vote and sent a committee to him,
requiring him to leave the State, which he
refused to do, on the ground that he was sent
to preach the Gospel, and numeiuus congre
gations of people wished for his ministry. In
a letter to the True Wesleyan, noticing the
insolent demand, Mr. Ciooks says:
“I am bold to declare that no true Ameri
can or genuine Christian will either make or
submit to such demands. The pen which
recorded the surender would be quite as dark
as the pages which chronicled the require
ment. What would such procedure be but a
re-establishment of inquisitorial councils* the
rekindling the consuming fires of religious in
tolerance* the annihilation of the Protestant
reformation and all its glorious blessings, and
the resurrection of all the bloody cruelties of
the Papal persecution Would you have the
ignominous tragedy of the reign of Henry the
Eighth, Queen Mary and James the Second
—the reign of terror reacted ou Ameriean
soil*”— Penn. Freeman,
ITT Place a basin of cold water by the
side of your bed. When you first awake in
the morning, dip your hands in the basin and
wet your brow—and sleep will not again seal
you in its treacherous ernbiace. This is tbe
advice given by an aged clergyman, who had
been in the habit of tiring early during a long
life.
Ujr* The sword worn by Napoleon at Mar
engo has been bought by the Cxar for 50
000 rubles, $32,000. The buyer already
haa a collection of the relics of the great
soldier.
The Canada Fugitive*.—An intereating
Eiper has been published for some time in
anada, entitled the Voice of the Fugitive, ed
ited by Henry Bibb, who himself bears upon
his person the marks of the brutality of sla
very, and devoted to the improvement of the
fugitives from slavery. A recent number
corrects the exaggerated reports of the wants
of thoae fugitives, which have been spread
abroad, probably for the sake of frightening
others from fleeing thither. They do not
need aid for immediate relief of want; but
they do need the means of helping themselves
to a living. They need lands, the means of
building houses, establishing schools, and sus
taining the Gospel; and they have organised
ft aociety for soliciting a fund for obtaining
these objects. It is proposed to raise $40,-
000, with which to purchase 20,000 acres of
land, to be sold to the fugitives as they want
it, who are to pay for the same in the pro
ducts it will furnish. Such a plan would un
doubtedly piomote thrift, industry and moral
growth—the only safeguard against want.
Those disposed to assist this effort at self-sup
port will find Wm. Harned. 61 John street,
ready to take charge of their contributions.—
A r F. Evangelist.
The rystal Palace.— An interesting
account of the operation of testing the gal
leries of the Crystal Palace, in the presence
of the Queen, Prince Albert, and a distin
guished party, is given by the Illustrated
London News. The first experiment was
made by placing a dead load of 42,000 lbs.,
consisting of 300 workman, the floor and ad
joining approaches the second test was that
of crowding the men together in the smallest
possible space. In both no Affect was
produced on the flooring. The third experi
ment consisted in the same number of men
walking first in regular step, and afterwards
running over the floor, and was also saus
(actoiy. When the fourth experiment was
made, the same body of men, closely packed
together, jumped up and down for some time.
The greatest amount of deflection was found
not to exceed a quarter of an inch at any in
terval.— L. P. Paper.
Boston, 6ih.—The Court came in at 10
o’clock. The room was crowded. Some
excitement was shown, but there are no fears
of the Abolitionists Committing any overt
act. The proceedings this morning are con
fined to the evidence, showing Simmons to be
the properly of the claimant.
The defence put in no testimony. Rantoul
taking the ground that Unrlaw itself is uncon!
stitutional.
The court adjourned to meet at 12 o’clock
on Monday, when the arguments will be put
in.
Mr. Powers, chief of the Police, noiified
the Commissioner that Thomas Simmons,
the alledged fugitive is a witness in a case to
be tried at the next term of the Municipal
court, and cannot therefore he taken from the
state until after the trial of that case.
Were ihe eloquent utterance of great prin
ciples and their embodiment in a consistent
and pure life a sufficient passport to high po
litical station, Charles Sumner would now be
Senator of the United States. Whatever
may be the result of the present struggle in
Massachusetts, it cannot effect the teputation
of the author of these Orations and Speeches.
That will live and grow when mere political
distinction shall have been forgotten. For,
these productions have a permanent value.
They exhibit the highest moral truth, in its
broadest application, enforced in earnest tones
by cogent argument, and illustrated by the
rhetoric of an affluent scholarship. —National
Era.
The Pennsylvania Fugitives— The
freedom of the two fugitive slaves| ar
rested at Brownsville, Pa., has been pur
chased, one for $3OO, by the citizens of that
town, and the other for s7ftO, which he paid
himself.— N. Y. Evangelist.
Boston, April 2.—Sumner is again de
feated. The 20ih ballot resulted in Sumner
wanting 12 votes of an election. Fuither
balloting was then postponed.— Democrat.
Slandering the Dead. —The New Yoik
Express says that George Washington in
1786, signed exactly such a law as the fugi
tive slave bill of ISSO. No other paper has
the news.
North Star Fair.”
-The North Star Fair Association
will hold their Annual Fair for the North
Star newspaper during Anniversary week in
May next.
All who are desirous of sustaining that
paper are respectfully solicited to contribute.
The Association consider it an efficient Anti-
Slavery agency—one which aims a death
blow at the foul system of slavery and now
is the time its power should be felt. Slavery
i 9 oppressing us on every side, and we must
be prepared for battle. Our weapon is
Truth, and the North Star is well calculated
to wield it. It can and will combat the
enemy on every side, and therefore ought to
be sustained. Then let u 3 sustain it. The
ladies of this Association are determined to
exert their Influence in it 3 behalf.
Donations, either in money or goods, will
be thankfully received, and may be forwarded
to the Directress or Secretary.
THE SLAVE AND THE FREE
REPUBLIC.
The age we live in is an age of
enlightenment; a season of intellectual
progress; an era big with the most
wondrous events; a passage of time
distinguished by extraordinary changes,
and illustrated by immense improve
ments in science and in art. To our age
has been reserved the glory of trans
cending the loftiest visions of philosophic
speculation; time we have learned tc
master; space is annihilated in the
grasp of our scientific knowledge; parts
of the earth once too far assunder to
tempt the genius of the exploring mari
ner, are, as it were, brought side tc
side, and the intercommunication el
thought has with us become almost as
miraculously rapid as the creation ol
thought itself. And, as our material
knowledge is growing, our ideas expand,
unc 1 our comprehension of the great
truths of liberty, equality, and tolera
tion becomes more clear and compre
hensive. Such is the character and
such is the tendency of our times; and
yet, even now—prominent amidst the
institutions of the freest of modern free
States—is there existing an anomaly,
of such an inconceivable intensity and
grossness, as the world never before
beheld.
The great confederated Republic ol
North America claims to be the most
thoroughly free nation on the face ol
the globe. And, surely, it is there
that the great principle of equality ii
most completely realized. The peo
ple are the sovereign power—by grace
of God, the rulers and the masterrf;
and the poorest man and the richest
have equal share in the control and
government of the Commonwealth.
There, alone, amongst all the nations,
does the white man appear to possess
the fullest enjoyment of -jivil freedom
that has yet been found attainable in a
civilized community. There all arbi
trary distinctions of class are trampled
under foot, and no marks are known
but those of personal merit and fortune,
by which one man may raise himsell
above the other. All are equally free
—all equally enjoy the privileged ol
citizens—all are fellows all are
brothers, amongst whom, no one pos
sesses the special privileges of political
primogeniture.
Yet, in this very nation it is that the
eye of the Christian and the philanthro
pist is offended by the unconcealed
existence of a press and offensive mon
strosity. In this free State flourishes,
in unreproved boldness, a system that
has deeph polluted and corrupted the
social morality of the people: a loath
some sore on the fair bosom of the
commonwealth; a dark stain on the
proud banner of the nation; a desperate
disgrace; a loud-tongued reproach on
the self-eulogistic enlightenment of the
community. Yes, it is a humiliating
truth to be handed down to future ages
~—that, in the very heart ol the United
States of North America. which noisily
boast of their power, their progress,
and their unparalleled freedom, still
flourishes, in all its disgusting gross
ness, the disgraceful and damning in
stitution of human slavery.
How terribly humiliating to human
pride is this sad fact! Just think of it!
SVheu in another, and a still more ad
vanced stage of the world’s progress,
the student of history reads that, in a
day gone by, when men loudly vaunted
of the blessing of freedom, human
beings still trafficked in the lives and
labor of their fellows, and beings with
the likeness of their Creator stamped
upon them —no matter in how dark a
mould—were bought and sold in the
public markets like horses, cows, or
sheep —where shall he turn for the
illustration of so marvellous a story?
Is it amongst the wild steppe* of bar
baric Russia, where the will of an indi
vidual is the irrevocable law for mil
lions? Or, is it beneath the dark,
degrading, anu oppressive despotism of
the mottled empire of the Austrian
Kaiser? No—he must sweep across
the waters of tho wide Atlantic, and in
that western clime, which has, before
an assenting world, styled itself “tbe
refuge of liberty”—“the home of the
free"—must he search lor tbe reali
zation of a story so incredible.
It is now gome twenty years since
England, inspired with a noble real,
destroyed, at one blow, the slavery
system in her possessions, and lavished
a vast amount of treasure in its extinc
tion. And it is now tbe glorious boast
of Englishmen that—no matter what
be his color or bis clime—as soon as
the slave plants his foot upon the sacred
9oil of Britain, the fetters of servitude
drop from his emancipated limbs. But
America, the child of British liberty,
who boasts that she has far surpassed
her parent in the development of free
dom, still retains the loathsome burden
that the healthier mind of England had
flung away for ever. And at this hour,
flowing through every channel of the
social system, tainting and corrupting
the whole body, the effects of that
moral cowardice which shrunk from the
generosity of raising the black man to
a level with his white brethren, work
with undiminished force. We need
not point to the facts which will be
found detailed elsewhere, as proof—
more telling evidence is found in the
degradation, even in those States where
slavery is banned, of the free colored
citizen. He is the Pariah of American
life—shunned as the leper —scoffed at,
beaten, degraded; and the tinge of his
blood, coloring the whitest skin, is
more fatal in that free land than the
plague spot on the victim s cheek. The
gentleness and loveliness of women are
no safeguards against insult, where
the faintest trace of negro blood is ever
suspected—education, intellect, the
might of genius itself, cannot atone for
it in the eyes of the free and enlight
ened citizens of George Washington’s
free Republic.
An example of the intensity with
which this base and demoralizing spirit
has become leavened in American
society was exhibited in a very remark
able manner, in Boston, some time ago.
A negro—a man of talent and educa
tion, and a man of true gentlemanly
refinement, too, that might put to the
blush even the impudence of an Ame
rican “free citizen”—was walking, in
the open day, down a public street,
with a white lady leaning on cither
r arm. Two individuals, in the garb ol
gentlemen, who happened to pass at
the time, were filled with indignation
and astonishmant at so insolent a dis
play on the part of a “damned nigger.”
They stalked up, and, requesting the
>f ladies to quit the society of their
il black companion, proceeded to beat
t with their sticks the unarmed and un
e offending man. This display of Ame*
i, rican independence was loudly ap
i- plauded by the public press; and the
e two fellows, instead of being denounced
i- as scoundrels, worthy of the pillory or
c the stocks, received a high eulogium
o for their behaviour. This in a Chris
e tian country —this in a land claiming
a to possess the highest degree of civil
o freedom for all its children! Surely,
i- we must grieve for the society that
o nourishes so fearfully degrading a spirit,
if But, in defence of America, it it
,s said that human slavery is one of the
if evils she has inherited from her Euro
d pean colonizers, and that it is one
I, whose removal, in her present condi-
Lt tion, she finds it especially difficult tc
t- accomplish. The excuse is a poor,
i- pitiful fallacy. The difficulty is not in
d the system itself, but alas! in the gen
d eral tone of society, which has
e been, with all its idle parade of lib
e erality, educated into the approval ol
t the vicious slave system, and the un
d Christian contempt and loathing of one
e great section of their fellow-men. Thai
this is only the simple truth—that the
if fault lies with America herself, nol
it with her “difficulties”—is proved b)
if the conduct of her Legislature, which
e but a short time since, strengthened
the hands of the slave-holders, by pass
ing a Bill enabling them to recovei
e from any part of the United States, sucf
wretches as may have succeeded in es
t caping from slavery—a Bill by which
j the man who may have gained hit
i. freedom, five, ten, aye or twentj
years ago, may—though he should
s have been living all that time m com
n petence and safety, and reared up a
i family around him, with all the associa
tions of home, making his freedom s
j thousand-fold more dear —be dragged
i back again to all the horrors of the
slave-cell, the fetter, and the whip,
f The evil results of this perniciouc
j I enactment are illustrated by the ac
f counts which we give elsewhere, ol
the recent riots in Boston. Aq or
ganized system of r«aist*noo is opposed
I to the carrying out of the Bill by that
"portion of the population whose abhor
rence of the slave-trade is greater than
their respect for human enactments.
I Every effort is made to baffle the at
tempts of the emissaries of the slave
holders to recover the fugitives; and in
t more than one case, where skill in out-
I witting them failed, open force was
resorted to, and the poor wretches who
t had been arrested,, were rescued by
violent means. Of course, in no State,
can a violation of its laws be suffered
to go -with impunity. When an enact
ment comes into force, it must be main
tained, or the Government of the coun
try will fall into contempt, and the
danger of anarchy be risked by the
nation. The American Government
has, accordingly, been obliged to take
proceedings against the benevolent
violators of its recently enacted law;
and, in this nineteenth century, in a
free community, we are shocked with
the appearance of a proclamation from
the authorities, calling on the citizens
to aid in the prosecuting of all who
may have “rescued a fugitive slave,”
or have “harbored or concealed such
fugitive contrary to law.” How de
graded is the proud star-spangled ban
ner of that nation whose Government
has voluntarily converted itself into—a
hunter of human slaves!
It is terrible disgrace, branded on
the brow of America —this traffic in
human beings. Vaunt she ever so
much—hold she her head ever so high
—she dare not, in the opinion oi
Christian tnen, claim equality with the
other great powers, whilst the curse
of slavery flourishes within her em
brace. Whilst the black walks a fet
ered, lashed, and abhorred being in
the'land, the great Republic stands de
graded before the world. It is no
excuse to say that but in a portion oi
the country this evil exists. It matters
not—the stain rests equally on the
whole Confederation, from Florida to
Massachusetts—the brand is legibly
stamped on the Government that has
made itself the tool and defender of the
slaveholders. And it is no answer to
say that this slave-curse is more offen
sive in sentiment than in reality-even
were this true —that the black is
generally not ill-treated, God’s image
is degraded to tbe level of the beast,
and a living crime against humanity
blights the morality of tbe land. Wbat
man, in whose breast all the fine feel
ings of our nature are not extinct, does
not detest and execrate a system so
frightfuly destructive of morality and
natural affection, that, under it, the
father has been known to barter for
gold the children of his slave—the illicit
offspring of his own body In a con
dition of society where such a thing
could even once occur, there is some
thing fearfully revolting; and that such
a condition of society should b*t pre
served in a State boasting of its un
paralleled freedom and advancing
enlightenment, is an anomaly whose
solution can be found only in the de
pravity to which the human heart is so
prone. This is the curse of America
to-day —this is the evil that paralyzes
her moral strength, and degrades her
people; and, until she can fling the
incubus off, she cannot proceed on that
mighty course of progressive civiliza
tion which seems pointed out to her by
the guiding hand of Heaven. —Northern
Whig, Belfast.
[Fr«m the London Enquirer.]
AMERICAN SLAVERY AND THE
AMERICAN CLERGY.
The Morning Advertiser in the course
of an article on American Slavery,
suggests that each section of the re
ligious world of Great Britain aiid
Ireland should send a friendly remon
strance to those Churches of the United
States, with which they sympathize in
doctrine and discipline, upon their re
sponsibilities, their duties, and their
dangers, in relation to slavery. That
the American clergy stand in need of
remonstrance cannot be denied. As
our contemporary remarks, the con
duct of the clergy in the the free states
has always been the reflection of the
public opinion upon that subject: whe
ther for right or for wrong, they have
followed, but have not led the national
sentiment. As the public have felt,
the pulpit has spoken. In the earlier
period of their republic, while the
people were warm with the achieve
ment of their own freedom, the
Churches strongly protested agains
the continuance of slavery in the
Southern States. Some of the resolu
i tions passed in the years to 1787 to
I 1793 by synods, conferences, and
general assemblies of Congregation
alists, Presbyterians, and Methodists,
speak of slave-holders, as “man
stealers,” as “sinners of the first
i rank,” as “perpetrators of the highest
kind of theft;” but in process of time
public opinion altered. As the free
states became commercially and politi
i cally interwoven with slavery and the
slave power, the Churches were found
echoing the general feeling against in
terfering with the “peculiar institution”
of the south. The Protestant Episco
i pal Church has not shown the incon
sistency which marked the course ol
i the other religious organizations of the
United States. It never evinced any
i sympathy with the slave, and boasts o]
not having been disturbed by the anti
slavery agitation. Several of theii
Churches are under colored ministers.
of great talent and unquestioned in
t tegrity; but the Episcopal conventior
i hss steadily refused to admit them ink
its body
Rev. Dr. Parker, of Philadelphia
said in a recent thanksgiving sermon
I “That there were no evils in slavery
but such as were inseparable from any
other relation in civil and social life.’
i The Rev. Gardiner Spring, a popular
and fashionable Presbyterian ministei
ol New York, and well known in this
i country by his religious writings, lately
proclaimed (rom the pulpit that “God
for the last 2,000 years fixed his brand
upon the negro; that he would not fight
against God, and that if by <9he prayei
he could liberate every slave in the
world, he would not dare to offer it.”
The Rev, Moses Stuart, D.D., late
professor at the Theological Seminary
at Andover, printed a pamphlet during
the discussion of the Fugitive Slave
Bill, justifying slavery from the Bible,
and passing the highest panegyrics upon
Mr. Webster. The Rev, Orville
Dewey, D.D. has just declared at a
public lecture, while vindicating the
obnoxious law, that “he would rathet
send his own mother into slavery, and
go himself, than see the union between
the free and slave-holding states dis
solved.” With such clerical endorse
ments of the unchristian enactments ol
this Bill, the anti-slavery papers, at th<!
present moment, abound. “Human
beings,” remarks the Advertiser,’ “are
sold without any attempt at disguise,
by the ecclesiastical bodies of the
United States, to support theological
seminaries and places of worship.
Synods and assemblies of divines have
formally declared, that the marriage
tie between slaves is not binding.”
This atrocious decision has evidently
no other object than to facilitate their
separation by sale.
Meanwhile there are brave, God
fearing men, who, through scorn and
obloquy, lift up their voices against
this great wickedness. The calumniated
Abolitionists strive night and day to
open the eyes of the people, and the
clergy too, to the crime to which they
are privy.
In a recent debate in the House of
Representatives at Washington, the
Hon. Joshua R. Giddings, in referring
to the late “Fugitive Slave Bill,” made
the following comparison between
Professor Webster, who was executed
last August at Boston, and the Hon-
Daniel Webstei, Secretary ot State:—
“Sir, —I was about to make some
comparisons, but perhaps they may be
regarded as indelicate. During last
summer two distinguished gentlemen of
the name occupied much of the public
attention. One was said to have com
mitted murder, and the other to have
procured the passage of this law: one
was hanged for his crime; the other,
for his efforts, was taken iuto the Exe
cutive Cabinet. One destroyed the
life of an individual, the other contri
buted his efforts for the passage of this
law, which must consign hundreds,
perhaps thousands, to premature
graves. I, sir, cannot speak for others;
but, for myself, I would rather meet
my final Judge with the guilt of him
who hoe gone to his account, than o|
him who now sits in yonder Cabinet.”
Language such as this, used at so
early a period of the Congrtssiona
Sessions, gives little color to the asser
tion of the political press of the United
States, and reiterated by the “Cor
respondent of the Times,” that the
agitation upon this fearful law is sub
siding. Mr. Giddings would not have
ventured to give solemn utterance to
such a sentiment, had he not believed
that the conscience of his country was
not become totally callous; nor, with
out the conviction of being supported
by a large amount of public opinion,
while asserting that there was “a law
of right, of justice, of freedom im
planted in the breast of every human
being,” which bade him look with
scorn on such a law as this, would he
have concluded his address by exclaim
ing,—“The spirit of the Pilgrim
Fathers, which was manifested at
Bunker’s-hill, at Saratoga, ard at
York-town, still exists in the north.
The same spirit which resisted the
Stamp Act, will resist your Fugitive
Slave Bill. The spirit which threw the
tea into Boston harbor, will set your
infamous law at defiance. The spirit
■ftiich overthrew the power of the
British Crown, will submit to no force
that shall compel it to comply with the
odious provisions of this enactment.”
miscellaneous.
ENGLISH WOMEN IN THE
COUNTRY.
There are other guests in the house
—Sir Charles M Lady P,, some
Irish ladies without titles, (but so rich
in natural gifts as to make one feel the
poverty of mere rank,) and a charming
family of grown up daughters. It would
be difficult, perhaps, to have a better
opportunity to judge of the life of the
educated middle class of this country,
than in such homes as this. And what
impression do such examples make
upon my inind, you will ask? I will
tell yon, (not without remembering
how many fair young readers you have
at home.) The young English woman
i 9 less conspicuously accomplished than
our young wotneu of the same position
in America. There is, perhaps, a
little less of that je ne scais quoi —that
nameless grace which captivates at
first sight—than with us, but a better
and more solid education, more dis
ciplined minds, and above all, more
common sense. In the whole art o(
conversation, including ail the topics
of the day, with so much of politics as
makes a woman really a companion
for an intelligent man in his serious
thoughts, in history, language, and
practical knowledge of the duties ol
social and domestic life, the English
women have, I imagine, few superiors.
But whet, perhaps, would strike one ol
our young women most, in English so
ciety, would be tho thorough cultiva
tion und refinement that exist here,
along with the absence of all false
delicacy. The fondness of English
women, (even in the highest rank,) foi
out of door life, horses, dogs, fine cat
tle, animals of all kinds,—for theii
grounds, and in short everything that
belongs to their homes—their real, un
affected knowledge of, and pleasure ir
these things, and the unreserved wa)
in which they talk about them, would
startle some of my young friends ai
home, who are educated in the fashion
able boarding-school of Madame ,tc
consider all such things “vulgar” ant
“uulady-like.” I accompanied th<
young members of the family here thii
morning, in an exploration of the mys
teries of the place. No sooner did wc
make our appearance out doors
than we were saluted by dogs of al
degrees, and each had the honor of ar
interview and personal reception
which seemed to be productive ol
pleasure on both sides. Then some o
the horses were brought out of the
stable, and a parley took place betweer
them and their fair mistresses; som<
favorite cows were to be petted ane
looked after, and their good point!
were descanted on with knowledge am
discrimination; and there was the bass*
cour, with its various population, al
discussed and shown with such lively
unaffected interest, that I soon saw m 3
fair companions were “born to lov<
pigs and chickens.” I have saic
nothing about the garden, because yoi
know that it is especially the lady’i
province here. An English woman
with no tase for gardening, would b<
as great a marvel as an angel withou
wings. And now, were these Ires!
looking girls, who have so thoroughly
entered into these rustic enjoyments
mere country lasses and dairy-maids
By no means. They will converse
with you in three or four languages:
are thoroughly well grounded ii
modern literature; sketch from naturt
with the ease of professional artists,
and will sit down to the piano forte and
give you an old ballad, or the finest
German or Italian music, as your taste
may dictate. And yet many of my
young country-women of their age,
whose education—wholly intended for
the drawing-room—is far below that 1
have described, would have fainted
with terror; and half-blushed with false
delicacy, twenty times in the course of
the morning, with the discussions of
the farm-yard, meadows and stables,
which properly belong to a wholesome
country life, and which are not in the
slightest degree at variance with real
delicacy and refinement. I very well
knew that there are many sensibly edu
cated young women at home, who have
the same breadth of cultivation, and
the same variety of resources, that
make the English women such truly
agreeable companions; but, alas, I also
know that there are many whose beau
ideal is bounded by a circle that con
tains the latest fashionable dance for the
feet; the latest fashinable novel for the
head, and the latest fashionable fancy
work for the fingers.— Downing’s Li
ters from England.
“The Land of Liberty. —The
Rev. John J. M’Bride was recently in
dicted, in North Carolina, for present
ing a little slave girl with a copy of
the Ten Commandments. He was found
Guilty, and his sentence was, to
stand one hour in the stocks, receive
thirty lashes on the bare back, and be
imprisoned one year in the common
goal. —Briliah Banner.