SPEECH OF MR, HALE,ON TIIE
TERRITORIAL QUESTION,
Delivered in the Senate of the United States
Tuesday March 19, 1850.
[continued.]
In January, 1839, the Senate, on mo
tion oftha Senator from South Caroli
na, [Mr. Calhoun,] passed acvorai
■tnngent resolutions against the move
ments of the Abolitionists, one only of
which I will read to the Senate, as a
fair specimen of the whole:
"Resolved, That this Government
was instituted and adopted by the seve
ral States of the Union as a common
agent in order to carry into effect the
powers which they delegated by the
Constitution for their mutual security
and prosperity; and that, in fulfilment
of this high and »acred trust, this Gov
ernment is bound so to exercise its
power as to give, as far as may be
practicable, increased stability and Be
curity to the domestic inatit-fions of
the States that compose tho Union, and
that it is the solemn duty of the Gov
ernment to resist all tempts by one
portion of the u »t as an in
strument to **“*ck the domestic insti
tutions of-mother, or to weaken or de
stroy institutions.”
9uch, sir, was the manner in which
both parties united, in the language o«
th* Senator from South Carolina, "in
insisting that the petitions should be
received, and that Congress should
take jurisdiction of the subject for which
they prayed.”
Now, sir I want to call the attention
of the Senate to the manner in which
this movement was received by the peo
ple at the North. I have, at some
trouble, looked up the necessary doc
uments, to show how they were recei
ved by the people at large.
"Meetings of the people' have been
held in nearly all of the chief cities and
towns in the Northern States, at which
the proceedings of the abolitionists
were rejected and disavowed with
great unanimity ~and much zeal.”—
Niles’s Register, October 3, 1835.
These meetings, as will be seen by
the papers of the day, were holden dt
New York, Boston, Albany, and the
other principal places in the free States.
Of the character of the resolutions
passed at Albany, the Richmond En
quirer maid:
"Amidst these proceedings we hail
with delight the meeting and resolu
tions at Albany; they are up to the
hub; they are in perfect unison with
the rights and sentitnents of the South;
they are divested of all the metaphy
sics and abstractions of the resolutions
of New York; they are free from all
qualifications and equivocation: no idle
denunciation of the evils of slavery, no
pompons assertions of the right of dis
cussion; but they announce in the most
unqualified terms that it is a Southern
question, which belongs, under the
Federal compact, exclusively to the
South; they denounce all discussions
upon it in the other States, which, from
their very nature, are calculated to in
flame the public mind, and put in jeop
ardy the lines and property of their
feliow-citiaens, as at war with every
rule of moral duty and every sugges
tion of humanity; and they reprobate
the incendiaries who will persist in car
rying them oq ee disloyal to the
Union.”
I will not waary the Senate by read
ing reports ol such meetings holden in
the principal cities and td*ne of the
North. The papers of that day contain
gbuodant evidence to satisfy the most
incredulous. But all this did not satis
fy the South; they demanded that the
Abolitionists should' be put down by
law in the free States. The newspa
per Southern Patriot said,
“Let the declaration that discussions
1 which from their nature tend to inflame
the public mind and put in jeopardy
the lives and property of our fellow-cit
izens, and are at war with every rule
of moral duty and every suggestion of
humanity, be only embodied in some
legislative act, with appropriate penal
ties, and the South seeks no higher and
better security.”
A »nsw ilfiVcn, Con
necticut, was held September 10,1831,
called by Dennis Kimberly, Mayor of
New Hayen to consider a plan for the
establishment in that city of a college
for the education of colored youths; at
which meeting it was—
Resolved by the Mayor, Alderman,
Common Council, and freemen of the
city of N?w Haven, in city meeting as
sembled, That we will resist the estab
lishment of the proposed college in this
place by every lawful means.
“March, 1853.—Town meeting at
Canterbury, Connecticut, in reference
to Miss Crandall’s school for females
of color. Resolutions were passed ex
pressing the most decided determina
tion that the school should not be es
tablished in that town.
“May 24, 1833.—Act passed by the
Legislature of Connecticut prohibiting
schools for colored persons from other
States. (In 1835, a petition to the
Legislature for the repeal of this act
was rejected.)
“June 27, 1833.—Miss Crandall
was imprisoned in Brooklyn, Connec
ticut, on the charge of having taught
persons of color from out of the State.
“September 30, 1833.—An assault
was made on Mi9s Crandall’s house,
while a clergyman was holding a reli
gious meeting there. Rotten eggs and
other missiles were thrown at the win
dows.
“The well of the house on another
occasion was filled with offal, &c.
“A newspaper in Connecticut says:
‘The committee of the First Ecclesias
tical Society in Canterbury have seen
proper to prohibit the scholars of Miss
Crandall’s school from attending Di
vine worship in the meeting-house on
Canterbury green.’
There was no other meeting-house
within three miles.
“May 27.—The mayor and Aider
man of fiuyfnn rcjcotorl an »nnlir.atiun
of 126 citizens for the use of FaneuTl
Hall, for the purpose of holding a
meeting in which to plead the cause of
the slaves.
“August 10, 1835.—Canaan Acade
my, New Hampshire, wa9 drawn off
by a mob, for the crime of admitting
colored youths.
“August 10, 1835.—Disturbance at
Worcester, Massachusetts. While the
Rev. Orange Scott was lecturing on
slavery, individuals tore up the
lect«”ei"’a ootes, and offered violence
to his person.
“September 17, 1835.—A gallows
was erected in front of Mr. Garrison’s
in Brighton street, Boston, with this
nscription: ‘By order of Judge Lynch.’
“July 4,9, 10 aud 11, 1835, the
Abolitionists were mobbed in New
York. Churches and stores were bro
ken into and injured, and the dwelling
houses of several Abolitionists were
mobbed. The furniture of one was
burnt in the street. The persons of
Abolitionists were thretaened. Both
political parties joined in the outrage.
“These mobs were instigated by the
press and pro-slavery public meetings.
The clergy did not discountenance
the proceedings that led to them.
Chancellor Walworth (Dem.) and
Chancellor Frelinghuysen (Whig)
made speeches at a public meeting
against the-Abolitionists, and popular
clergymen ridiculed the ‘fanatics.’
“During the mobs, a whole division
of troops was under arms. The mob
ruled the city for several days, and
was Anally dispersed by the authori
ties acting efficiently, when it was un
derstood that,tired a of mobbing Ablition
ists, the mob was turning its attention
to the Banks on Wall street.
“An Anti-slavery Convention, held
at Utica,New York, October 21, 1835,
in the Baptist meeting-house, was
mobbed by the citizens of Utica, head
ed by a committee of twenty-Ave com
posed of prominent members of both
political parties appointed at a meeting
held at the court-house.
“At meeting in the court-house, a
prominent individual justiAed in express
words the gross violation of the law at
Charleston, South Carolina. 'These
occasions,’said he, 'will And a law foo
themselves. Igo for revolution when
it is necessary.’
“Adverting to the sending Abolition
pubiicatipns to the South, he remarked
'lf other means will not do, the mail
should be blocked up on that subject.
“At a public meeting of the citizens
a resolution was passed that the com
munity will not submit to the indignity
of an Abolition assemblage being held
in a public building in this city.
“The mayor of the city, the flrst
judge of the country, the county clerk
the postmaster, the district clerk and
other prominent citizens of both politi
cal parties, took part in the meeting,
and most of them were of the commit
tee of twenty-Ave, and the judge, post
master, &c. retained their offices.
While the Constitution was in session,
the chairman of the committee oftwen
ty-five, followed by a mob of five bun- 1
dred entefpd the meeting-house, in
terrupted the proceedings, demanded
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTIJ IS OF NO COLOR—
that they should bleak up and disperse
which was done.
‘Abolitionists went through the mud
thirty miles to Peterborough, where
they resumed business in the village
church.
“October 31, 1535 —The very day
of the mob at Uticu, New York, a mob
of five thonsand 'gentlemen of property
and standing’ assembled in Washing
ton street, Boston, in broad daylight,
which succeeded in demolishing signs
books, doors, fee., dispersing a Female
ft
M*
The Boston Atlas thus describes the
mob:
“He wad* found crouched under a
pile of boards in a second story of a
carpenter’s shop, and here he surren
dered at discretion. A rope was fas
tened under his arms and about hit
neck, and he was let down, by means
of a latter, to ths ground; his counten
ance was pale and convulsed with ter
ror, and he made no attempt to speak
or to resist. There was a very gene
ral exclamation of 'don’t hurt him,’ and
two individuals seizing him on each side
by the collar, he was conducted through
the lane into State street, and from
thence hurried into the Mayor’s office
in the City Hall.’’
The Bos.on Gazette thus describes
this mob:
“We never before saw so gentle
manly a rabble, if rabble it may be
called, as that assembled yesterday;
they opened to the right and left in the
greatest possible order when a female
attempted to pass in or out; not only so
but when a procession of ten or a
dozen black ladies made known their
wish to be admitted, the same was done
for them, without the slightest token of
disapprobation being manifested. It
was, in fact, a meeting of gentlemen of
property and standing from all parts of
the city, who were disposed, and still
are determined, at all hazards, and
come what may, to preserve the peace
of the city from all domestic incendi
aries, as well as to protect the Union
against foreign interference.”
In 1836, Elijah P. Lovejoy removed
the St. Louis Observer to Alton, 111.
Mr. L. discussed the question of slave
ry. Meetings were held, and resolu
tions were passed, calling upon him to
desist; they forbade him to utter his
sentiments on that subject in any man
ner. Mr. Lovejoy refusing to recog
maaihe inquisitorial authority which
his fetlow-cinzens uuu his
press and type were destroyed by a
lawless mob. Another press and type
were procured, which, on the day of its
arrival at Alton, was forcibly taken
from the 'warehouse in which it was
placed by order of the Mayor, bro
ken to peices, and thrown into the
Mississippi. The mayor arrived while
the lawless work was going on, and
ordered them to disperse; they replied
that they would do as soon as they got
through. A few days subsequent to
this, Mr. Lovejoy was assailed by a
mob, and rescued from their hands on
ly by the heroic interference of his de
voted wife. On every side, his ears
were assailed by the moat fiendish
threats, and his steps were dogged by
remorseless foes, who had bound them
selves under curses to take his life.
His family was threatened, his house
frequently assailed, and night after
night his wife driven from a sick bed
into the garret, to save her life from
the brickbats and from the violence of
the mob. Three presses had been, de
stroyed, and a fourth was procured,
whiefr under the superintendence of
the mayor, was stored away in a ware
house on the 7th of November, 1837.
In the evening, the warehouse was
stormed with stones, pistols, and mus
kets, windows, were broken in, and
the buildiug was fired. Among those
of the defenders who sallied forth to
extinguish the flames was the lamented
Lovejoy, who was shot at by one of
of the ruffians,and deliberately murder
ed. To eseape the devouring flames,
the rest of the defenders abandoned
the building, end were fired upon as
they fled. The press and type were
thrown into the river.
In 1836, the press of the Philanthrop
ist was established at Cincinnati, with a
view to the promulgation of anti-slave
ry sentiments. In January, an im
mune e meeting of citizens of ail parties
wus held at the courthouse, over which
the mayor presided. A committee
was appointed of leading men of the
city, to draught resolutions expressive
of the sense of the meeting against the
discussion of the slavery question.
The resolutions reported took the
strongest ground against the agitation
of the subject of slavery in every form,
denounced the Abolitionists, and call
ed upon the citizens to exclude the
Philanthropist, the Abolition organ,
from their houses. In July of the
same year, a mob, headed by young
men belonging to the wealthy families
at midnight broke iuto the printing of
fice of the Philanthropist, and destroy
ed its press. A new one was forth
with set, up. Another mob, a few
weeks later, encouraged by the lead
ing men of both parties, assembled at
sundown, broke into the Anti-Slavery
Depository, made a bonfire of its pub
lications, broke into the printing office,
and pulled down the press, dragged it
to the Ohio river, and threw it in; af
ter which, it instituted a search for
several prominent Abolitionists, for
the purpose of tarring and feathering
them. The press was re-established;
but in 1840 another mob, which held
possession of the city for three days,
assailsd the office, tore down two
ROCHESTER, Y., THURSDAY; MAY 16, 1850.
j printing presses, dragged them in tbe
face otfbe Military through the main
street tbrriver, in which they pre
cipitatll them. Ageing ell this vio
lence, lod the hostile sentiment out oi
which 5 grew, tbe Anti-Slavery men
contented, until the public opinion of
the city was changed, and the liberty
of speech and >f the press completely
established; mid there is now no large
city in tb* Union in-wbieh t&e Anti-
Slavery soiAment is mere decided
Uut “TOW ipytvrutn 9 Wf'
of hundreds with which the records of
that day are filled, of the manner in
in which AbditivnUm was ridiived by
the Northern people Every principle
of law, and every safeguard ot propri
ety of emitted society, were violated
by both parties at the North to put down
this movement. And, sir, they tied
with each other to see who might go
the farthest; and the men that said the
severest things, and vho did the seve
rest things against the Abolitionists,
were those who sipposed they were
coinmending themselves most to pub
lic favor. And yet, sir, in the face of
this undoubted history of the fpets of
the case, it is now asserted that they
were received with favor be both par
ties at the North, and that both parties
did their bidding. Ji has been charged
against the Abolitieiists, also, again
and again, that throughout this move
ment they were setting emissaries to
the South, preaching insurretion to the
slaves. In 1835, phen this mouement
first started, it is die in justico to the
Abolitionists to sat, that they disavow
ed it in the most ilemn manner, and
have continued tofdUavow it from that
day to the althought the asser
tion is repeated he e almost every time
than any gentletpm has occasion to
speak upon thisjubject. The facts
are, that from thekne when this move
ment first had itsAngin at the North,
down to the presat time, these same
Abolitionists hae disavowed any
such intention. I readtir, an extract
from the authored position of the
views of that spiety, made in 1835,
and signed by aljtheir officers:
“In behalf ofthe American Anti-
Slavery Society, ve solicit the candid
attention of the public to the following
declaration of «uf principles and ob
jects:
“1. We hold that Congress has no
more right to abolish slavery in the
Southern States han in the French
West India Ulatis. Of course we
desire no natiea4 legislation on the
subject. 7
“2. Wo hold tilt slavery can only
be lawfully abolisid by the Legisla
tures of the sever! States in which it
prevails, andthatiie exercise of any
other than moral jufluence to induce
such abolition is jnconstitutional.
“3. We belief that Congress has
the same right to polish slavery in the
District of Columbia that the State
Governments havliti their respective
jurisdictions, and at it is their duty
to efface so foul a ot from the nation
al escutcheon. t
“4. We believe hat American citi
zens have the r tit to express and
publish their opini sof the Constitu
tion, laws, and ini tutions of any and
every State and a ion under heaven;
and we mean nev I to surrender the
liberty of speech >f the press, or of
aonscience—blessi js whieh we have
inherited from our athers, and which
we intend as far We are able, to
transmit unimpairt to our children.
“5. We have u formly deprecated
all forcible attemp >n tbe part of the
slaves, to recove their liberty; and
were it in our pov rto address them,
we would exhort hem to observe a
quiet and peacs 1 demeanor, and
would assure ther that no insurrec
tionary movement! m their part would
receive from us ie slightest aid or
countenance.
‘‘6. We would eplore any servile
insurrection, both in account ot the
calamities which w ild attend it, and
of the occasion it ght furnish of in
creased severity a* oppression.
“7 >r« cfci*V** with sending
ncendiary publications to the South.
If by the term incendiary is meant pub
lications containing arguments and
facts to prove slavery to be a moral
and political evil, and that duty and
policy require its ibolstion, tbe charge
in true. But if this charge is used to
imply publications encouraging insur
rection, the clisVlels false. We beg
our fellow-citizens to notice that this
charge is muds without proof, and by
many who con ids that they have never
read our publicWtp#*; and that those
who offer it maw to the public no evi
dence in supportpf it.
“8. We arc accused of sending
our publications to the siaves; and it
is asserted that their tendency ie to
excite instirn-ctims. Both the chargee
are false. The* publications are not
intended for the dav«s; and were they
able to read they would find no encour
agement to insuntetion.
“9. We are sccjised of employing
agents in the slave States, to distribute
our publications. We have never had
one such agent. We sent no pack
ages of our pap* to any person in
those States- far Retribution, except to
Ave respectable resident citizens at
their own request. Glut we have sent
by mail single papers, addressed to
public officers, editors of newspapers,
clergymen, and others. If, therefore,
our object is to* excite the slaves to in
surrection, the masters are our agents.
That is the exposition which they
put forth in 13&I, when this excitement
first began. These sentiments have
bean reiterated nearly evory year from
GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
that time to this; and as far as I know
anything of the movements of this or
ganized society, they have religiously
and scrupulously lived up to them. 1
have yet to see the first resolution they
ha-ve passed, the first line they have
printed, in contradiction or contraven
tion of this platform thus laid down in
1836.
What was the state of feeling at the
South at the time when this body was
so smalhand contemptible? 1 want to
read a few resolutions passed in South
-Carol*** tw the yeer 1986, to «h- o
who was getting up excitement. At a
meeting of St. James’s and St.
George’s Parishes, South Carolina,
they—
Resolved (unanimously) That,
should the non-slaveholding States
omit or refuse, at the ensuing meet
ings of their respective legislatures, to
put a final stop to the proceedings ol
their abolition societies, against the I
domestic peace of the South, and effec
tually prevent any further interference
by them with our slave population, by
efficient pena aws it will then become
the aplemn duty of the whole South, in
order to protect themselves and secure
their rights and property against the
unconstitutional combinations of the
non-slaveholding States, in the mur
derous designs of their abolitionists, to
withdraw from the Union.”
There was the issue presented in
1835. If the non-slaveholding States
did not pass penal laws to put down the
Abolitionists in 1835, it was the solemn
duty of the Southern States, according
to these resolutions passed in South
Carolina, to withdraw from the Union.,
Well, sir, I have in my hand another
remarkable paper, taken from the
Charleston Mercury, published about
the same time, headed The Crisis.”
This paper says:
The proper time for a convention
of the slaveholding States, will be,
when the Legislatures.of Pennsylvania,
Massachusetts and New York, shall
have adjourned without passing laws
for the suppression of the abolition
societies. Should either of these States
pass such laws, it would be well to
wait till their efficacy should be tested.
The adjournmeut ot the Legislatures
of the Northern States, without adopt
ing any measures to suppress Garri
son, Tappan, and Iheir associates, will
present an issue which must be met by
the South, or it will b 3 in vain for us
ever after to attempt anything further
than for this State to provide tor her
own safety by defensive measures of
Her own. If the issue presented us is
to be met, it can only be done by
convention of the aggrieved States;
the proceedings of which, to be of any
value, must embody and make known
the sentiments of the whole South, and
contain the distinct annunciation of
our fixed and unalterable determina
tion to obtain the redress of our griev
ances, be the consequences what they
may.
We must have it clearly under
stood that in framing a constitutional
union with our Northern brethren, the
slaveholding States consider them
selves no more liable to any interfer
ence with their domestic concerns than
if they had remained entirely indepen
dent of .the other States; and that, as
such an interterence would, among in
dependent nations, be a just cause of
war, so among members of such a
Confederacy as ours, it must place the
several states in the relation towards
each other of open enemies. To sum
up in a few words, the whole argu
ment on this subject, wtAvould say
that the abolitionists can only be put
down by legislation in the States in
which they exist, and this ean only be
brought about by the embodied opinion
of the whole South, acting upon pub
lic opinion at the North, which can
only be effected through the instru
mentality of a Convention of the slave
holding States. For this we believe
the public is not yet prepared, espe
cially in our sister States.”
That was to be the time for the
Convention. If the Legislatures of
Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and New
York, then in session, adjourned with
out passing laws to put down abolition
societies, then the time for a Southern
Convention had come. Mark tbs ex
pression, r should either of these
States pass such laws, it would be well
to wait till their efficacy can be tested.”
ifow, air, was the South arrayed
against Tappan, Garrison, and the
societies designated in the speech of
the Senator from South Carolina as
"small and contemptible?” Ifthe-Leg
islatures of Massachusetts, Pennsyl
vania, and New York, did not come to
their rescue, it was time for a Conven
tion of the slaveholding States.
For this we believe the public
mind is not yet prepared, especially in
our sister States.”
"Not yet prepared.” There was
something U> be done to prepare the
public mind for it. We believe the
public mind is not yet prepared in the
sister States.” It seems that the pub
lic mind was pretty well prepared in
South Carolina, but something was to
be done to prepare the sister States;
and in this connexion, it seems to me
that the letter I read yesterday has a
most pregnant and significant meaning.
Mr. Calhoun, writing to *Duff Green,
says:
Since you passed through the
South, the excitement in relation to
the Northern fanatics has greatly in
creased,” &c.
How far short of ditfdnion was the
remedy w be found? Why, if they
could be so far prepared tq put ai
certain man at the head of the Union,
would they atop thus far abort of dis
union? That waa the meaning of it.
But the thing was not then prepared
in the sister States;” though, 1 sup
pose, the gentlemen who thought tht
sister States not sufficiently pre
pared fifteen years ago, suppose they
have got them sufficiently prepared by
this time.
The Senator from South Carolina,
speaking of the anti-slavery agitation
at the North, says, which, as is now
i»<»k«»«»ud(sad. has endangered the
Union.” Now, sir, that is not the
case. The Union was safe enough,
the public mind was safe enough, fif
teen years ago. I hold in my hand a
newspaper called the Union, published
in this city the 14th of February last;
and this editor, who, 1 suppose, will be
admitted to be good authority on the
subject, says:
"The following fact stands out pro
minently in the history of parties in
New Hampshire, via: that before the
annexation ot Texas and the treason oi
John P. Hale to the Democratic par
ty, (which act of treachery he sought
to justify on the pretext of opposition
to the admission of Texas,) that party
was as free from all taint of abolition
or free-soilism as the Democracy of
Virginia. They opposed all agitation
of the slavery question, and they op
posed the abolitionists in every form.”
Now, sir, you have this declaration
coming from this source—one that will
not be disputed—that up to the annex
ation of Texas in 1845 there was as
little Abolitionism and Free-Soilism in
New Hampshire, as in Virginia herself.
And if the same be true ofNew Hamp
shire, it is true of all the Northern
States generally, .so far as anything
affecting the public councils are con
cerned. But at that time what did the
North see? They saw then the pro
position, clearly and unblushingly pu
forih, that the whole purposes and ene
ergies of the Government must be
brought to bear for the purposes of
strengthening and sustaining the institu
ion slavery. The following is the of
aunouncement that was made by the
Secretary of State:
A movement of this sort [abolition
of slavery in Texas] cannot be con
templated by us in silence; such an at
tempt upon any neighboring country
would necessarily be viewed by this
Government with deep concern; but
when it is made upon a nation whose
territories join the slaveholding Slates
of our Union, it awakens a still more
solemn interest; it cannot be permitted
to succeed without the most strenuous
efforts on our part to arrest a calamity
so serious to every part of our country.
The establishment in the very midst of
our slaveholding States ot an indepnnd
ent Government, forbidding the existe
nceeof slavery, and by a people born for
the most part among us, reared up in
our habits and speaking our language,
could not fail to produce the most un
happy effects upon both parties.”
This, sir, is the great secret of the
opposition to the admission of Califor
nia. It is because they are a people
who accord with us in their hearts and
speajg our language, and have forbid
den the existence of slavery among
them. After the announcement to
which I have referred of the Secretary
of State, Mr, Upshur, the Government
went to work and negotiated a treaty
of annexation. I think it is wrong,
however, to say of annexation—that
Texas was annexed to the United
States. It is not so; the United States
were annexed to Texas, as the matter
was consummated. Texas applied to
us tor annexation. Messrs, Van
Buren and Forsyth belie they had
not the right to do it consistently with
national faith, and they rejected it.
Then we applied to Texas, and she
rejected us; and then a second time we
asked Texas to take us, and she con
sented to do so; and I therefore protest
in the name of justice against calling
it annexation to the United States.
Texas stood off, and we went to her a
second time, and she took us, and the
avowal we made to induce them to do
it was, that we could not maintain and
defend our institution* unless they
came to our fescue. The communica
tion of Mr. Calhoun to Mr. Green,
the American Charge to Mexico, com
municating the annexation of April 19,
1844, says:
And in the next place, that the
step was forced on the Government of
the United States in self-defence, in
consequence of the policy adopted by
Great Britain in reference to the ab
olition of slavery in Texas. It was im
possible for the United States to wit
ness with indifference the efforts of
Great Britain to abolish slavery there.
They could not but see that the bad
the means in her power, in the actual
condition of Texas to accomplish the
objects of her policy, if accomplished,
it would lead to a state of things dan
gerous in the extreme to the adjacent
States.and the Union itself. Seeing
this, the Government has been com
pelled, by the necessity of the case and
a regard to ita constitutional obliga
tions, to take the step it has, as the only
certain and effectual means of prevent
ing it.”
That wae the doetrine advanced by
Mr. Calhoun in his letter to Mr. Green,
and the same doctrine waa insisted on ia
his letter to Mr. Pakenham, the Brit
ish Minister, which I|will not trouble
thp Senate with reading. The letter
is dated the 18th 9f April, 1844, end
declares, in effect, that measure* must
be taken to prevent abolition in Texas,
to guard against the injurious effect on
JOHN SICE, PftiHtM
WHOLE NO. J 25.
us. It was the avowal of theae senti
ments by the the General Government,
thus boldly and unblushingly made,
and the declaration of Mr. Calhoun
that unless those efforts should succeed,
it would involve the whole country,
and not the slaveholding States alone,
in great calamity, that awakened and
aroused the public sentiment at the
North. They saw then the revolution
about to be effected in the Glovernment,
and {hat, instead of quietly employ
ing ourselves at home, we were seek
ing to strengthen our hands by the in
corjroranon orrttjrergn this
Union to sustain the institution of sla
very.
Now, t'n connection with this sub
ject of th£ annexation of Texas, I
come to the recent speech of the Sen
ator from Massachusetts, [Mr. W»«-
stxr,] and I regret as much as any
man beiug compelled to differ from the
honorable Senator. But 1 have this
consolation, that if I differ from the
honorable Senator from Massachusetts
in 1850,1 agree with him in 1848. In
a speech made by him in the Senate in
1848, the distinguished Senator from
Massachusetts used this language.
*‘M/ opposition to the increase of
slavery in this country, or to the in
crease of slave representation in Con
gress, is general and universal. It has
no reference to the lines.of latitude or
points of the compass. I shall oppose
all such extension and all such in
crease, in all places, at all times, under
all circumstances, even against all in
ducements, against all supposed limita
tion of great interests, against all com
binations, against all compromises."—
Mr. Webster in the Senate, August 10,
1848.
1 agree with that sentiment of bis
however I may differ from soma later
things which he has said. I want now
to call the attention of the Senate to
some other remark* of the Senator
from Massachusetts, made upon this
subject in the Senate of the United
States:
"Mr. President, there is no citizen
of this country who is more kindly dis
posed toward the people of Texas than
myself, from the time they
in ao extraordinary a manner, their in
dependence from the Mexican Govern
ment. 1 have shewn, I hope, in an
other plaie, and shall show in all sit
uations and under all circumstances,
rf just and proper regard for the people
of that country; but with respect to ita
annexation to this Union, it is well
known that trom the first announce
ment of any such idea, I have felt it
my duty steadily, uniformly, and zeal
ously to oppose it. 1 have expressed
opinions and urged argument*
it everywhere and on all occasions in
which the subject came under consid
eration,'and could not now, if I were
to go over the whole topic again, ad
duce any new views or support old
views, as far as I am aware, by any
new* arguments of illustration. My
efforts have been constant and un
wavering, but, like those of others,*
they have failed of success. I will,
therefore, in a very few words, acting
under the unanimous resolution and
instructions of both branches of the
Legislature of Massrchusetts, as well
as in conformity to my own settled judg
ment and full conviction, recapitulate
belore the Senate and before the coun
try the objections which have prevailed,
and which always will prevail with me,
against this measure of annexation.
"In the third place, sir, I have to
say, that while I hold, with as much
integrity, I trust, and faithfulness at
any citizen of this country, to all the
origonal arrangements and comprom
ises in which the Constitution under
which we now live was adopted, I never
could and never can persuade myself
to be in favor of the admission of other
States into the Union as slave States,
with the inequalities which were allow
ed and accorded to the slaveholdwf
States then in existence by the Uon
■titution. Ido not think 'th**
States ever«xpected or *ould expect,
that they would be on to admit
fbrther slave having the advan
tages, th* -fltqnal advantages arising
tothern from the mode of apportioning
representation under the. existing Con
stitution.
"Sir, I have never mad* an effort,
and never propose to make an effort; I
have never countenanced an effort, and
never mean to countenance an effort,
to disturb tbe arrangements, as origin
ally made, by which the various States
came into the Union; but I cannot
avoid considering it quite a different
question when a proposition is made to
admit new States, and that they be al
lowed to come in with the same advan
tages and inequalities which existed in
regard to tbe old.
"Now, sir, as I have said, in all this
I acted, under resolutions of the State
of Massaohusetts- certainly concur
ring writh my own judgment—so often
repeated and reaffirmed by the unani
mous consent of all men of all parties,
that 1 could not well go through tbe
•cries, affirming not only tbe impolicy,
but tbe uncoiistitutionalit/ of such an
nexation.
"Besides, experience shows us that
things of this sort may be sprang upon
Congress or the people. It wee so in
the cese of Texes. It was so in thn
twenty-eighth Congress. The members
of that Congress were not cboaen to
decide tbe question of annexation or o#
annexation. They came in on other
grounds, political aqd party, and were
supported for reasons not connected
with this question. What tbeo/ The
Administration sprung upon them the
question of anonexsuon. It obtained a snap judgementupon it, and carried
te measure of annexation.
I think I see a course adopted which is
likaly to turn the Constitution of the
land into a deformed monster —into a
curse, ra'her than a blessing; in fact
ft frame of unequal not
founded on popular representation, not
founded on equality, but on the gros
sest inequality; and I think it will go
on, or that there is danger that it will
go on, until this Union shall fall to
pieces.
“I resist it-—to-day and always!
Whoever falters, or whoever flies, I
continue the contest. I know, sir,
that all the portents are discouraging.
Would to God I could auspicate good
influences. Would to God that those
who think with me, and myself, could
hope for stronger support. Would that
we could stand where we desire to
stand. I see the signs are sinister.
But with few or alone my position is
fixed. If there were time, I would
gladly awaken the country. I believe
the country might be awakened; but
it may be too late. But, supported or
unsupported, by the blessing of God I
shall do my duty. I see well enough
all the adverse indications. But lam
sustuained by a deep and conscien
tious sense ot duty. And while sup
ported by that feeling, and while such
great interests are at stake, defy au
guries, and ask no omen but my coun
try’s cause.”
There, sir, is where the Senator from
MtlMcbuiett* in I
the measure is unconstitutional, and it
is a snap judgment. Now, I ask can
any roan be bound by a snap judgment
unconstitutionally obtained And yet,
sir, in answer to the question I pro
posed to him a few days ago, if he
thinks that this joint resolution adopted
by a majority of the two Houses of
Congress imposed a contract upon us
which was binding, he said that he
does, and that we are bound in good
faith to carry it out, and to admit four
new slave States out of that terrritory
by the force of the obligation imposed
on us by those who passed the resolu
tions. I have nothing to say as to
how that question will be met when it
comes, up and it is not very probable
that I shall be in any public position to
meet it when it does come up; but I
undertake to say, for the present and
hereafter, these resolutions imposed no
obligations on me whatever. I trust I
shall always be reaey to do justice to
Texas, but no consideration of justice
or anything else is imposed npon me by
any obligation growing out of those
resolutions.
It is true that by the Constitution,
Congress has the right to admit a
State, but, because it can do that, it
has no right to connect with that act a
treaty with a foreign nation, out of
which any obligation whatever can rest
on this Government. It is claimed that
Congress made a compact with Texas
—it is put on that ground—and my
answer to it is, that Texas and every
body else knew that Congress, when
it undertook to make that .compact, did
what it had no power to do, and what,
it was expressly prohibited from doing
Did not the President and*Secretary of
State send the matter to the treaty ma
king power; and when it failed did
not the President and those who had
the matter at heart, set aside the tri
bunal to which in the first instance
they resorted, and then appeal to
the two Houses of Congress, as I
conceive, in derogation of the rights
of the Senate, and in violation of its
constitutional privileges? There is
no obligation binding on my con
science growing out of such an act. I
trust I feel as strongly as any Sen
ator here the weight of every obliga
tion which is imposed on an honorable
or an honest man, but I do not consid
er that this subject addresses itself to
me in any such capacity.
Well, sir, there are some curious
coincidencies in relation to this Texas
annexation. The Senator from Mas
achusettsin that very patriotic speech
for which he has been so much lauded
that I cannot in anything in which I
may say about those laudations and
therefore will not attempt it, the Sena
tor undertakes to charge on the De
mocracy ol'the North that they were
governed by the purpose, in their sup
port of the annexation of Texas, avow
ed by the Administration seeking it—
and that was the desire to extend sla
very. But the Senator from Illinois
[Mr. Douglass] says that it is not so,
and he shows us the record as exhibi
ting the fact that every Northern man
in Congress who spoke on the subject
cast from him the proposition of the
Administration, and took another broad
comprehensive, liberal, enlightened,
Wriotic, and Christian view of it, and
aupp«*ted it solely on these considera
tions. Well, sir, there had been some
remarkable »od most astonishing coin
cidences, and thwsurely is one ot them.
1 remember reading m the Pickwiek
papers of another equally remarkable
one. Young Weller was relating the
circumstance of his father being once
engaged to take some voters in his
coach to an election poll. While thus
engaged, the committee on the other
aide met him and suggeated to’him that
there was a dangerous place on the
road, where the coach must certainly
upset, at the same lima insinuating a
£2O note in bis hand. And, said the
aon, in telling of the circumstance, one
of the most extraordinary circumstan
ces was, that when father got to the
place, the coach actually upset, and
the voters were all thrown into the ditch
and did not get to the polls to vote.
Well, air, it aeema that in this trans
action in regard to Texas there is a
coincidence equally astonishing. Th*
moment the Senator from South Caro
lina perceived the necessity of the an
nexation ofTexae for the purpose of
sustaining, strengthening, perpelua
ing, and rendering eternal the institu
tion of human slavery, that moment the
Northern Democracy, before opposed
to it, opened their eyes, and saw it as
a great and glorious national measure.
Just at that moment did they see all
this, and supported the measure, not
for the reasons assigned by the Ad
ministration, but for other reasons of a
very different character. This, in my
judgement, is certainly one of the moet
remarkable and astonishing coinci
dences on record.
There is another, equally astonish-
ing, on this sidd of the chamber, ex
hibited in the course of the honorable
Senator frt»m Massachusetts, who nted
a caveat against anybody taking a pa
tent out for the use of hit thunder, and
who avowed his determination to de
fend it at all times and on all occasions.
At the very time thunder becomes
little annoying in some quarters, and
threatens to Mpbarass the Administra
tion, the Senmor discovers all at once
that the laws of God take care of the
Proviso, and that it wants nothing at
our hands. Where were these laws
of God when the Oregon bill was un
der consideration? Were not those
laws in as full operation in 1848?
as they are in 1850? Does not the
law of God take care of the Proviso up
to 49 degrees, as well as below 36
degrees 30 minutes? Oh, sir, are the
laws of God and the institutions of pi
ety more potent under the present
Administration than they were under
the last? Then it was absolutely ne
cessary to insert the Proviso into the
Oregon bill, but now, that a new Ad
ministration has come in, and thii
thunder is very annoying and disturb
ingto them, all at once it is discover
i ed that there is no sort of necessity foi
haviug any thunder at all, and that th<
laws of God take care of the whai<
i question. And the say* he would no
re-enact the laws of God. Whs
would he do, then? Would he ease
laws in repudiation and condemnation
of the laws of God? All the laws ws
pnaa must be either in accordance witb
t or against the Divine will. Have thet
i not laws in Massachusetts against
t murder, stealing, and perjury? and, i|
so, what are they but the re-enactment
of the laws of God Yet the Senatoi
j declares he would not re-enact the lawi
J of God. Well, sir, I would. And
f when he tells me that the law of God
s is against slavery, it is a most potenl
9 argument to my mind why- we should
J incorporate it with any Territorial bill,
r and against leaving it out.
f [to be continued.]
THE NORTH STAR.
8 ROCHESTER, MAY 16, 1850.
a
I The North Stas in sometimes sent to friends
d who do not take the paper, in the hope that they
a may see fit to subscribe for it. Subscriptions and
I donations for the same may be safely enclosed, ad
-0 dressed to Frederick Douglass, Rochester,
e N.Y.
Y {^Wasted —Several Travellihg Agents,
B to procure subscribers for the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None need apply
but such as can bring good recommendations for
a industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
t erick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
NEW ENGLAND
ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The New England Anti-Slavery Conven
tion will hold its annual meeting in Boston, 01
Tuesday, May 28th, commencing at 1<
o’clock, A. M., and continuing in session
day and evening, (as usual.) for three days
Hitherto, unequalled among all the annivei
sary meetings, whatever their objeet orwhei
ever held in this country, (in regard to ih
interest awakened by it, and the absorbing
nature of its proceedings, there is every rea
son to believe its reputation will be heigbren
ed and the attendance npon it augmented a
its approaching anniversary. Of the man;
crises that have arisen since the anti-slaver)
agitation was commenced, the present is ob
viously the most stirring and momentous, ant
therefore an unprecedented mustering of tht
friends of Freedom and Emancipation should
be witnessed on that occasion.
In behalf of the Board of Managers of tht
Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
Edmund Quincy, Secretary.
Letter front the Editor;
The Sixteenth Anniversary of the Ameii
can Anti-Slavery Society was hejfl, pursu
ant to announcement, on Tuesday morning
May 7th, at Broadway Tabernacle, New
York. At an early hour, the spacious build
ing was densely crowded, and presented i
scene quite animated and exciting. There
were present on this occasion, an unusually
large delegation of the oldest and staunchest
advocates of our much-dreaded cause; and
of the rank and file of our army there were
many in attendance who had never before
participated in the proceedings of our annual
meetings. At ten o’clock, William Lloyd
Garrison,, the Piesident of the Society,
called the meeting to order, and gave the
usual invitation to any who might desire to
address the. Throne of Grace whereupon,
prayer was offered by the Rev. Mr. Grew,
of Philadelphia. This was followed by the
reading of Scripture by Mr.G*«tiaoa. After
which, Francis Jackson, Treasuter of the
Society, submitted his annual report, show
ing that the receipts of the Society for the
pam f or publications and donations,
amounted to the nm of aoven thousand
iseven hundred snd nineteen dollars; sod
that seven thousand four hundred and three
dollars had been expended on newspapers
and agents; thus leaving the Society out of
debt, and cash on hand to the amount of
three hundred dollars.
The business being now completed, Mr.
Garrison vacated the chair, and was an
nounced by Mr. Jackson, who was called to
preside, as the first speaker. He opened bis
address by declaring the objeet of the Amer
ican Anti-slavery Slavery Society to be ben
eficent, glorious and Christ-like; and he
proceeded, for several minutes, in a strain of
earnest argument, to vindicate the anti-ala
very movement from the charge of infidelity.
Up to this time, the entire audience appeared
quiet, orderly and respectable; and although
s feverish excitement was observable to a
practised eye, an outbreak was scarcely to
have been anticipated. The delusion, how
ever, was soon dispelled. Mr. Garrison took
occasion to expose the hollowness and
worthlessness of the various testa by which
the pro-slavery churches of the land decide
as to what constitutes Christian character,
and in so doing, be had the temerity to lay
heavy hands upon the great idol of American
slavery, General Taylor. This was the
signal for a general outbreak and here
commenced a scene of tumult ami uproar
which baft)** a my powers of description. A
loan sad wiry-looking nan, whom I after-
wards discovered to be Be notorious captain
Rbyodera, rote in the gallery immediately
behind the platform, and in a’hoarae and
thundering tone, asked Mr. Garrison if the
Roman Catholie church was the only one
whose members held sieves. Here there
was a general yell firm the outer circle, in
approbation of the interruption. Mr. Garri
son quietly replied, Will the friend wait! 1
will answer him in reference to the other
ehurcbes.” The tempest was here lulled for
a moment, and Mr. Garrison proceeded, but
was speedily interrupted again by hisses,
groans and other hideous noises. It was
now evident that a band of rioters had en
circled the platform and the audience, both fn
the galiery and in the body of the house,
and that Capt. Ryndera was their acknowl
edged leader, whose call they were ready to
obey in any emergency.
Mr. Garrison proceeded in comparative
quiet, until he charged upon General Taylor.
This thoroughly roused the notorious mobo
crst. He sprang to his feet, ea if in s guei
of passion, and in a loud and angry voice,
addressing himself to Garrison, exclaimed,
t< I will not allow you, Sir, to assail the
President of the United States. You shan’i
do it!” Following up his menacing words
in a violent rage, he rushed from the gallerj
to the platform, uttering furious threats to
wards any who should insult the President
He was instantly surrounded by a gang o
his own fraternity and for a few minutei
all was boisterous and terrific uproar. Criet
of Put him out!” from some in the autji
ence, and defiant threats from the mob, for i
time silenced all discussion, and completec
the reign of discord.
In the very midst uf this, the Hutchinsor
family, in the hope of stilling the tempest
commenced one of their plaintive snd heart
touching songs; but this only provokec
louder demonstrations and more insullinf
jeers from the rioters. Jt was impossible for
them to proceed. Quiet was, however, again
partially restored but all hope of proceeding
in order was over. Hooting, groaning, hiss
ing, yelling and low ribaldry were kept up,
with little intermission, throughout Mr.
Garrison’s speech at the close of which,
the rioters called aloud for Mr. Grant, snd
would not permit any speaker to be heard,
prior to their selected champion. Mr. Grant
mounted the rostrum, and, strange’y enough
for the champion of such a cause, he at once
announced his reluctance to interfere with
the rights of the meeting, and would not
press his claims to be heard in opposition to
the will ot the Society.
The Rev. Mr. Furness now took the plat
form, and addressed the meeting, amidst
loud interruptions, for about thirty minutes,
i Mr. Grant then came forward, snd said—
The assertions made about the colored race
being equal to the white man, were an out
rage upon our ‘Heaven-born institutions—an
imposition upon those refined portions of our
inner nature, which exemplify the voice of
God in the laws of man. It had been as
sumed that the black was a man, in the full
sense of the word. This he respectfully
begged leave to deny. It was a ridiculous
pretension, which bad been tolerated too long.
.The speaker then entered into proofs, drawn
from nature and reason, to show the inferi
ority, of the colored race, and that the Creator
had designed the negroes to be inferior in
their original formation. In conclusion, he
said, I repudiate this most abpojious aboli
tion gathering and movement, as unworthy
the age in which we live, snd that goodly
land where w« were born. And I entreat
you all to leave your wild speculations in
view of transcendental n#gr* «lo»*Uun, and
confine your etforta to the elevation of those
capable of being elevated and as sure a|
the sun shall rise will success then orown
yosr efforts; while, as certainly as he sets at
night, will defeat, degradation and ruin over
whelm those who, in their insane course,
violate their own glorious instincts, and the
lawa of Nature and of Nature’s Qod.”
This ridiculous speech, of whiph the above
ia only a faint report, though the speaker
was exceedingly grave, called forth ahouta ol
merriment.
When Mr. Grant gave way, Frederici
Douglass was called for, snd at once came
forward snd addressed the meeting. Thi
readers of the Slar will, probably, have full
reports of all the speeches tnaee on the occa
sion snd it is, therefore, needless that the
writer should speak of his speech in this
place. F. Douglass was followed by Samuei
R. Ward, who, for about twenty minutes,
poured forth a brilliant stream of wit and
humor, and argument, fairly blistering the
Grant, who had presumed to
identify the former with the outsng outang.
At the close of Mr. Ward’s speech, the
Society adjourned, to meet at the Nsw York
Society Library Rooms, Broadway, at three
o’clock io the afternoon
Thus far, the rude disturbers of our meet
ing had little to boast of io the way of suc
cess. They had annoyed snd hindered, but
had not defeated the celebration snd, as il
conscious of their defeat, they rallied, in
numbers in the evening, snd by a wild
chaotic tumult and other rowdy G*a»«n«tra
tions, they succeeded in breaking up the
meeting. This they did in the presence of a
large body of police, whose oath-bound duty
it was to protect the Society in its natural
and constitutional right of pesesful assem
bling and freedom of speech. Broken up in
the evening, the Society again assembled in
the morning, snd was again assailed by the
rigters in the saost coarse and disgraceful
manner. All sense of decency snd propriety
seemed to have forsaken the poor snd des
picable creatures; snd their behaviour even
proved them desiitute of all respect fur
women. Their ribaldry snd obscenity were
poured forth in shameless profusion snd the
presence of ladies, so far from restraining it,
seemed to provoke this vile conduct. Sev
eral of the anti-slavery speakers, (Mr. Grew,
Mr. Garrison, Mr. Burleigh, snd Mr. Phil
lips,) essayed to speak, but in vain. The
mob triumphed sgain, abd that too, in the
presence uf the police; and the meeting was
broken np, the owner of the Hall not being
willing to risk the building longer in the
hands of the mob.
THE VIGILANCE COMMITTEE MUTING.
This was held in the Shiloh Presbyterian
church. It was addressed by S. R. Ward,
Cyras sod William Burleigh. This meeting
was also beset by tbe rioters, who made load
sod repeated calls for Frederick Douglass,
snd were evidently anxious to wreak their
vengeance upon him. The rioters and tbe
police were several times brought into col
lision daring the evening, bat I believe no
ot>e experienced toy bodily *»rm. Th<
me time |M possesion o€ the pl»t
form, aid preset *d a resolution condemns
lory of tbe anti-eLvety movetneflt bat tbej
found thie to be a poor method of amah
for the Resolution was at once voted down
The meeting wap, however, at last virtuallj
broken op by the mob.
I have now given bat a hasy and taper
feet sketch of these meetings, tod of tbe im
pedent aad high-handed ontragea which tgett
inflicted upon them. Thee# acenea afford
food for reflection. What gaft rise to those
riots! Why have they reappwred aj'ler the
lapse of fifteen years! Wb|were they noi
promptly suppressed by the mfoicipal author
ity What does h all mean! Have we t<
tefigbt the battle for liberty if speech, and
the right of peacefully aawmblmg! To
some of these questions tbe apwer is ready
and satisfactory. For weeks put a portion
of the New York press hts termed with th«
most inflammatory appeals to the vindictive
passions of the people of this city against the
abolitionists, sod with partial reference to the
Anniversary of the American S. Society.
Among the newspapers devoted to thu
fiendish work, tbe Now York Herald, Globe,
and Journal tf Crmmerct, have taken the
lead, and brews the palm. No misrepre
•aentatiotm—no perversion*—no carricaturei
have been deemed too and flagrant
with which to enrage the rfrntrr—*r‘y again*
the proposed meeting. Tkey have appealet
to the mob, in the n<*mq of self-interest, ai
New Vorkqp, coramerciaffy connected wit!
tho South—in the name of the Constitution
by whieh the Unien exists—in the name oi
the Church—in the name of the ministry—ii
the name of religion, patriotism and all good
institutions, to coma to tbe rescue, and frown
down this anti-slav«ty agitation and in an
swer to those appeals, the bar-rooms, the
reatarautsuia, the lanes and alleys and other
parts and places that must be nameless, came
forth, to show their respect for the law, and
their esteem tor religion If further in
vestigation be nude into the causes of these
disgraceful proceedings, it will not be found
that the violence of Abolitionists is among
them for the mob assembled and commenced
operations before anything was said on the
subject. They bad no right to expect that
the proceedings if the meeting would differ
materially from three of meetings peacefully
held by the same Society in former years,
It is, therefore, to be affirmed, that the mob
must find responsibility for its existence else
where than in lbs unprudence and violence of
Abolitionists. I tbuk he was not far. from
truth who declared that for this riot Daniel
Webater and recreant Northern Sen
ators ought to be Md responsible. It would
be a shame to Ax we blame upon the ignor
ant and misguided tven who only acted the
part marked out for them. What cared
these rioters fur the church or for the laws!
They coaid have k> motive but to please
their employers. 9ut, by whatsoever cause
these disgraceful proceedings may have been
induced, it is difficult to feel much indigna
tion towards the immediate actors in them.
They, for the most part, were of that dea
cription of peraona who would as readily
mob a slaveholding meeting, as they would
an anti-slavery"meeting, were the same base
inducements offered them to do so. I leave
tiiis feature of this week’s scenes with the
remaik, that tbe fast that bar-ioom ruffians
and other disgraceful character, nave mads
i hern selves the especial defenders and pro
tectors of the chugh and the religion of
our country, is in a testimony direct as
lightning, against fed church, and far more
injurious to the repuktion of American re
ligion, than all the exposures to which it
has been eubjecled by the writings and
speeches of Aboiitiotdsts.
THE NORTH STAR FAIR.
have occupied a (fasiderable portion of my
time, during the preset week, in attendance
upon this Exhibition, which is now in the full
tide of successful exjfcnment. It is held in a
very neat, though rater contracted Hall, on
Grand Street, four floors from Broadway—
(quite a favorable taettion.) The collection
of articles for sale if much larger than we
had expected to see,find it embraces a very
great variety. The N*r York ladies have dis
played.excellenuaeteind judgment in the ar
rangfement of the Haimaking the most of the
narrow limits in whiel they are placed. They
have received valuaMl contributions from the
Ladies’ Association oi|Pbiladelphia,(and from
the Western New STtfk Anti-Slavery Socie
ty. In addition to three, a large box of goods
has been received freff our Engfisn friends,
in reference to which flore wffl be said here
after, and due acknowledgements be made
by the N. Y. Assertion. We have only
time to say that the Indies of this city hare
done themselves marfed credit by their indus
try and prseveranee infers effort. They have
contributed largely Ahead and worsted fatv
.11 ml wkufe S#* «L«.U »nd aU
gant description. Wtuust not omit to men
tion that a young colored artist has presented
to tbe Association several finely executed
pictures, which are tastefully exhibited, and
add mueh to the decoration of the room.
Each evening of tlte Fair baa been enlivened
by music, vocal and instrumental. Mies
Greenfletd of Philkdbfpis, haa charmed tbe
assembled throngs wife her sweet voice, ac
companied by the piano, while Professor
Jackson fairly electrified the lovera of music
by hie wonderful performances on the violin.
I have never heard a violinist whose skill so
nearly resembled that of die greet Norwegian
master of that instrument.
1 deeply regret lo state that much g!oom
was east over the early part of the Fair, by
the sodden demise of MA‘Crummell, a lady
who had evinced from the first the liveliest in
terest in arrangements tci fee proposed Fair,
and who had exerted herself beyond her
strength to render the occasion successful.
Her loss is keenly felt by the Association,
and her example ia good works will not soon
be forgone*.
_ I
ANxivnasAKY or nut uibeicam and roa
■tew ANTI-SLavatT society.
I was ouly present daring fee speech of
tbe Rev’d Henry Ward Beecher who pour
ed forth one continuous strain of eloqueoce
for mow than an hour. He eoeeeedod in res
etting tbe attention of fee wet assemblage de
spite fee miserable.’attempts at interruption
undo byafow of the baser, eon who had
•weooe«d themselves hi the f gallery. The
meeting was also addressed by Mr. Lewis of
Cincinnati, and Mr. Ward.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
MB From the N. Y. Globe.
M*k Instructions.
The right to assemble peaceably for the
overthrow of the government is nowhere
guaranteed by the Constitution, though for
ibe redreas of, greviances such assembling of
the people is Constitutional, and we hold
every man who aids and abets the avowal of
immediate and unconditional emancipation
of the slaves of the Union, to be a “traitor at
heart” unworthy to enjoy the liberty achieved
by onr fathers. A traitor not only to the
country, but to the very blood which he de
rived his tight to his own freedom—a traitor
to that instrument which never could have
been framed, had such a spirit at now pre
vails in this Anti-Slavery Society governed
the councils of the men who framed it. Tne
meetings must not be held even though Van
Buren himself shonld bring the Buffalo plat
form hpre for a seat, on which he would pre
side over the orgies which must follow such
gatherings.
No public building—no not even the streets
must be desecrated by such a proposed as
semblage of traitors.

If this Deuglaaa shall re-proclaim his Syra
cuse treason here, and any man shall arrest
him in his diabolical career and not injure him,
thousands will exclaim in language of pat
riotic love for the Constitution and rights of
Souih '-p lO HE NOT STRIKE THE
VILLAIN DEAD.”
These invitations to M-k, h
the New York Herald, were so far effective
as to induce Captain Rynders, with some of
his “Club,” to attend and attempt to break up
and Abolition Meeting at riie Tabernacle.
The infamy of such tmmhings are only
raa.ched by their folly.
The right to meet and discuss any and
every public question is undeniable. The au
tempt to put down Free Speech by violence
is as undeniably wrong. The course, there
fore, can have no other effect than to increase
and extend {he Anti-Slavery feeling and sen
timent. By all such incendiary teachings,
and lor all such outrages, Abelitionism pro
fits.
Such papers aa .the Herald and Globe,
therefore, are largely influential in promoting
Anti-Slavery action, and aggravating Anti-
Slavery excitement. The Globe is laboriug
in its Doughface vocation. The Herald lives
by pandering to all that is atrocious and vile.
Alb. Eve. Journal.
A Dark Basinets.
We intensely sympathize with our Demo
cratic fellow-citizens, Prof. Grant, Capt.
Isaiah Rynders, Hon. E. Sickles, etc. for
the severe discomfiture they experienced at
the Abolition Convention at the Tabernacle
yesterday. Unsuccessful in their attempts to
1 kick up a row of respectable dimensions, they
attempted, tor once in their lives, to teason,
and, being invited to the stand, undertook to
demonstrate that the negro is not a human
being, though the learned Professor thought
ho belonged to the genus homo; and then he
launched out into the sea of learning, cited
naturalists, quo<«d Latin, talked of veitebias,
cerebellums, &c., using scientific and medical
terms in such profusion as to make himaeil
ridiculous and excite the risibility of the au
dience hugely. A person of due shrewdness
and learning might possibly have rendered
this position plausible, but those qualities
were sadly lacking on the side of the Democ
racy on this occasion.
Frederick douglass took them in hand, and
skinned them. But the Democracy wouldn’i
give it up so. “O, yo i are not a nigger!’
exclaimed the Rynders chorus; “you art
half-blooded; a real nigger can't reason.’
Whereupon Rev. Sam. R. Wasd—a genuine
Nigritian, ;black aa the ace of spades in s
deep cellar on a tajny tpii|night—took the
door, and fairly extinguished the party—
learning, sciepcg. huua, ■*«n
wctu uown in a neap, and the audience wers
thoroughly convinced that if anybody presem
was proved nephew of a rather dull ourang
outang, is was professor Grant; if anybody
the first cousin of t yejy vicious monkey, ii
was Capt. Isaiah Rynders.—When theii
party evacuated the Tabernacle, they looked
as if perfectly resigned to the discipline o
crawling through a very small knot-hole.—
Tribune.
From the N. Y. Evangelist.
Am. Aatl«Bla?sry Society,
The meeting of this Society was disgraced
by one of those violent outrages which we
had hoped belonged only to times gone by.
For some days the columns of a notorious
print of this city had teemed with calls upon
the mob to be present at the meetings of this
Society, but little apprehensions were felt
that the call would be responded to. At an
early hour, therefore, the Tabernacle was
filled with an assembly, of whom a large
portion were ladies. The meeting was called
to order by Mr. Garrison, who, in accord
ance with the usage of this Society, an
nounced that if any one felt disposed to en
gage in audible prayer to the God of the op
pressed, an opportunity was now' presented.
This invitation was embraced by Theodore
Parker. Mr. Garrison then read a series of
extracts from Scripture, which he sarcastic
ally remarked was recognized by the Ameri
can people as containing the will of God.
Francis Jackson, Esq., the Treasurer, then
read an abstract of the Treasurer's report.
Mr. Garrison, having resigned the Chair
to Mr. Jackson, proceeded to say that the
object of the American Anti-Slavery Society
was the entire abolition of slavery in the
United States, by peaceable and moral mesns.
The Society, however, lay under a great
weight of popular odium, and all manner of
evil was said against them falsely. They
were chuced with being infidel in their views
and designs, with bavins in view th« uherior
onject or subverting the church of Christ.
He wished to take the ecclesiastical bull by
the horns; end in order to do this and show
the falsity of the charge, he must do some
thing else, and show the utter worthlessness
of all the usual and ordinary tests applied at
the present day to determine Christian char
ter.
We all agreeed, he mid, that slavery is an
svil and to be abolished aa soon as possible,
this be done by the churches? He took
ip then one by one the leading religious de
lominations of the country, and prooeeded to
irgue that they were aii implicated in the sin
if slavery, and so could not do inythiog for
ts overthrow. He was speaking in particu
ar of the Roman Cathoik Church, when the
irst interruption was made by a notorious in
ividual, known as Captain Rynders, who
sked if the Catholics were the only ones
vho held slaves? Mr. Garrison replied that
le waa about to answer that very question,
nd went on in hia speech. Alter arguing
hat all denominations of Christians were aU
sagued hand in hand in favor of oppression,
ie proceeded in his peoulisrlv calm and cut
ing style, to speak of all the various tests
ommonly applied to Christian character, and
o declare them perfectly nugatory, inasmuch
a conformity to them waa fashionable, and
very body was in favor of them. Thus, belief
i the Bible was nothing, for that was the
rost fashionable book in the country; every*
ody had it, except the slaves. Observance
f the Sabbath was popular, so that we had
ven united Church and State iu order to
unish those who ahoold violate it. Belief in
esua was not a test, for hie praises were on
very ooe’s Ups. Everybody believes in
HUS.
At this poiet tbe interruption began in
iroest, and a scene ensued which defies ail
;tempts at reporting. Rynders and his
tends advaosed to tbs siege; shouts sod
tes wers heard from aii parts of the house.
The Tabernacle presented an almost fright
ful scene. Rynders *m the chief spokes
man; ho wa#heard vociferating that do man
white be lived should abuse his country, its
laws, or rolera. Mr. Garmon kept the floor
duriof all the uproar, smiling calmly, sod not
appenng the least disoomposed. A momeot’a
lull occurring, be proceeded to finish his
speech in the esme strain in which he hsd
commenced; asserting thet when s cause was
persecuted, then only was it s teat of Chris
tian character, and declaring that at the pre
sent day the sen-slavery cause was that teat;
and concluded by offering a resolution to that
general purport.
The mob now recommenced their outcries,
calling upon Rynders for s speech, hut the
fellow had screamed himself hoarse, and
wished to devolve that task upon a confrere,
one Dr. Grant. The chairman then an
nounced that Rev. Dr. Futnisa of hhiladel
pbia, would address the meeting; the mob
cried out for Grant. It its* at last announced
that after Dr. F. hsd spoken, an opportvnity
would be given for Dr. G. to spesk, which
was seceded to on condition that he should
not occupy more than fifteen minutes.
Dr. Furnisa then proceeded to make a very
eloquent speech,in which he declared that he
did not shrink from the name of abolitionist
from anv fear of the obloquy connected with
it, but, if at all, from fear* that he had nc
right to bear it. Persecution, obloquy and
danger, was the price at which a man earned
the right to that name, and these he had noi
encountered. He a marked tribute u
Frederick Douglass as being an abolitionist
for not only was he opposed to slavery, bui
had abolished it in his own person. He
spoke of Henry JBrown, and the magical bos
into which a slave was put, worth a few hun
th l* ol was jolted a few milei
l *—<ww*w«*ancea. and wher
opened, up sprung a freeman, worth a suer
beyond computation. Dr. Furmaa spoke
with great animation and fluency; and it ma)
easily be conceived that it required no Bligh
degree of moral courage for a man of the re
tiring and studiouacharacter that characterize!
him in a high degree, to stand up in such i
scene, and amid such frequent mleriuptiom
as he was subjected to.
Dr. Grant, the champion of the mob, non
look the floor. This.worty, if we recolleci
alight, some years since engaged in a contro
versy with Dr. J. McCune Smith, in whict
he was sadly worsted. Hia remarks are u
terly unworthy of mention, being directed tc
prove from physiological giounds, that the
negro was not a human being. They wen
irterlarded with technical anatomical terms,
every repetition of which caused roais ol
laughter from- his worthy associates, aiu
were evidently only made to pass away the
time until the mob might decide upon some
course of action.
When Dr. Giant had finished what h<
could say, loud cries were raised for Fred
erick Douglass, who advanoed to the front 01
the stage, which was now completely cov
ered with the mob. We shall give no sketcli
of his speech, which considering the occa
sion and circumstances, was one of the moa
masterly which we ever heard. To everj
interruption from the mob he replied with i
keenness of wit which drew down repealec
bursts of applause from the mob themselves
and which their worthy leader himself war
fereed to lead. He described himself as the
son of a slaveholder (and only half a nigger
shouted Rynders,) and so half-hrother to you
yourselves, said Douglass. (Yes, yea, wel
done, waa the answer.) He described him
self as bearing on hia back the marks of th<
whip, as himself having stood up in the marl
for sale; of himself haVing been a refugee—
as Kossuth waa a refugee but the other day
He spoke of amalgamation enforced by slave
holders, of the colored woman who, should
she lift a band in defense of her virtue mighi
be suuck dead with impunity (that’s false
said Hyndeis.) It is true. the law of Virgi
ma declares that a white man against whoa
a slave raises a band, may strike him dead
(that’s another thing, at least in intent, an
swered Rynders.) jj e »poke 0 f himself ant
his race shut out from every honorable avoca
tion, and forced tq jive h> such Swj
_ —nnu considering the narrow limits ir
which they were forced, he was astonisbec
that they did as nobly as they did. All they
asked was that the foot should be taken ofl
them, and they would rise—not rise to cui
their masters’ throats. That waa not theli
way. They had had the razor in their handi
for years, and the worst they had done wat
to cut hair. I care not, said he, if lam dee
cended from a monkey aa Dr. Grant asserts.
1 have eyes, and that is proof that 1 was mad<
by God to see. I k« e a bead to think, i
heart to feel, and a tong.* to speak, anc
that is proof that God made me v, think, anc
feel, »ud speak. He declared that iW war
his country, and heie he would stay, and v
it would contribute whatever honesty, integri
ty and industry could do.
The speech waa throughout admirable, anc
the rioters themselves found it so; a flush,
partly of shame, partly of admiration, passed
ever the visage of the leader of the ruffians,
as he stood within a yard of the speaker, whe
occasionally turned his addrvss to him and bie
confreres, who certainly never before had an
opportunity of listening to so sound a speech.
Rev. Samuel Ward, a colored man, then
spoke. His speech was remaikably appro
priate and eloquent, and was received with
equal favor, but our limits forbid us 10 attempt
a sketch. The time for adjournment having
arrived, the meeting was closed. On oui
passage from the room, we heard Rynders
exclaiming to his comrades, “He spoke the
truth, it was all true, and it waa right foi
htm to say it.” So that, after all, the only
result of this last mob-attempt, waa to give i
ceitain class of men, who otherwise nevet
would have enjoyed the opportunity, occasioi
to listen to two most eloquent and able vin
dications of the coloied race, made by cotorec
men themselves. And we are much mistaken
if they are not found wiser men for the
lesson.
SECOND DAY.
The sctndalons effbits made op Tuesday
by the grmmt Captain of the Empire Club and
his gang to bieak up the meetings of the So
ciety, did not seem to produce much effects
upon the members; for some before the per
iod for opening the doors on Wednesday
they began to gather in Ibe Library Hall, and
from the little observation which they seem
ed to attiaet, there appeared reason to hope
for a tolerably quiet meeting. The audience
of meobers got quietly seated before the gang
began to appear. Perhaps not more than
800 or 850 persons were there for quiet and
orderly purposes: of these some 50 or more
were ladies, and about the same numbei
colored persons. At the eotnoM nf aa,.
Garrison some little applause was given, and
close at hia heels came the “Law and Order”
party, headed by Rynders. They at first
took their station around the upper tier ot
seats in the lobby, and were very respectfully
quiet (for them) during the first 30 minutes
of the proceedings.
Wm. Loyd Garrison, President of the So
ciety, called the meeting to order, and in
quired for the resolutions which were offered
to the meeting on the day previous.
Sami. Brooke, Jas. W*. Walker, and Sami.
Macy Jr. were then named a« a Finance
Com mittee; and a Nominating Committee waa
appointed.
The resolutions haying been brought for
ward were then read.
Reaolved, That while Daniel Webster has
most basely and gratuitously yielded him
self to the service of the Slave Power, and
betrayed the constitutional right of bis
constituents by pledging hia support to Ma
son’s atrocious bill for tbe seizure of fugitive
slaves, and the punishment of those who
•hall in any manner assist such fugitives—
in all that is essentially criminal in •tevehold
mg and slave-catching be is do more blame
worthy than Wm. H. Seward, Horace Mann,
John P. Hate, and the great body of the peo
ple of the North; for they concede to the
slaveholder the legal right to bqg and re-
cipuwe hi* runaway slave* on Fra* Soil, dif
fcnnf with Mr. Webster in regard to certain
judical proceedings in auch case*, and demand*
f °y i ur 7 trial solely for their own personal
freedom.
fjescilved, That it is tb* highest insult to
ln f u, er| y degrading to our commoo
nature to allow an; human being to b*»put
on trial, whether befbie Judge or Jury, as the
property of another for it i, not competent
or any human tnbunai to e o ,en.i„
tion so monatrous and preposterous.
I. J Tb ".h*' N ,lh “«W
ly bjond to do, on the ecore of abeolute jua
tice and common humanity, ia to declare
that every human being ia free aa soon aa ho
touches her soil; and that the question of bis
being the chat tie of another shall never be le
gally entertained, in any case, on sny pre
tense; but this the North cannot constitution
ally do, until she dissolves the bonds which
connect hei with the alaveholdmg South.
Several speakers then attempted to interest
the meeting,but without success. TheTVtfwu
gives a sketch of the disgraceful scene that
followed, from which we cull a small ax tract
as a sample.
Mr. Garrison then introduced Mr. Hen
ry Drew of Philadelphia, who spoke in sup
port of the fiest resolution.
Lobby. “Douglass” “Three cheers for
Constitution” “Ha, Old Garrison, ire you
Jeeus?” “Hoorah!” “Put him out!” “iC
it, let the man ask bis question!” The noise
gradually subsided, and finally, after much
hesitancy, the question was propounded.
Mantn Crou d —Will the speaker allow me
tf mean# by Christian, if m
Abolitionist be not one*
LM ?,r H,! “You’re d d
jWBUy Clmatian—in a horn;” "S-*.*..
woo dnnkv 40 i4e i
Th. Report of >h. Tribune >h.u>o<*ul,;
lhe Policemen then came in and verv
quietly cleared the place. ¥ery
1 hus closed Anti-Slavery- free discussion
in New-York for 1830. ncussion
Having been driven from all chance of
,n hlsCl,y member, of
the Anti-Slavery Society, ,n the afternoon,
held a private meeting at the Sailor.’ Home
in Cberry-st. where the* following
were inttoduced by the Business Commit™#
and unanimously adopted:
Whereas, The meetings of this Society
at the instigation of Bennett's Herald Th#
(which are uamfestly m the pay 0 f the
Slaveholding banditti,) have been riotously
interrupted so as to render all ordeily Dro
ceedings impossible; and F
Whereas. The Mayor of New-Yoik th*
Chief of the Police and the High Sheriff
have been cognizant of this brutal
non, but evidently unwilling to make efforts
to restrain it, even so much aa by personal
appeal and remonstrance, to the utter pro.-
tration ot the most sacred rights, and to th*
nutriment peril of the lives of peaceful meJ
Resolved, That we leave the odium of
these disgraceful fact, to rest upqn this City
—a broad and black stain; and proclaim to
the war d, that freedom of speech and right
peaceably to assemble together, in New-York
are enjoyed only to the extent that a fowled
mob cbooae to allow.
Resolved —That when the profane, tb*
drunken, the licentious, the lawless rally to
gether to up the meetings of the Am
erican Arm-Slavery Society, by groaning
bellowing, and making the mas? beastfy
noises, and uttering the foulest language—
ecoffing at .11 appeals to reason decency
and manly conduct; and when, at the same
time, they give “th re S c h eer s for the
Ghuich, three cheers for the Constitution
and “three cheers tor the Union,” we sub.
mit to a candid world whether the highest
evidence is not furnished that the Church
the Constitution, and the Union are against
God and ageing* liberty, and have entered
Into “acovcnant with death,” and “with hell
are at agreement;” and that this .oosiy fo
engaged in a godlike enterprixe, and deserves
of evary pure and aohl*
Resolved, That the progress of th* Anti-
Slavery enterpnae, from the beginning hither
to amid apposition, persecution and reproach
from victory to victory, has been furnishing
con.mual illustrations of the truth that it .1
divinely ordained that all men must aid the
cause of right, willingly or unwillingly b»
the measures which form a love to the nuse
they employ for its promotion, or by these
which, from hatred to it, they blindly use to
counteract it; and, therefore, that to falter
«?i7 in ur j ai,h 01 ,et d scour *gement abate
nd aCUTUy becaua of lh many
amstranons of lh ‘enacious vital.
Ind*! 16 T* 114 greediness, the subtle wiles
and teinble atrength of Slavery, would anmj
lh.l trust in moral powu. which haaCfti
sustained and animated ua. ,ar
Resolved, That the events of
week and the events of the past year reaent
viving violence of the pro-slavery mob* .jT
seemingly successful struggles uf Slirert
for a wide extension of its domain, the d*f ec
tion of men of note and influonce and power
ful intellect, who have claimed to be and
ought to be among the foremost and the
firmest “to oppose that extension at all times
under all circumstances, against all induce
ments, against ait supposed limitation of great
interests, against all combinations, against
all compromises,” instead of disheartening
the faithful laborers in the Anti-Slavery eauae,
will rather fire them with freah zeal, and’
stimulate them to new exertions; teaching
them that, under God, the only hope not of
the slave alone, but of the country, is in their
fidelity, energy and perseverance.
The following resolution was offered by
Joseph A. Dugdale of Ohio, and adopted;
Resolved, 1 hat a merely quiet testimony
against the inhuman and diabolical system of
Slavery is practical infidelity against the
democratic gospel of glad tidings uttered by
the great son of Mary, whose teachings were
intended to kindle moral revolution in the
hearts of men, in “proclaiming liberty to tb*
captives” to abolish the infernal system of
American chattelisau; the church which would
sustain ita fidelity to God must not only be
characterized by an inward faith, but demon
atrate the same by au outward fruit.
[From die report of th« N. Y. 1 ribune. j
American and Foreign Aa ti -Slavery
The Tenth Anniversary of the American
and Foreign Anti-slavery Society was cel#
brated yesterday afternoon in the Broadway
Tabernacle. In lhe absence of the Presi
dent, tha meeting waa called to order by Mr.
Lewis Tappan, who pioposed that the Chair
should be taken by Hon. William Jay, one
of the Vice Presidents of the Society. After
prayer by Rev. Mr. Woodson, a colored
clergyman of Pittsburgh, Mr. Jay remaikad
that he should request the attention of the au
dience to some observations, which, not
wishing to trust to the language of the mo
ment, he had committed to paper. He then
read a carefully worded address, criticising
Mr. recent position with great se
verity, and taking rapM view of the pigiti
cal condition of the country, a* regard, the
Slavery questioo. He considered it pregnant
with dangerous results. The time had come
to teat the sincerity of the Anti-Slavery senti
ment in thie country. Mr. Webster had not
taken his ill-omened measures merely on his
own respooatbihtv. They were brought for
ward aa cool New-England speculation—
the cotton interest of Massachusetts call* for
ibeir adoption—and the gentry of Boston are
backing op their champion in terms of en
couragement tad adulation. Mr. Webster
baa taken hie stand. The court# proposed
m hi* thunder, although be may get it stolen
from him, a* be did in the ease of the Wilmot
PiOTieo. Mr. Jay ooncluded hi* Addreaa,
which was elaborate and arguraentive, with
an earnest appeal to the citizens of the Free
States to give no countenance to the scheme
for surrendering fugitives from Slavery,
which he pointedly condemned as hostile to
every sentiment of religion and humanity.
After Mr. Jay had brought his remarks to
a close, Hon. Samuel Lewis ol Cincinnati
proposed a resolution that no aid should be
given in delivering up the fugitives from bon
dage, which' he accompanied with a few briel
and pithy romaiks. The Tabernacle by this
__ lime had become crowded with an immense
audience, among which were a great num
ber of ladies, and a small band of obstrepe
rous persons on the north-west corner of the
gallery, who kept up a running fire at the
apeakers, wherever the chance for a good
shot occurred.
Mr. Lewis Tappan then read a brief ab
atract of the Annual Report, and presented
a long seiiea of resolutions, from which we
take the following:
Resoloed That slavery still exists, con
trary to the letter and spirit of the Constitu
tion and the intention of its framers, and that
iu introduction into newly-acquired. Territo
ries would be an act of treason to Liberty,
and an outrage upon the memories of our Fa
thers.
Resolved That in the Language .of Senator*
Seward, “there is a higher law than the
Constitution;’’ and in the language of Sir
William Blackatone, human laws are of no
validity, if contrary to this;” and that all
compromises between Right and Wtong, and
all atalutea which are repugnant to Humanity
and Justice, are null and void.
Resolved, That we are cheered with the
noble conduct of the Liberty-loving member*
of Congress, who amid threats of violence
and disunion b/ j fnvpagniniisis are
true to the ordinance of 1787, and the cause
of Freedom and Humanity; and that the
thanks of this meeting be (specially given to
the Senators and Representatives who have
so eloquently vindicated the Constitution, the
friends of the Slave and the Right of Petition;
and who have contended so ably for Califor
nia, Union and Fieedom, without compro
mise, and illustrated with so much force
Southern aggression, and the comparative
effects of Slavery and Freedom.
Resolved,, That Daniel Webster, by his
disregard of early profession, his treachery to
Humanity and Freedom, and his servility to
the Slave power, has forfeited the respect
and confidence of his constituents and coun
ty-
Resolved, That we view with astonish
ment the abetting of the Massachusdtts Sen
ator in his aposiacy and inhumanity by then
eminent in the learned professions, in litera
ture and in the Cffurch; and that the Chain
recently presented to him in this city is a fit
emblem of the spirit of those who bestowed
and him who received it.
Resolved, That the great Anti-Slavery
struggle is not between the Northern and
Southern States, but between the 113,000
Slaveholders of the South, and the friends of
Liberty throughout the country; and that we
consider it a highly encouiaging sign of the
times that Anti-slavery sentiments are so rap
idly gaining ground in the Slave States and
in the District ofColumbia.
Resolved, That the illegal imprisonment of
colored sailors from the North in Southern
ports, the outrages upon Northern citizens
travelling at the South on lawful business,
the violations of the Post Office, and the ma
ny other breaches of the Constitution by the
the slave power, should be sternly withstood
by the competent authorities.
Rev. Henry Ward Bccoser then came
iM>on the platform in front of the pulpit, ev
idently desiring a large space, a fair field and
no favoi, with several pamphlets under bis
arm. Laying those on the desk, he said that he
hoped nobody weuid be alarmed at the sight
of his notes, as if he was going to preach a
sermon—they would hear something before
he got through quite different from the com
mon run of sermons.
He intended to consider two points: 1. The
wrong stand point which many took on the
subject; 2d. The question which is often
asked, What do you mean to do?
He wished the question to be looked at in
a Christian point of view. He would ask,
What made a Chrhtian nation? Not the
perfect embodiment of Christian principles
in her institutions; forjudged by this test, no
nation could claim to be Christian. This
was the woik of time by gradual progress; it
will be long before the sublime idea of a
Christian Commonwealth will be fully real
iced. But we apply the term Christian to
auy nation that professes to square its opin
ions andregulale its conduct by the laws of
Christianity. In this sense, Great Briiain
and the United States might be called Chris
tian, for they professed to direct their course
by the rulea ot the Bible.
New what is th« radical-essential idea of
Slavery? It is that a slave js not a man. 1
do not, said Mr. 13. trip the slaveholder into
tins definition. I take it from their own leg
islators and jurists. Igo to South-Carolina
and Louisiana for authority, add no one can
doubt that they are othodox in matters of
Slavery. Mr. B. then read several passages
from the laws ot those Slates in illustration
of this point. The slave then, said he is a
cbsitle, not a person but a thing, a beast of
burden, and hard worked at that, deprived of
every human right, and no one suffered even
to teach him to read without being sent to the
penitentiaiy. [That’s a lie, said a voice iu
the gallery.] [l’ve no doubt you know,
said Mr. B. for I’ll bet you’ve been there.]
He then went on to show the enormity of the
frinciple rtf transforming a man into a thing.
shquld like to see it tried in New-Yoik.
Could you reduce our industrious cartmen to
a level with the horses they drive? No. The
love of liberty springs up immortal in the
haman breast. 1 have been a gaidener,
something of a farmer, and of all earthly em
blem* of eloinuy, l know nothing thtt mir
paues purslain in a garden. You dig it up,
out it up by the roots; smaller it in piles,
bury it below the surface, it will live for a
month, spile of all you can do, and take root
befoie you think of it. Bo it is with liberty
in the soul. No power that does not kill its
immortal life can deprive it of this blessed
aspiration.
Mr. B. then alluded to two important facta
—one, that Slavery in this view never exis
ted in New-England and New-York, the
system there regatding the Slave not as a
chauis, but as a perpetual apprentice, the
other that the comparison of a Southern
Slave with a Northern Laborer is altogether
ICltactuun.
It is impossible, said Mr. O. to
such a system by any piinciple of the Bible.
It is contrary to Nature, to God, (tor God is
Nature and Nature laGod, though not in the
Pantheistic sense,) and at war with every
sentiment of Christianity. In answering the
second question proposed, Mr. B. said every
man, and especially every minister, is bound
to express bis abhorrence of this damnable
system, even though he should incur the
■aortal hatred of the South, and be exposed
to the gibbet, or published in the Journal oj
Commerce. Every man must let it be koown,
not that lie is an Abolitionists in the technical
sense of that term, but that because he is a
Christian, he has no tolerance of Slavery.
Tbs preacher ia not to weave his fine-drawn
subtleties, toor sport his abstruse views set tc
thetorical music, but come right down on the
Iniquities romp and not outaide the
Tabernacle, and in it too. Mr. B. drew a
eatirieal picture of thoee evangelical cham
pions who first look circumspectly round and
see where the deni has been an d then let fly,
and after a tribute to Webster, whose blun
ders era never mads in bis log ice Or his
knowledge, but never fail to be made in his
■torsi action, and a few ironical compliment*
to the Journal of Commerce for lately putting
on a pair of long ears in discuasing the dutiei
of the pulpit, he concluded h« highly orig
pal and affective address.
From the N. V. Tribune.
New-Vork State Vigilance Committee.
The New-Yotk State Vigilance Committee
held its Anniversary last night at the Shiloh
Presbyterian Church corner of Prince and
Manson sis. The meeting was called to or
der by Rev, Mr, Josselyn. There was no
written teport, but the Secretary made a ver
bal statement of the doings of the Committee.
During the past yesr they have assisted 151
fugitive slaves, beside carrying on several
cases in Southern Courts, some of which
have terminated favorab'y. One case in Prinec
George's Co. Md. is still pending. The Com
mittee have also taken the initiatory steps for
prosecuting for the freedom of a family of 7
children and 8 grandchildren. Their hope is
based on the freedom of the grandmother,
who was kidnapped, proof of which is abun
dant. This case will require 1750 to carry it
through, and bonds to the amount of $250
must also be entered for each person. There
is one more case concerning 40 persons, the
maternal ancestor of whom was a free Irish
woman. The Committee have had for the
past year a salaried agent, by whom these
cases in Court have been prosecuted.
The Treasurer’s Statement wss then
read, from which it appears that $1,740
have been received during the year, and $l,-
3GO, expended; there areat present in the
Treasury $530. The Treasurer read exuacts
from a letter of Gerritt Smith, which gave
the signal for a set of disgraceful rowdies,
who had just entered, to get up a tumult.
Many of these fellows came upon the floor of
the Church at first, but finding too many re
spectable people there, crept sheepishly out
and conrgegated in the dark corners of the
gaHery. Quiet was soon restored, where
upon Rev. Mr. Ward, a colorod clergyman,
addressed the meeting.
v,u"unenced by reading a resolution to
the effect that the Committee is cheered by
the snccess of the past year and the smiles of
Divine Providence, and will continue, in spite
oi any laws that may be passed and any op
position they may encounter, to help the
fugitive from bondage. He responded entirely
to the sentiments of the resolution. There
are circumstances conceivable, under which
every person present would give his hearty
assent to it. There are a great many men
who cannot appreciate what the Abolitionists
must do, or what the bjack man must feel.
Bravery is a national characteristic of the
Americans. [Applause.] Our people never
showed themselves otherwtse than brave; but
among the elements of bravery is generosity.
There have been occasions when the Ameii
can people have shown their brave and gen
erous feelings in a manner to do them honor.
The speaker referred to the efforts of Ameri
can Missionaries—to the general liberality to
ward all sects, and to the ready interest they
express inallstruggles for freedom elsewhere.
The American heart beats with sympathy for
all who suffer under oppression. [Applause.]
The cases of France, Ireland and Hungary
were then adduced. When reference was
made to those countries the American people
expressed their sentiments in a brave and
generous manner. But when we consider
the case of men who are born on our own
soil—who endure such crushings and oppres
sions as no people have ever endured—our
;>gop]e show a different feeling. Here I can
not agree with them. 1 am an American:
[laughter—cries of “a black one!”] yes, a
black American! the son of a father who
fought in the Revolution! [cheers] —a black
citizen of New-York—a black American am
I—[applause]—gloriously black! [Laughter
and applause.] I am black, but I wear what
black 1 have on the outside! [Laughter.]
When the case of a black man comes before
our fellow-citizens, they don’t feel with the
same sympathy they exercise toward op
pressed of other nations. [Yells and distur
bance.] It seems that there is some differ
ence of oppinion here, but it is one of the pe
culiarities of American citizens that they cas
differ, and differ kindly; may we differ kindly
to-night! The.esTe people who make excep
tions in their sympathy; I make none. Let
any man apply this matter to himself, and
then he will reason jum WU. m xbolitionUi
His thoughts would be like ours—and every,
fibre of his feelings would be wrought up in
behalf of the freedom he had lost. I am bound
to take this for my stand-point—to feel for
all that is done for the Slave as if it were for
me Sir, we only need to make out a case in
this son, and we shall have no lack of sym
pathy. The doctrine of the revolution is a
correct doctrine—it is sanctioned by the Bible
and the Constitution of the United Slates.
[Yells —cries oi “fiie!’\and a general attempt
by the rowdies to break up ihe meeting.
There was considerable alarm among the
audience; one lady fainted,’ but on the speak
er earnestly enjoining them to keep quiet,
partial order was restored. Some Policemen
in the grllery ejected a few of the ruffians,
and the yells began again. “Sit still!” cried
Mr. Ward: “if you want to see anything in
teresting, look at rue!”—This produred a
general laugh, which settled the meeting.]
The speaker continued: it was not easy
work for the despised Nazarene to prove him
self true to the people whom he died to save.
But he welcomed the tasl» with all that is
rugged in it, and freely proffered unto us a
salvation from sin. In the name of the 600,-
000 free blacks, and 2,500,000 of slaves in
this country, we will do our duty to our bro
ther man regardless of the consequences.
Mr. Ward then spoke of his father’s flight
from Slavery with himself, his boy Sam, at
his side, and related an incident concerning a
physician in whose office he studied medicine.
He was not a mean, cringing, cowardly
Northerner, but a Yioble son of Virginia.
[Yells and hootings.] He was no more to be
compared to a Northern doughface, than
Daniel Webster to a Southerner, and the
friends of Daniel Webster think it about as
easy to find a Southerner like him as for a
Nantucket eel to tow a shad-boat through
lx>ng Island Sounds. [Laughter, yells and
applause; cries of “Douglass! Douglass!”
hisses and hootings.]
Mr. Wsrd then went on to show that there
was nothing in the Constitution prohibiting
the Committee from assisting fugitive slaves.
Besides, they were acting with perfect legali
ty in the matter. In the Southern Courts,
on Southern soil, their agent is testing the
legality of the tenures by which certain slaves
are held, and in some instances he has been
successful. He then went ioto a shrewd ex
amination of the clause in the Constitution
referring to persons held to service. He then
read an extract from Mason’s bill, providing
that whoever shall assist a fugitive slave,
shall be mulcted in the sum of $5OO. (A
voice: “Good!” Somebody cries ‘good!’ said
Mr. Ward, but let him not be too fast; the
resolution says nothing about the color of the
afrfn. Buppo*e somebody should be a fugi
tive fiona justice himself, would lie then cry
‘geod!l (Yells and laughter; the rowdy
who cried ‘good!’ is silent, and don’t think of
laughing.) Then, too, there are all shades
of color in Slaves; suppose he should be ap
prehended as a runaway Slave, by mi*i*ki»—
and it might easUy happen—would he cry
‘good!’ (Yells, hisses and laughter. A voice
—“Mr. Webster is black!’) I know Mr.
Webster is a dark-skinned man, and I’m not
a&sMied of him—(renewed laughter and tu
mult. Cries from all parts of the house.)
Why do you laugh?—because I’m not
ashamed of Mr. Webster? (Great laughter
and shouting.) Mr. Ward continued fora
quarter of an hour longer in a strain of min
gled wit and eloquence, and closed amid te
newed cries of “Douglass!” “Douglass!”
“Abby Kelly!” yells and whistling from all
parts of the house.
Chaiimam.—Mr. Burleigh will addreae the
beats.
(Yells, hisses and cries. A voice -in the
gallery:
“I have friends here and mean to be
beard.”)
A Mr. Hill then came forward and read in
I atne manner, two resolutions about
the Union, which were responded to by boots
and yells from the rowdies.
Hi. Cyrus M. Burleigh tbes spoke for
about twenty continually interrupted
by yells and cries of “Douglass!'' and “Abby
Kelly!” mixed with oaths and brsyings. One
fellow, in the front rank of the gang, yelled
out: “You’r ad d liar!. A police
man standing near, expressed his intention
of taking him out, but some of Rynders’ men
crowded about him and the official quietly
cared in.
Mr. Wm. H. Burleigh afterwards spoke for
a short time, with the same interruptions, and
the meeting adjourned, ending another most
disgraceful chapter in the history of our city.
XXX Ist Congress.—ln Senate.
Correspondence of Y. Evening Post.
Washington, Thursday, May 2.
A very interesting debate took place in the
Senate yesterday, in secret session upon the
nomination of Captin Cotton, to be Marshall
of Wisconsin. It was interesting for the
incidents which marked its progress, and iin
partant tor the extraordinary principles as
serted by a portion of the speakers. Senator
Seward, of New York, was as he so frequent
ly is, the target at which the champions of
Seuthern pretensions to a monopoly of in
fluence and office discharged their shafts. I
learn that Foote and Jefferson Davis, and
others, men of great powers of mind, and
corresponding audacity, assailed the New
York Senator for his supposed agency in
procuring this appointment, with unexampled
violence.
The statement is that the Administration
disregarded the wishes and recommendations
of the Delegations from Wisconsin, as to ap
pointments iu that State, and are governed,
in a great degree, by the influence of ,M»-
Beward. ei»w— J itotnslCing,
caiter of a Milwaukee paper.—Such is said
to have been the case in repect to this parti
cular appointment.
Mr. Seward replied to the assaults made
upon him by admitting every count in the in
dictment, and volunteered the confession that
he had been guilty of other enormities far
more flagrant if viewed from a Southern ex-
S'sure, than even those charged upon him.
e had recommended Cotton, if that is the
man's name, but he had gone much further.
He had urged the appointment of applicants
for office in the Slates represented by all liis
assailants; he had endorsed the applications of
men in South Carolina for Federal office in
that State, and been gratified to learn that
their worth and fitness had been acknowledged
by the appointing power. This roused Mr.
Butler. The old Judge, with more than a
white heal, defended his State from the im
putation of harboring men who would seek
such aid for the attainment of thetr desires.
The debate continued for about three
hours, and was only adjourned because of the
gnawings of hunger. I learn that some of
the speakers, perhaps all on the Southern
side, maintained, with the arrogance befiting
the advocacy of a proposition so intolerably
insolent in itself, that they should insist upon
the rejection of every person nominated to the
Senate who was tainted, as they phiased it,
abolitionism, and that the fact of having been
by any anti-Slavery Senator,
or any anti-Southern influence, would be
deemed and taken as evidence of the charge.
This is, in brief, the very thing announced
by Foote in open session the other day, and is
perhaps about as clear a definition of the
Shibboleth of office, as taught and required
here at Washington any lime within the past
20 years, as could easily be given.
Gov. Dodge of Wisconsin, undertook a
defence of Seward from the charge of undue
interference in their local appointments, but
in bis present extremely feeble state of health
he lound it quite useless to undertake to
breast the clamorous torrent, and yielded to
the pressure of the time. The matter was
continued over for consideration to-day.
Such is substantially the account of yester
day’s proceedings given me by a gentleman
who, I have no doubt receives his information
upon the subject from reliable authority, and
I have perfect confidence in his correctness,
so far as it goes. I would go any length to
•usiain any man. Democrat or Whig, who
sets himself against the infetnal spit it of pro
scrip'ion by wWch the negro breeders now
govern this country an d put under the ban so
much of its worth; I therefore,
think the course of Sew« r d on this and other
occasions involving the sa» e principle, de
serving of the highest comiw, n dation. It is
expected that the injunction of s«crecy will be
taken off these proceedings.
Washington, May 8.
Mr. Jefferson Davis presented a resolutVap
of the Legislature of Mississippi, in defence
of the proceedings in that Sute in relation to
holding a Southern Convention. He read at
great length from the Address of the State
Convention, to show that all efforts to charge
that it originated in any desire for Disunion,
were either maliciously false, or ignorantly
oeuceived. He contrasted the Mississippi
proceedings with the proceedings of Free
Sotl Conventions in the East and West,
which were allowed to pass without rebuke,
and which lead to the discontent and alarm
at the South. The resolutions were laid on
the table and ordered to be printed.
.Mr Clay is reading the report of the Com
mittee of Thirteen. The report contains the
following points:
First—l he Committee are unanimously
of opinion that new States may be formed
out of Texas under the terms of the compact
entered into by the United States in the Re-
Annexation, and that when they
are so formed they have a clear and undoubt
ed right to be admitted into the Union as
States; but the Committee do not think
that any plan for the formation of new States
out of Texas should be originated by Con
gress, but should be left to the People of Tex
as; also that such new States should be ad
mitted without any objection on account of
the exclusion or permission of Slavery.
Second—ln considering the qaeetion of the
admission of California, a majority of thd
Committee are of the opinion, that every ir
regularity in the proceedings antecedent to
her application for admission into the Union
should, in consideration of the many circum
stances of her position, be overlooked, and
recommended the passage of the bill recom
mended by Mr. Douglass for her admission into
theUnioo as a Stater But thecommiuee aiao
thinks it quite as naceasary that territorial
ffovßvnmefita should be futnuhed for the let
ritonee of Utah and New Mexico. They had
been abandoned, were inhabited by a mixed
and unusually varied population, and were
equally deaerving of proper governments,
and should have them speedily. They were
unfit at ptesent for Stale Governments, and
the Committee recommended that the bill
for the admission of California, and the bill
providing territorial governments be incorpor
ated in one measure and passed together, as
one measure. They also recommend that
the bills be passed without the Wilmot Pro
viso being attached to the teiritories. They
considered the Wilmot Proviso as applied to
these territories ft mere abstraction.
Third—The Committee report as an ad
ditional section to the California and Terri
torial bill, a provision determining the bound
aries of New Mexico and Texas, as follows.
The boundaries of Texts stall be the Rio
Grande, up to a point 20 MS** north of El
Paso del Norte—thenoe the line shall run
due north alon the one hundredth parallel of
longitude till it strikes the Red River, and
this line of longitude shall be the eastern
boundary of Mew Mexico.—This line in
elude* within New Mexico, the town of
Santa Fe and a large portion of the disputed
territory, for which the bill proposes to psy
-—millions of dollars in stocks, at half yearly
interest, tne principle to be paid at the ehd of
14 yeate. It w supposed that the sum agreed
upon will be from six to ten millions.
Fouith—The Committee reported a section
to be added to Mr. Masoas's bill, in delation
to Fagii}*e Sieves. It
Provides—“ That every master, before he
goes into another State to recover hit alive,
shall go before feme competent tribwel.eod
establish the fact of property, a«d of tbe dee
aription of the slave, and with tbeae facta
attested by a competent record, and upor
presenting them to an officer the slave shelf b<
deliveied up to him. Abo, that if the alavi
declares his freedom, he shall hare a trial foi
hia freedom, on return to the State Iron
whence lid had escaped.”
Fifth.—That Slavery ought not to be ah
oliahed in the District of CoUmbia.
Sixth.—The majority of the Uaromitte*
report a bill for tbe suppression of the slaw
trade in tbe District of Columbia upon th<
model of the law lately enforeM in Maryland
(The report ia very voluminous and oc
cupied more than an hour in trading.)
Mr. Clay moved to make t|t hill the spe
cial order lor to-tnoTrow, Tt eday. He ob
jected that bills take regti »r place on the
calender. The Report shot ibe printed,
Mr. Foote said that if th report be laid
on the table to-morraw tha would obviate
difficulty.
Mr. Turney—No; it won’|obviate the diffi
culty.
Mr. Clemens gave notice of an amewd
ment—to come in at the end »f the bill for
admission of California—that he Hoe of tt,
30 shall be the Southern boundary of the
State of California.—He asked that the Cal
ifornia and Territorial bills be ordered to be
printed. Mr- Clay moved to print the bill
for the suppression of the slave trade. Mr.
Phelps, one of the committee, acid he did
not agree with the committee, except on the
conclusion to be drawn from the resolutieaeel
annexation of Texas. Mr. Maaeo, one of the
committee, said that he was so unlortnette
to differ from ihfe committee, upon nearly all
questions reported upon hyju. Mr- Cooper
ne agreed with the committee upon
several points, but differed on several, par
ticularly with the reasons and argument ol
the roport. Mr. Downs, one of the commit
tee, expensed his dissent from tbe report en
all grounds, particularly upon admitting
California with her present boundary. Mr.
Berrien, one of the committee, differed from
the report of the committee on nearly all the
points. He could not consent to admitting
California with her present boundaries, or
with two representatives in the House of
Representatives. Mr. Mangura, one of tin
committee, said he differed from the result
of committee on the number of inhabitants to
be admitted, and that there was an Mmpera
tive necessity for a State Government. He
denied all these assumed facts—[o®t de
spatch is obscure here, but we beliete tbs
is its meaning.]
Mr. Clay denied the justice of pounci*?
on a report before its contents were know
perfectly. Mt. Foote said he would support
•he report of the committee if it conMintd
anything more than Mr. Clay’s resolution*,
and they bad been condemned long age. He
should not support it.
Mr Borland opposed the whole affair.
Mr. Hale hoped the South would Mind
firm in its opposition, but he was very much
afraid the opposition was s mere feint.
Mr. Houston advocated the motion to print,
was in favor of Compromise and Unioo, and
wanted to read the report before he madr up
his mind.
Mr. Cass said that the report shouM he
examined before it was condemned. He
would support it as a whole measure.
Mr. Dickinson said that he was in fr ir of
printing the report. As a whole measui i the
matter had his hearty concurrence. Hi had
resented to the report, though the reas sing
was not his own. He had consented tTthe
conclusions of tbe report to which the com
mittee had arrived, though he would have
Irawn the reasoning differently; he bould
lupport the bills reported because of the cir
tumsiancea, while we was free to adml they
were very different from what he would have
Irawn himself.
Mr. Jefferson Davis said he was willing
he report should be printed, but he was pre
tared to vote against it.
Mr. Bright said he would support the
neasure as s whole, but if it could uoi be
tarried he would go for the admission of Cal
foinia at the earliest moment.
The Bill aud Report were then ordered te
ie printed, and the Senate adj.
House of Representatives.
Washington May 8, 1850
Mr. Wilmot, (fiee soil,) of Pennsylvania
asked that the committee take up the CUifor
uia message, to enable him to make some re*
marks.
By the unanimous consent of the House,
the census bill was laid aside.
CALIFORNIA—SPEECH OF MR. WILMOT.
The members crowd around the ganlhmao,
and the confusion which prevails, suiudes
into respectful attention.
Mr. VV ilmut said that the debate— in the
subject of the admission of California and
questions; connected with it, had illhs
judgement produced wonderful results. sThe
settled and fixed purpose of the Soupern
men have been disclosed. There wasfcow
no ioohn for doubt as to the termination of
the conflict. It was to extend slaverytver
the territories. If there was any rood for
doubt hetetofore, these was doubt no loiter.
There was no question more fraughtwitb
consequences than the ultimate deciei4 of
that now in hand and which is to defenne
the character and position of the Sou Tern
portion of the country. It will settle anchor
question—namely, whether the government
is to be administered in this which rave
it birth or whether an aristocracy bases on
slave property and slave representation, i mil
control it. In this aspect it has been vit red
by the South, on the part of Southern len
bordering almost on madness. They ire
bound by no sacred ties to the Union; but ire
banded together as one man for the ac< m
plishment of their object and that is, .the rr
petuation of slavery. There is no disgi ie.
The existence of the Union, and the stab ty
of the government, is threatened by the So h
In his judgement, their spirit of thfesiedhg
and defiance must be resisted, or (he Nspth
are ret test of slaves. What, beaded,
shall the line of our duty be prescribed idder
the pressure of treasonable threats* Stall
we be told what we shall or shall not do, at
the peril of the existence of the governaent
itselt? If we submit to this any longer, eur
freedom here and the fuudamental principles
of the constitution are undermined. The
rights of the majority must be respected,or
we are the vilest of slaves. These gende
men not only assume to interpret the coMti*
tution for us, but to dictate our- line ofrftnw.
"Congress may admit new States,” is
clear and unequivocal language of the con
stitution; and yet we are told if we prMMke
to exercise this clear and admitted power
without making certain concessions to slave*
ry, measuies of a revolutionary chmettr
will be resorted to, and the ordinary satfHbs
of government w ithheld, and the ye* and
naya called, in defiance of parliamentary law
and usage,, until the end of the present *sak>n
of Congress. Is this the position in sfiieh
freemen must !>e placed or as sis vet* be
taught their duties and obligations? Shall
the acknowledge power of this government
be exercised, or shall a band of oonapfetow
set it at defiance? On the question of CkU
iornia, this defiance is hurled in our tseth.
He had made up his mind not to obey. It
sounds like the crack of the whip. He who
submits is better fitted for the plantation thsn
for service in this Hall. [A voice— 1 “Tbat’e
true.”} What! Is not this aristocracy of
slaveholdets content with their share of pow*
er under the constitution without daiming
absolute control of the government! Whti
is more arbitrary and improper than to *sk»
the existence ot this government depend on
the scquiesoence in the behests of a minority?
The South say that there is no power W pass
the proviso—the North think .th ire is. The
latter find their opinions fortified. We be
lieve, under God, that it it our duty to paaa a
prohibition against slavery, and yet we are
told if we dare to do the government mast be
overthrown. 11 the power to yule should be
given to the minority, Mus would be s dee*
The fleet slatedhbMt of South Cue.
oliiut (Mx. Calhoun) scorned all inspection.
,1 Ho marched up to the object and t -opened
amendments to th« constitution, to pUce the
1 1 government in the hands of a minority. The
i object could be seen and understood. De
mands are now made upon ua more objec
tionable. If the great fundamental princi
ples are to he subverted, let it be put down
in writing. Let our masters print it in the
constitution. Is this the tenure by which
we bold our libeities? and is the government
to be preserved, by submitting to certain in
terpretations of gentlemen who strive to fotoc
them on us? I want to see whether the free
men of the North will dare to stand up to a
conscientious discharge of their duty, and
whether this position of the South is to drive
mss form a position deliberately assumed?
Whatever may be tbe fact now, time wa«
when the North were united on this'queAion.
When we assembled in December last, I be
lieved there were not five individuals who
were in favor of mixing up California with
other questions; there was then but one sen
timent at the North. Its admission was de
manded by an unanimous voice. Here the
North were to take a firm stand, and were
not to be driven from it by threats, nor sedu
ced by promises. How stands the matter to
day? God only knows. But, if the declara
tion of the South can be relied on, the friends
of California are in a minority. She is to be
eoapunuaed, and the terms of her admission
is the extension cf slavery over the territories.
I trust in God this will not be done. If the
North prove recreant on this question, where,
tm me ask, do they propose to make manful
lesislMee against the threats and the exorbi
tant demands of the slave power? The out
posts of the North are all abandoned, and
we are called upon to make an unconditional
surrender. They arc <ln*«u off by threats
and political preferment. The ranks are di
vided—Uie forces broken, until there is dan
ger of general rout. The alltea of alavery at
the North all at once discovered that the agi
tation was premature and abandonad their at
tachment to freedom and the proviso. He re
ferred to the change of position on the part
of gertlemen, among them to Mr. Broad
head, of Pennsylvania, not now inCongress,
who was now a travelling missionary in the
cause of the Sooth. He said that the dodge
was not original with Mr. Webster, and he
did not think it fair in Massachusetts to run
sway with all the new inventions.
Mr. McClernand, (dem.) of Illinois, ask
ed whether Mr. Broadhead ever voted for
the proviso.
Mr. Wilmot—He did not.
Mr. McClernand—But often voted against
it?.
Mr. Wilmot—When the proviso was of
fered Broadhead went home—Pennsylvania
was then united. All the Pennsylvania del
egation voted for it, except Broadhead and
liigersoll, who were not heie. He referred
to the proviso offered to the uvo million ‘bill
in 1846.
Mr. Stephens, (whig) of Georgia—did
not Mr. Broadhead vote for the Missouri
compromise as applicable to the tetritories?
Mr. Wilmot—l have not referred to the
votes; I predicated my remarks on speeches
made in this hail. The progress in this
defection was gradual. The South told then
allies that they must wear the cloak no long
er. The presidential election came on.
The South with characteristic arrogance,
said they would support no man who gave
the least countenance to the proviso. Every
othei party consideration' sunk in insignifi
cance. They made the candidate of tbe
Northwest speak and put words into his
mouth in the shape of the Nicholson letter.
This was the first time any man assumed the
ground that the proviso was unconatitution
al.
A V oice—Mr. Dallas assumes that ground.
Mr. Wilmot—lf so, it has escaped my
recollection. We hear much said about ag
gression by the North. I charge 4hat the
South tempt our men beyond their strength.
They lead them to a high mountaia and
show them the principalities and powers of
the world, and they fall down and worship.
This is aggression of the deepest dye. He
then insisted that slavery was aristocratic,
and that the press was under the tyranny ol
of the elevehoklora. Notwithstanding Ihe
present state of things, the men are now be
ing born who are to wreet the government
frotq the control of the South, and fulfil the
high destiny of democracy. He was a friend
of party orga nation, and would asfiimly re
sist slavery as he had heretofore monopolies.
He would follow no organization based on
slavery extension He insisted that the soil
of the territories, if we are to believe the ac
counte of it, can support slavery, and South
ern men had declared that they would take
their slaves thither. Further remarks were
made by him.
Mr. Winthrop, (whig,) of Massachu
setts, obtained the floor.
The Chairman said he would be entitled to
the floor when the President’s message should
again be taken up.

The New York Herald.-i-We slated in
a former article, that the inititulion of tha
South had no advooates north of Mason and
Dixon’s Line. But Ibis remark Bhould be
qualified; for though the New York Herald
is not an advocate of dur sieve institution, yet
that fearless and able journal has ever stood
forth as thS defender of the South againet the
violence and injustice of the North, and in
this respect the Here/d has taken aud main
tains a position that no other journal at tbe
North has dared to assume, or probably
could have assumed without being crushed by
the overwhelmicg public opinion of the coun
try. But the Herald always received a larg
er share of its support at the South than any
other Northern paper, and in this crisis, it is
but justice that its pstronage should be etill
more widely extended amongst us.—'Galves
ton (Texas) News. CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
BT MBS. BELL SMITH.
On Saturday afternoon, some years
since about the bar-room of tbe only
public-houae in the little Tillage of
S on Lake Erie, were gathered
a number of gossiping idlers, sea-far
ing men and farmers. Although early
in the afternoon, the heary clouds of
an approaching storm so darkened the
shore, that candles were Ik, and in
their dim light the gathered crowd lis
tened to the beating of the wares upon
the beach, and the distant roll of thun
der that announced the coming strife.
It is one of those scenes that occur
when a mighty tempest come down on
Erie's inland sea, and the dullest,
seemed struck with its impressive
grandeur. Sailors drank from their
poisoned cups with less noise, and the
village politicians were less absorbed
in the presidential election.—One of
the number seemed more uneasy than
the rest. A young man, of mild pre
possessing, appearance, with a rifle in
his hand a powder horn slung over his
shoulder, for he bad bat a few minutes
before come i*» fro— gmattiag, paced
to and from tbe door, looked at the
troubled bay and cloudy sky, and fre
quently asked an old captain of a
schooner when he would be able to
sail—to night?
"To-night? No, sir!” he responded
to one of these inquiries; "nor to-mor
row—nor next day, I expect. This
'ere storm looks as if it was goin’ to
lead off a dance for a good many flir
tin' ones, and I don't believe in puttin’
out in sich company—it corrupts good
manners, as the sayin’ is. You seem
to be in a great hurry, comrade?
"I am. The Sea-Gull brought me
ill news from home this morning, and
I will double your passage money if
you run me down to to night.”
"Not I. I wouldn’t undertake it for
four times the money.”
Silenced by this reply, the young
man returned sadly into the house;
aud, sitting down thrust his hands into
his pockets, with the dogged air of one
who makes up his mind to be content
with a positive evil.
M W had been in S
but a few weeks, and although a
stranger, had impressed its inhabitants
favorably—so quiet, retiring, and, as
all thought, kind was he in manner and
disposition. The business that brought
him to the place was by no means set
tled, and the intelligence he had re
ceived must have been of a very pres
sing nature to make one naturally so
timid anxious to brave a storm that
caused the hardiest sailor to shrink
from duty. He had been sitting with a
look of gleomy discontent but a short
time, wheu the clatter of horses’ feet
were beard in the street, and a man,
pale and trembling, stood within the
door-way. His first discordant utter
ance was the word "Murder!” No
expression of pain or terror can send
the same deathly chill to the heart as
that one word of terrible import; and,
paralyzed with stupid surprise, tbe
gathered crowd inquiringly gazed at
the breathless messeenger of evil. Be
fore he could relate what seemed to
choke his utterance, the sheriff of the
county h&otily entered and arrested M
W
"For what?” faltered the young
man.
"The murder of Millie Woods,” was
the stern reply.
It wanted only this to to swell the
horrible sensation that had fallen upon
tbe crowd.—Millie Wood, a little girl
ten or twelve years of age, was the
only child of sepectable parents living
within a mile of S and in her
sprightly loveliness had won the affec
tion of all the villagers. The circum
stances sttendingfeher death were as
follows: The parents, as was frequent
ly their custom, left tbe house under
the charge of Millie, and had been,
greater part of the day, making pur
chases and visiting in the village. Hur
rying home before the coming storm,
the agonized parents found their house
robbed, and their only child brutally
murdered.—The news spread rapidly,
I and soon the curious and cooler neigh
bors were looking carefully on all
masks the violence had left in the pre
mises. The house, a large frame one,
stood some distance from the road.—
The front door was found open, all the
inner doors unlocked or broken, every
drawer, chest, press or cupboard
forced, and their contents scattered
over the floor. In the (garret, to
which place the poor little creature
had probably flea, Millie was found
covered with blood that.flowed from a
stab in her side, her little hand grasp
ing an old bed-post, while around her
neck a white handkerchief was slightly
knotted.
Upon the floor of tbe ball, one bf
the neighbors picked up a squirrel with
one fore-paw gone, and its head scalp
ed by a rifle ball. A joung man who
had been chopping wood in a neigh
boring grove immediately recognized
it as one W— bad shot that after
noon; he was by, and, picking it up,
remarked to W the excellent shot.
—W left him in the direction of
Wood’s house, with the squirrel in his
band. The hankerchief unwound from
Millie’s neck had the letters m. w. in
one corner. True these were the ini
tials of Millie’s own rfhme, but her mo
ther positively avowed she owned no
such article. Satisfied with these cir
cumstances the offier at once arrested
W——. From the time tbe murder
was discovered to that of W——-'$
arrest was just two hours.
The prisoner was hurried to the
nearest magistrate, and tbe evidence
I have detailed given before him. In
addition to this, spots of fresh blood
were found on his coat sleeve, and as
Woods had been robbed of some gold
and silver coin, of peculiar character,
two or three of the pieces were found
upon the unfortunate man's person.
This riveted the final link and the
crowd grew furious. Little Millie, so
good, so loved and loving, all remem
bered as a child of their own, and she
to be butchered for gold—the law
seemed toe slow and mud for venge
ance; and the great crowd new »wel-
ling to hundred*, swayed to
shouting angrily for blood.
A convict but lately from pri*-' o
haatened forward with a rope, threw it
over a post, while aome of the citizens
in answer to mute suggestion, hurried
the unfortunate prisoner towards the
improptu gallows.
i “Oh, gentlemen screamed the
t young man, frightened at what ep
f peored his inevitable, fate. “Hava
l mercy upon me—l am innocent—in
deed I am—have mercy.”
r His voice was drowned in a roai
f from the crowd. “Who had mercy or
I little Millie, kill him!” and again they
i pushed him towards the fatal post.
“Oh God!” cried tbs uoheppy sms
in bitter anguish and trembling like a
child; “will no one pity me? I bavi
a widowed mother—mercy* mercy—
r wait a little while—only a little whih
i —only a little while.
One, alone answered this last appeal,
j A young lawyer of eminent ability,
r and personal popularity, sprung for
ward, sovered the rope, and then in a
1 clear, silvery voice that rung out high
f above the tumult, said:
i “My friends be careful of your acta.
—You are about to do what in this mas
i you condemn an awful murder,
i Chain him down, do what you will U
i secure the criminal, but respect tbc
1 law—”
“And give Squire B a chance
to clear him,’’interrupted the convicl
i 1 have mentioned.
“To that man, fresh from the cells
I have nothing to say. But to you my
I companions, neighbors, friends, I ap
peal—earnesty appeal. Why will you
do this cruel thing What right have
you to commit a murder? How will
you answer to the great Giver of all
good for this? Whore is your authori
i
i “Whoso shedeth man’s blood by
man shall his blood be shed,” respond
ed a harsh, solemn voice, and the
crowd turning, saw, where a torch
P waved over a stern, unfeeling lacs, the
countenance of their preacher? It
was a time when the gathered feeling
checked by some great obstacle pau
ses in its rash career, and, for a mo
ment there seems a doubt which way
the tide will flow. The awful passage
so solemnly quoted, fell on the crowd
at. that moment, when the slightest
word would*have turned them from
their purpose, and, stimulated as it
seemed to them by a command from
Heaven, they once more seized their
trembling captive, when the old captain
whom W had importnded for a
passage, claimed to be heard:
“Comrades,” said he, Squire B—
thinks we hadn’t ought to hang this
fellow. Well, I’ll tell you what we’ll
do. He wanted to sail with me this
day. He shall do so. We’ll take
him outside the Bay—lie him in an
open boat and set him adrill. Then
the Lord have mercy on him. What
say your”
A shout of approbation was the res
ponse, and they hurried W to the
shore. In the meanwhile the storm
grew Joud, and, when in the dark night
their torches beaten out by wind and
rain, the great crowd heard the angry
waves dashing over the rude pier, their
courage failed, and seven only were
found ready .for the enterprize. Clam
bering upon the deck, with their victim
in their midst, the cables were cut and
the little bark, like a frightened bird,
flew out to sea.
Perhaps no scene ever painted itsell
on the canvas of real life so startling,
wiled and strang as this. While the
stout-hearted skipper steered the bark,
the convict, assisted by four of hit
companions, tied W to the open
boat, and the preacher, kneeling upon
the deck, was beard between the
pauses of the thunder far above wavei
and wind, calling upon Heaven to blesi
their unholy act.
The open lake was gained, and the
wretched man, regardless of his en
treaties and screams, was given to the
foaming waters. In a glare of light
ning, that was followed by a deafening
peal of thunder, they saw their victiir
rise upon a huge wave then plunge in
to darkness and death beyond.
Short time had tc
dwell upas the ruthless deed. Then
lives were in jeopardy. A qjortn sc
violent has seldom been equalled, and,
the little craft wai worked, save skip
per, by unskillful hands. Desperate
efforts were made to regain the Bay,
but the entrance was narrow and in
tricate, while commands, grossly mis
understood, were promptly executed,
so that the bark run upon a ledge ol
rocks and quickly went to pieces. Two
only of its strange crew were saved—
the clergyman and the convict togeth
er reached the shore.
Some tnree after these strange
events, the Rev. H— was awafc«n«4
one night by a request to come im
mediately, and administer religious
consolation to a prisoner, who in at
tempting an escape from jail had been
mortally wounded by the sentinel on
duty. The Rev. gentleman folding his
cloak about him, and accompanied by
the jailer, threaded bis way through
•now and sleet to the prison.
They found the prisoner writhing in
pain upon his bed in tbs gloomy con,
lit by a dim candle, and alone, for the
■urgeon had pronounced bis case
hopeless.
“You’ve come at last” he growled,
as the clergyman app.roachiqg hit bed
took from beneath his cloak, a book,
and began the duties pertaining to his
sacred mission.—“ You’ve come at last,
I thought I’d go down before you got
here.”
“May you be spared for repentance;
let us lose no time.”
“No you don't! I am bound to go
down down. Don’t. be fooling, 1
didn’t send for that.”
“The sands of life are running fast.
In a few moments you will be in the
presence of your Judge, and repen
tance then will be of no avail.”
“It will not avail me now,” said the
criminal.
“Think of your past life—think of
thepunishment that is to follow!”
The answer to this was a frantic
roar of laughter, that made. even the
jailor’s blood tingle with alarm.
“I will not remain,” said Mr. H—
sternly, “and hear this awful mockery.
I warn you now—beware!
“Well, listen, then—don't you know
me?”
The clergyman held the candle t<
the convict’s face, and alerted wilt
astonishment.
"Oh! you know me, do you You
remember the night we to- SBe( i W. over
board—hew he prayed) Ho, ho! look
to yourself-”
"I did my duty.*'
"Ah, ba! you did, did you? Yo*
did your duty in drowning a poor fel
low fora murder he never committed!"
A tremor like an ague ran through
the listener's frame, and there he stood
as one dismayed.
“He never did the deed. I mur
dered Mißy Woods—l chased her to
the garret and killed her. I was there
robbing the house when W— came. I
.heard him speak cheerily to the child,
give her the squirrel, and then leave.
A minute after, she was a dead baby,
and W—- had the blame.
“Lord, have mercy upon me!”
groaned Ue Divine, in an agony o!
spirit.
"I slipped the gold pieces in hie
pocket, how he prayed and begged for
mercy! It’s our turn uow! I don't beg
—I won’t—l’ll die as I have lived—but
you can howl. He had a widowed
mother. We all went under—but you
and 1, parson, came up together—now
we go down—down down!” The
voice ceased—a shudder ran through
liis iroa frame, and the.wretched crimi
nal was-no more.
In time, the village of S grew to
a city. Jdany of its old citizens had
emigrated, or were dead, and, among
the remaining, the events I have nar
rated had faded almost into an uncer
tain legend, when, one sunny after
noon, an elderly gentleman of staid,
respectable appearance, accompaniec
by his wife and children, made his wa>
from the evening steamer to one of the
principal hotels. Alter securing rooms,
be walked into the streets. .He ear
nestly scanned the sight as he passed
He stopped before one that reac
“Attorney-at-law;” he paused, anc
thee, with a start as if the determina
tion had a spice oi the desperate in it
he ascended the stairs and entered the
office. An eldprly man, with a bale
head and wrinkled face, was seated ai
a table surround ty books and papers
Inviting the new comer to be seated
he peered at him through bis specta
cles, and inquired his business.
“Mr. B—-—you do not remembei
lie?”
“I cannot say that I do.” answerec
the attorney, slowly, as if in doubt.
“Do you not remember pleading ir
behalf of a poor fellow, about being
linched for a murder some thirty yean
siace?”
W exclaimed the
lawyer joy fully. “Can it be possible:
I lever forget a face, and yours I saw
ini frame work that night' that ough
to impress it upon my memory forever
Bi! 1 thought you dead years ago. Si
down—sit down, and tell me all.”
'‘After I was thrown Irom the vesse
that night,” said W seating him
self,^“'l was so frightened tb,at for some
time I had no consciousnes of wha
occured. On becoming more collected
I found my little boat half filled witl
water, riding the short heavy waves
and every second I expected to go un
der, or be capsized, and so drown
This not occurring, I began to 100 l
about me. I found the cord by whicl
I was tied passed over my shoulder. J
managed to get it in my mouth, ant
soon gnawed it apart. This loosenec
my bands, so that in a few minutes J
freed myself and sat up. With an ole
cup that I found in the boat, I balec
out the water and, then breaking up
one of the seats, I managed the little
affair so as to ship no more of the
waves, and in this way rode out the
storm and the night.
“By morning, the wind had some
what Subsided, but so exhausted was I
by fear and fatigue, that I was forced
to lie down,and soon was sound alseep.
When I awakened the sun was setting,
and ts far I as could see on every side,
wars dreary waste of waters. Strange
as it may sound, I was greatly relieved.
I feared nothing so much as falling
agate into the hands of that terrible
mob.
“The full moon came out, making
the scene light almost as day, and, a
gentle breeze springing up, 1 took
my coat, fastened it on the broken
seat, and, with this for a sail, dirifted,
near as 1 cquld make out by the stars,
in a north-easterly direction. I knew
soontr or later, I must strike the Can
ada shore, but how far I had been
carried in the storm, I could not of
course determine.—Through that long
night I floated on. I saw the moon go
dowf and the stars fade into the cold
gray light of morning,and then the sun
cams up with the clear, calm day, but
no land could be seen—nothing but
water. I imagined at
one lime seeing in the dim distance, a
tail, but if one, it immediately disap
peared. About noon I noticed some
thing floating near me, and on pad
dling my boat alongside, found it a
bale of goods, carefully corded toge
ther. I fastened it, almost without
motitre, to my boat, and again lying
down was soon asleep. I was awakened
by shout, and, starting up, found I
was running in close to a wooded
•bore, and, a number of men staring
in vooder at my appearance. In an
swer to my request, one of them waded
in and pulled my boat to the land. I
learned to rov great relief, that I
reached the Canada side, within a few
miles of—. It was supposed that I
had been shipwrecked, to which my
bale of goods at once gave coloring,
and a kind reception. On opening this
bale, asxt day, 1 found it filled with
costly silks and velvets, and so admira
bly packed that water had not damaged
them. Thia had probably been Tost
from a *reck during the late storm,and
noticing the address with intention of
repayment some day, I sold the con
tents, and with the proceeds mads my
way to New York, where I, after hear
ing of ny mother’s death, joined an
expedition, fitting out for ,in South
America. In thia now home I married,
and engaged in merchandise. There
I lived antil I learned, a few mouths
since my innocence of that cruel deed
had been known by the confession oi
the real criminal.”
When ho had finished recounting
his strange escape, the lower, rising
abruptly, naught him by the arm, and
pomteiftto the open window, The;
looked and saw a gaunt figure, with
sunken eyes, pals cheeks, long
gray hair, ip the gloom ofths evening,
more silently along.
“That,” said the lawyer, ”ia Mr.
Since that night of the crimi
nal's confession, his intellect, nerer
very strong, has been a complete
wreck. Every evening he wanders to
the lf stormy, no entreaties can
induce him ’to seek a shelter, but, hour
after hour, he paces the shore, as if
every moment he expected some reve
lation from its troubled waters.”