SLAVERY IN 1851.
The Exhibition of 1851 will doubt
less give rise to a number of demonstra
tions on various subjects and divers
parties—social, political, and religious.
It has been proposed, by our excel
lent Contemporary the Morning Ad
vcrti&tv, that there shall be one on the
subject of Slavery—a proposition which
commends itself to every right-minded
man in the kingdom. Not that the
Yankees can charge us at all with in
difference on the subject; our Eman
cipation Act and all our subsequent
proceedings forbid such a conclusion;
but least they should think that our
horror ot slavery diminishes, and that
at length we have come to regard their
offence as comparatively trival; or, at
any rate, as not being, under all cir
cumstances,inconsistent with the Chris
tian profession, it is proper from time
to time to jog their, memory. To sup
pose that the anti-slavery spirit of
England is abated, is quite a mistake;
although we admit, at the same time,
that due allowance must be made for
their darkness on the score of defec
tive education, and the one-sided view
they get of the subject from those to
whom they look up for instruction and
guidance. It is remarkable to what
an extent men high in the Christian
world, and otherwise blear-sighted, in
telligent, calm, and candid, have, on
this subject, been blinded by local
prejudice, party feeling, and defective
moral training.
At this moment, we can call to mind
no case in which the conduct of a body
of ministers has been so utterly repre
hensible as that of the American
Clergy in their iniquitous yielding to
that public opinion which it should have
been the great object of their pulpit
and pastoral labors to correct and ele
vate. Our Contemporary cites a
striking and well-known instance of
this: early in the present century, the
General Assembly of the Presbyterian j
Church declared Slavery a “sin,” and:
slaveholders as “sinners,” “mansteal- j
ers,” “perpetrators of the highest kind
of theft;” while in 1843 they came to
a compromise with them, by resolving,
“that this Assembly do not think it tit
for the edification of the Church, to
take any action on the subject of Sla-
very!” It is surely something new in
the history of the Presbyterian Church
to come to a resolution not to rebuke
iniquity! The Rev. Dr. Cox, of Brook
lyn, who was present on the occasion,
is reported to have said, —“Thank
God, our Vesuvius is capped for the
next three years!” Let those who are i
in “alliance” with slaveholding Chris
tians” think ot that!
As Slavery, however, is so obvious
ly opposed both to the letter and spirit
of the Bible, it cannot be wondered at
that so many of the wise and good
should regard the epithet “Slave-hold
ing Christians” as a contradiction in
terms. But it is not so regarded in
America. Men who have every claim
to be considered as at least conscien-!
tious, may be found defending it even!
from the Book of God! For example,!
the Rev. Moses Stuait, D.D., a man
of high intellectual attainments, and
great influence, and who may, in fact,
be considered as holding a first place
amongst the Biblical critics of his own
country, has actually attempted to
justify the ti affic in the bodies of men
and women from the pages of the In
spired Volume! Even—we blush to
write it!—the infamous Fugitive Slave
Bill has received his sanction, and its
cruel authors have been honored with
his applause Now, if Slavey had no
other ill effect than this melancholy
perveraiou of the moral rectitude of
such a mao, it would deserve the scorn
ful and indignant execration of all man
kind.
But the Presbyterian Church and
Dr. Moses Stuart, unfortunately, by
no means stand alone in this matter.
Dr. Parker, of Philadelphia, is report
ed by Dr. Pennington to have said in
a recent sermon, “That there were no
evils in slavery but such as were in
separable from any other i elation in
life!” Now, if these terms have the
same signification from that Doctors’s
lips as they have from those of other
men, we are utterly at a loss to recon
cile such a statement with decency.
For, to go no further, Dr, Stnythe, au
Irishman by birth, but for many years
a slaveholder and Christian minister at
Charleston, South Carolina, is said, in
THE NORTH STAR.
i
FREDERICK DOUGLASS, EAltvr ill Proprietor.
VOL. IV. NO. 15.
marrying slaves, always to omit the
words, “Whom God hath joined let no
man put asunder.” In fact, the mar
riage of slaves is the merest farce
imaginable inasmuch as they are torn
asunder and parted for life at the
merest caprice of their “owners,” and
that with as litte compunction as beasts
of burden are separated. It is merely
licenced concubinage. Is this an “evil
irseparable from any other condition
tn life?” The thought inspires indig
nant disgust. Here is a Christian
minister, a professed expounder of the
Gospel of troth and justice, love and
mercy, performing a solemn ceremony
—rather should we say, a cruel mock
ery!—which he knows his Divine Mas
ter pronounced as a union for life, with
the fact before him, that at any mo
ment, and perhaps after years and
tender offspring have endeared it, this
compact may be broken on the auction
block, and the parties severed to meet
on earth no more! Well may infidels
scoff and mock at such a religion!
This stigma, however, i 9 not to be
fixed on any individual minister, in
particular; for, as our contemporary
asserts, “Synods and assemblies of di
vines have declared, that the marriage
lie between slaves is not binding.”:
Why then enact the solemn and tanta
lizing farce of performing the mocking
ceremony The poor slave, instead
of the feelings of hope and happiness
which are naturally associated with
such an event, must look round on the
uncertainty of his affairs, and be stung 1
with the reflection, “Ah! If I mind not I
what lam about, or, if his pecuniary!
necessities press, my master will sell'
me away to the South, and my wife—l
shall see her no more forever!” Let
the husbands of England place them
selves in this position, and ask them-!
selves how they can reconcile this with;
Christianity? Would not the moral!
consciousness of an intelligent pagan
revolt at it?
The churches of America are the 1
main bulwark of Slavery; were they
to come out and do their duty, the
aspect of affairs would soon be chang
ed, and the national banner would
speedily cease to be stained with the
blood of millions! Lest the reader
should think we over-estimate the case,
we shall state the facts from the cal
culation of an American clergyman:
Slaves.
The Methodists hold 219.563
Presbyterians (old and new »<bool) 77,000
Baptists 125,000 1
Campbellites (Baptists) 101,000 j
Episcopalians 88,000 j
Ollier Denominations 50,00
Toial owned by ministers ol Gospel and member*
of Protestant Churches 660,563
Valuing each slave at an average of 400 dollars,
or 80/, here is a capital of 25.845,040/. invested by
a Christian people ill the bodies and souls of men.
Now to the practical point. Are the
men by whom religion and morality are
thus outraged, to be received on the
same footing as a Clarkson and a
Willberlorce, and those who have im
bibed their spirit and act upon their
principles? The case is thus power
fully put by that zealous and eloquent
advocate of the natural and inalienable
rights of the Sons of Ham—Frederick
Douglass:
These men wield the blood clotted
cow-skin during the week, fill the
.pulpit on Saturday, and claim to be
disciples of the meek and lowly Jesus.
The man who robs me of my earnings
at the end of each week, meets me as
a class leader on Sunday morning, to
show me the way to life and salvation.
He who sells my sisters for the basest
purposes, stands lorth as the advocate
of purity; and he who proclaims the
religious duty of perusing the Bible,
denies me the right to read the name
of the God that made me. The warm
defender of the sacredness of the fami
ly relation, is the same who scatters
whole families, sundering husbands and
w ives, parents and children, sisters and
brothers, leaving the hut vacant, and
the hearth desolate,
But, happi'y, the North is largely
right on the question, as is evidenced
by the following powerful passage in a
speech of the Honorable Joshua R.
Giddmgs, in the House of Representa
tives, on the the Fugitive Slave Bill.
The honorable gentleman drew the
following comparison between Pro
fessor Daniel Webster, the chief pro
moter of this measure:
Sir, —I was about to make some
comparisons, but, perhaps, they may
be regarded as indelicate. During
last summer two distinguished gentle
men of the same name occupied much
of tho public attention. One was said
to have committed murder, and the
other to have procured the passage of
this law; one was hanged for his crime;
the other, for his efforts, was taken in
to the Executive Cabinet. One de
stroyed the life of an individual, the
other contributed his efforts for the
passage of this law, which must con
sign, hundreds, perhaps thousands, tn
1 premature graves. I sir cannot speak
for others; but, for myself, I would
rather meet my final Judge with the
guilt of him who has gone to his ac
count, than of him who now sits in
yonder Cabinet!
If bis countrymen were not largely
with the houorable Member, such lan
guage would not have been used; and
shall America thus testify for the rights
of man, and England remain silent,
and sympathize with the oppressor,
and regard him as a Christian? We
pause lor a reply.
VItITKRS TO THB BRITISH MuitUH.
—The tytel number of persons who
visited thy (British Museum in 1844
was 685,614; in 1845, 760.9*1, in 1849
8-30,965: in 1847, 897,935; in 1848,
979,073; nod in 1850, 1,098,863.
Britith Banner.
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR; GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN
[From the National Era.]
THE MOTHERS OF GREATNESS.
BY L. A. HISS.
We often hear it remarked that great
men have almoet universally been in
debted to noble mothers for their dis
tinction. It has been Mserted that
every child before the age of seven is
impressed with the essential elements
of character, that follow it through life;
and, as mothers have the principal
care and training of children under this
■se, It hu been inftm4*TKlf Oetrtlf
all of goodness and greatness inhuman
character is due to maternal influence.
In pronouncing this no exaggeration, 1
would not undertake the power of the
father over the destinies of his off
spring. As both the male and female,
harmoniously united in wedlock, are
essential to complete the complement
of their respective characters, so is the
influence of both parents necessary to
the true education of the young. All
things in the vegetable and animal
kingdoms are distinguished into male
and female, and it were stupid to at
tempt an exaltation of the one above
the other in power and influence. But
this may be said without disparage
ment —that maternal imperfections as
well as maternal virtues have more to
do with the fortune of the child than
have those of the father. I say this u
so in the present condition of society—
nevertheless, it should not be so, and
will not in a state of truer develop
ment. Now we seem to regard the wo
man as predestined to the exclusive
care of her children during the first
septennaid of life; and the father is apt
to regard them as annoyances, or at
least to excuse himself from all atten
tion in their behalf until they are old
enough to be worthy of his regard.
But, if I mistake not, the true system
of inlantile development requires the
united counsels and care of both pa
rents. For truly, if there be a charac
ter peculiar to the male and also to the
female, and if they were designed to
mutually influence each other, that ed
ucation is one-sided which is conducted
exclusively by the one or the other.
But, not to dwell here, I have said
that, in the present state of philosophy
and society, vastly more depends upon
the errors and the virtues the mother,
than upon those of the father, in the
early development of children. The
influence of the mother extends back,
even for months anterior to the birth cf
her offspring. That they are highly
susceptible to impressions communica
ted through the maternai mind during
the embryonic period, no longer admits
of a doubt. During this time, the
mother exercises supreme dominion,ex
cept so far as the conduct of the hus
band may influence the mind of his
wife. This is her peculiar empire, in
which she reigns the almost absolute
queen of individuals and of nations.
She has now the young mind exclu
sively under her control, and, if she!
understand the manner of imparting
character to it, she can, by the exercise
of her own will, bring into the world
such a being as she pleases. If she
would give birth to a Josephine or a
Howard, a Timor or a Nero, she can
do so, by a simple and silent exercise
of her will. If she has an enemy she
hates, this hatred can be made doubly
strong in her offspring. It was proba
bly in view of these considerations that
Plato laid down the rule that education
must commence previous to the birth of
the child, in the parents themselves.
But mere assertion is of little ac
count. Though it has often been re
peated that greatness is chiefly in
debted to noble mothers, still the mere
assertion is of little worth. Let us
glance into the history of Greatness,
and see how the proposition is sustained
by facts. In consequence of the mea
gre character of almost all biographies,
the facts concerning the characters of
the parents are not always given. The
biographer is too often inclined to claim
over-much for his hero, and conse
quently it is an object to make as bril
liant a contrast as possible between the
position in which he originated and that
which he attained by his individual ef
forts. With the early English biogra
phers, who partook the spirit of the
times, and were aristocratic in feeling,
we find an effort to conceal the mean
ness of their heroes’ origins, and to
find in tbeir ancestors, at least the dis
tinction of Gentlemen. But, in our
democratic times, it is rather an object
to trace the lives of the great to ao
humble origin. But even our recent
biographers seem destitute of the Sci
ence of Greatness—that is, they do not
appreciate the value of all the circum
stances under which a great man came
into the world and was educated; and
consequently that minutia of facts
touching the mental constitutions, ac
quirements, virtues, vices, and general
habits of parents,is not given, by which
the causes and consequences can be
linked together, and valuable informa
tion obtained concerning the formation
of human character.
The first examples I shall cite are
those in which tbe peculiar character!
of the distinguished personages seem to
have originated directly in a singular
mental constitution of the mother.
Some of the cases will also show that
the mental exercises of the materna!
parent, even previous to birth, must
have done much in giving character tc
the offspring.
Among the earliest in time as well jti
highest in renown on the page of mod
ern Biography, stands the name oi
Lord Bacon. It is said that his fame
may be chiefly attributed to the atten
tion of his excellent mother, who in
ROCHESTER, N. Y., THURSDAY, APRIL 3, 1851.
stilled into hit youthful mind th« rudi
ments of science, and early awakened
his speculative curiosity. It would
doubtless be easy to say nearly as much
of any mother of a distinguished per
sonage; but other facts that may be
given are by no means common. His
mother was born in 1538, and in ISfid,
when twenty-two years of age, she
made an accurate and highly celebra
ted translation from the ItlHan of
twenty-five sermons on the abtfuse doc
trine of Predestination and|jElectiun.
The mind of Lady Barn
Eteen cTfMWy"* atfra Bfea
philosophy to have induced her to un
dertake the translation of such a work.
This is also seen in the fact, that sub
sequently, when the controversy be
tween Papacy and the Church of Eng
land ran high, she translated the work
of Bishop Jewell, entitled An Apol
ogy for the Church of England,” from
the Latin, in which it was written, in
order to bring it within the understand
ing of the common people. This also
was a scholarly performance, for it re
ceived the praise of the best scholars
of the time, and the hearty thanks of
the author, to whom she sent a copy,
accompanied by an epistle in Greek.
With such a mother, is it surprising
that Sir Francis was endowed with
those high mental qualities which ena
bled him to depose Aristotle from the
throne on which he had reigned for two
thousand years over the realms of Phil
osophy? Is it astonishing that Lord
Bacon achieved a revolution in human
thought, and became the great head
of modern progress?
From this brilliant source of modern
speculative philosophy, let us recur to
another centre of power more familiar
to the masses of mankind, if not more
distinguished for his genius. Refer
ence is now made to John Wesley,
who, in connection with a younger
brother, was the father of Methodism.
Who was the mother of these brothers
that struck cut a new path in which
millions have since travelled to the land
of spirits? We find she was the wife
of a clergyman who was strict in his at
tendance on the sittings of the Convo
cations. During his absence, she con
ceived the full jdeaofher responsibility
to her large family. Ah there was no
Sabbath afternoon service at Epwortb,
where she lived, j.he prayed in her fam
ily, read a sermon, and engaged in reli
gious conversation. Some of the more
pious parishioners accidentally called
in on these occasions, and they were
not excluded. About this time, she
procured a work that greatly enkindled
her ardor for “good works.” Her
little audience soon numbered forty and
fifty, to whom she prayed, read from
the book that had so justly awakened
her attention to divine things, and fi
nally her house was not able to contain
the multitude that waited upon her
ministrations. The invasion of the du
ties of the sterner sex, and thU palpa
ble violation of the injunction of St.
Paul, excited the jealousy and indigna
tion of some of the deacons oi the par
ish, and the afTuir to her husband in no
very pleasant terms. He was thus in
duced to write to her, objecting to her
conduct, as it looked particular,” be
cause of her sex, and also because he
was in a public station which rendered
it necessary that he should do nothing
to excite the public censure; and he
recommended that some man read in
his stead. In her reply, she thanked
him for his plainness of speech, and, as
to its locking particular, she said, I
grant it does, and so does everything
that is serious, or that may in any way
advance the glory of God or the salva
tion of souls, if it be performed out of
the pulpit, or in the way of common
conversation; because, in our corrupt
age, the utmost care and diligence
have been used to banish all discourse
of God or spiritual concerns out of so
ciety, as if religion were never to ap
pear out of the closet, and we were to
be ashamed of nothing so much as of
confessing ourselves to be Christians.”
As to the objection on account of her
sex, she said she was a woman, it was
true, and though be was the rightful
lord of tbe family, yet she was the mis
tress, and during bis absence she
thought her children were committed
to her under a trust from the great
Lord of all families of heaven and
earth. How should she {.newer to him
if she failed? As to bringing censure
upou him, she said, For myself, 1
value no censure on this account; I
have long since shaken hands with the
world; and I heartily wish 1 had never
given them more reason to speak
against me.” Whereupon, Mrs. Wes
ley, deeming her obligations to hei
Lord of heaven superior to those to hei
martial lord, continued her religioui
ministrations to the hungry and thirst)
souls of Epworth Finally, matter!
waxed worse and worse, and the Cu
rate of the Parish became alarmed foi
the cause of decency, good manners
aod religion, remonstrated most ener
getically with Mr. Wetle/, having him
seif been worsed in an interview witl
the Priestess of Epworth. Mr. Wes
ley thereupon addressed his rebellion
wife a second letter, communicating bii
decided disapprobation. To ibis shi
did not reply for some days, thinkinj
it best to take time tor deliberation if
so important a negotiation. At lengtl
she wrote her answer, and, after sta
ting the good that had been done ii
the meetings, and her persuasion as t<
her duty to continue them, she said—
If you do, afier all, think fit to dis
solve this assembly, do not tell me tha
you detire me to do it, for that will*no
satisfy my conscience; hut send m<
your positive command, in such full am
express terms as may absolve me fron
guilt and punishment for neglecting
this opportunity of doing gooc, when
you and I shall appear before the
Sreat and awful tribunal of our Lord
esus Christ.” Heroic Woman! She
believed it her duty to submit to the
commands of her temporal lord, but
there must be no lack of explicitness in
thb terms of the command. They must
be such as would leave her no discre
tion in dissolving a meeting she re
garded as of great value to the souls of
Epworth. In this case she did not re
awaited his positive command, so that
she might be acquitted before the
great tribunal. Doubtless Mr. Wes
ley at this time began to fear that his
wife was right, and an alarm began to
seize him, lest he should be a defaulter
in her presence before the judgment
seat of the universe. Here we see the
potency of superior mental power ru
ling the minds of others si'cntly, yet
effectually. Mrs. Wesley violated no
duty to her husband, even though that
husband was entitled to the supreme
command. She merely set forth in
good, sound language, her own views
as to her obligations to God and the
9ouls of the people, and threw upon him
•a responsibility under which he trem
bled. He chose rather to let her take
her own course than risk the conse
quences which this powerful weman in
dicated. But this is not the only in
stance in which Mrs. Wesley was true
to her own convictions and personal
consequence. She was an honest, out
spoken woman, and not timid in ex
pressing her own convictions as to al
questions, whether religious or politi
cal. The dispute arose among the peo
ple, whether the Prince of Orange was
entitled to the throne of the realm. In
this she differed with Mr. Wesley,
who told her that he never would again
cohabit with her until she should
change her opinion. But her opinions
were her own individual property, of
which she could not divest herself, and
her honesty forced her to declare the
tact. Accordingly, true to his threat,
he took bis saddle-bags and a crust of
bread, mounted his gray mare, and
rode away, leaving her and her large
family for twelve months, when the
death of the King released him from
his vow. The heroic John Wesley,
the founder of the largest Protestant
sect, was the first birth after the re
union of his parents. If the influence
of this separation so chastened the
spirits of his parents as to impress the
son with his noble character, then for
tunate was the temporary disagreement!
How much of the Father of Methodism
can be traced to the character of his
mother! We see in her the spirit of
inquiry, the lofty tone of independence,
and the mental power calculated to
govern, which distinguished her illus
trious son! In his writings do we not
observe one distinguishing feature of
Methodism? John Wesley was born
in 1703.
The next example I shall cite bears
equally strong upon the proposition in
hand—to wit, that those faculties of tha
head and those sentiments of the heart
which are in active exercise immedi
ately preceding and subsequent to the
birth of a child, are transmitted in pre
dominant power. The reader must not
be told that this case also bears most
forcibly upon the main idea of this pa
per—to wit, the relation of noble
mothers to noble sons,
A heavenly spirit is before us. We
are now to contemplate the angelic pu
rity and excellence ol that queenly ben
efactress, Elizabeth Fry! She was
born in 1780, and was descended from
a long line of Quakers. Of her mother,
the biographer remarks: Mrs. Gur
ney, mother ofElizabeth, was a woman
of excellent abilities, and of considera
ble attainments, as well of much per
sonal beauty. She was disposed to sci
entific and literary pursuits, and singu
larly delighted in the charms and
beauties of nature, imbuing her chil
dren, almost in infancy, with tastes
that remained with them through life.”
But, not to depend upon the mere
statement of the biographer, let me
quote a passage from the diary of this
excellent mother, in which her true
spirit appears. The following bears
date April, 1788: In the morning eu
deavor, at first waking, to bring the
mind into a silent waiting and worship,
preparatory to the active employment
of the day; when up, visit the several
apartments of the children, and. if
leisure permit before breakfast, read
the Scriptures—if not, it should not be
afterwards neglected; forgot not the
kindest attention to my companion be
fore parting for the day. After walk
ing with the little ones, and endeavor
ing to enjoy each individually, begin
with the necessary instructions of C.
and R; then attend to the kitchen and
all family regulations, and to the claims
of the poor And thus she concluded
the record of the day: "Remember
thrt these desultory remarks are de
signed—first, to promote my duty to
my Maker; secondly, ray duty towards
my husband aod children, relations,
servants, and poor neighbors” The
italics are my own,to mark the strength
of those sympathies which so pre-emi
nently distinguished her illustrious
daughter, as evidenced, not only in
her philanthropic life, her visits to the
poor, the outcast, and imprisoned, and
invoking relief from the Government,
but also as seen in the eloquent words
of her own diary. On the 16th of May,
1797, when but seventeen years of age,
Elisabeth make the following entry in
her journal: “There is a sort of luxury
in giving way to the feelings. I love
to feel for the sorrows of others; to
TERMS— Per Alias, liTtriihly Ii Advtice.
pour wine and oil into the wounds ol
the afflicted; there is a luxury in feel
ing the heart glow, whether it be witk
joy or sorrow. I like to
think of everything, to look at mankind;
1 love to look through nature up to na
ture’s God. 1 have no more religion
than that, aod in the little 1 have I am
not the least devotional; but when I
admire the beauties of nature, I cannot
help thinking of the Source from
whence su|h beauties flow. I feel it a
support; Ibelieve firmly (hat all is gov
erned for the best by an invisible
•rower—mere rare i ob am rear tm
evils of life so much. I love to feel
good. I do what I can to be kind to
everybody; I have many faults which I
hope in time to overcome.” She be
came in subsequent life more "devo
tional” than she described herself al
seventeen; but a life actuated by the
benevolent sentiments of the above
passage is characterized by the purest
devotion. Doing good is devotion to
God, for he is the Infinite Good.
Another example of equal force, il
lustrating the proposition in haod, tt
found in the motherhood of Henry IV,
the noblest King that France ever had.
True, Charlemagne had laid the foun
dations of national glory; Louis XIV,
in more modern times, by his conquests,
throw an awful air about the national
standard; and, at a recent period, the
Emperor Napoleon astonished the world
by his amazing achievements in the
name of France; but it was the fourth
i Henry who reigned and toiled for the
elevation of the masses of his people,
1 as well as for the honor of their regal
poweramong the nations of the earth.
He was an ardent patron of learning,
and by his own hand many agricultu
ral and mechanical iinprovemeats were
introduced. He cultivated the grape,
and under his own exclusive patronage
the silk worm was brought from the
East, and set to work for the French
people. The memory of this King was
embalmed by Voltaire, in his master
poem, La Hcnriade.
And who was the mother of the fourth
Henry? She is known in history as
Jane, Queen of Navarre. This was
then a small kingdom in the South of
France, but now it is incorporated in
the republic. Jane married Anthony
of Bourbon, sdn of Charles, Duke of
Vendome, by whom she had Henry VI.
This Anthony was the first prince of
the blood, and entitled to the protecto
rate of Charles IX. during his minority.
But the Queen Mother and the Guises,
wishing to get the power into their own
hands, endeavored to detach Anthony
from the Protestant interest. The in
fluence of the Pope and Cardinals was
obtained, and the aspirants were suc
cessful as to him; but they utterly
failed to win Jane and her children,
who were of still greater consequence.
The King of Navarre—her husband—
was thus enlisted against the Prince of
Conde and the Protestant cause;
whereupon, the Queen retired to Pad
eusa in Berne, and there kept her
court, soon after which the King died,
and comparative quiet was restored.
Not long subsequent to this, however,
the third civil war, on account of reli
gion, broke out, and Jane, the Queen
of Navarre, raised a considerable
force and led them to Rochelle, taking
with her Henry, her son, and Cather
ine, her daughter. From this place
she wrote letters to the King, the
Queen-Mother, the Duke of Anjou,
and the Cardinal Bourbon, advising
them of their ruinous policy. But as
her advice was unheeded, the war con
tinued, the Prince of Conde was slaia,
and the Protestants were defeated at
the battle of Bassac. On receiving the
melancholy news, the Queen of Na
varre hastened to the Protestant army,
and before the august assembly of no
bles and soldiers she made a speech to
inspire them with hope; she pronoun
ced an eulogiutn to the Prince of
Conde, and exhorted the living to imi
tate his example. After stimulating
the hearts and exciting the enthusiasm
of the army, and after addressing a
few words to her son, in private, to stir
up his spirits, she retired to Rochelle,
to rsise new succors. In the mean
time, a commission was granted to
Torride, Governor of Querni, to sum
mon the Queen of Navarre, and the
Prince, her son, to quit the Protestant
cause, and, in case ofher refusal,to in
vade the countries of Berne, Foix, and
Navarre. Of course, the high-spirited
Queen refused, and her provinces
were invaded. Terride took posses
sion of all but Navarre, which he be
seiged. The Earl of Montgomery was
sent against him, and he was defeated
and driven back, and a treaty was
made, in which the rights of Jane were
guaranteed, her dominions dedicated
to the freedom of the Protestant faith,
and she and her children acknowledged
good cousins of the King. Her son
married the King’s sister; and when
she went to Paris to arrange the nup
tials, the Queen-Mother, who could
not endure her rival, coospired with
one Rene, skillful in missions, to take
her off*. Accordingly he sola her poi
soned perfumes, which sickened her
with a fever that terminaied her life in
1572, at 44 years of age. Such was
the mother of the great Henry of
Frwxrr
this head, also, we must clam
the mother of Napoleon, She was a
woman of surpassing beauty and ex
ceeding vigor. Her husband was at
tached to Paoli, the defender of Cor
sician independence against the
Freach. Hie young and high-spirited
wife, while pregnant with Napoleon,
followed the patriot army on horseback
across the mountains, and resided
awhile on the summit of Mount of Ro
WHOLE NO. 171.
tondo, in the parish of Kaoli.. Just bo
fore the period ofher confinement she
wac cent beck to Ajaccia. Sey.Scott:
He read with inters* that his
mother’s good constitution and bold
character of mind haring induced her
to attend mam upon the day of kia
birth—being the festive! of the Assump
tion—she was obliged to return homo
immediately; and as there was no time
to prepare a bed or bed-room, she was
delivsred of the future victor upon
temporary couch, prepared for her ac
commodation, and covered with en an
cient piece of tapestry, representing
the heroee of the Iliad. Enough for
the motherhood of Napoleon. In
these cases we see something of the e la
tent to which the thooghta, feelings
and passions of the raether, while
moulding the tenement of a soul,
stamps its destiny in life? This is a
j subject full of warning for all mothers
'and for all fathers! To mothers, that
they may be trutbtul and pure; and to
fathers, that they may assist their
wives in all that is good, and surround
them with pleasant circumstancse.
The mother has alrao lathe power to
predestine a soul to happiness or mis
ery, to virtue or vice, to heaven or
hell!
The example of Sir Philip Sidney a
also in point. His mother possessed a
lofty and ingenious spirit, sayi his biog
rapher. She was a daughter of the
Duke of Northumberland, and the tra
gical events in which her family was
fenreerneo, weaned ner trom the vani
ties and follies of life. She is de
scribed as devoting herself, like Cor
nelia, the mother of the Gracchi, to the
education ofher children, in which she
was most faithful. She possessed a
large understanding, and waa a model
of virtue and excellence.qualitiee which
adorned the life of her noble son. He
was the universal favorite of his are
Rom. 1550. 6
The mother of Lichtenburg, a dia
dinguished German baron, in 1742, is
described as having been a woman of
superior mind—one who had a taste for
the speculative branches of natural
philosophy, and yet was most attentive
to her maternal duties—the education
of his eighteen children constituting
her chief delight. He was universally
gifted—a great mathematician, a pro
found thinker, and distinguished in Hr
erature.
The mother ofNovatis, another dis
tinguished, German was eminent for
her worth—" a pattern of noble piety
and Christian mildness”—virtues which
wrer often tried in her subsequent life
He was born in 1771.
The father of Edmund Waller, one
of the British poets, died when his son
was a child, and his education devolved
on his mother. She was a woman of
bold spirit and penetrating mind. She
was a zealous royalist, and was said to
have been the Protector’s aunt. She
did not disguise her sentiments from
Cromwell, even when at the height of
his power. She predicted to him that
things would one day resort to their
old channels, leaving him and his friends
in ruin. For her bold royalty, Crom
well deprived her of liberty by placing
her in charge of one of her daughters
who had married a zealous friend of tha
Protector. She had been a corree
pondent with the leading royalists, and
Cromwell thought her dangerous to the
stability of his power. Such was the
motherhood of Waller. And who was.
he? Besides being a poet of immortal
renown, he was a statesman, elected to
Parliament at sixteen years of age
He was cousin of the noble Hampden
and made a speech in his defence of
which 20,000 copies were sold in one
day! He was born in 1605.
I may remark here, that it is a note
worthy fact, that while the biographer
never has occasion to notice the stu
pidity ol a single mother of greatness,
ho has, in almost all instances, when
the facts are known, occasion to speak
of the superiority of the mothers of his
heroes!
But I cannot complete this paper
without extending it to an unsuitable
length, and will close here for the pres
ent, expecting to resume it, and deduce
other important considerations from bi
ographical facts, with some valuable
hints respecting the education ol moth
era. I have to remark that biographers
have culpably omitted the most impor
tant circumstances attending the birth
and early education ol the great, and
in comparatively few instances can they
be found. These facts I regard as most
valuable in the promotion of sound phi
losophy on this subject In the few
cases I have cited, there can be no
doubt as to the truth of the doctrine
attempted to be enforced by them. If
permitted to continue this subject, I
shall cite many more cases showing the
almost omnipotence of the maternal in
fluence.
Anothee Soul-Driver Gone.—Mr.
Garrison, of Louisville, K/., whoso
whole life has been spent in making
brothels, prostitutes, widows, and or
phans, is at last dead and gone to his
reward. In the fall of 1839 he bought
and carried us, confined with irons in
connection with other slaves, lo the
city ot New Orleans and sold us. We
hare often witnessed hie cruelty to
wards his victims, both male and fe
male, when they were confined with
heavy irons and could not help them
selves. We have heard him say that
he never felt happier tbau when he had
a female confined and applying n
scourge to her back—"ah! how he
liked to hear them beg and scream.”
He would often travel through the
State of Kentucky to buy up the
handsomest mulatto female slavea that
he could find, without any regard to
separating husbands and wives, end
would take them to New Orleans, and
itell them for the basest of purposes.
He kept a slave pen in the cky of
Louisville for several years. A fugi
tive, who has just arrived in Canada,
from that city, informs us that Garrison
had a falling out with one of his start
holding chums, who shot Garrison
through the head with two balls from a
revolver; which is the way such char
acters generally s«Ule up their diffi
culties, before they leave this vorid.
Foies of the Fugitive.
Boston, March I.—Robert Morris, a «4o
ed lawyer, waaarreated chi. morning, for aid
mg in the escape of Chadwick, and held
tuul in $3OOO. Joaiah Quincy becatna his
sorely.
The evidence in tbs cause of Thornes F.
Smith, an alleged rescuer, is all in, and the
defence baa commenced argamcet.
News from England!
The orinin of the Ministry is now at an
rad. After a week of agitation, consults
tion, attempts and failure, hopes and fears,
all idea of forming a new Ministry, even
with Lord John Russell at us head, war
Even up; and His Lordship, with his eol
aguea, is restored to his former position.
The result is one which supplies no party
with grounds of glorying, although, in van*
ous degrees, with grounds of gratification.
Lord Stanley has come out of the matter
with clean hands. From first to last, he acted
aa became an honorable, high-minded, and
courageous man, well deserving the tribute
whieh was paid him by Lord John Rusßel)
on the possession of these qualities. He
clearly bad no wish to snatch at power nor,
whan duty seemed to require it, did he shtink
from combating difficulties attendant on the
attempt to form a Cabinet; while, in his en
deavors to do so, manifested the caution with
respect to both persons and principles which
became his high and difficult position. The
whole of hit conduct has done honor alike to
himself, his party, his country, and his
Sovereign. Still, beyond this and the satis
faction of a good conscience, His Lordship
has no ground for boasting. It has been
made clear to him, that at present it is im
possible to construct a Protectionist Govern
ment, that, whatever feuds the party may
create, whatever violence they may display,
whether in or out of the Senate, and what
ever number, either in the House of Peers or
the House of Commons, may support them
on a vote, yet they have neither the weight
nor the worth even ol the Senate, and in the
country, beyond a portion of the landlords
themselves, they have none te bio mem god
speed. There is room to believe, that, while
Lord Stanley has no ground of exultation,
he has nevertheless received a lesson which
will be useful to him. The reoeht failure is
ths best possible set-off to the glory of the
former debate, and the narrow majority in
favor of Ministers.
It is farther deserving of notice, that, in
proportion as Loid Stanley has gained, in the
sight of his countrymen, Mr. Disraeli has
lost. That brilliant, bitter son of Abraham
has cut a very poor figure on the present oc
casion. Assuredly he has no ground for
boasting. It must have surprised himself, as
it has done his foolish admirers out of doors,
how little has been made of him in the course
of the discussion in either House of Pailia
roent. The process has been to him a sort
of senatorial daguerreotype, in the polished
plate supplied by this hour of distraction, his
likeness has been truthfully depicted. His
littleness and meanness were strikingly illus
trated in his unmannerly and insolent conduct
towards Loid John Russell, who subsequent
ly avenged himself, with a calm dignity and
a conclusive force, which reduced his mali
cious antagonist to a very humbling position,
and supplied a lesson to him, which it is to
be hoped will not be forgotten. Nothing has
yet occuned so thoroughly to show, that
howevei the heacs of factions or of parties
may avail themselves of his intellectual
adroitness end his biting invective, to serve an
end or annoy—we do not say humble—an
adversary, he has no hold on their iespeci,
will never be admitted to their confidence,
nor, whatever changes mty turn up, be suf
fered to take any prominent share in the
government of the country.
Another statesman, on the piesent oc
casion, has figured to advantage—that is. Sit
James Graham. The conduct of the Righl
Honorable gentleman throughout, has been
straightforward and manly, generous and
patriotic. He has done a great deal to revive
past impressions iu his favor, and to recover
the powerful hold he once possessed on the
better portion of the mind of the country. He
has scied with great transparency, and both
Loid John Russell and the House of Commons
seem to appreciate the merits of his course,
as was most clear from the manner in which
be was received in the House on making hu
explanatory statement. Sir James, instead
of losing, has been a gainer, and, on personal
grounds, has a good deal to gratify him. W«
are, nevertheless, far from approving of some
parts of hia speech, or consideiing him sound
in his views of the Papal Aggression. He
seems, in truth, to act not very consistently.
He grants that a great outrage has been per
petrated, and yet he would suffer it to pass
unreseuted. He is not unappnsed that the
country is in danger, while he d 'precates ail
idea of defence. Nothing is easier than the
common-piaces on which his rhetoric
each modes of address, moreover, were cal
culated, in certain quarters, to attract ap
plause the applause ot men who are boastful
of a spurious liberality—men to whom all
creeds tie alike, and who make conscience ol
nothing that appertains to religioua endow
ment-men who are prepared to take all they
can get, or to give all from the public purse
they may have the power of bes,owing—tuese
men will cheer such sentiments as those ot
ths able and eloquent Lord of Netherby. But
there is s mind in the country, more enlight
ened, more judicious, and that better under
stands the teal wants of the time, and
the exigencies of the nation, and to that mind
the subject may be safely left.
Of Lord Aberdeen little need be said, Hia
speech, in all iis main points, was so identical
with that of Sir James Graham, that w'e have
disburdened our columns by passing it over.
Suffice it to aay, that His Ludship, while
conducting himself, on the whole, with pro
per dignity, went a good deal out of his way
in lecturing the House and the public on
what he was pleased to call “persecution.”
His sentiments on the mattet of Papal Ag
gtession were very unsatisfactory,* and, we
must say, unworthy of a statesman of his
years, services, just pretensions, and high
position.
Lord John Russell, it will be seen, in s
quiet, modest, and temperate way, slated the
facts yf the case rela tve to the resumption
of the reins of Government, and manifested,
as in the circumstances was meet, no exulta
tion. It appears to have been with him very
much a matter of indifference what turn the
matter might take; although he would be
either less or more than a man were he to be
unmoved by the event, since he must fee! it a
compliment to himself, and a ttibute to the
comparative strength of his position. How
ever weak that position may be deemed, it is
stronger thsn that of any of his rivals.
1b truth, be has walked over the course,
e aoe he had, strictly speaking, no rival—no
oorapetitor. Hia opponents may thwart, but
they cannot displace him; oi, by vexatious
proceedings, dexterous manoeuvres, and un
prinoipled combination, they may, as they
have already done, displace, but they cannot
succeed him. That point is now settled. The
circumstances Lord John is placed in are of
a nature to repress anything like elation,
sinee his restoration leaves all the facts on
wbijch be grounded his resignation untouched.
Ha has no pledge of support from his own
Liberal friends he has nothing to look for
from the Protectionists and genuine Torries;
tha Peeluea will yield him only a conditional
support and the Roman Catholics are in no
impact appeased—their bitterness, on the
contrary, is daily gathering intensity. He
has still to compete with the difficulties ot
the Papal Bill, and it is just possible that he
may sustain some humiliation in being com
pelled further to emesculste it; and may
give tha Vatican striumph, by withdrawing
tboae provisions whieh refer to Scotland and
Ireland—for this step, while it would humble
himself, Would have all the effect of a tiiumph
to the Papal Church, and, in truth, make his
small BUI still less, and render what remains
scarcely worth contending about, or even the
labor of framing it into enactment. Then
there is the Income-tax. After all that has
bean said, in an out of the House, mote
especially out, the unanimous avowal of dis
pleasure msde by the public, and the invec
tive or the Press, will Lord John have the
hardihood again to briog forward that moa
seie, unimproved either as to its character or
jta duration If so, be may rest assured it
will minister but little to his popelsiity, and
his consequent power with the country. The
qeeeuoo of questions with the British people
it the Money Qaeation. Then there it the
precious Budget, with its miserable dis
tributions and preposterous provisions, is that
to be persevered in, or is the whole thing to be
re-cast Lord John may rest assured the
Public will not eat their words, apologise for
their maledictions, and look with complacen
cy on that which from the first they hare
viewed with scorn. No! TheiT mindr will
not change. Will the mind of the Govern
ment? If not, then all things will continue
as they were, and the issue will be universal
dissatisfaction, distrust, and contempt.
There is another peculiarity in the case,
which should not be lost sight of. Lord John
must be aware, that never was there a crisis
so complicated and so protracted respecting a
Government, that excited so little sympathy
in the country. His Lordship’s historical
readings will supply him with examples from
the history of George 111., more especially
from the earlier parts of it. The movement,
the agitation, the excitement, the solicitude,
)ias all been confined to the Palace and to
Downing-street. The public have been keen
observers of passing events, but there has
been no very deep anxiety felt, and no
public manifestations whatever. There never
was an instance uf so much tumult and agita
tion at the centre of society, combined with
so much calm and dignified reserve through
out ihe circumference. The silence which
has pervaded the whole of this mighty king
dom has been the most significant, and full of
instruction to the Premier. It is in vain he
looks to the Metropolis, even to his own con
stituencies, to Bristol, to Birmingham, to Man
chester,.Liverpool, to Edinburgh,%) Glas
gow, and the other great hives of humanity,
tor a single demonstration in hia favor. Even
alter His Lordship'S repealed mreret and
after it was trumpeted abroad that Lord Stan
ley was in the act of forming a Protectionist
Mtniatry, all remained still. The un
concern amounted to something like apathy.
There was no sympathy whatever with the
defunct Cabinet—nri a vrcrd of either pity or
protest on their behalf. Rarely, indeed, has
there been such a manifestation of indiffer
ence, and such a perfect disregard to the
heads of parties and possible combination.—
British Banner March 5.
We have recently passed through a Minis
terial crisis, as everybody knows, of extraor
dinary length and severity. We have been
assured by every actor in that most compli
cated and inconclusive drama that the obsta
cle to the formation of a strong, compact, and
efficient Government was to be found, not in
the clamor for protection to agriculture, nor
in the signal miscariage of the Ministerial
Budget, nor yet in the ill-timed opposition to
Parliamentary reform, but wholly, solely, and
entiiely in the irreconcilable difference ol
opinion on the question of Papal aggression.
This was a matter of principle on both sides,
which no anxiety for the public service—no
expediency, however manifest—no calls of
patriotism, however urgent, could induce
them to compromise. Armed to the teeth in
stubborn and unbending consistency, and for
tified with his letter to Mr. Howard, Sir
James Graham was not to be moved while,
firm in conscious rectitude, and determined to
perform his duty faithfully to an insulied
Crown and an outraged nation, Lord John
Russell relied on his letter to the Bishop ot
Durham, and was equally inexorable. It was
a spectacle enough to convince the veriest
skeptic of political morality and public prin
ciple tosee our Premier consent again to un
dertake the Government of the country with
the very identical Cabinet which he had him
self dissolved as incompetent only ten days
before—ready to endure any given number
of minorities, and to run the gauntlet through
any species of Pailiamentary misadventure,
rather than betray ihose hopes which he had
induced the Protestant people of England to
repose in him as their champion. Well, the
sacrifice has heen made, the Ministry has
been reconstructed in the full strength of its
original weakness, and Parliament and the
country naturally look with anxiety to the
performance of those pledges for the sake of
of which so much inestimable time and invalu
able support have been so freely and cheer
fully sacrificed. How those pledges—for the
sake of which the affairs of this great empire
are now intrusted to s Government which
cannot calculate on a majority in either House
of Parliament, and which has only retained
office for the purpose of carrying out the
wishes of the people with regard to ihe Ro
man Catholic question—have been redeemed,
our readers will learn from the speeches de
livered by Sir George Grey and Lord John
Russell in the House of Commons. It is ac
tually determined to atrike out of the bill
which gave so poor and iasdeqate an expres
sion to the public feeling, the second clause,
which renders invalid all deeds executed un
der the prohibited style and title, and the
third clause, by which all property left or con
veyed to persons bearing these illegal titles is
forfeited to the Crown. The bill will there
fore be reduced to its first clause, imposing a
penalty of .£lOO for the assumption of an ec
clesiastical title taken from any place in the
United Kingdom, to be aued for by the At
torney General.
The effect of the measure is. therefore,
this :—lt is unlawful for Dr. Wiseman to
cal] himself Archbishop of Westminster, and
for Dr. M’Hale to call himself Archbishop of
Tuam, and the Goveinment may, if it please
—that is to say, if it is disposed to creste a
violent disturbance and roost pernicious agita
tion among the Irish Roman Catholics—pros
ecute the only party who systematically so of
fends. But it is quite lawful for these per
sons to coovey or receive property under
these illegal titles, and all donations or be
quests made to or for the yurpose of support
ing or endowing these dignities with Parlia
ment declaies to be illegal and void will be
perfectly void to all intents and purposes.
We can understand, though we do not ap
prove, the view of Sir James Graham and
Lord Aberdeen, and can even admit that
there was much in it which any statesman in
trusted with the responsibilities of office would
be willing to be persuaded to adopt.
We can understand, though we do not
adopt, the policy of Lord Stanley, and can
readily admit that, for a party which places
all its hopes on the result of the next disso
lution of Parliament, to conciliate immediate
popularity by atrong declaratory resolutions,
and to keep alive public interest by the inves
tigations of an interminable commmittee,
would be a skillful and far-sighted stroke of
policy. But a course of action like that of
Lord John Russell, which begins by placing
itself at the head of popular enthusiasm and
raising it to the highest pitch, only to disap
point it by a most inadequate measure—which
makes that inadequate measure the means of
perpetuating the weakness of the Govern
ment, and then emasculates that inadequate
measure till it becomes as little acceptable to
Protestant as to Romanist—such policy as
this we do not pretend to understand.
With respect to the budget, changes are
promised, but of their preoise character no in
timation has been made.— London Times
Match Bth.
Arrival of the Franklin at New York.
The steamship Franklin, from Havre, oth
inst., arrived at New York about 4 o’clock,
P. M., Satuiday, with London dates to the
Bth, thus anticipating the Artic’a news.
England. The Duke of Wellington hav
ing lecommended Queen Victoria to recall
Lord John Russell, together with his asso
ciates in the ministry, on account of the ina
bility of Loid Stanley to form a protectionist
administration, the Whig Premier bad again
resumed the reins of power, and no alteration
in the construction of the cabinet waa likely
to take place.
Baltimore, March 00,1851.
I learn that it is now contemplated to of
fer the $19,000, which General Chaplin gave
as bail lor his appearance before the Howaid
District Court, and which he forfeited (or his
securities forfeited) in consequence of hia
failure to appear, as a reward for his sepre>
bwaieo.”— Cor, of the Notional Intel,
The British West ladies, 1850- By John
Candler and G. F. Alexander.
THE DANISH COLONIES.
Oor passage from Bssa-terre, in St. Kitt’s,
to Christianstadt, in Santa Cm, occupied
thirty hours. Santa Crns is one of the most
interesting islands of the western world. The
estates are divided from each other by rows
of cocoa nut tree the valleys are well culti
vated, and covered with luxuriant cane fields;
the roads are excellent, and (he landscape
everywhere sweet and lovely. It exceeds in
quiet beauty almost every spot that we could
name. It is not yet fully the abode of lib
erty,but we trust that it soon will be, and
that the people, emancipated from every rem
nant of boodage, will rejoice as free men on
the soil that gave them birth. Santa Crus
is a colony of Denmark, and together with
the island of St. Thomas and St. John, it
under the Tule of Governor-general Stanaen,
who gave us a hearty and hospitable)weteome,
invited us to his table, and gave us liberty,
undei bis own hand, to visit and inspect th<
public institutions. The records of these
islands are kept with scrupulous exactness
and their statistics are exceedingly minute
The free people of Santa Crux are 7.369
The late slaves, and still unfree, are 16,906
total, 34,065. There reside in the town o
Chiistiaustadt, which is the seat of govern
ment, 5,108 persons; in Frederickstadt
2.344; in the country and on the estates
16,613. The ptoclamation of freedom to tht
slave population is dated 3rd July, 1848, ant
recites as follows;
1. All unfree in the Danish West Indi;
Islands are from to-day emancipated.
O. Tti« mute negro** retain for thrs
month* from date the o*e of the hoa*e*
provision ground, of which they have hither
to been possessed.
3. Labor is in future to be paid for bj
agreement, but allowance is to cease.
4. The maintenance of old and infir/n, whe
are not able to work, is until further determi
nation to be furnished by the late owners.
The terms of this proclamation, ao plain
snd unequivocal, which bestow unconditional
freedom on the slave, have since been repeal
ed, and resolutions or decrees of a stringent
character substituted, which leave the predial
laborers in a state of bondage. They cannot
change their masters or place of abode oftenei
thar. once in the year, and their employments
not at all; the wages they receive are very
small, and regulated by law. Their daily
tasks are prescribed, and they are restricted
in locomotion. A chief part of the freedom
that remains is the permission, once in the
year, when the annual contracts of service
expire, to give notice to leave their masters
but in this case they must find employment
elsewhere, or buy a passport to leave the
land of their birth, and quit the island. This
state of things, being only hope deferred, not
realized, makes sick the heart of thoae whe
are subject to it, and many discontents are
the consequence, which manifest themaelrej
in the prison records for what is termed in
subordination and we are sorry to say, in
occasional acis of incendiarism, the authors
of which are unknown. We attended several
of the courts, or what we should term the
peiiy sessions, and paid more than one visit
to the principal public prison. This prison is
among the best constructed in the West
indies, and contained, at the time of our visit,
forty convictß—twenty-seven men and thir
teen women. There are fifty-two spacious
eel’s, in one long airy coiridor. The piison
ers, men and women, were at work in the
town, under a guard, each of them wearing
a thick and heavy iron ring on the neck (a
badge of slavery, that ought not to he
tolerated Thd commitment book was kepi
in Danish, and contained auch records of
offences and punishments as the following
“For leaving the estate, fourteen days im
piisonment and labor.” “Disorderly conduct
on the estate, twelve lashes and two months’
imprisonment.” “Impertinence to the owner,
two months’ imprisonment.” “Frequent de
sertion of service,” —a female, —“four
months’ imprisonment.” “Stealing canes,
three months’ imprisonment.” There were
also many commitments for refusing to work,
with the record, “Detained till further
orders.” No owner of an estate can inflict
corporal punishment on the laborers. The
police magistrates hold courts in different
parts of the island, and in Chrbtiansiadt
these take place three times a week. In all
cases connected with field labor, the sentence
i« summary, and the convict is sent to prison.
Th**re is a court of appeal, but the laborers
seldom resort to it. The chief magistrate of
police spoke well of the peasantry, and ex
pressed hia belief that the present inter
mediate system would soon give way to un
conditional freedom, as at first proclaimed.
A similar statement was made by a colonel
of artillery, who sat near us, when we dined
at the Governor’s table. We heaitly wish
this righteous and oeneficial result. Having
been introduced by the Governor to a few of
the principal planters, we received invitations
to make a tour of the island, and to visit some
of the ea'atea, which we were glad to accept,
as without such permission we could Dot
have ventured inio a single cabin. Many of
the houses of the unfree are much better in
appearance than those of the old slave villages
in our own colonies. They ate generally
built of stone, shingled over with wood, and
being ananged in rows, have an appearance
of respectability and comfort. The arangs
ments within, of some of the beat of them,
are pretty good. The people who inhabit
these dwellings have a downcast and timid
look, very different from that of the laboiers
of our own colonies. Their masters, with
very few exceptions, were evidently unwil
ling that we should enter into any conversa
tion with them on their circumstances, which
we could have done freely if left to ourselves,
as the Negro Dutch dialect, once common to
the island, has almost disappeared, and En
glish is commonly spoken. This is also the
language of the pulpit and the schools. In
passing through the country and among the
estates, we saw numerous large groups of
men and women working in the fields, under
a driver, exactly as it was in the days of sla
very—with this difference only, that no driver
can use a whip. Such of the laborors as we
met in the corners of fields, or at the gates
by the read-side, or driving cattle on the
road, seemed naif afraid to converse with ua.
lest they should be detected but we learned
from some of them what they thought ol
their present condition, which we found lo
be unsatisfactory, to them. During two days
of the week, out of the seven, they are par
tially disen'hralled. The Saturday market
is a time to many of them of joy and free
dom, and the Sabbath brings with it, to most,
the blessings of teat and public worship. It
is a gratifying sight to witness, as we did,
numerous bands repairing from the estates,
on the first day of the week, to iheir respec
tive places of public worship, habited io their
holiday dresses; the women bearing par
asols, which seem quite a common append
age and some of the men, more favored by
their masters than the rest, riding on horse
back, with perhaps a boy or a girl, and
sometimes a woman, taking hold of the
horse's tail, for the benefit of a kindly and
social drag. We only needed to believe
that they were teally free to rejoice in aueb
a spectacle. The Sabbath achoolt are well
attended by both children and adults; the
day schools not quite so well as during ths
latter period of slavery, when masters were
compelled io send all children of a certain age
t 3 the district school. The Government cen
tralize, overlooks, and directs every move
ment of the common people it judged edu
cation to be a benefit to the State, and has
not omitted to make some provision for it
There are eight public district schools, for
the gratuitous education of tbs young, and
two Lancasterian schools, in Frederickstadt,
the whole of which are supported at an
annual cost from .£5,000 to 6,000. There
ire also in ths island two Danish schoo's, and
fourteen private schools. The total of
:hildten, of all ci&ssea, under instruction, is
1,959. Tbs children of the peasantry who
eeetve education, are meetly confioeJ to
i (hose of a very early age, and this is given
daring a very limited period of tbe day.
We consder '.he schools in Santa Cruz to be
in all respects much less satisfactory than in
most of the British colonies. The Lutheran
church has its ministers, who preach in the
Danish language; and the English and
American Episcopalians have a minister in
Cbristiaustadt. The great body of the com
tnun peole attended the Moravian chapels.
The Roman Catholics have a handsome edi
hoe in the capital.
THE PLANTERS.
I Santa Ciuz contains 128 sugar estates,
whi h snake an avesage aunual amount of
sugar of 110 hogsheads each. It has thirty
cattle or stock estates, chiefly in pasture.
The number of resident proprietors is sixty
s seven of non-residents, twenty-seven. The
absentee proprietors pay a duty to the Govern
tnent of five per cent, on the gross revenue
of their estates, which amounted, last year.
to 11,416 dollars. The export duty on sugar
shipped to Denmark is five per cent, advalorem
i on sugar shipped to foreign porta, ten per
cect. The import duty levied in Denmark
is, on augar from Santa Cruz, eighty-nine
cents per cwt.; on foreign sugars, one tlollat,
lorty-cenu. These differences, with twenty
cents on the bound duties, making in all
p about 3s. per cwt., give an advantage to
the colonists in tbe home market, and euablo
them to pay more easily the heavy colonial
taxation to which they are subject. In no
part u! the West Indies that we visited, are
the augar estates, in genera], so handsome
and complete as in Santa Cruz, and nowhere
is a better cummodity produced. The value
of property is much reduced, owing to tbe
tjge price ot sugar in Europe,
from tne suspense in
which the plsateis remain ss to the period ol
complete emancipation. We visaed two
estates adjoining each other, that came into
the bauds of the present proprietors ss a
mortgage on a bond of £40,000. Eight
years ago, the sum of £32,000 was otiered
lor them and retused. The present market
value is believed not to exceed £'20,000. In
one part of the island, an arrangement was
pointed out to us, by which the coal of pro
during sugar had been much lessened. A
planter possessing large capital, and having
several properties ot his own, or leased to
hnn, so tar improved the works on one ot the
estates as to make them sufficient fur the
manufacture of the canes grown on the
whole. Ot course there are many planters
whose meaus do not enable them thus to
economize supervision aud labor. The opera
tion of su ar making and of sugar refining by
meaus ui the vacuum pan, which we noticed
in Santa Cruz, were peculiarly interesting tc
us. No lears need he entetlamed of the
well-doing of the planters of this colony, n
justice be dune to the people. The ctup ol
1840, ttje first year of transition from slavery
to cumpaiauve freedom, was 12,000 hogs
heads ot fifteen cwt. each, which, at £T3
sieiling per hogshead, as the nett price in
the European market, realized £*156,000.
l'ne tutu shipped w a 5653,820 gallons, which
at 15d. per gailou, would tealize £‘40,860.
The molasses, 430,107 gallons, at Bd. per
gallon, would produce £14,640, Total nett
value of the produce shipped, £211,500.
Ihe sums thus realized rre independent c.
the value of the same articles consumed in
the colony Uselt, aud of articles produced and
disposed of, but not enumerated. The num
ber ot laborers m the colony is known and
published the rale ot wages paid to the
laborers ot each class is also known, because
it is fixed by Government, front these data
u appears that the exact amount ot predial
wages paid in the same year, was £73,017
Is. 10j,, which includes the wages lor labor
on the slock estates. The wages thus paid
to the stock estate laborers are presumed to
be equal to the extra wages paid on sugai
plantations for extra work during crop, and
lor the maintenance of the sick and aged.
According to a c<-turnon calculation in the
West Indies, the amount of wages must he
doubled to represent all the actual outgoings
ol a augar estaie. This would make the
expenditure of the islands, in 1859, to be
£147.835, against a nett income ot £311,-
SUO, leaving a lair margin lor profit. Tula
calculation is founded uu the sale ot only 12,-
000 hogsheads of augar, produced uudei
unlavoiable circumstances in a year
ot transition aud change; bat the average
produce of the colony is 14,000 hogsheads,
so that present aud future profits may be esti
mated as much higher. YV« cannot but
think that the planters of Santa Cruz are, in
general, doing well, aud we hope that a
bngnter and better day is dawning un the
peasantry. Whilst we are confident that
then condition is greatly unpioved since a
partial emancipation has been cun (erred upon
them, we see plainly that they are yet in a 1
state ol serfage, and only nominally free. It
is true, that no puuishments can be summari
ly mfl.cied by owners or overseers, and that
wages are pard lor labor performed. The
children ate, or are required to be, sent to
school tor a limited peiiud, and the sick and i
aged may have their wants moderately sup
plied. But the people have no power to
change then masters or occupation at plea
sures; and they are compelled to work in
gangs in t j, e field, where the women are
more in number than the men, They are
watched over and stimulated to labor by
dn v^ r s, who construe what they call a hard
wo'd into impertinence,—a gr aTe offence
und er any form of slavery,—and for which
the °ffender is not unfrequently harassed by
an appeal to the magistrate. These things
are deeply trying to human nature, infuse
discontent, and ate unsafe to the body politic. 1
It was our intention to have annexed the 1
regulations to which the former slaves are i
subjected, but we find them too long for inser-
non. They would, we think, throw little
light on the condition of the peasanly beyond
that already given. The statistics of the
colony show a large decrease in the export
of sugar, as compared with the early part of
the present century, and a great falling off of
the laboring population, arising from the ex- 1
cess of deaths over births during the period of
slavery.
African Slave-Trade. —The documents
communicated by the President to the Senate
on the 12th of December, in relation to the
traffio in slaves in Brazil, under the American
flag, have been made public. We give a
buef statement of the origin of the troubles
and the result of the investigations instituted
at Rio Janeiro. The information was trans
mitted to the United States Government by
the American Minister at Rio, Mr. Tod;
from whose statement it appears that the in
famous traffic is still carried on to a great
extent.
Not Jess than 45,000 negtoss have been
imported into Brazil within the last year.
Mote or less of every cargo are murdered on
the voyage, and the survivois are too often
used as mere beasts of burden. By far the
greater portion of it is carried on in vessels
built in the United States, and under the flag
of our country.— A. S. Standard.
Negroes in lowa —An iucotrigible wag
has admirably succeeded in perpetrating s
capital joke upon the lowa Legislature. In
passing spun the bill prohibiting negroes
from entering that State, and fixing heavy
penalties upon them when they do enter it,
J. T, Morton, of Henry, who is a wag,
moved an additional section, “that the bill
should be in fororf from and after its publics
lion in the lows Fiee Democrat," the abo
lition at Mount Pleasant. The bill went
back to tbe House so amended. The amend
ment was accepted by the House, and the
bill passed. After a while the idea began
to eke through tbe hair of a member that the
abolition organ might decline publishing the
taw, and thereby kill it stone dead, and he
moved for a reconsideration, but failed, and
the bill wae left to be sent to the Governor in
that crafty shape.—On. Inq.
Dj* There are about 83,000 white aiultaio
Virginia who cannot read or wiite^
®l)t Nortl) Star.
ROCHESTER, APRIL 3, 1851.
If? The speech of George Thompson,
Esq., delivered at Corinthian Hall, Rochester,
March 23d, is for sale at the Office of the
North Star. Price 3 cents.
D3 9 Our friends must pardon the absence
of editorial matter in the present number of
the North Star. No communication has
been received from the Editor, who is, at the
present time, in Canadi with Mr. Thompson.
To ocr Subscribers.— We beg lo *ute
(hit r number of out subscriptions for the pres
ent year yet remain unpaid, and we shall es
teem it a favor if our friends, who are in
arrears, will enclose them to os by mail, with
out further delay.
Anti-Slavery Convention at Lock port.
SPECIALLY REPORTED FOR THE HORTH STAR.
This Convention commenced its sessions on
the morning of Wednesday, Mirci 20th, in
the church of the Rev. Dr. Dox, (Luthersn.)
There was also present the author of so ad
mirable review of the Rev. Dr. Lord’s eer
mon in favor of the American Human Game
Law.
Mr. Thompson arrived in Lockport, from
Rochester, by way of Buffalo and the Niagara
FrIU, the afternoon of the previous day, and
in the evening addroased the Young Men’s
Association. He lectured on the subject of
British India, to one of the largest and most
respectable audiences ever assembled on a
similar occasion.
The Convention assembled at 10 A. M.;
and being called to order, Mr. Price, formerly
of Connecticut, and a warm friend of the
American Anti-Slavery Society, was ap
pointed Piesident; several gentlemen, Vice-
Presidents and Mr. A. L. Spalding, and
others, Secretaries.
Mr. S. S. Foster then delivered a clear
and effective speech on the present position
and aspects of the anti-slavery cause, and the
duties devolving on the friends of emancipa
tion at the present cusis.
He was followed by Mrs. Foster, who
moved the appointment of a Finance Com
mittee to obtain funds in aid of the American
Society. The appointment was opposed by
a member of the Convention, on the ground
that he and others did not consider that the
American Society was the best anti-slavery
organization for the overthrow of slavery in
this country. This brought up
Mr. Thompson, who, after expressing the
pleasure he felt at being present, proceeded
to review the proceedings of the American
Anti-Slavery Society, from its formation in
1833, down to the present time. Sixteen
years ago, it was his honor to be appointed
the unpaid agent of that Society. He had
watched iis course through the long interval
that had elapsed since his first connection with
it, and was prepared to affirm that no Society
had ever more faithfully acted up to its origi
nal constitution, or more faithfully redeemed
the pledges with which it begun ns work.—
Where he left it in 1835, there he bad found
it in 1850. All around, were strewed the
wrecks of other organizations, that in rivalry,
competition, or opposition and hostility, had
come into existence but there stood the
American Society—its piinciples the same—
its doctrine the same—its measures the same
—its great and gloiious object still the same—
with the same broad, catholic, unsectarian,
world-wide platform—and, thank God with
many of the same men and women upon it
with whom it had been his honor and his
glory to suffer in years past. Nobly had it
fulfille 1 the promise of its infancy and he
(Mr. Thompson) believed it was the organi
zation ordained to rid Araeiica and the world
of the institution of slaveiy, then the object ol
sickening contemplation. 1 cannot (said he)
conceive of an abolitionist who is not, whether
he calls himself one or not, a part and parcel
of the American Anti-Slavery Society foi
that Society embodies in its constitution and
creed whatever makes abolitionism. As well
might a man say, I am a Presbyterian, or a
Baptist, or an Episcopalian, or a Methodist;
but lam not a Christian. What is a Baptist
without Christianity And what is a Liberty
party man, or a Free Soiler, oi a Seward
Whig, without the soul and sentiments of an
American Society Abolitionist? If an honest
abolitionist at all—if worthy ot the name—if
he be doing anything on right principles to
advance the overthrow of slavery—he must
of necessity be an abolitionist of the Ameri
can Anti-Slavery Society type. As well
might one say, I’ll be a man, but I will
have but one arm, or one eye or dispense
with my heart, my lungs, or my brain,” as
say, I’ll be an abolitionist, and be less than
what the coustitutioo of the American Anti-
Slavery Society requires him to be.” Tell
me what less you desire to be in this cause,
than what that Society would have you be,
and I will tell you precisely what you lack to
ceme up to the standard of a genuine and
perfect abolitionist.
It is well for us, on an occasion like this,
to look st the mighty, gigantic and sublime
works we have set before us. If we would
outgrow our own dwarfish dimensions, and
narrow and sectarian prejudices, we should
spend our time in surveying the stupendous
objects we are seeking to achieve. There is
nothing little about this cause, but ourselves.
We are straitened, not in the cause, but in
our own bowels. Slaveiy is grand in itself.
Measure its circumference—how vast! Drop
the line into this horrible abyss, and you will
bring it up again exclaiming, “O the deptba I’
Try to sum up its guilt, and arithmetic, and
language, and fancy, will fail you. Take
one human heart, and count its fibres if you
can; then try to grasp the aggregate of three
millions of hearts, whose strings are quivering
while transfixed with the poisoned and barbed
arrows of this thriee-aceursed system. De
scend into hell —it is there. Ascend to
heaven it is the subject of amazement and
horror there. Traverse the North, and seeii
everywhere there. Mount the pulpit, and
you will find it there. The thunders of Ni
agara are gniding its victims, panned by the
blood-scenting bounds of the South, oo tbo
trail of the flying fugitive. Let ns think on
theee things, and burst the withs that hind
ua. “-To yoru tents, oh Israel.” This is
no time for abolitionists to be falling out by
the way. The only question is, Who will
go np to Ramnth Gilead to battle 1” The
path of duty ia plain. Slavery mast and
shall be overthrown; nod by an, as portions
of the instrumentality demanded by the exi
geociea of the time*. Have any come here
oat of mere cariosity Better for each,
thousand times, that they had stayed at home;
aye, that they had never been born, than de
part from this house as if from a show of
wax-work. Depart now, ere I tellyou your
duty or woe is yours if you remain, and do
it not. Hear, then, what it is. The slate is
your brother. God has made him so, and
you cannot, if you would, repudiate the con
sanguinity. As long as he is God's child, he
ia your brother for, hate we not all one
Father* Hath not one God created us* He
is black, but your brother; and you hate got
to own him and embrace him here, or his
frown will freeze yon in that day when the
disinherited children of God shall meet those
who cast them out of their Father's house.—
He is your brother the more precious to his
Parent because of his wrongs and miseries
you the more guilty and accursed, if you pity
not those miseries, if you seek not to redress
those wrongs. Listen again. It is God’s
method to save man by man. Hence your
missionaiies scattered over the face of the
earth. Hare you faith to beliere that you
can sare your brother in Japan, in Burmah,
in the interior of Africa, at the antipodes,
snd hare you none in the cause of your
brother here? Remember, “He who cares
not for the things of his owu house, has de
nied the faith, and is worse than an infidel.
Think not that one Christian made abroad,
will atone for a thousand heathens made at
home. Who hath required this at your
hands, if it is not also required that you first
cease from blood-guiltiness at home? The
slare is helpless. The further you are from
him, the greater your obligation to aid him.
The law, which is your guardian angel here,
is his destroying angel there. The army,
which protects you from invasion here, in
vades his sacred tights, and is maintained to
butcher him if he dare to assert the dignity
of a man. The Christianity which tells you
at the North to be free, tells him to crouch at
the feet of a tyrant, and to take toil aifd
chastisement with gratitude, for the Lord’s
sake. Do you tell me these are not your
views J I tell you that, for that very reason,
it is your duty to embrace this cause, for you
are the very persons that can help the slave.
You tell me it is a question of property.
I know it—of property of God in man, and
man in himself. As for the propeity of man
in man, the doctrine is the boldest blasphemy
that ever was preached, Man can hold no
property in man. Grant that man can hold
property in man, and our ground is gone, and
we ate impertinent intermeddlers, and art
seeking to invade legitimate vested interests.
But embrace the contrary doctrine, and wr
are co-workers with God, and have universa
truth, and the elements of human nature, and
the consciences of all men, and the echoes ot
all hearts, and the instincts, affections, ago
nies and exultations of humanity on our side.
No! Man can hold no property in man. Mai
hold property in man Can a finite creaturt
be God and man at the same time? Tn<
servant of his own Maker, and the tyrant and
owner of his fellow Can man, made in th*
image of God, and but a little lower than th<
angels, be man and beast at the same time 1
Can the potsherd own the potsherd the un
repentant tyrant be the owner of Christ’s fret
man the child of the Devil sell the temple oi
the Holy Ghost? Does the Infinite, tht
Eternal, the Righteous Judge hand over his
prerogative to gamblers, adulterers and whore
mongers Has the master a soul So ha
the slave. Is he immortal So is the slave.
Is he responsible So is the slave. Has h*
affections? So has the slave. Does he hope
fear, love—know sorrow, anger, hatred
revenge So does the slave. Must the on*
be free, that he may serve God So mus
the other. Would the one be tormented bi
s avery, and lose his crown of earthly glory ii
the day when slave was written on his brow 1
It is even so with the slave. How, then, cat
a being, no better at his birth—no belter ir
his elements—no higher in his destinies—
whom worms will devour, and for whom thi
same judgment waita, own his fellow-man?
He lies, who says he can. What, then, i»
your duty and mine? It is, to abjute this lit
—to expose it—to nunt it through the world,
and out of the world, to its native hell. I>
is, to demand that onr brother shall no longei
be the victim of this lie. It is, to make th<
man who lives and practices this lie a moo
ster. It is, in a woid, to substitute the trutl
for this lie. How simple is the truth mam
is man. Art ihou a man, and no mdfe tht
negro is a man, and no less. Ought you to
be free So ought he. Would the man bt
t villain who plundered your cradle? Tht
man is a villain who plunders any cradle. I'
you were a slave, would you be free now
Go, then, and demand the instant freedom oi
the negro. This is the wotk before us. Let
us be worthy of it. That we may free oth
ers, let us be free ourselves. That we may
free the slaves at the South, let us give free
dom to each other at the North.
Then Knaves and Fools may rage and storm,
And growling Bigots may deride—
The trembling slave away may run.
Or in his Tyrant's* dungeon hide;
3ut free, and bold, ami true, and good,
We to this oith our seals will set
From pole to pole, we'll free each soul,
The world shall be far better yet.
The Convention then adjourned until the
alternuon.
On reassembling, Sojourner Truth offered
some pertinent observations, and was followed
by Mr. Foster, who submitted a resolution
declaring the work of the abolitionists to be,
the rectification of public sentiment, rather
than the building up of political patties.
He was succeeded by the Rev. W. John
son, who took a different view of the subject.
Mrs. Foster and others took part in the dis
cussion, which was of a desultory character.
The further consideration of the resolution
was postponed, and the Convention adjourned
till the following morning.
In the evening, Mr. Thompson lectured on
American Blavery, in the same place, and
occupied two hours io taking a view of the
condition of the colored race on this soil.—
He had a crowded audience, which was ad
mitted by tickets.
Thursday, 37th.—The Convention met at
10 A. M. Tha writer of this, not being
Presin t either during the morning or the after
noon sessions, is unable to report the proceed
ings. He understands there was an animated
debate on the several modes of advancing thoj
anti-slavery cause, byj polities! action and
otherwise.
Ia the evening, Mr. Thompson gave a
second lecture on slavery. Subject, the uni
versality of the slave power in the United
States. This leetnro we hope to obtain for
the North Star.
Mr. Thom peon is engaged to lectere in
Toronto on Tuesday evening next. The
editor of the North Star hat been present at
all but the first session, snd has taksn a
prominent part in the debatee.
HOMO.
National Coaveatioa.
Gentlemen 1 saw in the North Star, a
call emanating from you, for a National Con
vention of colored freeman, to assemble ia
Buffalo in September next. For this, the
great body of our people throughout the coun
try ate unprepared, the subject that must neces
sarily be brought before them being of such
magnitude, that it abooid have been kept be
fore their minds at least one year previous to
the year of meeting.
But in cases of emergency, something
sbuuld be done as speedily as possible, aod
you will readily concede, that this should en
list the best informed snd most mature and
prudent-minded men among us. There are
no people who ever have succeeded in any
great undertaking, without the counsel and de
liberation first of the intelligent of that people,
and in order to effect anything, we must pur
sue the very same course, whatever may be
our notions of-mass meetings and conventions
of the people.
Should such m meeting take place, certain
I am that it would only be a National Con
vention in name representing a part of Ohio,
a small part of Michigan, and a few persons
from the extreme western part of New York,
but nothing more, since having just returned
from the East, where I have spent the win
ter, I can safely say, that in that quarter, they
are entfrely unprepared for it, and will not
concur.
But knowing you, gentlemen, by reputation
and personally, and believing that you would
do nothing that would not promote the wel
fare of the people, I would say, that unless a
special gathering of the most intelligent
among our best men could be had, (which
must be admitted is next to impossible,) any
other attempt must prove an entire failure.
Will you gentlemen, be so generous as to
withold any aiguinent at present in favor of a
National Convention, until each of you shall
reeeive a private letter, (very shortly,) by
which, I am pursu&ded, you will be satisfied.
Until when, I am yours under a common op
pression, for God and humanity.
M. R DELAN Y.
lo Messrs. C. H. Langston, Win. H. Day
and J. M. C. Simpson.
Rochester, March 18th, 1851.
Report
Of thi New York Ladies' Fair in aid of the
Committee of Thirteen.
The Ladies’ Association, in submitting a
report of the Fugitive Slave Fair,” would
return their grateful acknowledgment to
several friends for their liberal contributions,
and their sincere thanks foi the patronage re
ceived during the Fair.
The Association, aware that a number of
fairs had been held during the winter, entered
upon their duty as gleaners in the field and
but for the important object for which they
weie laboring, might have expected to .reap
the gleaneis’ scanty harvest. But the object
being one in which every friend of humanity
should engage,. they fell encouraged to be
lieve, that, although a more convenient sea
son might have been selected, yet in conse
quence of the object they would receive a
good share of public patronage. And they
are happy to state that their expectations
have been realized, notwithstanding the in
clemency of the weather which attended them
during the fait.
The gross receipts of the Fair, were seven
hundred dollars, thirty-one cents. Expenses,
four hundred and eight dollars, six cents.
Balance placed in the hands of the “Com
mittee of Thirteen,” two hundred and ninty
two dollars, twenty-five cents.
It would have afforded the Association
great pleasure to have placed in the hands of
the Committee double the amount presented,
to assist them in carrying out their praise
worthy object, but the very heavy expenses
ot the fair would not enable them to do more.
They hope, (though small the sum,) it will
be successful in assisting some poor bond
man or bondwoman to escape the grasp of his
or her oppressor.
The Association would acknowledge with
heart-felt gratitude the liberal donations cf
the Ladies of New Bedford, through the
kindness of Mrs. Ezra R. Johnson, the
Ladies of Lenox, Mass., favored by Miss
Adeline Grant, the Ladies of Albany, by
Mrs. Harper, Mrs. Elizabeth Jones, Pitta
field, Masa., Mrs. Blake, Mrs. Lambert,
Messrs. P. White, W. Edmondson, W. H.
Yaies, G. Lawrence Jun, Steward, D. Els
ton Cunningham, Spencer Johnson, T. B.
Vidal, J. Lee, R. F. Wake, C. Brice, G.
F. Downing, J. G. Mann, Condcrport Potter,
C. Penn, J. H. Jackson, Linclair, E. Clark]
Le Comfite, Miller, Huff, Saddler, Johnson,
Magnan Si Adams, M. Johnson, Whiisey
Ponteau, Robinson and Purvis of Philadel
phia. FANNY TOMPKINS Sec’y.
Niw York City.
ID 3 Two fugitive slaves from Pendleton
county, Va., were arrested last week at
Unioatown, Pa. and it being announced by
telegraph that an armed body of men were
about to march from Brownsville to rescue
them, the Uniontown Volunteers were ordered
out, and reinforced by citizens snd muskets,
marched through the streets with the mayor
at their head. The latest repoii is that the
freedom of the negroes had been bought for
s3soo l—Prod Christian.
K? The Boston city authorities have re
fused the use of Faneuil Hall for the Anti-
Fug hive Slave Law Mass Meeting—thinking
ther. by, probably to appease the wrath of the
Southern merchants, who have withdrawn
their patronage from Boston, on account of its
Abolitionism. In consequence, the time for
holding the meeting has been postponed until
Tuesday, April Btb, when it will beJield in
this city.— Christian Citizen.
E The population oi South Carolina has
increased 74,018 during the last ten years.
Of this number, 56,786 are slaves, snd 17,
233 freemen. It will be seen that the mi
nority own the msjoiiiy in South Carolina, the
slave population exceeding that of the free
by 100,983.-— Pract. Christian.
B <2 ton is aisled here that
Mr Hsveas, the U. S. Marshal for this dis
inci, bis by aon.e means or other obtained
from Mr. Debrt e, of Now Orleans, theclairn
snt of Sbadrsck’s papers, which seeoro bio
faiure freedom, and that he islo return to
Boston to Montreal and become etidenoe for
’ba Chjvornment ,—Roch, Democrat,
Horrors of ths Slave System.
A roost twful and premeditated murder wai
perpetrated in this county on last Tuesday
the 25th ult. Mr. John Dixcn, who lives ii
the immediate vicinity of Col. Bridges, in thi
westerly pait of this county, left home tha
morning on a visit to his father, leaving hii
wife and two children. On returning in th<
evening, he found his youngest child (an in
fant) laying in the bed, but his wife and
eldest were absent. Suspecting thst some
thing was wrong, he gave the alarm, and the
neighbors immediately rallied and commenced
search for Mrs. D. and her child. About IS
o’clock that night, she was found about a
quarter of a mile from home, horribly mur
dered, her skull broke, and her head having
the appearance of having been heat in with a
club. An end of a large suck was found near
the body, broken, which is supposed to have
been done by the poor unfortunate woman, in
her struggles to save her life.
From the same paper we also copy the
following fuller account of this terrible event:
Since the time when the midnight murder
of Dr. Lnnggon and family cent a thrill of
horror through this community, no event his
created deeper soirow and more pervading in
dignation than the assassination, on Tuesday
list, of Mrs. Maiy Dixon, wife of John
Dixon, and her infant child, at her residence
in the neighborhood of Win. Budges, Etq
by Haley, a negro man belonging to Mr. E.
Thompson. Having been summoned on the
coroner’s jury, we went in peison to the scene
of the horrible tragedy, saw the mutilated
body of the murdered woman, the severed
throat of her infant, and witnessed, without
regret, the summary and terrible, but still in
adequate expiation of his triple and atrocious
ti
On Tuesday morning, Mr. Dixon, uncon
scious of ihe awful doom impending over his
family, started from home in quest of cattle.
His little son, an artless child-a few months
over two years old, started fondly after him,
pursaing him some distance, unnoticed by the
father and undiscovered by the mother. Mrs.
Dixon soon missed the boy, went after him,
and called to him to ieturn. She was then
approached by the brutal villain, Haley, who
at once offered such indignities as the virtue
and pride of civilized women resents and re
sists, even at the peril of life. She repelled
the advances of the bestial monster, yielding
neither to threats or disgusting importunities,
when he felled her to the earth. An outrage
too abhorrent for mention—an outrage that
stirs to unappeasable indignation evety manly
and sympathetic feeling in the human breast
—was then perpetrated upon the person of
his victim by the incarnate demon. She
asked, at the hands of the fiend, life—life,
that she might prepare for her solitary re
maining hope—a refuge for her crushed
•piiil in Heaven But the ruffian heeded
her not; he spurned the prayer of the wile
injured beyond reparation,and beat heron the
head with pine limbs and stabbed her until
she died The infant was
found about thirty steps from Ihe mother, its
throat cut twice with long, deep gashes.
When Haley was arrested, his clothes
were stained with hlood, and the wretch at
tempted and did throw away his knife. Af
ter being aevetely w hipped, he made the an
nexed confession. His implication of the boy,
Paul, is entirely discredited by the citizens in
the neighborhood, various circumstances
strongly tending to the exculpation of the
latter.
On Thursday about two hundred persons
were assembled, including rnany ladies. The
guilt of Haley waß too manifest for doubt;
anJ while indignation was at its height, and
the blood curdled at the vivid recollection oi
the unexampled atrocity, it was proposed
that Haley be burned to death. To this
proposition there was not a single dissentient,
if we except thj officers of the law, who, in
compliance with their swum duty, protested
against the illegality of the act. All were
eager for the iosiaui and signal punishment of
the worse than murdeier. Accordingly he
was borne to a tree, chained to it, and sur
rounded with light and other wood.
It is worthy of remaik that the slaves
present evinced commendable abhorrence of
the crime and the criminal, and assisted with
alacrity in his punishment. We will not
dwell upon the horrors of the monstei’s death
scene, nor do we deem it necessary to utter a
word extenuaiive of the violation of law
which the punishment involved. It was a
lawless act, but who will say it was not jusi
—who will urge that they, under the same
cilcumstances, would have acted in a differ
ent manner 1 Never have we been, and, we
trust, never shall we be, the abettor of mobs,
or the advocate of mob law. In the instance
under consideration, however, we have no
censures to indulge. But in simple justice,
we would observe, that those who participa
ted in burning the negro, in pom of respecta
bility and character, would rank favorably
with the same number of citizens in any com
munity or State.
P. S. The negro man, Haley was put to
death by burning on the spot where he com
mitted the murders, at 10 o’clock on last
Tnuisday, in the presence of nearly two hun
dred ladies and gentlemen.
The confession is omitted.— Paulding
(Miss Courier.
[From Euriu’* Christian Ciiiien.]
Geoige Thompson.
This eloquent, earnest, and high-sou’ed
Bru ah Republican has been lecturing for ihe
lest fortnight in New York State, and disa
busing with the glory of his genius and dis
pelling with the candor of his presence the
prejudices which many melancholy specimens
of American newspaper editors have produced
in the public mind, by the malicious inven
lion ol disgusting falsehoods. He has been
to Syracuse, to Auburn, and to Rochester,
where his advent had been heralded by the
snake-like hisses of presses which defame lib
erty aad degrade literatuie and he had only
to speak to the thousands who came to see
and hear him, in order to bid the big tears of
sympathy, and words of kindly greeting,
■tart fonh from their generous hearts to give
him welcome. George Thompson has been
twice publicly insulted since his arrival here
last winter, and both times it was by antici
pation; both times he was denied a hearing.
The mercantile boya of Boston, and the Re
publican'’ inob of Springfield, Ephesian-like,
drowned the voice «t this Paul of Christian
liberty with the howls of Great is our
Diana of the Union,” belore they had heard
from hit own lips au exposition of his princi
ples, or avowal of his opinions. But wher
ever he has been grained the right of free
speech, he haa dispelled the prejudices of his
auditors, and been greeted as a true Ameri
can and a faithful Man.
In proportion aa the enemies of liberty ful
minate their vituperationa against George
Thompson, the friends of freedom in this j
country take courage from his example, at
this gloomy crisis. At no time in the history
of liberty was moral courage ever more ne
cessary than it is to the freemen of this land
now; and a bold, tiusting, faithful, fearless
exemplar, to whom the people may look,
and irorn whose example and eloquence they
may take courage, is at this day beyond all
piice. George Thompson’* intrepid con
duct, aa he calmly and peacefully obeys the
mandate of his Lord, and preaches freedom
to the captive in the name of Jesus, cannot
but operate aa an inspiration to every one
who, in view of freedom’s present travail in
the United States, faints and grows aad of
spirit.
God bless thee, bold heart! God hies*
thee, true row! Speed on the mission!
Thou hast beard she voices of the oppressed,
From many as icy river,
From many s palmy plain,
Call ou thee to deliver
Tbeir limb* from (ailing chain*
and, faithful to tbs call, thou hast obeyed.
The threat of the murderer, and the uplifted
hand of the assassin, have never caused thee
to falter in thy courae, or to forget thy sa
cred duty. Liberty, pure, holy liberty, goee
before thee like a pillar nf fire and with thy
eye fixed on her glorious presence, then doet
proclaim her lawe to the world. When the
biographer of George Thompson wiites hie
history, he will find that not the least coura
geous manly, and eflectirepart of his life
was spent in the United States of America of
1850 and 1851. J. B. S.
Her new U. 8. Senator—B. F. Wade.
Cleveland, Ohio, March 17.
The great struggle is at least over, and
Ohio has a Whig Senator, in the person of
Benjamin F. Wade, a citizen of the Western
Reserve and and a descendant of the Puri
tans. 2><nu Deo! ws say, for preserving us
from the lender mercies, of “Ohio Democra
cy, and giving us a man who does not be
lieve that true progress consists in pulling
down everything erected by those who have
gone before.
If you have read the debates of the Con
stitutional Convention, (and if you have, you
would be a curiosity in these parts,) you will
have seen the destructive radicalism of the
leaders of the Loco-Foco party in this State.
Had they succeeded, they would have
given us a Constitution whose defeat would
have been certain. This was only prevented
by the votes of a few moderate men of their
own party, and who for their independence
have been denounced without measure.
Our new Senator, never having filled the
“sounding trump of fame,” demands some
notice at out hands.
He was born at West Springfield, Mass.,
Oct. 27, A.D. 1800, and removed to Ohio
in the Fall of 1821, settling in the County
of Ashtabula.
In 1823 he wttpt to the State of New-York
1 —7 l Snrino of
Alter his return he still continued to teach
and at the s'hme time pursued his law studies
in the office of Elisha Whittlesey, until he was
admitted to the Bar.
In 1828 he formed a co-partnership with
Mr. Giddings, wh eh continued until 1837.
In the same Fall he was elected to the
Senate of Ohio, and there signalized himself
bv a Report and Speech against the Annexa
tion of Texas.
He was nominated by the Whigs for the
Senate, but was defeated by tho “Silver
Grays” of that day, on the ground that he
was too much of an Anti-Slavery man.
In 1841 he triumphed over all opposition,
and was again returned to the Senate, where
he made a most cogent speech against the
iniquitous “Black Laws,” to long a disgrace
to our Statute-Book.
At the expiration of his term he refused to
serve again, and was elected Judge Borne
two years since, which office he fills with
ability and dignity. lam informed that he
is for Land Kefoim, in favor of Homestead
Exemption, and will, I have no doubt, be
lound fighting shoulder to shoulder with
those few Philanthropists in the Senate who
are urging forwatd the first-named great
measure.
Upon the question of the odious Fugitive
Law, he is all we could desire. But here I
prefer he should speak far himself, and
give you a part of a speech made by him
last fall at Ravenna, and which was published
at the time in the Ravenna Star:
“Judge Wade fairly electrified the audi
ence by the earnestness and energy with
which he denounced the Fugitive Law and
all who had a part in inflicting it upon us.
He said he had always been a Wing—was
still a Whig—but there were consideiations
which rose far above parly and party in
fluences, and he for one was prepared to unite
with any men or any party in opposition to
this Law.”
“He condemned in the strongest terms
W higs and Democrats who aided in the
passage of the law by their votes, or by dodg
ing rebuked with energy and spirit both
Fillmore and Crittenden, and visited Daniel
Webster with the most withering denuncia
tions. He said the law, bristling like a
porcupine with pains and penalties, was the
most in famous enactment known to the
Statute Books of this country, arid such as
even the corrupt Governments of the Old
World could not pass without driving their
people to revolution. Fot himself, regardless
of fines and imprisonment, if called upen, he
would grant to the Fugitive Slave the writ
of habeas corpus."
The cause of Freedom has no firmer friend
in Ohio than B. F. Wade, and we send him
to the Senate as a most worthy compeer of
your own Seward, whose friends in Ohio,
let me say. are neither few nor far between.
N. Y. Tribune.
Fugitive Slave Law.
At a meeting of the Barbadaes Anti
Slavery Society, held on the 7lh of January
the following Resolutions with reference to
the Fugitive Slave Law, were adopted
I. That in the opinion of this Committee,
the maintenance of slavery is repugnant to
the Divine law, unjust to the slaves held in
bondage, dangerous to the community in
which the system is upheld, and demoralizing
10 the parties claiming pioperty in their fel
low-men.
2 That the legislation of ihe United States
Government on the question of slavery, and
the horrors perpetrated under the protection
of that legislation, demand the indignant and
unqualified reprobation ol the civilized world.
3. That the Fugitive Slate Bill recently
enacted by the United Stales Government,
by which the condition of the slaves and
free-colored people in all ihe Stales is ren
dered intolerable—the lives of theone placed
at the mercy of reckless men, and the liberty
of .he other subject to the captice of preju
diced and covetous men-hunters— is such an
outrage upon humanity, and violation of every
moral obligation, as cannot fail to draw
down the just indignation of Christian men
in all parts of the world.
4. Tint the colored population of the
United States (free and slave) are entitled lo
the lively sympathy and solace of the friends
of freedom everywhere, and that it is the
earnest desire of this Committee that the
efforts making to obtain the repeal of the ini
quitous Fugitive Slave Bill may soon be
crowned with success.
5. That the Committee hope, not only for
the repeal of this law, but for the abolition
of the disgraceful and unjust practice which
obtains in the slave States, of confining in
prison natives of this and other countries ar
riving therein, on account of the accident of
complexion, and of all the enactments by
which the abominible institution is main
tained.
That with the view of demonstrating our
sympathy and solace with the colored popu
lation of the United Stales, public meetings
be held in the city, nod such of the rural
parishes as may be practicable, and pecuniary
contributions solicited, received, and lorward
to the Ami-Slavery Society of America, to
aid such fugitives as ate in need of assistance,
to escaping from the operatiou of this most
iniquitous law.
7. That copies of the foregoing resolutions
be forwarded to the Parent Society in Eng
land, to the American Anti-slavery Society,
and to ihe several auxiliaries in the neigh
boring colonies.”
Pittsburgh, March 14th.—The first
fugitive slave ease in ibis city arose yester
day before Judge Thomas Irwin of the U. S.
Circuit Court for the Western District. The
fugitive’s mave is Richard Gardner, the pm
t«riy of Mrs. R. Myers, of Louisville. He
was arrested last evening.
The case was ably argued by counsel on
both sides, and the Judge remanded the slave
back to his owner. The affair created but
mtle excitement.
Two fugitives arrived at Brownsville.
Pa., on Monday last. Their case is before
a Commissioner. No decision has yet been
*i»eo.
Whme i) Marshal Devem's Card, deny
ing the naval kidnapping expedition. We
will prim it gratis --Cimmonwaltk,
p [Correspondence of the N. T. Tribune.]
t If amber of Fugitive Slave*, accordiag to
the Cento* Retarot,
Washington, March 15.
A very gTeat degtee of misunderstanding
j undoubtedly exists with reference to the
number of Fugitive Slaves escaping and re
maining permanently at tbe North. Through
the polite permission of the gentlemanly and
efficient Superintendent of the Census, Hon.
J. C. O. Kennedy, I was enabled to glance
over the census returns for two or three houn
to day, for the purpose of ascertaining what
figures they might show in reference to this
particular. The law requires a return of the
number of absconding and not returning with
in a year; it also requires a return of the
(number manumittted within the same period.
There are appropriate columns, No, 6 and 7
of Schedule No. 2, headed Slave Popula
tion, for both of these objects. In looking
over sevvral districts of Maryland, Virginia,
Kentucky, Georgia and Florida, I found an
aggregate of 33 runaways. Of these 38
were from Maryand. From Virginia 2,
Georgia 2, Florida 1, Kentucky none. In
the same Districts, I found that 101 Staves
had been manumitted within a year. Out 4 of
this number set at libeity 96 belonged to
those Districts in Maryland which have lost
nearly the whole number (28) of runaways
which I wft enabled to find.
It must bo understood that this was an
examination of merely a few Dictncts, which,
however, were fairly selected and would be
likely to pre-ient no very unfair sample of
the whole. The subject can and will be
pursued further. It is woith remark that in
one country in Gorgia containg 2.000 mort
Slaves than free inhabitants of every desciip
iinn them had hopn hut ,s» aiiyila ron%v«v.
slaves than whites, and from the recollection
of Clerks who have looked over the re
turns of that State ii does not appear that
she loses a runaway ofiener than once in a
little age. The public impression as to the
number of fugitives which may have been at
any time or that now remain in the North, is
undoubtedly immensely exaggerated. That
there are many free in the Northern Cities
who run at the sound of a Southerner’s foot
step for fear of b«ing unable to prove their
freedom, there cannot be a doubt, and to this
circumstance is owiug the etroneous impres
sion which ha* got abroad. The fact that
scarce a dozen have been claimed under the
late law is strongly in proof of the inference
to be drawn from these statements,
\Vouter Von Twiller.
Busy Bodies.
That distinguished recreant to the faith of
freedom, Rev. Dr. Cox, of Brooklyn, whose
enthusiastic endorsement of George Thomp
son, in a letter to Dt. Morrison, we copied
the other day, has recently been indulging in
a very different strain. By virtue of South
srn eye-salve, he is now able to discover in
the scriptures not only a very different doc
trine in regard to slavery, but a t*»xt which
should have prevented George Thompson
from coming *o this country to open his lips
in regard to any of our affairs. We gather
our information from the New York Express,
which has the following Commonwealth.
Rev. Dr. Cox, of Brooklyn, was urged by
one hundred and twenty of the most respect
able and intelligent citizens of Rochester, on
Friday last, to address them upon the bles
sings of the American Union, and the evil in
fluences which have of Jate been exerted to
weaken tltose bands which bind our country
men together. The invitation was declined
in a long and characteristic letter, in which,
among other things, Dr. Cox says
Was n by the ravings of pas
sion, or the pragraaticalness of busybodics
[Our duties always result from out rela
tions and hence to separate them, and make
our duties as if resulting from the relations
of others, is confused in thought, retrograde
in action, and false in argument. Hence the
Bible puts busybodies in other men's matters in
a very proper predicament, by sorting them
with murderers, thieves, and evil doers of ev
ery infamous description. See Peter, 4 15.]
in other men's matters, or the imported impu
dence of loreigneis coming among us, with
John Bull's self-complacent effrontery, to
teach the natives some of his own elegant
ideas? Or, was it by any of the orgies ol
treason, conspiring against the integrity ol
our National Union, on the real principle of
DOING EVIL THAT GOOD MIGHT COME —NEVER
The classes of persons thus obnoxious
to our censure ate surely the grandest ob
structions, at this moment, to the real good of
the country and the best interests to our col
ored population.
4 Non tali auxilio nec defensoribus istii,
Tempo* eget.’
Heaven save us from such aid asjheirs! The
times disown alike their services and crimes.”
Anti-Slavery Feeling in Kentucky.—
The Maysvilh Ky., Eagle publishes the
following resolutions adopted at a meeting of
citizens of Lewis Co., in that Slate. The
with them the names of
many prominent citizens who participated in
the proceedings of the meeting from which
the resolutions emanated. The hold and
manly expression of these Kentuckians stand*
m striking contrast with the conduct of north
ern dough-faces and their organs vide the
Rochester Advertiser.
The ievolutions are in the following
words:
Whereas, In the letter of Ex Governor
Metcalf io Mr. Foote, the former in speaking
•if the Fugitive Slave Bill, assumes that
Kentucky, with an unbounded unanimity,
will regard its repeal by the General Govern
ment, as a dissolution of the Union.
Resolved, That the opinion of a slave
holder, as is Gov. Metcalf, or of the 31,000
slaveholders of Kentucky, can in no fair
sense be regarded as the opinion of the 600,-
000 non-slaveholders of our Slue.
Resolved, That we shall be happy to be
furnished with the evidence by which the
Ex-Governor learned the views of the non
slaveholders in advance of their having ex
pressed them.
Resolved, That, bo far as we are informed,
intelligent and influential nori-slaveholders re
gard the Fugitive Slave Bill as unconstitu
tional and anti-Christian.
Resolved, That the admiration which we
feel for free institutions leads us to believe
that the North will remain firm in its purpose
of repealing this bill in a legal manner, and
that it will be as much opposed at the South
as at the North when the light shines ts
abundantly here as it does there.-* Roch. Datlv
Herald.
Immunities of Slavery.
The Butlington (Vt.) Courier, in s long
and spirited article on Commissioner Ingra
ham's summsiy proceedings in the Gibson
case, says:
It is only slavery, reeking with the blood of
innocent victims, and mocking at the fine
words of our Liberty’s Charter, that is sacred
in this Government! Every thing and every
body else must wait, and he buffeted, and
made to go through their regular forms to get
their rights. But that! Oh don’t touch it,
unless to help it. Does it not rend the suck
ing babe from the poor, helpless mother that
bore it? Does it not scatter, to widely separ
ated scenes of agony, stripes and toil, the little
knot of beings, who, bound together by the
•ies of blood snd affection, have dared to call
themaelvea a family? Dues it not bid virtue
yield to lust, weakness to tyranny, innocence
to the bloody whip or red hot searing iron?
Does it not lay its curse upon knowledge, like
the tyrannies of the old world, and put forth
ill strength to whelm in utter darkness snd
unconscious degradation, the deathless spirits
»f its victims? Does it not bluster and swap
«r snd browbeat all who aueslion its tight?
And does it not hold in its hspd the destinies
•»f flunkies And shall the members of such
«n 44 institution be compelled, like common
n< n, to await the alow process of law, to re
cover their aaesped chattels’ Forbid it, spirit
of oor Fathers! Forbid it, Justice Fotbld it,
righteous Hearonl t
U. S. Senator from Ohio.—Weannounce
with no common pleuate tbe election of s
Whig U. S. Senator from Ohio for six years
from the 4ih inat. Benjamin F. Wade, of
Ashtabula county, and hitherto Judge and
member of tbe Legislature, was elected on
s Saturday by a decided vote. Three votes
were taken by the Legislature in joint ballot
on Friday and a fourth on Saturday, with
I the following results
Ist. sid. 3d. 4th.
s Thomas Corwin, (Whig) 3#
i Henry B. Payne, (Whig) 39 34 33 34
i Milton Sutliff, (F. S.) 9 7 7
i Scattering, 912 10 7
Benj. F. Wade, (Whig) 30 44
Samuel J. Andrews, (Whig) 32
So Benjamin F. Wade was elected—tbe
first U. S. Senator from tbe Western Reserve
within our recollection.
Judge Wade is a Free Soil Whig and a
determined opponent of the Fugitive Slave
Law, but has never perceived that bia Free
Soil pnnciples could be promoted by aban
doningjand opposing Whig party, of
which he was recently a candidate in oppo
sition to the Free Soil party, which carries
all before it in his section. He waa an early
and decided supporter of General Taylor for
Prasident, yet he is now elected by the aid
of the Free Soil votes. We venture to say
that the National Administration will find no
firmer, no heartier aupporter of all its mea
sures based on old-fashioned Whig principles
than Judge Wade; while foi any aid it may
want in the way of Slave-catching it may
look with confidence to the ranks of its pro
luicat adversaries, to whom the business it
more congenial. We presume there will be
no present lack of help in that line.— N. Y.
Tribune
tencv, s jeweMVJr* FillmoS
does not sport in his piesidentisl hat, or upon
any part of his presidential person. For look
you—Elwood Fisher publishes _ daily in
Washington City—that is, s daily issue oil
sedition. South Carolina does pretty much
as South Carolinapleases upon the matter ol
law and Union. For instance, a self-const i
tuted committee wait upon a citizen from
Boston, and request him to lease. He has
been guilty of no crime, but he is suspected
of not aproving ihe “peculiar institution.”
Our friend from Boston has to move, or he
wid shortly see the interior of a prison and
he has his choice between the jail and a quick
removal.
To these little violations of the Constitu
tion, President Fillmore shuts his saintly
eyes—slops his indignant nose—he sees no
outrage—he smells no treason.
Boston in leturn, declines permitting a citi
zen of the South to return to his sunny home;
and, forthwith, Piesident Fillmore, rising in
indignation, issues a proclamation so fierce
one would suppose we were about entering
upon a war with Spain, Portugal and a‘part
of Turkey.
Poor darkies —it is so easy to impose upon
them. It is so brave to trample deeper into
the earth the worm that cannot turn and
sting. Brave Fillmore—immortal Accidency
—when you havj crushed Shadrack when,
after you have brought the vast power of the
National Government to bear upon the
writhed fugitive, flying from chains and
whips, you cannot, perhaps, eat with the
same appetite, or rest as calmly at night; but
then you will be immortal, and that is some
thing.— Cin. Nonpareil.
An Apt Illustration.—The Norfolk,
Massachusetts, Democrat repeats an illustra
tion of Mr. Culver, of Washington county,
in his Address in the Trement Temple of the
bargain in Congress at the last session—that
is, if tlie South could have the Compromise
measures carried through, the North was to
have a Tariff. He said there was a boy in
his neighborhood, after having eaten a full
meal, who had a spaniel dog that was very
hungry He took a cracker, and, holding it
up, told the d«>g if he wanted it, to stand up.
The dog stood up. “Now,” said the boy,
“sit down.” The dog sat down. “Now
rollover.” The dog rolled over. “Now
speak.” The dog spoke. Then turning
round, the boy put the cracker in his pocket,
saying,—“l shall want that to make him do
it again.” So Tar ff. After carry
ing all the obnoxious measures, the South
turns coolly round, kills the bill and says,
“We shall want that to make them roll in
the mud again.” —Niagara Courier.
Ihe Contrast.—The Maryland Authori
ties, with sad vindictiveness of spirit, offer
sii>,ooo, the forfeited bail of Gen. Chaplin,
ior his arrest and delivery in Maryland.
Is the spirit of slavery insatiate? Must it
have everything? Shall revenge sit like a
burning fiend over it, and glut itself with the
blood ot Freemen Torrey died in a Mary
land Prison, and now the cry is, for Chaplin.
Yet the same Telegraph which announces
this decision, announces the fact, that the Au
thorities of Maryland have invited Mr. Web
ster to a Grand Dinner at Annapolis, and that
he has accepted. For what? If it were lo
cherish the principle* on which the Union is
based, or to strengthen them, we should re
joice. But thin is not the object.—That is to
sirengthen slavery and for this, and for little
else, the Sovereign Authority of the State,
w ould make a great ado over the Compro
mise and Fugitive Law.
We know not where the spirit of the North
is, that these things are so quietly acquiesced
in.— Cleveland True Democrat.
Baltimore, March 25—P.M.
1 understand that it is the intention of Gov.
Lowe to demand Wm. L. Chaplin’s delivery
;o ihe officers of Maryland, as a Fugitive from
Justice, and that he is now awaiting until his
whereabouts can be ascertained. The $lO,OOO
bail, which was forfeited, is not enough, in
the opinion of the slaveholders; they must, it
possible, have his person, on which they can
wreak their petty malice and vindictiveness.
Whether the authorities will give him up re
mains to be seeu—although he will be de
manded on a charge of assault with intent to
kill the officers who arrested him in his car
riage, in Montgomery County. Pistols, you
will recollect, were fired from the vehicle.—
Cor. of the 'Tribune.
Honorary Members.—Henry Clay and
Millard Fillmore have been constituted
life members of the American Board of Com
missioners for foreign missions. The contri
bution for this object was by Anson G. Phelps,
Esq., of New York. What an accession to
the moral power of the Board! Clay and
Fillmore members of a Missionary Society
Would it not be well for Mr. Clay to use his
influence, as a member of ihe Board, to have
missionary sent to his own plantation in
Kentucky. —Free Presbyterian.
Our neighbor should remember that these
honorable gentlemen are made honorary mem
bers of the Board. The design was to honor
Christianity, not to do such dirty work as to
visit plantations,—to convert niggers.— L,
George Thompson—and Churls* Van-
Loon—-the American Thompson.— A cor
respondent of the American Baptist, speaking
of the eloquence of George Thompson says:
My* anticipations were more than real
ized, although 1 was aware Lord Brougham
had said of him, that he is the most elo
quent man in England, in or out of Parlia
ment.” On first scanning his features and
hearing him speak, the remembrance of our
■nueh beloved and lamented Charles Van
Loon was revived in my mind, and I could
but sorrow anew that our American Thomp
son trad so early been taken by an ioaorutable
Providence from the moral battle-field.
Ctaai the FceirtP*.—Mill »n Clark, the
white slave, and soa of a Revolutionary sol
dier, who was forced to flee from Boston to
escape an arrest by the slave hunters, is now
in the interior of Vermont, she wing up the
abomination* of the fugitive slave law. His
owner aaked $6OO for him, which earn wtU
he forwarded to the owner in It few days.—
N- Y, Evangiiut,
The Dinner to Mr. Macready. —The
dinner to Mr. Macready on March 1, was a
splendid affair. Aboat 600 gentlemen, in
cluding the most distinguished men of letters
and artists, and several members of the diplo
matic corps, were present. Sir E. Bulwer
Ljlton took the Chair. Speeches were made
by tbs Chairman, Mr. Dickon*, Chevalier
Bunson, Mr. John Forster, Sir C. East! site,
Mr. Thackeray, Mr. Charles Kemble and
others. Mr. Forster read the following Son
net, sent f n the occasion by Mr. Tennyson:—
N. Y. Tribune.
Farewell, Macready, since to-night we pert;
Full-bended tliuudere often Lave confessed
Thy power well used to move the public breast.
We thank thee, with one voice, and from the heart.
Farewell, Macready, since this night we pert.
Go, take thine honors home: rank with tike best,
Garrick, and suite tier Kemble, end the rest
Who made a nation purer through their art.
Thine ia it, that our Drama did not die,
Nor flicker down to brainless Pentomine,
And those guilt gauds men-children swarm to see.
Farewell, Macready: moral,giave, sublime;
Our Shakspear’s bland and universal eye [thee.
Dwells pleased, through twice a hundred years, on
A Good Hit. —Rev. Wm. Warren, the
Orthodox clergymen of Upton, Mass., was
requested, a few days since, to sign a petition
lo Congress for the repeal of the fugitive
slave law. He took the document remarking
I shall probably be conaidered pro-slavery
if I do not’’—and I wrote upon it aa follows
Wm. Warren, if all can be done in good
faith to the Constitution.”
The next person called upon to sign it,
wrote:—“ H. D. Johnson, 4 if all can be
done m good faith to the Constitution,” for I
wish to serve God so as not to offend the
Devil!' Commonwealth.
v in/"* m ta
nas been the guest of Gerrit Smith. For the
firet time, these two great a good men
have met each other. It is needless to say
that they were happy in the society of each
other, for they are kindred spirits. To each
of them may be applied the lauguage of Job.
Wlien the ear heard me, then it blessed
me, when the eye saw me, it gave witness to
me, because 1 delivered the poor that cried,
and him that bad none to help him.”— Cor.of
the Liberator,
Fugitive Cask at Northampton. —An
attempt at a I ugitive Slave Case was made
at Northampton last week. A fugitive slave
girl, living in a family in the town, alleged
that she had seen her master twice in the
street; and that he had at first asked her to
return with him to the South, and afterwards
threatened to compel her lo go back. Subse
quent to this allegation, the girl appeared
terrified and distressed, and finally measures
were taken to remove her to a place of
safety.— N. Y. Evangelist.
Sympathy for Fugitives in the West
Indies. —A despatch has been sent to the
Bermuda House of Assembly recommending
that inducements' be held out for fugitive
slaves from the United States to settle in the
West India Islands. At a meeting of citizens
in Bermuda resolutions were passed denounc
ing the I ugitive Slave Law and expressing
sympathy for the unfortunate fugitives.—
Tract. Christian.
Philadelphia, March 28.—A fugitive
slave has been arrested in the interior of the
State, under a warrant from Commissioner
Ingraham. It will be brought up to-morrow
for the adjudication of the claim.
North Star Fair.
The North Star Fair Association
will hold their Annual Fair for the North
Star newspaper during Anniversary week in
May next.
All who are desirous of sustaining that
paper are respectfully solicited to contribute.'
The Association consider it an efficient Anti-
Slavery agency—one which aims a death
blow at the foul system of slavery and now
is the time its power should be felt. Slavery
is oppressing us on every side, and we must
be prepared for battle. Our weapon is
Truth, and the North Star is well calculated
to wield it. It can and will combat the
enemy on every side, and therefore ought to
be sustained. Then let us sustain it. The
ladies of this Association ate determiued to
exert their Influence in ii 3 behalf.
Donations, either in money or will
be thankfully received, and may be forwarded
to the Directress or Secretary.
EMELINE BASTIEN,
LETTER FROM GEO. THOMPSON,/
Rochester, March 12, 1861.
Mt Dear Garrison: Though never
so briefly, 1 must write you from tins
beautiful city. Would you were by
my eide, instead of being five hundred
miles away! All circumstances con
sidered, 1 have been more successful
here than in any other place. 1 came
with the most serious apprehensions of
a disturbance, but prepared to abide
tbs worst that might happen.
The Advertiser, a daily paper, of
politics, has tor some time been exhib
ing a degree of superhuman depravity
and sanguinary malevolence which I
have never seen exceeded even in the
city of New York. Its series of ven
omous attacks continued down to yos
tsrday, as witness the enclosed. But
mark the result! An audience of more
than a thousand, as respectable and in
telligent persons as I ever addressed in
my life, assembled in the beautiful and
spacious building called Corinthian
Hall, to listen to a lecture from me on
British Reform. The hour was three,
and all here admit that such an audi
ence, at that time of day, was equal to
twice that number in the evening. My
reception on rising was respectful, and
no more, with the exception of the
cheers given me by the friends of tbe
anti-slavery cause. I felt that I had to
contend with prejudice and suspicion.
I craved and obtained permission to
depart from the usual course, and to
oner some remarks personal to myself.
Q, how did tbe scowl of suspicion give
place to the smile of satistaction and
confidence! How rapidly the frost
work melted before a simple and un
varnished statement of my real opin
ions, principles and designs! How the
cheers, from being faint and few, be
came long, loud and universal! Never
in my existence did I behold more can
dor and magnanimity displayed, than
was shown by the noble citizens of
Rochester, yesterday. Indeed, they
•ecmed delighted to be convinced of the
utter and wilful falsehood of tae state
menu with which they have been flood
ed for weeks. The intimition that I
hoped to be. able to address them again
and again, was received with peal upon
peal of applause. My lecture con
cluded, I was for half an hour pre
vented from putting on my overcoat by
the hands stretched forth to grasp mine;
and many were the confessions of those
who embraced me most warmly, that
they had come prepared to have the
prejudices which existed against me in
their own minds justified and confirmed,
1 own it was a severe trial to my forti
tude to hear tbe reception given me—
for which 1 have to thank the laborious
calumniator, who had been so Jong
forging, from the* materials ol a dis
eased mind, the lies which he thought
would be sufficient to destroy me.
How great is the humiliation of the
Advertiser! for, in addition to vituper
ation and slander, he was prophetic
and when forced to draw back from di
rect incentives to violence, augured
that I should be treated with silent con
tempt! But, lo! the audience, though
each paid an admission fee, was tbe
larges', ever known at such a time ol
meeting; and for its character—you
will see from tbe account of the Roch
ester Daily Democrat, (which I send
you,) that a more respectable and in
telligent audience than that which as
sembled there yesterday, has seldom
been convened; while, to add to the
falsification of the oracle, it was tbe
most enthusiastic audience 1 have ap
peared before since it was my honor
and privilege to sit by you in Cochi
tuate Hall, Boston. Who would not
be on tbe side of Truth, Right and
Justice, when such are the triumphs
which may be won in their cause?
My progress, thus lar, has been truly
gratifying- To the abolitionists of tbe
State of New York, I tender my warm
est thinks for their unbounded hospi
tality. To tbe latest day I live, 1 shall
bear upon my heart the recollection of
their goodness. They have not been
simply kind—they have been trusting
and fraternal. What can the politi
ciaas of this country be thinking about r
Are not tbe thousands who have h*ard
me gladly—who have greeted my sen
timents with vociferous cheers—Amer
icans? Are they not citisens? Are
they not of as much worth as an equal
number of other inhabitants of these
States? Are not their opinions as much
entitled to respect at the opinions ol
others? O, if 1 could reach the states
men of America, 1 would warn them,
U tine, against despising tba men and
women who have engaged in d intern in
ating the principles of Christianity up
on the subject of slavery.
I hare just seen the Advertiser of to*
day, and send you a copy. Not one
word of yesterday’s lecture!
I have written amidst much interrup
tion, and must new close. Adieu, my
dear friend! Try and join me at Syra
cuse, on my return from the West. I
will endeavor to write to you more fre
quently. Our Anti-Slavery Convention
commences to morrow morning.
Everywhere, and to the end,
Yours unalterably,
Geo. Thompson.
THE WORLD MOTES ON.
So thought we as returning just now
from the funeral of a friend we fell
once more into the current of busy
life. The world knows nothing of our
loss. The world cares nothing for our
grief. The world is full of life and mo
tion; it cannot atay for death. The
very hearse as it moved slowly through
the streets was jostled by the stage,
the wagon, the pleasure carriage in
their impatient haste. The funeral
procession crossing the great thorough
fare was broken to lei pass the vehicles
of trade and men hurrying to business.
The world moves on.
He seemed to be worth something
to the world. A man nf nnhU form
and mien—they must have marked
him on the street these many years. A
man of wise counsels, of high integri
ty, of large benevolence—they must
have prized him in the intercourse of
life. Do they know that he is dead?
Do they care that he is dead? Why
do not they pause to think of it? In
the country village the death of such
a man would throw a gloom over every
dwelling. Labor would stand still,
and all the population would come as
mourners to his grave and then go
home sadly to feel his loss. Here, the
family circle, a tew tried friends, a few
brethren of the church have gathered
at his funeral, but even tbe neighbors
are not ther 3, and there is no diminu
tion of the moving throng in tbe street.
The scriptures are read, words of
comfort are spokeu, prayer is offered,
but all amid the din of carts and bells
and cries, and the tramp of hurrying
feet sounding up through the windows.
And when we come out theie is no
sign of change, no gloom upon the
houses, no solemn stillness in the air,
no shock or scar on the world’s brow.
But did not the world feel that shock?
The stroke that laid him low in his
prime was like the feeling of an oak.
Then the forest resounds, the neighbor
ing trees sway to and fro with the con
cussion, and winds rush in to fill the
chasm. But in this great dense forest
of life there is hardly a sensation as
one and another (alls. The vine that
clung to the oak is trailed an the ground
and the young saplings quiver, a few
surrounding trees bow their heads to
the blatt—but straigthway errect them
again—and the forest seems as thick
and sturdy as ever. Even the execu
tive head of the nation falls almost with
out a shock. The wheels of govern
ment pause but for a moment, a new
set of hands are summoned to the va
cant posts and everything moves on as
before. Man dies, but 1 the world moves
on. Life hurries on. We feel it at
this moment, when inclination would
dispose us to quiet meditation on the
loss of a friend, but parish, press, and
pulpit demand that we shall work. And
work we must while life lasts.
It is well that this is so. Life has a
present interest. Its value does not lie
simply in its relation to death and the
future. While we must feel the pres
sure of the world to come if we would
ennoble life to its just aim, and while
we should be uplifted and borne along
by the Infinite and tbe Eternal, yet we
cannot live in heaven before our time.
Nor should we be always preparing to
die as our distinctive and absorbing
occupation. We are living men and
are placed iu this world to live. Life
is an earnest work. And as the world
moves on we wust move with it and
seek to guide its energy and its pro
gress to high and holy ends. Our
Savior prayed not that his disciples
should be taken out ot the world but
that they should be kept from the evil.
And while in the world, they must finish
the work He has given them to do.
For this the thought of death, and the
frequent and vivid contemplation of the
future will give (hem faith and diligence
and patience. But life must not wait
for death. The world moves on, it
must move on although men die. Yet
the world feels its losses, though it
does not stop to notice them. Every
good man taken out of it is a loss.
The church will feel tbe loss, the world
will feel the loss of the good man we 1
have buried to-day. For a while at
least some interests will not do so well
without him. His prayers will be a
want, his charities will be a want, his
counsels will be a want, his example
will be a want, not only in his immediate
circle, but also in tbe ever-widening
i circles that swell out from that that till
lost on the remotest shores of time.
Though the tide of life by its mighty
pressure overbears, a single death, yet
that death makes a ripple on its sur
face; disturbs, discolors, perhaps di
vides the stream. The good man’s
death is felt till others take hia place
and fulfil bis work. Neither does the
world move on without him whom it has
lost. His memory lives, his influence
lives, his work follows him. And these
all are added to the grand sum of in
fluences that are shaping this world’s
character and destiny. The world is
made up not merely of those at any
one moment upon its stage, but of all
(he Past interblendiog with their
thoughts and feelings and acts, and
giving its impress to the present and its
course lo the future. Man is not born
into this world merely to die out of it.
II he lives to any purpose he still lives
here after death. The world moves
on as if without him, yet it moves on
by and through his influence. With
what a sanctity does this invest our
bis! There is perversion often in tbe
well-meant counsel “Live each day as
if it were your last.” Rather live
each day as it you were to last, know
ing that what you do and are will last
when you are gone. We are to live
and not to die daily. And living right
ly we shall be always ready to die.
Death shall then bring to us a two-fold
life; a life of purity and bliss in hea
ven, and a life of influence and power
still on earth. The friend we this day
buried ie not dead. They carried him
away to the quiet village which was his
summer retreat, [and there they laid
him in the bare and stiffened earth.
The city knows not his resting place.
But soon the fresh grass will spring
and flowers will bloom and trees will
blossom in that lone church-yard, and
so will virtue, truth, and holiness spring
up the richer from his grave. Thus
will.
——“th* actions of the just
rime!! sweet end blossom in the duel.
We lately heard an address to chil
dren commended because the speaker
talked to them not as if he thought they
were at once to die, but as if he ex
pected them to live and to accomplish
some thing in life. So should we in
the high Christian sense live while we
may and die when God calls us, in life
or death discharging the duty of the
hour. This was the high moral sig
nificance of that strange answer of
Christ to him who would go home and
bury his fathers: “Let the dead bury
their dead: follow thou me.” Thu art
a living man and hast the work of life
to do. The world moves on, and my
cause must not be retarded nor thy
salvation hindored, by offices of re
spect and kindness to the dead or by
unavailing grief. While the battle
rpjzes fighting m*n must not stop to
pick up tbw slain.
The world moves on. The forces of
steam and electricity new drive its
wheels. Faster and faster all things
fly. Yet the world and all that it con
tains shall have an end. Its marts shall
be deserted, its bustle and clamor shall
cease, and all be silent as the grave.
But in this world, moving on with it, is
a kingdom that shall have no end.
That kingdom hastens to its glorious
consummation. Though men die,
Christs’s cause moves on. How grand
has beeu its march since first Apostles
suffered and martyrs died. And they
that are of this kingdom shall live and
reign with it when time and earth shall
cease to move.— lndependent.
EIGHT THOUSAND CHRISTIANS
SENTENCED TO DEATH.
Tho following is a letter from Mr.
T. Burbyer, to the Rev. D. Griffith:
Mauritius, Oct. 6, 1861.
Dear Sir—My present object in
writting is to inform you of the news
from Madagascar, and the events that
have lately occured at Tenanarivo.
You know that the Prince Rakooln
Tahindry Radama, son of the Queen
Ranavolo, and heir presumptive to the
throne of Ankovas, has become the
powerful protector ofthe Christians un
der persecution at Imirena. In June
last 1 made a voyage to the coast of
Madagascar, on some affairs which re
quired my presence, and took advan
tage of the opportauity to obtain intelli
gence of the Christians at Tenanarivo.
I returned a fortnight ago from this
voyage, in the frigate, Castor, Com
modore C. Rynil. The information I
obtained through letters from Imirena
is as follows:—Eight thousand Chris
tians being assembled together one
even in different places, engaged in
religious exercises, were all arrested
and condemned to death. Eighteen
of them had already been executed,
when all the rest found the means of
escape, fled to the palace of the Prince,
and implored his protection. The
Prince toook them under his care.
The fact having come to the knowledge
ofthe Queen, she ordered her grand
marshal and first minister, Rainiharo,
to convey her orders to the Prince,
her son, to surrender all these
Christians for execution. The grand
marshal proceeded to intimate this
to the Prince, who refused to obey it,
declaring that the Christians were un
der his protection, and that if any one
had the hardihood to force his palace
with a view to their seizure, he would
put him instantly to death. High words
then took place between the Prince
and the grand marshal, the latter inti
mating to the former that he was act
ing in open rebellion to the Queen, hia
mother. The Prince becoming impa
tient, and having strong motives for
resentment against the grand marshal,
drew his sword and aimed a blow at
his head. It struck him on one side of
tho head, and cut off one of his ears.
Tbe generals present came to the res
cue ofthe grand marshal, as the Prince
was about to put an end to bira. When
the Queen heard of what had taken
place, she quashed the whole affair,
fearing a revolution at Imirena, for she
knows that all the Ankova youth are
partisans of the Prince, and that he is
beloved by all the people and the
army. The Christians are now in
safety, and assemble themselves toge
ther in the evening, the government
shutting its eyes upon everything.
Rainiharo trembles bofore the Prince.
The young Prince, who has completed
his 21st year, and who has been
brought up by General Ratsihambe,
his governor, promises to establish
his throne as it was under the late
King Radama, his father. He has
been several times at the prayer meet
ings of the Christians, and makes every
effort to comfort them. God be praised!
the cause of Christ is not lost in Mada
gascar, and we shall shortly see this
spiritual harvest produce abundant
fruit to tbe divine glory. I have sent
the report of my voyage to the Mis
sionary Society, through the medium
of my pastor, Mr. Le Brun, and have
also written to the Rev. J. J. Freeman
on the subject. 1 had not the pleasure
of meeting Mr. Freeman here, he hav
ing left the very day of my arrival,
which I much regret. He will proba
bly receive my report and letter in
London, I hope through the divine
goodness to make another voyage to
Madagascar. It has become very
difficult to get access to the porta of
the Queen since, in 1845, she drove
away all tbe foreign merchants, and
put an end to all trade with the coun
try. We can only hope, therefore,
the way will be opened as soon as tbe
Prince, her son, shall ascend the throne
after bis mother’s death.”—Perthshire
•3dv*riiser.
tcj* The following resolutiona were
adopted at the recent Convention o! the
Western New York Anti-Slavery So
ciety, held in Corinthien Hell:
Resolved, That in the person of the
taest abased, degraded, mutilated and
dejected slave in our land, we recog
nize a man and a brother —a being
made in tbe image of God, to whom we
are bound by all the ties of human
brotherhood, and by all the obligations
of a common paternity.
Resolved, That the right of every
man to his own body, is derived Irom
God, and that this right is rendered
self-evident in the facts of human na
ture, and is no more to be annihilated
by human laws than are the unalterable
purposes of God himself.
Resolved, That they who teach obe
dience to the Fugitive Slave Law,while
they admit that the law is unjust, cruel
and disgraceful, prove themselves des
titute ot moral principle, if not of moral
sense, and they are to be ranked with
the hardened and obdurate creatures
who, for a few paltry dollars, will per
form the disgusting office of slave
catcher to the slaveholder.
Resolved, That Freedom of Speech,
the palladium of liberty—the shield of
tho weak—the hope of the oppressed,
and the terror of tyrants, is (in the lan
guage of Daniel Webster, in his. better
days) a home-bred right—a fire-side
privilege," the loss of which is the first
condition of the enslavement of a free
people.
Resolved, That in the recent efforts
of the "Advertiser” newspaper, to sub
ject the exejpiee of this right to the
peril* of molTvlblence, we see another
evidence of the all-controlling power of
slavery; and the utter worthlessness of
names, as indicating the character of
men and of parties, since, while pro
fessing to be a Democratic Journal,
contending for the largest liberty, the
Advertiser would subject freedom of
speech to more galling bonds and per
ils, than any that environ that most sa
cred right in the most despotic coun
tries on the globe
Resolved, That the most indignant
and telling rebuke which could be ad
ministered to that profligate sheet for
its base and scurrilous attacks upon the
eloquent and philanthropic Thompson,
has already been administered by the
orderly, decorous and cordial reception
which that distinguished gentleman has
received at the hands of our most re
spectable citizens, within the walls of
Corinthian Hall.
Resolved, That we commend the
good sense and the good disposition of
the laboring men of this city, which led
to treat with disdain and contempt the
dastardly appeals of the editor of the
"Advertiser;" and that we thank them
for rolling hack the odium upon the re
creant editor in question, which had
been cunningly and malignantly pre
pared for themselves.
Resolved, That we do not onlv ap
prove, but that we do most warmly ap
plaud the conduct of the noble men
who rescued, in a peaceful manner,
Shadrnck Simms; and, so far from re
garding them as mobocrats are we, that
we look upon them as the conservatori
of law and order in Boston, against the
great national mob, headed by Millard
Fillmore.
Resolved, That American slavery
necessarily involves the crimes of theft,
robbery and murder, and that it oughl
to be immediately and unconditionally
abolished.
Resolved, That there are no highet
laws than these: Thou shalt love the
Lord thy God with all thy heart, anc
thy neighbor as thyself.
Resolved, That we regard tie Fugi
tive Slave Law of the las*. Congress a«
a conspiracy against the liberties ol
our country, which ought to be resistec
at all property and life, by
all who love God and revere the mem
ories of our revolutionary fathers
SWITZERLAND—THE REFUGEE
QUESTION.
The Federal Council of Switzerland
has, in consequence of the repeated
remonstrance of the German powers,
just abolished the absolute obligation
imposed in July, 1849, on the various
cantons to receive political refugees;
it has, moreover, maintained the de
crees relative to the expulsion or trans
mission of refugees into the interior.
These resolutions are communicated to
the cantons by proclamation, dated
Berne, the 25th ult. This document
explains, that after the events of 1848
and ’49, Switzerland was obliged, from
its position, and from the duties of
humanity, to receive a vast number of
fugitives of different nations, and to
take measures for distributing them
among the cantons; but the time has
now arrived at which the cantons can
be relieved of this burden, and allowed
their old privilege of dealing as they
please with refugees. It says more
over, that the French government has
offered to convey to England or Ame
rica, refugees, who may not be able to
return to their own countries. Under
these circumstances it observes that
the cantons many make free use of the
right of expelling refugees without
subjecting themselves to the charge of
severity In July, 1819, the number
of refugees under the general control
of the confederation, was 11,000 —but
by pardons, expulsions and voluntary
departures, it has been reduced to
500.
The Swiss journals state that a san
guinary conflict had just taken place
at Matten, in the district of Interlacken,
between the troops and a band of in
surgent, in the course of which two ol
the former and eight of the latter, were
seriously Several of the
insurgents have been arrested, amongst
whom are M. Seiler, ex-prefect; Mich
el, ex-director of the prison of Inter
lacken; Stachli and Ritschard, ex
substitutes of the perfect; Brunner,
formerly Judge of the district; Inder
tnuhie, ex-secretary of the prefecture;
Rubini, usher of the tribunal; Shasser,
a medical practitioner.
A letter ofcthe 27th ult., from Frank
fort, in the Cologne Gazette, says:
“The projects of the great powers
against Switzerland, which have been
so often talked of, now being to acquire
some consistence. Within the last
week, it is positively known that the
Prussian government has transmitted a
note to the Swiss federal council, in
which it demands the re-establishment
of legal order in the canton of Neuf
chatel, threatning to ua coercive
measures in the event of non-com
pliance. No answer has yet been given.
—-AT. F. Tribune,