nothing but slavery.
among those who participated in the
discussion on mr. golfs resolution, in
congress, for the abolition of the
slavetrade in the district of columbia,
was mr. sawyer, of ohio. he said:
f l have listened to gentlemen who
have discussed this question. is *it
possible that no other question but that
of slavery can be debated? look at
the situation of affairs. on your cal
endar there are seven hundred private
bills, and thousands of petitions are
coming in daily. there is, in addition,
a hundred or so of laws to be acted on;
but from morning till night nothing is
talked of without having negroes and
negro slavery introduced. i appeal to
the good sense of the house and the
patriotism of the country, and ask them
to abandon this infamous means of le
gislation. (ha! ha! ha!) we ought
at some time to get rid of it. what do
my constituents care about the subject?
there are other questions of more im
portance; and yet we are spending our
time, day after day, arguing an ab
stract question. it appears that cer
tain gentlemen embarrass us in our le
gislation. my constituents understand
these things very well, and they never
ask me about them unless there is
something practical. the session is
half out, and there is a large amount of
business before us. the people are
suffering. you hear a voice of warn
ing. the cholera is approaching.
(ha! ha! ha!— you’ll laugh the other
way, if it catches you.’) it may soon
be in our neighborhood. you can’t
keep congress together if it comes. i
ask gentlemen to take into considera
tion these matters, and proceed to
business, and leave negro slavery to
the people themselves. our constitu
ents did not send us here for such pur
posess. how is it with my constituents?
there are other questions which involve
their interests much more than this.
what are they it reminds me of an
anecdote of a little hoy who went to a
neighboring woman to get a patch put
on his pantaloons, (ha! ha!) the boy
resembled the boy in the slashes, going
o mill, with bis streamer behind in the
breeze? the woman asked, why
does not your mother mend your panta
loons?’ why,’ he said, she is mak
ing up clothing to send to the greeks.’
ha! ha!) attend to your own
households, and then attend to the
greeks. i have constituents, and not
a tear is shed for them. around them
the banks are breaking, and there is
not a word of sympathy. let us go
to work and have a tariff on a proper
basis, so as not to make the wealthy
richer to the detriment of the poor; and
not to tolerate the banking system,
which cuts the throats of nine-tenths
for the advantage of the few. let us
not be led away by the tgtttt fatu an of
negroes. the greeks are at your
door, as john randolph once said.
legislate for free whites first, and then
i wi be time eitougii to let your sym
pathies rm, for the black population. i
repeat, that the course which we are
now pursuing, tends to degrade us and
the character of this house. when
thousands of honest claims are pressing
onus, we are consuming the time in
disgraceful scenes. ask mr
speaker, how we can get c b. ar j thi#
can it be by moving to lay on the table
to indefinitely postpone, or what?
move the previous i
demand it, and won’t withdraw. (‘hold
on to it.’
south carolina apprehensions.
the south carolinian, published at the
the north star.
seat of government of the palmetto
state, says:
yve care not for the bluster of all
abolitionists from the st. lawrence to
mason and dixon's line—we ware not
for their fanatical ravings, so long as
the alaveholding states present an un
broken front at home. we are not of
those who would fear for the safety of
the institution, even if an over-riding
and lawless majority of congress were
to pass direct enactments for*its imme
diate abolition, if there were no shrink
ing and heretical morbidity of feeling
among certain schools of politicians'
and classes of individuals, scattered
everywhere throughout the southern
country. but so it is—we soon will
have all our enemies abroad to combat,
and will be compelled to strictly watch
intestinal traitors to the very land which
gives them bread to eat.”
selections.
speech of mr. j. r. giddingb
on the ml to pay the heirs of antonio pacheco
for a slave sent west of the mississippi with
the si mi note indians in 183 ft.
[concli'dfcd. j
if the doctrine contended for by the
friends of this bill be correct, if slaves
be property, slave markets may be
opened in boston, and massachusetts
will have no power to prohibit there the
revolting scenes which are witnessed in
this city. if the doctrine contended
for- by southern men be correct, no
state can exclude slave markets from
its territory, or consecrate its soil to
freedom. it well becomes southern
gentlemen to examine this subject be
fore they base themselves upon the
principle that slaves are property. let
that be established, and congress will
have power to prohibit the internal
slave trade at its pleasure.
i now proceed to another branch of
the case. with great propriety the
gentleman from new hampshire in
quired, at what time the liability of
government to pay for this slave com
menced? the question has not been
answered, nor do i think it can be
answered. the undertaking was
hazardous in the highest degree. the
troops werejall killed but two or three,
by the enemy, and those were sup
posed to be dead. this man alone
escaped unhurt. this danger was
foreseen, and the master put a price
upon the services to compare with the
risk. did this contract bind the gov
ernment to pay for the master’s loss,
admitting the slave to have been pro
perty? was it any part of the com
pact that the government should
insure the property? it strikes me that
no lawyer would answer in the affirma
tive. the law of bailment is surely
understood by every tyro in the pro
fession. the bailee for hire is bound
,to exercise the same degree of care
over the property that careful men
ordinarily take of their own property.
if, then, the property be lost, the owner
sustains such loss. now conceding
this man to be property, the govern
ment would not have been liable, had
he run away, or been killed by accident,
or died of sickness. yet, sir, when
property is lost or destroyed by the act
of god or by the common enemy of the
country, no bailee is ever holden re
sponsible—not even common carriers,
and that is the highest species of bail
ment. had this officer, acting on his
own responsibility, agreed to take the
negro through the country for hire,
(admitting the man to have been pro
perty, and governed by the same rules
i of law as though he had been a mule or
an ass,) and he had been captured by
the enemy, no law would have held
such bailee liable. but, sir, an entire
ly different rule prevails where the
owner of a chattel lets it to a bailee for
wages. had this man been a mule or
an ass, and the officer hired him of the
owner for wages, to ride through the
country, or to work in a team, or in
any other manner, and he had been
captured by the enemy, the bailee
would not have been liable, upon any
rule of law or of justice; nor would be
have been liable if lost in any other
manner, except by neglect of the
bailee.
the gentleman from south carolina
[mr. burt] said he would place this
case upon strictly legal principles.—
sir, i meet the gentleman on that prop
osition. i, too, for the sake of the ar
gument, am willing to submit it on prin
ciples of law; and i believe that no
jurist, or even justice of the peace,
i would hesitate to reject the claim on
j those grounds. all must admit that the
liability of the government concerning
this man ceased when he was captured
by the enemy; up to this point the
government was not liable. i under
stood the author of this bill [mr. burt]
to argue, however, that we become
liable under the contract of bailment.—
that contract was ended when the man
was captured. the claimant then failed
to perform his part of it. the stipula
tion on the part of the master was, that
the negro should pilot the troops from
fort brooke to fort king, the place of
their destination, at the rate of twenty
five dollars per month. he was cap
tured when only half the distance was
accomplished. here the master ceased
to perforin his compact; it was beyond
his pqwer to do 80 the contract then
ceaseo to exist; and from that time forth
the claimant had no demand on us,
either in equity or in law.
i now enter upon another vifw of
this cue. i* i» shown, by the testimony
of gen. jessup, that this man was sup
posed to have kept up an understanding
with the enemy, from the time he united
with dade’s command until the massa
cre ot that unfortunate batallion that
while he wu with the enemy, which
right is of no sex—troth is of no color-god is the father of os all, and all we are brethren.
was more than two years, he united in
committing depredations upon the fron
tier settlement*; in short, that he was
one of the enemy our army was sent
there to protect this claimant, and his
wife, and children, and neighbors,
‘against this very man, who, in com
pany with others, murdered the people
of florida, and destroyed their pro
perty. this expenditure of blood and
treasure by the united sates, was oc
casioned in part by this very negro for
whom the master now claims compen
sation. with his extraordinary intelli
gence, with a knowledge of the wrongs
which he and his people had suffered at
the hands of those who claimed them
as property, he must have thirsted for
vengeance. he could no at
tachment, no reaped people at
whose hands he had received nothing
but abuse and degradation. it was
natural that he should have sought re
venge; and it was natural that his
master should become his victim, if
within iiis power. but our army was
sent there to protect the people against
their slaves who were with the indians,
and their effective allies. it was under
these circumstances that lewis was
captured, with other enemies. general
jessup says that he would have tried
and hanged him, if he could have found
time. this, under martial law, he
might have done. and the gentleman
who reported this bill, admitted that in
such case this claim would never have
been presented. suppose he had been
slain in battle: i think we should never
have heard of this claim. but why had
general jessup a right to hang him?—
because he was an enemy, dangerous
to the people and to the government.
but who will for a moment hesitate to
say that he had the same power, yea,
greater power to send him out of the
neighborhood, than he had to slay him
in battle or to hang him. humanity
surely would dictate that he should be
sent out of the neighborhood, ‘'rather
than his life should be sacrificed. has
the claimant’s loss been greater'than it
would have been had the negro been
slain or hanged? not at all. he had
been taken in arms —had committed de
predations upon the people; he had oc
casioned much loss of blood and treas
ure to the nation. could gen. jessup
have left him in florida consistently
with his duty i think not.
here another important question
arises. had the claimant right to keep
an enemy so dangerous within any civ
ilized community is there a member
of this body who will rise in his place
and assert that any master possesses
the right to retain such a foe on his
plantation? has any man a right to
keep a rabid dog, or other animal, and
suffer him to go at large in the com-,
munity i am now arguing the legal
question. i am considering this man
as property, the same as though he
were a mule or an ass. and i lay it
down as clear and indisputable law,that
had such mule or ass killed the people,
and destroyed their property, as this
man has done, any member of the com
munity might either haye shot him, or
chased him out of the neighborhood
with impunity.
i therefore meet the gentleman who
reported this bill on every point in
volved in this case, legal, equitable,
or constitutional, and i can*find no
merits in it.
but, sir, as i am for the moment
engaged in a legal examination of the
case, i desire to follow it a little further.
this man was guilty of treason against
the united states, or he was an enemy
to our government. i think it doubtful
whether slaves can commit treason, as
they owe no allegiance to our govern
ment. but if he was not a traitor, he
was surely an enemy to the country.—
now, sir, whether traitor or enemy,
and the master, knowing the fact, “had
harbored him,” “adhered to him,” or
given him aid and comfort,” would not
the master have been guilty of the i
crime of misprision of treason against
the united states, and punishable under
our laws? of this i think there is no
doubt. and yet we are called upon to
pay him a thousand dollars for taking
away a man thus dangerous to himself
who, if he had remained with him,
would probably have subjected him. to
the gallows. let gentlemen reflect
and vote as men—as intelligent states
men.
another question arises in this case,
which, to me, is equally fatal to this
claim. a state of war existed. gen.
jessup was the commanding officer in
florida. he was the agent of the gov
ernment; and whatever the govern
-1 ment might do to insure the safety of
the people, their agent for the time be
ing could accomplish under the martial
law. by the term “martial law,” 1
mean the war power, which is the most
dangerous, the most indefinite, the most
unlimited, exercised among nations. 1
do not refer to the rules and articles of
war, but to that vague, indefinite, un
definable power which knows no limits.
it is that power which, in time of war,
may do anything in the power of man
to accomplish; may command any sac
rifice of the people, or of any portion
of them, in order to secure the safety
of the government, and of the subjects
generally. it is that power which au
thorizes the military commander, in
short, to do whatever he deems neces
sary tor the security of the public; by
which suspected men were arrested and
imprisoned in connecticut and new
york during tbs revolution; by which
others were ordered to leave the coun
try; and by which others were shot
down, their dwellings burned, and their
estates confiscated. it is the power
exercised in sooth carolina, during the
revolution, by sumpter and by marion
and their compatriots. it was by virtue
of this power that jackson, at naw
orleans, suspended the writ of habeas
rochester, n. y., friday, february 9, 1849,
corpus—adjourned the legislature ol
louisiana—ordered old men and boys
not liable to do military duty by law,
on to the lines, to defend the city—seal
all foreigners out of the city, as he re
garded them as dangerous, as this max
was supposed to be—suffered no com
munication between the city and coun
try—ordered a portion of the slaves
also into service, and sent the others
back into the interior. many of those
slaves were killed, but we have at all
times refused to pay for them. bui
does any one deny these unlimited pow
ers? not at all. if general jackson
had the' right to send freemen and
slaves away from the scene of danger,
had not gen. jessup the same power?
most assuredly he had. but the best
illustration of"this tremendmfes power is
said to have occurred at fort erie, at
the time the british attacked i‘. in 1814.
a lieutenant commanded* a picquet
guard &t the west of the fort, perhaps
a mile distant. a beautiful plain ex
tends in that direction some half or
three-fourths of a mile, bounded by a
dense forest. he was posted in this
forest. as the british coluthn ad
vanced, the brave lieutenant, with his
little band, retreated in front of them,
keeping up his fire in gallant style, in
order to retard their progres, and give
notice to our men in the fort, and time
for them to prepare to receive the ene
my. an officer who had command of a
heavy park of artillery on that wing of
the fort, am the british column emerged
from thffe forest, and he saw its force,
opened a tremendous fire upon it. our
little guard and their brave commander
were directly between the fort and the
advancing column of the british army.
they of course fell beneath the
fire that cut down the hostile column.
as the story is related, gen. brown
was informed of the fact, and sent per
emptory orders to the officer to cease
his fire. to this order he paid no at
tention, but kept up such a shower of
grape and cannister, that the british
column was broken and scattered before
it reached the fort, so that not a man
scaled its wails. but the whole of our
picquet guard, with their commander,
were sacrificed; not a man survived.
for this conduct the officer wss ar
rested, and, on trial, showed, conclu
sively that the sacrifice of our own
guard of thirty men was necessary to
save the fort and those in it. they,
sir, were freemen. their lives were
surrendered for the safety of the army.
these five southern gentleman who re
ported this bill now insist that the wid t
ows and orphan children of those men
shall contribute a portion of their sub
stance to pay for a southern slave, who,
for the safety of his own master as well
as others, was sent out of the neigh
borhood. if there-be a northern man
in this body willing to lend his vote to
conspmmate such an insult to the honor
of the free states, let him stand forth
and avow it. were it not chilling to
the heart of humanity, i would give
another illustration of this indefinite
and unlimited power. i refer to the
execution of those lads on board the
sloop of war somers, a few years
since, when several midshipmen and
apprentices were hanged by order of a
lieutenant, without trial, in order to se
cure the safety of the ship and crew.—
shall we now tax the fathers and broth
ers of those young men to pay for this
slave?
but, sir, to come more immediately
to the present case before us, i refer
gentlemen to the southampton riots in
1832. the newspapers of that day in
formed us that slaves, and indeed col
ored freemen were shot down in the
streets, others sent to prison, and oth
ers sent out of the neighborhood.—
shall northern men be taxed to pay for
them? certainly, if you pass this bill,
we must expect to open the treasury to
the slaveholders in all these and in ten
thousand other cases. by virtue of
this same power exercised at south
ampton, general jessup, in ofdct* to
secure the safety of the people
rida, sent this man lewis with the in
dians west of the mississippi; and now
the master, instead of paying the ex
pense of arresting this man—instead of
refunding to this government and to the
people of florida the losses he has oc
casioned by bringing this slave among
them—instead of paying for the pro
perty this man destroyed, he comes
here and demands that we should pay
him a thousand dollars for preventing
lewis from killing more people ;ud
destroying more properly.
i have now stated my own views in
regard to the powers of gen. jessup to
send this man out of the neighborhood
if he possessed these powers to deal
with him as with any other enemy, no
man will urge that we are in law or
justice bound to pay for him. admit
ting, however, for tbe sake of the ar
gument, that general jessup had no
right to deal with him as an enemy, but
that be was bound, under the order of
the war department, to deliver him
over as a slave; that be disobeyed this
order, and sent him west upon his own
responsibility, »nd in violation of his
doty; in such case, i ask, is there a
member on this floor who for a moment
would suppose the people bound to pay
for a slave taken by general jessup, in
of bhi duty, mid of pomtive
orders from the w ar department.
every member must be aware that
the rule* which cootrol a public agent
are the same as those which govern in
private life. snppo** i empiojr a m-n
to act as my ■k® while he con
iines himdfclf to the business on which
he is authorized to act, i am bound in
law and to justice by bis contract
suppose i employ my friend on my nghl
to go and purchase a horse for me: he
indies a contract for tbe horse in my
name* lam bound by it, and mart per
form k but nppem be porebue
j farm in my name; no man would sup
pose me obligated for a moment to take
the farm.
military officers are the agents of
government, to do all things pertaining
to their office, and which come within
the line of their duties. gen. jessup
was an agent to send out of florida all
enemies of the country; but he was
not our agent to send the friends of
government west of the mississippi.—
j if he has done so, the act is bis, not
ours. it was unauthorized, and he
i alone is liable. now, i understand the
gentleman from south carolina [mr.
burt] to urge that he was an enemy,
i and dangerous to the country. i admit
i the fact, and say that he sbould be
treated as an enemy. but if he were
not an enemy, then there is no claim on
the government.
i but the committee are not content
1 with urging that he was ail enemy to
the country, and dangerous. they
suddenly change the argument, and say
that he was taken for pubile use. an
enemy to the nation is taken for public
use! well, sir, the argument is in
genious. it never found a place in the
mind of grotius or puffendorf, or of
any writer upon the law of nations or
the rights of government. but the
point was adopted by the argument of
the gentleman from south carolina,and
perhaps i ought to notice it. for what
use was he taken? to what use was
he applied? the .gentleman admits the
right to shoot or to hang him. would
not this have been as much a taking
for public use” as it was to banish him?
the use of sending him out of the
country was the preservation of the
lives and property of the people. that
would have keen equally attained by
shooting or hanging the negro. but
the reply to this is, he was property.
well, i repeat, suppose he had been a
rabid dog or a vicious mule, killing
people and destroying their property,
and general jessup had shot or chased
him out of the country, to prevent him
from killing his master or others, would
the government have been liable? i
will not argue this point further.
again: it is said that, by the act of
hiring, we admitted the slave to be pro
perty, and that the government is.
now estopped from denying that fact.—!
we are bound to treat all
on this floor with respect. but to sup
pose that this obscure lieutenant, who,
perhaps, never read a commentary on
the constitution, and who, i dare say,
never dreamed that he was affecting, or
doing anything to affect, our rights or
our duties; i say? that to suppose his
acts would estop congress from main
taining the constitution, or that such
acts would have any weight whatever
with this body, is a proposition which i
will not detain the house to examine.
he was our agent for the purpose of
doing his military duty; but we never
authorized him to legislate for us, or to
give construction to our constitutional
rights. why, sir, i may hire out my
son, or apprentice, or my hired servant;
but would that be an admission that
they were my property? or suppose i
should agree that the gentleman from
south carolina [mr. burt] attend the
speaker to st given place: does that
imply that i hold him a 3 property
no, sir; the only fact implied is, that i
have a right to receive the wages when
the labor or duty is performed, accord
ing to my contract. in this case, the
claimant agreed that lewis should ac
company the troops, and the officer
agreed to pay the master twenty-five
dollars per month. the claimant might
have made the same arrangement in
regard to any freeman as he did in re
gard to lewis; and when the labor was
performed, he would have the same
right to the money. but, in such case,
would the government be obligated to
pay him for the body of such freeman
no doubt the obligations would rest up
on the hirer that now rest on the gov
ernment, and no more.
but the gentleman from south caro
lina [mr. burt] says, that the act of
1815, levying direct taxes, recognizes
slaves as property. that law provides,
that such law shall constitute a lien
upon the real estate and upon all staves
of individuals upon whom said tax shall
be assessed.” my presumption ft, that
this bill was drawn by some southern
man, who did not reflect that slaves
were less property under the federal
constitution than they were under the
laws of the slave states. the gentle
man does not pretend that, at the pas
sage of that law, the question whether
slaves were persons or property was
i raised, or discussed, or thought of. i
need not say that a kill passed sub si
lentio constitutes no precedent. in our
i courts of justice, the judge takes no
notice of questions not made by the
parties, nor do the proceedings of a
court form any authority on points not
raised nor discussed by counsel, nor‘
examined by the court.
the case of depeyrter, to which i
referred, was a stronger case than that
of the law of 1815. my friend from
pennsylvania, [mr. dickey,] as well as
myself, stated that that case passed
when no one knew it.. i knew that my
lamented frtqnd (mr. adams) and my
self both intended to oppose its pas
i aage, and we were both watching it;
but it got through when we were un
conscious of it. does any man—l will
not say lawyer—suppose that its pas
sage constitutes any precedent showing
(that slaves are property? yet this law
of 1815, so far as wo know, received
no more attention (or at least that part
of it relating to slaves) than did the act
for the relief of depeyster. it can
therefore constitute no precedent.
tbe force of a precedent consists in
tbe respect which we pay to tbe judg
ment of n former congress. it is
tlwrsfbn necessary, to give the prece
dent any force whatever, that tbe jndg-
roent of the tribunal should have bee
exercised upon the question, whether i
be a judicial or legislative precedent.—
1 thus, in each case that i have cited
as precedents, either in this house o
committees, the questions now unde
j consideration were discussed, and de
liberation had, and a judgment givei
1 upon the point before us. now, sir
let me say, with all due respect t<
southern gentlemen, that i challenge
them to produce an instance in
this house, or the supreme court o
the united states, or any respectabb
i court of any free state, has decide*
slaves to be property under the fed
eral constitution, in any case when
that question has been raised, or ex
amined. i desire to see gentlemei
come to a definite issue on this subject
i wish to meet them fairly and distinct
ly. they must admit that the framers
of the constitution intended to exclude
from that instrument the idea that thert
could be property in man. to thal
point i intend to hold them. and i call
upon them to meet the record of mr.
madison, to which i have referred.—
let them deny that record, or carry out
the intentions of tho framers of that in
strument.
the- gentleman from south carolina
[mr. burt] says he “should like tc
know what was contemplated by that
clause in the constitution which stipu
lates for the surrender of fugitive
slaves, unless it be. that their owners
hold property in them?” i answer,
that clause means just what it says. il
i gives to the holder of sdaves the righl
i to pursue and recapture them in a free
state, precisely as it gives me the righl
to pursue and retake my apprentice ot
my son in any state to which he ms)
escape. it no more admits the slave tc
be property, than it admits the appren
tice or the minor to be property. lan
tired of hearing this clause of the con
stitution quoted to prove almost every
doctrine advanced by southern men. its
provisions are of the most plain and ob
vious character. it merely provides for
the recapture and return of slaves, and
nothing more.
but my hour has nearly expired.—
my constituents hold slavery to be a
crime of the deepest dye. the rob
bing of a man of his property, or the
seizing of his ship upon the high seas,
we regard as grievous offences, which
should exclude the perpetrator from
human associations for the time being.
but we look upon those crimes as of
small importance when compared with
that of robbing a man of his labor, his
liberty, his social, his intellectual en
joyments; to disrobe him of his human
ity, to degrade and brutalize him. on
this account we protest solemly against
being involved in the wickedness and in
the crimes of that institution. to-day
we are asked to pay our money for the
liberty of our fellow-man. we hold
that he was endowed with that liberty
by his creator; that it is impious, and
in the highest degree criminal, for
a man, or for a government, to rob any
portion of our race of their god-given
rights. as the representative of a
christian and a moral constituency, i
deny the right of congress to involve
them or me in the support of such
crimes. by our compact of union, no
such power is delegated to congress.
by the passage of this bill, we shall
become slavedealers ourselves—traders
in humanity. the people of our state
shrink from the foul contagion. with
mr. gerry, we hold that we have noth
ing to do with slavery in the states, but
will be careful not to give it any sanc
tion; with mr. madison, we hold that
it would be wrong to admit that there
can be property in man;” and with the
signers of the declaration of american
independence, we hold that it is “sell
evident truth, that all men are created
equal.” we believe our rights to enjoy
these doctrines unmolested by this gov
ernment as clear and indisputable as
are the rights of the slave states to
deny them in theory and in pract||p.—
we claim no superiority of privileges
under the compact; w e admit them,
under the constitution, to enjoy their
slavery unmolested by congress or by
the free states. its blessings and its
curses, its horrors and its disgrace, are
theirs. we neither claim the one, nor
will we share in the other. we will
have no participation in its guilt. “it
is the object of our perfect hate.”—
southern gentlemen may continue to
misrepresent us, by saying that we seek
to interfere with that institution in the
states; but thank god we have at last
obtained access to the public ear. the
people of the free states now under
stand that all our efforts, politically, are
based upon the constitutional right ol
being exempt from its support. for
years i have made it a practice, when
1 have spoken in this hall, tw guard
against misrepresentation, by avowing
my doctrines. i am aware of the efforts
now making by northern presses, letter
writers from this city, and editors who
pander to the spirit of servility, to mis
represent my views, and assail my
motives. sir, let me smy to tmse men,
before heaven, if they will come up to
the work, unite their inauence, and
separate this government from the
1 support of slavery and the siavetrade,
and leave that institution where the
constitution placed it —with the statei
in which it musts —with gratitude tc
god, and with love and good will to al
my fellow-men, i will retire from the**
halls to the obscurity of private life.
sir, 1 may, on the present occasion
disabose myself of the imputation tha
i wish to embarrass the friends of tin
incoming administration. those win
have done me the honor to observe »j
course in ibis bail for tbe last ten years,
must do me tbe justice to say, tbs* my
efforts here have been again* exwtmj
evils. 1 desire to soe every member ol
titty pmtj ta* hta+ttmcttowr
john dick. pvausnsß.
whole no. 59.
i j port tho constitution of my country tn«j
:;the rights of humanity. sir, i war
•i «pon no party. 1 wish to see tbe people
j ol the free states purified from tbe sup
port, the crimes, the contagion of sla
very. i would oppose any member or
any party who seeks to uphold tbe slave
trade by congressional law, or lends
his inauence to continue within this
district, or on the high seas, a com
merce in human aesh. i know that the
sympathies, the consciences, and the
judgment of the people are with me.—
recent events have demonstrated the
power of truth. its omnipotence is ir
resistible. it is rolling onward. no
political paltering, no party evasions,
no deceptions, no dodgings of responsi
bility, will satisfy the people. no;
gentlemen must come up to the work;
they must take their'position upon the
line of the constitution, and maintain
the rights of the free as well as of the
slave states, or they will be over
whelmed by the indignation of a free
and virtuous people. gen. taylor and
his friends will have an opportunity of
gaining immortal honors, and of de
serving and receiving the gratitude «t
the american people. let them at
once abolish slavery and the siavetrade
in this district, and upon the high
seas; let this government cease to op
press and degrade our race; let us
cease to legislate for slavery; let
the powers and inauence of govern
ment be exerted to promote human lib
erty, to elevate mankind in his moral
and physical being; and the honors of
men, and the blessings of heaven, and
the gratitude of this and of coming
generations shall be theirs. but if
their inauence be exerted to maintain
this commerce in human aesh now car
ried on in this district, and upon the
high seas—to involve the people of the
north in these transcendent crimes—
then the opposition of good men, the
curse of heaven, and the execrations
of posterity, will be their reward!
o slavery! —a negro man named
ben thomas, belongong to wm. h.
goff, was convicted in talbot co. md.,
of enticing and assisting 4 slaves to run
away the other day. he was sen
tenced to 15 years and 6 months labor
in the penitentiary.
this is tbe way in which slavery law,
and slavery courts administer justice.
for endeavoring to persuade (bur hu
man beings to exercise a right which in
our ‘declaration’ is held to be inalien
able, a man is doomed to fifteen and a
half years labor in the penitentiary
had he attempted to kidnap four white
persons with a view to enslave them,
the same laws would have sent him to
the same prison. if this be justice, it
is only slavery justice. cltre. (o.)
true dem.
the slave trade in washington
citv. —recent events, especially those
connected with the affair of the sale
and redemption of harriet madison
and the £dmondson family, have great
ly aroused the public mind with regard
to the atrocities of the trade in human
beings, now openly carried on at
washington city. that trade is too
inhuman and disgraceful to be borne
any longer by the people of the united
states. the inhabitants of washing
ton owe it to their own civilization to
unite their efforts with those of other
citizens to put a stop to it. the time is
now favorable for taking up and dis
posing of this one subject, disconnected
from every question. lei us have a
united movement on the part of all who
wish to see this trade abolished by law,
however widely they may differ on any,
or all other points. let our petitions oe
aimed at this one thing. let us see if
our american congress can be pre
vailed upon to take a step which was
taken by the bey of tunis more than
five years ago, and forbid the trade in
human beings, for the glory of man
kind, and todistinguish them from the
brute creation surely, this is* an
object which ought to unite at once the
hearts, the efforts and the prayers of alt
who love our country.—[family jour.
pay your debts. —one dollar pro
perly moved about, may pass through
twenty hands, and pay twenty debts, in
a single day. let the man of capital
begin and pay off promptly his labor
ers, then his laborers will have the
means of doing the same. the rich
should not wait for the poor to com
mence this business. it is dishonest in
men of property to delay paying labor
ers who are in need of all they earn as
soon as the work is done. pay them
promptly, and enable them to pay oth
ers.—ploughman.
the beautiful.— -believe me, there
is many a road into our hearts besides
our ears and brains; many a sight, and
sound, and scent, even of we
have never thought at all, sinks into our
memory, and helps to shape characters,
and thus children brought op among
beautiful sights and sweet sounds, a ill
roost*- likely show the fruits of their
musings by thoughtfulness, and affec
tion, and nobleness of mind, even by
the expression of tbe countenance.
those who live in towns should care
fully remember ths», for their own
for their wives’ sake, for their cbild
ren’s sakes. never lose an opportunity
lof teeing anything that i* beautiful,
f beauty is god’s handwriting— a way
side sacrament; welcome il in e%ery
‘fair face, every fair sky, ****l ,r
aower and thunk for it him, the
fountain of all loveliness, and drink it
in simply and earnestly with all your
i y es; it is a charmed draught, a cup of
pleasing. pokhrefor ike people.
cassius m. cut is out in (he
isville examiner with a proposition
fora state convention in kentucky,
to devise some scheme for the aboli
lion of littery in that state
pawtucket anti-slavery fair
the anti-slavery women of pawtucket 
will held their thirteenth annual fair, at
the hall of pawtucket hotel, commencing
wednesday, feb. 7lh, at 2 o’clock p. m.,
and will continue through (hat and the follow*
mg afternoon and evening.
'l'he invitation goes forth to ail—4jome, aid
us in giving liberty to the captive, and opening
the prison doors to them that are bound.
kebekah mitchell maria dexter.
miry peek, ruth siaeon.
klizaheth shove. susan shove,
avis sisson. j. adams,
father read, susan sianne.
pawtcckkt, ist mo 27th. 1849.
aateslavery irrusfi.
freokrick doiolta* and jons s. j/uoaa
will hold anti-slavery meetings m the fol
low ing places
henrietta, monday evening. feb. 12.
mendon. tuesday 13.
htah, wednesday, 14.
avon, thursday. li.
uma. friday, l«.
w. bloomfield saturday 17.
canandaigua hundav lb.
rushville monday 19.
i'enn van tnesdav 20.
prattaburg, wednesday 21.
hath, thursd. a' frid. 22 23.
id* this is intended as the commence
ment of a senes ol meetings to lie held in
this slate. our friends in the several places
above-mentioned, will confer a favoi on us,
and we hope aid the cause of the slave, by
securing suitable places for the meetings, and
giving extensive notice of the same.
american slavery.
j*he sixth of a series) of lectures on thii
mili|<vt will he delivered by frkdkrk k dou
oi.vss, in mineiva hall, on sunday evening
next, feb. 11. eommencing at 7 o’clock
mr. calhoun’s manifesto.
the address of moutbercn delegates in
(‘•tigress to thekr t anstltitents.
we whose names arc hereunto annexed,addr*«
you in disciiarg'- of what we lielieve to lie a so!
<-rnn duly, on tlie most important subject everpre
denied tor your consideration. we allude to the
con diet between the two great taectiotis of the un
n»u, growing out of a difference of feeling an*
opinion in reference to the relation existing be
tween the two races, (he european and african
which inhabit the southern section, and the acti
of aggression and encroachment to which it liai
led.
the conflict commenced not long after the ac
knowledgment of our independence, and hai
gradually increased until it has arrayed the grea
body of the north against the south on this ntosi
vital subject. in the progress of this conflict, ag
gression lias followed aggression, and encroach
ment after encroachment, until they have reached
a point when a regard for peace, and safety, wit
not permit us to remain longer silent. the object
of this address is to give you a clear, correct, bui
brief account of the whole series of aggression
ami encroachments on your rights, with a state
ment of the dangers to w hich they expose you.—
hi» object in making it is not to cause excitement
imt to put you in full possession of all the facts
and circumstances necessary to a full atfd just
conception of a deep heated disease, which threat
ens great danger to you and the whole body poli
ce. we act on the impression, that in a popula
government like ours, a true conception of the ac
inal character and state ot a disease isindispensi
ble to effecting a cure.
we have made it a joint address, because w
believe that the magnitude of the subject require
that it should assume the most impressive and sol
emn form.
not to go further back, the difference ot opin
ion and feeling in reference to the relation be
tween the two races disclosed itself in the conven
non that formed the constitution, and constitute!
one great difficulty in forming it. after tnan;
efforts it was overcome by a compromise, whicl
provided, in the first place, that representative
mid direct taxes shall he apportioned among th'
stales according to their respective numbers an<
that, in ascertaining the number of each, five slave
shall be estimated as three. in the next, tha
-laves escaping into states where slavery does no
exist, shall not be discharged from servitude, hu
shall be delivered up on claim of the party ti
whom their labor or service is due. in the thin
place, that congress shall not prohibit the impnr
tauoii of slaves before the year 1808 hut a la:
not exceeding ten dollars may l*e imposed on earl
imported. and finally, that no capitation or di
reel tax shall la- laid, but in proportion lo federa
numbers, and that no amendment of (he coiwtilu
nou, prior to iwob, shall effect this provision, no
that relating to the importation of slaves.
8e satisfactory were these provisions, that th<
second .relative to the delivering up of fugitive slavei
wax adopted unanimously, and all the rest, exrep
tire third, relative to the importation of slaves un
til 1808, with almost equal unanimity. they re
oguize the existence of slavery, and make a spe
i-ific provision for its protection where it was sup
powd to be the most exposed. they go further
and incorporate it, as an important element, in de
tennining the- relative weight of the several statei
iii the government of the i'nion. and the respect
ive burden they should bear in laying capitation ant
direct taxes. it was well undetsiood at the time
that, without themtlie constitution would not havi
been adopted by the southern states, and, o
t-onrae, that they constituted element* so essentia
to the system that it never would have exiatet
w itliout them. the northern states, knowing al
this, ratified the constitution, thereby pledging thei
faith, in the most solemn manner, sacredly to ob
serve them. how that faith lias lieen kept am
that pledge redeemed we -diali next pioceed ti
•how.
with few exceptions ot no great importance
ihe south had no cause to complain prior to tin
year 181!!—a year, ii is to lie feared, destined t<
mark a train of events, binging w ith them many
and great, and fatal disasters, on the country am
its institutions. with it commenced the agitatnq
debate on the question of the admission of mis
souri into the i'nion. we shall pass by for tin
present this question, and others.if the same kind
directly growing out of it. ami shall proceed m
consider the eflii-t>- of that spirit of discord, whicl
it roused up le-lween the two sections. it firs'
disclosed iiself m ihe north, by hostility to thai
|iortion ot the constitution w lurli provides tor tin
delivery up of fugitive slaves, lo its progress*, i
jed to i lie adoption ot hostile acts, intended to ren
der it of non-effect. and with so much sticce*
that it may be regarded now a.- practically ex
ponged from the must mu ion. how ibis iras ls-er
e ffected will be next explained
auer a careful examination, truth constrains u
to *uy, that it has l>ecn by a clear and palpabh
r ation of the constitution. it is impossible to
eny provision to tie more tree trom.ambiguity oi
doubt. it is m the following words “no pernor
held lo service, or labor, in one stale, under iht
laws thereof, escaping into another state, shall, u
oorts-equeuce of any law or regulation therein, fa
discharged from such sen se or labor, but shall b<
delivered up on claim ol the party to whom aud
service or labor may be due all is clear. ther
is not an uncertain or equivocal word to be loom
in the whole provision what shall not lie done
..ud what shall l»e done, are fully and explicit!
•ei forth. 'l’he former provides ihat the fugiuv
»lavc shall not lw discharged from hi* servitude b
any uw or regulation of the state where.n he
louod and the latter that lie ahall be dehvere
no on claim of bis owner.
we do not deem it necessary to undertake i
tebite the sophistry and subterfuge* by which s
i'iau. a provision of the constitution has been eva
d*d, and, ill effect, annulled it constitutes an ei
ontal part ot the conatitutioual eumjinrt, and r
c ourse of the supreme law of the land. a* sue
it i* *itiding uu alt the federal and state govern
menia. the states and mdinduals cotitjrumof then
the sacred obligation of compart, and the so lent
.ujuiictiou ol tbr supreme uw. which legtajato*
sad judges, l<otb tederai and state, are bound b
oath u> support, alt untie to enforce it* lulfilmsh
aeeaeilttg to for ptefo meaning and tm intent.
wkat that meaning and intent am, there was an
diversity of qdafoa in the better day* of the re*
pubiie, prior to 1819. ceagrean, state laegfola
tnree,state and federal judge*. magistrate*, and
people, nil spontaneously placed the saate nterpre*
tatwaoo it daring that period aeae fotermeed
impediments in the *»y« ihe owaen seeking lo
recover his fagitive slave nor did any deny his
right to have every peeper facility to enforce his
claim to hare him delivered op. it was then near* i
ly« eaay to recover ooe found in a northern
bute, as ooe found m a neighboring fwhera
state. bat thin has punned away, and the provio-
ion ia defunct, except perhaps in two states, (m)
we take into consideration the imparl
ance and clearness of this provision, the >na*« j
by which it has been ret aside may fairly he re
garded as one of the moot fatal blows ever receiv
ed by the sooth sad the eaton. a jht* raaoot be
more concisely sod correctly mated than h has
been by two of the learned judge* of the supreme
court of tire united state*. in one of his deo
smos (4) judge story said: lifotorirauy. it i?
i well known that the effect of this clause was to
secure to the citizen* of the slavebotdiag state*
the complete right and title of ownership in their
slaves, as property, in every state the union,
into winch they might escape from the state
wherein they were held in sarvitude.- the toll
recognition of this right and title was indispensa
ble to the security of this *pe-ies of property in ail
ihe shareholding stales, and. indeed, was so vital
j to the preservation of their institution* that it rau
be doubted that h constituted a fuvdamental
article, without the adoption ol w hich 'be l.'muti
would not have not been fomied. it* true design
war to guard against the doctrine* ami principles
ptevalent m the non-maveholding slates, by pre
venting them front intermeddling with, or r*-strict
ijig, or alioushing the nghtf- ol the owner* of
slaves.”
again. tlte clause was therefore of the last
importance of the safety and security of the *mnh
i cm state*, and could not be surrendered by them
without endangering their whole property in slaves,
i the clause was accordingly adopted -n (lie conwi-
i tut ion, by the unanimous conaent of the framers of
it—a proof at once of its intrinsic and practical
aecesfoty
again. the clause manifestly contemplate*
the existence of a positive unqualified right on the
i part of the owner of the slave, which no state
law or regulation can in any way regulate.control,
qualify, or restrain.”
the opinion of the other learned judges was
not less emphatic a* to the importance ol this pro
vision and the unquestionable right ol the south
under it. judge baldwin, in charging the jury,
said, (r) “if there arc any rights of property
1 which can be enforced il one citizen have aoy
rights of property which arc inviolvable underthe
protection of the dipirine law ol the state, and
the union, they are those which have been set at
i naught by some of these defendants. as the own
er of property, which he had a |*erfcct right to pos
sess, protect, and take away—as a citizen of a
j sister state, entitled to all ihe privilege* and im
-1 muuities of citizens of any other stal< mr.
1 johnson stands before you on a ground oil which
the government itself is based. it the defendants
loan he justified, we have no longer law or jov
•eminent.”
i again, after referring more particularly to the
provision for delivering up fugitive .-la ve«, lie said
thus you see, that the foundations ot th<- govern
mem are laid, and rest on the right of properly in
slaves. the whole structure must fall by disturb
ing the comer stone.”
j these are grave, and solemn, and admonitory
words, front a high source. they confirm all for
i which the south has ever contended, as lo
i the clearness, importance, and fundamental cliar
acter ol this provision, and the disastrous oonse
-1 quences which would inevitably follow from its vio
-11 huion. but in spite of these solemn warnings, the
violation then commenced, and which they were
intended to rebuke, has been fully and perfectly
j consummated, 'i'he citizens of the south, in their
attempt to recover their slaves, now meet, instead
oi aid and co-operation, resistance in every form
1 resistance from hostile -ret'of legislation,intended
i to baffle and defeat their claims by all sorts of de
vices, and by interposing every description of irn
pediment—resistance from judges and magistrates
—and finally, when all these fail, from mohe, com
posed of whites and blacks, which by threats or
i force, rescue the fugitive slave from the possession
of his rightful owner. the attempt to recover a
slave, in most of the northern states, cannot now
r be made without the hazard of insult, heavy pe
cuniary loss, imprisonment, and even of life itself.
already has a worthy citizen of maryland (d) lost
his life in making an attempt to enforce his claim
f i to a lugitive slave under this provision,
j. but a provision of the constitution may be vio
lated indirectly as well as directly, by doing an act
in its nature inconsistent with that which is en
joined to be done. of this form of violation there
is a striking instance connected with the provision
under consideration. we allude to secret combi
j nations which are believed to exist in many of the
r northern states, whose object is to entice, decoy,
,i en'rap, inveigle, and seduce slaves to escape from
e their owners, and to pass them secretly and rapict
„i ly, by means organized for that psrpose, into
j canada, where they will be beyond the reach ol
s the provision. that to entice a slave, by whatev
er artifice, u» abscond from his ow r ner into* non
i i slaveholding state, with the intention to place him
i beyond the reach of the provision, or prevent his
y recovery, by concealment or otherwise,is as conj
-1 pletely repugnant to it as its open violation would
lie, is too clear to admit of doubt or to require il
t, lustration. and yet, as repugnant as these combi
t inationsare in the intent of the provision, it isbe
lieved that, with the above exception, not one oi
1 the states within whose limits they exist has adop
any measure to suppress them, or to punish
r those by whose agency the object for which they
were formed is carried into execution. on the
contrary, they have looked on and witnessed with
5 indifference, if not with secret approbation, a great
t number of slave* enticed from their owners and
placed beyond the possibility of recovery, to the
1 great annoyance and heavy pecuniary loss ol the
ordering southern stales.
when we take into consideration the great im
porlaneeof this provision, the absence of all un
certainty as to its true meaning and intent, the
i many guards by which it is surrounded to protect
and enforce it, and then reflect how completely
the object lor which it was inserted in the consti
tution is defeated by these two-fold infractions,
we doubt, taking all together, whether a more fla
fhjrant breach of faith is to be found on record.—
we language we have used is strong,
but it is not less the than strong.
11 there remains to be noticed another class ol ag
r gressive arts of a kindred character, but which,
instead of striking at an express and specific pro
-11 vision of the constitution aims directly at destroy
j ing the relation 'between the two races at the
south, by means subversive in their tendency of
one of the ends for which the constitution was
established. we refer to the systematic agitation
i of the question by the abolitionists which coni
mencing aliout 1835, ia still continued in all pos-
i aible forms. their avowed intention is to bring
almut a state of things that will force emancipa
tion on tl»e south. to unite the north in fixed
hostility t® slavery in the south, and to excite
dimcoiitent among the siaves with their condition,
are among the means employed to effect it. with
i a \iew to bring about the former, every means are
i re*orted to in order to render the south, and the
i relation between the two races there, odious and
hateful to the north. for ihi* purpose societies
i and newspaper* are everywhere established, de
bating clubs ojieued, lecturers employed, pamph
s lei* and other publications, pictures, and petitions
ts congress resorted 10, and directed to the single
i point. regardless ot truth or decency, while the
i em ulation of incendiary publications in the sosth,
i,- the agitation of the subject of abolition in con
gre*«, and tin- employment of emissaries, are re
r tied on to excite discontent among the slaves,
r; tins agitation, and the use of these means, have
i been continued, with more or leas activity, for a
f series of years, not without doing much towards
effecting the object intended we regard both
object sod mean* to be aggressive and dangerous
to the rights of the south, and aubverahre, as ata
i ted, of one of the ends lor which the cunsmotmul
f was establish'd. slavery is a domestic ineittauoo.
i it belongs to the states, each for (tself, to decide
,j whether it shall be established or not such be
y >og the hear and unquestionable right of the
f 1 states, ii follow* necessarily that it would he a
y flagrant set of aggression on a state, destructive
a of u* right*, and subversive of its independence,
d tor tbr prderal government, or one or more states,
or their people, to undertake to force on it the
u emancipation of ks slaves,
o but it is a aounu maxim ia polities, as weh as
law sail mpral*. that no ooe has a right to do that
i- i indirectly which lie cannot do directly, and it may
it lie added with equal truth, to aid, or abet, or coon
h tenancr another in doing it. and pet the ahoh
tiomsta ot the north, openly avowing twir inton
i. non, and resorting to the moat efficient means for
d the purpose, have beea attempting to briag about
s a made of thing* to force the southern states to
y emancipate their slaves, without any act on tfos
part of any northern state to arrest or suppress tha
means by which they jrupm, iccumylhh d.-
they have been permitted their atjmt,
ffmeywhatevcrnwau, please; if withum
approbation. what grip* a deeper thadr te the
whole affair ia the foci, that owe of the means to
effect their ohyqpt, that of -irriirr jia 1 antes*
among our slaves, tends directly to subvert whal
its preamble drehues to he one of the ends for
urhich the eenmitmion wmordamed and estobinh-
i ed— to iasore domestic tranquility”—and that ii
the only way in which domestic tranquility is like
ly ever to be distaifod io the south.
certain it is. that an agitation so systematic—
having such on object ia view, and sought to he
carried into execution by each mean*—would, be
twee* independent asthma, constitute just rouse
of i >moos< ranee by the party against whom the
aggression was directed, and, ir not heeded, an
appeal to uma for redress. much befog the com
where sa aggrenaou uf the kind takes place among
independent nation*, hour much more aggravated
must it be between confederate states, where the
l’nhio precludes an appeal to um, while it afcrda
a medium through which h coo operate with vastly
increased force and effect! that it would-be per
verted to such a use, never entered into the im
agination of the generation which formed sad
a»fopted the ronstitalioa and. if it bad beea mp
po*ed it would, it m certain ibai the south never
would have adopted it.
we now return to the question of the admismoa
of miwwri into the union, sad shall proceed lo
give a ivief sketch of the oceurrences connected
i with it, and the consequences io which it has di
rectiy fed in the latter part of 1819, the then
territory of missouri applied to congress, in the
i usual furtu. for leave to form a btate constitution
and government, ia order to be admitted into the
i mod. a bill was reported for the purpose, with
r the usual provision* in such cases. amendments
were offered,having tor their object to make it a
i ‘condition of her admission, that her coosaitution
riiould have a provision to prohibit slavery. tbi«
i brought on the agitating debate which, with the
effect* imat followed, has done so much to alienate
j the south and north, and endanger our political
1 institutions. those who objected to the amend-
i meats, rested their opposition on the high ground*
lof the right of self-government. they claimed
tlist a territory, having reached the period when it
is proper for it to form a constitution and govern
mem for it«-elt, brcoines fully vested with all th<
rights of self-government; and that even the ron
j dition imposed on it by the federal constitution
i i relates not to the formation of its constitution and
government, but it* admission into the union. eoi
i that puriwse.it provides as a condition, that th<
government must be republican,
r. they claimed that congress has no right to add
to this comillion, and that to assume it would b<
tantamount o the assumption of the right to make
i its entire constitution and government; as no lim
i iiation ronld be imposed, as to the extent of the
right, if it be admilted that it exists all. those
who supported the amendment denied these
i grounds, and claimed the right of congress to im
jws-e, at discretion, what condition* it pleased. ir
1 ibis agitating debate, the two sections stood ar
i rayed against each other: the south in favor ol
the bill without amendment, and the north oppo
sed to it without it. the debate and agitatioc
continued until the se.->iuii wc’l advanced
r .but it became apparent towards its close, that the
i people of missouri were fixed and resolved in theii
opi«o*itioii to the proposed condition, and that thej
i would certainly reject it, and adopt a constitutior
wills nit it, should the bill pass with the condition
such being the i ape, it required no great effort o
v mind to perceive that missouri once in poesessioi
r of a constitution and government, not simply or
b paper, but with legislator? elected, and officers ap
pointed, to carry “them into effect, the grave ques
turn would be presented, wheiher she was of righ
a ritate or territory and, if the latter whethe
f [congress had the right, and, if the right of power
p to abrogate her constitution, disperse her leg
y islature, und to remand her back to the territoria
r condition. these were great, and, under the cir
f cumstances fearful questions—too fearful to be ihe
;i by those who had the agitation. from tha
1 time the only question was how to escape irom th<
difficulty. fortunately, a means was afforded.—
1 a compromise [as it wad called] was offered,base*
t on the terms, that the north should cease to op
pose the admission of missouri on the grounds fo
r' which the south contended, and that the pro vie
i ions ol the ordinance of 1787, for the governmen
i ;of the north-western territory, should be appliei
f |to all the territory acquired by the united state
from france under the treaty of louisiana lyinj
f. north of 36 30, except the portion lying in tin
ii state of missouri. the northern members em
i braced it; and although not originating with them
adopted it as their own. it waa forced througl
congress by the almost united votea of the north
«t against a minority consisting almost entirely c
i- members from the southern states.
-e such was the termination of this, the first con
n diet, under the constitution, between the two sec
j- tions, in reference to slavery in connexion with thi
e territories. many hailed it as a permanent am
final a4jubtment that would prevent the recurrenci
n of similar conflicts but others, less sanguine,tool
the opposite apd more gloomy view, regarding i
o as the precursor of a train of events which migh
>f rend the union asunder, and prostrate our politi
r. cal system. one of these was the most experi
i. enced and sagacious jefferson. thus far, timi
n i would seem to favor his forebodings. may are
is turning sense of justice, and a protecting provi
i. dence, avert their final fulfilment.
d j for many yeara the subject of slavery in refer
ence to the territories ceased to agitate the coun
j. try. indications, however, connected with th<
question of annexing texas, showed clearly tha
it was ready to break out again, with redouble*
j violence, on some future occasion. the differenc<
h in the case of texas, waa adjusted by extendinj
y the missouri compromise line of 3g 30 from it
c j terminus, on the western boundary of the ixiuisi
h ana purchase to the western boundary of tex
it as. the agitation again ceased a short period,
d the war with mexico soon followed, and tha
e terminated in the acquisition of new mexico am
e upper california, embracing an area equal to abou
one-half of the entire valley of the mississippi.—
if to this we add the portion of oregon acknowl
edged to be ours by the recent treaty with eng
e land, our whole territory on the pacific and wes
:t side of the rocky mountains will be found to lx
y in extent but little leas than that vast valley. tlu
near prospect of so great an addition rekindle*
i, the excitement between the north and south ii
reference to slavery in its connexion with the ter
ri lories, which has become, since those on the pa
cific were acquired, more universal and intend
4 than ever.
the effects have been to widen the difference be
tween the two sections, and to give a more deter
mined and hostile character to their conflict. tit*
north no longer respects the missouri compromise
e line, adopted by their almost unanimous vote.—
f i instead of compromise, they avow that their de
s ftrmination is to exclude slavery from ail the ter
ii iilorfes of the united states, acquired or to be ac
quired and of course to prevent the citizens oi
the southern states from emigrating with theii
i property in slave* into any of them. their object
i they allege, i* to prevent the extension of riaveiy,
i and ours to extend it, thus miking the isne be.
g tween them and us to be the naked question, skal!
slavery be extended or not i we do not deem it
necessary, looking to the object of this address, tc
examine the question m folly discussed at the hut
t session, whether congress has the right to exclude
ii die citizens of the south from r in migrating witi
i j their property into territories beloogfog to the coo
federated btatea of the union. what we propose
io this connection is, to make a few rrmrrks os
i what the north alleges, erroneously, to he the io
me between us and them.
—so for from maintaining the doctrine which
the naue implies, we bold that (he federal govern
menl lias no right to extend or restrict slavery, na
more than to eatabbab or abokrii it; nor has it any
i right whatever to diadngiarii betwooa the domes
j lie umutatiens of one state or secuou sad aaoth
-11 er, fo order to favor the ooe, and discourage the
i j other. aa the federal repreoentadves of each and
i all the buttes, it ia boond to dent out, wiffda the
i sphere of its powers, equal and exact justice and
favor to all. to act otherwise, to aadcrtahr u
i discriminate between the iastitatiom of one aad
another, would be to act ia total aabveaiaa of th*
f end for which it waa enxbiished—to hr the com
j soon protector aad guardian of off. elwtafofoj
i these opuuoos, we ask not, an the nenh singe*
i we do, for the exteimoo af aisvery. that wool*
t make a discrimination fo oar favor as an*
uaconaritotiaoal aa the diacritafoation (hey aai
i, against as fo their fever. 4
e> it not for them nor for the federal govern
meat to determia* whether our duaamdc foadta
a j na* ia good or had or whether it rimald ha re
a preaoed or pnaerved, it helnuga to so ofoy
f in deride sack qarstfoua. what then we do fools
oa, is. aot to extend da very, bat that wv dmjlaa
ha prawhhad from asirisisiiao with mm proper
ty, mho ufo territories tthtbaded suantfo
r cause lessee slaveholders; or. ia other weeds, dia:
l; am shall aot sa that amaaoi he disks third of 1
inftiaoa, or color. ail, whothst jra^*hst-
naa.ar iiilford,—yli**ly tepdia.we
only befog r a rinded.
we trwt our efofot, aot a*dy tha high graoada
•hove suted sa the sofid foaadalfoa sf
right,jmtice’ aad equity. the^d*rrit»uksh*n
"irr t aafr* i^ etmm
aad efforts of oil ifot states, toward* wforh the
sosthwnufouted^for more thaa her fofl 1 3mn af
l fill, nr r -f-— —dfoid^oume
every principle
1 equably, eadtlrd te pardopute foßy ta the bearhts
1 tebe dr-rived from their acqpnririoa. m mo
meanabl» a* ia this ground, there a another not
1 cairn^[jets is a federal govenuaew-a govern
ment fo which, not individual*, but but**, a* da
tmet sovereign coasnaaitirs, an* the eouaumeata
to them aa membrr* of the federal union, the
territories belong aad they orefoacedrehmdjo
he m fatted states. the
states, thea, are joint owner*.
now, it ia conceded by all writers 00 the rah
ieet. lhat fo all goverameats their members
sre all equal—equal in right* and equal ia dignity.
they also concede that thi* equality constitute*
the basis of such government, sad that it cannot
i be destroyed without changing their nature and
character todeprive. thea. the snathera states
aad their citixeas of their foil *hare in territories
declared 10 belong to them, ia common wilh the
1 other states, would be in derogatioa of the eipial
hy belonging ta them a* member* of a federal
union,and rink them, from being equal* iio a
subordinate and dependent coodiuon. are
the solid sad impregnable grounds 00 which wo
rest our demand to an equal participation m the
t tenritorie?.
but u rohd aad impregnable as they are in the
eyes of justice and reason, they oppose a feeble
reaataoce to a majority, determined to engross the
whole. at the last session of bill was
passed establishing a territorial government for
ore goo, excluding slavery therefrom. the presi
dent gave hi* sanction to the bill, and ornt a spe
cial message to congress assigning his reasons for
doing so. the reasons pre-supposed that the
missouri compromise was to be, ami would be ex
leaded west of the rocky mountains to the faeitir
ocean. and ibe president intimated his inten
tion in his message to veto any future bi'l that
should restrict slavery south of the line cf lhat
compromise.
assuming it t* have been the pnrpose and in
tention of the north to extend the missouri com
promise line as above indicated the passage of the
oregon bill could only be regarded aa evincing the
acquiescence of the south in that line. but the
developments -of the present session of congrrs*
have made it manifest to ail, that no such purpose
or intention now exists with the north to any
considerable extent. of the truth of this, we
have ample evidence in what has already occurred
in the house of representatives, where the popu
lar feelings are soonest and most intensely felt.
although cougrrss has been in session but lit
tie more than one month, a greater number of
measures of aggressive character have been intro
duced, and they more aggravated and dangerous,
than have been for years before. and what clear
iy discloses whence they take their origin, is the
fact that they all relate to the territorial aspect of
the subject of slavery, or some other of a nature
j and character intimately connected with it.
the first ot this series of aggressions is a reso
lution introduced by a member from massachu
setts, the object of which is to repeal all acts 01
parts of acts which recognize the existence of sla
very or authorize the selling and disposing of slave*
in this district. on question of leave to bring ir
j a bill, the vote* stood 69 for and 82 against leave,
the next was a resolution offered by a memhei
j from ohio,instructing the committee on territories
to report forthw’ith bills for excluding slavery from
california and new mexico it passed by a
vote of 107 to 80. that was followed by a bil
i introduced by another member from ohio, to take
the vote* of this district on the question whethei
slavery within its limits should be abolished.
the bill provides, according to the admission ol
the mover, that the free negroes and slaves should
xote. on the question to lay the bill on the table'
the vote stood—for, 106; against, 69. to thii
succeeded the resolution of a member from naw r
york in the following words:
“wherea* the traffic now prescuted in thii
metropolis of the republic in human beings, ai
chattels, is contrary to natural justice and the fun
damental principles of our political system, and i<
i notoriously a reproach to our country, throughou
1 and a serious hindrance to the pro
gress of republican liberty among the natiqpa o
1 the earth. therefore
resolved, that the committee for the distric
of columbia be instructed to report a bilj, as soot
1 as practicable, prohibiting slavery in said district.’
on the question of adopting the resolution, thi
f votes stood 98 for, and 88 against. he was fol
lowed by a member from illinois, who offered 1
resolution for abolishing slavery in the territories
and all places where congress has exclusive pow
ers of legislation that is, all forts, magazines, ar
i senate, dock-yards, and other nerdfol buildings
purchased by congress with the consent of thf
legislature of the state.
this resolution was passed over under the rule!
of the house without being put to vote.
the votes in favor of all these measures wer«
confined to the members from the northern state?
true, there are some patriotic members from tha
section who voted against all of them, and whoa
high tense of justice ie duly appreciated who ii
the progress of agressions upon the south have
by their votes, sustained the guarantees of the con
slitution, and ol whom we regret to say inanj
have l»een sacrificed at home by their patheth
couroe.
we have now brought to a close a narrative o
the series of acts of aggression and encroachmen
connected with the stlbject of this address, mclud-
i i ing those that are consummated and those still ir
progress. they are numerous, great, and dan
gerous, and threaten with destruction the greatest
and most vital of all the interests and institution!
of the south. indeed, it may be doubted whetb
er there is a tingle provision, stipulation, or guar
anty of the constitution, intended for the security
of the south, that has not been rendered almost
nugatory. it may even be made a serious qoes
tion, whether the encroachments already made
without the aid of any other, would not, if per
-1 rained to operate unchecked, end in emancipation,
j and that at no distant day. but be that aa it may,
it hardly admits of a doubt that, if the aggression*
already commenced in the house, and now in pro
grets, should be consummated, such ha the end
j would certainly be the consequence.
i little, ia truth, would be left to be done after
we bare beea excluded trom ail the territories,
including those to be hereafter acquired; after
slavery is abolished in the district and in the nu
merous places dispersed all over the south, when
congress has the exclusive right of legislation,
and after the other measures proposed are con
summated. every outpost sod bonier would be
carried, and nothing would be left but to finish the
work of abolition at pleasure in the btataa them
selves. the district, aad all places over which
icoogre* has exclusive power of legislation,
would be asylums lor fugitive slaves, where, aa
soon aa they placed their feet, they would become,
according to the doctrines uf our northern assai
lants, free; on less there should hi* some positive
enactments to prevent it.
under such a state of things the probability fo
that emancipation would soon follow, without soy
final act to abotifh slavery the depreaaag ef
fects of such measures oa the white race at the
booth, sad the hope they would create io the black
of a speedy emancipation, would produce a mate
of feeniig inconsistent with the ranch longer con
tinuance of the existing relation between the twp.
but be that an it may, it fo certain, if emancipa
tion did am folfow aa a matter of comae the final
act ia the states woold aot be long delayed. the
want of conatitutioual power would oppose a fee
ble resistance. the great body of the north fo
muted against onr peculiar inautuimo. many be
here it to be sfofiri, aad the renidne, with incun
i mdershl* exceptions, believe it to be wrong.
sack befog the cane, it weald indicate a very
superficial knowledge of banana nature, to think
that, after aiming at abolition sfmniiaticall for an
1 foas disregard rffovmmd esutimrinn. the fanatics
who have fed dm way aad forced foe great body
of foe north 10 folfow them, wpuid. when the
fiawuag sunk only remained to be given, miua
tariiy snsprad fo. or permu any eonmitatienai
to these may be addh m aggre*moo, thongh not
prokfeit what ihe°nbolitioafore cal the for era si
*fove wade, ausaafef thereby foe transfer of slaves
foam aar stale to another, foam whatever motive
dene, er hewssjg effected. their object would
seem m he to reader them wurffkfom hy crowding
them together where they aee, aad foae hataea foe
werk of emaadpa&m. there fo maaaafer hr
foe»fof dmhtwa men feffew foeee acts aowja
httsmfofoemnarime fo anew foe whale.
the queetfon fora fo. wiflff* meaamm af ag-
i they amp net, aad preeamy wfo aat ha this
•amma. batwhea we take iam onadsraasa
tfc*t there to a majority wow em*
them, andastrong mtowfcytafcwra* tke other,
is car aa the aw of it pa— i— here
that there wilt be to «fl probadiiny a laaiiirrato
hewn to the next ciagisas
•f the*, red that it wiu largely toefraaa ai the
ant year, it unseats afaaaat io-s rettatotf *a»
they will to toopad, aatoaa aat toatoaa
ata to taken a sdvaare lap— it
bat, if erra theae i urn tows should peer tff
rosnus if futurism sad the foe* pomtt
shook!, contrary to their sature, faf respect
itmtieaal bamen.or if the eakalattoa af pal
fry fhovld retard the adoption of these aiaan,
•reveu defeat them altogether, there would be
*t»u toft aoecertain way la atiiaphto aeto ob
ject, if the detrnniaatioa a rowed try the north to
mouopofao all the territories, to the exclnaioo
the sooth should be rarrird iota effect. that o!
ttaetf would, at an diotaht day, add to the north a
sufficient number of stales to gire her three
fourths of the whole when, nader the color of aa
amendment of the eoastitotioa, she woald etaan
eipate oor slaves, boorerer oppoaed it might be to
i«» true intent
thus, nader erery aspect, the result to certain
il aggmomm be not promptly and decidedly met
flow it to to be met, it to for ton to decide.
such. then, being the case, it would be to iaash
yoo to suppose yon coo id hesitate. to destroy
the existing relation between the free and aenrile
races at the sooth woald lead to consequences uo
paraltotod in hfrtorv. they cannot be seperated
and cannot lire together to peace and harmony,
or to their raatoal advantage, except in their pres
ent relation. under any other, wretchedness,
misery, and desolation would overspread the whole
sooth. the example of the british west indies,
as blighting as emancipation has proved to them,
furnishes a very faint picture of dte calamities it
would bring on the south. the circumstance*
under which it would take place with ns would
be entirely different firm tlwwc which took place
with them, and calculated to lead to far more
disastrous results.
there, the government of the parent country
emancipated slaves in her colonial possessions—a
government rich mod powerful, and actuated by
views o! policy, (mistaken as they turned out to
be,) rather than fanaticism. it was besides, dis
posed to act justly towards the owners, even in the
act of emancipating their slaves, and to protect
and foster them afterwards. it accordingly ap
propriated nearly #100,000,000 as a compensation
to them for their losses under the act, which sum,
although it turned out to be far short of the amount,
was thought at that time to be liberal. since the
emancipation, it haa kept up a sufficient military
and naval force to keep the blacks in awe, and a
number of magistrates, and constables, and othei
civil officers, to keep order in the towns and plan
tations, and enforce respect to v ther formei
owners.
to a considerable extent, thege have at
a substitute for the police formerly kept on tht
plantations by the owners and their overseers, and
to preserve the social and political superiority oi
the white race. but, notwithstanding afl this,tht
british west india possessions are ruined, impov
erished, miserable, wretched, and destined to b«
abandoned to the black race. very different wouk
be the circumstances under which emancipatiot
would take place with us. if it ever should be ef
t'ected, it will be through the agency of the tedira
i government, controlled by the dominant power o
the northern states of the confederacy, against th.
i resistance and struggles of the southern.
it can then only be effected by the prostratioi
of the white race and that would necessarily cn
gender the the bitterest feelings of hostility be
tween them and the north. but the reverse woul
be the case between the blacks of the south an
the people of the north. owing their emancipa
tion to them, they would regard them as friendi
i guardians patrons, and centre, accordingly, a
j their sympathy in them.
the people of the north would not fail to it
ciprocate and to favor ihem, instead of the whitei
j under the influence of such feelings, and impels
by fanaticism and love of power, they would nc
i stop at emancipation. another step would be t*
ken—to raise them to a political and social equal
i ity witii their former owm-rs, by giving them th
right of voting and holding public offices unde
the federal government. we see the first step tc
ward it in the bill already alluded to —to vest th
free blacks and slaves with the right to vote o
the question of emoncipation in this district. bi
when once raised to an equality, they would be
come the fast political associates of the north, sc;
ing and voting with them on all questions, and b
this political union between them, holding th
white race st the sooth in complete subjection
the blacks, and the profligate whites that migh
unite with them, would become the principal re
ripients of federal offices and patronage .and woul
in consequence, be raised above the whites of th
south in the political and social 9cale.
we would, in a word, change conditions wit
them—a degradation greater than has ever yetfa]
len to the lot of a free and enlightened peopu
and one from which we would not escape, slioul
i emancipation take place, (which it certainly wil
i if not prevented,) but by fleeing the homes of out
selves and ancestors, and by abandoning our coun
try to former slaves, to become the permsner
abode of disorder, anarchy, poverty, misery an
wretchedness.
with such a prospect before us, the gravest am
most solemn that ever claimed the attention of i
people, the question lor us to consider is, what i
to be done to prevent it it is a question belong
iug to you to decide. all we propose is to giv<
you our opinion. we, then, are of opinion tha
the jinl and indispeosible step, without whirl
i nothing can be done, is union among ourselves, ii
tlus great and most vital question. the want o
j union and concert in reference to thstjias brough
the south,, the union and our system of govern
ment to their present perilous condition.
if you become united, and prove yourselves t<
be in earnest, the north will be brought to a pause
i and that may lead to a change of measures am
i the adoption of a course of policy that may quiet
i ly and peaceably terminate this conflict betweei
the two sections; if it should not, nothing woul<
remain but for you to stand op immovably in de
fence of rights which involve our property, pros
j perity, equality, liberty and safety. as the sessile.
you would stand justified by all laws of humat
j and divine, in repelling a dangerous blow, withou
looking to consequences, and to resort to sll mean
necessary for that purpose. your assailants, am
not you, would be responsible for consequences.
entertaining these opinions we earnestly en
treat you to be united, and for that purpose t<
adopt all necessary measures. beyond this w<
think it would not be proper to go at present. w<
hope if you should unite with any thing like uoa
nimity, it may of itself apply a remedy to tha
deep sealed and dangerous disease. but if sue!
should not be the esse, the time will then torn
come for you to decide what courte to adept.
indiana and illinois.
the ease of prigg vs. the commonwealtl
of pennsylvania.
the case to 1 johnson vs. tompkins others
{<i) mr. kennedy of hagerstown, maryland.
(e) volunteers from the south—reg*ts 33
bat's lions 14
companies is
total no. of volunteers fatal the south 4ofi4tl
volunteers from the north —regiments 23
battalions 3
companies 13
total no. of votanteers from the north 23,064
being nearly two on the pan of the south ui
one on tbo part of the north. but taking mis
consideration that the population of the north is
two-thirds greater than the south, the latter has
furnished more than three limes her due propor
tion of volunteers.
couhtxo mn w pa*i». —robert walsh,
in otto of his letters writes
the black man—the ebony—in the delega
tion of the antilles, who sits in the centre of
the montagnards in the assembly, was the
servant of a white-geooral resident in the
capital. an intimate acquaintance of the
master told me, a few days ago, that the
representative had nut resigned b» domestic
pom, whether from personal attachment m
prudential motives, be would deserve credit
tor either. a gentleman from new orleans,
an a visa to paris, relates to me that, shorn a
fortstgbt since, while sealed m a side box of
the feat tier of the grand opera, but distm
gaishod a colored family in the one irn
modtaiely opposite; by his opera fifes be
discovered that the head of it, whom be
recognised, distinguished him, and was about
to come round tohno by the lobby. a feel
ing natural to a southern american, induced
him to prefer that the interview should aet hr
in the box wtoeh be occupied. he met the
waiter in the lobby, tbs utter grasped lm
band, and aentonded him that be bad been hit
tadoc at now orleans. 1 retired,” he added
with good property we am wet! settled
here; that's my box, once a week ;wo shall
be happy to see you at our apartments.’ 1
the north star.
_ 5i..,.;:--- r,
rochester, february im9.
the address nr n state™ delegates in
congress to thntr censtfpents;
os, yttx addsxan or job* c. ntuioi'h and
ro«ty orate tvicyks.
that pooderou cloud db dismal terror
which for a time overhung the national capital,
darkening the blue sky of "w glorious
ihuon and from which the simple |«-ople
here only been allowed to see a few fieteo,
transient flashes, to keep ep gloomy appro
henainrt and dismay, has at leet discharged its
thnndei and dissolved. the long-dreaded bolt
has reached its maturity and falkp- men
whose hearts were failing for feat of those
things which seemed to be coming upon the
land v rest from their agonizing fears, look
happier, and breathe freer. the ippreliended
fulrainauon from the secret conclave of slave
holders and slavelrnders, charged with ac
counts terrible, of dire confusion,” and threat
ening the very existence of this republic,
turns out to be but an old speech of john c.
calhoun, newly vamped up, and dressed to
suit the taste of some forty other slaveholders
besides himself. the alarmed and appalled
nation lias at last seen the baseless character
of its fears, and we presume will not be so
easily alarmed again. the thousand eats in
the cellar are reduced to “our cat and another
old black cat.”
but lest we should be accused of treating
this grave address with too much levity, wo
shall venture a brief review of it. the
subject of the address is called the most
solemn and important ever presented to the
consideration of the southern people.” the
subject is sunuped up in the following ambi
guous terms;
“we allude to the conflict between the
two great sections of the union, growing out
of a difference of feeling and opinion in refer
ence to the relation existing between the two
races, the european and african, winch
inhabit the southern section, and the acts ot
aggression and encroachment to which it
has led.”
just reail this statement of the subject over
again, anti try to understand what is meant by
it. the difference of feeling and opinion”
—“relation existing” between two races—
inhabit the southern section”—“ acquisi
tion and encroachment.” now, the meaning
of all this is, the difference of feeling and
opinion in the northern states from the slave
holders in the southern states. the people
of the north; thank heaven, are becoming
more and more deeply impressed with the
awful crime of slavery, and are manifesting
it, by hesitating to extend its blighting influ
ence to territory now free; and this is tin
point that gives solemnity” to the subject
this is the calamity which produces nppre
hension and alarm. how carefully the abov<
sentence is w r orded european and africai
races, stands for slaveholders ami slaves
which inhabit the southern section. thi
very soft way of sliding over tl\e hatefcl won
slavery, shows the slaveholder conscious o
his hateful enrne, and is itself a confession o
guilt. the signers of the address say
we have made it a joint address, becaust
we believe that the magnitude of the subjec
required that it should assume the most inn
pressive and solemn form.”
poor fellows’ how much chagrin musl
they experience when they witness the mirth
ful levity produced by their impressive so
lemnity. a band of forty manstealers so
lemnly defending their right to plunder then
fellow-men of all rights and liberties! an
impressive” scene, which ought to excite as
much respect as the union of so many ajjeep
stealers if ever a body of men were de
serving of scorn and contempt, this band ol
flesh-mongers do deserve it. their whole
proceedings have amounted to less than an
admirable farce.
the address gives a history of the differ
ence of feeling and opinion in reference to the
relation between the two faces.” oh* the
deceitfulness ot sin i this difference dis
closed itself in the convention that framed the
constitution. would that the difference had
been stronger! what the address has to say
on the subject of the compromise entered into
on the part of the free states with the slave
states, every northern man should ponder
well: and draw from it a lesson that will for
ever preclude him from entering into another
like it.
it will be seen that the address assumes a
clear recognition of slavery in the united
states constitution, by the clause relating to
taxation and representation—that relating to
the return of fugitive slaves, and that respect
ing the importation of slavds. we deem it
unfortunate for these honorable menatealers,
that in no instance have they been able to find
a word in either of theae clauaes which bears
the definition of slaves or slavery. the word
slave in all these references, is the word of
this conclave, and not of the constitution.—
the laageage in each of the provisions to
which the addrem refers, though doubtless
intended to bolster up slavery, and to tespeet
slave property, has been so ambiguously
ter rded as to bear a very different construc
tion sod taken in connection with the pre
amble of that instrument, the very opposite of
the construction given it by this wily band of
slaveholders, and they have just reason to ap
prehend that such a construction may yet be
placed upon that instrument as shall prove the
downfall ot slavery.
but granting that the slaveboiding con
struction is the one by which the nation is to
he bound and governed, we are glad to see
the issue plainly put to northern men. we
say to the slaveholder, insist upon your right
to make northern men your bloodhounds, to
bunt down yoor slaves, and return litem to
bondage. we say, let this be inst med upon,
the more streneously the better, as it will the
sooner awaken the north to a sense of then
responsibility for slavery, not only m the
district of columbia, and in forts, arsenals
and navy-yards, but m the states themselves;
and will the sooner see their duty to labor for
the removal af slavery from every part of this
mom unhallowed union. is any ease, nought
but slaveholders hare anything to fear. the
moral senes of the north m k filming rest lies
on this subject, ft revolts at the idee ef
send toning slavery and it roust and will aseh
some mode by which to romp the rnepam
bihty of an foul, mean aodfeuel a system ef
wrong n is slavery. and it would ant he
strange if, pressed by the demand for the
penad at flesh, they, is turn, shield forbid
the meed and thus thwart the guilty mm
stealer of ihe rewards of the gmhy bargain
bat we are for aduulthtfr that the constitu
tion is jest what these slaveholders m this ad
dress say it is: and en eonsciestioos grounds
demand the immediate dissolution of the arm*
rican union, as required by liberty and the law
of the living cud. what man will say that
the union ought to exist for a single moment,
if under it northern men ate content u> act
.is the bloodhounds of the south, to hunt
down, recapture and return to slavery and
,chains, every brother-man who mxy be so
fortunate as to escape from bondage who,
who would stain hut soul by keeping a bar
gain so wicked and inhuman as that imposed
by ibese merciless forty thieves,” in the
name of the united slates’ constitution’—
the person that would «o do, is a traitor to
cod ami mail.
these slaveholders say in tlieir address,
j that there is not (m the clause u inch they
allege relates to fugitive slaves) on uneei
tam or equivocal word to be found in tha
whole provision.” this is not true. if the
provision hi question refers to slaves escaping
from slave states into free states, ami was
intended to define the right of masters to ap
prelteud their slaves, and the duty of free
stales to deliver them up, the language
used, is most ambiguous and inappropriate.—
the words held to service ami labor,” for
instance, does not necessarily imply the rela
tion of “master and slave,” and tv rather a
description of minors and apprenti<*es, than of
|slaves. then the term 1,1 person." is not
this term in itself equivocal are slaves, in
i law, regarded as |»ereoiis ate they regs rd
ed as piopertv and is there not a distinction,
broad, deep and wide, between property and
persons? if they are properly, tliey cannot
tic regarded by (lie law as persons; and it
they are regarded both in the light of persons
and pri>|>erty, the term is imperfect, equivocal,
and inappropriate. in this same clause, the
teitn, shall be delivered upon claim ot ths
pat tv to whom such service or labor may be
due,” carries upon its face the appeaiancc of
j a contract, by winch one patty has a just claim
i upon the service and labor ot another
j whereas, the slaveholder has no just claim
upon the lalmr or service of a slave, and the
slave has never ami can never make any con
tract with lus master, and can never violate a
contract, or owe his master any service or la
bor. it strikes us.lliat the whole provision is
uncertain, equivocal, and carries upon its face
no recognition of the right of a slaveholder to
recapture his slave so that while we admit
that this clause was intaided to apply to fugi
tive slaves, and to enable their piratical owners
to arrest them, and the free states to deliver
them op to such claimants, wo utterly deny
that the clause in question is either clear or
explicit.
suppose a man from from another country
should read that clause tif the american con
stitution, with no other knowledge of tho
1 character of american incautious than what
he derived (rum the reading of that instru
j ment, will any one pretend that the clause in
question would he thought to apply to slaves*
j. vve think not. nor would he dream of such
au outrage, such a savage monstrocity, un
reading any other part of the constitution
blot slavery from existence, and the whole
frame-work of the constitution might remain
unchanged. there is, therefore, nothing in
the constitution which means slavery only
slavery—and nothing else than slavery. the
fact is, the framers of that cunning instrument
were ashamed of the name while they had
not the honesty to renounce the thing, sla
very and it is the same sense of shame to
day which leads the friends and defenders of
this inhuman system to u se the term “peculiar
institution,” jjie relation subsisting between
the european and african races” and the
like. it is with a view to hide their great
moral deformity from the eye of the world,
and to shield slavery from the assaults and
bolls which must ever descend upon it, when
its gross form is presented to reflecting and
humane men. but we pass from this to an
other point in the address.
it is this, the clear and positive testimony it
bears to the efficiency of the anti-slavery agi
tation at the north in undermining and de
stroying slavery at the south. 'the old
moonshine about putting back the cause of
emancipation by agitation, has no countenance
in this document. mr. calhoun and his
forty thieves” see and clearly comprehend
the moral forces now operating againt sla
very, and is too honest towards his fellow
companions in crime to conceal the danger
which besets, or to affect to despise that dan
ger. he is proud, haughty, and bitter, but
not defiant. he sees in the systematic agita
tion—the tracts, pictures, papers, pamphhts,
and books—societies, lectures, and petitions,
the most efficient means to bring about a stale
of things which will foice the south into
emancipation. we thank mr. calhoun fir
this testimony. it is given in circumstances
which add materially to its intrinsic value.—
it is extorted against pride and precedent,
two very strong resisting forces. heretofore,
abolitionists have been spoken of as fanai
ics,” “madmen,” altogether a mont con
temptible body, the only effect whins* ef
forts would be, to rivet the fetter more closely
on the limbs of the slave. that they are not
so viewed now, is evident. if mad, there is
a method in their madness,” as alarming to
mr. calhoun and his “forty thieves,” as that
of hamlet to his murderous and incestuous
uncle. abolitionists remember this testi
atony of mr. calhoun, and thank god, and
take courage ut view of the adatotted adapt
adoessof our measures to the aeeoanplfehmefii
of .our grand and coommaduig object—the
entire abolition of slavery throughout this
country—as well in south carolina as in cal
ifornia. we like tbe testimony of mr. cal
houn better than his reaaoouy. lie says
slavery is a demesne institute*. it u
long* to tbe states, each for use if, to .fee,dr
whether it shall ba eatebhshed or not; and, il
it be established, whether it should be shot
ished or mn. sugfi being the clear and uu
questionable rights of the states, it follow*
aaerenarily that it would ha a flagrant act oi
1 hlfressron on a state, destructive of its rights,
i and subversive ol its ladepemleuee, for tb«
j federel government, or one or more states, or
their people, to undertake to force on u tbs
emancipation of its slaves. but it is a sound
bmsint in politics, as well as (aw and morals,
that no one has a right to do that indirectly,
which ha cannot do directly, and it may be
added with equal truth, to aid, or abet, ot
countenance another in doing it.”
belter call it domestic jldhry imm*
horn. to buy and sell, to brand and scourge
human beings with the heavy lash— to rob
them of all the ju«t reward* of their labor—
10 compel them to live in ignorance of their
relation* to uod and man to blot out the in
stitution of matnafe— to herd men and wo
men together like the beasts of the held—to
deprive them of the mean* of learning to read
the name of god—to destroy their dignity aa
human beings—to record their namea on the
ledger with hones, sheep and awine—to feed
them on a peck of corn a-week—to work them
under a burning s«n in the rice-swamp, cot
ton-field, sugar-plantation, almost ia a state o\
nudity—to sunder families for the oonvenienct
of purchasers —to examine men, women, am!
children, on the auction-block, as a joekej
nould examine a hone—to punish them for
word, look, or gesture—to burn their flesl
with hot irons—to tear their backs with the
poiao iou* daws of a living cat —to shoot,
stab, and hunt humanity with bloodhounds,
—for one clam of men to have exclusive ami
absolute power over the bodies and souls ol
another dam of human beings; this, the
whole of this infernal catalogue, is compre
hended in the soft and innocent term, “domes
he tnxhtuhon this is the established ordei
of things in carolina and mr. calhoun and
his “forty thieves” would have the same
order of things in california. but now to
the doctrine laid down m the above extract.—
it goes the length of denying, on tnorai
grounds, to any and every person out of the
state w here .slavery exists, the right of say
ing, looking, or doing anything, directly or
indirectly, for the overthrow of slavery.—
according to tins reasoning, it would be im
moral for northern men to refuse to wear
cotton, or to eat slave-grown rice
and sugar, since by pursuing such a course,
jhjradventure they might decrease the value ol
the slaves, and tliereby indirectly affect the
permanence of slavery. we are not to write,
speak, or publish anything on the subject ol
human slavery, lest it serve to darken the
fame of slavery, and lessen it in the popular
estimation, and tliereby indirectly destroy sla
very, by exalting liberty. to do so, would
necessarily be a flagrant aggression, a viola
tion of the rights of a state, and subversive
of its government. for what we have no
right to do directly by legislation, we have no
right to do indirectly any other means.—
this is strange logic for one of the most pow
erful minds and renowned statesmen that
america affords. coming from another quar
ter, it would demand no answer or comment;
buj from such a man, endorsed by such a com
pany, lead so universally, and put forth so
imposingly,and solemnly, aiming as it does, at
the very foundation of the anti-slavery move
ment, it may lie proper to spend a few thoughts
upon it.
how completely has slavery triumphed
over the mind ot this strong man it holds
full, complete and absolute control in his
mind; so much so, that seeing it, he cannot
and does not desire to see anything else than
slavery. the right of speech, the freedom
of the press, the liberty of assembling, and
and the. right of petition, have iu his judge
ment no rightful existence in the constitution
of the united states.
slavery is there he knows it to be there;
it has a right to he there and anything in
consistent with it is wrong, immoral, and has
no right to be there. this is evidently the
state of mind which mr. calhoun brings to
the consideration of this subject, to reduce
his reasoning to its real point and pith, it
amounts to this—that where a people have no
power to legislate for the overthrow of what
they think an evil, they have no moral right to
think, or speak, or do anything else which
may induce those who have legislative power
to exercise it for the removal of such evil, ii
is on this reasoning that he builds his com
plaint against the northern states, as want
ing in respect to the institutions and sover
eignty ot the southern states; that they
have not by legislative enactment silenced the
voice of free speech,and suppressed the publi
cations of the abolitionists. if mr. calhoui
is right in ,his first position, he is right in hii
conclusion hut he is wrong in both. wi
have no legislative po'wer to dethrone thi
queen of england, but have we no mora
right to say that england would be bette
under a republican form of government w<
have no legislative right or power to alter o
abolish the british tariff; hut have we m
inoral right to say that it is unequal and op
piessive, and that england would be better ol
without than with it. we have no legislativi
power to abolish the union between englani
'and ireland yet is it not obviously our righ
to speak and write in favor of the repeal o
the union mr. calhoun sinks the rights o
the man in the duties of the citizen, and b;
confounding things which are separate am
distinct, perpetrates a logical fallacy. abovi
and before all human institutions, stands tin
right of sympathizing with the oppressed am
denouncing the oppressors of mankind.
slavery is not only a wrong done to tin
slave, hut an outrage upon man—not merely
a curse to the south, but to the whole union
and has no rightful existence anywhere.—
slaveholders have no rights more than any
other thief or pirate. they have forfeitei
even the right to live, and if the slave shouu
put every one of them to the sword to-mor
row who dare pronounce the {tenuity dispro
jtomoned to the crime, or say that th<
criminals deserved less than death at th<
hands of their long-abused chattels l all thii
talk about the rights of slaveholders and tin
rights of slave states, is the height of impu
deuce. by what equity, by what morality
are they justified 1 and upon what foundatioi
do they rest the r right of property in humai
flesh l why, none other or better than may
be set up by a band of robbers. we uiee
iolm calhoun and the “forty thieves’
associated with liun, as being no better, o
more entitled to respect, than a ship’s com
pany of pirates; and the time is coming whei
‘hey will be -so regarded generally. it shal
not avail that the constitution and laws sane
lion slavery. “there ia a law above al
earthly statutes, written on the heart,” and by
that law, unchangeable and eternal, no mai
•■an he or hold a slave.
we intended to have said something on th«
extension of slavery in connection with oui
remarks on this address, hut have neither tinu
nor space sufficient tor the purpose. wi
leave this task to the “free boilers,” both u
the w hig and the democratic ranks. thi
journals of each of tliese parties will aitem
to the address on this point, as well a* to on
nght of congreiw to break up the dmgracefu
and inhuman slave-marts in the district u
olumbra, and abolish the whole system o
wickedness, root and branch. as to the prob
able effect of this address, we believe that its
most injurious ewwfwites bare already
taken place. ita power te injure is destroyed
it was terrible in the distance, bet tame on its
approach. in the south, h mtj stir a slighi
fever. he alaveboblera may be ajenpcd,
enraged, and may twmr terribly about it,
bet the north will despite the address, and
the “grey fox’* and “forty thieves” who gave
it to the world. we think it an exeelfeol
means of agitating tbs public mind on the
subject of slavery, and promoting the anti
slavery cause, and should not regret if mr.
calhoun would favor sa with another meet
mg, and make another address. we are quilt
sure that another meeting, though it would
not probably be so large aa ‘the first, would
be do leas effective in exciting contempt foi
the whole slave power of the country.— r. d
rochester, jan. 23, 1849.
fredericr docglssc—dear sir:—l hav«
called twice at the star office, for the pur
pore of conferring with yon about our discus
sion on american slavety, but did not fint
you. i ain very anxious, in view of the gooc
which i think may be done, to have thi
discussion immediately, and will cheerfully
meet you at any time and place in this city:
which you may propose, provided it shall be
soon, a h business will call me from the eity in
a few days. the resolution to be discussed,
as you doubtless recollect, one which 1
presented at the anu-skvery convention re
cently held in this city, at which time you
challenged ine to debate it, and i accepted the
challenge.
resolved, that the constitution of the
united states, if strictly construed according
to its reading, is anti-slavery in all of its
provisions.”
the word all was accepted from your
suggestion. an immediate answer ia espe
cially requested.
respectfully and truly yours,
c. h. chase.
mv dear sir: l owe you an apology
for not sooner publishing and replying to the
above letter. on a close examination of the
constitution, i am satisfied that if strictly
construed according to its reading,” it is
not a pro-slavery instrument; and while i
disagree with you as to the inference to be
drawn from this admission, you will see that
in the resolution, between us there is no ques
tion for debate.
1 now hold, as i have ever done, that the
original intent and meaning of the constitution
(the one given to it by the men who framed
it, those who adopted, and the one given to it
by the supreme court of the united states)
makes it a pro-slavery instrument—such an
one as 1 cannot bring myself to vote under, or
swear to support.
very respectfully,
frederick douglass.
fugitives from labor, —discussion in
the if, y. senate.
in the senate of this state, a bill for the
protection of personal liberty, recently came
up for discussion. by this bill it was pro
posed to make the delivering up of runaway
slaves a personal concern between the slave
and his pursuer that the civil authorities of
the state should take no cognizance of the
matter, until a breach df the pea'ce was com
mitted—when both pursuer and pursued would
become amenable to the law. the morality
of this kind of legislation may well be
doubted. it is either right or wrong that the
slave should be returned to the man whe
claims him as his property. if right, whj
should not the constables, magistrates, jus
tices,and all be bound to help on the good caus*
of catching the runaway l if wrong, what
necessity is there for sneaking out of the dif
ficulty by the back door of a miserable sub
terfuge 1 but so it is. the usual mist o
the compromises of the constitution, rises uj
between the senators of new york and thei]
distinct perception of moral rectitude. on<
after another endeavors to prove—prob abb
succeeds in proving—that the proposed bil
conflicts with that clause of the constitutioi
which says, that
“no person held to service or labor in on<
slate, under the laws thereof, escaping inti
another, shall in consequence of any law oi
legislation therein, be discharged from suet
1 service but shall be delivered up on claim ol
the party to whom such labor may be due.”
i'o one who merely wishes to get at tht
i root of the matter, all this is very far
fetched. suppose it proved—it establishes
j nothing—decides nothing but simply shirks
the responsibility of arriving at any conclu
sion. but why so l this is a question which
must one day be decided. to blink it now,
is the basest cowardice or the meanest sub
serviency. this is not the way, in these
days, to deal with a great truth. men have
not time, nor do they caie to follow the
sophist through his interminable and flimsy
webs of fine-spun casuistry.
one senator argues on this wise, in the
true spirit of pettifogging
there are citizens in this stale who own
i slaves in maryland and virginia. supposing
such a citizen finds one of his slaves in thii
state and claims, and attempts to detain him
—by this law he would be lietble to fines and
imprisonment. what would be the result 1
he would say. here is my defence and &ar
rant in the constitution of the united states.
more than that. the laws of maryland au
thorized him to control the action of his
servant, and by the constitution, we are bound
to regard those laws. he would tell tht
state tribunals that they had no business ti
discharge his servant from service. yoi
cann t change the relation between us if thi
j constitution says you shall not.”
this mode of reasoning involves the entirt
subversion of every principle of moral recti
tude. in the same way, if the framers of uu
constitution had seen fit to legalize murder
any kind of theft besides manstealing, wha
would be the result 1 why, in the words o
this solon—the murderer or thief, whet
brought to the bar of justice, might say—
here is my defence or waiiant in the coo
stitution of the united stales of com*
the defence would be entirely satisfactory
the man who committed the crime would bi
set at liberty,, and the gloiious constitutioi
would have ike high honor of sanctioning lb
worst of crimes, and of throwing the sbiek
of its protection over the most guilty of crun
inals. and so it does, if it be true, so tht
senator affinws,|m* *b« dsuse quoted refer
to slaves for is it not the most daring am
heaven-defying crime a*eal a man tb
moral sense of that individual who eannu
distinguish that every man ia himself, am
1 belong* to one else, must be low beyond a]
belief. it is doubtfol if eueh a benighted mu)
could be found even within ike four wails ti
auburn petrftttitfcry. 1 do not say that the
constitution does this—l cannot persuade my
self that it is s matter of maeh consequence,
in so for as future action is concerned, whe
iher it does or not. it appears just about as
eaay to say that the constitution does sanction
slavery, ted aught tn he he amended, o
changed, or left to rot among the rubbish of
the hat esotnry, as to prove in the sntts&ctioo
of slaveholders and pro-slavery politicians,
and bring them to act in accordance with that
proof—that the constitution does no /sanction
shivery or any other iniquity, and is therefore
deserving of their and oar highest and most
reverential regard. no one would consider
obligatory any deed of his grandfather, which
bound him to the commission of a murder or
a robbery, or to return stolen goods to the
robber, when the rightful owner had succeed
ed in regaining possession of them. it is
very clear though grandfathers, and
great -grandfathers, and progenitors as for back
as the flood, bad phed deed upon deed, and
heaped them up heaven-high, commanding or
sanctioning the commission of a murder or a
robbery, the sin of him who committed either
of these offences against the eternal and im
mutable principles of morality, summed up
in the words, do to others as ye desire that
others should do unto you,” would be in no
sense or degree altered or modified. what js
right for an individual is also right for a socie
ty —for a state—for a nation. were con
gress to draw up guaranty upon guaranty,
sanction upon sanction, and pile them up in the
halls of legislation, till the members ate
forced to quit their seats—eight dollars a-day
and mileage to boot, to make room for their
documents, binding the posterity of the pres
ent generation to certain conditions or com
promises, that involved the violation of theii
(not our) sense of morality, who would blame
them for scattering those documents to the
winds, and acting on their own responsibility
all our pledges and guaranties to the con
tiary notwithstanding l there are but few, i
think, who would venture to.deny their right
—not only their right, but their duty to do
this. let us make hats, and coats, and hoots
for coming generations, if we will, ignorant
as we are of the dimensions of the heads—
the breadth of the shoulders, and the. men
suration of the feet of those who are to suc
ceed us ignorant, indeed, whether they
may choose to be arrayed in those sorts of
garments at all; but let us not attempt to fix
for them either a code of morality or of law.
what we would not do for coming ages, we
must also protest against past ages doing for
us. i cannot allow that my predecessors had
any right to determine what should or should
not be the character of my religion, my mo
rality, or my law.—j. d.
american colonization society.
the annual meeting of this society for the
present year, was held in the hall of the
house of representatives at washington, on
tuesday evening, 16th ult. in the absence
of the president, elisha whittlesey, one of
the vice presidents presided.
a the reading of the report, the following
resolution was adopted on motion of richard
w. thompson, of indiana;
resolved r that tw-hjgjswy o£thu pi yaon
as developed in the report which has just
been read, has strengthened our confidence in
the great principles of the colonization so
ciety, and that in their purity and strength we
see satisfactory evidence of their ultimate
triumph.
it was further on motion of mr. me lane,
resolved, that the efforts of the american
colonization society to facilitate the ultimate
emancipation and restoration of the black race
to social and national indepednence, are high
ly honorable and judicious, and consistent
with a strict respect for the rights and privi
leges of the citizens of the several states
wherein the institution of slavery is sanc
tioned by municipal law.
and further, on motion of mr. maxwell,
that the influence which the scheme of
african colonization exerts to suppress the
slave trade, to spread the english language
and the principles of republican government,
and to open new markets for american pro
ducts, and extend american commerce,
should commend it to the favorable consid
eration of the respective state legislatures
and to the general government.
the national intelligencer reports the mee
ting to have been very large, and all its pro
ceedings to have been of deep interest.
the first resolution above makes an asser
tion, that the “confidence of those who voted
for it has beqp strengthened in the great prin
ciples of the colonization society.” the
“great principle of that society—a princi
ple which is great in its littleness, is, that
colored men, liecause they are colored, can
not live in this country on an equality with
white men. it is enough simply to deny the
truth of this principle. when the unreason
ing aud unchristian prejudice, of which the
colonization society is the offspring, is re
moved, where will be the difficulty there
will be none.
the second resolution is very careful to
make it known that the efforts of the colon
ization society are consistent with a strict
respect for the rights and privileges of the
citizens of the several states wherein the in
stitution of slavery is sanctioned by municipul
law.” this is rather a soft wav of saying
it, but it means that the right of the slave
holder to steal men is respected by the col
onization society. the right to steal! the
tight to be paid for what is stolen! the
right to convert a man into a brute—a chattel,
and then sell him to this society, for the par
pose of transportation to liberia or some
other place on the coast of africa! can
such a right be possessed by any human
being no it is a wrong—a foul and hor
rible iniquity, deserving not the respect, bat
the deepest execration of all men in whose
souls there bum the smallest spark of bn
mamty.
on these proceedings the cincinnati gazette
remarks:
“let the true friends of the colored mac
continue their aid, by money and good words,
to the cokmumtieo scheme. they can dc
neither him nor hts children so much good is
any other way.”
in this true is it a feet that the colored
nun etnnot bn more highly beoefitted in asj
other way 1 if so, his prospect* are gloomy
indeed. what has the colonization society
done for the colored man during the paai
year why, it has raised *51,963 46
and with that sum has conferred upon 442
emigrants the doubtful benefit of aendiaf
them to liberia! fmtr hundred and forty
threef most benevolent, most remidsrzsi
was certainly not was than 90,000. aodgout of
(aa you my) fad femr hundred and forty
'three* the fohle of the mountain and mouse
is nothing to this. but the truth is, it is aff a
farce. coldwizatinu cannot and wfß mu, and
it is not its intention to effect the deration of
the colored american. some other and mote
christian memos most he uaud. men most
coroe to view this question ia a different light.
they ohm!foam toesumder that this land ia
the home of the colored mao; dim his toil
has cultivated it—that hit sweat and ton
have watered it—that h» mood has fructified
it—end he will and has a right to
remain.
theodore parker, ia a sermon recently
preached io boston, mentions some of the
causes of the degradation of the free colored
man:
the blacks in new england are despised
and frowned down, not admitted to the steam
boat, the omnibus, to the seboolhouaes in
boston, or even to the meeting-house with
white men; not often allowed to work in
company with the whites, and so they are
kept in poverty.”
he is shut out from school—what can he
be but ignorant* shut out from the meeting
houses of the whites (sod unchristian and
u a philosophical as are the teachings delivered
in many of those meeting-houses, they are
still infinitely superior, to those of the vast
majority of colored preachers)—what can he
be but uninstructed on religions subjects* shut
out from the means of acquiring a respectable
livelihood—what can he be but poor and com
paratively wretched shut out from the civil
izing influences of libraries, lyceums, and
reading-rooms, enjoyed by his more fortunate
brethren of a paler hue, it is not to be won
dered at if he seeks for recreation and enjoy
ment in other and less refined pleasures.
remove these barriers give the colored man
free-access to all the privileges enjoyed by
others; let him feel that this land is, and will
be his home open to him the doors to pre
ferment and usefulness; and a vast improve
ment will speedily make itself apparent in the
manners and condition of the colored popula
tion.of these states. all this they have a
right to demand. all this christianity de
mands foi them. till all this is done, the
claims of humanity will not be satisfied. if
the colored people are degraded, why send
them off and set them apart by themselves,
away from the elevating influences' of sur
rounding intelligence! such a course can
have no tendency but to help [to perpetuate
that which it pretends to remove. the true
way to benefit the free blacks is, not to col
onise,but to educate, and to place within theii
reach all (tossible means of self-education. do
this, and they will speedily become, at least
in an equal proportion with their white breth
ren, respectable and respected. —j. d.
onward!
a telegraphic despatch from columbus,
ohio, brings the cheering intelligence, that
on the 30th ult, the house of represen
tatives passed a bill, declaring the ‘black
laws’ (so called) of that state unconstitu
tional, and repealing them by a vote of 52 to
,11! if the senate does not arrest the bill,
these odious enactments will be erased from
-the willtfe'tedeemed.
id* the national assembly of ge/many
has abolished capital punishment except by
martial law, and in case of mutiny at sea.
the editor of the protestant churchman,
now in europe, in writing to his paper from
london in december, has the following item:
“london is brilliantly illuminated by the
newly invented charcoal light, kindled on
a pillar in one of the parks at west end.
the application of this to light-houses prom
ises to be of the greatest benefit. thus far
the success of the experiments here has been
complete, and warrants the highest anticipa
tions of its extended usefulness.”
yr
mr. calhoun says that the texes sena
tors will be crushed in the resistless march of
southern opinion, and senator houston re
plies that mr. calhoun is nding in a go-cart
that will be soon upset.
great preparations are making at wash
ington for the inauguration of gen. taylor.
a booth is to be built capable of holding
10,000 persons.
fanny kemble butler is reading shakes
peare’s playß at the masonic temple in bos
ton.
frozen to death. —the quebec gazette
of jan. bth, says that dr. meldrum, of new
richmond, gaspe, canada, was found frozen
to death on the road leading to his residence,
on the 23d of dec. last.
frederick jerome, the sailor who distin
guished himself in saving lives from the
ocean monarch, goes out to california as tho
mate of. a ship.
a methodist episcopal company is form
ing in new york for the gold mines.—
none but members of that denomination are
admitted.
homestead exempton in ohio. —the
ohio standard contains a report made to the
legislature of ohio, by the select committee
to whom was referred the petition of citizens
of seneca county, praying that family
homesteads may be exempt from sale on ex
ecution to pay debts. the report ia fovuqtble
to the prayer. the standard thinks thaf a
bill will be passed.
michigan. —tbexogislatore of this state,
has adopted resolutions against the extension
of shivery, and instructing her senators an
the subject. undgr these instructions (which
are directly ommted to the doetnoes of the
niehobou tepvfgen- cam goes back to the
senate.
“do yon know ozid a cunning yankee
to a jew, “that they bang jews and jack
asses together in portlandlndeed bro
ther, then it’s weft yoe and i are not there.”
cesdufcity or inpidklitv .——charles the
h. hearing the celebrated voraios,* free
thinker, repeating seme incredible stone, of
the chinese, turning those about him,
said, “thii learned divine is a very rtrange
man. he believes even thing but the bible.”
amendment or me constitution. —a
law waa named at tbn hue aeaaioo of the i*-’
diana legislature authorising **d requiring a
ntra «x* vote, in jhe several counties of this
state, ss to
ventloq ti umm lu® guqmliuuofl.
every refer will therefor* be eahed upon at
the next august elertwu, to vote upon thw
important question, sad we hope alt will be
prepared to do se nadermsnduigly. jnd.
state sentind.
quite !r«t«rpi<r re visit your port at the
teretry at presort.
m. d., nandv\kim sneeieea. trew
h. h. c. sad tl b. next we*. t

tornmuntcatioiu.
rocttma, fob. id, 1849.
fwwwa docclajm, sir,—the snitnml
$9 m 4ppad to aid the cbeektsm ef the
north star. phase aeanpt it. btisam it
■mt year sppcohatiea, yue awy send the
entreat vetane ef the star to aa—a poor bat
worthy —loved pen— t who weald be boat-
hied by i- per—al; or appropriate it —y
way you any dean —oat proper, far the re
lief of the npprea—d or freedom of the eo
ahred.
i have kmg beatitrd aboat aradinf
—ll a sum—which it, in troth, trifling wh—
compared with the importance aad gveaiaa—
of the cooso which you advocate—bat caaaot
ace that withholding h ia likely to iacroaat
the amount. i shall therefore r—tore to aaad
it, accompanied with all the good wish— aad
ardent dasires for the prosperity and ultimate
success of the anti-slavery can— that a larger
amount could he.
should the future reveal to —e a so—y
spot” on life’s dark way, unclouded by nos
trums aad doctor’s bills, i hope to be at least
more active if not more useful.
very respectfully, fee., s. m. m.
cortlandvillx, feb. 1849.
bishop h. h. garnet —my old friend
and kinsman :—having read your communi
cation in the hat two numbers of the heath
star, my interest in them is sufficient to em
bolden me to addiese you in this manner, that
i may the better understand you.
most heartily do 1 agree with you in refer
ence to the importance of western new
york. i have for many years regarded it a
the very battle ground of impartial freedom,
and so regarding it, i agree with you as to
the immense—l had almost said the infinite—
importance of the very highest possible at
tainments in moral eminence, by the colored
men and women of this highly favored portion
of oar native country and our adopted state.
right glad am i that mr. douglass, you and
i, three marylanders, have views so nearly
alike on this subject.
prejudice against colored men is less active
and teas bitter here, and is much more easily
controlled, than in any other portion of the
united states. hence, if we continue de
based here, the enemies of our cause will
point to us and say, behold what negroes are
in the most favored positions! whence they
would seek to draw the conclusion, that oor
elevation is impossible. such a convention
as you propose, i think, would do great good,
especially as none of the methodist confer
ences, none of the associations or other reli
gious bodies of black men, ever deign to as
semble in any part of our section; and indeed
the only gatherings we have, are om first of
august celebrations, which cannot, from their
very nature, (not to speak of some of their
accompaniments,) answer the purposes to
which you call attention. besides our state
conventions, with but two exceptions, have
sat where delegates from the west could not,
without great expense of money and time,
attend them. we must have western con
ventions and other means tot the elevation of
oor people, or see them overlooked, neglected
and despised, and as a consequence, debased
for many years to come. such blighting, ru
inous influences our common cause cannot
afford to suffer.
i agree with you also in the welcome of
frederick douglass, wm. c. nell, and,
begging your pardon, i will add, henry h.
garnet, to this interesting field of labor. i
would that such men as robert purvis, with
his accomplished lady and interesting family,
were among the families of the amateur farm
ers; that william whipple and, stephen smith
werd among the stirring, enterprising timber
merchants of the empire state. they could
here, in western new york, do more for the
cause of our common humanity in one month,
by their mere presence, and their weight of
chaiacter aod social position, than they can do
among philadelphia semi-si aveholdrrs, by
berry quakers,” and columbia dutchmen, in
all their lifetime, should they live to be as old
as methuselah.
still, i would not say to tboee wbo live in
fiee states, buch as massachusetts and ver
mont, leave and come hither. but i would,
with all becoming deference, beseech them to
do much more where they are.
1 may not understand your remarks in re
spect to colonisation. you am pleased to
say—” 1 hesitate not to say, that my mind, of
late, has greatly changed in regard to the
american. colonization scheme. so far ss it
benefits the land of my fathers, 1 hid it god
speed but so far as it denies the possibility
of oor elevation here, 1 oppose it. 1 would
rather see a man free in liberia, than a slave
in the-united states.” i supposed you would
enlighten your readers aad your many ad
mirers, ia regard to what phases of the
american cut on nation scheme” had pre
sented themselves to you in such attractive
forms as to change your' mind greatly of
late,” and to engage your complacency. 1
also did and shall still expect to hear the rae
sous for the "change.” neither of these
ia the last chase qooted; aad that, it seema
to me, is not so fell sad explicit as o— would
—totally expect fro-;hearyfhighlaad garnet
the americas colonization seheme” con
fers few, if —y, blessings upon a— load of
oor fathers.” moot abundantly baa it boon
shown that the uni—ientry operations the
const of africa were always hindered by the
moral, or rather the«—israf influence of the
colony; aad that men may go than aad he
fiee aad grow rich, ia lean owing la thair
good eoasutotmxm and the natural fardkirs for
trade, under* godt than to "the american
■corny area fiee anywhere this ride ef hadce,
rather than slates in ely—on. bet that they
are so, aad i at«, makes m gnat
of the cnlnninrt merits the —turn and
leas fiem what in the eoadfciae at the rayah
beef liberia, than from the aboanaahle rey
taga ef fa pieaidnt, the —pcsnoot slave
holder, henry clay, with wlwh yes ase
fomihar —fro— the —at— of one of his
mrekmastn the white man’s reentry?”—
fraas the abeoe e—apdy heaped epaa by
finney, and ten the geaanl, eahenal, as
|to whtsb yoe refer, via that oer elevation it
li* *a*fcja*k t*.
-jk. v- r v
impossible hen. looking at these tbmge
idn, i couhl not cenoeive that the bet ebne*
•hieh i b» quoted fern yon explained yem
mi meanmg, asd i deemed it dne to ton im
portance of thosubjeet, (whether relevaat or
to toe hbjkt of your aradu,) to your
mack sea, as well aa to tbe aiders and afaet
anthropic, mi to aaj diabolical, aolo
fuily, to give to the public, through tbe eel
umna of too north star, a fall and explicit
caaaaa which lad t hereunto, tad the potato ia
rasp set to wkidt that “change” baatakee
place.
it ia leaa impoitant to you than to myaelf,
perbapa, tost i should add, that poor aaewev
to toil shall bo given to the readers of the
impartial citaen, to the columns of which,
whatever nay corifi from your alia pan shall
oot ooly ha cordially welcomed, hut thankfully
received and duly appreciated.
with sentiments of the deepest respect,
i am, my dear sir,
tour obedient servant,
sam. r. ward.

political meeting.
at a political meeting of toe colored citi
zens of the borough of marrietta, lancaster,
county, pennsylvania, held in toe hall of toe
sons of temperance, on tuesday evening,
the 23d inat., which was organised by tbe
appointment of mr. wm. singer chairman,
and mr. john b. williams secretary.
tbe meeting was very ably addressed by
messrs. l. a. williams, h. h. webb, and
wm. p. wilson, »f columbia, pa. tbe
speakers explained at great length the call,
object and action of tbe recent colored con
vention held at harrisburg in december last,
for toe purpose of obtaining a repeal of the
word “white” from the 3d article of the-con
stitution of this state. he also appealed to
the meeting in the most eloquent strains, be
seeching them by their love of liberty, justice
and equality, to use every effort in their
power to secure for themselves and the rising
generation that political equality which is the
rich boon of the favored citizens of pennsyl
vania. the speeches of these gentlemen
produced quite an animating effect upon the
audience; after which, tbe following resolu
tions were presented, discussed, and unami
mously adopted:
resolved, that this meeting do most cheer
fully concur in the object of said convention,
and will most zealously unite with our
brethren throughout the county and the
state in the promotion of measures for its
attainment.
resolved, that the proceedings of this
meeting be published in the north star,
signed by the chairman and secretary.
wm. singer, ch’n.
john b. williams, sec’y.
marietta, jan. 24.
t rom car own correspondent*
london, jan. 11, 1848.
no one will dispute _ that the year 1848
will ever be memorable. iu the third and
fourth centuries of the christian era, many
and great changes took plsce. the events
that then occurred sufficed to alter the system
of government, and entirely to change the
face of society throughout all christendom.
j the overwhelming numbers of the barbarians,
and the fierce but not unwary policy of theji
chieftains, made the downfall of old imperial
rome a speedy one; yet were tbe wild and
strange mutations, consequent on the ruin of
the caesar, not confined to one, or ten, or even
one hundred years. no common sympathy
pervaded the daring hordes that precipitated
themselves, some from the icy north-—some
from the interminably german forests—some
from the wide sarm&tian plains, upon the
luxurious mistress of ibe world. each
king (to use the old scotch proverb) fought
for bis own hand,” and each was jealous of
the other. strangely different has been the
great uprising to which the by-gone year has
given birth. by some mysterious sympathy,
toe volatile, impetooos frenchman—the in
dolent yet passionate italian—the laborious,
enthusiastic german the half-chivalrous,
half-obsequious pole—the haughty, fiery-tem
pered hungarian, have choeen one season to
strike, a blow fot their righto, real or imagin
ary, and in good earnest too. nine capita)
cities of europe have witnessed deadly, des
perate fight—one emperor and a king, each
weary of contest, have abdicated; two princes
have been driven from their thrones—the one
because be reformed too little—the other
(strange thing!) because he reformed too
much. the sovereign pontiff of toe great
western church has been seen declaring war
with that church’s most devoted son. he
now, in his adversity, appeals to that strange
amphibious pontiff potentate, who hi at once
cesar of the east sad head of the great east
ern rival church.
the present opening year has received a
legacy from itsdepartod taotorir, of conflict,
eoufeioo, and unaertainty. toe president of
the new repolie is even now in diaeohy. a
missndmtanding as to the brsiade of hie pre
rogative, has cost him two of hie best minis
ters. in the city which m the sent of bis
government, bets are freely offered that that
government will be violently -extinguished ere
two months have passed. the sovereign
pontiff proclaims that his. people will sot!
hrten. his boorhoa hast promises, aad his
people will net behove. tbs yeethfol em
peror, new to bis dignity, spanks words of
pesos and urges toe ouhua of post mutual
heartburnings; yet takes fire sad sword, is
their moot terrible ■gaifieanee, to reduce eae
of bit meet rebellious hiagilm—. tbe only
prises, whose position most mdtrlnm his
rival, seams doing bin best to gel bis domm
ians into snwwhisg like eider; king and
e*rt in ruartablieh that, ton ism of which
has eom thmn so dear. front thin brief aem
mory, yea will see tost be whs ob all firopbeey
truly hr one mentfi in advance, will bn a
greater aner than tbe tbmias of eld story.
s. p. a r-
boron a faxs-soosa.—tbe behunmt
clipper,! washington rnrtser pendent says
tost benton fstnras to too sent tm toe bennie
with a fixed dstsemnwtiiiii ts take mm a
date* of ton pms sail a* iadpu. fbnm
b» known jwn wtß” and if smstom p*^
mtosaidmaf them who dtffi* wito him m
iryjnmu it w mid ha mill,
flifcl*** m*!,****
ovi fvtvhe pmoaracrs.—wa bt« tot
to to true to «mim tk npimmt of l
year oahkhy to be paralleled as a touchstone
of oauonaj stability bao atoadaatly proved
pase dmfite the suicidal revolw
tions of neiffcboerieg itatee wilkie the
laac mx weeks trade kas iroprovad w oer
nortbero dfuittf*. console have advanced,
moeyhaa two»e abeadam. and the bonk
•tores base mrreftsad, although throe ew
peoa capitate oat of four weie m kale wtbee
of anarchy or siege, and although aa eteetocal
revolution ih prance was destnbed as pstrtoad
ing both civil and foveifa war.* if
ht*« vnaetoar gam year for
meree baa beea purified. on lyam of ear*
rcncyflaied,andaspmtofwguiro«ieeutar|eioa
sahotitated for aa annatora) freasy of spacala
«oo. we are fovtanaie, not oaly in übaaring
prospects of trade, bat in the for more pecioae
scqunitioo of a temper to steiaanteaod improve
them properly. the former advantage is one
which aay yen might bring wj^it; the
latter, one which coaid only follodhtoa the
trials of such a year aa tbedfost.— timet.
law is* sroars and ‘atimis..- the
greatest amusement, when you have 'nothing
else to do, is shopping. it can be indulged
also at the very cheapest rate for you can
enjoy a good hour’s entertainment for a yard
of ribbon, or ran through a bankrupt’s stock
merely for a paper of jmta. another’s wort
—is dotting your husband's papers to nghtt.
it is best to be present when he attempts to
look for anything, so to be a witness of hte
distress and confusion. punch.
the ancient boat feom the clyde.
at the meeting of the society of antiquaries,
held on the bth, jan. there was presented
to the society, through the liberality of the
trustees of the river clyde, an ancient host,
dug up in the autumn of 1847, at spring
field, opposite the broomielaw. this most
interesting relic is hewn out of a single tree,
and ia in so rude a fashion that we can hardly
assign too remote a date 10 it within the era
of our island's history.— edtnimrgh witness.
napoleon at st. helens.--leisure and
solitude brought no healing to him. he had
no moral force which could respond to the
appeal of adverse circumstances. he had in
him nothing of the man which could, in a
season of rest, look buck with wonder or a
amile onjthe turbulence of its childish vanity
and pride; nothing of the sage which could
draw from the vicissitudes of experience any
aliment of present wisdom and peace. he
remained to the last morally a child and a
sufferer—a baffled child, and an unconscious
sufferer from worse woes than hie mortifica
tions, his bondage, and his privation.—pic*
tonal history of england.
i ia stated that m. guizot is in such
straitened circumstances that he has accepted
a situation connected with a library belonging
to the bedford family.
rumoured'retirement op jenny. lind.—
we have the best authority for stating that
this gifred artist will appear no more upon the
stage. in a letter to the daughter of the
bishop of- "-y—, she writes to the effect, that
as she has made up her mind to relinquish her
theatrical career, she will be enable to gratify
her desire to pay her long-promised visit.”
sunday times.
the pensiones president.—-an english
peer, whose rental exceeds .£60,000 a year,
including his irish property, pays louts na
poleon bonaparte, the expected emperor of
france, j£soo a year—an annuity which his
lordship granted to his mistress, who is now
under the protection of bonaparte.— nenagh
guardian.
a new printing machine has just been set up
at the times office, which throws off 8,000
impressions an hour. it has eight cylinders,
and it is anticipated that it will ultimately be
worked to 12,000 copies an hour.
a californian expedition has left green
ock, a number of navvies” accompany
ing it, armed with a due supply of spades
anil smelting pots.
gentlemen. —perhaps gentlemen are rarer
personages than some of us think for. which
of us can point out many such in his circle
men whose aims are generous, whose truth is
constant, and not only constant in its kind,
but elevated in its degree; whose want of
meanness makes them simple; who can look
the world honestly in the face, with an equal
manly sympathy with the great, and the
small thackeray.
valuable advice to tetchy gentle
men.—our old grandmother used to say to
our old grandfather, “it’s useless quarrelling,
my dear, for you know we must make it up
again.”— punch.
died.
id this city on saturday evening february 4th,
of pulmonary consumption, ann e., wife of an
drew s. clacxner, ami daughter of john
braithwaite, aged 28 years, ten months and
nine days. during her protracted illness she mani
fested the utmost patience under suffering, was very
grateful to her friends for their kind care and at
tentions, frequently expressing her gratitude for the
many blessings which were hers, and which she
appreciated to the last. she continued fiierfectly
sensible and when convinced site could not recover,
expressed an entire willingness and resignation,
observing that she had enjoyed the present state aad
felt that there was comfort here, but now expected
to enter a much brighter and happier state of ex
istence. wisdom ie gray hairs and an unspotted
life is old age.”
la this city of consumption, oo the 7ih inst.,
eliz. j. heard, daughter of llovd and mart
a. scott, seed 4 rears-
sj may on dr. beard’s lectures
the following extract of a ■nirism de
livered hr sam net j. may, is espied from
the syracuse star. 'after speaking is tense
of respect for dr. bead, sad poise of kis
lectures oft eetepe, mr. may asya.
i am dow impelled by some unhappy
passages in dr. baird** last lectors, to
add that it is christianity which has in
culcated a nobler virtue than patriot
ism, which is nothing else than a
national, it may be, a mere partizan
selfishness. indeed, you know, it has
been urged as an objection tochristiani-j
ty that it does not enjoin the love of
country. true, it does not. but itj
every where purer, holier
affection, which includes all that is
worthy in patriotism, i mean the fort of
man. this, christianity commands as
second only to the love of god, and as
inseparable from that primal virtue,
flowing from it as an effect from its
cause. not with the authority and
aporoval of him who made ot one
blood all mankind, is it that the sur
face of the common earth is divided
and subdivided, and the several por
tions appropriated by this nation or
that.—not with the approbation of the
heavenly father, can it be, that lines
of demarkation have been drawn, over
which the children of mien may not
freely pass, and re-pass to gather as
they can the fruits of honest enterprise
and industry. the god of peace and
love never decreed that rivers, or
mountains, or oceans even should make
aliens and enemies of fellow-inen. far
otherwise. he has taught us by his
beloved son, that the true interests of
humanity are every where the same.
and when the gospel has accomplished,
as it surely will accomplish that w’here
unto it was sent, all political divisions,
all state lines will be viituaily oblitera
ted, and the nations of men flow to
gether as a common brotherhood.
i was astonished, i was grieved to
hear from dr. baird, (after so many
generous, enlarged, humane, christian
sentiments as had come from his lips)
in his last lecture, such a warm eulo
gium as he pronounced upon british
patriotism, and that he should have
selected as an admirable illustration of
that virtue, the hearty union of both
the political parties in england to
prosecute-with renewed vigor the ini
quitous and cruel ivar upon afghanistan
and beloochistan. to such a whole
sale wickedness, patriotism may lead,
but the love of man, which christ
inculcated, never. i wondered that
a minister of the gospel, one especi
ally, who has travelled so extensively
j in foreign countries, and every where
1 found men to be essentia ly the same
being, could commend as he did, a
sentiment so narrow, selfish, cruel.
during our late most unrighteous
war with mexico, we saw too' plainly
how unscrupulous this false virtue
becomes. in the midst of it, men of
no mean authority in the state, and
some even of high standing in the
church, sought to rouse the people to a
more earnest co-operation by appeals
to their patriotism—yes —by the im
pious cry, “our country right or
wrong.” blessed be god, there were
many thousands in the land, who did not
bow the knee to baal and, so far
from hoping with dr. baird, that such
disunion may cease from our midst,
my earnest prayer shall ever be, that
the number may continually increase
of those who will not on any considera
tion, ever coqntenance and aid our
government in doing wrong. then
may we look for the time, w’hen our
rulers shall be peace, and our exactors
righteousness,” and never presume to
attempt any thing for the aggrandize
ment of the nation, that'would violate
the rights of any other people. for
my part, i would as soon advise and
assist my son, as i would my country,
to commit iniquity.
i was equally pained, and not less
offended, at the gratuitous censure,
dr. b. bestowed upon george thomp
son, that excellent man, devoted phil
anthropist, and thrilling speaker, who
having done so much for the abolition
of slavery in the british west indies,
came to this country to raise his voice
of strength for the relief of suffering
humanity here. i know george thomp
son well; and am sure that he was
actuated by as pure, philanthropic,
christian feelings and purposes, in
coming to these united states, as dr.
baird could have been in going to
great britain and europe. nor was
there any more of impertinence or
ofliciousness in that noble englishman’s
coming to these united states to plead
that millions of his fellow beings might
be emancipated from civil, social and
persouai degradation here, than there
was in this benevolent american’s
going to the catholic countries of
europe, that he might do something to
deliver millions there, from a not so
cruel thraldom to papal hierarchy.
and with just as much reason might
the catholics of belgium or germany
have conspired against the life of our
estimable friend, dr. 8., as the pro
slavery party here conspired to destroy
george thompson. i cannot find
words to express my shame, for the
in affable meatless of so many of my
countrymen, who, unable to answer his
arguments or withstand his appeals,
were eager to drive that highly gifted
advocate of liberty from our land, by
insult, calumny and violent assaults
upon his person. i was mortified that
dr. baird, whose heart seemed in
other respects to be so much enlarged
by his sojourn abroad, should have
•aid- what went so far to justify the out
rages, that were committed upon a
man, whos only fault waa that he was
an abolitionist and a foreigner: and i
wondered that he did not see, that in
condemning thompson for interfer
ing,” with the oppressive institutions of
america, he condemned himself for
attempting aught against the oppres
sions of europe.
error or early intellectual
training. —when we are coanderiiig
the health of children, it is ttnperat* vg
not to omit the importance of keeping
their brains fellow, as it were, foraer
erml of the first years of their existence.
the mischief perpetrated by a contrary i
course in the shape of bad health, pee-
visit temper, and developed vanity, is i
incalculable. it would not be just tu
attribute this altogether to the vanity
of the parents; they are influenced by a
natural fear test their children should
not have all the advantages of other
children. some infant prodigy, which
ie a standard of mischief thongheut ha
neighborhood, misleads them. parents
may be assured that this aarly work is
not by any means all gain, even in the
way of work. 1 suspect it is a kps;
and children who begin their education
late, as it would be called, will rapidly
overtake those who have been is har
ness long before them. and what ad
vantage can it be if a child knows more
at six years old than its compeers, es
pecially if this is to be gained by a
sacrifice of health which may never be
regained! there may be some excuse
for this early book work in the case of
those children who are to live by man
ual labor. it is worth while, perhaps,
to ruu the risk of some physical injuiy
to them, having only their early years
in which we can teach them book
knowledge.. tbe chance of mischief,
too, will be less, being more likely to
be counteracted by their after life.
but for a child, who is to be at book
work for the first twenty-onf years of
his life, wha| folly is it to exhaust in the
least the mental energy which, after
all, is his surest implement. friends
in council.
randolph of roanoke.
john randolph was six feet high.
he had elevated shoulders, a snfall
head, and a physiogonomy, all the
parts of which were entirely unintel
lecfual, except the eye. his hair was
dark, thin and lank, and lay close to
.his head. his voice was as shrill as a
fife, but its clear, shrieking tones could
be distinctly heard by a large audience.
the muscles and skin about his face
were shriveled and cadaverous, like
wrinkled parchment; his whole form
was so attenuated and meager, that,
tall as he was, his acquaintance sup
posed him not to weigh more than 1 jo
lbs.
the author of clinton bradshaw,”
who enjoyed a favorable opportunity of
observing this strange being, has given
us the following graphic description of
his person, habiliments, and man
ners
his long, thin legs, about as thick
as a walking cane, a;id of much such a
shape, were encased in a pair of light
small-clothes, so tight they seemed part
and parcel of the wearer. handsome
white stockings were fastened with
great tidiness at the knees by a gold
buckle, and over them, coming about
half-way up the calf, were a pair of
what i believe were called hose, coun
try-kuit. he wore shoes: they were
old-fashioned, and fastened also with
buckles—large ones. he trod like an
indian, without turning his toes out,
but planking them right ahead. it was
the fashion in those days to wear a fan
tailed coat, with a small collar, with
buttons far apart on the back, with but
few on the breast. mr. randolph’s
was the reverse of this. instead of be
ing fan-tailed, it was what i believe the
knights of the needle cull swallow
tailed; the collar was immensely large;
the buttons were in kissing proximity,
and they sat as close on the breast of
the garment as the feasters at a crowd
ed festival. his waist was so remark
ably slender, that as he stood with his
arms akimbo, he could easily, as 1
thought, with his long, bony fingers,
have spanned it. around him, his coat,
which was very tight, was held to
gether by one button, and in conse
quence, an inch or more of tape, to
which the button’ was attached, was
perceptible w here it was pulled through
the cloth. about his neck he wore a
white cravat, in which his chin was
occasionally buried as" he moved his
head in conversation; no shirt-collar
was perceptible; every other person
seemed to pride himself on the size of
his, as they were then worn large. mr.
randolph’s complexion was precisely
that of a mummy—withered, saffron,
dry and bloodless: you could not have
placed a pin’s point on his face, where
you would not have touched a wrinkle.
his lips were thin, compressed and col
orless; the chin, beardless as a boy’s
was broad for the size of his face,
which was small; his nose was straight,
wiih nothing remarkable in it, except
that it was too short. he were a fur
cap, which he took off, standing a few
minutes uncovered. fancy a dead
man struck into life by lightning, and
all his life in his eye, and you have a
picture of john randolph.”— magoon’s
orators of the am. revolution.
the eve.— lf there be any feature
which in genius always shows itself, it
is the eye, which has been aptly called
the index of the mind. we have
seen,” says mr. jordan, every other
part of the human face divine without
indications of the spirit within—the
mouth which spoke not of the talent
possessed, and the brow that indicated
no powers of the capacious mind—but
we never knew a superior nature which
the eye did not proclaim.’* the greeks
and all the orieutal nations regarded
the brightness of the eye as a super
natural sign. the emerald eyes of
their gods shone with mysterious splen
dor through the gloom of the aytuin.
availing thamseives of this present
belief impostors have sought to deceive
men by an assumed lustre of counte
nance. dr. leyden tells us that ibn
makna, the founder of the maknayah
sect, hid himself from the public gaze,
and covered his features with a veil,
asserting that no eye could endure the
glory of his countenance. to aupport
this deception, be prepared some burn
ing mirrors, placing them in such a
situation that the raye fell upon tbe
feces of those who approached him.
having taken these precautions, he un
covered his face, and directing his
votaries to draw nigh, the foremost were
strrok by the burning rays, and retired, i
exclaiming, we cannot look upon
him, but he gazes upon us.” many 1
tender and beautiful things have been 1
said of eyes; yet bow inferior to the j
uttered by themselves! i
a full eye seems to have been esteem- i
ed the most expressive. such was the
eye enriched tbe soul of perielea.
the americsd writer haliburton do- 1
dares he would not givd 5 of to-
bacco for a nose, except to te!l when
dinner is good, nor ft farthing for the l
mouth except as kennel for the l
tongue;—but the eye—etudy that, mji
he, and vou will read any mb*i heart
as phun as a book- —(chambers edin
burgh joar.
cmtesiisck or a rittt* swam.
—vivier, the celebrated horn-player,
is one of those men of whom anec
dotes are told—an eccentre insister
upon haring hts own way, and his own
way being whimsically peculiar.* he
in jost now the rage in england. on
a preceding trip to england, bo made
a visit to the zoological gardens. the
director, to whom he took a note of
introduction, accompanied him about
the grounds with great mrihty, and,
remarking that he took particular in
terest in n family of rattle-snakes,
offered to present him with one of the
most lively. the next morning, ac
cordingly, arrived a box at v ivier’s
lodgings, contaning the admired des
cendant of the tempter of eve, and
upon the cover was duly pasted the
necessary directions for feeding, pre
cautions against irritating, and a notice
in italics that the least bite of the
reptile would be instantaneous death.
this delicate souvenir from the
amiable director was politely received
and acknowledged, of course; but
vivier promised himself the most ex
peditious possible pleasure of dropping
his new token of friendship into the
thames, or of presenting him to an)*
lover of such playthings whom he should
first enejunter. it was not convenient
for a day or tw’o, however, and, mean
time he began to change his mind as to
the desirableness of his new toy. one
gets accustomed to co-occupants oi
four walls, even if they be rattle
snakes. observing the terror with
which he affected visitors, the horn
player saw his value as a re pell ant,
and as the grateful snake was of course
innocuous to his feeder, he found he
could safely give him the freedom ol
the room when he wished to disembar
rass himself of a bore.
those who travel often, as vivier
professionally does, between england
and france, know the annoyance of
having baggage impertinently over
hauled and examined by custom-house
officers. vivier’s first question, as the
officer approaches, is
do rattle-snakes pay a duty when
imported?”
no—but why?”
because i have [one among my
baggage.”
you joke
“very well! remember i have
cautioned you, and i tell )ou, more
over, that the least touch t>f his sting is
instant death. here are my keys
the officer suddenly absconds, -ol
course, and vivier gives his baggage,
unfumbled, to the porter. home jour.
moravian village. —taking the
cars i returned by the same rout as fat
as guadua, a moravian village. it it
in size the second settlement possessed
by this interesting religious community,
herrnhut being the first. there wat
nothing particular about its situation ir
the midst of a plain; but the extreme
quiet, neatness, and air of comfort abont
the place, rendered it the most attract
ive village i saw in germany. at the
recommendation of a mutual friend in
halle, i called on the minister, and wai
hospitably entertained and shown
through their educational apartments.
the chapel, personage, and seminary,
were in a connected series of buildings,
in the first, the seats were arranged sc
that the males and females sat on the
opposite sides; and there was an organ.
indeed, except in their fondness foi
music there was a marked resemblance
in the sedate air, and exceedingly neat,
plain appearance, to the members ol
the society of friends. the ladies
here have, by custom, a very con
venient way of, what some would call,
hanging out their colors, the dressei
of the smaller girls are ornamented
with little unostentations ribbons ol
deep red; the unmarried females,
pink; the married, blue; and the widows
gray or white. i noticed that in the
female school almost every apartment
was furnished with a piano. the girls
were much occupied with their needle
work, the proceeds of which as i under
stood, went to support the extensive
mission of this extraordinary people.
the settlement of guadau is next to
that of herrnhut in size, and it owns
and tills only what would make but a
moderate gentleman’s estate; and yet
these two villages send missionaries to
almost every clime and they now foster
upward of forty establishments in differ
ent parts of the world.— carton’s loi
terings in europe.
slave packing.—thirst. —a cor
respondent has forwarded us a report of
the proceedings at an important anti
slavery meeting in exeter, (eng.) from
an able address adopted on the occasion
we give the following passage the
africans are accustomed from the ear
liest period of life to drink water in very
law quantities they require it. their
sufferings (40m want ofit are much more
dreadful than ours would be under like
circumstances. it is said that a boy of
ten or twelve years of age would drink
more than a gallon a day. on board
the slave ships a tin-cupful, given once
in three days, is said sometimes to have
been given. it has seen found that this
supports life but the agony thus occa
sioned is indescribable. it is ten times
more horrible than that which is caused
by want of food. in the case of axteath
the body lies amongst the living until
an alarm is given, and sometimes until
it becomes putrid. when landed, the
unhappy slaves are in a state of most
awful emaciation and suffering. the
knee bones appear almost like the head
rf a person the muscular part of the
is gone, it is a mere bone covered with
a bit of skin the abdomen is highly
protuberant. there is a complete wast
ing of the animal system, a mere mass
>f bones remain. a man takes them up
his arms, and carries them out of the
ressel. they frequently require three
nonth’s feeding and care before they
trefit for the market.’ the most favor
te cargoes at the present time are beys
rotn eight to twelve years of age. they
wore conveniently.*
&tamik«.—jeremiah c. pam arm stabbed
a the aide at cariboo, ud, m tbe d»y of
be election, by edward efeoriogtoo, dame
kjgbl which grew oat of a dkpale at fee
mm. eihenngtoa arm rnmmitlsdeatham
ay,fedebah of (nil the woaad of m 7,
*rieepool considered dangerous