The following correspondence, which
is apiHMnled to the Narrative of the Life ol
Fiicdkkick Dot ci.ass,” although published
koui lime since, will he new and interesting
to many of the readers of the North Star.
The writer thus introduces it to his readers
The following comments on my Narrative
np|ieared very lately in the Delaware Repub
lican, a newspaper published iu the most
northern of the slave Stales, and not very
remote from that part of Maryland where niy
early days were spent. Although put lorth
ns a refutation of tny statements, under the
unflattering title of Falsehood Refuted, v
1 have great pleasure in presenting it to tny
readers. The writer’s admissions are valu
able as a confirmation of the main facts of my
Narrative; while the denials are only such as
might be be expected from an apologist ol
slavery.”
TO THE PIfBEIC—FALSEHOOD
REFUTED.
It is with considerable regret that 1
find myself measurably compelled to ap
pear before the public, but my attentioi
lias lately been arrested by a pamphlei
which lias been freely circulated ii
Wilmington and elsewhere, with tin
following superscription: Extractsfron
a .Varra/ire of Frederick: Douglass, ai
American Slave, written by himself.
And although I am aware that in
sensible, unprejudiced person will credi
such a ridiculous publication, wliici
bears the glaring impress of falsehoot
on every page, yet I deem it expedieu
that I should give the public some in
formation respecting the validity of thi:
narrative, because 1 was for many year:
u citizen of the section of country when
the scenes of the above mentioned nar
rativc are laid: and am intimately ac
quainted with most of the gentlemei
whose characters are so shamefully tra
duced, and I am also aware, that tin
Narrative was not written by the pro
fessed author, but from statements o
this runaway slave, some evil designet
person or persons have composed this
catalogue of lies to excite the indigna
tion of public opinion against the slave
holders of the South; and have even at
tempted to plunge their venomous fungi
iu the vitals of the church.
1 shall, therefore, briefly notice some
of the most gliring falsehoods contained
in the aforesaid Narrative, and give i
true representation of the character o
those gentlemen, who have been con
Mired in such an uncharitable manner
ns murderers, hypocrites, and every
thing else that is vile.
I indulge no animosity against th<
fabricators and circulators of the Nar
rative, neither do I know them; but i
positively declare the whole to be i
budget of falsehoods, from beginning t<
end.
I- Ihe identity of the author.—
About eight v ears ago, I knew this rec
reant slave by the name of Fredericl
Hailey, instead of Douglass.) H<
then liv«-d with Mr. Kdward Covey, ant
was an unlearned, and rather an ordi
nary negro, and am confident he wai
not capable of writing the Narrative ml
ludcd to; h»r none but an educate*
man, and one who had some knowledgt
of the rules of grammar, could w rite s<
correctly. Although, to make the iiu
position at all credible, the compose!
lias labored to write it in as plain i
style as possible; consequently, tliede
tection of the first falsehood proves tin
whole production to be notoriously un
true.
Again: It is a common custom ii
the pail of Maryland from which 1 rai
away, to separate children from thcii
(Mothers at a very early age.”
THE NORTH STAR
This also I know to be false. There
is no such custom prevalent in that stx>
lion of the country; but, on the contra
ry, the children are raised with their
mothers, and generally live with them
in the same house, except in some few
instances where the mother is hired out
as a cook or laborer in some other fami
ly.
The gentlemen whose names are so
prominently set forth in the said Narra
-1 tive, are C«»l. Kdward Lloyd, Capt.
Anthony, Austin Gore, Thomas Lam
din, (not Lanman,) Giles Hicks, Thom-j
as Auld, and Kdwin Covey. Most of
these persons I am intimately acquaiut
i cd with, and shall give a brief sketch
of their characters as follows:
Col. Edward Lloyd was one of the
most wealthy and respectable planters,
in the State of Maryland. He was at
one time the Gevernor of the State, and
for several years a member of the Leg
islature. He owned Several thousand
acres of land, and between 4 and 500
slaves. He died before I had much:
1 knowledge of him; hut I know that he
was a kind and charitable man, and in
every respect an honorable and worthy j
citizen.
Most of the same slaves are now
owned by his three sons, and they man
age their servants in the same manner
as did their father; and 1 know there!
1 are no such barbarities committed on
their plantations.
Could it be possible that charitable
feeling men could murder human be
ings, with as little remorse of con
science, as the narrative of this infa
mous libeller wishes to make us believe;
and that the laws of Maryland, which,
operate alike upon black and white,
bond or free, could permit such foul
murders to pass unnoticed? No it is
impossible and every sensible man
knows that these false accusations are 1
an ebullition of an unchristian preju
dice.
Capt. Anthony, and Giles Hicks, I
know but little of. The accused mur
derer, Mr. Gore, is a respectable citi
zen, living near St. Michaels, and I be
lieve a worthy mernberofthe Methodist!
Episcopal Church lie was formerly
an overseer for Col. Lloyd, and at this!
time, all who know him, think him any- J
thing but a murderer.
Thomas Lamdin, who, it is said, (in
the Narrative,) boasted so frequently
j of his murders, is at this time an honest
school teacher iu the District w here I
formerly lived; and all the harm that
can be said of him is, that be is too
good-natured and harmless to injure
any person but himself
Capt. Thomas Auld, whose hypocriti
cal meanness is so strongly depicted iu
the aforesaid Narrative, was for many
years a respectable merchant in the
town of St. Michaels, and an honorable
i and worthy member of the Methodist
i Episcopal Church, and only notable for
bis integrity and irreproachable Chris
tian character. He is now retired;
1 from the turmoil of a mercantile life,
i and engaged in the worthy occupation
of tilling the soil, little dreaming of the
foul accusations that are circulated
against him.
Edward Covey, the renowned “negro
breaker,’ is also a plain, honest farm
er, and a tried and faithful member of
the Methodist Episcopal Church. Mr.
Covey lived for several years on a farm
adjoining inv father’s, at which time this 1
runaway negro lived with him, and I'
am well aware that no such bloody i
tragedy as is recorded in that lying!
Narrative ever occurred on Mr. Covey’s
farm. All that can be said of Mr. Co-i
vey is, that he is a good Christian, andi
t a hard working man, and makes every.
one around him work, and treats theuij
I well. Ry his honest industry, he has,
t purchased a fine farm, and is now reap
ing the reward of his labor,
j Such are the characters of the men
w orn the imposers of this dirty Narra
live have so uncharitnbly traduced, and
by blending these false accusations with
the Methodist religion of the South,
(hey wish to lacerate her already bleed
ing wounds.
1 w as raised among slaves, and havei
also owned them, and am well aware j
that the slaves live better and fare bet
j ter iu many respects than the free
blacks.
J Yet, I am positively opposed to sla
very, for 1 know it is a great evil; but
I Iht evil falls not upon the slave, but on
the owner. i
'j Intrigue and false accusations will
J never liberate the slaves of the South; j
I I but, on the contrary, every such attempt
i will only forge lor them new and strong
er fetters.
Let the tender-hearted philanthropist
of the North speak truth and love to
wards their Southern brethren, and
make a liberal application of their gold
for the removing of the blacks from the
country, and their chance for success
I j will be more flattering.
1 have giveu a true representation of
1 the persons connected with the afore
said Narrative, and 1 respectfully sub
mit the facts to the judgment of an im
partial public.
A. C. C. THOMPSON,
No. 101 Market street,
jl Wihuington, Del.
1 Rsri.v to Mr. A. C. C. Thompson,
To the Edilor of the Liberator:
Dear Friexd: —For the sake of our
J righteous cause, 1 was delighted to see
l»y an extract copied into the Liberator
of l*4th of Dec., IHIS, from the Dela
ware Republican, that Mr. A. C. .C.
Thompson, No. 101, Market street,
W ilmington, has undertaken to invali
date wy testimony against the slave
holders, whose names 1 have made
prominent in the Narrative of my expe
t lienee while in slavery,
i Slaveholders and slave traders never
rj betray greater indiscretion, -than when
1 they venture to defend themselves, or
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR -GOD Is THE FATHER OF VS ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
their system of plunder, in any other
community than a slaveholding one.—
Slavery has its own standard of morali
ty, humanity, justice, and Christianity,
Tried by that standard, it is a system
of the greatest kindness to the slave—
sanctioned by the purest morality—in
perfect agreement with justice—and, ol
course, not inconsistent with Christiani
ty. Hut, tried by any other, it is doom
ed to condemnation. The naked rela
xation of master and slave is one ol
those monsters of darkness, to whom
the light of truth is death! The wise
ones among the slaveholders know this,
and they studiously avoid doing any
thing, which, in their judgment, tends
to elicit truth. They seem fully to un
derstand, that their safety is in their
silence. They may have learned this
wisdom from Junius, who counselled
his opponent., Sir William Draper,
when defending Lord Granby, never to
attract attention to a character, which
would only pass without condemnation,
when it passed without observation.
I am now almost too far away to an
swer this attempted refutation by Mr.
Thompson. I fear his article will he
forgotten, before you get my reply. I
however, think the whole thing worth
reviving, as it is seldom we have so
good a case for dissection. In any
country hut the United States, I might
hope to get a hearing through the col
umns of the paper in w hich i was at
tacked. Hut this would bo inconsist
ent with American usage and magna
nimity. It would be folly to expect
such a hearing. They might possibly
advertise me as a runaway slave, and
share the reward of my apprehension;
but on no other condition would they
allow iny reply a place in their columns.
In this, however, I may judge the
Republican’harshly. It may be that,
having admitted Mr. Thompson’s arti
cle, the editor will think it but fair—
negro though I am—to allow my reply
an insertion.
Iu reply to Mr. Thompson, I shall
proceed as I usually do in preaching
the slaveholder’s sermon, —dividing the
subjects under two [general heads, as
follows:
Ist. The statement of Mr. Thomp
son, in continuation of the truth of my
narrative.
2d. His denials of its truthfulness.
Under the tirst, I beg Mr. Thompson
to accept my thanks tor his free and
unsolicited testimony, in regard to iny
identity. There now need he no doubt
on that point, however much there
might have been before. Your testi
mony, Mr. Thompson, has settled the
question forever. I give you the full
est credit for the deed, saying nothing
of the motive. But for you, sir, the
pro-slavery people in the North might
have persisted, with some show of rea
son, in representing me as being an im
poster —a free negro who had never
been South of Mason and Dixon’s line,
one whom the abolitionists, acting on
the Jesuitical principle, that the end
justities the means, had educated and
sent forth to attract attention to their
(altering cause. lam greatly indebted
to you, sir, for silencing those truly
prejudicial insinuatious. I w ish I could
make you understand the amount ofser
vice you have done me. You have
completely tripped up the heels of your
pro-slavery friends, and laid them flat
at your feet. You have done ft piece
of anti-slavery work, which no anti-sla
very man could do. Our cautious and
truth-loving people in New England
would never have believed this testimo
ny, in proof of my identity, had it been
i born by an abolitionist capable of bear
i ing false witness intentionally, but such
j people are thought fanatical, and to
j look at every thing through a distorted
medium. They will believe you—they
will believe a slaveholder. They have,
some how or other, imbibed (and I con
fess strangely enough) the idea that
persons such as yourself are dispassion
ate, impartial, and disinterested, and
therefore capable of g'ving a fair rep
resentation of things connected with
slavery. Now% under these circurn
j stances, your testimony is of the utmost
I importance. It will serve to give effect
'to my exposures of slavery, both at
home and abroad. I hope 1 shall not
administer to your vanity when I tell
you that you,seem to have been raised
up for that purpose! I came to this
land with the highest testimonials from
some of the most intelligent and distin
j guished abolitionists in the United
States, yet some have entertained and
expressed a doubt as to whether I have
ever been a slave. You may easily
imagine the perplexing and embarras
ing nature of my situation, and how
anxious I must have been to he reliev
ed from it. You, sir, have relieved
me. I now stand before the American
and British people, endorsed by you as
being just what I have ever represent
ed myself to he—an American slate,
You say, I knew the recreant slave
by the name of Frederick Hailey (in
stead of Douglass.’) Yes, that was my
1 name; and leaving out the term re ere
ant, which savors a little of bitterness,
your testimony is direct and perfect—
just what I have huig wanted. Hut yon
i are not yet satisfied. You seem deter
mined to bear the most ample testimony
in my favor. You say you knew rat
I when I lived with Mr. Covey. ‘And
with most of the persons mentioned in
my narrative,‘you are intimately ac
i quainted.' This is excellent. Then
Mr. Edward Covey is not a creature ol
my imagination, hut really did, and may
yet exist.
You thus brush away the miserable
’insinuations of my northern pro-slavery
i enemies, that have used fictitious, not
real names. You say— ‘CoL Lloyd
was a wealthy planter. Mr. Gore wai
once an overseer for Col. Lloyd, but
now living near St. Michael s, is re
spected, and [you] believe be is a mein-
ROCHESTER, N. Y, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1848.
her of the Methodist Episcopal Church, j
Mr. Thomas AukJ is an honorable and
worthy me tuber of the Methodist Epis
copal Church. Mr. Covey, too, is a
member of the Methodist church, and
ull that can be said of him is, that he is
a good Christian,’A-c. kc. Do allow
me, once more, to thank you for this
triumphant vindication of the truth of
my statement; and to show you how
highly I value your testimony, I will in
form you that I am now publishing a
second edition of my narrative in this
country, having already disposed of the
first. I w ill insert your article with my
reply as an appendix to the edition now
in progress. If you find any fault with
my frequent thanks, you inay find some
excuse for me in the fact, that I have
serious fears that you will be but poorly
thanked by those vrboae characters you
have felt it your duty to defend. I am
almost certain they will regard you as
running before you were sent, and as
having spoken when you should have
been silent. Under these trying cir
cumstances, it is evidently the duty ol
those interested in your welfare to ex
tend to you such words of consolation
as may ease, if not remove, the pain ol
your sad disappointment! But enougli
of this.
Now then, to the second part—or
your denials. You are confident I did
not write the book; and the, reason of
your confidence is, that when you knew
me, I was an unlearned and rather an
ordinary negro. Well, I have to admit
I was rather an ordinary negro when
you knew me, and I do not claim to be
a very extraordinary one now. But
you knew me under very unfavorable
circumstances. It was when 1 lived
with Mr. Covey, the negro breaker,
and member of the Methodist Church. 1
had just been living with master Thom
as Auld, where I had been reduced by
hunger. Master Thomas did not allow
me enough to eat. Well, when I lived
with Mr. Covey, I was driven so hard,
and whipt so often, that my soul was
crushed and my spirits broken. I was
a mere wreck. The degradation to
which I was then subjected, as I now
look back to it, seems more like a dream
than a horrible reality. I can scarcely
realize how I ever passed through il
without losing all my moral and intel
lectual energies. I can easily under
stand that you sincerely doubt il’l wrote
the narrative; for if any one had told
me, seven years ago, should ever be
able to write such an one, I should
have doubted as strongly us you now
do. You must not judge me now by
what I then was—a change of circum
stances has made a surprising change
in me. Frederick Douglass,, the free
man, is a very different person from
Frederick Bailey,* the slave. I feel
myself almost a new man—freedom has
given me new fife. I fancy you would
scarcely know me. 1 think I have al
tered very much in my general appear
ance, and know I have in my manners.
You remember when I used to meet
you on the road to St. Michael’s or near
Mr. Covey’s lane gate, I hardly dared
to lift my head, and look up at you. If
I should meet you now, amid the free
hills of old Scotland, w here the ancient
black Douglass’ once met his foes, I
presume I might summon sufficient for
titude to look you full in the luce; and
were you to attempt to make a slave of
me, it is possible you might find me al
most as disagreeable a subject, as was
the Douglass to whom I have just re
ferred. Of one thing, I am certain—
you would see a great change in me!
i I trust 1 have now explained away
your reason for thinking I did not
write the narrative in question.
You next deny the existence of such
cruelty in Maryland as I reveal in my
narrative; and ask, with truly marvell
ous simplicity,‘could it be possible that
charitable, feeling men could murder
humau beings with as litle remorse as
the narrative of this infamous libeller
would make us believe; and that the
laws of Maryland, which operate alike
upon black and white, bond and free,
could permit such foul murders to pass
unnoticed?’ ‘No,* you say it is impos
sible I am not to determine what
charitable, feeling men can do; but to
show what Maryland slaveholders act
ually do: their charitable fee.ing is to
be determined by their deeds, and not
their deeds by their charitable feeling.
The cowskin makes as deep a gash in
my flesh, when wielded by a professed
saint, as it does when wielded by an
open sinner. The deadly musket does
as much execution when its trigger is
pulled by Austin Gore, the Christian,
as when the same is done by Beal
Bondly, the infidel The best way to
ascertain what those charitable feeling
men can do’ will be to point you to the
laws made by them, aud which you say
operate alike upon the while and black,
tbe bond and free. By consulting the
statute law s of Maryland, you w ill find
the following;— Any slave for
rambling in the night, or riding horses
tin the day time without leave or run
i ning away, may be punished bv whip
ping .cropping, branding in the check
or otherwise not rendering him unfit for
i labor”—p- 337. Then another/—“Any
slave convicted of petty treason, mur
der, or wilful burniug of houses, may
be sentenced to have his right hand cut
off, to be banged in the usual manner,
the head severed from bis body—tbe
'body divided into four quarters, and
the head and quarters set up in the
most public places, where such act
was committed.’ —P*S C 190.
Now, Mr. Thompson, when you con
sider with what ease a slave may be
convicted of any one or all of these
i crimes, bow bloody and attrocious those
laws appear! Yet, sir, they are bat the
breath of those pious aud charitable
j feeling men, whom you would defend.
lam sure I have recorded in i my nar
*.Mv Miwr opt.
rative, nothing so revoltingly cruel,
murderous, mod infernal, as may be
found in your own statute book.
You say that the laws of Maryland
operate alike upon the white and black,
the b<>nd and free. If you mean by
this, that the parties named arc all
equally protected by law, you perpe
trate a falsehood as big as that told by
President Polk in his inaugural address.
It is a notorious fact even on this side
of the Atlantic, that a black man cannot
testify against a white man in uny
court in Maryland nor aßy other slave
State. If you do not ku «w this, you
are rather to be pitied than censured.
I will not say ‘that the detection of this
falshood proves all you have said to
be false*—for I wish to avail myself of
your testimony, in regard to my ioden
tity,—but I will say, you have made
yourself very liable tv suspicion.
I will close these-remark s by saying,
your positive opposition to slavery is
explained, and will be well understood
by anti-slavery men, when you say the
evil of tbe system does not fall upon
the slave, but the slaveholder. This
is like saying that the evil of being
burnt is not felt by the person burnt,
but by him who kindles up the fire about
him. Frederick Douglass.
Perth, (Scotland,) 27th Jan., 1846.
Frniu tlie N. Y. GI»Ik-.
BEAUTIES OF THE SLAVE SYSTEM.
The following narrative of the heart
rending case of the schooner Pearl, now
under investigation in the Court of the
United States, will be read with inter
est. The narrator is a gentleman fa
miliar with the history of the sad affair,
and his description of it will be likely
to command the attention of the Ame
rican people. No friend of our free
institutions can peruse the history
of this case, without feeling that the
character of our country, its Democ
racy and its humanity, have been out
raged by it. That the seat of the Fed
eral Government should be the place in
which such deeds transpire, is well cal
culated to alarm the friends of free in
stitutions throughout the world:
District of Columbia—Frtraordmary Judicial
Proceedings—Trial of Drayton and Sayres
The S hooncr Pearl—The Persons ivho
attempted to firin'’re their Freedom—lllus
trations of the Slare System.
Washington, Aug. 25, 1848.
Preston King, St. Lawrence County.
Sir: If the simplicity and man
liness of your character commanded a
less cordial respect from me than they
do, I should not have placed your name
at the head of this communication. Il
your present position as a firm friend ol
freedom, equality and brotherhood,were
less worthy of admiration than it is, it
would not have occurred to me submit
toyou the brief statements which I juro
posc to make on this occasion. This is
a territory which belongs to the United
States—to the Indivisible Republic—to
the whole People. I write in sight of
the National Capitol. Here reside the
sovereignty and responsible power of
the entire people in their oneness. The
voice of a great monarch speaks here.
What it bids, is done. What it pro
hibits, none may presume to do. Of
course the majority, wherever it re
sides, must be answerable to the civil
ized world. To its hands the honor and
interest of the nation—the great whole
are committed. If justice and human
ity pervade the laws in their design and
execution, then the intrinsic advantage,
as well as the controlling influence of
an illustrious example, will be the com
mon inheritance of all. Freedom can
never enter into partnership with ty
ranny and despotism. The idea of such
a compromise is preposterous—unpos
-1 sihle. The constituent elements of the
two are natural and inevitable antago
nists. The one or the other will tri
i umph in the end, and rule in the sphere
i which it occupies, without a rival. The
very object of acquiring this territory
at the outset, was to make sure of a
place for future utterance and untrain
rncled activity, in the most liberal sens#
of a Democratic platform. Sad to say,
the spirit of northern freedom from the
beginning has been suffocated in this
den of tyranny. No man from the
North speaks and acts with the ease
and naturalness here which he is ac
customed to do at horde. There is a
certain measured tone in his language,
a certain caution and stiffness in his
movements, of which he would be
heartily ashamed among his neighbors
jor constituents. I need not remind you
of this. You have resided here, and
can readily feel the point of what I say.
One is overawed by a ferocious, cor
rupt public sentiment, dictated by the
1 tvrant enste. The voice of another is
stifled by the love of place, or rather
through the dread of losing it.
i A very remarkable scene bat been
witnessed here within a few weeks past.
Such proceedings have been had in the
United Slates Criminal Court fer tbe
District, before Judge Crawford, as, k
seems to me, will astonish thinking peo
ple. I dare say you have noticed the
trial of Drayton and Sayres, as report
-led in the papers. It is that which I al
lude to. These two men were accused
of stealing certain persons who were
found on board the schooner Pearl.—
j They are both of them men of fair and
i respectable standing among their ac
i quaintances in Philadelphia. To deal,
carries in it the design to sell the pro
perty taken, to make gain aad profit ol
’it. So the District Attorney gets a
I Grand Jury to find forty-one indict
ments against each of these men, and
also against English, a young man who
was with them, but was at last, after a
fear math’s unjustifiable imprison
ment, discharged, without a trial. The
persous claimed belonged to forty -one
assumed owners—that is, there were al
leged forty-one distinct acts of deal
big. But there were in fact seventy-
four persons on tb« Pearl claimed u
slaves. Tlie District Attorney there
fore got the I*rand Jury to indict each
of the three men Drayton, Sayres
and English—for the distinct offence ol
aiding away each of these seventy-fout
persons claimed as slaves. Thus forty
one indictments were found against eacli
of them for stealing—that is, one hun
dred and twenty-three in all —grand
total, three hundred and forty-fire.—
The penalty for stealing is 10 years
imprisonment for each offence, and foi
aiding away, a fine of two hundred dol
lars in each case of conviction. These
indictments are found under two dis
tinct statutes, which are among the
laws of Maryland of long standing.anc
are made applicable to this District, il
at all, by an act of Congress! Eng
lish is discharged, a 9 I said. Drayton
is sentenced to twenty years in the pen
itentiary! Sayres, on precisely the
same state of (beta and shearing by the
prosecution, is acquitted of stealing,
and convicted of aiding. Both now lie
in jail, as an appeal is taken to the Cir
cuit Court, which does not hold a term
till October. It was not my purpose to
pass a criticism upon the details of this
monstrous and profligate proceeding
within the sacred precincts of a United
States Court. That will soon he done,
and the whole record spread out foi
public inspection by a far abler ham!
than mine. At least I hope it will, am!
do i.ot doubt it. I will say, however,
that the repeated outrages upon the
common sense, commou decency, ant!
the rightful forms of law, as they are
conceived and maintained throughout
the bounds of the civilized world, com
mitted in the progress of this trial, by
both the prosecuting officer and the
Judge, are a deep disgrace to us all,
and will continue to be so, till a revers
al of the whole proceeding—till they
are driven from the station which they
occupy hut to disgrace.
Let me state the case—the whole ol
it—simply as may be: A numerous fam
ily, supposed bv the best lawyers in
Washington, and by the community, to
he fairly and legally entitled to their
freedom, whilst it was yet in controver
sy, applied, through a colored man, to
Drayton, to take them off. Without
knowing their names, or the circum
stances further, he consented to do it,
if they could get on hoard his vessel.
As was perhaps inevitable, other per
sons, who were actually sold, or were
liable to be every day, became ac
quainted with .the fact, that the mastei
of a vessel not unfriendly to them was
here, or would be here, at a certain
time. In the depths of their distress, ai
the idea of on immediate transportation
to the horrors of a New Orleans slav*
market, they rushed on board of a ves
sel, which they trusted in God might
land them on friendly free soil! Dray
ton never saw one of them, nor heard
the name of one of them, till he was on
his way down the Potomac, the day af
ter they went on board. Nothing was
proved against him on the trial, except
that these persons were on the vessel
with him—that is the whole of it—with
every conceivable inference and impli
cation on his side, that he intended to
bring them to a free State. That was
altogether sufficient to clear him from
the imputation of theft or crime, in the
rational construction of the law as it is.
But I have said enough on this point;
your reflections will well supply the in
cidents and drapery.
Let ine detail to you a few facts con
nected ..h this affair of the schooner
Pearl, and a few illustrations of Slave
ry in our Federal District.
The Bei.l Family.—Daniel Bell is
a robust, worthy, industrious man, a
native of Prince George’s county, be
low Washington. He has worked
most of the time for twenty years past
at the Navy Yard, in the smith’s shop,
where heavy iron work is cost and
moulded. Many years since, tho mas
ter of Bell, ia a rage because the
owner of his wife had set her free by
deed, sold him to the speculators. They
came into the shop while at his work—
without warning, he was knocked flat
to the floor by them, ironed and car
ried to the trader's pen, then kept in
Seventh street, on the Avenue. Bell
had friends, who pitied him, and his
distressed wife and children. They
induced a Colouel somebody, of the
marine corps, to purchase hirn, and
give him a chance to work out his
freedom. Bell was to pay a thousand
dollars for himself. He had actually
paid the amount, or near it, when his
owner, the Colonel, was ordered to
Florida, where he died. It was then
found that he had mortgaged Bell to
his sister-irt-law, for a thousand dollars,
before leaving home. She demanded
of Bell the whole sum, but he sunk in
despair, and told her he must die a
slave after all, for he never could raise
that amouot. Through the interven
tion of a trusty friend, Thomas Blag
den, who had from the first endorsed
Bell’s notes for him, he gr*t the price
finally reduced to five or six hundred
dollars. The sum of the matter is,
Bell has the receipts to show that he
has actually paid for himself!
He got his freedom papers complete
only last year, some time. His wife,
some years since, when die had six
children, was made free by the express
deed of her master, which was to take
effect at his death, and that took place
a few days after the deed waa execu
ted. She was recorded in the Clerk ’s
office as free, and remained so for eight
years, having had two children in tile
time. Her children, by the deed,
were to be free as they suceasiveJy
arrived at a certain age-1-say twenty
five. After a lapse of eight years, and
when there were eight children sad
two graod children, the widow set up a
claim to the «4»ole group, eleven in »H
Poor B$U had recourse to lawyers and
JOHN MCI, f
WHOLE NO.-42.
kut with little prospect of g
rrar«M of grirva nce»! The widow
w constantly seeking t„ y hand* on
them, to obtain the price of tbeir sinew*
I’rora the speculators, or she took their
I wages without allowing them the first
red cent for clothes. This is the con
duct of the. widow Greenfield, living
near the Navy Yard f
As his last and only hope, poor Bell
put his family on the Pearl. They
were brought back, and with the ex
ception ot his wife and two younger
children, were all sold and scattered
over the South, God knows where
The wife and one child Mr. Rlagdetf
redeemed for Bell, and the sum is now
making up at the North—four hundred.
dollars. This is the family that were
referred to with so much effect by Mr.
Slingerland, the representative from
our Albany district, at the tins of thq
flagitious transaction fast spring.
The Kdmotsox ffhsuLv. Paul
Edmonson was born into Slavery, in
Montgomery county, Maryland, eigh
teen miles from this city. He wCitl lives
in the same neighbourhood. At the
age of forty-two he obtained hia free
dom by the gift of his master. By
industry, economy and thrift, he fra*
acquired a comfortable little homestead
of forty acres, on which he now lives
at the age of seventy years. He has
reared a family of fifteen children.
Fourteen are still alive, one, a daugh
ter, having died at the nge of sixteen.
His wife, Milly, was also born to tho
sad inheritance of bondage, and is still
a slave. At an early period, in tho
distribution of an estate, she fell to the
lot of one Rebecca Culver. The two
have grown up together from childhood.
The mistress was not reckoned quito
com]/os, and has always had a guardian
of her person and trustee of her pro
perty. 3he person now her guardian
and trustee is Francis Yaledenur,
whose wife is a neice of his ward, and
an heir apparent of her estate. Mr.
V'aldenur is a inan of some standing in
the neighbourhood, and is a State
Tobacco Inspector at Baltimore.
These Kdmonsons arc not an ordinary
family, as you will perceive in tho
sequel. They have the impulses of
manhood and freedom gushing through
their veins. Some fifteen years since,
when the second son whose name is
Hamilton, arrived at full manhood, he
attempted to snap his ignoble chains,
and reach the North, to be his own
man and guide, under God. He was
caught, taken back, and sold for $5OO
to New Orleans. In June last, his
brothers and sisters, who were on tho
Pearl, met him there, and found he
had just obtained his freedom for SIOUU
which he had earned and saved over
and above his tasks as a slave! Five
of the sisters now reside in Washing
ton—they are masrted there, and are
all of them in comfortable circum
stances; fine in their personal appear
ance—modest, well-behaved, estimable
women, all of them. One of them paid
$3OO only for herself; she was an in
valid. The doctor told her she would
soon die, and she had better not make
the attempt. Her reply was “131 do
it and be free, if I die the next hour
another paid $3*25 for he? freedom,
whose constitution was delicate. The
oldest, a noble-looking, noble-minded
woman, purchased her rights at $450,
some years ago, before prices were as
high as at present. The two younger
of these five married sisters paid $5OO
apiece for themselves. Four brothers
and two younger sisters Emily and
Maria were on the Pearl. They vert
brought back with the rest and sold Co
the speculators for the New Orleans
market for $750 apiece all round. Now
cast up, and it will appear that tho
trustee of the demented old maid has
actually realized from the sale of this
one family, the offspring of a sing fa
slave mother, the sum of $7075 The
two youngest children—a very likely
boy and girl—arc still left. They are
so much capital in hand, to be traded
upon at the first convenient time. But
this family was entirely nurtured and
brought up by the father, and each, aa
soon as arrived at the working age,
has been put out at wages for the ex
clusive benefit of the old rnaid, without
sense or rather, for that of those who
choose to be her heirs. It would be
fact worthy of one’s curiosity to know
how much peeciscly they have earned
and paid over. I said four of the
brothers and two sisters were sold to
New Orleans. One brother, Richard,
has been bought, brought back, and
made free. 'Hu? sisters have also been
brought back, and are now in the trad
ers pen in Baltimore, in whose behalf
an appeal -will soon be made. The
other three brothers have been sold ia
New Orleans. I might multiply eases
to a score, similar in their features to
these. I intended to mention 'several
others, but lam taxing your patieocs
too severely and will stop.
If the question were about to be
subrnited, whether an immediate stop
should be put to the sale of such per
sons and families as these, in our i>ie
trict of Columbia, a peremptory act
of Congress, or sot, J »ho«ld like to
have the people of glorious, Democrat
ic, radical St. Lawrence—the swarm
ing masses,
Such an almighty Art! would resound
through the woods £nd across tbs
lakes, as to shake the topm-ut peaks of
the Essex mountain* I’d like to put
it to them to say. whether as honest,
simple-hearted man shall go to tha
Penitentiary ia the Federal Datfrict for
twenty years, a* a Stats criminal,
beclfae he allowed* such people as
these to lak passage oa bis vesael, or
rather did not drive them from it.
These are questions to be thought of—
to be o»«t—they must be—there fa an
avoiding it.
Your friend and fellow-citizen,
HAMPDEN
Anti-slavery Meeting.
The Geneva Ladies’ A. S. »S. Society
give notice that they have secured the ser
vice* of Mr. Frederic* PoroLAE*, to deliver
an address before them ou the evening of the
third Wednesday of Ortolicr. *ftie public
arc re-spocifutty invited to attend.
Mks. BLAND, Sec.
Mr*. MARY JKFFRY, Pro*.
Rhode Island Antl-Klavery Society
Annnal Meeting.
The thuteenth annual meeting of tbe Rhode
Wand Anti-Slavery Society, will be held in
Providence, on Wednesday and Thursday,
November 15th, and Kith. 1848.
The usual elfort will he made to secure the
attendance of distinguished friends of emanci
{tttion from abroad, and it is-confidentially
hoped that the meeting will l»c rendered inter
esting to all who may be present.
Our earnest appeal to all the friends of Lib
rrty in Rhode Island is, that tliey w ill ono
again lend to us and to the cause, their pre
wince, their warm sympathies and their goner
ou* eiTorts. Tins surely is not a rime when
the Pioneers of our cause in this State—tht
earnest ami true men and women of the home
of Roger Williams should falter in their work,
or lack faith in the ultimate triumph of thcii
doctrines. The fires which have been kindled,
and which are now bursting forth, even
amongst the old long enslaved and slave
shattered political parties, should be kept
burning; and enquirers for the truth should
fie pointed to a higher duty and a more glori
ous purpose. li«t us come together, then,
with warm and determined hearts, ami taking
courage from the past, resolve again to press
forward w ith renewed zeal ami a closer friend
ohip for our cause, to the prize so dear to us.
and so full of joy to the enslaved.
In bchali of the Rhode Island Anti-Slavery
Society,
JOHN BROWN, President,
A.varancv Pa ink, Secretary.
Providence, R. L, Oct. 2, lt*4B.
FREEDOM’S JUBILEE CELEBRA
TION.
Hie Colored Freemen of Central New
ork, will commemorate the day which gave
Freedom to 800,000 human beings in the
British West India Isles, at Auburn, N. Y.,
on the Ist of August next. And at the same
time they will remember with gratitude the
recent Frenen demonstration of Liberty,
Equality, Fraternity.
By order of the Committee,
Gilbert Coolkv,
Solomon Deman,
J. W. Qi INCY,
Jacob Jordon,
Howard Wells. I
WOMAN’S PROTECTIVE UNION.
W ill meet at Protection Jlall, Friday at 3
o clock P. M. All interested in raising wo
man from her present state of degradation,
are respectfully invited to attend.
SARAH C. OWEN, Sec.
To llie People of the United States.
The Gubernatorial Election in Ohio.
The undersigned, composing the Slate
-crural Committee of the F ree Democracy of
Ohio, ask the alien lion their fellow citizens
of all parties, throughout the Union, to the
following statement in regard to the Guberna
torial election in this Stale.
The Cleveland llcrald, the leading Taylor
paper in northern Ohio, has, w ith becoming
••smlor. repudiated the claim put forth in a
New York print, that the election of Search*
Ford will In* a Taylor victory. This ex
ample has been followed by some other Tav
or papers.
It is not improbable, however, that out of
Ohio, —and not impossible that by some reck
less presses even in Ohio, —this groundless
brim may be asserted after our election on
the second Tuesday of October.
It is iin|*oriaul that this matter be rightly
understood; Ibr nothing can he more certain
than that if such a claim could lie justly
made, General Ford would be defeated by aii
unprecedented majority.
Gen. Ford was nominated, indeed, by a
Whig State Convention, hut it was months]
liefore the dissolution of the whig party by I
the Philadelphia nomination, and he was 1
nominated as a declared and resolute support-:
«-r of the Wiimot Proviso, and of kindred
anti-slavery measures.
Since the nomination of Taylor, Gen. Ford
has maintained the positions which he previ-!
onslv occupied. He is still a firm friend of
the Proviso, known and acknowledged to lx;!
Mich by all, whether friends or opponents, i
He has not, indeed, declared for whom he]
shall vote m the Presidential election but he
has given no countenance to any claim that
he will votf for Gen. Taylor.
On the other hand, we are not advised that
Goo. Ford has expressed any intention to
vote fi»r the candidates of the Free Democra- j
ry.. It is certain, however, that the candidate i
i«ir Congress, iu Gen. Ford’s district, norai-j
listed by a whig convention, assembled since
the Taylor nomination, is one of the most
earnest and able supporters of Mr. Van Hur
on in our State. It is also certain, that Mr.
Riddle, the nominee of the Whig County!
convention of Geauga, Gen. Ford’s own
eouniy, is, also, a warm and decided advocate
••I Mr. \an liurvu'b election. And we are]
assured, by intelligent and reliable men, that]
Mr. mi Bun n's majority, in Geauga cowuty,
will not fall short of ihat given to Gen. lord
himself, which, it is expected, will not he*
less than sixteen hundred.
t 01. W kller was nominated hy the Siaie j
Convention ol iln: old drnmeratie party, on I
il»e Mb of January lust. The letter of Gen. I
Ca*s to Mr. Nicholson, was then before the I
public, and objections to t 'ass were undo m
the convention on account of the lenuueiation
of the Wilnuit Proviso which it avowed.'
The convention, notwithstanding, remm-
mended Case for the Pre>idcnlial nomination,
by a decided majority, and nominated Col.i
Weller for Governor, a* a ass mail. Siucc
ibe Baltimore convention, Cut- Weller baa,
avowed las full adhesion toils platform—the
slavrrf resolution and all—and has t.tkcj,
ground —although he declares h b own opjK»Ri
iiuii to tl»e extension of slavery into new
territories —against the WUniot I’ioviso.
It must In? reimub*-re*l, llmi G.-n. Ford and
Cvd. Weller were already m uoanuauou,
wie-n tlie lnde|nmJepl Free Soil inmiviiiUuii
of Ohio, met at Columbia, iu June last. T’li»t
convention, in deference mainly to the wjsl.es
of the Free Soil men of the Re*r*rve, but
greatly mfluenced, also, by the consideration
iluu no tin»rough organization ol the J*arty'
could be effected until alter Uio Bufiaiu con
vottjMi, adopted a resolution declaring j! j
*'inexpedient, at that tune, to nominate a
candidate fur Governor. Since Uie adjour-f
nment of the Buffalo convention, no State
Free Democratic convention, lies l»eeu held
It being thought in* vpedteot, in view of the
efiori tut* rval bcUwn that adjournment and
i>ur Stale election, to eiiiliamiw the Free Soil
eauvaxv lor ucmUu <d Congn-M th>•
Slain JjggtuhUuie, bv a contest for Governor,
which i«. in Ohio, a inerclv nomival office.
Tin F.ce P«::u«»cra« -»r* therefore, uufi
out a Aandidatfo for GiivenpNT. It is not a
desirable |*wt|ian but one* which could not
bo availed rveept by iiutntMSion, at the verv
of our pwty organisation, and undor
eirovnMtanr*’% which, in the judgment of our
boat men, rendered such 1 step wholly inad
visable, in view of the paramount interests of
our great cause.
j In the ahecnce of a Gubernatorial nnoiina
tion of their own, and in view of the poaiumt*
,of the two candidates already before the
I we do iwH doubt that Geo. Fund will
receive must of the votea of thone Free Soil
era, who acted wuh the Whig Patty at the
time he was nominated. He wiilal*o receive
i the votea of some who acted with the old
Party, at the lime Col. Weller
|w as nominated, hut wilt not now vote hitu
on account of the positions he has taken dur
ing the canvass. Many votes, also, will be
least for him by the old Liberty men, on
account of bis imoom vocal opposition to .Slave
ry and the Black Laws, during bis service in
the .Slate legislature.—lt is true that many
voles will he withheld both by Taylor men
and Free Snilers, on account of his refusal lo
declare how be will vote at the Piesidentia!
election; and many votes will be given for
Col. Weller, in s[Hte of hts positions in favor
iof Can and his doctrines, by Free Salem
from the old Democratic Partv, w ho mil vote
f«>r some one, and will not vote fur a candi
date, nominated by their old op|tonenis, unless
be will come out unequivocally in favor of
j Van Huron. No one however, doubts that
a large proportion of the Free Soil votes will
be given to Gen. Ford.
The election of Gen. Ford will, therefore,
indicate the weaknen, rather than the strength
|of Gun. Taylor in Ohio. He is not a Tajdor
candidate; his election will bo no teat of
j Tavlorism.
j IT IS OCR DCLIftEKAft OFIKIO* THAT THU
State or Onto cam, j* mo cf est bk cam
j Mini for Okm. Taylor. We are confident
:of a heavy majority over Cass and Taylor
both, in the counties of the Western Reserve.
If our friends in the other parts of the State
do their whole duty, we believe that the vote
of the State can be given to Van Burcn.
The real contest in Ohio is between Van Bnr
en and Cass. The struggle will be hard, but
faith and works will give us tlw victory.
K. S. HAMLIN, 1
S. M. SMITH, Stats
J VS. M. WEST WATER, Central
L. L. RICE, I Conunutec
ISRAEL GARRARD. J
Columbus, (Jet., 4, Is4B.
THE NORTH STAR.
I ROCHESTER, OCTOBER 13, 1848.
Visit to Philadelphia.
Wc have seldom spent two weeks more
agreeably, or usefully, than those which we
have just passed in the City of Brotherly
Love. At the urgent request of several de
voted friends oi’ the cause in that place, we
were reluctantly induced to leave our editorial
post, for the purpose of holding a scries of
meetings in that city among the colored peo
ple, and thereby extend the circulation of the
North Star. In the pleasure which the visit
afforded, the numerous friends and acquaint
ances made, the increased knowledge of the
social condition of our people acquired, sub
scriptions to the North Star obtained, and
ihe general and we trust praiseworthy good
[lone, we feel abundantly compensated for the
toil and inconvenience to which absence from
our editorial duties invariably subjects us. Of
the meetings of the first week, our
Delany, has already informed you. They
were such as would have cheered the hearts
of freedom's friends, and chilled the blood of
tyrants to have witnessed. They were large,
generous, enthusiastic and unanimous. There
was never so general an interest excited
among the colored people of that city be
fore. The whole population seemed moved
by a general impulse from Lombard street to
West Philadelphia, and from thence to the
Northern Liberties, the cause of freedom
rolled, sweeping all befure it. For much of
the interest excited, the cause is largely in
debted to the well-directed clTorts of Charles
Lenox Rcinond. He had, in company with
Hr. Bias, George W. Goines, liev. Messrs.
Galbrath, and Catto, and other devoted friends
of frerKloin, kept up a constant fire upon the
pro-slavery churches and ministry of Phila
delphia. When nearly exhausted, the ap
pearance of M. If. Delany refreshed and in
vigorated them for a renewal of the contest,
and they were in full blast when we arrived.
Many of the colored churches had been closed
against the discussion. Little Wesley, pre
sided over by Rev. Mr. Catto, was fur a time
almost the only house where the cause of the
ilave could Ire freely pleaded. Brick Wesley,
i large and commodious building, presided
uver by Rev. Mr. Galbrath, came open next
Shiloh Baptist Church, presided over by Rev.
S. Serrington, threw open its doors next.—
Bethel Church, in West Philadelphia, threw
its doors open next; and last, though not
least, the Union and Zoar Churches, in the
Northern Liberties, were opened to the cause
next. The churches most hostile to the Anti-
Slavery movement, and bitterly opposed to
rpeuing their doors, are Stephen Gloucester’s,
St. Thomas's, and Large Bethel. These
lirec arc closed against discussion, and for
rnrious reasons. The first of this pro-slavery
rio is presided over by one of the vilest
raitors to Ins race that ever lived. When
lie mob spirit raged in Philadelphia in IH|2,
md the persons and property of colored chi
le us had been attacked, some killed, and
nuch property destroyed, this miserable trui
or came out in a card in the Philadelphia
dger, and attempted to propiiialc Uie pro
la very demon, by declaring that tus church
is// nertr been upatuf J'ur A/iU-SJamy inert
ngs, thus, dastard like, making a merit of his
i leanness, ami claiming protection from tlie
•[•pressor because he had basely turned his
>ack upon the oppressed. He is the same
.Jhmeester who was the jut of the misnamed
h'm* Church of Scotland, which sent a depu
ation to this country four years ago to solicit
b•nations for the purpose „f building Free
'hunlies, and paying Free Church minister*
n Scotland, which deputation ucut lulu tin:
'hue StaUfc, saw tins slaves tu their tiuuibic
-ondiUmn, divested ol ail ngiils, forded with
due l/east of the field, bound with chains,
maimed w ith iron*, scarred by the lash, kicked
up in midnight ignorance, denied the
opportunity «*f hunting to read (he name and
will of God; and with this giant crime before
[hrrn, they fellow shipped the slaveholder,
Ealhfd hnn Dear Christiau broth, r, solicited and
obtained his blood-Mainod g M ht, saying n<4h
ng ol lus crimes, or uhispanng a wutd ol
‘Ytitpaiiiy with the perishing slate*. They
eft our slwie*, placed Uwir stolen treasure iu
he sustentstion fund, sml when rebuked font
>v Henry C. Wright, George Thompson,
Ain Lloyd Gan ;*on, and ourselves, they inv
nediatidy pressed the Bible into the aenrire
•f slavery, and in defence of their comfort,
4cdare<l that "Jam thru* uU 4<*m M Mr
tmumnufjn idh Itith siarekoiJtrgf trhd IM#
•"fy /Ac iff A/ to tsh*p their tfarrt, Imt tm
W them." This ckhreh has recently pro
mised to aatr nothing to their American
brethren on the subject of slavery. They
remain in full fellowship with slaveholders,
aiui promise to he silent respecting their alave
holdmg wickedness. It is with such a church
that that Stephen Gloucester,with a full knowl
edge of its character, united, on landing
in Scotland. And, as if te make the bond of
union perfect, be availed himself of the ad
vantage nf his color, and the position it gave
him, to denounce, publidy, the Anti-Slavery
movement is this country, ss well as to con
demn the exposures, then being made, of the
guilty position of the Free Church. Such a
man might well be expected to close his
doors against freedom's advocates. He is
still in Christian union with slaveholders, sod
welcomes to his pulpit Ret. J. Parker D. D. f
a wretch that has recently signalized himself
by wilting and speaking to prove slavery a
divine, aod not an infernal institution. One
almost feels a wish, in view of the baseness
and treachery of this same Gloucester, lhat
he-might be subject to slavery and the lash,
at least long enough to have his eyes opened
on the subject. This evangelical defender of
slaveholding was invited to preach in Glou
center's pulpit, while we were there, and if
he had chosen he might have vindicated sla
i very from the Bible, in that pulpU, and iu the
i presence of a number of fugitive slaves. The
course of this recreant black man would make
us ashamed of our race, if we did not know
him to be an exception to it. We turn from
him as from a viper, for, morally speaking, he
is such.
In point of hostility to the Anti-Slavery
movement, St. Thomas’s Church stands next.
Its doors are barred against the cause of the
slave; and to its pulpit are welcomed Kpiaco
-1 palian slaveholders and slavery defenders. It
is truly astonishing that colored men, those
who have endured many of the horrors of
slavery, can stand in religious fellowship with
men who are the every day robbers of their
i fellow-men of all their rights. These men
witness the sorrows of the bondman, see his
back scarred with the tyrant’s lash, and then
hug to their communion aud fellowship the
guilty wretch who perpetrates the fiendish
outrage! We know that colored Episco
palians, as well as white ones, excuse them
selves for not opening their churches to Anti
slavery meetings, on the grouud that those
churches are dedicated to the worship of God,
and that it would there r ore be using the
house of God impropeily, misappropriating it,
to throw it open for such purposes. We are
willing to give this doctrine all the weight it
deserves. It may be conscientiously believed.
and so far deserves some respect. But the
fact that such a superstitious doctrine is held
by any colored man in this country, shows the
necessity for a more radical reform than we
have hitherto attempted. The Jewish reli
gion sanctified times and places, and set them
apart for certain forms and ceremonies. Christ
found them all in existence, and left them de
stroyed after him. lie placed me.rcy above
sacrifice, man above thedf>abbath,and worship
above lime or place. We claim to be com
plete in him. Regarding the old law as a
school-master, we approach the ffue Prophet,
whom we are to hear in all things. Now,
i what does Christ say on the subject of wor
j ship, and places of worship? But the hour
1 comclh,and now is when the true worshippers
1 shall worship the Father in spirit and in
truth for the Father scckelh such to worship
him. God is a spirit, and they that worship
j him, must worship him in spirit and in truth.”
The idea of temple worship here is clearly
disclaimed. To build a house to God, and
i regard it as being too holy in which to plead
the cause f injured man, is like tithing
mint, amiise and cummin, and omitting the
weightier matters of the law.” It is to make
clean the outside of the cups and the platter,
whilst disregarding the uncleanness within.—
It is not holiness of limber, but holiness of
heart, that God enjoins. It is not churches of
bricks and mortar, of wood and paint, of
brass and iron. The house which God re
quires is a spiritual one. Ye also, as lively
stones, are built up a spiritual house a holy
priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices unto
God, by Jesus Christ.” Now, the notion—
for such wc must call it—of regarding houses
w ith peculiar reverence, aud thinking that the
Almighty regards them with any sj*ecial fa
vor, is diametrically opposed to the very gen
ius of C hristianity, and has no sanction in
the New Testament Scriptures. Houses are
for men they need them—God does not.
He fills immensity of space with his presence,
and may well ask, Where is the bouse ye
build unto me Wc need houses—meeting
houses, if you please but we need tliera for
man—for his improvement, elevation, and
freedom; and any worship which does not
contemplate this, in the most enlarged and
comprehensive sense, is blind, superstitious,
and Anti-Christian. Yet we are bound to
say that this worship is almost the only visible
worship that the world presents. Our wor
ship abounds w ith honor for God, and con
tempt for man. Away with all such worship;
the s<Kiiier the world is rid of it, the belter.—
It is unmeaning, and may he per
formed by the bad as well as the g<M*l—slave
holders, sla\etraders, thieves and bars, may
engage in it with all the outward solemnity of
saints, and it leaves them as wicked as ever,
as much devoted to (hair sms as ever. To
worship God, is to worship goodness, to be
wholly devoted to good, m imitate Christ,
who went about doing good, to love and
adore God for his goodness, and to strive to
be like God in doing good, is the true wor
ship. Let us ask our friends of St. Thomas's
Church, Philadelphia, if they think slav
very contrary to goodness? aud if so, bow
they ran close their doors agamst those who
are Limiting to mourn it. They will answer
us, that they have s rmion against allowing
any person who has not Urn ordained oreo
pying their church. Here again they exah
the form, n-gardless of the power of godli
ness. The devil, in holy orders, would be
received, while Christ, utmrdained, would be
rejected. Such a religion will do very well
foi ihe oppressors, but aby intuits mi Hod
to the oppressed. We call upon William
Douglass, the minister of that church, to
break his chains and those of his church,
and he no longer hampered sod coslaved by
ih<M« powers «f darkness. H e has the head,
and w believe the heart, (had he but the
n«k pendcncc to break b»» fetters,) to nuke
Wlf very to his mat it thfti ihei
tin* of need.
The next chttel whirb rn*he«l dtmd u
the boor of our Ittiilf, wah tap B*h*l.—
We hero Kfmt items pleaded the cause o
the slave within her walla, and why aha u
dosed at this time is a mystery. We wen
informed that the minister and people wen
wilting to base the boose opened, bat that th<
trustees were divided, and that the chord
was in great difienby about matters of ibei
own onneeru. This, however, is noexetai
for them. At the very mention of the bond
man’s name, and the slightest chance o
striking a blow for the overthrow of opprea
fuon, they ought to have forgotten minor dif
Terences and rallied as ooe man to the rescue
But such vras far from being the case. The 3
saw the people, eager to hear the truth, block
ing up the street in front of Little Wesley
unable to gain admission within its narrow
walls, and ourselves begging the use of thcii
bouse, and they closed it against us. Wi
say to these churches, one and all, You art
standmg in yottr own light—you are playtnj
into the bands of your enemies, and sealing
your own degradation.
We have given the foregoing notice of th<
churches named, with no desire to reflect un
justly upon the Anti-Slavery members o
them, of whom, we are glad to say, there art
many; but to record instructive facts, U
which Qur children and coming generation!
may turn and ascertain some of the difficul
ties with which those who labored for theii
righto and liberties had to grapple, ever
among our own brethren. It will be a pain
ful and deeply mortifying fact for those wht
come after us, to look back upon that, in tb<
year one thousand eight hundred and forty
eight, when the whole world seemed movet
on the question of human rights, and our owt
land was agitated by movements designed U
promote our happiness as a people, the veri
churches and ministers of our owm complex
ion, and suffering many of the hardships and
grievances sought to be removed, stood side
by side with the oppressors, and instead ol
aiding the cause of their own redemption
opposed the elforts to gain it with all the
means in their power. We call upon those
churches to throw open their doors to the dis
cussion of slavery and the means necessary
to our improvement and elevation. This they
must do, or be execrated by coming genera
tions, as the worst enemies of their own va
riety of the human family. It is plain that
whatever improvement has taken place in
our condition during the last fifteen years, has
been chiefly the result of the Anti-Slavery
sentiments, given to the public by abolition
ists. Now, to shut the doors of the churches
against those emancipating truths and senti
ments, is thus far to shut the public ear and
darken the public heart on the subject. It is
to do our best to silence free discussion, to
smoother freedom of speech, and to allow all
things to remain as they We have ne
hesitancy in saying that if those colored church
es which shut their doors against the cause oi
the slave had the power, they would shut ev
ery chuich in the land against the discussion
of slavery they would silence every lecturer
and banish every press favorable to the dis
cussion of human rights. They would play
the tyrant as readily and as bitterly as do our
white oppressors. We leave these churches
to their intelligent members, whom we are
sure will give them no peace while they re
main iu tbcii present slaveholding position.
We now turn to the signs of encourage
ment and cheer which greeted us among the
colored people of Philadelphia; ami not the
least among these was the interest taken in
the cause by some of the most influential la
dies in that city. At the first meeting which
we attended, a desire was expressed that some
ladies volunteer to obtain subscribers to the
North Star, and in a very few moments wc
had nearly a dozen ladies volunteering to do
their best in this department. Among these,
we may mention the name af Mrs. James
Foster, Mrs. Bias, Mrs. Joseph Cassey, Mrs.
Stephen Smith, Miss Bustel), and some young
ladies who might shrink from having their
names made thus public. To these ladies we
arc indebted for a considerable accession to our
subscription list, for which they have our sin
cere thanks. If these lend their aid, we defy
opposition. Mainly through the help of these
ladies, a society, called the Philadelphia North
Star Association, intended especially to akl
the North Star, and to promote the circulation
of truth by assisting Ant»*Slavery agents, was
formed and put in operation. From (he forma
tion of this society, we anticipate much good
to our cause, through the country at large.—
Another encouraging fact is, that a Conven
tion was held during three days in Brick
Wesley, crowded to overflowing with a deep-;
Iv interested audience, before whom the sub
ject of our duties to the slave and ourselves
was thoroughly canvassed. The Convention
was mainly addressed by Dr. Bias, Mivlin
Gibbs. Robert Purvis, of Byberry, Charles
lienox Remond, Henry Highland Garnet,
Stephen Smith, George Goines, William
Whipper, Rev. Mr. Galbrath, Rev. Mr.
C'atto, and many others, who displayed a zeal
and devotion to the cause not less worthy than
those whose names we have just mentioned.
The Convention was such as was never held
hi that city before, and long «rili it be remem
bered as the commencement of letter days in
that place. It was a free Convention—as free
to our foes as to om friends, and there were
not wanting men to oppose us. Some of them
had evidently learned their lesson well. It
sounded rather strange, however, to have col
ored men preferring the old mad-dog charge
of Infidthy, Anti-Sabbath, Anti-Ckurch Anti.
Ministry, Ac., against the abolitionists.
These stale charges, caught from the lips of
their evangelical oppressors, were blown into
our cars by a Mr. Wean and Bowers, with
all the enthusiasm of newly discovered truth.
Poor fellows, they were wordy echoing the
stale slang of slaveholder*, put K»rth tn pro
long their infernal reign over their heart-bro
ken bondmen. They Dule know that it is the
religion of our enslavers which must be repu
diated before the colored mao can be five. In
accepting the white- man’s Christianity for our
souls, we accept hts chains for out limbo.—
u spurn both. Oqr God is opposed t« sla
very the slaveholder's God samiio*u sla
very. Our rbureh isuppueed to davery the
white man's church is in favor of slavery.—
Our Christ loves the slave the while man’s
Christ has no sympathy with the slave, but as
on the side of the oppressor. We am* repu
diate the one, and ding to the other.
Among the number of our white friends
r, wlc aided as in the objects #f the Conventios
-fete» gratefully MM Loereti* Mott, mod
i Httoah Moore, top of the purest aad beat
bensfactats of our people in that dtp* It waa
r gratifying to ace the respect and deference
i paid to the words of truth and wisdom which
f fell from the lips of those noble women.—
Long may they tree to soothe the sorrows o<
i the pour—enlighten the woods of the unin
i formed—and to Mesa the plaadered slave.
r With dm hundred such additionists as these,
r Phibdelphia would soon be redeemed, preju
dice against eelat would asuo ha oahoowo,
F and the roloted man's rights would be fully
respected in that ehy. We hare gi»en this
somewhat lengthy, though eery imperfect let
ter respecting our visit to Philadelphia—be
cause we attach great importance to that point
as a place, which more than almost any other
in our land, holds the destiny of our people.—
The colored population there is large—cum
bering from twenty-fire to thirty thousand
1 souls—and these are ranously conditioned.—
Among them we are proud to say, there are
many who are well informed—many who take
a warm and intelligent interest in the subject
of our eferation from degradation to respecta
bility. Some of these are not only educated,
but persons of wealth and standing in commu
nity, commanding the respect of all who know
them. Candor, however, compels us to cou
fess, that this description of persons form a
minority of the people of that citv. Uufortu
nately for us, as with allr oppressed people—
oppression not only begets a character ia the
oppressor favorable to the continuance of his
oppression, but also begets a corresponding
character in his victim. There are a large
portion of our people in that city, whose con
duct is greatly to the prejudice of our cause,
as it puts arguments into the mouths of our
oppressors, sod gives to them at least the
shadow of a reason for keeping us just where
we are. To arouse this class of persons to a
1 sense of their manhood, to instil into their
minds higher ideas of truth and duty to
awaken them to their social degradation, and
to inspire them with higher aims than those
which have hitherto distinguished them is a
work of great practical importance. Their
numerical greatness, and geographical proxim
ity to slavery, gives them a mighty lever ol
influence on this question. Make the colored
people in Philadelphia what they ought to be,
and there is no power in the land which C3n
long oppress and degrade us.—r. o.
The Daily Republic.
This is the name of a new Free Soil paper
just commenced in the city of Philadelphia.
It is under the editorial charge of Dr. Wil
liam Elder, who will be assisted for a time
by Oliver Johnson, Esq., formerly of the
Blackstone Chronicle. Under the manage
ment of these gentlemen, it is needles# to
say that the paper will be ably conducted, oi
that the cause of human freedom will be pro
moted by its existence. Such a paper as tht
Republic promises to be, is greatly needed in
Philadelphia, and we doubt not it will meel
with a liberal support. We learned, while
in Philadelphia, that not fewer than five
thousand copies of the Daily Ledger were
taken by the colored people alone. We trust
they will see lhat the Daily Republic will
answer their business purposes as well as the
Ledger, and we are sure that they will find in
ils columns much more that is elevating to
them as a class, than they now do in that
paper. We should support those papers,
and thoso alone, that cherish some respect for
our rights.— r. d.
ID* The Ram’s Horn will receive the North
Star regularly hereafter. Its strictures on the
National Convention held in Cleveland last
month, lack one important quality, and that is
candor. Dut blow away, brother, you will
do some good—though not so much as you
might with a little regard for truth.
ID* The proceedings of the Convention held
in Brick Wesley, Philadelphia, will be given
to our readers in our next week's number.
ID 3 The Hutchinson Family, our read
ers will be gratified to learn, will sing in the
Minerva Hall on the evening of Thursday,
the 10th inst. It is scarcely necessary to be
speak for them a full house.” See adver
tisement.
Important Fact.—A correspondent of
the Louisville Examiner has prepared a full
and elaborate statement, showing, upon the
authority of the Patent Office, the effect of
slavery upon the inventive and productive
genius. In this table there ate twenty-two
classes of inventions enumerated, embracing
all kinds of scientific, mechanical and agricul
tural instruments. In each case of compari
son, the result is largely in favor of the Free
States. The w hole is summed up as fol
lows
Total number of Patents for Inven
tions and Discoveries, issued to
the seven Free States from 1790
lo iai7, 10,773
Toial number of Patents for Inven
tions and Discoveries, issued to
the six Slave State* from 1890 to
1847 1,744
Total excess in favor of Free States, 8,lh)0
it thus apj ears, adds the writer, u that the
aggregate number of patents issued in the rex
slave States, is nt>t quite one-seventh of the
entire number taken out by the whole thirteen
States.” There is reason also for the belief
lhat Southern inventions are as much inferior
lo th<«e of the North ia value aa they are ia
number.
This table furnishes additional evidence of
the feet, that slavery, besides working the
drmnnlmiiaa and debasement of slavehold
ers, will also, unless prevented by a speedy
and effectual repentance, be the cause of their
rum. Hie Old Dommioa is already hcoomtny
a wilderness. Wink) the young Westers
States are advancing vigorously in population
and importance, the old alavt-holding States
barely maintain iheir ground. Slavery is not
less impolitic and injurious to the slaveholder,
than a is unjust, imquitmu and debuting to
the slate.—j. r>.
Hse. J. G. Paltsev of Mass., has taken
the stump for Van llureu and Free Soil,
Adams and Liberty.” He addressed a Fret*
Sod meeting at Cambridge, Maas., tf*h Sep.
Hon. Ho* art Mann dins accepted the nom
nntkm for re-election to Congress, sf bath the
Whigs and Free Seders. Beth parties lay
elaim to him as their candidate, and both
parties, though opposed to each other, will
vote for him. Strange, very.
k Aataul
I pray you reader whoever you nay bn,d<
loi neglect to 'aptM a fef minutes, if it b
Ist a vary few, every one of these bngti
evenings, from the harry, and bostie, am
whirling forgetfulness of your daily avoc*
lions, for eooteniplation and reflection. G<
forth into the fields, and amongst the trees
and the dry rustle of foiling leaves, and th<
fragrance of ripe corn and mellow fruit
Shake off the dust and vapors of city life, and
breatlMtSWhile the air as God made it. Look
abroad apon Iks bright guides sunset, lighuag
up the western horizon with a gleam of glor
ious brightness, by the side of which all your
dreams of palaces and kingly grandeur sink
into tinsel and insignificance. Allow your
mind to ramble freely, if only for a little
while, in the wide calm world of reflection.
Du forget, if only for short season, your
schemes of trade, and profit, and speculation.
Shut out from your mind (or a few moments,
your earth bom cares; and dream, if you
will, of all things bright and glorious; think,
if you can, of all things great and good; re
flect, if you dare, upon the past; let youi
heart melt in the contemplation of the pre
sent and resolve, in the fulness of a fixed
and unalterable determination, upon the fu
ture. Nay, do not say, you have no time tt
waste. If you have not time for this, yoi;
have tine for nothing else. Time to waste!’
How are you occupied? If your time it
at your own disposal, you cosld not spend ii
to bettor advantage and if it is not your owr
and you cannot snatch even a few minute*
from the constant grinding toil which is de
grading you into a mere living and thinking
machine, we can but lament over the impolicy
and wickedness of that system of society
which thus curses itself in its injustice to
wards you.
Autumn! The season seems suited to re
flection. The calm stillness which prevails,
interrupted at intervals as the fitful blast
sweeps by, is suggestive of thought-thought,
it may be to some, tinged with sadness. The
brown, and green, and purple, and variegated
hues of the forest, brightened and deepened
by the sun’s setting rays, beautiful though
they may be, are symptoms of decay— tht
forewarning of death. The tongues in the
trees speak to us, in Spring, of youth and
infant gladness and innocence; in Summer,
of maturity, and the schemes, and hopes, and
labors of manhood; in Autumn, of the ripe
ness, and decay, and gathering infirmities o
old age. To change, to decay, to die, is th»
law of this world’s being. The falling leavci
of Autumn, not long since so bright, ant
sparkling fresh and life-like, in the sun’s rays
but now sere and dead, and shortly to dis
solve into ther kindred earth, warn the ga<
and the thoughtless that they too may sooi
lie even as low. The man of business, whi
is planning schemes of gain and accumula
tion, even before his plans are completed
may be laid even as low and the man o
heavcn-bom soul, who lives and labors forth
well-being of his race, in the midst of hi;
efforts, and the distant gleams of the realiza
tion of bis hopes, may be requited to yieh
himself up to the all-conquenug power of tin
last enemy. To some this is a dismal proa
pect. How sadly poor lonely solitary Kirki
White must have thought of it! In om
of the mournful dreams of his world-wean
solitude, how simply melancholy is his refer
ence to the falling leaves of Autumn
I would not be a loaf, to die
Without recording sorrow’s sigh:’*
As if he thought and almost felt that like a
leaf he would fall and bo forever forgotten.
But he did not die without the recording sigli
of sorrow—sorrow for his premature loss
sorrow that he subjected himself to the guid
ance of an overtasking ambition. \Ve have
fallen too much into the habit of surrounding
the idea of death with images of gloom and
sadness. To most minds, it is already of it
self sufficiently repulsive. Our aim should
rather lie as much as possible to enliven and
take from it its terrors. Eastern nations
plant the graves of their departed friends thick
with flowers, and tend them carefully, so that
they are ever fresh and blooming; and the
Chinese has his grave on the summit of a
neighboring hill, where it may catch the first
glimpse of the morning sun, and w here his
last rays may rest uj>on it. And is not this
ten thousand times more rational than the
unseemly mode adopted more especially in
European cities, of crowding the dead into
gloomy stone vaults aud horrible mausoleums,
where the light of day never shines, and
every breath is a pestilence?
Autumn The harvest is gathered, amid
the rejoicings of the husbandman the flow
ers of summer lie w ithered at our feet; a lew
more hardy linger with us a little longer, and
look up boldly and joyfully into the eye of
the noonday sun, braving the biting blasts of
the morning, and the keen night air. The
summer birds are on ibe wing, to enliven
some other bods with their aweet songs and
ibeir gay plumage, warning os to prepare for
winter, let us greet old Autumn kindly
sod treat him well; walk with him into the
country; breathe with him the pure and in
vigorating breezes of the morning go with
him into the bright sunshine at noonday;
listen as he sings his sad songs among the
Jry withered leaves, in the evening laugh
with him at night when the moou shines and
ibe stars glisten and as we bid hun a friendly
good-bye, hoping to meet hun again, we shall
he ready to receive with a gnp of welcome
his gruff and homely, though warm-hearted

Cholic a a is Lftaoow,— The steamer Wash
ngton, which arrived at New York last week,
wings intelligence that Asiatic Cholera had
uade its appearance in London. It* presence
here had been officially announced by the
ameer of that city.
The unfortunate nun who was recently car
ried over the fella of N ugara, was Richard
a shoemaker of Buffalo, 110 left the
illy on Saturday, in h» own sad boat, with n
rifle, for the purpose of bunting. He was
ihoot thirty-five years of age, sod had no
[aanJy.
Snouts blown rr on t« I«aes—For
i*iu» of a large steamer, and various kinds <d
raerebandlfls, were floating about at (Goodrich
in Canada, on the 91st ult. The vessel ia
Hippnsed to have caught (Ire, an'l been blown tc
pieces by the powder which formed part d
her cargo. Than wore about twenty safoa
taut!, sH of whom meet have perished
Their bodies have not been found.
Colorpkobia la Pbilalclpbia,
The CommiMtoncrK of the pious and or
deily District of Moyaiwnsing, the hotbed of
Sunday riota, the place where no decent per
son can walk after nightfall, without being
robbed or insulted, hare recently had their
aense of propriety outraged, and their leader
hearts lacerated by a most iniquitous proposal
to erect a House of Industry frr colored per
sons in that District. In consideration of this
fearful atrocity, these Commissioners mot on
the evening of* Monday, Oct. ad, (a day Arr
ow hereafter to ho hold sowed to the see ah
of Hunkcnstn,) and passed the following
preamble and resolutions:
Whereas, a petition has been presented to
this Hoard, which seta forth that a building io
about to be erected on Catharine, near Seventh
street, within this Distrirt, which is to be oc
cupied as a House of Industry for poor and
degraded negroes; t
And whereas, it is represented hy the pe
titioners that the erection of a boilding to ho
occupied for such a purpose, in a thrifty and
improving neighborhood, w hich ts densely set
tled by white people, will create a disturb
ance, or will drive away the white populalisn,
and thereby depreciate the value of property
therefore,
Resolved, That io the opiuien of this Board
the black population of our city and county
ia already sufficiently cared for, and the
chanties that now exist are ample to supply
the w ants wf ail of them that are worthy aad
deserving.
Resolved, Hist the erection of a building;
for such a purpose, in such a neighborhood
as that within which it is intended that thin
shall be erected, manifests a wanton and reck
less disregard of public sentiment, and a con
tempt for the feelings of the neighboring in
habitants.
Resolved, That if those who have contri
buted to the fund for the erection of this
building, are determined to waste their
means in visionary schemes of philanthropy,
justice dictates that they should concentrate
the objects of their charily m their ow n neigh
borhood near their ow n doors, where, if
they create a nuisance, they may suffer the
consequences of it, or if it is a public benefit,
they may be eye-witnesses of its great ad
vantages.
Resolved, That all buildings to be used for
purposes to which public sentiment isopposed,
and which are thereby likely to create a dis
turbance or commotion, should be erected,
within the limits of the City of Philadelphia,,
whose great resources enable it to keep a
powerful police, and thereby extend at all
times ample protection to both persona and
property.
Oh, the hardness of heart that can be
guilty of the wickedness of driving away tho
respectable and liberal-minded w hite popu
lation” of that District! None but a Nero
or a Caligula could he guilty of such an atro
cious wickedness. Besides, the black pop _
ulalion of oui city and county [and they might
have added, of our country is already suffi.
ciently cared for.” The chivalry of the Old
Dominion, act towards them ihe part of
fathers—they feed them, lodge them, clothe
them, and chastise them, amf lest they should
get intelligent and discontented, keep them in
ignorance! One of the candidates for the
Presidency has 280 of the “colored popula
tion” living on his farm in Louisiana, whom
he purchased with the express intention of
“caring for them.” A unther of the candidates
says he will veto the Wilmot Proviso, or any
other proposed act of legislation which would
so grossly violate all the claims of justice as
to exclude the “colored population,” while
under the protection of their kind and benev
olent guardians, from any portion of the terri
tory of these United Stales. And in Penn
sylvania, and other Northern Stales, the col
ored people are prevented, as far as possible,
no doubt as an act of charity towards them,
from engaging in any but the most menial
and dependent employments and in Phila
delphia, the city of brotherly love and benev
olence, when it is proposed Io erect a House
ol Industry for the colored inhabitants, the-
District Commissioners meet and vote that iti»
a nuisance, and that such a manifestation of
partiality is likely to create a disturbance
among the white people. Verily, the colored
people are cared for”—as the wolf cares for
the lamb
Shade of William Penn Is not Phila
delphia a glorious city—a Christian city —a
liberal-minded city—a city of philanthropists T
Alacknday !—j. o.
The Board” aad Slavery.
The lamentably pro-slavery character of
the Board,” may be gathered from the fol
lowing exiraets from the report of proceed
ings at a recent meeting. To what puiposo
is it for men to preach piety, and make pre
tensions of zeal for the cause of God, when
they are thus dead to every sense of doty to
wards man Their phylactariea, like those
of the Pharisees of old, may be brood enough*
and their prayers long enough; but it may bo
said of them, as of their Jewish prototypes—
The publicans and harlots enter the king
dom of heaven before you
Mr. Treat repoits on the relation of slavery*
to the Cherokee and Choctaw Missions:
Treatment.—As a general thing, slaves
among the Indians are believed not to be over
tasked. Often they have too little to do, in
dolence being a vice of the red man. Still it
hardly possible that slaves in the hands of
Indians should fare as well as in the hamls of
enlightened white own. Many slaves in the
Slates are better off than any among tho
Cherokee*.
Iniuusce or Slav rut. The Mission
aries experienced serious difficulties from ths
law* prnhihrtmg slaves to read and write.—
The legislation of the Choctaws had been
less enlightened than that of the Cbcrokees.
Seysre laws were enacted against tbs promul
gation of aboltuoo sentiments, and persons
were convicted on very slight evidence. In
IB4A, a law was passed, forbidding free ne
groes to enter the nation. Ott. 15U1, 1*46,
lt was enacted that no negro stave should be
emancipated hy the owner without permission
of the Coeanl and provided he had no debts,
aod was Ah bidden to return io tho nation
Slavery was without doubt prejudicial to the
success of the Mireroo. Its moral c&cta were
J Pl** her. it
existed. *f there was any thronrenc**, it arose
,rC of society
i MUTMCIT or Buvoioimu. There
was nothing is the eondrUun of those person*
to subject them to chutch neosurv. At 000
time it was, is the opinion of many, not only
oecun-d expedient, but inevitable, u» employ
the setvre of the missionaries- It
was ttitaHy agreed to pnretiase them, with the
free consent of tbs slaves, and with the uwier
•t**disf that they aught work out tbetr own
freeikmi »f they chose. No thus* however,
have been purchased by the Hoard mucc I eh*
ruary, IK* The whole number of church
in the Cherokee r»au*»o was 237 of
those 94 wars slaveholders, *3 tdavc*. Is the
Cheetaw nation MTV members slavehold-
||npo|
Two letteta were then read—one fruin the
Missionaries of the Cherokee nation, and the
other from those ot t hs C iociaw hiishoo, de»
fWidrn" their po-dtion of wwtrality, and the
cchw they had taken with regatd to sfave
holdtnV church members, and explaining the
diffirolue? under which they labored upon tftt»
question, and also maintaining their right of
independent action.
Her i. Hlanchard, of Illinois, rose ami its
marked that he had hoped to agree with the
report. Though it was only the second owe*
in? of the Board he had ever attended, and
was probably the bet he should attend fur
many years, if not forever, he felt it bis duty
very briefly to state the reasons why he could
not eoneur in the report. He would frankly
say he was opposed to potting off the discus*
won of this subject, and he would beg the
indulgence of the Hoard for a short time to a
statement of his reasons.
The report says not a word about the very
significant,letters from the (Choctaw Mission
to the Hoard, and advises the postponement of
the discussion till the correspondence is fin
ished. Hare we not all the material facu,
and does the discussion require anything more
than the material fact* it i* not pretended
that we have not all the facts on which a de
cision is to rest. When, then, if not now,
Will the discussion be proper
He would call the attention of the B<«rd to
some of these facts. In the correspondent*
with the Cherokee Mission, he would ac
knowledge that though there was no strong
sentiment of hostility to slavery expressed by
the ifesKioniric*, there was a faint anticipation
that slavery would be finally overcome by
Christianity. But the Choctaw Mission was,
hy its own showing, incorrigibly pro-slavery.
It receives slaveholders into the communion
of the Mission Church, and makes then slave
holding no more an objection than it makes
the* slavery of the slave in receiving them.
And it not only does this, but in the pulpil
%<»d m the private conversation of liie mission
aries, all reference to slavery as an evil or a
ain is avoided. More than that, in spite of
the remonstrances of the Secretaries of-the
Hoard for 12 vears, the Choctaw Mission
School is served hy slaves. T AII the work of
the institution was done hy slaves.
Ho would propose two resolutions as an
amendtnsnt to the report.
First, that this Board distinctly admits
■and affirms the principle that shveholding
is a practice not to he allowed in the Christian
Church.
S -cond, that it is in the judgment of this
B md, the duty of the Missions 111 the Chero
kee and Choctaw nations to abolish the prac
tice of hiring slaves to do the work ol th *ir
schools, and to conform to the recommenda
tion of the Secretary, (Mr. treat.) that slavo
holding should lie pritna facie evidence against
an applicant for admission to the church.”
For 12 years the Choctaws had been vio
lating the reeomin Midationsof the S.icretaries,
and in the meantime the world had not been
asleep on this snliject. Gentlemen, who only
claimed to be governed hy expediency, were
arising and taking strong ground on this sub
ject. Should we allow the politicians to be
eomc better saints than we on this question 1 I
The resolutions offered by Mr. Blanchard,
amending the report, were rejected. After a
motion to reconsider had prevailed, Mr.
Blanchard stated his willingness to withdraw
his resolutions, if they, with a minute of Ins
course, could he entered upon the records of
the Board. He ashed this in behalf id'
those whom he represented bcfoie the Board.
Mr. Blanchard's request was then complied
with, and his resolutions are to he recorded
with the other proceedings.
These proceedings need no comment.—
They tell of ihenriselves with sufficient clear- I
ness the disgraceful fact, that the Jloard of
Commissioners of Foreign Missions” sanction
and encourage the sum of all villanies.”—
J. D.
CuritcH action on Voting.—The N. Y.
I-’.vangolist gives the following as the vote of
a majority of the members of a Congrega
tional Church in North Marshfield, Ma^s.
When will all the churches throughout the
country prove their right to the title Chris
tian,” by acting out the spirit of this resolu
tion? The Ktangelist says
It is rather a novel sphere foT church ac
tion but as it respects one of the gravest
duties which belong to a man, and one which
lias an intimate connection with morality and
religion, perhaps it is not to he considered as
an improper sphere. W ithout reference to
tins particular case, it seems to us that a
little more of the conscientiousness which
Christians are wont to observe in their purely
ecclesiastical transactions, might lie profitably
carrie 1 into their political doings and decisions.
The action of the Marshfield Church is this
Resolved, That confiding in the help of
Almighty God, we will not knowingly employ
our right of suffrage, or our influence, at the
approaching election, to elevate to any civil
office a slaveholder, or any abettor of slave-
holding, for any consideration, or in any cir
cumstances whatever.
And, though few an I humble, hut con
scious that every man has influence, and is
accountable fer its right use, we publish this
resolve, wishing to contribute our mite
toward the salvation of our beloved country.’
Fighting in Mexico.—The treaty has not
put au end to the butchery of the Mexicans,
as will be seen from the following paragraph
from the New Orleans Picayune
We hear very unpleasant accounts of out
rages perpetrated on the Mexicans, hy armed
parties of Americans. The latter as said
to be commanded by Texans of character,
from whom such proceedings were not to
have been expected. Several towns are said
to have been made to pay arbitrary and wholly
unjustifiah e contributions, and lives have
keen mercilessly taken in enforcing such contri
butions."
And wlnt wrong is there in this if it be
right to fight, and kill, and plunder the Mex
icans at the commatid of General Taylor or
General Scott, it is also right to fight, and
plunder them under the direction of Sain.
Houston or Dick Crowuiugshield, or any oth
<er desperado or pirate, let him be know n bv
what name he may. The moral or immoral
character of the act of killing must be judged
of on its own merits. It receives no justifi
cation from the character of tin-man who com
mits it. A crime committed hy a saint is not
less criminal than the same crime
by a sinner. That it is ordered by President!
Polk, or the entire nation whom hircpte
sents, no tnor.r palliates the deed than it it
weie done at the command of the veriest
loafer who vagalmndixes on the streets of
New \ork or W oshington. The unjusti
fiable contribution exacted hy a gang of pi
rates, is neither mor nor less than the minia
ture counterpart oi th<* unjustifiable contri
bution" exacted by a nation.—j. D
Free Soil Convene,* kt Milford N. H.
Arrangements .re makino r real Free
Soil dcDunstratio,, at M.lfcrf, about the
middle of this iiionih.—Hon. J„hi, p Hale
and other popular speakers wdl be present
and address the masse.-, there assembled.
Frf.e Soil at Dover N, 11.—'[q 1Q
Free Soil Advocate contains a notice of :i
Mass Rally of the Free Sutler* at the Town
Hall lu Dover about the middle of tin: present
month. Judge Allen of Worcester, ILm. S.
C. Phillips of Salcti}, and lion. John P.
Hale are expected to address the meeting.
ID* The Germans of Cincinnati have
started a daily Free Soil paper, and gone
almost unanimously for Van Burcn and
Adams. The paper is called the Trie
Democrat.
ArtHee 4ffeate4.-Jt«Uce triuiplMit
The Chnwoty pe gift* the following report of
a recent law «n in Bontaa, ta which Robert
Morris, a color'd lawyer, nweeecded id recot
j enng fur a•• ehaiwT owl «rfy the jnimriiin
of himself, but some portion of his wages
while held as a slare. Well done, brave CHd
Bay Stale, and city of Notions! The stern
tincoirapuble blood of the puritans must and
vi ill shake itself free from the contamination
of slavery and slaveholders.
Leave* You wo vs. Carr. Wwuam
J ackson Steward. —This was a case which
would have come before the Common Pleas
court but for a previous settlement by the par
ties. Nevertheless a brief report of it may be
of some interest.
I,eaven Young, a youth of 18 years, last
December shipped on hoard the schooner Col.
Davis, of Baltimore. Cspt. Wm. J. Steward,
j the captain, agreeing to give him-$7 a month.
1 J’xcept 25 cents in advance, on signing his
(papers, he had not received a cent of his vra
ges, and having lost by the same captain
many months wages before, he bought an
action to recover the sum of 70. due him by
the last contract.
For want of bail, the captain placed in the
bauds of the officer who served the wnt.sloo,
and took legal advice, according to which he
preferred off-nog to Young's lawyer $5O, to
settle. The money was accepted, and there
was an end of the matter. Thus far one sees
nothing to wonder at, except that young Mr,
Young should have been so very lenient as to
take $5O for a good claim to STO for servi
ces performed, or that he could have found a
lawyer so modest in l>ehalf of his client as to
allow him to accept of it.
But circumstances alter cases and in this
case some of the most superficial sort of circum
stances may serve to explain uur mystery.,
Leaven Young was black, and was claimed
as his slave by ('apt. Steward. The captain
had executed the shipping papers merely to
save trouble at the Custom House and perhaps
'in a free state. Arriving here last week with
j a cargo of sweet potato?*, Young left the
schooner and taking refuge among the colored
people was directed to Robert Morris, Ksq.,
la lal.mtel young colored lawyer in State st.,
j who advised him of his rights under the ship
ping papers, which led to the writ served upon
the captain and settled as aforesaid.
Captain Steward, though he acknowledged
that Young had sailed with hiui for two
years without wages, and that he had always
been his slave, was very angry at being oblig
ed to pay the wages due according to his writ
ten contiaet for the last ten months, and not
at all thankful for the generous deduction of
$2O. And he was most especially indig
nant —bordering on the outrageous —that he
was compelled to some little approach towards
justice by a colored lawyer!
O pity the sorrows of a poor slaveholder—
who coining to free soil Boston with sweet
potatoes, not only lost his slave but had to
pay fifty dollars to boot!
Fatheu and Son. —Moses Corwin is the
Whig candidate for Congress in the Cham
paign district in Ohio, liis son Johu A.
j Corw in opposes him.
John C. Calhoun has written an important
1 letter to a citizen of South Carolina, on the
Presidential question, which is expected to be
shortly made public. So says the New York
Tribune.
Lawrence Bkmnkrd, the Liberty candi
date for Governor of Vermont, has declined in
favor of the Buffalo party.
Contradictory.— There is no Whig at
the South more favorable to the principles of
Free Soil, than Gen. Taylor.” —Rochester
Doily American.
There is no man in the South more
bitterly opposed to the Wilmot Proviso, and
the principles involved in it, than Gen. Tay
lor.”—JV. O. Pic.
Fillmore’s Southern Face. —Millard Fil
lmore has written a letter to Gov. Gayle, of
Mobile, hi which he endeavors to' cover up his
abolitionism by talking aliout the power of
Congress over slavery in the states, hut utters
not one word about the territories.
Proscription.— Benjamin F. Butler has
been removed by the President from the office
of District Attorney, because he is in favor of
Free Soil.
An Upstart. —A negro boy was driving
a mule in Jamaica, when ihe animal suddenly
stopped aad refused to budge. Won’t go,
hey said the boy. Feel grand, do you,
I s’pose you forgot your (adder was a
jackass?”
Guevt Taylor Movement. —Our colored
friends have organized a Free Soil Club in
tlu? western part of the city and hung out a
Free Soil Banner from their head quarters in
Cambridge-st. Last week some of the
friends of General Taylor were smitten with
the chivalrous idea of climbing up to the
chimnpy of the opposite building to which
the cord was fastened and cutting it down,
i This gallant exploit was actually achieved
under the full view of Mr. City-Watchman
Bullard, we understand, and that vigilant
functionary made no effort to arrest the per
petrator but seemed rather to rejoice in his
isuccess.
I This cutting down flags and not letting
them be put up, is really the strongest argu
ment we have yet seen advanced by either of
the pro-slavery parties. It argues much for
the sincerity of the Taylor men.-— Boston
Chromotype.
The Gold Mania.— Report says, that a
traveller his arrived from Monterey with a
sample of the precious metal which has raised
such a commotion in California. The miner
al found, proves to be— not gold, but mica,
which somewhat resembles gold, but is of no
intii isic value. Says the Courier des Flats
Unis, W hat lesson more striking could be
cited of the truth so reluctantly believed, that
the most brilliant paths, and apparently the
shortest, are not the most sure; that the pa
tient labor of the mechanic and the agricultur
ist alone gives cerlaiu results.”
The N. Y. Sun, confirms the report, and
says
“This individual was on the enchanted
ground ilsell, heatd llie murmur of Feather
river rolling its blue waters over the sparkling
sands, and saw various bipeds with picks and
shovels belaboring the eaith to extract the de
ceitful mica, and many did not fur a long
believe that it was not ral gold, li was how-
I ever, determined before he left, that the gold
fever was an unmitgated humbug, m which
knaves and fools were the partmers.”
One More. —We learn from the Albany At
las that the Uuca Gazette, one of the most in
fluential whig journals in western New York,
and heretofore an ardeut Taylor and Fillmore
paper, took down the names of those candi
dates, when the news rcarhed that city of
Taylor’s acceptance of the Taylor and Butler
nomination.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
0T- The rveript of our paper «ill be a «t»flir«r*
th»* subscript**** sent t»y Pn#i
luve In* it received,
M. \V., Augusta, O.—’P* paper wiß be anal.
J. <liardoa,o.-~Rncrmd.
K. 8., Hanover Town, O,— lW be happy to
"•tvl the papers to tbs parsons onnse t, on their cmn
|»*)in with <>ur terms.
O. C., Colors ins, O Thanks far your runiom
«n tuhatf of the B tar.
E F. 8., ClrveUni, O.—Next wank
H W. Mass.—Receive I.
Communication.
America Cm MM
In pafio rDCTI fearfully of
terrible roorotei—the kindred-headed Hydra,
which ravaged the land aad dewon red hu—in
bodies. la the nineteenth rentury.iw a Chria
ttwa country, among a jmpk whose prood
boast ia liberty *ho learn Is shout it in their
school-boy oporto, and sweet to fight fi« it
hen their beard* begin to grow—aye, even
ia America, yooag, bragging, go-ahead Ame
rica, there sulka a barefaced barbarism, such
as modem babies might be ashamed of—
stalks, too, in the broad daylight, and ia cried
up as something gloriouo, sacred, most hu
mane and charitable! And what ia it Look
and see A mass of loathsome ugliness, to
which a mountain of Calibans would be like
roses a monster of three million bends,
crawling to and fro, and feeding upon mur
dered souls, mashed up in Mood a branch ef
the Stygian river, foul with black lies and
hideous cruelties, that flows direct into the
deepest bell. Oh, these are only vain endeav
ors to render conceivable what is too hornd
for the mind to image, or any language to
embody. What a terror it must be to the
people of that region A terror! Nay, they
love it—they embrace it they delight in it—
fools and madmen that they are And more,
'—can you believe it reader?—they worship
this outrageous beast, and offer on its savage
altars the sacrifice of hjtfnan flesh!
Most notable aod free Americans! is this
the summit of your shouting and your brag
ging—to set up an idol at which the wide
world shrinks, aghast, horrified, disgusted,
stunned with indignation—to call it a kind
and merciful creature, and bend the knee, the
neck, the very soul to its foul bondage!—
Why, men, what devil has bewitched your
senses! Are ye slumbering in the porches
of hell! Are ye made drunk with American
fugs, that ye have no eyes to behold your de
gradation Hear it, O marvelling world—
America, that boasted of her more than
queenly throne in the Far West, stands out in
her nakedness, a slave—a coward—a ridicu
lous fool—the laughing-stock of nations!
Is she not a slave who is bound, body and
soul, to the vilest, the filthiest, the most abo
minable of masters Is i she not a coward, a
dastardly coward, whose liberty is in her own
hands, hut lies unworn, because she dare not
grasp it Is she not a ridiculous fool Shall
not the nations laugh at her from Ireland to
Cape Comorin, who is gone raving mad after
an idol with three million heads
Laugh, little islands in some farthest corner
of the world, such lunacy was never heard of
among your naked savages. Laugh, laugh,
ye long-faced Bramins; your golden Buddha
has but a millionth paitasmany! Laugh,
Turk, laugh, Jew and Gentile, Scythian,
Greek and Ishinaelite, rise from your tombs,
ye pyramid-crowned Pharaohs* and make the
deserts ring with laughter! Behold,a Queen
is become insane, and licks the dust from the
feet of the absurJcst image that ever mocked
the worship of a bloody-hearted people
America has forsaken the God of her fathers,
and set up Negro Slavery upon her high
places, that she may delight herself with its
hideous form, and play the hypocrite with
true, religion
Tell it to her Rocky Mountains, and they
shall quake with indignation—tell it to her
broad rivers and her deep pine forests—oh,
they will send up a voice of winds and of
waters bellowing to the skies her everlasting
shame—crying to the stars that her white
sons arc become animals, and not men, de
vouring like harpies the carrion flesh of their
black brothers and the holy stars shall an
swer, with a wail of grief— Woe unto that
and where truth is forsaken for a lie —where
passion and selfishness have taken upon them
selves the name of charity; the world shall
laugh at it, despise and scorn it; heaven sha
mourn over it, and all the devils of the lowest
pit shall cover it with curses
Foolish Americans, listen to the holy stars,
and be warned in time. F. T. MOTT.
Leicester, England, Aug. 1848.
Postage.—We understand that a letter
has been received from Mr. Bancroft, our
Minister in England, giving strong reasons to
hope that before long a satisfactory Interna
tional Law will be established with Great
Britain.
Population of Texas.— l tie recent cen
sus of Texas shows the population to be
145,000, exclusive of Newton and San Patri
co counties.
Patriot Mitchell. —The Dublin corre
pondent of the New York Tribune states
that the wife, children, mother and sisters of
the patriot Mitchell are about to *omo to this
country.
A new agitation has been started in Ire
land to promote the holding of occasional par
liaments in Dublin. The Evening Post of
that city ridicules the whole scheme, and
pronounces it utterly impracticable.— Boston
Bet
Mummies.—The Texan Star states that a
million of mummies have been discovered in
the environs of Durango, Mexico. They are
in a sitting posture, and have the same wrap
pings, bands, and ornameuts, as the Egyp;
trams.
As Example.—Thomas Elkins, a colored
lad, who was brought up in Albany, is prac
tising dentistry, in Liberia, and ia also Sup
erintendent of school at an annual salary of
$3OO.
Absconded Slaves. —We learn from the
Cumberland (Md Mountaineer, that two
slaves absconded from that place on Sunday
night, the 13th ult. They took with them a
pair of match horses belonging to Gowton.—
lhc horses have since been discovered, near
Bedford, Penn., but the runaways crossed the
line in safety.
A Good Answer, What shall I do,’*
said a liquor seller to a temperance lecturer,
“if 1 quit selling run* Go into the poor
house,*’ said the lecturer, and be supported
there, and let the poor you have male pau
pers, come out,”
Failure of tue Atmospheric Railway.
—The Atmospheric Railway, has probably
received its death-blow by the abandonment
of that mode of traction by the South Devon
Railway Company, after having spent X’300,-
000 in experimenting upon it. The system ia
found to be too expeosiva. It oust i-108 to
earn 100! No more need be said about it.
Punch places it in bis obituary of this week.—
IjmAon t hr. of the Sat tonal Inte&grmcrr.
We understand that a white man has bees
arrested io Clark county for collumoo with
about a dimsu negroes, to effect their escape.
We have not heard the particulars, but the
proof is said to he conclusive.— Alexandria,
To., Gat.
Electric Tuuwapn.—Professor Morse re
cently obtained a decision in bis favor, in the
U. S. District Cooit of Kentucky, against
Mr. O’Reilly, for an alleged violation ef Ins]
patent Joe the Elect**: Telegraph.
Man over the Fall* j
NiMtaas Faun, Ux. $4, I*lB.
At about nun-down last evening n man wan
earned over the Falla. .Who he was not
knows. From has maoageao at of the sail
boat ia which he came down the river, l think
he was not well acquainted with the current
or the rapids. His dress and appearance in
dicated respectability, and after he got into
the rapids his seif-pomessaon was most extra
ordinary. His boat was a very good one—
decked over on the bow, and 1 should think
would carry three or four tons. From what
I team of a sail-bunt having been seen below
Black Rook, coating down, I think it is from
there or Buililiu. No other than a person
unacquainted with the current above the
rapids would venture so sear them.
I was on the head of Gust Islam) when I
first disrovem) the boat—then nearly half a
mile below the foot of Navy Island, and nearly
two miles above the Falla. There seemed to
be two in the boat. It wan directed towards
the American shore—the wind blowing from
the shore, and still the sad was standing.
Being well acquainted with the river, I re
garded the position o{ the boat as extraordi
nary and hazardous, and watched it with
intense anxiety. Soon I discovered the mo
tion of an oar, and from the changing direc
tion of the boat, concluded it had foil one.
While constantly approaching nearer and
nearer the rapids, 1 could discover it was
gaining the American shore, and by tlie time
it had got near the first fall in the rapids,
about half a mile above Gout Island, it was
directly above the Island. There it was
turned up the river, and for aooee time the
wind kept it nearly stationary.
The only hope seemed to be to come direct
ly to Goat Island, and whether I should run
half a mile to give alarm, eg remain to assist
in the event the boat attempted to make the
Island, was a question of painful doubt. But
soon the boat was again tamed toward the
American shore.—Then it was certain it
must go down the American rapids. I ran
for the bridge—saw and informed a gentle
man and lady just leaving the Island, but they
seemed unable to reply or move. I rallied a
man at the toll-gate—we ran to the main
bridge in time to see the boat just before it
got to the first large fall in the rapids. Then
I saw but one man—he standing at the stern
i with his oar, changing the course of the boat
j down the current, and as it plunged over he
sat down. I was astonished to see the boat
rise with the mast and sail standing, and the
man, again erect, directing ihe boat towards
shore. As he came to the next, and to each
succeeding fall, he sat down, and then would
rise and apply his oar in the intermediate
current.
Still there was hope that he would come
near enough to the pier to jump, but in a
moment it was gone. Another that he might
jump upon the rock near the bridge, but the
current dashed him from it under the bridge,
breaking the mast. Again he rose, on the
opposite side. Taking his oar and pointing
his boat towards the main shore, he cried,
“had I better jump from the boat We
could not answer, for e ther seemed certain
destruction. Within a few rods of the Fails,
the boat struck a rock—turned over and lodg
ed. He appeared to crawl from under it, and
swam with the oar in his hand till he went
over the precipice.
Without the power to render any assistance
—for half an hour watching a strong man
struggling with every nerve for life, yet
doomed with almost the certainty of destiny
to an immediate anti awful death, still hoping
with every effort for his deliverance—caused
an intensity of excitement I pray God never
again to experience.
I write too hurriedly for publication, but I
have stated all we have seen or know resect
ing the man or boat, and from which I hope
you will be able to glean so much for publica
tion as will lead to the discovery of the men.
ITT 1 Maria Monk died the other day in N.
York, after a life of drunkenness and crime.
—Our readers will remember her wonderful
book of revelations respecting the convents at
Montreal, which turned out to be a volume of
lies from beginning to end.— Montreal Pilot.
JO* He is a great simpleton who imagines
that the chief power of wealth is to supply
wants.—ln ninety-nine cases out of a hundred,
it creates more wants than it supplies.
A MOVING INCIDENT.
The hero of' this adventure is ai
amateur poet, living on his pat riot isn
more than by his talents, and known b;
some works in good taste, and the on
ginaiity of his character, the distinctive
sign of which is an habitual absence o
mind, which sometimes gets him inti
great difficulty. Though his name be
longs to the literary public, he may bt
designated as Raymond.
On the ‘loth of July, towards noon
his porter entered his room, the receip
for the reut in his hand, after the man
ner of porters who are four times t
year advanced to the dignity of receiv
ers of rents. Our poet did not shan
the opinion of the more advanced so
i cialists who pique themselves on tramp
ling under foot the privileges of prop
erty, neither was he one of those who
on accourtf of the general embarrass
inent of affairs, dispense with paying
their debts, on account of the deft
j ciency of their means. The roonej
was in his drawer, and he settled the
bill without the least hesitation. Aftei
having counted and pocketed the sum
the porter, instead of retiring, remainct
standing, and cast about him an aston
ished look.
What do you want? asked Ray
mond.
Your pardon, sir,” replied the por
ter; but it seems to me that you hav<
not begun your moving, and the persoi
who takes your place is just coming ir
with his furniture. He has a right t<
take possession at 12, you know, and i
is now half-past 11.°
At these words the poet gave a groan
struck his forehead, seized his hat, auc
went out in all haste. He had simplj
forgotten the notice he had given of hi:
intention to move, .and the necessity o
seeking a new lodging, so thathcfounc
himself entirely unprovided, and will
only half an hour’s delay.
After having taken a few steps dowr
the street, he reflected that half an houi
was not sufficient for all he had to do,
and that it was necessary for him tc
take energetic measures; so he cote
eluded to take away his furniture in the
first place, and then seek somewhere tc
put it. Just then, by one of those hap
py chances which almost always come
in aid of the careless, he saw an empty
moving-wagon pass. This saved him
the trouble of seeking one. The drivei
placed himself at his orders, went up
to his room, and in order to settle the
price of the transport according to the
distance, asked in what quarter, in
what street the furniture should be car
ried.
I do not know,” replied Raymond.
I pay you by the hour, and for the
rest of the day.”
This was entirely a new system of
moving, hut had nothing impracticable
in it. The driver fixed his price, which
was accepted without disputing, and the
work went on bravely. The furniture,
which was not in great abundance, was
soon loaded, and the procession moved
off. The wagon took the direction of
the horse’s head. The poet marched a
few step 3 in front, his nose in the air,
examining the houses, and spying out
the notices of “To Let.” At the end
of ten minutes, he made his first visit to
an apartment, which did not suit him.
The procession resumed its march, at a
slow pace, to slop again, soon, without
any more success. The journey con
tinued in the same way, interrupted by
frequent halts. The poet was difficult
in the choice of his a| a-tment. They
were too large or too small, too low in
the story or too high up stairs, too high
priced, or not well arranged. Nothing
suited him, and he kept looking for a
better home.
After a whole day spent in this labo
rious investigation, the horse was get
ting exhausted, and Raymond, who had
travelled several leagues in the streets
of Paris, and mounted several miles of
staircase in his examination of rooms,
worn down by fatigue, overcome with
ennui and discouragement, resolved to
make an end, and at his last halt fixed
his choice on a lodging which suited him
still less than the others, and which
united all the inconveniencies to which
he would not accommodate himself se
parately. The hour of hesitation had
however passed, and he was like the
young lady in the fable, who, while
young and flattered, refused all offers,
under the slightest pretences, and for
the smallest defects, and finished, when
i age arrived, by marrying a poor fellow.
The bargain was soon concluded,
and after agreeing upon the price, the
I poet made haste to unload his furniture
and then refresh himself and recover
from the fatigues and labors of the day,
he mounted his cabriolet and drove to
flic Palais Royal, where he went to dine
at the best restorators, and thence,wish
ing to spend his evening gaily, he went
to the ball Mabille, where the polkers
of the night before continued their ex
ercises, and where the queens of the
Inst summer still wore proudly their ti
tles in spite of revolutions.
Ou leaving the ball champetrc, about
eleven in the evening, Raymond took
the road to his old dwelling. Habit is
an oirstinate guide, and many persons
fall into a similar mistake, on first going
home after a change of lodging. The
p.M't recollected himself just as he raised
the knocker of the outside door.
How thoughtless!” said ho to him
self, t* 1 had forgotten that I do not
live here. Hut,” continued he, chang
ing coountcnaucc, “Where do I lodge
now
1 his question, addressed to his mcm
ory, remained unausvtcr.'d; he iu vain
turned round and called up recollec
tions. Iha poor fellow did not know
where he lived. It was the consequence
of his singular style of moving. He
had driven all over Paris so many times,
he hud so often changed his course, had
visited so many apartments, that he had
no means to bring back those he had
taken to It is mind. Kvery thing was j
contusion m fits head, and after vain
efforts he went and claimed the hospi- 1
tality ol a friend. The next day he
renewed his attempts. He walked
about Paris several hours, seeking in
vain to find his last night's route, but it
was useless.
How should he get out of his embar-
rnssment and recover bis lost homer
The poet had not the resource of ad
dressing liunsetf to the driver of the
wagon, because he had employed one
he had met on hit tray. Nothing cairn
to the assistance of bis defective mem
ory. Bat poets have resource*, and tb<
following it the expedient suggested b;
his knaginatioa.
He went to the police office and ad
dressing himself to one of the clerks
said: Sir, 1 have come to you to de
now nee a man who I am certain was o<
stranger to the last insurrection. Hu
name is Raymond; he has written soon
verses. Here ia bis card, on which ii
his last address, but he moved on tbt
15th of this month, and did not tel
where he was going to live, not even t<
his porter, not even to himself," addet
he silently.
"This is a very suspicions affair,’
said the clerk.
1 thought yon might penetrate it,’
said Raymond.
j Undoubtedly we can; we are in tbi
habit of finding people who hide them
selves. We shall soon know the abode
of this Mr. Raymond. Two days from
now the thing will be done.”
Look about then quickly, and you
will not have lost your trouble.”
The clerk wanted to know the name
of the denunciator, but the poet evaded
giving this information, alleging some
good reason. Two days after, two day*
passed at a furnished hotel, the poet re
turned to the police office.
"Ah well!” asked he. "Ah well,
we have found him.” And the clerk
showed his record on which was in
scribed the new address of the poet.—
"That is it,” said he; where was mj
head?” But,” said the clerk, noth
ing suspicious was found on the prem
ises.” "I believe you, I am a most
orderly person.” You?” "Ah yes,
me, 1 am Raymond,” and the poet ex
plained his motive and his stratagem.
"Excuse my falsehood,” added he;
hut if I had tedd you I did not know
where I lived, you wouid have sent me
to an insane asylum.”
The clerk for a moment rubbed his
brow, hut the singularity of the adven
ture disarmed his anger, and the poel
was let off with the slight inconven
ience of having for two days passed foi
an insurgent in the eye of the police
But he was reinstated in his new!}
hired home. He asked for nothing
more.— Pains Correspondent Couriei
des Etats Unis.
SINGULAR DISCOVERY,
A correspondent of the Buffalo Ex
press, writing under date of June 14th,
from Ontonagon, Lake Superior, says:
"Mr. Knapp, of the Vulcan Mining
Company, has lately made very singu
lar discoveries here in working one ol
the veins which he has found. He
worked into an old cave which had been
excavated centuries ago, This led them
to look for other works of the same
sort, and they have found a number ol
sinks in the earth, which they have
traced a long distance. By digging into
these sinks, they find them to have been
made by the hand of man. These cuts
have been filled nearly to a level by
the accumulation of soil, and we find
trees of the largest growth standing in
this gutter. Last week they dug down
into a new place, and about 12 feet be
low the surface found a mass of copper
that will weigh from eight to ten tons.
This piece ot copper is as clear and
pure as a new cent; the upper surface
lias been pounded clear and smooth.
It appears that this mass of copper was
taken from the bottom of a shall, at the
depth of about 30 feet. In sinking this
i shaft from where the mass now lies,
they followed the course of the vein,
which pitches consid rahly; this ena
bles them to raise it as far as the hole
came up with a slant. At the bottom
of the shaft they found sticks of black
oak, from eight to twelve inches in di
ameter these sticks were charred
through, as if burnt; they found large
wooded wedges in the same situation.
In this shaft they found a miner’s gad,
and a narrow chisel made of copper.
I do not know whether those copper
tools are tempered or not, but their
make displays good workmanship.—
They have taken out more than a ton
of cobble-stones, which have been used
as mallets. These stones were nearly
round, with a score cut around the cen
tre, and look as if this score was cut
for the purpose of putting a withe round
a handle. The Chippewa Indians all
say this work was never done by In
dians. I suppose they will keep finding
nfew wonders for some time yet, as it
is hut a short time since they found the
old mine. Mr. Knapp has found
considerable silver during the past
winter.” j
What they think of t*s.—The
Kentucky Examiner, remarking upon
the efforts of the despots in the old
world to wrest some of our peculiar
institutions to their own purposes, says;
Travellers tell us that the Despots"
of Europe, w ith the view of frightening
their people at the very name of Re
publicanism, have their school-books
decorated with pictures, in which the
men of the United States are represented
us standing, whip in hand, over the
laborers, and driving them as slaves to
their work!”
______ 1
The New York Tribune thinks that
one or both of the old political parties
will be cither shamed or driven, by the
Free Soil movement, into the true po
sition on the slave question. There
can be no chance for auy such thing, so
long as they both have men pledged to
the slave pow’er, for tbeir candidates
for the Presidency, or defiend on that
power lor success in sustaining their
party schemes. Individuals from both
the old parties will continue to come
right on this question, and will swell
the ranks of the Free Democracy, till,
finally, there will be but two parties,’
the party of Freedom and the party ot
Slavery.—J/m. Spy.
1
100 I rue.—-It the beat man’* faults
were written on his forehead, it would
make hiiu pull his hat over his eye*.
Rev. Sidney Smith, in speaking of
the prosy nature of most sermons, raid,
They are w ritten as if «iu was to be
taken out of matt like Eta out ot* Adam,
by putting him to sleep."
Let woman bedecked with all em
bed h.-dMueot* of art and nature; yet if
bpidae** b to be read to her filer, it t
blots out all the lines of beauty.
LETTER PROS <sElf. TAYLOR.
Tbe following is G«li. Ttflw’i lett«i
lo tbe Independent Tiylor party tn Bil
more, written aoan alter tbe adjourn
ment of the Philadelphia Convention
and just made public:
Batoiv Rolge, Juae 19, l&4ti
Gentlemen: I have the honor to ae
knowledge the receipt of your politi
communication of the 13th mat., catling
my attention to certain statement# ja
lating to ay position before the cosntfi
as a candidate for the Presidency, whirl
are represented to have been made it
the Whig National Convention, held a
Philadelphia, pending the action ofthai
body, by Judge Saunders ofLouiaiaim
in the name of the delegation from tha:
State, and requesting to be informed
whether such statements were made b)
my authority. 1 inform you, in reply,
that on their way to that Convention,
Judge Winchester and Saunders, of the
Louisiana Delegation, who have beer
for many years my personal friends and
neighbors, wrote, requesting my views,
before the meeting of the Convention,
as to the course 1 desired my friends tc
pursue in that body. In two communi
cations addressed to them in reply, 1
informed them in substance, that at my
distance from the scene, it would be
impossibleefor me to give any instruc
tions upon the subject; that many ques
tions or contingencies might arise dur
ing the action of the Convention, the
character of which I could not foretell,
and that they must therefore assume the
responsibility of acting for me; that I
felt my honor and interests safe in theii
hands; that whatever they should sec
fit lo do, I would most cordially ap
prove.
I substantially informad them further,
that unless they should discover an ev
ident disposition to treat me uufairly,
which I had no reason for supposing
would be the case, I thought my friends
should go into Convention, as they had
not been selected by their fellow-citi
zens for this purpose, but that having
once entered, they were of course
bouud, if I were not nominated, to sus
tain and support the nominee, whoevei
he might be; and 1 hoped they would
do so, heart and soul; that I was a can
didate for the Presidency only as far as
my friends had chosen to make me.—
But having been placed in iny preseul
attitude toward that subject without any
agency or act of my own, directly or
indirectly, I did not feel myself at lib
erty, by any such act, to withdraw my
self; that iny friends, in whose hands 1
had ever been, could do so whenever
they should see fit; and finally, if they
could succeed in electing to that office
any one better qualified for its duty than
I was, and who at the same time was
honest, truthful and patriotic, it was
their duty to go for him; and so far
from being disappointed or mortified, I
should hail the result with joy.
Under the general authority thus
given to these gentlemen, I shall deem
whatever statements they may have
made, to be ri"ht and proper; and con
fident of their integrity, and in the
sincerity of their friendship, I shall sus
tain them without qualification. I there
fore take upon my own shoulders the re
sponsibility of the Louisiana Delegation
in the Convention, and am prepared to
stand by the consequences, in their
length and breadth.
I regret exceedingly that my friends
in Baltimore whom you represent should
thus misunderstand the course pursued
by the Louisiana Delegation in Con
vention, and should have imagined I
had almndoned the position I held in
my published letter on this subject
I feel bound to respect the opinions
of those who honestly differ from me;
and while I feel conscious of no change
of feeling or inconsistency on my part,
I cannot expect or desire that any of my
friends whom you represent, should do
violence to their owu sense of right and
wrong by supporting my election, while
they believe l have changed iny politi
cal views.
I ask no man, be he Whig, or Dem
ocrat, or Native American, for his vote.
take every American citizen’s interest
in the welfare of his country, to be as
pure and deep as my own, and I have
therefore no right, and certainly no de
sire, to influence his action in the exer
cise of the important duty of voting for
officers of his government.
With due respect, &.c.,
Z. TAYLOR.
To Messrs. C. H. Pitts, J. W. Walker,
T. H. Alexander, and others.
Letter from Gen. Taylor.— Gen.
Taylor has written the following letter
to a Committee of a recent Whig meet
ing in Auburn, N. Y.: i
Baton Rouge, Aug. 12.
Dear Sir: I take pleasure in ac
knowledging the receipt of your letter
of the 22d July, enclosing to me the
resolutions adopted at a meeting of the
Whig Young Men of Auburn.
In these resolutions, I find terms of
respect and confidence towards me, as
highly gratifying as they were unex
pected, and for which I desire to ex
press my sincercst thanks to the Whigs
of Auburn, who have thus flatteringly
responded to my uomiuution.
To yourself, sir, I return my best ac
knowledgments for the kind terms with
which you have acrompsnied the reso
lutions,and for the gratifying assurance
of the warm support of the Whigs of
your city at the coming election.
1 am, dear sir,
With high respect,
Your most obedient serv’t,
Z. TAYLOR.
A. J. Stevens, Esq., Secretary Rough
and Ready Club, Auburn, N. Y.
Gen. Tatloe a*» the Wilmot
Proviso. The Matagorda (Texas)
Tribune of the 23d of May, has the
following emphatic paragraph with re
spect to Gen. Taylor, and the expected
benefit* of his election:
It elected, our institutions —we
apeak out— tlarery, will fall under the
protection of his eagle-eye and his
giant arm. Who does not know that
that institution is in some shape or other
under daily discussion in Congress,
and at this moment tbe Southern mem
bers are ilj at case in consequence of
new und fearful movements being made
in relation to it? The Old Nestor of
the South, Mr. Calhoua, warns us that
we are approaching a crisis, pregnant
with danger, and that before bog we
wtl] have to tod the mark.”