A beautiful banner was presented to
the i\ division of the U iit«d Colored
American Association, Thursday eve
nt.ig, Juy 2Jih, ISIS, in the New
Str<!el Cinpel, New sL.Cast >f Broad
way, in the city of Cincinnati, Ohio.—
Many hundred* of persons were pres
ent. A stage was erected; the two
Divisions, together with the six grand
oifi -era, weri present, iu full regalia
Twelve ladies ascended the stage; also
the six gra td offi ‘.era of tiie Society.—
Of the ladies, Miss Ann Lee was se
lected to deliver the address; which
was dune in a style tinsurpassingly neat
and eloquent, to which Mr. I W
Broady, being selected for the occa
sion, made the following reply, in a
manner satisfactory and appropriate to
t te occasion; after which, the Rev. Dr.
Garry made some very interesting re
marks, by invitation. The remarks
were highly appreciated and received
by the audience and Association. The
best of order prevailed until the close,
which was by prayer, by the same.
ADDRESS BT MISS AMS LEE.
Gentlemen: We have for some time
entertained a very high opinion of your
association, and have been very desir
ous ever since our knowledge of its
existence or organization, of present
ing something as a testim >nial of our
regard, or as a memorial of our re
spect. In perusing your constitution
and by-law's, finding nothing therein
objectionable, but, on the contrary,
everything calculated in its tendency t)
allure and conciliate—to elevate and
make happy him who ha* or hereafter
shall become a member of your body.
We love to cherish and encourage your
aociety, in consideration of the knowl
edge of the high and noble, broad and
fidm basis on which it is founded,
namely, virtue, equality, union, and
love.
Gentlemen, we have watched your
course; it has been onward and up
ward. We have highly approved ol
your acts; and we are happy to say,
that not in words alone y.iur rapid
march to elevation has been demon
strated, but accompanied with deods.—
Gentlemen, be firm and decided; in
your judgments be correct; in your
principles be true; and God grant that
your feeble efforts may be like the
bread cast upon the waters, that it may
be seen after many days.
Gentlemen of Division No. 2, we
present to you this banner as a testi
mony of our regard—as a mem trial ol
our respect; and when you wield it
over you, wield it gently in your tran
sient reign; and oh, when this banner
it unlurled, let your motto be Freed >m,
your country the World. Gentlemen,
in your constitution I see noble acts ol
benevolence, such as relieving the sick
and atfltcted, and preparing for the dy
ing *ad the dead. This, gentlemen, is
trulv noole; and may you ever go on
to eoton, and renumber the motto, Not
w »rd*. but doed*; but be like the go >d
Sa nintao II to th sicit _» iQV
totffa brave—*n :eesstu the lover, and
freed n v> Hie slave. As U »»t *d C >l
Auiricais, h vari* q ,hon,
shnuld be the ties, how and ia«
distalible should be the b»nd 4 thai
§h»ul 1 unite you; for united yon »tna i,
divided y »u fall; and as c»bred A no
ne* h, this being tits Und of youi
birth, grant that it may be yo U i
final d ieUntr. Go on then, gentle nan,
though dufioult it may be, and let Peace
that sweet messenger, etill wave hoi
olive breach among you; and me/yoi
THE NORTH STAR.
be ever like the industrious bee—im
prove jour golden moments, nod event
uellj in the end mar jou wear jour
laurels of eictorj. Now seek repose,
secured bj him who ever With watch
ful eje, protects all those who on his
power relj, from hurtful foes.
Until thoa *akt»t with moruiof'* rmj light,
Oac* wn I wick jow all (m! sifte!
REPLT, IT C. W. BfcOADY.
Ladies: To be chosen to fill so high
and honorable a position as representa
tive of the second Division of the United
Colored American Association, is truly
flattering; though my greatest fear
arises from a knowledge of thy power
delegated to <>ne so incompetent as my
self to respond, in behalf of said Divis
ion, to y*ur very kind and talented ad
dress, delivered pn the occasion of the
presentation of your splendid banner to
the fraternity* The scene, indeed, is
an imposing one; and such is the etno-j
tion rilling each bosom at this time, that, i
believe me if I tell you, that our hearts
with feelings of gratitude are so much
overcome, that language fails to dc-j
scribe the myriads of thanks that hound
from the heart of each member of the
Association. Amid many discouraging
suggestions, that would naturally spring
up in the mind on engaging in an en-i
terprise also great a cost as the one,
in which you have been engaged in,;
compels us, under the present circum
stances, in ecstacy, to pronounce you
in labor indefatigable, in zeal untiring,
in not suffering the present work to
remain in embryo. Indeed, we believe
this praiseworthy gift to be but a germ
added to the fond anticipation of our
future elevation. It certainly will take
ages to efface from memory’s page this
glowing, glittering scene. AVe ask
your indulgence a few moments, whilst
we disci *se to you a few thoughts, em
bodied together, with other sentiments,
in reference to the worth and character
of woman.
We love to muse on the bearing, the
impression, and the influence your
present effort will have, not only on the
present audience, on whose Elysian
countenance we now gaze—not only on!
the present fraternity on which you;
have been pleased to bestow your gift,
but on the community ai large, working
as an impetus in our onward march toj
union and elevation. A certain writer, j
in his rhapsody, exclaims, Let cynics'
prattle as they may, our existence here j
without the presence of the other sex, 1
would be only a dark and cheerless
void. The light, the smiles, of wo
man, .are the b »w of beauty and
promise, which spans th£ life of man
from his cradle t toe grave.” Another
distinguished v f riter, in the rich nnagi-,
nation of his mind, when reflecting on
the character of woman, in limpid
strains of eloquence, pouring from the
golden vase, formed by his rich irnagi
tion, sentiments thus written:
Ilonore'l be woman, she beam* on the
Graceful anJ fair an a b-itg of light;
Scatter* around her wherever »he *tray«,
Roses of bliss o’er our :h jrn-covered ways.”
In this rare production, we see at once
a desire evinced on the part of the
writer to awaken man from his stupor
of soul—to arouse his languid spirit to
action, that man might be better quali
fied to appreciate the worth of woman.
There is no enterprise in which man
engages, but wh it the ladies, when
called on, cheerfully assent to assist, ifj
it be of a benevolent or charitable
nature. Hence, we find the features of
benevolence, virtue and constancy, pro
minently developed in the character of
woman.
When poverty wraps her murky man-
I tie around us—when sorrow, with all its
horror confronts us—when friends shall
have forsaken us, and despair over
taken us, hope having fled, chaos, with
its sombre clouds surrounding us—
then see woman, in all the shining love
liness of her character, stretching forth
her hand, alleviating our wants, and
ndmiuisiering to our necessities. Of
o j
woman s noble aud virtuous character,
1 tame has long since blown her trumpet:
yea, the names of many illustrious fe
males have for ages gilded with golJen
ghtter the pages of history.
In conclusion, ladies, let me assure
you tha: your names shall ever be held
dear and sacred in the memory of the
fraternity, hoping that we may in the
future, as apparent to all, we have in
the past, merit, by our action, the pres
ent gift—may we not only this, but all
other encouragements that it may seem
pleasing in your right to give, in for
warding us'm in our enhancement, to
in >unt the rostrum of elevation. Being
chained together by the law of oppres
sion, linked together under the law of
pr iscriptioa, and, too, seeing the rapid
change now being made in public sen
timent, as it regards the freedom of our
nation, then let us hail with joy the day
when you shall see tills banner, your
praise worth v gift, unfurled, float iug oo
the la nbieot wind of heaven; while one
wearing a badge, the satna as we are
forced to wear, which is nine less than
the badge of proscription, be standard
bearer, now disenfranchised, but then
free—free! and then may the dulcet
j >ng he sung throughout every State in
this Union, and the vast concave echo
and re-echo the gladsome sound, Ame
rica ia free! America i? free!
ctosito itxißts ar rev. dr, ciut
Ladies and Gentlemen: It is with the
m »st pleas irable em Hloifs th it 1 have
witnessed the cerenmnies just gsne by,
and rise cheerfuily to acknowledge rav
high satisfaction i i the events whioh
have keen as interesting as they are
creditable, as delightful as they are
heart-cheering. It anything can mar
the e nxi ws I profess, it U the coo
sci msnesj of my inability to keep tone
with what has preceded me. I am
wont, nevertheless, to seek shelter in
the very comjUHcnen of that which has
RJOHT is Of NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF HO COLOR-008 IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE -ARE BRETHREN.
ROCHESTER, N. Y, FRIDAY, AUOUST 25, 1848.
already entertained you. AUuaion has
been mada to the object of the "United
Colored American Association, nod
for the aenie it ban received merited
commendation. If I unde ret and them,
(the member*,) their object in the "for
warding a union of will and ioterest, in
mutually assisting, aiding and relieving
each other.*’ The history of mankind
plain!/ shows that the idea or motto,
sell'," U inscribed upon the secret
banner" of ua all, and the mind’s e/e
ever keeps in view the engrossing idem!
From the da y the might/ hunter com
bated with the beast of Ibe forest, so as
thereby to reoder himself efficient for
those daring exploits, whereby he
sought to place in subjection his fellow
men—>l say, from that period until this,
man has been wont to secure his own
aggrandisement, at the expense of his
brother; and depredatioaf everywhere
abound, urged by the motto—" salt"
Thus has the law of sweet reciproci
ty" been well nigh abrogated forever!
A high necessity therefore exists for
these fraternal organizations, wherein
the law of love and brotherly sympathy
might be reviewed in all its practical
importance.
l am aware that the reformist con
tends, —"The Christian system is in
itself complete, and sufficient for all
eff>rts of benevolence." I admit that
the theory of the Christian is complete,
but his practice tarries s far behind,
that humanity bleeds amid his theology!
The Christian's theory tells, To do
good, and to communicate, remember
not." In this state of religious contra
diction, no wonder that so many bene
volent societies have been called into
being, the existence of which would
have been entirely unnecessary had the
practice of the religionist kept tone
with his theory. In view of this, then,
I caqnot withhold my commendation
from this and similar eff >rts, having for
their benevolent object the-ameliorating
the ills of suffering humanity; for awe*
with the religionist who, with the zeal
of a Paul, coupled with the eloquence
of an Apollos, lacks the practical sym
pathy of a good Samaritan!
The Col >red American Association
commends itself further in the ultimate
design of its being, which is the con
centiating its mjral, intellectual and
active powers, so as thereby to effect
tike elevation” of its members. J3y a
law of mind, the destiny of man is one
of ascendancy," and os su/*e as this
evening's business denonstrates your
elevation,* so certainly will the period
come when sight, true to her work on
human reason, will brighten tjie after
pages of our history, while Irresisti
ble Truth" make us free indeed! T<*
effect its end, this ass *ciation promises
to use all lawful, just and righteous
means, and that the members thereof
are not merely in iralists, they
humbly rely on the Great Author of
nature for assistance. It is often
charged to the various benevolent soci
eties which exist, that they are the
abodes of infidelity." This charge, as
dishonest as it is uncharitable, cannot
be laid to the account of the United
Colored American Association, for it
has a theology—and better, it is prac
tical. Its theology is a belief in the
Great Author of Nature," to whom,
holding itself alike subordinate as ac
countable, it avows the use of no other
means but such as are lawful, just,
and righteous. Its practice, mu
tually assisting, aiding, and relieving
each other," having for its, ultimatum,
"Elevation!" For such an associa
tion, ladies and gentlemen, I feel free
to express my heart’s desire for its pros
perity, and to the members thereof, I
would respectfully offer iny earnest
sympathy. See t:> it that your prac
tice ever runs parallel to your theory,
and you need have no fear; for the
righteous Lord loveth righteousness;
his countenance will ever behold the
thing that is just.
A word to the ladies: much has been
said of them by the gentleman wh pre
ceded me, w ho has to a great extent an
ticipated my tribute to Woman.”—
Nevertheless, suffer me thus far. It
has been iny privilege to see woman in
various circumstances. I have seen
her in the torrid, and have neared the
frigid zone; in every place and in ev
ery way she appears to my heart 's eye
a visible angel! the representative ol
those sent forth to minister!" As
Yon moving Ump,
By Jove ordained toy »vem imid,
Tbe table touch of night,
in her waning glory i scatters mid
night’s gloom, so woman, moving in
her brightness," chases quick and cer
tain the dark hour of adversity! while
on the other haod, prosperity abounds,
her presence renders glorious that
which already brighteus! At the houi
"appointed to all the living," she ac
companies the "wreak man" quite neai
the verge; and only with reluctance
leaves her charge when refused admit
tance into the narrow chamber of th«
dead." Yes, woman! others may hav<
monuments erected td their memory—
thy m moment is in thyself! If mar
has been formed for intellect, womar
bears the palm for affection; if was
for the eff »rts of the head, woman foi
the sentiment* of tbe heart; if men hai
been a "lignt" in the intellectual world
woman is the "glory" of the m wal
Permit me, in conclusion, to read foi
you a few bars, which aroee ta mi
memory this afternoon while musing o
woman's benevolence.
ty.ua* t! tot onuses wit of tows to,
For dm an spirit ho is the tons* tw?
With tto. rfibrur* life’* a<h Murm,
By dut U Cijjsa U Jts!
-fd.sosu.toworMiitirt,
With etosb spas i thy j .y. to gin*
Wfcsuvw «o 1, »f ttotot a 4 part,
Wa tot—with Uns, wa always
Religion. node filed, bide mm kme aJ
and overcome evil with good
Selections.
B 7 scarcely neceewry to inform the
reader tboi the Polity ef ternon to from
the poo of tbo ftftod Lanutiae. The book
—of too chapters; tone first published
to lOl; repoMtohed early the present
year; and recently translated and published
in Laodoo. The translator prefixes an in
teresting memoir of Lamartine. It n oar
in intention, if passible, to publish the entire
work in consecutive numbers of the North
Stir.
THE POLITY OP REASON.
re ras ntascTons or tas atm anno*
rum.
CHAPTER I.
Stn: Yotrr letter readied mo to the
depth of my retreat; but there in no
longer any retreat to a sympathetic and
thinking mind, in the laborious days we
have fallen on. Thoughts general,
thoughts political, thoughts social, mas
ter and oppress individual thought.—
Vainly we wish to lay them aside; they
are around us, in us, everywhere; the
air we breathe brings them to us, the
echo of the entire world brings them
back to us. In vain we take refuge in
the silence of the valleys,in the most un
frequented paths of our woods: in vain
in our beautiful September nights, we
contemplate with envious looks that
peaceful and starry heaven which at
tracts us, and the harmonious and en
during order of that celestial army:
the remembrance of that moral world
trembling under our feet, the cares ol
the present, foresight of the future,
draw us to these heights. We return
from those dwellings of peace with a
spirit charged with trouble: a voice
powerful and importunate, a voice that
descends from heaven, as it rises Irom
earth, tells us that this is not a time for
repose, for contemplation, for Platonic
leizure; but that ii we will not be less
than man, we must ascend into the
arena of human nature, to fight, to
suffer, and, if need be, to die with it and
for it.
You know I did not decline this com
bat: I presented myself to France with
the conviction of a duty to fulfil, with
the devotion of a son: she did not wish
for tne.* I did not abandon the struggle;
the struggle abandoned tne Almost:
alone among the men who have not de
nivd or resisted the Restoration, I
•have, to accomplish this Citizen’s and
Frenchman’s duty, braved the smile of
pity from our monarchical Machiavels,
the insult* and menaces of a party
whose polities pro* naught but hatred,'
and that style* fibert/, derision of its
public despotism of place. One man
saw in me only a weak spirit, which did
not understand neutrality in times of
rivalry, or the tact of idleness; anoth
er, only a too eager placeman,whq was
"playing off a skilful trick, to share some
shameful plunder with the victors: oth
ers, again, only an absolutist in dis
guise, coming to spread a net for liber
ty, to trip it up in its road, and to laugh
afterwards with his accomplices at this
great cataclysm of modern civilization,
ending in a coup d etat, for the profit
of some powerless ordontiance. Thus
are men judged, while they live, aud
breathe, and have their being,” in that
atmosphere of corruption and lies,
which is called the days of party. I
remained alone and silent; but alone
with an approving conscience, with a
justification in the present, with a future
that at least will not accuse me! But
al »ne with you, with so many young
and sincere men, with so many elevated,
and rati-mal friends, who have made!
their political thoughts a sanctuary
where intrigue and passion may not
penetrate; who are seeking social truth
in the light of divine truth; who place
the morals, the duty, the health and
I progress of humanity, above their scho-j
lastic theories and their family aifec-i
tions; who have in their hearts some
thing beyond their own names; who
comprehend humanity in all its epochs,
uuder all its forms, even in all its
transformations; spirits marching apart
from, but before their generati ms, like
the column of fire before the army ol
Moses; veritable, thinking majority of
this age, who will leave, perchance,
merely a luminous trace when all this
desert shall have been passed through,
when all the dust shall have fallen
i again.
In your letter you ask of me two
things; personal co-oneration in the
journal you are establishing, and ray
opinion on the political principles it
should admit and propagate.
As to co-operation, it is with regret
(that 1 am obliged to answer, N>. J
have never written in any journal;—l
will never write in a journal for which
I am u*>t solely responsible. Do not
perceive in these words a auperb dis
dain of what is termed journalism. Far
i from it; I have too intimate a knowl
t edge of my epoch to repeat this absurd
nonsense, this impertinent inanity
,j against the periodical press; I know,
I too well, the work Providence baa com
mitted to it. Before this century shall
hive run out. journalism will be the
(i while press, the whole human thought.
Since that prodigious multiplication art
1 has given to speech, mohipheation to
be multiplied thousand-fold yet, man
r kind will write their book day by day,
r nour by hour, page by page. Thought
W iU spread abroad in the world wish the
rapidity of Kg**! instantly eooceived.
instantly written, instantly undetefcmd,
at the extremities of the earth, it will
speed from pole to pole. Sudden, in
stant, burning with the fervor of a >ul
which made it hurst forth, it will be the
reign of the bWMn word in all ha pie
Tjz?? agA* a'gtfgfc.
■ton”—Ta-t
nitude; it will ant litre lo ripen,
to accumulate into the fora of a book:
the book will arrire too late. The only
book possible from to-day, is a news
pap r: thus it is not, with toe, con
tempt of this necessary form of publi
cation, of this democracy of speech
no, k is a religious respect for my poli
tical conviction; conviction, strong,
absolute, entire, which I could not as
sociate to other's convictions without
altering it, frequently without changing
ita nature, may be. Association, so
useful for ection, is of ao value for
speech. Consolidation of thought is
whet a mind, independent and con
vinced, accepts least: each thought is
a whole, whereto it caonot be added or
retracted, without altering ita nature.
It is moral unity.
As to tka high political direction, of
which you sod your friend* have so
happily and courageously scaled the
ascent, in the Correspondence,—-here
are the principal moral, historical, and
philosophical considerations which
would trace it out before me, had I the
power and talent to co-operate with you
in your social labors.
cßArrta n.
When a man wishes to embrace in
his views a wider horixon, he mounts
an eminence proportioned to the disco
very be wishes to make thence he
looks down and beholds. So should a
philosopher do; let us mount these in
tellectual eminences, whence the eye
can contemplate the past, command the
present, and catch a glimpse of the fu
ture. Let us strip ourselves, in thought,
of our qualifications; of age, country,
epoch; of our prejudices, of our hab
its, of nation and party; let us leave at
the foot of the mountain those vest
ments, and those sandals of the day;
let us reduce ourselves to the nature ol
pure intellect, and then look forth!—
That summit, from which man may
contemplate the route, pnst and future,
of humanity, is history: that light
which should illumine this double hori
zon for his eyes, is morality—that di
vine day which emanates from God him
self, and which can neither fail nor mis
lead! So posted, so lighted, the heart
righteous, and the eye pure, the philo
sopher may have the. most complex so
cial problem presented ttf him; he will
solve it; he wifi solve it with a meta
physical precision, all to some acci
dents, to some ages of error in the du
ration of social phases, of which Pro
vidence reserves to itself the secret.-
Sublime prophet of reason, he will in
dite the history of the future! That
problem, avents have placed before us;
every heart, sounds it in secret, every
understanding scrutinises it, every
mouth repeats—Where are we?* whith
er go we? and wlhat to do?
CHAPTER 111.
Where are tee? Not quite at the end
of time, not quite at the supreme oata
clism of human societies; not even at
one of those disgraceful epochs, without
hope, without issue, where humanity
crouches in a long and vile corruption,
and is rotting in its own filth. No: his
tory and the Gospel in hand, seeing the
little way man has made, and the im
mense route opened by human reason
and the Divine Word to his perfection
here below, we feel that mankind
scarce touch their age of reason; on
another side, placing our hand on the
heart of social man, feeling that inde
finable hope beat within;—that virile
ardor and boldness, that pith of force
and desire, which decays less than ever
in our epoch;— listening to his hardy
words, his ventursome promise,alarmed
even at the superabundance of energy,
which makes him revolt at all rein,
which dashes him against every obsta
cle—we feel that the vital principle in
human nature is far from being weak
ened. Man is young; his social form
is old, and is falling into ruius: immor
tal chrysalis, he is laboriously issuing
from his primitive covering, to assume,
the manly gown, the form of his matu
rity. Behold the truth! We are at
one of the strongest epochs the human
race has to cross, to advance towards
the end of their divine destiny—at an
epoch of renovation and social trans
formation, similar perhaps to the gospel
era. Shall we get over it without per-
i*hing? without some geaerati ms being
buried under the rubbish of a pass,
which breaks diwn? without an age or
two being lost in an atrocious and ster-,
il© contest? That’s the question: be->
fore the 27th of July, ld3o, it was
solved: the bndge was thrown across
the abyss, which separates the past
from the future. The Restoration had
received froui on high the loveliest and
holiest mission that Providence could
assign to a royal race; the mission
Moses received—to conduct France,
that vanguard of modern civilization,
out of the land of Egypt, out of the
land of despotism, of privilege, and of
boodage. The race did not compre
hend it thoroughly; the suicide of July,
so harafoi to the preeent, was the mur- j
der to the future. The race of St.
Louis, like the prophet of Sinai. per-!
ishud for their doubts, before touching!
the Land of Promise; but we, genera
tion inodoent of this fault, shall wo see j
it, ere we die?
Wiat they Sit foe.— A Quaker
who was exam*nod before court, not
using any other laaguage than “thee,
“tboa,'* and “friend," was asked by!
the presiding judge, "Pray Mr.— d
you know what we sk hers for? Vea, j
verily, do I, said the Quaker, “three of
you for two dollars each a day, aud the
fat eoa ©A the right, for one thousand
dollars a year.
Advice, says Coleridge, is like saow
—the softer it falle, the longer k dwells
upon, and the deeper k sinks ini* the
lists -1
•FBBCH or JOIHVi B.GIDDIMI
at Ik BUFFALO COHTBirriO.I.
Mr. Ginwitos hiring been loudly
and repeatedly called lor, cane forward
amidat the moat deafening applauee and
•poke as follow*:
Friend*, countrymen and fellow citi
zens: 1 know of no subliaer spectacle
that could be presented to the eye ol
the Patriot, Statesman, nr lover of man
kind, than to see a people assembled in
mighty Convention, for the maintenance
of their own unalienable rights; and
when my Reverttcd friend here made
such beautiful allusion to that venera
ble statesman, who has lately taken his
departure from this to a brighter world,
lay heart involuntarily resp >nded amen
to the sentiment ba ezpressed. I firm
ly believe, that could that old man
eloquent,” that mighty and irresistible,
champion ofhaman rights from early
youth to extreme age, have lived to see
this day, he would have said like him of
old, Now, Lord, let thy servant de
part in peace since mine eyes have seen
thy salvation."
Fellow cit zens, that venerable
statesman and patriot first called my at
tention to the usurpations of that power
which now threatens to engulf your
liberties. He hss tskea his departure
from the scenes of political discord and
strife, and it has been left to another
generation to maintain the rights which
he labored during his whole life to es
tablish in perpetuity for the enjoyment
of yourselves and your offspring. That
beautiful allusion, made in the prayer
to which you listened this morning,
to the Pilgrim Fathers who were tem
pest tossed upon a wintry and storm
ridden sea, as they fled from political
oppression at home, and sought to es
tablish this ever living principle of
mao’s unalienable rights upon the
shores of Massachusetts, reminded me,
that in that same year—yes, fellow citi
zens, in that same year that our Pilgrim
Sires landed upon those inclement
shores, a Dutch ship, freighted with
humanity made merchantable by the
superior fraud and powers of piratical
dealers in human flesh and blood, land
ed upon our coast at Jamestown, in
Virginia. Yes, the element of slavery
and degradation was established in the
same year that our Pilgrim Fathers es
tablished Human Liberty upon the wild
New England shores. And these an
tagonistic principles have been spread
ing and widening, and pushing out, and
bearing fruit from that day to the pres
ent. And while New Eugland ha* been
with devotion to her country, her God,
and to mankind, endeavoring to extend
hen principles of liberty, Southern
States have been*eagcrly and ‘tnctgs*-
ically engaged in extending and per
petuating Human Degradation and
‘Slavery. And that institution existed
when it was first brought upon the
southern shores of these States precise
ly as it is now sought to be established in
California and New Mexico. It was
established there by force of the physi
cal and intellectual auperiority of the
whites over the colored race. In vio
lation of Heaven’s high decree, the
white-man seized his fellow colored
man and compelled him to submit to
his will. That state of degraded Afri
cans existed for years with no other law
to sustain it than now exists in New'
Mexico and California.
He who reads the history of our
country, a<*d especially that portion of
it which relates to the introduction, es
tablishment, and extension of the heav
en-defying institution of Slavery, will
understand the deep-laid schemes of
southern Statesmen to establish Slave
ry in New Mexico by the entire absence
of legislation upon the subject. Leave
the slaveholder to convey his slaves
there, let him but once gain a foothold
there and by force of superior intelli-i
gence and power; by the bowie-knife,
the scourge, the whip and the dread in
struments of torture, he will establish
slavery there unless prevented by the
law.
John C. Calhoun is too deep read a 1
man, he is too well vern d in all the in
fernal measures of fraud, force and du-j
plicity by wnich slavery encircles its
victims in its deadly folds, and enlarges
its borders, and strengthens its powers,
to lie induced by any means whatever,
to give his support to any movement j
that would in the least militate against
his dirltng institution; and 1 tell you
that the late Compromise, as it has been
called, was a deep-laid scheme of those
whose invention never fails them, to'
entrap you into the support of Slavery
in New Mexico and California.
Fallow citizens, Ido rejoice to-day,.
to see the people come up here from
the various States of this Union, north
of Mason and Dixon’s line, and thank
G‘k), some south of it, in the spirit of
devotion to maintain the self-evident
rights of man for which our forefathers
bled during the revolution. 1 can only
•ay to you fellow citizens, that if you»
expect to be instructed by my remarks
to-day, yow will be disappointed. 1 see
none before me but patn »U, friends,
and philanthropist* who wish to cheer,
me op ip my work. 1 know not how to
meet such I hove not been used to it.
1 tell you I miss my sword. I know
not how to jgset you to-day as friends,
for I here nit been accustomed to each,
and while I lyyucs with joy unuttera
ble, 1 M ampp hpared to give utterance
to the sentiments of my heart.
My friends, I know 1 have before me
here members of all the political par
ties. £A voic have been. I I thank
my friend for the words/ I will
write it down in my book. I say then
I see before me men who bate beee
members of all the political parties of
the day.' Men wo supported
Clay, sod Jackson. Adsme, sod
Taylor perhapa. Men have auo
portod Cnsa OC«*rm «na think*
JOHN DICE,
-WHOLE NO—Bs
of supporting him now. [Vo Wei
1 will speak of him aa of the other*.
oo« who baa been. I say fellow *iti
xana, that when 1 come here and met t
men ready to carry into practical life
the principles of ’76, I can extend tha
band of Fraternity’* to them i feci
that I am meeting friends, patriots uhj
are willing to make sacrifice for iho
maintenance of thoaeholy principles.
Of General Casa I will not speak.—
He has been a political opponent c-f
mine, and is now. Of General Taylor
1 can only remark, that 1 know not
enough of him to say aoy thing in hix
farororto speak evil of him. I can
only speak of his principles and those
of tha old Whig party. I sav to you I
now stand where I rtood in '44. I wish
to repeat what was turn often and de
liberately asserted to be the principles
•ftha whig party.- Aside from the
Tarif, and other principles of tht: cam
paign, we know that non-extension of
Slavery was the issue. May God for
give you Locofocos for your conduct
then. I cannot do it. That was tno
issue on which we joined battle under
our old beloved and gallant leader.-
Would to God we had such a leader
now. Henry Clay laid it down in his
letter at that time, that non-extension
of Slavery was the ninth article in the
whig creed. Do you remember that,
friendsof General Taylor? [Vos
Henry Clay re-asserted this principle.
[A voice, tell us something about
Mat Van Buren.”] I will attend to
him by and by, when I will do ban jus
tice. Henry Clay made that declara
tion, and is there any one here who de
nies it? [No.] Now you who support
General Taylor, dare you come up to
it? If you dare not, you have fled front
the platform on which you then stood
Can a man make General Taylor as
sert what Henry Clay proclaimed m’44
Henry Clay boldly put foith his senti
ments, and his honesty and fairness
brought his downfall. The slave pow
er wrote on his wall the prophecy,
Mene, Tekel, Upharsin.” Thou ait
weighed in the balances and found
wanting. Henry Clay was donated
in the Philadelphia Convention on ac
count of that declaration. He lies low,
smitten down by the ruthless slavo
power, which has never spared any
however exalted, whom it suspected of
a willingness to recognize the princi
ples embodied in the Declaraiion of In
dependence. Well, geutlemcn, you
all know that I opposed Martin Van
Buren with all my powers. I left no
stone unturned in ’44, to defeat his
election. Martin Van Buren rejected
Texas in *Q7. She was then at wa
wilh Mexico. In ’44 the. alavtii. Idm
of MtsApwppi interrogated turn up*
this subject, which rffokthem, wft* th#
transcendent question of all others r ami
he declared hjs opposition to tin* An
nexation of Texas, in ‘44. This is n
matter of truth and of history, and I
declare it to be the brightest spot in his
political life. There was in that act a
perfect consistency and a perfect adap
tation to his present position as 1 under
stand it. You will understand that I
am not an advocate of Martin an Bu
rfcn for the Presidency. He is not my
choice, but if be shalltbe the faiil^se
lected candidate of this Convention*
then, I say I shall be for him. If not,
then I say lam against him. Whoev
er is put forth, I will regard as my po
litical brother, and 1 will sustain him
as such.
J. C. CALHOUN ON THE IIECLAR
ATION OF INDEPENDENCE.
In a recent speech in the Senate,
Mr. Calhoun gave a philisophical I a-ny
an the rights of man. He thinks that
all the revolutions of the last half
century, have arisen firm the fa!*** as
sumption that all men air created rguul.
Mr. Calhoun has a ditficult ta-k before
him, if he expects to persuade the
world that their best imeici>t will be
promoted by adapting the policy'of
South Carolina, where the low own ihc
many, and one man thinks for them all.
We give the following extract
It is the leading cause among fhogo
which have placed Kurope in its pres
ent anarchical condition, and which
mainly stand in the wav of reconstruct
ing good Governments in the place of
those which have been overthrown,
threatening thereby the quarter ol tho
globe most advanced in progress ui.d
civilization with hopeless anarchy, u
be followed by military despotism. Xor
are we exempt from its disorganizing
effect.
We now begin to experiett'*'? fr.d
danger of admitting so gnat an error
to have a place in the declaration of
our independence. For a long tune H
lay dormant, hut in the process of
it began to germinate ar.d pr. dti< im
poisonous fruits. It had strerg h Id
on the mind of Jefferson, the author of
that document, which caused hint to
take an utterly false view of ihe .->.l in
ordinate relation of the black to the
white race m the south, and to h-!d, in
consequence, that the latter, though
utterly unqualified to posses* liDe.iy,
were as fully entitled to both librr.y
and equality as the former, and that 'j
deprive them of it was unjust s»d
morel. To this error his proposition t
exclude slavery from the territory nor* b
west of Ohio, mar be traced, and to
that the ordinance of IT“7, ard through
H the deep and dangerous agitation
which now threaten* lo engulph. and
will certainly if c t speedily
settled, our political institutions, ami
iovolra the country m counties* *oes
EecMLiTv.—Roller says; JLei h a
who expects one class in society to
prosper to the highest cieg-ee while
others ere in distress, try nether uo
side of bis fiee oen sonic while the other
is pinched.
The great national convention of the colored people of the United States will be held in Cleveland, Ohio commencing on Wednesday, the sixth day of next September. Let the colored freemen all rally to this important gathering. This is a crisis, and something we must and will do. We hope to see the east north and west come up in one mighty unbroken phalanx to do battle for god and humanity. 
. R. DELaNY.
Hamilton, Ohio, June 6,1549.
FT? Mystery, snd all friendly papers, pleast
copy.
Gcrrit Smith on the Buffalo Convention,
PrTimnoßO, August 15, 1343.
J. K. Ingalls, t.'Utor of the Landmark
Nt: *v Vor k
Mv os\r Si?.,—l have your letter. 1 ha<
learned, before receiving it, of the report u
Hiiffalo, during the late Convention there
th3t 1 wr>s :n favor of the nomination of Mr
an Buren, and would vote for him.
1 iiardty need ray, mat I am deeply inter
fated in ihe present movement agamst tin
*-v.-'-,a r» of slavery and tint I L.finiiel;
1 r der toe e’ection of the candidates, who ar
m i-tified \snh it, to the election of the Wfcq
an 1 D j.mocaiie candidate*. G?n. Taylor ar.<
Gen. Cass are pmalavery candidates. Mr
an Huren and Mr. A lams are aniisiaver
candidates. '1 tie former am the sin moles
touis of the slave-power. The latter bra veil
resist it.
It t-i true, tba% among all the persons
whom there was the least reason to be!iev<
the Buffalo f’onventio'i would nominate fo
I‘rcsi lent, Mr. V'i:s Huron was my preference
ile w is mv pref’renco, because 1 believed h<
w ould obtain a inueii larger vote than anv o
the others; and, that bis nomination wouh
go much farther than that of any of the other:
toward hr. akiug up the great political parties
which, along wall the great eeelesiastica
part: m, ar.* the chief shelters and props o
slavery.
Hut, it .s not true, that I shall rote for Mr
an Buron. 1 rv.n into for no man for Presi
d'ji.t ol the t nitod States, who is not at
a lolitiomst; for no man, who votes for slave
holders, or for those, who do; for no man,
whose understanding and hcait would noi
p not him to u-o the oflice, to the utmost,
f r the abolition of slavery. And, Jet me
here confess, that I am not of the number
oi who believe, that the Federal Gov
ernment has no higher power our s!a\crv
’ban to abolish it m the District of Columbia,
a id to ab »hsh the inter State traffic in human
h-i igs. 0:i the contrary, 1 claim, that this
(XiventPtent lias power, under ihe Con&titu
!i m, to abolish every part of American
Slavery, whether wjtrioui, or within, the
•>tat ,s, and mat it is superlatively guilty
again-t Go 1 and man fir refusing thus to use
i lie still tugiiiT ground do 1 take, that.(
no man is fit fur President of iha United
States, v f'O -o v ot scout too iuea oi the
f.0.-s.h; i; v or j ru;:\r; ;n unn. and who docs,
i*ot insist, t.hat si ivory is as utterly incapable
Jegalizaiioo, as is murder itself. Why is;
it not Is it not as had us murder Is not,
uni -ed, murder itself one ol the elements in
Hint matchless compound of enormous crimes 7
li not strictly that, it is, at least, a part of
jts necessary operation. The murder —the!
•b-thct. tcci.i aal murder—<*f s'-ivrs occurs
daily in tins land. Why should it not,!
reoiiig, that it is unpunt&hed True there
are laws ajain-i it. But, laws fur putting a
man to dram :<>r doing uhat lie will with
t 1 whom tfie laws themselves reduce tin
more chattels—laws I.»r ucstioying a man
juH 1 lie hs destroyed things —do. ol
course, remain unexecuted, lienee, there l
i uould be no surprise v that, from the day tliu,
Nation came into being until the present day, I
no white man has, in any one of the South* j
ern Slates, been put to death, under the laws, j
for the murder ol a slave.
Laws are lbr the infection of rights. That i
1=1)0 law, winch, like Hie enactments for!
slavery, is for the destruction of rights. Ajtd,
y-n. our Judges s:t in Court, and wait pa-I
tt iti’v on the lawyers, who are angaged-inj
hunti ig up authorities for slavery—in hunting
up iUthoiities, not tor the comparatively pettvi
enm of sheep, or hors*, stealing, but for!
»ie unsurpassed crime of man stealing. Ouf
c ■lightened post.iuv wiil wonder, that we:
fbou d have called sychaCourt of Justice":
and ihay will wonder, that our Judges.
tiiM.enl of exerc sng such patience toward
these lawyers, did not commit them to prison
“t >r contempt of Court.” But, our enlight
ened posterity w ill have no cause to wonder j
7 o: characteristically light respect for law.|
Jo: w by should it bo expected, that a people,
shou! i manifest a duep and devout regard for j
law, who are patient under the attempt, and
ov rt unite in the. attempt, to clothe with the!
obhgatmn and sacredness of law such an:
ahomii-ation, as slavery?
W hilat on the topic of slavery, I will add,
that no man is fit for President, whos3 heart I
bar, not welcomed the doctnue of the human!
brotherhood, and the doctrine of the perfect
e.iualtty of ail men, in both their political and,
eneial rights. He, who would 10b colored
persona of the right of suffrage, or make
their complexion a bar to the equality of their
r:gh's with whue persons, in the school, oi
the h mse of worship, or elsewhere, is not
worthy to be a civil ruler. From such a one
impartiality toward all, who cooia under h:s
rule, :s not to be expected.
Severe as thesa tests of fitness for civil
ft lfive may ba in the esteem of many, they
ne, Acv.‘rth:-lesB, r.ot new. The Liberty
Party acknowledged them, and contended fur
tn»*m. u ,;:i ihe last year, when the great
tnajui ty of u s rnamb rs adopted the policy »>l
for the Piesidency a gemleman.
ho, gr. at .s is lus worth, and rapid as is his
ptogresa in untislavery truth, isad uever given
eviJcnog o| holding a single one of the dis
g .ijl.ing doctrines of the Libery Party.
In idopim'T that unprincipled a.id ruinous
P’*' tcv, they, manttimtlv, abandoned these
t'-i:.-, o), n i..i,, r v p, rtv And,
now, m taking up Mr. Van Buren, they are
10. a. iig 1... s a U i.lli.illwllt U.IU Hit
ennby oi no new, &r.d no grea f wrong, his
n greiter viola’ii nof Limrty Party j rinc-pes
to nominate Mr. Van B.ireu* than it was to
nominate Mr. lla’e —and they, who swung
11. ir ha’s over Mr. Hales n-inuiution, a^e
fu .tv of r;o incons.stercy in swinging tiiem
over Mr. Van Buren'*. Mr \an Buren
would be no quicker than Mr. Hale to r.se ,i
the cm-geuf rtpretoung the unpopy’ ar and
revih*d doctrines of the Liberty Party. The
r pro.ich of these do'tunes. and ot member
s.,i;i m th 3 Liberty Party, the one would *hun.
a- jnickiy as the other, iaut, tnanks to out
Heavenly Kef per, tne Ltuerty Party is, oi>;
y-t. deserted by a 1! its ...em ers. A t. a- «,j
them remain, to preserve its name, and '.pholij
e J honor tl» pruiC'j les. Moreover, mmv ot
t;i se. vvf;o, tivoir impatience for
tu ibir* and resell* hw* torwksiWt, will, ere
i., returu lifil. l*Kd!r delasidd \itfl s*-on
6( a ue if'.: and iht-ir r«.UMribared t hAckSiic
i.v 5 a ]i out serve to rca tacii them the cneja
cin v to the”truths t*iey had belayed.
S o lid 1 e’osr mv letter.itore. I night
Kiivi: you kinder thcmnpr tf»i! if ’.6 oc
mo t—bjett of f.ttvcry Oaty, that I reqtrir
r. i:.<*s> ,n It*® true, th*t
1o- u ;<edi fv-fi-ydi 'C. v» Uim—Aspr even
b j. u t *htir.* r atf»Jfsv#f4..tiCtflt Tg»V
z Hut 1 nhTVqn'ii-t on nSt.r.^
cv l ’nco, t:.at '«tr:U. rf at n,
ir •j. a tut' t! .to *rrv <<ut, in ail
d *c i'i .s, t!j« pr.uc.ph i t tjf* equal i.ghtaof
a!; ni ll i<- 1 i vid* uC9, bo-.y, j coitn* t
h i.*.-, it tiief aims of the j w>r white, men do
i,ol. as wcJ a* t.iu cf the pom hlacU
an, comt w.ihtft the scope of fns regards
I t. it, -f bs rpi'is+i t
non^relu*f. end eepecially. to tfcat monopoly
whicS with tbilpty, you ar
a'wrm* to ovtrtMcw. ICM \o4s* tor »k* tmi
fur IY«s. lent* m ho in RotpMr.J op the eebjee
I of Lmnd-Monooul) and wko is tint ready ti
do vote himself, arm ami soul,” to Yh
abolitioa ot thin evil* which so gigantic .i
itscif, and winch make* room for nuroerou
snd no less gigantic eTi!*.—»lt not enough
’be candidate agree w ith the Land Re
formers, ia respect to one ot more of tbei
measures. Their pnnipUs, ar.d, especiallv
i that of Hoxca rot All.” must a» m him
and it must be certainly known, that to th<
aucc«aa of these principles be consecrates.bn
influence, whether private or official. Nothin)
can be more obvious to kuo* wuo wUI rebec
upon tt, thon that the right of every pcrsoi
tu the soil is port *ct—as perfect as to the sea
the tight, me air;—sod mat the denial of Un
1 right acco.mis for no small share of the woild i
misery. When, if not now, shall we uki
our wand, :n belialf of this right For acv
ral years, the I>and Reformers have beei
filling the country with srgumems, wrbict
prove tins right, conclusively and triumph
j antly. 'l'he Irish famine, which is to Lx
traced, so disUuctly, to Land Monop<dy, wai
ni st opjOttune for illustrating and commend
mg these argunmits. Shall we watt, unit
th sc arguments and the horrors of that fatoini
have faded frox. the public memory, ere wi
i insist, that Civil Government ahail piotec
every person mi the assertion of his rights—
bis natural and absolute right —to his neede*
portion of the soil? We may theu be uoabh
to rc*arou»c the public mind. Moreover
hav.ng failed to make just and Heaven-de
iiianded applications of the truth, we ma;
—(for such is a frequent couseqsence o
uufaithfulness to the truth) —have oo hear
i leu tor remculcaiing H.
I hardly need say, that I am an abolition
tst. B it, abolitionist tbougb I am, I regari
Land-Monopoly, take the world together, as s
far more abundant source of suff.-ritig an<
debasement, than is Slavery :—and, 1 add
ihat, whilst to ai-olish cliattcl-slavery is not n
übuiiah lard-monopoly, to abolish land
monopoly i« to aboluh chatt.-l-sl ivety.
I am well aware, that but few are left tc
govern their votes by such considerations
as govern my own! Of the seventy thou
sand, who belonged to the Liberty Party,
perhaps, not one thousand will insist, thai
their candidates be abolitionists: and ot all
the Land-Relonners, perhaps, not one thou
sand will insist, that their candid ites m• Land-
Ilolormeia. U hen I see such wise and good
men, as compose the Faculty of Ooerlin
Institute, adapting their eihics to the emer
gency, and teaching, that the Civil Ruler may,
in most respects, be a man of negative,
instead of positive merits —and that, even in
such antisJavery matters, as are, confessedly,
iinpoilanl, it will answer, if he oniy do
not slaud committed against the right—
when 1 s.:e such a sad surrender of principle,
1 expect nothing better than that but here and
there one will be found able to keep himself
front being carried off in the floods ot defec
tion.
Alas, that even the wise and the good
should entertain such low and false views of
Civil Government! Hut, it is not sirange
that they should. Ministers refuse to preach
Bible politics: and if a layman presume to
preach them, Ministers and their people con
spire against him tor his unpardonable offence.
God's is a positive character, lie is not
indifferent, or undecided, in respect, either to
the right or the wrong, lie is for the right,
and against the wrong, always, and every
where. And so should be the Civil Ruler
in the sphere of politics, where he is the
representative—“ the minister of God.”
Hut, 1 have detained you too long. If
you have the curiosity to learn more of my
news of the uses of Civil Government, and
of the qualifications of the Civil Ruler, you
may learn it from a pamphlet just printed by j
S. W. Green of Utica. The pamphlei j
contains the proceedings of the National
Liberty Party Convention, held in Buffalo,
last June.
In canclusion, let me eav, that I, many
years ago, became deeply convinced of the
impropriety of determining the candidate s
fitness fur offic'*, by interrogating him. If a
man's life and character, before his iicmiua-.
tion, do not afford the evidence of his fitness
tor office, I would not allow, that he supply
the lack, w hen in nomination.
With great regard, vour friend,
GERRIT SMI l 11.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, AUGUST 25, 1813.
Ia the Lecturing Field again.
During the past week, we have he'd, in
company with our friend and coadjutor, M. R.
Delany, five public meetings—one in Port j
Byron, two in Auburn, and two in Victor.—
These meetings have been of a highly satis
factory and encouraging character. A greater
disposition to hear the subject of slavery dis
cussed ia all its various bearings, we have
never seen manifested. A spirit of earnest
inquiry is now abroad in the land in reference
to this great question, ar.d men are every
where anxiously inquiring, what is truth and
duty respecting it. To throw light on this
subject, by public addresses, seems now to be
the most urgent anti-slavery work and w ere
our organs of speech what they once were,
we should not hesitate for a moment to throw
our whole soul into this department of labor,
but the past week's exi>enence admonishes us
to be careful. We feel sensibly the ill effects
of our five addresses the past week, and must
not repeat the experiment again until our
health is more fully restored. We set out to
s.y a word about the meetings, ar.d to pen a
few w rds of ch er to the rank and file of cur
noble band of fellow abolitionists. We have
always contended that iho ear of the leople
was all ve dcatred, in order to change public
opinion on the subject of slavery.
Tne principles, di>ctrines and measures
adopted by the abolitionists, are so accordant
with common- sense, so in harmony w ith the
Christian religion, and appeal so directly to
ill the be.ter feelings of the human heart,
ihat they need only to be fuiily stated, and
candidly listened to, iu order to convert the
whole nation. Our great misfortune baa been,
0.,r inability to gain the ear of tlie people.—
They have tnard of ua only tb-ough the me
dium of a camcaiuring pro-slavery press, and
false and cowardly clergy, who have oute
iheir utmost to creata against us the mn*t
blind Vid h.ttar prejudice—the one denouncing
us a* wild, disorgmixing fanatics, sod the
'*‘!i t, bihi >d their usseled pulpiis, with owl
d:-t- rted faces, nisiog the imd-Uog cry of
infid.-lity, aad warning the people against us.
Thanks be to our Heavenly Father, both tries*
influences are yielding to.the general derated
fur.aou-slavtjy light, •&«eewvhere coming up
tram the ranks'of tna muh:tu‘3%."
say to our ’easlavid and wu
countrymen. La:fup your sorrowmgHearst
i there hope. A ray of hope
the floor of your dungeon the day of your
deliverance' l’:oha thraldom draweth o;gh.—
The s.avchoidtrs, ia tlirrr mad attempts to
prolong their iufertul rule over you, have been
the means of awakening an interest in yotir
can*! before wholly unknown.. Tl»e meet
ing» w loch w e h*»e juM hold, folly justify u»
in trying this, and ©ore.'. They were tff;
**cept that h»*ld at .Victor, got op aTwy
abort and imperfect .notice, tuur ot i*e bourn
bring the only ums allowed for circulating
nonce of tbtln; and the last, held in Aubam.
came in c-jolbct with a meeting held by the
Land Reformers, addresaed by a deservedly
popular speaker, necessarily taking off a large
number who, ia other circumstances* would
f have attended our meeting. For the eminent
success attending our meetings in Auburn,
we were greatly indebted to the prompt and
cordial asataraaee rendered us by Rev. H
Johnson snd H. W. Cjuincy, fdir-which, in
the name of our Brethren to hoods, we sin
cerely thank them. There are few places in
this country w here a mure gratifying change
has taken place in the public mind on the
subject of slavery, than in Aobum. The
meetings at Victor were well attended, and
gave promise of much good to the caase.—
Besides the assistance of our brother Detany,
J. C. Hathaway lent ns the aid of his elo
quence, which greatly added to the iuterest of
the occasion.
The Press—Van Buren.
It is almost as amusing as it is encouraging
aud instructive, to observe the anti-slavery
tone of the various Northern political hresses
'at this time. Each seems determined tp make
out a case of anti-slavery for its party, pnd to
prove its hostility to Northern dough-fsfreism.
The Anti-Slavery press was not more Revere
on the course of Mr. Van Buren towards the
anti-slavery question, than the Casa anp Tay
lor papers are now. The only differed be
tween hia present assailants and his
rery reprovers, relates to the motive—if|ie oue
is dishonest and the other honest —tlsa one
stone him for a good deed, and the otl|:r for
an evil deed. The reproaches heaped: upon
Mr. "V an Buren by the Cass and Taylor
presses, are like those which are lavished by
a set of old profligate drunkards upon one of
their number, when he resolves to leave them
and sign the Washingtonian pledge. These
presses remind ns strongly of i greedy set of
buzzards, passing by all that is sound, pure
and good, they prefer to feast themselves oo
putrid meat, even though they are compelled
to disgorge it.
There is a common-sense mode of meeting
such opposition—it is, by adhering to what
Mr. Van Buren is now understood to l>e. If.
he ever was a Northern man with Southern'
principles, he is evidently not so now, and has
not been during the last four yeais. lie
should not therefore be reproached for the
past, but commended for the present.
“Monthly Illustrations of Blarery. w
This valuable Anti-Slavery sheet, published
at New*cast!e-upon-Tyne, England, comes to
us freighted with the enormities of the Ame
rican slave system. Its ever-vigilant editor
allows no fact illustrating the brutal character
of American slavery to go unnoticed, so far
as space will permit, and these facts are sent
broadcast over the British empire, and are
published in nine-tenths of all the British
newspapers. We observe, among others, in
this month's number, an account of the brvital
outrage committed some months since on the
person of Henry Highland Garnet, whil** on
the Buffalo and Niagara Railroad. Another
refers to the conviction of Stephen Redden,
for having in his possession certain pictures of
an anti-slavery character, in the Slate of 'Ma
ryland. Another refers to the infamous threat
of assassination by Senator Foote against
John P. Hale. These, with mm3* other facts
of the same atrocious description, have been
going the rounds of the British press, estab
lishing just ideas of American civilixation,
freedom and Christianity. We commend to
the British press the case of Drayton, Sayres
and English, the noble sufferers now in the
prison of the capital of the country, fur -no
other crime alleged against them than tfiat
they aided slaves to escape from a cruel
bondage.
If a sense of shame has not departed with
a sense of justice and humanity from the
American people, they cannot remain indif
ferent to these exposures. England is too
near to America, and the intercourse is too
rapid and frequent, for Americans to be
wholly indifferent to British public opinion.—
There h no American citizen, not wholly
j ]ost to all sense of decency and honor, that
does not blush for his country when he con
verses with intelligent Englishmen on
subject of slavery. While there is ehanie,
there is hope. We say, therefore, to tiur
friend of the Monthly Illustrations, continue
to hoid up to public view in England, Ute
grots, dark, and haggard crimes of American
slavery for in this way, though it may seeu
severe, you may be instrumental in greatiy
aiding the of freedom and righteous
ness. We, the oppressed, feel glad to know
that a kuoxledge of our wrongs is not con
fined within s narrow compass, but, by the
aid of the press, they are soaltered far sod
wide, snd that thousands sympathize with us,
and pray ior our release.
Correspondents.
S. R. Ward.—We have received fmm thi*
gentleman an address to the colored voters id
this State, with respect to the nominees of the
great Free Soil Convention, setting forth
their duties in relation thereto, l’he address
is long and able, though we think, in conclu
sive, siuce moat of the objections urged
against sup|)ortiag the candidates and party
in question, are based upon former delinquen
cies, short-comings, and actual outrages com
muted against ua. Wo shall not, however,
forestall his address by comments this week,
hut may have something to say m our next,
when the address shall be published.
Htyxr Biss.—We have received a let I*3
from this gentleman also, on the subject
the free soil movement, which, if we can
1 make room for it, shall appear next week.—
Our table is crowded with correspondence
much of which it would gtve ua great plead
are to publish, wete we not prevented by tb‘
mcxouble 1-infts o t our ovefUudeood coir
amCL. "Correspondent* muss best, with as.
Ram s Hoxn.’’—W* learn from the
-Colored Faimer that the Ram’s Hot® is stff
puSisbed to New York, instead* as ws m
J .icurvoad it would be, in Toronto* UCun.
orl-i. Friend Van ReuMrlaer wdl oblige US
loy nM- 11 to us, ie exchange, usual-
Acentb. —Our lift of Agents, as sonn m
get uine, shall undergo a careful
*ad correcuno. There are oaara that abouk
)o stricken out, and aiojf out which
4«w;nse*«e<!. Fatiesee

I Nothing pains*t? more thsn the necessity
of having sgmis to refer to tht flrurse of this
gentleman, bm wtar compelled to do from
vrhst we owe tkef.uh.ic. L«* week tee were
induced to noticetbe coarse of Mr. Foster, by
s friend. Dr. Lomno Sabin, celling upon us
,to notice his dvings encouragingly. Thu
I week we reeerird a. letter from sn esteemed
friend to humanity in Boston* taking oar
candid opinion coxerniag him.
Three years ago*, we (the writer of this ar
ticle) were induced by Mr. Foster to accept of
lan agency* (staionarr) tor the purpose of
1 using our intfeahee in behalf of the Insti
tute,” to sofidt tnaauons, snd publish “calls"
for meetings of the Board of Trustees,”
Ac. Unexpectedly to Mr. Foster, we went
out to Michigan; when, instead of the school
which he induced us to advertise in sa au
thentic circular, as being in fell operattoo, the
house bad not yet been built, neither was
there a school of any description. We ex
amined books, fee.* Mr. Foster being then
absent, when thers appeared upwards of two
thousand dolisTs, for which there was no ae
count of the disbursinent. These were
rather reserved books, in the hands of s
friend. There wtre other glaring deceptions
and impositions palpably going on, for all ot
which we called upm Mr. Foster to explain,
but he has been as “silent as the grave."
We have no hesitancy in saying, that there
are now serious impositions still being prac
tised upon the public by the shove person.
During our absence, Mr. F. called at the
office of the North Star, Mr. Douglass know
ing nothing of him, and got a number of what
he called the Muathly Circular of the Wood
stock Manual Labor Institute,” printed dated
Rochester, North Star office,” Ac.; since
which, as we were informed by Dr. Sabin, he
has had a second edition printed in New
York, retaining date, place, Ac. These cir-j
culars, printed in the form of a monthly peri-;
odical, are well calculated to deceive, giving
a seeming permanency to the matter, backed
by the appareut countenance of the editors
nd name of the N*»rth Star. This is an
other trick of Mr. Foster, we are satisfied,
and ask him to give an honest account of him
self to the public.
We refer to Richmond Hathaway, Obcrlin,
Lorraine County, Ohio, and Rev. John Peck,
Pittsburgh, Pa., who can corroborate much
that we have stated.
The Last Version.
Below we give Gen. Taylor’s last, or letter
of acceptance. This letter bears date later
than any other extant. The contemplation of
a Convention of Independent Freemen, has
extorted from him, notwithstanding his oft-
repeated declaration to the contrary, an ac
ceptance of the Whig nomination. What
will now become of the dear 44 people,” upou
whom Gen. Taylor depended for the ratifica
tion of his nomination, now the “old soldier”
alone capable of standing at the helm of their
national ship” has left them
We rather think he will find the people!
capable of rowing their own boat,” and
thereby taking care of themselves.” Free-'
men will not entrust their destiny in the hands
of a tyrant slavemonger.
Baton Rouge, July 15, 18J3. 1
Sir:—l had the honor to receive your,
Communication of June announcing that j
the Whig Convention; which assembled at j
Philadelphia on the 2d of that month, and of
which you were the presiding officer, has
nominated me for the office of President of;
the United States. Looking to the composi
tion ot that Convention, and its numerous and
patriotic constituents, 1 feet duly grateful fori
the honor bestowed upon me for the distin
guished confidence implied in my nomination
to the highest office in the gilt of the Ameri
can people. I cordially accept that nomina
tion, but with the sincere distrust of my unfit
ness to fulfil the duties of an office which de
mand for its exercise the most exalted abilities,
aud patriotism, and which has been rendered
illustrious by the greatest name 111 our history;
but should the selection of the Whig Conven
tion be confiimed by the people, I shall en
daavor to discharge the new duties devolving
upon me, so as to meet the expectations of iny
fellow-citizens, and preserve, undiminished,!
the prosperity and separation of our common,
country.
1 have the honor to remain with the highest
respect, your ob t servant,
Z. TAYLOR.
To the Hon. J. M. Moreheao.
Hon. Thomas Corwin s Speech —The
speech of Mr. Corwin in tne Senate of the
Lnited States, against the Compromise Bill,
was, in our judgment, one of tne most aule
and conclusive, as well as uue of tbs most
severe and rebuking arguments against sla
very and its extension, that has bjen driivei
ed. The Hon. Senator, in conclusion, avers
that he intends to support Gen. Taylor, but
only ou the ground tost he will veto a bill
passed by Congress, excluding slavery from
free territory, lie will doubtless see, in the
progress of the canvass, how frail that sup
port is. and how unlikely Gen. Taylor will
be to court the viulance which Senator Foote,
of Mississippi, has threatened to those who
•laie resist the Southern interest. —yat tonal
Era.
We much fesr that the Hon. Senator, like
most politicians, is grasping after political
lavor. If, indeed, he is opposed not only to
the further extension of slave territory, but to
tlavcry, as he has frequently openly avowed,
how can he conscientiously support General
Taylor, a stubborn, uncompromising slave,
bolder 1 The secret lies in s contemplated
Cabinet or Ministerial appointment.
Wo recently found the following d eclat all on
of Seoator Corwin, prelanding to be the ha«n«
upon which be rests his support of General
Taylor:
“And I declare, if anybody is concerned to
know what is my opinion on the subject, and
*bat is the opinion of the Free States of the
Union, that li Gen. Taylor was not considered
as being commuted by his published letters
against the exercise of the Veto power upon
this subject, he would not get my vote, nor
w ould he get the vote of a Free State in Ame
rica if 1 could help it,”
But is not the hypoerisy and deception of
Governor Corwin completely stripped of its
mantle in the following interrogatory and
re plj The extract is from a loiter of Mr.
B. M. McConkey, of C teem nan, to Geneial
Taytof:*
joa beentne president of the
Onuedatates, would yarveio to acf 'ot Con
gress saould p iuvol*
uotsry servitude forever, exceot As crisis, in
all ih*; the United Stales where
it docs not now exist T”
Batox Rooct, La., Feb. 15, 1848.
Su 1 have ibe honor to acknowledge the
receipt of your cotuniunteaiipQ of the 3d mat.
In reply to your inquiries, 1 have to inform
you, that 1 have laid 4 down as a principle,
not to give my opimoos upon, or prejudice in
any way, the various gieehuos apw at iasee
betwsee the pdtiicel yertjjo ef ths' W»T.
nor to rms®--'' whst I woi-lJ or would r.otdn,
•reft? I elected to the PrcfoicDCV of the t T
Stale;. nod that m the caseprestoted In youi
j.lettfr. 1 regret to 1 are no reason for de
piftin? fften this principle.
With my projotiud acknowledgments fur
the tnerdl v sentiments toward me, which you
hire been pleased to express, 1 remain, air,
1 with great respect,
lout obedient servant,
Z. TAYLOR.
Mr. B. M. McConkey, Cmcmoau.
Freni the Leainftoa Atlas of the 2*h.
Rmmawars*—Public Icetlap-Cmt Ex*
cite meal—Threats sf Yeafeaace.
News hiring been reeeired in this city yes
terday morning, that the runaway negroes bad
been overtaken near the line of Harrison and
Brer ken, and a white man killed in an at
tempt to arrest them, handbills were posted
through the ehv, esNing a meeting in the
court-house yard a» 9 o’clock, for the purpose
of adopting efficient mesas to overtake and
secure the runaways and their aiders and
abettors.
At the appointed hour, a Urge crowd as
sembled in front of the court-house, and an
informal meeting was organised bv calling H.
T. Duncan, Bw?. f to tbe chair, who read the
following letter, received on Tuesday night at
8 o'clock, by express from Cyntbimie;
Cyxtiuana, Aug. Bth, fl P. M.
i Dear Sir 'Him will inform you that
your negroes are now supposed to be sur
rounded about the county hue, between Har
mon and Bracken, .**mc fiiteen or eighteen
miles short of the Ohio river. They hive
taken some nine or ten of them —have had
several battles, and Charles H. Fowler was
mortally wounded. About one hundred of
our citizens have been after them since Mon
day morning. They are worn down, and tt la
requested that you send a fresh set of men
immediately, say fifty or one hundred, well
armed, for it seems that they are determined
i to fight every inch of ground, as they are
armed generally with revolvers, commanded
by a while man or more. They were en
-1 camped last night, and out Cynthiaua boys
came upon about forty or more, and a battle
ensued, and Fowler was wounded, and the
i company carried him back, and then pursued,
j Those with Fowler heard firing for some dis
tance. We hear that one dead negro was
found to-day.
Elliot Roberts is between them and the
river with a large company, and will not let
them pass if it is possible to prevent. Fowler
is still alive. Send all you can, and speedily,
or all will be lost. Harrison will assist you
to the uttermost. Come, if you want any of
your negroes. We have not time to say any
more. P. Wherritt,
G. Rimmington’,
Benson Roberts,
W. G. Hedges,
John Richter,
Fifty or sixty armed men were promptly
raised and left for the scene of action, breath
ing vengeance on the abolitionists, and a
fixed resolution to bring back the negroes, if
1 they even have to follow them to the confines
of Canada. Intense excitement prevailed in
the city, equal to that during the True Ame
rican of August, 1815, and we doubt not that
if the negroes and white men said to be with
i them are overtaken and arrested, fearful
scenes will be witnessed, and popular ven
i geance wreaked upon them.
We are not the advocates of mob-law, but
we do think that it is high time the imperti
nent and thievish interference of abolitionists
j was ended in a summary manner. Nothing
will deter them from their infamous conduct,
but the prompt and itninuiediate execution of
1 the first one we can lay our hands on.
And whilst we would not advocate or re
commend such a enurse of •procedure, yet we
stand ready to justify our fellow-citizens,
should they hang every one they can catch to
the tallest tree in the forest. An example
must be mane of them, that will deter these
base and infamous rascals from future opera
lions.
KIFln charging the escape of these people to
the Abolitionists, those Kentucky wretches
breathe an infamous lie Th** slaves are not
headed by while men, but by themselves— 1
black men. This is but the beginning of
.those scenes to prepare for which we hive
tor years been forwarding the slaveholders.
Opposed as we may be to the shedding of
human blood, yet we have no sympathy for
the fate of those who, in the internal act of
attempting to re-enslave them, fall victims to
their vengeance. Man is free by nature, es
sentially his own being, and any attempt at!
the enslavement of his person, should be met'
in a manner adequate to the outrage dared
against his rights. If it were right—if the i
most exalted traits in the character of Wash
ington a>.d his compatriots were their bravery
m beating back the enemy, successfully de
fend mg their liberty to the death, theu do we
say these slaves are also right, and may God
Bpeed their onward march to victory.
The South talk about seceding from the
Union We dare them to the event; and our
word for it, if there were no other proof than
the present dar.ng adventure, the blacks will
I take care of themselves Those brace
Kentuckians will find in the black slaves a
different material to the enemy encountered on
f the plains of Mexico. There they stood one
to five here u will puzzle them Jive to owe! j
Brave fellows!
By Telegraph to the Lexington Ohserver.
The Runaway Slaves.
At o’clock last uight, a dispatch by Tele- 1
graph was received troni Pans, Bourbon Co.,
Ky., to the following effect:
Mr. Downer is just here from Cynthiana;
i left this morning. The runaways were iu
town. When he left, 0 or 7 more of the oe
gnx-s had been captured.”
A subsequent dispatch, received at eight
o'clock, from Mr. Isaac W, Scott, at Mays
vili-\ says
I 44 The runaways, about seven mile* from
tbe river, were met by twenty whites—had a
fight—one white man killed. No negroes
I were taken at the time of the fight, but five
were taken afterward.”
A subsequent dispatch, from Maysville,
says.
Mary persons have gone from here to
vsiat in taking the negroes.”
Tm Rctuwat Negroes.—There is s
great excitement in Kentucky, m relation to
the escape of the negroes before mentioned.
Several thousand men are scouring the coun- j
try between the Otuo and Licking fivers m
pursuit of them.
___
Tax Boston Warn.—The paper formerly
distinguished by the above name, is now an-.
j titled 44 The Boston Republican.” It wss
formerly the organ of the Coneaieeee Whig*,
and exerted s powerful influence in bringing
about the great change which haft recently
j taken place in public opinion oq the subject o
elaverj,' It now advocate* the docKiftCft of
the Free Sail party tarttfcpporUtifoaoQiftft’
lions of the Buffalo Convention. It is ably
edited by Wra. S. Rohintfih.’and dSftsrree a
wide ciroeiation.
Western Kevr Ysrk AstMlsver. Isristy,
The Executive Committee will meet oo
Tuesday evening next, August flB, at the
Anti-Slavery Office, 25, Buffalo Start.
Ane&daaoo requested .at 7 o doek pie
«ssljv i. a -I
...a. .YY»NELL, Res. See-
r ft ft
A Wot 4 to Istherw
TVrete no custom fraught with MNftr
frightfeloonsequenecs to the butnftn system,
than that of tight befog—teeing may we not
sey and to none are tbe trite of this euatom
more indebted, than mothers.
Under a mistaken idea from long establish
ed notion, tbe female child is enrobed in lacing
garments, to give them s graceful form or
what is termed haodeome figure. This cus
tom neither contributes to grace nor beeuty,
except in cases of deformity, the natural
human form, is the most beautiful figure in
nature, animate or inanimate hence, tbe first
order of Architecture, and all succeeding
monumental structures, were constructed in
unitstifta of the Itumen form. Neither does
the sue of the person, it crease or detract from
beauty. Whether tall or short, corpulent or
delicate, large nr small persons, mayor not,’
possess all the graces and beauty of symmetry j
and form.
Tire custom of lacing presupposes an in
crease of beauty, premised upon the idea,:
that tbe most slender are the ru«wt handsome. J
This is in eggreginus error of modern origin;!
an idea never entertained by the ancients, w bo,;
w hatever improvements may have been made
upon their remote false customs, it will readi
ly be admitted, had so elevated idea of the
beautiful.
The Tuscan column, the first order of
architecture, is intended to represent a tali
slender person, w hile tbe Doric, the second in
order, represents a stout, robust person, each
though varying irr sire and form, equally
beautiful, and each readily becomes the sub
ject of chrdce, according to fancy.
It Will be perceived, as we have digressed
to show, that sizj is not essential to beauty
this idea being the result of custom or an ac
quired notion instead of reality. The im
pression has acquired among men, s generrl
acceptance, that the more slender and delicate
in form, the more beautiful and graceful the
female. While among females the reverse is
the fact the more robust, the more noble and
handsome in appearance is man. This is the
result of custom, the effects of teaching and
not of fact.
Customs and habits gain favor among the
good in proportion to the idea of their proprie
ty or beneficence. It should be but necessary
to prove the contrary and the error must cease.
This difficulty being removed, the effects re
suiting frum lacing claim serious consideration.
Physical reform, is as essential to the promo
tion of human happines as moral. What is
man without enjoyment* Wealth and treasures
may surround us in rich profusion, subject to
ous control, but where there is no enjoyment,
there cannot be true happiness. Society may
indeed, arrive at its zenith the perfectum of
moral reform, but while physically tortured
all earthly hopes are blasted.
Many are the diseases engendered from
habits and customs of domestic or social life,
and there is none more destructive in its nature
than that of lacing. Its effects upon the con
stitution are in the highest degree alarming
producing deformity and shortening life itself.
Compression of the lungs, heart and stom
ach, thereby producing consumption, quicken
ing the flow of blood, producing in digestion
or dispepsia, and disturbing the whole arrange
ment of the aniftial economy, are among the
disastrous consequences of lacing. The evil
does not rest here, but is transmitted to pos
terity—may we not add, that plenty rs_*lf
is destroyed by this feuful practice. We
seriously forwarn mothers against the intro
duction or encourage' uent of such customs
among their daughters, and young women to
desist at o.ice, if they desire to promote health
and lengthen life. Our life is a stream whose
every example shou d flow from a fountain of
purity; whose every precept should sparkle as
the “living waLrs,” running from the “rivers
of love.” Man s 1 ugliest aim should be, to
benefit mankind.
Ttrere is oni mire serious consequence, for
information of wuich, we refer females to their
family physicians.
U. C. A. Association.
On the outsidj will be fo..n J thi proceed
ings of a presentation meeting by the U. Col
ored Am. Ass., Cincinnati. Ohio, published by
request. We see that some of the young
ladies took part iu the proceedings, w hose ef
forts have been highly spoken of. And why
not It is only necessary tu give woman an
equal opportunity, and she will prove hexsell
an equal to man m»U things. Why do the
Sons of Temperance, OJd Fellows, Masons,
and other secret societies, solicit woman's aid
in tbe furtherance of their obj.Tt#, and yet
deny them the privileges uf their institutions 1
Surely, if these institutio.is be benevolent, as
they are said to be —if it be a virtue in man
to belong to them, it is also right that wnmau
should share those blessings. We know it is
argued by some, at least tha Masonic, that
their order cannot be changed. Can as much
be said of tha others, especially the Sons,’
who are of recent origin 1 Be this as it may,
we advocate equal rights, without regard u>
sex or e«dor, and shall therefore do our dut>
in this, by reminding others of the importance
of doing that which is right, especially in all
coming time.
Correction. —ln article 44 Christian Her
ald, last week, we meant to have said that
in all probability the committee w ere not iu
debt to subecrijert,’.’ Ac.
IstroaTANT !—Long John, of the Sytacuee
Democrat, says he saw “G*-*n. Case attend tbe
funeral of one of his poor qpighbors in very
unostentatious manner!" I*V» there some
nmorfm shout this ?—Rochester Rep,
So, nothing at *U strange. Is U not
written, 44 He that humbletk himself shall be
exalted T” and ts not tbe General seeking ex
altation t
K? A novel spectacle for t Slave State
occurred in Harrisburg, Kentucky, s short
time since, which consisted of e temperance
proceesi-vi, geaep by the 44 colored commun
ity in that place. Ail the slaves that could
obtain pcKxramon, foe forty mites around,
ware to attendance.
y«T, Bad.—A certain oipewd Buobwnw
wy» the only thing which reader* ihc twmlt
ii» tht* Mate at all queeueoaufe, la Ilia mta>
ebieeaua attempt* of a tew dwaacMad Demo,
dto to run a third ticket* with Mr. Cam an
the candidate.
Villi STATicnck.—Tim total from re*
eestm of the State of Texas, for the tear
1817, ie 138.328 88. The aunhn of aerm
of land taxed, 47,703,806. 1W Bomber of
eattld 889,090 a ember of nefram to the
Tte Convention.
Frederics Dot class and MR Hilary
will si tend the Cleveland Convention on ibo
6th of September.
Carmyortnti,
We should be pleased to have a gw cor
respondent in Pittsburgh, Pa, W,U
gentleman who promised ns become out cor
respondent Whet has become of Cracin-
Bfttoe,” of Cio., Ohio! Will he faror no
weekly 1 Hie favors will not henceforth bo'
neglected.
Correspondents will observe not to write
their letters too long. A summary of patsing
events is what we desire, afteT the style of
Cincinnatus’ last letter in the Star, but
in common should not exceed two-thirds of a
column, as we must give place to all weekly
correspondence from different places, amuse
ments for which we are now making.
D 7 Our neighbor uf the Americas reads us
another lesson on decency,” tbe courte
sies of the press,” tbe proprieties of lan
guage,” and reminds ue of whet so rmi
nently becomes vs,” sod expresses the bare
possibility that bis forbearance and respectful
treatment may beget, even in tia, some feeling
more worthy than maligr.iiy. We are not
surprised that the editor of the American
should confo nd our indignation at what wore
the appearance of hypocrisy, with rrs’ignity
toward himself. We entertain no malice for
him, and would in no cate do him injustice.—*
That we cannot regard him ts our friend,
no fault of outs. We can call no manfnend,
who is the friend and advocate of a slave
holder, and the opponent of the emancipation
of our enslaved fellow countrymen. That he
note desires no personal acquaintance with us,
is most natural, for we try to be as faithful to
the canse we advocate in private as in public,
and we should probably be as disagreeable to
each other personally as we are now morally
and politically. Though it may be eminently
unbecoming us, we must insist that the posi
tion of the editor as the advocate of a profane
swearer and remorseless murderer for the
highest office in the gift of the nation, must
materially lessen his religious influence in a
Christian community, and especially over us.
As to decency, &c., we must humbly crave a
little more example, as much more likely to
bring about the desired change in us than the*
wordy lessons so frequently bestowed upon oft*
by the American.
Kentucky Election. Should John J.
Crittenden be elected Governor of Kentuckv,
which promises fairly, we anppose the chief
overseer of Ashland will return to the U. S.
Senate, as he can scarcely be so silly as to
look for the office of the Presidency again
Slavery, just now, needs all the support it can
muster, and will even readily accept of a use
less, worn out old veteran in the infamous
struggle.
lU* A great fire recently occurred in Al
N. Y., destroying near five hundred
houses, thus rendering houseless two thou
sand persons, with a loss, it is estimated, of
three millions of dollars. The season is fa
vorable for the losers.
Kidnapping. A colored man, whose
name we have not learned, but who is sup*'
loosed to have run away from bis master uft
Virginia, and has b en in Bmtinghara some
three or four weeks, was decoyeu iu toe oilier
end of the Monunpatiela bridge on Wednesday
night, where he was suddenly seized, forced!
into a cab, and carried ofT by men cfarmrng to
be his owners.
On hearing of his rapture, his friends in
Birmingham and some colored men frdtn Pitts
burgh, proceeded to the dwelling of a ncgio
na oed Smith, (a carter, we believe, residing
in Birmingham,) who was accused of having
enticed the runaway to the bridge, for pay,—
took hun out ol ihe house and horse-whipped
him severely, slier which they poured tar into
h s wool and put leathers on it—thus making
an odd looking bird of the offender—something
like a white crow
Now, we don't agree in the mode of pun
ishing this f How, hut (if guilty) it was never
better deserved. The Birmingham folks don't
go in for kidnapping, either by Virginia slave
holders or New York policemen \-Pittsburr
Dispatch.
lO* Whatever objection* we urge against
moiHicraey and outrage, we have no tears to
shed, and but little sympathy to spare for tho
wretch who would betra a brother into bond
age, through any inducements whatever; and
we desue here to remind the Dispatch that in
addition to the “New York policemen” hinted
at, there is a public house, or tavern, not a
hundred miles from the West end of the sus
pension bridge, that as stroog suspicion ought
rest upon as upon the vile man thuff who was
guilty of trie abduction.
JUT* A meeting in behalf of Ireland was
held Monday evening in Albany. One thou
sand dollars were subscribed, and committee
appointed to raise more.
Breadstuff* for I relax*.— The barque
Paulina, which cleared for Cork, Ireland, bee
eight thousand bushels of corn, and four hun
dred busheL of meal.
A Significant Sign.—lt is stated that the
gunsmiths of Europe have iu>rc work offered
to them than they can perform in ten years*
and that muskets have increased m price from'
five l» eight pounds.
Andrew Jackson, a colored Ami-Slave
ry lecturer, wss drowned in the Connecticut
river, near Putney, on Monday afternoon. Hn
clothes, watch, and shout 620 in money, were
found on the bank of the mer sod it is sup
posed he went m to bathe, and was accidently
drowned.
The Colonization Society - A Reverend Advocate
Whrfl t Kbiffle of imposture come# to be
umfett the Week coats and ample
frown* ef the clotty.»« become* double in
•iJioua in it* operation, and doubly miftchie
voua id it* edicts. The recorumendauoa of
tu reverend protector* raises such a scheme.
ia the eye of the public, above suspicion and
ibove scrutiny, and clothes it in the holy frtrb
of religion sod Chrisuaoity. It ts true, but
ii is also forgotten, that religious teachers are
as liable as other men, to be actuated by
•ellUh motive* and low, bigmt.-d, narrow
opinions, opposed alike to the mind of God
sr»d the well-being of man. Either by mis
take or intentionally, they recommend frauds
to their hearer* under the plausible pretext of
leal for religion, and s benevolent concern
tor the welfare of mao, -straightway those
frauds arc admired into the list »f respectable
sod praiseworthy efforts, and ha'o ai once
secured f* them a measure of support and
countenance they excuse, and palliate, and
justify Wrong,—straigi.iway loses iis char
act.r, and becomes r.ght, humanity, justice,
religion, are at their bidding displaced by in
humanity, oppression and cant. Such cases,
it mat be said, are rare. Would that they
were more so. and that men had greater re
liance on their ability to find the truth for
themselves, and less conrideuce m the facta of
their religious teachers 1
The Colonisation scheme, which has been
so often exposed, and shown to be utter!) in
efficient to the end desired, is one of those
frauds, which has especially received the
countenance of the clergy, and has been b\
them constantly thrust upon the public, as a
meant of at one-and the same time liberating
the African in this country from the hands of
the enslaver, and the African in Africa from!
the bondage of ignorance and idolatry. An'
address upon this subject, was delivered on
Friday last, by the Rev Dr. Pinney, before
Hie Presbyterian Synod then assembled in j
this city. This Rev. gentleman has been
known to the public as a prominent coloniza
tionist, for many years. He was sent out to
Liberia as a missionary, at an early period of
the enterprise, and continued in that capacity
for some time—prohablv till he was tired of
it; for on returning to this country, he tra
velled about, defaming the colony, the clim
ate —everything connected with it; showing
very satisfactorily that the colonization scheme
was a failure. But presently a change came
over him. He was appointed governor, w ith,
•f course, a rather satisfactory salary. Whe
ther in consequence of his excellent manage
ment or from what other cause does not now
appear; but from thenceforth he sounded a
different note, and from that time to the
present the reverend ex-governor has not
ceased to crack up the coloiy as a verj j
paradise—the peculiar care of Heaven, on
whose behalf many extraordinary interposi
tions of Providence have from time to time
been enacted. These few words of explana
tion will enable the reader, if he should ever
havo an opportunity of hearing Dr. Pinney
lumssll, or hear him quoted as an authority,
to give his statements their due weight—and
no more.
The address delivered before the Presby
terian Synod, was just such an one as was,
suited to the scheme, and from the expressed j
sentiments of the Presbyterian clergy, might!
very reasonably be expected to be sailed to
the audience. In the place of high toned
humanity and those fearl ss enunciations ol
right which the subject of slavery demands,
there was an ample amount of cant and
sophistry—if sophistry that might be called
which had not even a shadow of plausibility.
Glowing accounts of the various battles
statements of zeal for the conversion of the
heathen, manifested by the colonists —all i
finked together by pious exclamations of
wonder at the singular and glorious interposi
tions of Providenee for the preservation of
ahe colony, formed the staple of the address.
Wonderful providence truly, that a body o(
■men armed to the teeth, and supplied with
all the incans of civilized warfare, should put
to flight inohs of ignorant and undisciplined
savagesl
The reverend gentleman appears to be at
present engaged in a tour on behalf of the
Colonization Society. Possibly he holds
some office in that Society he spoke in the
tone of an official; and urged the claims of
the Society, on the ground that their funds
Fad been all exhausted in the purchase of
slaves whom they had sent, ot were about to
•end to Liberia. The Society, he stated,
had sent over this year 412 persons, ot whom
300 were slaves This, he wuuld have the
public believe, is very benevolent and praise
worthy but is it so? No—it is ths very
reverse nothing, indeed, eoidd furnish more
conclusive evidence of the mischievous char
acter of the scheme, than this purchase Of
•laves. To transport free colored men from
this land—s land to a share of which they
are entitled by all the claims of birth, and
settlement, and cultivation—io transport them
without proving or attempting to prove against
them, the commission of any crime, is suffi- i
cicntly atrocious—for it is idle to say that 1
they go of their own free will—every one!
know* what that means; but when the
Society become slave-traders, and go into th«
market with the avowed purpose of purchas
ing slave* and sending them to their miser
able colony, the wickedness of their pro
•eeding* i* made abundantly apparent. They
are not—they cannot be ignorant of the fact,
that long xs Haves are legal articles ol
commerce in this country, the only effect ol
sueh purchase must be either the enhance
ment of ihe pnee of slaves, or the increased
•upply of the market by the slave-breeder.
It is, ss will be sufficiently plain to every ooe
who gives tho subject a moment s considera
tion, nothing more nor h- M than so much
•ocouragement given to the worst of sIJ
atrocities under the speerou* pretext of con
cern for the cause of rshgton sod human
ity. It would even seem, from the Waur of
ths reverood gentleman's retusiu. that he
openly favored *be interest* of ths slave
holder. Said he—** Toe South may with
equal justice require the North io repay the
price of the slaves purchased from ths North,
as ths North can ask the South, under any
plea whatever, to giyo up what ts theu pro
perty. The South never engaged tn thr
slavs-trad*; it was northern capital and
northern ship* alone that carried oa that
business. The North is epnChed by the
South, while th«~South impoverishes itself
Whs; them is a ducsiec, if ever |pcb «a
srsat sc«ss t« pass, the South will its
fcjk
•wt produce at borne, tod by that metre
become neb.” dee. Ac. I will eot insult tie
com moo tease of the feeder by dying
tingle word in refutation of these ilnilditHt
They ire reported only to show the animus
iof tbit lecturer end of the Colon tamos
i Society, of whom he le e fitting representa
tive. The Ttnett Southerner tod slave
holder could not have used language more
utterly destitute of erery sentimeut of hu
maaitv, tbaa doea this tame Re». Dr. Piaaey.
All reference to the rights of the colored
man, aa man, waa apparently aa far from
hit thoughts aa the rights of the inhabitants
of tht planet Jupiter. He spoke of the
colored man only as an article that is wanted
at Liberia, and for the supply of which the
Colonisation Society has been established.
It is now too late in the day, however, for
such men and such schemes to be received
with any measure of favor in these northern
latitudes. Th doctnne of the right of every
man, be his color what it may, to lire and to
enjoy liberty where he pleases, has become
too firmly rooted in the public mindr ever
again to be displaced by the low, illiberal
and unchristian dogmas of the colonixationist.
Even in the Presbyterian Synod Dr. Pinney's
address was received w-iih but little favor.
On motion being made that be should be
ordered to bring in a report, there was only a
very meagre Aye; while one or two voted in
the negative. Ii would be saying but little
either for the Christianity nr the brains of the
assembled Synod, to suppose that they swal
lowed and approved of the assertions and
sentiments of the lecturer.—j. o.
(Communications.
Columbia, Aug. 13, 1848.
Friends Douglass Delany —Having
for some years past been situated so distant
from the active theatre of the Anti-Slavery
movements, I have felt that the effusions ot
my pen would scarcely be felt among a list
of contributors, who are perhaps unequalled
in any enterprise for the advancement of the
great interests of the human family. But as
theie are circumstances and occasions that
call into active being those thoughts and feel
ings w hich have become a corporate part of
our moral nature, and ought to regard any
argument that apologizes for their introduc
tion, as being at war with the true spirit of
liberty, the dictates of conscience and the
voice of God.
The circumstance that calls me into the
field at this lime, is as follows On Friday
evening last, on our return from Norristown,
after the close of the Annual Meeting of the
Eastern Penn. A S. Society, our friends
\V. W. Brow n and C. L. Remond were, by
a previous invitation, to address our people in
the Philadelphia Institute, Lombard st. The
committee appointed to obtain a suitable
building, where a larger portion of our jreople
could be accommodated, have applied for
some of the larger churches, but they were
refused.
The meeting in the Institute was very elo
quently addressed by the above-named speak
ers, in connection with Robert Purvis, Esq.,
and as the Report of the Committees and the
position of the colored churches in relation to J
the Anti-Slavery movements, formed mure
than an incidental portion of their remarks, it
would be useless for me to attempt to portray
the effect on the audience.
The challenge to defend their position was
accepted by the Rev. Daniel Scott, of the Bap
tist Church, who, in my opinion, only needed
the weapons and a cause worthy his zeal to
have given a vigorous resistance, even if he
had been slain in the encounter. The Rev.
S. 11. Gloucester, already distinguished for
his zealoufc opposition to the Anti-Slavery
movement, having loudly responded to a sen
timent uttered by his friend Scott, was called
to the speaker's stand by C. L. Remond, and
challenged to vindicate his position before the
same tribunal which he had been arraigned.
This he refused to do, but offered to meet
Messrs. Remond and Brown on Monday eve
ning, the 4t!i inst., in company with another
tneud, and pledged himself to prove that there
is not a colored pro-slavery church in Phila
delphia. The challenge was immediately
accepted but to Mr. Remond'* inquiry whe
j ther they should have his church for the dis
cushion, he quickly responded, No. Thus
j duaed a scene of thrilling interest, laying the
foundation of a meeting for Monday night,
which, I trust, will be rendered immortal. I
deeply regret that I cannot be present as a
spectator. As a matter of personal gratitica
lion, 1 submit to the deprivation, but if my
poor personal services were required, nothing
should deter me. I know that the cause of
freedom can at all times be safely entrusted to
the parental care of Messrs. Remond and
Brown, therefore I fed no concern for that
side of the question. My greatest solicitude
is, that Mr. Gloucester and friend may come
up to the work manfully, that they may make
at least a Buena Vista” resistance, so that,
if they should fall iu defence of the church
by the keen-edged swords of their invaders,
they may at least be aWe to manifest their
spirit of martyrdom, by exhibiting in their
sacred altars the blood, scars and wounds they
have received in defence of the myriads of
devotees who worship at them.
The battle now having begun, it ought to
be continued on until its termination, uutii
the ehutch shall be able to vindicate the purity
of her motive* iu regard to her position with
ihe Anti-Slavery movement, her freedom from
the venom of pro-slavery, and put her accus
ers forever at rest, or failing to do this, her
aonusers may be able to arrest her withering
influence, and say to her. Hitherto hast thou
domineered over the beam and conscience* 0 f
men, but no further—here let thy proud waves
be stayed, so that we may see her, with all
her lofty pretensions, recoil m obedience to
the high behest of truth. Let no quarter be 1
given-to those whom truth slayeth. Let
them fall unwept, uubonored, aod unmourned.
While the oral discussion is going on, let tbs
press speak out with the earthquake-vssos of
resolution, In this esuas thsrs should bs no
neutrals, and thosfh distant (rose this sesoaaf
ecuno, shall at U*|4 take nay portion in tbs
struggle. W. W.
P. S. To the person or persons who keep my
North Star three, four 'and and
then send it home—l am sailedjd with your
honesty, but you do subject me to much m
roovemeooe. If you will five me your same
»nd residence, I .will harp a copy sent, to you.
As you cow Hard tftS IML ibjci Burnham, so
kaed, (least retire there- W. W.
CurwqwW)
Loxdoji, July 3i t Isis.
Since ray bat, the ne»a from Ireland hai
been roof? appalling than eter. Ciuba havi
been organised in all town* of importance, ax
may be said to have taken practical poaae*Mo«
of tbe country. AH seem* ripe fur rebellion
Oa Saturday, July 2iW, tbe House of Comaoni
met to bring in a Bill, for tbe auape.isioa oi
the Habeas Corpus act in Ireland. Lord Jshr
Russel wt* supported by the three po
litical leader* —Sir Robert Peel, B-anjamui
DTsraiM, and Joseph Hume, who, differing
widely, as they do, on Inab Government and
legislation In general, united in bettering th»
neceasity of the case to be great, and the time
fur action the present. Tbare was *n over
powering unanimity, with one or two excep
tions. The Bill was brought in and apeedily
passed each stage. —On Tuesday, it was car
ried up to the Lords —was promptly forward
ed there, it then received tbe Royal aasent,
and on tbe following day was transmitted tr
Dublin. By this act, the Lord Licutenaut is
empowered to arrest or detain, until the Ist
of March, 1849, every individual suspected ol
conspiring against the government.
At present, all i 9 uncertain, though the
crisis seems at hand. The most popular
leaders of the insurrection are Smith OBrien.
and M.-agher. The Clubs continue to declare
that they will resist to the death, all attempts
that may be made to arrest these men. They
are now supposed to he in the vicinity oi
Waterford, thereby, evidencing that the first
outbreak of the anticipated rebellion, is ex
pected to be made in that city or its neighbor
hood. In his able speech on the memorable
22d, Joseph Hume endeavored to impress on
the House of Commons, the necessity of in
troducing remedial measures for Ireland, say
ing, He would sit until November, tired as
he was of the present session, rather than give
|up the measures for relieving the people of
Ireland.” It remains to be seen whether the
members will for once, sacrifice a little of their
ease and pleasure to the exceeding exigency
of the case, by prolonging their sittings unti|
their work is done, and some of the many evils
are removed from poor unfortunate, misguided
and misgoverned Ireland. There is again, a
blight in the potato crop there— the province
of Munster is, in this respect, reported to be
i the greatest sufferer. The union of famine
with rebellion in that unhappy country, is too
fearful to be contemplated calmly.
August Ist.—By news received since the
above was written, I find that Smith O'Brien
has appeared fully armed with pike and pis
tols, at the head of several hundreds of insur
gents in the neighborhood of Tipperary.—
Proclamations have been issued by the Lord
Lieutenant, offering rewards for the apprehen
sion of the chief leaders of the insurrection,
I and long ere this reaches you, the majority of
these will in all probability, be in safe custody,
i Mr. Patrick 0 Higgins, the leader of the Dub
lin chartists, has already been arrested and is
odged in Kilmainham gaol on a charge of
treason.
August 2d.—The first blow* of the rebellion
has been struck. On Saturday last, an en
counter took place on Boalogh Common,
near Balhngairy, County of Tipperrary, but
the insurgents were effectually checked by
fifty or sixty police. Si \of them are reported
to have been killed and seven wounded.—
Smith O'Brien tied from the field on horse
back. He must soon be taken, except he
carries out his resolution even unto death.—
An extensive snxure of arms has been effect
ed in the neighborhood of Lockford.
Aug. 4th.—No important news frornlreland.
Rumors of all kinds are afloat, concerning the
present destination of the rebel leaders. One
conjecture is, that they have succeeded in
smuggling themselves on board ship on the
Galway Coast, and are now oa their way to
the United States; but it seems more proba
-1 ble that they are yet in the vicinity of Ballin
garry, hiding themselves amidst the coal pits
and bogs.
France continues tranquil at present; but
General Cavaignac, and the Government that
he may be said to have called into being in the
late emergency, are encompassed with im
mense difficulties—especially of a financial
character. No mtterial change has taken
place in the political principles of the State,
indeed, some of the minor members of the late
Government, are still in power, while Paris
remains under martial law.
The existence of a new German Empire,
may now be deemed a grand fact. Its Pai
liament continues to hold their sittings in
Frankfort. The Archduke Regent, returned
to Vienna to be present at the opening of the
Austrian Constituent Assembly there. He
evidences the well known energy of his char
acter, by the extreme rapidity of his move
ments in travelling. He is soon to visit the
King of Prussia. The Chevelier Bunden,
has left London for Berlin, whither he has
been summoned by the Prussian government,
to take part in the various deliberations at this
great German crisis. It seems probable that
he may return to England, as the representa
tive of the United German Empire. On the
day before he departed, he presided at a pub
lic dinner, held at Greenwich, in honor of the
election of Archduke John, to the Regency of
Germany, which was attended by the princi
pal German merchants and literati residing in
London. An order has been sent to all the
Governments iu Germany, calling upon them
to celebrate, by a military act, on the Ist of
August next, the accession of Archduke John
to office, and thus to evidence their allegiance
to the Regeut of Germany. S. P. Q. R.
A Model Perish.—ln the parish of St.
Mathias, Canada, with an adult population of
about 1,200, all but four persona hare sign d
the pledge. This parish is said to have spent
annually in strong duAka, up to the present
time, $6,000.
fry The National Intelligencer save tba*
Sears, tried for slave stealing on board the
schooeer Pear), has been acquitted by the jufy.
UyHavanab paper*, of the Uih ult., tap*
resent that the fellow freer had made ooeaid*
arable ravages within the rceek preceding.
Try The new Governors of the Islands of
Martinique sod Guadeloupe, sent out by the
French government, are said by the Boston
Traveller, to be persons of color.
By Dr. Soodgfua, of Umar*, with th*.
»i 4 of joy kind friwdi. km pnicho— d Un.
1 bevi tt: Fi«H. tcdwt her cs Sbtfiy.
Dimioa TWntrtut
Disunion vaa v*ry boldly th'ptwned, ta th*
.Senate uu Thursday, u our refers trill p-r
'cure upon a perusal uf the following para
1 graphs—lk* ifm extracted fnuu th« Wishing
urn correspe science-<m tleN. Yr.CwnmercuJ
U*e bst fro n the Bihimore Amnwan
i Mr. Calhoun nude a speech which I rat
not hot regard as pwdwnwn qf nnlli&eu
uue. He said the question eras of sack ex
trcme gravity sad of such a nature that i
could not be longer suffered to remain open.
Yet in the present state of pirtiet and opinior
in the country, he did not think ft could bt
settled sad cios?d. The South idgst uke thf
question into its own hands and setfe it. Thu
n a solemn recommendation to ail th<* shn
States to repudiate the authority of the Feder
al Government. He said the consequence o
not catling the controversy would be dis
union or an overthrow of our institutions, and
probably both. There can be do mistaking
the force of these words. It is s recommen
dation to separate or to nullify. The whok
speech, which appeared to be remarkably de
liberate and well considered, w« an appeal
to the South to have nothing to do with North
ern politics. It is expected to have great af
feet in the Sootheru States oo the Presidential
election.
j The impression was becoming stronger dai
j ly on his mind that the division in the body
politic can never be healed here. It was
time that Senators on his side should consuls!
I that no compromise could be etfectod. Fui
one he never would compromise. If a com
i promise was to be made, it mot be on th
Constitution itself. Both the North and th
South refuse to yield the constitutional point
Mr. Webster made the' folfcrwing remarks
j in regard to the allusions which had beer
made to the dissolution of the Union
He should not accustom his mind to dwe’
upon such a theme, or to prepare for it, or t»
think about it, but would rutheT take advice o
the Father of the Country, and-regard it as ar
event which could not by any possibility bf
i realized. It might happen. Theie might be
an earthquake, the breaking forth of a vi,leant
and therein physical destruction. Disunion
would be all thi-s and wurse. He could n<n
bring his mind to realize that there was any
danger, and would not stop tu contemplate it.
j These were irritating topics, and irritating
j times, but to the Union, the great body of the
»people north and south, east aud west, were
warmly attached, five-sixths of them would
j prefer to see old United States preserved than
(any of this acquisition. Mr. Webster, too,
(expressed his abiding faith in the permanence
|of the Union, notwithstanding all the causes
Jof disaffection. The good sense of the peo
fcple wculd work a cure, and whatever the re
sults, all would abide by it. It was important
*hat Oregon should have a government, but
|jnost important that this question should be
jellied before Oregon, or any of tha acquired
territories were settled.
Mr. Webster’* Speech.
There is one portion of this speech (says
,*he Boston Bee) that wc shall extract, be
j eause it treats of a point not yet settled, but
j whicn will coins up again for consideration,
j whenever territorial governments are to be
organized for California and New Mexico.—
j\\c do not recollect any instance in which
ihe point we refer to has been set forth in so
(clear a light as Mr. Webster has done it. li
I is this—the argument of the South, that in
excluding slavery from the Territories, the
I South is deprived of its rights, and a partici
pation of the benefits won by the common
j services of the wlioh country. The following
are Mr. Webster's words:
Let us consider this question as it really is;
and since the honorable gentleman from Geor
gia proposes to leave the case to the enlight
ened aud impartial judgment of mankind, and
as I agree with him that it is a case proper to
i he considered by the enlightened part of man
kind, let us consider how the matter in truth
s ands. What is the consequence Gentle
men, who advocate the case which my hon
orable friend from Georgia with so muen
l ability sustains, declare that we invade their
j rights—tiiat we deprive them of a partieipa
i lion in the enjoyment of territories acquired
i by the common exertions of all. Is tins true 7
How deprived? Of what do we deprive
j them? Why, they sav that we dep ive them
jof the privilege of carrying their slaves, as
slaves, into the new territories. Well, sir
what is the amount of th it They say that
in this wav we deprive them of the opportu
nity of going into this acquired territory with
their property.
Their property”—what do they mean by
that? We certainly do not deprive them of
the privilege of going into these newly ac
quired terr.iories with all that, in the general
estimate of human society, in the geneial.and
common, and universal understanding of man
kind, is esteem -d pioperty. .Not at all. The
truth is just this They ba.Y.e, in their own
Slates, peculiar laws, which create property
in persons. They have a system of local le
gislation, on which sl tvery rests while eve
rybody agrees that it is against natural law, or
at least against the common understanding
which prevails as to what is natural law. 1
am not going into metaphysics, for therein 1
should encounter the Hon. Member from
South Carolina, and we should wander in the
endl ss mazes lost,” until after the time for
1 the adjournment of Copgress. The Southern
i States have peculiar laws, an<s by those laws
there is property in slaves. This is purely
local. The real meaning, then, of Southern
gentlemen, in making the complaint, is, that
they .cannot go into the territories of the
United States, carrying with theiq their own
peculiar local law—a law which creates pro
perty in persons. This, according to their
own statement, is all the ground of complaint
they have. Now here, I .think, gentlemen
are unjust towards u«. How unjust they are,
uthers w ill judg^—geiieraiioii* th-it come alter
us will judge.' It will not be. contended that
this sort of personal slavery eitikia by general
law. It exists only taw. 1 do not
mean to deny the validity of that local law
where it is established; but Isay it is, slier
all. nothing but heal law. h ifcftothing more.
And wherever that local law. does pot extend,
property in per»ons does not exist. Well,
sir, w hat is now the demand-on the part of
our Southern friends T!) We wih
carry our local laws with us yrherever;we go.
W’e'insist that Congress dor* us injustice un
less it establishes in the territory m which we
wish to go, unr own local law. This de
mand. I, for one. resist, tnd.shall rsust.- It
goes upon the idea that th-TC is an inequality
■ink's* persons under this local law*, and hold
ing property by au'honty »‘f fo** lair; ran go
imo new territory and ibefe establish that lo
cal law, to ike exclusion *t «*ber Uw. Mr*
President, it was s BUflU® ciyil )tw,
that between Slavery and Freedom, Frec-iotn
*b mid always be presumed, end SJaverj m ai
a! wavs be proven. If any question aro** as
to the st tius of an individual in Rome, he w«e
presumed to he free until bs was proved to be
i slave So. I suppose, metal Lw of
naukrnd. An individual «e be presumed
to be free until a law can be pwduoed wb*h
creates ownership b* J
dispute the force acd validity ofthe enl law.
aafhrre already said; b»*l rcj. *a
tt~t to ke prorcd; and therefor. If to&n*
duals |to into aay parted tk*eaitk, ttie to be
proved that they arc ee» freeze, or else the
presumption tsthat they are. Now.our irieod*
seem to think tnat an axu»d» fi<«m
restraining them ftooi going into the tcrnio
ries, unless there be a law provided which
shall pndeef their ownership in persons.
Toe —smnn a, the* ws create se inequal
ity. Is there miking take uMm the other
s3e in refotma Muquuttty Bu, foam the
eai I rrpyeee in «B a*3*» juifseet tiv*. w
«rtewred ms a settled truth, that slave Ichor
■ad free labor do not exist wei) I
lave before me dedsTtfim of Mr.
ms the Cunveattno that farm*.l the Coaotit*-
uitioa. to that effect. H- mvs that the ob
jection to slave labor is. tbaut puts free white
labor in disrepute that it ibak-s labor to be
rcgi-deJ as derogatory to the ch artel l of li e
free vrtrts man. and that hs despises to work
—to i.su bis expression—when staves are em
ployed. Tb* io matter of great interest to
the Fiee States; if it bs true, aa to a great
extent it cortamly it, that wherever wave la
bor prevails, Ire* white labor it excluded or
discouraged. I agree that slave labor does not
necessarily etfblooe free labor totally. But it
necessarily loses something of its respectabil
ity, by the side of, and associated with, slave
labor. Wherever labor is mainly performed
by slaves, it is regarded as degrading to free
men. The free men of the North, tlierefore,
have a deep interest to keep labor free, exclu
sively free, in the new territories.
NE3SO LuJtftECTIO* I* TVS DaNISH
West India Islands.—By the arrival of the
bark El Dorado, at Baltimore, news is brought
of a revolution in St. Croix, and the blacks
hsd been successful in overthrowing the Gov
ernment. There was fighting, and man v mur
ders co nuutted. Tne Governor of St. Thom
as had ippluJ to the Captain Gan., of Porto
Rtco fur assistance.
Rhode Island Acuoiatcr/ f air.
TO THE FSUCSDS OF THE OFP.IESiEO.
Dear Brethren and Sisters
JBi3 not Wviary in well-doing;”—your
co operation is still needed to carry on the
work of relieving the poor and oppressed. It
is said, God works by mean*—then certainly
it does not become man to discard instrument
alities. Do we not believe that this is God's
work? Then are we not ready to act as H:s
igents —to h >!d whatever is entrusted to us,
either of time, talent, or money, consecrate
to his service? Who can doubt that Liberty
and Human redemption are always objects of
tender regard and especial blessing with the
infinite Good? Who can doubt that He is
unsparing in the means to promote this glori
ous end Who of us, then, will hesitate—
or rather will not hasten to ba with the All
Good a fellow-helper It is a glorious—it is
our glorious privilege. To do good is a
blessed privilege—blessed to the agent and
object; so blessed, that we could almost be
thankful for the world seviland wretcheJness
Then the patience and fortitude that come
from the strife with evil, and from continued
self-denial, are they not above all price
Now, friends, for your good, and the good i
of our brethren and sisters in bonds—fur the I
good of the world, that the current of human I
sympathy and kindliness that is beginning to
flow may be increased and hastened, we ask
you to assist in preparations now making for j
our Annual Fair. Thanks to you for your
promptness and kindness in behalf of former
efforts—be assured that many souls have been
comforted, and many distressed ones mads to
rejoice. Before you decide how much you
will do, just review the numberless favors, j
blessings and privileges yon enjoy—take a
view, also, of the deprivation and distresses
of your fellow-men. Then call to mind that
only article of the Philanthropist s creed—
Whatsoever ye would that men should do j
unto you, do ye even so to them.” Now de-i
cide. and we fear not the result.
We ask for anything that you have to give
—Money, Cloth, Produce, Groceries, Cloih- j
tug, Fancy Articles, the handiwork of the
mechanic, contributions from the Field, Orch-
•ad and Garden—anything that can be turned
to account, will be gladly received.
Our Fairs heretofore have been eminently
successful. As our resources increase, the
field of operation enlarges, and to meet the
demands of the present, the proceeds of this
should be larger than any former. Books,
papers, tracts, and the voice ot the living
preacher are demanded. Will you help us
send them
Oar next Annual Fair will be holden in this
city, on Wednesday, (commencement day.) 1
•September 6th. Having sent us your contri
butions, then give us your bodily presence.
Contributions will be received at the Anti-
Slavery Office, and by the undersigned.—
Beat This who Can.
A few days since, 


vilited the farm of a Mr. Stephen Fish,
in Con nee ut, Crawford county, Penn*
•jflTtnia, and taw a vet j remarkable
irrapevine. The peculiarities are each,
that they have been thought worthy ol
note in a public journal. Mr. Fiah re
sides about three miles from Conneaut*
ville, and the celebrated vine, which u
the common aour or froat grape, groin
in the woods on his farm. It com
rnences near the root of a chestnut
w iich is about fifteen feet in circumfer
cnce, runs twenty-five feet on thi
ground to within about two feet of i
cucumber something less in size than it<
neighbor chestnut, thence it ascends
1 preserving its distance about two feel
i from the body of the cucumber aboui
eighty feet and fastens upon a lirnb
from which it spreads its branches ovei
the top of the tree. The vine measured
twenty-seven inches in circumference
tweuty-fivc feet from the root, and pre-
I serves its size without apparent diminu
tion up the St) feet to where it is attachec
to the limb.
A question that very naturally sug
gests itself to the mind of the curious,
is, how came this vine to elevate itsel
at a perpendicular height of eighty feet,
before it attached itself to anything foi
support? Bv what means was it sus
tained during that growth? I venture
one suggestion—that the ago of the
vine is equal to that of the tree; \vhich
cannot be less than a century or more.
Mr. Fish, the owner of the farm, says,
that when he came there, about thirty
years ago, it was nearly or quite its
present size. This fact seems to sus
tain the opinion that its age must be
about the same as that of the tree. Il
this is so, it could have attached itself
to the limb when near the earth, and
then grown with the growth and
strengthened with the strength of the
tree.
Any friends travelling that way will
meet with a hearty welcome from friend
Stephen, who will take pleasure in
sliowing the curious this remarkable
freak of nature. Moreover, in his own
peculiar way of applying Bible-truth, in
plain Bible language, before you are
aware he will have you in a train ol
tli night in referenceto the grow th and
strength of slavery, that will truly as
tonish you.
That vine and tree are fit emblems of
the relative positions of the North and
South. As the vine runs about 25 feet
along the ground, before it received
any external prop, so for a
while professed great humility, by as
serting that it was to better the condi
tion of poor benighted Africa. But
when at length this wicked and heaven
daring, hypocritical mask was removed
she rears her head imploringly and
asks, or rather demands that the north
take her under its protection.
This the north has fui hfi lly done, and
southern slavery and northern servility
have grown and fattened together, so
that it is difficult to ascertain sometimes
which ha 3 the ascendancy, southern ar
rogance or northern bowdownism. I
am inclined to think however, that
there is little to choose in point of anti
quity between them, for the north is
just as ready to render help to sustain
Slavery as the south is to demand it. I
will only add if you believe Slavery to
he a sin, and at the same time entertain
the notion that the best way to prevent
sinning is to elevate the sinner to a
position in which he can spread the
contagion to a greater extent, just call
on friend Stephen Fish.
He and his excellent lady will enter
tain thee courteously, and render effi
cient aid in opening thy eyes, and un
stopping thine ears, and if thou hast
r,ne drop ofthe milk of human kindness
in thy bosom he w ill show thee that the
way to abolish Slavery is not to vote for
slaveholders and their apologists for
the highest office in the gift ofthe peo
ple. F.
BEAUTIFUL LETTER.
I
The following letter from a blind
i girl to her friend, nppeard some time
since in the Rochester Daily Adver
tiser. Who, but one with a spirit
i chastened by affliction could write thus.'
It is a relief to turn occasionally from
the turmoil of business and strife ol
this political world, and contemplate
upon such a bright spot in human exist
ence—a frail spirit, receiving afflic
tion as from the hand of a Heavenly
Father, and rejoicing in the hope of a
better wm id than this.—
Lake Cottage, Nov. 25, 1847.
i My Dear Lizzy. —lt is not pleasant
to be blind. My poor eyes long to look
abroad upon this beautiful world, and
my prisoned spirit struggles to break
its daknesg. and bathe again in the
pure light of the upper skies. I would
love dearly to bonnet and shawl mvsell",
and go forth to breathe the air alone,’
*ad free as the breeze that fans m>
brow. But as Milton once said to his
1 favorite daughter, “It matters little
whether one has a star to guide, or an
angel hand to lead.” And, Lizzy, we
j must learn to bear, and blame not that
which we cannot change. The jour
ney of life is short. We may not stop
j here long, and sorrow nod trial disci
pline the spirit, and educate the soul for
a future lile, uuJ those upon whom we
most depend we love m >st. A good
English writer says, “Let the heart be
j iiisckiu! for an-/ circu'.ostances that*
prove thy friend.”
Iwo summers have come and gone
-ince my W illiam died in Rochester.
\N c brought him here and laid him
down in the grave to-deep, close by the
sale iol h-s ch'ldhond home, wb»r*» the
Iwinds1 winds and white waves ot Ontario
c une swt lbvgto th.. shore—and fci~h
above its silvery hosmn, clouds, dovV
nke are bang tig. One moon had
hardly waned—the angels cnmr> a win
and while I slept .tUrkeued my weanin
Co r-evtv. Ol Lu.xy, wa» sorrow
ever so deep? An unyielding hlndu
settled on a|! the joy* my heart had
i wed. 1 asking av m truly a part
jof earth. It lends a death -like air to
our enjoyment, and mingles sorrow with
our cup of bliss. U stop* forever our
1 happy labors, and frustrates cur
choicest plans. Those wb in we laarn
♦o die *nd the pril*) earth pr'<
the lips we here loved to kbft, lad
freesev the beert tuned to bent in unison
with our own. List/, evermore 1 am
blind end n wenderer, but not home
lew. I have God, tny Father, the
angels for friends end Jesus an elder
brother.** The pure homes in man/
hearts, too, are mine—dwellings dearer
than all the world beside.
This morning finds me et Mr. Ledg
er's delightful “Lake Cottage," seatwd
j sod among the frees, where Lombard/
poplars lid tbeir tufted tops almost to
prop the skies—the willow, locust, and
horse-chestnut, spread their branches,
and flowers never cease to blossom,
i Maggie it my kind amanuensis. Now
she reads to me—gives her arm for a
walk. Now. with her harp and tuneful
I voice, unchains the soul of song, the
whole covering all my thoughts with
gladness, till I almost forget my “night
of years*** and live in a land where
swells with melody the air, and sorrows
anu tears are unknown; all joy* are
les9 than the one joy of enduring kind
ness. Her smile makes the sun shine
i of many hearts; the cloudless dawuing
i of their new enjoyments.
It is Thanksgiving day, Lizzy, and
)my thoughts have been wandering
backward, far over the current ol
years. Reflection is indeed an angel,
when she points out the errors of the
past, and gives us courage to avoid
them in future. Maggie is reading the
Book of Job, and this evening my spirit
more than ever looks up in thankful
ness to God for the Bible, heaven’s
purest gift to mortals. It is the star ot
eternity,whose mild rays come twink
ling to the nether sphere; erring man’s
guide to wisdom, viitue and heaven.
Ihe Bible is the book of books. In
comparison, Byron loses his fire, Mil
ton his soaring, Gray his beauties, and
Homer his grandeur and figures. No
eye like rapt Isaiah’s ever pierced the
veil of the future; no tongue ever rea
soned like sainted Job; no poet ever
sung like Israel’s Shepherd King, and
God never made a wiser man than
Solmon. The words of the Bible are
pictures of immortality, dews from the
tree ol knowledge, pearls from the river
of life, and gems of celestial thought. As
the moaning shell whispers to the sea,
so the Bible breathes of love in heaven
the home of angels, and joys too pure
to die. Would I had read it more
when my poor eyes could see. Would
that more of its pure precepts were
bound about my heart, and 1 had wis
dom to make them mottoes of my life.
The world may entertain Hts ideas of
a magnificent deity, whose government
is general, but let me belhive in the
Lord God of Elijah, whose providence
is entire, ordering the minutest events
in human life, and with a lather’s care
arranging it lor the greatest possible
good. Yes, Lizzv, when storms gather,
and my sepulchral way il dark and
drear, with no star to guideinor voice
to cheer, my sinking spirit refuge
in the world wide sympathies of a Sa
viour, who did not chide M*ry for her
tears, and came himself to ijyeep at the
grave ofhis friend.
My dear Lizzy, I fear I written
you too long, and too sad a tetter; but,
dearest, do not think me melancholy;
like the rest of the world I have more
smiles than tears, more good than ill.
Let me thank you may tunes for your
kind invitations to be with you on New-
Year’s day, at your new home, and for
your gentle hint that Santa Claus will
be there too. Maggie says that his
majesty will be in the country at that
time, and 1 must stop here; however, I
shall be with you Lizzy; till then good
bye, with my unabated love.
S. H. Dk. K.
LABOR.
What a dept of gratitude, of grati
tude unpaid; and. I fear, too often un
thought of, does the handwriting on the
wall mark up against us at the very
mention of the word. Labor! What
has it not effectecd, what 13 it not con
stantly effecting for us! Lajbor ploughs
and digs and tills and cultivates the
ground and sows and reaps and gath
ers into barns, and grind;* the coru.
Labor builds the ship and nails across
the ocean, and penetrates the most
distant climes, and encounter dangers
and faces ditficulties, and ransacks sea
and land, to provide the food which w*e
consume, and the cloths weijrh we wear,
and the jeweled ornamc-nts which
fashion calls for as an offering on its
shrine. Labor erects the house, cuts
the railway and the canaj, bores the
tunnel, rears the viaduct and the bridge,
levels the mountain, pirces the ruck. It
weaves and spins, toils and works,
plies the loom, strikes the anvil, thun
desr at the forge, wields the hammer,
1 sinks the mine, raises the coal,and ac
complishes evjy-thing, from th»- monster
cable of the noblest of our wooden wails
to the most delicate of silken threads in
a lady’s work-box, and from the loftiest
pile of architecture to the scarcely per
ceptible eye of the smallest needle for
which it is intended. Iu short, as the
Elephant, with the same trunk, tears
dowp the stoutest tree in the forest and
picks up a pin from the ground, so d «es
ladur procure for us the greatest and
the least, the most important and the
most minute, of the necessaries of life,
ministers to our luxuries, increase our
comforts, and, with its ever inventive
and untiring ingenuity, constantly wi
dens the sources of our enjoyments and
amusements, well, be it so," it may be
some cold and calculating nature will I
reply; and what then? It labor works
for us, do we not pay it for its work,
and there d*es not the mutual obligation
end? This is a most miserable way ot
looking at the matter and no way of
settling it at all. Humanity should not
keep such a close dept or and creditor
account with man. Property, we have
been told* “has its duties as well as its!
rights,' and. in like manner, inverting
the maxim, 1 would say, that labor hat
its tights, as Well as tt» duties, and one
of it strongest claims upon us, I think.
is r that wa should not oaly “give a fair
day’s wag*** for a fair day’s work, but
also provide it the school, the lihrarv,
anti tha institute, with a fair day’s re
creation w hen us fair dai’* work is
dout*.— Speech tf Ik* Rtc. Jauut •itpi
.ail. al IluildtrwjicUl.
——j
SCP Somebody tried to excuse a liar to 1
l)r. Johnson, saying. “You must not
behave more than half of what he says!” 1
|‘Ah.” ns pi ttd. the doctor, ‘but which
4 CB&fTCt CM BELL B.
According to Retd, ere said to
have been invented by Paulina*, bishop
of Kola, in Campania, about the year
400; they were first need by the Greek
empire in Bfi4; and were introduced into
monasteries in the geveath or eight cen
tury. Three bell’s were placed in a tow
er of St. Peter’* at Roma, by Pope Ste
phen 111. In the ehorcbee of Europe,
they were introduced and came into
general use in 900. They were first
introduced into Switzerland in 1030.
The first chime of bell* was hung in
Croyland Abbey, in Lincolnshire, in
960.' The custom of Christening bells
is very ancient, and was expressly
forbidden by Charlemagne, in 789.
Nankin, in China, was once famous
for its large bells; but they were of such
an enormous weight, that they brought
down the t iwer, and ha%*e since lain on
the ground. One of these bells is 12
feet high, 71-2 feet in diameter, and 23
feet in circumference; thickness of the
metal at the edges, 7 inches; its weight
is computed at 50,000 lbs. This enor
mous bell is, however, small, compared
with the cast in the reign of the empress
Anne of Russia, which, according to
Mr. Cox, weighs 432,oUo lbs; its height
is 19 feet, its circumference at the bot
tom 21 yards 11 inches, and thickness,
23 inches. The beam on which it was
hung, being burnt, it fell, and a large
piece was broken out of it. The weight
of this enormous mass of metal is esti
mated to be worth a sum upwards of
£300,000, which lays unemployed and
useless. Mr. Bruce makes mention of
a hell cast iu Czar Bori’s time, which
weighed 330.000 lbs; It was 19 feet
high, *23 in diameter, and two in thick
ness.
In the belfry of St. Ivan, church ol
St. Nich las, in the Kremlin of Mos
cow’, is an enormous bell, whose cir
cumference is 40 feet 9 inches, thick
ness 16 feet 6 inches, and it 9 weight
upwards of 57 tons. The bell in the
inetroplitan church at Rouen, France,
is 11 feet in diameter and 13 in height.
—According to Dr. Moore, there is a
hell in China 13 feet C inches in diame
ter, 42 feet in circumference, 12 feet 6
inches in height, and weighs above 50
tons.
In the Cathedral of St. Paul’s, Lon
don, is a bell weighing 11,474 pounds;
the clapperof which weighs 180 pounds;
the diameter of it is 10 feet —The
largest bell in England is that of Christ
College, Oxford, which weighs 17,000
pounds. The Great Tom of Lincoln
weighs 10,840 pounds. In 1824, ac
cording to Thomas Reid, a bell of 13,-
808 pounds was found in one of the val
lies of the Jura mountains in Switzer
land but how it came there, seems to be
unknown.
A BAD ROOM FOR HEARING.
Mr. Scott Ru33el{ has thus lucidly
explained one of the causes of bad
qualities, in the construction of a room.
He shows that in a large square room,
of the usual form, the reflection of the
same sound is carried to the speaker’s
ear by different paths, and in different
periods of time, the result of which is,
the confusion ot successive sounds and
syllables with each other, and so a pro
lific cause of indistinct hearing, it re
quires another principle to afford the
remedy for these evils, which Mr. Rus
sell believes to be quite new. He calls
it the principle of non-reflectiun and
lateral accumulation of the sound
wave. It was originally suggested to
him by the observation of a similar phe
j nomenon in the wa\e of t ;e first order
in waters. This wave he considers to
be the type of the sound-wave; and,
on examination, he finds experimental
evidence of the same phenomenon in
the latter wave. He has observed that,
at angles below 45 degrees, the sound
wave is no longer completely reflected
from the surface on which it impinges;
and when the obliquity of the wave to
j the surface is 60 degrees, a phenome
non of non-reflection, and the wave
continues merely to roll along the sur
face, in a parallel direction to it. This
fact furnishes a ready means to remedy
the evils so often produced by the re
flections, and echo, and interference of
I sound in public buildings. Wherever
it is possible to place flat or curved sur
faces at such angles, that the direction
of the sound shall be very oblique to the
surface, it may be harmlessly disposed
of, and prevented from injurious reflec
tion. This is exactly what the stalls of
a choir, the side chapels of a cathedral
and the partition of boxes in an opera
house, do so successfully for buildings
of a large class. The same principle
enables Mr. Russell to explain the
whispering gallery of St. Paul’s, (which
is circular,) and another equally cele
brated, mentioned by Saunders, which
is perfectly straight. The same prin
ciple also explains the conveyance of
sound along the smooth surface of a
lake, and over the flat surface of a!
sandy desert; aa well as extraordinary
reverberation or accumulation of sound
in some portions of a budding. London
Magazine.
Presidential Statistics. —The fol
lowing statistics will be useful to those
who take an iutere&t in president mak
ing
Recapitulation of Presidential Elections.
Vear. No of Votes.
2,702,549
2,402,058
133 d 1,501,298
1,280,496
le2S 1,102.418
Majorities of Electoral Votes.
In 1844—Polk over Clay 65
In 1840—Harrison over Van Buren 174
In 1837—Van Buren over Harrison 97
In 1832—Jackson over Clay 170
la 1823— Jackson over Adams 95
A boy at the Latin sch iu our city,
in reciting a lesson io the classics, the
other day, gate the passage “Pompe
ius clam tl node Caesar palam cl inter
dim," the following bold rendering:
‘Poinpey ate clams by night. Caesar
by the paiifu| and tn tile day tuna We
need not sav, the worthy teacher fainted.


Drunken Fish. More than a hun
dred gallons of whisky were lately
Emptied into the Grand River. The
was, that the fishes got so
tipsey that they swam blindly upon;
The beach, and were taken without any
trouble.