ABOLITION OF SLAVERY.
Ohio City, Sept. 22, 1848.
Messrs. Dougi.ass Delaiiy:
There are those who steadily maintain
that -Congress has power over slavery
wherever it exists, and who will pre
serve their principles uncontaminated
s>y pro-slavery parties and pro-slavery j
influence; and there are those who alsoj
uniformly contend for the desired re- 1
forms in the State and Federal Govern
ments, as well as the freedom of the
public lands; and I am pleased to
reckon Gerrit Smith as one of that
number.
My views in regard to what meas
ures should constitute a broad and per
manent platform for a Republican party,
having for its basis such engrossing ob
jects, are briefly stated in my letter of
the (ith inst. to Mr. Brown, and pub
lished this day in the Spirit of Free
dom,” to the 18th, 19th and 20th arti
cles of which I beg leave more espe
cially to call your attention.
Section 2 of Article 4 of the Federal
Constiiution, reads:
“No person held to service or labor
in one State, under the laws thereof,
escaping into another, shall, in conse
quence of any law or regulation there
in, be discharged from such service or
labor, but shall be delivered up, on
claim of the party to whom such ser
vice or labor may he due.”
On this clause apologizers for all the
physical, social, moral, religious and
political evils of slavery, principally
rest for the coritiuance and justification
of slavery. It was, I believe, this
clause only which Daniel Webster cited
in the Mississippi case.
It is the one, if I mistake not, and
the only one, by which seamen, ap
prentices, and the like, escaping from
one State into another, are recovered
and'brought back. Criminals are also
recovered, 1 believe, in conformity with
this clause. It must, then, be applica
ble to white persons as well as colored.
Both are therefore placed on the same
footing, go far as slavery is concerned;
and therefore chattel slavery, or prop
erly in man, cannot be maintained by
this provision. It is well to observe,
itlso, that they are to he delivered up
to the party to whom such service or
labor may be due,” which implies in
debtedness or obligation to the govern
ment, under the penalty of adminis
trated law.
Applying it, for argument’s sake, to
the slave, it must be shown from some
other clause in the Constitution that he
has the to sell himself—and, sec
ondly, from some reliable evidence that
he did sell himself to the party claiming
him; or, thirdly, that black men and
white men may he recovered from any
State, brought hack, and held account
able, under the Constitution, for civil
debt.
It should also be observed, that
whomsoever it may refer to, their per
sonality is distinctly recognized, hence,
cannot he regarded under the law as
chattels nothing more nor less than
man or woman.
Another clause in the Constitution is
the only remaining one on which pro
slavery men hang for the perpetuity of
slavery, (Article I, Sec. 1);
Representatives and direct taxes
shall he apportioned among the several
States, according to their respective
numbers, which shall be determined by
adding to the whole number of free
persons, including those bound to ser
vice for a term of vears, and excluding
Indians not taxed, three-fifths of all
other persons.”
THE NORTH STAR.
That this refers to slaves when it
speaks of three-fifths of all other per
sons,” can only be supposed. We know
slavery existed at that time. But there
is no positive enactment for slavery in
the language; and what there is that
refers to man as a beast, or to property
in a “person,” can only be inferred or
doubtfully implied; and the sentence it
self is constructed in much obscurity;
its tone evasive and guarded, lest there
might be something in it that would
really express so disgraceful a thing as
property in man! It was not therefore
intended that it should be expressed;
hence, the concurrence of a majority
with Madison, that slavery would soon
be abolished, and that the idea of pro
perty in man should not be admitted
into the Constitution. There was
therefore no enactment for slavery; and
the most favorable construction that ean
be put upon the clause for slavery, is
the implication that, until Congress
should abolish it, “three-fifths of all
the tersovs” should be added in making
out the apportionment of representa
tives and direct taxes. Slavery, and
the perpetuity of it, are not nomina
ted in the bond;” and in the clause
cited, the framers did more against
than for it! For while they were thus
ambiguous in any expression of sla
very, if reference was made to slaves
at all, they have in this clause also
openly avowed and recognized, on the
other hand, perhaps intentionally, the
colored man’s personality. The pro
vision directs the number of represent
atives, not their duties, and the manner
of apportioning direct taxes, either with
or without the existence of slavery.
There is still another view of the sub
ject no less important: Grant for a mo
ment that the Constitution doubtfully
referred to slaves. There is no pro
vision in the Constitution for perpetual
slavery. Colored persons born after
the Constitution went into effect, could
not, therefore, come under any refer
ence in the Constitution to them. If it
could claim any as slaves, the claim
could apply to those only who were
then living.
Whatever, therefore, may have been
the intention of some of the framers ol
the Constitution, if there cannot be
some other provisions than those I have
noticed that will support slavery, it is
not beyond the Constitutional province
of Congress to abolish it. Property in
persons, I hardly need repeat, is not
mentioned in that instrument; and un
less it be clearly expressed, no implica
tion for it is admissible.
In an action at law for the replevin
of a black horse, if the plaintiff, in the
writ, describes a white one, the action
cannot be maintained, .however elearly
he may be able to prove he intended to
describe a black one. So if some
members, who assisted in framing the
Constitution, intended to describe a
piece of property, but carelessly al
lowed the word persons to he in
serted in its place, posterity cannot
complain at the oversight, however
much it is on the side of humanity.—
Blackstone would say further, even on
the trial of a cause, It is better for
ninety-nine guilty persons to go free
than punish one innocent man. And if
any inan should think the constitutional
provisions at all doubtful in its descrip
tion of property in man, the slave must
have the benefit of that doubt.
Unless then, as it has been hinted,
there shall be some other provision for
that insanity which contradicts the uni
versally endeared words of the immor
i tal Jetlerson, that all men have rights,
such as Life, Liberty, and the pur
suit of happiness,” the subject must be
referred to Congress, to decide whether
the evil shall exist under its future ac
tion or not; and our Representatives
and Senators must bear the responsi
bility.
i Courts of justice may decide upon
the constitutional rights, and another
decision may reverse it, whatever may
have been the precedents; and those
rights, in the constitution of the
slave, by the Great Law-Giver, are as
inalienable.”
But let us urge on the movement that
will note the time when our courts will
be courts of justice, and their deci
sions, in conformity with the Constitu
tion, which was never intended to know
any impartiality, or to rocoguize inter
pretations that will admit of any ine
quality; it would be almost a wrong and
a shame to view it differently.
The policy of slating a time as the
furthest period for the existence ol sla
very, by the Government, in the Dis
trict of Columbia, and in the States,
may not be altogether uupliilosophical;
its bearings upon the country, its influ
ence upon the slaves themselves, (for it
w ill be pretty sure to get to them in
some way or other,) may not be any
detriment; and it can work no harm to
the slaveholder to expect the abolition
of slavery at the time stated. Would
it not, therefore, be well enough for
the lands acquired by conquest, not to
be very much meddled w ith, before the
consummation of an event so freighted
with the deepest interest to the coun
try, and one so devoutly to be wished?
No apology is necessary from me for
asking your views on the subject at an
early moment.
I am, dear sir,
Yours for Progression,
E. H. SANFORD.
Land Rkfomebs.— The Land Re
formers of Kiyria, Ohio—comprising
lfiO out of 400 voters—we learn from a
friend just arrived from that place, are
strong for the Buffalo nominees. Mr.
Van Atnringe, who attended the Con
vention, while he would have preferred
a more definite resolution on land re
form, expressed his satisfaction with the
one we adopted. Our Platform hi
broad enough for them all to stand on.
Amer. Freeman.
right is or no sex—truth is of no color— god is the father of us all, and all we are brethren.
0 elections.
Hot FOR EMANCIPATION.
The St. Louis Reveille says:
since the Barnburners have assum
ed a position as a party, we have had
more Abolitionism talked in Missouri
than ever before —it now has a more
pleasing name, and as Free Soilers,”
many who before indulged their Aboli
tion notions in quiet, now openly avow
their sentiments in favor of emancipa
tion. We shall not be surprised if in a
few more years, the agitation of Aboli
tionism becomes transferred from the
North to the South.”
Nor shall we. There are thousands,
and tens of thousands in the South, who
will eagerly sqise hold of the free soil
movement to urge forward emancipa
tion. Striking a line from the Missis
sippi, along the southern borders of
Tennessee, on the west, and on the
borders of South Carolina, on the cast,
full a third of the white population of
the slave States are opnosed to slavery.
This opposition they nave not been
able heretofore to manifest. But now,
when under a new name, ant upon well
settled principles, a party has sprung up
which resists the extension of slavery,
these southern emancipationists will
have an opportunity to act, and will em
brace it heartily.
AH over the South, the extension ol
slavery, and its perpetuation are held
indentical. No planter or politician
doubts this point. If slavery be girt
around with free institutions, if a limit
be put to it, if public opinion and the
law, affirm that we shall not have an
inch more of slave territory, the curse
which blasts and blackens the South
will die out. It cannot be made to pay.
And when that is apparent, or brought
home to the pockets of the slaveholders
a blow will be struck at every slave
which will kill it in a few years.
The free soil movement, then, view
ed as an emancipation move, is one ol
the greatest events of modern times.—
What, in past years has kept the South
so united and made it so fierce against
emancipation? The bitterness and
wide spread opposition to Abolitionism!
A bitterness and opposition felt alike al
the North and the South, and manifest
ed, in both, by a violence as deep as
universal. But this cause ceased the
moment the present party had its being.
The South have felt this. Consequent
ly, from St. Louis to New Orleans, and
from Baltimore to Wilmington, North
Carolina, we hear of able inen, of mass
es of the people, uniting with this move
ment, or preparing to do so—and ol
papers and public men, defending and
debating free soil interests. The gleam
of the blaze which is soon to burst out
is seen shooting up all over the South,
and soon the flame will grow so strong
and burn so steady, as to kindle afresh
the same spirit which animated the slave
States before, and during the Revolu
tion.
That great event gave us our free
dom. The constitution was intended to
consecrate, and secure that Freedom.
But lust of power in the South, and lust
of gain in the North, clouded the spirit
of the Revolution, when, at the com
raencment of this century, a new gene
ration came on the scene of action.
Hour by hour, and year by year, the
slave power grew, until at last, with
the insolence of power, and the con
tumely engendered by a long admitted
control over the government, it has
sought to tread into the dust every prin
ciple of the constitution, and exert the
whole weight of the Government, foi
i the atrocious purpose of extending sla
very. For once it has overshot the
i mark. The North will not submit tc
this goading in human tyranny. The
moan of the slave shall not float on the
free winds of the Sierra Madre, or min
gle in the roar of the surges of the Pa
cific. And in this determination, the
Slave Region, not dependant on the
cotton or sugar culture —will unite—
will unite cautiously, and by degrees,
at first—but heartily, and with thorough
earnestness at last; and thus be the
means of making free, in fact, as well
as in theory, our glorious land.
For the friends of our free soil, whal
a motive is there for effort! It is theii
act, which shall carry out, and com
plete the great drama of the Revolution
It is their act which will break, as il
they were brittle glass, the bonds of the
black man, and at the same time, give
life and growth and hope, and thought,
to the enslaved and oppressed white la
-1 borers of the South. Let them not
falter! Let not a man among then
shrink away from the contest, though il
shall cover them with dust and beat,
when such a prize is to be won! Lei
them one and all remember, as did theii
fathers, that universal freedom is theii
aim, and that for it they should be rea
dy, willing, and eager to toil day in,
and day out, until this aim he accom
plished.—Cia Globe.
CONVENTION OP COLORED
PEOPLE.
Our private letters from Cleveland
1 Ohio, speak moat favorably of the char
acter and doings of the Convention ol
Colored People recently held in that
city. The official account of the Con
vention’s proceedings, we have not seen.
We know not, that it has been publish
ed. But the Address to the Colored
People of the United States,” adopted
by the Convention, we have had the
pleasure of reading in the North Star.
It is an excellent document. It oogbl
to be read by or to every colored person
in the country. We will add, that il
ought to he accompanied by the Ad
dress to the name class of persons, pre
paied by Gerrit Smith, and sent forth
by the Buffalo Convention of last June.
The MU*—we are sure we shall not be
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1848.
accused of intending any disparagement
of the Cleveland Address—is compara
bly the beat thing of the kind we ever
saw. Both of these Addresses urge the
people of color to extend the variety ol
their employments, which are now quite
limited to blacking boots, shaving, and
other peculiarly menial avocations.
It is, however, less the fault of the
colored people, than that of the whites,
that the variety of their employments is
so limited. The infernal prejudice
cherished by our nice against the Afri
can race has operated to exclude the
latter almost wholly from what are
deemed honorable employments. We
know hardly a machine shop” ia the
country in which it would be possible
for a colored youth to eater as aa ap
prentice, or a colored adnk to find em
ployment. Either, we doubt not, would
be hooted from the Lowell Machine
Shop, though possessing the mechanic
cal ingenuity and dexterousness of a
Moody or a Fulton. And of all Low
ell’s multitudinous factories, we presume
there is not one in which the presence
of a colored person would be tolerated,
even if he would “work for nothing and
board himself.” The same, or very
nearly the same, might be said of well
nigh all the places in which other trades
are plied. But the land is open to them.
The land has just as much respect for a
black man as it has for a white one.—
Let our colored brethren betake them
selves to it. They ought to have ac
cess to all they can cultivate, or at leas!
to so much as may be necessary to pro
cure them a comfortable subsistence,
as to the gospel itself, without money
and without price;” and they will have,
when our Government shall come to be
righteous enough to realize the doc
trines enunciated by the last Buffalc
Convention but one.
The Cleveland Address has anothei
good suggestion, which it strongly urges
on the regard of our colored friends. Il
is, that they ought to be Abolitionists,
and take an active interest in the cause
of Abolitionism. We question if a fiftli
part of the free colored people are Abo
litionists, though we fancy as many as
nine-tenths of the slaves are such. In
the Address of Gerrit Smith’s, already
referred to, five-sixths of those who vo
ted at the last Presidential election, are
charged with having bestowed their
suffrages on slaveholders and their
abettors; so that, practically, it were
better if not a man among them all had
ever possessed the statutory or consti
tutional right to vote. It is by right
voting, probably more than by any oth
er single process of action, that the
colored people are to win the rights o!
which they are now plundered. A
single vote, rightly cast, were wortli
more to their cause, than a thousand
windy speeches about the rascally
wrongs inflicted on them.— Lynn Pio
neer.
TIIE SLATE POWER—POLI
TICALY*
It appeared by the last census, that
the number of slaves in the U. States,
was 2,487,113.
Estimating ten slaves to one master,
there were only 248,711 slaveholders.
Of the legal voters of the United
States, the slaveholders are about as 1
to 20.
Three-fifths of 2,487,113, is 1,492,-
255,which divided by 70,680,the present
ratio of representation, makes 21
the exact number of members on the
floor of the House of Representatives,
in Congress, sent there, under Section
2d of the Constitution, to represent the
Slave Power.
The Senate has a Veto on every
law, and as one-half of that body are
slaveholders, it follows, of course,
that no law can be passed without their
conseht:
No bill has passed the Senate, nor a
treaty been ratified, since the organiza
tion of the government, but by the votes
of slaveholders.
Appointments are made by the Pre
sident, with the consent of the Senate,
and of course the slaveholders have,
and always have had, a veto on every
appointment.
In consequence of the peculiar ap
portionment of Presidential Electors
among the States, and the operation of
the ru!e of federal numbers, whereby,
for the purpose of estimating the repre
sentative population, five slaves are
counted as three while men, most extra
ordinary results are exhibited at every
election for President.
In the election of 1840, the electors
chosen were 294; of these, IGB were
from the free, aod 125 were from the
Slave States.
The popular vote in the Free States,
was 1,725,737, or one elector to 10,278
voters.
The popular vote in the Slave States
was 682,583, or one elector to 5,935
votes, (South Carolina had 11 electors
chosen by the Legislature.) These are
deducted in the calculation.
Even this disproportion, enormous as
it is, is greatly aggravated in regard to
particular States.
New York g»*e 443,331 votes, and
had 42 electors.
Virginia, Maryland and North Caro
lina gave 229,589 votes, and had 21
electors.
Ohio gave 272,939 votes, and had 21
electors*
Georgia, Kentucky, Delaware Ala
bama, Louisiana and Arkansas, gave
233,941 votes, and had 44 elector*.
Daring 29 years,and six Presidential
elections, the South east 608 electoral
rotes, and only 41 of them for Northern
candidates.
In the election of 1844,13 Free States
had 161 electors, and gqjre 1,890,884
votes 1 elector to 11,030 votes, while
12 Slave States had 165 electors, and
gave 789,848 votes —one elector to
6,608 votes.
The rule of fedrml numbers, confined
by the Constitution to the apportion
ment of representatives, has ’been ex
tended by the influence of slaveholders,
to other and very different subjects.—
Thus, the distribution among the States
of the surplus reveoues, and of the
proceeds of the public lands, were
made according to this same iniquitous
role.
Of the 15 Presidential terms, 12 have
been filled with slaveholders. No north
ern man has been allowed to serve more
than one term.
From the adoption of the Constitution
to June 1842, there were 75 elections
of President of the Senate, pro ten. Of
these, the Slave States had GO, and the
Free States 16.
Previous to 1842, do Northern man
had held the office far 30 yesn,
While the Senate was equally, divided
the slaveholders almost always contriv
ed to secure a presiding officer.
Of the 15 who bad filled the office of
Secretary of State up to 1842, the slave
States had ten.
The Free States have usually fur
nished the men for the army and navy,
and the Slave States the principal part
of the officers. Anti-Slavery Almanac
for 1849.
ANTI-SLAVERY IN THE SOUTH.
The Examiner, published at Louis
ville, Ky., speaks as follows of the
growing anti-slavery feeling of the
South
We are acquainted with a Mississip
pi planter, the proprietor of a large
number of slaves,who is as earnestly
opposed to tho extension of slavery as
the greatest curse that can be inflicted
on a community, as any other person
of our acquaintance. We are intimate
ly acquainted with another Mississippi
planter, the proprietor of more than a
hundred slaves, who has been a warm
politician from his youth up, who re
fuses to support either of the presiden
tial candidates for whom electoral
tickets have been formed,in his State,
because neither of them is pledged to
sustain the Wilmot Proviso. \Y r e have
but a limited acquaintance with Mis
sissippi cotton planters, but we have
no doubt that, a large number of them
are as heartily opposed to all measures,
which contemplate either the extension
or the perpetuation of slavery as we
ourselves are. Our acquaintance and
friendship embrace a very large num
ber of Kentucky slaveholders, and
there are very few of them who regard
slavery with the least degree of favor.
The newspapers published in the most
Northern slaveholding States denounce
Northern Abolitionists, but at the same
time refrain from all remarks that would
indicate a belief that slavery is anything
but a positive evil. It is not politic to*
publish opinions adverse to slavery in
slaveholding States, and hence the
anti-slavery sentiment in those States
is not represented in the newspapers.
We are in the habit of seeing nearly
every newspaper published in Ken
tucky, and if we had no other means
of becoming acquainted with the pub
lic sentiment of the State than that
afforded by these newspapers, we
should conclude that the subject is
attracting no attention among our fel
low citizens. But we know that such
a conclusion would be thoroughly er
roneous, for there ia scarcely a neigh
borhood in the State in which slavery
is not exciting much discussion, and in
which they who are hostile to its con
tinuance among us are not more nu
merous than those who advocate its
perpetuation. Perhaps the newspaper
which is the most intensely pro-slavery
of all newspapers, is the Charleston
(S. C.) Mercury. A correspondent, in
speaking of extending slavery into our
newly acquired Mexican territories,
says I know that there are those in
our midst who do not hesitate in private
to declare their honul conviction, that
they see no valid objection to excluding
slavery from the territories. And there
are some of them strong minded men
themselves slaveholders, and native
C barleatooiaoi.
Frwtu the Litvrator.
THE NEW YORK TRIBUNE.
Mr. Greeley has at length run up the
black flag with the Whig Raw Head
and Bloody Bones upon Us sooty fold,
to the mast-head of the Tribune. That
unaccountable craft has keen cruizing
about, wUh no distinctive bunting to
mark her nationality, ever since the
Philadelphia Convention, and men were
wondering “under which king” the Be
zouian that commanded her would
choose to serve. But since King Harry
has refused the barren sceptre the
Clay Whigs wished to put in his gripe,
their leader acknowledges a reluctant
allegiance to the Whig King d* facto,
while he avows that his heart is still
loyal to the Whig King de jure. Bat U
is an ungracious homage, at best, and
one that can commend it to little grati
tude. It is but lip-service that he pays
to the ugly service of the Whigs, while
his heart is for from it.
He takes this stop with no new con
viction, excepting the impoesibilitf of
defeating Cam without electing Taylor.
Did Mr. Greeley really suppose that
Clay would have bad any chance, had
he keen willing to stand, and yet would
ben4 have supported him? He feels
profound respect aod sympathy for the
Free Soil movement, but discerns no
hope of electing Mr. Van Buren. N<4
as much as of electing Mr. Clay? He
thinks the latter would have stood a
chance in the House, while the former
would not! Nice distinctions in bolting,
these! Tavlor is not committed to fun
damental Whig Principles distinctly
nod satisfactorily. He would prefer
Mr. Webrter, Mr. Clay, or almost any
prominent Whig aUlsmm. Bat hie
prefers Taylor to Cass. He knows
Cass to be wroog on the slavery exten
sion question, and does not believe
Taylor to be essentially right! Rut of
all the arguments ever used in support
of Gen. Taylor, or any other man,
commend us to the following, which we
give iu the ipriwma verba of Mr. Gree
ley. The Whig party, faulty as it is,
embodies most of the temperate and
measured” (easily measured—a gill
cup would hold it all) anti-slavery
sentiment of the country; and the fact
that it has nominated a Louisiana sugar
planter for President, whose opinions on
this subject do not accord with its own
preponderating convictions, constrains,
and will constrain it to more decisive
and earnest hostility to slavery exten
sion”! Heard ye ever the like of
that? Mr. Greeley is no fool; but it
must be acknowledged he is excellent
at cooking of fiapdoddU, or the stuff
they feed fools on!”
The Daily Advertiser and the other
old Whig papers, give but a lenten en
tertainment to this eleventh-hour con
version. They evidently have but lit
tle faith in death-bed repentances. We
suppose that in their secret souls they
had beerv wishing him to go for Y’an
Buren. The staple of Mr. Greeley’s
Anti-Slavery was never anything to
brag of, but he has drawn out his
thread so fine as to make him pass with
the ignorant including the bulk
of Whig editors, as an eminent manu
facturer of the article. That it was
good for little, is now proved by its
shocking bad wear. But he has got his
name up. He may not have been
guilty of the sin of Anti-Slavery, but
he has incurred the scantlal, and that is
quite as bad, as everybody knows, as
well as Yorick’s host at Paris. His
accession will be of no material service
to the party. The slaveholders regard
him as an Abolitionist, and his joining
the Taylor'faction will do it more harm
at the South than it will do it good at
the North. The Tribune has been un
lucky. It has reversed the true maxim
of wise politicians. It has not served
God, and yet it has offended the Devil
all the same as if it had.—a.
A Remarkable Character. —The
Mobile Herald gives the following!
sketch of the life of Pierre Chastang, a
free colored man who died in that city
a few days ago:
YVe hastily announced on Tuesday
Lhe death of Major Pierre Chastang.
He was so remarkable a tnan, in many
respects, that a brief sketch of his life
will, we are sure interest inauy of our
readers, and perhaps have a beneficial
influence upon his own caste. Pierre
was born in 1779, and was consequent
ly 89 year# old at his death. He was
the slave of Jean Chastang, and in
1810 or’ll, became the property of Re
gest Bernody.
During the Indian war, and the time
Gen. Jackson was in command of the
troops in this city, Pierre, then known
to the citizens as a brave, honest, trust
worthy man, was appointed by Jackson
patroon or captain of a government
transport, to carry provisions to the
troops stationed at Fort Montgomery,
or Fort Mims, and to those in camp
near the present site of Mount Vernon.
The udertaking was perilous, as at that
time the whole country was infested
with hostile Indians, and hut a few per
sons could be found to take charge of
an expedition attended with so great a
risk of life. Pierre was however, suc
cessful, and reached the troops in safety,
with a supply of provisions, &,c.
In 1819, during the ravages of the
yellow fever, Pierre rendered essential
service to the city by taking care of the
sick aud protecting the property of the
eitizens. He and one or two others
were compelled to act as nurses aud
sextons. The sickness and mortality
was so great that it was difficult to have
the patients properly eared for—three,
four and five bodies were taken at a
time in a cart and deposited In a pit.
As a matter of course, all who could get
away precipitately fled from the pesti
lence, leaving their property in charge
of Pierre.
He daily opened the stores f«»r the pur
pose of ventilation and securing the
goods from damage. On the return of
the merchants iu the fall, they found
everything safe, and as some apprecia
tion for his services and honesty, a sub
scription was taken up at once for his
emancipation, and also to purchace him
a horse and dray.—Since that period
his avocation as a dray-man has en
abled bun to support his family quite
handsomely, and at the same time amass
a snug title property.
Pierre, until within a year or two
past enjoyed throughout his long life
unintempted health, aod always seemed
happy and contented. No person in
this community, white or black, was
ever more highly esteemed or respects
ed, snd no one in his sphere has been s
more conspicuous, honest benevolent
and upright man. He always acted
on the golden rule of doing unto other
a§ be would be done by.

An luroarsxT MovxaßKT among
the Hebrew# of Europe is announced
ia the Jewish Chronicle. Such is the
feeling of alarm felt atnoog them in re
spect to the revolutions taking place,
that thousands have been baptized tutu
the Catholic church to escape persecu
tion, aod that more than one thousand
from the city of Perth, ia Hungary,
have resolved to emigrate to the United
States. Among these are some of the
most respectable Hebrew families of
Europe, and in emigrating, the rich are
to support the poor.
Connection or Ideas. —A facetious
old lady describing the rambling ser
mons of her minister, said: “If his text
had the small pox, hie aennjn would
never catch it.”
JOHN DICK, Piiuwii.
WHOLE NO. —18.
llom. Fili.morf., having
been assailed in the Sooth for a letter
in which he avowed himself in
favor of stopping the Slavetrade be
tween the several States, was recently
addressed on the subject by Mr Jas.
Brooks, of the Kxprcss, and returned
the following answer:
Ai.ba.st, Sept. 13, 1848.
James Brooks, Ksq —Dear Sir: I
returned this morning from the West,
and have yours of the 10th* in which
you say it has been charged in tho
Richmond Inquirer, that 1 hold it to be
within the power of Cengress to inter
fere with, or break off, the transporta
tion, removal, or disposal of persons
held as slaves, from one siavcholding
State to another.
I am not aware that this question has
ever been disenssed ii> Congress, or
was ever presented for the considera
tion of the Supreme Court of the U. S.
before ISII. In that year the cele
brated case from Mississippi was deci
ded, aud Mr. Justice McLean gave an
elaborate opinion on this point, in which
the Chief Justice concurred. He came
to the conclusion that the constitutional
power over this matter was vested in
the several States, and not in Congress.
So lar as my knowledge exteuds, this
opinion carried conviction to every un
prejudiced mind; and the question was
considered settled. At any rate, this
was my own opinion then, and 1 have
seen no cause to change it since.—
Should I do so, I should not hesitate to
declare it.
You will therefore perceive that you
did me no injustice in representing to
your friend t at these were my senti
ments.
I write in haste, amid the pressure of
official duties, but remain
Truly yours,
MILLARD FILLMORE.
New Southern Dictiomart.—Com
promise—Taking the whole.
Concession—Glorifying slavery as a
“sacred” institution.
Harmony—Keeping still when kicked.
Patriotism—Y r oting for a Southern
slaveholder or Northern slave.
Freedom—The right to extend sla
very.
Chivalry—Manifesting a disposition
to play the hangman.
Consistency—Glorifying the exten
sion of freedom in Europe* and labor
ing for the extension of slavery in
America.
Statesman—A man who never held a
civil office, but who does hold 280
slaves.
Constitution—A rusted weathercock,
always pointing South.
Democracy—Allowing 2(50,000 slave
holders to rule the nation.
Religion—A belief in the infallibility
of John C. Calhoun.
Humbug “Ail men are created
free and equal.**>
Traitor—One who is not inclined to
let us have our own way.
Hunker—One of our non-resident
slaves, who never rebels under the se
verest infliction of the lash.— Hamilton
Reflector.
Church Bells. There’s some
thing beautiful in the church hells.
Beautiful and hopeful They talk to
high and low, rich and poor, in the
same voice there’s sound in them
that should score pride and envy, End
meanness of all sorts, from the heart
of man; that should mnke him look on
the world with kind forgiving eyes
that should make the earth itself seem
to him, at least for a time, a holy place.
Yes, there is a whole sermon in the
very sound of the church bells, if we
have only the ears rightly to under
stand it.—There is a preacher m every
belfry, that cries, “Poor, weary,
j struggling, fighting creatures poor
jhuman things! take rest, be quiet.
Forget your vanities, your fellies, your
week-day craft, your heart-burnings
And you, ye human vessels, gilt and
painted believe the iron tongue that
j tells ye that for all your gilding, all
your colors, ye arc the same Adam’s
i earth with the beggar at your gates.
Come awav, come, cries the church
hell, and karo to be humble; learn
that, however daubed and stained, and
tttuck about with jewels, you are hut
grave clay! Come, Dives, come; and
be taught that all your glory, ns you
weBr it, is not half so beautiful in the
eye of Heaven, as the sores of uoc mn
pluining Lazarus! And ye, poor
creatures, livid ami faint—stinted and
crushed by the pride and hardness of
the world—come, gome, cries Ine bell
with the voice of £n angel—come and
learn what is laid up for ye. And learn
ing, take heart, and walk amongst the
wickedness, the cruelties rtf the world,
calmly, as ffsniel walked anos| the
lions. Douglas* hr raid.
Literature it* the U. S. rirrr
TEAM AGO. —The means of knowledge
from external sources wan very limited.
The intercourse between os and foreign
1 countries was unfrequent and I might
almost say that we had no means of ac
cess to any literature and science ex
cept the English. Even in respect to
this, we had little more than n semi
annual importation of the tnaut common
works; and a few copies supplied and
satisfied the market. The Knglish peri
odicals were then few in number, and 1
|do not remember any one that was read
M»y the students except the Monthly
fl Magazine, (the old monthly,) and that
was read but by a few. i have spoken
of our semi-annual importations, and it
mi literally true that two sl)i|«sonly plied
i ns regular packets between Boston sod
LoikL>», one in the spring sod one in
I the autumn, and their arrival was an
era in our college life. —Mrmoin of Dr
I Chemung.
Notices.
Rhode I it) and ,\»li.Slmrry Roclrtr
Annnnl HwtiM
The thirteenth animat meeting of th"' Bh'*dt
Ulan.! AnU-Slavetg Society. roll h W ,H
Providence, on Wednesday and Thursday,
November Ifrth. sml |WH,
Thu usual effort be mule lo secure the
attendance of distinguish'd friends «*f «manri.
jutiixt from abroad, it i# confidentially
-d that the meeting will U* rendered inter
esting lo all who may he present.
i >ur earnest appeal l«* all «l*«‘ ft mods of Lib
ert) i» Rlmhj Inland m. Unit they will ones
again hul to u* ami lo the i-uina, thoir pH."
t;*oce, their warm sympathies ami their gmmr
i)u» efforts. 'l*hu. wiivly i* not a itino whnr
tho PimiMri of our cause in this Stato—th*
f.imrot and true men and women of the hnmi
of Roger Williams should filler in their work
<»r la 'k filth in the ultimate triumph of thcil
doctnnn*. The fire* which have boon kunlcd,
add which aro now bursting forth, ever
mnoijthl tho old and long enslaved artd slave
shattered jMilitieal parties, should he kept
burning; and enquirers for the trulh should
b.' [M.inted to a higher duty and a more glori
ons purpose. I<ei us come together, then
wiili w arm and determined hearts, and taking
courage fro n the past, resolve agon to prusi
forward with renewed seal and a closer fnond
ship for our eannp, to the priae so dear lu us
and so full of joy to the enslaved.
In behalf of thu Rhode Island Anti Slavery
Society,
JOHN BROWN, President,
Amarancy I’aisk, Secretary.
Providcnee, R Oet. *J. I*4*.
rm niHtH’s jrmi.tr. cllf.ii it a*
TIOM.
'Hie Colored Freemen of Central New
York, will commemorate the day which gave
Freedom lo 800,000 human beings in the
jlr.n>l» West India Isles, at Auburn, N. A*.,
on lb -Ut of \ugiist uoxt. And at the same
time they will remember with gratitude the
recent Fienen demoostrsuon of 4 Liberty,
F, quality, Fiaternity.
Bv ord r of ilie Committee,
(rII.RKRT COOLSV,
Sof.OVON Dkman,
J. W. Qrijrcv,
J teen Jordon,
Kiuvahi* Wklls.
Krnm tin- M«»*l«-t W m kiT.
Letter from Lerrlt Smith.
Pktf.khoro, (Vt. il, 1818
7<» Ihr I'Jitor of (h< Ham* Horn.
1 hate, tins moment, read the leading edit
orial in vour paper of ‘J'.M ultimo. Aeeept
mv thank* toi the very kind terms in which
it speaks of me.
I am requested by yon—-Ist, to solieit my
friends to withdraw my nomination—'id, to
vote for Mr. an Boron.
Thai you aie a colored man, and that your
piper is devoted to the welfare id' your op
pressed race, do indeed make me. the more
ready t show inspect to these requests.
Nevertheless, I can ohev neither of them. In
regard to one of them, 1 have lint to say. that
ma-ttmeh as niv former petitions for the with
draw \l of mv nommatioii were utterly vain,
1 .'m indulge no liopo that a repetition nt
them would he attended with success. In
lospe t to the other, 1 would say, that, whilst
mv p rsoti.il relations with Mr. an Buren
li n e never !*een otherwise than agreeable ttml
liiemlly—tli.il whilst my business transaction*
with lom have been ehaiaetensed on h'S pail,
with justice and hberaluy—and that, whilst 1
have always ascribed to him very great intel
lectual ability—l must, nevertheless, duckin'
\mine for him. I would, moreover, sav, thai
Mr. Van Huron's position in respect to t!i«
extension nfalaveiy, ts infinitely pre tern Me t«
that of (ion. (’ass or (ion. Taylor and ili.it
they who pass by him to vole for them, give
very poor evidence of Iming themselves op
posed to the extrusion of slavery.
Oi 1 would Invo thought that it were quite
superdnous to explain to a colored man why
l eannol vote for Mr. Van lhnen. It how
ever. seems lo me that it is not and hence
1 proc >od to say. that Mr. Van Boren, lot
aught I know hitlers not essentially from the
m iss ot Ins countrymen iu his views and treat
m'nt of colored people. He is making m
elfins to deliver them from slavery, or to ob
tain the acknowledgement of their right t«
participate in the choice of their rulers, or t«
expo! from the public heart that diabolical am
in.microns prejudice which donies to the col
orod person his equal rig In hi the school, i;:
the house of worship, and in the. various pn
\.J ges, benefits, and blessings of society—
which, in short, denies him a place in tin
human brotherhood. Indeed, am I not al
liberty to sav. that Mr. Van Buren is huoscll
a subject of this prejudice
Now, these things being true, von cyrtMuly
could not expect an impartial adtniuitUraiiot
of the government at the hands of Mr. Vat
Buren—an administration in which the colon*
man would he regarded even ms the whiu
man. And these things being true, you cor
tainly could not roquest a e--hired min to d<
an act so warning in self-mspect and so self
degrading, as to vote for hitu. Why, then
should yon request me to vote (or him
Think you, that because I am a white man.
can consent to he guilty of doing such a deej
wrong to your race* 1 MipjMised that yo»
w ere aware that, with mo. all the varieties o
the human family have equal rights; and tha
to my heart tire colored man is as dear as any
other man.
I w 11 remember that oa a certain occasion,
"hen \tun spun was rejoicing in my identifi
cation with my colored brethren, vou ex
c! um -I. “(ierrit S;nuh is a ro'om/ man!’* li
pie .rat'd me. p'ltcqis Aatterod ux» to tie calleri
s-r. But were I now to voie for tlnrse alic
aequiiwet*, u-i. v\e;» take part m ihn |tMncri|>-
it tu and crushing of your tarn. I should fur
leu the houorab.e and welcome uame whu'h
o voi-h-1 to um'; and l should gi\e pr«s-l
tl. tt, after all, lam hut a k uV- man. Be as
n:r«sl th"! I esn n*\er consent to forfeit this
name. Possibly there may ts- ht nr and tln'ro
a <*»k»re«J mil lost to Mi lf-r»>j>oct as to vote
for |mmso«s who trample u|m« and .U'iqusc
linn. Ij«‘t such, if they will, vote as white
men. 1, t*.i the contrary, must »how bv try
vote, that I a» still “a coAm-«v/ mail.”
jlwicctfiillr >ours.
(iKRRI T SMITH.
Bain's Niw Btwovrav.—Wu have bori
shown a *jM-c«mi n ol wr.tjug which ha:
|«cro uaark ot m>-sn> «>l iL.n l'dectric C*»py
iitg Tetagrapii, a new intcotimi by which
jr rron at one end of a telegraph line, car
transmit U> mnotlK*!, an exact copy of s
signature, a portmt. writing, drawing, oi
anything of lire kmd.— l'bn disun xxkws o
the writing »s quits gfW, and lb* dwoovon
may Imj ajqdi >d U* mauv u«-eful
Mr. u«*w iit auJi? anxi
oos to di-jsrst; «»f the U* form a
psuiy.—J*y-
jrp Hon- Wmltington llttnt.Taykirasem-
Iv r <if t lb«i ths Niagara sml
t bicau*‘linnet, aay* m a Iciicr to bia cvn
Ootdv admit that Mr. 'an Buren*s
pr-'scoi |-»-ition is ealen’at* 1 to command oi r
rt*»p«i. In Hit*advanced a c he has taken a
H.,nd mi a groat principle, in d-fiance of parly
imdkpaor. to couti-ntju ot <lic»al dtcra-
It,vi. It lsi the iHibuM act ol lus hie, ami ti
»,i! b* vM-«cd «t fntiire times a* the bright
oat feature bu» h*M> ry
THE NORTH STAR.
iMfcinvsfEit, sto, ms.
U- _#! t=ri===r
The Presidential I. lection*.
In view iif the vast am unt of meanness,
deception ami duplicity which usually duuin
gundi thimc who ate most prominently and
actively engaged tn conducting these elections,
it is not surprising or singular that nutty good
j men look forward to their approach with a
j horror not unlike that with which they c«>n
tctnplaus the ipprnwli at
plague. Th<*M- periods in the progress of the
U 'puhlir, are regarded as times when men
are at lilrrly to loose and sunder all the bonds
and obligations of truth and honor, the faith*
ful discharge of w hich is essential to the very
existence of society. A* to moral and phi
lanthropic movements, they arc either com
jn'lled to aland still or retreat, so that the pro
gress gamed by years of hard and e a meat
toil, is often lust in the »h<*rt spnee of a few
weeks. {Doubtless many enter these cam
paigns wiih an earnest d. sire to promote the
well-being of society; but once fully sur
rounded and entangled in the complicated
mealies of a political party, honesty soon
makes room for deceit, frankness gives place
to conceal meat, and the desire to defeat Uie
i opposing party usurps the ihwiro to benefit the
country, and the whole becomes manifest in
the srhumes, intrigues and gross falsehoods to
which they rcsott. These seasons went as
destructive to the moral grow th of society, as
arc the desolating flames to the vegetation of
the prairies. After the bewildering fury is
•over, the campaign at an rnd, thousands
1 strew the ground us mere w recks of men, w ith
no heart to engage in philanthropic move
ments, having lost all relish for what they re
gard aneh insipid and ineffectual efforts.-
What has commonly been the ease with re
spect to former elections, we apprehend will
bo the ease with the one now pending. It is
broadly stamped with all the injurious and
disgusting peculiarities which have marked
and distinguished its predecessors. The coun
try is transformed into one vast gambling os-
J Uhlisliment. 'Hie corrupting sentiment that
j all is (air m politics/' is in full operation,
and is almost as destructive to public virtue as
that infernal maxim, so universally adopted,
our country right or wrong.*' The press,
instead of bring the channel of unalloyed
ttuth, is regarded as the prolific source of mis
representation and falsehood, abounding in
fraud, exaggerations and forgeries. Instead
i of going to the papers for truths, they ahe
sought for as the repository of lies. The
popular car has been aud is so grossly abused,
and the popular mind so distracted, that the
people find it almost impossible to make up an
intelligent judgment as to the men or the
measures which the best good of their country
and mankind at large requires them lo^upport.!
It seems to l>e the first business of a partisan
press and designing pohuc.il orators, to pro
mote distrust in the minds of their parties as
to the truth of anything which may bo said
against their party or candidates. When this
is once established, the field of politics is as
dark as the field of battle. After a few fires
between hostile forces, a species of insanity
seems to take possession, and all is Babel and
chaos.
In the midst of just this slate of things
are a large number of the people of this coun
try now. It has been solemnly affirmed by
men in high places, that General Taylor is
pledged against vetoing the Wiltnot Proviso,
should he be oleeicd; and not a few persons,
intelligent enough with respect to other things,
are yet ignorant of the gross falsehood of the
affirmation. On the other hand, we have
again and again heard it affirmed that General
f*ass is a real Free Soil man, and would in
no event veto the ilinot Proviso; aud this is
doubtless believed by many of the rank and
file of the parly at the North, many of w hom
are so completely the slaves of party as to
continue to believe it, although the contrary
w ere affitmed over the name of Gen Cass.—-
And for this reason, they will fits! it more easy
to believe their opponents to be tinrs„ than
that their own candidate can do anything
wrong. Lying between parties, is like tariffs
betvvecu nations, which may be condemned as
wrong in the abstract, though defended in a
(tarty, when it is done to protect itself against
the falsehoods of the other. The one Iks to
neutralize the effect of the lies of the other.
Between tl»e two, truth is crucified, and false
hood glorified. Hour tneffihly disgusting is
the fact, that while the South is going for
1 Gen. Taylor on the avowed ground thai he
J is opposed to the exclusion of slavery from
California and Now Mexico, the North sup
ports him for precisely the opposite reason
ami the wicked old soul-driver secs the fraud
lierpctnicd in las name, and is too mean and
dishonest to expose it. lie is willing to go
into the Presidential chair by vases w Inch he
has the best evidence would not he given
him if his real were known. In
what we hare now said of the fraud of Gen.
Taylor, we would not be understood as as
suming that the leaders at the North who
claim Gen. Taylor as a Free Soil man, be
lieve one word they say, They ate 100 old.
not to know that actions speak louJer than
either words or silence. It would b a sorry
compliment to their common sense to supg>o»e
that they really b.dicve Gen. Taylor the
slaveholder—the Southerner—the warrior—
-1 the swearer—the negro banter, and blood
hound tm|H)rter, to he opposed to the exten
sion of slavery. They eertaitily an not be-j
lieve it, and must ho aware of the unwarrant
ablenoss of the assumption. To attempt lh«*
to deceive the paid..' mind on a point so vi
tally important, and to deceive them into lLe
support of a man who would uillmgljpffaM
the (Wv soil-of Now Monro and i'ahfornia
with the foul arid withering of slavery, l
is a room- of rood net, in <mr judgment. 4e-!
serving no better epithet thnn that of the most f
unmitigated villany.—r. n.
ProoSlnvery Prr.
Received of Mr. J.wph .Sswilmoj, Tenj
r) r,t f«U :nv right a»d tula m a
certain peu m St. Thomas'* ('hurrh, i»- 1
eluding its stuffed back, sides, Ae. Tbr
OOii4u.ua of" sake i*. Uul that ehurrh being
pro slavery in its poMti.w and action, the sum
of ten do'iars w as to be appropriated
m ihe caustf **f the suff. nnp slave, to
mg one of ua mud devoted sdvoraica, Fned
enek DoughM- R- PI'IIVIS.
Hon. David Wiuvi T bis Urea re-chated to
by ois* ol the fteinots of Pennsyl
vania. He had a majority of over g»m».
4
I Ek.
Tiie rout meanness of ihi g&tk-
MM ia cjifluding aJitllc girl from !Stfw*r<l
Siimrury off, accouijMf her color, ihm%| it
fan attracted Tltltfe" tuwice oo the parl-«# the
J j irrfl j n Rochester, has nevcrtbekws become
I pretty generally known, ami aa generally by
the prrw elsewhere rebuked. It baa been
truly gratifying to observe the readiness with
which the press has vindicated the rights ol
an innocent child, as w till as execrated tb«
meanness of sotil and hardness of heart, that
could take pleasure in degrading euch a child.
Mr. Warner edits a paper in this city, and
we naturally supposed that be would vindi
cate his conduct id the matter referred to in
his paper. In this, however, we have been
thus far mistaken cither fmm feelings of con
tempt for us, or a sense of shame, or a convic
tion that his conduct admits of no defence, hr
has thus far remained silent. Whatever may be
Ilia motive for remaining silent on the sub
ject, all must confess tbo wisdom of tbu
couiso, however much (hey may condemn hit
folly in the first instance. We copy below
fmm the Christian Contributor, ss a sample
of many notices of the affair wbieh we hast
found going the rounds of the press.—r. D.
Prejudice against Color.—We are re
ally ashamed of our sister, Rochester, that ii
contains an individual, and especially an edi
tor, who, m these enlightened days, Is so losi
to all> feelings of droenev, to say nothing ol
humanity an IK. O/ Warner, editor of the
Rochester Cowiier, From a letter addresser
to him through the columns of the North Star,
by Frederick Douglass, wc learn that Mr. D
had made application to the preceptress 01
Seward Seminary, in Rochester, for the ad
mission of a daughter to its privileges, anr
that the promise was first given that ah<
should be received to equal privileges will
the other member* of the school. Soon
however, the l*riiici|>al stated that the “Trus
tees*’ were unwilling that she should sit anc
recite with the other scholars, and afterward:
it was put to a vote in the school, by which
it appeared that the scholars generally were
willing that she should bo admitted as an
equal. The matter was, however, referred
bv the principal to the parents, who stated
that it only one of them was opposed to hei
reception, she should not be received. Only
one, 11. G. Warner, Kofuire, refused appro-
Iwtion, and the girl was consequently debarred
from the school.
We are pleased to learn that this conduct is
not universal in Rochester, and that Seward
Seminary has already lost several scholars in
consequence; and aHsi, that Mr. Douglas*
has found a place of instruction for his daugh
ter, equal in advantages to Seward Seminary.
Mr. Warner may now have all the honor ol
the matter to himself, which, if we mistake
not, will be the merited contempt of all good
men.
W. T. Catto.—Among the interesting per
sons with whom we met during our visit to the
City of Brotherly Love, and who deserve spe
cial mention, was Rev. W.T.Catto, formerly
of Charleston, South Carolina. We obtained
from hiui an amount of quite valuable informa
tion respecting the social condition of the col
ored people in that city and Slate, some ol
which we are now at liberty to divulge. Mr.
Caito, being a mail of fine talents, was just
such a person as slaveholders are generally
glad to dispense with. Taking advantage ol
his want of knowledge as to the condition ol
colored people at the North, he was advised
a few years ago to leave South Carolina foi
Liberia; and as a strong inducement for hirr
to go, lie was permitted to attend a religious
institution in Columbia, Ga., with a view ol
fitting him for the ntiuistry. After attending
tins institution a few mouths, Mr. Catto, for
the first time, came as far Nottli as Baltimore,
we believe for the purpose of sailing to In
beria; but reaching that city, and becom
ing somewhat acquainted with the clnractci
and condition of the colored |>eople North,
he felt himself grievously deceived, lie had
boon induced to consent to go to Liberia un
der representations which he found to be
false. The whole free colored people of the
North had been represented to him as the
most debased, ignorant ami degraded, living
in cellars and garrets, hunted and despised,
and it was unpossible for a colored man to be
respected, Ac. On coming to Baltimore and
Philadelphia, be found intelligent and respect
able society. He did not feel bound to go to
Liberia.
During his stay in Baltimore, he wrote
several letters to colored persons in Columbia,
Ga. all *of w hich were intercepted aud
never reached the persons for whom tbev
were intended. The keen-scented slavehold
ers were sure all was not light when letters
Game to the post office for colored persons.—
The following will show their vigilance, and
something of the spirit of the man with whom
they bad to deal:
Caution to the Protlc or thk South
i —That the confiding people of the South may
have some idea of the mean* used to eiciu
dissatisfaction and disaffection among thcii
slave population, by sonic of those hypocrite?
who have been so kindly receired and tu«pi-
My treated by us, we’place before them an
extract of a letter whi<m has been pforvd in
our hands, written from the City of Baltimore
by a colored man who passed several months
m Columbia during the last tear, enjoying
the pruhclion and u ligious instruction or sou.c
of our most worthy divines and many of our
best emtetts.
44 This man. *chi’- Acre, was receiving reli
gious iMtpiotKw, prvjvaratory to his being
Stilt to lsbeiia by tb« Board of Foreign Mis
sions. llis hist act atu-r leaving th«se who
bad trc.Ut-0 bun thus kindly, was a base at
tempt to injuie them in a vital point. Most
of our ntixens will understand his allusions,
and every considerate man will draw his own
COtH'luXMttS.
Baltimore, Jan. 97, 1848.
My dear fnend. keep the flame
btimh.g among otir people. A* it regards
that maa, who, fer s few stripes, betrayed
Mr. C it were better for him if a mill
stone was about bis neck than fee him to oome
North! Better for su. has him 10 aay win re
they are; they don't want such characters
to re. You undrrs'and me. Thai circum
stance is known here about as well as it is in
Columbia.
Read this to as maay aa you
deem pmjsir. I'se it aa your jedgmant di
(VOOL Your trieud and Mother,
W. C. T-
Thia letter was intercepted while Mr.
Can* was ia Baltimore, ud «f course in
reach of the hlndbwod and white there
the Governor of Georgia mode a reqtusition
<m the Governor of Maryland fi«r the safe de
livery of said Catto into the hand* of the au
thorities of Georgia, on a charge of haviag
s nl iota said State fetters which would excite
ii.xxr.nnu aud losorasctuui among the staves.
Ut. Cauo waa only apnrtord uf this reqtust
tioo a few boom before tbo nffirns went ex
pected to mw tia person. He was w .ihowt
the mnn* of having no paper*, hot
fevalH s tct cwJwd after tnorh difficulty In geft
b y««nd fUe '.unit* of Maryland.
Mr. Catto ie tow in Pbftafelphte, and
dfeOgh making himself usefulgterr, by aa
nctM fills the pis* tor which Ids excellent tal
ents and derotUb to the cauhe of oudfbople
etnbisntly fit km. In our jadgtnent, Ms duty
lie* beyond the narrow limits uf Littte Wesley
I'hureh, although his usefulness may be very
great there. We hope yet to hear hia elo
quent troiee uplifted abroad for the slave, and
for the elcTaiton of his people. He has the
head, the heart, and the expeorncq which
OoulJ isako him a powerful instrument, na>
der God, for breaking down prejudice, and
elevating the colored man in the public esti
mation.—r. p.
The Near York Herald.
This old persecutor of Un colored peopled
this country, has pnbksbed ia full the address
adopted at the Colored National Convention
held in Cleveland, Ohio, and makes it* publi
cation the occasion for assai log colored people
in general, and ourselves in particular. We
shall probably publish its vile trash next week,
that our readers may see the mode of warfare
adopted by that sheet to depress our people,
and to keep alive what the London Times
rightly denominates M American akin-aris
tocracy.” Bennett seems quite disturbed
by the bgre possibility of colored persons
learning respectable trades, and filling honor
able stations. H» evident alarm upon that
point ought to have a salutary effect upon us.
The fact that our Qfornipv strive by air means
to jkeep oa out of respectable trades, should
only stimulate us in our efforts to obtain them.
We thank the Herald fur making the address
public, and hope other papers will follow the
example of that sheet, at least in that respect.
The Ram’s Horn criticises the Convention,
but has not the magnanimity to publish a sen
tence of its proceedings. Not of much con
sequence its proceedings will be known.—
r: d.
The failure ui publish in this week's num
ber of tho North Star, agreeably to natfee,
the interesting proceedings of the Convention
held in Brick Wesley, two weeks ago, is
through no fault of ours, not having been fa
vored with a copy of them. W ill the Secre
taries farward the proceedings forthwith?
Mr. Quines, bk prompt.
Toe Business Men’s Almanac, for the
year 184!), published by V. B. Palmer,
Tribune Buildings, New York, contains, be
sides the usual information in such publica
tions, a largo amount of popular suiistics,
die., in which every one is interested. The
price, also, is an additional recommendation.
Exchanges will please direct particularly
North Star,” and not Star simply.—
There is another Star in Rochester, for which
our luminary is occasionally mistaken by the
poet office authorities, who, it may be sup
posed, are not very acute astronomers.
The lowa Freeman comes to us from its
new location, (Ml. Pleasant.) much enlarged
and improved in appearance. We are glad
to observe that evidence of its prosperity.
The Hcttiiinsons will give a Second and
last Concert in the Minerva Hall to-morrow
evening. lx*t the audience be at least as
numerous and enthusiastic as that of last
evening. They wet! merit that share of pub
lie oslotun u.Licii tluy have secured. See
Advertisement.
The Sailor Jerome —The freedom of the
city in a gold box has been presenter! by
the New York Corporation to the sailor Je
rome, who so nobly exerted himself to save
the lives of the passengers of the Ocean
Monarch.
Slaves Emancipated.—Dr. Elias W.
Napier, a wealthy gentleman of Jackson
county, Tenn. died on the 17th tilt and by
his will emancipated twenty-eight slaves.
The Rebel Slaves. —Two more of the
Fayette co. slaves, who recently attempted to
regain their liberties, have been condemned
to death, for the alleged murder of one of
their pursuers. Petitions are in circulation
for their pardon. As to the other priwwiers,
a nail* ftroseipu has been extended.—Otirm
nati Ghtb r.
IE? The Democratic Courier U the name
of a Democratic Free Soil paper recently
established at Daosvilkt, Livingston County.
llailino down the black flag.—The
Jackson. Gazette, of Jackson, Mich., has
hauled down the black flag of Taylor, and
refuses to support the shareholding candidate.
Ofco Standard.
7 L j
Slave case at W ashimtos.— The east
ern cuoanuune having charge of this case, an
nounce their ui ten lion to carry it up to a high
er court, and to enable them to do so, they
solicit donations, which should he sent to tlwn
Treasurer,!. P. Blanchard. Boston. They
j have received in sums fn*m various individ
uals f sad have paid for counsel fees
and other eapeases incident to the trial $607,- j
M. There are some debts which yet remain I
unpaid; to liquidate these, and furnish the
committee with means to meet future expen
ses, not less than 1500 are estimated as ne
cessavy. It is certainly desirable that this
ease should come before the highest indicia! i
tribunal in the land, though we confess our
hope is but small, that a decision favorable to
j ‘be defendants can he secured. Pa.Frouman.
11/ Among the passenger* hy the steam-
ship Acadia were Mr. Macready, the trage-
diau.and Captain MirVch. who commanded 1
the packet ship Ocean Monarch.
ILr It is stated that 1500 journeymen clock j
and vratrhmakrrt Have just emigrated to the
I sited States from Neufeharef. Switreriand. S
1 A suit greater number arc making prepara
tions to follow.
Gt Riot s invention.—We learn from the
Muting Journal, that a Mr. Wb. Hutchia
j of E»igbnd, has patented a proore* of
indurating plaster, chalk, wand, pssfhnaid,
i c rendering them as compfcttljp hard an
dm firmest ftaaas.
DkEAWKL IIvSkICANK ON THE EaSTCS*
Coast or Scotland.—On dm )9tb of Asg.
they had a terrible gale hi Scotland. One j
thousand fithmg smacks, manned by 5600
I hfonwa. were oat ia the mm. Same
«fh«T hunts were wronfced, and w hundred
lives font. The lon cat onumaseef the loan of
hfo and property by due ga«, esoends that j
prouuced by aay other hurneai-e hitherto as- 1
corded is the annals <d the east coast of Scut-
The distress among the poor in the
herehToV those who periled
yjr—-—MI
Sold .—Throe rmmm of the Duka of
Buckingham. cnaßprsusf the whole of the
Puwh of lldiesdrn, Bucks; IMM acre* of
.wnore, Oxon, aud the hamlet of fajapt-1
cum-A swell, Narthataptaodtuc, have hern
sold fie £516,400.
flnvery without Uw.
B is quite a favori* doctrine with the sup
porters nf C ass and Butler, lb»i slamy be
ing a creatine of State lapro, mnot exist
without special enactment. Tlere is a resolu
tion illustrative of this, passed at Cass Con
gressional Convention at Mineral Point:
Resolved, Tbm while wo weird slavery as
an evil deeply to be deploredtn a free gov
ernment, and deprecate its extension into ter
ritory now free, we believe that it cannot exist
without the sanction of hw, aad that therefore
no itette is presented to ua upon this question
until the advoqjues of slavcgt demand such a
law; and that the Democratic party is not
called upon to sacrifice the principle* of over
half a century to this at present impracticable
abstraction.
Those who argue thus *o«ith«r ignorantly
or wilfully mistaken about this “impracticable
abstraction.* 1 Their Southern coadjutors have
quite another doctrine on the subject, and by
that they will doubtless be guided. Whether
or not it be true, as a matter of Constitutional
law, the following heads of a decision of the
Supicnic Court of Mispouri, show that the
South do not mean that it shall long be true aa
a matter of fact
I. Bhverymat exist without aay posit ire
law authorising it.
14 ‘d. The existence of slavery in fact is
presumptive evidence of H# legality.
3. It ta not necessary to show any general
custom if! a country, of holding negroes in
slavery, to move its legality* If it be found
to exist in tact, even Ui a limited extent, and
no positive law prohibiting it be shown, H will
be deemed legal.
44 4. It is not the policy of the slave States
to favor the liberation of negroes.”
It thus appears, that in the opinion of
Southerners, nothing more is required to le
galize slavery, theft to prove its existence,
44 even to a extent;” and to prove this,
the slaveholder Ins nothing more to do but to
emigrate thither with his slaves, and of
course the proof is forthwith apparent.—j. d.
Public Sentiment in California.— The
California Star comes out decidedly against
the toleration of slavery there, by Congress.
It says that the people are all against it.—
The mining fever will also create such an
emigration of froe white labor, as we believe
will settle the question against the extension
of slavery. A freeman at the mines would
do more work than the slave, and this is well
understood. The Star expresses some fear
that Congress may establish slavery there, but
this is absurd. Jn tho judgment of Uie Ame
rican people, Congress has no more right to
make a slave than a king.
The alxive paragraph is from the Milwaukee
Wisconsin, a strong Cass and Butler paper,
and it looks very well and rational when by
itself. The writer must either be grossly
hypocritical, or miserably lacking of discern
ment. llow any one can pretend that lie is
opposed to slavery, and yet support the claims
of General Cass a> a fit caudidate for the Pre
sidency, is altogether a mystery. Says Cass
in his Nicholson letter
For if the relation of master and servant
(slave) may be regulated or annihilated by
legislation, so may the relation of husband and
wife, of parent and cliihl, and of any other
condition which our institutions and the habits
of our society recognize.”
What can lie plainer than this? What
could show more satisfactorily than this the
animus of the Democratic candidate He
would no more interfere with the relation be
tween master and slave, than he would inter
fere with the relation of parent and child
This is w hat he means to say,’ and it is suffi
ciently explicit, though it is rather hard to
conceive how he hit upon the idea that the
relation between master and slave, and pa
rent and child, are parallel cases. Auy one
who takes a moment to consider, must see at
a g’ance that the two cases are just as far sti
I possible from being similar.
The one is in accordance with, or rather is
itself a law of nature the other is in direct
contravention of that law. With just as much
j reason the writer might have said, If the
relation between the owner of property and
the thief who steals that property from him
may be regulated or annihilated by legislation,
so may the relation between the sun and light
—between the clouds and rain.” The one is
not more palpably a non seqttitnr than is the
other. Shallow indeed must they be who
gulp down such trash ami call it logic.— l. D.
Postage. The two crazy Governments
seem at last to have got within sight of an
agieement on the question of international
Postage, h is truly wonderful that they
should so soon have discovered that it is
neither just nor politic any longer to persist
in the reciprocal systems of petty plunder
which they have carried on for some months
past, at tbe expense of the unoffending people
on both sides tbe Atlantic! Tbe sagacity of
the redoubtable personages who have made
tbe discovery is most astonishing; and for
this a grateful future will doubtless bold them
in remembrance. But no the discovery bss
as yet been made only on one side. Ssys,
the Boston Bee
44 The British .Government have offered
oots, through Mr. Bancroft, aa eatkr reci
procity in postages. They ask that the ocean j
postage shall nut only be equally reduced, bat
also our land postage to a rate similar tu their
owa. This last proposition, however, cause*
the hitch iu the arrangement.* 1
Not only Eagtiah, but all letters might. 1
as baa been abundantly proved by the exper
ience of Britain, bs forwarded, at a much
lower rate thaa the prose at, without aay 1
detriment to the revenne, aad with wxwicuh t
aide advantage to the puhtc. If Cave Jobs-
son and his coadjutors iu the Et<v«the were
possessed of the millmoth part of a grain of;
patriotism, and cared fw aught beyond their
pitiful pay and preferment, the •Ipenfflflt
would have been made years since. In the
mean time, sill the proposal made by the
Brnah Gwerameot he accepted We shall
see.— a. n.
Effects of Slavery.
A correspondent of the Ameiieaa Meanoo
ger, makes the fallowing statements, which
•how cwchanilj, the bwrberatng is&aesceof
slavery aa those dwjrtme where at prevails.—
Ateenrre. Tares Socmy^aja
T V wMe imw t by there br«*h
Mreiehw from tho"3£e Kotee to the Ohm
mcc mere htiancr of mono then two h«n
dred milas in width, and from the Pennsvha
to the Tennessee toe. The territory is
shorn equal to that embraced in the States of
New Hampshire, Veres Till n irhwnia
New Jersey-
Bre the popwimms of *ree StairewUl
average wenmhiag hke sixty re the oqeare
smSe, that of ihe dwtxw uednr omrekefttem
will not raced tea, and many ewoatw* have"
not more than t»w or ire mbahttsnts to a?
sqaare miV. West «f the AMegtteste*. the'
coentry an almaal uninterfupted sicccawn
of prmahnnß, suited aloue ft* grazing, of, if
lh« immeiW water power ta|re turmd td 4c
coant, for iiiam<fac4«fine. The people chief v
reside in Icg-cafime, along tso little vaßej.*,
nrrines, or hiH-sMiea. w afuu si no rofrrme--
to neighborhood, reboo], or church privileges
;io their location. There are 00l a half dozen
villages in Virginia, west of the Alleghanie?,
that contain 34'f) inhabitants each and in one
county, <0 miles br 35, larger than the State
of Rhode Island, the largest village contains
but five dwellings.
1 he means ot education are very restricted
and inadequate. The rehuol-roasler needs to
be on horseback to find his pupils. Probably
one-fifth of the twluh population cannot rcsif
at all, and a much larger proportion are but
poor readers. Nearly one-half of the popula
tion are so sitnnted as to prevent the enjovment
of the means ot instruction with any degree of
1 regularity, if they were provided: and in
j HBn y comities there were not more than one
,ox two common schools iu operation. Sab
i schools were few in number, and imper
fectly supplied with teachers tff libraries, ar.4
few children attend them.

Revolting Spectacle.
Ooe of those wretched spectacles w hich are
seen wherever the system of African slavery
is tolerated, was presented in the streets of
our city, on Sunday morning last. A gang
of negroes, consisting of persons of both sexes,
accompanied by a white man, on Upttr way to
a southern market, passed akiwg Chestnut
street, as the Mis of the tarious tmrehts tr trr
calling an Christian* to assemble at their rtijtc
tiveplaces of worship. In frout of the preces
sion was a large wagon, in w hich were thickly
stowed several womeq and children. This
was followed by Jbrty-three men and boys
walking, several of them chained together, the
whole under the charge of a man on horse
back. This miserable spectacle excited the
honest indignation of our citizens, who regard
ed it as a direct insult offered io them, and the
day, and the hour.
We hare heard several of our most respect
able citizens speak of this outrage on the feel
ings of a Christian community, all of whom
concurred in reprobating it in the strongest
possible terms. And yet. such spectacles are
the necessary adjuncts of the system of slave
ry. Wherever it prevails, they will be seen.
We have never heard any one speak of the
slave traders who are engaged in the internal
slave trade, without denouncing them and
their accursed traffic. They are every where
looked upon as unworthy of the least rcsjicct.
and their society is shutined by all. Ami yet
men are found, who, for a base love of money
will consign themselves and families to uni
versal contempt, and others are fu .nd who for
the sake of a few pitiful dollars, will sustain
these men in their traffic by soiling their slaves
to them.
We earnestly hope the day is not far dis
tant when our beloved Commonwealth, so
honored and honorable in other respects, will
get lid ot its system of bondage, and along
with, all ils revolting adjuncts. —Louisville
Examiner.
From the .N, Y. Tribune.
Southern Democracy.”
A young Scotchman named Robert Ed
mund has tor some years been employed as a
private teacher and local preacher in St. Mat
thew’s Parish, South Carolina, about seventy
miles West of Charleston. He was wel
treated, until it was whispered about that, in
his private conversations with slaveholders, he
had expressed his abhorrence of slavery, with
its cruelties and pollutions, and his earnest
hope that it might not be extended into new
territory. For this—but we will let one of the
Chivalry’ tell the stbry in the following let
ter to The South Carolinian.” You can
see the lies stick out in it, but we print it ver
batim, viz
“About six months ago, a man by the nara
of EJmond, who called himself a Scotchman,
came into the lower part of this Parish, as a
teacher, and succeeded in getting up a small
school. After some time, however, it was
discovered that jho instruction of the rising
generation’ was not his principal object: In
unguarded expressions which escaped him,
by his general conduct tow aids the negroes of
the neighborhood, and by his delivering a
course of sermons, a ways expressing a de
sire to piench to them alone, without the pn s
cnce of white p rsoris. Heing thwarted
however, in his e.’lurtt to effect this latter—
his most darling object—hy the vigilance ot
the neighbors, with a blindness ami lanauciwn
w hich 1 am unable to compreh nd, be avowed
himself publicly an Abolitionist, denounced
Slavery, and said that it was contrary to the
spirit of Christianity. Our high-minded and
spirited citizens waited For nothing more; ami
a few evenings alierwnrd. a pnny of six or
seven, disguised not unlike the famous l>os
tonians when they overthrew the obnoxious
tea, with certainly as laudable an object in
view, entered his, school-room, and, without
ceremony, dissolved the relations exiting be
tween master and ptipil, led him out to a con
venient thicket, and schst n.ted fi>r h:<* thin
apparel a coat cons‘«tng of the inside of a
pine and tbe outside of a goose. 1 will not
slop hero io describe the unseemly and iu»u
crous figure which be pvcseuied as te»: nded
his course up hill and down dale, uutU be
reached his place of ref ge.
He was amaz'd, of Coufre, sreerr ven
geance. amf reported the square on the fol
lowing day. lie described the exact menus
operaruh, (l should like to have heard it.)
and while lie was thus i»Htnng balm uhis
wouuded spin is by availing himself ot the all
powerful arm of the law, his idea of S“Outh
Carolina protection was very much li-sscned,
and his ardor very much cooled, by ihc ar
rival of a few gmtfc.nc n depstizod by theo.t
taens of the neighburi ood. w ho iaferroed him
that if he did not l-.are in five hours limy
would give turn thirty-rut*# lashes; if not in
five afterwards, they would give b.m tUuty
nine more; if he still pimskdin remaining,
they would complete the o<at of the evt-uing
before by giving him hemp for bis moat. It
is useless to «ay that he took tbe hint. aad i
suppose hy this Umc is tn the heart of ahnh
ttoaimi, coosoimg fc.madJ with me refiteuw
that he has best* a nwrtyr i* tU cause ot the
regeneration and discuthra-iaieji: of the uftius|>-
py and oppress! soa* ot Af-ic-a."
H «mn at the Stare Trade.
Few people have a waltzing serene ef the
horrora of U.sS.av* Trade m m purer:.t t*m
dtided. We hear at them at a uvuuw: a*d
at oeoe d anasuM the *jt» jet if *a» our m
without following ua iaacy th pic.urt iu a.*
its disgusting detail*. Rut r* fbr sub
ject was brought hocus to m by the arrua! of
a riaver with it* cargo of huansa ftewt:, ia ani
w ale re each a «oe. tar mtanv, a he the
h«t account*, has bran carrwd w»to >w»»
Ijfonfc She had fine fctmared tdavas. *t
whom tei had died after Uct capture* Fhc
dock van burr ally cowered w itk w* and wo
men aad ckfldrrr. some ly.ag down, warn*
stuiag, wm standing. Many of them w raw
quite aaall boys and ptfl*—m*vv of then,
ware mother*, ead all qwfW> naked.— IfcAew
were etv'wdrd two as three bendre*.. hreweea
ftmasaef 1-3 led apart. M u
attieif ftat aa the ftu«r cano.x «a up
and there they are erowced ta as <4oae as
they caa be jamed: the first row sitting «w»
tbe floor with tbnr backs against the asde ft
end of tbe read then another rew s tung sn
the him way crowdd eW u> ri«*ir
lega, and an on, as many aa they can crowd
in. There Urey art week after week m at!
there fifth aad stench, aad and death
Thuik ut aaa itaidrivi ibaanaad ktuuaa tasngs
way ana wady —bau #4
pbo» W* 5* pa*sbte »-.V Y Lapr.
Niocreret Wt» -Twwmoeurgr home been
brtHy bald ia Naavoa. far ;wrpaae af
saakaag airaageairaia la dure tbe rreweawig
UarwMMM tart «4 Uaaoci eveaty. W« u««
that aa farther atfvwpte af Uu» Wind wiU be
made. Our Slate ta& *uftt.*vd rrp
etiiiwi alreadr aad rti A Ard»-Mw.mina »y
wach aa net >ll out be wureW by tbe ey*B
patbiea af tbe cnwaseny-rldotai Jam.
Free Soil ia Virginia.
At a meeting held at Alexandria, Virginia,
the following preamble and resolutions were
adopt. d. We publish them, not because th< y
oootajn any unusual assertion of truth, but as
show ing tbe existence of Anti-slavery feeling
in the slave States;— v
hcrins, ihe members of this meeting,
assembled Jn a spirit of concord and devotion.
begetting all pa.st political differences, avow
themselves the unqualified opponents of slave
ry extension; and wherea*. it is due to ibem-
arid the ooiun.Lßiiy at huge that tbe
reasons fiu ;akn g to im)oiiant and delicate a
lrtwmW drstrreify anr minced, therefore
Resolved, I bat look ujon slavery as a
gtrvt ceil, mors!, p.|ow*af social, whoso
I blighting influence is mar ifrst hi the itnpovcr
ished lands, the decline m population, wealth
and resources of oui own beloved common
wealth and whilst wc deny to the general
Government tbe power to interfere with, or
abolish this institution in the States where it
a i ready exist*, still, we neve rt be Jess believe
the good ot the whole country demands it*
1 {'inhibition in territory now free, that Con
gress should preserve free soil for a free
people.’’
Resolved, That the great doctiinc of sni
versal en.ar.cipation inculcated by the iliuslri
oi.s “Sage of .Muntieello,” pointing to the pro
gross of !u;ii.an freedom, like the mystic em
blems of the KgT]tian,» the fall of throne*
and crowns, n<»w tottering throughout Europe
makes it e»]x*c:ally incumbent upon us to re
sist, by all c*-listitutional means, the inrivasa
ot slave power upon the American continent.
Resolved, That the principles declared bv
the B<.ifok> Convention are nurprinriphs. and
the nominations there made of Martin Van
Bnrcn and Charles F. Arfah.s, for the oflxe*
ol President arni.\ ice President of the Fnited
States, will receive our energetic support, not
however, with any hope of success in this rc
gion. but to second the activity and zeal of our
I brethren in the non-slaveholding States.
Resolved, Tl at the removal ot those offi
cers of Government in New York, periieular
ly Benjamin F. Butler, for their adhesion to
our principles, is unparalleled for insolence in
the hu tory ol free government* that as bigo
try knows no toeing, ro persecution no rest
ing place, and ihat in lhose acta of proscrip
tion, we see display* d l.y the man who occu
pies the Executive Chau, the ferocity of a pi
rate, who basics to murder with a savage
joy.”
Wisconsin Free Soil Convention. A
Convention of Delegates from the various
Senate and Assembly Districts of the State
of Wisconsin, convened at the capital, in
Madison, on Wednesday, Sept. 27. h, for the
purpose of nominating Presidential Electors,
and a Superintendent of Public Instruction,
lhe following gentlemen were nominated
State Electors.
Kr isti s B. Wolcott, of Milwaukee Co.
David Giddings, of Shebovgan Co.
District FJet tors.
James I). Reymert, of Racine Co.
Edward A. Tappak, of Sauk Co.
Superintendent of Public Instruction.
Tchadod Codding, of Milwaukie.
Resolutions were passed in favor of Free
Soil and Van Buren and Adams, the spirit of
i which may be gathered from the two following:
Resolved, T'liat we are in favor off the
extension of the principles of Free Soil, Free
Labor, and Free Sp**.ch, over tbe whole
jeaith.
Resolved, That in the organization, objects,
and action ot the 1 ree Soil Parly, we go
r J finnj'lfc-S d ar and Jut met; tor mcasuns
riijiii in tlu niM lvt s; ,ind lor nirn n lio hav&
embraced them, and have pledged themselves
to carry them nut in practice.
A Free Soil Convention was held at
Mt. Pleasant, Ohio. TTi3 Cincinnati Globa
says:
i number in attendance was very
tiian we bad anticipated, anti
mi clr larger, as we are inlormcd, than have
attenued the i orn,Dating Conventions of either
of the other janies.”
inEK Soil and the Society op Friends.
-~.Vn attempt ha*» been made by the Taylor
papers in I cutisv ivaunt and Omu to uiako the
pul.hc believe iliat the Society of Friends
a .1! generally vote lor their military* candidate
■m the ground th.,t he is afri-nd of ptner
Ihe N Y. Evening Po~*t publishes the fo!-
iowmg letter, which gives the true position of
that Society
Queens Conotv, Sept. 20, JR#*.
The Society of Friends has alwavs been
engaged in pnmaotuag the cause of eaunevpa-
U' .n. Ahe platform presented by the Buffalo
onver.tior. entirely inerts iny views, and I
Mink Mete wi!T ht? a more general attendance
it the pod* this fill than has ever been tbe
case heretofore, and that unitedly for Van
liurcxi, aud at the an.-nfice «f some old preju
dices; but wc believe be is right r ow.
I should have liked much te attend the
meeting at Hempstead, but busiocs* of a
pressing nature {resented. I hsv e ao d shall
oofltinre to improve every suitable oppor
tunity to eroourage ta mtewst and action in
i his cause.
1 ihwtk the f'hr.stian and tbe jduhwithropMt
caiiuot with propriety kft this «fftmtanuy i-~nr
wiihout usi;,g ha iiifiucnce, Uith anrraily aad
poLtk-aUv, <*i the sid* f fre,d«w, or raiher
to prerrrt that greater evd, slavery, f to «n ex
tending m bit. bring influence any further.
Arxot I.*WRtNrt rvDitAcrT —The naeot
;rg-b<wiko m Dracut was cornfonsfify filled
tienigb at lea*; another huudrrd etmta haw
tJC ***"<isninad*Md. The audience me'acted
Y’"* f ii*cn, who, like auwixt, were
;/r pp I(7,ry it.rood
irtstfr oat. ih.t we were doomc-d to dmap
The zidmm vasgewcrm'lv
!r one na’-kri prctrhatsiv.
it was as infc&ae d wHsabor: of lit' rmmal
qew, *«u, mikL The Waev, ud
an *1 accurate re t x>r: ot ific m* ooch «e he**
g:ve;
ITe r«n<? each dcciaritHm* :We I
k’*e«* rt. <eT»e it os n>T rfejvNsEibilST. 1
ssv I, d V hon 1«\ reeve t! e
piitj I'hty »ci Ikm in.! a Ft** See.hr
getkaften, we, vce, Jfifi! I knew Yas
ikartat. Ate a bad roan. I huow tJsnh. he n
Atari nvii. 1 know 1 t|l«t, ksn the
Vi€ man trvlog—ibr t*c>i utdifiod IhtlSeM*-
Jent k.' M ITard F.ilrmirr. Ik is a gin
r*m* wait T keew them tffl. 1 ttv »l, gee
itmnm. i ase*re ‘to. tme. m
me. dte.
i\sv. Mr Uwvsnee mi that Tavlor m
fcuureiv umonimmuM," arvi sikhKiihst
<h'i Proviso in the
\hfc.ri l ,l.t I+tnAl Era.
WxseMb ~-Th< Era
r*ano«a«i v»«.e. H‘*rh*r‘» veoHhf at fbj rvwv ami
-«t Mhh scesniMc «o Iholle myton, MMk
m itvwnl mi mgtato. Aed th<*w his
%X!2S\TjßfZ&****
Th# Fees Narf in IVnkeed hsv d«al-
Wwfed iheRMM, the
eaeae pto*s hiWia the*w*fcrwing qwestieA
kwh ot thr two CAtdtdMM lor the Prceir
van IWres ot Gew Tayku. i*
bcfhrt MuitVd to the suffVagrs ot vho
Kw*m
ArfXataiKJi At ?f»*ARA JFalus. —Tha
RwchanU’t IVmocm sets.
the hhßeMheejpimg »»f u**o
mpnrtMtce then heettofenr. TW esUmUfi
WaUfr power V» hegirwm* to he m*de ef «f
-♦IK' hi Wines hrxncfie* of
leas than nee year tb< number of mcchriMlMi
has me ptas d oy aHy V'N»
7 MmiSt
L wu.l, Oct. Oth, 1848.
Pear Dopclam —Kyou «Wm the follow
ing fact* of hufficuut importance, please give
them an minion in the North Star. While
travelling, a short tune aince. fmoi Whitehall
to Trov, on a canal boat, it was mr good or
ill fortune to fall in with a mean and con
temptible creature from Kentucky, of the
name of Carpenter, who calls himself a law
yer. He was undoubtedly a slaveholder, and
•vie by hircslnp, for he certainly lacked the
necessary brain to acquire propertv by hi* own
exertion. This slaveholder and an old
man, quite as bad as himself, held a conver
sation in the hearing of myself and other pas
sengers, the substance of which 1 propose to
give. Though old, it may not be uninterest
ing. Slavery was affirmed to be a patnarehal
institution; the negroes were descendants of
Ham a curse was uj>on them Iwd had or
dained them to b slaves caste was of divino
origin. The old man said that the negroes
were a distinct race, approximating to human
beings onlv in form, but without intellect and
without morality; that they were evidently
intended by God to bo a servile race. To
confirm this miserable stuff, the old man cited
the sayings of some author, whose name I do
not remember, on anatomy, who had founded
an argument on the resemblance of the bones
«f a monkey with those pf a negro, and that
the negro race was merely a connecting link
between the human and the brute creation.—
In the midst of this? profound speculations
ab nit th origin and relations of our abused
race, a shallow-pate I priest, but little superior
to the slaveholder in point of intellect, came
to th? rescue, lie slid he thought his friend
from Kentucky mistaken in respect to the in
tellectual powers of the negro, and named
several m m among us whose talents are un
qu istioae I—among others yourself. Fred
erick Douglass,” said the Kentuckian, “is an
ignorant fellow—the most so of any I ever
heird speak in public. He is no speaker at i
all, but the veriest negro story-teller.” To*
this, the servile priest answered only that he
was oppose 1 to slavery, hut in the same
breath said he was no abolitionist. Here
some one made allusion to the notorious
wholesale amalgamation carried on bv slave
holders w ith their slaves, which seemed to
cut the slaveholder to the quick, and we all
looked to see how ho would answer it.—
Strange to say, he owned up the whole j
corn,” and said that the same was true of the
patriarchs, lie said that colored women were
not like white women the former were des
titute of virtue or intelligence, and were fit
onle to perpetuate the race, ami never could
be qualified for society. What w hile man,”
said lie, would inury one of them Here,
for the benefit of the ladies, I stated the case
of th 1 c debrato l It. M. Johnson, who has
two colored cl luglitors hy a slave woman, and
has educitcl them, and those sane daugh
ters are the wives of wealthy white men of
he South, and 1 b dieve slaveholders. These,
I said, arc facts; and considering the remarks
of this Billingsgate fellow insulting to mvself
a i i to d icency, I should take no further no
tice of him. In this conclusion I had the
sympathy of inos of the passengers.
Ever yours for Equal Rights,
11. W. FOSTER.
London, Ohio, Oct. 19th, 81S.
l);: \!t Sir :—1 take the liberty of requesting
a short space in the columns of the North
Star, for the purpose of saying a few words
on the great question of human freedom, the
great and absorbing question of the day. I
have recently attended a large number of po
litical meetings of botli the old political par
ti es, and have heard numerous speeches made
by some of their ablest men—even the great
Senator Corwin. The most difficult of all
questions with which they have to deal, is the
question of slavery limitation or slavery ex
tension. It is amusing to see how they
sweat over it. Senator Corwin, in behalf of
the Taylor party, seems to take this part of
the work under his own care, and sad havoc
he tnak 's of it. He contradicts himself, and
seems not to know it. He declared in his
speech a few days ago, that Old Zack (Gen.
Taylor) was not pledged to anything; and in
the same speech labored to show that he was
pledged against using the Veto Power. The
whole speech was as weak as water, and by
fat the feeblest effort which 1 have heard from
any slump orator during this canvass. It is
certainly cause for rejoicing on our part to
witness the extent to which the subject of
slavery and liberty enters into the politics of
the day.
We want to sec the report of the doings of
our Convention at Cleveland.
ours for the oppressed,
D. JENKINS.
Proscfptton in Travelling.
Mr. Editor —Sir:—Having some knowl
edge of the position which you hold in rela
tion to the subject of proscription on account
of color, I have taken the liberty to send you
a few lines on this subject, for the benefit of
pnch as may ba disposed to withhold their
patronage from a man who, on account of his
evtr-me dislike (not to say his inveterate ha-
Ued) against color, stands solemnly pledged
to proscribe, ill-treat, and insult colored people
whemver they favor him with it.
Having occasion a »hort lime since to pass
<np the canal from Lock port to Buffalo, I
chanced to alijiht OJI board of the opposition
but Francis, commanded by Capt. Schuyler, j
Soon au.-r we left the landing-place at Lock
port, tie beil rung f„r passengers to settle
for their passage. Inmyturu, 1 stepped up!
to the table, (there being no office on the
boat) and inquired Imw much the fare was to
Huffiilo. I was informed by the captain that
without dinner, and I
fifty cents with. 1 paid the fifty and J
requested the Cap!am to give me a dinner
ticket. Hut he said that 1 did need one,
as he should remember that 1 had paid for
dinner. Nothing fun her of importance oc-
curred until the hour arrived, when all thing* I
were in readiness, as u usually rise case.—
The ladies were all seated at the table, when
a general rush of the passengers eusued, and
the table was quickly tilled. Hut as I was in
teeble health, and quite weak, 1 did uoi at
tempt to gain admission to the first table, but
still coiumned on deck.
second table was ready, the rush
tor a was about tbs same; and I still contin
«;cd u> keep my «>at on deck. .After the sec j
ond table bad dined, and the crowd was over,
I went down and took my seat hr the eabre,
Imping to get a seat at the third without diffi
culty, w hen due notice should be gives. Dot
you can judge what was my surprise when, as
1 attempted to take my seat at the table, 1
found my arm fast is the firm grasp of a
I stout colored man, who very unceremoniously
informed me that I could not dine at that tabic.
I inquired the reason, and was told that there
were yet white people to eat, and it was
against their rules to seat colored persons at
I the table with white people. I again inquired
if I had not paid as much for my fare as they
i had. Hut 1 was promptly informed that it
1 was useless for me to argue or contend, as I
could not ba permitted to take a seat at the
table while there were white people to eat.
i Finding myself thus shamefully insulted anJ
deprived of my rights, fir which I had paid as
dear as any man on board,! left the cabin in dis
gust, and resumed my s?at on deck to await
the setting of the negro-tabic, at which I had
no disposition to eat after the insults received.
When within a few miles of Buffalo, a favor
aide opportunity presented itaelf, and the fol
lowing conversation took place:
Burch. —Captain, I believe I paid you fur
my dinner to-day, did I not*
Captain. —(Starting up with considerable
apparent surprise) You did sir.
B. —l think, then, it is nothing more than
just that you should refund my money, as I
have been driven from the table by your
Steward, and not permitted to have privi
lege.
1 C. —(Starting np from his seat with in
creased surprise) Not had any dinuer! (at the
same time handing me back my change)—not
had any dinner that is very strange.
B. —That is just what I thought too, cap
tain and I wish now to inquire of you, sir,
1 whether it is a rule of yours not to suffer col
ored persons to sit down at table because
there may be white people eating, or whether
it was the exercise of undue authority on the
part of the steward
C —(Changing from his apparent surprise,
and affecting a degree of sanctity which, had
it been real, might have become a better man)
—You know that white people have an ob
jection to sit at the table with colored, and you
know it will not do to offend those from whom
we get our living, to gratify a few colored
people.
B. —Then you would give me to under
i stand, do you, that however respectable acol-j
ored man's appearance may be, whatever
may be his intelligence or his moral worth, so
long as he is a colored man he cannot be per- j
milted to eat at the table with white people
on your boat
C. —(Changing from his affected sanity to
give vent to the spontaneous effusions of his
evil heart, his face flushed, and his eyes
sparkling with the indignant fire that burned
J within. Thus nerved for his important work,
proceeded to answer) I have had many col.;
ored passengers of as respectable appearance 1
as you are; bat I never had one to say as
much to me on this subject before in my life
and now I wish it to be distinctly understood,!
once for all, that no colored man can ever be'
permitted to set down at my table to cat with 1
white people.
Thus it will be seen that Capt. Schuyler
stands pledged to proscribe and insult every
colored man that seeks a passage ou his boat.
Permit me, then, to say, in conclusion, that it
is the duty of every one who is true to his
interest, and true to his color, to withhold
from such a man his patronage, till, with re
penting tears, he shall wash out that foul
stain from his character.
CHARLES BURCII.
Buffalo. Oct. 4, 1848.
An Appeal to the Benevolent and
Humane.
We, the undersigned, having known Ann
Cartwright for several years, take much
pleasure in bearing testimony to her good
character, which we have had a fair oppor
jtunity of investigating. She has always
been noled for her habits of virtue, honesty
1 and industry.
s>he was bom in the family of Mr. Triplet,
in Virginia, six miles below Alexandria.—
Her master died when she was quite young,
leaving her a slave; aftei which she was hired
out to different persons, until she grew up to
womanhood, and was married. She was then
hired to a Mr. Bradshaw in Washington City,
where she became acquainted with Mr. Nich
olas Boke and wife, of this city. She then
had three children Mr. Hoke subsequently
purchased her, and she lived with him in
■j New York, until the wages which he allowed
her repaid him the amount he had paid for
her, with the interest thereon.
Soon after her arrival here, the church to
w hich 6he attached herself proposed to pay
to Mr. Boke the amount of the purchase
money but she would not consent, and said
it was her duty and wish to remain with Mr.
and Mrs. Boke, according to her contract,
which was until her wages should amouut to
the purchase money and interest.
The object of thus writing her history, is
this Her eldest child and daughter, Grace,
was recently sold to a slavetrader in Virginia,
and would have been carried to the extreme
South, entirely out of her reach, had not a
disinterested friend advanced for her a sura
sufficient to aid her in redeeming her child
from slavery. The price paid for her daugh
ter was $775, of which Ann has paid out
of her own means $3OO, which she had aecu
-1 mutated since purchasing her own freedom.
Her brother, Henry Jackson, of this city, will
present this appeal for ass stance to enable his
sister to rejiay the money which has been
kindly loaned to her.
W. S. Johnson, sjo
Cammaiula, 5
L. W. PuTRA*, 5
W. E. Whitney, 5
Cincijuiatc» AND BIS Farm.’*— -The pub
lishers of the Boston Chronotype have just
issued a graphic illustration o| a scene upon j
the farm of the modern Cmcinnatos.” In 1
the foreground a brutal overseer is seen ap
plying the lash to the bate back of a female
in the rear are slaves at work upon the ewe- J
field, while, with folded arms, okl Zack with
a Cuba bloodhound at bts side, is surveying!
thn scene with the complacency of a stow.j
We presume the picture was not intended as<
a caricature. It is too truthful for that.
Imhiokatnts. The number of Immi
grants wlhi arrived at New York during the
month of August was 16,835. The number
who have arrived during the first eight months
of the present year is 130,804. In 1847, j
during the same months, the number of ani- 1
vaU w as 110,175.
Which is th* Slav*!— The slaveholders
ought to thank Mf. Henry G Wright for
manufacturing one of the best arguments ever
I made for their peculiar institution. He was
attending a meeting in Ohio, where was a
fugitive slave woman. The sadieeca were sc
much interested in his account of her that
they called upon her to come forward. Mr.
Wright, probably expecting this, had arrang
ed to hare Maria Otaifings, a daughter of the
Hon. Joshua R. Gtddtags emas forward cm
the platform with the slave wowaa. Whick
!is the slave bieb is the slave*” war
the question that burst forth from all parts ol
the meeting and there was need of it, foi
no stranger to both could tell from their ap
pearance. This," replied the speaker, u
the American *la»e, aad this is the daughtei
of an American Congress man.” And froa
this text he proceeded to preach a powerful
sermon on the degrading influence of slave
ij.
But really if slavery can riaae young ladtei
that can favorably compare with the dsught
-1 ere of our Oogreso men, that is the best
thing that can be said of it. True enough ii
does not appear why young ladies of that
1 class should be enslaved, and the thought o]
their being so is apt to stir up some indigna
lion. Still if w e were going to produce a
fact the most condemnatory of the system
we should seek a female slave thit could be
j distinguished most easily from the daughtei
of a congress man, and enough of them car
be found that would be sufficiently ihsuncl
J without tfiktng any advantage of their color.
We give slavery too much eredit, judging tl
by the fugitive slaves whom we see. Th*
millions that remain behind, too stupid tc
escape show the genuine results of the system
—these reckless, thoughtless, contended be
ings whose stupidity convinces white philoso
phers. nearly equally stupid, that they are
only fit for slavery, are the most horrible
1 proofs of the murderous character of the
institution.— Chronotype.
Outrageous if True.—We learn that a few
months ago, a colored man who had received
some education, commenced teaching a
school for free colored children near George
town, Sussex county, Del., when a number
of white rowdies, went to the schoolmastei
and threatened him that they would take him
to the public whipping post,” if he did not
cease teaching his school; the man remons
trated, stating that it was a lawful calling,
and he was not willing to abandon it, how
ever, in a few days theso said rowdies wen:
to the school-house, took the teacher out of
the school, carried him to the public whipp
ing post” at Georgetown, and unmercifully
lacerated the poor fellow’s back, and only let
him escapo upon a promise to teach no
more.
A negro servant of Judge Wootton, hap
pened to say that they would not have
served him so,” when the mob went into the
Judge’s yard, took him out to the said whip
ping post,” and lashed him, also unmerciful
ly. The Judge nearing of the matter,
stepped to his yard gate, to expostulate with
the wretched mob, wlien he was threatened
to be served in like manner; and the Judge
even thought it prudent to send an apology
to the uiob, for even speaking in behalf of his
servant.
If this be true, and we have it from most
respectable authority, are such mobocrats re
publicans Are they fit to enjoy freedom
Would not such conduct disgrace the dark
ages* Does the Delaware Slavery demand
such conduct fur freedom* Bui be it re
membered that two-tlurds of all the slavss in
Delaware, (2300 in all,) are held in Sussex
county. We hope never to have such a dis
graceful affair again to record. We almost
feel ashamed that Sussex belongs to Delawate,
and we further learn that only three of the
Grand Jury, at the following term of the
Court, had independence enough to go for
finding a bill against these violators of the
law, order and humanity, and they now stand
Srosecuted and threatened with the Lynch
jaws. Ob Lord, deliver us from Slavery
1457. Del. Blue Hen's Chicken.
Washington and his Slaves. Rev.
James T. Woodbury, of Acton Mass., bro
ther of the Hon. Levi Woodbury, when de
livering lectures on the subject of Slavery,
not uufrequenily adverts to the circumstance
which drew his attention to the subject. Dur
ing his slay in the Capital of the United
States, he had a wish to visit the tomb of
Washington. He; was attended by an aged
negro, whose business it has been for many
years to guide travelers to that consecrated
spot. This old man was formerly the slave
of Gen. Washington. Mr. Woodbury asked
him if he had any children.
“I have had a large family,” he replied.
“And are they living*” inquired the gen
tleman.
The voice of the aged father trembled with
emotion, and the tears started to his eyes, as
he answered:
I don’t know whether they are alive or
dead.—They were all sold away from me,
and I don't know what became of them. I
am alone in the world—without a child to
bring me a cup of cold water in my old
age.”
Mr. Woodbury looked on the infirm and
solitary being with feelings of deep compas
sion.
And this, thought he, is the fate of slaves,
even when owned by so good a man as Gen.
Washington! Who would not be an Aboli
tionist
Petition !—The colored people of Illinois,
beng excluded as witnesses in courts of jus
tice, and denied the right of suffrage, have
called a convention to petition the Legislature
for a redress of those grievances.
What is the Reason. —We have a little
girl, Miss Olive Minor, about twelve years
old, compositor in this offioe, that will set
6,000 “MV’ per day, distribute her own mat
ter, arid keep her case in perfect order. Miss
Olive has only worked at the ease about three
months. According to New York com
positor’s prices, 31 cents, this would amount
to the fine little sum of $1,86 a day.— Lodi
Democrat.
According to the prices given for female
type-sticking in the offiqps of the Olive
Branch, the Puritan, and other religious pa
pers in this city, via, 12 'ients, it would
amount to the fine little sum of 72 cents a day.
Chronotype.
John C. Calhoun said, in reply to the
question whether he did not apprebeud that
Gen. Taylor might prove false to the South
on the slavery extension question Sir, we
require no pledge from Gen. Taylor. The
holder of a Southern plantation—-the owner
of three hundred woolly beads, need not give
the guaranty of soy pledge.”
The above paragraph is front the Cleveland
Plaiudealer. We do not vouch fur tu authen
ticity.
A CoNsotiN© Thought.—A Democratic
editor furnishes the following illustration of
the old saying, that it is but one step from
the sublime to thu ridiculous”:
Reader, did it ever occur to you that when
the glorious dawn of the mtUemutn shall
burst forth upon your eutootahed riaioo—when
the pillars of the earth shell be upbeeyed,
sod creatMM shall rock upon lus broad basis—
when the sure shall shoe* madly from their
spheres, and when ecu orb of day, as he
rolls on in hie meridian apleodor, shall m
vulva the nariues of tha earth is sue general
conflagration— we say did it assarts yea. that
amul thu w reck of matter aad this crush of
worlds when heaven’s last thunder shall
shake this sublunary sphere, and you can
smile undismayed o er its reins, consoled by
ths pleasing reflection thM you ones voted for
Cass and Bailor.**
Axonal Patht.— After allopathy, hooKo
opathy and hydropathy, wc have now mropa
thy, by which Dr. Chapomricr introduces all
therapeutical agsfta into the system through
the respiratory orgaefttl the form ef vaper.
Cantata.— The New York Morning Star,
gives the following hint, which seems worthy!
of repetition, in reference te this pestilence. 1
We published last week, some remarks
upon Professor Davis’s theory of electricity
and atmosphere- phenomena being the esses j
of cholera.— "bambere's Edinburgh Journal,
tn as article on the robject, maintains that
electrical changes are the true cause of such
migratory diseases as cholera sad plague;
and indeed of all epidemics. The true reme
dy, therefore, is the purification of the atmns- 1
phere, and the chief subject to effect this is 1
Chlorine Gas, which is an ingredient in
common salt. Whole srireet* and towns can
he fumigated with chlorine gas as coaly ms
single dwellings. In 1832, the town of
Dunfermline in Scotland, was affected with
cholera from the 3d of September until ibe
23d of ChrtobiT. At that date every street,
lane and alley was fumigated with chlorine
gas.— Within fire days the pestilence was en
tirely annihilated. In EJtnbnrgfa the gas was
need, hat rather late, aad tn several other
towns with equal effect. It was ascertained
beyond a shadow of doubt, ami to this fact
we beg the earnest attention of our readers,
and the public at large, that every house iu
the iufectcd districts in which ciilurine gas
was used as a disinfecting agent in the cholera
of 1832, enjoyed an absolute immunity from
the disease, and this fact is the great preser
vative against that frightful disease, and a
positive proof that Cholera owes it ongin 10
electrical changes in the atmosphere.
What the South thinks or the Free
Soil .Movement.— The Mobile Daily Herald
remarks -r s*;
We should not he at aH surprised if tl»e
Free Soil candidates carry some ax or eight
states—at all events, enough to prevent the
election of a president by the people. This
is the expectation of the leaders of the party,
as avowed by John Van Binen in a speech a
few days ago at Philadelphia. We do not
see how a party could possess more elements
of popular power in the free states than this.
It doubtless has the deepest sympathies of the
people on its side. This is so apparent that
it paralyzes the efforts of the more ambitious
placemen of the other parties.—They see
very plainly that, if not now, it will ultimate
ly absorb all other question in the free states,
and that those who resist it must do so at the
sacrifice of their political prospects.
Mr. ('alhoun declared recently that the!
party in the free suites that shall be defeated
at the ptesidential election will go over in a 1
body to the barnburners. We have no doubt j
of this; and moreover that the victorious
party will do the same thins as soon as the
time approaches for the succeeding election.
As much as we may condemn the free soil
movement, or tlie objects of those who gave
it birth, it is, as far as the people of the north
are concerned, a moral movement. It stands
above the common motive of political partisans, j
It has a hold in the conscientious convictions
of the people. The force thus given to it is j
augmented by a consideration of interest, j
Slavery, say the barnburners, is adverse toj
the interests of labor. It degenerates it. The
white man cannot be a freeman where it
exists. With this combined power, added toj
the hope of tlie leaders that it must lie tri- j
umphant, it is impossible to calculate what
may be its immediate effects, or how far it is
about to cotutoi the results of the approaching
election.
A young and beautiful Irish girl, flamed
“Ann,” (servants and slaves have no sur- i
nams iu the South,) a servant in a hotel at
MadisonvHle, Louisiana, was mysteriously,
murdered at that place on the 12tli, and her
body afterwards thrown into the river.
Astronomical Discovery.—We have
great pleasure in announcing that, on the
uight of the 21st-22d, Mr. Bond, the astrono
mer of the University at Cambridge, obtained
observations by which he ascertained the ex
istence of an eighth Satellite of the planet j
Saturn Till this tiipe thi* Satcll te has
been undiscovered, though Mr. Bond has for
some time suspected its existence. Adver
tiser.
U“pTh3 Comet of Encki has made its
appearance, and some observations have
been made upjn it at tlie Observatory in
Cambridge.
Marriage Extraordinary. —At Vienna,
in Austria, a gentleman 86, without legs,was
mirriel to a I idy ag; I 7’J, without amt.
i Ti»e last Lake Superior New* gives
further account of the discoveries of.
the evidences of the working of the
copper mines of that region py a peo
ple now extinct, a notice of which we
published sem i time since. It says
that indications which led to the dis
covery is a sunken trench upon the
t line of vein, which being drifted into
disclosed a mass of native copper lying
in this vein, estimated to weigh about
seven ton*. The remains of large tim
bers were (blind, by which this had cv
idently been propped, and beneath it
were several cart loads of ashes and
cinders, showing that the miners had
endeavored to reduce the mass by fire.
Several of the implements used in the
mining operations were found, consist
ing of stone hammers, a chisel, and a
gad of copf>cr. The perfect state of
the point of the latter seems to indicate
that a process of hardening the metal
was known, for the hammer end was
most battered. With the copper of this
were some large particles of silver.
This chisel is ingeniously constructed,
so as to admit a handle. No iron iu-j
strurnent was discovered. That the
mining operations were conducted to a
greater extent than is practised by any
existing tribe of Indians is aparent from
the fact that the trench sunk upon the
vein extends more thau a mile in length.
The accumulation of earth in the trench
concealed the depth of the workings,
except in the small part re-opened; but
here the depth was found to be twenty
four feet, and the width eight feet.
•Similar trenches exist tn the neighbor
hood, which were, traced for several
miles.
Not the least interesting part of the
discovery is the evidence of the great
antiquity ofthe workings. Large trees
were growing upon the earth that had
accumulated in the digging, one of
I them directly over the mass of copper
proved to be 400 years old. Beneath
it were trunks of trees that had preri
ously decayed or fallen in, and the
depth of soil that had accumulated upon
I this antique furnace was 18 feet.
This mine is about four miles east
J from the mass of copper, which was
removed from its place a few years
i since, and is now in the national cab
inet at Washington.
These mementoes of ancient aborig
inal industry are deserving of more than
a passing notice. They may be con
sidered as addiug to the proof that long
before the discovery of America, a race
existed on this Continent, among whom
the arts had reached a higher grade
than with the wandering tribes that
have succeeded.
The Indians now living in this re
gion, know nothing ofthe people by
whom, or the time when, these opera
tions were undertaken. They evince
a concentrted effort which docs not
now characterize their feeble efforts in
the arts. It is somewhat singular that
among a people so observant and per
severing, the use of iron remained so
wholly unknown since some of the ores,
which exist in vast abundance, and
upon the surface, in the Carp river re
gion, are found to be easily reduced to
a valuable steel by the heat of a com
mon forge. A knowledge ofthe use o!
iron might have changed the destiny of
that people, as it may be said to have
done that of the race, who now triumph
in the art and pride of power over their
almost perished memorials.
JOSEPHINE AND NAPOLEON.
There is probably no scene in modern
history which has excited a more in
tense interest than the repudiation of
Josephine, by Napoleon, in order to
marry Maria Louisa. It was so utterly
cruel, that it will forever be a stain on
his memory. Yet he loved her passion
ately—but ambition still more. The
following incident, from a book of Me
moirs, in the hour of breaking to her
his stern resolve, shows Josephine in
the light of a Cassandra—his star did
pale, after he married the Austrian.
“Josephine” said he, turning his head
from her, it is not I, it is France that
demands it.”
“Are you sure of that, my lord?”
said his wife; have you probed your
heart to the bottom? Is it not ambi
tion which prompts you to seek reasons
for repudiating me, for think not,
Napoleon, 1 misunderstand you; are
you sure it is the love of France?”
Every word that she spoke touched
him to the quick; and rising hastily, he
replied, Madame, I have my reasons,
and now good evening.”
Sire, sire,” said she, taking hold
of his arm, we must not part in an-
I ger. I submit cheerfully. It is not my
nature to oppose your will; I love you
too deeply. Nor shall 1 cease to love
you, Napoleon, because I am to leave
your throne and your side. If reverses
I come, I will lay down my life to com*
1 fort you. 1 will pray lor you morning
and night, in the hope that sometimes
you will think of me.”
Hardened as he was, Napoleon had
j loved his wife dearly and long; and
i her submission to his stern resolve, her
calm hut mournful dignity, her un-
I shaken love moved even him; and fora
1 moment his affection struggled with am
bition. He turned to embrace her
j again. But in that moment her face
ami form had changed— her eyes like
that of insanity, and her whole person
seemed inspired. lie felt himself in
j the presence o! a superior being. She
j led him to the window and threw it open,
j A thin mist hung upon the Seine «mk!
i over the gardens of the palace; all
around was calm and silent; among
the stars shining before them, there was
one brightei than the rest; she pointed
to it. r
i Bonaparte, she said, “that star is
mine; to that, and not to yours, was
promised an empire; through me aud
my destiny you have risen—part from
me, aud you tail. The spirit of her
who foresaw my rise t„ royalty, even
now tells you that your late hangs upon
mine. Believe me or not, if we hence
forth walk us mdor, you will h ave nn
empire behind you, and will die your
self, in shame and sorrow,with u broken
spirit.”
Two VoLt’MTfKM in t'mrinnau have hcor
arrested for .vslliug tl cir bounty land* and ex
tra j*v ie» often ax three time*.
FARM MfE.
Oil, it is sad, it is sickening, to re
mark how few fanners’ sons really lore
the vocation of their fathers, delight in
following, and glory in the hope of im
proving and adorning it! Seeing little
of farming life but its drudgery and un
intellcctuality, nearly every one who
has a soul above breaking colts and
skinning woodchucks, is off to the vil
lage or the city at the very first chance
—they all jump at a chance to measure
tape at five dollars per month, and
lodge three deep in a seven-by-nine
garret, or to crucify Blackstone afresh
in any low pettifogger’s den in any
corner of the wide world. How many
of them do you suppose are now apply
ing, waiting, longing, coaxing, solicit
ing for some chance—they hardly care
what—to break away from the dull,
idealcss, monotonous drudgery of the
paternal home, in the assured convic
tion that a farmer’s life and thorough
mental cultivation are incompatible:—
This is the vital error we would demol
ish by disseminating the truth that in
no vocation is scientific knowledge and
mental elevation more desirable or more
useful than in that of the farmer.—
Horace Greeley.
j The Portrait of Shakespeare.—
Among the pictures at Stowe is a treas
ure which seems to be unknown to our
German travellers, at least I never saw
it noticed—a genuine portrait of Shake*
speare, painted during his lifetime, by
Barnagc. The hypercritics of England
will have it, there is no genuine por
trait of Shakespeare; but it seems to
me almost impossible to inrent a physi
ognomy carrying on it such a triumph
ant air of truth, so fully expressing the
grandeur and originality of the man—
furnished with all the intellectual eleva
tion, all the acuteness, wit, delicacy, all
the genuine humor, whose exhaustless
treasures were never so lavished on any
mortal. The countenance is nowise
what is vulgarly called handsome; but
the sublime beauty of the mind within
beams from every part. Across the
lofty forehead gleam the bright flashes
of that daring spirit; the large dark
brown eyes arc penetrating, fiery, yet
mild; around the lips play light irony
and good-natured archness, but wedded
to a sweet benevolent smile, which lend
the highest, the most heart-winning
charm to the lofty, awful dignity of the
intellectual parts of the face. Won
drously perfect appears the structure of
the skull and forehead: there are no
single prominences, hut all the organs
so capacious and complete that we
stand astonished before such a glorious
pattern of perfect organization, and feel
a deep joy at finding the man in so beau
tiful a harmony with his works —Tour of
a German Prince.
Macbeth. —Macbeth broke no law
of hospitality in his attempt on Duncan’s
life, lie attacked and slew the king at
a place called Bothgowan, or the Smith’s
house, near Elgin, in 1039, a id not as
has been supposed, in his own castic of
Inverness. The act was bloody, as
was the complexion of the times; but in
everv truth, the claim of Macbeth to
the throne, according to the rules of
Scottish succession, was better than
that of Duncan. As a king, the tyrant
i so much exclaimed against, was, in re
ality, a finn, just and equitable prince.
Early authorities show us no such per
son as Batiquo and his son FJeance,
nor have wc reason to think that the
latter ever fled further from Macbeth
than across the flat scene according to
the stage direction. Neither were Ban
quo or iiis son ancestors ot the house of
Stuart. All these things are now known,
but the mind retains pertinaciously the
impressions made by the impositions of
genius. While the works of Shak
spca re are read, and the English Jan-;
gtmge exists, history may say what she
will, but the general reader will only
recollect Macbeth as the sacrilegious
usurper, and Richard as the deformed
murderer. The genius of Shakspeare
having found the talc of Macbeth in the
Scottish Chronicles of Hollingshead,
adorned it with a lustre similar to that
with which a level sun-beatn invests
some fragment cf glass, which, though
shining at a distance with the lustre of
a diamond, is, by a nearer investigation,
discovered to be of no worth or estima
tion.—Sir Waller Scott.
Resemblance of Lords and Sava
ges. —There is often, in fact, no mate
i rial difference between the enjoyments
of the highest ranks and those of the
rudest stages of society. If the lives ol
many young English noblemen and an
Iroquois in the forest or an Arab in the
desert ara compared, it will be found
that their real sources of happiness are
nearly the same. The treasures ol
science, the refinements of taste, the
j luxuries of wealth are in mahy cases
disregarded or forgotten, and the exci-
I tation of life depends on the destruction
of wild animals or the management of
impetuous steeds. 1 his is a fact which
is a matter of daily observation; and it
furnishes a most instructive lesson as to
the proportion established by nature
between the active and speculative part
of mankind. 'l'he great majority of
every class of society are incapable of
receiving happiness from any, source
but from physical excitation; and every
other plan for human amusement which
is founded on any other supposition will
necessarily fail. Nor is it without good
reason that nature has established this
disproportion between the studious and
active part of the species. The great
muss ol undertakings essential to the
.existence and thcwelfureof mankind
depend upon physical exertion; and,
unless the greater part of our fellow
creatures were disposed to that species
ot labor, and gratified with the enjoy
ments that atieud it, the race would
spedily perish, and the speculations of
science disappcar with the individuals
who formed them.— .illisom's Principles
q/ Population.
Three faults or Nurses. —l. To
lisp i» a baby style, when the same i
words in an endearing tone would
please as well. The reverse should be
tbc practice: the voice clearly emphat
ic, and each syllable distinctly articu
lated for imitation. 2. To tell of witch
es, ghosts, and goblins. 3. To direct
a child to act like a man; whereas it j
is not often becoming for a little hoy,
to «po the man, but ouly to conform bis
demeanor to bis age. Every age has
in peculiar decorouancss
THE TWOFREHCff MIRER*.
We ere told of M. OsterwaW, i
wealthy banker of Paris, who died in
1790 of want, >ct leaving an estate ol
$000,000! When he began life, ht
bought a bottle of beer for his dinner,
and took away the cork in bis pocket.
He practised this for a long period,
and had at last collected such a quan
tity, that they sold for nearly one huo
hundred dollars! A few months before
bis death, he refused to buy meat foi
soup. 44 I should like the soup well
enough,” said he, 44 hot 1 do sot want
the meat. What, then, is to become ol
that?” The fear of losing the meat led
him to starve himself; yet at that very
moment he had eight hundred assign
auts, of two hundred dollars each, in a
silken bag around his neck.
Another Frenchman, by the name ol
Fortescue, affords a curious piece ol
history. He was a farmer-general ol
the taxes, and amassed an immense for
tune by grinding the poor. The gov
ernment at length called upon him fora
considerable sum, but he pleaded pov
erty. Fearing that some of bis neigh
bors should testify to his wealth, he de
termined to conceal it. He therefore
dug a vault beneath his wine cellar,
where he deposited his gold. He went
down to it by a ladder, and fastened the
door by a spring lock. One day while
he was in thq vault, the door closed,
and the lock fastened him in! In vain
were his cries for help? There he re
mained, till worn out by horror of mind
and starvation of body, and he perished
in the very midst of his heaps of gold!
His miserable fate was not known until
years after, when his house being sold,
his bones were discovered in the vault
with his treasures.
Tiie Clock-Maker. —The New York
Star relates the following incident in
the life of Mr. Willard, the Massachu
setts clock-maker, whose death was
recently recorded:
Many years ago, Mr. Willard paid
a visit to Thomas Jefferson, with whom
he was intimately acquainted. Mr. J.
talked freely with him about the effect
of Jay’s treaty; Willard could give no
opinion on any of its provisions, and
Mr. Jefferson insinuated that he knew
but little of public affairs. In the
course of conversation, he begged Mr.
W. to examine a beautiful French
clock, and s 'e what was the matter with
it. Mr. illard took out his plyers,
and took it to pieces, laying the main
spring, wheels, and all the other works
on the table; and after some further
conversation he rose to depart. “Don’t
go, Willard,” said Mr. J., until you
put the works of the clock together.”
You can do it.” “I! not I,”6aid Mr.
Jefferson. Why, you expected that
I should be familiar with treaties,” said
Mr. Willard, “when you can’t put the
wheels of a clock together.”
Sleeping Child and the Serpent.
—Not long ago we were riding by an
orchard, and our attention was attracted
by the incessant chatter of some two or
three dozen woodpeckers. We knew
from the nature of the bird that some
thing unusual must be going on, and we
hitched our horse and proceeded cau
tiously to the spot. On coming near,
we discovered a little girl asleep; we
could hear other children at a distance
at play. On getting still closer, wc saw
the cause of the birds’ uneasiness.—
There, within three feet of the innocent
one, lay coiled up, and striking at the
birds as they pounced down upon him
on every side, a large, venomous ser
pent. We procured a large stick, and
unperceived, got a stroke at him, and
following it up with others, soon de
s pat died him. The child had been at
play with the rest, and becoming wea
ried, had lain down and fallen asleep.
The Danville (Ky.) Tribune of the
Bth inst., says that a gentleman" of
that vicinity recently whipped a colored j
woman so severely that she died shortly
afterwards. Walden, the inhuman be
ing who perpetrated the act, has given
himself up to the authorities who held
him to bail for $l5OO.
A Word to the Ladies.—ls not
much of the folly and dissipation of the
times chargeable to the ladies? Do
they not give their sweet smiles and
pleasant voices to those who dress the
best and are the most extravagant?
Will a lady be so particular to stop in
tlie street and talk with a mechanic as
she will to a well dressed gentleman?
—pauper we were about to say.
We can point to many a woman, who
gave her heart and hand to a mealy
mouthed, delicate skinned, oily haired,
fashionable young inan, who has bit
terly rued the day of her choice. A
man who has but litle business’ except
to curl his hair, consult the tailor and
talk insipidly, is not fit for a hnsband
we care not how much money he may
count.
So long as young women are so on
wise as to smile on such, there will be
folly and dissipation among our young
men. Ladies should be wise and consult
their duty and future happiness. Young I
women, will you not reflect upon this
subject?
i The Women of Old. —We shall
hardly believe that women died by thou
sands and even by millions, as they
now do, for want of proper air and ex
ercise, in the time of Henry VIH., ift
we admit the claims of Fitzherbert. a
writer of those days, in his Book of!
Husbandry. He says:— 44 1 t is a wyve’s
occupation to wyaowo all manner of
corns, to make malte, to wash and
wringe, to make beye, sheve come, I
[reap,] and in time of neede to help her
husband to fill the march hxyne, to drive
the ploughs, to load beye, come and
such other. And to go r yde to the
market* and sell butter, cheese, milk,
eggs, checkyos, capons, geese, beeves,
P/gges, and all manner of cornea.
Ax leish Washerwoman was com
plaining of her hardships to her hus
band, who was sometimes iu the habit
of flagellating her. He endeavored to
persuade her that her complaints were
groundless, and among other arguments
remarked that she always had“ a plen
ty of wood and watber in the house.**
“An’ ye may well say that,** she keen
ly retorted, “I *ll always have plenty of
that while fk wid you, for k*ti iriver be
widout a stick op my back or a tear in
my eye.**