we m ib try tlio chtractor ofslavory
an 1 duty in regard t<> i as we should
try any other quest ion of character and
dit y. to justly of the character!
of we iinim know what it does.
ti:if tc’iick iigool, djesgood; that tehirhj
ii evil, evil; aid astoduty.g id’sdc
sio is indicate ins claims. i hat which
nccotnplis ics the manifest design of
g >d, is right; that which counteracts
it. is wrong. whatever, in its proper
te idencv and general effect, produces,
secures or extends ini-nan weltaie, is
accordin' to the will of g »d, and is
g ,d; and our duty is, to favor and pro
in >te, according to our power, that
w licit god favors and promotes hy the
getteial law of his providence. on the
other hand, whatever in its proper ten
dency and general effect, destroys,
ahrid vs, or renders insecure human
welfare, is opposed to god’s will, and is
evil. and as whatever accords with
the will <>t g .d, in anv manilestation of
it, should he d me and persisted in, so
whatever opp »ses ilia! will should not
he done, and, if done should be aban
d med.
can that, then, he right, he wcll
d >iug—can that obey god’s behests,
which makes a man a slave? —which
d mins him a id all hi-* posterity, in lim
itless generations, t bondage?—to un
requited toil, through life?—to tiie will
of u des mt, —with n purpose of his
own, and only an *ther sto ruse his ues
tiny, ivoin the cradle to the graver—
which nvikes fear the great in »tive of
his life?—which forbids his interest in
property, of every kind, making the
hope of t t-morrow no object of to-day;
or, if an object at all, one that the fear
of another’s arbitrary and capricious
will makes next to none? —which allows
him no country in whose government
he can hope for protection —none whose
g ivermn-mit as judicially construed is not
his sworn fie?—which denies him in
childhood, inanh md, aed old age, a
voluntary h me, and whatever that full
w >rd imp >rts?—.vhieh cuts him oti from
parentage at hisb rth?—which robs him
of the fixed necessities of his social na
ture, ahrog iting dom slic relations, and
forbidding ihe comfort and solace of a
wife or children, whatever may betide
him in this rugged world ?—winch makes
the body lia.de, without distinction of
8--x, to the rcsiste-s.l questionless inflic
tions of a master’s or overseer’s whims
and cultivated passions! which famishes
the s ml, seeking to keep the miud ever
vacant of its proper nourishment, and to
hold its unmanned possess »r but a step,
the shortest possible, from the brute?—
whico takes from him the commonest
m .live to virtue, and rears on the vvnole
fou id ui ui of his nature, urgent and
lasting incentives lo vice? —this makes
him suspected by, and suspicious ol
hose for whom he is daily dr ven to toil,
ond on wh mi, for his coarse allowance
at provender, he every dav depends?
w n h te n it* him t pr iwlmg stealth,
au 11 1 pilfer, as a virtue, wiien not de
tected, from his master’s store, the
earnings of his own unpa-d toil? —this
in-ales him to acquut* .re longed-for
boon of freedom, by venturing through
the most merciless d ingers, or to vin
dicate his right to it by the broadest
seul of blood —wiiicli represses the
upward aspirings of lih nature for im
lxi •rtality, making a sensual world the
sphere uud boundary of ins vixiou?
which keeps from his hands the word
of life, yields to him a reluctant uncer
ain, unspiritual sabbath, and ah but
eaves him without liop« and without
ood in the world
the north star.
can that ruined,empty condition, or
the liability to such ruin and vacuity,!
by arbitrary power of a fellow mortal, j
be right and gmd—the manifest design 1
-if g *d in the formation and endowment
of a man, a being not only mortal, but
1 1 immortal? can that be right and
good, be true to god and just to man.
i which, for no crime against heaven,
no ofivnce to earth but the helpless,
unmoral color of the skin—perhaps an
■indistinguishable shade—dooms a sinzh
individual of our species to such a corn-,
binition of outrages on his being?
which takes even one brother of our fa
oily to lop and sear, to kill and bury
i his manhood?—which defacing the iin-
i age wherein he was created, sinks him
is near brutality as can make him tha
contradiction to nature, a profitable,
contented slave—and then proves, hy
the depth of his forced degradation, his
1 incapacity to he a man— his doom of
g >d to be a slave!
and if such ruin, or the exposure to
such ruin of hut one man, of but one
brother, is displeasing to god, then
h >w wrong, how offensive to heaven
must he that system which so crushes
millions of human beings at once, and
multiplies its millions of victims along
the track of ages! what words can
tell the inhumanity, the atrocity of that
doctrine, which from exalted office,
commends such a crime to the favor of
christian nations, as the deliberate
counsel and practical wi*d >ni of a great
and enlightened christian republic!
what indignation from all the world is
n.»t due to the government that puts forth
its strength pr -tect and extend such
barbarity! nature abhors it; the age
repels it; and christianity needs all
meekness to forgive it.
but he who makes man his victim
sacrifices himself. our present su
jeet caun-t dispute this axi-m. we
must, then, look for the character of
slavery and the will of god respecting
it, beyond, as well as within, itself, j
if that which works evil to the slave,
w -rks evil to the master also, then are
there two witnesses cited bv providence:
to testify against it, and establish its de-!
linquency. keeping in memory, then,!
i the injury done to the slave, let us now
examine that which it inflicts on the
master, and decide whether that s) s
tom accords with the will of god, which
works evil to all concerned.
can, then, that system be good for
him who is concerned in it, and there
fore wisely allowed, cherished, and en
larged, which, giving nearly unlimited
responsibile power over a fellow man,
body and soul, for life, makes it neces
sary, foe him who is so concerned, to!
lie educated to its strenuous necessities;
to its imperious use, and stern excision
of sympathy? which, to maintain an ad-|
verse relation, and make it either pro
fitable or safe, compels him to exact hy
fear as its main-spring what would
neither he done or begun.
can that system, parcel or part, be;
good for him wh .uses it, which coere-i
ing labor and taking away its proper,
stimulus, makes it shiftless and thrift-;
less, unprogressive in its meagre skill,;
and without motive or tendency to itn-1
provenient by him who yields his sweat j
for another’s bread?—can that system
help him who relies upon it, which tends;
to his own inaction from want of motive j
to effort, and which for the security of
slavery by the degradation of the
slave, makes even the most needful in-!
dustry disreputable except for a slave,!
j and thus offers the tempting bounty oi l
honor to idleness?—can that system bei
fraught w-ith blessings, or be less than
a grievous curse, to its dependent, j
.j wiiich while it abridges industry and
her rich rewards, not less abridges;
mind, the richest capital of man? which 1
makes general education so difficult as
to he next to impossible and practically
f hopeless? which, by the mighty unpor
tance of idleness and ignorance, seals;
up vast resources of nature, stints the
useful and the liberal arts, locks up;
navigation and commerce with the rigor
of a ceaseless blockade, and thus;
brands its own forehead with the deep!
impress of sin, while pertinaciously
unconscious of the guilt? can that
t system a>k the siniie of heaven oi
i man, which mist unkindly frowns on!
t the very earth god made good for man
—that system which, in addition to thei
1 other evil it does and the other good it
h ith hinders and destroys, sett «-s dow n
1 on a soil ma !e exubt r int hy ages of fer
tilization, and w ith tapid zeal converts j
it to be a desola’e waste, compelling its
owner to forsake it for his life, t.i »ugh,
before slavery had wrought it sterile,
f it bloomed and teemed with the assur-j
ance of perpetual plenty? can that
i fulfil the law of g--d and claim the re-1
ward of well doing, which, abrogating
chastity in the slave, it invites impurity
in the master, and records the fact in
the faces of so many of his own progeny*
doomed for the in.ither’s sint to slaverv
in all their generations? can that be
heaven’s girt and man’s gain, which j
not onlv hinders property, but renders.
every species of it insecure?—which
perils life, and most breeds danger
where safety is in ist coveted? —which
when it lies down to sleep on its lordly
couch, invokes the protection of the
pistol and the bowie knife?—which
j guards the city from midnight fire hy a
military patrole and which makes one
half of all the people safe, if safe al all,
only by keeping the one part armed
,i and the other weaponless, lest the ira
patient spirit ol liliery assert its fixed
perogative by the terrors of indiscriuii
nale slaughter. re r george jillcn.
calvin’s cut ten at geneva. —a travel* j
lei in switzerland wrnes from geneva,“tha«
ihc old gothic church were calvin preached
dip very sound boards which re-echoed ihe
i d scussion of ihe catholic iiioulu with die
reformer*—»» green old age. it i*
now the principal church in geneva, and
t welve pasto* of the cuy officiate m its pulpit
by turn*.”
right is of no sex—truth is of no color—god is the father of us all, and all we are brethren.
the free church of scot.
|p: send back the money
a public meeting was held in the
large room, broadmead, at bristol,
eimisnd,) some time since, for the
purpose of receiving from the free
church in scotland, important infor
mation bearing on the sufferings of
large bodies of christian people in
scotland, arising out of the refusal bv
several large landed proprietors to grant
sites for the builjing of places of wor
ship.’ the attendance was but thin at
first, but the body of the large hall
afterwards became filled. on the plat
form with the deputation were the rev.
m essrs. roper, crisp, g. h. davis,
and ham.
the rev. mr. crisp having engaged
in prayer, the rev. h. 1. roper took
the chair. in the course of the pro
ceedings—
mr. r. norris came forward to ad
dress the meeting.
the chairman inquired if he in
tended speaking to the resolution.
mr. norris said he did, and com
menced by expressing his sympathy
with the general objects of the meeting
he should have been glad if less had
been said about toloration,’ because
he did not hold that any government
could tolerate in him that which w'as
his inalienable right (cheqrs.) he also
thought that if there must be a bill, it
should provide not only for evangelical
christians, but should recognise the
equal rights of conscience for all de
nominations, whether jew’s, mohamme
dans, or pagans. he should, too,
have liked to have heard a little more
determination expressed to go to the
root of the evil, by opposing the in
famous laws of primogeniture and
entail. alter some further observations,
mr. n. went on to remark, that it it
should be found that the free church
had, in an evil hour, sanctioned one of
the most gigantic systems of wicked
ness ever known; if it should he found
that it had sent out a deputation from
scotland to the slave states of america,;
and there, in despite of the warnings
from the abolitionists, given the right
hand of its fellowship to avowed slave
holders, and made collections in
churches in which slavery was upheld;
if it should turn out that there eould be
no doubt that this was a fact, and that
the free chur h had been guilty of
this grievous error, then it would be
come that meeting—though it might
fully and deeply sympathise with it on
account of the suffering it had under-:
gone, and though it might give to the!
free church the full meed of praise;
for the noble sacrifices it had made of
wealth and of influence—it would, he
repealed, become them, remembering
the lessons taught them by frederick
douglass (cheers,) remembering, too,
the horrible character of slavery itself, j
and the known fact that, but for the
countenance given to it hy professing
christians, slavery could not endure;
,to show themselves honest in their
i principles, hy declaring that, while they
sympathised with the free church in
her trouble, they also sympathised with;
i the millions of their fellow-creatures in
slavery (cheers.) he called upon them
honestly to* express their convictions j
that, in that respect, the free church
had failed in her duty; to warn her to
withdraw herself from that iniquity,)
and to send back the money (cheers)
—the £3ooo, which was the price of
i human blood an l human wrong (1 md
cheers.) mr. norris proposed that the
following words he added to the resolu
lion:—
‘that while we thus express our
i sympathy with the free church, we
foci it to be our duty earnestly to pro
test against the conduct of that body in
regard to american slavery, and cs-
j pecially in soliciting and receiving con-
i tributions of slaveholders for its support;
and that we respectfully advise the free
church to send back the money thus
procured, and no longer to give any
sanction to a system so abhorrent to the
spirit of the christian religion.
1 this need not at all decrease their
expression of sympathy for the suffer
ings of the free church, while it would
express their feelings in regard to the
wrongs of their fellow-beings who were
suffering in slavery. he hoped he had
said nothing unnecessarily offensive;
he had discharged his conscience, and
the meeting must deal with the question
i according to its sense of truth aud jus
tice (cheers.)
mr. h. c. howells having seconded
the amendment,
toe rev. g. h. davis said he felt
himself placed in an extraordinary posi
tion—sympathising mo>t deeply wih
his black brethren across the water,
feeling that, in season, he would like to
say and d all he could for th in; feel
ling, too, that he should be grieved at
i any tiling which might seem in any way
,to countenance that most iniquitous
system, yet he felt called upon to op
p«we a course which he feared would
lead away their sympathies from the
object of the meeting let them look
at the christian people of scotland, and
see them standing upon the cold, wet
sands, afraid to couie above highwater
inark, and exposing themselves to the
stonns ot the at'autic, and let them ask
themselves, should such things be; and
then, if they imd any lear tnat, through
a division of their sympathies, such
things would coutmue to be, let them
be cautious how they did any thing to
create such divisio i. he questioned
the wisdom, although he recognised the
nobility of the amendment of his excel
lent friend, mr. norris h$ did not
know afiy one that would so rejoice at
any division as the duke of buccleugh
and his followers, and he did hope that
it might be avoided. he felt as hearty
a detesta'.ion ol slavery as any man,
and he agreed that tha free church
rochester, n. y., friday, april 13, 1849.
had not acted quite well in that matter
(a voice, let them send back the mo
ney’); but he thought it would be un
wise to depart from the special object
of the meeting, whicn was to bring
public opinion to bear on those in high
places (cheers aud hisses.) mr. davis
went on to argue iu this strain, occa
p sfonally interrupted bv some slight
j hissing; and he concluded by reminding
ihe disaffected, that every serpent that
crawled could hiss, and advising them
to express their sentiments in a less
serpentine manner.
dr. begg, before the resolution was
put, begged to say a few words. they
were come there for the purpose of con
sidering a particular point, upon which,
as far as he could understand, they
were all agreed; but a new point had
been introduced, upon which, as he un
j derstood it, they could not agree. he
i must, in honesty, tel! them that he did
not agree, and unless he got new light,
he could not agree. lii respect to the
iniquity of slavery, he went all the way
with them (hear.) he held it to be an
abomination, wholly irreconcilable with
every principle of reason and scripture
(cheers); but then the mode of dealing
i' with slavery and the slave trade was
altogether another matter. let them
look back to the time when they had
j slavery in their own colonies; did they
j excommunicate men because they were
connected with it? did they pledge
i themselves to reject all produce which
had had connection with slavery, or
did they do so now, except as far as it
concerned the free church? was
there a man who wore a cotton shirt,
or who took a pinch of snuff, or a whifi
of tobacco, who did not know it was
connected with slavery; and was there
a man who refused the use of those
arlicles because of that connection?
(hear.) he had travelled through the
united states, and the system of slave-
ry existed in vari ius parts, and w’as
ramified through all parts, and yet, j
i would it he denied, that in that couutry
there were many noble christian peo
ple? if th* y were to proceed upon the
system now promulgated; if they were
to ask aud examine every man to see if
lie had any til ng to do with that sys
tem; if they were to trace the genealo
gy of every dollar, and reject all w hich
had been in any way connected with
slavery, he w uld defy any man to go!
through america (applause and hisses.)
ifthey were to put a man to every
chapel door to scrutinize every sliil-;
ling, how could the thing work? the!
point introduced was one upon which,
i they must allow the free church to
differ till they had better light, for no
man could say that the question was so
simple, so free from difficulty and doubt,
as at first might appear. he hoped
there would be no want of unity, be-
i cause they could not quite agree upon
the question of which was the best way
to overthrow slavery, hut, however j
much he valued the good opinion of.
others, lie had made too many sacrifices
for the sake of the truth to be driven j
i into a course he could not approve.;
the church in scotland had testified to
the churches in america, that they
were guilty of a great dereliction of!
duty in not using their most strennous
1 efforts to put down the abominable sys
-1 tem, and they hoped that it would soon
have an end. the reverend doctor
concluded by reminding the meeting
1 that the non-conformists of the three
kingdoms stood in a most perilous posi-i
tion, and that there never was a period
when there was greater need of a com
plete union.
mr. crighton admitted that the posi
tion of the southern states ot america
was a most equivocal one, and that,;
after the remonstrances of the free
church, they stood in a different posi
tion from that which they held when
the deputation was sent out. he had
i in his heart as great an abomination ot
slavery as anyone; but he differed as
1 to the best mode of abolishing it, and
believed that the extreme abolitionists
had tak&n an injudicious course, and
that they kept lack the good work. he
gave mr. norris all credit for good in
tention, hut he questioned the policy ot
i his proceeding, which he considered l
powerfully calculated to strengthen the
course taken by the duke of buccleugh i
i and their persecutors iu scotland (hear
aud no.)
mr. norris came forward to reply,
i but was interrupted by the chairman, j
.land by mingled applause and cries ofj
j sit dow-n.’
i the chairman said, when he asked;
mr. norris if hi-’* speech referred to the
motion which had been read, he replied
that it did. he (the chan man) did
juot consider the introduction of a totally;
rew topic into the bu-iness of the even
ing a fair carrying out of the statement
which mr. norris then made (applause,
i and disapprobation.) had he been
aware that a new topic was to have
i been introduced, lie should have re
i signed the chair, and for this reason—
that he did not consider it right, gener
ous, or just, where a meeting had been
called for a specific object, to introduce'
some other object (cheers and oh.) he
begged to enter his protest against a
practice which, not right in itself, had
of late made public meetings a by-,
word and an object of reproach. they
would give up oue of the strongholds j
of their liberty, and would be allowing
the platform of public meetings to slide
from under their feet, if they allowed,
topics to be introduced for discussion
different from those for which the meet
‘,„as were held; and be must repeat
that bad he been aware that mr. norms
was not going to speak to the resolu
tion, he should lave the chair, i
the course taken had altogether weak
ened the influence of the meeting; and
what must be iu effect upon the depu
tation? they were men like them
selves, with feelings and passions i
r capable of being raised or depressed
and would they be likely, after wha
had taken place, to go forth encou
t; raged or discouraged? (bear, and ‘lei
them send back the money.*) the
i, mischief would not merely lie in wbai
5j would appear in the public papers, bui
it would be more deeply seated; it would
t weigh down the hearts of those who
r were required to go forth as the cham
pions of religious freedom. he con
i sidered that mr. n"rris had done wrong,
and whether he should be heard again
must be determined by the meeting.
m the chairman then put it to the
j meeting whether mr. norris should be
l again heard, add the show of hands
numbered about three to one against
hearing him.
ij mr. norris, amidst some interrup
tion, called upon the press to record his
protest against the chairmanship of that
i night.
the amendment was than put, and
having been rejected by about the same
majority as on the previous division,
i the original motion was adopted,
i a collection was then made, but we
i i are informed that only £3 7s. was
raised.
i j
extracts
from a pamphlet entitled, libtna—the condition and
prospect» oj that republic, made from actual ob
servation.” by elders.s. ball.
the climate of ihc country. —at the
time of my arrival, it was early in the
rainy season, or african winter, which
commences about the latter part of the
month of april, and lasts about six
months. i did not find the weather so
hot there, as i have felt it in the states
at the same season. the thermometor
stood generally at 80deg., and there
were constantly fine sea aud land
breezes blowing; but notwithstanding it
did not seem so hot there, as we often
feel it here. the sun seemed to have
a different effect upon a person there,
to what it has in this country. it is re
garded dangerous for any one to walk
out without an umbrella over him, from
nine o’clock in the morning until four
o’clock in the afternoon. this, i sup
pose, is owing to the situation of li
beria, as it lies in g deg. 19 min.,
north latitude. i was told by some of
its citizens that the thermometor never
stands higher than 93 deg. in the driest
or summer season, but averages about
sg deg. the summer through. the
rams there, during the winter season,
i are not so incessant as wholly to pre
vent its inhabitants from attending to
business. it is seldom, lam told, that
a person cannot work half a day dur
ing the rainy season. as to tne dis
eases of the country, i do not think
them so complicated and various as in
our own country. with regard to the
african fever, it is a disease that is not
considered very dangerous, where the
patient can have proper medical attend
i ance, comfortable lodgings, nursing,
and nourishment; but where this cannot
be had, it is regarded as a most maiig
i riant disease. as to other diseases, i
believe that colds are the most that the
people suffer with.
soil. —l take the tends in mes
surado county, rs a fair sp c men of the
lands throughout the republic, except
in grand rassa county, which i think
is better for coffee. the following
description i think essentially correct,
though some of it seems tome rather
highly drawn. it is in the languaage
of a distinguished, resident—the rev.
hilary teage. ‘‘the soil where mon
rovia is situated, is sterile, comprised
principally of detritus, and the remains
of decayed vegetable matter. this
soil is very shallow, and rests on a sub
i stratum of solid rock. the cape,
therefore, is not at ail adapted to agri
cultural pursuits. leaving this, and
proceeding up st. paul’s river, you
come to soil on either side of the river,
(to the distance i have traveled, about
fifteen miles,) as fertile, and as fat and
productive, as any to be found on the
face of the earth. ido not mean to say
that there are no barren spots or
marshes. these are to be found in all
other countries. but i take a general
view of the whole face of the country.
reflection upon one fact will attest the
truth of what i say. the w hole face
of the country is covered with a dense
forest. nature here robes herselt in
her mantle of green twice every year.
of ourse, the earth must, twice each
year, groan under the burden of leaves,
and other vegetable substances, which
1 these semi-annual falls impose upon it.
i these, under the actiou of heavy dews
by night, and heat hy day, are soon de
composed, and return a large contri
bution to feed the soil.”
agricultural improvement*.—as to the
improvement in agriculture, it is as far
as could reasonably be expected, under
the same circumstances. it must be
recollected, however, that there are no
horses, asses, mules or oxen, at work
there. all the farming operations art
carried on with the hoe and such like
implements. i saw but one horse in all
the republic, and he was a mere skel
i eton. the experiment has been tried
of importing horses from the interior,
and the windward, and the united'
states; and they have all died in going
through the acclimation; but i was in
formed by gen. lewis, that they wert*
about getting a horse from the leeward,
that would stand their climate. as to
cows, sheep, goats, and hogs, they
could have them in abundance, if more
attention was paid to that branch of
husbandry.
production*. these farms as a gen
eral thing, were producing in abun
dance all the vegetable and fruits indi
fenuous to that country; such as rice,
ndian corn, cassada, sweet potatoes,
cabbage, beans, pumpkins, tomatoes,
cucumbers, melons of different kinds,
arrow root, penper, sugar cane, and
cotton. all of these require cultivation.
'of fruits there are the orange, sou
sops, paw paw, mango, plumb, pun
i apples and cocoa nut-*. these also re
quire cultivation. the coffee grow
tine there, and fields abundantly and o
a very fine quality. the palm trr.
grows spontaneously, out of which i>
produced the palm oil, pahn wine, th*
palm cabbage, and the palm butter.
buildings. —the h* uses are con
structed generally of stone, brick, m
frame. in monrovia, the state house
and methodist, baptist and prcsbyte
rian churches, besides two oilier edi
fices for school jmrposcs, are all o
stone. the president’s house and hke
wise judge benedict’s, are of brick
the wealthy people about monrovia
and throughout the republic, as a gen
eral thing, live in good houses; but
among the poorer inhabitants, you may
find riohv houses const meted after the
african style of bamboo and thatch.
style of' tiring. —the style of living
among the wealthy colonists is very
fine. this of course, is attended with
considerable expense, which the poor
cannot support; and in addition to this,
they have just as many servants as they
wish, and there seems to be as much
distinction made between the rich and
poor there, as there is in this country
among ‘.he whites. this causes many
i who go to that country to be greatly
disappointed: as they are led to believe,
before leaving here, that they would
be recieved with open arms, and placed
upon an equality with the very best
families in liberia; and they would be
i in a few years be promoted to office,
&c., irrespective of any quaiilienti ns
to move in this style, or till those lli
ces. but this is not the case. in every
such instance let the truth be told.
say to the poor and ignorant, such as
the great majority of those wh go there
are: you will there be allowed to exer
cise the elective franchise; but after
this, ail will depend upon your qualifi
cations; and in this respect liberia is
generally considered aristocratic.
religion. —ln point of rcligio in mon
rovia, there are three churches—meth
odist, baptist and presbyterian. com
municants in the baptist church, 1 to;
elder boston drayton, pastor. in the
methodist church, 150; rev. james s.
payne, pastor. in the presbyterian
church, ii; rev. harrison w. kilts,
pastor. these churches are all sup
plied with pastors from the different
missionary soci ties in this c» untry,
except that ofthc methodists, of which
i know nothing. with respect
morals of the people, they seerneu i<> be
good. i never heard less profane lan- i
guage, or saw less intemperance, in
1 the same length of time, in all my life.
as to sabbath school*, they are gen
erally good. in monrovia, there is a
school in each church. in the baptist
church in the morning, they hold one
for the american children, of about
j thirty scholars; ten of them native chil
dren. there is also one one in the
methodist church, in the morning, for
american children, of about forty scho
lars; and in the afternoon, for natives
lof about eighty scholars. there is also
l one in the presbyterian church, for
american children, under the superin
tcndance of b. v. r. james; number
of scholars 75. sunday schools are
taught generally in every settlement.
day school3. —'l hey have two day
sc cols in monrovia, for american chil
dren— »me taught by b. v'. r. james,
of about seventy scholars, under the
patronage of a society of presbyterian
ladies, in the city of new york; and
i one taugat by mr. stewart, o! about
i twenty scholars. 1 iiere was no school
1 for natives in monrovia while i was
there. there had been one under the
superintend,ince ol the hon. j. b. gri
pon, deceased, but it was suspended.
there are good common schools taught
throughout the republic for american
children, hut there is no high school in
tail liberia. gentlemen who wish to
give their children more than a com
mon english education, have to send
them to europe or america.
condition of the jvatives. —there are
a great many natives in and adjacent
ito all the towns and settlements that 1
j visited thr >ughout the republic they
j roaui about in their country dress and
look contented and happy. some are
engaged in loading and unloading ships,
others in fishing; and others in rai-ing
rice and cas«ada; while you see those
from the interior packing down upon
their heads, their palm oil, ivory, and
'camwood, to trade with the colonists
tnere are others also who seek employ
j ment aunm" the colonists, at the low
rate of £*-2 00 per ruout i and found.
j titese all are reckoned as a pait of the
.population of liberia, although they
j are not regarded as citizens. they alt
as a general thing adhere to their coun
try customs all difficulties ar.su g!
among them.*e!ve», are settled by then
1 palaver; and ttiey all adhere to then
greegrees, and their plurality of wives j
i which number from two to twenty, and:
j even more if the circumstances of the
i man will admit it. such as have the
most wives, are called the wealthiest
men. they are called by them propei
*rich men. they also adhere to the
i custom of requiring of s -me one to take
sas-awo *d tea fry ry person that ties, j
when any one dies, they go to the doc-'
tor or grand greegiee-man to know
who to make witch for that man or wo- j
man who died. he fixes the gui t
upon some one, and prescribes tin j
amount of sasswood tea he is to take i
they go and lake him, and give him tin
tea. he drink* it, and if he is guilty i
it kills turn: if he survives it, he wa
inuoceut. but it generally ensues n j
death. but there is another cla-s, win t
live in the families of the colonists, and j
are bound to them for a term of tr r l i
some arc recaptured africans taken oil i
the pons. they are of the cong tribe, j
there are others from the tribes wiliun
john pick, pc atom a.
whole no. 6k.
1 ,e fhes*o are bound under
*hat is railed the apprentice system.
1 rn n«"rt'd how long th*> term of their
service was, and learned that the con
had to serve seven years. i asked
d they were bound to educate them,
liiry told me they were n«»t, unless
hev choose to; but when there was a
•alive school convenient they generally
e,,t them. i asked them if they would
>ot lie admitted into the schools with
american children. they said no: for
i hey wrre heathens and not considered
i ho *thy; and that you could not get a
native child into any colonist school in
monrovia. nearly all the wealthy peo-
i about monrovia have from ten to
fifteen of these hound natives about
j their premises. they wear with, but
few exceptions, nothing but a row bold,
a piece of cloth about a yard square.)
during the week; bm if the sabbath
they have a flimsy suit of cotton clothes
to wear sunday school. at church
they sit together in the rear of the con
gregation; ami in no instance did l see
a native take a seat by the side of a
i colonist. about their houses, these
nati\cs do nil the menial service; such
as packing wood and water, and cook
ing, and waiting about the house.
i was quite disgusted, on rny first ar
rival there, to find so many naked peo
ple on the shores of africa; but what
do you suppose must have been my
feelings, when i saw them in this state
in civilized and christian families, and
even in the families of ministers and
some of their missionaries we have
i been told in this country, ofthc salutary
influence the colonists were exerting
over the natives by a residence among
them, flow sadly was i disappointed,
when i saw the situation of these poor
natives anlong the colonists; looked
down upon as their inferiors, and of
course their children regard them in
j the same condition. i asked a partic
ular friend of mine, if their people could
not he induced to treat them better:
he told me no; that it would not do to
treat them better; that if you did it
would make them insolent and saucy,
and that they would rise and cut their
throats and that of their wives and chil
dren. as to amalgamation among the
native africans and americans, there
need he hut little fears; such is the pre
judice existing between tin m, that i was
informed that there had been hut two or
three matches of thut character since
the settlement of the colony.
(‘1 ohr conlmur'l.y
..omesteau in massachusetts.
the judiciary committee of the
massachusetts house of representa
tives has been directed by that hotly to
enquire into the expediency of provid
ing by law for the exemption of the
honie.-tead from sale under execution
fur debt.
homestead exemption is fast be
coming flic sentiment of the country.
it will still he resisted for a tune, per
haps for years, by the conservative
feelings of legislatures, and tea- on
the part of business men that it will
operate unfavorably in the collection
of debts. enlightened christian law
i givers, however, must sooner or later
1 come to the conclusion that it is unwise,
if not barbarous, to strip even the home
that covers them, the wife and clnldrt n
of the man whose indiscretions or inis
fortune have immersed him in debt;
i and sagacious business men, it seems
to us, cannot fail finally to perceive,
that fo take than a debtor a.i he has, to
knock from under his leet the last
plank he stands upon—to cast out into
the streets, moneyless and shelterless,
the wile of his bosom and the children
of his love—is the surest way of all hi
which completely to unman him, npd
the least certain of any to inspire him
anew with the energy and ambition
that are necessary to set him to work
again, and the feeling that will induce
him to exert every nerve to accumulate
ne w earnings and pay off old debts.—
cincinnati liazctte.
bonapart.js habits.—hi., partiality
for the bat it he mistook tor a necessity.
he would usually remain m hath two
j hours, during which time i used to read
to him exh acts from the journals and
j pamphlets of the day, tor he was anx
ious to hear and know all that was
going on. w bile in the balii he was
continually turning on (lie warm water
to raise temperature; so that i was
s metimeg enveloped in such a dense
vapor, that i could not see to read; and
was obliged to open the door, liona
part wa« exceedingly temperate and
aveise to al exc« his flattereis,
probably under the idea that sleep is
j incompatible with greatness, have evm
‘c< d an equal disregard of tiuth in
speaking ol his night watching. ilona
part made others watch, but he himself
1 dept, and slept well. his orders were
that i should call him every morning at
seven. i wa therefore, the first to
enter his chamber; but very frequently,
when i awoke him, lie would turn him
self and sav, “ah, rotirnenne, let me
sleep a little longer.”—when thne
was no very pressing business, i did
1 not disturb inm again till eight o’clm k.
—he g enerallv slept seven hours out
lof the twenty-four, besides faking a
i shoit nap in the afternoon.
aiming the private instructions which
ft naparfc gave me, one wa# very cu«
*i*»uw.—-“during the night,' said he,
enter tnv chamber as seldom as p<»si
de. do not awake me when you have
omd news to cmninnnicate.with that
ftjeie is no hurry; hut when you bring
m e bad new*, rosue me instantly, for
-ben there i* no moment to be lost.”
t his a wise regulation, and bora
,arte found ins advantage in it.-~£otir-
unnt'n memoir!.
tfli excesses of our youth are drafts uf
undd ajc. payable wi.h totcresi, about 3#
after dale.
fifteenth century anti-slavery society
v fimenitfi the
american amt-slavery society will be held
in the tabernacle, brn.dway, new york, on
tucdax* i*' 1 lh da ma> nex,
i’tic \nntv. r!*arv at the tabernacle repre
fo the country at large the pruffra», the
•fficienev. a- <1 even the existence, of the anti
’!i'« rv cmusc. it is to vast number-; of peo
jde the only sign of the continued zeal and
spirit of the abolitionists, whose local meet
mgs tiwv never hear of.
the business meetings ot tin* s<*cieiy
have always brought together in counsel a
larger number of abolitionists from various
parts of the northern states than is ever con
vened on any othei occasion. the general
interests of the cause command, at that time,
a consideration which at no other can ire given
them.
it has never, since the formation of the
society, been more apparent than at this mo
ment, that the anti-slavery cause is left
w here it ever has been, in the hands of the
members <>f the american society. there is
as yet no reason to suppose that slavery will
ever be abolished except through its efforts.
the general importance of the annual
meeting, and the aspect of the cause at this
moment, which gives us every thing to hope
tor if we persevere,—everything to fear if
we falter—appeal alike loudly to abolitionists,
all over the land,to make the ensuing annual
meeting of the american anti-slavery socie
ty one that shall do more even than any pre
vious one has done to drive the south to
despiir in defence of its felonious system of
society, and the north to a more determined
attitude than any portion of it has evei yet
ventured to assume in defence of its own
right?, and the assertion of the rights of the
*’ave.
wm. lloyd garrison, prest.
wkm dell phillips,
s 11. gay.
t lose of the session.— mr. giddings*
account.
on the evening of the 7th ult.-. mr. giddmge
made an address to the people of warren. we
copy the following from the chronicle.
mr. gtddmgs noticed the passage of the
bill to pay pacheco for his slavp; said anothei
such a victory would have been agreat defeat.
after it went to the .senate it was laid on the
table and there suffered to remain; its southern
champions were afraid to bring it up. it did
not become a law. but we must pass to an
account of the close of the session. this was
the most interesting.
the bill for the territorial government in
california, that was reported under the in
struction of boot's resolution was taken up
and passed with the proviso in. the senate
did not act on it, hut took up the civil and di
plomatic bill—attached thereto walker’s
amendment—passed it, and sent it to the
house. this amendment, it is thought, was
penned by calhoun, it extended the reve
nue laws ot the tinted states over tiie terri
tories of california and new mexico, and in
so many words recognized the coast wise slave
trade. under this provision the slave-holders
would introduce their slaves into the territory,
and would claim its authority to hold them,
and judges in the territory would sustain the
claim, holding, as they would be compelled to,
that the right to introduce them would give
them the right and authority to hold them
after they got there. that southern men
were intending to make a stand, and were de
termined to make the north yield as usual.
mr. giddirigs said the free suffers were ex
pecting this, hut they were not ready to expect
or believe, that northern men had pledged
themselves to sustain and carry it through.
on saturday the measure was disscussed in
the committee of the whole, and in tlie after
noon a recess was had. on the coming in of
ttie house at half past 0 in the evening, the
southern men boldly asserted that they could
carry it, and that they had got enough of
northern men pledged to cany it through.
they went so far as to name the men. the
free soil men went and appealed to them—
arc you prepared to vote for the measure?”
mr. giddings said they were perfectly astoun
ded to hear the reply that they would—that
they would go fur it rather than tire public
officers should lad to get their salaries. at
this stage of the matter they w ere almost com
pelled to give up iff! hope. mr. g. said he
might as well tell the whole truth, which was
that the free soil men had pledged them
selves to each other, to prevent its passage at
ail hazards; that they were prepared to make
motions, call ayes and noes, &c., until the
session should expire by its own limitation;
that they were preurared to go with gen.
wilson of new hampshire, and see the
wheel of government slop and stand still; to
*ee the union dissolved; yea, to see the uni
verse itself dissolved, rather than see slavery,
wrong and injustice, extended ovci our terri
tory now free—to sec freedom abolished and
slavery established in its stead. who is there
to say aught against this glorious spartan
resolution? who is there who does not, in
their feelings—in their consciences—in liieir
hearts, and soul, respond to their resolution,
and say amen.”
the discussion commenced. speeches
were made; excitement was up and getting
higher, when richard w. thompson, a son
•f peace-maker, offered an amendment, tlje
effect of which was to strike out walker’s
amendment and insert his own. in his propo
sition, was a proviso to recogonize and con
tinue in force the laws of these territories—
which exclude slavery. the men w r ho had
pledged themselves to walker’s amendment,
now supported this amendment of thomp
son's. it carried by four majority. alter i
walkers amendment was stricken out, it
could not again he inserted. this was not
perceived by the friends of ilic amendment
until it was too !at**, and when they saw their
miataka, they were thunderstruck. the
amendment ol i hompsou was of no impor
tance, except that clause making binding the
laws ol mexico within the territory. thus,
by a legislative trick was übern preserved
m the territories; thus was ti, e scheme to ex
tend slavery prevented. the danger to which
the north was exposed was most imminent
it was sought to he carried through at the
close of the session, hymen who had be r
rejected by their constituents ami could expert
no favors, and by means of attaching n to un
civil and diplomatic bill w inch the ongtess
were expected to pass at all events. such
means were not only resorted to, b t all i|,
influence, personal and official, of the la*
executive-, and the influence, personal ai d
official, of gen. taylor, was brought to beai
to produce the result, ics; notwithstanding
tiie aliiaon letter and the pretended pledge*.
afgen. taylor to leave all questions of legis
lation entirely to long res., he wa# found
p"iv.msl!t urging members of f long res* t.
paka w alker’s amendment thro’, attached as
it was to the appropriation bill. the first
movement of the last friend ol the wilmot
rajviau, alter he had arrived at out nation t
capital, was to give h.s personal influence to a
measure, the effect of which was to extend
slavery. oh, when will the nation recover
from tins deep and damning stain*
mr. gidduiga said at thi& victory—(lie first
me ever achieved over the elavc power,—the
hree sod men “felt good.” they congratu
lated each other upon the result. and general
icjotcmg was the order of the evening
at about 11 o'clock tbe&ll was meat to the
senate with the senate amendment stirckcn
nut amf thomjpcoo’a inserted. the free
soil members of the house left their seats to
witness the result. there was fun in the
''cnaie. grave senators looked amazed, and
talked loudly about vindicating the dignity and
honor of the senate. the southern mem
ben looking bad. dejected, and vented their
>pleen most beautiful. but they could do
nothing. webster came out, and for the first
time in his life, spoke for freedom and hu
manity. the senate, after wrangling all
night, receded from its amendment, and the
bill was passed and became a law, as ongmal
fv passed bv the house.
the protect ion llemkug.
horace greeley, to us, is the greatest of
all riddles. an ingenious, ciphering, mailer
of fact man, with strongly humane tendencies,
quite radical as a reformer in some direc
tions, yet sticking like a very manyrto the
shallowest of all humbugs that the strong or
the cunning ever got up lor the plundering of
the wealthy or the simple. in two or three of
his last tribunes be has been pouncing upon
a free trade book written by a mr. barhydt.
it has not been our good fortune to see that
book, and we have no means of judging whe
ther it is as good as the prodigious fluttering
of the tribune would seem to indicate. it is
really time for a good book on this subject.
talk of the light and intelligence of this
age* when we take up a widely circulated
paper, and especially the tribune, famed for
its earnest advocacy of reform, and its aspira
tions after (he good time coming, arid find in
it all the antiquated man traps of old hunker
ism, furnished and published and presented as
new, presuming upon an indefinite fnnd of
stupidity and gullibility in the enlightened
public, and that not without some reason, we
feel flat.—suuly, if such arrant nonsense,
folly and trash can ride uiumphantly on the
coming top wave of the intelligence of the
nineteenth century,there is no use of sense,
truth, mathematics. logic, observation, phi
losophy may as well be thrown to the dogs.
welcome cant. welcome humbug. wel
come quackery. let us shut our eyes, open
our mouths, and swallow the pills that come
with the largest puffs’
tariff or no tariff—when the miserable
pick-pocket policy was screwed to the highest,
or when it was let down slack by its great
compromising champion—american home in
dustry has been going rapidly foward. the
only effect of the tariff has been to disturb its
steadiness, and aid the rich, grasping capital
ists to the injury of the humbler men and es
i tablishments. had there never been a tariff
i of any sort, except a port duty for the benefit
of sick and disabled mariners, who believes
1 that our home industry would not now be
equal in amount and wider, safer and more
democratic in its basis than it is now? \v e
hold that to be just as certain as it is that corn
will grow in ohio in the summer season.
1 better in the open air ihan it will under glass
and more profitably at any season.
greeley lias never yet been able to deny
that if the tariff policy is gon for our country
at large, it is good for our particular states;
and to be consistent, he ought, like that “great
unknown” political economist of our boston
.signal, to advocate a system of stale tariffs,
by which each state may protect its industry
against that of its 20 sister states. let his
charity begin at home. perhaps he would
do well first to apply it to his own village.:
let him construct a commercial coffer-dam
around the island of manhattan, so as to pro
tect its worthy manufacturers of cigars, pig
tail and honeydetv, and a thousand other
choice city products, from the rival industry
of brooklyn, williamssurgh and jersey city.
it is absurd to suppose that a great principle
of the production of wealth, is going to be
turned out of employment by sinking europe,
asia, and africa, or annexing them to the
united states., —boston chronolypt.
the north star.
rochester, april 13, 1*49
editorial correspondence.
syracuse, april 9th, 1849.
my dear friends—l have just time to let
you know of my where-abouts, and to say a
word of my meetings thus far. my first was
held at seneca falls, in the wesleyan chap
el. i found mr. phillips the minister, as usual
on hand, warmly interested, and ardently la
boring to promote the cause. at tire time
appointed, the house was crowded with a very
respectable audience, all apparently anxious
to hear, and to be instructed. with such an
audience, and such a subject, it was impossi
ble to be cold and lifeless. the meeting con
tinued for more than two ho.urs. at the close
1 obtained eight subscribers to the north star.
thursday i went to auburn. through the
kind agency of my friend, e. capron, a meet
ing had been appointed for me, in the old
fniversalist church, for that evening. the
house is small, and was well filled. i
have no doubt that good was done by the
meeting. auburn has long been accounted
bard soil for anti-slavery truth, but to my
mind, there are few places where a more
generous hearing will be extended to an anti
slavery laborer. on friday my kind friend
j. w. quincy, hired a carriage, and took me
to my next appointment, at*skanealeles.
here, too, a large audience greeted me, and
gave me a respectful hearing. skaneateles
has greatly improved in its tone, on the sub
ject of slavery, since i visited that town, four
years ago. it had the appearance of a real
slave-holding town,»in which the black man
could not enter, without being assailed by j
thoughtless boys, and brutal young men, whol
seemed to take delight in manifesting disrc-i
sped and contempt, for what in sheer rude-'
ness they called a nigger. we passed through
the village this time, without meeting any of
the usual marks of semi-barbarism, that for
merly distinguished that town. much of this
change was wrought by that fast, faithful, and
noble friend of the slave, now gone to his rest,
james canning fuller, who iu early anti-sla
very times was several limes mobbed on ac-1
count of bis abolition principles and practice.!
hut he is new gone to his rest. it was sad to j
be there without his presence, to cheer and
encourage me in the good work to which he
was devoted; yet it was grateful, to fierceive
that what he achieved lived after him. 1 was met
at skaneateles by david spalding, from bor
odino, who'kindlv came to convey me from the
burner to the latter ot my appointments, and
alter meeting, he took mein bis wagon, and
loot in me on to lus house, eight miles toward
barodino. the meeting was held iu the
methodist church, and was well attended.
j'nat on sunday, was held in the baptist
church, and was equally well attended. my
visit iu borodino was a very pleasant one.
mr. .spalding and family know well how to
make the weary stranger at home, and i left
fe« ling grateful for’th. sr kind attentions, and
the aid they mutually rendered rue. the
anti-slavery lecturer need never fear to l
go to the home of david spalding for though
unpretending, and in humble ctrcumsuuces,
he lakes sincere pleasure m lending a helping
hand to all devoted laborers in ibis cause.
there is a meeting appointed f«»x me tin*
evening, in i be googrefationil chunk, ofthis
i place. («u will pwteire that all my meeting*
•ho* far .hare taken place ia churches. thi* i
j uke to be a hopeful atga of the times. a few
months ago it was difficult to get the doers of
the church on this subject; and it may be so
still in most places, but thus far on my tour,
meetings have bees held ia ehurehes, without
a single exception.
t ant now, at the house of my esteemed
friend. samuel j. may.
vours sincerely, f. d.
respecting «he meeting at syracuse
mr. may says.
dear sir—l am happy to say, that we had
a very large_ audience on last evening, and
j mr. douglass addressed them, an more than
an hour, in a very able manner. i hare some
times heard from him passages of greater
eloquence, but never a discourse that was so
well sustained throughout aa this. he has
just left my house for new york. s. j. m
domestic economy.
under the head of domestic economy, we
i intend to continue such articles as pertain to
the business enterprise of our people; sod
i although this properly belongs to another
classification, we prefer uf treat it under the
above head, as it, connectedly, belongs to the
subject of domestic economy, as adduced by
us.
in adducing the following subject, we do
not intend to treat it elaborately, aa this we
shall do in another place, but design, barely,
to correct a long established error, and te
move, what is to our people an insurmounta
ble difficulty, thereby clearing away the bar
rier, and dispelling the gloom, in which we
have been so long enshrouded, as the greatest
j obstacles to our elevation.
prayer, we are taught, is all-sufficient for
all things. this, we also assure our readers
is not the case. never was there a grosser,
or more palpable absurdity; and the writer of
this is perfectly willing to hazard his reputa
tion, for the good of his brethren, and run the
risk of being branded by bigots and hypocrites
as a sceptic and infidel, in giving this a positive
contradiction. it may be orthodox, so to be
lieve, but it is not in accordance with common
sense, —it may be enjoined as revelation, bat
it is at variance with truth, and contrary to
reason and fact.
there are three distinct laws by which god
rules the destinies of man these are the spir
itual law, the moral law, and the physical
law. these laws are as immutable, as inva
riable as god himself, and without a strict
conformity to one or the other, nothing can
be effected. all that is, or can be, must be
done in accordance with, and can only be of
the same nature of the-law, to which it con
forms. hence, a physical, or temporal end,
cannot be attained by a spiritual means. nor
can a spiritual end be attained by a physical
means.
there is no effect without a cause, and
every cause must be adequate to the effect
produced. therefore, there can be no end
without a means, and every means used must
be adequate to the end to be attained. thus
a barrel of flour requires a man, or person of
certain strength, to lift it, without which force
or power, it could not be raised the force or
power applied, is the means, and the barrel of
flour the end to be attained, in this case.
hence the means, were equal to the
end. the barrel of flour had to be lifted—a
certain force was necessary, a child, or weak
-1 ly person could not have done it—nothing
could have accomplished it, but which was
equal to the task. in like manner, are all
things effected, or accomplished—means and
ends equal to each other.
prayer is a spiritual means, used in confor
mity to the spiritual law, and can only be in
strumental in attaining a spiritual end this,
we wish to be distinctly understood, and no
thing ever was, ever can, or evfer will be ef
fected by it, but that which.w spiritual. the
physical wants, nor temporal demands of man
ever can be supplied by it. “infidel!” you
cry. but stay, good brother, say we, “truth
is mighty, and will prevail ;”yes,
“truth crushed to earth, shall rise again,
the eternal years of god are hers;
while error wounded, writhes fn pain,
and dies amid her worshippers.”
all miracles were wrought for spiritual
purposes—to show' and establish the power
of god, to those who doubted and disbelieved;
and not, in any case, to supply the temporal
or physical wants of man. miracles, being of
i that order of god's ordinances, beyond the
comprehension of man, and altogether spirit
ual in their tendency, we shall not spend time
1 in treating of them, in this place.
we are told, that christ taught us to pray
1 “give us this day, our daily bread,” &c.,and
and that this, or some other prayer is neces
sary, to the attainment of our bread, or what
ever else we desire.
tiiis is also a mistake —an awkward blun
der in our .scriptural exponents, and theologi
cal demonstrators, albeit, as christians, we
hold that mau should, at all times, that is
daily, return or give thanks to god, the au
thor of his being, for the abundance of his
goodness in all things. but, this injunction
like many of ins precepts, was given expres
ly to his disciples. they were taught, to
daily ask to be fed, w ith the bread of heaven,
upon which to feast their souls to fit and pre
pare them, for their love and mercy. and
this appeared to be necessary—was it not
reasonable, that men such as they were, fresh
from the unrestrained multitude of trafickers,
who swarmed the region of judea, and called
to a vocation so high and holy, should receive
an admonition to daily look to heaven, for aid
and sustenance, in the propagation of those
great truths 1 it is reasonable, and christ had
reference to heavenly bread, and no other.
that it meant no other than spiritual bread,
it requires but little argument to show. i
player be the means by which a temporal oi
physical end be attained, if it be at all a
means by which such cods are attained, why
iu the name of justice, is there not more ac
complished, by the prayerful and faithful?
why have not piaying people, the manifold
abundance of this world’s possessions l nay,
verily, because prayer u not the meant by
which such ends are attainable. prayer beif
purely spiritual, only pertains to those
things, that are spiritual and can efiect
nothing, but that which ia spiritual. it
can neither fell a tree, nor lift a barrel of door.
it w ill be readily admitted, by the colored
people at least, that slave-holders are general
»ery wicked men, many of them confirmed
u>fcd*la, and the greater part of them gamb
lets, rs, «*bb*ih-br taker*, fornica
tor*. and adulterer*, all added to the doable
m», and a tji damnation, that await* them for
nun-sieah'g. and bartering away humanity,
and trafficking in tlie blood of soula- also,
that ti c slaves, gcreraljy, are a pioua and
religious people, no one will deoy.
how thru can you. and we pot the ques
tion to you. as colored people —those whohave
suffered ten-fold w rung* —bow can vou recon
cile yourselves to these facta facta, which
challenge, and defy contradiction, that the
slave who prays, has not only got nothing, but
dare not lay claim to bis own person—to the
affectumis of las own wife and children;
while the wicked master, the infidel wretch,
who neither prays, uor believes in the exis
tence of a god, possesses power, almost un
limited, mean* of *ll kinds, lands, money and
wealth in abundance, besides owning the very
bodies and souls, as it were, of the people
who depend upon prayer as a means 1 we
address ourselves to your common sense, and
reason and ask you, brethren, colored people,
in god’s name—in the name of a degenerate
race—in the name of outraged humanity—in
the name of our future prospects—in the
name of the destinies of our oppressed
people—in the name of a debased intellect—
in the much abused name of insulted intelli.
geace, how'can you reconcile yourselves to
such a glaring contradiction ?—a contradic
tion, as clear as the sun at high meridian.
the slave may, in the agony ofhis wound
ed soul, and goodness of a believing heart,
fall upon his knees, and clasping his hands,cry
out, “pray, master, forgive me this offence!”
then, raising his eyes to heaven, “how long,
o lord most mighty—how long, shall i
thus continue to suffer o! when shall the
day of my deliverance come!” and while he
is thus, pathetically supplicating, rending both
heaven and earth, with his appeals of misery,
the infernal monster, with the blasphemy of
hell upon his polluted lips, and the punishing
rod of a fiend in his hand, deaf to ali entrea
ties and cries of mercy, will continue to lace
rate, scourge, and lay open the naked flesh,
until the bleeding, mangled victim falls ex
hausted at his feet! all this is actually done,
yea, daily takes place, somewhere in ihe
the south, while the simple-hearted, igno
rant slave is calling upon high heaven for aid
and assistance!
and why, we ask, in the name of god, and
all “the just made perfect,” why .are not
these prayers and supplications answered?
simply, because prayer and faith are not the
means to be made use of, in such a case.
prayer is a spiritual means, intended only
to answer spiritual ends. when the slave
called upon god, from the depths of his soul,
to forgive and pardon his sins—to comfort
and refresh his spirits, god heard and an
swered him. but, in this prayer and supplica
tion for deliverance from the iron grasp of a
hard-hearted task master, and ruthless tyrant,
god answered not his prayer, because it was
improperly applied it was wrong means
to be used, in such a case.
the inhuman despotism of the demon mas.
ter, toward the slave, was a temporal and phy
sical act, and required temporal and phy
sical means to prevent it. the master and
slaves are both human beings, endowed with
the same faculties--a corporeal or physical
system, with limbs having bones, muscles,
and tendons, which give strength to the sys
tem. as the punishment of the slave was
physical, inflicted by strength, so should it
have been met by physical force, and preven
ted by strength. had the slave, instead of
falling upon his knees, looking up to heaven
for assistance, have seized his master, held
him fast, tiirust him aside, or taken to his
heels, —in all or either of these cases, he may
have been successful in arresting the punish
ment. the proper means to be made use of
in such a case. physical ends, we honestly
and sincerely assure you, brethren, can only be
successfully attained by physical means, and it
is the height of folly—it is blind madness to
believe any thing else.
further argument is useless; we have now
transcended the bounds, to which we had lim
ited ourselves. our sole, and only object is
to disabuse the minds of our brethren, of the
miserable heresies, which they have been
taught, by the enemies of our race; to unplug
their ears, and tear away the veil from their
eyes, to ihe scenes, the sufferings, the groans
and wailings, of outraged and down-trodde*
humanity. the slaveholding and pro-slavery
high priests of infamy may, for sinister mo
tives, so teach, as true doctiine, and sound or
thodoxy; the while theologian may, if he can,
induce colored people to depend upon faith
and prayer, to accomplish their earthly desires
for them, believing them to be tit* means;
and our brethren may, if they will so stub
bornly persist in believing; but we can assure
them, that the whites, v ho so teach, do not
believe it themselves; but, if they did, it is
not the truth, being at variance with every
known fact, and all human experience. it i*
high time, brethren, we had begun to think
for ourselves; we have had others long
enough, to think for us. while the pro-sla
very whites can keep us satisfied, in depend
ing upon prayer, and looking to heaven for all
we desire in this world, there are no fears
that we will ever be in their way, other than
as a nuisance, w hen it is the easiest thing in
the world, to get rid of us, by sending us
away to distant parts. things should be
dealt with just as persons please, and if we
will be things, why let us be accordingly
dealt with. brethren, our object ia to aet you
to thinking—thinking for yourselves. all
that you know, in morals or religion, you
hare learned fiom your oppressors, and those
for the most part, slave-holders, as the colored
people in this country, generally come trora
the south. an “evil tree cannot bring forth
good fruit,” bow, then, can such corrupt
wretches, a* many of these, do otherwise than
wrongly teach you having removed, as we
hope, this difficulty, hoping that you may
profit by the same, we shall endeavor to con
tinue, every week, to aay something to you,
oo domestic economy and business enterprise.
—m. n.
the paisoxeks’ friend for april contains:
“genseniua, or the adventures of a germau
student;” debate on capital punishment;
journal of a poor vicar; letter to got.
bnggs, on the death penalty; a short des
cription of mount auburn cemetery; and
other interesting articles.
john b. got oh is again in this city, let*
turing to overflowing audiences there is
•afil to be some probability o! hia becoming a
resident in rochester.
highly taimtiat rlathtlcmmu c«w»
detthr-emmimat »f
newspaper.
all reformatory newspapers habor uoder
disadvantages, that people are not generally
aware of. ainang to correct public senti
ment, in their particular department, they are
for the most part, in advance of the public;
hence, they cannot be otherwise than unpopu
lar and that which is unpopular, cannot be
expected to meet with very paitieular favor,
especially, in such a cause, as that espoused
by the no*th stas. to render such a pa
per useful, it should, aa extensively as possi
ble, be circulated among the colored people of
the lnited states, without which it could
not be more effective than any other anti
slavery paper. upon them, then, ia such s
paper mainly dependant for support. were
there white subscribers sufficient who were
willing to sustain this or any other papdpfon
ducted by colored men, devoted to the eleva
tion of their race, that would not reach the
object aimed at, because the colored people
themselves would still le deprived of its ben
efits, and occupying the same nonentical in
different position, having others to think, act,
read, and do for them. but this is not even
the case; the few friends who are willing to
aid us, in our arduous undertaking, are so
burdened with papers of their own, papers,
necessary to the sustenance of th 6 great an
ti-slavery cause at large, that the mo&t, that
might be expected of them, would bo to
assist us, at the commencement, and
reasonably enough expect us to sustain our
selves thereafter.
what we now design to do, is to sot this
matter in a clear light, before the public and
our readers, everywhere of all classes, anti
show' them, that it is morally impossible, in
the present state of society, or condition of
the colored people of this country, for them
to sustain an ably conducted, and efficient
newspaper, among them. to this end and
purpose, we shall present a statistical account
in which there can be no mistake.
there are now in the united states, about
500,000 free colored people, five sixths of
whom being women and children, we have
83,333 and a fraction, who are men, or
heads of families, and, as one third of this
number, at least, belong to the southern states
we h ive but g 2,489 and a fraction, who
dare take a newspaper, such as ours. of this
number, at least two thirds (male adults) and
we make quite a libsral allowance, cannot read;
so that there are only 20,849 and a fraction,
qualified to understand anything in it. ofthe
twenty-thousand and odd, there are, and we
consider this the smallest figure, at least three
fourths, who, from various causes (perhaps,
religious, and others combined) are totally
indifferent to the existence of a paper among
us so that we have really, but 5,207 or there
about, who may be considered interested ir
such enterprizes. of these, one half may b<
accounted as too limited in means, to justify
them in subscribing for and sustaining a pub
lie journal, though it may be devoted to thei
welfare hence, all told, and this is a libera
figure, there cannot, possibly, be at best, mor<
than 25,000 colored persons, throughout th<
united states, who, under any circumstance;
at present, can be reasonably expected to take
a newspaper. a want of knowledge of these
facts, is the reason, why all papers among us
die for want of support.
those who know anything about our people
in this country at all, very well know, tha
the preponderance of the aged, by far, came
from the south, the children, and in many tn
stances, the younger people having only learn
ed to read, since they came to the .north
our young women too, who are for the mos
part, readers, are, generally, “at service,’
and it could not be expected, that young wo
men at service, and children, could sustain z
newspaper.
were the whole twenty-five hundred t(
concentrate their patronage upon a good pa
per, it would be insufficient, as it requires, ai
least 3,500 paying subscribers to sustain tlx
north star. to give an idea of the average
number of our people, who subscribe to s
newspaper, devoted to their interest, we wil
state for information, that new york citv
philadelphia, where the concentrated intelli
gence, and wealth of oar people, in their pal
miest days, never affoided more thar sever
hundred subscribers, in either place, to thosf
papers which then existed in their midst, and
will not now give an advance of five per cent,
and no paper at a distance, may expect to ob
tain over two hundred subscribers, in eithei
place and other towns will rate proportionn
hly below these. but of the few there are tc
support a newspaper, these are now called or
by the existence of three papers at present,
among us, besides other anti-slavery papers.
and how can they exist? they cannot nndei
existing circumstances.
we have travelled, holding meetings among
our people almost incessantly, during the pasl
year, and understand their state and condition
in many of the states, quite familiarly, ami
are satisfied what can, and what cannot he
done, in this enterprize. now that we cunnot
do without, and must have an efficient news
paper among us, is beyond a question bm
how shall it be sustained' is the m<»st impor
tant inquiry. to us, as an individual, and we
risk nothing by asserting the same for our col
league, it does not matter who the persons
are, who stand at the helm, so that they are
fully competent, and adequate to the task.
colored men, we think they should lie, in
this instance, because it is, peculiarly, the
colored people's cause but let them be good
and true, “true to their brethren, and then
god, 1 true to god and humanity. we have
no personal ambition in the matter, and we
repeat, w hat we say for one, we venture to
say for both, all that we desire is, to see the
cause pressed onward, in sturdy inarch, te
success and victory.
a newspaper, to be well sustained and kept
up among the colored people, should be con
ducted by men of easy circumstances, as sir
years' experience, in connexion with the pres*
has convinced us. they should have a sup
port solely independent of the proceeds of the
subscription to their paper. to us, it was al
ways a losing concern, as we then supported
ourselves by other business, giving our servi
ces gratuitously, as editor, besides contribu
ting to (he pecuniary support ofithe paper.
that paper was small,.and rather more of a
local character, than the north star, oi a ns
uooal paper. this ia a very different enter
prise, requiring the whole lime and attmios
of us conductors.
to ensure the successful sod efficient eontin
oance of an able journal among 89. the paper
should be endmerd, with s win* l** sl suffi
to meet current expense* incidental to it* pub
lication, if nothing more; and uatrl this u*
dime, every good friend who wishes well the
cause, or desires success from degradation,
who has the means to spare; apd th re arc
thousands such, arc respectfully colled upon
to make donations to sustain an organ for the
i moral, civil and religious elevation of a much
wronged people, with whom we are fully
identified, and for whom we hare made all the
sacnfices it is possible for ua to make, without
i sacrificing life itself.
many are the seminaries, colleges, and other
institutions, that are b ing endowed, and lega-
mes being left, even to those that hare an
abundance, by the g»od and bjnevdent and
we sincerely think, that the well wisher of
humanity, could not belter appropriate a don
i ation of some kind, than to thesustenanceofan
efficient newspaper ainot.g us, without the ex
istence of which, 11 is almost delusion to talk
of our redemption from degradation and bon
dage.
we have now given a fair, candid, and hoir
est statement, of the condition of our people—
a statistical summary, which we conceive to
be of the highest importance—the probability
and improbability of the existence of a paper
among us, believing that it is only necessary
to give the substantial facts public, iy, to en
sure the donations of many, to the --isteiianee
laudable, praiseworthy, and altogether neces
sary, without which an endless gradation
must be our certain doom !—m. r.
progress in geneva.
the school under the superint mlmice of
henry highland garnet, ended is winter
term, by a public exhibition on t! 3d. and
4th. inst. the examination in sc 00l exer
cises is spoken of as having abund »tly satis
fied the patrons, tliat the pupils w* ,v not de
ficient in the requisites of good s. imlarship;
and that iheir preceptor was pecui .rlv fitted
for his responsible mission. the e .eutionarv
performances in the evening, attracted a nu
merous audience. the large num! r of those
present not iudentified by complexi< i with the
i proscribed in this land, bad a full >poriunity
of witnessing the mental capacity i those so
commonly and unjustly termed ,i inferior
i class. the selection of pieces— ogle and
colloquial—was excellent, and tfte dmiiable
manner in which they were diliver d, richly
i deserved the unsparing applause iiestowed
upon them. the elocution class was com
posed both of adults and juveni! s. the
younger aspirants exhibited thos powers,
which by good cultivation, are d i.stincd to
make their lathers and mothers pro.nl of theii
offspring.
a number of original com posit 'ons were
submitted from the senior, and ah the ju
venile classes; giving unmistakable evidences
i of genius. scholars who can weave from theii
own resources such productions as emanated
from the geneva class, need never despair ol
complete success in their studies. thoughl
i engendeis thought: place one idea upon pa
i per, another will surely follow. composition
is a great element in the qualification of a good
scholar. it necessaiily increases a desire tor
knowledge of men and things; and this trait ot
observtion will lay the foundation for all those
studies so important to the student. the fol
lowing themes were submitted. hope; things
that i love; american slavery; triumph of
perseverance; crucifixion; good and evil;
rainbow; lying; remember thy creator;
i spring; punctuality; liberty; pleasures of the
grove. we should be glad to detail ilso some
of the brilliant specimens of elocution; but
where the whole was so praiseworthy, though
i the temptation is almost irresistable to men
tion names, yet it might appear so partial,
that we forego the pleasure of thus discrimi
nating.
the select music by the class, (many of
them members of the famed geneva choir,)
was all that the votaries oft he divine art could
de-ire; indeed there was a most happy blend
ing of music with elocution. mr. iiogaidus
with his guitar and mr. wellington with his
violin, enchanted the audience with their
witching inspiration. the former gentleman
gained additional laurels by his vocalising a
number of mr. dempstei’s choice arid popular
effusions. the entire exhibition w as one that
geneva may well bo proud of, and moreover
when it is know n tliat of late similar exhibi
tions of seminaries among the whites in that
place have been interrupted even to a discon
tinuance by a reckless demonstration of young
men, the fact that mr. garnet successfully
triumphed, free from any disturbance is one
that should be remembered. there were also
those in attendance, who had expressed their
opinion that colored scholars could appreciate
no higher mental exercise than a juvenile
spelling hook, and yet the efforts of those
same scholars at the exhibition were most flat
teringly commented upon by those same indi
viduals, thus effecting a revolution in the minds
of those preconceived against the-colored
man’s capacity fur improvement. these are
just the triumphs desired by the intelligent
colored americans. no favor does he crave
at the hands of pro-slaveiy. give him a fair
field, and he welcomes the responsibility of
ptoving his equality.
alter the address on the means of elevation i
by win. c. nell, the audience wishing to
improve by the occasion of so large a gatiier
ing, organized for discussing the following
resolution:—
resolved, that though we never can for
get the guilt ot our republican oppressors, nor
omit to record the untiring efforts of fi tends in
our behalt, we are neveitiieles, daily reminded
of our deficient zeal in hastening the downfall
ot american slavery and the consequent ele
vation of the nominally free colored citizens
to an equality with the favored claw in the
l tilted btates.
the resolution formed a basts for several
pertinent addresses, all characterised by an
earnestness of mauler and manner, readily
exacted of llmae who feel the need of mak
ing sacrifices for an advancement of the down
trodden.
during the coarse of mi. garnet's address
in alluding to th« brighter day dawning upon
the colored man, he mentioned the fact of
rev. alexander crummel, wlio (hough pur
scribed a number of years by the episcopal
clergy of new york was bow admitted to the
boaon of cambridge college, england; also,
that charles l. reason, principal of a colored
•ebool in new york city, had recently been
invited to a professorship in a college in the
empire state. these, with other evidences
spoken of, were hailed by the meeting as
oiom encouraging omen*. since then, we
aw enabled to add, that hubert morris, f.sq
of boston, has just been appointed justice of
the peace, by the governor of m ismcfeisetts
two colored men in the old bay v>iate .re now
thud acknowledged, the mermg at gtneva
was one long to be remembered. av t 3 n
i fluence felt in the coiiimticd improvement
of her citizens! may they ever be» r mjm j
that “those who would i*o free themselves
must strike the blow.”—w.
pro-slavery missions.
it ts scarcely credible thnt societies c«»!t!>.
lished for the express p of spreading
abroad a knowledge of hii-iianitv— whos.-
doctrines are emphatically cad* <1 good news
to ailpeopte,” should be found fending tf, ei r
countenance to the prariice which n *saves
men—makes them the properly of their fel
low men, thereby putting u out of their
power to adopt anti act up to the doctrines
taught. but so it is. what are called the
three central societies” are all more »r less
under the influence of slavery. father they
have siaveiiolding missionaries, whom tlie\
fail to rebuke for their iniquity, lest thev
should wound the feelings of their christum
brelhern south, —or they nro directly under
slavery influence by their connection w ith slave
holding churches. with tlie one hand they
clutch the money which the dear christain
brother gives as an offering of a sweet
smelling savor,” well knowing that the hand
that oilers it, is red with the blood of the
murdered slave with the other they send this
money to support a missionary in preaching
the gospel at the tar ends of the earth, wh-re,
perhaps, practical christianity is belter know n
than it is amongst those “very dear brethren”
themselves. shame on the inconsistency and
wickedness nt su it conduct* if anything
can bring christianity into disrepute, such
flagrant violation of ns first principles by its
loudest and most conspicuous professors, w ill
have that effect. to some extent it lias al
ready had that effect. one listens to the
preaching of such men, as to a form of words
spoken by a parrot. they may he good or
bad but it matters not what the parrot thinks
ot them. \v orse than that even tor their
profession of regard for w hat they preach, be
ing proved to be all a sham, they exert a most
demoralising and baleful influence upon those
who have learned to h ok up to them as their
spiritual instructors—ensamples to them of all
that is good and excellent. if the shepherd
strays, what wonder if the sheep follow hia
example i his, however, in the common a<»
i ceptation, and only m so lyf us applicable tu
existing cucumstance.s lotii.?.' true f iinstiani
ty there are no class or caste
*but all are brethren. i’o stow that lam not
speaking at random. i q.jbte the following
troin an account ot the bu-adon convention,
as given by the utica conaibutor. it will be
seen that there are some atfiongst themselves
who have arrived at the same conclusion. all
honor to those who have ti& cohrage and the
f manliness publicly to express their sentiments.
would there were mr t like elder foss
j elder uoss. will iho brother point me
to that part ot the constitution [of the ameri
can baptist missionary i tu<oiij which points
out the course its mcuibersj are to take on
slavery
eld. hock wood. they treed to let slave
ry with other questions, aldne —we cannot
judge of their motives.
i*ld. loss. no god judges of motives
we judge of actions. 1 here is in the eastern
world a sect of people called 1 hugs, they
believe that the god they worship is greatly
delighted with human biood and they kill men
as an act ot devotion. .now; it one of these
men hud been a missionary,.- year after year
under tiie baptist missionary board and load
been sanctioned by the board, l wish to ask
it it would not nave been the duty of the board
to speak out against thugwni? 1 would ask
this intelligent audience it they would not
feel it a matter of rejoicing thus to speak out f
slavery is ihugisiu; u is feasting upon the
wrecked hopes and upon the agonies ot three
millions ol our fellow-men, and our missionary
bodies ought to speak out against it.
eid. hock wood. i slid not decide that
exclusive attention to one point was best, but
i would not impute to them wrong motives.
eld. fuss. the brother misunderstands
me. lam not now paying attention to good
motives, but am examining the relation ol the
union to slaveholders, and its duly, by an
illustration fiorn thngism. in regard to
the single object of missionary bodies,
and their influence on the slavery question,
permit me to read the views ot ltr. barnes,
of philadelphia, on that subject
eld. foss reads: what is it that lends
the most efficient sanction to slavery hi the
united states what is it that does’most to
keep tin: public conscience at ease on tins sub
ject f v\ hat is it that tenders aboiiivn all
measures to remove the evil lam not igno
tani that tho laws sustain the system, and
that supposed interest contubuics to it, and
that the love ol idleness and tin- 1 we ol power,
and the love ol base passions which the sys
tem engenders, and that a show of argument,
opaque and inconclusive on one side ot a cer
tain line, but bngtit as noon-day on the other,
does much to sustain the system. but, alter
all, the most efficient of ail supports, the thing
which most directly interferes with all at
tempts at reformation that which gives the
greatest quietus to the consciences, if u dots
not lurntsh tin.- fhostsalfstaclory argument to the
understanding, is the fact that the system is
countenanced by good men that bishops and
1 nests and beacons, that ministers and elder*,
that sunday-school teachers sod exhoricrs,
that pious matrons and it* lies** are the hold
ers ol slaves, and that the ecclesiastical bodies
of the land address no language ot rebuke or
entreaty to their conwu nr* s.
\n hut a confession from one of themselves!
is not dr. barnes deserving of exconnimiuqi*
cation from the church, as an infidel and
heretic, for thus calumniating the character ol
her “bishops, priests, ami deacons'” all
the difference between inm and the more radi
cal reformers, is, that he mink* a slaveholder
can be a good man,” aud they think u im
possible he can be anything but a bad man. a
pretty considerable difference no doabt; but
he confesses the fact, it is for others to draw
the conclusion. j. it.
caljfohma gotilssmust:—the most re
cent intelligence iroui california announces,
whatever) one anticipated, thatthe numerous
population already gathered there, have taken
measures to constitute a provisional govern
ment. a convention has been called t*> meet
about the fiist of may, which duly organize a
government, sufficiently comprehensive and
staple to wait the slow motion of congress as
long as need be. from the tone ot the paper
winch furnishes the informal!' u, it would
seem to be a weifeuruierstood purpose ol the
people there, to lake measures lor the effect
ual exclusion of slavery front the it country,
-01. benton’s advice u> spoken ol a* excellent
in all respects, arid as furnishing the probable
wodel uf the action that will be taken.—a. v.
txmgiuu.
fewer than 18ii deacons and 205 jinesu
been ordained for the established church
in england, wales, and ireland, during the
l**t christmas season
canadian affairs
1 i,at there it wile disaffection hi the pro
there can ho no doubt. whatever
may he the can»«, hether it is in consequence
of their connection with england, and being
under the aristocratic rule of that country or
not. ;t i* rot needful to determine; but when
w» compare the condition of the canadians—
•hetr lack of enterprise and prosperity, with
that ot their yankee neighbors nn this aide ol
the border—the comparison is anything bul
ivorable to the colony. the canadians hart
egun to see this. no amount of loyaitv car
‘■hut their eyes to this fact. they have ir
consequence begun to speculate somewha
irgely on the propriety ofsepaiating from lh<
mother country, and of annexation to th<
united states. the montreal witness tliui
mates the advantages w hich admission into the
union would secure to canada
“it would do away with all fear of becora
involved in a war witii the 1 nited states.
it would do away with all custom-houses
and smuggling along our very frontier, and
establish free trade with the north-american
continent
it would introduce ihe american currency
of dollars irid cents, and the american post
age svstern would be immediately extended
over canada. it would introduce american
capital freely into canada, to erect factories,
io firry on manufactories, and to putchase the
produce of the soil.
wou ld raise the value of fixed property in
canada to a par with property similarly cir
cumstanced on the other side of the lines.
ii would greatly promote the construction
f railroads in canada.
|t would cause a great part of the produce
ol the west to llow down the st. i>aw
lence.”
i 'no montreal courier, in a rejoinder tc
tins article says
“the editor of the montreal witness, in a
recmit issue, gives ins ideas of the advantage!
and disadvantages we would experience if an
nexed to the neighboring states. no fear o
the charge ol inconsistency (disloyalty is now
by com non consent an obsolete word on this
of the atlantic) should deter an edttoi
iro n discussing a question of such vital im
po lance to it* subscribers and fellow citizens
england invites the discussion, and, speaking
bv tier political speakers, declares her willing'
lio-is to ein tncipate us, whenever we considei
d for our interest that she should do so.
another paper, that pretends to represen
;h sentiments of ih<‘ people of lower canada
wlio are for the most part of french origin
s’i vs:
*\v huni a nation, small if you will, hu
:oil a nation. we have a language, a religion
.i i laws, all not ot england. we have ou
r our country, our churches, our colleges
on, piiesi3, our advocates, our notaries, a!
i r uicli, and we have our motto, “.yos insti
’•ih ns, notre langur, it run lots." all thes
in have inherited from fiance. by treaty o
--.on, england is bound, obliged, to guar
not and preserve these institutions, whicl
lot ;i the grocud work of our nationality.
1 liey have, by an act worthy of nichola
of russia, crushed the french population
winch is ihe majority, under the english pop
<i!:rnn which is the minority. our institu
t mis, then no longer enjoy the guaranty ilia
england promised them liy treaty. we an
i iv ai ihe mercy of our political and religion:
cu uie.~. the treaty is then violated, or a
i* i't, on the eve of being so. we are in
i noer subjects of england; we are placed tin
i the domination nf a set of fellow-sub
i us. and we should he justified in demand
i .il not l!ie intervention, at least the medi
*ii of france, who was a parly to the trea
t j a’
i'lie following is the latest heard of cana-
j. 50 affairs:
montreal, april 3, 1949
the long expected university hill comes up
in lue house to night.
last night, hi the house of assembly, sir
a mcnab made an adtiress to his excellency
loi copies of all petitions concerning resolu
tions on the payment of the rebellion losses.
\u exceedingly sharp and bitter discussion
ensued. the motion was lost, 39 to 10. an
investigation is going on at toronto, relative
to the late riots.— roch. amur
rebellion reward hill. —up to this date,
.-ixty-mne public meetings havecondcmed this
bid and demanded a dissolution of the house.
coburg star, apr. 4
(n reference to these disturbances the al
bany evening journal, a paper that has every
opportunity of being well informed on the sub
ject, says:
“the immediate cause of the present excite
ment involves no great principle. it grows
out of no settled haired of existing institutions.
i’lie most tumultuous declaimers against the
“rebel” hill are the most boisterous in their
profession of attachment to the government.
indeed, the only objection to the bill is,that it
is tor the pecuniary benefit of those who are
not loyal. under such a state of facts, there
is but little probability of a rebellion, unlpss
it is got up by iliose to gratify whom the üb
jectionable hill was enacted
commercial as well as polmcal causes are
et work, to produce an ultimate severance
of the tie that hinds our northern neighbors to
the government of great biilain. 'l’lie pres
•nt excitement may quicken the preceptions
ol the people of the provinces, and, combined
with other causes, may facilitate what is inev
itable; but. alone, it will lead to no great
1. mill.”
it is very evident, that w hether anything of
importance grows out of this or not, the en
thusiasm of loyalty to the htitish crown, is
speedily passing away. and who can object,
when all that is gained by it, is the pleasure
of being taxed for ihe support of an endless
catalogue of aristociatic governors, custom
house officeis, and tax collectors?—j. d.
liberia.
all who have taken any trouble to inquire
into the subject of colonization in liberia,
must have dtecovered the uncertainty, and
doubted he truth of the information obtained.
it is therefore gratifying to receive any ac
count of the african republic, on which reliance
van be placed. that such is the case with
lespi-ct to the pamphlet by elder s. s. ball,
inuii which copious extracts w ill lie found on
the outside of this week’s paper, i have no
doubt. the following, confirmatory testimo
ny is from the western christian, published
in elgin, 111 —j. d.
at the meeting o f t|, o colored baptist asso
ciation] in i“>lit was resolved to send sam
nel s. ball, an elder well known by the as
sociation, and a man ot unimpeachab.e inte
grity and hrimian zeal,as an exploring agent
tu liuria lor tins assoc, at ion. he was sent
and being favored ol god, was permitted to
return m time to report to the tenth annual
meeting of this body. 11, 8 report convinced
us that a.i the arguments used to induce us to
go to that country are undeserving of o ur
confidence, and now this body of despised
elms nans are thereby furnished with such
facts in regard to liberia, as will enable them
clearly to see that golonixationisis are ,h e j r
most inveterate enemies.”
s>nator button on slanry. —senator ben-*
ton w ill canvass every county in missouri, tnj
explain ill person lus views in favor of the:
gradual abolition of slavery. he is one of the 1
most prominent eandidaies of the democratic
party lor the presidency m i*s*2.
imposition.—to make ns pay the postage l
on letters directing a change to be made in tliei
gaper
rnliforaia.
the chi*t topic of discussion in the new*'
pspem still continue* to be the gold region—
emigration thither, and the amount of gold
collected, and on its way to the united slates
mint. the repons are of course great!?
exaggerated, fetters without number are
published, professing to give a true and par
i ttcular account of the state of things in the
gold region but after all, there is rery hula
of what appears to bo reliable intelligence.
the fever, on the whole, seems to have some
what abated. a late correspondent of the
new york herald says
the price of provisions had become mod
erate. on the 30th of january, flour in parcels
was selling at 10 per barrel by the single
barrel at $l6. pork was dull at $3o per
barrel. salt beef could scarcely be sold. so
one would give 14 per barrel for it.
four cargoes of goods were daily expected
from china two cargoes of english g ods
from sydney, new south wales seventeen
vessels from valparaiso and the west coast of
mexico; and several vessels from tahiti.
there had been no arrivals from the united
states. the sloop of-war st. mary was the
only national vessel at san francisco.
the united states store-ship lexington did
not sail from san francisco for the united,
stales, till the ‘2sth of january. she had
$400,000 in gold on board.
the new york tribune publishes an ex
tract from a business letter received by a res
pectable house in that city, from its correspon
dent at san francisco. though some of
the statements (says that paper) seem almost
incredible, we vouch for their authenticity.’’
san francisco, feb. 7, 1849.
you ask me to give you facts as they are.
you shall have a plain statement of matters,
as they exist.—at present there is little ori
nothing doing in the place in consequence of,
the immense quantity of snow that has fallen
this year.
there are at present two thousand person
at the mines. some are living in tents, and
others in log houses. many have perished from
exposure to cold, fevers, &c. but such is the
excitement and rage for gold that they under
go the most unheard-of hardships wiih the
hope of passing the winter on the spot so as
to avail themselves of the first opening of
spring which is looked forward to with great
hopes.
as regards the richness of these minos, i
can only sav that the most exaggerated ac
counts may he believed. a few days ago a
gentleman came down from th mines bring
ing with him 12,000, in gold dust, which
he dug out in the space of six davs. this is
a fact that you may rely upon. 1 have it from
persons, eye-witnesses, whose veracity cannot
be doubted.
myself saw a piece this morning weigh
ing seven pounds, the most curious specimen
that has yet made its appearance. the ex
traordinary richness of this placer, or placers,
for iheie are many, surpasses anything that
the world lias ever seen. i can hardly real-i
ize it mvself.
there has been upward of five millions oi
dollars of gold exported from san francisco
alone, exclusive of that taken by the tradeis
who have gone to oregon and the united
states, who have all carried from ten to twen
ty thousand dollars.
all who go to the mines do well, which is
the most convincing proof can give you ol
us great richness.
what may be the amount of gold found,!
—whether great or little—it still appears to i
me that the vast amount of energy and talent,
invested in california capital is put out to in
terest in a very bad cause. men cannot either
eat gold, or clothe themselves with go'd—
or build themselves houses of gold. gold
is not necessary—it can scarcely be said to bp
useful. it cannot of itself produce either
knowledge, virtue, or happiness. it is a mere
representative of labor usefully expended.
the expectations of some who go to california
for ihe purpose of acquiring will doubt
less be realised many more will find them
selves miserably disappointed.— j. n.
the model worker. —this paper, with
its last issue, ceased to exist. the reason
for its discontinuance is the want of sufficient
support. “definite assistance,’’ which had
been promised, it seems has not been given.
at all events, (says the editor,) my present
rate of receipts warns me to stop, before i am
involved in inextricable embarrassment. that
warning 1 may not neglect. silver and gold
have i none and i dare not risk what i have
not got.” we could not agree, of course
with all the peculiar views advanced by
the model worker still it was always wel
come to our table, and read with interest.
there are few of our exchanges which we
could less afford to lose. it is something, in
these days, to find a man who will not com
promise his opinions for the sake of gain.
there are plenty newspapers that are pros
perous; not so many that are honest. the
model worker has always appeared to be
one of the latter class. —j. v.
a letter. —a few days since we received
a letter which read in this wise:
dear sir: 1 lake this opportunity to send
to you for the anti-slavery bugle, and i hope
that you will send it. i have lieen a slave,
and left the south to get tree, and 1 came to
the north and th on thought 1 was happy.
when i found that the church made slaves, i
left it, i heard mr. walker speak at rich
field, and was glad to think 1 had a friend.
c. w. b.
had the writer ol the above been educated
in a college instead of on a southern planta
tion, his moral vision might have been far less
clear. ‘.‘when i found-that the church made
slaves i left it!”—who within the short space
of ten words, could have recorded a better ac
tion, and the motive which led to it!—that
sentence is worth more to humanity than a
hundred of the best volumes ever written to
cover up the crimes of a man-stealing church.
a doctor of divinity could have given a thous
and reasons for reamaing in connection with
slaveholders, could have expatiated largely
upon the good he could have done them by
continuing a member of the same organiza
tion, could have spoken eloquently- against the
disruption of zion and could have brought a
legion of texts from genesis down to revela
tions, to prove that god, christ, and the
apostles all sanctioned or tolerated slavery,
hut all this would not bear, even to ihe secta
nan, the seal of truth and the authority of
nght as does the record of the unlettered siave.
‘•when i found that the church made slaves’.
i left it!” bugle.
a double bereavement. —last week, we
recorded the death of morton, son of edmund
quincy, aged thtee years and nine months.—
this week, the painful task devolves upon us
of recording the death «t the youngest child,
arthur bromfield, aged 23 months. we be
lieve the fatal disease, in each case, wa*seai*
latina. a very large circle of relatives and
friends will deeply sympathize with the af
flicted parent*. liberator.
prejudice against color seems to be ra
pidly disappearing in cortland and tompkins
counties, n. york. io the first named, re*.
mr. ward, a negro, black as ebony, is setiled
as minister over a large and very respectable
congregation, composed mostly of white peo
ple, and enjoys tn every respect the social
consideration due to a man of unexceptionable
piety, ofcort trt deportment and of high culti
vated abilities— times and keyestone.
.foreign xenjo.
the niagara a:nved at bo* too oa satur
day, bringing intelligence from europe, a
fortnight later than the last arrival. tin
newt by this arrival seems to present e<m>-
pean affairs in a more disordered state than they
hate b-en for some time past. in england,
the unsettled state of continental politics, and
the fears generally entertained respecting the
forthcoming intelligence from india, had had
the effect till within a day or two of the sail
ing of the niagara, to create considerable
depression in commercial circles. but on tin
receipt of the indian intelligence, which was
of a more favorable character than had beer
anticipated a reaction took place, and at tbe
time of the niagara’s departure, trade general
ly had assumed a tolerably cheerful aspect.
the following extracts will be read with in
terest
england.—ln parliament, the proposal ol
mr. d’lsraeli to make an inquiry into the pe
culiar burdens on land, with a view to their
relief, has been disposed of by a majority at
280 to 189. the army and navy estimates
have been carried by majorities quite as large
as heretofore. the long threatened opposition
of mr. hume and mr. cobden. has subsided
into the meekest disclaimer in the house ol
commons against the present alleged excess
ive number of iroops and seamen.—only the
most insignificant minorities have supported
the financial reformers. the events in india
seemed to have roused the british feelings so
long kept in abeyance, and it is quite plain
that the cry of ships, colonies and commerce
was never more popular than at this moment.
i’p to this peiiod of the session, the state of
parties in the house has not undergone any
material change. there exists on all sides a
sincere desire to support the executive gov.
ernment upon all national grounds.
the division on the second reading of the
navigation bill seems to give an assurance
that with an exception of removing the imped
iments which stand in its wav of perfect re
ciprocity in the european trade, so as to as
similate it to that of the present free inter
course with the i'nited states, and of nation
alising certain produce—it is very doubtful
whether the present navigation law will be
abrogated. the second reading of the pres
ent bill has only been sanctioned by a majon
lty of 50 in a house of 476 members. the
question, as expounded by mr. gladstone,
runs further the chance of being defeated upon
the essential point now raised, whether recip
rocity or retaliation is to be ihe ruling princi
ple of ihe proposed alteration. the mitre thp
subject is canvassed, the more dfficult docs an j
equitable and durable adjustment of all the an-'
iagonistic interests appear. we tejoice to
say that the cholera is fast disappearing.
the total of cases has reached 14,305, of
which 1200 were in the rnetroplitan districts,
and more than 12,000 in the country. the
total deaths have been 3464.
the reward of jf’2o,ooo, is offered by the i
llritsh government, to such private ship or
ships, of any country, as shall be instrumental
in rendering efficient assistance to the arctic
expedition under the co’mmand of sir john j
franklin, and in contributing to extricate his i
ships from the ice.
ireland.—the west and south of ireland
seems to be in a deplorable state. several;
frightful murders are reported. the cholera
is committing extensive ravages in limerick.
to compensate for their sad and distressing
visitations, the farmers have commenced till
ing the ground to a vast extent, and the pota
to is again planted to a greater bierdth than
heretofore. the attachment of the irish to
this their precarious mode of sustenance can
not be eradicated. it is hoped that the early j
sowing has been adopted generally through- j
out the country, that the chances of failure
may be diminished.
france. —public attention continues to
center in the trials, at bou/ges, of the political
prisoners, which are pioceeding with due so
lemnity. j
the public attention at paris is more drawn
to a theme nearer home of far more exciting:
character than the fate of the prisoners. after
a painful investigation into all the circumstan-
ces connected with the mutder of gen. brue, j
the government spated the lives of all the i
convicted party with the exception of two, who j
were brought to the scaffoled on the 14th and
guillotined. this first application of the!
hateful instrument, since the revolution, has:
excited the red republicans to uncontrolable j
fury.—they nave loudly stigmatized the
president as an executioner and an assassin,
and m. proudhon ends an outrageous articel
on the sbbjeet, thus addressing louis napol-
eon, yon have restored the guillotine, and it j
will oily disappear with you.
the abolition of clubs has been decided!
upon in the assembly by the slendor majority 1
of 378 over 459, the division being taken by
ballot every day.— now this closes somefresj
instances of the indefatigable zeal of the soci-i
alists to overturn the present order of things, j
the journal of m. proudhon to the extent of
30,000 to 40,000 perdav is actually circulated i
m all the bairacks of france, and the non-;
commissioned officers and men are tempted
from their allegiance by every imaginable,
means. —we very much* doubt w hether mat
ters will settle down without some outbreak;
at toulon there are great preparations for!
embarking troops, and in consequence of the j
movement in piedmont and italy the army oi
the alps has been again recruited, and every!
arrangement made so that a large division or
troops may eross the alps, should an armed
intervention be resorted to.
i p to this moment there seems a cordial
and comlete understanding between the french
and english governments in respect to the af
fairs of italy.
holland—the king of holland has re
moved from the scene ot impending strife on
the continent, having expired on the 17th
ultimo. his son, now king william 111. was
in london at the time, but left immediately for
his dominions, where, probably, he has peace
fully ascended the throne.
austria. —austria has taken the most ex
traordinary and unlookcd for step of ihe diet
of krumsier, which was convoked by the late’
emperor, and has occupied the few months of
its existence in theoretical discussions has been
dismissed, after having promulgated a consti-i
nition not only for the countries represented at
krumsier, but for the whole austrian empire.
—the great object which has been kept in
view by the designers of this constitution is
the making of all austria into a free, indepeu
dent, individual, indissoluble, constitutional
monarchy. with regard to the social and po
litical regulations guarantied under this con
isiitution, the liberality of their nature can
hardly fail to excite surprise. individual lib-!
era! tty is secured, the press is not allowed
to be put under censorship, the complete
equality and tolertion of all religions, the inde
pendence of every church and sect in the man
agement of its own property and affairs and
the extension of education to all languages
i aue its prosecution as government work are
especially secured. in the meantime, the
hungarian war proceeds with unrelenting fu
ry. the magyars have adopted a guerilla
w arfare, and prince w indischgratz do longer
taking tiie held, but remaining at sura, shows
thai ihe was has only just commenced. in
fact tue king of sardinia in secret treaty now
w iih kossuth, trusts to tbe prolongation of the
war in hungary, to re-cooquer the lost fiields
of lombardy.
dreadful catastrophe at the theatre
royal, glasgow.—dunng the play on sat
urday night, the 17th ull., the above-named
theatre took fire in the upper gallery from the
gas pines. the fire was soon extinguished,
but such was the alarm of the people that in
the rush to get out, sixty-five persons pet
tshed. one poor woman lost three sons,
aged sixteen, seventeen sud eighteen
of age
amrkm fittamliip.
an interesting question kss recently bant
rawed at ihe it.l t f*. department «f simla,
which nil] probably guve rwe to much due as
s;oq. iu iu broadest form. uie question is
<hte—hu the federal government
t gbt to dear to any citizen of a sovereign
state of this confederacy, the character and
privileges of a citizen of the i'mted states
the question arose on an application in doe
form to the state department for passports for
certain citizens of new york, who chsnced
to be bom with dark skins, and who, had
their completions been while, would hate
been unquestionably entitled to and furnished
with passports. the gruff snswer from the
clerk of the department is, that passports are
neteb granted under such ciictunstanees, and
that the applicant ought lo hate known better
than to apply for them. that ts to say, an
undoubted cmaen of new york or massachu
setts, whose ancestors were stolen from afri
ca, is no citizen of the lnited states, and not
entitled to the protection of the federal go
vernment. because—what t the more the
subject is investigated, the more absolute and
invincible becomes the incompatibility between
slavery and freedom. tnbunt.
difficulty coming. some time in jan
uary last the governor of trginia made a
requisition upon the kxecutive of ohio, for
the person of joseph venable, *a negro roan
slave, the property of samuel s, brown/
the requisition was refused in a way to gall
the feelings of gov. floyd, of irginia,
much: but being a patient man, and desirous
of avoiding an undignified quarrel with such a
little chit of a state as ohio is, when com
pared—in age and president-giving—to vir
ginia, he abated his consequence so far as to
make a second requisition for the ‘man
slave’—w hich document fared no better than
the first one. there are no armies in virgin
ia though there is a special guard for the
governor—nor is there the power to raise one,
and it is well there is not; had it been other
wise, we doubt not the doughty governor,
thus contemptously treated, would have vin- j
dicated the chivalry and hot blood of virginia
by an instant and sweeping invasion. theie
was no help for it but to turn to the legis
lature, and in a most dolorous document he
directs attention to the mortifying insult which
has been put upon pioud old virginia and
suggests the direst consequences as being in
evitable, unless ‘their wisdom will devise
some means of preventing similar occurrences
in future.’
it is a beautiful idea of mr. clay, that the
emancipated slaves who shall colonise liberia
will probably spread the christian religion
through the whole continent of africa. it
seems probable that such is the glorius mis
sion for which they are destined, and should it
so prove, it will not be in vain that the dusky
sons of africa have, like the children of is
real, dwelt long in the house of bondage.
we find this in the xnc bedford mercu y,
a paper which is fond of perpetrating just
such b°autiful ideas*’ on all sorts of subjects
—it evidently, indeed, cannot, do anything
else, but prove itself first cousin to the genus
jack-ass whenever it can get such an oppor
tunity. the sailor who thought wo might as
well have no devil if he did not catch the
slave-traders, would probably be irreverent
enough also to think we might as well have
no god, if he could not christianise africa in
any les- clumsy way than by exposing her
and her children to the slave-traders for three
centuries. —anlislavery standard.
slave trading. —the progress of this|ille
gal practice, says the mtllodgevillc(ga)recor
der, has met with a check, and has indeed,
we presume, so far as this vicinage is con
cerned, been decisively arrested, in a case
«hich lias just occuied. two slave specu
lators reached this place some days ago, with
a number of negroes foi sale. owners
were promptly arrested at the instance of the
mayor, and brought before the council. the
parties were saved from going to jail by giving
bond and security for their appearance next
morning, in the sum of one thousand dollars.
at the time fot their appearance, it seems the
parties arrested had judged it best to forfeit
their bond and pay the penalty (which we
presume they had secured to their security)
rather than abide the issue of the law they
had violated. we presume that the proceed
ings in this case, will in future turn the direc
tion of those dealing in negroes, in violation
ot law, to any other quarter rather than this.
liberality.—the philadelphia bulletin
says that the rev. charles avery, of alle
ghany city, has given a lot of ground on lib.
erty-street, in that city, valued at $2ooo, to
the colored wesleyan methodists,” and
has also put under contract a building, the
cost of which will be $lo,ooo, for their use.
the building, i 3 to be used for a church, a
college and a primary school, and it is the
liberal donor’s intention that this denomination
of colored persons shall have the highest
branches of education placed within their
reach. this is true and wise liberality.
discovery.—mr. nunneley, surgeon, of;
lieeds, slates, in a letter to the editor of the
provincial medical and surgical journal, he
had discovered that the chloride of olefiant gas
is even better adopted than chloioforni to pro
duce insensibility to pain i believe it to
be possessed of all the good properties ot'
chloroform, and in a great degree free from
those which are objectionable. it is equally
pleasant, potent, and speedy in its aetion.
the amesthesta produced by it may be recov- j
ered as profound and as prolonged as may be
w ished. while a smaller quantity of it than
of chloroform w ill produce a sufficient degree
of insensibility, a larger quantity may be given
with impunity. the state of collapse is not
so great. the animal may be recovered from
a more dead-l;ke coudition than where this is
induced by chloroform at the same time the
process of recovery is more rapid, and it is
unattended by any of those distressing symp
toms so often witnessed in animals rallying
from a large dose of chloroform. the sub
stance is the chloride of olefiant gas, as named
in fownes’ manualfhe hydrochlorate of
chloiide of acetyle, or oil of olefiant gas, in
the eighth edition of tutners’s chemistry;’’
and formerly called dutch oil, or oil of the
dutch chemists.
the national era. —an exchange states
that a committee on the library of congress,
has refused to allow this paper to be deposited
theie, w hile every other paper m w ashingtoo
is admitted. can this he true? there is no
other paper in the l nion w hicb has so large
amount and variety of talent enlisted in its
columns as has the era. it is conducted with
dignity aud ability which command the re
spect of enemies: and is our congress li
brary to contain only such matter as agrees
with the opinions of the committee in charge
verily this is rich inter.
hear! hear! —shendan ooce succeeded
admirably in trapping a noisy member who,
was in the habit of interupung every speaker
with cries of “hear, bear”* bnnslev took an
opportunity to allude to a well known political
character of the time, who wished to play the
fool. “where,” exclaimed sheridan, id con
tinuation, and with great emphasis, where
shall we find a mote foolish knave or a more
knavish fool than this?” “hear! bear'” was
bellowed from the accustomed bench. the
wit bowed, thanked the gentleman for his
ready iep!y to the question, rind sat down a
mid convulsions of laughter, from all hot the
unfortunate subject.
the sew murmo* ttmfk.— the sew!
mon non temple at salt lake, california, u
to be six hundred feet high. as to be visible
at a distance of eighty miles. the mot moo
cities, four in number, are enclosed by a wall,
and their extent is seventeen rades in' length
bv twelve io bnadtlt. there hat ho**
mountain of pure rock found aear the
settlement- a rieh fold mine has boen dis
covered, one hundred and fifty miles south
west of sait lake
by wife’s party
bt harry sunderland.
after we had rained a little in the
world, and could afford to live not only
in our own house, but to enjoy our
"hare of the elegancies and luxuries of
this life, we found ourselves surrounded
bv a good many who, before, were not
over liberal in their attentions. mrs
sunderland believed their friendship
sincere; but l reserved to myself the
nght to doubt the genuineness of some
of the professions that were made.
i did'nt like the “my dear mrs. sun
derland!” or the particular solicitude
expressed by not a few in anything that
concerned my wife’s welfare, and when
•he talked about mrs. jones being such
a kind, good soul, and miss. peters be
ing so diseoterested in everything, i
shrugged my shoulders, and reserved
the privilege of a d<>ubt in regard to all
being gold that glittered.
no* having been raised in fashion
able life, wc had no taste for display,
and although we had our share of com
pany, whether we cared about it or noi
we had never ventured so to sea as tc
give a party, although we had accepted
several invitations to assemblages ol
this kind. but some of mrs. sunder
land’s good friends and acquaintances
insisted upon it, last winter, that she
give an entertainment, and they used
such cogent arguments that she, good
soul! was won over. i remained for a
longtime incorrigible!; but, as nothing
could put it out ot mvf. sunderland a
head that it was due to her position and
relations to give a party, i, with
much reluctance, withdrew my oppsi
tion, and forthwith the note of prepara
tion was sounded.
“who shall we invite?” was the first
question. our circle of acquaintan
ces had considerably increased within
two or three years, and when we went
over the list it was found to be rather
large.
“you will have to cut it down con
siderably,” said i.
“to do so without giving offence will
be difficult,” replied my wife.
“better cut all off, then,” was on my
tongue, but i repressed the words,
feelin" that it would be unkind to throw
cold water upon the affair at this stage
of its progress.
“you haven't got fanny and ellen on
your list,” i remarked, after a good
number of erasures had been made.
they were two of my nieces; good girls,
but poor. both were dress maker’s
apprentices. they were learning a
trade, in order to relieve their father,
an industrious, but not very thrifty
man, from the burden of their support.
i liked them very much for their
good sense, agreeable manners, and
strong affection for their parents.
“shall i invite them?” inquired my
w'ife.
“certainly!” 1 replied. “why
not?”
“will they be able to make a good
appearance? you know uiui a nuinbei
of fashionable people w ill be here.”
“it you doubt it, we will send then
each a handsome dress pattern wit!
the invitation.”
“perhaps wc had better do so,” was
mrs. sunderland’s approving remark
and the thing was done as i suggested
the pruning down of the invitatior
list was no easy matter, ahd it was no
without many fears of giving offence
that my wife at last fixed upon the pre
cise number of persons who were t(
honor us with their company.
the exact character of the entertain
ment was next to be considered, and ar
estimate cost was made. several la
dies, an fait in such matters, were con
sulted; and their opinions compared, di
gested, and adopted or rejected as they
agreed with, or differed from, what we
thought right.
“it will cost at least a hundred doll
ars,” said mrs. sunderland, after we
had come to some understanding as to
what we would have. the sum seemed
large in her mind.
“if we get off with two hundred we
may be thankful,” i replied.
“oh, no. it can’t go above a hun
-1 dred dollars.”
“we shall see.”
“if i thought it would cost so much,
i would
“there is no retreat now, mrs. sun
derland. we have taken the step initi
ative and have nothing to do but go
through with the matter as best we can.
my word for it, we shall not be very
eagre to give another party.
this threw a damper upon my wife’s
feelings that i was sorry to perceive,
for now that the party must be given,
1 wanted to see it done in as good spirit
as possible. from that time, there
fore, i was careful not to say any thing
likely to awaken a doubt as to the satis
factory result of the coming entertain
ment.
the evening came in due time and
we bad all tilings ready. i must own
that i felt a little excited, for the giving
of a fashionable party was something
new in the history of my life, and i did
not feel altogether at home in the
matter. unaccustomed to the enter
tainment of company, especially where
ceremony and the observance of a cer
tain etiquette were involved, i was con
scious of au awkward feeling, and
would have given double the cost of
the party for the privilege of an escape
from the trials and the mortifications,
it promised to involve.
in order to give additional beauty
and attractiveness to our parlors, we
had purchased sundry articles ot orna
mental furniture, which cost over a
hundred dollars, and which were of no
manner of use except to look at.
i it w as so late before the elite of our
company began to arrive, that we were
in some doubt whether they were
1 going to come at all. but towards
nine o’clock the) came along and by
ten w e were in the full tide of success
ful experiment. my neices, fanny
and ellen, were among the first to
appear, und they looked pretty and in
teresting.
as soon us the first embarrassment
consequent ou the appearance of the
extra fashionables had worn off, and
i felt at home once more in my own
house. 1 began to look around with an
observant e/e.—about the first thing
that attracted my attention was the
•ober aspect of a certain lady, arbose
husband, by a few fortunate adven
tures, had acquired some money, and
lifted her into "good society.” as it in
called she was talking to another
lady, and i saw that their eyes were di
rected toward my nieces, of whom i
felt a little proud they looked and be
haved so well.
“what’s all this about?”said i to
rm sell. and i kept my eyes as intent
ly upon the ladies as they did upoo
ellen and fanny. presently i saw
one of them toss her head with an air
of dignified contempt, and rising up,
made her way across the room to where
her husband stood. she spoke to him
in evident excitement, and directed his
attention to my nieces. the sight of
them did not seem to produce any un
pleasant effect upon him, for he merely
shrugged his shoulders, smiled, and
answered in a few words that i could
see were indifferent. but his wife was
in earnest, and placing her arm within
his drew him away towards the door.
he remonstrated, but she was not in a
humor to listen to any thing, and with
surprise i saw them retire from the par
lors. my first impulse was to follow
them, but the truth flashing across my
mind, i felt indignant at such conduct,
and resolved to let them do as they
pleased. in a little while the offended
lady, bonnetted, cloaked, and boaed,
came sweeping past the parlor, doors,
with her husband in the train, attract
ing the attention of a third part of the
company.—
a moment after and she had passed
into the street.
"who isthat? what's the matter?”
went whispering about the room.
"it is mrs. l
mrs l is she sick?”
"why has she gone?”
but no one seemed at first to know.
soon, however, the lady to whom she
had communicated the act that we had
insulted our company by inviting
rnantua-making girls,” whispered to
another the secret, and away it went
buzzing through the room, finding its
way as well to the ears of fanny and
ellen as to those of the rest of the com
pany. about one hall ot the ladies
present did not exactly seem to know
whether they ought to follow the exam
ple of mrs. l- or not; and there
i was a portentous movement, when al
most the waving of a finger would have
caused our party to break up in dis
order.
the moment my nieces understood
the feeling that had prompted the lady
to withdraw indignantly, they arose and
were retiring from the room, when i
intercepted and detained them with as
little ceremony as possible. they
begged hard to be permitted to retire,
but i said no; for my blood was "up,’
as the saying is.
"ellen and fanny are worth as
many mrs. l ’s,” said i to myself,
"as you can find from here to jeri
cho.”
the disaffected ones noticed, i sup
pose, my decision in the matter, aud
thought it prudent not to break wit!
mr. and mrs. sunderland, who coulc
afford to be independent. money is t
great thing! humph! there was t
time in our history—but no matter
we are people of character and stand
ing now?
wc had rather a dull time after thi
withdrawal of mrs. l foralitth
while the spirits of the company rallied
under the effects of wine and a gooc
supper, but th'ey soon flagged again
and a sober cast of thought settlec
upon almost every countenance. mj
poor wife lound it almost impossible tc
retain a cheerful exterior; and mj
nieces looked as if almost any othei
place in the world would have been i
paradise to it.
at least an hour earlier than we hac
anticipated, our rooms were deserted,
and we left alone with our thoughts
which, upon the whole, were anything
but agreeable. mrs. sunderland, the
moment the last guest retired, wem
back into the brilliantly lighted parlors
and sitting down upon a sofa, bursi
into tears. she had promised hersel
much pleasure, but, alas! how bitterly
had she been disappointed! i was ex
i cited and indignant enough to say al
most anything, and a dozen times as
paced the rooms backward and f -rward,
did i check myself, when about utter
ing words that would only have made
poor mrs. sunderland feel ten times
worse than she did.
“the next time we give a party—
"we won’t!” said i, taking the
words out of my wife’s inouth. she
was recovering from her state of mortr
fication, and beginning to feel indig
nant.
"you’ve said it exactly,” respondee
mrs. sunderland. "i call this throwing
awav a couple of hundred dollars in i
very bad cause.”
"so it strikes me. when fifty 01
i sixty people eat an elegant sup
perj and drink costly wine at iny ex
-1 pense again, they will behave thein
i selves better than some high bred
i ladies did to night.—as for mrs. l
fanny and e!!en are worth a hundred
of her. it’s my opinion that if she
knew anything she would curtail her
dignity a little. if i’m not very much
mistaken, her husband will go to the
wall before a twelve month passes.
on the next day we settled all ac
counts with our confectioner, wine mer
chant, china dealers and waiters. the
bills were over a hundred and fifty dol
lars, exclusive of a hundred dollars
paid as before intimated, for parlor
ornaments to grace the occasion.
"so much paid tor worl liy wisdom,”
said i, after all was over. "i don't
think we need to give another party.”
mrs. sunderland sighed and shook
her head.—poor soul! her kind and
generous nature was hurt. she looked
1 upon a new phase of character, and the
discovery had wounded her deeply.
a few months after this uofortuaate
party, from which so little pleasure and
so much pain had sprung 1 said to iny
wile on coming home one day—
"lt is as 1 expected. pride must
have a fall.”
‘why do you say that what has
happened?” inquired mrs. sunderland.
"l has failed, as i predicted,
and his lady wife, who turned up her
aristocratic nose at our excellent nieces
is likely to see the day when abe will
stand far below them in aociety.”
i spoke in an exultant voice. bui
my wife instantly reproved my levity.
she cherished no animosities, end had
long since forgiven the offence.
so much for my wife's petty.
the little hatch-girl
by the part averse*.
it was so terribly cold—it snowed,
and the eveniug began to be dark; it
was, also, the last evening in the year
—new year’s eve on this cold, dark
evening, a poor little girl went into the
street with bare head and raked feet.
it is true she had shoes on when she
went from home, but of what use were
they? they were very large shoes;
her mother had worn them last; they
were too large, and the little one lost
them in harrying over the street as two
carriages passed quickly by. one shoe
was not to be found, and the other a
boy ran away with, saying he could use
it for a cradle when he had children
himself. the little girl now went on her
small naked feet, which were red and
blue with the cold. she carried a num
ber of matches in an old apron, and
held one buudle in her hand. no one
had bought of her the whole day, no
one had given her a tarthing. poor
thing! she was hungry and benumbed
with cold, and looked so downcast.
the snow-flakes fell on heryellow hair,
which curled so prettily around her
neck, but she did not heed that.
the light shone out from all the
windows, and there was such a delici
ous smell of roast beef m the street
it was a new year’s eve, and she
thought of that. she sat down in a
corner between two houses, the one
stood a little more forward in the street
than the other, and drew’ up her legs
under her to warm herself; but she was
still colder, and she durst not go home;
she had not sold any matches nor got a
single farthing.—her father would
beat her, and it w as also cold at home;
they had only the roof directly over
them, and there the wind whistled in,
although straw and rags were stuffed
in the largest crevices.
“her little hands wrere almost be
numbed with cold. ah! a little match
might do som" 1 good; durst she only
draw' one out ol the bundle, strike it
on the wall, and warm her fingers. she
drew one out —rich!—-how it burnt! it
was a warm, clear flame, like that of
a little candle, when she held her hand
around it; it teas a strange light! the
little girl thought she sat by a large iron
stove, with brass balls on the top, the
fire burned so nicely and warmed so
well. nay, what was that? the little
girl stretched out her feet to warm
them, t«*o. when tee flarne went out,
the stove vanished, and she sat with a
stump of the burnt match in her hand.
another was struck; it burnt, it
shone; and where the light fell on the
wall, it became as transparent as crape.
she looked directly into the room where
the roasted goose, stuffed with apples
and prunes, steamed so charming on
the table which was laid out and cov
ered with a shining white cloth, and
fine porcelain service. what was still
more splendid, the goose sprung off the
dish, and waddled along the floor w;th
knife and fork in its back; it came dir
ectly up to the poor girl. here the
match went out, and there was only the
thick, cold wall to be seen.
she struck another match. then
she sat under the most c iarming christ
mas-tree —it was still larger and more
ornamental than that she had seen thro,
the glass door at the rich merchant’s,
the last christmas; a thousand candles
burnt on the green branches, and mot
ley pictures, like those which ornament
the shop-windows, looked down at her,
the little girl lifted up both her hands
—then the match was extinguished—
the many christmas candles rose high
er and higher; she saw that they were
bright stars—one of them fell, and
made a fiery stripe in the sky. now
one dies,” said the poor girl, for old
grand-mother, who alone had been kind
to her, but who was now dead, had
!told her that when a star falls, a soul
'goes up to god!
she again struck a match against the
'wall; it shone all around, and her old
grandmother stood in the lustre, so
i shining, so mild and blissful “grand
-1 mother!” exclaimed the little girl,“oh!
take me with you! i know you will be
gone away when the matches go out
like the warm stove, the delicious roast
goose, and the delightful christmas
tree!” and she struck in haste the
i whole remainder of matches that was
in the buudle—she would not lose sight
ofgrandrnother, and the matches shone
with such brilliancy, that it was clearer
than in broad day light. grandmother
had never before looked so pretty, so
great; she lifted the poor little girl up
'in her arms, and they flew so high, in
splendor and joy; where was no cold, no
hunger, no anxiety —they icere i riih god!
but the little girl sat in the corner by
the house in the cold morning hour,
with red cheeks, and with a smile rouud
her mouth—dead—frozen to death, the
last evening of the old year.
new year’s morning rose over the
little corpse, as it sat with the matches,
of which a bundle was burnt. she
had been trying to warm herself,” said
i they. but no one knew what beautiful
things she had seen—in what splendor
and gladness she had entered with her
old grandmother into new year’s joy*.
prison discipline. —chas. pearson,
esq., m. p., has created a deep sensa
tion in london, by a course of lectures
on prison discipline. his plan is to
make prison discipline apply to the cul
tivation of land. he states and under
takes *o prove that a thousand acres of
suitable land may be enclosed in a wall
as strong as that round milbank prison
—that a jail with every requisite for the
health and safe keeping ol 1000 prison
ers, may he erected for lea* than £loo
per prisoner—and by the employment
of the labor of the 1000 prisoners, the
ground may be cultivated by the spade,
the prison may be kept in repair, the
prisoners ma; be clothed and fed, and a
sufficiency of surplus productions may
>e disposed of, nearly or entirely to
defray all the charges of administra
tion, from the superintendent to the
lowest turnkey. he would thus make
he prison population of the country
naintaio itself, without taking out of
-ke pockets of the honest portion of the
community a single shilling.— ckrom.
a lrrrssfroai captain eben, of the bru
sh man-of-war ampharuc, dated bight ot
jeaui, gec si, my that 000 slaves were
stely murdered by the chiefs at palma, who
wars aaabu to dispose of thorn.