mr. calhoun
it is a satisfaction now anil then to
see a man in those l nited states.*
kven a had man is better than none at;
all. it is encouraging, lor it looks as
it there wt-re a possibility ot the amer
ican race regaining its stamina and re
covering something ot the rough
strength ot’character which ii had sixty
or seventy years ago. it is a comfort,
too, to meet with an actual, tangible
idea, how ever wicked it maybe, occa-j
jon.allv. an idea that stands up by it
self, in its own natural proportions, in
stead of being razeed down to the reg-'
illation «hmensious. kven the sight ol
satan, liunsell, would he a welcome re
freshment in the limbo ol n anit\, or
paradise offools among
tin* iiii.vi oinplolw-d ryiiih, ul.nalui i- h.iud.
alioniv*', ui.'ti'lti'ii', m imhiiiiiu mixed.”
and even tin* idea of the absolute kx- j
celleuce ofslan-rv tbougb it may be,
much worse, is much less disgusting
titan the abortive monstrosities which
trv to unite theoretical abhorrence ol
slavery with a daily practical support
ol it.
it is for this reason that we like to
s<-e air. t 'alhottn stand up belore the 1
nation,and boldly give utterance to t he j
idea with which hois possessed. he is
not absolutely admirable, it must be
admitted, anti bis doctrine is the very
abomination of desolatitm; but one
cannot help feeling a -oil of respect
for a man who takes no council til ex
pediency, even in the \v<n«t of causes,
and who has a scitletl, thslmet, definite
purpose, however abominable, to which
he bends till his powers and every etr-
r (instance he can control. as was
ml ul lala\o|fe, when he set out on
mail-cap t:\peililiou to ami-iica,
vyhatever vve may think ot jus prudence
we cannot help admiring his spirit, lie.
holds slaves and he defends it he
iii.imtaue slavery to he the natural
condition of the colored race,beneficent
towards them, ano essentia! to a yvell
ordered t ‘ontmonw eallb.anil.ol course,
be promo!t:s it. i lie light tuthe anglo
saxon to make lieu yvith ilit; african lie
regards as hnunb d in nature and j
j uarantee«l h> tin* people ot the 1 mted
states therefore he icm-is any tit
leillpt to coniine the e\t:rcise of this
natural and social privilege within any
spec tie territorial limits. wherever
i free and 4>nlightened \menean may
incline to go. thither he may he follow
ed bv a negro, as the shade pursues
die substance. and lie is proportionally
indignant at those peter nchlemipls uho
would not only striji otftliejr own shall
ows bill then neighbour s too.
it is a characteristic of the amen, an
people; yyliirn has been lostem'il by
tl.i u institution-, that they prefer ball
an id» a t,» a whole one. i hey not
merely think that half a loaf is better
iban no hn ail put (hat is is better
hi »u awbolo one therefore 'alhoun
and in- party ai the south, and i iarris
uii and hi- friends at the north, are
equally i ejected by du men of their
generation. loth go too thoroughly to
tin; root ot llie matti i for those who
hate to look beyond the tips of the brail'
i hi* lai b arc l*»i whole measures
and iii**'* s-a ll i\ make iitti omfortablc
thos«* who hv<* m halt ones. they are
equally b*>li! and uneomjiromising in
their opinions, their language and their
policy, ami they unavoidably shock the
timid and the timeserving: those on tin
one hand, who a-r** content with their
practical enjoyment of their slaves tin
ier the constitution, and those, on the
other who feel mole the scandul than
the -jui of slavery, and wlio ask only to
permitted “to live in decencies forev
the north star.
er.” to this claw south and xorth.
such politicians as day and benton
are perfect godsend*. they serve as
“feather hel twixt cattle wall
and heavy brunt of cannon bail.”
they furnish a teriium quid, a middle
quality equally removed from two ex
tremes of the national problem. they
take an idea and split it in two and
triumphantly hold up the moiety as a
proof of the truth of jthe philosophic
paradox of old time, that the half is
more than the whole. anything that
shifts responsibility, that defers action,-
that puts farther off the evil day of dos
ing something, is a welcome boon.
clay's adjournment ol the question to
the greek kalends, or the next day af
ter never, as the children say, and-
benton’s movement to restrict slavery
within its existing boundaries, carefully
holding on to his own slaves and letting
his neighbour's slaves alone in the
most resolute matiuer, both meet a
want in the american market.
there is'a tine vein of contempt per
vading mr. calhoun's last address to
the people of the south, towards mr.
benton, which comes from him with a
good grace. whatever else he may
he, mr. calhoun is consistent. he
does not reprobate slavery, and cleave
to it at the same time. he does not
flunk that what is good in south caro
lina will become bad by being trans
ported to california. through life he
has been faithful to the peculiar institu
tion. nobody could ever mistake bus
position. there was never a question
made about that. he has never blown
hot and cold upon the mess of potage
which he prizes as his birth-right. he
has a complete and peifect idea for his
guide. mr. benton has hut a very
imperfect fraction of one for his. sla
very is an absolute good, says mr.
calhoun, and is, therefore, to he cher
ished and propagated. slavery is in
itself an evil, virtually says mr. ben
ton, and therefore should not he per
mitted to curse a country which is now
free from it. why not endeavour to
remove it from your own state, w hich
already suffers from its blighting influ
ences' is the natural and inevitable
question which arises. why retain
your properly in your own chattels, if
such be the nature and effects of man
ownership: if slavery he bad as an
article of exportation, it cannot be bet
ter as an ai tide of home consumption.
if an embargo should he laid for the
protection of california from slavery,
sui'ely an effort should be made for the
deliverance of missouri from it. if
rum and brandy be ill-assorted with
missionaries in a cargo to heathen
'ands, they call loudly for extermina
tion in our own. admit mr. calhoun’s
premises, and hjs conclusions will
beat-the test of the severest logic. mr.:
benton’s conclusions, on the other hand
trip up the heels of his premises. or
rather, he has, logically nor morally,
neither premises nor conclusions to his
reasoning. it is a chain loose at both
ends and can serve neither as moorings
for slavery nor liberty.
in fact there are hut two ideas in
the united states. the one is slavery
and the other is anti-slavery. all
others are but the disjecta membra, the
scattered limbs, of massacred ideas.
tariff and anti-tariff, free trade and
protection, bank and sub-treasury,
yea, even free soil itself, rest upon no
great principle, appeal to no eternal
truth for their sanction. the first are
mere schemes of policy, about which
men differ according as they affect
their interests, present or prospective.
their ultimate appeal is to the day
book and ledger, to the returns of ex
ports and imports, and to the quarter
ly statements of the revenue. and
the last carefully abstains from going
to the foundations of things existing,
and scrupulous ly protests against being
supposed to intend tj shake them.
with slavery within the united states,
and as protected by the constitution,
it does not pretend to intermeddle. it
shudders at the extension of what it is
willing to tolerate. this is, plainly,
hut a very small segment of the great
idea which is to abolish slavery. that
idea aims at the entire and utter exter
mination of its antagonist, now, with
out delay, wherever it exist*, and at
whatever cost of political institutions
or pecuniary interests. it takes no
counsel with flesh and blood. it sees
the uiiliness of slavery and its inherent
abominations, and considers the past
and present consent of the nation as
of no account, except as an increas
ed motive for instantly getting rid of it.
no oilier idea has vital power and en
ergy enough to meet the necessities of
the case. it is this alone that will fi
nally triumph. all attempts to do its
wink by employing its fragments must
fail. even their success, were it a
possible thing.would h*3 imsehiveous as
distracting the general mind from the
real question at issue,from the solu
tion of the great enigma.
the more distinctly the two opposite
ideas can be brought into palpable an
tagonism, tiie better. the mischief ot
every half measure, and imperfect idea,
is that it presents or retards their join
ing buttle. it is the great strategy of
the best friends of slavery to protract
the day of battle. their policy is fa
bian. their hope is in delay. and
the ill-advised schemes of well meaning
persons for the restriction of what
they should destroy, helps this policy of
these teneinies of the human race.
now mr. calhoun is honourably dis
tinguished from all these classes of men
bv the definiteness of ins position, the
unmistakableneas of his doctrine, aud
the uncompromising consistency of hie
public and private life. it is an meati
a,able advantage to have an eneni)
that you know where to find. he u
no proteus that will change his »hap«
as soon as you grapplt with him. i 1
right is of no sex—tr!'th is of no 001/ir— ood is the father of us all, and all we are brethren.
i will be a fair combat until the dead
struggle. let us ha\c the questioi
fairly stated 11 slavery be a blesser
thing let us all acknowledge its divimtj
and submit to its sway. if übe of it:
father the devil, let us exorcise it an<
send it back to the bottomless pit iron
whence it sprung. hut let u« no lon
j ger try to make it out a sort of hybiu
j between heaven and hell. let ui
settle its character and behave our
selves accordingly. had v'c no antag
i onists but those of character and tein
mr. calhoun, we should soon ik
j able to bring tbe matter to a point
i and our endeavour should be to com
pel all man to take as decided grount
ias he, on the one side or on the
joflter. while we arc ever willing t<
frtake allowances for imperfect reach
j iogs after the rigid, we should be evei
careful lhat they should never be look
led at area flmaininc.j, or even a nea
approach of it. it we learn of our one
inies and are but as wise in the genera
tion as mr. calhoun is 411 his, w<
need not fear for the result.— f.. *4.
from ilw* ("lirononi*-.
soi til carolina.
though we have already called atten
tion to the rich case of the liberty o
the press and the post office in tin
little kingdom, we cannot pass it b\
without giving in full the document!
which illustrate it. let it be remcnv
bored that the only crime alleged 01
suspected against mr. parrott is tlx
dropping into the post office of a cer
tain printed document signed ‘‘brutus.’
1 this was printed word for word in the
chronotypc of july *joth. it is noi
an anti-slavery document as our read
ers know. indeed, it has not a word
directly condemnatory of slavery, an<
not one questioning the right of the
planters to own and hog the slaves al
tlieirwill. it merely exposes the injus
tice of the large slaveholders towards
the free white laborers, and showing
that the constitution of south carolina
is not in fact republican, proposes
meetings of the citizens according to
constitutional tight and form to make
it so. the whole address is merely a
constitutional discussion of points of
difference between two classes offtec
white men. for circulating such a
document, the following beautiful pro
ceedings are had against a free citizen
of indiana. the private letters picked
out of his pocked do prove, to he sure
that lie and his friends proceeded with
some caution and secresy, hut it damns
south carolina below all austrian, be
low all russian, below all turkish,
below all cvim tartarean, below all
holy inquisition despotism, that for
such an object they had any need of
caution and secresy.
if there ever was on earth, in the
heavens above it or the waters under it,
or ever will he, any suiollieration of
thought and discussion so cowardly and
complete—if there ever was a hand of
slicep thieves, or hen roost pirates, put
upon a hush more jealous, utter and
profound, we heg to know it. the eu
ropean chokers of the press cannot be
gin to come up to what lias been ac
complished in south carolina. why,
these precious republican scamps cool
ly taunt with dishonesty the men who,
in the exercise of their constitutional
rights, in order not to he lynched by
their “vigilance committees,” keep
their own counsels. silence they take
as plain proof of mischief.
god knows w e are no pharisee, and
do not despise our fellow men because
they are either weak, foolish or wicked,
knowing our own multitudinous infirmi
ties, sins and iniquities. we can see
and admire goodness in a slaveholder,
and even venerate, lor many things, a
man w ho perpetrates what we conceive
to he a self-evident wrong. but the
nabobcracy of south carolina assume
such a kid glove sanctity and unap
proachable holiness at the altar of re
publicanism, they affect to he so much
better and braver than anybody else,
while human petticoats never yet con
cealed sucli hysterical timidity at any
thing as they show at the sight of a
printed hook, that we fairly confess
we never more enjoyed the fun of stir
ring up a nevt of rattlesnakes with a
long stick, than we do that of pestering
them on the subject of slavery. here
is the evidence of “guilt,” published
in the spartanburg spartan.
we will give the curious affair with
the postmaster legg, to-morrow.
john m. barrett, thf. abolitionist.
this personage has, doubtless very
unexpectedly to himself, achieved an
unenviable notoriety in a very short
tune; what may he tiie penalty of this
notoriety remains to he seen by the
aw ard of the law. the charge under
which lie was arrested is punishable by
twelve months' imprisonment and >ll*oo
tine. but he may he indicted under
the arrest for any crime of which the
state’s attorney may think himself able
by competent testimony to convict the
prisoner. there is more than a possi
bility barrett may he indicted for an
offence, the penalty of which is death
without benefit of clergy: and assured
fv, if convicted, all the abolitionists in
the united states cannot save him.
if this man be the innocent victim,
as lie pretends, of unknown incen
diaries, who write to him at almost
every point in the state, and charge
him with the care and distribution of
their infamous documents, why the re
petition of the kindest advice and cau
tiuii: why the delicate flattery for his
services r why the enigmatical char
acter of a portion of the correspondence
addressed to him? they are his friends
at least and appear to know and aj>-
preciute their man. ihe billowing let
ter fixes we think conclusively the
place of publication of the “brutus’
and true “carolinioiao. in the lettei
are two enclosures addressed lo twe
rochester, n. y., friday, august 17, 1819.
i ■highly valjcd citizens of this stale,
i! containing copies of brutus:
t» j m: if am it fosf tnarktd
cincinnati, may 1*», |ku*.
dear sir.:—having learned that
you arc traveling in south catalina,
1 i take the liberty of requesting you to
’t drop into some post office along vor
route the enclosed letters. although
comparatively a stranger to you, i
take,this liberty because i wish to
oblige a “caroliniau who desires me
to take some plan of communication
w ith his friends, which will not by the
post mark reveal bis present location.
be kind enough to destroy this when
you have read it. you will pardon ine
for not signing iny name, but that you
may know i am to he relied upon, 1
w ill just name that messrs. e. har
wood co., have, sjtnt you s'2o to
columbia, s. ov“*
the following letter contained some
j twelve to fifteen enclosures addressed
tovniious portions of the slate, and
containing the brutus address. it was
directed to charlotte, n t c\, and for
warded to barrett at this place. this
is the letter referred to last week, the
handwriting of which is probably known
to a friend of oin s, and w hich w e ex
pect to verity soon; and here we will
add for the benefit of berrett’s corres
pondents in cincinnati, ohio, and
dublin, indiana, that our committee
of vigilance will take the necessary
measures to procure the real names of
j those anonymous gentlemen who are
so very desirous of remaining unknown.
yvc will strip off their incognito, and
i if we can do no more will hold them
up in their true characters to the scorn
and contempt of the honorably disposed
in every poiiion of the country; the
traitorous gentleman shall have the
most conspicuous niche in the temple
of infamy. the rev. s. f. chase is
a gentleman compared to him.
cimcnnati, ohio, june l.’», 1810.
mr. barrett, dear sir: a friend
of mine from south carolina w ishes
me to write to some one there, and
get him to deposit in some office with
in the state the letters accompanying
this. i thought of sending them to
some one of my friends who reside
there, hut as they are also acquainted
with him his object would ho defeated,;
as he does not w ish them to know of
his being here. while you arc travel
ing intuit state i thought it would not
he inconvenient for you to accomodate
hirn in this matter. i have sent some
also t-> other persons, with the same
request. as lie pays the postage on
these packages, it will cost you and
them nothing but tito trouble «l' deposi-,
ting. for his own reasons he desires
ttliattlicy he dropped into different offi-j
ccs, and he particularly desires that j
you should not deliver them to any ol
the persons yourself, should you have
them in your way. it is unnecessary j
for you to know the object he lias in
view’.
you will much oblige flic, and in
deed i will take it as a great favor, itj
von will not give the slightest hint to
any one of this matter; and in your
correspondence with your friends here,
you need not allude to it at all. you
need not even acknowledge that you
have received the package from me,
except it he in a letter addressed to
myself. 1 hope you will return in bet
ter health than you left us. —i am, dean
sir, very respectfully yours.
p. s. 1 was about signing my name, 1
hut iny friend suggested 1 had better
not, as by some means this may tall
into other hands, and thus his friends
in c. get a hint of his being here, j
you will therefore excuse me for not
doing so and guess at mine.
but the rev. dr. s. f chase, who
probably has no affinity with south
carolina whatever, scorns the anony
mous in addressing his dear john, and
boldly signs his name, setting the
chances at defiance, probably desiring
i that the “floorer” of dr. curtis should
he more widely known than he was
likelv to he by ordinary means. this
champion of the “ph” alter the signal j
and disgraceful defeat ot dr.
and dr. smith, annihilating dr. urtis
in the argument, and alter praying for
the soul and body of dear john, gives
the result of the tight, w ithout touching
details. the dr’s prayer has been
answered, for john s sole, or even
so/e*, are in little danger ol damage
before next october. it thi3 emptv
headed levite who blows the horns of
the temple, for the people to lister, to
his own glorification, is not satisfied
with his honors, we trust the university
of ohio will add to that of doctor, the
honorary and honorable degree ol a.
s. s.
cincinnati. ohio, april >w
dr john: yours came safe to
hand todav, finding us in the mercy of
hod, all well. i was glad to see vour
name at the bottom ot the letter, and
was still "lader to here of your welfare,
and l hope ,u sole and body. may
the lord bless you, and ifuc meet not,
in time, may we meet in heaven. o,
let us try for this. i found your friend
well at' dublin, v«ur father seemed
well pleased to hear from you and ol
your welfare, he thought it a hue thing
and seemed well satisfied. will,ami
,s working with brother mommy and
was much pleased to hear from you j
the people of dublin seemed very dif
ferent towards me, all seemed glad to
see me down my enemies. i could not
get off until i gave dr curtis a t.mn
-and l gave him a hard one. your,
lathe, was present and took quite an
interest ,n the debate. it was toe
opinion of many ot the citizen, that
he was too hard for dr. singar, as he
could not .peak offhand and curtis
rather a good .peaker. the people
thought singar’s written lecture wa.
respectable, but the maaije. judge from
other thing.. curt«« had used up dr j
i smith on the evening i got there so
bad. 1 left the room, they reported that
ii was afraid of him, this you know did
not suit me, so 1 resolved to learn him
a lesson and the thought 1 did
learn him one, which will be of service
to him before he commences another
discussion. i never saw such a reac
tion in the public mind before, the
people would have plucked out their
eyes for me.
our little society is doing well in
dublin and their prospects are flatter
ering for the future, many of the old
friends spoke of you m kind terms.
we commenced the exhibition of the
panorama in college hall, sabbath
evening and our prospects arc flatter
ing, i expect to go east by the middle
of this month, i saw’ your epistle to
harwood k co., this morning, your,
letters are well received and will do
you credit—the “ph” ia growing and
the meetings are interesting, and your
letters give much intereit to them. if
you regain your health and do good
and get back safely, which i pray you
may, the season will be ,well spent. i
can’t say write soon, for i don't know i
where i shall be. may the hand of
heaven direct you in all you do. you
w ill remember the importance of taking
due precaution in matters when you
reach your destination, the tone of the
press in that quarter is quite fiery, they
feel the charge of manitism, but don’t,
know who charges the |ivire9. many
friends sends greeting, kc.
s. f. chase.
this letter was directed to barrett,;
at ashville, and forwanied from that
place to greenville, from there to
spartanburg, c. h. where barrett
took it out of the post office. it
seems to us comment is unnecessary to
point the irresistahle conclusion, that
dr. chase knew he was writing*to an 1
accredited agent of the> abolitionists
whose held of labor was south caroli
na. we present our readers with
an extract from the secret correspon
dence of barett. honest men, in an j
honest business, with honest purposes, 1
are not apt to need or use such modes
of concealment, and it furnishes n
strong presumption that barrett had his
reasons for shrouding in secresy these
matters; undoubtedly he had the knj
to unlock the enigma.
1 having written
should receive. i would
where you could most
4 should it be opened.
i letters to greenville, anderson
•2 urge the propriety of your
;t safely get them, one of
4 it is the one containing
1 and spartanburg, which
•2 having them forwarded
then especially may
4 a letter to the p. master
i it is important you
*2 to you to sonic point
:i give you some trouble
1 general, as soon as you—
the reader w ill commence at l and
then go through all of them—then take
the first ’2 and go through all of them'
—then;! and 4 in the same way, and he
has the secret; though it must be con
feessed that even with this key our
friends here have not been able to un
derstand portions of the correspon
dence.
we submit to an enlightened public,
that the exposition we have made ot
the actings and doings of barrett leaves
no moral doubt of his lull guilt, and
that our community stands justified
in the eye of the country in de
manding a legal investigation. it is
true we have not given all the evidence
in our power, policy ‘forbade that; but
we have given enough to satisfy any
reasonable man that our people have
acted neither rashly nor harshly. it is.
also true that the whole people of the
state are indignant at the numerous
and covert assaults made upon them,
and that a few more detections will exas
perate them to a degree wdiich will
render even a jail a very unsafe place
for the incendiary.
reason, argument, law, and even
the constitution of the country have no
effect in staying the bigots, fanatics,
and political knaves in their mad
career. the decree has gone torth,
ur inula esl carthago," and carthage
must defend herself the best way she
can. kach state in the south must
make her sovereignty felt, a.s well as
make her voice heard, or their institu
tions perish. if we cannot meet our
foes in the field of battle, we have dun
geons and scaffolds for their miscreant
agents, and will use them.
as this subject is one of deep and
paintul interest to all of us, we shall in
another article take up some matters
collaterally connected with barrett’s
arrest and imprisonment, which will he
found not only interesting but positively
useful to the magistracy of the country.
weak of the niagara falls. —the
710,000 tons ot water which each min
ute p /ur over the precipice of n iagara,
are estimated to carry away a foot of
the cliff every year. taking this aver
age, and adopting the clear geological
proof that the fall once existed at
tiueenstown, four miles below,wc must
suppose a period of twenty thousand
years occupied in this recession of the
cataract to it* actual site—while in the
della of the mississippi, nearly four
teen thousand square miles to extent,
an estimate founded on its present rate
of increase, and on a calculation of the
amount of earthy matter brought down
the stream, has justified mr. lyell iu
alleging that sixty-seven thousand years
must have elapsed since the formation
of this great deposite began
ftrltj rtr'uw.
exolishml* asd the slavl-tbade.
people of all nations participate in
the profits of slavery; a nrtat part of
the brokering is conducted by respect*
able english houses: and indeed eng
lish people, after sojourning long ir
brazil, feel as little repugnance to the
business as spaniards or portuguese
english engineers build steamers foi
for the trade, and then go in them a*
first drivers. one of those vessels, ir
may last, succeeded in landing, a little
to the north of rio, iuuo negroes, a
cargo worth from €*£"»,tmm) to £30,000.
this would have bought the ship and
all she carried out for barter five times
over. an acquaintance of mine, an
anglo-american, had a little before
this brought safely’ to port, in a little
brig, tmo. he as oommauder, earned
between £ooo and £7oo and his crew
in proportion. the sufferings of the
negroes and the crews, during the
now necessarily protracted voyages,
are well known; and it is also a fact,
known to those conversant with the
subject that while the horrors of the
passage are infinitely enhanced by the
influence ot french and english crui
sers, the trade is still supplied at the
ratefof oo.ooo,annually,and so long as
there remains a market it will be so
supplied, unless, instead of employing
a few brigs and schooners, we could in
reality wall in all africa.
c olored schools.
the american of the loili iust., publishes
the following report of the committee on
colored schools. it is as interesting docu
ment.
gentlemen:—your committee to
whom was referred the petition of a
number of citizens, asking the estab
lishment of a colored school on the
east side of the river, and also the
petition praying the removal of the
colored school on north washington
street from that neighborhood, would
respectfully report as follows:
the questions presented in the two
petitions are so identical and intimate
ly connected, that we propose to give
our views upon both in one report.
your committee arc well aware ol
the importance as well as the delicacy
of the subject matters involved in the
petitions-, and as the views herewith
presented may he deemed a departure
from other acts and precedents here
tofore established by the board of edu
cation in this city, we think it proper
that the reasons which govern us, and
the conclusions we have formed, be fully
submitted.
the subject of separate schools for
colored children has often been agitated
in our city. in january ihii, the sub
ject was brought before the common
council by a petition of a colored
man, praying to bo relieved from pay
ing taxes for school purposes, on the
ground that colored children were not
admitted into the public school. the
petition having been referred to the pro
per committee, [the recorder being
the chairman) reported, “that no legal
provision existed for th# education of
colored children separate from other
children, and that they have a right to
attend common schools in districts
where they live, and arc liable to be
taxed.”
such was the law as it then existed.
colored children then had the same
right to demand and receive the bless
ings of public instruction equally with
white children. no inspector of color
had then been placed at the door of our
“free schools,” with power to exclude
those whose only sin was the color of
their skin, though more cleanly and bet
ter behaved than scores of their more
fortunate white neighbors.
and it is here worthy cf remark, that
in the erection of each of our school
houses and all the attendant expenses,
those of the colored population owning
property were taxed, and paid in pro
portion equally with other citizens.
by an act passed april 11th, 154.3,
conferring certain powers upon the
board of education in this city, it is
provider! in sec. ir, i oat said board
shall have power to establish and cause
to be kept, such number of schools
for the instruction ot colored children
as they shall deem expedient.
sec. is provides that until such
schools for the instruction of colored
children chall be so provided, it shall
not be lawful to impose any tax upon
the property of any colored persons
for the support of common schools
sec. 10 provides, that when the
board shall determine to establish
schools for the instruction of colored
children, they shall divide the city in
to districts, and make an estimate ot
the cost of erecting a suitable school
house in each of said districts, and oe
termine the sites thereof, and report
their doings to the common council.
see. '2o provides that the common
council shall have jmwer to raise by
geueral tax on a separate warrant such
sum as shall be necessary to build a
school house in each district or as many
as they ma) beem expedient, not exceed
ing in the aggregate the sum of $.7000.
sec. '2l provides that in case the
common council shall refuse to raise
such tax, the board shall have power
to provide suitable rooms or buddings
for the accommodation of such schools,
but the annual expenditure for this
purpose shall not exceed five hundred
dollars.
by section ist of an amendatory act,
passed april llth, it is provided
that the board of education, in addition
to the powers and duties prescribed by
the act hereby amended, shall have
power, and it shall be their duty to
pass such by-laws and ordinances for
the regulation, government, control,
and management, of the common
schools in said city as they shall deem
expedient.
on the !3th of august, 1 the
board by an ordinance declare, tha<
“no teacher shall permit the atten
dance of any colored child at nl
ithe public school* other thwi tbon
john dick, pi sushi*
whole no. 86.
organized for colored children, except
with the consent of tlie board of edu
cation.” hee section 11 of the ordi
nances,
such is a brief synopsis of the
on this subject, under which the color
ed school is now organized, an j under
which another is now sought to be es
tablished on the east side of the river.
by the report of the late superin
tendent, b. r. me alpine, of sept.
1847, it appears that the whole number
of colored children of school age in
the city on the first of january of that
year, was only ho, and that ail except
1;] of them resided on the west aide of
the river, that a sc! ol had been kept
on north washington street ten
months of the year, that the average
attendance was only 148, that the whole
expense for the ten months was $459
so. without charging that school
with any part of the sum for superin
tendent's salary and contingent expen
ses, which was $lloo, one ltith of which
is properly [chargeable
and w hich would make 75
to he added to the 4.79 hi
and making the total sum of 55
which for the average attendance
would be---- ii
ami seventeen one hundredths per
1 scholar.
to what extent tlie colored popula
tion on the east side of the river have
increased since that period is unknown,
and there is no certain or official in
formation as to the exact number of
colored children in the city of school
age, but from such information as wc
have been able to obtain, the whole
number is now only about *o, and in
the new city directory, recently pub
lished. we find only “h colored house
holders on the cast side of the river,
i and less than there were as stuted in
the directory of 1817.
the average attendance at the color
ed school on north w ashington street,
the past year, as stated by citizens
who have had ample means of informa
tion, would not exceed while the
expense of maintaining that school will
amount to the sum of $4oo ini
which sum if wc add, as be
fore the one sixteenth of
superintendent’s salary
and contingent expenses 08 7.7
the total amount will then he $4ob 75
or $l5 o*j per scholar for the average
attendance, a sum entirely dispropor
tionate, w hen we consider the expense
on the average attendance of main
taining the “free white schools,” is
less than $5 00 per scholar.
your committee believe that if the
colored children were allowed free
access to the public schools in etch of
the districts where they reside, the
whole numberthat would attend would
not exceed sixty, and which would
average four to cacli of the fifteen
white “free schools” from which they
are now unjustly excluded. this would
not in the least increase the expense of
those schools, and would save to the
city the cost of maintaining any sepa
rate schools for colored children, and
which sum, if we should add another
on the east side of the river, would
amount to about simh> 00 per year.
upon the ground of economy, then,
we see that this system cannot be up
held nor maintained a moment longer.
and it is not believed that a separate
school for the colored children is ad
vantageous to them, but on the con
trary they are seriously injured by
such a system. the almost utter im
possibility to procure a competent tea
cher of their own color, the mortifica
tion they must feel in being forced
from the districts in which many of
them were born and have ever lived,
and where the property of their parents
has been taxed to build commodi
ous school houses which they are
not permitted to enter, the dis
tance which many of them would be
compelled to go in our city, which
covers an area of more than six square
miles, many of them living upon the
very borders of the city, grouped to
gether in some “rented rooms,” in
darkness and ignorance, there to seek
education with all the attending disad
vantages, arc objections to the system
of sufficient weight to demand its re
peal provided there were no others.
if then, as we trust we have shown
that the system of exclusive schools tor
colored children cannot be maintained
upon the ground of economy nor utili
ty, upon what ground, was the system
first established, and why has it beeu
maintained' wc, answer, it was first
conceived and has been maintained
solely m consequence of the “prejudice
against color.” the system was es
tablished in order to gratify a morbid
public sentiment against the colored
race, a species, yea, a relic of the
organic remains of that public opinion
which a lew years ago could stone and
mob those who dated to assemble in a
peaceable and lawful manner and speak
the truth in relation to the bondage,
degradation, and suffi-tmg of the color
ed race
but we trust that the enlightened,
generous, and plulanthrapic portiou of
the citizens of rochester are as will
ing to open the doors of their “i*re®
schools” to those whose only impedi
ment is their color, as they are and
ever have been to the poor destitute
and degraded of other nations and
climes. why shall we close the doors
of our school, upon those who can boast
that they c,,, cn, crea
ted by the *mt.e overruling providence,
children “hunger and thirat”
for the bleasing* of knowledge and
education— who have as much natural
eight to enjoy the l*enet»cent effects of
our “free schools” as those of a light
er hue?
do not the colored population have a 
common interest, yes a common country. 
are
*••7 not entitled to the common blessing*
with us all i —then let us no longer ester to
the false and arbitrary distinction of a few or*
pretenders. if these distinction* in
and of themselves are without anv foundation
in reason and juwice, as.
“u* true, sad pity *tis, ,nw
they are
if u-s havs a right, if it j»*‘
discriminations as to the complexion. v
not the same right, *"d ual
)t just. fore* to make the religious senti
ments ol parenu a rest, or the physical for
mation of children in other respect* as well
as the color of the skin.
yv«r committee have searched in vain for
a reason for continuing this barrier to out
school*; none has been suggested worthy of
the name of reason we have been told that
the colored race are degraded, that many of
them are filthy—that if they are allowed free
acceas to our schools, many of our respecta
ble citizens will withdraw their children and
their encouragement from the schools. in an
swer to such objections we can onlysav that it
is a lamentable fact that many children (who if
clean could boast of a white skin) attend our
schools who are more degraded and more fil
thy than colored children, aud we are free to
say from personal observation that the col
ored children of rochester, so far as cleanlit
ness it concerned, will compare favorably
with an equal number indiscriminately selec
ted from other children. and if we compare
ihe number of colored persona charged with
crime in proportion to the numbers of each,
we and that they lose nothing by the com
parison, taking into consideration their rela
tive advantages if these reasons prevail, the
•bjectora will be forced by their own argu
ment to withdraw their encouragement froir.
the schools, for perfect cleanliness and str.ct
moral deportment, .with ail, even the white,
cannot be found in any public school tn this
city.
one of the p.ominent causesot crime ia ig
norance. shall we aid in perpetuating it, by
keeping in existence a system which has a di
rect tendency tonvei the chains of ignorance
upon the colored race by lending our sanc
tion to the building up of unjust unnatural
and cause-ess distinctions and castes in society l
if we sav by our acta to the colored children
“we are holier thrui you’’ we creite in them
a feeling at once hostile towards us, we de
grade them and we degrade ourselves. in
stead of encouraging them to do good, we
drive them to evil.
our country lias opened wide her doors
and invited ttie oppressed of every land tc
our shores, and they are admitted to all the
right* and privileges of the native born—thus
encouraging and stimulating all who mavseek
their fortunes here 10 become good and wor
thy citizens. shall we do less with those
whose birth place and homes are here—wliuat
claim upon our justice and philanthropy ii
uesistable*
we therefore offer the following resolu
non:
resolved. that the colored school on nortl
washington street be d.scontmued, and tha
it is inexpedient tc establish another culoret
school in this city and that the ordinance for
bidding the attendance of colored children 11
our “free schools” be repealed.
hiram f. hatch,
samuei, l). porter,
edwin pancost,
hiram c. smith.
august ttth, 1849.
the report was accepted, and on motion u
adopt,
mr amsden said that although he con
curred in the general sentiments of the report,
he must withhold his assent from the recom
mendation to discontinue the colored school.
he thought that such a step would not meet
the approbation of the patrons of the colored
school or of those of the other schools, or ol
the citizens generally.
he suggested that the sense of the public
in the premises might be tested bv granting
permission to the colored children to attend
the schools in the districts in which they re
side, provided ihe trustees of such districts
should concur therein, to which end he offeree
an amendment to the report as follows:
resolved, that the ordinance of tha boart
of education w hich prohibits the attendant
of colored children at any but the colorec
3chool be so amended as to allow those resi
ding on the east side of the river to attend the
schools in the districts in which they respec
tively reside, provided that the consent of the
trustees thereof be previously obtained.
on motion the farther consideration of the
matter was deferred until the next meeting ol
the board, and the report and resolutions
were ordered to be printed.
as ynexpected sermon.—a correspon
dent of the ram s horn, giving an account ol
the first ot august celebration, and thi
matters connected therewith, in new bed
ford, mass., relates the following. it is an
example worth imitating.
the richest thing of all w as what happened
to-day, the president's fast day. our friend
richard thayer of bridgewater, thinking the
celebration was to-day, came to the city to
attend] it, and fi .iding his mistake, he cast
about |hmiself to see where he should go.
hearing the bell ringing at one of our ortho
dox churches and that being the only place
he could seeui to find, he dropped in to hear
what might be said on the occasion. well
the man of god who was to hold forth did not
appear, and one of the pious (negro hating)
deacons commenced the services, a- d after
piayer and tuning and reading ihe bible, and
other j reliimnaries of a congregational
church of 1849, which i do not understand,
the good deacon made known that they had
been disappointed in their minister; if there
was any one in the house who had anything
to sav; “ihe audience would be glad to hear
from them.” up rose thayer and for aboul
iilteeu minuted gave a real out and out anti-
slavery discourse about individual sins in
general, and national sins in particular. the
audience was completely “knockstomshed.”
the deacon dismissed the meeting as quietly
a» he could. 1 was told by one who was
there that it was really rich.
no colonization. —we copy from the
bugle the foluw iug account of ptoceedings at a
meeting ol the colored people ol fort wayne,
lud. the meeting was called to take into consi
deration the merits of an appeal made to the
colored people of that state, by win. w.
urging them, if they would enjoy
social, civil and political privileges,to colonize
in liberia. ilete is the answer to that ap
peal
resolved, l hat the enjoyment of life, liber
ty, arid the pursuit of happiness belongs to us
as an inalienable right trom our creator, in
common with all mankind
though denied in some things the full en
joyment ol libertv and the pursuit of happiness
at present, which are awarded to the wtm es
yet we are determined to u*e all lawful means!
and to continue m so doing, until we shall be'
allowed the full privileges of american citi
zens, for oui foreuihers fought, bltd and died
to secure for us and to us these things, m com
mon with other citizen soldiers, m the rev
olutionary war.
that, because wc are at present denied
some of these rights in tfos state, we shoulc
not abandon the hope of attaining justice lbr
ourselves and our posterity, when ahead)
the leaven of justice is beginning lo show m
perfect work in huh* of the eastern states
and in some of the western, though not ve
arrived to a state of maturity, is so far un
proved a* to assure us that patience and per
reverence are onlv needed on our part; au<
we should at such a nine flee our country
iontake the graves ol our fathers, desert un
places of our birth and the sceues of our child
hood, we should show ourselves un worth)
n.« enjoyment of those, ihiugs now withheh
iivw us.
that the prince of suverv and stare
holdio* .»«ver sprung o?oo tbeanencan peo
ple a ivtorr sore and deetroetive scheme for
ihe annihilation of the free colored people
„f this lend, than the scheme of colonization
in africa. it never designed to do anything
far our benefit but tn destroy. let tt speak
for itself “the moral, intellectual, and po
litical improvement of people of color within
the united stales are objects foreign to the
powers of thi* society.”—address of am.
cnl.soc. to its auxilaries, af. rep. vu. 291.
that since the colomxatiou society ha*
sent forth to the world this broad declaration,
we feel insulted when asked to emigrate to
liberia, and when a colored man become*
the tool of such society, or on his own re
sponsibility advocates colonization, we look
npou him as recreant to the best good of hi*
race.
that, while we will labor to elevate our
race and secure to them the enjoyment of
equal civil and political privileges with the
whites, we feel bound to labor to prevent our
people from colonizing in liberia; for every
one that leaves this country for that ameri
can golgotha, weakens onr hands and throws
obstacle* in our way that arc hard to be over
come.
the north star.
rochester, august 17, 1849.
colored schools.

on the first page of this week’s paper,;
will be found a report of the committee on
1 colored schools, recommending the abolition'
of such schools, and the admission of colored
children into those of the districts. the re- 1
port is now under the consideration of the:
educational committee, and may be defeated.
we uodeistand that strenuous efforts will be
put forth to compass its defeat; and that, as
usual, the opponents of this just, wive and,
liberal measure, will seek to attain their object j
by means of the colored people themselves.
it has been proposed that a petition should j
be circulated among the colored people, pray- i
ing the committee to continue the colored,
school on washington street and, notwith
standing the general intelligence of the colored
people of this city, it is to be feared that many
will take the side of proscription, sign such a
petition, and become the instruments of their
own degiadation, and that of their children.
nothing on earth would better please the
i negro haters of rochester than such a peti
tion. it would be the most powerful argu
ment in favor of the blind prejudice and
haughty contempt with which the colored peo
ple arc usually treated in this country.
wo should feel the most intense mortifica
i' lion if, while many ol the most respectable
white people of this city should be in favor of
admitting our children to equal privileges in
the use of our common schools, a single col
ored man should be found opposed to the
measure. it is very clear to us that the only
way to remove prejudice, and to command
the respect of our white fellow citizens, is to
repudiate, in every form, the idea of our in-
i feriority, by maintaining our right to civil,
social and political equality with them. if
we are in doubt on this point, our despisers
may well be resolved. if they can only say
that the colored man himself is impressed
with a sense of his unfitness for equal privi
leges, their own prejudices may be plausibly
justified. for our own part, we are resolved
to battle against all complexional distinctions
among men. they are unnatural, and work
nought but mischief and oppression in any
community w here they may exist; and no
j where may their injurious effects be seen more
j clearly than in the condition of our colored
children. they find themselves excluded
from white schools, and they early learn that
their complexion is the cause of their exclu
sion. tiie consequence is, they are induced
to undervalue themselves, and to look upon
white children as their oppressors. from this
source may be traced hatred, combats, insults
arid numerous other vices, vvhich serve to
keep up a perpetual enmity between the white
and black members of the community. there
i is no reason, nor can there be any reason why
a colored child should not be taught in the
same schools with white children. the fact
that one is black, and that the other is white,
j makes no difference as to the office of educa
tion. both are in need of instruction, and
both possess the capacity for it; and for one'
class to deny to the other any right of educa
tional privilege, on complexional grounds, is
an insult offered to that god who made of
one blood all the nations of men, for to dwell
on all the face of the earth.”
but w e put this question on another ground.
it is evident that colored people will continue
!to form a part of this commuity; and that
j their influence in it, for good or for evil, will
be considerable. they may either contribute
to its prosperity, virtue and happiness, or they
may become a serious drawback upon all
these. to elevate and improve the colored
people, is but contiibuting to the general good
of the whole community and as it is evident
that colored children will be in a much better
position for improvement by sharing the ad
vantages of the whites in the common schools,!
than they can ire in a separate and proscribed j
establishment, no appeals to prejudice and
pride should induce the committee to reject!
the report in favor of admitting colored child- j
ren into the district schools. the abolition of
the colored school on washington street, and
the admission of colored children on equal
terms with the w hites iuto the district schools,
would be a noble example of justice and liber
ality worthy ot the city of rochester.
we are happy to observe that the press of
all parties approve the report; and that, so
i rtr as *ho more respectable of our citizens are
concerned, there will be no serious objection
to its adoption. '1 he only sources from which
we have reason to expect opposition. are from
a few ignorant colored men themselves, and
from that low vulgar herd of whites, whose
chief sense of then own consequence is de
rived irom their ability to abuse and insult
w ith impunity those w hom they are pleased to
term niggers.”
it remains to be seen whether this under
r!l,a of rochester society shall rule the city
on a question which iovolves, more or less,
the happiness of all.— f. d.
fair*! fair*!
tne ladies of the western new york
anti-slavery society are actively engaged in
preparing for holding a setiea of anti-slavery
i:r m neighboring towns. they have
already mai* arrangements for two. one is
u> be held at maced on, on saturday next
another on the following tuesday, at pal
myra, and other* are tn tbe
fii» to each of these places will be preceded
by anti-slavery meeting* we have rqasoo
to believe that these assemblages will tend to
quicken the slumbering seal of tome, and to
stir ihe spirit* of all to greater activitv in this
holy caune —r. n.
father matthew and slavery.
nothing reveal* more completely and
mournfully the all-prevailing pretence and
power of the spit it of slavery in this land,
than the sad facl, that scarcely a single for
eigner that venlurres tn onr soil is found
able to withstand its pernicious and seductive
influence. man after man has appeared in
our midst, from whom, in view of hi* previous
history, vte had reason to eipect a bold and
uncompromising stand against this giant
wrong, baa fallen before it. and drifted away
m the pro-slavery tide of public opinion
many names might be montiooed —especially
tboee of divines— england, ireland and
scotland, known and distinguished at borne as
the friends of the anti-slavery cause, who
have, almost immediately on landing, deserted
their principles, abandoned the cause, and
linked themselves with the oppressors and
haters of liberty, finding it much easier to sail
with the popular breeze than to maintain their
integrity. it would seem that the foul demon
stands ready, upon all our borders, to reduce
or overwhelm every man who comes within
his reach.
from our acquaintance with father matthew,
we had fondly hoped that his would be a
better fate; that he would not change his
morality by changing his locality; but that he
would nobly avow and stand hard by the
principles he professed to cherish in his own
land. we are, however,grieved, humbled and
mortified to know that he too has fallen in the
wake of his predecessors, and forsaken the
cause of the oppressed, by pledging himself
to the oppressor that he will remain dumb on
the subject of slavery during his sojourn in
this country. a more melancholy spectacle
cannot well be imagined and though most
painful to us, wre should be false to onr high
obligations to liberty did we not expose this
disgraceful apostaev.
in the year 1842, theobald matthew signed
an address from the people of ireland to their
countrymen and countrywomen in america,
calling their attention to the subject of ame
rican slavery, denouncing the system as a
foul blot, declaring that our land never
could be glorious 90 long as its soil is pol
luted by the footstep of a single slave”;
affirming slavery to be the most tremendous
j invasion of the natural, inalienable lights of
man, and of some of the noblesi gifts of god;
and say, what a spectacle does america
present to the people of the earth —a land ol
profesaing christian republicans, uniting tneii
energies for the oppression and degradation ol
three millions of innocent human beings, tha
children of one common father, who suffer
i the most grievous wrongs and the utmost de-
i gradation, for no crime of their own, nor ol
their ancestors! slavery is a sin against god
and man. all who are not for it must be
against it; none can be neutral. we entreai
you to take the part of justice, religion and
liberty. we call upon you to unite with the
abolitionists.”
such was father matthew's advice to hia
countrymen in america, when he stood under
the shadow of the british monarchy but oh!
how different, how changed is hi* tune, when
be treads the soil of this republic! within
a few days, a train of circumstances has
'compelled him to define his position and,
j sadly enough, he has sought to find for him
self a refuge, of which, seven years since, he
denied the existence.— none can be neutral
he then said. upon this point his mind has
undergone a change. he note thinks he has
found neutral ground. the circumstances
leading to this development are briefly these
the committee of arrangements appoiuted by
the american anti-slavery society to make
preparations for celebrating the anniversary
of west india emancipation, addressed tc
father matthew a letter, respectfully inviting
him to be present, and to participate in the
celebration. to make assurance doubly
sure,” a committee was appointed, consisting
of w. l. garrison and dr. h. i. bowditch,
to see that father matthew received the said
letter; and at this interview, father matthew
declared what it appears to us will be his
policy during hia sojourn in this country. he
said on that occasion, i have as much as i
can do to save men from the slavery of intem
perance, without attempting the overthrow
any other kind of slavery. besides it would
not be proper for tne to commit myself on a
question like this, under present circum
stances. i am a catholic pnest; but being
here to promote the cause of temperance, 1
should not be justified in turning aside from
my mission for the purpose of subserving the
cause of catholicism.” he further said, “i
am not in favot of slavery. 1 should never
think of advocating it, though i don't know
as we can say that there is any specific in
junction against it in the scriptures.” such
seems to be the present position of father
mathew and it is one of which, we have no
doubt, his countrymen at home will be heartily
ashamed. it is needless for us to expose the
aophisttv by which father matthew seeks to
defend his position. the case which he puts
of being a catholic priest, is the last which
he should have taken to illustrate the relation
he shall maintain to the anti-slavery cause in
this country. he was a catholic priest in
ireland, and a temperance man in ireland; and
though pressed on all sides with engagmenta,
he found time to express himself fully and
clearly in behali ol the anti-slavery cause
and it ie not to be believed that what he then
said against american slavery in any deg tee
lessened bis power against the slavery of in
temperance. his assumed unwillingness to
turn aside from the temperance cause, to
promote catholicism, would wear the appear
ance of impartiality, if the cases were alike—
which they are not. every one knows father
matthew to be a roman catholic every one
does not know hi.n to be an abolitionist. on
the one queotioo he is openly committed, and
is willing to stand committed on the other,
he is entirely opposed to committing himself.
he has no occasion to turn aside” tn pro
mote catholicism. he does promote it, and
cannot help promoting it. in every good
word that he speaks, and in every good deed
that he pet forms, be promotes the cause of
roman catholicism, while he is openly iden
tified with that system of religion. but it is
not so on the subject of slavery. the anu
alavery cause derives no influence in its favor
irom a man who declares himself unwilling to
i ‘commit hunseff” tn its behalf. tbe reader
must remember that our bostoo fi tends made
ne exorbitant or unreasonable demand upon
father matthew s time they assured him
of their unwilling new* to divert turn from the
•real purpose of hts mission to this country,
ami they simply wished bun to attend this
celebration as an appropriate opportunity in
which to make known bis sympathy with the
cause of the oppressed/ the length of lime
required for this could not exceed ooe d*j% so
that, on this score, father matthew is without
exeuse.
it is obvious to common sense, that, the
policy of father matthew will fail ii| it*
object. thank god that it i* withn# the
power of the anti-slavery press of tbe country
(feeble as a is) to make hts treachery to liberty
known throughout tbe land and although he
may luxuriate for awhile in the smiles of
american flesh-mongeis. and eat the bread
wruhfe out from the sweat and blood of the
bondman, the time will come when his treach
ery must recoil upon him. god will “con
found the wisdom of the crafty, and bring
to nought the counsels of the ungodly.’
but we will not be too severe. we hope
that father mathew may yet see hia error,
confess his fault, and nobly identify himself
with the cause of tbe long-degraded and
deeply injured-bondman, before he leaves this
country. f. d.
the union of the oppressed.
we hope, in a few weeks, to be able to
lay before our readers the thoughts, words
aud action of our colored brethren in different
parts of the country on the subject of union
as presented by us in last week’s north star.
it is to be hoped that the leaders of our peo
ple, in their different localities, will at once
call the attention of our people to the subject,
and obtain their views and opinions with re
spect to it, in the fotm of addresses, resolu
tions, or letters. tnere should be a full and
free investigation as to the propriety and
practicability of the scheme suggested and
our people should be well instructed in every
particular connected with the subject.
it would be easy for us to anticipate the
objections to the scheme; and perhaps as easy
to answer them; but we leave the field open
to objectors, and they may occupy it if they
please. what we w ish is, to ascertain the
voice of our brethren on the subject; but
whether we are followed by many or by few,
if thirty persons can be found in the union
who are willing to form such a league, we
shall be heartily in favor of its formation, as
we believe that, from this- -m ill beginning, an
institution may be erected, fraught with untold
i good to ourselves and to posterity. but we
wait for the voice of our friends cn the sub
ject.—f. d.
rev. henry h. garnet.
i when we penned our portrait of this gen
i ileman three weeks since, wo had no idea of
administering to his vanity, and are not sur
prised that he should seize on the first oppor
tunity to manifest his spleen towards us on
t account of it. the only part of hia speech
delivered at the auburn celebration, which
mr. ward has allowed to see the light, or
i perhaps thought worth reporting, is a denun
ciation of us and our esteemed friend, c. l.
1 remond. mr. garnet begins with the fol-
j lowing solemn warning to hi* hearers be
ware of the baneful and hell-born doctrines
i which are cunningly scattered among you,
and that, too, with an industry worthy of a
better cause. i speak plainly and pointedly,
because the poison which i am about to ana
lyze emanates from a high and respectable
source, so far as talents and influence are con
cerned. mr. frederick douglass tells us we
have no country.” lu one sense, and in the
sense in which this sentiment was uttered,
this is perfectly true —“we have no country.”
in making the declaration, we meant only to
exhibit forcibly the glaring fact that the col
ored man is denied the rights and privileges of
an american citizen, by the american gov
ernment and that, in this respect, he is an
outlaw in the land. this was the meaniug
which we attached to rhat declaration when
we uttered it, and no man knew letter at the
time that such was our meaning than mr.
garnet, yet he has the unfairness to affirm
that the view we take of it is the same taken
by john c. calhoun nothing can more
i clearly indicate mr. garnet’s own sense of
i the utter weakness of his cause, than a resort
1 to palpable falsehood in his defence. if any
colored man wants to know whether he has a
counity, let him go to charleston, south
[carolina, under the protection of the ameri
can constitution, and his country will be lim
ited to a prison. that the colored people
have a right to a country here, we have ever
affirmed aud mr. garnet will never succeed
in trying to make the colored people, nor any
other enlightened people, believe the con
trary.
charge 2d.—we have spoken lightly and
contemptuously of the religious conviction of
the colored people, and of their religious
hope.” we deny the charge, and demand
the proof; and if the former be not with
drawn, or proved, its author must rest under
the infamous disgrace of being a reverend
false-witness.
charge 3d.—we were once a preacher in
the methodist church, and deserted it. this
is very true. those who are acquainted
with the character of the methodist church,
and have a spark of self-respect, or feel a
single; pulsation of sympathy for the down
trodden slave, will commend us for our
coarse.
charge 4th.—we deny the inspiration of
the bible.” this is a broad charge, and if
well founded, mr. garnet will, of course,
produce the proof; meanwhile, we utterly
disavow that have ma< j e suc h a denial.
charge sth. we are “unstable.” it
might perhaps be better for biut if we were
so he might then expect that at some future
time be would be able to deceive us into tbe
belief that mr. garnet ia a man of veracity
and honor; no such hope* oor expectation*
need ever be chetiahed. “unstable” though
we may be, we shall ever maintain a consist
ent view of hu character, and abape our con
duct towards him accordingly.
charge 6th fa, that we ask the colored
people to bow down to the unreasonable
and unnatural dogmas of non-resistance.”—
hat mr. garnet term*, unreasonable and
unnatural dogmas,” (though we have never
insisted upon them before any congregation ot
our people,) may be found ia that said volume
which ns aflecu to hotter, and whjch w* an
presumed to alight we should like to bear
a sermon from this reverend man of blood
and pretended disciple of the la»rd jesus
christ, on the following pas***** of ct, p*
turn ye bare heard that it bath be»n said,
an ejra for an ere, and a tooth for a tooth
but 1 say unto you, that ye nr* ml
but tchowartr shall smvr the* on the right
cheek, turn to him the other also aod if any
man will sue tbee at the law, and take away
thy coat, let him bate thy cloak also. and
whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go
with him twain." will mr. garnet denounce
these as unnatural and unreasonable deg*
nun” 1 and if so, how much respect has he
for christ or the bible we believe that be
has no more recard for the bible, than had
abner kneeland or anv other infidel; and he
merely follows that pait of it which he deems
roost in accordance with his bloodthirsty dis
position, and as a means of putting money in
his purse. this reverend gentleman bound
himself under the most solemn obligations to
be present at the buffalo celebration, saying,
that if life lasted, or providence permitted,
he would he in buffalo at the appointed tune."
he was not there but was pouring out tha
via s of his wrath upon us, at auburn'!
adding to the sin of his breach of faith with
his buffalo brethren, bv.fabricating falsehoods
against us' from such teachers of morality
and religion, we say, in the language of “the
book of common prayer," “gout/ lorditc
liver us." the whole philippic of mr. gar-'
net, delivered against u£ at auburn, mft tis
sue of dishonesty and falsehood, from begin
ning to end. he tells liiydiparars that we
are opposed to giving the slave the bible, but
has not the honesty to say that we are in favo t
of giving bibles to free men. he says we
ridicule religion hut has tin) much contempt
for truth to say it is the slaveholder's religion.
he condemns us as a non-resistant, and in
the same speech charges us with holding to
the light of self-defence. he charges us
with saying that the bible would make the
slave wretched, and basely leaves the infer
ence to !>e drawn that we think it pernicious
book, when our assailant knows that the re
mark was made as an argument in favor of
giving thr slave himself, as the only condition
upon which he could realty own a bible.
mr. garnet next tiies his venomous toffth
on our esteemed friend and co-laborer, charles
lenox remond. he charges him with
“draining the wine cup"—with descending
from the consecrated desk, and repairing to
the ball chamber" denounces him as a
sportsman, and warns the people against him,
jas a “dangerous" teacher. mr. remond is
well known. he makes no high pretensions
to religion. he does not profess to believe
(that dancing is a sin, and then contradict his
profession by dancing at a ball. as to his
l draining the wine cup, we might he disposed
i to believe the charge, if the man who brings
it did not stand openly convicted of gross de
reliction of moral piinciple, and of a scries o
falsehoods. we shall, however
leave mr. remond to speak for himself.—
“he is of age,” and we are sure that he h
fully equal to the task. v. d.
[human life—lllustrated in my individual a ex
|)crience as a child, a yott.li, and a man. bi
henry clark wright.
this is a neatly bound volume of more that
1400 pages, and contains, as its title imports
the individual experience of its author. this
is illustrated by descriptions of his parentage;
i bis occupation; the religious tenets of hit
parents the scenery suriounding the place ol
his biith the amusements of his childhood
1 his school-boy days his early impression ol
religion; his dislike of cruelty to animals;
the changes that have taken place in his mind
on various subjects his studying for the min
istry, and a great variety of other topics.
while the book has little pretension toordei
in its arrangement, and is thrown together in
a manner that indicates haste on the part ol
its author, it is nevertheless a highly instruct
ive and interesting woik.
in bearing this testimony, however, we can*
not withhold an impression which struck us
jon first taking up the book. it was a feeling
i of regret that its author had not left the pre
paration and publication of his biography to
other hands. mr. wright is notan obscure
man his writings and speeches on a variety
of topics have been widely published and
read in this country, as well as in europe.—
one so extensively known, and whose public
career has been so marked as las, need have
no fears of leaving posterity in datkness,
either with respect to his origin or history.—
he has been the common property of the anti
slavery world during the last sixteen years,
and has surrounded himself with a host of
friends who could never have allowed las
memory to slumber in oblivion. he would
have been more just to himself, if he had
committed this work into other hands. but
the work is published, and will be found en
tertaining and useful. it may be had at the
store of bela marsh, 23, cornhill, boston.—
f. i>.
narrative or thf. life of henry hibb,
with an introduction by francis c. matlock,
new- york, 5, spruce sr.
after waiting several weeks, we here re
ceived a copy of this little work. why it did
not come to band sooner, we do not know,
unless iu author felt it proper to serve a
black editor last. although we dislike the
principle thus acted upon, we arc disposed to
do justice to his book. it is certainly one of
the most interesting and thrilling narratives of
slavery ever laid before the american people.
the exposure which the author makes ot the j
horrors of slavery the separations the
yrhippings, and the accumulated outrages in
flicted on the sdve, must stir the blood of
every reader who has the pulsations ot a mao.
the description of the slave's longing for
freedom—-of his deception, tricks and strate
gems to escape hts oonditioo, is just, though
humiliating. his narrations of the cruelty of
individual slaveholders, is natural, and we
doubt not in every essential particular true.
we deem the work a most valuable acquisi
tion to the anti slavery cause and we hope
that it may be widely circulated throughout
the country.— r. d.
to cosscsromdext*. charles lenox
remond.—your letter has been received.
you are much needed in western new
york. when shall we see you 1
w. c. x., boston.—sorry to be compelled
to postpone the publication of your letter.
look for it next week all well.
hcceipt* oext **k
f ore if ffevrt of tte week,
at date of sailing of tho america from
liverpool, the english parliament was in the
flurrt of winding up for ibe season, and ms
proceedings were, as usual, marked by indis
creet and undignified baste, ia disposing, in
.name way or other, of the mountainous aeeu
mutation of unfinished business. if the le
gislators in f.ngland and other countries we
wot of, would talk less and do mote, or rather
if they would both talk less and do less.it would
be infinitely better foi all parties. the cho
lera is still on the increase. if* ijondon, fhe
last week’s deaths were fisb on the2sth ult
persons were attacked —died. a very
small number, however, when we consider
that the population of ixmdon is considerably
oter two millions. in liverpool, the deaths
in one week amounted to 375. the mortality
is gieat in other parts of the kingdom. great
attention is being paid to the subject of public
health. engineers, writers and orators are
all interested in it. the result will doubtless
be beneficial. ixjrd aahley, in his usual
spirit of humane legislation, recently brought
forward a motion for providing the well-con
ducted boys in the ragged schools with free
passes to australia and elsewhere. hon. g,
gray objected, that there were many persons
still more deserving amongst the agricultural
poor, who would be glsd of the opportunity.
the argument is conclusive, and goes to show
how wide spread is the destitution amongst
the laboring classes in england, and how ne
cessary it is that some liberal and comprehen
sive scheme should speedily be attempted for
their relief. the present mayor of london,
mr. james duke, who it seems is also candi
date for the vacant seat in parliament caused
bv the death of mr. pattison, has been making
himself popular by giving entertainments to
the literary men of the metrop >lis, and the
irish members of the house of commons.—
the latter entertainment is supposed to have a
reference to the fact that the corporation is
becoming a large proprietor of the irish soil.
railways and steamboats have become the
means of very frequent interchange of civili
ties between england and her gallic neighbor.
twice every week excursions start from lon
don to the french capital. this is a new
feature of the times, and must have a very
important bearing upon the relations of those
heretofore too frequently belligerent nations.
amity and mutual understanding must be
greatly promoted thereby. let this friendly
intercourse continue, and extend to other
nations, and kings and governments, and
those who make a trade of war, will find it
j difficult to rouse the martial demon in the
breasts of the people. crime appears to be
on the increase in england. poisoning is ol
very frequent occurrence. whole families,
in particular villages, have been made away
with by this means while accounts of othei
flagiant crimes appear with frightful frequen
cy in the newspaper columns. the meeting
recently held in london for advocating par
liamentary and financial reform, promises ai
least one result of importance—namely, the
fusion of the two classes of reformers, the
radicals and the chartists. at this meeting
fearous o’connor, the chartist leader
gave in his adhesion to the instalment of re
forms for which the radicals are contending.
the nonconformist has the following remarke
on this subject
“time and events have wrought this sig-
i nificant change. for many a day the char
tists have had to chew over, in si’ent
rumination their past indiscretions. physical
force has been discovered to be but a miser
able substitute for moral and peaceful agna
tion. events, both at home and abroad, have
j been reading a continuous and pertinent lecture
upon the folly of linking a great political
question with violence. doctrines of this
class have rapidly died out. in fact, reverses
have wrought a happy internal revolution
2mong the chartists. deep-rooted prejudice
i against the middle class is beginning to give
way, and the truth that the union of the two
classes is absolutely necessary to the accom
plishment of a great political change, is
making quick march into iheii judgment,
i men begin to suspect that there may be a
little wisdom beyond the back parlors and
drawing-rooms of the time and, strange to
1 say, even surmise that a man wearing a
seedy coat may be trusted with the franchise.
a little longer continuance of this process,
and “the powers that be’ will be startled at
a united people in the attitude of a quiet and
peaceful determination to redress their
wrongs.”
the government, pursuing the cowardiy
gagging policy ot despotism, and of those
whose actions will not bear scrutiny, has re
fused to stamp or transmit through the post
the nation newspaper, the property of mr.
gavin duffy. an old act of parliament has
been raked up out of the lumber of centuries,
•o authorise this proceeding. of course any
other obnoxious publication may be suppres
sed by the same means the english jour
nals are employed in the discussion of m. j
thiers’ speech on the muzzling of the
french press, by which he is said to ha\c>
annihilated the socialists and gamed great
glory. such glory will be evanescent j
rather.
on the 23d of july, a crowded meeting l
was held in the larndon tavern, sympathis
ing with the hungarians, also vindicating
the people of england from any participation
in the sentiments of a portion of the press, in
reference to the hostile efforts of the austrian
and russian powers. among the speakeis
were mr. gobdeo, lord nugent, "lord dud
ley stewart, wra. iiowitt, ac. mr. cob
den, from his personal knowledge of russia,
administered to the czar a will merited casti
gation. he said that russia could not carry
on two campaigns beyond her own frontier
without coming to western europe for at
loan, and made an application of the fact on
this wise
“now, will any one in the city of ixmdon
dare to be a party to a loan to russia, euher
directly or openly, or by agency and copart
nership with any house, in amsterdam or
pans 1 have heard such a project talked of.
but let it only assume a shape, and i pro
mise you that we, the peace pany, will have
such a meeting as has not yet been held m j
londou, for the purpose of fixing an indeli
ble stigma of infamy upon the men who
would lend their money for such a vile, un
christian, and barbarous purpose.”
among the resolution* adopted at this
meeting was on* proposed by lord dudlay
stuart, to the effect that the koglmh gov
ernment do immediately recognise the mda-.
peodence of hungary.” it is a tery encou
raging feature for the prospects of tbs hun
garians. that men of so much talent sad
influence in england, are thus forward to
lend the gieat weight of their moral power
against the auatno-russian invasion.
the of the new
yor« tribune, after giving a svnopsis of the
«fl«.rs of france, says, sod apparently w *h
reason. that we are advancing towards the
reaaoiatioa of monarchy i.- f ranee. a re
act!* n towards cvlh« ik.orn is supp<*ed to be
going on io the french hamber. jesuitical
influence continues in the ascendant. the
legislative assembly was expected to adjourn
from t! 13 hof august to the 30th of sep
temb< r.
on the tlih of july, gen. oudinol had
succeeded in forming a ministry at rome
on the istb. the yellow and white barms,-
was hoisted at the ca*tle of st. -sngpjo, and
saluted by 100 guns, while popular re» 4 *eei
was at least outwardly secured bv the par
aded force of the whole french gvrnson
at the order td gen. oudinot, a t* l>ntm
was celebrated at st. peter's. while these
forced rejoicings were in p*ogress, a patnotic
band of young romans repaired to the gat®
of san pancrazio, the fatal scene of many
murderous engagements, and chanted a rciji.
erere in honor of the dtpaited the romm
municipality, which had held office since the
25th of april last gave in their res gnation on
the same day, ami a new provisional muni
opal commission was appointed by the gen
eral. the romans are a conquered people,
and are treated as such by their french
masters. on the 16th, the papal swat was
fully ie-established in rome but the pr.ests
have lost all popular sympathy, and can rule
henceforth only by coercive and despotic
measures. this cannot bst jong
the chief centre of interest at present is
hungary. amongst the mint conflicting
accounts which reach tins country, it is ditti
cult to arrive at a very clear understanding of
the progress ot the war in hungary. the
austrian and russian powers <>t course bring
the mnch larger number of men into the
field but the hungarians are animated by
the hope of preseiving their country and
their liberties, and their leaders are undoubt
edly superior to thos-» of the austrio-uussian
armies in skill and knowledge of the country
the last accounts scein on the whole to give
a more favorable impression of the prospect*
of kossuth. it is clear that at least one
victory has been obtained by the hungarians
over their austrian invaders under paskie
witch, at waitzen. it seems also pretty welt
authenticated that a desperate encounter took
place between an army of austrians and
1 groats under ban jellachieli. and the mag-
i
i yars, near hegyes, which ended in the entire
defeat of rie ban. fever and the cholera
are committing great havoc in the austrian
and russian camps. gomorn is still under
siege, at the latest accounts, and the scenes
enacted hv the besiegers a»e described as fear
ful. when the smoke of war has rolled
off from the nations of europe, may it be
j found that the cause of the oppressed his
gained, and not lost, by the conflictj. n.
oration bv a. 11. francicsof buffalo,
on the first of august, isi9.
friends and fellow colntrymen
when hook into the multitude of faces before
me, the question comes, for vvliat purpose
have we here assembled 1 and 1 venture to
assert, that i speak your sentiments, negative
ly, when 1 say, that we did not come here to
make an ostentatious show, or to give counte
nance to any new theory or doctrine deroga
lory to our interest, or the well being of the
human race. neither did we come here to
plant the seed of discord, nor to injure or
excite bitterness in hearts already too deeply
i wronged. not to lay violent hands upon
long cherished customs or usages, let them be
clothed in ever so black a garb of injustice
and villainy. not to malign the errors—ana
lyse the design—or ask for retributive justice
for the conduct of others, and for which our
hearts bleed. but to. celebrate an event,
lightly as it may now lie esteemed by millions
of the human race, unequalled in its accom
plishments ami suceedtng results, by any oth
er recorded in ancient or modern history—
the immediate and unconditional emancipa
tion ol 800,000 human beings from the most
deplorable state of abject servitude to freedom.
this event has filled the souls of every phil
anthropist with joy and gladness, and every
lover of music has sung it in glad stra ns of
the finest melody.
without further preliminaries, 1 shall pro
ceed to notice some of the prominent reason*
why we should rejoice on an occasion like
this, and make an application ot it to our
own circumstances. if we look back but fif
teen years, we see nearly one million ot
humau beings inhabiting a small group ot
islands a few day’s journey on the westward
atlantic coast, writhing under all the bar
barity of that pseudo-christian refinement,
which reduces humanity to a elate of chattlu
ism. they were compelled to work from
youth to old age, late and early under the
lash of an overseer, without remuneration,
badly fed, c lothed, and lodged, deprived ot
social enjoyments, wile ami husband, parents,
tnd children, friend and relations torn asunder
at will, by the lordly tyrant, religion and
inoraluy disregarded and despised, education
forbidden, protection wit wield from the wife
and daughter, their tender flesh lacerated by
the whip, their persons violated in short,
all that can buoy upihe human soul and make
life desirable, all that they could grtup m
expectancy, yea, all ihat reiaied to the bappi
ness ot the parent or children or their child
ren’s children, was cut off from their hojes.
this is but a faint picture ot the sad condition
of those whose happy redemption we this
day rejoice to celebrate.
we have reason to rejoice that from such
a condition the day dawned in light and
erty, kindling w thin the flame of hope and
joy, of bright prospects and future happiness
(.’an any one with the most vivid imagination,
who has never felt the iron of slavery in his
soul, portray the first dawn of joy lighting
up the soul of the redeemed slave 1 through
•offering and sorrow, oppression and wrong,
in earlv life, the patent whose locks had
blossomed for the gtave, was now consoled at
the prospect of seeing hut progeny redeem
ed from the crushing effects of servitude, and
through the dim vista of time, he could with
the prophet’s #ye, see the final redemption of
his race. the affectionate mother with b ri
little loved ones around her, awakened from
her lethargy to listen to the decree of justice,
with all the feelings of her nature aroused to
the pleasing reality, that they were no loogei
to he asciificed on the altai of unrighteous
mammon, and above all the principles ol
morality and religion, their acceptance aod
refusal, their power and influence no more
restrained, i ask, fellow countrymen, why
can describe the electrifying vibration* of
rsch wmip ah! when l look for a com
panson 1 am loat. nothing tn thta world ia
its parallel. the redeemed slave ta created
anew sees a new earth about him. well can
such aaoul etclaim, "i waa once a capure,
but 1 am delivered, vea, i am free!— l have
toiled now gamed my liberty. he who did
speak me into life, dtd alao end this day ol
strife.
aga in we have much rcaaon to rejoice,
that this great event and ita practical reaults,
gave a new impelua throughout the world ti
the progressive movement for the tnumpha ol
liberty and equality. statesmen were
blind lo history. they had torgotien that
man was a progressive being, that as the
mind unproved, the field of action widened,
and what satisfied the last generation tails
far short of satisfying the neat. pney might
have seen that the principles upon which they
were acting had laid waaie the fairest por
tion of goda ancient heritage they seemed
to look on the present as a type o( the past
and the future. what has been, is and al
must be, sa\ they’ because the afri
it* cow enslaved, they inferred he always
has been, and always will be. to refute
iliis we have hut to take a glance at the past.
nations have been slaves in their turn, as
got tlie advantage oi honesty. but
a! t‘»ng oppression has goaded them on to
ireliance, they have overthtown their op
ic-suon, and continued on in the march ol
fl ,,mat* progress. every generation is dit
krerit from its predecessors. some new
pt,a-u5 in humanity is seen in each, «ome one
a t,on, may lor the time retrograde, but th«
w orld is ever advancingjin the scale of im
provement. “what has been, always will
be 1 n.o what has been, never will be
again, simply because it has been once. man
is not moving in a circle, i tie event which
we have assembled to commemorate this day
proves the folly of thi'* doctrine. 1 he signs
of progress are bold, prominent, and visible,
to all but the bigoted conservative. parties
that have for years been imperturbable upon
the subject of slavery, have by it been rent
asunder: one portion have become so rabid in
their tumultuous hurra, for freedom, that 1
fear they have forgotten the legitimate parents
of their boasted philanthropy. in the lan-
guage of inspiration “nations shall be horn in
a day." thrones tremble, totter and fall.
that aristocratic and tyrannical minority, who
have scourged with oppression, misrule, and
suffering the enslaved and disheartened ma
turity. now stand in the front rank of progres
sive reformers.
what has brought out trom their long sleep
of death those sterling principles of our
puritan fathers, bringing them to hear upon
the destiny of this country 7 w hy are the
holy principles of a n\ arren, hancock or .lei*
ferson after a lapse of inure than oo years,
threatening to oveiturn the last remnant of
despotism' it i» but ihe rational development
of that reformatory pi maple which civiliza
tion and religion always implant. like
california gold n is finding its way out from
among the parapets and hiding places, bring
ing into action the pine principles ol our
ancestors, and applying them equally to all.
it is to those w ho are imbued with this re
formatory spirit, and have raised ihe clarion
note of human progress, that we are in
debted lor the mighty influences which have
been brought to bear to the furtherance ol
those great principles. and would it not, 1
ask, be highly creditable to the character of
this people, in conformity with all the just
principles of common brotherhood, to rid
our country ol the tnul stain ut oppression
again, l lcmaiked in the outset that 1
desired to established no new theory, or at
tack long established usages or customs. if
usage or custom were mv theme, who in
jod’s name has fell the iron heel of oppression
and tyrannical custom, more than those now
assembled 7 could we interrogate the eight
hundred thousand whose happy deliverance
we have met to lejoice over to day; what
think vou would be tin* opinion ol llic chrio
uun a stem, which they mhriited hum their
jnosi /radons and puritanic white brethren 7
llo.\ gratetully and magnanimously they have
rep. ;>l us tui the light oi science and letters
whie;t dawned upon their benighted visions
horn our egyptian ancestors. indeed are they
nut dm verv embodiment of chivalry and
heroism' ah, my fellow countrymen, citi
i ?r.s of the i mtod stales, 1 am bold to
u it, and no historian will altempt to
deny, that had not that day dawned upon our
ancestors some three thousund years ago, be
fore greece and home awoke the night ol
ages,—had some great physical catastrophe,
swallowed up these primal men of letters and
science, and blotted out forever all their stu
pendous works of art would a horde
ol naked savages have had to-day to boast
of in ilieir anglo saxon or t aucasian origin 7
1 atand here to-day a representative of those
who were ihe beneiactors ol that noble blood
of which you love to contemplate. ihe
pure rflls of science, trom which you nty w bite
fellow countrymen now drink had theii origin
in egypt and ethiopia, and m ilieir wander
ings have letlilized all succeeding generations.
j know efforts have been made to throw dis
credit upon these precious relic.-, of history,
but it has now become an almost universally
admitted truth. those whodesire information
onlv need to trace hack civilization ami
knowledge through then european ancestor
and from them through the greeks, tin
homans and the jews directly to attica, am
they will find their beneiactors to be egyp
nans and ethiopians. the founders ut man)
of le early grecian cities were egypuat
colonist s—colored men. it was to egyp
that grecian historians and philosophers re
sorted to obtain wisdom and refinement tu
where else to be found.
again in view of these rejoicing facts, whal
applicationougnt .v t t., make of them to our
circumstance wnui the shacales are fall
>ng from hundred; of thousands of our race
when the, great principles ol human liberty
and equably are rerumuanng the nations ol
the earth, shall we remain satisfied, in the
valley ol puveity arid ignorance, or shall vvt
avail ourselves of every means uhtn oui
reach that may render us won by of those
principles and the age in winch we h ve
there may be some present little accustomed
lo reflect upon the law- of equal lights. i
will for their fn.meht give you the view# o
one or two of those to whom] have abeam
alluded. on the *<th day ol march 1775
general warren, in an oration delivered u
*v old .*7uutb church, boston, on the anni
vers ary of the celebalcd boston massacre, and
this mas but 103 hays before bit death on
bunker hill, said, “personal liberty is the
natural right of every man and that proper
ty or an exclusive right to dispose of what
he has honestly acquired by bis ow n labor,
necessarily arises therefrom, are truths which
common sense has placed beyond the reach of
contradiction. and no man, or body of men,
can without flagrant injustice, claim a right
to depose of the persons or acquisitions of
any other man, or body of men, unless it can
be proved that such a right has arisen from
some compact between the parties, in which
it has been explicitly and freely granted.”
these were the last rushings of an hones
heart, a lover of liberty for which his life
pa:d the foifcit. j*t us think for a moment,
what would be the reflection of our departed
ancestors, could they once more be permitted
to review the condition of this country,—w hat
wtoum they say in viewr of her dishonor and
disgrace would they not be led to inquire,
where, and for what purpose were their lives
sacrificed 7 from whence emanated these,
greater evils than those which they rose in
rebellion to oppose 1 ah, raethinks they would
be ashamed f their country, that they would
say, tar better that she should have retained
hsr former position, rather than hold the one
sh* now occupies, and be guilty of so flagrant
an act of injustice to one sixth portion of her
citizens. if on that subsequent monday to
august 13th, 149:2 when the pinta connected,
with the fleet of columbus broke her rudder,;
a tornado bad passed over them, and con- 1
signed the whole fleet to a watery grave,—it
might have averted not only the calamities
which betel the aborigines of the newly dis
:overed continent, but those which have be
fallen our race, lor two centuries, the histo
ry of which the man who has a heart to feel j
or human suffering would hiriuk from with j
lorror and disgust. one fact alone will give
iou some idea. sixty thousand indian fami
ics were reduced in less than six years to four
cen thousand. entertaining as they did so
ioble and just a sense of their manhood, that!
atherthan be enslaved and compelled to work
n the mines, those who did not die from
irutal treatment and suffering, preferred death
o slavery. thousands ended their earthly
;ateer by taking poison. it might also have!
iverted the damning curse of three fourths
if a century of the most spurious repub
licanism, and we might have been exempted
rom celebrating the birth day of freedom to
?ight hundred thousand of the human race
from abject servitude. better had the dis-,
:overies of the spanish and portuguese never
been made, and all efforts ceased at the death
of isabella, rather than the disastrous con
sequences which have ensued. from that
hour when the pinta touched at st. salva
dor, and those daring mannors of colum
bus’ fleet fell prostiate and kissed the
newly discovered continent, a porten-t
tous cloud of slavery and death has hung over
the new world. and from the fatal battle of;
vega heal, spanish rapacity and thirst for
conquest have propagated this ungodly sva-
tern. not satisfied with laying waste this
garden of the new woild, and by oppressive;
treatment and cruelty exterminating these na
tions by forced labor, but this easy conquest j
led them lo ravage other countries and drag into;
hon’ess servitude millions of our race. this,
jisc, very nursed and brought into being all
die wotst depravity of the human heart, which
irose among the natives to such a height of
n sole lit and heaven daring outrage, that noth
ng short of the vengeance from the throne of j
the eternal could arrest its progress. but west
india emancipation has rolled back the tide. it j
was a death blow to mock republicanism it!
applied the antidote and w rought out a change
in the public mind which will sweep awayi
the last veslige of servitude, and place all
men upon the equality which the f reator in
tended.
you see from this, fellow countrymen, there
is much depending upon the efforts of re
formers. they have had much to do in all
ages of the world in moulding the various
elements of society. if they appear at the
dawn of a> nation’s existence, they will blend
an untold influence with her lesser light that
will load her unto future glory, strengthening
and lightening the effulgence of preceding
ages. but let them appeal at the declining,
of her glory, when thick darkness has gath-.
ered around all her piospecis, and like the|
character that john stebbins lee mentions,'
who filled ihe chief office of state under 1 be
udoiio the gothic emperor in the former part;
of the t»th century, can only lengthen for
a season the impending danger ere the night,
of sleep closes in upon her. he tells us afier
the devoted patriotism of cincinnatus,c ocletes,,
and virginia, gave way to the sensuality of j
her ca-sars, and the land once made so sacred.
by human prowess gave way to effeminacy,
debauchery and crime, boethius arose and
flourished for a short season. calmly he con
templates, w hile all is desolation around, i
like true reformers of the presant age, he
was looked upon as an enemy to the race, be-j
cause he told the iruth and like the philoso
pher of athens, fell a victim to those whose
welfare he would promote. great and good
men of the lflth century in this our native
land, like boethius of old have also filled a mar
tyr's 'grave for defending the right and
grappling with the tyrant oppressor.
it h true, as i before remarked,that slavery
had brought our country to the verge of
turn, but the star of her dedination had not
fully set. while the hand of retributive
justice was upraised to smite her, signs of
redeeming mercy appeared. ever since we
have heard of the well garrisoned host send
ing forth their liberty loving appeals to awake
this guilty nauon, visible signs also appeared
that all was not lost—that there was sufficient
virtue to stay its pro gross. while kingdoms,
principalities and poweis, in monarchical and
priest, ridden lands, are shaking off their bur
dens and rending asunder the chains of
oppression, slow as may be our advance
march, it will be accomplished. if rome
can be redeemed after more than twelve
centuries of the most degraded, oppressive,
and tyrannical misrule, by extending equal
rights and privileges to all her subjects, what
stronger evidence do we need that we are
onward f blame me. fellow countrymen, when
i say that if i did not believe ibis, 1 would
teach other doctrine, i would recommend oth
er appliances. for our conduct and obedi
ence as good ciuxena we have received only
insult and abuse. 1 read in the countenances
of my countryman before me a sad story,
which electrifies tbt blood lit thee#
you, ray more favored white countrymen
were proud, on the fourth day of last month
to talk of the puniy of motive under whicl
your forefather? achieved for you and us th<
liberty which yoti *toue enjoy and aajuat
ly an we may reverence the conduct of mini
of thoae noble spirits in that struggle fo
independence, what have their recreant wni
dor.e but to subvert their intentions yot
may vaunting!? boast about omnipotent sane
uon in that bloody contes, *e daily witneai
aenes and experience leaulta professedh
baaed upon the principles of those revoluiiona
ry patriots, which are irreconcilable to, an<
estranged flora all their general teachings. ii
ahoit it is a system of injustice practised w
one class to degrade, impoverish and enalavr
them, that the other may be elevated. nut
only in the*? veins, but in those ofcoloied mer
generally, flows an equal proportion of th«
boasted patriotic blood that achieved the
liberty you possess. were not tbe signs o!
the times ominous of good w ere not indi
viduals, states, and the nation, actively en
gaged in taking ottthe ponderous load which
has for three fourths of a century crushed
us as a race under the professed benignity ol
your laws; soon like our fathers of old
would the four millions in mis land whose
ears are unstopped to catch the sound of that
wul stirring ode, of “hail columbia, reani
mated by he principles of their three million
predecessors, rush on with mightier odds to
contend against, asserting in the power of
heir might, their manhood, till the la?t rem
nant were gathered home lo their fathers, or
iberty had crowned their efforts with soc
ie ss.
again, let me say to those who claim a
arge share in this reformatory work, (you
nav designate those to whom 1 refer by the
trong claim they make to jeffersonian pnnci
•les,) although 1 grant them to be far in the
dvance of their stronger political opponents,
et need a more thorough study of his views
n order that a more consistent course ot ac
ion may follow them. jefferson in his noses
in virginia speaks thus: “the whole com
nerce between master and slave, is a per
petual exercise of the most boisterous pas
ions, the roost unremitting despotism on one
►art, and degrading submission on ihe other
-and with what execration should the states
nen be loaded, who peimitting one half ot
he citizens thus to trample on ihe rights
if the other, transforms those into despots,
,nd these into enemies, des oys the morals
if one part, and the patriotism of the other,
le further adds, “can the liberties of a nation
)e thought secure when we have removed
heir only base —a conviction in the minds of
he people that these liberties are ihe gift of
jod—that they are violated but with his
wrath 1 indeed i tremble for my country
vhen 1 remember that god is just, and that
lis justice will not always sleep that the
almighty has no attribute which can take
fide with us in this contest. may 1 not ask.
lien, in the language ot leighton, “why
iavc you, o wretched mortals, condemned
yourselves as it were to the inip.es, and the
irerv nature of vour study and action ever
preventing you with others from regaining
liberty although sensibility to wrong
tas aroused you to take some ot the incipient
itages of action in behalf of the oppressed,
/our every act proves that sensibility is not
iecessarily true benevolence, for w e may be
:ome alarmingly aroused to the condition ot
hings around us, and yet through an effemi
late selfishness all your efforts be inefficacious
n producing the result intended.*’ w ould to
3od that the purity of principle and healthy
itate of public sentiment upon these great
questions w *re not such as to compel me to
told views hostile to the majority of my fel
ow countrymen. i speak, because i feel
hat the hour has arrived when we must not
only see right, but act right. let action!
iction now be ihe watchword.
one thought more and i have done. there
ire at the present day but few in the north or
rauth but acknowledge the evil of slavery,
ind that it ought to ire abolished. hut the
propriety of the course pursued in w est in
iia emancipation thousands are ready to de
iy. what is the uue history of these islands
line? emancipation, but uninterrupted peace,
rantentment, and improvement 1 out of the
itravv thatched cottage, and mud hovel, have
irisen the neatly finished dwelling, and the
arge country mansions. out of the degraded
slaves, have arisen the free and industrious
andholders,, farmers and mechanics, the
irotectors and guardians of all the virtues that
:an safely ensure the well being of society.
recently read some statistics from the pen
>f some demagogue aspirant after fame,
drawing as an argument against immediate
•mancipation that the exports from the w est
'ndies had fallen off since the slaves were
released. bui to my mind this is a conclu
dve argument in its favor. would it have
>een wonderful when those who constituted
he great mass of the population came into full
mssession of all the natural and social ad
antages of the country, that their consump
ion had made a home market for even all
heir former exports 1 had not the act of
emancipation been a stimulant for increased
abor, and brought out a greater product from
he soil, as also from various other channels,
nstead of falling off a small percentage, large
importation would have been needed for home
consumption in addition to their former ex
ports. but the most significant fact in
relation to it is, that instead of a falling
off there was in some places a manifest in
irease. it appears by an official statement,
that the quarter of the year after emanci
pation exceeded the quartet of the three
years preceding it, in l>eniaiara, twenty pel
cent, bcrbice 60 per cent of tho gieal staple
of her exports, and on the article of coffee
alone 100 cent. this ha* been the happy
effect of emancipation in the west indies.
in all the instances of lardy justice done to
the slave not one drop of blood has followed
as the result of the immediate emancipation.
in view of these facts, and as friends to the
well being of society, shall we not rejoice ai
the prospect which lies before us 1 gran
vili sharp, george fox, clarkson, wilber
force, and utbera, allhough dead yet speak in
their impeiufaable works, and remain as
ao many stars to light the path of modern
reformer*. oh, act wisely*, then, my fellow
countrymen, and usher in the eventful day,
when we as freeborn american citizens, can
wuho ut respect of persona, celebrate the
emancipation of three million* of oar eo
•l«ved brethren.
notices.
tke full caapaifi.
futdl kj'. k dot clash will visit and lecture
at the following places
tuesday, f«h september, m west wal
wonh.
wednesday, sth, at marion.
thursday auj friday, 6th and ?th, a
palmyra.
thursday, friday and saturday, 13th, 14th
aod 15th, at oswego.
sunday and monday, 16th and ltth, at
fulton village.
addisons will be made to this list of ap
pointments in our neat week’s paper.
our friends in these diflerent localnies. will
see that suitable arrangements are made for
these meetings.
anti-slavery fair at macedon.
the ladies and friends of the western n.
y. anti-slavery society will hold an asti-
slavcry fair in macedon, n. y., on sat
urday, aug. 16, 1649., commencing at it)
o'clock, a. m.
the large and elegant assortment of indies’
(ioods, from england, will be especially
worthy ot attention: eonsisiing of ladies*
collars, gloves, armlets, purses, handker
chiefs, english ijandseapes, portfolios. &c.
the ladie® will furnish a refreshment 1
table.
all who would aid to enlighten puhlic sen
timent, remove prejudice, and hasten the
freedom of the slave, are respectfully invited
io attend.
an appeal in behalf of the western
new york anti-slavery fair.
earnestly desiring the abolition of slavery
n this land, and being deeply convinced that
:his result can only be accomplished by renew
'd efforts to change our present corrupt metal j
icntiment, the undersigned members and
ttends of the western new york anti-slavery
society, again, make their appeal to the
'rienda of the slave in'behalf of their annual
bazaar, which will be held in rochester in
decembbr next.
while we have been cheered and gladdened
>y the progress already made, and the good
ilready done, and while we rejoice to observe
that friends have been raised up to plead the
cause of the bondman among persons, and in
juatters where we had least expected them,|
wc still see “the harvest to be great and the
laborers to be few,” and instead of relaxing
our efforts we are impressed with a sense of
the duty of doubling our diligence, anu ap
plying more closely our energy to the means
of advancing this holy cause.—we appeal lhej
more boldly to our friends because those for
whom we plead cannot plead for themselves.!
while we are surrounded by our domestic!
circle, with none to molest or make us afraid, i
there are three millions of men and women m 1
our own land, doomed to abject slavery and
chains, robbed of every right—civil—social—
personal—and political. remembering those
in bonds as bound with them, we desire to
plead their cause as though they were on our
own limbs and the knotted lash were applied
to our own backs.
while to obtain means for enlightening the
public mind, is the strong motive for holding
our annual fair, it is not the only one. a
great amount of good may he traced directly
to such occasions. many who are now ac
tive workers in behalf of this holy movement
became first interested in it through the in
strumentality of those annual exhibitions of
anti-slavery industry, tact and skill.
the present object of the rochester anti
slavery bazaar is for the general enlighten
ment of the public mind on the subject of sla
very. recognizing the north star,(published
in ibis city) as an efficient a.n*»-wlavery in
strumentality, we propose that the funds
raised by the sale of articles at the bazaar
(on behalf of which we here appeal) shall be
mainly appropriated to the suppport of that
important paper.
we graiefully acknowledge the prompt as
sistance rendered to our last fair by our
friends and coadjutors in various parts of our
own state, wisconsin, and michigan, and we
earnestly solicit their continued co-operation
with us in tho good work. that no time may
be lost^we especially recommend to them the
immediate formation of sewing circles in their
various towns with a view to making articles
fur the rochester bazaar. wc would also
in this connection render our heartfelt thanks
to our briiish friends for the valuable aid ex
tended by them to our last year’s fair; and
we would again warmly solicit their generous
assistance. it is due to our trans-atlantic
friends to say that for much of the interest felt
in our last bazaar we were indebted to them,
and we are persuaded that their continued
co-operation will essentially promote the suc
cess of our approaching december bazaar,and
the advancement of the cause of the slave in
our land.
we hope that the foregoing appeal will
commend iiselfto our philanthropic friendson
both sides of the atlantic, and that they wil
cordially unite with us in the effort here prol
posed.
not—inglorious real
l uuerve# the man,
struggle—’tin fiod’.* lieliest!
fill up life’i little span
with tlod-like deed# —it is the test
test of (tie high born soul,
and lofty aim
tlie test in history'# scroll
of every honored name—
none i mil the brave shall win die goal!
signed on behalf of the fair commitee,
amy post.
appeal of the philadelphia association,
the “women’s association of philadel
phia’” appeal to a benevolent puhlic, and to
the friends of the slave everywhere, to aid
them in their approaching fair, the object of
which is to sustain the ‘north star. to
those who are familiar w ith the pages of this
paper it is unnecessary to speak of its merit.
to those who have not seen it we may say,
that we regard it as one ot the very best anti
slavery instrumentalities now in the field.
we are the more interested in it, because
the editor is one of our own oppressed race,
and admirably qualified by h.s talents and
moral worth to perform with credit the atdu
ous task of editing a paper devoted to our ele
vation vve believe and ti u.-1 that our friends
will give us their liberal aid.
to our own people we look earnestly and
hopefully. sisters, brothers shall we look
m va n» the iron has entered into your souls.
ye go heavily, bowed down to the very dust,
dispirited, crushed by the «e,gh. of .ppre.-
sioo. ye bear the taimtsof the eneiny.-tbej
are so ignorant and unrefined i hey are
jealous of one another! \es they unite. but
only to put down one wbo is more intel
lectual than the mas-'- pruve by the uaer
r.n* language of conduct that the* a«ert,ods
often thrown m oor face, are malicious
slanders. sustain f douglass because his
talents and correct principles demandyom
respect and confidence. susuin him because
uis right to do ao, because of thi aweel
peace tile performance of so worthy anaeuor
5t;i1 assuredly bring it j™' bourns.
the fair will be held on christmas week
we extract the following from a new
and interesting work, entitled the
canton chinese, or an american's so
journ in the celestial empire”:
the summer dress of the common
orders is simple in the extreme; the
eternal jacket is looped almost invaria
bly over the light breast, with little
gilded balls, and the pantaloons being
made very large at the middle as well
as below, they dexterously wreath a
portion around the waist, confining it
by folds, instead of following the bar
barous custom of wearing suspenders.
the dresses are of blue cotton, or a
stuff resembling coarse crash.
those who are thus attired seldom
wear stockings or shoes, but in rainy
weather they invest themselves with
high heeled slippers, that clatter on the
pavement like the sabots of the french
peasantry.
their enormous summer hats, of
strips of bamboo, are six feet or more
in circumference, forming a striking
feature in the laborers' costume.
the females of the same rank wear
them also, and at a short distance in the
fields it is difficult to distinguish them
from tha men. but the dress of the la
borer, however common or ugly it may
be, resembles little that of tne higher
classes of citizeus or civil officers.—
the great heat of six months of the
year compels all persons to adopt as
light a garment as possible, and this is
no doubt one of the many causes of the
general good health of the chinese
their dresses admitting of a perfect de
velopment of their limbs.
a blue or brown silk gown, long and
flowing, leaving the neck bare; short
breeches tied at the knees; stockings
and shoes make up the ordinary cos
tume. but think not, reader, that by
stockings are meant those knit and
close fitting articles of german nr eng
lish importation, with which we asso
ciate the name of hose; oh no, those of
a chinese gentleman are of woven
cotton, gartered with blue ribbon, and
set loosely in a series of green wrinkles.
these are introduced not into highly
polished boots, but thrust into clumsy
shoes of cloth, or batin, or variegated
velvet, with enormous soles.
the fan is indispensable, for in sum
mer the caps of the respectable portions
of the community are doffed, and their
bare heads would be unsheltered from
the sun, were it not for the use of these
graceful articles, which are held in the
right hand over the head. often it is
elegantly embroidered, painted with
figu les and landscapes, or inscribed
with a maxim from confucius. in the
w’arin months the grass cloth, for which
the chinese are justly celebrated, is
also used extensively for dresses, and
the light, cool material appears to great
advantage on the person of a gentle
man.
one of the most elegant of the chi
nese that i ever saw was a tea mer
chant, and from the style of his dress,
its fineness of texture, and the polished
demeanor of the man, it was evident to
the mo6t heedless observer that the
exquisito existed in china as well as
elsewhere.
over an under garment of figured
silk, flowed this graceful grass-cloth
toga, looped with gilded balls; and ai
the right breast was suspended a flilh
purse «inbroidered with pearls; a bril
liant fan case hung at the left side, and
as a counterpart, a watch and worked
pouch appeared upon the right. a
grass-cloth handkerchief, the finest ol
china’s loom, was held in the leli
hand, which was in itself beautified
by nails of several inches growth; the
other waved a gorgeous fun. the
stockings were snowy white, and the
shoes were black satin.
his face was remarkably handsome,
and more expressive than the general
countenance of his race; the pointed
jet moustaches were the admiration ol
all the foreign clerks of canton; and
his fine long tail, descending nearly to
his feet, was an especial object of envy
to his countrymen.
the dresses which we have given a
description of, are well adapted for a
burning climate, and are worn till quite
late in the autumn.
but towards november, when in the
square, the broad ensign of america
waves in the blast of the north-west
monsoon, there is a universal and si
multaneous change in the costumes.
the chief officer of the province puts
on a winter dress, assumes the skull
cap, with its scarlet button, and all the
inferior millions follow his example.—
the appearance of the low orders is
little changed, but in the upper the dif
ference is very perceptible.
the loose gown is now drawn at the
waist, by a sash with fringed ends
hanging down behind; and over this is
worn a large cape of figured silk or
cloth, but usually of furs.
a mantle made from the skin of a
lamb taken from its mother before birth,
is very highly prized. now it is that
the fan case, watch and purse, are
seen to the best advantage, and the
blue cap and scarlet button give that
finish to the winter garments, which
those of the summer require for beauty.
none but goverment officers wear hats
during the hot season, except those la
borers who are exposed to the sun.
the summer habits of the mandarins
are beautiful. frequently they wear a
long gown of blue gauze., drawn at the
waist, black satin boots, and the decor
ated appendages before mentioned,
which make altogether a very striking
show; their hats are then of white
braid, conical in shape, surmounted
with a ball indicative of rank, and
adorned w ith a falling plume of shining
scarlet hair.
during the winter, their state robes
are stiff with gorgeous embroidery.—
1 hose ol the highest mandarins are
splendid in the extreme, being worked
m brilliant hues on superb silks of the
finest texture. their shoes are orna
mented also, one of the onncipal fig
ures being the imperial dragon.
n ,iie i b ck arul breast of »«>me
dresses is the figure of a bird enclosed
and lhc ‘“cklace of one
h "2.“ d gb beads
of bright .gat, qua**, or
fumed wood, al.a„ accompanied a
atate co«ume the mandarin*
cap is utterly different from that of the
summer. it is usually or dark blue
velvet, fitting close to thebhad, with
broad edge turning up all around, and
instead of the hair plume, it is furnished
with one of scarlet silk
the ball, always worn except in case
of mourning, is red, blue, white crystal
or gold, according to rank, and these
varieties, with some other insignia, dis
tinguish the nine grades of mandarins.
the peacock's feather is an honor
granted for signal merit, and it is
worthy of note that such marks of fa
vor are seldom or never bestowed un
less well deserved. the privilege of
wearing a state dress may indeed be
purchased for an immense sum, but this
confers no rank nor honor. the aris
tocracy of talent and not of wealth
bears sway in china.
judging from a few specimens of
splendor to be seen in a city so remote
from the court as canton, there must
be a vast deal of wealth and magnifi
cence at the capital, and the accounts
of old travellers, as well as of later em
bassies, speak of state and pomp w orthy
of so immense an empire.
never was there a country in which
tailors have been so completely sub
dued as in china. not one of the
class ventures to originate a fashion,
for the costumes of the nation are regu
lated at court by a board of officers,
from whose decrees no one dares to
dissent.
the common order of the females
dress much like the men, but the visitor
who walks from the western factories
towards the western part of canton,
passing through retired streets only oc
cupied by the houses of wealthy chi
nese, will often see the ladies walking
beautifully attired in rich silks, and
with children or servants in company.
their dress conceals the person en
tirely; the long gown or toga fits close
around the neck, and has loose sleeves
enveloping the hands.
their heads are uncovered, and their
style of coiffure is singular and usually
thought becoming.
the front hair of unmarried females
is combed straight hack, with the ex
ception of the small portion hanging
over the forehead.
the other portion of the hair is
combed and braided into a tail like the
men’s, but no part of the female head is
shaved.
when married, or shortly before, the
whole hair is combed up, and a false
piece set on the back of the head,
fastened by clasps and pins of gold, oi
other less precious material, according
to the wealth of the fair one. a beau c
tiful ornament is sometimes worn by
rich women, representing a bird with
extended wings, which, formed of golc
or silver filagree, studded with pearls
and supported by light wires, trembling
with the slightest motion,seems to hovei
over the head of the lady.
what need of the long wide panta'
loons of the chinese ladies? to con
ceal their feet? they have none foi
service, and hobble along more awk
wardly than a child first learning tc
walk. soon as the female ehild is born,
its feet are enclosed with shoes anc
bound firmly round and round, so that
no growth can ensue. nature, en
deavoring to have its way, can onlj
produce exquisite torture, os each
tempt proves useless.
how these females ever learn to stunt
or move is strange, yet, as we have ob
served, they may sometimes he seen it
the streets, supporting their trembling
limbs with a staff.
models in clay of the contracted feet,
painted flesh color, and set into shoes ol
the same size as those actually worn,
are sold in canton as curiosities.
the large toe fits into the point oi
the shoe, and the others, instead of be
ing in their natural position,are jammec
and driven into the side of the foot, ap-
i pearing one directly behind the other
it is as though the foot was cut off jusi
below the ancle joint, and the stuim
sharpened to a point.
the custom is exclusively chinese
and is not followed even by the mau
chou tartars, who, being the last
asiatic conquerors of china, have
adopted many of its customs,and whose
emperor nuw wields his despotic scep
tre over one half of the human race.
the sexes in china jive mostly apart
the women are uneducated generally
some of the courtezans of the cities
are well taught and skilled in luxurious
and fascinating accomplishments, and
among others they sing and play upon
musical instruments. brothers and sis
ters, after a certain age, bid good bye
to each other, and though they meet of
course, in the bosom of the family,
they have little social intercourse!
the chinese husband goes out into the
world and attends to his business, and
amuses himself as lie pleases, but the
wife must stay at home and be content
ed to eat separately, and attend to her
children; or if her husband is rich,
dress in fine style and make her female
neighbors cry their eves out with envy.
polygamy is sanctioned, and yet a
tnan loses caste in some degree for
every additional wife he takes, and
should he venture on half a dozen his
friends would cut him.
an old compradure was telling me
once about his domestic felicity. he
said, i hab got one wife, one old ting
good lor noting.’
i t l ,e j w on vou marr v another:*
good h no; said l*e, -t»- 0 no
a great point m chinese happiness
is the number ol children the fortunate
man may boast of. the principle they
go upon is ,n the word, of shake
»peare, ibe world must be peopled
a man with half a dozen sin, is
wealthy, but w,in,he same number of
daughters, ins porerty .9 a general
subject of pity i„ .peaking of hi, off.
spring, one will sometimes sav that lie
has three children, and if you ask ,f
any are daughters, he will answer yes
tour, meaning seven in all, ihough he
does not consider the girls worth men
tioning.
should the wife prove childless, he
eagerly seizes the opportunity of putting
her aside and marrying another
the manners of the chinese espe
cially those of the middling and upper
classes are very pleasing to a stran
ger. the low laborers are brutish
enough, but among the better classes
a gentility of manners is strikingly ap
parent. 3 r
wbeu you meet a chinese gentle
man, he folds his hands and shakes them
at you, saying, chin, chin, words of the
canton-chinese-anglo jargon, signify
ing welcome, or thank you,or farewell,
according to the occasion.
if your visit is one of ceremony, he
is careful to keep his cap on while you
uncover, and seat you of course on his
ica hand.
he is so courtier like, that he will not
touch the 'hair a moment before you,
and if he perceives that he is doing so,
he instantly rises a little. then, per
haps, he treats vou to sweetmeats and
tea. the tea is always delicious. it
is not contaminated by cream and su
gar; he would not condescend to such
a barbarous custom. there are no
saucers for cups to stand upon, but you
will see that they are on the top'of the
cup, to keep in the aroma ot the clear
amber colored beverage.
a man who never saw' a
woman.
from visits to monasteries in the
levant,” a very entertaining book of
travels by robert cruzen, we make the
following extract:
he was a magnificent looking man
of thirty-five years of age, with large
eyes and long black hair and oeard.—
as we sat together in the evening in
the ancient room, by the light of one
dim brazen lamp, with deep shades
thrown across his face and figure, i
thought he would have made an ad-
i mirable study for titian or sebastian
j del piombo in the course of conver
sation, i found that he had learned
italian from another monk, having nev
er been out of the penisular of mount
athos. his parents, and most of the
inhabitants of the village where he was
born —somewhere in korneiia, but its
name or position he did not know'—had
been massacred during some revolt or
disturbance. so he had been told, but
he remembered nothing about it; he
had been educated in a school in this
or one of the other monasteries, and
his whole life had been passed on the
hole mountain; and this, he said, was
the case with very many other monks.
he did not remember his mother, and
did not scein quite sure that he ever
had one; he had never seen a woman,
nor had he any idea what sort of things
women were, or what they looked like.
he asked me whether they resembled
the pictures of the panagia, the holy
virgin, which hang in every church.
now those who are conversant with the
representations of the blessed virgin
in the pictures of the greek church,
which are all exactly alike, stiff*, hard
and dry, without any appearance of life
or emotion, will agree with me that
they do not afford a very favorable idea
of the grace or beauty of the fair sex;
and that there was a difference of ap
je arance between black women. cir
cassians, and those of other nations,
which was how r ever difficult to describe
to one who had never seen a lady of
any race. he listened with great in
terest while i told him that all women
were not exactly like the picture he had
seen; hut 1 did not think it charitable
to carry on the conversation farther,
although the poor monk seemed to have
a strong inclination to know more of
that interesting race of beings from
whose society he had been so entirely
debarred. i often thought afterwards!
of the singular lot of that manlv and
noble looking monk; whether he is still'
a recluse, either in the monastery or in
his mountain farm, with its little moss
grown chapel, as ancient as the days of
constantine; or whether he has gone
out into the world, and mingled with!
its pleasures and its cares.”
reasons for learning to sing.—
m. byrde, a celebrated musician of
the elizabethan era, endeavors, in the
preface to his edition of psaulmes,
i sonettes, st, songes of sadnesse and
pietie,” (published in 159 f?,) by the
following reasons whose amusing
quaintness deprives them not in the
least of their sound sense—to induce
i persons to learn to sing:
reasons brielie sett downe by ye
auctor to persuade everie one to jearne
to singe.
1. it is a knowledge easilie taught
and quicklie learned, when there is a
i good master and an apte scholar.
2. ihe exercise of singinge is de
lightfulle to nature, and good to pre
serve heaithe of man.
3. it dothe strengthene all partes of
ye hearte and doth open ye pipes.
4. it is a singular good remedie for
a stutteringe and stammeringe in ye
speeche.
i 5. it is the beste means to preserve
a perfecte pronunciation and to make a
good orator.
6. it is the only waye to knowe
where nature hath bestowed ve bene
fytte of a goode voice; which gifte is
rare, yet there is not ainongste a thou
sande yt hath if, and in inanie, yt e.\-
cellente gifte is loste, because they
wante an arte to expresse nature.
7. there is not any musicke of in
struments whatsoever comparable to yt
which is made of ye voices of men,
w here ye voices are good and ye same
well sorted and ordered.
8. 1 he better ye voice is, the meeter
it is to honor and serve god therewith,
and ye voice of man is chiefle to be
employed toe yt end— omni s apirihis
laudie dominion.
since is see good a iliiiige,
i wish a ike men ivoulde learoc toe sin?
cholera fears. —a curious ex
periment was recently tried in russia
with some murderers. they were
placed, without knowing it, in four beds
where lour persons had died ot' the
cholera. they did not take the dis
ease. they were then told they were
to sleep in beds where some persons
had died of malignant cholera, but the
beds were in fact new, and had
not been used at all. nevertheless,
three of them died of the disease with
in four hours. we state this upon the
authority of the london medical
times.
mr. late celebrated irish
advocate was walking one day with a
friend, who was extremely punctilious
in his conversation. hearing a person
near him say courosity, he exclaimed,
‘‘how that man murders the eng
lish language.’*
“not so bad,” replies curran, “lie
has oxlf knocked an i out!”
the yellow fever is raging at ha
vana with great mortality.
“ever* han bis fbysiclai/’
the home docror.
just pmusiied, a aew m*!
for every family in the ram itry. «nd th* l m *s
be consulted with perfect safety- a* it# title page
indioitm, it ia *'the home fhector f <>r family
manual, giving the causes, itafkiw a **l fwie-itt
wf diseases; with an account ot lb** syitrui while in
health, and rule-s fur preserving li*t appen
ded to which arc recipe- for making various medi
cines and article! for dirt for the **ek room. the
whole written for genera! «9c an*! daily practice. f>y
john b. newman. m. |i."
alto, accompany r>g thin bn k, **r separate, i*
“the herb book, a l*x»h devoted exclusively
to herb-, giving their name*, varieties, description,
medical properties and dove#, ove, time of fathering,
and many otlier directions very useful for every fam
ily to know, and written expressly for family u*e.’
tie* herb book is devote*! solely to popular mr
t.il botany, and will furnish on tint point a!! tlie
nesiretl information wanted for general nse.”
tlie two h»ik« are put 'ip ami bound together am!
contain 200 page?, price 25 cents, or sola separate
at 12j cents.
tin* symptoms of enclt disease are carefully given
so mat ouc may be recognised from anotl,er, to phi*
vent practising in the dark; also the treatment .g
sketch of general physiology, and rules tor keepser
in health, together with observations on tlie.rflausoe,
means of avoiding deleterious influences, and snuc
other remarks a« are deemed appropriate, tor
me i.v and frmalf.
tlie fo>ok has leen written with great care, in a
plain, simple, common-sense sty le easily to lie im
derstoo*! b\ every person, an*! by a practical
cian and a thorough liotaiiist. m e can recommend
it w ith eulire confidence, as being a work superior
iu all respects to any oilier imok of tin* kind ever
published at die price.
families in the country, and especially those liv
ing in new countries and unhealthy elimates, should
not fail to procure a copy and have it at all times at
hand, in case of sickness as they might thereby by
some simple remedy save an expensive and prolrac
ted doctors bill. whether well or sick, such a liook
should be in every house as 3 safe and sure adviser
in time of need, the direction given for persons in
liealth cannot lie too strictly attended to by all.
the price at which the book is sold is so low that
every family may have a copy, and noue should
without it.
tlie book is put up in paper binding, and ran
ea?ilv be sent by mail. postage only t>4 cents to any
aart of the l nited states.
(0* any perron sending its une dollar by mail, and
pnd paving postage on the letter, shall have four
copies sent him frtr of post ac r
send in your orders?., there is no ri?k in sending
money bv mail, it comes to us daily, and tbe looks
always reach th'ir destination.
families can club together and rend a
dollar bill, and have four books sent to one address.
wasted —agents in most of the states to sell
this work, almost every family will purchase it it
carried to their doors. a small capital of from £2o
to £5o will be necessary for each agent. addles*,
voxt pmd, geo. vv. fishek,
april 1,1819. 6 exchange-st, rochester, n. v
northampton water cure.
electricity a hydropathy.
the important principle? ofcutaneou? electricity,
the discovery of which by the undersigned, has
opened so w ide a field for scientific and physiological
investigation, though ridiculed and opposed at its
first announcement in 18-1-1, by medical and profes
sedly scientific men, being now sustained by eminent
men of philosophic and scientific knowledge, and by
tlie experience and testimony of thousands, who have
tested his theory by examinations in their ow n cases,
the undersigned is confident that this principle ol
natural and physiological law needs only to lie un
derstood to lie justly appreciated by an intelligent
and investigating public.
sustained by such testimony, and more than five
years’ practiraf experience as a diagnosian and hy
-1 dropatiiist, the undersigned would here repeat the
conulusion- at which he has arrived by the sense ol
touch. ist. that the human body, in a healths
condition, is iu a positive tuctricnl stair. 2d. that
there are electrical emanations from the euticlar
surface, indicative of health, or the nature and
symptoms of disease. 3d. that in all case-- where
the wrist, stomach, or lungs, are iu .111 electro-posi
tive state, (however distnrlied.) there is hope of a
cure; but when the parts of the body alluded to ate
in the electro-negative state, hydropathy can afford
no relief.
had not the results of hi& practice already con
vinced the public of the truthfulness of the principles
by which the undersigned is governed, in detecting
the nature and symptoms of disease, the recent pl«i
losophical and scientific demonstration of their cor
i redness, by *professor means, of georgia, and mr.
i 1 lleinmer, of england, and the facts and corroliora
tive testimony adduced by l)r. forbes, mr. smee,
and others, should i* sufficient to convince the most
sceptical.
gratefully appreciating the credit so generously
awarded for his success as a diagnostic and hy
dropathic practitioner, by a discerning public, and
tlie gratitude evinced by those w hom he has had the
pleasure to relieve of their complaints, the under
signed will endeavor to merit tlie *•01111(101100 of all
who may afford him an opportunity to effect a cure,
by his vi rginal and philosophical method of practice.
the northampton water cure i- pleasantly situ
ated near bensonville, on the we.it bank of larking
water, or mill river, about two and a half miles
from tlie centre of the town. it is conveniently
arranged, w ith parlors, separate bathing and dress
ing-rooms, for ladies and gentlemen, well venti
lated and conveniently furnished lodging rooms',and
a variety of baths, abundantly supplied with water,
which, for purity, and adaptedne-s to water-cure
f 1 im poses, is unsurpassed by that ofanv other e?tab
ishrnent in tlii- country. a new and commodious
builuitig has ju.-l keen completed, containing a spa
cious dining ball, and pleasant lodging rooms, which,
with the main building, w ill accommodate from 50
to 60 patients. v viniiasiuin connected with the
establishment, affords an agreeable and hetlthful
indoor exercise. the scenery in this vicinity is
j picturesque and romantic. there are a variety of
pleasant walks, sufficiently retired to allow tlie pa
tients to enjoy their rambles without lieing exposed
to public ga/e or observation
among the complaints which are here snree --fully
treated, are headache, tendency-of blood to the head,
cold extremities, general and nervous debility, bron
j chitis, pulmonary affection, liver complaint, jann-
i dice, acute or chronic inflammation of the bowels.
piles, dispepsv, general debility, nervous and spinal
i affections, inflammatory and chronic rlteuinatism,
i neuralgia, sciatica, lame limbs, paralysis, fever*, -ah
1 rheum, scrofulous and erysipelas butnors.
all persons who visit this establishment for a
course of treatment, should furnish themselves yyith;
three comfortables, three woollen blankets, one or j
two lint 11 and uuee cotton sheets, tyvo pillow cases,
six or eight crash towel-, some well worn linen, to
cut f ir fomentations, an old cloak or mantle, an um
brella, and a pair of slippers.
t r k k -.—for treatment and board from §550 to
£8 50 per week, payable weekly. for a patient.
i (from choice or tle nature of ids complaint) occu-1
1 pving a r«x>m alone on tlie tir.-t and second floor-,'
oo —with room-mate, £6,50. fot one alone on
the third fl .or, s'b 50—with room-mate, s's sti
patients requiring extra attention or tne in then
room.?, (except lot swathing purpose- will furnish
j their oyvn nurse- and fuel, or pay an extra price.
im patient? receiving treatment at how.-, £l <jq.
term for examination, from 52 flo t<» *5 t#»
post-paid letters, with one dollar enclosed, solici
ting advice, will leceive atleutiou. t,'ories| 'midiag
patient should lie particular in .-lating theii l-i
treatment and it? effect.-.
david higgle*.
abrtau mpton, \la: 1 i*l9.
iv.b. visitor* to the establishment, from tin
ea-t, yiest, or south, can take tlie mr of tin* t’onn.
river railiv.ad at ,**piuigfiehj. arriages will
always be in readine- .«t the northaiop*ou(le|>ot, t<
convey them hither. that the sick and nervoo
may not tie di<,turfied after letiruig, visitors arriving
in the evening train :uv reque t«d to lake l*«jgii:g
at a hotel.
t in human blood, in a normal and fmalthy con
dition of the system, i- 111 a positive -tatr, wli. h'
is con*t<infly maintained f*v ti»e activity of tl*e i
genenioig mr< e.. wiitiin—an exce,-- geiieralfy pars
ing off in filen*e from tin* cuticubr surface, -o titai
out ol 356 experiments made l»y mr. ilemmer <4
england, upon tlie uncovered skin,” 322 indicated
tiie pre (;iee of positive electricity. this swrpiusafe
of the fluid tlie surface, we la*liev,* to is- nidi
pc-nsabh- to tlie healthful r-ntdilioti of the wlmu
animal ecouoaty, ami that wiwu, from any cause, it
is diminished or cea.*e«, di-ea ed action ensues.” 1
bee address delivered before the medical college of
georgia, at the opening of its annual session, nov.
9, i*l7. by a. meam, a m m i* prole -or of
chemistry urnl pharmacy, and profexwor ot phvsieal
science m eu/iry ga., |-*ge 25
i>t. john lsls-i, editor of the rriti-h .uni for
eign me lira! ri vjiw, in ail a mr article no tlie con- 1
dition and function of ifac »km, says. p# iiiap
there is scarcely any disease in which tin* fun.
lion of tire skin i* ml, mi exleai, deranged. 1
to what extent, pkj-n iau» h;*e not l»*»towe«l suf-
ticieul (miu, u, k-ai u; hue hare tfiey lcrn occu joined
to give much attention to this part, in tlie |,rtrtir,,| j
invesugatkiu of ihsaaars. phy«iofog«
leaches u- that it m tlie vehicle for 1 mteying out
of the system a large amount of matter, a well olid t
a* liquid; and practn: >1 eaperieoce exhilnls it a*
the channel winch the traintt* t* m
many insuoce aral the burthen ot' plethora gene-
raliy, find their exit-”
1 ne 1-hi.l.>u sun, alludiug to tie- discovery of 1
voltaic electricity by alfred stuee, .surgeon to the
bank ol euglaoci, says: by test which he terms
electro-voiiait, he ha- •xti-hr-d himself tlryt the ter- 1
mibauoas ot the seaeor uvr* vr are post me pole, of t
a voltaic circuit, while the rouse alar mlwunt* it the
umtiff pole. tw wnmr nerves are ihf trw-g raph*
whir h carry the serration to the iwuin. and the nr'o,
nerves carry hack the volition to the rourclw.' 1 see
fi. y. triutw, april 7, imi*.
dr. hollick. on the subject of electricity. rrm ok?
thrre is an agent that affect* the body more. »ml
naturally and artificially. see his work u»> v.i
r.padiy, published in philadelphia in 1817, p 127
tlie futkiwiag extract i* imm an inierertins irti
cle o»t leetricity, copied by ii>e n journal
c'otnrn* tee from n foreign *>rieotifi»- 12 c t ic w
do not per tern i to «ay that a deficiency .»f elertn n
rnav not occur in one purt of the kmin .-r
an excess in sow other |«ait, fir a timr, an tin
this mav not be the i a»-*e of disease, and the re«to
ration of the eqailibrium the cure i think thi.* ntov
likely, anti that it ig upon thi« (irineijile, in a grea
mensiur. that tlie wonderful effect* of electu mag
netism. in the cure t-| ui**'.t*c. are to le explainer)
it i* certain that, when our electrical machines an
most actively productive, we all fi*el most vigorous
our nervous ay stems are then most firm; t>tir faces
tire organs most active our minds roost clear
atiiol h ater cl re.
thf. subscriber legs leare to call tie attcntioi
of invalids, especially those suffering iron
chronic disease, to hi? hydropathic establislinient n
athol, mass.
his h carve was opened for the reception of patient
last season, and it is believed oilers excellent faedi
ties for a philosophic ami thorough course in hydro
pathy. the supply of water is abundant, and ii
parity lias been pronounced equal to water on t
siistiliosl. the local ion is f|iuie eligible, bring bn
a short distance from the v. m. railroad. tin
vicinity abounds in a variety of scenery, and ha
charming grounds for walks and rambles. so th.i
with tlie water, «n it able regimen, mountain air, am
exerrise, patients ran scarcely fail to obtain tin
healthful results |i»r which they labor.
the following ca.-e illustrates thi« remark. mr-
b-, wife of dea. 8., of warwick, mass., age.
about thirty-five years, was brought to me fa*
augu;t. her case presented the following plieno
mena. if placed in an erect position, and left un
supported, she forthwith fell backward to tin
ground. if ix-ing well supported, .she made ai
effort to walk, either foot, when carried forward
despite her efforts fo the contrary, would rros- ih<
other. she had been in this condition nearlv
year. her treatment commenced the lfith of sept
and wa« continued to the 2fith get. only, wlien sir
left, so far recovered as to lie able to walk ball
mile with ease. since her return to her family, b
has continued her baths, w ith corresponding im
provcmeiii to her health. she now attends i.. he
domestic duties, and with the :i« i-tance of a -mal
girl, does the yyork of her family.
patients are desired 10 bring three comfortable
one |>air of woollen blankets, one pair of sheet
half a dozen tovvefa marked, with old linen to
bandages.
terms, from five to ten dollars per week, accord
ing to the necessities or choice of the patient’
those w ho are les3 particular in the selection o
rooms, or are w illing to occupy them in rommoi
with others, will be charged less.
athol, march, 184$. george hoyt.
british periodical literature.
the london quarterly rmnv, the edinburgh rmtn
the north british review, the 11', -tin: n-.r», r,i
and bhichv'ood's edinburgh mag,i zm>-.
the w ide-spread fame of these splendid pcti«.<ii
cals renders it needless to cay much in their pi ii>e
as literary organs, they stand far in advance n
anything of tlie sort now published, while the pold
ical complexion of each i marked by a dignit,
candor, and forbearance, not often found in w ork
of a party character.
they embrace the views of die three great parti#-
in faigland—tory, whig, and radical. black
i wood and the l.ondon quarterly are tory; th
’edinburgh review whig; and the w e.-tinni
ster review radical. the north .british 11.
view is more of a religions character, having fa-*-
i originally edited by i>r. chalmers, and now, in:
his death, lieing conducted by his son-in-law i >i
ii anna, associated with sir david brew.-ter. ii
literary character is of the very highest order. th
westminster, though reprinted under that title only
is pnbiiseed in england under tin- title of 'i 1,,- i
eign quarterly and weslininstt r—it being in fin i
union of the two reviews formerly republished an
j reprinted tinder separate titles. it has, therefi.n
the advantage by this combination of uniting in on
work the liest features of fa>th as iterelulore i--n*-i
'i he above periodicals are reprinted in new l <,i b
immediately on their arrival by the british miamer
-1 in a beautiful clear type, on line white paper, an
are faithful copies of the originals, blackwood 1
magazine, being an exact facsimile of the edinburg
edition.
trices for 1840, (if subscribed for eari.y.
for any one of the four review?), ,«7 00 per annum
for any two do 5 (ml
for any three do 7 (ml
for all four of the reviews, 8 00
for blackwood’s magazine, j{ 00
for blackwood and the .7 reviews, 9 00
for blackwood the 4 review s, 10 oo
payment s to he. made in a//eases in a/h aim
(libbing.
four copies of any or all the above works u ill i
sent to one address on payment of die regular sul
scription for three—the fourth copy u-ing gratis.
early rories.
a late arrangement with the briti-lt publishers ol
blackwood’s magazine secures to ns early sheets ot
that work, by which we shall lx- able to place the
entire number in the hands of subscribers liefore any
portion of it ran l>e reprinted in any of the american
journal''. lor tilt- and ..(far advantages seemed t.»
our subscribers we pay so large a consideration, that
we may lx* compelled to raise the price of the maga
zine. therefore we repent “snbscrilie early while
the price is low
remittances and communications should fa- always
addressed, post-paid or franked, to the pithlisliers
leonard scott co.