SERMON ON THE MEMORY OF
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
BY REV. THEODORE PARKER.
Tixt. —Matth. xx: 27. And whosoever will be)
eltii f among you, let linn be your servant.
La«t Sunday something was said of
the moral perfection of the individual;,
to-day, Jet us consider a man of a very,
marked individuality of character, Let
us try him bv the Christian rule, and
nothing extenuate and nothing add.—
God has made some men trroat and:
others little. The u se of the great men
is to serve the littl men, to take care
of you and me. That is the Christian
rule. It is not the Hebrew rule, nor
the heathen rule, nor the common rule, J
but only the Christian rule. Perhaps
greatness is always the same thing in
kind, only differing in inode and form, j
as well as degree. A great man has|
more of human nature organized in
him than we have. So fnr as that goes, j
therefore, he is more perfectly me than 1
I am myself, and I feel that superiority j
in all my intercourse with him. In*
kind, we arc the same; in degree, dif
ferent. We dud, in society as in na-i
ture, individuals for convenience sake,
are put in classes, accordingly we find
several classes of 4 g re at men, corrc-,
sponding to the several inodes and forms
of greatness. It i- well to 1 iok ut these
before wr examine a special man, for
this will make it easier to judge him'
and sec what he is worth. Only let me
sav that service is the practical test ol
practical greatness, lie who docs the
greatest service to men, is the greatest i
man. That, also, is not the Hebrew, I
nor the heathen, nor the common, but
only the Christian rule.
The first class of great men, is the
great discoverers; luen that discover
original principles, great ideas, univer
sal laws, correct methods of thought
and action. These, it seems to me, are
the greatest of all men; and the vast
ncss ol their genius must be measured
by the transcendency of their truth, i
by the newness of the idea, by its l
practical value, and by the difficulty of;
grasping it at the tune when they dis
covered it.
Iu literature, these arc the men that
originate thoughts, and embody them in
original forms. In philosophy you meet
with tueu of this stamp, and they are
the great inen of philosophy. Thus
Socrates discovered the philosophical
method which distinguished his school.
Thus Newton discovered the great law
of gravitation, the universal law of
nauir«. We find such men among the
po *u<v.an« also, who discover the laws
o which bear the same relations
o ocu ty which the law of gravitation
cars o t ie orb* of heaven, and to the
u o lie earth, men who discover
the just rules m poUtics. You fi d
such men in r< iigum, mcu who discover
truth, so central, that sectarianism
shrinks before their who have
discovered the true method of religion
who have discovered the law which
binds man to man, and man to his God.
To my tu .ud this is the highest form ol
greatness. Here is a class of disco
vering men who give truths at firei
hand—truth of literature, philosophy,
politics and religion—end these are the
greatest of all God’s children.
The next class consists of such as
organize these truths, methods, ideas,
and law*. They apply philosophy to
practical purposes. They concretise
the abstract. They particularise l)is
universal. They organize these lairs
into tho shape of a railroad, to that
truth becomes fact. They organize
Jova into families, justice into a State,
THE NORTH STAR
p:etr into iU suitable forme. They'
tike the power of love, of wisdom, ot
religion, and organize them into com
mon life, making humanity society.—
This organizing genius is a very great
one. it is a great thing for a man to
spread his thought upon the soil, and
make that soil whiten with bread com
for man. It is a great thing for a man
to spread his thought out upon the riv
ers of New England, making them spin
and weave for the human race. It is a
great thing to organize fire and water
into a new instrument to d man’s bid
ding, to organize the very lightnings ol
neaven so that they may do man's er
rands from town to towm.
Bat a higher degree of this mode ol
greatness is shown in organizing men.
it is a higher degree of greatness for
a man to spread out his thought on!
maikind, and put men into true rela-*
tionj with one another and with God, toj
organize truth, justice, wisdom, love.j
and purity, and balance the conflicting
f rces of a nation, so that each man
has his natural ability, justly to exer
cise his own natural rights, as if he
were the* only man, and yet lives in
society, and receives pleasure and ad
vantage as if all converged to that one
piint. It is a great genius which can
ualance the centripetal power of the
State with the centrifugal power of you
and me,and combine them into the same
rvthmctical harmony, as God balances
the orbs of heaven into those grand
ellypses traceable through the skies.—
The greatest genius, the greatest or
ganizing power, is therefore the genius
tor legislation, which can make justice
law', and organize religion into common
custom. It need not be disguised any
wherc that politics are the highest busi-|
ness, that a great statesman is the very
brightest example of organic skill. It
requires some head to organize nine
and thirty clerks in a shop;—how much
more to organize twenty millions of men
and women, not for a special purpose,
but for all the ends of human life. This
second class of men consist of organi
zers who found the institutions of the
world, little and great.
There is a third class of men, capa
ble only of administering and managing
these institutions, after they are found
ed; who do this effectually, even emi
nently. It requires no genius for ori-!
ginal organization, and still less an!
original genius for discc\ering truths
and untruth. It requires only a knowl
edge of details, a familiarity with
methods, a knowledge of routine, an
acquaintance with the past and the
present times, a knowledge of men.—!
These men are not discoverers, they
are not organizers; they are adminis
trators and managers, mid the differ
ence between these two I w ill not now
stop to point out. The ability of these
men will consist in their knowledge of
details, routine, methods and men.—,
They know the ropes and the soundings.!
They know’ how to take advantage of
the wind and tide. In the factory, in
the shop or in the army, in church cr
in state, anywhere such men are valua
ble. You cannot do without them.—
They are the w heels of the carriage.
They arc always mire numerous than
any other class. More arc wanted,!
and therefore born. The American,
mind runs constantly in this direction, j
producing great quantities of adminis-!
trativc men. These are not men of
theories, of new thoughts; they arc
practical men of facts and figures, not
full of ideas, but running over w ith pre
cedents comm m-sense men com
mon-sense men, too, who have not too
much common sense to he understod
now, and to be useful. Such men
are excellent statesmen, but only in or
dinary times. In troublous times they
get brushed off by the organizers or dis
coverers.
To have a railroad there must be,
first, the discoverer to learn the proper
ties of fire and w'ater, and their ability
to carry men over mountains. Second,
there must be the organizers to survey
the route, to plan the structure, to set
men to grade the hills and to fill the
valleys. And, thirdly, there must be
the administrators and managers,whose
office it is, after all this is done, to hire
engineers, conductors, ticket collectors,
and the rest of the hands; to buy the
coal, and see that it is not wasted; to
determine the rates of fare and to cal
culate the dividends. What happens to
a railroad, happens also to a state and
church. In common times, the dis
coverer and organizer fare very hard in
the world. They are men, ill-clad,
often times despised, while the mana
ger is thought to be a great man,
not only walks but ridesover
their graves and distributes the divi
dends where they called only for as
sessments. (Great sensation.)
Now the discoverers are the greatest
of men. They anticipate the human
race. They do not learn from history,
but from nature; not from empirical ex
perience, but by prophetical intuitions
of untruth. Of such men there are al
ways few, especially in the highest
modes of this greatness. The organ
izer also must be a man of great power
of intellect and character. It requires
some mind to organize a factory out of
i* «ver, bricks, wood, and iron, and
make the Connecticut spin cotton. To
organize state of twenty millions of
drawn differently by conflicting
osuie interests, is the greatest work of
intA hu?* 6 •P reiw ut idoaa
Uo 10 yoke men and wo
m .V* Vi” “"venal lawa, to K
care the liberty „f ~c whi
ting the welfare of n ba u f he m<J t
constructive of all science., u,,
creative of all poetry. I„
times, Napoleon seems to have been the
greatest example of this faculty. He
had oo superior in the history of man,
and perhaps never an eoual, in the
ability to mould men to his will, and
RIGHT IS OF SO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOO IS THE FATHER OF US ALL. AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN
accomplish great ends. There is no
calling that dHMpds greater abilities
than poliiicsaPPmtic* develope great
ness, if the man only has the elements
in him. I know, in politics, a man may
get along with very little intellect, with
very little head and very little heart,
without being a discoverer, an organ
izer, or an administrator. If it were
not so wa should have a very small
House of Representatives, a very small
Senate, and a good many of our Presi
dents would never have been heard of.
(Great sensation.) But if the power
be in the man, it will come out. In
America politics demand greatness.
Democracy requires a greater ability
than any other form of government. It
requires a greater range of thought, to
discover the law for all than only for a
few. And after the idea and law are
discovered, it is more difficult to or
ganize a democracy than a monarchy
or an aristocracy. It is more difficult
to administer. It requires more head
to rule the affairs of toe democracy ol
America than to rule England, France,
Turkey or Russia.
We sometimes think there is only
occasion and room, in our day, for ad
ministrators, none for discoverors, none
for organizers. And accordingly in
selecting our Representatives, our Sen
ators and our Presidents, we choose
them by that rule. But there are ideas
which are very well known, and which
yet wait to be organized into a govern
ment. Free Tiade, Peace and Uni
versal Education, Freedom and Com
fort—all these ideas are waiting to be
organized into a State, a state without
ignorance, without war, without tyran
ny, and without want. And there are
truths enough waiting to be discovered.
Why, all the space between my mind
and God’s mind is full of truths and
ideas waiting to be discovered, and then
to be organized. (Deep emotion.)
So much for great men generally.—
Now it is very plain, where we are to
place the distinguished person who
ceased to be mortal ten days ago. Mr.
Adams was not a discoverer. He had
no truth which was not known before.
He made known no new truth. He
was not an organizer. He was an ad
ministrator of political institutions, and
taking the whole land into considera
tion, and the prominent men who were
his cotemporaries, at first sight he does
not seem to be very eminent, in the
class of political administrators. In
making that comparison with men of
the South, especially, there is danger
of doing him injustice. Mr. Adams
was a Northern man. He was North
ern in his notions, in his habits, in his
methods. Many of his cotemporarics
were far different, and had certain ad
vantages over him at the very outset.
The business of the North is to get em
pire over nature, to obtain power oyer
the material world; and so everything
tends to that. Young men of talents
become merchants. They aim to make
a fortune. They care nothing about
political power, but the power of the
pocket. To get empire over nature,
we must have education; not in a few
hands, but in all hands. Otherwise
there is no intelligent labor; and it is
intelligent and not brute labor, which
gives power over nature. Men must be
religious. And so to secure intelligent
labor, education must be universal,
suffiage universal, property widely dis
tributed.
In the North see what examples of
that, see what increase of wealth and
skill, significant ot power. See ou;-
colleges, our factories, our schools, and
our churches; see the movements oi
commerce, of manufactures, of educa
tion. See the movements for the pro
motion of religion. All is democratic,
and is becoming more so. In the South
they seek empire not over nature, but
over man. Talent tend* not to trade,
but to politics. Young men of ability
go into the army, to the navy, to the
public offices, to give themselves to
politics. They learn to manage men.
A young man of the\North acquires a
fortune. A young man of the South,
political influence and favor. See the
result of that. The North manages
the trade, the commerce, the manufac
tures of the land. It manages, also,
its spiritual affairs, its morals, its edu
cation, its religion, its literature and
science. The South manages its politi
cal affairs. So all the Presidents but
three have been Southern men, and
most of the public officers. Each of
the three Northern Presidents has failed
to be re-elected, but baa retired from
public life with a large fortune. The
South has had seven Presidents, and
four of them left the office poor men.
There is no accident in this, none at
all. You behold in it the working of a
law which is as universal as the law of
gravitation.
[to be continued.
EULOGY
On the lift and Character of John Qutnry
Adams, dcticrrtd at Buffalo, March 2,1848.
By Asxza H. Francis.
Ma. President and Fellow Citiiens:
When an humble and obscure indi
vidual emerges into life, and by his
virtues, genius, and mighty powers of
intellect, can successfully grapple with
the gigantic force which education and
the favorable force of circumstances
have placed in a nation or community,
too much credit cannot be awarded
to him for the solutiooof the problem of
the capacity of mind whea drawn out
by indefatigable labors. Into such
hands important trust#, nr the proper
disposition of any great subject, may
rest with great eafety. But to my mind,
when not only obscurity, but iaeompe
tency, taka hold of subject!, calling
forth Ihe powers of a great mind, in or*
dtr to make a proper dispomtion ol
ROCHESTER, N. Y, FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1848.
them, rain wotild be any attempts to
avoid criticism, if not merited reouke.
When a true friend of universal liber
ty, one who has labored to enforce its
great principles, vacates his place by
death, cold must be the patriotism of;
that people that pass in silenee his
mighty deeds. In view of this duty,
with the probable failure of a public
demonstration on our part, I accepted
the too responsible position of deliver
ing this eulogy.
Our friend, fellow citizens, is dead!
Did I say ours? Let me take that word
back. The friend of man, of the hu
man race, has departed; and while we
have assembled to speak of his good
ness, and lament over his icy remains,
the remains of a departed spirit, and;
touch upon some of the past acts of his
honored career, that one of the bright- j
est stars should have been blotted out
at this important crisis of our country’s 1
history. While we have assembled j
here for this ostensible purpose, may.
we not forget that in his death there is
one cause for rejoicing? Probably I
may more effectively impress it by
repeating the following stanza, by
Mozart:
Spirit, thy labor i« o’er,
Thy day of probation is ran;
1 hy steps are now bound to die untrodden shore,
And the lace of immortals begun.
Spirit! look not on the strife
Or the pleasures of eaith with regret;
Pause not on the hounds of limitless life.
To moan for the- day that is set.
Spirit! no fetters can bind,
No wicked have power to molest;
There die weaiy, like ibec, the wretched, shall
find
A heaven, a mansion of rest.
Spirit! how bright is the road i
Fur which thou ait now on the wing!
Thy home it will be with thy Saviour and God,
'iheie loud liallclujahs to sing.”
We have no reason to doubt that
when he put on immortality, death was
swallowed up in victory. Oppressed
humanity, regardless of clime or con
dition, has lost one of its uncompro
mising advocates. It is true, that often
there might be found in him, and par
ticularly while battling in the councils
of the nation against slaveholding and
pro-slavery influences combined, many
errors of what I regard as of the head,
as regarded the wisdom of the policy
of his procedure, or measures recom
mended; still, throughout his whole
life, we have every reason to relieve
the sincerity of his purpose, that he had
an honest heart—a heart e\cr ready to.
act in concert where he believed the,
premises correct and their application
judicious. When brought in contact
with those maintaining opposite views
to his own in regard to action, when in
the main they were agreed, you never
found him cherishing that direful bane
of political profligacy, so eagerly cher
ished by aspirants lor fame, who, for
the sake of realizing their ambitious
desires, suffer, in their guilty phantasy,
any institution to be overthrown, it m its
demolition, the pathway to the goal oi
of their aspiration might be shortened.
In John Hunicy Adams their was no
such spirit. In h m wa3 a mind and
heart upon which the mildew of moral
depravity had never settled or marred
the features of that godlike attribute ol
his nature. In the family circle, in the
public gatherings of his native State,
or in the councils of the nation, that
principle of the largest liberty, was his
principle; the affirmative godspeed to
every just and honest movement to ef
fect it, was his affirmation; that belie!
in the reforms of the age which held
so near an alliance to his own, but upon
whose platform he never directly made j
his assaults upon the enemy, was nev-j
ertheless a subject of increasing inter-!
est to him; so much so, that single
handed and alone, amid sarcasm and
rebuke, threats and persuasions, the;
knife and the bullet, has the right of the
oppressed and the right of petition had
an unflinching advocate. Thus onward
was his career, unintiinidated in his
purpose; and although he is dead, his,
principles live, and live to do battle:
where his self-sacrificing labors wrought.
them out. It was mainly through his
influence that the saqred right of peti
tion has been sustained, and the discus
sion on the subject of slavery in the
United States reached such prominence
by his labors, at a time when it required
more moral stamina than was possessed
by ally other on that floor; and at the
present time no fear need ever be en
tertained of expelling it from among
the subjects of deliberation, until the
trial is complete and the end gained.—
I am aware of some of his sentiments
disavowing his connection with the
abolition society, as the name is ap
plied—a society which I hold dear, be
it of what school it may.
We have extant, in one of his
speeches on a subject in some way con
nected with slavery, a full exposition ot
his views, and as he lived them out.—
His remarks on that occasion were
these: “I tm not here to answer for
the purposes or views of any abolition
society, or of any individual abolition
ist, though I am in one sense an aboli
tionist myself—in that sense in which
Thomas Jefferson, in the 27th year of
his life, committed to paper his opin
ions, which he addressed to all the
slaveholders of the country, namely:
That abolition must come; the sooner
it eornns the better; if not, force would
ensue.* In the li.e and writings of
Jefferson, as published by his grand
eon, you will find the sentiment avowed,
word for word, as I have stated it.—-
Fate,* be further adds, has decreed
the freedom of that people.* In the
leenee that Thomas Jefferson was an
abolitionist, and was so all his Hfe, I
i un one. And I Inpe in all my soul that
Ithe day will come when slavery shall
ba a word without a meaning in the
English language, and all other lan
guages; when there shall net he found
a slave upon all the earth. This, in
my judgment, will be the consummation
of the Christian religion. That
will be the long hoped tor day, when
the li'-n shall lie down with the lamb,
and when all the glorious prophecies oi
the Old Testament promises ar.d pre
dictions repeated by Christ, shall re
ceive their complete fulfilment. In that
day I believe man will be a nobler, a
purer, a more elevated being by far,
than we see him now, when he will
ippruach nearer the angels.’ In that
sense, he avowed himself an abolition
ist. He then goes on to speak of the
animadversions and denunciations di
rected against him, but instead of re
filing again, he said that, there were
men in the abolition societies of as
much intelligence, as much virtue, as
iigh rectitude, and as ardent patriot
sm, as is possessed by any on this
floor.” Still he says as to their meas
ures. he thinks they are mistaken, as
io doubt they think the same of him.—
But I do not propose to descant upon
iny of what I may consider erroneous
riews in regard to his mode of action.
simply give the opinions he entertain
ed, which he said he held from God,
ind from his own judgment. Theu
lointing to the Declaration of Indc
>endence, which was hanging in the
lall, he said, in that, too, were those
sentiments, however any portion of it
nay have been turned out of doors.—
Through it, he wished the abolition of
davery throughout this Union, and that
le believed it was indispcnsible for its
jreservation. They are glorious senti
nents, worthy of the heart that gave
hem utterance, worthy to be promul
gated in the age in w’hich we live, and
worthy of the people who cherish them.
Time forbids me to go at length into
he history of his life in one address,
unless I forego comments. I shali
herefore be brief on this point. John
<l. Adams was born in 1707, conse-;
]uently was at his death in his t>ist
»ear. His remote ancestor, Henry j
\dams, came to America 218 years ago,
vith seven sons. Samuel was the first i
,vho emerged into public life, and rose
o conspicuous public stations. ’I hi
icxt that we read of w as John Adams,
vhom Thomas Jefferson pronounced
he Colossus of Independence. He
ivas the father of John Q. Adams; and
listory informs us that, while in the
lawn of his existence, his parents were
jxerting every power in behalf of their
country s freedom. In his eleventh
rear, when his father and Franklin went
;o France as joint commissioners, he
lccompanied them, and spent one and
3 half vcais of daily intercourse under
the parental attention of Tteryamin
Franklin, whose kind attention, sim
plicity of manner and habits left a last
ing impression. At the expiration oi
that time, he returned home with his
father, who came to assist in the forma
tion of the Constitution of his native
State. But a very few months elapsed
before the voice of the country again
trailed his fatner to repair to Europe, to
legr.tiate a treaty of peace, whenever
jrjeat Britain might be disposed to put
in end to the war. He again took his
ion with him. In this voyage, the ves
iel came nigh being lost, but finally
anded at Fenell, in Spatn, from whence
hey travelled by land to Paris, in 1780,
.vhen his son, John Q,., was placed at
>chool. The same year his father was
:a!led to Holland. Accompanying him j
hither, he was placed in the public
school of the city of Amsterdam, and
afterwards in the university at Leden.
[n 1781, when Francis Dana was cora
nissioned Minister to the Empress ot
Russia, John Adams was selected
by him as a Private Secretary. Alter
spending fourteen months, he left Mr.!
Dana, to travel through Sweden, Den-:
nark, Hamburg, and Bremen, to Hol-j
and, where his father was the Minister,
[o the Republic of the Netherlands.
He performed this journey alone, in the j
winter, without a companion, at 16
pears of age. But I must pass over
many important events of his life. His
renewed acquaintance with Jefferson,
and their continued intimacy to the
close of Jefferson’s life; his desire to
leave the city of splendor and gaiety,
while his father was Minister to the
Court of St. James; of his returning
to this country, and becoming a member
of the ancient scat of learning at Cam
bridge; his study of the law, &.C., are
facts of lively interest.
Hfi was a great favorite of General
Washington, and filled offices of trust:
under his appointment. In 1794, Gen. j
Washington appointed him (then but
27 years of age, Minister to the Neth
erlands; and one of the last acts of
Gen. Washington’s administration was
to appoint Mr. Adams Minister Pleni
potentiary to Portugal. Washington
declared the most valuable
public officer the United States had
abroad.
In 1803, Mr. Adams was elected to
the Senate of the United States for six
years, and here he seemed to make
fully tumbles l that unfaltering principle
not to permit nor suffer passion to drive
him into indiscriminate opposition, or
blind support. He was the great sup
port of Mr. Jefferson in those dark days
of his administration, when those who
had led the Republican party had
thrown themselves in direct opposition
to the administration. Disaffection*
had arises in the ranks, much like the
present political condition of our
country.
In 1825, Mr. Adams was elected
President of the United States. But
his pure principles and anti-party spirit
soon led to dissensions, and all kinds of
political chicanery were practised
against him; but he held hie position
with an unalterable firmness, dilu
ting the offices of public trust irre
spective of party. The nation el peace
w#| world, tke f***
lie debt promptly paid, and reducing
the public debt over three million*,
these, with many other marked and
beneficial results, closed hie'administra
tion, and he was succeeded in office by-
Gen. Jackson.
Since that period, his life must be
familiar to all who have taken any no
tice of the public movements of the
age. Hu n.anly independence in the
advocacy of equal rights, against fear
ful odds, and the unparalleled, unyield
ing firmuess to principle, leaves him no
equal, to say the least, among the po
litical chpinpions of the age. I an.
bold to affirm that your \N ebsters.
vour Clays, your Calhouns, or your
McDuffies, if you please, when com
pared with him, sink into perfect in
significance. In the life ol John H,.
Adams, the world can see in what true
greatness consists. In him the spirit
of vacillation, for the sake of prefer
ment. was unknown. Unlike the dis
honored tourse of Daniel IN ebster,
who declared, on, the portico of the
Capitol of Virginia, before an assem
blage of ten thousand freemen, that
there was no power, direct or indirect,
in Congress, or the general Govern
ment, to interfere in any manner what
ever with the subject of slavery, or the
institutions of the —a very hard
sample of true greatness to come from
the great expounder of the Constitu
tion. Neither do we hear more sub
stantial or better reasoning from the
mouth of the idolized Kentucky logi
cian. He would have the world be
lieve that the libeiation of six thousand
slaves in the District of Columbia, dis
connected with the three millions in
the country, was not a matter of suffi
cient magnitude to agitate, distract,
and embitter this great confederacy,
w hile he denounces and contemns w hat
he calls a visionary dogma, that slaves
cannot be the subjects of property.
Why, he says he will not speculate on
such abstractions; that is property
which the law- declares to be property;
two hundred years of legislation have
sanctioned it. But not only so, lie says
it has sanctified negro slavery. Mc-
Duffie says slavery is the corner-stone
of the Republic. But I will quote no
further, feeling satisfied that the verdict
is in favor of John Q,. Adams. Permit
rne to remark here, that 1 have no doubt
but what I shall be censured for the
encomiums which I have passed upon
Mr. Adams; but if 1 had never known it
before, I arn now convinced, from re
search into his life and character, that
all such censure w-ould merit just re
buke. In fact, I have already been
(isKcil nli«t *l«viv nu» tlio tiff, nl
.John Q,. Adams so commendable that
the colored people need eulogize it, as
if we possessed so small a share of hu
manity, or that there flowed in our
veins so small a share of patriotic
blood, or that we w-ere insensible to, or
illy appreciated, the great design of our
forefathers, as well as our own inherited
birthright from them.
And now I should like to hare the
world know that the same principles of
’7O, which led the great mind of John
Q,. Adams to energetic action, to ad
vise in behalf of hts country to throw
off the British yoke, actuated my father
to shoulder his musket and serve
through a bloody contest. And not only
my father’s, but the blood of colored
men w as freely shed in that struggle for
national independence. John Q,. Adams
never proved recreant to that great
principle, but maintained it through
life. Can it be supposed that wc have
within us a principle so complicated, so
incomplete in its orginal design,that we
can only appreciate the value of a man
anu speak of his virtues, only as they
are prescribed for our own individual
benefit? If such were the prevailing
sentiments, God deliver me lion* Iden
tity with any such people. But this is
not the case; and were this a proper
occasion, I would prove that for true
patriotism, and high-toned sympathy for
their fellow inen, we, the colored peo
ple, have no superior among any class
of men. I base my abolition on the
doctrine of universal freedom. My
field of action is the world; wherevei
there can be found beings possessing
undying, imperishable and immortal
spirits, regardless of the land that gave
them birth, they in like proportion
share my sympathy, and shall have my
support. I would not give one of tin
most imperfect ideas which I havi
penned in this discourse for the fig-lea
covering of that man love of liberty
that extends no further than what i di*
covered in a debate, a few weeks since
from one of the members of the bar u
this city. He was opposed to the ae
cession of new slave territory, for tin
reason that he loved the liberties ofth<
whits man; then a secon<
thought coining over him, produced, n<
doubt, by the presence of colored men
he mauc the sentiment more ridiculous
by saying, not that he haled the blacl
man. But I suppose it is a Mmole c
much of the Wilmot Proviso abolition
ism. I have long become convince
that we can become selfish in any goo
work: and when 1 see this spring up
immutable laws of God must be brough
to bear against it, for wc are equaii;
bound to each other in the distributioi
of our powers. Instead of lry‘“|f. 14
degrade, we should encourage and »m
prove. Rather than withhold, contract
and disrespect the rights of each other
we shoald enlarge and expand to great
er and still greater degrees of beoevo
lenee. This undue regard which t
practised in the social system, must t*
redressed, or we never shall avert th<
just judgment of the Almighty; and
■TP bold to affirm, that if there is not i
•peed/ ushering in of reform oo tbi
point, it will most assuredly come dowi
with increased vehemence on all wh
throw off such mighty responsibilitiei
it* and detgontmioa of themcaa
O’ -‘-f
WlLUtti C Mil, fisiiisia
John dm k, rsistas
WHOLE NO.—XIII.
ness into which man has sunk since th«
fall.
But to return. As regards the er
rors into which statesmen have fallen,
I give »t as my candid opinion, that it
would be far more advantageous to the
Republic, if the management of its af
fairs were entrusted in the hands of
those who had not studied the first les
son in the affairs of slate, if they were
honest and true, rather than in the
hands of those who entertain and prac
tise sentiments like thosQ I have already
quoted. There was a principle in John
U. Adams which soared so far above
such sentiments, that he shrunk from no
responsibility or regarded the
whenever he was convinced he w»*
ught. He never suffered himself to
become the passive tool of the petty
tyrant. The ancestral blood ot the
Pilgrims had early germinated, and
assumed such lofty mien, that it through
life forbade the engrafting into his na
ture the modern ideas of expediency.
But he was as firm as the rick on
w hich the Pilgrims landed, and rigid as
the wintry monarch which was above
and around them. The Pilgrims landed
on the ‘.hid December* amid ice and
snow. He, like Raiuesis, King of
Egypt* whc about to elevate his great
obelisk, placed his son upon it, in or
der that the workmen might take great
care, knowing that a lift* more pis cious
than their own depended upon their la
bors. Such was the feeling of John
Q. Adams. He acted as if the buidcu
of the responsibility of the w hole na
tion was resting upon his shoulders.
In this light he acted, and literally died
pleading for the salvation of his coun
try. U! methinks that when the Int-t
sound proceeded from the lips of thnt
good old man, while dying away in the
remote corners of that spacious hall,
there was sent back a reverberating
echo, which, ns it fell upon the list
ening ear, told,in accents not to be mis
taken, that that voice would soon 1 e
hushed; that that honored head which
was bowing under the infirmities of
more than eighty winters, bespoke in
controvertibly that the sand of his pro
bation were spent. And methiuks then,
»f not be lore, the heart of the despot
must have been filled with sorrow tv
think that soon his own would be hush
ed, and his name nevermore be written
among the members of that ody, bit
that the next union would be registered
by the recording angel. And when the
stern decree ot justice shall have sub
merged the last vestige of slavery, and
saved not only this natiou, hut the poor
sin-stiicken world, from having meted
out to her the iust iudc'jnenis. of th««
Almighty, tor their national sms and
nati< nal calamities which they propa
gated; when the labors of the aboli
tion s« cielie shall roc*ivc their ever
lasting ucquutu), on the basis that there
is no more w ork to accomplish, or when
labors like the great departed states
man performed when upon the earth,
shall conic to an end; because then
the oppressor can no more oppress,
and the assembled wisdom of the na
tions shall have rio more to do but to
legislate to make man assimilate nearer
and nearer his Redeemer; then the
name of John H. Adams w ill he re
vered. In short, when the great end
for which he lived shall have been fully
consummated—when the great struggle,
so incomplete in its design, and through
which he hved and labored incessantly
to achieve, shall be in reality what it
now is in name; when the day-stnr from
on high shall emblazon fbilh, inscribed
hpon it in imperishable letters by the
hand of Omnipotence, travelling forth
in beatific splendor, in its icspiendant
orb, to the most remote geographical
boundaries of the globe, anil by its
stern mandate dash into chaos the
chains of the despot; when this shall
have been accomplish! d, the name of
John (i- Adams will r,tiii hold its place
among that list of reformer*, the vice
gerents of God for the redemption of
his people.
We learn from the life of this great
man a lesson of immense value; and
particularly may that class of one-sided
politicians who, like a game on the
wheel of fortune, will sacrifice, for a
few earthly baubles, or sparkling du*t„
the last item which constituted their
earthly happiness, learn from it. Let
me warn you cf this. 'The mirror
through which you look magnifies, it is
deceptive, a delusion; you do not see
j your real person. Now if you would
shine in the world, change your posi
tion; if you would save your country,
j d*al honestly towards it. We live in
critical times. We have a few painful
pages left of the history of ancient Re
publics. We read of a Thebes, a
Carthage, and an Athens, where l< arn-
I ing and eloquence, aits and sciences,
held undisputed sway. But they have
I I fallen, and as a nation, are hasten
ing on with increased velocity towards
I j that point where they were before their
final overthrow, well nigh swallowed
up amid dissensions. '1 he hostile spirit
of psrtizaas, clamoring for ascendancy,
n,nd indulging in mutual enmity, if not
speedily checked, will lose its balance,
J amid the shouts of a triumphant fow,
who will put all dissensions under their
feet.
1 entreat yon, from to-night, to erect
a true altar, and let vour motto be,
“Brotherly Love," “Equal Rights."
1 believe there is sufficient to build up
on from the remains of j our well nigh
vanquished victims. Sport no longer
I* with the destinies of your fellow men.
If yen would wish to shine here, and
shine with advantage, you can do so by
administering justice. And then if tbs
k lustre of fbv fine sold should beconta
dim, sod the ray of the diamond should
become extinguished, you m ay atili be
i enabled to shine, like John Qmacy
Adams, in the celestial hemisphere, and
jthe splendor of U* Jtofpat,
Address Of Antislavery WOMen OF Western NEW YORK.
a deep and abiding impretMon of tin
duly we owe to God and oar fellow being*
the Aoti-SUvery women of Rochester fee
constrained to cvmtinue to persevere in thet
♦•{Torts tor the oppnreted and suffering bond
men who still remain toiling unrequited in th
Southtrn pn*o« house. We are frequent];
thought painfully to remember Uiat rot onl
is their fdbor w rested from thorn ujureir.uners
ted not only Jo they suffer from uitense bun
ger and cold not only are the female*, oci
sister*, subjected to the cruel and jswtfionat
outrages of their tyrannical masters and over
•certbat There are daily instance* of ooh
during the dearest Uca. in nature, thus *epa
rating them forever. And can wo expect any
thin? boiler—can we look for Irmcvolono* 01
fine foiling* from a nystem so foul aod fiend
iah as slavery! It would be unreasonable
because a corrupt tree cannot bring fort!
pood fruit/’ Therefore, know ing that with
out associative action wc cannot render effi
cient aid to this holy cause, we affectionately
unite the co-operation of the citizens of Roch
ester and the public generally. We ask then
to bear i.» mind the injunctions of Jesus, 14 Al
things w haißocver yc would men should pin u
you, do ye even so to them/' Renumber
also, the licauliful parable in which be call
«>ur attention to the sick and to those who an
in prison, and concludes by the forcible asser
lion, 4 inasmuch as ye have done it to one of th<
least of these, my brethren, yc have done i
unto me/* Wc feel assured all that hav<
hearts to feel, and are careful to attend to tin
monitions of conscience—all who arc deter
mined to live fir the good of our race, instea<
of devoting al! their ti:no to their own per
aoaal eatie—-all who feci bound to improve th<
precious lime allotted to them here, by pro
moling as much as possible the cause of tnitl
and righteousness in the earth, will come for
ward in the work of tailoring to banish forev
er tho d i:non of slavery from our land and
in ?o doing, instead of an example of coirup
t;on and w ickedness, we should be a light
to the world.’’
Wo hope no one will fed too poor, nor any
foo rich, to enlist in this holy cause. The
l 'hrisuaa’s influence, in whatever situation, is
always salutary, alid will certainly produce its
good effects. We a.sk for the aid of men and
of women —we call on the old and the
young, the farmer, the mechanic, and the
merchant. We ask all and every one to give
us their help to devote what they can spare,
cither of money or of the fruits of their la
bor, to the work of restoring men and women
to th mselves, to their maithood, to the rights
and blessings with which they were endowed
by our Creator.
For this object we propose holding a Fair
in December next. We ask the females in
tlie adjoining towns and country around us, to
get up sewing circles, and prepare such arti
cles as will he most saleable, and to come, fur
nish tables, give us their company, and help
us, not only in selling those things thus pre
pared, but in convincing the public mind ol
the necessity of our pars2voranee and fidelity,
and thus bi helpers in hastening the day of
emancipation.
Abigail Di sh, Rochester.
.Sarah I). Fish, do.
Sarah Ij. Hai.lowfll, do.
Mary 11. llai.loivell, do.
0........ .V. I. M uu,
MutGA.nET A. I.AUSON, do.
J'mzabf.th Sully, do.
Phebe Tula dwell, do.
Charlotte S. Wilber, do.
'Hilda Antiiosy, do.
ilnoD.i Dk Gar mo, do.
Catharine G. Braituwaite, do.
Sarah E. Thayer, do.
Catharine A. F. Stkubixs, do.
Av y Post, do.
Henrietta Plutt, Rath.
Sisan It. Doty, Farmington.
Maria Wilbur, v do.
Elizabeth Smith, do.
Esther Hathaway, do.
Caroline Halstead, Walworth.
Julia Parker, do.
Eliza Cooper, Williamson.
Amy Mott, do.
Rebecca M. C. Catron, Auburn.
Mrs. Hamlin, Port Byron.
Mar*ar£T Prior, Waterloo.
Mary Ann MoCIiNTOCK, do.
Laura Murray, Victor.
M us. Mackintybe, Darien.
Meetings.— Frxdfkicb Douglass will
attend, with Agents of the Western N. Y.
Anti-Slavery Society, the meetings at Canan
daigua, Penn Yan and Bath.
Flf.nrY 11. Garnet. —Wc learn from our
Northampton correspondent, that friend Gar
net has lteen recently addressing large audi
ences in that town, on the past and present
condition, ar.J future destiny, of the colored
race, acquitting himself ably, and exerting a
commendable influence in behalf of the Anti-
Slavery rauso.
J. XV. IjOGTEN.— The letter of this valued
friend, in our columns of this week, will be
Jbuiid deeply interesting to those vho an' in
doubt with reepeet to the character of the
Smith’* Hinds. Mr, Logncn is entitled to
the gratitude of his brethren, for Jus faithful
attention to this matter.
The License Election in Vermont.—
Tlte county of Yindham, Yt., gave a majority
of 53 in favor of 4 License," on the 7th Inst.
Last year the majority for 44 No lieen.se"
was 1,0“2f*. The returns of tho State, as far
as they arc known, show a gain of tho Li
ce:is* Party.
__ I __
fiT 3 Tba American Government is at pres
ent speadmg ratbor more than twice its m
c(«*e. it* expenditure is $59,451,000': its
inetne $.15,070,000. War ia thus laying the
foundation of a national debt and ajbtandin.g
ti::»y.
UjT We are indebted to I loti. J. R. Gid
i ngs tor his speech, delivered in Congress
I Vf 2ft, upon tl»e IhH to supply ilu* deficiency
of appropriations for flic year ending Jmi* 30,
HP*.
to t:oiUtf*m\i>EXTs.
J. C. K., Br<x>iitjiir, o*n.> will (ui4 th» >*nw*iw
M the pwt-offica. r ,r
W., Jr.» —"'e wtouU
puMl&inf hi* uMtcm in pamphlet f**ra». Tl»» can
U uW- a»U w rU» Sur Office. We niit farther
i o: .tmuntratiun.
S. B Hajem—TU faff |ia* been regular!)
nw -W to
Notices.
UE*lf*»?fEW TOKK AKTi.
t IIOOtSTY.
TV Bku u#i rommiHvr wfll meet
Tecviajr next, Khirrh 2%h, at tiu
i Abfa-SfcvcTy (Mcc, 25, BefLilo Gurnet.
Attendance b requested at 7 o'clock pre
ise!r.
W. C. NELL, Rec. See.
Asn-Surar Mtirrww.—C. L- R*
mum) and J. C. llathawtat, Agent* of th«
Wpstnn New York Anti-Slavery Society
will hnW weetinf a* fellow*
i Canandaigua, Thursday evening, March 33
RuabTille, Friday afternoon and evening
March 24th.
Fenn Van, Saturday evening and Sunday
March 23th and 3Gih.
PratudMjTjjh, Monday evening and Tuesday
March 27th and 28th.
Hath, Wed need ay evening and Thursday
March 29th and 30th.
a*ti-*lavery meetings.
1 Jonathan Walker, from Florida, am
John S. Jacobs, from North Carolina, wil
address the people at the following namec
places and times. Will the friends of hu
manity at those places make the necessary
arrangement, and assist them from place t<
place
Fairport, Saturday, March 18
Egypt, Sunday, 44 19
Penficld, Monday, 44 20
West Walworth, Tuesday, 41 21
Corners, Wednesday, 44 22
Williamson, Thursday, 44 23
Marion, Friday, 24
Palmyra, Saturday, S 5
Rochester, Sunday, 44 26,
Seneca Falls, Monday, 44 27,
Syracuse, Wednesday, 44 29,
Whitesboro, Thursday, 30
Ftiea, Friday, 44 31
Little Falls, Saturday, April 1.
Manhcim, Sunday, 44 2.
John S. Jacobs, a self emancipated slave
from North Carolina, proposes the following
series of meetings, relying upon the influence
of the friends in each place to aid the cause
along.
Westfield, Mass. Wednesday, April 5.
Worcester, 44 Thursday, 6.
Providenco, R. 1,, Friday, 44 7.
Newport, Sat. Sun. 8& 9.
Fall River, Mass. Monday, 44 10.
Nantucket Tues. Wed. 11 12.
Fairhaven, Friday, 44 14.
New Bedford, 44 Saturday, 16.
Cambridge, 44 Tuesday, 44 18.
South Boston, Wednesday, 44 19.
10* The Liberator will please copy.
American Slaves t. Jonathan Walker
fioin Florida, a victim of the slave power and
John S. Jacobs, a self emancipated slave from
North Carolina, will address the people of
Rochester, on Sunday next, 26th, (Place to
lie specified in Hand-hills.) All, who would
learn the history of the Branded Hand and
other inflictions of slavery, arc invited to at
tend. 44 Come as tlie waves come."
I THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, M \RCH 24, 1818.
THE AMERICAN COLONIZATION
SOCIETV.
This long-faced, smooth-tongued, mis
chievous hypocrite, through its thirty-first
annual report, now before us, informs its
friends and the public generally, that it stil
lives, and is prepared to continue the work of
getting the free negroes” out of this coun
try to their home in Africa. The various re
ports of its death and burial are taken quite
unkindly by the board, and they lead us to
think that the society was never in better con
dition than now. It recognizes among its
ardent friends and supporters, many of the
wisest, best, and most popular statesmen and
clergymen of this age and nation.
We place on record, for future reference,
the names of those who fill the offices of
President and Vice Presidents in this negro
hating society, that the colored people may
know what and who are operating against
their hearths, homes and happiness.
The Hon. Henry Clay was unanimously
elected President of the Society for tins
year.
The fidlowing gentlemen were elected Vice
Presidents, viz:
1. General John H. Cocke, of Virginia.
2. Daniel \Ve!>ster, of .Massachusetts.
3. Charles F. Mercer, of Florida.
4. Rev. Jeremiah Day, D. I)., of Conn.
5. Theodore Freluiglmvsen, of New York.
(I. Louis McLanc, of Baltimore.
7. Moses Allen, of New York.
8. General W. Jones, of Washington.
9. Joseph Gales, of Washington.
10. Right Rev. Win. Meade, D. D., Bishop
of Virginia.
11. John McDonough, of Louisiana.
12. Rev. James 0. Andrews, Bishop of the
Methodist Episcopal Church.
13. William Maxwell, of Virginia.
14. Elisha Whittlesey, of Ohio.
15. Walter Lowne, of New York.
16. Jacob Burnet, of Ohio.
17. Dr. Stephen Duncan, of Mississippi.
18. William C. Rives, of Virginia.
19. Rev. J. Laurie, P. D., of Washington.
20. Her. Wnt. Winans. of Mississippi.
21. James Boorman, of New York.
22. Henry A. Foster, of New Yo^k.
23. Dr. John Ko.r, of Mississippi.
24. Robert Campbell, of Georgia.
25. Peter P. Vroom, of New Jersey.
26. James Garland, of Viigiiua.
27. Right Hon. Lord Bexley, of Ixindon.
28. William Short, of Philadelphia.
29. Willard Hall, of Delaware.
JO. Right Rev. Bishop Otey, of Tennessee.
31. Gerard Ralston, of London.
3 2. Rev. CouiUand Van Rensselaer, of New
Jersey.
83. Dr. Jlodgkin, of London.
31. Rev. JE- Burgess, D. D., of Dedham,
35. Thomas R. of Providence, R. I.
30. l>r. Thomas passer, of Tye River
Milb, Virginia.
37 Maj. Geo. Winfield Sco*l, of Wash
ington.
Rev. A. Alexander, D- D.,of N. J.
39. Srmurl Wulkeson. of Xew York.
10. L Q. C Finer, hf New Jertcf.
11. James Ratler, of Misiissibp?.
12. Rev. iieo. W. Be thane. D. W:, of Phi! a. 1
«3. Rev. G. I'.-Cuvier, D: IK, of Pbd*. i
M. Kikoii ixawon, of Philadelphia. j
15. Auaut U. Flu-ip*. of Now York.
Woods, J). lE, iad»ve>, j
I
~#a at
.t a*' V
47. Jonathan Hyde, of Maine
-48. Jt*v Beverly Waugh. Bishop the
M. SL Chursh. Bahinore. 9
48. Ret. K W. B. Johnson, S. C.
an. Mo*** Bbepkmi, Baltimore,
si. Job. CmrrSSericWmrg, Va.
40. Bishop Ifcmtaa, of Ohm.
SS. Ret. Dr. Edgar, Nashville,Tena,
54. Ret. P. laudator, D. D., of Tens.
55. Hon. J. R. tfnaerwond, of Kentucky.
58. Hoo. C. Nhnh, of Woodstock, Vt
57. Rat- J. J. Jane war, D. D.,of N. J.
58. H. L. Lumpkin, Esq., Athens, Geo.
50. James Lenox, of New York.
80. Btshop Soule, D. D., of Tennessee.
8?. Prof. S. C. Ipham, of Maine.
81. Hon. Thomas Corwin, of Ohio.
03. Hon. Thoa.,W. Williams, of Conn.
61. Hon. Simon Greenleaf, of Mass.
After which the Society adjourned to meet
oo the 3d Tuesday of January, 184 U, at 7
o'clock, P. M.”
The receipts of this Society have beer
quite lvrge the past year, amounting fo thirty
j two thousand dollars. Lecturing agents have
been sent into various parts of the country,
and have met with unusual success in getting
into churches and pulpits, even at the periods
appointed for public worship. Ministers ol
religion, of all denominations, are becoming
more and more interested in it; monthly'ser
moos are preached in its favor in many pulpits.
North and South; prejudice is being dis
pelled, and opposition to the Society is rapidly
subsiding. The press of the country speck
of its movements with respect and admiration,
I and everything respecting Liberia, is regarded
with increasing interest. Every indication
seems favorable to a vigorous prosecution ol
the work and to this end, they now call
upon the public generally for assistance.—
They want fifty thousand dollars the present
year. They propose to act in such a manner,
as to divide the spoils with our w orsc than
useless ships of war along the African coast.
They think they can abolish the slave trade,
(a great enormity on the coast of Africa, but
I Christian incense on the coast of America,)
if the government will place in the hands of
1 the society a suitable sum with which to
purchase territory. They propose to support
and provide for re-captives, at a much cheaper
rate, and, indeed, to manage the whole busi
ness, at a much less expense to the govern
ment than is now done by our own war ves
sels. They think the re-captives, at fifty dol
lars apiece, would give them the sum of
$37,800. Whether this sum is demanded
I for services already rendeicd by the society,
1 or proposing to be, the report is not clear. A
desire on the part of the Society to get, if
possible, into tlie service and pocket of the
national government, is quite manifest.
The report of the board has much to say
about the Republic” of Liberia, and of the
immense service its declaration of independ
ence has done the society, and says Al
ready among the colored people has a favora
ble effect been produced.” It speaks with an
air of triumph of a convention of colored per
sons in the State of Illinois, who, self-moved,
have appointed one of their own number to
visit Liberia, and return and report the facts
to them. In New Y ork, the report says, an
other mission has been appointed for a similar
purpose. These movements amongst the
i colored people are hailed by the society as in
dicating a returning sense of what is for their
best interests and permanent happiness.
We call attention to this society, not so
much for the benefit of our white as our
coiuicd leaders; ibouoh It may prufliuuie
to both. The alluring wiles and fascinating
blandishments, must be closely watched, and
j firmly guarded against. We, as a people,
too nearly resemble our paler brethren to be
I in all cases proof against such modes of at
i tack. The high sounding title of Independ
ent Republic,” which Liberia has now taken,
and the skill and grace with which tho title is
used by this society, is very well calculated to
win upon the vanity of those possessing more
ambition than brain among the colored people
of this country. The thought of Liberia is
associated in their minds with elevation to the
offices of Presidents, Vice Presidents, Secre
taries ijjf State, Judges, Generals, Senators,
Representatives in Congress. This society
understands our weak points, and what chord
to move. We are persuaded that this new
point of interest may be used quite injuriously
to the well being of many colored men in this
country, and therefore call upon our brethren
for a renewed expression of their opinion on
the subject.
We are now told, that Liberia has assumed
the form of an independent government, pos
sessing all the rights and discharging all the
duties and meeting all the responsibilities of
an independent nation. But her independence
is not yet recognised by any other nation—nor
has anything of the sort beon proposed to our
government. The American Colonization
Society has recognised her independence, and
judging from the parade, that is made over the
fact, this copy of the model republic, would
seena to have its army and navy, its Ministers
and Consuls at foreign courts, all going on in
the most state-like manner; while the fact is,
the Bethel church in Philadelphia, would hold
the entire nation and a single war-ship might
give law-s to the republic. To our mind, Li
beria is as much dependant as ever she was,
and the Colonization Society has ns controlling
a voice in her affair* ever. We Anther be
lieve, that this new form is adopted solely
with a-view to revive the almost extinct spirit
of Colonization throughout the land. The so
ciety does not, however, rely solely on the
alluring charms of nationality, independence,
wealth, dignity and station, to induce the free
colored man to emigrate to Liberia; they
threaten as well as ooax,” —they appeal to
our “fears as well as our hopes,”—they
|>oint to our degradation here, as well as our
elevation in Liberia, and teach us to believe,
that our condition here must liecome not better
but worse, the longer we remain. They tell
us, that, now we may emigrate with onr own
free wit!; but that, the time must come, when
we shall have no option in the matter—that
we shall be compelled uuder the arm of stern
necessity, to quit this and suck another coun
ts?-
In the report before us, the board use the j
following language oq this point, which leaves
no doubt as to what is paawng in their minds j
They ought to be convinced that the 1
friends of colonization are their fnends; that!
it is a scheme contrived and esteemed solely
with reference to the good of their race. Wf J
have always professed to be the friend of the]
colored man. We have always advocated
colon nation as his friend, and have honestly
believed that it presented the fairest hops and t
the surest guarantee of his hi lure happiness.
We axe satisfied that in thru country he never
can enjoy a permanent house can never rise
above his present depressed condition. He
rl «vV] ja todijpi tit nt r,
may stay borafor yean aadyeareyattoeome
t" b?
In aaotbar part sftbo trport, we are told
that oqrdrgraiiian ia a Ihred foe* M tin
*y oar coodhfon is the free Statas it becominp
worse, end quote with apparent pleasure, Um
resolution paused by a tote of 99 to 43 in the
convention of the State of Uhnoi*—met tc
draft a new Commotion proposing to prevent
free persons of color from settling in the State.
They point ns to the kas of our franchise in
this State, and to oar failure in Connecticut.
Now, can any intelligent colored mac
doubt, as to the injury such sentiments inflict
upon the cause of our freedom and efevstior
here Everything of progress and improve
ment which has taken place in oar condition
is carefully avoided. Our degradation, great
as it is, is nevertheless exaggerated for tbt
sake of proving that this is not our home
and that elevation cannot be attained here.
The fact colonization is now, just what it
was twenty years ago. Those engaged in it
are our enemies. Look through the list ol
officers, and all find one who hat
ever performed a single act, which looked U
the welfare of the colored man in this country.
From Henry Clay the President, through the
whole list of Vice Presidents, they are cithei
slaveholders or are pro-slavery in sentiment
and their uniform practice. Can such a blas
phemer as the Rev. Bishop Meade, be a friend
to the colored man—who charges upon God
the ordaination of slavery, and counsels the
slaves that their masters have a just right to
flog them f
FRANCE.
The intelligence from this country, pci
steamship Cambria, which we give in another
place, though most appalling, is by no means
surprising to intelligent men. Considering
the great familiarity of that people with the
use of deadly w eapons, their great excitabili
ty, their great patriotism and love of warlike
demonstrations, and the intidious and danger
ous infringement upon their rights and liber
ties, the wonder is not that they have actually
risen in rebellion now, but that the catastrophe
i has been so long delayed. The fate of the
French Government, in this instance, is
a mirror in which tyrants, the world over,
I may see theirs. It is impossible that the rc
bellious spirit of enslaved humanity can al
ways be kept under. There must be some
effort to enjoy that freedom for which our
God and Creator has shaped us; and wo
betide the class, combination, or government,
which shall presume to stand in the way of
such effort. Such combinations or govern
ments may succeed for a time but a revolt
i must come; the oppressed cannot always be
subdued, and the oppressor's power must
wear away. They may deceive and cheat,
hut they cannot repress the upward tendency
of the masses towards froedoin and equal
i rights.
'Hie French government has long acted
upon the notion that the people cannot be
j trusted with their rights. The liberty of the
press, the freedom of speech, and the right
of assembling, have long been trampled upon
by that government.
i These are rights not to be disregarded with
I impunity by any government or clan. The
people must speak and write freely, and if
this rignt nc disallowed, they will make them
selves felt.
We call upon tyrants the world over, and
especially American tyrants, to look and
reflect upon this late revolution in France,
with the beginning of which even vve are
only partially acquainted. Wc warn the
slaveholder to learn anew, that human nature
is still human nature, and that the time may
not be distant when an illustration of the
fact may be afforded nearer home than
Paris.
DIP We understand that Mr. Henry Bibb
is to sail for England about the middle of
April. He goes, on the invitation of Anti-
Slavery friends in Newcastlc-upon-Tync, and
will p’-obably labor under their direction while
in England. One of the objects of his mis
sion, and perhaps the main one, is to discour
age the use of slave labor, and encourage that
of free. Mr. Bibb is an eloquent speaker,
and by a faithful exposure of slavery and
the various inodes by which it is upheld and
sustained, before the British public, he may
be instrumental in doing much good in behalf
of the slave.
TIIE BARKER FAMILY.
This interesting company of singers gave
a concert last Saturday evening, at Minerva
Hall. The audience was large and respecta
ble, and we thought they were highly gratified
with the entertainment. So various are the
tastes with respect to tune, as well as color,
that it is somewhat hazardous to venture an
opinion of either. We arc free to say, how
ever, that several of their songs made a deep
impression on us, dark as we are, and called
forth loud applause from the audience. We
observed that those deep, rich, clear and pa
thetic tones, which moved the hearts of our
white fclluw-citizens, awoke in our own soul
emotions corresponding to theirs. Some who
looked rather savagely at us when we en
tered, found us borne aloft with them on the
heavenly wings of music, equally delighted
and charmed with themselves. Now,,is it
not too bad that colored folks’’ should dare
to love music, and to liave the same emotions
common to white folks Cannot something
be done to make a distinction here Ought
colored people be allowed to fed just like
white folks! Is this sort of equality to be
tolerated in this Christian country 1 Ought
not a colored man to be worth two hundred
and fifty dollars, in real estate, before he ven
tures to lore mabir equally with white Ame
rican citizens And is not here something
requiring the immediate attention of these
whom the people appoint to guard our most
sacred institutions!
Bat we are straying; we merely meant to
notiee the singing and the singers. .They
sung several comic songs during the evening,
which were very weft received. They will
however pardon as if we say that in this they
do not excel. We advfcefhem to sing as flew
•ueh soup as poosibte, and if any be sung,
let Nation sing them. He has more of the
eotalc ia his composition than either of the
brothers. But it is on the grave, pathetic,
sublime, grand, and terrible, that they excel.
“The ship on fire,” ia enough to “sura fe
ver in the blood of aft.”
r JVitfOli ¥t tUi.s li.sil »i#i*r
tonrogimuaturaß,
gerut fljurrara uwt.
INt. Jams McCvs* S*mT:—De*a Si*,
—I have eel wholly forgotten my premise U
yon, last line, while in your city, to semi
you seme report of my discoveries, while i»
a visit to the lands given to many of oar bre
thren, by that prince of philanthropists,
Gerrit Smith. Ton have a right to claim
from me an apology for not baring fulfilled
that promise at an earlier day. On my return
from that excursion in September last, 1
fiuinii my fomily m deep affliction, and one d
our dear children lying dead in the house
'Hits sudden bereavement L added to the carw
and labors that dcvaN|ffll|fflk>n me, on mi
return to the church of which 1
have the pastoral charge, took entire poases
sion of my thoughts, and engrossed my time
for several months so that it has been onlj
within a few weeks that I have been able k
attend to general correspondence.
1 went in my own conveyance, and devotee
nearly seven weeks to the survey. On mi
route, I accepted many krittii in to giv<
lectures on Slavery and Intemperance, and U
preach in Methodist, Presbyterian, and Bap
tist churches, and otic Universalist. 1 at
tended, also, three camp meetings, and tool
part in the exercises; and I did not fail to lei
them know, that in this land of camp meet
ings, Bibles, and churches, there are three
null ions of slaves' who have no Bible, nc
church, no camp meeting no w ife, no child,
that they can call their own but in the room
of these blessings, arc sold in the market,
with oxen, and sheep, and other cattle. Foi
I did think, from the preaching of all theii
ministers, that they had either forgotten oi
i did not know this. Only one of the congre
gations that I addressed was colored. You
j readily perceive that I had a good oppor
tunity of seeing many of the people, as well as
much of the country through which I passed.
I Most of my time was spent in Essex and
1' ranklin Counties, where is the greater part
ot the lands that hare been given to our
people.
I visited in person many of these lands,
j and made particular inquiries respecting those
I had not time to see. Tn Essex County,
judging from my own observations, and from
the statements made to me, by the most trust
worthy men, I feel confident in saying, that
the farms given by Mr. Smith, with very few
except are as good land as any man
can need. In Franklin County, I visited
j many more of the lands in person, than I did
in Essex. I found some there that I consi
dered first-rate; many that would not be good
I tillage, but are very valuable for the
I timber upon them and not one that is worth
less. The timber in that region is coining to
be sought after more and more by the lumber
morchants, who are multiplying their saw-
J mills. So that I am sure those who will hold
1 on to and take care of their lots, cannot fail,
in a few' years, to derive from them a haud
som e income. Already depredations are
made upon them; so that it is much to be
desired that settlements should be made there
I speedily, for the protection of the lands.
I come now to an unpleasant part of my
story but fidelity to our brethren, whose lots
have fallen in that part of the state, and to
our nohle Ix-ncfnctor, demands that I should
keep nothing back. I found that a high
handed game had been played upon many ol
our colored brethren, who had gone there, to
visit the lands of which they had received the
I deeds and feeling sure that there are many
i unprincipled persons there, who are standing
j rcad y tl»e like game upon others, 1
i wiah to put them on their guard. Of course
i >t is necessary for one unacquainted with the
i country, to procure a guide or pilot, to enable
him to find the object of his pursuit; and he
will not fail to meet with those who are very
ready to afford—nay, who eagerly proffer him
their sei vices. But there is need that he
should be very careful to w lwin he entrusts
himself, else lie may be kept several days and
nights travelling ia the woods, and at length
be shown a very dueiraWc lot, and be charged
twelve shillings or two dollars a-day for tlie
service of the pilot, and after all, may never
have been near the lot that is really his or
he may be taken to a very undesirable spot—
perhaps a mountain peak or an irrecoverable
swamp, and when he has paid well for the
toil of bis pilot, that has ended in blank dis
appointment, he will be kindly offered four or
five dollars for his estate, and be made to
think himself happy, to get rid of it so well.
I heard of one man, at least, who was in this
way cheated out of his farm, which he never
i saw, for thu paltry sum of twenty shillings.
I gathered the facts, on which I rest these
intimations of danger, from the jokas I heard
passing around among the men w ho had per
petrated these villanies, and from respectable
persons in the neighborhood, who had heard
of them, and from the clerks of the counties
in whose offices the transfers of the properties
were recorded.
My best advice to my brethren is, not to
venture in search of their farms, unless they
can read and write, or ia the company of tried
friends who cun do both. Wbeliever they
go, they should, in the first place see the
clerk of the county in Elizabethtown, Essex
County; or Malone, Franklin County; or
in Gate Pleasant, Hamilton County—where
ever their lands may lie get their deeds re
corded, and take from the recorder the advice
he may give, to assist them in finding the lot
described take with them the number of
their lot, and any other hint that may
enable them to know when they have found
them. They may then, if their lots are in
Essex County, resort to Alfred S. Spooner
or J. Gay, Esq., in Elizabethtown to Uriah
11. MihiTls, Keene; to J. Tobcy, Jr., Jav;
to \Y endell Lansing, in Williamston or to
William M. Flack, Ausable Forts. If then
lauds be in Franklin County, they will do
well to put themselves under the guidance ot
the Merilln, in Meriiville or of Ratmollira
Bigelow, not for from Malone, if they will
keep a sharp look-out foe him. They most
sot be serprised, if they meet with many
persons ready to discourage them, by speak
ing disparagingly of the lands, and of the
noble benefactor win has green them. Let
them. keep theftr own counsel, refrain from
disputation, stijl more from intoxicating liquor,
which they will snd there in great quantity
and high repute. Let them press on diligent
ly U> the end of their journey.
Every lot hat been narked with namben
give* is the deeds; end if the merles should
i, Y-. i )t
be so longer discernible, there axe means of
ascertaining white they were. Amend
every tea on which tLe figures were over
grained, there wiQ be fouod tales, edited wit
leaeee, the* are blued, as they my in that
country. In this way, or m some other
wmiiar to h, one ms y know whether be has
armed at a spot where a landmark was fixed
by the surveyor; and if it be the spot where
be has reason to expect to find the number he
is m search of, he may preen me it was once
there, if he finds the witnesses. But un
doubtedly in almost every case, the numbers
themselves may be found, if the pilots con
duct to the right places. My last advtoe to
our brethren is, not to sell their land for a
song. They can be no poorer for keeping it.
Mr. Smith has not given away any lots that
are not worth something now and in the
course of a few years, they must rise in
value, and may hereafter furnish them or
tlicir children with comfortable homes, where
they nay be happy, and useful tu the world
and themselves.
May the Lord direct in all things!
With great respect, I am, Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
J. W. LOGUEN
Syracuse, March 16, 1818.
Nor*.—All papers friendly to colored men, arr
respectfully requested to republish the above, parti
cularly the Tree American, the llcrkimcr Freeman,
Liberty Press, Albany Patriot, the Rain’s Horn,
Anti-Slavery Standard, ami Liberator.
COLORED CHURCHES.
Mu. Editor :—The North Star, of Feb.
23th, contains an article that seems to reflect
upon me rather severely, and you will there
fore do me a favor, hy allowing me to be heard
in my own defence. lam not aw#re that my
conduct has given you any just occasion tosav
that I have taken tip my pen to write for a
pro-slaverys>aper, in defence of white minis
ters and churches, linked as they are with the
blood-stained church and evangelical man
stealer of the South.”
1 am also at a loss to know', what good rea
son Mr. Douglass has, to impute to me bad
motives simply because I do not think as he
happens to think about separate organiza
tions and much less am I able to account
for such an unchristian gladiatorial thrust, as
Mr. Douglass makes, when he calls me the
recreant Keverend Mr. Collins, who though a
black man himself, is w illing for the sake of
gaining the good will of his oppressors, to play
the part of a clerical sycophant.”
Now, Mr. Douglass, you seem to assume
that no man can differ from your notions, and
still be a sane and honest man, just as though
j yourself were the great fountain-head of sani
ty and honesty the great oracle that every
black” man must consult or die. It may be
I a startling, and even a painfully amazing”
idea to you sir, that a sane aivl ltonest man
j can dare to disagree with you, yet such is the
fact. As to my writing for a pro-slavery pa
per, that is a dishonest assumption on yoftr
part; I hate slavery and its advocates, as cor
dially as any Christian can. The truth is, you
did your best in Springfield, to oppose prinei
pies, that 1 honestly think correct, and I deem
it my duty, to speak through the papers my
sentiments if I am agreater sinner for having
my article published in tlie pro-slavery pa
per,” (as you arc pleased to call it,) than you
are, for publishing your sentiments in the
i pro-slavery” Town Hall, why then I am
sorry. As to playing the part of a clerical
sycophant, I am not so ready to plead guilty
at your first nod my opinion is, that colored
1 people are more improved with churches of
their own, then they would bo w ithout them.
If you think differently, very well, that isyuur
privilege hut it is not your duty to denounce
|me so unhandsomely and so unjustly, Your
paper is your own but justice is mine, as
I well as yours, shame” will not cover me,
simply because you blow at mo with a scorn
ful breath. But I will not defend myself fur
ther in concluding, I will suggest for your
i future consideration snd discussion, a few
questions:
Ist. If we disband according to your re
commendations, would you have us join the
corrupt white churches, linked as they are,
with the blood-stained church and evangelical
man-stealers of the South,” as you, without
exception call them.
2d. To what extent shall we disband, and
go and demand admission” to the white as
sociations
3d. Shall we have Mr. Douglass set the
first example, by dismissing his colored coad
jutors in his printing establishment, and
knocking loudly at the door of the white”
printer, demanding to be admitted to equal”
editorship
4. Who are to determine the degrees of
“equal demand” for brotherhood! Early
and full answers will much oblige.
L. COLLINS,
Springfield, March 3,1848.
EULOGY TO JOH.M Q. ADAMS.
Monday evening last, the Methodist Church
on Fitzhugh »trwt was filled hy a large audi
ence to hear an address, by Chancellor Whit
tlesey, on the life, character and death of him
who has seen the last of earth,” but who
yet lives, and w ill long live, in the memory of
millions. The address was, we understand,
given by request of the Common Council of
the city, and was an able tribute to the me
mory of the departed. The spanker gave a
brief sketch of his long and constant public
services, and dweh with much ability amd
truthfulness on ha high sense of duty, his
untiring application, and the constant Her
culean labors of his long life. The hearers
Listened with a fixed attention, which showed
how much they were interested in all that per
tained to the old man eloquent.” We were
gratified to hear the speaker dwell upon Mr.
Adams’ defcoce of the right of petition an
unong bin noblest acta, and speak of ha
braving without fear the displeasure ai the
slaveholders also, to hear his defence o the
A maud captives alluded to ass praise worthy
deed. In the course of the address, an aßu
sion was made to the peculiar statesman,”
Henry Clay, and the murmur of applause
showed the enthusiasm with which the as me
of the great mao-sfeakir was received. It was
painful to feel and know that there was a
ma tr ic that name which stirred the beans
of many mere, even, than iho thought of the
iong, unflinching struggle of John Q. Adams
again* Um efforts of the nUvocrnsy to gag
the freemen of the North. G. B. S. j
Iff# ntt? t MBS V M V*'
REPORT
Of Anti-Slmvrf M*rtm r» MH m Sr,,«
TWrA, Marti ««W StrtH
Marti UrA, W4B.
The recent articles in the North Si ar ~n
colored church**, bate given rise to nmrj,
discussion in Tanous sections of the reentry
In this city the colored societies invited if.
Ikraglass to address them, that he might
frw ly and fully give utterance to his conr*.
tram on the influences of slavery,
with the obstacles which retarded, and the
means to promote its removal.
On Monday evening, March f*tb, the p j
Street Baptist Church was filled by an attetv
tire audience, though not exclusively colored.
Mr. Douglass commenced his address b»
grateful expression for the kindness of h 4
brethren in affording him an opportunity very
much desired by him, of meeting and talking
with them on the great subject of humvn
nghts. Ho was aware that many dilbred
from him but nevertheless the spirit of
dom which they had extended towards him
I would prompt him to speak as in his judg
ment the cause demanded.
One of the greatest obstacles in the way of
emancipation, was the misapprehension ex
isting in the public mind, as to the principles
which guided the Abolitionists in their ag
gressions upon American slavery,
j Slavery being regarded by them as the
sum of alt villames,*’ thuy felt morally
i bound to put forth all means m .their power
to break the tyrant's yoke, that the oppressed
might go free. Slavery i» the cause rf the
unholy prejudice against color, so prcvaltut
at the North. It is the fountain from whence
springs the vast category of the evil* of so
ciety therefore the system of slavery should
excite the moral indignation and provoke tin*
persevering warfare of every true-hearted
man and woman in the land. Consistent
with this feeling, every pro-slavery influence
is a legitimate object for anti-slavery to com
bat. These influences aa* developed u\
church and state, and in the entire structure
of Society.
i The American Church, as has been so ap
propriately termed by James Li. Birney, is
the bulwark of slavery. Nearly every sect
is directly implicated in this giant crime.
They are either dumb on the subject, or
engaged in apologizing for the slaveholder and
maintaining fraternal church relations iih him.
Sheep-stealing they regard as criminal, while
man-stealing they endorse. They practically
deny the brotherhood of the human family
separating men into classes; treating uuh
scorn ami contumely those who differ fn m
themselves in complexion. Abolitionists could
have no fellowship with regard to such or
ganizations as Christian for in refusing to do
their duty towards man, they were false to
God and no other worship is acceptable m
llw sight, unless preceded by regard for
their fellow men.
He was well aware of the Anti-Christian
prejudices which had excluded many colored
persons fioin white churches, and the eonse
quent necessity for erecting their own places
of worship! This evil he would charge upon
its originators, and not the colored people.—
Hut such a necessity did not now rxist to the
extent of former years. There were socie
ties where color was not regarded ns a test of
membership, and such chinches ho deemed
more appropriately the place tor colored men
than exclusive or isolated organizations
Ho looked upon all coniplexioual distinctions
—such as negro jh ws, negro berths in steam
boats, negro cars, Sabbath or week-day
schools or churches, ic., &c.—a* direct ob
stacle* to the progress of reform, as the means
of continuing the slave in his chains.
It is the policy of pro-slavery to keep col
ored people by themselves, which he thought
a sufficient reason for colored people not to
obey any such wicked mandate. They wi re
men and women, and so regarded by their
Ileaveuly f ather w ho ever counselled other
wise, be lie white or black, is a traitor to the
cause of human equality.
The Churches tn the land are indifferent to
the cries ami groans of slavery’s bleeding
victims. Within their embrace,are found slave
owners, and slave-drivers, men, women, and
children whippers. Would slavery exist to
this day hail the church been faithful» No,
no—his audience knew full well. Mr. I).
here read extracts from the slave laws, com
menting upon them in detail, as one whose
experience was authunty sufficient. The
graphic picture of the suffering* meted out to
his brethren at the South the indignities
heaped upon them by those who received no
rebuke from their fellow members at borne, or
even at the North, were feelingly appreciated
by his audience—many an eye glistened,
many sighs esoajied whose personal
testimony was thus appealed to.
Under such circumstances, he remarked,
there was no time for him to build up pro
slavery churches, but to urge on ius brethren
to hasten, by their exertions, that day when
the lash, the branding iron, would no mure
be used in the li-ceration of American bond
men.
He would have colored men and women
consistent in their hatred of slavery', and put
away from them everything affording it any
countenance; they should feel willing to
practise self-denial. Pluck out the right eyo
and cutoff the right hand, if necem-ary to the
emancipation of their brethren at the South,
and elevation of themselves at the North for
much depended ou their integily and moral
discernment in correcting public opinion on the
subject of slavery and means for it* abolition.
The prospects already arc brightening, the
energies of ail true hearts are with them ir*
the struggle; improvements are visible in
several Northern States; colored n and
women are becoming reader» and thinkm.—
Equal school privilege* are soon to be extend*
ed, he hoped, in various sections of the coun
try If the colored man will pot forth bis abili
ties, respect himself, imitate the white man ia
enterprise and virtue, but reject la* vie®*,
better day will »uou dawn upon the laud,
and man be known an man, and not he sub
jected to Uow® unholy tests only fit for
heathen in* work for the anticipated
fuhitse.
The interest created at tho above mseung,
increased a desire for another gathering,
which was promptly responded to by the
Methodist Society, who opened their doors,
bidding all who would to come and deliberate
with them on the datura enjoined upon thoee
who would rid the lend of slavery. Accord
ingty, a large audience convened at the af>
pointed hour.
Mr. Douglass introduced his subject by a
Mr. Douglass introduced hi* by a
reference to the. means of ridding the nation
from the accursed slave system .declaring them
u> he available to one and aH, whether their j
influence in the community *vas great or email, j
whenever, wherever, or However the system J
presented any of its evil», it wm their appnv
priat minion to give it battle. They should
make themselves acquainted with the sustain
ing influences of the system, that they might
]ab*r the more efficiently for its annihilation.
He would not attempt to deepen their hor
ror of the slave system for many, like him
s< if. were familiar w ith its realities; the vic
tim of .Southern oppression was doomed to
a long life of injury, from which there was
no escape, no progress or advancement. Sla
very in sustained to the present time by a com
bination of wicker! infludnees, at the North
a* well as at the South, a perverted moral
sentiment, for which the .American church is
responsible. Only think of a ehveholdmg
minister alt-mpting to preach morality, taking
t h. a tii-i liilu of Ambassador of Christ,
aud at the same time, the robber of men,
wuuien and children, made in the image of
burs with him to the same immortality,
the tame judgment!
Henry Clay assert* that to be property
which the laws declare such, and estimates
the value of slaves in the E. States at $12,-
000.000. and self-styled Christians responded
a;nt n to this God-d< tying doctrine. Man can
only be his own owner, lie is no other than
a thief w ho calls mn or you hi* ow n property
and if one sinner is such above all others, it is
he who would inflict stripes upon a human
being, and quote scripture in justification, as
did a master of mine, w hen brutually flogging
a female slave They who know their mas
ter's will and do it not, shall bo beaten with
many stripes.”
The slaveholder is a depraved man. His
heart is corrupt; it is a citadel of whips,
chains and thumb-screws. They originate in
the heart before they are used by the hand.
Mr. I). here narrated several instances of
cruelty p -rpetrated under his own observation
bv slaveholders at the South, many of whom
were active church members.
When Southern slaveholders and their
No-t.i rn abettors received no countenance
from the community when they would be
rebuked and shunned by respectable and
Christian people, there would be reason to
expect a speedy downfall of the entire
system.
The colored people at the North possess a
potent means of changing public opinion on
this gn at question. Their conduct is ob
observed by friend and foe. They should
therefore ami at a high standard of morality
and self-respect. That they may command
so n‘thing more than sympathy, they must
earn the respect of n community, of a nation
while they could never do this by exclusive
organizations, but by making themselves of
the people, inter*'Sled in ami for what con
cerns the whole people. They must be tem
perance people, otherwise they may expect
to remain in degradation.
It is pro-slavery policy to keep the
colored man in a subordinate position, mental,
moral, and physical, We must declare our
independence of such trammel, and avail our
selves i,f' the various avenues to improvement.
.Mr. I)., as a means of encouragement to
bis amln uce, and to strengthen himself, de
tailed his experience in learning to read, when
a slave at Baltimore and during his residence
in Neu Bedford; that while laboring at the
blacksmith's bellows, lie stationed his book or
paper where at intervals lie might learn a sen
tence, and bv similar efforts being persevered
in, he succeeded. He subscribed for the Lib
erator and the first lesson he received
from ii* mono, and which has ever since
been impressed upon his mind, was the noble
and sublime sentiment, My country is the
world—mv countrymen, mankind.” It was
all-inspiring to him. It was a new idea, and
one w orthy the cause to winch the Liberator
w as zealously devoted. The warm panegyric
here bestowed upon William Lloyd Garrison,
to whom the colored man owed tlte largest
gratitude, was loudly approbated by the audi
dience, reminding us of a distinguished colored
clergyman, al a New England Anti-Slavery
Convention, in May, 1836, who thus bore a
testimony to the pioneer in the cause of eman
cipation ‘‘Yes, the friend of the colored
man lives Blessed be God, Garrrison lives!”
To the uttermost j arts of the earth, w.ierever
the colored man ran hear this, he would
raise his hands to heaven, and thank God
that he lived to plead the cause of the slave.
This prayer Was the slave's language His
heart yearns towards those who plead in his
behalf.
Mr. 1). alluded to bis first impressions of
Charles Lenox Remond and Henry H. Gar
nct, who each addressed New Bedford audi
ences. 1 he effect produced on tlte citizens
by therr arguments and eloquence,excited in his
breast a new hope for the elevation of his
downtrodden rae*. Mind will always com
mand respect. elored men and women
should aspire to the highest intelligence, and
re.n -mb r that knowledge is power. They
should earn’ money, and be prudent in ex
penutures, curtailing their amusements, con
tnaute rather to the education of themselves
and children in all those pursuits calculated to
i ’vaie them m the opinion of an observing
community.
Many other points were illustrated and en
lerei d at the time but perhaps enough is
to enable the reader to gather
a
wupresKtou ot the occasion. Those
iiMulur wW.,
f if ,u «l**cos me meetings were bold,
felt abufidainu
Warded and gratified. May
the good seed h
H t v n M wisely unproved.
A ct.I’TABLE Worship..—e.
bi Sunday after
iusiii hist, a respectable audience came to
gather at thu Court House, to bear Frederick
Douglass fci»eak on Anti-Slavery
y: P, showing that there are those among ut
who believe that striving to bring peace o®
earth uiui good will towards men, is aoeeptu
Lie worship, in Judea, eighteen centime;
ago, the threat 1 ear her, in one of those heau<
mul parables by which he uttered (ruths, fa
*M*-h persuasive words, that the bystanders
r,nM not choose but lie.tr,*’ taught that trim
r« iigiou was to f‘od the hungry, clothe the
naked, vimt those m prison. Han Christian**
tv eh angl'd smee that day Verily not—Ujat
v'.trw liruttanity not the faith barren of
wtjrks, and, at l**»t, but a poor, weak fa.th,
in u “any <>f the pulpits of thenino
p.'.ntli century. I rue religion, then, is that
winch dots g—dto man, m the test, the only
way to answer, the great and of existence, the
truest way to obey the will of Him who loreth
all, and would that each should live for the
happiness of all. Lotus hare rrvimi of
the earnest faith of the Nsaarene let «e often
gather on the Sahbath to remember those in
bonds as bound with them: to hear the stir
ring words of Douglass ;to rup each other a
minds to retnembrauce of oar brethren in
bonds 0- B* S.
MElf Altl) PARALLEL.
The following paragraph is floating about
among the Whig papers, and may therefore
probably be understood to ex pres* the aeuti-j
ments of thoee papers
Fsct Taxor, is G«eat. Britain.—.Not*iiV
rtart line ih* rhetorical fiourbbe* on thi« stile tiie
water, »>n free trade in Great Britain, it an enta
bliitmi fart that Airan icaa Tobacco cnlriLslr* an
annual revenue to the ruflcm of that country of ap~
ward* of fifteen million* of dollar*.
The precise intention of this sentence does
not quite appear. It may bo understood in
two ways—either as intending to show that
the duty on tobacco is an advantage to Great
Britain, nr that a similar impost would he an
advantage to this country. Both ideas are
equally fallacious. With respect to the for
mer, it has been proved almost to nausea, by
facts and figures which defy every attempt at
contradiction, that all indirect taxation is an
injury—an injury to commerce and to public
morality. This very article of tobacco is a
C3se peculiarly in point. Scarcely a week
passes in which we do not hear of some
seizure at the English custom-house for an
attempt to defraud the revenue. The doc
trine of Free Trade has now become almost
universally allowed in Britain, as a matter of
theory; and it is also in a fair way to be
allowed as a matter of fact. With respect to
the latter construction of the sentence quoted
above, it will not be disputed, that if people
will have governments, it is the most reason
able tiling in the world that they should sup
port them and if they are alive to their own
interests, they will do so in such a way as
will best answer the purpose. The wise, it
is said, learn by other people’s experience,
while fools scarcely learn by their own. An
erroneous principle in Britain docs not change
its character by being transplanted across the
Atlantic. What has been proved to be a
mistake there will be equally so here. If a
tax on tobacco were to hare the effect of
checking the consumption of this mischievous
drug, one might almost be led to desire that
such a tax were imposed. Experience; how
ever, does not teach this: it teaches that all
legislation for the purpose of checking vice, is
vain and nugatory.
But the mere money interest is not the only
nor the most important matter to be consi-'
dered in relation to what are called “Pro-!
tective duties.” It is in every one's mouth,!
that the free commercial intercourse of
nations is very effective in producing friendly)
relations between them. While the admis
sion of foreign goods only on payment of a
duty has an influence directly the reverse of
this. The selfish idea of mine and thine—

my country and thy country —the money in- 1
terest, as it is thought, of one particular spot;
on the globe, in opposition to the rest of the;
world, is the idea fostered by all duties on
foreign, for the protection of home produce.
It is out of this sentiment that w ars, and jea
lousies, and hatreds between nations oiiginate.
When this narrow policy is adopted by one i
nalion, other nations reciprocate the benefit. 1
A reciprocity of taxation is a reciprocity of
robbery. 1 once witnessed a striking instance!
of such reciprocity in a zoological exhibition.
When the apes were fed, each tried to pos-j
sess himself of a share of his neighbor’s meal, j
and left his own for that of another; and so
the game went round —ape stealing from ape. i
and scratching and quarrelling after the most;
approved ape-fashion everyone thinking that i
he was getting more than bis own share, and
his neighbor less. Poor mistaken apes 1 all
that you gained by the bargain Wo* a few
bites and scratches. —j. n.
llow Rochester and the adjacent
COUNTRY WERE BOUGHT FROM THE INDIANS.
—lt appears from the valuable manuscript of
Judge Porter, that about tiie end of June,
17H8, Oliver Phelps, of Granville, Mass., at
tempted, at a treaty held with the Indians at
Butialo, to purchase all their land held within
the Massachusetts Pre-emption Claim. But
the Indians were unwilling to sell any portion
of the country west of the Genesee river, al
leging that the Great Spirit" had fixed that
stream as the boundary between the white and
the red man. Mr. Phelps finding them quite
immovable on that point, represented to them
that he was very desirous to get some land
west of the river, at the Great Falls, for the
purpose of building thereon mills for the use
and convenience of the white settlers coming
into the country, and these mills when built
would be very convenient forthc Indian* them
splvos. The Indians then asked how much
land he wanted for his mill site. He replied
that he thought a piece about 12 miles wide,ex
tending from Conewagas village, on the west
side of the river to its mouth, (about twenty
eight miles) would answer the purpose. To
this the Indians replied that it seemed to be a
good deal of land for a mill site, but as they
supposed the Yankees knew best what was
required, they would let him have it. After
the treaty was concluded, the Indians tokl Mr.
Phelps that it being customary for them to
give the man with whom they had dealt a
name, they would give him one. They also
said they should expect from him a treat”
and a walking staff, (meaning some spirits,)
to help them home. The name they gave Mr.
Phelps on this occasion, was that by which
he was ever afterwards known among them,
viz: Scaw-gun-se-ga, which means “The
Great Full.” The purchase included w hat is
now the city of Rochester, and was thereafter
called The Mill-Site Tract.” Its contents
are about 200,000 acres. The result of this
treaty was the purchase of the Mill-Site
Tract, ami a region bounded on the North by
Rake Ontario, East by the East line of the
Massachusetts claim—which passed through
a pari of the Seneca Lake at Geneva—on the
South by the Pennsylvania North line, West
by the Genesee river as far up as the mouth
of the Canaseraga Creek, and by aline run
ning due South from that point to the Penn-
line. The lands thus purchased are
Phelps’ and Gorham's Indian pur
It b is ro W rapidly.
j has no theatre b burche and
!freedom, *wl w 5° fhs
f shall be Uughtiiv S?« VT C,traCFTiS
Ir-JV, O, /V. h 4 aefenoi *1 morals,”
Afiuc A Umted
States.—This religious ihcKmuinuwa now
numbers nearly 40,000 communicant*. They
have recently undertaken to establish a lu*ra
ry institution, and for that purpose have par
chased a piece of ground about twelve miles
from Columbus, in FrankMn county, Ohio.
.foreign Neto9.
Most of th« reader* of the North Star axe
doubtless already in possession of the rcry
unexpected intelligence on European, and
particularly French affairs, by the steamer
Cambria. Still a brief statement of the rnosi
prominent (acta may not be unacceptable.
Another revolution has been enacted in
France. But how it will terminate cannot
yet with aay certainty be predicated. The
immediate cause of the outbreak was the
preventing of a reform banquet from being
held. Probably it would hare come to pass
in soma other way, if not thua. On the 22d
of February, prodammatioos were issued by
the prefect of police, forbidding the banquet
and all assemblages of the people. An order
of the day was also published by the com
mander of the National Guaida, forbidding
their appearance in uniform, unless ordered
by their chiefs. Thereupon the opposition
Deputies met. and resolved that the banquet
should not take place, and that a motion foi
the impeachment of Ministers be made in the
Chamber of Deputies. Ju the meantime, an
army of more than a hundred thousand men
was collected in Paris. As the day advanced,
dense crowds filled the principal thorough
fares, and large bodies of police and military
were called out, to preserve order. The
house of M. Guizot was attacked the mili
tary dispersed the crowds, which speedily
reassembled, barricaded the streets, tore up
the pavement, and prepared for a protracted
resistance. In the Chamber of Deputies, the
impeachment of Ministers was submitted,
signed by fifty-three membeis; M. Odillon
Barrot at the head. The Ministry are ac
cused under seven articles, as follows
1. Of having betrayed abroad the honor
and the interests of France.
2. Of having falsified the principles of the
constitution, violated the guarantees of liber
ty, and attacked the rights of the people.
3. Of having, bv a systematic corruption,
attempted to substitute, for the free expression
of public opi the calculations of private
interest, and t is perverted the representative
government.
4. Of having trafficked, for ministerial pur
poses, in public offices, as well as in all the
prerogatives and privileges of power.
5. For having, in the same interest, wasted
the finances of the state, and thus compro
mised the forces and the grandeur of the
kingdom.
G. Of having violently despoiled the citizens
of a right inherent to every free constitution,
and the exercise of which had been guaran
teed to them by the Charter, by the laws,
and by former precedents.
7. Of having, in fine, by a policy overtly
counter-revolutionary, placed in question all
the conquests of our two revolutions, and
thrown the country into a profound agitation.
The Guizot Ministry, seeing their unpopu
larity, gave in their resignation.
In the night, barricades were erected at the
comers of every street, gentlemen, shop
keepers, clerks, workmen, all laboring at the
work.
On the 24th, it is stated in a Telegraphic
report, that Louis Philippe had abdicated in
favor of the ount of Paris, and it was pro
posed by M. Odillon Barrot, that a regency
should be formed under the Duchess of Or
leans, (mother of the Count of Paris.) This
was rejected by the populace, and a republic,
on the model of the United States, proposed.
All Paris was in the hands of the National
Guards and the people, as were also the rail
way stations.
On the 24tli, M. Odillon Barrot was for
mally installed as minister, and the following
proclamation was posted, amid universal
acclamations:
My Dear Comrades, —I have been in
vested by the new Cabinet, with the superior
command of the National Guard of the De
partment of the Seine.
By your energetic attitude, you have
asserted the triumph of liberty. You have
been, and will ever be, the defenders of order.
I rely upon you, as you may rely upon me.
‘Your comrade,
(Signed) Gen. LAMORICIERE.
(Countersigned) ODILLON BAHIiOT.
And not long after that the follow ing:
Citizens of Paris, —The King has abdi
cated. The crown, bestowed by the revolu
tion of July, is now placed on the head of a
child, protected by his mother. They are
both under the safeguard of all the honor and
courage of the Parisian population. All
cause of division amongst us has ceased to
exist. Orders have been given to the troops
of the line to return to their respective quar
ters. Our brave army can be better employed
than in shedding its blood in so deplorable a
collision.
My beloved fellow-citizens From this
moment, the maintenance of order is entrusted
to the courage and prudence of the people of
Paris, and its heroic National Guard. They
have ever been faithful to our noble country.
They will not desert her in this grave emer
gency. ODILLON BARROT.
This proclamation produced a temporary
calm.
The Chamber of Deputies met at one
o'clock. The greatest agitation and uproar
prevailed, and when silence was restored,
M. Dupm announced to the assembly, that
the King had abdicated in favor of his grand
son, and conferred the regency on the Duchess
of Orleans. A voice from the public gallery,
It is too late.”
The Daily News of the 26th of February
has the follow ing:
A Republic has been proclaimed. The
King and his family are gone to the chateau
d‘Ku. A provisional government has been
confirmed. The following are ministers
Dupont del’Eure, President; Lamartine,
Foreign Affairs; Arrago, Marine; Ledru
Rollin, Interior; Marie, Public Works;
Carnot, Public Instruction Bethraont, Com
merce Lamonciere, War; Gamier Pages,
confirmed as Mayor of Pam; Cavignar,
Governor of Algiers; Decouririas, Com
mandant of the National Guard.
All communication by railway and dili
gence suspended. The station of the North
ern Railway has been burnt. It is impossible
to get out of Paris by that line. All is tran
quil in the quarter of the Tmleries.”
Thus has been accomplished another revo
lution in France; w hether or not with any
good rebolt, may well be doubled. France is
not shaken ah>ne. There art movements in
nearly all the States of Europe. People art
everywhere finding out that there is some
thing wrong, and fancy that a more popular
form of government would mead the matter.
All this is good it is a movement in the
oght direction, if the change of government
«»n bo effected by peecesMe means—not
otherwise. But the real difficulty lies not
I
bare. It is not ao much the kind of govern
meat that people tore to rompliin of, as ib<
answer Ewiy country ia 100 biicli fof«v
ed—«tw United States not excepted. Pfeoph
imagine that the wodd ie fax ad weed it
knowledge and etrihaaboo. What a mistake
The world k»H b leading-strings. It ia hk«
a child in Ha infinity, that cannot walk alone,
i and feds no confidence ia iiaelf. Perhaps
the world ia right; probably it could no<
1 walk alone; but only because it baa not prae
Used. Governments, hitherto, hare bees
fruitful in wars, oppressions, and cranes;
they hare, in truth, been Utile else but vast
i machineries for the robbery of the weak by
the strong. They will always continue so.
It is not in -human nature to hare power,
without abusing it; such is the leaching oi
i Experience. But there is something higher
and better, to which we will do well to look
forward. There arc doubts, and fears, and
misgivings os all hands. Few indeed have a
j firm and unwavering confidence in the simple
power of Truth. Political action and the
ballot-box are considered the grand panaceas
for all social evils. How fallacious! Laws
are nothing more nor less than the expression
of public sentiment. The form of govem
tnent that obtains in a country is nothing else.
Even a despotism is nothing else. A des
potic form of government could scarcely
exist a single day in a country where the
idea of human equality is in any measure
recognised by the people. It would be
thrown aside at once, as a badly fitting gar
ment. The expression of public sentiment
now in Russia, id for a despotic form of
government; in England for a limited mon
archical and it may r.ow, perhaps, be in
France for a republican in the United States
the expression is undoubtedly democratic.
The balance wonderfully adjusts itself. So
will it be when the sentiment of the Ameri
cxn or any other people, stretches forward to
a better than either of the abovementionod
j forms—that, too, will find an appropriate ex
pression. Onward!—j. d.
From die Lowlon Daily Xe»».
FALL OF LOUIS'FIIILIPPE.
The fall of Louis Philippe from the throne
of July, and his exit from the Tuilertes in a
brougham, is an event which, however mo
mentous, will be welcomed with contented
laughter by perhaps three-fourths of mankind.
With some, the exultation will ba keener
whilst fears of the future will with others
overshadow anything like satisfiction. But
the whole rise and rule of Louis Philippe is
so like a fable, and the close at once so preg
j nant and so just, that we can conceive it writ
ten in letters of gold, and put into every child's
hand, in order to teach, how disloyalty in a
prince cannot prosper, how cunning overreach
es itself, and how' retribution, though tardy,
overtakes not merely the knave in rags, but
him in royal robes. French history will in
deed be rich in examples: Louis XVI., Na-j
poleon, Charles X., Louis Philippe—feeble-j
ness, audacity, bigotry craft, —all rejected.—
Is France like the ancient kingdom of the
Jews, for which so many men and races were 1
tried and found unworthy, that it was the will:
of Providence to leave them a republic?
After all, the quarrel would be but about a
name, for government in France henceforth, I
if not a military despotism, must b 3 in the I
sense and in the nature of a republic. And
bad Louis Philippe understood this necessity,
he would not have fallen into the horrible blun
der of his administration. He was elected to
the throne by the middle classes, and as their
king his reign was as stable as that of any j
monarch in any country.
But he could nfit tolerate these classes—
could not meet them. Had he kept up the
National Guard of the capital, reviewed it,
mingled now and then in its ranks, conciliated
their not arrogant demands, he would have
had a body of armed citizens at his order to;
have put down by the bayonet, as they did
from 1830 to 1233, every effort of the anarch-,
ist and republican. But he neglected the Na
tional Guard, shut it from his sight, and in
stead of a citizen king, became a king of func
tionaries and conservatives. Of these lie
made a majority in his chambers, and thus se
cure, according to the letter of the constitution
he thought he might neglect and brave the j
popular voice. He at last provoked the peo- j
pie to collision and court and parliament,!
army and functionaries, were but so many
reeds before the storm of unpopularity, which j
has swept all, even the very dynasty, before
it. j
Future events remain exceedingly doubtful.
We will not say that a republic is impossible in
France. But most certainly the persons nam
ed upon the provisional government are not
such as are likely to win the adhesion or com
mand the respect of the influential classes
either in Paris or the provinces. But the pro
visional government, as it is called, is more the
representative of that party which has triumph
ed in the streets, than a body of men assum
ing the government. As representatives of
the victorious people they may sit in the Ho
tel de Ville, and have a very potential veto up
on any resolve of the Chamber of Deputies;
but to govern France of themselves would be
an audacious and vain attempt. The Duchess
of Orleans aud her son, as well as the Duke
of Nemours, are at, or under the protection of
the chamber, which has declared its sitting
permanent. And it is pretty evident, that in
order to get rid of the Orleans family altogeth
er, the republicans of the Hotel de Ville must
march upon the chamber, and like Cromwell,
dissolve it and disperse it. This, perhaps,
they may have had the power to do. But in
doing this the Hotel de Ville people will have
deprived themselves of authority over the
provinces, and raised obstacles almost insur
mountable to their designs. Funds must be
procured to pay the army, and to carry on the
administration, which the Hotel de Ville can
no longer pretend to do, as in the davs of the
revolution. The government of France is
now a highly centralised and intricate piece of
machinery, requiring both skill, experience,
and respectability to manage and any de
rangement of the centre wheel would cause
all to stop and fall asunder. Hence, the acts
of the Parisian authorities in 1791 and 1792
could not be repeated. And Ihe republicans
of the Hotel de Ville, convinced of this, will,
in all probability, accept the reign and the tu
telage of the Count oi' ran*.
Should tliey not accept, should they disperse
the Chambers by force, aud put revolutionary
law and measures iu practice, there would be
a terrible reaction against the republicans; and
this not only in the provinces, hot in Paris it
self. General Lamoricurre is popular and
able, and would rally a groat majority both of
the regular army and the National Guards.—>
Tim Prince de Joinvdle is also popular, and
not the man to submit to he set asule without
a struggle; so that however the reign of
Louis Hiitippc may be irrevocably over, his
family appear to us to have still a very good
chance of retaining or recovering the crown
and the supreme authority.
It while, however to speculate or indulge
in conjecture as to events that, perhaps, have
already occurred, and that each coming hour
will probably disclose. The present state of
things is doubtful and deplorable bnt we ean
not think the French people to blame for Hie
folly and provocation of their rulers. The
rery republicans were tranquil, rill aroused?,
and placed by enromstanees, rather than their
own ambition, is the front rank. That they
stay have shown mors wisdom and modera*
tion than we anticipated we sinesseiy desire.
But Franee, we fear, has much to Mum ere it
can form a peaceable and regular republican
Hath.
TAXATION IN ENGLAND.
More iapoatni ifmmmbke, than c*m the
moo* moo* errata «T Pam, ta the iofluwce of
1 those crests upon os. Krtl that there is aitp
aumlarhty hetatera the poraioa of the two
eontnea, nor that any daaa here is tainted
with disaffection, or inclined to tmnit. Bet,
BCTerthrieas, the epidemic of popahu excite
ment, prevalent throughout Europe, and berat
ing into resolution so near os, is not without,
its efitti erra upon our mere staid and sober
temperaments. Questions, seldom before ask
ed, am now uttered and repeated aspiration*
seldom rentored come forth boldly with every
breath; grievances hitherto ushered with a
smile are complained of with the emphasis of
a curse and the public, m short, is infinitely
more liberal, both in expression and tn feeling,,
than the English public was a week ago.—
Explain the phenomena as you will—we mere
ly state the fact.
Now, although we augur nothing grave
1 from tlic increased earnestness of every non,
j we still think that times and circumstances,
and the very political and moral atmosphere
I which we breathe, are such as to require, not j
I only a much greater degree of caution and j
w anness than usual, in pressing ungracious
and unpopular laws, hut, moreover, we think
that times and circumstances demand instant I
concession to popular feeling and popular de
mauds. The budget, which trunk ters thought
j it safe and expedient to present, not many
days since, to Parliament, has excited most
angty snd discontented feelings m the coun
try. The exigencies which weighed with
the government in preparing or consenting to
that budget, are not considered of due or con
elusive weight by the country. The select
committees, to which the estimates have been
referred, will no doubt take this into oonsider
ation. But ministers, we think, ought also to
j reconsider, and withdraw till they have fully
considered, their proposal for raising the in
come tax to 5 per cent.
We need not point to feelings of opposi
tion, generally arising in the country, on this
j subject, nor need we eithc r enumerate the
meetings or recapitulate the arguments. From
one end to the other the land is alive with pro
tists. And it appiars to bo as unsafe as it s
I unjust, to make up that deficit in millions oc
casioned by the distress of last year, by a
sweeping levy upon that portion of the popula
tion which, perhaps, has suffered more than
any other from that distress.
We learn that it is in the contemplation of
ministers to make a move somewhat similar
to that of the select committee, and to de
mand of Parliament the five per cent, income
tax solely for one year, promising that that
year shall be spent in investigation, and in en
deavors to settle some more equitable way of
raising the amount of revenue necessary for
the public service.
Such a proposal no doubt indicates on the
part of ministers a desire to conciliate public
opinion, and to remove the angry feeling
which it evinces. But is this enough Par
liament and all parties have more than once
broken their word anil practised manifest de
ception, in stating that the income tax was
but for a time, when in contemplation it must
have been permanent, and have thus render
ed ffve per cent., even lor one year, unen
durable.
The conviction in every mind is, that in re
cent manipulations of finance, however the
burdens of the lower class may have beau
lightened, that of the middle class has been
increased. Take the man of moderate in
come, who enjoys from 300/. to GOO/, a year,
calculate his assessed taxes, with the enor
mous duties on all those items which consti
tute his expenditures, being from 100 to 700
per cent, upon the articles of his household
use, his tea, his sugar, his wine, his spirits,
then the taxes that await his slightest attempt
at enjoying more than the necessaries of life,
and which fall upon his servant or his horse.
Add to this an income tax,and it w ill be found
that the state carries off perhaps one-third of
his income, that income, too, the result of
years* exertions, to terminate probably in a
year or two more of exertion whilst from
the possessor of real property, who has no
fortune to provide for, either regarding his
children or himself—from him the slate takes
perhaps a sixteenth or a tenth.
The country knows these tilings. And the
country sees that the argument put forth for I
the middle clxsscs and life incomes have not
been answered and that they are set aside,
it is because greater and more fixed properties
have greater and more fixed interests in Par- 1
liament. The country sees that ministers,
however liberal, want the courage to attack
and do justice by taxing these large interests.
And, therefore, it is manifest that ministers
must be empowered by the unmistakable and
irresistible injunction of public opinion.—Lou
don Daily News.
The spirit of progress in the
OLD WORLD.
A correspondent of the Christian
Citizen, D. W. 8., writing from Lon
don under date of Dec., 1847, pre
sents a xmnmary of interesting facts,
illustrative of the progress which the
,j old world is making. The doubting
and despairing may well “take heart
again,” ns the/ see these foot-prints
l on the sands of time.”
Here are some of them:
*i “The Pope, in a letter addressed a
short time since to the Emperor of
Austria, says:
1 know that you are stronger than
I am by the number of your troops
j and artillery; but you must be aware
that 1 am stronger than you in public
j opinion, because 1 have moral force on
my side.’
“The French Government has pre
sented the British House of Commons
with a valuable supply of books. This
certainly looks like invasion!
“The first session of the Consulta
at Rome, is said to have been a scene
:of solemn grandeur. Before the mem
bers l**ft the Quirinai. the Pope ad
i dressed them. They then proceeded
j to St.* Peter’s, and alter divine service,
J walked iu a body to their hall in the
atican, where they appointed a com
mittce to reply to the address of the
j Pope, and then divided themselves into
four sections: 1. The Committee of
Legal Reform; 2. The Finance Com-j
mittee; 3. Committee for Internal Im
provements; 4. A Committee on Pris
ons and Public Labor.
“Turkey is about to have a railroad.
It is to connect the cities of Smyrna
and Constantinople.
“In a speech to the electors of
Stockport, on the 10th instant, Cobden
said:
In my travels on the continent, I
made this observation in every country
to which I w'ent, in Spain, in France, in
Italy, in Germany, aiul in Russia—ev
erywhere I found every man of intelli
gence on the side of the principle of
free trade.’ And further, in the latter
part of his speech, he insisted upon re
trenchment in the public expenses. He
did not wish to make small salaries
smaller, but, said he, Retrenchment l
can be made in the army, navy and ord
nance expeuses to the amount of £17,-
000,000 a year!’
The Earl of Fortescuc, at a recent
meeting in London, said in reference to
the window tax of this country:
I hope that some arrangement
may be made that shall secure to the
very lowest classes in their houses of
misery and sadness, and in the poverty
of their dwellings, the solace of a glim
mering of God’s light.’
I he liberal party in Hungary have
gained an important victory in the Diet,
by inserting in an answer to the Em
peror of Austria’s (and King of Hun
gary) speech, certaih clauses condemn
ing the conduct of the government, and
requiring certain popular concessions.
They rest their claims for the reforms
they wish to make, upon the laws of
1743 and 1790, and ask for a genera!
convocation of the citizens in order to
bring about these reforms. They ask
or require the freedom of the press;
that all citizens shall bear an equal
share in the public burdens; that royal
tow ns and freb districts shall enjoy 'no
exclusive privileges.
“The Common Council of the city;
of London had a meeting on the 14th
inst., to petition Parliament to remove
the Jewish disabilities.
“The Chamber of Deputies of Ba-;
den, in Switzerland, was opened on the
9th inst. by the Grand Duke. He re
commended in his speech, that the cen
sorship be removed from the press, and j
that some remain* of feudal legislation
be abolished.”
Thus the world moves onward! Aery
for light, for Freedom, borne on the
eastern w inds of heaven, is ever sound
ing in our ears.
Tis the waking up of nations,
From slavery’s fatal sleep;
The murmur of a Universe;
Deep railing uuto deep!”
Let America respond to it by abolish
ing her system of worse than “feudal”
oppression, and when her last slave
shall stand up, an unshackled man, she
shall be a Joshua to lead the nations
into their promised land of pure and
perfect freedom.
Truth. —Truth courts investigation,
but error shrinks from scrutiny. Truth
tears no evils from the most rigid
examination, but error always fears
the consequence.—Truth is immutable,
and will stand criticism. Truth, like
its author, is eternal, and will exist
amidst the wreck of matter and the
crash of worlds, while error will be
swept away with the refuge of lies.
The morefou examine truth like gold
the brighter it shines. Truth is never
tarnished by inspection, but discovers
the more splendor. Any system which
shrinks from scrutiny discoverd cor
ruption in its premises, and is un
worthy the attention of an intelligent
mind. A certain writer has said with
the utmost propriety:
He that will not reason is a bigot
he that cannot reason is a fool; and he
that dares not reason is a slave.
Gravity or Breakfast.— Whethar
breakfast is the most serious and
silent meal because it is first or be
cause it is the soberest, it is difficult to
say but it does generally pass without
much talk, or, at all events, without
much talk that is worth recording.
Punsters very seldom pun at breakfast,
and th*. narrator* oOnng-wjadcd storici
are at that time more sparing of their
talas. There is then seldom any
argumentative discussion or sny play
of wit. Breakfast is altogether a mat
ter of busiaess, an affair of life and
death, because if people did not break
•heir fast they could not live.—Dinner
quite another thing; that is. moron
matter of pleasure than business; and;
w k° *P*«k e|’ the pleasures of a
table, are seppaeed to allude to *a
nar, and not io\*7*kruF7mm* mTy
by. davi
m the week: but it a much «*-e
out matter to brtak/aec e*h Duk.,
Humpbray.
WHAT CAT AWOHAH ©Ol
BY UCBitfr HLOUTR.
The female bear! is soft; the sffeetioai
of woman ire warm, her sensibilities
are easily excited. Her first impulse
is, to give her aid to every effort de
signed for the benefit of suffering hu
manity. Vet what can a woman do
—Th® question presents itself at the
oat-set, and smothers the desires o(
many a benevolent heart. What can a
woman do
There is inherent in each individual
man and woman, a certain portion of
moral power. It is this which makes
them human; for of mere physical
power, many animals possess more. It
is this moral power, which has gradu
ally softened and humanized the more
favored portions of the race, it is by
means of this moral power, that all rev
olutions and all advancements have
been made. Women share it equally
1 with men. In all changes of opinion,
in ail the great straggles attendant upon
such changes, they have always borne
a conspicuous part. The Grand Re
bellion in Great Britain, which trans
ferred the government of that country
from the privy council of the king, into
the hands of the property holders, and
gave to England such freedom as she
has, owed much, at its starting point,
to those women who overwhelmed the
long Parliament with petitons, and who
commenced the rebellion in Scotland,
by an energetic and even tumultuous
resistance to the introduction of the
liturgy.
The French revolution, which in its
results, has wrought such changes
throughout Europe and the world, was
cradled and nursed in the saloons of Par
is, where female influence had reached
a higher point than any where else be
fore.
It is true, that taking the past history
of the world together, the influence of
woman appears, on the whole to have
been small. 'Phis however is more ap
parent than real. We have the history
of battles, and sieges, and political in
trigues, and revolutions of govern
ments but the true history of the
human race, the history of the progress
of opinion, of the development of
intellectual and moral power, remains
to be written. Christendom for twelve
centuries, had its opinions controlled
by the Catholic church; and the
Catholic churcii knows well the power
of female influence. The several
orders of female devotees, were and
are, a great pillar of its power, and
female saints abound in its calendar.—
It has been the same with the Protest
ant churches. Is it not notorious, that
at this moment, every Protestant sect in
America, is mainly upheld, its churches
built, its ministers paid, its associations
and charities sustained, by the efforts
I and influence of the women? In every
church the female members far out
number the men and the men who are
i there, seven times out of ten, are car
ried there and kept there by the women.
In al! this, it is true, the women have
played and play, but a secondary part;
they are led on, marshalled, ruled and
used by male leaders. They are treated
as the British treat the Hindoos who
compose the bulk of their Indian armies.
They are welcome to serve as common
soldiers, but are not permitted to rise
above the rank of corporal or sergeant
at the best. And the reason is the
same in both cases. The intellect of
men has been far more developed than
that of the women. It has been held,
and in most countries still is held, a
crime for a woman to think for herself.
Even here in New England, a woman
who adopts that course, is looked upon
with suspicion and distrust, as an ambig-l
uous character. Vet the thing becomes'
more and more common and is fast
losing its strangeness. Having admit
ted woman to equality in education; hav
ing opened to them the doors of the
school-room and the lecture-room; hav
ing allowed them to read not sermons and
books of devotion only, but novels, and
histories, and newspapers, and every
thing else, it is impossible to keep them
from thinking; and women who think,
will presently feel and act, not as their!
mothers and grandmothers did. but in
accordance with those new ideas to
which they have attained.
But how can they act They cannot
vote; they cannot preach,— at least not
many of them;—they cannot legislate j
—what can they do? more than voter,
preacher or legislator. Each and all of
those, is but the instrument to promul
gate or carry into effect, some pre-estab
lished opinion. No man can preach ex
cept as the expounder and defender of
opinions already espoused by his'
hearers, or a part of them. If he i
preaches his own opinions in contradic
tion to theirs, he must be content to!
lack salary and a pulpit, and to seek
audience as Paul did, in the market
place, or corners of the streets, at the
risk not only of brick-bats and rotten!
eggs, but of the police and the house olj
C9rrection. How many men are equal I
to that No man can legislate except;
in conformity to the opinions of those
who make him a legislator; and the
voter does only signify by bis vote, his
adherence to a certain principle or 1
opinion which he thereby proclaims
and vindicates. Behind all these is the
opinion preached, voted for, made into
law,—and whence comes that? It is
first conceived in the depths of some
few contemplative souls: thence, as
j c. cumstances oppose or favor, is more
f or l es gradually communicated to
others; and this little leaven, worked
jin and diffused imperceptibly almost,'
through the mass, presently leavens
the whole lump. The ferments,
rises, and becomes something which it
was not before. All the kneading,
rolling, baking and fussing in the world,
I no* make bread, without the lca
ven begin
For instilling into the public mind,
and dtfiusing through society those new
I opinions, in which all social changes
i must hare their origin, women possess
peculiar advantage. They hivTan
I access to the hearts 4 men, which no
no man has; they hare an access to the
'hearts of children, peculiar to them
•sitrss, those children who are soon to
btnma men and w omen, and to influ
ence, for good or etii, the destinies u<
the race.
There m no wonmit sheer soul i»
nossrMod mf any great idea, and who
wags for Us diffuMon, whs may am
fleee«*e, if she ha* pa’sace and pern-
Terence, a rtry apostle among the
children of some bole village school
which the teaches, or who mayJ be
otherwise within the circle of her influ
ence, may perhaps be, sporting and
prattling, the political aad social leaden
of the next generation.—Who knows
Let her scatter the teed then hopefully.
Some no doubt, will fall upon ‘stony
places, and some among thorns,’ and
much, the fowls of the air will devour.
But some too, will fall upon good
ground, and will produce fruit twenty,
and fifty, and an hundred fold.
Bos to v, Mass.
AUTHOR OF THE HISTORY
OF PERU.
Mr. Prescott has lost one eye by ac
cident in his early youth, and had, by
study, so strained the nerve of the other,
that he was all but completely blind.—
He at first despaired, but he determin
ed to try whether he could make the
ears do the work of the eyes. He taught
his reader, unacquainted with any lan
guage but his own, to pronunce the
Spanish, though not exactly in the ac
cent of the court of Madrid. He read
at a slow and stumbling pace, while the
historian listened with painful attention.
Practice at length made the work ea
sier for both, though the reader never
understood a word of his author. In
this way they ploughed along patiently
through seven Spanish quartos. He
found at last that he could go over about
two-thirds as much in an hoar, as he
could when read to in English. The
experiment was made, and he became
convinced of the practibility of substitut
in the car for the eye. He was over
joyed, for his library was no longer to
consist of volumes. He now obtained
the services of a secretary acquainted
with the different ancient and modern
languages. Still there were many im
pediments to overcome. His eye, how
ever, gradually improved, and he could
use it by daylight (never again in the
evening,) a few' hours, though it was
not till utter some years, and then with
repeated intervals of weeks and some
times months of debility. Many a chap
ter, and some of the severest in Ferdi
nand and Isabella, were written almost
wholly with the aid of the eyes of his
secretary. His modus operandi was
necessarily peculiar. He selected first,
all the authorities in the different lan
guages that could bear on the topic to
be discussed. He then listened to the
reading of these one after the other,
dictating very copious notes on each.
When the survey was completed, a
large pile of notes was amassed, which
was read to him over and over again,
until the whole was embraced by his
mind, when they were fused down into
the consecutive contents of a chapter.
When the subject was complex, and not
pure narrative, requiring a great varie
ty ot reference, and sifting of contradic
tory authorities, the work must have
been very difficult; but it strengthened
memory, kept his faculties wide awake,
and taught him to generalize, for the
little details slipped through the holes
in the memory. His labor did not end
with this process; he found it was as
difficult to write as to read, and procur
ed in London u large writing case for
the blind. This he could use in the
dark as well as in the light. The char
acters, indeed, might pass for hiero
glyphics; but they were deciphered by
his secretary, and transferred by him
to h legible form in a fair copy. Yet I
have hea d him say his hair sometimes
stood on an end at the woful blunders
and misconceptions of the original,
which, every nw and then escaping
detection, found their way into the first
proof of the printer. Amid such diffi
culties was the composition of the histo
ry of Ferdinand and Isabella heroically
completed at the end of something less
than ten years from its commencement.
He remembered that Johnson says, that
Milton gave up his history with the
eyes of others; and was stimulated in
the midst of his embarrassments to over
come them. Well might he feel a proud
satisfaction in conquering the obstacles
of nature. Mr. Prescott had four copies
of the history first printed for himself,
and had so little confidence in its imme
diate success, that he had thought ol
postponing the publication till after his
death; but his father told him, “the
man who writes a book he is afraid to
publish, is a coward.” This decided
him. The work was published in the
beginning of 1833. Its reception in
his own country, and in all parts of
Europe, was such as to pay him, if any
thing could, for the long nights of toil
by which it had been produced.
CAPT. PETER FLOWERY.
This individual, who was convicted
in the U. S. Court, of participation in
the African slave trade, was imprisoned
in the county jail at Salem, at the same
time that Charles T. Torey was impris
oned at Baltimore for the crime of aid
ing American slaves to get their liberty.
In progress oP time, Torrey sickened,
and the Governor of Maryland refused
to pardon him, that he might die among
his kindred—and so he died in the pris
on hospital. Flowery had a room nice
ly fitted up for him in jail, where he
could enjoy the society of his wife and
friends, and every comfort, and at
length was pardoned by the President
of the United States, and immediately
found employment, his being a convict
ed slaver being a recommendation to
some of our conscientious ship owners
in the African trade. He went to Afri
ca as master of the schooner Mary Ann,
and while at Sierra Leone was taken
sick. On his recovery he found that
the mate and crew had gone off with
the vessel, which had been anchored at
the Gallenas. He embarked on board
the schooner I. B. Gsger, for New
\ork, but died on the passage home.
A few hwurs after the I. B. Gager ar
rived at New York, the Mary Ann ar
rived also, in the charge of the mate,
who reported that he took her from
Gallenas because he had ascertained
that Flowery had arranged to put her
into the slave trade. We hope the af
fair will be fully investigated Bottom
Ctrna.—Punch says, “It may he
proper In sute, that the dieting naked
personage known by the aactento hy
th« name of Tepid, has recently
changed his name tn Tepidity; and
»ill hereafter dsvnte hw ntunt.oa to
matters af man#) ae well as late af.
Mr n I
GKintm DBFiangjT n corns
The great Peter Corueifle, whoa
genius resembled that of our Shak
speare, sod who has so forcftly expresi
ed the sublime sentiment* of the hero
had nothing in hi* exterior that indical
ed his genius; on the contrary, hi
conversation was so insipid, that i
never tailed of wearying. Nature
who had lavished on him the gifts o
genius, had forgotten to blend witJ
them her more ordinary ones. He di<
not even speak correctly that language
of which he was such a master.
When his friends represented to hir
how much more he might please b;
not disdaining to correct these trivia
errors, he would smile and say, fas
not the leu Peter Corneille r Descartes
whise habits were formed in solitud*
and meditation, was silent in mixci
company; and Thomas describe# hi
mind by saying that he had received hi:
intellectual wealth from nature in so!i<
bars, but not iii current coin; or a
Addison expressed the same idea
comparing himself to a banker, whe
possessed the wealth of his friends a
home, though he carried none of it it
his pocket; or as that judicious mora
list Nicole, one of the Port-Roya
Society, who said of a scintillant wit
He conquers me in the drawing-room
but surrenders to me at discretion or
the staircase.’ Such may say with
Thetnistoclcs, when asked to play on e
lute, I cannot fiddle, but I can make
a little village a great city.*
The deficiences of Addison in con
versation are well known. He pre
served a rigid silence amongst
.strangers, but if he was silent, it wa*
the sdcnce of meditation. How often
at that moment, he lubored at some fu
ture Spectator!
The cynical Mandeville compared
Addison, after having passed an
evening in his company, to a silent par
son in a tie-wig. It is no shame for an
Addison to receive the censures of a
Mandeville; he has only to blush when
he calls down those of a Pope.
Virgil was heavy in conversation,
and resembled more an ordinary man
than an enchanting poet.
La Fontaine, says La Bruy ere, ap
peared coarse, heavy, and stupid; ha
j could not speak or describe what he
had just seen; but when he wrote, he
was the model of poetry.
It is very easy, said a humorous
observer on La Fontaine, to be a man of
wit or a fool bnt to be both, and that
too, in the extreme degree, is indeed
admirable, and only to be found in him.
This observatio applies to that fine
natural genius, Goldsmith. Chaucer
was more facetious in his tales than in
his conversation, and the Countess of
Pembroke used to rally him by saying
that his silence was more agreeable
than his coversation.
Isocrates, celebrated for his beautiful
oratorical compositions, was of so timid
a disposition that lie never ventured to
speak in public. He compared himself
to the whet-stone which will not cut,
but enables other things to do this; for
his productions served as models to
other orators. Vaucanson was said to
be as much a machine a's any he had
made. Dryden says of ftiinself, —‘My
conversation is slow and dull, my
humor saturnine and reserved. In
short, 1 am none of those who endeavor
to break jests in company, or make
repartees.’— Curiosities of JLiterature.
A PLEASANT SURPRISE.
A young man, of eighteen or twenty,
a student in a university, took a walk
one day with a professor, who was com
monly called the student’s friend, such
was his kindness to the young men
whose oftice it was to instruct.
Whilu they were now walking to
gether, and the professor was seeking
to lead the conversation to grave sub
jects, they saw a pair of old shoes lying
in their path, which they supposed to
belong to a poor man who was at work
in«a held close by, and who had nearly
finished his day’s work.
The young student turned to the pro
fessor, saying, let us play the tnan a
trick; we will hide his shoes, and con
ceal ourselves behind those bushes and
watch to see his perplexity when he
cauiiot find them.”
“My dear friend,” answered the!
professor, we must never amuse our
selves at the expense of the poor. But
you are rich, and you may give your
self a much greater pleasure by means
of this poor man. Put a dollar into
each shoe, and then we will hide our
selves.”
The student did so, and then placed
himself, with the professor behind the
bushes close by, through which, they
could easily watch the laborer, and see
whatever wonder or joy he might ex
press.
The poor man soon finished his work,
and came across the field to the path,
where he had left his coat and shoes.
W hile he put on his coat he slipped one
foot into one of his shoes; but feeling
something hard, he stooped down anu
found the dolior. Astonishment and
wonder were seen upon his counte
nance; he gazed upon the dollar, turn
ed it round and looked at it again ;then he
looked round him on all sides, but could
see no one. Now he put the money in
his pocket, and proceeded to put on the
other shoe; but how great was his as
tonishment when he found the other:
dollar! His feelings overcame him; he
fell upon his knees, looked up to hea
ven, and uttered aloud a fervent thanks
giving, in which he spoke of his wife,
sick and helpless, and his children
without bread, whom this timely boun
ty from some unknown hand, would
save from perishing.
The young man stood there deeply
affected, and tei.'* filled his eyes.
»voar,” said i protestor, “are
you not much better pleased, than if
you had played your intended trick?”
“O, dearest sir,” answered the
youth, you have taught me a lesson
now that I will never forget. 1 feel
now the truth of the words, which 1
never before understood, it’s better
to give than to receive.”
We should never approach the poor
but with the wish to do them good.
ftetesra—-Formerly, women were
prohibited from mem tag untill they 1
bed spun a set ef beu-termtere; and,
treddtug, wer*\ ‘msmpmntlv,
called tftmkrt, which ceteimm to tteti
di) i« sll legal pr«* »«<Jing*
nun roismfiif.it> ms
PLEDGE.
e
m The last time the lamented William
Ladd left my bouse in Boat on, be took
from bis trunk, taro volant? «of the
'‘Essajrson a Congress of Nations,
i and handing them to me said, take
t these and keep them till 1 call for them;
and if I never should call for them, give
f- them nrhete tkey-aill do the most good
j to the Peace cause.” The volumes
j were beautifully bound in morocco and
gilt, and were a part of the lot which
Mr Ladd prepared for distribution
among distinguished persons in Hu rope
and America. One was sent to Queen
Victoria, others to the ditferent mon
arebs of Europe; one to the President
of the United States, the Govcrncrs of
the different States, &.C., &c.
After Mr. Ladd's decease, I placed
t one of the volumes thus entrusted to inc,
i in the library ef a public institution in
one of the Western States. The other
is still in my possession, and 1 think o!
no way in which I could dispose of it
more agreeably to the benevolent wi.-h
-es of the donor, than bv offering it as a
Prize to the person who shall obtain
the most names ns signers to the Pledge
i of the League of Universal Brotherhood,
in any town or city in the United States
or any part of the British dominions, in
proportion to the whole population oi
such town or city; to be obtained and
sent in to T. Drew, Jr., Worcester,
Mass., Rccoiding Secretary of the
League, and Assistant Editor of the
Christian Citizen, between the date ot
this and the first day of May next. As
some persons who meet with this offer
may not know the char acterand history
of the work referred to, it may n<4 be
improper to state, that these Essays arc
a part of which were written in
consequence of an offer from the Ame
rican Peace Society ofa prize of £,1,000
for the best Essay on a Congress of
Nations. Of these Essays, five have
been selected, which, together with
one written by William Ladd, have
been bound together, and form a large
and interesting work upon an important
subject.
Presuming that there are many per
sons, who would like so valuable a me
mento of the great apostle of Peace,
and who would he especially gratified
in acquiring it, by aiding to advance
that good cause in which the donor
took so much interest, and thus become,
at least, in a high moral sense, one of
his legatees, I have been induced to
make the foregoing proposition; and I
will further add, that 1 shall place in
the >o!ume an autograph, together
with an excellent engraved likeness of
Mr. Ladd.
On the first day of May next, a care
ful investigation shall be made; and the
successful competitor shall be informed
i ot'the result through the columns the
i citizen, and the work be forwarded to
him or her, as soon as practicable.
AMASA WALKER.
North Brookfiei.d, Nov 1, 1847.
Courtesy in the Street. —ln cities,
trading villages and the like, where we
are constantly meeting people of both
sexes and all ages, each perhaps intent
upon some special business, it is not ex
pected that we shall notice in any man
ner the presence of others, except in the
instance of meeting personal friends.—
Among such, even in the crowded
streets of the city, courtesy requires,
and generally secures some token of
recognition and respect.
In more qui* t scenes, we are pleased
to see a morj general observance of
this practice. It incommodes no one,
and impresses upon strangers the con
viction that they are among friends,
with whom their persons and their in
terests are safe, it compensates them
in some measure, for the absence of the
endearments of home. Besides, every
such act of courtesy, however trivial in
itself, improves the heart, and thus
makes one a better man, in all his rela
tions and associations.
The bow from the country school
boy always pleases us, and we always
return it. It excites in us a degree of
esteem for one who thus regasds the
feelings of a stranger. We are confi
dent that we are right in saying, that a
boy who does this habitually will nev
er be found a bad hoy,” as the phrase
goes, in the school-rooin or in the faini
•y-
These tokens of respect should always
be returned. The boy bows, not be
cause be is your inferior, but because
he would be polite. And shall he ex
cel you in this respect A very accom
plished captain of the Navy, with whom
he had the honor of an acquaintance,
was once met on the side-walk, by a
shabby negro, who made a humble
obeisance. The captain returned his
bow. A friend who was with him re
marked, that this seemed to him unne
cessary and inexpedient. Why, said
the captain, wouid you have ine show
less politeness tha t that poor negro?”
The captain was right. The bow did
not hurt him, arid may have be. r» one
of a few bright spots in a life of pain
and hardships, which the poor fellow
will ever recall with pleasure. And,
after all, in the eye of heaven, the negro
may have been the better man.
Idle Daughters.— lt is, says Mrs.
Ellis, a most painful spectacle in families
where the mother is the drudge, to see
the daughters elegantly dressed, re
clining at their ease, with their drawing,
their music, their fancy-work, and their
reading; beguiling themselves of the
lapse ol hours, days and weeks, and
never dreaming of their responsibifties;
but as a necessary consequence of the
neglect of duty, growing weary of their
useless lives, laying hold of every new
ly invented stimulant to rouse their
drooping energies, and bhmmg their
fate, when they blame God for having
placed them where they are. These
individuals will often tell you with an
air of affected compassion (for who can
believe it real that poor dear mamma
is working herself to death. Yet no
7 OM 7«>poss that they should
MBHt her, than they declare she is
quite ia her element in short, that she
would never he happy if ebe had only
half an much to do.
The Egyptians believed lbe»wwrld to
he testing on the horn of a bull, and
when the bull Uree ef one horn, M pttch
te the world en the ether, end One
reusoe an earthquake
THE ORATOR A!fD TUB
IfEWftPAPEH.
Compare the orator, one of the no
bleat vehicles for the diffusion of
thought, with the newspaper, and w»
may gam a faint glimpse oftheubi
quitous power of the latter The Ora
tor speaks but to a few hundreds, f} Je
newspaper addresses millions. The
[words of the orator may die on the air
the language of the new spaper is starnl
ped or tablets as imperishable as mar
-1 Me. The arguments of the Orator
follow each other so rapidly that a n a
johty of the audience n ay stiuf g!e In a
j net id ratiocination, the reasoning of
the newspaper may be scanned at lei.
sure without n fear of perplexity.
passion of the Orator inflames an ftfsern
bly, the feeling 01 a newspaper eiectri
fits a continer.t. The Oiat«*r is for m
edifice, the Newspaper lor the woild
the one shines for an h. ur, the other
glows for ail time. The Oiator m. y b
:compared to I ghtning, which fin.-h
over a valley lor a memei t, lut it
i leaves it again in darkness; the news
paper to a son blazing st* adilv over the
whole earth.and filing mile |I esi9
jot us un eternity ,f “Piiutitg las
been happily defined “the art wh»ch
j presents all aits.” Print ii g makta
the Orator uim.-.elt more than an Orator.
It catches up his dying woids, and
breathes into tin m the breath (f life. It
is the speaking gallery through which
the Orator thundeis in t c car of ages.
He leans from the tomb over the cradle
of rising generations.
Intellect.—We arc all wise. T o
diirerence between peisons is not in
wisdom hut in art. I knew, in an aca
demical club, a person who nlwavs de
ferred to me, who seeing my whim lor
writing, fancied that my experienc. a
had somewhat superior; whilst, I saw
that hrs experiences were as goed as
mine. Give them to me and I would
make the same use of them. lie held
the oM; he folds the new; I had the
habit of tacking together the «Id and
new, which lie did net use to ex.
I'll is may hold in the rr r at e-an.plts
i'erbaps if we sh u ci un et Mihk.-, «re,
w e should n«»t t.e c nsci us of any steep
inierioi ity no, hnt ol a gr< ater i quali
fy—-only that be possessed a strange
skill of using, of classifying his lacts,
w ‘hich wc lacked. For n< twithstamlii g
m:r utter incapacity to prt duce anything
like Hamlet and Othello, see the per
fect reception this wit, and immense
knowledge oflife, and liquid eloquence
finds in us all.
If you gather apples in the sunshine,
or make bay, or hoe corn, and then re
tire w.twin doors, and shut your eves,
and press ti.cm with your hand, ‘y< u
shall still see apples hanging in the
bright klght. with houghs and leaves
therrfv, V the tattled grass, or the
corn flags, and this for five or six hours
afterwards T here lie the impressions
on tbe retentive organ, though vm
know it not. So lies tbe whole series
of natural images with which your life
has made you acquainted, in your memo*
ry, though you know it not, and a tin ill
ot passion flashes light on their dink
chambers, mid the active power sci/.es
instantly the tit image, ns the world
of its momentary thought.
It is long ere we discover how rich
we are. Our history, wc aje sure, ig
quite tame. N\ e have n- thing to write,
nothing to infer. Hut our wiser years
still run hack to the despised rec Uec
lions ot childhood, and always arc t.sh
ing up some wonder,'ul article out of
that pond until, by-and-by, we begin to
suspect that the biogi aj hy of one f ol
ish person we know, ig, in reality, noth
ing less than the miniature paraphrase
of the hundred volumes of the Universal
Ministry.— Emerson.
Wonders of Art.—There hi a man
in London, who has a glass eve and
spectacles, a wig, one arm, a.d both
legs of wood, a nose which is fastened
to the skin of the f .rchcad, a l .wer iaw
of silver, an artificial se t of te« th, a part
of the skull of a caoutchouc, and a pal
ate and both cars of the same substance
as well as a large part ol the abdomen.
W e learn that he was formerly em
ployed in supplying n steam engine with
coal, and in an explosion of the L». iler,
was most horribly muS.ated. r. Kem
ble succeeded, almost !*y a miracle, in
saving his life, and made him what he
now is— alinott an artificial, yet breath
ing man.
Forgiveness. —She went up to her
husband, and as it seemed, spoke lov
ingly, saying that she wosld defer to
him in everything, and would consult
his wishes and obey them, and they
might be very happy, if he would be
gentle with her. He auswered with au
imprecation and—with a blow Yes
against the basc-scu'cdl
villain with a blow! No angry cr>\
no loud reproaches. Even 1.. weep
ing and her sobs were nif!< jby r
iclingicg around him. Fh:r or'v c-td
repeating it in ari a>jnny of Ik art—
How could he, how could he? ar.d |r>.|
utterance in an »gouy of teats. Ch,
j woman, God-beloved m old
The best among m r.erd deal lightly
with thy faults, it mly for the punish
ment thy nature will endure in beari g
heavy evidence against us on the day of
judgment Dickens.
A Lawyer,—A legal gentleman who
lately paid his addresses to the daugh
ter of a tradesman, was forLidden the
house, cn which he sent in a b ill of
mnety-oue pounds thirteen shillings and
four-pence, for two hundred and seven
tv-f;>e attendances advising on family
affairs. 7
Stays were first invented by a brutal
butcher of the thirty .th ccntuiy, a* a
punishment for bis wife She vas very
loquacious, and finding nothing would
cure her, he put a pair of stay* on her
in order to take away her breath, and
ao present her talkuig. This cruel
punishment was inflicted by other hu»-
b.utd*, till at laat there was scarcely a
wife in all London who was not con
demned to wear stays. The pua.-H
-ment became ao uniat er*al at last, that
the ladies, in their own defence, nude s
fashion of it, and ao tl continued to tb#
present dev
A lawyer of im innatt. who was re
cently dunned to pay a debt, u ade a
demand of |M*stage and .he<g«, ki
reading the .tanner's letter
