TO THE PEOPLE OF CANADA.
The number and magnitude of.the
evils that afflict our country, and tlee
universal and inci casing, depression ot
its material interests, call upon all per
sons animated by a sincere desire for
its welfare, to combine for tht purposes
of inquiry and preparation, with a view
nr iHenydopntm T>f surch remediew ns a
mature and dispassionate investigation
may suggest.'
Belonging to all parties, origins and
creeds, but yet agreed upon the advan
tage of co-operation for. the performance
of ajfommon duty -to ourselves and our
country, growing out of a common ne
cessity, we have consented, in view of
a brighter and happier future, to merge
in oblivion all past differences, of what
ever character, of attributable to what
ever source. In appealing to our Fel
low Colonies to unite with us in this,
our most needful duty, we solemnly
conjure them as they desire a success
ful issue, and the welfare of their coun
try, to enter upon the task, at this mo
mentous crisis, in the same fraternal
spirit.
The reversal of the ancient policy of
Great Britain vrhereby she withdrew
from the Colonies their wonted protec
tion in her markets, has produced the
most disastrous effects upon Canada.
In surveying the actual condition of the
Cdufttry, what but ruin or rapid decay
meets the eye Our Provincial Gov
ernment and Civic Corporations em
barrassed, our Banking and other secu
rities greatly depreciated; our Mercan
tile and Agricultural interest alike un
prosperous; real estate scarcely salea
ble upon any terms; our unrivalled
rivers, lakes, and canals, almost un
uspd; while Commerce abandons oui
shores, the circulating capital amassed
under a more favorable system, is dis
sipated, with none from any quarter to
replace it! Thus without available
capital, unable to effect a loan with
Foreign States or with the Mother-
Country, although offering security
greatly superior to that which readily
obtains money both from the United
States and Great Britain, when other
than Colonists are the applicants.—
Crippled, therefore, and checked in the
full career of private and public enter
prise, this possession of the British
Crown—our country—stands before
the world in humiliating contrast with
its immediate neighbors, exhibiting ev
ery symptom ol a nation fast sinking
into decay.
With superabundant water power and
cheap labor, especially in Lower Can
ada, we have yet no domestic manufac
tures; nor can the most sanguine, un
less under altered circumstances, an
ticipate the home growth, or advent
fromjforeign parts, of either capital or
enterprise to embark in this great source
of national wealth. Our institutions,
unhappily, have not that impress ol
permanence which can alone impart
security, and inspire confidence, and
the Canadian market is too limited to
tempt the foreign capitalist
While the adjoining States are cov
ered with a net work of thriving rail
ways, Canada possesses but three lines,
which together, scarcely exceedjfifiy
miles in length, and the stock tn two of
which is held at a depreciation of from
GO to 80 per cent. —a fatal symptom of
the torpor overspreading the land.
Our present form of Provincial Gov
ernment ia cumbrous and so expensive
M to be ill-suited to the country; and
RKestary reference it demands to,
THE NORTH STAR.
a distant Government, imperfectly ac
quainted with Canadian affairs, and
somewhat indifferent to our interests,
is anomalous and irksome. Yet, in the
event of a rupture between two of the
most powerful nations of the world,
Canada would become the battle-field
and the sufferer, however little her in
terests might be involved in the cause
of quarrel, or tjje issue of the contest.
The bitter animosities of political
parties and factions in Canada, often
leading to violence, and upon one occa
sion to civil war, seem not to have aba
ted with time; nor is there, at the pre
sent moment, any prospect of diminu
tion or accommodation. The aspect of
parties becomes daily mere threatening
toward eacli other, and under our ex
isting institutions and relations, little
hope i 3 discernible of a peaceful and
prosperous administration of our affairs,
but difficulties will, to all appearance,
accumulate untH Govewiment becomes
impracticable. In this view of our po
sition, any course that may promise to
efface existing party distinctions, and
place entirely new r issues before the
people, must be fraught with undenia
ble advantages.
Among the Statesman of the Mother
Country—among the sagacious obser
vers of the neighboring Republic—in
Canada—and all British North Ameri
ca—among all classes, there is a strong
pervading conviction that a political
revolution in this country is at hand.—
Such forebodings cannot readily be
dispelled, and they have, moreover, a
tendency to realize the events to which
they point. In the meanwhile, serious
injury results to Canada from the effect
of this anticipation upon the more desi
rable class of settlers, who naturally
prefer a country under fixed and per
manent forms ol government to one in
a state of transition.
Having thus adverted to some of the
causes of our present evils, we could
consider how far the remedies ordinari
ly proposed possess sound and rational
inducements to justify thur adoption:
1. “The revival of protection in the
markets of the United Kingdom.”
This, if attainable in a certain de
gree, and guaranteed fora long period
of years, would ameliorate the condition
of many of our chief interests, but the
policy of the Empire forbids the antici
pation. Beside, it would be hut a par
tial remedy. The millions of the Moth
er Country demand cheap food; and a
second change from Protection to Free
Trade would complete that ruin which
the first has done much to achieve.
-11. “The Protection of Home Manu-i
faqtures.”
Although this might encourage the
growth of a manufacturing interest in I
Canada, yet, without access to the 1
United States’ market, there would not
be a sufficient expansion of that inter
est, from the want of consumers, to
work any result that could be admitted
as a “remedy” for the numerous evils
of which we complain.
111. “A Federal Union of the British
American Provinces.”
The advantages claimed for that ar
rangement are Free Trade between
the different provinces, and a diminish
ed governmental expenditure. The at
tainment of the latter object would be
problematical, and the benefits antici
pated from the former might be secured
by legislation under our existing sys
tem. The markets of the sister prov
inces would not benefit our trade in
timber, for they have a surplus of that
article in their own forests; and their
demand for agricultural products would
be too limited to absorb our means of
supply. Nor could Canada expect any
encouragement to her manufacturing
industry from those quarters.
IV. “The Independence of the Brit
ish North American Colonies as a Fed
eral Republic.”
The consolidation of its new Institu
tions from elements hitherto so discor
dant—the formation of treaties with
foreign powers—the acquirement of a
name and character among the nations
—would, we fear, prove an overmatch
for the strength of the new Republic.—
And, having regard to the powerful
confederacy of States conterininus with
itself, the needful military defences
would be too costly to render Indepen
dence a boon, while it would not, any
more than a Federal Union, remove
those obstacles which retard our mate
rial, prosperity.
V. “Reciprocal Free Trade with the
United States, as respects the products
of the farm, the forest, and the mine.”
If obtained, this w r ould yield but an
instalment of the many advantages
which might be otherwise secured.—
The free interchange of such products
w ould not introduce manufactures to our
country.. I* would not give us the
North American continent for our mar
ket. it would neither so amend our
institutions as to confer stability nor in
sure confidence in their permanence;
nor would it allay the violence of par
ties, or, in the slightest degree, remedy
many of our prominent evils.
VI. “Of nil the remedies that have
been suggested for the acknowledged
and insufferable ills with which our
country is afflicted, there remains but
one to be considered. It propounds a
sweeping and important change in our
political and social condition, involving
considerations that demane our most
serious examination, i’his remedy con
sists in a Friendly and Peaceful Sepa
ration from British Connection, and a
Union upon equitable terms milk the
irreat Worth American Confederacy of
Sovereign States.
We would premise that toward Great
Britain we entertain none other than
sentiment* of kindness and respect.—
Without her consent we consider sepa
ration as neither pActicable nor desira
ble. But the Colonial policy of the
Parent State, the avowals of her leed
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX-TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR-«OI> IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND .ALL WE ARE BRETHREN
ing statesmen, the public sentiments of
the Empire, present unmistakable and
significant indications of the apprecia
tion of Colonial Connection. That it
is the resolve of England to invest us
with the attributes, and to assume the
burdens of Independence is no longer
problematical. The threatened with
drawal of her troops from other Colo
nies—the continuance of her military
protection to ourselves only on the con
dition that w*e shall detray the attendant
expenditure, betoken intentions toward
our country, against which it is weak
ness in us not to provide. An overrul
ing conviction, then, of its necessity,
and a high sense of duty we owe to our
country, a duty we can neither disre
gard nor postpone, impel us to enter
tain the idea of separation; and what
ever negotiations may eventuate with
Great Britain, a grateful liberality on
the part of Canada should mark every
proceeding.
The proposed Union would render
Canada a field for American capital,
into which it would euter as freely for
I the prosecution of public works and
private enterprise as of the
present States. It would equalize the
value of real estate upon both sides ol
the boundary, thereby probably doub
ling at once the entire present value ol
property in Canada, while, by giving
stability to our institutions, and intro
ducing prosperity, it w'ould raise oui
public, corporate and private credit.—
It would increase our commerce both
with the United States and foreign
countries, and not necessarily diminish,
to any great extent, our intercourse
with Great Britain, into which our pro
duce would, for the most part, enter on
the same terms as at present. It would
render our rivers and canals the high
way for the immigration to, and exports
from the West, to the incalculable ben
efit of our country, it would also intro
duce manufactures into Canada as rap
idly as they have been introduced into
the Northern States; and to Lower
Canada especially, where water privil
eges and labor are abundant and cheap,
it would attract manufacturing capital,
enhancing the value of property and
agricultural produce, and giving remu
nerative employment to what is at pre
sent a comparatively non-proclucing
population. JYor woult{ the United
States merely furnish the capital for our
manufactures. They tvould also supply
for them the most extensive market in the
world without the intervention of a Cus
tom House Officer. Railways would
forthwith be constructed by American
capital as feeders for all the great lines
now approaching our frontiers and
railway enterprise .in general would
doubtless be a 9 active and prosperous
among us as among our neighbors.—
The value of our agricultural produce
would be raised at once to a par with
that of the United States, while agri
cultural implements and many of the
necessaries of life, such as tea, coffee
and sugar, would be greatly reduced
in price.
The value of our timber would also
be greatly enhanced by free access to
the American market, where it bears a
high price, but is subject to an onerous
duty. At the same time, there is every
reason to believe that our shipholders,
as \Vell at Quebec as on the Great
Lakes, would find an unlimited market
in all the ports of the American Conti
nent. It cannot be doubted that the
shipping trade ot the United States must
greatly increase. It is equally mani
fest that, with them, the principal ma
terial in the construction of ships is rap
idly diminishing, while we possess vast
territories covered with timber of excel
lent quality, which would be equally
available, as it now is, since under the
Free Trade system our vessels would
sell as well in England after Annexa
tion as before.
This simple and economical State
Government, in which direct responsi
bility to the people is a distinguishing
feature, would be substituted for a sys
tem at once cumbrous and expensive.
In place of war and the alarms of war
with a neighbor, there would be peace
and amity between this country and the
United States. Disagreements between
the United States and her chief, if not
only rival nations, would not
make the soil of Canada the sanguina
ry arena for their disputes, as under
our existing relations must necessarily
jhe the case. That such is the unenvi
able condition of our state of depend
ence upon Great Britain is known to
j the whole woNd, and how far it may
i conduce to keep prudent capitalists
j from masing investments in the coun
try, or wealthy settlers from selecting
a fore-doomed battle-field for tbe home
of themselves and their children, it
needs no reasoniog on our part to elu
cidate.
But other advantages than those hav-*
in-* a bearing on our material interests
may be foretold. It would change the
ground of political contests between
races and parties, allay and obliterate
those irritations and conflicts of-rancor
and recrimination which have hitherto
disfigured our social fabric. Already
in anticipation has its harmonious influ
ence been felt —the harbinger, may it
be hoped, of a lasting oblivion of dis
sensions among all classes, creeds and
parties in the country. Changing a
subordinate for an independent condi
tion, we would take our station among
the nations of the earth. We have now
no voice in the affairs of the Empire,
nor do we share in its honors or emolu
ments. England is our Parent State,
with whom we have no equality, but to
ward whom we stand in the simple rela
tion of obedience. But as citizens of
the United States, the public service
of tbe nation would be open to us—a
field for high and honorable distinction,
on which we and our posterity might
enter on terms of perfect •quality.
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1849.
Nor would the amicable separation
of Canada from Great Britain be fraught
with advantages to us alone. The re
lief to the Parent State from the large
expenditure now incurred ia the milita
ry occupation of the country—the re
moval of the many causes of collision
with the United States, which result
from the contiguity of mutual territories
so extensive—the benefit of the huger
market which the increasing prosperity
of Canada would create, are considera
tions which, in the minds of many of
her ablest statesmen, render oor incor
poration with the United States a desi
rable consummation.
To the United States also tbe annex
ation of Canada presents many impor
tant inducements. The withdrawal
from their borders of so powerful a na
tion, by whom in time of war the im
mense and.growing commerce of the
Lakes would be abili
ty to dispense with the easily but inef
fectual revenue establishment over a
frontier of many hundred miles—the
large accession to their income from our
Customs—the unrestricted use of the
St. Lawrence, the natural highway from
the Western States to the ocean, are
objects for the attainment of which the
most substantial equivalents would un
doubtedly be conceded.
Fellow Colonists: W r e have thus
laid before you our views and convic
tions on a momentous question—involv
ing a change, which, though contem
plated by many of us with varied feel
ings and emotions, we all believe to be
inevitable; one which it is our duty to
provide for, and lawfully to promote.
We address you without prejudice or
partiality,—in the spirit of sincerity and
truth, —ia the interest solely of our
common country—and our single aim is
its safety and welfare. If to youjr judg
ment and reason our object and aim be
'at this time deemed laudable and right;
we ask an oblivion of past dissensions;
and from all, without distinction of ori
gin, party, or creed, that earnest and
cordial co-operation in such lawful,
prudent and judicious means as may
best conduct us to our common destiny.
John Torrance, J. DeWitt, MPP;
J. Redpath, John Molson, David Tor
rance, William Workman, D. L. Mc-
Pherson, Thomas B. Anderson, L. H.
Holton, J. G. Mackenzie, Robert Mac
kay, Benj. Holmes, MPP; David Kin
near, John Rose, QC; John Glass, and
320 others.
From the New York Tribune.
PRACTICAL SLAVERY IN THE DIS
TRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Washington, Tuesday, Oct. 16.
Mr. Greeley: Facts are stubborn
things. When Mr. Gott offered a res
olution in the House- of Representative*
last winter, declaring slavery in the
District of Columbia to be a disgrace
to us in the eyes of all Christendom,
the Southern members held a meeting
in the Senate Chamber, in secret, in
the night-time, and threatened to dis
solve the Union. Is it any wonder that
Northern men, with Northern hearts
ar\d Northern heads, should cry 'Amen'
to the efforts of these Southern fanatics,
when they see, in the very heart of the
capital, on Pennsylvania avenue, be
tween the Halls of Legislation and the
Halls of Executive power, on God’s
holy day, a wagon load of human cat
tle in the form and likeness of their ma
ker, chained and manacled to the vehi
cle like sheep in the butcher’s carts,
ready for the sacrifice of blood and toll?
Such a scene occurred here on Sunday
last, Oct. 14, in the year of our Lord
1849. The cries ol the miserable
wretches as they jolted’ over the rough
pavement at a brisk trot, mingled mys
teriously with the light and careless
voices of God’s people returning from
the cushioned seats and damask stools
where they are wont to worship the
Most High, and pray for all mankind
The slave-driver had been into Mary
land to purchase his ‘live stock*—prob
ably for the Southern market,—and was
taking them to the shambles, to be in
spected by tbe dealers in “God’s image
cut in ebony"!” Oh, did it ever occur
to the pious Christian slaveholder, or to
any slaveholdiog freeman who acknowl
edges himself accountable to a Hereaf
ter, what a fearful distance lies between
him and everlasting happiness!
Almighty Power and Retributive Jus
tice go forth to lift the pall of darkness
from the world, to unloose the shackles
of the oppressed, and open the eyes of
mankind to Light and Truth, how will
some of the patriots and saints of our
day call upon the rocks and mountains
to cover them from that unsleeping Eye
which sees everywhere!
How long are we to suffer this re
proach? Will slavery continue in the
District Is there not one yet who has
arisen with genius fit, and courage suf
ficient, to stab the monster to the heart,
and rid os of the disgrace? Will men
in Congress still truckle to power, and
let the seal of everlasting shame and
guilt be burned deep on their front—or
is there light abroad C.
JAB. HAUGHTON AND FATHER
MATHEW.
We copy from the last Liberator a
passage in a letter of James Haugbtoo,
of Dublin, commenting on the course
which Father Mathew has seen fit to
take in relation to the Abolitionists of
this country. Mr. Haughton, aa prob
ably most of our readers koow, is one
of the most distinguished and devoted
advocates of Temperance in Ireland;
he m also a personal friend to Father
Mathew, and in company with him has
addressed probably hundreds of thou
sands of people. We had so doubt that
the conduct of Mr. Mathew would be
condemned by the friends bs left behind
him st home, sad the testimony of all
of them, who profess 4o be Abolition
ists, would, we do not question, be aa
emphatic, could we get at it, as this of
Mr. Haughton. He says:
“I am truly sorry to learn that Fath
er Mathew has acted a cowardly part
on tbe question of Slavery since he ar
rived in America. I did not expect that
he would have taken a prominent posi
tion* among any section of your Aboli
tionists; but I did expect he would have
honestly avowed himself an Abolition
ist, and that he would have called on
Irishmen in America to be the friends
of the black man. It was his bounden
duty, as a truthful, honest man, to have
gone thus far, at least. lam sorry he
has fallen; I am sorry he has bowed
down before the slave power. lam
sorry he contemplates a visit to the
Slave States. If he does visit them,
and that he continues to disavow, or
avoida manfully to avow, his approval
of the address which he signed, with
ready willingness, at my request, some
years ago, (and which Address has "been
lately re-published in the Liberator and
the Standard,) if he does not acknowl
edge the paper signed by O’Connell,
and approved by his own conscience, I
hope he will take up his abode among
slaveholders, and never come back to
Ireland. But I will yet hope better
things of Father Mathew. I wrote to
him several weeks ago, entreating him
to be friendly and faithful to the colored
man. It is a sad thing that this most
cruelly oppressed portion of our race
should be nothing cared for, bv even
professed friends. If Father Mathew
shall raise no voice for them in Ameri
ca, he. will be despised even by the
slaveholder, and his name will become
a reproach among honest men. I do
not know what he means by saying that
signing the address brought some odium
on him here: it gained for him nothing
but honor in Ireland; for, however
dishonest Irishmen may act in this re
spect, when they set foot on your soil,
not a man of them at home, is to be
found, who does not exclaim agninst
Slavery. If my voice could reach Fa
ther Mathew across the Atlantic, I
would conjure him to be true to the
slave, for the honor of old Ireland, for
the sake of his own fame, and because
such a cause is the only manly and hon
orable course he can pursue; any other
will bring disgrace to himself and injury
to the great cause of temperance in
which he is engaged, and with which
his name is identified. A man must be
something more than a teetotaller; we
don’t want our people to stop there.—
Teetotalism is the foundation; from it
should spring every other virtue that can
adorn the man.”
TESTIMONY AGAINST COLONIZA
TION.
-We-are gtarFra flird says the'Anti-
Slavery Bugle,) in the Louisville Ex
aminer of the 29th ult. a manly protest
from that true-hearted friend of Free
dom, Rev. John G. Fee, against the
shameful injustice and wickedness of
offering the slaves of Kentucky their
liberty only upon condition of banish
ment from the State. This is a prom
-1 inent feature in the plan of emancipa
tion which has been proposed by those
who take the lead of the anti-slavery
agitation in that State, and it shows
clearly enough that the authors of the
scheme ai£ actuated by a selfish regard
to the interests ofthe whites rather than
by enlightened benevolence toward the
oppressor and the oppressed. Mr. Fee
talks like a man of principle and heart,
and appeals to the conscience with con
vincing power. Hear him:
Is it Christian, humane, or just, that
we require a poor unoffending man, who
has toiled to construct our roads, clear
our farms, feed our children, and clothe
our own bodies—who has done us
naught but kindness, that we in return
require aB a condition of his enjoying
the boon of freedom—the inalienable
right of humanity," —that he must be
banished—banished from the land of
i his birth—from a land where he is ac
climated, to one to which he is not ac
climated; and removal to which must
result in disease and death to hundreds
and thousands. And all this, too, with
out his consent. Is this obeying Christ
rule—“ Whatsoever ye would that men
provision is made for color or de
gree of intellectual capacity) should do
unto you, do ye even so to them.” If
the members of the Central Commit
tee were slaves, and the colored peo
ple had the majority and power in their
hands, woold the Committee think it
just and Christian that they should be
banished without their consent to the
land of their forefathers—lreland, Ger
many, Scotland, or whatever that laud
might be?
Does the Committee say there is a
prejudice against the colored race, and
they should therefore be banished?
This position we see in almost every
Colonization address. But is it a suf
ficient one is it one upon which
Christians and philanthropists should
base their actions—a systematic and
organized effort, to continue through
the lapse of many years?
If we ean judge from tbe returns from
the polk in Jefferson county, aa well
aa from all other counties in the State,,
there is a prejudice against the mem-
hers of that Committee themselves:
and no doubt many of the citizens would
colonize them if they had tbe power.
BuT woold tbe Committee think preju
dice a sufficient ground for such ac
tioo.
Does the Committee eey it would be 1
for the welfare of the colored people
themfeelvee? We reply—of this the
colored people should bo the sole jud
ges. Many of the perpetualieta of our
Stale are saying, these Emancipa
tionists bad better give up the ship, j
and go to the free States, where they
could all be of a piece—they could get
along better.**
Hew we think we ought to be the
judges of this matter. Should he per
petualists banish or colonize the
Emancipationists, merely because they
had the power—giving as a reason, “it
would be better for the Emancipation
ists,” the Emancipationists would feel
it an act of tyranny, worthy only of the
Autocrat of Russia. And shall we, be
cause we have the power, assume the
right to judge for a poor and long-op
pressed minority? Shall we, as pro
ies*ed republicans and democrats,
wearing the name ot Christ’s follow
ers, be guilty of such tyranny Could
we expect the blessing of Heaven upon
us, either as a nation or a party?
As we are proposing in the eyes ot
God and the world, to do a noble act,
that of proclaiming freedom to the
down-trodden slave, let it go the whole
figure oftrue magnanimity—extend ab
solute justice to every one, and not
stain the noble enterprise by remain
ing acts of injustice, to gram) an un
holy prejudice.
This is the true spirit, which alone
can conquer the powers of despotism.
Not until the Anti-Slavery of Kentucky
is pervaded by this spirit will it ever ac
complish much toward freeing the State
from its deadly leprosy.
SLAVE AUCTION*
Correspondence of the National Eia.
St. Louis, Mo., September *24, 1849.'
To the Fditor of the JSattonal Era:
I have just returned to my room, af
ter witnessing one of those soul-depres
sing and most unnatural of all earth's
wicked transactions, the saceof. three
human beings, at a public auction sale.
Three auctioneers, at three several
stands, under the eastern front of the
Court House of this great eity, cried
articles for sale at the same moment.
One of them sold old furniture; anoth
er, horses; and the third, living images
of the Almighty Father—a bureau, a
horse, a woman!
Kow much for Maria, gentlemen,
a very valuable woman, and sold for no
fault.”
And Maria was much more white
than black—more American than Afri
can blood in her veins Some white
man’s daughter, doubtless, was here
sold. Maria stood in the centre of a
crowd, her eves cast down, her bosom
heaving; in silence she stood under the
eastern porch of the desecrated Hall of
Justice, while men, trafficking in their
kind, bid upon her t osh, and bought,
with dollars and cents, a sister of “Ma
ry, the mother o| Jesus.” Then came
into the circle, at the word of command
(romt/ie man.who sold other men, anoth
er woman, w hose flesh, not so fair as
Maria’s, was not prized so highly, and
brought less per pound, though some
thing" more, I observed, than did'the an
imal with four feet, sold at the same in
stant under another hammer.
At last, the circle of buyers and sor
rowing lookers-on opened again, ad
mitting a girl of seventeen; and now
the greedy and hateful eyes of some
brightened up as with a reflected
glare from Satan’s keener glance. The
bids run rapidly up; this young woman
will work more yeais; never mind her
tears, the lash will dr) them up; don’t
tell of her grief, tasks w ill kill it out;
her mother, never mention her; her
soul, ah, yes, her soul! Watch her,
O Lord God! and, when her earthly
tasks of slavery are all done, let the
good of eternal life come to her soul,
out of the evil of her enslaved life on
earth!
As the girl of seventeen left the cir
cle to follow the purchaser of her bodv,
I observed that she took from her fin
gers three rings, and, with a look of
unavailing sorrow, handed them to a
boy who stood near, with a word’of anx
ious whispering, which I could not
hear-—probably she sant them as to
kens of a last farewell to friends held
dear. She followed out of the crowd
and down the street the man who had
bought her. She had no halter on her
head; it was on the soul.
Men of Missouri! press on for Free
Soil and Free Men!
THE MORMONS—STATE OF DESK,
RET.
The Mormons at Salt Lake have cal
led a convention; adapted a constitu
ition; appointed a delegation to Con
i grew; and are about to ask an adrms
sion into the Union as n state. They
call the new state which they hope u
establish, the slate of Deseret and have
accurately defined its boundaries. YVt
have traced them carefully on the map,
!as they are described, and find ftiai
they include nearly the whole of upper
California lying east of the chain ol
mountains called the Sierra Xevada;
leaving only the two valhesof San Joa
quirn and Sacramento to form the state
of California. San Diego and a few
miles of ocean coast also fall within the
proposed boundaries of the new state.
The Convention convened at the
Great Salt Lake City on the sch ol
March, and completed their labors in
about a week. The powers of the
Government are divided into three De
partments—Legislative, Executive,and
Judicial. The first Senate is to con
sist of 17 members, and the Hcuse of
35 members. Jn the Executive De
partment, provision is made for the
election of a Governor, Lieutenant
Governor, Secretary of State, Auditor
of Public accounts and Treasurer.
The Judicial power is vested in a Su
preme Court and such inferior tribu
nals as the Legislature f halt establish.
A Chief Justice and two Associate*
compose the Supreme Court.
In the Defloration of HighU, it is de
clared, M that all men have a natural
and inalienable right to worship God
according to the dictates of their own
consciences, and the Genera! assembly
shall make no law respecting an estab
lishment of islifiM or prohibiting the
JOHN PICK. Pv»i»hi*
WHOLE NO. 97.
I free exercise thereof, or disturbing any
person in his religious worship or sen
timents— proriiled he docs not disturb
the public peace nor obstruct others to
their religious worship.”
The constitution, as adopted, has a]
ready been put into practical operation
and a governor and other officers cho
sen under it. The first legislature met
in July, ard chose .t delegate to Con
gress, and passed resolutions, and an
address to that body, asking to be erec
ted into a state or territorial govern
ment.
PORTRAITS OF KOssi TH \ND
.Rt;.v
The Pcsth journals contain not leas
than sixty-nine sieck-bi uf< ©r orders
from the police to apprehend individu
als who are excluded frym the anmer
ty. They give a description of each
person. The following are the por?r*iU
of Kossuth and Bern, as sketched by
the authorities: “Ludwig' Kosuth.
Journalist, Advocate, Minister of Fi
nance. President oi the Committee of
Defence for Hungary, and, lastly, Gov
ernor of the Hungarian Republic; bor i
in Jass Berenji in Hungary, forty-five
years of age, Catholic religion, mar
ried, above the middle height, slight in
figure but strong, has an oval counte
nance, pale complex: >n. high open f>re
head, blue eyes, chesnnt br«*wn hair,
dark brown eyebrows, regularly formed
nose, ‘mail and ha. dsome mouth, teeth
perfect, a round chin, and dark beard
and moustache. He speak* the Ger
man, Hungarian, Latin, Slovakian,
French, and Italian languages. As
special marks: it may be noted that
his hair siighMy curls, and on the top
oi his head is thin almost to baldness
the breast is tolerably broad, but ruther
fiat than rounded; his hands are white
and delicate, his fingers Sousr: bis bear
ing is calm ami compose d, at times sol
emn and of a certain seriousness; he
walks uprightly; his voice is pleasant
and musical, winning, and, even when
he speaks low, can be distinctly heard,
ile produces the impression on the ob
server that he is an enthusiast Schtear
mer.) It is especially in his beautiful
ly shaped eyes that this expression of
enthusiasm resides: it is increased by
a peculiar habit of looking upwards.—
His general outward appearance does
not denote the energy of his character
When he writes German, neither his
grammar nor his orthography is cor
rect.” The pencil of the police seldom
sketches so favorably; the description
includes all the attributes of a hero of
romance, The term Schwamur is not
exactly rendered by “enthusiast,” it
means rather u pensive dreamer, one
absorbed in a subject, but still silent.—
Th» portrait Bonn b, lens elaborate,
and thrown off ih rougher strokes.—
“Karl Beni, General of the Insurgents,
age from fitly to fifty-five, middle
height, thin, has a round face, brown
and ruddy complexion, low forehead,
hair mixed with grey, grey eyebrows,
nose pointed and aquiline, broad
mouth, round chin, and a moustache
He speaks Polish, French, and Ger
man; has a slight stoop. It is believed
he lias the scar of a gun-shot wound in
the face, received in the engagement
betore 1*68111.” “The two me«, M says
the correspondent ol the 7 ’imen, “might
be taken as the respective tvpea of
thought and action.”
A “CHATTEL” FOR KALE
The following which we find in a pa
-1 per published in Norfolk, Ya., speakn
more than volumes of argument against
the most infamous system of wrong the
earth bears up. Mothers, sisters, daugh
ters, read it then refuse, if you can,
i to give your influence against a system,
which makes merchandise of the virtue
and beaut) of your sex:
Notice. For sale a colored girl, of
very superior qualijh atoms, who is now
in Mr. Hall’s Jail in Norfolk. She u
irhal Specalators tail a Raney Girl—a
bright Mulatto, fine figure, straight
black hair and very black eyes—re
markably neat and cleanly in her dress
and person. I venture to .*ay, that
there is not a better seuimstr* <s, cutter
and fitter of ladies’ and children’s dres
ses, in Norfolk or clsewhete, or a more
fanciful knitter of bead money
purses, kc.
Any lad or gentium in in Norfolk or
Portsmouth who may wish to purchase
a girl of this dcscriolion, whom I con
sider trie rno«t valuable in V irginia,;
may lake her arid I'y l>*r a month or
noire nl my ruL, and if he dec* not suit
and answer the description here giver.,
may retura her to Mr. Hall.
The cause of offence* for which I intend
though reluctantly.) to sell her is that
she has been recently seduced, by the
persuasions of some colored persons to
make her escape with them to the North
in which she failed, and is now for sale.
Apply to the subscriber, in Suffolk, or
to James Murdaugh, K-»q. or C, C.
Robinson, of Portsmouth, for further in
formation. JOSEPH HOLLADV.
Rrokek —This term was original!y
aplied to those whose business it was to
bteak packages and sell by the piece or
less quantity; it afterwards came to des
ignate an agent employed by both buy
er and seller, and is thus defined by the
learned Trollope:—“ lie u one who
steppeth in between two men making ft
bargain, and plur.derelh both.
for the Lazy.
Pride may sometimes be a useiul
spring-board to the aspiring, hut it is
much more frequently a destructive
stumbling-block.
A new invention, at Philadelphia, is
that of Hyalotype, or (be art of ta
king portraits on glaae.’'—-From one.
any number of pictures may be taken,
and at tcaa expense and time than Daguerreotyping.
Letter from J.M. Barrett
The foltowm* letter from J M- I arTel
present* a verv different view ot the eharae
tet of tbe people o» Spartanburg from »b*t
generally entertainer!. Mr. Barrett, we learn,
is on the way home. Ed. Era.
Spartxsburo, October 8. 1849.
Mr Editor: The Court of “Common
Plea**’’ for Spartanburg district has just cloe-
ed its session for this season, and the rusty;
hinges of my prison bolts have grated harshly
upon my ear»;for the last time. lam now at
liberty, and there is not manifested by the,
great mass of the community the least dispo
sition to treat me even disrespectfully. Those
men who had banded themselves together in
this place under the term “Safely Committee
and who, in order to keep themselves “safe"
from ihe action of the law against them for
their lawlea> conduct, have proclaimed them
selves “above the law and who, fiom the
time they cast me into prison up to the mo
ment appointed to rush me through the forms
of a publiu inai, had kept every instrument
in motion to excite the country and bring the
people up to the level ol then own fanaticism
and cruelty, have had the tables most com
pletely tarned upon them.
The yeomanry of the land came up to Court,
from the different parts ot the district, wnh a
stern rebuke to the spirit of disorder written
on their faces.
Instead of being prepared, as my enemies
had vainly hoped, to act against me with the
injustice of an excited populace, some of them
were importunate that 1 should turn upon my
pursuers, and give some of them a chance to
occupy for a season the same dark hole into
which they had so wantonly thrust rue The
truth is, the great heart of the honest and
Considerate portion of this community heal in
sympathy with my wrongs. They saw the
base injustice that had been dene me, and
were willing and even anxious that reparation
should be made.
These manifestation.*-, were not to be mista
ken by the Safety Committee.” When
■they saw all lioj>es of wreaking vengeance
upon me for the fancied injuries of the North
had vanished, they took counsel together as
to what was to be done, and determined that
my case should not be tried during the pres
ent session that,if necessaty, certain of the
worthy brotherhood should go before the
Court and make affidavit that, in ihe cased
the said J. M. Barrett, there was some im
portaut testimony that, during the whole
summei they had been slandering and perse
cuting him, they had riot been by any means
able to raise, and that, therefore, they were
not at present prepared to try the ease, anc
they must have six months longer to get thai
important testimony.
There is much more yet which in a shor
time 1 hope to give to the public. MeanwhiU
1 hope you will be kind enough to publtsl
this hasty sketch. I start for home in a few
moments. J. M. Barrxtt.
From the Loudon Advertiser.
American Slavery,—Wm. Wells Brown.
Last night a public meeting was held in the
Borough road Chapel, Southwark, oil the
subject of American siavery, arid to receive
Mi. W. Wells Brown, an American fugitive
slave. The Rev. Mr. Stevenson, minister ot
the chapel, presided. The meeting having
been opened with prayer, and the Chairman
having addressed the meeting at some length,
Mr. Brown, having been introduced by
Mr. Thompsen, M. P., then came forward,
and was received with loud cheering. He
said, everything around him made him feel
that in England he was a free man. He was
there to-night what he could not be in tbe
United States, lor lie felt that, until he arri
ved in England, he was nut a man according
to their law He never saw a day in Ameri
ca in which be was m t liable to be arrested
and carried back into slavery. People in this
country had no idea of what slavery in Amer
ica was. People in America graduated from
public institutions, and earned their diplomas
in their pockets. He had also graduated, bul
he carried his diploma on his back. He had
carried away with him, riot the stars of iht
American Union, hut the stripes. He thank
ed God he had the opportunity of advocating
in this country the cause of his oppressed fel
low slaves in America. He would now read
to them, he said, smie extracts from a paper
in St. Louis, in tlie city which lie had the
pleasure of saying he ran away from.
(Laughter.) Having read those extracts for
the put pose of showing the enormous otuel
ty practised on the slaves—even to the ex
tent of burning them to death,
Mr. G. T hompson said that he happened
to be acquainted with the circumstances oi
the horrid case alluded to, that of a slave be
ing burnt to death, and he could state thai
when the parties, who had been engaged u
the norrible atrocity, were indicted lor the of
fence, the Judge w ho presided told the Granc
Jury, that if they were of the opinion that t lit
act charged against the prisoners was sanc
tioned by custom, though contrary to law,
they would find in favor of custom and ignore
the bill, and the Grand Jury did so, and the
prisoner* were set at large.
Mr. Brown then resumed, and went on u
show the extent to w hich slavery was carrier
on in America —even ministers of the Gospe
not hesitating to advocate the accursed system
and dating to assert that it was compatible
with the principles of Christianity. Evert
effort was made to debase and brutalise tin
tuind of the slave. If they would give then
education and make them acquainted with tin
truths of Christianity, it would be impossibh
that the slaves could be long held in tliei
chains. In tin; I. luted Slates there were threi
million of slaves, who were treated as boiiq
no better than cattle, and were pent up to
sale as sheep or oxen were sold. It bad beei
decided by the Judges that a slave could no
appeal to the law—bul that he could only ap
peal to the lenity, and justice of ins master
In one of the States a whiteman could he ex
ecuted for four kinds ot odeuces, but m ih
same State a slave forfeited ins life if he com
milled any one of seventy ofiences—(Hear
hear.) In the Slate of Mississippi he knev
of a case in which tne wife ot a slave wa
condemned to be flogged. The husband, mi
able to see Ins wile so punished, snatched tin
whip from the overseer’s hand and ran awa 1
with it. He was immediately taken, howev
er, and for that simple act be was hanged
(Shame, shame He could tell them tha
men m the highest stations in America ha<
their slaves—even bishops had them —for In
saw recently an account ot one bishop hawiq
lost *ixiy-four slaves by cholera—a bishop—
a preacher ot Christianity—therefore, uko
saw, had his slaves, and wuat could ibey ex
pect when they saw men m such position)
giving couutPiiancc and support toihehorrii
practice. Hie own master as vei\ lehgious
and at night it was hi* (Mr. Brown dot!
to call in the slaves to praver. In Hie morn
mg, however, time could not be afforded n
the slaves to pray, but li e master piaved
them. (Laughter Indeed he oev« i t;«
one of them up to Im* flogged that he <li<fu
first read a portion oi ihe .criptures io th
slave, and give him in addition a moral le<
rure He (Mr. Brown) had heard tin nia;
ter tell a visitor |that he believed Ins slave
weie more benefited by his moral lecture
than by his flogging, and one day when
was himself tied op he ventured m say itu
he would take it all out in moral lecture
but the only answer lie received was a blot
over the head with a cowhide, few I,iucl
Ins master’s moral lesson.—(Laughter.) H
next alluded to the conduct of Faiher >l«
tbew in fefusmg to attend an antl*nl3%*r
meeting America, on the first ot August
m celebration of the anniversary ot the aboh
lion of slavery in the British West India ol
orues But the slaveholders notwithstanding
that would never forgive Father Mathew fu
signing an address against slavery some year
ago when he was m Ireland, and tha const*
siu*nee was tint he was now between twi
fires. He had no bad feel mg towards Fathe
Mathew, but as the advocate of three miluui.
of slaves in America, he could not help con
pasting. tl.e conduct of Father Mathew nov
it was in former yens. The ac
count of the meeting, held to-night, would
circulate in the slsve-holding states, and wheo
they saw that they were agitating io this coun
try, the hands of the abolitionists would be
strengthened, and they would be cheered for
ward in their labots. He concluded by ex
pressing the gratification he felt in being
among there at the present meeting.—
(Cheers.)
Mr. G. Thompson, M. P., addressed the
meeting. He said, notwithstanding whet bis
friend had stated as to the cruelties practised
upon the slaves in America, there is e moral
pollution in slavery which it vn impossible
adequately to conceive or desetibe. What
Btamped the system, in his estimation, as be
ing something more than infernal, was that
human beings, placed here to live together ss
brethren, should one portion of them take ad
vantage of their superior intellect, or their pow
dr, and sacrilegiously seise upon other of their
fellow-men .as if they were, like their cattle,
their own property. He did not know wbat
form public opinion might take to do away
with this infernal system, but they roust pro
mote its progress, by denouncing every man
who should uphold or advocate tbe infamous
practice. No man could doubt that America
was destined to take a leading part in human
affairs, and whit was now the reproach of
that country Slavery What the fertile
source of discord Slavery! What made
the south st variance with the north* Sla
very What was it that engendered all of
human tnsolenoe and human crime in the south
ern States* Why slavery And whtt, he
would ask, would make the American citizen
more welcome here than the abolition of sla
very How could America sympathise with
the struggles of the patriots in Italy, in Hun
r garv, and in other parts of Europe, so long
as she tolerates slavery 1 And what would
give point to her remonstrances, and force to
her appeals in favor of the suffering patriots
of Europe, but the abolition of slavery
(Loud cheering.) What, he would ask,
would be the effect of this meeting in the
United States* A man had come among
them wanting many recommendations which
might aid him—and yet he was received with
open arms, because he was a man of color
and a slave. He was not merely tolerated,
but he was cheerfully welcomed, and treated
as an equal. In the advancement of a great
cause like the present the best way was to
speak the truth, for if they did not speak the
truth nobody would be able sufficiently to rec
ognise that infamous practice they desired to
abolish. He wished that the religious com
inanities of the United Kingdom would speak
1 out, for much mischief was done when in any
wav they acted with the slaveholders of
America. After alluding to what had been
[I staled regarding Father Mathew*, and regrel
j ting that that gentleman had been induced to
i take the course imputed to him, he concluded
by calling the attention of the meeting to the
peculiar position in which Mr. Brown was
placed, and recommending him to their ex
tensive patronage. Mr. Thompson pioposed
a resolution to the effect that the meeting
deeply sympathised with the sufferings of
Mr. Brown while a slave in America, and at
the same lime expressed its regret that sla
very was still permitted to be a blot upon the
character of the United States.
Mr. Henry Clapp, of America, next ad
dressed the meeting, and said the present oc
j easion was in one sense not an agreeable one to
i him, as he had to speak, not of the institutions
of his country, which he admired, but of that
particular one which of all others he abhorred.
Since he had been living in Europe he had
been living under institutions with which he
confessed he had little sympathy, but any ob
jections he could urge against them had been
silenced, when he reflected on the blot which
defiled his own country. Believing, howev
er, as lie did, that the experiment of free in
stitutions in America would be successful—
-1 contending as he did for the right ofself-gov-
I ernment, he entertained no fears but that
America would purge herself of the present
j slain. Mr. C. continued at great length, and
•j having concluded,
I The resolution was agreed to, and imme
diately after the meeting separated.
The Settlers on Smith’s Lands in Onei
da Co.
At a Meeting of the Colored Emigrants
held upon the Smith lands in Florence, Onei
da Co., N. Y., at the Emigrant House, on
Saturday, October‘2oth, 1849, Rev. D. Pet
erson, General Agent, was present, and made
a statment of the amount of money received
by him as a donation for the Association, and
of the following named articles.—
First, a box of very useful books, suitable
for a Sabbath School Library, together
with other useful articles, presented by C.
Whipple, Esq., of Newbury port, Mass.
.Second, a Plow and Pitchfork, presented by
E. Bartlett, Esq., of the same place. Third,
one Shovel and Pitchfork, presented by Mr.
Brown, of Gardiner, Maine.—Fourth, a bag
of very useful articles, presented by Mr. P.
Wadsworth, of Bath, Maine, (a gift in part
from ilie Ladies.) After receiving the above
named donations, it was on motion, Resolved,
That we, the Emigrants of the Florence
.Settlement, tender our sincere thanks to the
above named gentlemen, and citizens general
ly, and also to the General Agent, for his ef
forts to render assistance to the Settlement,
until wc shall have passed the first winter in
our newly acquired homes, having arrived so
late at the settlement, that we could not real
ize a sufficient crop to sustain us during the
approaching winter.
We also take great pleasure in saying that
we found the white citizens of Florence to be
a kind and generous hearted people, who bid
us welcome upon our arrival in their midst,
and extended to us the hand of brotherly love;
and we can enjoy our individual rights in the
midst of such a people, which are life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness. We take pleas
ure in saying that the anti-slavery spirit is de
veloping in the bosoms of many of the citizens
of Florence and its vicinity; and we give with
pleasure the names of some with whom we
have become acquainted. Rev. Mr. Gar
bod, Rev. Mr. Fuller, Mr. Trimbal, Mr
Richards, Mr. Smith, Mr. Sparrow and fam
ily, and many others.
Florence village is 22 mile* from the vil
lage of Rome, by way ofTaberg, and we have
always found it verv pleasant and agreeable
m traveling that road, and we lake pleasure in
recommending the respectable portion of the
traveling public, irrespective of color, to favor
Mr. Hyde, of Taberg, with theit patrouage.
They will find hi* accommodations good, the
House large, neat, and well regulated, and
himself and lady very agreeable. And as
they proceed on to Florence village, they will
find Mr. Fairbanks, also very much of a gen
tleman, who keeps a good House, and pays
every attention to the travelling public. We
cannut close without making mention of the
citizens of Rome. We have found them to
be an enterprising and benevolent community,
and we fed grateful to them for past favors.
W»* are also indebted to the proprietors of lh»
Roman Citizen, for favors received.
The Settlement i* also particularly indebt
ed to I). G. Dorrance, Esq., of Florence, for
**i> kii.diiuss to ihe settlers, and his exertions
to promote the interests of the Association.
We would say that the prospects of the
Settlement are favorable, and that we intend
j to give a general statement of its affairs
through the columns of the public Newspa
per* a-5 soon a* practicable.
D. MACCOY, President.
W Ha-vkins, Secretary.
L 1 tLMon ,in behalf of tbe Sooiety.
Negro Mechanics
A meeting of the Journeyman Mechanics
of the town of Petersburg, Va., was bald on
the 20th ult., the object of which was to op
pose the competition brought about by the
employment of Negro Mechanics. We copy
from tbe Republican, the following Preamble
and Resolutions which ware adopted u tha
meeting and ordered to ba published
While ws regard tha right of proparty, and
the privilege of the owner to employ Jus alave
in honest labor, our mom of self-reaped de
mands that w« pat, place, esteem and main
tain ourselves a distinct society, tod not asso
ciate* of tbe Negro. Therefore, be it Re
solved.
Ist. That wc regard the leaching of aay
Negro any branch of the mechanic arte aa
prejudicial to the iatoreote, and injurious to
the morale of the laboring White man.
Sd. That we. whose names are hereunto
annexed, will not work for any employer who
shall take a Negro io bis employ, for the par
pose of teaching said Negro any branch of the
ineciiinic Arts*
3d. That each member ia at liberty to en
gage with any employer using his own slave
at the business, provided they be not publish
ed or provided tn any way subsequent to this
time.
4th. That we form ourselves ia a society
for our rights, as stated in the preamble.—
Signed bj the Committee.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, NOVEMBER 9, 1849.
Free boilers of Masaachmsetta.
Any approach to a consistent devotion to
principle, on the part of a political organiza
tion, in tbeee compromising and degenerate
days, may be innocently hailed with exceed
ing gratification for of all the aoos of men
from whom a straightforward, persevering
and undeviating adheaion to principle ia to be
expected* there ate none less to be relied up
on than the politicians of this country. We
say /hi country because there is, perhaps,
no country on the globe where political mo
rality and honesty are held in such shameless
contempt as in the United States. Political
consistency ia treated aa the greatest folly
when to be recreant and inconsistent present
the strongest ground for hope of success in
getting into power. Illustrations of the truth
of the foregoing allegation are so abundant
and familiar to all, that it would be a wasteful
expenditure of time and space to presentthem.
The history of the Liberty Party, and that
of the Free Soil Party of this State are well
known. The former commenced by decla
ring tbe incapacity of either of the great po
litical parties to perform anti-slavery work,
and to vote with either of those parties, in ths
estimation of Joshua Leavitt, and H. B. Stan
ton, with the whole Liberty Party, was to be
guilty of sin against God and man. The fact
that these men are now to be found with their
whole faction in this State, in union and fel
lowship with the Democratic Party, heeds on
ly to be stated to make ita disgusting apostacy
apparent. The Free Soilers also of this
State have shown their utter contempt for
their principles and pledges, bv whirling with
the most indecent rapidity over the bulwarks
of the Buffalo platform into the foul abyss oi
Hunkerism.
With such examples of political profliga
cy and perfidy before us, and with the gene
eral political debasement which surrounds us
on all sides, it is excusable to look with grat
ification upon the present Free Soilers of
Massachusetts. Supported only by the half
of a principle; laboring to limit that which
justice declares should be.wholly and for ever
destroyed; loaded with the burden andincon
venience of having to qualify and restrain the
legitimate deductions of their entire logic—
and possessing temptations to recreancy and
treason of the strongest possible description,
they yet cling to their organization with an
unshaken tenacity and zeal which is truly
amazing. There must be something in ths
metal of the men of Massachusetts which dif
fers in an important degree from that of those
in New York, Michigan, Wisconsin and else
where. Theit Free Soil brethren are falling
all around them. Their firmness, therefore,
admirable in any circumstances, is more ad
mirable now. They have nominated theii
candidates in that State, and havs brought to
their support a zeal bordering on enthusiasm.
We always read with pleasure the Free
Soil papers of Massachusetts. Conducted gen
erally! with great ability, they possess a
warmth and energy always refreshing and in
vigorating. Among these journals, ws may
mention The Massachusetts Spy” Tfu
Boston Republican and The Lowell Amer
ican.”
It is not to be inferred from anything wt
have now said of tbe Free Soil party of Mas
sachusetts, that our opinion as to successful
political action under the American Constitu
tion is at all changed. We hold now, as w<
have held during the last six yaars, that ih<
only true stand to be taken by the North, ia
to repudiate the American Conatitution witk
all ita slavehol ding guarantees, compromises
and provisions, and to adopt with full purpose
of heart the doctrine of “No union with
Slaveholders.” —r. n.
Anti-Slavery Meetings nt West Bloom
field—North Bloomfield aad Henrietta.
I spent Thursday, Friday, Saturday and
Sunday in the above named placet, endeavor
ing to awaken in these several communities
an interest in the cause of ths enslaved. With
what success the future must determine. I
can only aay, for myself, that tha deepest and
smeeteat wish of say heart was to plead the
cause of the bondman earnestly and honestly;
and if, by so doing, I gave offence to any, and
made but few converts, the responsibility must
rest elsewhere than upon my devoted head.—
The meetings were all very well attended;
especially those of North Bloomfiald and Hen
rietta. I have no fault to find with tho
amount of attention evinced by the different
audiences. A pleasing circumstance connect
ed with all these meetings is, that no difficul
ty was experienced in obtaining churches in
which to bold them. Ia West Bloomfield, tha
Congregational church was thrown open in
North Bloomfield 1 had tha Univerealist
church; and in Henrietta, tha Congregations)
chureh was, as usual, readily granted. Whoa
tbe chureh throws open ha doors freely to the
Anti-Slavery advocate, its members will aol
be long in arriving at right views, and right
actions on tha subjaet of Slavery. Tha mar
with the American churches, waged by tha
Abolitionists, would never have taken plaes
bad the former evinced a willingness to hear
the subject of slavery publicly daseuaaad.—
Thai coofiict was brought oa by no wish oa
the part of tha abolition mu; bet by the stare
necessity of their powueo. They aol only
found tha churches ia sympathy aad follow
ship with sisveholdsn; aad laoduy the sona
tina of the Christian ansae as tha foul abomi
oation of Southern slavery bat, they aloe
frenfl their dosie bolted aad burred iguast
tha faahfal advocates of tha alarm' causa;
esam ia ataaa dmpuir, at to make a hold at
task apoa these churches as the bulwarks of
American slavery It is ia tbe power of the
ehurdMi to eod this warfare; they have only
to come forth ia tha spirit and purpose of true
Christianity, aad to identify themselves with
the cause of God’s suffering poor; to throw
open their doors to these who seek the ex
tinction of slavery. and withhold their sympa
thy, fellowship, sad tha great sanction of the
Christian frees the buyers, sellers, and
enslavers of man. Until this is done, the fa
rinas oust (ss they term it) upon tbe north
ern churches cannot terminate; it would be
treason to-the cause of God and humanity to
cease our assaults upon them while they oc
cupy their present guilty position. I, howev
er, with pleasure, aad gratitude, note the
slightest indication of program in any of their
branches; aad ahull never withhold the just
meed of praise from individual churches be
cause tbe majority are in tbe wrong. To tbe
minister of the Congregational chureh in West
Bloomfield, (the Rev. Mr. Fisher,) I am un
der especial obligation*. It was through his
agency that tha free use of the church in that
place was gran tad. While in West Bloom
field, I shared the kind hospitality of Mr. S.
H. Ainsworth and family—whose many at
tentions will not soon be forgotten. Mr.
Ainsworth is a Horticulturist as well as an
Abolitionist; and it was easy to see that, in
in the former department, as well as ia tbe
latter, whatever his hands found to do, he did
witk all hi* alight. He has a large nursery
of tbe moot choice fruit trees, for which, at
this season of the year, there is quite a ready
sale. Should any of our friends wish to pur
chase fruit treee of a superior description, I
know no place to which they can more success
fully apply than to S. H. Ainsworth of West
Bloomfiald.
The anti-slavery meeting at Henrietta on
Sunday evening was an occasion of much in
terest. I was informed that a larger number
were in attendance than on any former occa
sion. In addition to my own speech, James
Sperry, a veteran in the anti-slavery ranks,
addressed the meeting with marked earnest
ness and eloquence. This venerable friend
took a very hopeful view of the present aspect
of the anti-slavery cause, and to some extent
he differed from myself in the conclusions at
which I had arrived on that subject. I had
been regretting the great diminution of anti
slavery effort in this State; and the exceeding
tendency to compromise, on the part of many,
who had advocated anti-slavery principles
and I had ventured to say that, unless some
thing was speedily done to re-invigorate the
anti-slavery forces, what had already been
gained would soon be lost.
To this part of my discourse, Mr. Sperry
replied by presenting the numerous obstacles
which had been overcome by the anti-slavery
movement, hit presentation was sufficiently
true; and the sole difference between us con
sisted in the fact that I feared we should lose
all we had gained by not using proper efforts
to gain more and he hoped that we should
retain all we have by some means that we
know not of. The truth is, that our Liberty
Party friend* are at sea—and are very nearly
ship-wrecked. Thoy have discovered the
rickety character of their bark—and despair
ing of human means for relief, too many of
them are quieting their consciences, and ex
cusing their inactivity by discussing learnedly
on the behests of Providence, and by professing
to rely upon this Power, instead of putting
forth their own energies to gain the desired
port. 1 would not be understood to class Mr.
Sperry with the inactive claaa which I have
described but his philosophy of Sunday
evening sounded to me much like an apology
for the want of earnest effort to carry forward
the anti-slavery cause. His practice, howev
er, is that of a warm, energetic, and peise
vering reformer; and his apology was more
an apology for his party and old associates,
than for himself.—r. o.
Meeting of the Pennsylvania Anti-Sla
very Society.
This annual assembly of the friends of free
dom in Pennsylvania, seems to have been an
occasion of unusual interest this year. The
attendance was very numerous, and presented
a most lively ahd cheering aspect. The Res
olutions cover the whole ground of present
anti-slavery duties. Among those who ad
dressed the meeting at various stages of its
proceedings, were Edward M. Davis, C. L.
Remond, Thos. Vanranselaer, Wm. L. Gar
rison, Lucretia Mott, Thos. Hambleton, Mil
ler McKing, and Sydney H. Gay. A meet
ing having such an array of talent, earnest
ness, and exalted character, to address it,
could not be other thsn highly interesting and
instructive. The presence of W. L. Garri
son always introduces an anti-slavery atmos
phere, which it is ever pleasant to breathe.—
When he leads the way, it is difficult to fal
ter. It is needless to say that to him the
meetMg appears to have been indebted for a
large share of its success. Our Pennsylvania
friends, among other of their noble resolutions,
have passed one, earnestly inviting George
Thompson, (the greatest of anti-slavery ora
tors,) to our shores. To mske the invitation
as emphatic as possible, the vote wss taken
by rising; when, impatient for the announce
ment of the question, the vast sndience unan
imously rose to their feet. The rumor of
George Thompson’s coming to the United
States, has been set afloat so frequently that
it is difficult to pisce any reliance upon it.—
We, however, think the friends of freedom
may now repose <m the prospect of soon see.
ing, ones sgain, among them the men who,
fourteen years ago, when the cause was youhg,
helpless, and hated, forsook the land of hie
birth, and the enjoyment of the well earned
laurels gained in the struggle for West India
Emancipation— and epos our slave-cursed
ahoree, dedicated himself aed his powers to
tbo redemption of the and fettered
bondman of Uue Democratic Republic. We
have no doubt that Mr. Thompeoe will re
eoive a welcome in this country of which the
gieetem hero of modern times might well be
prood. He will net now be branded and
aeter, who had left hieeoantry in cmaqssnoa
of hie maJ practices, as the -—tee ef free
dm in this beamed lend ef liberty, formerly
•aaermd; bet be will be ballad, by the wise
ead the geod ef the nation, as a man ef high
character, ef murimrnding talents, and of ex
alted philanthropy George Thompeoe is a
Mbererihe British Parliament; and was
made seek by n majority the meet ovorwkelm
■f arm wtaemod in the Tower Hamlets
The fumylvMik aeti slavery society has
elected Um foUowmg office** for Uie eoeuiag
ymt:
Prmdent— Robset Prt*»-
Via Presidents James Melt, Lindley
Coatee.
Corresponding Secretary —Mary Grew.
Roaring Secretary- Haworth Wet herald.
Tmncrrr Sanh Pogb.
Additional Member* of tie Exocut toe Cem
mettoo Lucrctia Mott, Benjamin C. Bacoo,
Edward M. Davie, Rowland Johoeoo, B.
Rush Plainly, Peter Leaier, Margaret Jonea.
—r. d.
Proscription ul Ofpwnlm toward*
colored ckkildrea la Eeckwler.
In the North Star of 17th of August 1849.
we published an able and interesting Report
to the Board of Education in this city, signed
by four of its members, demonstrating the fol
ly and wickedness of creating distinctions
among equal citizens on account of complex
ion—and recommending the abolishment of
the colored school on Washington Street,
and the free admission of colored children in
to the District Schools on equal terms with
white children.
We are sorry to say that this excellent Re
port is rejected by the Board of Education,
and that they have adopted a course towards
our children as cruel as it is disgraceful.
For some time past they have been at a lorn
to find a place whereon to build a school-house
for colored children: when almost wearied
out in the pursuit, and almost ready (from
sheer necessity) to admit colored children into
the District Schools, where they have a right
to be, we record with shame and confusion the
scandalous fact that the trustees of the Zion
Methodist ORurch, for the paltry considera
tion of two hundred dollars offered the use of
the cellar of their meeting-house,* and have
thus become the servile tools of their own pro
scription and degradation. For such base
and cringing servility we have no language
sufficiently strong to express onr indignation
and contempt. These trustees have not only
sanctioned by this conduct the spirit of caste
by which we are constantly haunted and tor
mented, but, for the sake of a paltry reward,
they have been willing to endanger the health,
and ruin the constitution of the whole genera
tion of colored children in Rochester. The
cellar of that church about as fit for a
school-house for tender children as an ice
house would be, and we have been credibly
informed that that has t been the use to which
this cellar has been put. The house itself oc
cupies a piece of very 'ground, and for
three months in the year is surrounded by mud
and water and into the low, damp and dark
cellar of this house, these recreant black men
have been willing to thrust the colored chil
dren of this community. Two hundred dol
lus have 'proved a sufficient inducement to
these Trustees to sacrifice a vital principle
and to peril the, lives of their own children.
Shame upon their narrow souls! and let ev
ery colored child in the city cry shame It
was to be expected that our white negro ha
ters would seek our degradation, it is their hab
it to do so, But for colored men to become
their willing tools is a depth of infamy scarce
ly to be apprehended. We still hope, how
ever, that this bribe will be withheld, and
that these Methodist Trustees will be shamed
and scorned out of their ignominious pioposi
tion by the justly indignant colored population
of thiacity.—r.
A Story and its Application,
George Thompaon, in a speech made at
the meeting in London to welcome Wm.
Wells Brown, to the metropolis of England,
a partial report of which, appeared in our last
number, told the following story, the applica
tion of which we would specially commend to
the negro-haling Liberty—Equality—Frater
nity men, of this great and mighty republic:
‘•We hear a vast deal in America about
sympathy with Rome, and sympathy with
Ireland. Oh, yes, the southern men are great
sympathisers. It is not sober Boston that
takes the lead in sympathy with the oppres
sions of Europe or in any struggle which
may be going on on the banks of the Danube,
or the Seine, or elsewhere But it is in the
south that you hear these expressions of sym
pathy. Now, the conduct of these slave
holders reminds me of an anecdote which I
once heard. A gentleman was making a
morning call upon some ladies in the south,
and paming through the yard up to the door
he saw a number of naked children—colored,
of course, or they would not have been na
ked, and naked because they were colored—
running about in a very neglected condition.
When he got into the house he found the ladies
of the family very busily at work making all
sorts of garments. It is not a very usual
thing for ladies in the south to be particularly
industrious in this wty. like all the inhabi
tants of warm climates, they indulge a little
in idleness; but this gentleman wished to
know what made them all so busy at that
particular lime when the lady of the house,
in a very tender, (sentimental tone, informed
him that they wme preparing some clothes to
send them to New York, or elsewhere, for
some poor, distressed, refugee Poles. “You
are working for the Poles, are you!” said he.
“Jhst so,” said they. “Ah, I saw a num
ber of thorn as I was coming up to the house.”
“What?” said they; “you saw a number of
Poles near our house?” and they started up
and ran to the door, exclaiming, “Where?
where? where?” “There? there! there!”
•aid the gentleman, pointing to the naked
children: “thooe are the Poles I mean!”
(cheers and laughter.) So I aay to Ameri
ca eeaee yoar anathemas against eroxier and
sceptre in Europe; cense to denounce Nicho
las of Russia, and the other tyrants who
plant the heel of despotism upon the necks
of their subjects. You have your Hungary
at beam; you have your Ireland at home; you
have your Poland at home; you have your
Piedmoetat home; you have your Sicily at
horns. Go aod proclaim the truth of the lan
guage of your Declaration of 1776 again in
1848; let liberty again descend, her second
•dveot being brighter and batter than the first
(M cheers.) Wear mckeleth tad ashes, aod
pwetoam yourselves ie the dost, till you eaa
•ajr, “There ie not between ocean and ocean,
sad ocean nod mountain, a slave or tyrant in
America (lend and prolonged cheering.)
Now 1 nay all this without aay prejudice
against America. The men who knew me
here know that I an no admirer of despotism
at heme (baer, bear.) Isay not, go to work
*osat up tepnhliraaim here; we meal be
irises, as well as bald; bet I say, if 1
have so uhosan for my calf, givefo* democ
racy (food ebnets.) If las aale* whether
it will work well, aspattafiy for* **w coun
try, I any, look at Amnrie*. Th* prebte®
is solved; Uwage of experiment is. peerod
all the doubters and cavillers sod disbelievers
are silent. There ere often found many
squabbles, many foods, many seeds nod sour
ces of discord io her midtts **l elill she
stands, and would stand, out symmetrical and
sublime, if this giant abuse, this crying insult
to God and degradation to man, where put an
end to, for ever. It is not that I love Ameri
ca lese, but that I hate her crimes more
(eheers.) Lst her bring out from the camp
this accursed thing—consign it to the remorse
less fire—
Watch till the latest apark tapir*,
Thai stream its ashes to th* wind.
Nor tears an atom wrack behind,”
and then I, for one, would have adopted that
country for the rest of my life- Though
my children should live bdle to wage war with
the poorest of the poor against the strongest
of the strong, I will point to America and
my, that is the oountry which, since men
love liberty and aspire to achieve it, has
wrought out the sublimes! proof of the com
petency of man to share in his own govern
ment (loud and prolonged cheering.)
Equal School Privileges.
At a meeting of th# colored citixeos of
Rochester, on Tuesday evening, 30th Oct.,
the following resolutions, expressing the views
and feelings of the colored people, with re
spect to colored schools, and especially in re
gard to the proposition of the Board to open
a school in th* cella* or Zion Chuecx,
were unanimously adopted:
Resolved That ye will not send our chil
dren to the basement, proposed to be fitted up
for a colored school.
Resolved That •it is desirable that th*
means of education should be of th* most
cheerful and inviting character; and that a
school-house, of all others, should be render
ed attractive, as well as suitsbls to the pretac
tion and preservation of health; and be
lieving that these views have uniformly pre
vailed in the Board of Education, we are all
the more pained and grieved that they have
selected the co/d, damp and gloomy basement
of Zion Church for a colored school.
Resolved That this meeting regards with
pity bordering on contempt, the weak, and
easily bought Board of Trustees of Zion
Church, who granted s lease of th* basement
of that chureb, and thereby allied themselves
with the pro-slavery Irish faction in the Board
of Education—and have grossly wronged the
colored children in this city of their education
al rights.
Resolved That in the opinion of this meet
ing the Trustees of Zion Church transcended
the limits of their office when they granted the
above mentioned lease, since the money for
building it was collected in the name of the
citizens at large, and with the express under
standing that there should be a school io it for
the use of colored children.
Resolved further, That, as the Trustees are
only appointed by the church, and are un
known as the representatives of the colored
people, their attempt to act for them in this
instance is without authority, and, thtrsfore,
of no binding force.
JAMES SHARP, Chairman.
B. D. Pattison, Secretary.
The following petition has been numer.
oualy signed:—
To the Honorable, the Board of Education:
We, the undersigned colored citizens of
Rochester, and patrons of the colored school
on the west side of the river, having recently
learned with much surprise and regret that a
committee of your honorable body have loca
ted the school in the cellar basement of Zion
Church, on Steven’s alley
Your humble petitioners feeling much inter
est in the moral, intellectual, and physical ed
ucation of their children, consider the proposed
location totally unfit for the proposed school.
A basement, situated on s low spot, without
s drain, must, of necessity, be damp; this
would subject the children to constant colds,
and injure their constitutions for ever. The
low ceiling of the building, the obstruction
of buildings on the North, West and East
sides must always deprive them of proper
light and ventilation, all of which are so ts
sential to health. The construction of the
room is such that it will bn impossible to have
separate departments, which are necessary for
a respectable school.
The undersigned petitiooers, for the last
five years, hsve quietly and peaceably looked
upon the miserable thing called (falsely) a
school, until forbearance has ceased to be s
virtue. If we hsve do legal rights in common
with others, but are only beggars and paupers
at the mercy, and wholly dependent, upon the
charity and liberality of the honorable Board
of Education, then we have no right to oom
plain, and the smallest favoi ought to be thank
fully received but if we have a legal right to
to equal participation in the common schools
of the State, for the enjoyment of that right
your humble petitioners will ever (way.
A Southerner in Albany.
None* —To tsx Fribmds or tmx South.
—Mr. Henry B. Brewster, of Mobile, Ala.,
and late from New Orleans, it now on a visit
to the North, and iu Albany for a firs days.
Mr. B. baa been engaged in the Temperance
cause, Tract distribution, Bethel operations,
and more particularly in attending colored
churches and encouraging slaves to attend the
means of regular religious worship, with the
happiest sod almost incredible results both to
the master aod the slave. This has been hie
practice for yean; and be is ready and willing
to giva the friends of the South in the North
bis masons for regarding the Abolition qneo
lion as founded in error, aod destructive alike
to the North and the South. If aay church
or house can be had, and the people disposed
to hear the truth, sad reasons given why
Slavery ie nor the awful and tumble curst
which some people denounce it, Mr. B. will
gladly attend, and give his views from actual
experience on this question. He can be Pound
at Staawut Hall.— Roaring Journal, Oct. 18.
Axsaky, Oct. 88d, 1848.
FRiKVD Douulass :—The endoaod notice
was taken from the Albany Evening Journal,
of the ilth iaet. Its appearance in a Journal
ao large aod influential, wae well calculated
to give it mote weight and oonridcrition than
it really deserved. We, therefore, thought it
oeeesmry to notice it; consequently we wrote
the gentleman, whose nemo ie attached, a
erne which you will alaofiad enclosed, asking
him to diacum the qaocrioa which he tamed
bet knowing as he did, that “truth was mighty
and would prevail,” he very wisely declined.
We send hie note, whisk to aey the least, ex
hibits n depth of hypocrisy, and error,
whisk we did not expegt to And in any white
man, especially a Reversed gentlemen, «e we
have rimes learned he ie. Bel w« will not
make any nammanta, but mod youtha norite,
our note, and the rnply of Mr. Henry B.
Brewmer, the gsntl—an who feopoona in
show that the Aboihkmjsla sit wrong in
taring the Slavery question. Not supposing
of eonrsn, that the \neimut f —m
any intrinsic merit of itself, hat may format
tbame for a few oommenu which may posMhiy
beoeht that narrow minded data to whiah Mr
B. belongs.
Yoon, most truly,
wm. p. Mclntyre
J. w. Randolph!
Tbs following is s copy of ear nets to its
gentleman
A leaky, Oet. 19th, 1849.
Ms. Hnttr B. Baswrrsa: Sir—Haring
learned by the Journal of last evening, that
you ea preseed t desire to prove that the Abo
litionist* are wrong in sgifoting the qnattion
of American Slavery, provided a Church at
Hall could be obtained, the undemgaed avail
themselves of the present opportunity to say—
if yon will consent to th* qnattion with
sitber of thorn—a suitable plan be pro
vided for the purpuee. An answer will ha
awaited with much patience.
We subscribe ourselves, your oh’t tern's,
wm. p. Mclntyre.
J. W. RANDOLPH
tmr.
Mzssaa. Wm. P. Mclntra*, J. W. Ran
dolph Gents— Controversy sad dueuseien
about American Slavery is not my haaisass
Hearing so much said concerning the wrongs
of Slavery, and sating the perfect ignorance
which prevails respecting the moral, social
and religious condition of Slaves in contrast
with free negroes of New York, has led me to
propose speaking of what I know concerning
the moral and teligioua improvement of the
slaves; as I havs saeo it, and experishcad u
for the last fourtsen yean. This is ail I have
proposed or intended.
In the Tribune of the 4th day, you will find
s communication from me; also, in the Ame
rican Anti-Slavery Standard of the 9th iast.,
(on file in Young Men'• Association Rooms,)
is another, to which I beg leave, very respect
fully, to invite your attention; as affording
full scope for the exercise of the beet hearts
sad pans in America. I think it probable
the editors will be gratified to reoeive replies
from you.
I have attended sever a) public diseuarisM,
and have noticed that most men oome to such
meetings pretty much as gamblers sod ieeforo
attend s hone race; or lounge about abilliard
room; and, therefore, I have studiously avoid
ed controversy on til subjects. Whaa 1 re
member such minds as Jefferson, Marshal,
Washington, Adams, Clay—with seeds of
other giant intellects, which have grappled
the slavery question, from the first organisa
tion of pur national government, pro sod cm,
I assure you, gentlemen, and all mankind, I
feel myself a little child; and absolutely shad
tears at the sense I hsve of my own iosignifi
cance.
But for all this, 1 really, truly, sincerely
believe American Slavery to be ordered by thro
Almighty Ruler of the Universe I also be
lieve that Slavery has been the greatstt bias-
sing, ntxt to our national independence, this
country ever enjoyed and 1 firmly believe it
now to be the greatest blessing the colored
people enjoy far more so than any boasting
negro freedom I havs yet seen; I assure yon,
gentlemen, as truly a* I hope in God’s massy,
I have never, In the fourtsen years 1 hsve beau
Sooth, seen such misery and snqtchsds—
among the slave*, as I havs seen in Nam
York among the free colored people, thie
summer. I did not com* here to be the apol
ogist ar defender of slavery, for from it. I
have two step-daughter* living with a broth
er-in-law in Troy, which brought me hero
and hsve no desire or disposition to so tar the
azsaa of political discussion, hut am ready to
do what I have proposed.
Respectfully, youra, dtc.,
HENRY B. BREWSTER.
Beet cm.
Dias Dovclsss :—Here we are in Beaton,
the Athens of America. The person who
surveyed and laid out thin city ought to hove
a tall monument in Mouut Auburn. Thme
are many superb private and public buildings
Their style indicates a icflned taste, and greet
wealth. The people have n sober, intelli
gent, and busy appearance; and present quite
a contrast to the New Yorkers, net havidg
any of their care-worn, devil me care appear
ance. I had letters to several gentlemen on
Milk street, and found them very polite* sad
agreeable. If any of your Western raiders
go East to replenish their stocks of Dry
Goods, Boston is an excellent market, sad I
recommend them to call upon Masers, Dor
mice, Newton k Co.; Sumner, Brewer Ji
Co.; Blanchard, Convene Jc Co., on Milk
street, and the hosts of heavy dealers in their
immediate vicinity.
I was much disappointed ie not acting or
hearing Rev. Theodore Parker; it weald have
been a great treat to me. I have reed seme
of Mr. Parker’s religious aod political works,
aed admire them fee their vigorous style, ead
the ability with whisk he handles his labjaau.
I wae greatly surprised ead pleased to fled
my old friend Louis Haydea, oe Cambridge
street, in n good stove, well filled with geode,
and doing a good burinem. Hayden’s life
has been somewhat singular. Five years age
he wm a sieve in Keatocky. Two yearn age
he left Michigan, depressed in mind, and pov
erty knowing at his pockets. New I find
him in Boston pushing op into the ranks ef
her Merchant Princes. Verily, this leaks like
taking care of himself. And 1 possum he
would not return South fm the bunt sitoitina
the slaveholders could give him. 1 hid the
pleasure of seeing the Hos. Robert Morris.—
1 found him in his cAee surrounded with bo
riaam. He is a very mtoiligeut and genile
maaly young men, and it was gratifying to
find oae of the proscribed clem oocupyieg so
exalted a atarisn hi one of the learned Predse
aieos. For the fiml time, I had the plemuie
of teeing end taking by the heed, that eU vet
one Philanthropist, William L. Oanisse
It really dean one good to leek upon hit held
heed and h—valiet face. If thme ieas iodi
ridual in this wovM io whom we ewe e debt
sdgsarimds, that indmdsal is W LGmri
•oo. I found Mr. Nall in the Lihststsi vitoa,
and wm happy to make hm ■oqmistsaoo
Years, Ae., B-
Boon*, Qet. 18th, Iflfifl.
To Correspondents.—Out firiri H. *f
Leeds, england, is informed that his letter is received.
Foreign News of the Week
The Europe, Capt. Lott, arrived at Halifax
00 Wednreday, the 84th ult., ud bnofa one
week's later intelligence from Europe.
Ewoiahd.—The return of the Chancellor
the Exchequer, for the October quarter,
hi been published. The Custom duties for
the quarter ending the sth ult., exhibit advan
ces of £153,811. The Excise has increased
£186,000; Stamps about £885,000; Prop
erty taxed £91,000; and Poet Office Reve
nue £lOO,OOO.
The cholera has so nearly disappeared that
the papers have ceased to chronicle its pro
giee*. Seme good seems likely to grow out
of the visitation in Loodon. In the Lambeth
dinner, where the ravages of the epidemic
were meet destructive, practical efforts are
shout to be made to improve *l>« dwellings of
tha poor, and erect cheap hatha and wash
houses. A more efficacious mode, wa opine,
of preventing its return, than that of fasting
oo account of national aina, or declaiming
about national judgments.
We find, in ear English exchanges, reports
of a very important meeting held at tha Lou
don Tavern, “to consider the advertisement
recently issued by the Austrian government
foralotn of £7,000,000 Marling.’' Mr. Cob
geo «aa there, and in a very effective speech
supported the following resolution
•'That the government of AuMria, having
proposed to raise a loan in foreign countries,
capitalists and men of business are thereby in
vited to investigate the financial position of
the said Government, and the probability of
its repaying the loan thus proposed to be con
tracted and that it is the opiaion of this
mealing that no valid security is tendentd, or
ess be offered, in the present state of the Aus
trian government, which would justify pru
dant men in taking any part of the said loan.”
This meeting probably decides the fate of
the loan in England.
Lord Palmerston, it is said, has sent a note
to Russia, in which he intimates that the in
terests of humanity are opposed to the extradi
tion of Koaauth and his associates from Tur
key, and that England must resiM the demand
if persisted in. France is understood to con
cur. The British fleet lying in the Mediter
ranean, has bean ordered to the Bosphorus.—
The result of these vigorous measures is tol
erably certain. For aix months in the year,
the commerce of Russia is blocked up by the
ice. Let the naval force of England keep up
the blockade for aix months longer, and the
bully of Europe will be brought to terms.
Russia cannot afford to lose her commerce.—
“If tha porta of Riga and Odessa (said Mr.
Cobdeu, in his speech) were hermetically 1
sealed for six weeks, the Russian nobles, who
could not aell their hemp, tallow, and flax,
which was all mortgaged before it was out of
tha country, would do in tha case of tha pre
sent Cxsr what they had done in the case of
othsrs— they would vary soon dispose of his
eccentricities.” Ha laughed at the idea of
Russia going to war with England. But he
laughed still more at the idea of Russia going
to war with England and Franca,
“Tha wont that could come would, in his
opinion, be a blockade, which could be main
tained with one-half the naval force kept up
by this country in time of peace. He sincere
ly hoped that before another fortnight had
passed, they might see Kossuth and his brave
companions in England [loud cheers.] He
saw that Hsynsu had been decorated with
stars and ribands till his vefy humane breast
vu completely covered with them [a laugh],
sod crosses and ribands had been plentifully
showered from St. Petersburgh upon other
butchers. Well, when Kossuth and his fel
low-pataiota arrived in this country, it would
be seen whether Englishmen, who sympathi
sed with human progress and freedom, could
not decorate them, in the hour of their misfor
tune, with that which must be most honorable
sod gratifying to them —the tribute of the ad
miration and respect of an independent people.
The agitation against Sunday labor in the
London Post Office has been carried on with
rigor. Numerous and influential meetings
bav# been held in London and Westminister
memorialize the government against the pro
posed measure. The result has been t reite
intfon by the authorities of their iotefltion of
«n«wi»g the services of the clerks on Sunday
entirely optional.
Tha Protectionists are as usual loud in thsir
grumblings. Mr. D’lsraeli has been agitating
hia plan for a tax on all imports to form a
■inking fund for tha benefit of needy land
lords. He appears anxious to fulfil the scrip
ture saying “To him that hath shall be giv
en.” Tha Marquis of Granby, a youthful
aspirant after political honors, is loud in his
demands for a return to the protective policy.
Ha tails tha farmers that they are inevitably
ruiatd, if tha free trade system is continued.
At a meeting of ao Agricultural association,
ha said
“I am convinced that our future welfare
depends upon protection. When he looked
round the world, and aaw the number of cat'
da imported—when ha considered the weight
of their taxation—whan ha considered the
vast tracts of land in Russia and America that
could be cultivated in corn—whan ha consid
ered all theca things, he was confirmed in the
opinions bo had already formed, that it waa
only Protection that could keep Great Britain
freas falling [loud and long cheating].
The aeeeunta from Ireland respecting the
potato crop, are very melancholy. Emigra
tion, especially from the South, is proceeding
at a rapid rate. Tha Cork Reporter aays:
“A melancholy proof of the want of confi
dence felt by the people in any promise in the
•endiaou of the country is to be found in the
extraordinary tide of emigration at this mo
neat setting from our shores. The class of
peraons migrating, w« understand, is very
respectable, and we have been told of one
party who takas with them tha asm of £4^.”
Tha eld repeal agitation has bean revived.
Mr. Jobs O’ConntU has once more appeared
on tha political stage, with an epistle address
ed to the people of Ireland. The “monstrous
injustice of the Church Establishment,” is to
form a main feature in the revived agitation.
Conciliation Hall has been again opened.—
Mr. John O'Connell, at the fi m mating
the Hall, after handing m subscriptions, and
reading letters from various persons, proceed
ed to address tha matting. l« the course of
his speech he acid
1“T« what did thayinviia tha country To
ropaat, of course. Thai was the begwarns
and cod of nil—the grant question that could
never ha abandoned, sever compromised nev
postponed ooe moment, The terrible win
before them would be robbed of half iu
imW, if that Parliament now act, as it would
•uh the blessing of God yet ait, io College
rjjjn Repeal, then, was to ha at the hum
whiltt they ware working hard at other
2J***-*® dock. Their nationality meant a
oiMSST* 01 r *kf lou ••eeoden-
ThawTr*** I**ol 1 01 for “7 purty in the State.
"fl nod
(Cheers i C **ureh —foMiahi—nt.”—
V'-■w m.) The next quMfoa waa the rtrti
Miy of rent being reduced, and Mam right
mutt be actively poshed.*' I« to the
present slat* of Enrope. tbs speaker mid—
“lf England coocedea the rightful deosaode of
the Irish people, she need aot fear for the ro
salt; hat if she persevere in mjuntiea, sad
coottaoe herself, the enter of Heaven, aa
avenging God will say, V eagaaaee is mine,
and i will repay.'
At the dose of the meeting, Mr. J. O'Cna
nell announced the rent for the week to he
£95 50.
From all that appears, the policy of the new
society will lean to the “Yoeag Ireland”
school, and an alliance with the priesthood
will be sought.
A parliamentary paper, joet published,
shows that the total number of persons evict
ed in Ireland, under the Act of last eoosioa,
amounted to the large number of 19,858, out
of a gross total population of 8,176,184.
Fsance.—Respecting the difficulty between
Russia and Turkey on account of Kossuth
and the other Hungarian refugees, the Cm
stitutumnel aeye—
“The Governments of Frame and F-*g>«nd
are quite agreed in their approval of the con
duct of their ambassadors at Constantinople.
We are assured that thay have sent to St.
Petersburgh a collective note, and that they
have adjourned their answer to the questions
of the ambassadors as to the case, which is by
no means probable, of a violent rapture be
tween Turkey and Russia, until after the an
swer of the Russian Government to the rep
resentations addressed to it in favor of the in
dependence of the Ottoman Porte.” On the
same subject the Presse says: “On Wednes
day evening M. de Tocque villa received from
Lord Normauby a communication of the in
tentions of the English Government with re-
Brd to the refusal of Turkey to give up the
ungarian refugees. The Minister for For
eign Affairs replied that the French Cabinet
would follow the same line of policy aa that
adopted by England in the affair. One of the
six questions submitted by the Divan to Sir
Stratford Canning, and to General Aupick,
viz: what assistance the Porte could obtain
from France and England in case of a rupture,
was left unanswered, the two ambassadors not
conceiving that they could nply without fresh
instructions from their respective Govern
ments. Before sending those instructions the
English Csbinet wished to act direct on that
of St. Petersbuigh.”
The majority of the Assembly have decided
that the motion of M. Napoleon Bonaparte,
for an amnesty to the Bourbon family and the
insurgent*, should not be taken into conside
ration, because the junction of the Bourbons
and the insurgents in any such measure would
be s profound insult to the dignity of the na
tion.
Prosecutions of the pres* still continue.—
M. Benieao, editor of the Vrate Rejmblique,
has been sentenced by the Court of Assize of
Paris, to imprisonment for one year, aud to
pay a fine of 9,000 f. for having published
what is called a seditious libel, entitled La
Ldberte da Pauvra.
There have been violent disturbances in the
Porte St. Martin in consequence of the per
formance of a drama called “Rome,” in which
the Pope is the hero, and Mazzini,Q*rribaldi,
and others, principal characters. After three
representstions, it was prohibited. Ten thou
sand francs indemnity has been paid to the
director, for hia lost in stopping the perform
ance.
The French Government had received ad
vices from Rome to the 4th ult. It is report
ed that the Pope has taken alarm at numerous
assassinations of French soldiers, and believes
that then is an extensive plot for hi* assassi
nation if ha should mturn. He expressed a
wish, therefore, to remain at Naples during a
portion of th* winter.
Italy.—The GiornaU di Roma publishes
the following notification:
“French soldiers have from time to time
been exposed to attempts at assassination, in
which cowardice was combined with brutal
hatred gnups of armed individual* have
joined to assassinate a single man. Such
crimes deserve exemplary punishment. The
councils of war will try the culprits. These
deplorable facts prove that the surrender of
arms has not been complete, and that s great
many individuals have found means to elude
the diiections of the military authorities. In
order to insure the full execution of the above
measures, and prevent new crime*, the Gene
ral-in-Chief orders as follows:
“Ast. 1. From this day twenty-four hours
are allowed for the surrender of arms of every
description by those who have not s special
licence from the French authorities. A prop
er place is appointed to receive arms at th#
Prefecture of Police.
“Art. 8. Tuesday afternoon domiciliary
visits will take place in those houses which
are considered suspicious.”
Austria a ttv Hcnoary. The terms of
eapitulatiee of Comoro are published, sod
art very liberal. Th* departure of the whole
of the army permitted. Passports will be
given to such of the officers as have served in
the Imperial Royalist army. Those who
have not served in the Imperial army will be
dismissed to their homes, without any condi
tion. Th* maintenance of th* soldiers in
Co mom who are crippled or tick, will be pio
vided for. All private property will be res
pected.
Berlin, Oct, A Queen’s messenger
passed through Berlin last night from Lon
don, on his way to Constantinople, with des
patches for Sir Stratford Canning.
Rumia and Tusxrt. Pending the de
cision of the Emperor of Russia (says Wil
mtr 4 Smith's Tones) upon th* appeal made
to him respecting the extradition ef the Hun
garian refuge**, w* have numberless reports
respecting the probabilities of th* issue. We
are quite satisfied that the representations
which have been sent to him from the English
and French Cabinets fully meet the imper
tance of the crisis, and are such as the friends
of Liberty throughout the world must hearti
ly approve. In the meantime, we have little
further authentic news of what was going on
nt Constantinople.
The Hungarian refugees are now at Wid
din. There are about fiv# thousand of thorn.
There are, it appears, in Turkey, as in meet
other eountnes two political parties, one of
which is opposed to tho administration. This
party has a majority in tho Council; and has
pronounced in favor of th* extradition of the
refugees te Russia or Austria. The Turkish
Premier takes the more human course of
■eating thorn shelter. In these circum
stances not fiodiog his pooitioo quite stable,
and wishing to sacaie tho Uvea of hia guests
without oodangeriag hia own power, he pro
posed to them the alterative of embracing
laUuusm, as the condition on which he coaid
eontinuo to refuse their surrender. Bern,
with some twenty-five other officers, whs ere
strong in their enmity against Russia, assented
to the condition, Kossuth, Dsmbinaki, Guysu,
end the rest of the mfegue soldiers, li hmi
On them and on hie own behalf, Ksmith,
k a very manly and teaching km, I*4
Mamas, implores tho pemaesisa ef ths Brii
eoUeetiag in the waters of the Beaplmrus and
ia the barber ef tbs Golden Hera and be
tween the entrance of the Black Sea and the
Propontis sad the Sea of Marmora. Ia the
army of 140,000 soldiers aaemabted around
the Turkish capital, drilling and reviewing
won going on from daylight to dsA Tho
moot unwelcome feature of tho nows from
Turkey lL th —fit
a» partly Greek tad partly Turkish are ia a
■tarn of groat fomont in coosaqaenea of the
threatened rapture between Tntksy and Ros
sis. Under the toluenes of laniu emis
saries, ekiefly members of the Greek Church,
these vessels of the Sultan betrayed a
serious inteation of taking advantage ef the
present opportunity to get ap a terolL Th#
greatest activity prevails in the sanding efeea
riers for and from all the principal ports of
Europe, bat the general firmness of tho pub
lic funds indicate* that the prevailing opinion
is that no serious rusolis will trim.
Away with tha 4960 tafiragul— Equal
Rights, and Nothing Lees!
Mr. Editor Permit me, through the col
umns of the North Star, to call tha attention
of the proscribed citizens of New York to the
importance of agiuung for their rights unti
the last vestige of political inequality ia oMit
arated.
The odious clause providing that no colored
person shall exorcise the elective franchise,
unless possessed of real estate to the value of
$864, still disgraces the constitution of our
State, degrades our manhood and belittle* our
more favored fellow citizens. And yet wo
have not the patriotism, manhood, or public
spirit to bo up and a doing to wipe out the
foul blot, Proscribed New Yorkers arise
from your slumber Shake off your lethargy!
Our brethren in Ohio, Pennsylvania, New
Jersey, and Connecticut, are already in the
field. Why stand we idle all the day 1 ‘‘l*
rest so sweet, or ease so dear,” as to be pur
chased at the price of chains and slavery 1
Forbid it Heaven! Forbid it Almighty God!
Have we iorgot that eternal vigilance is the
price of liberty That he who would be Free
must himself strike the blow?
What though the “bogus” republicans—
spurious Americfeia (who would well fill the
ranks of Louis Napoleon's Roman, liberty
suppressing army) voted a thundering Nay to
the proposition of equal suffrage in 1846, and
thus gava the lie to all their professions of
Democracy Yet let «e hope that time and
•vents have caused even them to have made
some progress in the first rudiments of our
country'a fundaments) principles, viz: That
all men are equal—not in stature, intellect,
morals or manners, (for we colored Americans
know that wc have better manner* than our
white fellow-citizen* generally,) but equal in
fights. That every man ahould he left with
a “mind unfettered, and space to rise,” and
he will find his own level in the moral, intel
lectual, and social scale.
But, says some one, Garrisonian* will not
vote, and why should they agitate for the
right of suffrage? We would answer that the
moral power of him who says he will not vote,
as long aa he does not possess the right, ia di
minished. Other* may say that he makes a
virtue of necessity. For my part, I will not
vote, though possessed of one—nor would I if
the Constitution of the United States wss the
purest instrument under Heaven—if the con
dition was property instead of manhood, there
by rendeiing me a mere automaton, present
ing so much landed interest of the State. 1
scorn the act—spuin the bribe. Nevertheless,
we go heart and hand for equal political priv
ileges the right to vote or not, and let each
exercise his influence in community by voting
or withholding, according to the dictates of
bis conscience. As an instance of the influ
ence of withholding a vote when possessed of
one, the society of Friends generally, and the
New England Abolitionist withhold their
votes, and yet maintain an equal position in
society, because possessed of the right. They
exert a moral power. But if they were denied
the right, as we arc, they would be politically
degraded. To use a financial term, we are
$350 below par. The State puts its heavy
foot upon os, and stamps us with the teal of
inferiority and our fellow-citizens say to as,
“we are holier than you.” Let us hold local
meetings—a State Convention appoint a
State eenlral, and local committees—and agi
tate through the living speaker, and through
the press, until we shall be quoted at “par on
'change.” Mr. Editor speak out on this sub
ject. “And thou, too, Brutus.”
Yours for Liberty and Reform,
Brooklyn, L. 1., Oct. 25,1849. J. C.
Oysters f Oysters!!
Our friend John S. Jacobs has opened a
spacious oyster saloon at No. 3 State street,
Waverly buildings, where he proposes to car
ter, in the most admirable manner, to the taste
and appetite at his fellow citizens. Mr. Ja
cobs is a most excellent cook, as w* can testi
fy; and we have no doubt that he will giro
perfect satisfaction to all who may ho disposed
to patronize him in hkgastronomic art.—r.n.
The Sisters of Charity of Detroit refuse to
take the proceeds of a benefit at tbs Theatre
for th* purpose of —wring in th* erection of
a hospital
Btcelpts
fm ik§ Noava Stab, from the dm* */U*
Udgmmt to Oet. SI, 1949.
Western New York A. 8. Society f 100,00
Edward Hasletoo, Pittefamg, Pe IJ3O
A C Keadeli, Palmer Depot. Mew MO
Wm. M'Uvaia 1,09
Freeman Hopbine, Pakaeyviil* 2,00
Marti* Lawrence, Eadid, O MO
Lewie F Caldwell, Ripley, O IJ9
Jeha W Porno. Lockpert MO
E Sharpe
Bradley Lee. Earn Wiafieid MO
Samuel Fitbhnnrae, Liverpool MO
Amends F Hill, Coveauy, B I MO
Rath Gould, Provide—, 11
Horatio W Foster, Lowell, Mow M®
lease Spalding, SMimm M*
Theaeae Haaaeaaw, Backs Ps- doe Mt
Rebecca Price, Philadelphia, Ik MO
Elisabeth Davis M*
Chariw Bug ham, Fefcmv life 1 M
Jeha Ring, Caros, Pa. MO
Rev. Jeha T Paegent. Baste*, Maas. MO
Je—h nhsrwstd. Pnttferd M 9
W P Giirn, Shsaeemlm MJ

Dr. Bkeldea
mmti. M*
C*cal
Notices.
The fourteenth manual meeting of the Rhode
Inland Anti-Slavery Sweety, wilt he held at
Mechanic’s Hall, Providence, on Wednesday
sad Thursday, Nov. 14th and 15th, 1849.
Prominent advocates of emancipation-- cm
bractog several who have broken the chains of
slavery, and are breathing the free sir of Heav
en, ia defiance of Southern laws—have been
invited to bo pceeent, sad will, it is expected,
give valuable aid to our own earnest laborers,
ia making the meeting an interesting sad pro
fitable one to all who shall deem it worthy of
their ptmeoce.
Mack has been done for our cause during
the past year, but much yet remains for soch
te do as are not soon weary with doing well.
The geographical boundaries of slavery ia our
own country have been fixed by the public
voice, and cannot, it is confidently belie rod,
be cat tied farther from the centre of our ini
quity. But it remains to blot out the foul
stain where it already exists, and to hasten
the glad hoar when the so gel of Time shall
say, “Thus for hast thou come— but no far
ther.” To this end we invite the old and the
young, the strong, the feeble, the confident,
the desponding, nod the faithless, to meet
with us, at our annual gathering, and
share in our hopes, our encouragements, our
joys, sod our labors.
In behalf of the Rhode Island
Society.
JOHN BROWN, Pres’t.
Amasancy Paine, Sec’y.
Providence, Oct. 6th, 1849.
Aa Appeal u behalf of the Westers
New York Anti-Slavery Fair.
Earnestly desiring the abolition of Slavery
iu this land, and being deeply convinced that
this result can only be accomplished by renew
ed efforts to change our present corrupt moral
sentiment, the undersigned members and
friends of the Western New York Anti-slavery
Society, again make their appeal to the
friends of the Slave in behalf of their annual
Bazaar, which will be held in Rochester on
the 16th of January, 1849.
While we have been cheered and gladdened
by the progress already made, and the good
already done, and while we rejoice to observe
that friends have been raised up to plead the
cause of the bondman among persons, and in
quarters where we had least expected them,
we still see the “harvest to be great and the
laborers to be few,” and instead of relaxing
onr efforts, we are impressed with s sense of
the doty of doubling our diligence, and ap
plying more closely onr energy to the means
of advancing this holy cause.—We appeal the
more boldly to our friends because those for
whom we plead cannot plead for themselves.
While we are surrounded by our domestic
circle, with none to molest or make us afraid,
there are three millions of men and women in
our own land, doomed to abject Slavery and
chains, robbed of every right—civil—social—
personal —and political. Remembering those
in bonds as bound with them, we desire to
plead their cause as though they were on our
own limbs, and the knottedJash were applied
to onr own backs.
While to obtain means for enlightening the
public mind, is the strong motive for holding
our annual Fair, it is not the only one. A
great amount of good may be traced directly
to such occasions. Many who are now ac
tive workers in behalf of this holy movement
became first interested in it through the in
strumentality of those annual exhibitions of
anti-slavery industry, tact and skill.
The present object of the Rochester anti
slavery Bazaar is for the general enlighten
ment of the public mind on the subject of sla
very. Recognizing the North Star, (published
in this city) as an efficient Anti-Slavery in
strumentality, we propose that the funds raised
by the Sale of articles at the Bazaar (on
behalf of which we here appeal) shall be
mainly appropriated to the support of that
important paper.
We gatefully acknowledge the prompt as
sistance rendered to onr last Fair by our
friends and coadjutors in various parts of our
owo State, Wisconsin, and Michigan, and we
earnestly solicit their continued co-operation
with us in the good woik. That no time may
be lost, we especially recommend to them the
immediate formation of sewing circles in their
various towns with a view to making articles
for the Rochester Bazaar. We would also
in this connection render our heartfelt thanks
to our British friends for the valuable aid ex
tended by them to our last year’s Fair sod
we would again warmly solicit their generous
assistance. It is due to our trans-Atlantic
friends to say that for much of the interest felt
in our last Bazaar we were indebted to them,
and we are persuaded that their continued
co-operation will essentially promote the suc
cess of our approaching December Bazaar,
and the advancement of the cause of the slave
in our land.
We hope that the foregoing appeal will
commend itself te out philanthropic friends on
both aides of the Atlantic, and that they will
cordially unite with us in the effort here pro
posed.
Signed on behalf of the Fair Committee,
AMY POST.
Appeal of tkc Philadelphia Assoclatiom
The “Women Association of Philadel
phia” appeal to a (benevolent public, and to
tbe friends of the Slave everywhere, to aid
then in their approaching Fair, the ob
ject of which is to sustain (he “North Star.”
To these who are familiar with the pages of
this paper it is unneeesary to speak of its
omit. To those who have not aeeo it we
may say, that we regard it as ooe of the very
best anti-slavery instrumentalities now in tbe
field.
We axe tbe more interested in it, because
the editor is ooe of our oppressed race, and
admirably qualified by his talent* and moral
worth to perform with credit the arduous
task of editing a paper devoted to oar elovs
tfoo. We belie votnd trust that oar foeods
will give os their liberal aid.
To oar own people we look earnestly ank
hopefully. Sisters, Brothers, shall we food
iovaia' The iron has entered into yoer souls
Te go heavily, bowed down to the very dost,
iLSttd, b, lb. «wb< of oppm-l
noo Ye hear the taenia of the enemy,
“Tboj a*. ud nonfilled' The,
are jealous of one ocher! Yes, they untie
but ttis only input down one who is more
intellectual than the maaaK’ Prove by the
unerring laagoige of enndnet that these as-
frees***
licious slanders- SaJtam F. Pw| »h, be
cause his talents and correct principles de
mand yoor respect and eoofidanca. Sustain
him because it iaright to dew, and baeanee
of *Jw sweat paws the perfnrmsaes of so ww
thy an ntfi— will wnawdly bang it into yoer
'"TM PWrwillhahdd on Chnmmas week
Daw rise* for it nmyhe sent m
HARRIET SMITH, 319 liwinad meat,
RACHEL LLOYD, JO9 Pfowetmei,
AMY M. C ABBEY Immhwd street,
Eusawra Am, Lows Ami Bunu.,
Many Baaaorr. Huttt Bona,
Looms Baierot, Ham Jommmi,
Horn Bosnia
Cmautn Mima,
SABAH H. DOOOL4SB, Cm. S*>.
No M MnUberry st.
rhiUMfiu., *k n, im.
FIFTY THOUSAND PERSONS
OituMlt n F.«rfaad of OONSI MPTION.
la Ike New Eagfead State*, the proportmu is oae in
Inr «fn. —la Boston, probably, oar in fossr la
ike dtf of New York, miyatn died ia twa
waek» ia Pwikbw of this disease. It b lew prw
aleet *a ike wore norther* latitude*. a* Ramin.
Canada; aad naoaf tke Alps ofgwiUrfeaiL wkere
tke wiaten are feug aad severe, aad thare are fewer
■addea change*.
No theory c*n be mure wrlrnmc to the human
■dad than the oae which miUiihn oj <w>l
greaadi ike hope for prolonged ruarncr. It the
afiegatioas of those who are at bast nulled to
veracity any be believed, there i» a preveatauve
aad a rewed)
The neat An hoc of Nature has provided os with
a remedy for Coo-motion, aad the diseases leading
thereto which are so fearfully coaaoa ia our count
ty! Has He left us to hod relief from that fatal
scourge by ransacktng other bads? No, the best
Nature’s own Remedy, is at our lu»i. 11k Wild
Cherry aad the Pine, furnish us with a core, where
a care is possible.
Oae of tke aost important discoveries of the age,
ia ameliorating the condition of ibis burve chur of
—fiering haamnitv b,
DR. WISTAR/S BALSAM OF WILD CHER
RY, which has been before the public some tea
years. This valuable medicine was fast discovered
aad iatrodneed in the year 1838, since which time
iu success has coustaatly increased the demand,
until it has become one*of, if net THF. MOST
POPULAR REMEDY FOR CONSUMPTION,
ia its incipient stage, ever known.
Noae genuine unions signed I. BUTTS.
For sale by Post It Willis; also bv Win.
PITEIN.
EXCELLENT OINTMENT.
Sir. Sloan—Dear Sir: For a considerable length
of time 1 was seriously afflicted with the Rheumatic
complaint, and applied freely the various linimeuu,
painkillers, Jtc., without obtaining any relief. After
which your agent at this place influenced, me to try'
your Ointment, and within two weeks from the time
1 commenced using it, the pain ceased, and I was
effectually cured; and shall recommend all wlto are
similarly afflicted with the distressing complaint, to
procure your excellent Ointment without delay. HRffl
Respectfully yours, OSCAR F. MOTT
Princeville, Peoria co., May 1, 1848.
See Agents’ names at the head of Sloan’s
Column. For further particukrs and testimonials,
get Pamphlets of agents.
The Fool of the Regiment
Thera is scarcely a Tillage anywhere ia the wide
world, but has in it some half-witty being, whom
the very children feel privileged to mock.' How
often do we see tech a crexy unfortunate, follow
ed by a iiule tribe of trrehtn't}rants tormenting it!
some hr the nickname and the cruet laagh—some
by the mouth awry or the broad grimance—oth
ers by the alt pull at the ragged skirt—-and a few
by the coward stone: and the loud shout of tri
umph the little mob will give, when they succeed
iu making the poor creature turn and —at
bay. or run after them in fierce, but happily for
them, in impotent anger. Bnch a right ia not un
common, sod to a matt of thought and feeling, is
very humiliating aad affecting:
The Itnle dogs and all.
Tray, Blanch and Pwcetbcan. are, they bars at ase."
cries I .ear, in hia mad misery. Is there am
came in nature that makea these hard hearts?”—
Ah me! 1 fear there is. Kit Wallace, 1 call thee
up from the grave! Let me paint thy portrait,
record thy wronga, aad relate thy death. It mat
be some poor, feeble minded being ahull be treat
ed the better for this sketch of thy inoffensive life;
some stick shall be raised in defense of a mobbed
miserable—some word of kindness be spoken in
to an ear accustomed only to reviling and re
proach.
1 remember, iu the ardent and joyous days of
my early military life—when my laughter wu»
"like the crackling of thorns under a pet”—a
poor, half wilted man, who had enlisted into the
rev meat; I know not when or how.
He was certainly, poor fellow, to use the favor
ite phra*e of the drill sergeant, one His Majss~
ly's hard bargains. He was not craiv—he was
nut an idiot—no that mere was no way of getting
i him difcch&rged—for, at that petiod. inspecting
generals w ere very strict about discharges; but lit
w as h simpleton of the s.lheaL The intelligence
of a child was greater. It was well for him, per
i haps, thal he had been driven to enlist by ill treat
ment at home, or inveigled by some adroit re
criming sergeant, who wanted to pocket the
bringing money; for in a regiment he was sure
to be clothed, fed, taken care of, and governed
i Poor Kit, to make a aotdierwof him was impossible.
However, he had evea, arms and legs; and as he
1 would not use these last to desert, to get rid ol
him was impracticable. He had a slouch, and he
was a sLven. He never stood in the proper po
sition of a soldier, nor did he ever put on his
clothes and appointments like one.. Officers and
drill aergeauts gave him up in despair. He sunk
into a sort of privileged character; one who was
Unapt to learn, and formed of stubborn stuff.’"
Kit was in the company of which I was lieu
tenant; for awhile my pupil, but booh, and for
years, my torment and my plague; and oftentimes
1 —I write with a blush— oftentimes my jest. Up
on inspection and review days, 1 hid him as well
as I could; put him on a rear guard, or in an awk
ward squad of lately joined recruits; employed
hirn for the day as a cook, or on fatigue duty, or
as a line or barracks jrderly; some out-of-the-way
post or corner was found, in which to conceal Kit;
bu' when, owing to untoward circumstances, such
an arrangement could not be effected, 1 would
get him well cleaned, and his appointment* weli
put on, by one of mV smartest corporals, and then
place him in the rear rank and a clever sergeant
behind, with his eye constantly on him, to prevent
him from discrediting the company by his blun
ders.
It may be support'd that such a subject soon
became the butt of his comrades; they never
wanted a joke when he was by; they tormented
him incessantly. They played him tricks, at
which sometimes he himself gave the laugh of
silftiiesr; while at others he wou'd blubber like a
baby. On these last occasions I would rebuke
him and punish the men: but I too, often shared
in the laughter. Toor Kit! he" went with us to
the Teninsula. I remember him well in our
marches there.
Mv old captain, who was the best tem
pered men 1 ever met with, would sometimes be
provoked into a violent passion with him; and
while he punished half the company for teasing
him, lie would tifrea'en, in a voice of thunder, to
"rifle down Ku’s throat!” the only threat that
ever effectually silenced him when he was in the
mood to blubber aud bellow; and the only punish
ment, if a threat be a punishment, he aver re
ceived.
The silliness of the poor fellow wav incredible
I remember on one occasion, when the regiment
was drawn up, expecting to be immediately en
gaged, aud I was iu charge of tho company; as a
simple act cf duty, I placed him in the front
rank, lest, by his extreme awkwardness, he might
do some injury, in firing, to the man who would
otherwise Lave stood in front of him. it is a lu
dicrous tact, that the poor fellow complained to
th~ Colonel, as he wa« riding down the line, that
1 had placed him in the front rank to get him
killed, "is he not in the front rank himself, vou
fool was the Colonel’s reply. Thisshows, first,
alas that poor Kit regarded all the world, and
me amongst them, as his enemies—next, that he
had not much of a hem in hia composition. This
little incident was never forgotten by the men of
the company; and they plagued him about it t»
i the end of the war; but many a voice that gibed
and jeered him was, in succession, silenced in
j death. He was one of the few survivors in the
company, at 'he termination of those memorable
campaigns. He was present in every battle, and
on every march. The handsome, and the happy,
and the hardy fell around him; Kit lived on. At
the close of the bloody battle of Albuera, when 1
saw him safe upon that field of carnage, l was
gjad in my very heart; and felt that "I could have
better spared a better man.” 1 have said truly
that Kit was no hero, as hia complaint to the Col
onel on a former occasion had proved; yet ho had
i apparently no fear of death. He stood in his
place—had a pouch full of ball cattridges, and
fired them away in the battle; whether guilty or
innocent of blood, lie could not on that occasion
1 kuow, aud little heeded.
At the conclusion of the war, and upon the re
turn of the regiment home, the battalion was re
organized; Kit was no longer in the same compa
ny with me, anc, except being occasionally throwu
on du v noLr him, 1 almost lost sight of the man.
At length, after a lapse of years, he fell again un
der my nonce in India. I observed about him a
very remarkable change—an evident improve
ment. He was far cleverer than he was ever wont
to be; his awkward gait remained, but hia took
i was no longer the same. His eye, once so rest
less, that used to be looking on every side, as it
constantly expecting either reproof or ridicule,
was now still aud placid, aud a beam of content-
J ment shone in it. He always saluted me with a
look of kind and familiar recognition; and if I oc
casionally stepped aud said a word to him, replied
as if pleased at the notice.
1 im puzzled and perplexed at first about this
change iu a man, whose imbecility of mind I had
ouce regarded as alike painiul and hopeless.—
Upon making a more particular inquiry, I found
that, iu the company to which he b longed, be
had become a laciied to the little child d one of
his comrades of whom he look as much care as
if it had beeu his own; that he spent all his spare
pay upon u; thal be did his duty quietly, wasreg
i uiar, nud neither troubled his fellow soldiers, nor
i was troubled by them; aud that he never associat
ed with the men, but was always with this little
child, who was exceedingly loud ol him. Here
j was the secret. 1 more partici'arly observed him
i ever atter; I often met him with th« child in hi*
hand; a little common looking child—jost old
enough to in t by hi* aide, aud stammer out its
j hkiug—with eyes that to him had beauty, for they
i looked up to him with affection. Here was the
secret; he had never hitherto foand ia the coid
I world any thing to lovk him, any thing he could
love. Here was a heaven sent object exactly
j suited to his heart's want; a hide atraoger ia this
i earth, too young to kuow, and to take part with
I those who despised hi in. A little thing, which.
perhaps had first attracted hta notice, when, iu the
chance absence of its parents, it stood terrified and
helpless, and crying in a tumultuous barrack
ro m.
Poor Kit, who bad been buffeted with rough
ness from his very cradle, had beeu frightened or
laughed out of hia wits, and then scorned for hav
j mg cone; had been the sport of the lane or alley
1 in which he was born, and then been driveofrom
I the haunts of home—first to be the butt of his fei*
low workmen, and uext of those amongst whom
he had cast in hia Jot to mend hia fate or to be
ml ou't”—had now found something to love him
Gfteuume* now. as 1 met him aad the child to-,
gs bar. aad mused upon this sweat mystery,
did I repeat iu my heart for the many sharp words
1 had once given him; and for many thought!***
and unfeel.ag sinilee at his folly, i saw, bourev
T. bv the vsrv expression of his complaceat eye,
that I was fully forgiven. He had ub bate, no
malice, no memory for wrong; ho was peaceful
and grade, aud passed whole day* playing with
this child. Kit. to. was now elevated to the dig
oity of an instructor. Ha was anil sun pie, (mu he
was no longer silly. He eeuld sot read; yea. be
coaid— on€ <d God'o booko t for eoald tp«; he
could oee the high heavens, aud the marry firms
meut; the aun by day. aad tho moon by night
t have ooea him with hi* little comfort, walking
ri the ramparts cf Fsit St. Gootfa is tkc ew|«
the evening, and, pointing to tfco white mil tad
to tho anchored vessel. and Is ashing the child In
etutter out the name* of them objects.
The suffering of thane who are looked upon as
half erased or fools, ha* in it this meet bitter ingre
dient; they have do mate in their sorrow. TVy
suffer slews, spare: with a eauedenonem that they
are degraded. Kit's suffering was new all at aa
end; he was no longer aieno in the world- Bat
I kanw wot at this time that hr had gnttsw higher
coasoiathm. 1 will some day. aaid I to mjwelt,
•peak t* him abont hia immortal sotri, and hw
hopes of an hereafter.
It chanced a few week* afterward*, that, a* I
was visiting some men of my ewn company ia Ike
hospital, in passing doom the ward. I observed
poor Kit, lying in bed, nick. I sat down by him.
took hia hand, and spoke to him with tends me**;
he was very ill. I named the Redeemer; he
knew the sound—knew it, not perhaps as some
would have wanted him to know it —hat a* a
sound that had already leached a chord ia his
ble heart; he had heard that all hie tins win Id be
forgiven, and bow 7 he had simply believed the
message and gratefully accepted the pardon. He
had gotten wisdom, not knowledge. Theie was
peace, hope and the joy of a simple confiding treat
in his Redeemer.
1 visited him again: again the same was hie en
viable state of mind. The next end last tune I
saw him, he wa« dying and speechlem- 1 whk*
pared in his dulling ear; he opened his eye# —me
knew nie—he looked pleased and happy; be tried
to return the pressure of mv hand. I placed It on
his forehead. The death damps were already on
hia brow. "He ia pleased,"said the orderly, "to
see von, sit; he knows yon." "He waa pleased,
friend.” aaid I. to hear the word of promise in
his ear—to hear the sound of hia Redeemer's
name—to hear the word of Christ.”
Fredertkii Bremer.
From Chambers’ Journal.
Frederika Bremer has bad the good fortune not
onlv to wiu popularity and esteem for herself, bat
also to create a general interest in behalf of the
literature of her native country, eo that translated
copies of Swedish poets aud historians now obtain
a place on the shelves of our public as well as oar
private libraries, and are inquired for with avidity
by the ordinary class of intelligent readers.
Some alight notice of this accomplished writer,
as well aa of one or two of her literary country
women, may not be unacceptable to our readers.
Frederika Bremer was born iu the year 1802.
After the death of her father, abe iuHabited Stock
holm for a while, aud afterwards spent some time
with a friend in Norway. She now dwells with
her mother and sister close to the northern gate of
passing her summers at a neighbor
ing eatato called Ar*ta. It is said that she has
portrayed her parent in the venerable and singu
lar lad'y who occupies the foreground in her re
cent tale entitled I he Midnight Sun,” wherein
also her fair younger sister is beautifully sketched,
as the suffering yet lovely Innermost” This
sister is watched over by .Miss Bremer like some
fragile plant, which needs ail the BUnshine of life
to make it bloom in freshness and beauty; and it
ia from the outpouring of her own unselfish heart,
that Frederika Bremer has given such living pic
tures cf sisterly love and care.
It would be idle to speak here of her works, for
they are in every body's hands; and the merits of
her principal personages are discussed with as
much freedom in society as if they were our next
door neighbors, or our intimate acquaintances.—
But our readers will like to know wfiat sort of be
ing in her outer aspect is the lady who has given
us such charming pictures of other women. That
one who has already passed the boundary line of
middle age should long since have lost the fresh
ness of youth, is self-evident to all; but we wish
it were allowed ui to add, that some traces of
loveliness were still visible about her perkon, for
we are conscioas'o!' an instinctive disappointment
when the whole human being is not at harmony
with itself, when a lofty intellect and a pure ima
gination are not embodied in a fair and noble ex
terior. Miss Broiner, however, is decidedly plain.
Her spare, sallow features are, however, lighted
up by a look full of intelligence aud sweetness, and
her meagre form is set off by the neat simplicity
of h6r attire. There is, perhaps, somewhat of the
teacher in her aspect —a certain staid and mea
sured glance, winch is often perceptible in those
who are accustomed to tvaich over and check the.
waywardness of youth. Yet this sort of formali-!
ty does not destroy the intellectual kindness of her
countenance. She is quite aware of her own nn
attracliveness, and has therefore always positively
refused to have her likeuess taken. The picture
cf her which is in circulation, is only an imagina
ry cue, invented by a German painter for the pro
fit of some bookselling speculation. It waa hu
morously reported last year in a Swedish news
paper, that the Americans had just despatched a
celebrated portrait painter to Rome and Stock
holm for the expre>s purpose of taking the like
nesses of "the Pope and the Bremer.”
la Sweden, her tale of "Home” is preferred
far above any of her other works. It is allowed,
even by her giea'.est admirers, that while the au
thoress views with a poetic eye the narrow and
tranquil com se of domestic life, and therefore
sheds a tender glow around its scenes, she fails
altogether in the gift of bold conception. Her
female Ekeichej are drawn with truth and spirit;
but when she attempts to portray a manly char
acter, her imagination pictures forth only some
disjointed fragments, abounding in mistakes and
improbabilities. Her philosophy is also some
what too transcendental for the fiction of everyday
life; and it is perhaps too frequently intruded on j
the attention of her readers. But fault fiading is l
an ungrateful task wheu there is so much to ad-1
mire and to approve of as in works of Frederika
Bremer.
Curiosities of Literature.
Frequent allusions have been made to a large
collection of books said to have been brought from
Mexico by Gen. Scott, we were induced, during a
recent visit to Washington, to step into the State
Department and make some inquiries on the sub
ject. Iu a room elegantly fitted up for the pur
pose, and containing, as we supposed, about three
thousaud volumes, of various sizes aud descrip
tions, we found L. F. Tasistro, Esq., busily en
gaged ia the task of analyzing and examining a
vast multitude of aucieut manuscripts, which
form a portion of the collection. Borne of these
manuscripts are of great historical vciue, and are
said to throw more light on the early systems of'
legislation in Mexico, than all the published ac-1
counts with which the art of printing has made
us acquainted. They are chiefly the productions
of learned Jesuits who flourished in the seven-)
teenth century; the language and style being re- J
markable for that succinctness aud elegance,
i which characterize the productions of that class of;
writers. We have been informed that in the 1
course of his critical investigations, Mr. Tatiatro
has made some very important discoveries aa to’
the peculiar agencies which have at all times
been employed bv the rulers of Mexico, for keep
tig the elements ot political melioration within 1
specified bounds, and in imparting to the popular
mind that aversion for free institutions which ren
ders their republican system so defective and im
perfect even at the present day. The result of,
these investigations will no doubt be comroonica-'
ted to the country at a proper time; and we are'
i satisfied that the task of winnowiog oat the pare
gold from the abundance of baser metals with!
which the collecuoa is encumbered, eoald not
hare fallen into more competent hands ih«n those
of Mr. Tasiauo, who is emineutly qualified, both
by education and habits of industry, to perform
duties requiring theekerciso of judgment and the
display oi taste.
Aa the notices which have appeared from time
to time in contemporary presses concerning the
1 character of these documents, aud the manner in
which they wero obtained, have produced contfii
erable misapprehension in the public mind. We
will briefly state what we know upon the subject.
Shortly after the National Palace had been taken
possession of by the Atuer.can troops, the apart
ment where the public archrees are kept was ea
i tered by a baud of lawless ruffians, ooaeiatiag of
I the very refuse of the Mexican population, who
commenced the work of destruction by emptying
j the shelves of their precious contents, and netting
fire u> whatever came tu their way.
While this new Ephesian outrage was being
consummated. Major Reynolds, pf the Marine
corpe. accompanied by Lt Augustas Nicholson.
burst into the room, aad with the flat of their ea
brea drove the barbarous vaudals from the place
It was ehiofly through the persona! exertions aad
indomitable courage of Lieat. Nieboboa, howev
er, who. although a mere boy of scarcely 18 years
ofags, had already rendered the most distinguish•
cd services iu many a hard fought battle daring
the campaign, that these records of the peat were
j saved trom deauucuou. Ll Nicholson, it msj
be ea well to remark, ia a eon of Maj. A. A- Nich
olson, osi of the beat officers that ever graced the
Marine corps.
The document* thus rescued from tho
rabble, were afterwards packed spin boxes, by
tho order of Geu. Bcou, aad aest on to Wmkiag
too. Soon after the treaty ef peace hod beeaooa
eluded, a formal demand for the recovery ef the
xieka was made by Us nearly aeeredtted Mi meter
from Mexico, aad a is probable that after tnta
•enpta or trsdalatteae shall have boat* made ef
eaoh work* m may he fimtad to he of eaiammoa
vahm to oar eoaatry* thof will ba mat back. Bo
fat. bo wove*, toot Miico banag irjjiitiniii
&WBEFJi
of L *l plainl agitet air Gabenuneat for the abi
nte aad temporarv detention of these maatv doc
■meat* it owe* as a debt ef gremede commen
surate with the importance it »ttect»*s to tho re
covery ef them. __ £ff- Y. Express.
la the letters ef Boverd Tsyler et see, we find
the following interesting paregreph ia reiotioo to
well known Snath Amancau pehtwwni
Among tho iibssii ar who came on board
et Ban Diego, fc OeaTvaUainnl. of the Republic
of Ecuador, recondy appointed Charge to the
United Stales. He reached
days from Guayaquil, and cornea to California tu
establish a Consulship at Sen Fraaefeco. It was
hie retention to have gone to W ashington, by tne
overland route, but owing to the representation*
of the emigrants who have lately arrived, he will
return ia the steamer to Panama Gea. Yailumit,
who tree aid lo Bolivar during the Sooth Ameri
can independence, is well koowm to the world
through the historr of the Colombia Republic
He is n native of New Orleans, aad speaks Eng
lish with perfect fluency. After the secession ol
Ecuador from Colombia, he obtained Gen. Flore*
a groat of one ef the Gallipogoe Islands—argrewp
well known to whalers, Ijrng on the Equator. COU
miles west of Gaovaqail. On this islsud, which
be named Florida,' he bea lived for the peat six
teen years. The 120 bead of cattle, which lie
originalhr placed there, have now grown iulo a
herd of $.OOO from which he has stocked some
of the adjoining islands. His colour contains 154)
•oak, wh* rake on the light new ami, ebandatu
crops of grain and vegetables. The island ia 15
miles in length by 12 in breath, lying in Ist- I
3J 3. aad its highest part ia shoot 5000 foet above
the level of the sea The foil bat from 12 to 16
inches deep, yet each is the profusion of vegeta
ble growth, that, as Geo Vill&mil informs me, its
depth ha* ia many places increased six inches
since he first landed there. The supply of water
is obtained in a very singular manner. A large
porous rock, on theaideof one of the mountains,
seemed to serve as an outlet or filter for Borne sub
terranean vein, since on its base, which is con
stantly humid, the drops collect and fall in suffi
cient abundance to supply a large basin in the
rock below. Pipes from this deposite convey tho
water to the va'ley. Its quality is cool, sweet and
limpid, and the rocky sponge from which it drips
never tails in its supply.”
Tax Tranced Child at Bangor. —Our readers
will probably remember the story of a liule girl at
Baugor, who apparently died of cholera, but re
vived, and aaid she had been to Heaven, where
she saw her mother,and where she was to go again
on the following Sunday. The Bangor Whig of
the 12th gives the sequel as follows:
"On Sunday afteruoon Mr. Daniel Warren, a
very worthy, religious man, who has been much
among the cholera patients, feeling perhaps, a
littlfe moved by curiosity, called to see the Util
gill, and addressing her cheerfully, told her that
■he appeared better and would soon be well, and
get out in a day or two.
But I’m going to mother again at 4 o’clock,”
she quietly and softly raid.
When, to-morrow
No, to-day.”
Mr. Warren endeavored to turn her attention to
hopeful prospects of recovery; but the little suf
ferer was fast sinking away—the death rattle was
heard, and she soon ceased to breath, her pulse
stopped, and the fixedness of death was impress
ed upon her beauUful countenance. Sho was
dead.
Mr. Warren looked at the town clock, in the
distance, from the window, for there was no clock
in the house, and it was just four o’clock.
While pondering upon, to him, the singular co
incidence in this case, and about half an hour had
passed, new signs of life appeared, and again the
spirit of the sweet girl returned. She asked for
water and said she was tired and sunk into a quiet
sleep.
Since then she has been gradually recovering,
but the eldest sister, who watched her so tenderly
and who would bo willinglyhave' accompanied her
to live with her mother in heaven, was the next
day taken with cholera and the following day she
died aad was buried.
Iron Faced Stores. —The front wall of store
No. 183 Broadway, occupied by J. Mtlhau, drug
gist, has beeu torn down, and replaced by a very
tasteful and substantial one of cast-iron,by James
Bogardus, who constructed the iron stores on the
corner of Washington aud Murray-streets, also
those in Center-street. We understand that Mr.
B. has similar contracts in various parts cf the city.
The chief merit of these fronts is their durability
and strength They can be put up in a day, when
the old wall isonce removed. Mr. B. is also about
constructing several iron buildings, among which
is a small meeting house, nho a bank building and
a store-house—the latter for a geuiiem&n at Ma
zatlan, and supposed to be destined for California
[Jour. Com.
Punch aptly illustrates the position of the
French government, in its relations with Rome,
by the following simile:
Once upon a time there was a gentleman who
won an elephant in a raffle; it was a very tine el
ephant, and was very cheap at the price the gen
tleman paid for his chance. But the gentleman
had no place to put it in; nobody would take it otf
his hands; he couldn’t afford to keep it; he was
afraid of the law if he turned it loose into the
streets; he was too humane to Ist it starve; he
was afraid to shoot it; in short lie was in a per
plexity very natural to a gentleman with—mode
rate means, a small common feelings of
humanity and an elephant. France has wou her
elephant at Rome.”
A Female Seeking as a Sailor.
—A girl, who has been some five years disguised
as a common sailor, was recently detected on
board a steamer lying in Cork harbor. She slat
ed that her family connections reside at St. Johns,
New Brunswick; that her motive for thus forsak
ing her home in favor ef a sailor's life, was in or
der thatshe might meet with her*educer—a Cap
tain Bradford—and be revenged upon him for for
saking her and her child. The magistrates pro
pose to send her home to her native place.
Such was the frequent occurrence of duels, in
the reign of George ill., that 172 were fought, iu
which 314 persons were concerned; 69 individu
als were killed, in three of these fatal eases neith
er of the combatants survived! 96 were wound
ed. 48 of them desperately, and 48 slightly; while
179 escaped unhurt.
Early Rising. He who will thrive must
rise at five." So says the proverb, though there
is more ef ryhme than reason in it; for ii
He that will thrive must rise at five,
it must follow, a fortiori.
He who’d thrive more must rise at four;
and it would ensue, a fortissimo
He who'd more thriving be, must always rise
at three:
He who'd the former outdo, must rise as early
as two; and, by way of climax, it should bold
good that
He wbo’d ne’er be outdone, most always
rise at one,
while, as a clincher to the whole, it should be ad
ded as a sort of grand climacteric, that
He who'd be thriving quite; must sit up ail the
night.
■M J r L r
An infirm old gentleman was foand by a rogue
moaning sadly at something lost.
What’s the inatter.bir 7” said the fellow.
Ob, sir, a villain just stole my gold-laced hat
from my bend, aud ran away with it.”
Why don’t you run after him 7” asked the
rogue.
Bleat your heart, air, 1 can't run at ail—l
can hardly walk.”
"The deuce you ean't," said the rogue, "and
he stole your hat?"
Ye*, he did. sir."
And you ean’t ran?"
Net L"
"Nor catch him ?”
No.-”
Th*o boro goes for your wig," and accord
ingly. pulling on that for the head, the
fellow went off like a shot, and the old gentleman
kft bald a* a coot
Tax Last Remedy.—B*m ■■■liveacu the
hank of the Delaware, and was a »*fhty banter,
and no tom mighty fisher. Ho was plagued wuh
1 degenerate sea, who manifested no predilection
for hie (other’s interesting pursuits. One day,
B*m’s patience gave oat entirely, sad he exclaim
■d k the bitterneas of his mortification:
Cars* me. Teen. If you’re not gettin* perfect
ly wen bless: yoa'H neither bunt aer fieb; fo
l don’t send yu to rckooU"
Homebody vary Wfiil/y oaf* tbot two bloom
tag young ladies got congat oat u> a shower eery
roeeoffy, aad whoa they bad got beam, the tain
•’■shod the very color out if tkdr dusks.—
Wbatapdy!
Pride may sometimes be a useful spring board
to the aspiring soul, but it to much more frequent
ly a destructive stumbling-block.
Bricks, made of glass, are now used in the construction
Of buildings fro the purpose of introducing light, without lessening the strength of the walls.