NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY
CONVENTION.
The following Resolutions were sub
mitted by the business Committee:
Resolved, That the Anti-slavery
movement has been, is, and is yet more
to be, the means, under Providence,
for the regeneration of the United
States; and that its vital power is in
uncompromising assertion of the prin
ciple—
That every human being has a God
given right to manhood, and the condi
tions of a manly life, and that it is the
duty of mankind, collectively and indi
vidually, to insure the unimpaired en
joyment of this right to every member
of society.
Resolved, That, confirmed in this
principle by the sanction ot the lJivine
will, as made known in all ages, by the
common instincts and matured judg
ments of the human race, —by the hie
and words of Jesus Christ, and the
confessions of the Christian Church,
and finally, by the Declaration of Inde
pendence, the Supreme law ol ibis Re
public—the American Anti-Slavery So
ciety has but to discharge its plain duty
in calling upon the people of the United
States, throughout their religious and
political organizations, and every pow
er of their social anu personal action,
to unite in putting away, immediately
and forever, the inhuman, unchristian,
anti-republican, destructive and dis
graceful usage of Domestic Slavery.
Resolved, That the accumulating
experiences of every year and week art
proving, that in declaring the Rond ol
Union between the States broken anc
annulled by the Annexation of Texas
and the Mexican War, and in summon
ing the People of the United States, ii
their sovereign capacity, to form s
New Union ot Freemen, the Anti-Sla
very Society proposed a course ot con
duct in the highest degree consistent
with obedience to God, Christian integ
rity, loyalty to this nation, and practi
cal wisdom; and that, if this course
had been followed, War would have
been stopped, Texas made free, Slave
ry paralyzed, and the nation redeefued
by the adoption of a policy worthy ol
Christian Freemen.
Whereas, this nation, through the
action of its national and State Legisla
tures, the intrigues of its political par
ties, the pussivencss of its religious
communities, the tameness of its press,
the supine connivance of its people, has
yielded itself up to the guidance of the
slaveijilding oligarchy, which bus
ÜBur t .1 control over the Congress, the
Ex< c’ittvc, and the Judiciary of the
United States; and
Wnereas, notwithstanding all these
discouraging proofs of national degen
eracy, there are manifest signs in the
South iu well as North, the West and
East, <*t the revival of a more humane,
just, tree spirit among our religious and
political bodies, and m th s heart of ouf
communities; therefore,
Resulted, I hut it our urgent du
ty to seek out and propose some practi
cal plan, whereby good men and wo
men in all the Stales may cordially co
operate in removing, root and branch,
the fatal institution of Slavery which
blasts our nation's prosperitypeace,
nod growth.
Resolved, That we commend to the
instant, earnest, and thorough consid
eration of all Anti-Slavery men and
women throughout the United States,
the promotion of a
National Redemption Societv:
whose object shall be,
I. The total abolition of Slavery
tbrougout the United States;
THE NORTH STAR,
2. Indemnity to our brethren and
sisters held as slaves, for their wrongs,
sufferings and degradation;
3. Such aid to slaveholders, in es
caping from their present false rela
tions, as justice, collective responsibili
ty for the national sin of slaveholding,
and a true feeling of brotherly kind
ness, may warrant.
Resolved, That the people of the
United States will never redeem them
selves from the shame of past hypo
crisies, inconsistencies and crimes, re
claim a rightful position of honor among
civilized and« Christian States, until by
some act signal, public, unanimous,
they cancel the slaveholding conces
sions of the Con titution, the Missouri
Compromise, and all similar compromi
ses whether in the spirit, letter or exe
cution of national laws, —make atone
ment to Mexico- for the outrages inflict
ee upon her in our war of slaveholding
aggression,—and form a new Bond ol
Union, under a new Constitution, wor
thy of a Nation of United Freemen;
and that we look forward with confident
hope for the coming of the day of Na
tional Reform, truly the day of Nation
al Atonement, when our prophetic motto
of“Epluribus Ununi” will manifest
indeed a glorious reality.
Resolved, That in the upward pro
gress of public sentiment on the subject
of emancipation, we see in the spirit
and conduct of the great body of the
American clergy, nothing but persever
ing impenitence and palpable impiety;
the professed ambassadors of Christ”
are emphatically the bulwarks of Slave
ry and we therefore again call upon
all who love liberty, and revere the
principles ofChristianity, to guard them
as men who will be the last to come to
the rescue of the slave, and the vindica
tion of human rights universally.
Resolved, That we recommend to
the Abolitionists a more active support
of the periodicals devoted to the cause
—especially the Standaid and the Lib
erator —not only by subscribing them
selves and circulating copies at their
own expense, but by devoting theii
time to soliciting subscriptions from
others.
Resolved, That the decree of the
French Provisional Government, abol
ishing slavery in all the Colonies ol
France, as essential to the honor, integ
rity, equality and humanity of the new
republic, ought to cover the people ol
this country with confusion of face,
w ho have made Slavery instead of Lib
erty, the cornerstone of their republi
can edifice and thus perfidiously ob
struct the progress of freedom through
the world.
Resolved, That we will never throw
any obstacle’ however slight,7n the way
of the slaves obtaining their lrccdom in
the most direct and summary rfivn
ner in their power; that, so tar from
counselling them to be content in their
condition, wc will spare no effort to
make them the contrary; that so far
from advising them to bear in patience
the evils of their condition, wc will en
courage them, by every righteous
means in our power, to escape from
that condition, at their earliest opportu
nity.
Resolved, That, whether wc consult
the religious or political aspects of the
country, in regard to the Anti-Slavery
movement, we find occasion for contin
ual rejoicing, and are mightily strength
ened to go onward until the last link of
Slavery is broken.
Resolved, That in the late national
Democratic nomination of Lewis Cass
for the Presidency ot the United States
—the man who bus not only got dowm
on his knees to the slave power, but
like a certain reptile, crawled on his
belly in the dust, accursed and veno
mous —wc see again how profligate and
spurious is the boasted democracy of
the country—how submissive is the
Democratic party to the mandates of
the Southern overseers—and how uni
versal and frightful is the apostacy to
the cause of liberty and equal rights.
Resolved, That whether the Presi
dential candidate offered us as worthy
to receive our suffrages, be Lewis Cass,
Zachary Taylor, Winfield Scott, Henry
Clay, Daniel Webster, Johu P. Hale,
or Gerrit Smith, we have but one an
swer to make to them all—NO UNION
WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
Resolved, That such a fact as the
seizure and rendition to Slavery in the
capital of this nation, of seventy per
sons escaping from it, with the barbar
ous imprisonment, as criminals, of the
men who nobly attempted their deliver
ance, all under the sanction and at the
instigation of the General Government,
(when considered in its proper place,
in the succession of such events as the
adoption of tne Federal Constitution in
guarantee of Slavery,—the purchase
and admission to the Uion of Louisi
ana the admission of slaveholding
Missouri, Arkansas, and Florida—the
annexation and admission of slavehold
ing Texas—the war with free Mexico
—the unnoticed and continual outrages,
imprisonments and murders of the
Northern citizens —the ignominious ex
pulsion from the South of their legally
appointed advocates,) fills up the mea
sure of damniug proof, that Slavery is
indeed the cornerstone of this Republic:
and hence in view of this iniquitous
Union of free with slave States, which
gives to the conscience of the slavehold
er the comfort of Northern participa
tion—to his character the sustentatioo
of Northern companionship—to his
arm, the strength of the Northern bayo
net—to his dungeons and instruments
of torture, the sanction of law and na
tional usage— to bis crime, the curren
cy aud excuse of a uoiversa) inoral de
gradation—we find it to be our impera
tive and immediate duty, to raise funds,
call conventions, send out our agents,
circulate our periodicrls, promulgate
lour principles, and, in fine, by all poe*
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR— GOD 19 THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
sible means, to agitate the land with
hitherto unparalleled energy for its ini
i mediate and utter dissolation.
Resolved, That anxious to make the
I best possible use of every opportunity
which Providence affords of gaining
the ear and rousing the heart of the
nation, we recommend to the Massachu
setts Anti-Slavery Society to hold, as
I soon as convenient and profitable, a
series of One Hundred Conventions, to
i press on public notice tbe guilty posi
tion of the State in renpect to national
i slavery,—and to urg* a dissolution of
that Union which there is no hope of
changing,—w hich links us to such re
sponsibility and shuts up in our jails, in
the keeping of our agents, the noblest
friends of humanity, and best lovers of
their kind.
Resolved, That we pledge to that so
ciety the funds raised at this Conven
tion, and declare that asking for money
shall never be out of order at any of
our sessions.
Resolved, That the thanks of the
slave and the slave’s friends are pre
eminently due to Joshua R. Giddings
1 lor his fearless, and unsparing rebuke
of the slave power on the floor of Con
gress, os well as for his frank co-opera
tion with the most unpopular measures
ofthe Ant -slavery movement in Ohio
—that to no political man is the coun
try so much indebted for the recent
wonderful change in the tone of con
gressional debate, as to him; and the
only regret that we feel, in regard to
his case, is, that in swearing to uphold
a pro-slavery Constitution, he greatly
impairs the force of his moral testimony
against slavery, which can be rendered
consistent and effectual only by his
openly ab uring that Constitution as
involving all who support it in the guilt
and condemnation ot the slave system.
From the Cincinnati Herald.
LIBERTY'-MEN—LEAGUERS—GAR
RISONJ ANS-ABULITIONISTS.
There are comparatively few western
men or southern men, who have a cor
rect idea of the differences of opinion
which prevail among the opponents of
slavery. They confound the Garri
sonians with the liberty men, and both
with the Leaguers, and all with the
abolitionists who yet act with the two
great politcal parties. It is desirable
that this misapprehension should be
rectified, and we ask the attention ol
our readers and especially ot our ex
changes. to a brief statement intended

to remove it.
The liberty men are those slavery
opponents who are organized as a po
ljyc§l party, in or thaq hall
the States of this Union, making the
question of slavery or freedom param-J
ount to every other question, and
I aiming to abolish slavery under Nation- 1
al and State Jurisdiction through the
Constitutional action of the Federal and
State Governments. This party is re
presented by the National Era, at
Washington, the Emancipator, at
Boston, the Herald, at Philadelphia, j
our own paper, here, and many other,
papers in different parts ot the country.
The members of this party differ among
themselves, as to the extent ot the
powers of the National Government on;
the subject of slavery tout they all
agree iu thinking that Government can
and should abolish it in all places where
it has exclusive jurisdiction, and dis
courage it elsewhere by example,;
recommendation, aud every legitmate
means. They all agree, also, in re
garding this as the primary duty of the
Government—not to be postponed to
any other—though no other should be
neglected. This agreement, in regard
ing the question of slavery as of para
mount importance, and in determining
their political action by this considera
tion, is the bond of Union among liber
men, and constitutes them a poli
tical party.
The Garrisonians are the members
of the old American Anti-Slavery
Society as it existed prior to 1839, and
those who concur in sentiment with
them. They are called Garrisonians
simply because Mr. Garrison is their
most distinguished leader. These anti-
Slavery men admit ad that the slave
holders claim in regard to the guar
anties of slavery in tue National con
stitution aud believing these guar
anties to be miquitous and dishonorable,
denounce the constitution as a cov
enant with death and an agreement
with hell,” and demand the immediate
dissolution of the Union of the States.
They perform, however, no practical
measuies to effect their object. They
refuse to vote or to aim and confine
themselves to denunciations of slavery
and its abettors. This constitutes a
sect rather than a party, and are rep
resented by the Liberator, at Boston,
the Anti-Slavery Standard, at New
York, and three or four other papers.
The Leaguers are a body of citizens,
who formerly acted with tbe Liberty
party but becoming dissatisfied with
the determination of that party to adopt
no other political issue than the single
one of slavery or freedom, held a
Convention last year in the State of
New York and adopted a new political
creed, of niocteeu articles, and nonv
-1 inated national candidates supposed to
represent their ideas.—The members
i o f this party hold themselves bound to
1 in vestigate all political questions, and to
carry forward at the same time and
with equal steps, all political reforms
They generally, u uot universally,
j adopt constitutional opinions, precisely
i the reverse of those of the Garri
aoniana. They hold that the consti
tution of the United States, of its own
force, abolished slavery in the States,
as well as in the National Territories
and jurisdictions and that all slave
holding is, at this moment, prohibited
thy that instrument. They hold that
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, JUNE 80, 1848.
Congress has constitutional power to
enforce this constrgetion, and to se
cure freedom to every person by law.
They denounce tbe Liberty men be
cause they do not generally adopt their
extreme views, just as the Garrisonians
denounce them because they do not
adopt their opposite extreme views—
they denounce them also, because
they, not seeing the practicability ot
pressing, successfully or advantage
ousiy, a dozen or twenty distinct issues
at once, prefer to make tbe one regar
ded by them as mom important, para
mount, to every other. The Albany
Patriot, at Albany, and two or three
other papers, represent these eftizens.
The abolitionists and Slavery op
ponents, who yet act with their old
parties, are those who regard the aboli
tion of Slavery in Uuited States as
a desirable thing* but are indisposed to
make the Slavery question the para
mount issue. These citizens differ
w idely from each other in their views of
Slavery.—Some regard it as a political
evil only others, as criminal. Seine
believe that Congress has power to
abolish it throughout the country
others that the jurisdiction of Congress
over the subject is confined to terri
tories, where the jurisdiction of the
genera! government is exclusive. Some
would limit their efforts to the exclusion
of Slavery from new territories: others
demaud its abolition in the District and
wherever it can be reached. They
agree in thinking that the practical
work of legislative anti-slavery will be
done by one or the other of the exist
ing parties and they rather choose to
stay where they are than to take inde
pendent positions. Whig and Demo
cratic anti-Slavery papers generally
express the views of these citizens.
These are the leading distinctions be
tween the different classes of anti-slav
ery men in this country. We purposely
abstain from comment. We endeavor
to give tacts and leave our readers to
judge.
MR. HALE’S LETTER OF AC
CEPTANCE.
Washington, Jan, 1, 1848.
Sir: —Yours of the first of Novem
ber, notilying me that die Convention
holden at Buffalo, on the 20th and 21st
of October last, had presented my
name to the People of the United
States as a candidate for the office of
President of the United States, is be
fore me.
It is due to candor to say, that while
I appreciate, in its fullest extent, the
favorable estimation of myself by the
members of jUiatponjjpntipq. indicated
by the nomination, w-cre I to consult my
own wishes, I should peremptorily de
cline it. Deference, however, to the
opinion of those friends who have sus
tained me by their counsel and support,
under circumstances aud at times well
calculated to test the ardor of their
zeal and sincerity of their professions,
has induced a different determination,
and I therefore accept the offer, and
consent that my name may be thus used
in connection with that office.
In announcing to you, sir, as the
official organ of that body, this result'
to which 1 have come, allow me to add,
that as that Convention before its ad
journment made provision for the as
sembling of another of a similar char
acter, should unforeseen contingencies
and emergencies render such a step
proper, nothing would be more grateful
to my own feelings than to find the
good and true of every party, forgetful
of the petty differences which have
heretofore divided them, uniting togeth
er in one strenuous and euergetic etfort
to redeem the' Government ol the
United States from the reproach to:
which it is now justly subject, lor its
support of human slavery, and the pres-,
eut unjust and aggressive war it hss so,
wantonly commenced, and is so relent- j
lessly prosecuting for its extension and
perpetuity.
Whenever such a movement shall be
made in good faith and earnest purpose.
I shall be most glad, with the consent of
those friends wbo have placed my name l
before the people, to enroll inysell among
the humblest privates in tne hosts who,
wi.l rally under such a banner. 1 am
not without hope that such a movement
may yet be made.
It is sometimes expected of an indi
vidual when accepting a nomination for
an important matter how re- j
mote the chance* of his election,:
that he give some exposition of the,
principles he entertains, and the views
of public policy by which he proposes
to act.
In accordance with such a supposed
expectation, I will cheerfully say to you,
Sir, that 1 coincide with the principle*
of the resolution* adopted by the
Convention which made the nomina
tion.
It has been suggested to me, and
indeed I have private letters to the
same effect, that doubts have been ex-
I pressed to some extent, and perhaps
much more generally entertained than
expressed, whether I ready and truly
am a Liberty Party man, and belong
to the Liberty party,” and that a is ex
pected of me, that in this communica
tion I should clear up aud solve these
doubts. To do this, it is necessary de
finitely to understand wbat is meant by
tbe question. If, by »t, it be intended
to ask whether I am ready to co-oper
ate with those who, by independent,
(organized and individual action, are
aiming to carry out certain principles,
isuch as tkase embodied in the resolu
tions of the Buffalo Convsotion, who
desire to withdraw from the insU
ution of Slavery that countenance and
1 support which it unconstitutionally re
ceives from the General Government,
and seek it* termination hy federal ao
tion where it exists under federal juris*
diction, and State action where it ex
ists under State authority, ao that our
Declaration of Independence shall he
something more than a rhetorical flour
ish, and the preamble of the United
States Constitution, which declares,
among other things, that it was ordained
to secure the blessings of liberty to
ourselves and to our posterity,” no
longer be a cruel mockery, then do I
belrng to such a party. But if it be
supposed or intended that there is to be
any magical influence in the name of
party," ao that by joining it 1 thereby
subject my public conduct to the super*
vision or direction of its officers or
committees, then, I nay, most em
phatically, I do not belong to any such
party.
I have been once formally and sol
emnly read out of the democratic party,
who make such high professions of re
gard for human rights, by a State Con
vention, in New Hampshire, and regu
larly excommunicated for no reason
except a refusal to vote for a measure
calculated and designed, by the
open declaration of its friends, to up
hold the interests of slavery, extend its
influence, and secure its permanent as
cendancy,” and I am not anxious to
place myself speedily in a situation in
reference to any other party, when
any of its members may fancy they
have the moral right to repeat the ex
periment upon me, for any cause, real
or fancied.
Besides, to my mind, the great evil
of the present day, and of our own
country, eminently is this universal dis
position to merge the responsibilities of
individual character in the irresponsi
bility of a party. Were it not for this,
we could have a permanent and honor
able peace with Mexico iu less than
three months; but in their blind and
partisan devotion, men forget that
there is a God higher than party, or a
rule of morals other that political expe
diency.
It is unnecessary for me further to
enlarge on this subject.
The present session of Congress,
with the developments which are con
stantly in progress,will afford abundant
opportunity for those who feel any in
terest on the subject, in addition to what
I have already spoken and written, to
be informed of my sentiments on the
great practical questions of the day.
With much respect, I am your
friend and fellow-citizen.
JOHN P. HALE.
Hon. S. Lewis.
HAIL, COLUMBIA! HAFPY LAND!’
A Northern traveller the South, in
a commuication to the editor of the New
York Tribune, says:—
While in Petersburg. I had occa
sion to rise from a 'hasty plate’of green
peas, on account of a rush to the win
dows of our dining hall. I looked, and
saw a drove of more than fifty men and;
women, marching at a quick pace, two
by two, going to the depot, there to
take the Southern train of cars. It was
a brief delegation of the peculiar insti-|
tution,’travelling to New Orleans for
an investment. At the depot, the
whole drove’ were closely packed into;
one car. A large number of the chat-!
tels showed a sort of brut* indifference, i
and some, a worse than brute delight, i
at the thought of a railroad ride; while J
others looked very sorrowful and wept
bitterly. There was among them one
very pretty white girl, with clear com
plexion, long, dark hair, and hazel
eyes. She held a white cotton hand
kerchief to her face, and wept despair
ingly. An intelligent looking colored
man—her lover her cousin her
brother—it may be a stranger!—went j
to her, and poured from his purse into
his hand a few small pieces of silver,
and a bit of yellow coin, probably not
more than a quarter-eagle, (but I
learned afterward that it was a Urge
majority ol his property,) and just as,
the train was about stalling, he called
her attention, and quietly slipped the
gold into her band. Ske looked regret
and thanks; she tried to return it, but
the ears were off; and 1 felt more than
ever the cruelty, aererity, and cold- 1
heartlessness of slavery. I had seen it
stated in our Northern papers that,
slaves were carried in droves, like
sheep, to market; but I never appre-i
ciated or felt the fact until then.
From the Loadoa Tiare.
SUGAR DUTIES 11V BRITAIN.
Were Clarkson and Wilberforee
right or wrong in the steps they took
in the cause of Negro Emancipation j
Sentimentalism apart, are they to be
numbered amidst the enlightened bene
factors of humanity? The practical
result of all the efforts Great Britain
has made during the last half cent wry
'for the abolition of slavery, is merely
this:—Tbe gross amount of negro sla
very throughout the world has been
progressing fully in the ratio of tbe
increased consumption of sugar, coffee
and other West Indian produce, and
Vngt.rui is losing all power of soften
i ing or ameliorating tbe condition of tbe
•lave. Let us suppose for a moment
that all the legislative acta fer the abo
lition of slavery which tbe humanity of
philanthropists ever devised, or the
votes of Parliament ever passed into
law, bsd never been thought or spoken
of, and what would have been the re
sult? It is well to look tbe plain truth
boldly in tbe lace, and ascertain whe
ther the condition of tbs Alricaa has
I been at all bettered by our exert is an—
have paper, compensatory
aums ef twenty millions at a tints never
I to have been plevied from tbe English
tax-payer; and that tbe estuaries of tbe
African rivers bad never witpemrd tbe
evolutions of an Eanlish squadron
amidst their awasumta and
deadly fogs. We may fairly presume
that in this case the slate trade bet»*< n
the African Coast and the British Wesi
Indies would have been regularized.—
The oscillations of demand and supph
would have kept their even pace.
Philanthropy, instead of doing what it
has done, would have taken another
form. Philanthropy would have de
claimed as of old about the horrors ot
tbe middle-passage, and to the soften
ing of the horrors of the middle-pas
sage tbe remedy would have been con
fined. Commodious vessels adapted to
the traffic would have been provided.
It would have been desirable, as a
mercantile speculation, that the human
merchandize should have arrived sound
in wind and limb, and fit for delivery.
This would have come to pass, or else
the purveyor of slaves would have reg
ulated his business by other condition*
than the importer of oranges from Mal
ta or the dealer of cotton from the
United States. Factories or entrepot*
would have been established here and
there along the African coast, and by
all analogy we may presume that even
in the interior, even in the spots where
human beings are seized and sor'ed for
sale, some improvement on the horror*
of the trade might in the course of hall
a century have been devised. Be thi*
however as it may, it is on the condition
of the slave when once under the pro
tection of the British laws that we mighi
have reflected with satisfaction. Tht
original, the damning taint of the traflii
we could not have washed out. Wt
could not have restored the African
who had been torn from his deserts ant
his home, to the society and the fellow
ship of earlier days,as dearly cherishec
by him as are the more refined regret:
for the days of his childhood by civil
ized man. This we could not havt
done; but we could have taken tht
slave in Jamaica or St. Vincent as n
slave, and have rendered his condition
more tolerable than that of any unhappy
being placed under similar circum
stances. By this time a humane code
of slave laws would have been enacted
—the arbitrary power of corporal pun
ishment have been taken away from the
master; the separation of husband and
wife,, of parent and child forbidden;
regulations of the hours and conditions
of labor have obtained. Ou the whole
such a system might have been de
vised, that, setting aside the original
sin inherent in a traffic where man is
the merchant and man the merchan
dize, philanthropists might have doubt
ed, and sterner wisdom denied, that the
African had been the loser by a bar
gain which removed him from the fran
tic licenseund constant ptysical isuffer
ing of barbarism, and placed him ever
in the lowest degree within the pale o!
civilization. It is conceivable, it is
probable, considering the interval be
tween the posting of a letter at King
ston and its delivery in London, in May,
1848, that the system would have sha
ken itself into some such form as this.
Let us now turn to what we actually
have done.
We have emancipated the negro.—
We have caused such a deficiency in
the supply of labor, and so raised its
price in the Antilles, that th#* cost ot
producing a ton of sugar in the British
colonies is considerably higher than in
foreign sugar-growing countries. Con
currently with this measure, we have
said to the British West Indian colonist
—You shall at once, or within a short
period, lose any discriminating duty
which would place you on a footing ot
equality with, the foreign sugar-grower.
Your feet shall be tied, and his feet
shall be loose, and yet you shall have
no start in the race by which you arc ru
ined if you lose. We are not, however,
considering the question with reference
to the British planters—let them perish
by all means, and let the West Indian
colonies be destroyed—but purely as it
may affect slavery throughout the
world. Sugar must be had somehow,
and from somewhere; if not from the
British W est Indies, then from the Bra
zils, from the United States, from coun
tries where it will he grown by slaves,
whose compulsory labor we cannot reg
ulate, whose condition we cannot bet
ter, and whose transportation from
Africa to the various slavcmarkets we
cannot prevent. That is at present the
gross results of the labors of Clarkson,
Wilberforee, and the abolitionists.—
They have not succeeded in checking
the seizure of dfcves in the interior of
Africa; they have aggravated the hor
ror* ofthe middle-passage; they have
driven the slave from tbe protection of
the British flag to the tender mercies ot
tbe Brazilian or United States planter,
whose proceedings MURf influenced
by any such publW'qfpu*'u a
have softened tfkeir dealings with
those slaves in a British colony. It L
well, ere it be too late, to ponder upon
these things.
Here are a few facts from the speech
delivered by Mr. Samuel Gurner to the
meeting held at the London Tavern on
Saturday:
Since 1846, a great change had
taken place on tbe subject of the slave
trade. Up to that time, the »lavctrade
had been checked by the British and
other Governments; and the Brazils
and Spain, not by treaty, but by acta,
would have abandoned the traffic ii
their sugar had been ad muted to ihu
country at that time. The Govern
ment of this cowntry had thrown away,
then, a golden opportunity, but not, he
I hoped, ao completely as not to be a bit
;to get R back. He would read them a
few statistic* of the slave!rode in reewari
{▼ears. In 1946 the number of
that crossed the Atlantic was erthnatei
at 46.000. In 1847 the number w«
60,000 by official reports, but by P n
vale mad weß-uothentieated account*, n
was 70,000. He would wish them to
consider weg sferotrsdf
JOHN DICK. PssMsasa.
WHOLE NOa-27.
as He *iu,d iiKi.itoa oncer
tltes w ©I etuudaUou. Owe ■«t
our admirals, witbin tfei promt ucbth,
had written to his Government that he
Lad a slaver in tow of CO tors Limit n,
with 317 individuals onboard. '1 he
system of packing those individuals
was such as to make them almost a sal id
mass ot corruption, some tew remain
ed alive. He knew cases in which mac
out ot ten ot the persons composing
cargoes oi slaves died on the voyage.
It such vessels of CO tons Here em
ployed to transport the 60,000 slaves in
the meeting might form some
calculation as to the amount of deaths.
He only told half the evils of the slave
trade when he mentioned the horrors
and deaths during the Atlantic voyage.
hat it he told them of the wars and
cruelties exercised in Africa —of the
ruin committed in that country to get
possession of those unfortunate individ
uals—if he told them all they would see
that lor every seventy thousand exported
from Africa an equal number had been
destroyed. He believed that the con
sequence of the African slavetrade, ns
now carried on, was at least I,U4M>
deaths a day.”
This meeting in itself is do inconsid
erable symptom of the change of pub
lic opinion on this matter, or rather of
the strange manner in which parties
have been brought together who were
formerly in diametrical antagonism.—
The est Indian interest and the abo
litionists are now making common
cause, the one to preserve their estates,
the other to prevent t*c abolition of
slavery becoming a mere delusion.—-
The means to be adopted for the at
tainment of those two ends are iden
tical.
To-morrow, the committee an the
sugar duties are to come to their reso
lution upon what shall be their recom
mendation to the House with reference
to the degree of protection to be af
forded to the West Indian planters for
some years to conic. Three several
plans have been proposed to the com
mittee—a very elaborate one, by Lord
George Bentuick, too lengthy and ex
acting to be of practical service. This
was rejected. There was a second
scheme, of Mr. Wilson’s, with which
tho planters were tolerably satisfied.—
This also was discarded. There was
a third, attributed to Mr. Goulburn and
Mr. Cardwell, which would, we be
lieve, have been still mere agreeable to
the West Indian interest, but of which
a vital clause was thrown out by the
influence of Lord George Bentinck.—
Thus the committee have come to a
stand-still, and the report stands a good
chance of going up.to the with
out any recommendation in favor of
protection at all, unless the proposition
ol Sir Thomas Birch be accepted.-
This is to the effect that the duties on
foreign sugars shall for the next six
years be 20s. per cwt., and on British
sugars 10s. per. cwt., and then gradu
ally to reduce the former duty until it
falls to 20s. per cwt. The recom
mendation is to he accompanied by an
other for a large increase in the supply*
of free-negro labor.
'1 his would appear to be the last ef
fort that can he made in the committee,
and wq cull the attention ol all who do
not desire to witness the abandonment
of a great line of national policy to
this most important subject. We would
have it considered upon slavery
grounds. The West Indian planter*
tell us, and common sense would ap
pear to confirm the statement, that in
time—in a few year*—they will be able
to boar the competition with the foreign
sugar-grower upon equal terms. If
this be so, the question of slavery is fa
vorably solved. Alter all we have
done, this last experiment is surely
worth trying.
A BEAUTIFIX LEGEND.
The following is from a sermon of
Theodore Parker on the subject of
Rest:’
They tell a story that one day
Rabbi Judah ami his brethren, the
seven pillars of Wisdom, rat in tho
Temple on a feast day, disputing
about rest. One said that it was to
have attained sufficient wealth, yet
without sin. The second, that it was
fame and praise of all men. The third,
that it was the possession of power to
rule the state. The fourth, that it con
sisted only in a happy home. The
fifth, that it must be in the old age of
one who is rich, powerful, famous, sur
rounded by children's children. The
sixth, said that all that were vain un
less a man keep all the ritual law of
Moses. Ami Rabbi Judah, the venera
ble, the tallest of the brothers, said, ye
have all spoken wisely, but one thing
more is necessary: he can only find
rest, who to all these things addelbthui,
that he keepetfi the tradition of the
elders.
“There sat in the court a fair-haired
boy, playing with his lilhes in his lap,
and bearing the talk, dropped them
w ith astonishment from his hands, and
looked up—that hoy of twelve—aud
said, ‘Nay, nay, fathers, he only b>r
eth rest who loves his brother as him
self, and God with his whole heart and
soul. He is greater than wealth and
fame and power, happier than a happy
home, happy without it, better ui*a
honored age, he is a lai* to
and above all t radii inn.’ 'Hie doctors
were astonished. They sa»u, wheu
cbn»icw-i*.•*>*«'*•»•*
things? And they thanked God, for,
they said, old Men are not always wise,
yet God be praised, that out of the
imnrthofihw suckling has ilia
praise become perfect,
Notices.
Annual Meeting.
The 6th Annual Meeting of the Wmm
Anti-Slavery Society will be held at Sa
lem,,Columbiana Co., on Wsdnrtlay, Thure-j
day, and Friday, the 16th, 17th, and °fj
August, commencing at 10 o’clock. A- M.
I je\ a full representation W *he alav«i
friends come up on liua ra lon from a!)
pans of iht Great We* The political lead
art are marshalling their hosts for a conflict,
thsir follower* *re rallyiug by hundreds o»
thousand to the support of their party ban
it,*. Time, and toooey, and labor aie ex
pended u> secure their object. And shall the
friends of freedom, whose faith should be
strong in the power of Truth, be lukewarm
and indifferent while politicians are so ear
nest in their labors, ao untiring in their zeal*
The events of the past year should encourage
us to renewed efTora, for every movement of
importance which has been made, having any
bearing upon the question of slavery, fore
shadows the destruction of the system, and
•be oppressors feel that it is so. The political
pirtics will make a desperate effort to save
themselves from the destruction their corrup
tion has brought upon them; and ths efforts
•f the abolitionists to maintain and enforce
the Right should he pioportiooably great.
Arrangements should be made at the coming
meeting to continue the anti-slavery agitation
by the lips of the living speaker, and to ex
tend more widely the circulation of the So
ciety’s paper—the Anti-Slavery Bogle. Let
■one of the friends who can be there, absent
themselves for any light cause, for the pre
sence of all, and the coucscl of all is desira
ble.
Besides the friends of Liberty in the West
who will be present on the occasion, Henry
C. Wright and Chas. C. Bcrleigh arc ex-;
p*cted to be in attendance, and perhaps other
representatives pf the East.
LOT HOLMES,
Bcrording Sec'y. j
Meetings in the West,
Henry 0. Wright, thy Apostle of Peace,
and Charles C. Burleigh, the eloquent Anti
slavery Advocate, will hold meetings at the
following places, viz: at
Pittsburgh. Pa. June loth, 16th 1/th
New Brighton, 19th 20th
Louisville Ohio 22d
Youngstown, 21th *sth
New Lyme 27th
Painesville, 29th
Chs jnn Falls, July Ist &2d
Cle/eland, 4th
Twiisburgh,
Rich ield, Bth 9th
su rjn 11th
Ravenna, 13th k 11th
Randolph, 4 »sth 16lh
Massillon, 18th
The meetings at New Lyme, Cleveland,
•nd Akron, will commence at ten o’clock, A.:
M.; the others, on the first day of the meet-.
ings it two o’clock, P. M.subsequent dajs
at 10 A. M.
The friends of Anti-Slavery and of Peace i
are requested to make all necessary arrange
ments for the meetings, and give as wide a
notice as possible. Now is the time to
agitate.
Persons can avail themselves of this op
portunity afforded hy these meetings to pay
f, r the Anti-Slavery Standard, to Samvel-j
Brooke.
NORTHERN DIVISION
DGLEVAN STATES UNION.
ip The Delavan States Union, Northern Divis
ion, will meet at Great Barrington,Miss., on
the 7th day of July at 10 o'clock A. M. So
cieties from the east of N. York, N. Jersey,
and the River Towns, can take the 5 P. M.,
boat from New Vork for Hudson, where they
can take the 6 A. M., train of cars tor Great
Barrington. From Albany and Troy, they
can take the 6 A. M., train from East Alba
ny, which will arrive in Great Barrington be
fore the procession moves.
Let there be a general attendance. The
following distinguished speakers are to speak
on the occasion
Rev. 11. 11. Garnet, Troy; Dr. J. McCune
Smith, New York; Rev. Amos G. Beman,
New Haven; Charles L. Remond, M esteru
New York, Junius C. Morrel, Long Island;
Win. H. Topp, Albany; Win. G. Allen,
Troy; Rev. J. M. Gloster, New York; Rev.
Charles B. Ray, New t York; Rev. J. W.j
Logucn, Syracuse.
LIST OF OFFICERS.
Stephen Myers, Aloany, President; Joseph
Segar, Columbia Co., Ist Vice President
Nelson Asken, Pittsfield, 2d Vice President;
Martin Cross, Catskill, 3d Vice President;
Joseph Seemcrhorn, Lenox, 4th Vice Presi
dent Rev. Wm. Jackson, Philadelphia,
Treasurer; Henry Fowler,Great Barrington,
Recording Secretary. David Thomas, Pitts
field; Wm. H. Topp, Albany Charles L.
Remond, Western New York,Corresponding
Secretaries.
Grand Marshal,'
LEWIS JACKSON, Clarvarac.
Assistants,
James Taylor, New Concord, Columbia
Co Chatlss A. Burghardt, and John G.
Burghardt, Great Barrington Michael Jack
eon, Hudson Thomas Welt, Spencer Town;
William Potter, Pittsfield; one from the Ed
win Jackson Society, Kii.dcrhook one from
New Milford, Ct.; one from Bennington, Vt; j
one from Boston one from W orcester.
From each of these societies they will elect a
marshall who must be on the ground the Till
of July, 1818.
J Committiu cf Arrangements at
Great Barrincton.
Othello Burghardt, John G. Burghardt.'
Charles Agustus Burghardt, Samuel Smith
of Lee; Bristol Budgworth, Kinderhook
Joseph Pell of Hudson Chaucey Van llus
e in, Hudson.
Westsrn Nsw York A»ti-Mnvery Society.
Executive Committee will meet on
Tuesday evening next, July 4tb. at the
Anti-Slavery O Bce, 25, Buffalo Street.
Attendance is requested at 7 o clock pre-
W C. NELL, Rco See.
Jamaica.— /frm*y Fein. An arrival a
Philadelphia with dates to the 28th tilt., states
fist heavy rams had recently falUu i° 1
f.rent parts of tlie island, which washed hway
s new and beautiful church at Kingston, in
jured several dwellings, and damaged tfce
railroad at Spamshtown to such an extent a*
fo m »Va it completely unjntcaHc.
From tW Muiwtinmu bpj.
T# the Whig* mf the Eighth Ceegppw
tee ml Dbtifet.
It eta* i—niHbly be expccted thet too w J
<\mm Iron* some account of the proceed*
mjr* of tbe late National Convention—te
hifh I want as your d«leg*«s—with the rea
sons fcr tMHteurae 1 fell it mv duty U>
sue in conneeuon with it. To answer that
expectation— and at the aatnc time to plact(
you ia possession of a plain statement of bcti
—i* my present purpose.
At the Convention by which I was chosen,
—one of the largest ever assembled 11
tha District.—feaoiuuons were uoamiooush
adopted, expressive of the sentiments u
those 1 represented io the National Con
veniion.which, sa 1 unde mood them, require*
tae
I. —To advocate the principles of the Whij
party.
11. —To vote for undoubted Whigs fu
office.
HI.—To support no person not clearb
know n to be opposed to the extension of ala
very and
IV.—To do nothing.directly or indirectly,t<
encourage the bartering away theoft-repeate<
pledges of Massachusetts Whigs lor the pos
session of office.
Guided by these landmarks, I went to tb<
Convention. You may judge of my aurprisi
and mortification, when 1 found that thew
principles you had with so mcch unantmit]
adopted, and to which I felt myself bound t<
adhere, were all to be and thai
General Taylor—who was not ouly unpledged
to the principles, measures, policy, and or
gamzation of the Whig party, but who had
distinctly declared that, In no case can J
permit mvseif to be the candidate of any }■ar
ty, or yield myself to party schemes wat
to be forced upon the Convention. No candi
date from the free States, no Whigs well
known as the Arne exponests ot the declared
principles of the party, seemed likely to havt
the slightest chance to receive the nomination
of the Convention. The question of choice
was narrowed, from the commencement, to
Mr. Clav and General Taylor. r Io be a
Whig from the free States, was a decided
disadvantage; while the adoption ol the prin
ciples of the Wihnol Proviso,” so lar from
being a rccommendatiou, was a perfect barrier
to success.
Gen. Taylor was the favorite candidate of
the slave holders, especially to the slave-ex
tensionists and, from the very first, had been
brought forwerd as the only Southern man
that coud be elected.” He was never iden
tified with the Whig party. Ha had never
given a vole. He had frankly said, that he
hail never made up his mind upon the leading
questions at issue between the parties, for the
right decision of which we had fought in
many a sternly-contested battle-field. Not
only had he refused to be the exponent ot
Whig principles, but he had accepted the
nominations of bodies of men not known or
received as Whigs, while they scouted the
very idea of being in any way bound by the
acts of any National Convention. So late as
the 20th of April, he had declared he would
not withdraw his name if Henry Clay, or any
other Whig should have the nomination. His
Bupj>orters are mostly from the Have holding
States which had generally given Democratic
majorities. Indeed, on the final ballot, of the
whole number of votes received by General
Taylor, ninety-seven were from States that
voted for Mr. Polk in 1841. Those most vi
olent in their opposition to the Wilmot Pro
viso,” and most distinguished for their want
jf sympathy with the liberal principles of the
ige, were most forward and uncompromising
n their advocacy of his claims. The dele
fates fVoni the Whig fiee States were nearly
rnanimous in their opposition to him. On the
first ballot, he received but four of the ninety- J
four votes they had in Convention. He was
emphatically the candidate of the slave-exten-
siou Whigs, and a class of trimming politi
cians from States hopelessly Democratic, who j
expected, by support and votes given him in J
the Convention, to secure for themselves and
friends executive appointments and executive
patronage.
Being neither the exponent or embodiment
of Whig principles, nothing could done to
pledge or commit him or his friends, to Whig
measures. Before proceeding to ballot, a
l resolution was offered, by a delegate from
Ohio, declaring, in substance, that the car.di-
dates presented by the Convention, should be j
Whigs, fully committed to the support of
Whig principles and measures and that they
should be bound bv the decision of the Con- i
vention, and support the nominee of the Con-
vention, on w homsoever the choice should i
fall. This resolution was offered in the spiri
of compromise, and w ith an anxious desire to
secure harmony of action, and, at the same
time, save the party from the utter abandon-
ment of everything that has distinguished its
past history and character. It was, however, j
received with scorn and derision, by the
friends of General Taylor, ruled out of order, j
and thrown out of the Convention. A simi- J
lar proposition from the New York delegation
shared the same fate. The friends of Gen.
Taylor—confident, arrogant and bold—spurn-
ed with contempt at every effort at compro- i
misc or conciliation and we were forced j
into the unequal struggle for the preservation j
of the principles and organization of the
Whig party. The balloting commenced, and J
although Gen. Taylor, on the first ballot,
wanted twenty-nine voles to secure his nomi- 1
nation, it was well known that certain gentle
men intended to give him their adhesion as 1
soon as they could do so in such a manner as
to appear to yield to the force of circurnstan- j
ces, and thus partially satisfy their betrayed
constituents. Ou the 4th ballot, Gen. Taylor
received the nomination.
Another effort w as then made on the part'
of the Ohio delegation for union and harmony
—and at the same time to save the party from
complete disorganization. A resolution to the)
etlect that the Whigs, in Conventiou, would
agree to abide by the uomiuatiou of General
Taylor, on condition of his acceptance of the
nomination as the candidate of the Whig
party, and his adherence to its fundamental
principles—viz No extension of slavery over I
territory now free no acquisition of territory i
by conquest; protection to American mdua-;
try; and opposition to executive usurpation
and power. The fair proposition was also j
received by the friends of Gen. Taylor, with
the same arrogant opposition, ana by them
defeated.
Events like these, following each other in
quick succession, convinced me that, if 1 con- i
sented to the nomination of Gen. Taylor, it j
must be done at the sacrifice of my own opin-;
inns and the betnyal «i yours. This liould
not do. Tt was repeating tie experiment of]
John Tyler ,w ithout even any decency or show
of nect s*ity. For such an experiment, 1 had
no relish nor did I feel like trusting one 1
whose principles were unknown. I went to
Philadelphia, a Whig and 1 can truly Bay j
that I catne home a W lug. The majority of
the Convention, however, adopied a different
course. Casting to the winds all the profes
sions of years, and demolishing, at a single
blow, the old and long-tried platform on w hich
they had always stood, tfiey “surrendered”
at discretion to General Taylor, and became
the willing serfs, under him, of the contempt
ible oligarchy ot the South.
They voted for a man to be the standard
bearer of the great Whip partv —that party
which has boasted of embracing within its
ranks the great body of the intelligence. the t
decency, the morality, and the religion of the 1
nation—profeasing to represent the higher
and more reduc'd scuubh nta of the American
people. a man, whose chief recommendation
to those who urge his claim, is, that he is a
slaveholder—the reputed owner of two hun-
dred human b»iops—and the only reason far I
whose nomination is. that he has been a suo j
ceasful general to a war which I believe to be
most intamous and wicked—which every.
Whig Legislature in the free State* has de
neußced—-which the preseut House of Repce-
senUtives, at Washington, have voted to be
uncocatitcycßs! and unnecessary- apd which *i
v i- 9-
all know m waged to extend the im of
slavery, and strengthen the slave power of the
at the Sooth, raped at
the fcouth, and identified. m all hta fifohnga
hnd fctereate, with the South—*lo trhrh be
U aa true as the needle to the pole n who
has spent meat of his life in the camp, away
from all association* with the musneact the
eoontry —filing amdbg a roving tonkaf popu
lation —allViua cMßfamon* and employments
him U’t the administration of the
foreign and domestic affairs of our Govern*
meet: and to make the inconsistency and
i profligacy null more apparent, tfaia candidate
was not only uncommitted to any principle.
but, by hta own admimawi. without any defi
nite opinions upon the great questions of poli
cy which have divided the two leading parties
of the nation for the last twenty years, fan
tho Whig party how lower I Can d>gr>dstina
and aband'wmenl go farther Is not the
I piesent cundiUoo ai the party a must humili
ating one! And yet all this has been
I forced upon ns by the arrogant demand of the
slave power, to which we hare basely sub
mitted.
For yearn we have denounced the Demo
cratic party for its servility to the South. We
j bare held it up as her natural ally.’* We
hat e characterized its conduct, in sol Knitting
|to the sacrifice of Mr. Van Buren, and sup
-1 porting Mr. Polk, at the dictation of the slave
power, as being in the highest degree pusi
j lanhnous and degrading. But that was inag4
inaainuty compared with the course of the
Whig party; for they have not only sacrificed
i all their old and long-tried leaders and emi-
j nent statesmen, and taken a candidate at the j
slaveholders’ bidding—he an “out-eider,'’and j
■never identified with us—but, for the boon
thus voudisafed from their masters, they have
thrown away *R the principles for which they
i have ever_conteoded.
What, now, fellow-ciiisens, was I, your
delegate—who have been known, fur years,
to be opposed to Karery, in all its forms, and
elected by you, knowing ve bat my principles
1 were—to do Should I, by approving this
coutse, give the lie to my own professions and
'your unanimously recorded vole! I would
not do it. I could nut be false to mv own
1 convictions of duty and your deliberately-re
corded opinions, to gainthe applause or es
cape the censure af any man or body of men.
Would you have so ditected! Would yon
have done so, had you been there yourselves!
Painful as was the trial—knowing, as I did,
that 1 should probably sacrifice the friendship
of those whose good opinion I highly prized
—1 announced to the Convention that 1 should
not be bound by its nomination; but should
fo home and do all I could to oppose it; and
ventured the assertion, in your behalf, that
the six thousand Whigs of the District—
who had sustained John Quincy Adams
through his long and glorious career
would spurn, with scorn and contempt, a
nomination forced upon them by the arrogance
of the South, aided by the servility of the
North.
And if anylbing was wanting to justify ray
conduct, at the time of making this announce
ment, the subsequent course of events in the'
Convention filled up the deficiency and the
measure of its degradation. The Wilmot
Pioviso” was presented to the Convention by
the Ohio delegation, and received with the
same spiritof defiance and denunciation which
all previous dibits of the friends of Northern
rights had excited. Its friends were de
nounced ae factionists, who came there to dis
turb the harmony of the Convention. Yes,
he great principle of Free Territory, which
had received in Congress the support of the
party and been supported by all the Whig
Legislatures of the free States, was de-
naunced in that National Convention, and in- j
dignaotly laid upon the table, while its sup
porters were brow-beaten, insulted, and de
nounced. And anolher ciicumstance, equally
significant and in character, was the fact,
that the Convention broke up without adopting
a single resolution or recording a single opin
ion upon the great questions of the day.—
Nothing was said about the war—about the
acquisition of territory—nothing about ihe
events in Europe, or any other stirring themes
of this most wonderful period in the history
of the world. For what, then, are you to
to labor, in the support you are invited to give
to the ticket thus nominated! A Whig vic
tory. But of what advantage can a Whig
victory, gained undersuch auspices, be to you, 1
the yeomanry, the rank and file of the party
Of w hat possible benefit to the country? Such j
a victory will be barren of all good, at least
to the free North.
“A barern sceptic in their g;i|~e,
Thence to be wrenc bed by sn utilineal hand, j
No son of theirs succeeding.”
For such a victory I had no desire. I w ill
have nothing to do with such an utter aban-
donment of principles. I wash my bands
now and forever of all possible agency in j
such an ignoble work as this, to which we
have been invited by the trading politicians or
the party. 1 will not trade away the rights'
of freemen, nor ignore tlte whole question ofi
American slavery, merely for the election of!
a few office-seekers to places of trust and
power—especially those who have shown
themselves thus unfaithful to the true interests
of the party, the country, to a common human
ity, and to God.
I know that the idea is held out, that al
though Geaifol Taylor may not have much
experience as a statesman, and may not be
exactly our first choice, yet being honest, he
will suiround himself by a Whig Cabinet, by
w hich the present reign of misrule will be
broken, and there shall be a return of the
Government to the principles of the party.
Let not the honest treemen of the North “lay
this flattering uncuon to their souls.” The
reckless adveutuiers, the fiery spirits of the
South-west, who have brought forward Gen.
Tavlor from the obscurity of a frontier camp,
and of whose principles he is the exponent
and champion, have not done it all without a
consideration.” Hot only i 9 he to be the
leader, under w bora the last act of the Mexi-1
can war u to be consummated, its appropri
ation of the ceded temtoiy now free to sla
very, which can only be done by executive
permission, but we cannot suppose that, hav
ing made all these personal exertions and ex
penditures, they will step quietly aside and
let a sober Whig administration, made up of
our leading statesmen, enjoy the fruits of
their toils. It is expecting too much, that
men who, in the Coeveuuoa, wuh power but
in expectancy, and when conciliation would
seem necessary to secure the accomplishment
ol tfieir bold schemes, should, when firmly
seated in the administration, become modest
and forbearing. No; General lay lor will
come in, if he comes in at all, unpledged to
any man or measures, except such as in se
cret cabal he lias counselled with and who
have chosen httn as their leader. His elec
tion will be but another Southern victory.—
A heady have the leading politicians ol "De
mocratic South Carolina expressed them
selves as better satisfies with him than with
Geo. Cass. And the probability is greatest
at this moment, that the policy of his admin
istration will be such as would be dictated
bv John C. Calfious, rather than Darnel
Webster.
Fellow citizens, I coma back to you from
Philadelphia to return to you U»c trust imposed
upon me. As a report of my doings there, I
claim that,
Fint —1 hare advocated the principles of
tho Whig party.
Second —l nave voted for Whigs ss candi
dates.
Third—l have supported 00 person not be
lieved by me to be fully opposed to the ex ten
bion of slavery.
Foorth —I have done nothing directly or
indirectly to encourage the trading away of
Ihe pledgee of Massachusetts Whigs for the
mere pssums of otfica.
la cooduswa, fettow-atneas. permit me u>
fcay, that 1 have acted alter mature tsdertiaa.
I have acted according to the cmmrtipp el
ray judgment and the dictates of conscience.
have anticipated the sacrifice—l have count
ed the com. I have expected to be denounced;
vor have I dosed my cvee to the probable
extfoopa «a 1
m
sundering of ike friendly relation of inn
I bote not been jiafpouiKißttm denim-
Stations koto already bee* ipped Woo me
Sven by some wruh obom Hat* long keen m;
fortune totd And reilfoleothfog to re
nnet. No Im> of political nrwajd, and nc
fcar of iviiflM ond deouuciOtMJC, will detei
■te from acting op to my momietwa of duty,
in resisting the extension of humani olotetj
ord the arrogant detnnods of the oboa power
which have not on It put in jeoponlt the n»
ties,but toned the Whig p«tj F 1 1
disgraced position. 'Hie approbation of po
litical friends is grateful to our 1
consciousness of duties performed is inon
grateful still. To the sober second thought*
of the people am content to trust for a justi
hesuoo of my course.
HENRY WILSON.
Natick, Jane 14,1849.
THE NORTH STAR.
T
ROCHESTER, JUNE 30, 1848.
Diab Rcadcks, —A set ere illness during
the past week, has pretented me from attend
ing to the editorial department of this numbei
of the North Star. I hate been for mon
than a year past, seriously troubled with en
larged and frequently inflamed tonsils, whirl
has operated tery disadvantageous!? to mj
public speaking, as well as caused me much
suffering. On Friday last, I was induced tc
hate a surginal operation performed, and the
tonsils remoted and though I hate suffered
much by the operation, my readers will be
glad to knew that I already feel material!;
benefited by it, and hope to be able to dis
charge my editorial'*duties without incon
venience next week.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
The Press sad the Presidency.
There are few things more disagreeable
to the ingenuous and conscientious man, than
to be placed in a* position in which he is
forced or thinks hirrself under the necessity
of speaking or acting in direct contradiction to
his own opinions. One has a feeling of hu
miliation and self-degradation in such circum
stances, that almost forces him to blush fbi
very shame and indignation at bis own pol
troonery and meanness, and confess to him
self, whether others form the same estimate
of lus character or not, that his conduct is
rile and despicable, and that he has forfeited
all claim to respect and confidence. The re
cent display of Pertinax-M icsycophantism by
many at least of the Whig journals, has by
no means had the effect of raising to a higher
level the standard of human character. Some
there are, that from being the decided oppo
nents of General Taylor, have become his
wannest and most determined supporters.—
True, they generally give a reason for their
change of sentiment. They may as well,
however, for any* attention that is paid to
their asseverations and protestations, have
saved themselves the trouble. No one cares
anything about their reasons. Every one
knows full well what they amount to, and
tint they are, in fact, only sound and fury
signifying—nothing.” That a man may
have good grounds lor a change of sentiment,
is self-avident; indeed, there is nothing more
natural for the conscientious and inquiring
mind, than to undergo a change—nay, many
changes. Strange indeed were it not so.—
New truths, and new views of old truths,
cannot fail to be elucidatod by such minds.—
These are the natural and legitimate results
of inquiry—they art' the Avowed and proper
object of inquirers—without which all their
efforts are fruitless, aimless, and their labor
unproductive. Such genuine changes of opin
ion, however, are easily distinguishable from
all those of spurious origin. The genuine
changes, more frequently than otherwise,work
injuriously to the interests of the person who
avows them; while the mere pretences have
of course a tendency, or at least a supposed
tendency, directly the reverse. For a man
to avow the adoption of views directly op
posed to the prevailing spirit of the day, or
contrary to lrs ow n interests, he must be pos
sessed of moral courage and conscientious ad
herence to truth. Such mea are the reform,
ers—the discoverers of the times. It is their
place, and they are by nature fitted for it.—■
None else need undertake that office—they
are sure to fail, and show to the wmild the
shallow foundation on which their pretences
rest. The opposite course—that of gliding
smoothly along the stream, and joining in
with the popular voice, is the easiest and the
most profiiable. Hence we find those Whig
and other journals which, if they performed
their duty aright, would be the pioneers of
public sentiment, and would lead the way to
reform and improvement in our social condi
tion, instead of fulfilling this their proper
duty, basely pander to what they suppose the
prevailing opinion, and instead oi being the
heralds of progress, are the mere echoes of
ignorance. The fountain must purify itself,
ere it can send forth pure waters.
While such has been the effect on some
papers of the recent nomination of General
Taylor, others, and this by no means a small
proportion, are vying with each oiher in their
efforts to show that they have long held and
advocated the aame opinion, ar.d glory in the
shame of having iongotnee asserted the fit
ness of this man-stealing, man-slaying mis
creant, to be President of the United States.
Very possibly be is fit. A few months will
decide whether these journals have formed a
correct estimate of American morality. Like
President, like people. If the Americans as
a people, approve, or have the spirit of war
and man-stealing prevailing among them—
what more appropriate than that they should
have a man-stealing warrior for President’—
If the Americans, as a people, form a mean
estimate of intelligence, and have an obtuse
perception of right and wrong—what more
reasonable than that they should have a man
w ho confesses himself to be ignorant of poli
hucal affaire, and has been long schooled
amid the immoral and corrupt mg influences of
a camp, for President If the Americans, as
a people, entertain the idea that they have al
foady attained ihe acme of perfection, and
that they cannot advance one step further,
w hai more in accordance with such antiquated
and conceited notions, than that they should
elect a man who is behind the ago, far their
President! None other would he a proper
exponent of thetr views none other reaid
five true expression to their sentiments.
The following M u extract, illustrative of
the state of feelisg on this subject, fjopi the 1
Blue Hen’s Chiefcen:
'Yho Vf-u TBK Fitax ’—Many of our ex-!
♦emporann are mapifevting a great anxiety to
stow that their love far GEN. ZACH is of
ioeg, very long attndiM, and t» deeply rooted
The Delaware Journal claims far itself
irnwthof one fall v«f, tod almost a qun
ter over,” and the Delaware Republican doe
Jjfat claim for itsetf touch leas credit. On
CHICKEN” to net inclined to be leas mad
1 set than the Journal and the Republican am
|We shall therefore giro here, as near aa par
stoic, what wo remember from the past. W
said, J'Jy 17th, 1816, two years ago withi
i lone month:
Rocca aan Rsadt.—'This great Genera
i for President would ran like wild-fire amonj
the people, wbo are clear-sighted to the men
'of great and good men.’" Again, on »h
same day “Democratic Whigs, be ready fo
the contest of 1848. ROUGH AND READ!
will be the people's candidate for the Preai
deoey.” We are no ptopbeta, but on IbeTt!
day of August, 1848, we run up to the ben
of our columns the honored names of JOH?
M. CLAYTON, and Gen. Z. TAYLOR
expressing then, as we have ever since freti
time to tune, that we were far CLAYTO?
aud TAYOR, or TAYLOR and CLA TON
for the Presidtncir and Vice Presidency.
To the chuice of candidates for the firs
offices in the gift oi the people made bv tin
W hig delegates, we however acquiesce cheer
fully. W ith regard to the non-success o
the favorite and gifted son of Delaware, Hon
John M. Clayton, we say with confident*
within ourselves, Better*luck and full jus
tice next tune.”
Alas for the paper that can make
of such an act! Alas for the people, if then
are any such, who follow the leadings of sucl
aa organ !—j. o.
1 Polypi.
The polypus is the connecting link belwcer
the animal and the vegetable kingdoms. I
j possesses some of this organs of animal life,
i and perforins some of the functions of animal
j existence. At one time it exhibits considers
ble signs of animation and again, it coulti
'not be distinguished from the suirounding
'plants and vegetables. “I say ’tis green,
'sir”—“l say 'tis grey, sir”—was the gisi
'of the chameleon quarrel. I say 'tis dead,
sir”—“ I say it lives, six,” may be tho gisi
of some future quarrel about the polypus.—
There is a species of polypus, not set down
in any classification by Linnaeus, which is
specially deserving of notice. It has a very
close affinity to the cotton plant, and weekly
manifests certain doubtful signs of vitality.—
Sometimes it veritably lives—there can be nc
mistake about that; at other times, we musi
look with considerable vigilance, to discovei
i that it is anything more than so much cotton.
,One of this species qf singular productions,
(though there are various other specimens,
particularly a very remarkable one at Wash
ington.) is to be found in Kentucky, in the
neighborhood of Louisville. Those who are
interested in such inquiries, should not fail to
make themselves acquainted with it. Not
long since, this polypus was accused of being
more alive than it thought just; and by cer
tain very unmistakable wriggles, manifested
its displeasure. It is certainly very unfair,
and by no means agreeable, to be called worse
than one is and it is far from being desirable
■Tor various reasons, at certain times, to be
called better. Some excuse themselves with
great vehemence from the honor of being
called fanatics others would consider them
selves gieatly injured, if they were suspected
of being religious. Some Kentucky friend
of the Louisville Examiner, the specimen of
polypus above referred to, foully asperses that
paper as follows
THE MISREPRESENTATION.
lie cares not what becomes of the mani
fold interests of Kcntdeky, of the citizens of
Kentucky, so that he can succeed in
grafting abolitionism into the fundamental law
of the State.”
Now, this is a very fearful charge to make
against such a sensible, sober, popeVholy
watcr sort of a paper as the Louisville Exam
iner. lie accordingly repels the base calumny
in language sufficiently expressive of his in-
I dignation, and of the estimation in which he
holds all those who thus belie him
THE REPLY.
Favorite scheme of Abolitionism
Why, leading Whigs, leading Democrats,
now, and m timeapast, are for Emancipation.
Are they to be thus denounced I Are their
views to be thus fafc died leading ministers
of thegospd, native-born, their all here, and
devoting their all to the State, are for emanci
pation. Are they to be spit upon, traduced,
because this writer chooses to indulge in un
just suspicion and false charges 1 If so, we
suffer in good company.
What language can we use in reply 1
How shall we meet such an opponent We
can only let him rave on. But let him pass.
We trust that he will grew wiser as he grew*
older. We cannot, at least, notice him again
unless he docs so.”
This writer, it would seem, considers him
self traduced, spit upon,” in the good com
pany of leading Whigs, leading Democrats,
and leading ministers of the gospel,” because
he is classed with Abolitionists. What a
grievous defamation of character Could
r
anything be inure unjust or unreasonable
He an Abolitionist! He be considered in any
way a party to the violent language and vio
lent measures of Abolitionists,! Nay verily
Leading Whigs, leading Democrats, and
leading ministers of the gosj.el,” are the
company of his choice, and whose friendship
he is anxious to achieve. Doubtless he will
have his reward but only at the expense of
that independence of j-arty which he makes
bis boast. That it ta impossible to do other
wise in the part of the country where this;
paper is pubhsbad, is the ready reply of the;
timid friends of such exponents of ami-sla
very sentiment. There may be some truth in
this excuse but bolder men would certainly
use bolder language; at all events, they
would call things by their right names, and
cot be guilty of the gross absurdity, not to
say positive profanity, which this paper com
mits, m another article of the same number,
as to speak of generous and manly slave
holders.” To be generous and manly,”
and at the same time a slaveholder, seems to
us of the North to be an impossibility. Prob
ably the meaning of language ia Kentucky is
not the same ss it is in New Y'ork. Gen
erous sod manly” to Kentucky, it is hardy
possible, may mean despicable and inhu
man” if m, the terms employed ate inoet
just and appropriate.— j. d.
Mastis \an Buaxx The Washington
correspondent of the New York Express,
wales that the aomioatioa of Mr. Van Boren
by the I'taConvention, created great aston
ish meet and consternation at the espitol. It
la abo stated that the President Ip aboct to
send a message to Con greys, selling upon that
body to prolong the present session until all
the Territorial questions now before the peo
ple* fre r*nj settled according to law.1
this I# aa, the vexed question of slavery wi) j
create a toif both fa and oat of Congreea.
9
Mwmmmt,
Omt more the wheel of old Time hat
roller round the glonoae Summer. Once
wn duitn forth in til kii iphnJor
tuff magnificence, gilding erery object with a
•ha4e of ha owe dazzling bnlhvnco num
mooing into life, and beauty, and fragrance,
*Um» flowers that dock the garden, and the
grans that clothes the lawn—covering the
trees of the forest w itb verdure, and the trees
of the orchard with fruit. Once more, the
bees bum out their bust song, ever active and
j laborious, gathering sweets from the modest
dais? and the gaudy dahlia—and the soft
j w *°d sounds a lullaby through the treea and
the birds sing the lo triumjht of renewed
life, and youth, and beauty, for their victory
over ruin, decay, and death.
Summer! what may compare with the
loveliness and grandeur of a summer day?
How miserably tame and paltry are all the
gildings and trappings of the most splendid
exhibitions, compared with this! The paint*
ed scenery of a theatre or a panorama, what
a mere daub it is, when placed side by side
with the scenery of nature. Not that I un
dervalue painting no—it is good, it is beau
tiful but who vyouJd look at the face of a
lovely and valued friend, through the reflec
tion of a microscopic mirror, when he could
see the original. No painting, however per
fect it may be, can ever supply the place of
the copy. In the breath of the one there is
life, balm, fragrance; the other breathes not
at all, but is cold, dull, dead. The one is full
of life, and motion, an* vigor the trees nf
the other wave not, its rivers glide not, and
its corn-fields are motionless. The voices of
nature are full of mosie and harmony; tlie
painting has no voice—iis birds have no song
there is no rippfing of waters—no humming
of insects—no rustling of the wind among
the trees. The gauzy drapery of clouds that
veils the bright face of Nature’s heaven, is
ever dancing, changing, and assuming all
manner of fantastic shapes and figures in
the painting, the clouds are ever the same
and unvarying. The painting belongs to this
or that man, who happens to have dollars
enough to purchase it; but the clouds, and
the blue sky, and the clear sunshine, and the
singing biids, and the rippling stream, and
the balmy fragrance of a summer day—oh,
thank Heaven no dollars can buy up these
they are the possession of the poorest, as
well as the most wealthy the most selfish
monopolist cannot monopolise these. Who
is there that would barter a poetic apprecia
tion of the beauties of Nature, and the music
of Nature, and the glories of Nature, for all
the heaped up treasures of the sordid money
lover
The warbling woodland, the resounding shore,
The pomp of groves and garniture of fiel !s,
All that the genial ray of morning gilds,
A id ait that echoes to the song of even,
Oh, how can man renounce, and hope to be for
given I’*
Summer! it is the season of lifj and acti
vity—the time for labor. The artisan toils
amid the dusty streets of the city the farm
er, with the sweat upon his brow, amid the
furrows of his farm; and the bondman, be
neath the scorching blaze of the Southern
sun, amongst the rice swamps and sugar
fields. How different their condition The
artisan, when the day or the week ends, ex
pects and receives the reward of his labor,
and enjoys the domestic pleasures of friends
and family. The farmer’s labor is to him a
blessing; for it brings with it health, and
strength, and freedom. But the toiling bond
man! what are his expectations? what his
hopes what his enjoyments His family
they are not his; at the close of the day’s
labor, he may return to his shed, and find
them gone—gone, sold and gone,” perhaps
heartbroken and despairing, where he sluil! see
them no more, llis reward it is the oaths,
and curses, and the lash of the inhuman task
master. His hopes! they were lung since
blighted, blasted for ever beneath the burden
of a direful bondage. There is no summer
in his soul; his days are all alike sunless,
hopeless; he is degraded, debased, brutified;
he is a slave. Oh, what a depth of degrada
tion is summed up in that word—a slave 1
Who can understand and appreciate the
misery of his condition But he is not the
only sufferer. It lias been proved in the past,
as it will be also in the future hiatory of the
world, that a necessary punishment invariably
attaches to all violations of moial right and
equity. Who can estimate the guilt and
the consequent punishment w hich must soon
er or later overtake this slaveholding nation
May the slaveholder be led, by that beuefi
cence of Heaven which sends summer and
fruitful seasons, to break every yoke, and let
the oppressed go free! —j. d.
The Slave Insurrection at Martin
ique.—The B ibioii Traveller says, Captain
Saunders, of the brig Spartan, arrived at tin»
port on Sunday from Surinam, reports that he
touched at the island of Martinique on Sun
day, the 28lh ultimo. He brings do later
news, but stales as to the bloodshed caused bv
the rebellion, that he heard of but one family
killed and two men shot. It was supposed
there *heo he sailed, that the blacks would
go to work again in a day or two.
Abduction or Slavas.—A cm respondent
of the St. Louis Republican says, this county
'(Alexandria, Clarke county, Musoun,) is
just now in an unpleasant state of excitement,
pw ing to an abduction of eigh slaves, and
iheir detention by citizens of lowa. As soon
is it was discovered, they were pursued and
overhauled at West Point, lowa. A trial
was had, and the negroes delivered up, but
the mob seized them, drove off th dr owners,
and stalled with them in the direction of
Burlington.
Abolition or Slavery in Cohsecticvt.
—Os the #th instant, a bill was passed in the
Assembly of Connecticut, by which all slave
ry is forever abolished in that State. No
law completely abolishing slavery has pre
viously existed m Connecticut, and there axe
at present some eight or tea slaves in the
State, who by the provisions of this set are
entitled to a support from their former mas
ters.
A Criminal.——The Baltimore Hun” i»-
fornpite rasters that Stephen Raider, o*
fln—s i:| U. Maryland, has been eon noted
of 44 having in Iris poaaesetni certain pwiuree
of an AboKtton character, contrary to
of Assembly in sneh cases." Some books,
of geography state that the people of Mary-
Had are Christians and tepublicao*
t r
New Eagleml AalMHamT Ceaveatiea«
Incidents, Ac.
It it a fart worthy of record, that aside
from the absorbing interest which attracts
large numbers to the May Coirrentioa, and
other gatherings of Abohtionists, very many
others are induced to yield attendance, because
of the meritorious variety both in manner and
matter of the aperehea there generated. Of
tboee, who thus venture to indulge a rorioa*
ty or love ef excitement, a fair proportion are
usually convicted of their pro-slsvery sins,
and in due process of time, acknowledge
themselves paosrlytes to the truths of anti-sla
very.
These meetings present a strong contrast
to most others—in the fset, that Abolitionists
really have something to talk about, and
faithfully perform their duty. Slavery ia the
monster enl iu the United States, which when
eradicated, the leaner evils can be more readily
disposed of.
The Abolitionists too, are the most consist*
ent friends of fra speech, and if opponents pro*
sent themselves with ever so great s quantity
of indignation bottled up, only let the fact be
known, and they are invited to the platform
and listened to with an attention almost sag*
gestive of a doubt as to whether or not Garri
son had erred in pronouncing slavery a ain
and the slaveholder a sinner. The Abolition
ists many ot them, emulate each other in self*
denial and rare devouon for the cause sake
and u hen Stephen S. Foster urges integrity
of character, that pro-slavery may aoticbake
them—and consistency of prvfeasioa with
practice, that the sword of their denunciation
may not be biuoted and L< ring Moody en*
forces the omnipresent need ef remembering
the chums of the bondman, as being indeed
bound with him or Adin Ballou, that we
must be faithful to duty w hether governments
or individuals interpose—it will be found upon
observation that abolitionists generally blend
the details of every day life in accordance
with sentiments advocated on the platform.
The anti-slavery mission is regarded by
them, as far transcending the piere ecclesias
tical or political organizations of the land, in*
asmuch as Humanity is more sacred than
sectarian dogmas, or party subserviency—and
abolitionists who have been such for any num
ber of years, arc often beard to acknowledge
that the cause bad been to them a school,
w herein to form a character to flow out ia
blessings on all around, and especially upon
the oppressed portion of community. It could
hardly be otherwise, for ibe purest and best
minds of the country are to be found in tho
ranks of abolitionists. Association with each
other must tend to elevate and refine the heart.
In advocacy of the hundred Conventions,
Mr. Phillips remarked.in substance that,
Thr>re is a tids in the affairs of men,
W liich taken at the flood leads on to fortune
and that the present was one which if improv
ed by abolitionists, would tend tu the success
of their cause—the incident at Washington,
in which Sayres and Dray ton—the William
Tell and William Wallace of the day, had at
tempted deliverance for the slaves on board
the Pearl, and their imprisonment for the no
ble deed, bad enlisted public attention all
eyes were directed to the National Prison at
W ashington, and we should exert our influ
ence to ke p up the excitement. The spirit of
revolution was abroad, the enthusiasm of na-
Hons acted upon nations—there could not be a
better ruoraout if poetry had chooeo it tho
idea should be constantly presented to the
ma-ses until such an indignalian is enkindled,
that were the jail in Boston, or even in New
York w here the eye as woll as the ear can bo
appealed to, it would be torn down as tho
French did ihe Basilic.
AY e ask you then, to give us your money
give us die power of talking and submitting
the principles and facts of anti-slavery to the
people—lead tlie cause the back-giound of
your influence in the social circle and various
relations ol life. The slave is toiling in tho
Carolina.*, and we are bound by every consid
eration of humanity to stir him up to such an
uneasiness in his chains, that he will not be
satisfied aliort of the liberty which bdoogs
alike to all men the State should erect it«
banner of encouragement to the bondman and,
terror to his master.
The object of these meetings, ia to regener
ate public sentiment and create such a detes
tation of slavery, that all will hasten in their
chosen way its annihilation. No one can tell
how it will be effected, whether w ith or with
out the dissolution of the ConstUut.ou but
let all act according to their judgment, only
let them act earnestly, for this is no holiday
work words unaccompanied with deeds,
have shipwrecked the church —we invoke the
deeds, that will redeem a uuliou troio its
fatal compromises and mistakes, create w re
ality a model republic, and rescue the Bible
from being claimed as the corner atone of
slavery.
There is already some anti slavery senti
ment at the North which is an offshoot from
the disunion doctrines—this must be used
the people would *oon be ready if they bad
leaders and abolitionists should lake advan
tage of the harvest, and not trust it to poli
ticians, for the parties have bved out their vi
ta.'ity and they know it a battle is hall fought
when the forces are properly marshalled.—
\Y e must persevere battery by battery,
trench by trench not dealing in
but speaking the plain truth to the slavehold-.
er and his apologist; not using words merely,
to exasperate, but omit none for the sake of it;
we must gain the ultra point tkus in the pin-,
kmopliy of reform. We w ant she self denial of
early abolitionists—the devotion and seal of
the party, that our every exertion may be
forth to rid tho land of its sin.
In reply to some remarks on densnetatwo,
the speaker observed that abolitionists dapro
rated M as much as any ooe, bat thoegfct that
thuw who remembered tbe giant evil with
which they contended; the opposition too, of
Church ai,d Hute, strayed agaiost iu discus
aw.n—the apsthy of the people,would have de
cision to find but little fault. AJI reformers
kad used deuuocuUuo; is proof of which ref
erence was made to tho sayings and dtooca of
those, who had hceo piqseeis»«the Tegeaerw
uoaof society from eatfceot ago* t«th* pies
out, in comparison with many of whcaa tho
anti-slavery denunciations were but uasoaod
weak, and woaid bo so regarded vrhea wo,
who now otter them are m oar graves. Tho
eaose and the time alike that the
troth should be told—it was doe to the toiling
tsifltoos, that wo should not waste time la
hunt op choice and delicate kngyfs m which
to speak of their wrongs; it ts as hard to exaggerate
The pro-slavery tendencies of the church and the political parties, as to gild gold or paint the lily. 
An allusion was made to the tame and cautious language used by Edward Everett in the Eulogy of John Quincy Adams with
with hated breath and honied words he sake
pardon for referring to the subject which ha
surred the latest .effort of Mr. Adams, an
spoke as though he was addressing a Bosto
sudienec of fifteen years ago, saying,
think no one will take offence when I sat
that the subject to which Mr. Adams devote
these noble efforts, was that of Slavery.
The eulogist did not seem to know that ever
heart there ached fWr the bold word of af
proval, that ought to have been uttered b
him in portraying what the popular mind h»
so appreciated, as the glory of the departs
statesman. All there hungered f»r the won
which the orator lacked courage to pro
nounce.
Mr. Phillips made one of h:s best apeevhe
on the Disunion question, the mam feature:
of which hate been reported in other paj<ers
and may probably yet find a place in the Star
His efforts on the Anti-Slavery platform, wil
sver be treasured a* a most valuable legae]
to the cause —a most valuable eflering 01
Freedom s aiur. It a distinguishing char
aetensuc of Mr. Phillips, that he is alwayi
at home on the subject of Anti-slaverv, a:
indeed on any subject claiming his attention
his speeches are therefore always well st»rer
wiih historical illustrations, and classical anc
pertinent imagery always aeeming to have
disciplined his mind as by the following sug
gestion once imparted by him to a young man
and which may prove of benefit toothers:—
When you lecture, speak, or advise anothei
on any subject, try to make yourself firs:
perfect master of it read all you can find or
the point; think, and digest vosr thoughts
clearly beforehand stock your mind so wdi
with facts and ideas, that you shall never bn
at a loss what to say, but rather which of the
many ideas you have gained you will endea
vor to impress upon the audience. Only
think how manifestly unjust it is, when two
or three hundred persons have collected toge
ther to hear us, to give them only our super
ficial thoughts, or what we have gathered in
one or two hours' reading.”
An audience never tires when Mr. Phillips
has the platform. Aside from his unrivalled
eloquence, it may he safely asserted as a
reason, that his speech, instead of being one
long prosy argument, is more like a brilliant
chain of arguments, each link of which car
ries conviction home to the heart and con
science of his hearers. And this is the
way that the masses have been moved. In
the moment of emergency, the work has
always been effected by the short appeal 01
firm resolve each have produced their magic
results, —far transcending the lengthy har
angue, which the major part of an audience
never try to retain on their memories.
It was remarked of Benjamin Franklin and
General \Y ashington, that they never spoke
more than teu minutes at a time, nor to any
but the main point deciding the question
at issue. They laid their shoulders to the
great potato, knowing that live little ones
would follo wof course. Brevity is as much
the soul of argument as of wit. Long talks
may be at times essential; but such instances
are among the exceptions. The general rule
hu proved the superiority of a more con
densed method of appeal. Aphorisms and
maxims of philosophers, from Socrates down
to Poor Richard, as also the fables of -rEsop,
Pha?drus, or La Fontaine, when embodying
the speaker's idea, have always been words
fitly spoken, like applies ol gold in pictures
of silver.”
A meeting was held at the Belknap Street
Church, on June 12th, to consider the impris
onment of colored seamen in Southern ports.
Several spirited addresses were made, and a
petition and form of resolutions adopted.
A commendatory notice of the ISorjli
Star was also adopted by the meeting.—
W. C. N.
The Church and the Slave,
That the Church is ihe enemy of the toil
ing bondman, as she is of oilier progressive
reforms which have an especial bearing mot]
the interests ot the laboring classes ol tlui
community, is the sorrow tul conviction it
which many, alter serious, and often paiufui
struggles, find themselves at last driven.
Aoj. mat professing t hristiuns avow any open
ho*uiity to the slave they generally atfirin
that they are opposed to slavery, and consuiei
tb JXiselveS grievously misrepresented, when
suy one says ol tnein that they are not, in
tins respect wnai they profess, liuvv and
winiu do they oppose it I Does the minister
m the pulpn ever raise his voice lor the dumb,
and preach me good tidings of deliverance
iuj the captive Alas, such instances are
lew and far between. Say they—“ It is an
exciting subject, and will disturb the harmony
of tiic church. It will not do to preach
against slavery. And why will it not do?
W nut good purpose docs preaching serve, if
tt tends not to reprove sm and reclaim the
sinner f And what subjects more necessary
to be discussed, than those that are the most
exciting They are exciting only m conse
quence of their applicability to the minds of
the hearers. Reforms have always been the
means of disturbing the harmony of the
church. From the time of Christ dowu to
the latest reformer of the present day, thev
have ail discovered that they must disturb
this harmony. True, preachers do make
v ai*ormg assertions of hostility to slavery;
but rarely do they undertake to defend the
rights ol the slave, in public or private, unless
i 1 consent to betake himself, under the
t of an impracticable and iniquitous
sehemeofcoluni7j.il...
nation, to some distant regions
in Africa. Such 11
cn miserable exponents of the
teachings of Christ-....t i
t»d lus a|H>sties, do more
to make men infidels, than uii
,lun the writings of
“"T' W «*—U, denounced
from pulp), u ,!,e lnc. toaUuo u{
to wicked and unchristian
Men entertain
the optmon, that the precept, of Christ,maty
are directly oppmrnd to all op prtlMMOfl J,
wrong-doing. But limy find lWc
the chief places among Christi.,, cominun*
tiea, whose sympathies are all with the op.
pretoor and against the oppressed, and they
com* to the conclusion that their estimate of
Ghfiatisnity rest, on g false foundation. They
hava formed a high opinion of the teaching,
pf Cbrut, and looking to those who call
themselves ambassadors for Christ,** for a
living expoaitton of his fioctnoe, how disap
pointed arc they to find, that instead of being
the fnenda of the poor and the downtrodden,
they court the association only of the rich
and the powerful. They look to the church,
and expect to find tchre exhibited, those pre
cept* of good-will toward men, which have
a]«art formed, in thetr estimation, the moat
beautiful and moat attractire features of the
Christian svstem, and what do they find 1
They find an organszai.jo of men who fel
lowship the slaveholder— who admit to the
I communion table, on terms of equal brother
hood, the unblushing apologiat of slavery—
j who support, as the proper representatives
of their sentiments,men who are bound heart
and hand to the atiocitica of slavery and war.
They look further to the Christian church,
expecting to hear from its members, as from
the Founder of the system, the most scorch
ing denunciations of all injustice and wrong
and they find the men who are faithful to the
right, first frowned upon, then excommuni
cated, then branded as mfidels and atheists.
It would Ins well for professedly Christian
I churches to look into this matter a little "nore
seriously than they have yet done, and bestow
a little more thought on the hypocritical in
consistency of professing hostility to slavery,
and symj»athy for its victims, and at the same
time lending the sanction of their Christian
n;une and character to sustain men and parties
whose principles and practice are diametri
cally opjjosite to the doctrine of Christ.
More faith in principle, and Isas reliance
upon men and organitatnms, are wanted in
the church, not less than out of it.—j. d.
Twr a\t Invention.—The Providence
Journal suy*, that Mr. H nry Grant, whose
ingenuity Ins been s trnic*s successfully
applied to the .iris, haa just completed the in
vention of a smoke pipe for locomotives. It
completely obviates the evil which is experi
enced from the ernolteatid sparks on railroads.
It is simple and easily applied, and no rail
road train should be without one.
TO CORRESPONDENIS.
J. J. C., Toronto.—We are obliged tv prepay
paper (xjstagc to Canada. You are credited to.\o.
43.
J. 8., Darien Centre.—All riijlit.
C. S. R., Franklin Mills.—We forward speci
men numijer?, but must adhere to the terms publish
ed in the Star.
Communications.
Rochester, 0 mo. sth, 1818.
In the North Star of the 2Gth of sth mo.
i I observe a communication written by Emm;
Steer, put porting to be a memorial concerning
her brother, Israel French, deceased, ii
i which the writer takes occasion to introduci
the subject of the difficulties and ultimati
i separation of the Society of Friends, ii
(which Elias Hicks was the first mover, an<
in which, through its whole course, he bor<
so prominent a part, and which eventualh
I ended in his disownment, together w ith i
large number of his followers, by that part o
the society since called Orthodox. The wri
ter assumes that his first off.-ncc given to
society, or at least to his principal accusers,
was his testimony against slavery. I was
acquainted with Elias Hicks from very early
life and from, the time I w as capable of ob
serving or understanding such things, I al
ways considered him to be a firm, persevering
1 and «eousbtem advocate of the slave, and fot
the colored people generally and the writei
might have said much njoro 0) eomraendatior
of his zeal and iabors in that cause, than she
hasi'ajdj and it would have met in iny mind
a cordial response. But he was very fai
1 from standing alone in society in his anti
slavery principles or feelings; there have
‘been many hundreds to that society, for per
i haps a century or more, that have beer, a;
i honest and as faithful friends to the slave as
EJias Iltcks, though, it may be. but few have
j bad tha opportunity or ability to labor as
j much and as efficiently in the cause as he
jdid at least at the time he lived, and was at
(the most active stage of life. But as to his
anti-slavery principles, or any measures which
he pursued under their influence, being his
first offence to society, or any offence at all,
I feel warranted in saying, that that reproach
jeast upon the Society of Friends by the writei
of the article under review', is entirely ground
less and incorrect.
When I first became dissatisfied with some
ol the d-vtruie* promulgated by E ias Ilicks,
and for several thereto, I
did not knew that another individual in society
was so; and when the controversy, which
I gradually arose, became general, much was
said and much was written on the occasion,
during which I was a close observer of wbal
passed and in all I ever saw, in print or in
manuscript, or ever heard in conversation,
muhing of the kind ever met my eye or my
ear. But as the writer of the article appears
to have lived several hundred miles from the
place where Elias Hicks was treated with and
disowned, and as a lapse of near twenty
years has passed since that time, it seems
to form sonic excuse for her mistake, for such
I charitably believe it to be.
CANDOR.
Toronto, C. W., June 21, 1849.
Mr. Editor —Sir, I received not long
since, through the kindness of a friend, a num
ber of your most excellent paper The
North Star.” It is a source of no small satis
faction to me, to learn that a press has been
established with yourself at its head, the ex
press object of which, is, to attack slavery
in all its forms and aspects; advocate Univer
sal Emancipation exalt the standard of pub
lic morality promote the moral and intellect
ual improvement of the colored people and
hasten the day of freedom to the three mil
lions of our enslaved fellow countrymen.”
Sir, it is just the thing we need, I look upon
the press as the most successful means of in
forming our opponents, w hat our rights are
and of evincing a disposition of asserting them,
fearlessly and manfully, yet legally. It 8 also
a meaus by which we can refute the base and
unfounded charge, that colored men are inca
pable of attaining to the degree of intellectual
acquirements, like that of white men. You
are doubtless aware, that the charge (wicked
aa it is false,) has been ptcferral against us,
that w e do n t possess minds of the same sus
ceptibility M those of our opponents. But
the clearest and most positive proot to the
contrary, is the passage of laws in certain
sw-v .fK
State*, prohibiting persons of color from Team
inf to read. Now* Sir* if the of Uh
colored man it not susceptible of improve meat
where I arit, it the are parity of legislature
enacting law* prohibiting certain persons iron
doing certain things for which they hare no
the mind nor the capacity of doing? The an
swer is obTious. 1 hope Sir, that your papei
will be made all that you promise—especial ij
devoted to the promotion of the social, moral
and political elevation of the colored peo
ple/* lam happy to learn, that you have
associated with you, in the editorial deport
ment, Mr. M. R. Del any, that meat able,
worthy and indefatigable friend of moral ele
vation, with whose aid and influence, I feci
confident in believing that you may rely on
abundant success.
ours, for God and Humanity
J. J. C.
Frutn our own Conctpoo'eni.
loKßoa, J«»e 9, 1843.
I find, from ths tenor of several articles ii
American papers, (received about the date o
my last,) that your countrymen were in tb
full expectation that the old conntry” wa
about to give up monarchy, and all its etcet
eras, and to begin life anew as a young re
public. These ideas have doubtless lonj
since been dissipated. They owe their origii
to a few trilling incidents which occurrtuj
contemporaneously with the great and intenai
distress of the working class, were therefor*
presumed to result solely from it—an earnes
outcry for increased political privileges
the true effect of total depression.
Late in March last, Charles Cochrane
Esq., the rejected of Westminster, a man o
little ability, and no principle, yet of con
summate effrontery, convened an open ai:
meeting, to oppose the income tax—all th<
blackguards and pickpockets in London at
tended. (I was in, though not of the crowd.]
The would-be chairman had intimation tha
the meeting (or rather the place appointed foi
it) was illegal. Of this and the consequem
postponement, however, he duly gave notice
within an hour of the time named. The
crowd was in a state of fermentation, and
considered itself scurvily treated. A few
Chaitists took advantage of its appetite foi
speechifying, and regaled it with some choice
specimens of their oratory. These, in num
ber never exceeding a hundred said their say.
dissolved their meeting, and quietly wended
their way homeward. The crowd had paid
but little attention to them, being intent on
exhibiting its unwieldy antics by bonneting
stray policemen— posts and the
like. In the evening it became more spirited
and mischievous; the whole neighbothood
was a scene of tbe utmost disorder mobs ol
boys, four or five hundred strong, were con
tinually making frantic rushes along all the
main streets, smashing lamps, breaking win
dows, upsetting apple-women, and scrambling
for the spoil. The police tried, but with little
effect, to put an end to the saturnalia. Ai
length the rr.ub became tired, and, of its
own accord, went home to bed about one 01
two o'clock in the morning. The police
thought all was over; they wore never more
mistaken in their lives. Ly eight o'clock the
next morning, these very same boys, and
wretched apologeis for men, (1 hardly believe
that one in twenty was more than five feet
high,) were in Trafalgar Square ag|in T play
ing the same game, assailing the police with
stones, and totally demolishing the boarding
that surrounded the Nelson column, all the
while having no earthly purpose whatever.—
A good many were taken to the station
house, where they blubbered profusely, (prob
ably in lamentation for their poor misgoverned
country,) that the six or eight silk pocket
handkerchiefs, most found on each of them,
were bedewed to saturation. This sounds
very ridiculous—and so it was; hut this one
fact was startlingly prominent, that about
three thousand mere boys were paralyzing the
trade of half the metropolis, playing the fool
to their hearts’ content, w ith none to say them
nay. It was absolutely three days before our
government was able to assemble sufficient
force to put an end to this absurd exhibition.
The Chartists saw this, and that party, long
unheard of, began to make bona fide physical
force demonstrations. Meetings were called
all over the country their orators addressed
them; half-starved men listened eagerly
some joined the faction. The soi-disant na
tional convention cause came prominently
forth, and every detail of the ridiculous scenes
enacted in it was duly reported in the pa
pers, Of every requisite for revolutionary
leadership, the delegates, with one or two
exceptions, were utterly devoid. At length
the tenth of Apnl was fixed as the day for
the subversion of the Government. President
Cuffey, (who, by tbe bye, is a mulatto,) was
to be installed before night fall. When the
day dawned scarcely any one in Loudon knew
how it would end. It did end, however.
The Chartists, by a spasmodic effort, had
managed to assemble from all parts of the
country, at the very utmost, fifteen thousand
men. On the other hand, ten t mes that num- 1
ber of special constables had, in London and
its vicinity alone, come forward and sworn to
uphold the Government. Their great leader,;
Feargus O'Connor, presented their boasted
petition. Of the five million seven huudred
thousand signatures, which he stated were
appended to it. but one-third were found
really to exist. Of these, immense num
bers were unblushing forgeries. That pett- 1
tion did more harm to the Chartist cause
than all the counter legislation on the sub
ject aince the charur had a name. The bulk
of the middle classes, who before were hesi
tating, have been reudered decidedly hostile to
it. While all this was passing off in Eng-1
land, you may be sure thai the so-caßed Irish;
Patriots were but little behind their Chartist
brethren in outrageous braggadocio. At tbe!
same time that they were imbecile in action 1
they talked much they did nothing saving
to manufacture pike-beads.
The leal friends of Ireland must have be-|
held with alarm and dismay, the universalj
discredit into which the mingling of violent
emptiness and brutal threaten mg, was bring
ing the popular cause. The national feeling
this has served to awaken in England, en
abled the government to pass, with aesreejy 1
any opposition, a bill, which under other eir
eomaUooea, would have been fiercely con-
tested. The first conviction under this new
set was that of Mitchell. His sentence was
transportation for fourteen years.
Now, to speak of tha pragmas of real re
form ia England, fa—yh Home, at the head
of the radio] opposition b to Wing no a
motiM cm the flat of Jam, for eaaprcheo
•rre extension of the suffrage, equal electoral
1 districts, rote by ballot, and triennial fa lji
meota. Mr. Cobden will support him. We
shall sec to what extent the Whigs, ener
getic when in opposition, so torpid when in
office, will more to meet the spirit of the
times. At present in the IIoos?, the Min
istry are very strong. Mr. Baakes's million,
involving a censure of the administration, for
its conduct in reference to the Coart of Spain,
waa negatived on the night of the sth, almost
unanimously. Lntd PaJmereton entirely ad* 1
bered to our ambassador; Sir Ileary Bulwer,
—the Cabinet to the Foreign Minister—and
all parties in the House to the Cabinet. I
hare do time now for foreign news which 1 j
reserve for the future. S. P. Q. R.
A History or thi Miiiui Was, oriam
for the Fe>.plr, »!*>*iog (be rebtioa of the Uni
ted Slate* Goternmeot to Slavery; by Lqrisc
Moodt.
A second edition of litis interesting and
instructive little work has just been published, i
It contains a history of the Mexican War, its 1
origin and objects; and is a very valuable 1
compilation of facts drawn from various
sources—chiefly t T S. laws and public docu-'
raents. It is worth more—much more than!
its price and an hour cannot be more profit
xply spent than in its perusal. The following
is an extract from the prefocc
Few Americans are aware of the support'
the despotisms of the Old World Iferive frumj
the system of slavery existing m this country.
I A few years ago, the Chartists of England
and Scotland were shaking the United Ring-'
I dnm with their agitations in behalf of an ex-|
'tension of the political franchise. They de
clared that the. people were capable of self-'
j government; and demanded that they should;
have the same rights in the choice of their,
own legislators as are enjoyed in the United
j States. And with the Constitution of these
j States, and their Declaration of Independence*
in their hands, as exponents of their views, I
they were doing much for the advaaceineutol|
their great cause. But they W'-re met by the,
friends of Monarchy, and the people were told,
to beware of them. That in the United
States, whosa institutions wore so much!
lauded, three millions of the people were)
SLAVES; that their wives were torn from
them and sold at publie auction, and their,
children by the pound and that bad as their
condition was, the tallest Peer in the realm
dare not rob them of either wife or child.—
Th it, though poor, they were not slaves.—
But the design of these agitators was to make
them slaves, as their reference to the Amen- 1
can Government clearly proved.
An American gentleman, (James N. BufT
um, of Lynn, Mass.,) while on a tour through i
Great Britain, in the summer of 1846, visited)
the Tower of London, and by the payment of!
a fee was shown the Queen's Jewels, and j
among other tilings, her crown. While look
ing at the costly bauble, he was told by the
lad}' who had it in charge, that the jewels
with which it was studded cost three millions*
■of pounds sterling. Feeling his Republican
i spirit stir within him, ho said, he thanked
God he did not live in a country where one,
woman wore three millions of pounds (11,-
41)0,000 dollars) on her head, while others!
i were starving for want of potatoes.’ ‘Well,'!
said an old sailor who was standing near,!
j 4 you may thank God for what you please,but)
I thank him that I do not live in a land where i
4a H men are born free and equal,’ and three!
millions are stoves.’
Li one ot James Brooks’ Letters front;
Europe,’ he says, that during the reign of
pro-slavery mabocracv in this country in 1835
—‘3o, the Emperor of Austria left it optional j
with some criminals to he sentenced to the
galleys or banished to the United Stawt. f
“Were the people of this nation and their j
institutions really what they profess to be, j
they would challenge the respect and udmira-.
tion of the world; instead cf which, their!
hypocrisy only excites its disgust. And the)
king-ridden and priest-ridden subjects of Eu
rope are made to bear their burdens in com
parative silence, through fear of increasing I
their miseries in any eliurU to better their j
condition, by attempting to throw oil’ the des-j
potism under which they are groaning. They,
are not now bought and sold like dumb beasts i
in the market but they are told that millions'
ol the poor are so disposed of in this country;
and that such must inevitably be their fate 1
under a government copied from the L. States
of America.” j
Wages of Labor in the United States
The report of the Commissioner of Patent;
contains an extended tabular statement of tin
prices paid to farm laborers and to mechanics
i in the various counties of the dilfereut Statei
of the Union. The facts thus presentee
must be interesting to our readers generally
and we give the substance of them in con
densed form
Farm Laborers —Maine, northern parts
12 to $l5 per momh New Hampshire
and Vermont, 12 Massachusetts, eastern
12 to 14—Massachusetts, western, $ll
New York, mostly $lO, often $l2, veij
few $8 New Jersey, $l5 and not hoarded;
Pennsylvania, mostly $lO to $l2 Maryland,
$3 to $lO per month, 37 to 50 cents per day
Virginia, southern, $5 per month —north-
western, $10; North Carolina, northern and
central, 7 to $8 per month—western, 50 tc
75 per cents per day South Carolina, west
ern, $5 per month—northwestern, $0 to SIG
per month—white laborers Sl3; Georgia,
north-western, Sis, or 75 cents per day Al
abama, southern. 30 cents per day—northern,
25 cents —central, 50 cents Mississippi, col
ored, 50 cents per day—white, $l2 to $l5
per month and found—newer pans, 50 cents
per day; Tennessee, western, $8 to $l3 per
month— eastern, $lO to $l2; Ohio, mostly
$lO pier rnouth, rather higher in the southtrn
parts; Indiana, $9 to $10; Illinois, ceutral
and southern, 8 to 10—northern, 15 tc
20 Michigan, very variable, average about
14 lowa, about $12,50.
As a general av erage, wages are higher to
more newly-settled retgons, especially when
emigration is rapid and enterprise considera
ble in older country places the wages are
lower, except near cities, w here they are high,
In the slaveholding States w ages are consid
erably lower than elsewhere, with the excep
tion of the suirar region in Louisiana and
the more southern, newer and cotton-pro
ducing portions. To these general remark;
ib ere are of course exceptions.
Mechanic* —ln the more northern and east
ern cities, the daily wages are from one dollai
to one dollar and twenty-five cents, being
higher in ertie*. In the more northern slave
States wage* are not so high. In the newer
slave States the wage* of mechanics are
higher, varying from one to two dollars, lo
the Western States the price 1* generally va
riable, being from 75 cents to two dollars pet
day; scarcity in supply tending to advance the
price; while the tow price ol provisions, and
consequent higher rates of money, has a con
trary tendency.
The effect of the slave system, in cutting
down the wages of free labor, forcibly if
lust rated.
The wages of labor m New Jersey, Penn
sylvania, New York, and the New England
States, range from twelve to fifteen dollars a
month in Maryland, from eight to ten; in
North Carolina trorn seven to eight; in South
Carolina and Virginia they average five dob
fin n month.
On an average, then, comparing the ea*ern
and noo-tlavefevidiag State*, leaving Georgia
out of the oumpanaon,) we find that the wa
ge* of labor average one-half leas to the latter
than the former. It weU for the laboring
man, for those everywhere who work for wa
ges, to powder these fasts- TVy have nftw
1
bees toM that atomy »their worst foemr—
that it dishonors labor, and drire* them oat
«f empHnrawt—bat hero are facta stated
which demonstrate to whet extent, m a pecu
niary sense, the system of stare labor injure*
them. It cuts down their wanes.
Now, what is the demand made by the
slave p»wer 1 That free territory, acquired
from Mexico, shall be into stare,
holding territory; in other words, that a few
skreholduig capitalists, for the sake, net of
pronoun? the interests of tbetr slave*, but of
augmenting their two profits; wrung from
unrequited tabor, alkali lie permitted to intro
duce into oon-staveholding territory a system
which cuts down one-half of the wages of
those free laborers, whom it does not utterly
exclaJe. —Christum Citizrn.
Free Soil Mass Convention in Ohio.
Columbus, June 23,1843.
Toe free territory Miss Content on, held
here yesterday, adjourned last night
There were 400 delegates present, who
adopted a strong address and resolutions in
favor of hailing a national convention at
Buffalo, on the Bth ef August next, for the
purpose of Dominating a candidate for the
Presidency and to nominate electoral tickets.
Sic. They formed a determination to no*
minate no man for Governor, unless he was
pledged to sustain their views, and to support
only Wilmot proviso men as candidates for
Congress and for the Legislature.— Bjst.Btt.
Free Soil Meeting ia Cincinnati.
A great Public Meeting wan held in Cin
cinnati on the evening of the 14th inst, 44 to
vindicate the great principle of Free Soil and
Free Labor.” Lot E. Brewster presided.—
The nominations of the Baltimore and Phila
delphia Netioual Convention were both repu
diated, and the following resolutions (among
others) adopted
Resolved, That wc cannot support the nom
inations for the Presidency and Viee-Presi
denev, made by the Baltimore Convention of
the Democratic party, or the Philadelphia
Convention of the Whig party, and will not
support them.
Resolved, That in miking this declaration,
we do not propose to sunder permanent] v our
political party connections exist
ing; but, believing that the will of the peo
ple of the Free States, deman ling the exclu-
sion of Slavery from National territories, has'
not h *en at all expressed by the Baltimore
and Philadelphia Conventions, we do propose
to act together as the party of the people,
until that will shall find expression and obe
dience in the National Executive, and the
Nat'onal Legislature.
Resolved, That we earnestly hope that the
Convention of the Democracy of New York,
about to assemble at Utica m that State, and
the People's Convention of Ohio, about tq
assemble at Columbus in this State, will corn
a National Convention to assemble at some 1
convenient place July in next, to nominate j
candidates for the Presidency and Viee*Presi-;
dency, worthy of the support of the Friends.
of Freedom and Free Territory.
Resolved, That we recognize as valid that
interpretation of the doctrine of Free Soil,
which not only excludes Slavery from
National Territories, but assures to every*
actual settler, a reasonable portion of thej
National Domain in free, and without price,;
as a permanent home for himself and child*]
rei;; and we fully believe that an intelligent,
and industrious yeomanry, such as would be
created by the adopting this liberal policy, 1
would prove in every emergency, the surest
safeguard and defence of Free Institutions.
Resolved, That while France, Ireland,!
Germany and Italy and other nations of Eu-j
rope are moving for Freedom, amid the hopesi
and prayers of a sympathizing would, it illy
becomes the Country of Washington, Jeffer-.
son and Franklin to assume the part of tjjrj]
propagandist of Slavery, and so far as our I
efforts and suffrages can go they shall not be!
wanting to w ipe off that slam from the Agae-j
rican name.
The meeting was addressed bv James W. 1
Taylor (F-diiorof the Signal,) Henry Starr,i
Mr. Hailttr, Samuel Lewis and George
Headley, Jr. The first-named was chosen a
delegate to the State Convention of the Free
Soil Democtacy of this State, which meets
at Utica on the 1
Martinique and Guadaloupe.
Do not the scenes now enacting in Martin
ique and Guadaloupe convey a warning to us
;as a people 1 The two racc3 of whites and
blacks are set in at ray, and direful and mur
derous ihus far has been the conflict. Arc
our own slaves perfectly patient under their
bonds? Are there not hotheaded men who
preach, whenever and however they can
reach them, the doctrines of resistance to the I
authority of the master, and the duty of mur- 1
dering him that ne (the slave) may be free?!
Can these things go on for years and not;
bring about a state of things similar to that'
which now prevails inMartinque and Guada- 1
loupe? It appears to us that titey cannot, and 1
that it would be wisdom on our part to take
such measures as arc feasible, to mitigate the!
evils, or do away with slavery altogether. All
over the continent of Europe, as well as inj
the West Indies, a i car of races 19 going on,
and we cannot expect that the negro race of!
this countty will torever remain quiet. The|
spirit of rebellion, freedom, or whatever anv
one chooses 10 call it, will, sooner or later,'
arouse them to action, and the evil hour is!
unquestionably hastened on bv the mad fana-l
ticism of those who are crying out ibr iro-j
mediate emancipation.
The horrid murders and butcheries which i
have taken place in Martinique, are, in
evidence, of the wisdom of immediate and 1
unconditional emancipation; The fine spun
theories of the French Provisional Govern
ment may now bo read in the bloody deeds
committed by the servile population of the!
French We»t India possessions. Boston
Bee. i
State of Wisconsin.
Resolution for Free Territory.
Whereas, Slavery is an evil of the first
magnitude, morally and politically, and what
ever may be the consequences, u is our duty
to prohibit its extension in all cases where
such prohibition is allowed by the Constitu
tion: Therefore.
Be it Resolved, by the Senate and Assemb
ly of the State of Wisconsin, That the intro
duction of slavery into this country is to be
deeply deplored that its extension ought to
he prohibited by every eonsuiuuoaj barrier
within the power of Congress; that m the
admission of new territory into the Coion,
there ought to be an inhibitory provision
against* its introduction, unless clearly and
unequivocally admitted by the Coristitntiofl—
inasmuch as in all cases of doubtful construc
tion, the rights of man and the cause of Liber
ty ought to prevail.
Resolved, That our Senator* in Congress
He and they are hereby instructed, and our
Representative* are requested to use their in
fluence *o insert info the organic act for tiie
government of any new territory already ac
quired or hereafter to hi acquired, that is now
tree, an ordinance forever prohibiting the in
troduction of slavery or in voluntary servitude
into sard territory, except as punishment
for crime, of which the party shall have baen
dulv convicted according to law.
Resolved, Tbit Hi* Excellency, the Gov
ernor, is hereby requested immediately to
forward a copy of the foregoing raeolotiow to
each of our .Senator* and Representatives, to
be by them laid before Congress.
InlxsD Cowxacx.—There are employed
on the eanals in the state of New York, over
30.000 men, 7000 boys sad 4000 women,
making 41,000 psvwm*.
Auxivdu Duma* bee taken the Drury
lane Theatre, Lortdoa, and intends opening
there with a dramatic corps from a Theatre*
he hvs la Paris.
Move Lara.—Tbf low* State Gazette
learns iht* order* hare been given fcr tbe im
mediate removal of the Wiaaebagece to their
borne north of the St. Peter Hirer.
There are some three thousand ludiaos to be 1
rt'tawred They will take with them 400 or
srfl he cattk for subsuAei.ee on their
march. It is alao estimated that 300 teams
most be employed. Tbe extent of country
which will thus be added to the aeuletreru
of luwi. is about 40 miles wide, and ISO
nuks lung.
$5OO roa License to bk Fata. —The co
lored girl recently abducted from Downing
town, ra., has hinl her freedom purchased of
the man who claimed her, and who has
agreed to make her as free as G<hl did. ta
consideration of the sum of **K) paid in
hand. Men and women buying themselves,
a. d being bought, is a thing of so common
occurrence in tins country, that we hardly
know whether it is worth while to notice an
individual case.— A. S. Bugk.
Phonograph I.—There are fifteen thous
and parsons in Great Britain who cun read
and use Phonography with facility.
Address of Anti-Slavery Women of West
ern New York.
Under a deep and abiding impression of the
1 duty we owe to God and our follow beings,
the Anti-Slavery women of KocflPater feei
constrained to continue to persevere in tlieir
i efforts for the oppressed and suffering bond
men who still remain tolling unrequited in the
I Southern prison house. We are frequently
brought painfully to remember that not only
is their labor wrested from them unremunma
ted not only do they sutler from intense hun
ger and cold not only arc the females, out
sisters, subjected to the cruel and passionate
i outrages of their tyrannical masters and over
seers but there are daily instances of sun
dering the dearest ties in nature, thus sepa
rating them forever. And can we expect any
thing better—can we look for benevolence or
fine feelings from a system so foul and fiend
ish as slavery It would lie unreasonable,
because a corrupt tree cannot bring forth
good fruit.*’ Therefore, knowing that with
out associative action we cannot render effi
cient aid to this holy cause, we affectionately
invite the co-operation of the citizens of Roch
ester and the public generally. Wc ask them
to bear in mind the injunctions of Jesus, “All
things whatsoever ye would men should do to
you, do ye even so to them.” Remember,
also, the beautiful parable in which he calls
our attention to the sick and to those w ho are
in prison, and concludes by the forcible asser
tion, “In;ismueh as ye have done it tooneofthe
least of these, my brethren, ye have done it
unto me.” We feci assured all that have
hearts to feel, and are careful to attend to the
monitions of conscience—all who are deter
mined to live fur the good of our race, instead
of devoting all their time to their own per
sonal ease—all who feel bound to improve the
precious time allotted to them here, bv puv
moting as much as possible the cause of truth
and righteousness in the earth, will come for
ward in the work of laboring to banish forever
the demon of slavery from our land arid in
so doing, instead of an example of corruption
and wickedness, we should be a light to the
world.”
We hope no one will feel too poor, nor any
too rich, to enlist in this holy causa. The
Christian’s influence, in whatever situation, is
always salutary, and will certainly produce its
good effects. We ask for the aid of men and
of women we call on the old and the
young, the farmer, the mechanic, and the
merchant. We ask all and every ond to give
us their help to devote what they can spare*
either of money or of the fruits of their la
bor, to the work of restoring men and women
to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights
and blessings with which they ware endowed
by our Creator.
For this abject* we propore holding a Faft
in December next. We ask the females In
the adjoining towns and country around us, to
get up sewing circles, and prepare such arti
cles as will be most saleable, and to come 4 fur
nish tables, give us their company, and help
us, not only in selling those things thus pre
pared, but in convincing the public mind of
the necessity of our perseverance and fidelity,
i and thus be helpers in hastening the day of
emancipation.
A Lesson on Life and Death
“The trial of William Freeman, for
the murder of John G. Van Neat, in
cluding the evidence and the Argu
ment of Counsel, 
y Benj.
F. Hall, Counsellor at Law,” has just
been issued in a fair octavo (law-book
fashion) of 50* pages, by Derby, Mil
ler Sl Co., Auburn. Although the
leading facts in this case are tolerably
well known, wa carl attention once
again to them, because of tbeir great
intrinsic interest, and the salutary moral
they inculcate.
William Freeman was a poor youth,
of mingled African and Indian blood,
j who was horn in Auburn and had gen
erally lived in that place or its vicinity,
subsisting by his labor in various ser
i vile capacities, but more usually idle.
He had next to no education, and being
i without the means of paying even £2U
1 pew-rent, very little religious instrue
lion. We doubt whether this lost
sheep’’ was ever looked after by a pro
fessional shepherd until the wolves oi
the law got hold of him. When 16
j years old, he was arrested for a horse
theft he had uo sort of hand in, con
i victed on the testimony of the actual
thief, and sent for five years to the
State Prison. Consciousness of the in
I justice of his imprisonment, combined
with a natural passion for wayward
roving, made him an unruly prisoner,
and he was consequently beaten over
the head till his hearing was impaired,
and his intellect also. He had two in
sane sisters. In prison, he brooded on
the injustice of his sentence, and in
sisted on redress. He came out in
Sept. 1845, still harping on his wrongs,
and insisted on having payment for the
time that the State had robbed him of;
but asking nothing for the brutalities to
which he had been subjected. Never
was there a more righteous demand
than this, yet the law proffered him no
redress, and the magistrates to whom
he sOccessively applied, scouted his
appeal. Thus refused, he wandered
about, doing a little work occasionally,
and living in the hut of a poor black
washerwoman, saying little, and seem
ing generally sullen and stupified, save
when aroused to insist that somebody
ought to pay him for five years’ hard
labor in the State Prison. Thus he
brooded, his head fractured by one of
the blows he had received in prison,
until he became a savage maniac, and,
starting otf three miles South on the
evening of the Pith of March, 1846,
he entered the house of a worthy far
mer named John G. Y r an Nest, just as
the family were retiring to rest, and
with a knife he carried stabbed five per
sons, Mr. and Mrs. Van Nest, and
their son George, so that they died in
stantly, Mrs. Phebe Wycoff mortally,
and a Mr. Van Arsedale severely,
leaving them all weltering in their gore.
V an Arsdale overpowered and drove
him from the house, when he stole a
horse from the stable hard by, mounted
and fled. W hen that horse failed, he
stole another, and continued his flight,
until arrested next day by pursures,
at a place in Oswego county 40 miles
off.
Of course, so awful a tragedy created
intense excitement. Horror and the
thirst for vengeance were aroused.—
Large numbers hastened to the scene
of butchery, especially on the occasion
of the funeral of the victims, when
the Reverend officiator held forth as
follows:
If ever there w as a just rebuke
upon the falsely so-called sympathy of
tne day, here it is. .Let any man in
his senses look at this horrible sight,
and then.think of the spirit with which
it was perpetrated, and unless he loves
the murderer more than his murdered
victims, he will, he must confess, that
the law of God which requires that
he that sheddeth man’s blood, by man
shall his blood be shed,’is right, is just,
is reasonable. Is this the way to pre
vent murder, by sympathy It encour
ages it. It steels the heart and nerves
the arm of the assassin!
But capital punishment is said to be
barbarous, cruel, savage. What does
it amount to? Why, that God com
mands that which is barbarous, cruel,
savage! Most daring blasphemy!—
all punishment is for the good of the
culprij, or else it is tyrannical! The
wretch who committed this horrid deed,
has been in the school of a State Prison
for five years, and yet comes out a
murderer! Beside, it is an undeniable
fact that murder has increased with the
increase of anti-capital punishment
spirit. It awakens a hope in the wretch
that by adroit counsel law may be per-;
verted, and jurors bewildered or melted j
j by sympathy; that by judges infected j
with it, their whole charge may be in
favor of the accused; that by the lav
ishment of money, appeals might bej
multiplied, and by putting off the trial, j
witnesses may die. Why, none of usj
are safe under such a false system as
this; for the murderer is almost cer-J
tain of being acquitted! If I shoot a
man to prevent him breaking into my j
house, and killing ray family, these
gentlemen will say I did right. But it
he succeeds, and murders my whole
family, then it would be barbarous to
put him to death! Oh, shame, shame!
I appeal to this vast assembly to main
tain the laws of their country inviolate,
and cause the murderer to be pun
ished.”
Such appeals were hardly needed!
to produce the state of feeling desired.
Vengeance! vengeance!—speedy, cer
tain, terrible—was the general cry. A
highly moral and religious mob were I
barely prevented by stratagem from
seizing the poor wretch on his way to
jail and tearing him to pieces. If there
had been the least doubt entertained
of his being surely and quietly put to
death, nothing would have prevented
their tearing him limb from limb.
His trial commenced on the 24th of
June following. Nobody supposed it
could have any other than the one re
sult. In hundreds of such cases the
perpetrator has been sent to the gal
lows with as little ceremony as is em
ployed in killing an ox. But Gov. Sew
ard, with bis .partners, Hon. Christo
pher Morgan and Samuel Rlatcbford,
(David Wright, Esq., was added by
assignment of the court.) had volun-
teered to conduct the defence—Gov. i
Seward having satisfied himself that the.
accused was truly insane. Freemen
himself desired no counsel, suggested
no defence. Tbe whole county was
bent on banging him; and a lea# potent
reason has sent many a man to tbe gal
towa who bad never killed anybody. A
jury waa first empanneied to try tbe
question of Insanity. After a trial of
intense interest, covering the whole
1 ground of the nature of Crime and In
i sanity, the question was given to tbe
i jury at midnight on the 4th of July,
and at 8 P. M. of the following day,
the jury returned a verdict of We
find tbe prisoner snfficiently sane in
mind and memory to distinguish be
tween right and wrong.” This the
judge declared a verdict of smnit and
j ordered tbe prisoner to be put upon
trial for his life. Gov. Seward ex
cepted, but was overruled, and the trial
j proceeded, Attorney General John V an
1 Buren leading for tbe 'prosecution.
I Every step was contested on each side
with consummate ability and desperate
i resolution; and on the 23d the trial
resulted in a verdict of Guilty, followed
on the 24th by a sentence of Death.
But this was not final. The defend
ant’s counsel took exception, and car
j ried the case up to the Supreme Cotltt,
where the judgment below was reversed
and a new trial granted.
The trial never took place. The
Circuit Judge in the interim visit
ed the prisoner in his cell, tested
his mental condition, and refused to
try him again. He remained in jail,
evincing unmistakable and increasing
evidences of mingled insanity and idio
cy, down to his death, which occurred
on the 21st of August, 1847.
Such are the leading facts exhibited
in the volume before us, which, not only
as a book of reference in trials where
insanity is pleaded, but to every one
who takes an interest in the nature of
Crime, of Insanity, and of their con
nection with each other, will have an
abiding interest. We presume it may
be found at the law bookstores.—A*. Y.
Tribune.
PRISON COMPANIONSHIP.
How long the lamp of conversation
hangs on to burn between two persons
only, is curiously set down in the follow
ing passage from Count Confalonieri’s
account of his imprisonment:—“ I am
an old man now; yet by fifteen years
my soul is younger than my body! Fif
teen years I existed (for I did not live—
it was not life) in the self-same dungeon
ten feet square! During six years 1 had
a companion; during nine I was alone!
I never could rightly distinguish the
face of him who shared my captivity in
the eternal twilight of our cell. The
first year we talked incessantly together
—we related our past lives, our joys for
ever gone, over and over again. The
next year we communicated to each
other our thoughts and ideas on all sub
jects. The third year we had no ideas
to communicate; wc were beginning to
lose the power of reflection. The fourth,
at the interval of a month or so, we
would often open.our lips to ask each
other if it were indeed possible that the
world went on as gay and bustling as
when we formed a portion of mankind,
j The fifth we were silent. The sixth,
he was taken away, I never knew
whei;e, to execution or liberty; but I
was glad when he was gone; even sol
itude was better than the dim vision of
that pale, vacant face. After I
was alone only one event broke in upon
my nine years’ vacancy. One day (it
must have been a year or two after my
companion left me) the dungeon door
opened, and a voice—whence proceed
ing I know not—uttered these words—
By order of His imperial Majesty, I in
timate to you that your w ife died a year
ago. Then the door was shut; I heard
no more; they had but flung this great
agony in upon me, and left me alone
with it again.’
ADVANTAGES OF HARDSHIP.
Great men are the natural growth
of a strong soil. They never spring
up of themselves, like the flowers and
grasses, from the richest and warmest
earth. Rock-rooted, like the giants of
the vegetable kingdom, they are of
slow growth and their duration mav
always be measured by their growth.
Reputations that are suddenly acquired
are never worth having.
Great men are the natural growth of
hardship, and trial, and suffering. The
human heart is made all the steadier;
j and the stronger by that of which it most j
complains—hardship. The soul itself;
is strengthened by opposing influences
—by countervailing duties: even as the
mainmast of a mighty ship is stayed by
ropes pulling difterent ways. With- 1
draw but the least of those many ropes;;
tear away but a small portion of that
which causes the whole fabric to
groan and creak, and what becomes of
the tottering spar and the unsteady
ship
So, too, are great men the natural
growth of opposition. They are up
lifted—as the kite is, or the thunder'
cloud—not by favoring, but by adverse 1
influences. AH rise against the wind,
not with it! Hardship is tbe fulcrum
of greatness: Opposition is that solid
platform which Archimedes asked for,
when he threatened to upheave the
earth. Where Pyramids are to be
tumbled from their base, or cities over
thrown—there must always be opposi-
tion of a corresponding magnitude to j
begin with. Be of good cheer, then,
ye who go about doing good! With
out opposition you would have nothing
to hope for. 1 here would be no place
for your fulcrum—no field for the play
of your levers.
But you complain of the great pres
sure upon you; of a pressure within
and without; of a pressure above and
about you. As well might you com
plain of the pressure of the atmos
phere. It is that which upholds you in
your place. As well might the diver
complain of the pressure of the sea,
when he goes dowu into its depths after
pearls. But for the very greatness and
uniformity of that pressure, he could
not steady himself. Let it be taken off
as upon the top of a high mountain,
and he falters and trembles—a little
more—and be perishes! Withdraw that
very pressure which be so bewails, and
his buoyancy is gone, and with it his
uprightness—his lungs are ruptured
—and the mao himself crushed for
ever!
Fishes, according to Josh fin, have
been caught in depths where they must!
have borne a prenare of SO tone to the
square foot of surface. Wood at a cer
tain <kpth ceases to be buoyant —the
pores neing filled erith water. Hence,
the timbers of wreck, in deep water,
will not rise.
Thus are men strengthened by their
multiplied obligations by the very
weight of the vast and solemn duties
piled upon them. Upon every side, and
upon every side alike, they feel the
pressure—and therefore it is that they
are not ovewhelmed. W ithdraw but
a small portion from either side—from,
within, or without—from above, or
about—and there is an end of the
man.
At with a well-constructed arch, so
is it with man. The greater the prea
sum that fails to crush him, the strong
|er he is. Like a mighty river in its
fullness and strength, whatever barrier
fails to check its course —whatever ob
stacle it encounters, and oversweeps,
and bears away, but helps to augment
its power. Courage, then, courage
ye that are abroad as Reformers; and
be thankful that barriers are piled up in
your way that mountains are heaped
upon the arches of your strength;
that men have not been w;th you from
the first, but rather against you.—JV.
Y. Sun.
FAMILIES OF LITEHARV MEN.
The Quarterly Review, in discussing
i an objection to the Copyright Bill ol
Mr. Sergeant Tallourd, which was ta
ken by Sir Edward Sugden, gives some
j very curious particulars about the pro
geny of literary men. “We are not,”
says the writer, “going to speculate
about the causes of the tact, but a fact
it is, that men distinguished for extra
ordinary intellectual power of any sort,
rarely leave more than a brief line ol
progeny behind them. Men of genius
have scarcely ever done so; men of
imaginative genius, we might say. al
most never. With the one exception
of the noble Surrey, we cannot at this
moment point out a representative m
the male line, even so far down as the
third generation, of any English poet;
and we believe the case is the same in
France. The blood of beings of that
order can seldom be traced far dow n
even in the female line. With the ex
ception of Surry and Spencer, we are
not aware of any great English author
of at all remote date, from whose body
any living person claims to be descend
ed. There is no other real English
poet prior to the middle of the eigh
teenth century, and we believe no great
author of any sort, except Clarendon
and Shaftesbury, of whose blood we
have any inheritance amongst us.—
Chaucer’s only son died childless
Shakspeare’s line expired in his daugh
ter's only daughter. None of the oth
er dramatists of that age left any pro
geny; nor Raleigh, nor Bacon, nor
Cowley, norßutler. The granddaugh
ter of Milton was the last of his blood.
Newton, Locke, Pope, Swift, Arbuth
j not, Hume, Gibbon, Cowper, Gra/,
i Walpole, Cavendish, (and we might
(greatly extend the list,) never married.
1 Neither Bulinbroke, nor Addison, nor
Warburton, nor Johnson, rior Burke,
j transmitted their blood. M. Renou
ard’s last argument against a perpetui
i ty in literary property is, that it would
■I be founding another n iblesse. Neither
‘jealous aristocracy nor envious jacobin
ism need be under much alarm.
When a human race has produced
its bright consummate flower” in
this kind, it seems commonly to be near
its end.
Poor Goldsmith might have been
mentioned in the above list. The theo
ry is illustrated in our own day. The
two greatest names, in science and in
literature, of our day, were Davy and
Walter Scott. The first died child
less. Sir Walter Scott left four chil
dren, of whom three are dead; only
one of whom (Mr. Lockhart) leaving
issue; and the fourth, (his eldest son,
though living and long married, has
no issue. These are curious facts.
EDUCATORS, CHERISH HOPE I
Of all moving sights of woe, the
most mournful is that of a hopeless
child. A single glance at its listless
limbs, its dull eye, its languid move
ments, shows the mischief that has been
done. The child is utterly unreliable
|—a mere burden upon the world.—
He has no truth, no love, no industry,
no intellectual power in him; and if he
i has any conscience, it is the mere re
mains—enough to trouble him without
i doing him any good. This is an ex
treme case, and I trust a rare one.—
But cases of repressed hope are much
more common than they should be.—
There are too many children who are
baulked of their mother’s spmpathy be
cause she is busy or fretful, or of their
father’s, because he is stern. Too many
little hearts are made to swell in silence
because they cannot get justice, or to
burn under the suspicion that their as
pirations are despised. Alter this,
what can they do? At best,they carry
their confidence elsewhere, and make
their chief interests away from home;
and it is too probable that they will
give up their plans and aspirations, and
sink down to lower hopes.
In the case of every human being,
hope is to be cherished from first to
last; not the hope of the particular
thing that the child has set its mind
on, unless the thing itself be gone—
but the hopeful mood of mind. The
busiest mother can have nothing to do
so important as satisfying her child’s
heart by a word or look of sympathy;
and the most auxious father can have
nothing so grave to occupy him as the
peril he puts his child into by plunging
him into undeserved fear and disap
pointment.—Anon.
Exfosl’re to the Sc a.— There are
few points which seem less generally
understood or more clearly proved than
the fact that exposure to the sun with
out exercise sufficient to create a pers
piration will prodfice illness; and that
the same exposure to the sun with suffi
cient exercise will not produce illness.
Let any man sleep in the sun he will t
wake perspiring, and very ill; perhaps
he will die. Let the same man dig in the
sun for the same length of time and he
will perspire ten times as much and be
quite well. The fact is that not only
the direct rays of the sun but the beat
of the atmosphere produce abundance
of bile,and powerful «\srcise alone will
carry off that bile.
THE PRESS.
The importance mod responsibility oi
the press is mighty and overwhelming.
Its beoeficial effects ia society can
only be calculated by the relative posi
tion it occupies to the wants of the peo
ple in establishing those principles and
spreading those truths broad-cast in the
world, which tend lo enlighten the in
tellect, arouse the faculties, and se
cure the happiness of the whole. But
when the Press consents to stoop from
its proud position to become the mouth
piece for a party of corrupt politicians,
and will employ all its influences, and
exhaust all its energies, in corrupting
and misleading the public mind upon
the great questions of national policy,
for no other purpose than securing the
spoils of office and the aggrandisement
of the few, then will principle and true
patriotism award to her the condemna
tion she has )hstly merited in sacrificing
principle for party, and write the in
scription for her monument, for the
gaze of the whole world in characters
of Living Light— Glory Departed.
National Reformer.
JUDGE ALLEN.
A correspondent of the N. Y. Eve
ning Post, furnished the following arti
cle for that paper of Saturday last:
“The Hon. Charles Alien, who so
boldly denounced the nomination of
Gen. Taylor in the Convention at Phil
adelphia, and declared “the whig par
ty dissolved,” is one of the most re
spected and influential citziens of the
Bay State. He has repeatedly repre
sented that State in both branches of
the Legislature. He received hut de
clined the nomination of his party to
Congress in the district represented bv
Mr. Hudson, on the retirement of Gov.
Lincoln. He was one of the commis
sioners, most in the confidence of Mr.
Webster, upon the Ashburton treatv.
Within three months he has declined
the nomination of Gov. Briggs to a seat
on the bench of the Supreme Court.—
He was chosen a delegate to the Con
vention from “the heart of the Com
monwealth,” on aceount of his known
opposition to Southern rule. He is
universally regarded in Massachusetts
as an upright man, in whom reliance
may always be placed; as one of the
few prominent men w ho neither ask nor
will accept office; and as one of the
most gifted advocates and learned coun
sellors of the State. From these facts
the public wilfjudge whether he is like
ly to recede from 1113 position, or to be
mistaken in his opinion concerning the
sentiment of Massachusetts.”
How to Vote. —Every true Whig,
who loves his country, and wishes foi
her to go onward to the fulfilment of the
great mission confided to her, and to
the attainment of the destiny to which
the founding of our government looked,
must deeply lament that any circum
stance should <s?cur to weaken the
bonds which have held the party to
gether, or to place it even in cqiv
oca! position, in relation to the grea*
principles it has so often proclaimed.—
Under the circumstances which exist,
we know no better way than for every
man to recur, for himself, to original
principles, audio shape his own course
as they may dictate, without reference
to the course of others; and we trust
that any attempt to browbeat or intim
idate, on one side or the other, muy be
met as it deserves. Massachusetts
Spy-
Influence of Young Men.— Throw
a stone into the water and mark how
circles widen until they are lost. Such
is influence—your influence, young
men. On which side will you throw it,
virtue or vice? You have the power
of partially redeeming the w’orld, or
making it tenfold more wicked. Which
will you do? A judgment day before
you, and a long eternity for reflection,
tell us how will you labor! It is a fear
ful thing to live, and a terrible thing to
die, w ith the ghost of worse than, w ast
ed moments and debased talents, stare
ing us in the face. At the time the
Roman liberties were attempted to be
destroyed, Cataline, knowing the in
fluence of young men began by corrupt
ing their minds and leading them to the
commission of daring crimes. This
shows that he understood human nature
—with the countenance and support of
the young men,we cuold regenerate the
world: without their support compara
tively futile would be all our efforts. If
such is your influence, beware where
you throw it. Live to elevate and bless,
—not cruse and destroy—feel that you
are living for other worlds and that
your immortal destiny depends upon
how- you live, move and act.
Novel Application of the Wa
ter Cure.— Priessnitz and his disci
ples have furnished us with many cu
rious anecdotes of the wonderful effects
of water, but they have not, so far as
we know, pretended to cure matrimonial squabbles by the application oftbeir
favorite remedy. The following story
from a Swiss journal, however, would
seem to be indicative of a power in the
clear, universal liquid,” that has been
little thought of hitherto. Every paper
should copy it for the benefit ot the afflicted
A married couple, who had for sev
eral years lived in a state of anti-con
|ugal harmony, determined to part, and
made an appointment to each other at
a notary’s to sign the deed of separation. To arrive at the office of the man
of law they had to cross a lake, and as
it happened, the both embarked in the
same boat. On tbeir passage, a storm
arose, and the boat was upset. Ibeliusband, being a good swimmer, soon
reached the shore in sa'ety on look
ing round him. to see the fate of bis
fellow passengers, he discovered his
wife still struggling for life, but in imminent danger. A feeling of early afection returned to him, and plunging
again into the water, he swarnto her,
ind succeeded in rescuing her. V\ ben
*he recovered her senses, and learned
o whom the owed her life, she threw
lerself into bis arms. He embraced
»er with eoual cordiality, »nd they,
tvowed an oblivion of all their difler
;nees, and that they would lire and die
together.
