mr. manning, from the senate com
mittee on federal relations, reported
the following preamble and resolutions
as the legislative action of south caro-,
lina on the question oi the extension of
slavery: j
whereas, it appears to he the de!ib-j
erate purpose of a large portion of the
people of the northern states of this 1
union, to attempt through congress
the abolition of slavery in the district
of columbia, and to exclude the intro
duction of slaves into new mexico and
california, in the organization ol their
territorial governments; be it there
fore
resolved, that we solemnly deny the
power of congress, under the federal
compact, to interfere, directly or indi
rect! v, with the existence of slavery in
the district of columbia, or to prohibit
its introduction into any territory ac
quired by treaty, or by the joint arms of
the separate sovereign and independent
states of this confederacy, or into any
portion of this continent.
resolved, that this general assem
bly cordially approves and adopts as its
own, the resolutions passed by the le
gislature of virginia, in the year
wherein it is asserted, that under no
circumstances will that body recognize
any enactment of the federal govern
ment which has for its object the prohi
fion of slavery in any territory acquired
either by conquest or treaty; ami that
the passage of the vv'ilrnot proviso by
congress makes it the duty of every
slaveholding state, and all citizens
thereof, as they value their dearest
privileges their sovereignties—their
independence —their rights of property
—to take firm, united and concerted
action in this emergency.
resolved, that upon the question of
the wilmot proviso, this general as
sembly entertains a determined feeling
of opposition and resistance, and that
regarding it as a paramount issue in
their federal relations, they are dis
posed to forego all minor differences of
opinion with other slaveholdmg slates,
in older to form a perfect union with
them, in opposition and resistance to le
gislation by congress at once intolera
ble and unconstitutional.
resolved, that the governor of this
state is hereby requested to forward a
copy of these resolutions to the several
lxeciitivcs of the slaveholding states,
to be laid before their respective legis
latures, and that they be invited to co
operate in such measures as may be,
deemed necessary to protect southern
rights, property and honor.
resolved, that the governor ol this
state be further requested to forward a
copy of these resolutions to our sena
tors and representatives at washing
ton, to be laid before both houses of
ongress during the present session.
here is a rich thing from the chris*
twin index, published at penfield, ga.
only think of christ, au h |av«.” ex
communicating their fdbw “chris
tians’' for running away!
a symptom or reform n ahoi.i
tiowwts.—’ the abolitionists of‘he city
of new york recently had a great
gathering, for the purpose of geuinir
up an excitement in favor of two col
ored girls,who had attempted to escape
from their owner, and had been re
taken and sold to negro-traders. they
succeeded admirably, and soon raised
to purchase their freedom we
hope this is a symptom of their iufen
tiou to reform and abstain from stealing
negroes ft futuie. it is certainly much
the north star
more honest i«* m than to kteai. them,
amt there is a much better prospect ol
succeeding in eradicating slavery by
buying slaves tree, than by resort tc
theft or violence. we do not know a
slaveholder.in all our region who would
not he verv willing to sell ont his slaves
f-»r si per head, or indeed for much
le-s. but there is one thing about this
matter we do not fully understand. it
is, ti»at they will not buv any one who
does not a disregard to the divine
injunction given to servants, to be sub
ject to their own masters; to the frow
ard as well as to the gentle. the two
girls whose freedom they purchased,
we are told, are members of the meth
odist episcopal church. there is not
a christian slave in any of our colored
baptist churches of the s<wi) who
would not vote to excommunicate a
member who should attempt to run
away from his or her master; so much
purer are the christian morals ol
southern si.avi.s, than are the morals
of fanatical freemen at the north!—
however, as abolitionists st emtohave
commenced the reform, we hope they
will go on, and yet evince that they
esteem the obedient more than they do
the disobedient and turbulent, by giving
a still higher price for the former class.
they may thus, perhaps, elevate them
selves, finally, to the high moral stand
at present occupied by christian slaves
hi the south.
©elections.
from tlie cleveland i'lniinloaler.
slaverv in the district of
columbia.
jt is time that the people of the north
west, without distinction of party, were
aroused to the importance of abolishing
slavery in the district of columbia. it
is a disgrace to the nation that the re
presentatives from our free. states
should he sent year alter year, as they
have for more than half a century, to
legislate on slave soil. is it not enough
that the south should have the execu
tive control of the government fifty-two
out of sixty-four years, a majority of the
cabinet ministers, and four-fifths of the
government patronage during that time,
without asking the additional advantage
of compelling our nation’s capital to
remain on slavery soil, and surrourgling i
our representatives from the free
states with slavery influences? yej
freemen of the north, go to washing-,
ton as we have done, and spend but a
single winter, yea, hut a single month,
and you will see the policy and the ab
solute necessity of abolishing slavery
there, or removing the capital into free
soil.
first consider that two distinct races
of men constitute the voters and politi-!
cians of this republic, made distinct, j
not by birth, but by a still stronger in
fluence —habit. in the southern por-i
tion of this republic, voters do not
work. slaves do the work, their mas
ters the voting. the brains of the
whole southern population is in the
heads of some 300,000 slaveholders,
who do all the thinking, writing, read
ing and voting of the whole population.
they are the natural horn gentlemen of
the land, know nothing about manual
labor, having been reared among the
slaves, and taught trotn their infancy to
treat it as the legitimate employment of
a degraded race. their children are
educated in the same way, and thus
southern society is formed. here is an
aristocracy of wealth, bound together
by tiic strongest ties of pride and self
ishness, and which, when anything po
litical touches hut a bristle of their in
terests, the whole stye is in an uproar.
from their numbers are selected the
most wealthy, talented and intelligent,
to represent them in congress. they
go to washington, not as our northern
men here do, taken from the plow, the
anvil and the workshops, where they
jiave been accustomed to earn their
bread by the sweat of their brows, and
who, to carry out the economy forced
upon them by a life of toil and industry,;
take cheap conveyance, a change oi
linen, and put up at some cheap board-'
iug house; but they go with their whole
family equipage, wives, daughters and
sons; horses, carriages and servants ini
livery; grooms, drivers, waiting-maids
and body servants, u whole retinue of
slaves. they throng washington—
tliey engage the best houses, pay the
highest prices, make the largest par
ties, and of course are the bon lon of
society in the district. they not only
command the service of the menials,
but the attention of all the tradesmen,
boarding-house widows, hotel-keepers,
1 and in fact dictate public opinion
throughout the city’s precincts. at
parties, halls, and public tables, they
make no reserve in the expression of
their opinions on that subject which is
uppermost, because most important
with them; we mean slavery. ave,
how they do ridicule and abominate
abolitionists, and that ou all occasions,
without caring to know who are present
to sufl'er from their scoffs and ribaldry.
we were astonished to find this slavery
sentiment pervading every nook and
corner of w ashington. ,the very air
seemed impregnated with its pestiferous
breath —no one dared resist it. the
lucquey about the house, the cockney
in the streets, the soup" hi the oyster
cellar, the gambler at bis billiards, the
boarding-school miss, the clerks in all
the departments, the stranger within the
gales, all seemed to fall in with the pre
vailing current.
now place a northern representa
tive from the backwoods of maine, or
some wild region of the w cst, for the
fir.-4 lime in such society. he has got
to mess, visit and drink with these same
gentry to the manor boro/’ for he is
among the list of honorable*/' and
right is of no sex—truth is of no color— god is the father of us all, and all we are brethren.
pritmu fui.it all congressmen are gen
l tlemen? he will find, perhaps, as sooi
as his residence is known, some half-a
dozen billet-doux upon his table, invit
i ing him to as many private balls,” o
t social parties,” to all of which hi
must go, or send his “regrets.” he ii
astonished at the attention paid him
and by the very ones he is pledged t<
hate—the southern aristocrats. n<
one can calculate, who has not been it
j washington, not even the victim;
themselves, the extent of this southerr
influence upon our northern members
it is true that outside the capital, am
throughout the district ol columbia
the south have it all their own way.—
'lt is their own soil. they feel a!
home. public opinion is af their nod."
man u social being. he cannoi
disconnect himself with the local feel
ings around him. he is inclined, fron
his very nature, more or less to the
wishes ol those with whom he asso
ciates, especially if such wishes art
accompanied with acts of civility anc
kindness. now imagine such a repre
sentative as we have described, living
from three to six months in such soci
ety, and breathing such an atmosphere,
trying to discharge his duties satisfac
torily to his constituents and to his new
associates. he is called upon, for in
stance, to vote to abolish slavery in the
district of columbia. this is bearding
the lion in his very den. such a ques
tion could not rise in congress and
come to a vote, without all those social
appliances which southern members
and citizens of the district know so
well how to use, being first brought to
hear upon every approachable north
ern member. the man who resists
them all, braves the public opinion oi
the metropolis, and votes himself an
outcast from washington society, as he
surely does who votes against slavery,
and is a man of no ordinary nerve.—
we have seen this influence work. we
have w itnessed its power. the country
has felt its degradation.
as matters are now controlled at
washington, with the president, prin
cipal heads of the departments, with
their retinue of clerks, dependants and
official patronage, the official organ of
the administration, all, in the slavery
interest; it is safe to estimate that all
these, combined with the personal influ
ence of southern members, citizens of
the district, and more than all, the
slave soil under their feet, produce an
effect upon the legislation of this coun
try, equal to seventy-five congressional
votes! so much power do the south
derive from the location of the capital
upon their own slave lt is a con
sideration well worthy freemen of the
north, whether, after allowing the
south twenty-five members as a slave
property representation, which they are
entitled to under the constitution, (five
slaves counted as three white men,)
they shall be allowed this additional
power, derived, not from property nor
population, hut simply from compelling
the north to go into a slave country to
make laws for a free people. the
power of congress to abolish slavery
in the district, is not a question for
dispute.
it is not left like other territory of the
government, but the express power is
given in the constitution in these
words: congress shall exercise ex
clusive legislation in all cases whatso
ever, over said district,” &c. it is
only a matter of expediency, then—a
question of duty now with the law
making power, whether slavery shall
he abolished in the district or not. so
long as our southern friends were wil
ling to let our frbe representatives dis
charge their duties unbiased by the lo
cal slavery influences ol the district,
so long has the north been willing to
allow them the national capital within
their borders. we have even allowed
this spot", which more than any other on
earth ought to he sacred to freedom, to
he desecrated by the buying and selling
of human beings, and the ears of
northern freemen made familiar with
the clank and chains of those in
bonds.” 1 iie same stars and stripes
that wave over the capital as indica
tions of our national liberty, also wave
over the “slav£ pens” in the district on
any extraordinary occasion. under
one, the white man glories in his free
dom; under the other, the black man
groans in his fetters.
foreigners, foreign ministers, and
ambassadors, visit the capital of this
boasted land of freedom, and see men,
women and children, of all ages and
hues, bound hand and hand, driven two
and two through the open streets, and
in broad daylight, down to a southern
mart and into a hopeless servitude.—
before the eyes of all the world, what
a deep disgrace is this, and what a
damning commentary upon the profes
sions of the model republic!” now,
for writing this article* for uttering such
rientimeuts as these, we know the hot
spurs of the south will not thank us.—
fhey owe us uo good will for bringing
the attention of the people to these
matters. tar and feathers no doubt
await us, should we dare visit those re
gions which are said to be in ten de
crees of more indulgent climes. but
we must tell them frankly what we
want, whqf the workies,” the labor
ing millions of the free states demand,
and what is due to our national charac
ter and to freedom. it is this “no
extension of slavery beyond its present
limits no compromise with slavery
within its present limits, any further
than is guarantied by the constitution.
slavery in the district of columbia to
be abolished, or the capital removed.
now, gentlemen of the south, make
up your minds to this, and submit to it
with the best grace you can. it is
fixed, rosolved npou, and by a power
capable of effecting it. the people
have willed it, and it must be dot*.—
rochester, n. y., friday, january 20, hu).
-i we claim no right to interfere legis
i latively with slavery within any ol
the states, and have never arrogated
any. we claim no right morally tc
stir the question in such a way as to ex
pose the lives of our fellow-eitizena
i travelling south, to the tortures ol
lynch law. we deeply deplore any
i intemperate movement on this moment
i;ous subject, in view of the “dreadful
i wrecks” so much threatened by our
southern neighbors, which the meeting
tides of northern and southern fanati
cism may spread around their borders.
1 but while we entertain these senti
mejnts, we know ho reason that renders
it incumbent on us to conceal how far
e it* views are opposed to fojfering sla
very under our glorious constitution at
the expense of freedom. the impres
sion made upon 119 m boyhood by that
profound exclamation of c'ato, that
“a day, ai» litnii ol' virtuous lilirity,
i* worth a whole eternity of bondage,”
lias been worn deeper and deeper in
i the progress of years; arid we yearn
more now than ever with strong dpsire
for the day when freedom shall no
longer wave
her fustian flag in mockery over slaves!”
c«»rre»|>oiiileiice of the tribune.
moke pacheco.
washington, friday, jan. 12.
nearly the whole day was spent on
i mr. sawyer’s motion to reconsider the
vote by which the house had rejected
the bill for the relief of the heirs of an
tonia pacheco, owner of the slave
lewis. the debate was opened by
i mr. sawyer in a speech, from which i
only gathered that he still meant to vote
against the claim. mr. turner, ©fill.,
(who had not voted till now) next made
a dubious speech, whence l also gath
ered that he too would vote against the
claim. he made some good points.—
mr. palfrey, of mass., next obtained
the floor, and, amid frequent interrup
tions, made a very strong speech against
the bill. he argued that, apart from
the position that the federal constitu
tion regarded slaves as persons and
not as property, it was not fully proved
that gen. jessup sent this negro out ol
florida with the seminoles, and even if
he did, (lewis was still the rightful
slave of pacheco,) it was an act done
without due authority of law, and for
which the united states was not respon
sible. a military commander has no
authority, under our constitution, to
banish men from the country, on the
ground that they are dangerous, sedi
tious persons, and if any one has. done
so, he is personally responsible to who
ever has suffered fiy the* wmrrg.
let the pachecos sue gen. jessup, and
recover the value of their lost slave, if
they have any right of recovery,and let
gen. jessup petition us for indemnity,
pleading that the public good required
him to act as he did, and the claim will
be rightfully before us. mr. palfrey
was continually interrupted by ques
tions from opponents, but they did not
make their expenses.
mr. morse, of la., got the floor,and
spoke warmly in support of the claim.
i did not think he made much headway
—but that may be the result of preju
dice on my part.
saturday, jan. 13.
all day long—the dreary fourth day
of this discussion—lias been spent on
the pacheco slave case. two days it
took us to reach a decisive vote on the
question—part of another day to deter
mine w hether we had passed or rejected
the bill—and now' we have spent two
more days on mr. sawyer’s motion to
reconsider. and this is not a northern
but a southern agitation of the slave
question in congress.
the debate to-day was opened by
judge collamer, of vt,, in a speech of
great clearness and cogency. he fairly
demolished any remaining vestige of
pretence that the united states, as hirer
or bailee of the slave lewis, w r ere le
gally hound to restore him to his for
mer owner. he was hired at the legal
risk of the owner—the united states
were only hound louse proper care and
caution with the person or thing hired
—and there is no pretence opany fail
ure in such case. the slave was there
fore lost or escaped when employed at
the risk of his owner, who must catch
him if he wants him.
but the same negro came in under a
capitulation, and gen. jessup ordered
him to be sent west with the indians.—
now he either was entitled to go west
with the indians under the terms of the
surrender, or (if he were still the pro
perty of pacheco) his exile was an ar
bitrary act, for which jessup, and not
the united states, was responsible.—
he said the books were full of cases
where claims for damage to, or forcible
conversior of the property ot individ
uals to public use by military oflicers,
had been legally enforced against such
officers, notwithstanding the plea of
public necessity.
mr. r. k. meade, of va., next got
the floor, and made a most inflamma
tory speech in favor ol southern
wrongs and all that, full of vague threats
that the union would not last long, un
less the north stayed its hand and cot
toned more to the “peculiar institu
tion.” ho was proceeding to denounce
mr gott’a resolution and the vote
adopting it in the most unsparing
terras,, when mr. toombs, of georgia,
called to order. he could not consent
to this disorderly discussion ot a ques
tion not before the house ine ques
tion now was about pacheco aud his
negro. the speaker decided the ob
jection well taken, bat
in rather a lower key. he said if the
rights of slaveholders to their slaves as
property were not respected and main
tained by this government, then he
would not give t sn*p f° r t»»oo-
mr. toombs, of georgia, obtain?
the floor after mr. hat), and (the bou
being quite latei yielded to a motioi
for adjournment, which was strongl;
resisted but just carried? so closer
i another day of pacheco. a motion t<
adjourn before mr. hall’s speech, wa
defeated largely by a vote of the yea
and nays, and this last would have beei
also had the previous question beet
ordered, so as to bring the house to
direct vote. but there were thirty
jumping for the floor, and it could no
ibe made certain that one of thos<
wanting to move the previous questioi
would get it afler mr. toombs h&<
concluded —so the adjournment wa
1 carried.
this waste of time would be less de
plorable if a great principle would b<
settled by the vote. such is not tin
i tact. the late arguments have si
qualified and whittled it down, tha
whenever we shall reach the question
nothing will be settled but whether pa
i checo shall get pay for his negro—per
haps not even that. the question iiom
goes over to next friday (first privai*
bill day.)
(jott’s resolution
what further is to become of the
resolution, may be learned by the fol
j lowing letter, which we ropy from the
n. y. evening post:
washington, jan. jl.
the tactics of the slaveholders have
again most signally prevailed. the
southern caucus has done its work,
even though its formal proceedings have
just begun. the whig leaders ami
t their followers have equally bowed
their necks, and an early example has
been made of the manner in which con
gress and the legislation of the conntry
can he controlled, without the use of
the veto. i described to you yesterday,
very briefly, how the majority of the
house retreated from the position it
assumed of continuing the slavetrade in
this district. the full extent of their
retrograde march was not apparent un
til this morning, when mr. wentworth
expressed his curiosity as to what was
to be done with ail. the amendments and
substitutes pending to and for mr.
gott’s resolution for the abolition of the
most infamous form of the slavetrade
existing in the united states.
the speaker civilly informed mr.
wentworth that the resolution and all
its belongings had gone into that abyss
which knows no bottom, the budget of
unfinished business. he said that the
resolution and the previous question
upon it having been reconsidered, it
uailjeefc it# of a -privileged
question, and could only be taken up
again in its order, as it stood upon the
calendar. of course mr. c. b. smith,
of indiana, and their co-laborers, were
well aware of this result when they
pressed with such zeal and energy the
motion to reconsider. as to both these
gentlemen, but particularly the former,
they have well earned a place in gen.
taylor’s cabinet, or a foreign mission,
or any other snug and comfortable of
fice which they may demand, each for
himself or for his relations or friends.
mr. caleb b. smith misrepresents a
constituency as decidedly in favor of
free soil sentiments as any in the un
ion. among them are a very large
body of quakers, who hold their yearly
meetings at richmond, the principal
town in his district.
gen. taylor was held out to them as
the free soil candidate. “taylor and
free soil” was the watchword of the
party in that part of the state, and in
deed throughout the state. ill these
good friends take caleb’s case under
dealing at their next ineetiug" proba
bly; but what will caleb care? he
will ere then have been called to his
reward, and perhaps his only answer to
their sentence of condemnation will be
the removal of tfce local postmaster,
from whose office it shall he sent to
him. in imitation of the illustrious ex
ample of polk and cave johnson.
the berth of postmaster general must
be considered appropriated from yes
terday f«»ols that were
gulled by the cry that taylor could do
no harm, so long as we had a good
whig congress, will perhaps now be
gin to open their eyes.
the boston republican says:
the contemptible tricksters who at
first voted for gott’s resolution, and
then refused to clinch it, by voting
against the motion to lay mr. stuart’s
motion on the table, and who finally
shuffled, dodged, or actually backed out
of the position they had taken—these
contemptible doughfaces have done their
work. their first votes have gone
home,to be crowed over by the partizan
newspapers in their own districts,
while the process by which they ignobly
betrayed the north, at the bidding of
the southern friends of taylor, will not
be heard of. the springfield republi
can, the plymouth memorial, and the
new bedford mercury, will shed a
few* natural tears for the comfort of a
bamboozled constituency, but they will
never let the people know that three
taylor representatives from massachu
setts, have actually voted against the
confirmation of gott’s resolution, while
others have dodged the responsibility of
a vote, and done (heir share of the ser
vile'work. but the people of massa
chusetts will by and by find out where
taylorism has placed them. patience!’
vermont ml a very resolu
tion*.
the following resolves wept adopted
unanimously in both brandies of the
vermont legislature, previous to their
adjournment.
resolved, by the senate and house
of repress at aiives, that we seek m
vain to discover any foundation for bu~
man slavery in the divine or natural
i law, or the lew of nations; that it* on
gin in all cases may he traced to irau
i or physical force, and that all local law
»;for its continuance or protection hav
l! been, afterwards, introduced by th
slaveholders themselves to justify an
i perpetuate their usurpations.
t| resolved, that congress possesses
i and ought immediately to exercise, th
i power to prohibit slavery in the territc
i rics of new mexico and california
and that without such prohibition, au
the strong arm of the general govern
j ment to enforce its observance, there i
i great danger that it will obtain a foot
ii hold there, not only without the aol c
i local laws, but against them, thus add
ing a hull (father stain upon our nu
tional honor, and subjecting tlie fre<
states to the injustice of a still greate
inequality in their representation it
i congress.
i resolved* that our senators rn con
gress be instructed, and our repre
sentatives requested, to exert their el
forts for a passage of a law abolishing
j slavery in the district of columbia,an<
prohibiting the traffic in slaves betweei
the states.
j resolved, that it is unbecoming tin
representatives of freemen, muintainiiq
the declaration that liberty is inaliena
j hie, to legislate for the general welfare
i while their eyes are insulted with tin
frequent sjfbctacle of men chained
shackled, and driven to market, or con
tined in pens, awaiting buyers.
aud whereas, slavery in the pistric
j of columbia exerts a balelul influence
upon the action of congress, checking
the freedom of debate, threatening tin
freedom of the press, and controlling
j the executive department at washing
ton; therefore,
resolved, that unless slavery in th<
district he speedily abolished by tin
j action of congress, with the assent o
the inhabitants, it is the duty of con
gress to pass a law removing the sea
jof government into the territory o
some free state, more central and mort
convenient for the nation, where the
representatives of the people may he
more free to legislate for the general
welfare.
tiie vote of indiana for
freedom.
there has never been a more servile
tool of the slave power in the congress
of the united states, than senator
hannegan, of indiana. during the
period he has misrepresented the noble
state which sent him to washington
his whole dhfeer has been distiuguishei
by a most unscrupulous disregard t<
the rights of th# north, and thermos
cringing servility to fhe manstealers <5
the south, but his constituents liav*
marked him, and driven him from the
post which he has so long dishonored
and disgraced the free people of in
diana have supplied his place in the
senate with a better man—one who has
a heart as well as a head, and who is
too honest to legalize in free territories
the horrible crimes aud iniquities of our
slave system. gov. whitcomb is to
be the successor of hannegan, and the
following extract from his late inau
gural message will show what the
friends of freedom may expect from
him:
decided as the opinion of the peo
ple of indiana is against the institution
of human slavery, yet they have ever
manifested a determination never to in
terfere with the constitutional rights of
any of our sister states on this subject.
they love that glorious union which
was framed by the conscript fathers
of the earlier days of the republic,and
to which, under providence, w< are in
debted for our present eminence among
the nations of the earth. but the pres
ent question does not regard slavery in
the states, or in any state,. it refers
exclusively to the propriety ol its exist
ence hereafter, in a territory now free.
this territory has now come to us free
—is now free, and in my opinion it
should remain free, and that every con
stitutional and legal means should he
adopted to continue it free. nor do i
think our southern brethren would, in
that case, have any just cause of cora-j
plaint florida was ceded to the united
states as a slave territory, and so it
was suffered to remain, and the same
remarks will apply to the acquisition of
texas.”
when the governor of a state talks
like that, the people are not long in
“catching the tune,”and in the second
day of the session, the following joint,
resolution was presented. if straws
show which way the wind is blowing, j
surely indications like these must con
vince tjje most doubting that a political
tornado is coming which will sweep the!
last vestige of slavery from the land.
whereas, the people of indiana
regard the institution of human sla
very as a great moral and political evil,
and whereas, the people of the united
states have recently acquired from the
republic of mexico a large amount e/
territory which is now free, and which,]
in the opinion of this general aaaem-,
bly, ought forever to remain free; and
whereas, it is the opinion of this gen- j
eral assembly, that congress possesses;
the power under the constitution to pro
lubit the extension of slavery into such
territory, and that it b right and proper
that such power be exercised by con
gress; therefore, be it
resolved, by the general assembly
of tbe state of indiana, that our sen
ators in congress be, and they are
hereby instructed, and our represeat
tives requested, to me tbeir influence
and vote in fetor of tbe passage of a
law providing that there shall be neither
slavery nor involuntary servitude in any
of said territory, otherwise than in the
punishment ol crime, whereof the
shall have boon duly
christian cdtssn.
john dick,
whole no. 55.
statf. i.£olh|.atirc axi> gotcrti*
i or s message.— after three or four
s days of pprtv quarrel, upon the elec*
e tion of speaker, the house of repre
c sentatives organized on friday by the
i) choice of parker, the democratic can
didate, as speaker; the native atneri
i, cans voting tor him. on saturday the
ej (governor's message was read, and it
reached philadelphia by express late on
1 saturday evening. it i» a long docu-
j tnent, mostly occupied with the discus
sion of state finances, taritf, for
s protection to home manufactures, and
banks. he speaks frankly against the
1 extension of slavery, taking about the
_ ground of the free.soi! pnrty, viz., that
-f while the constitutional compromises
2 and protections to slavery in the states
r must be faithfully observed, the system
i must not be suffered to spread over
another foot of f»-ee soil. he also
recommends the legislature to instruct
their senators and request their repre
sentatives to give their influence in
r congress against the extension of
slavery.
i vve give below the portion of the
i message which speaks on this subject.
i— penn. freeman.
r the new mexico and
.i california, presents'again in the na
tional congress the important question
of extension or non-extension of human
slavery. at the adoption of the nation
i al constitution, the longer continuance
of what was then considered an evil,
l was strongly agitated, and resulted in a
compromise, permitting it in the states
where at that time it existed. the
constitution being submitted to the
states, was adopted with others by
pennsylvania, and after the lapse of
more than half u century, it remain*
the great fundamental law of the cniou.
i to preserve and perpetuate it—to ac
knowledge its supremacy,—to maintain
and defend its principles,—and to sub
mit to its compromises; are duties to
which every citizen is pledged, what
ever his opinions in relation to questions
arising under it. this’fundamental
law recognizes the right to hold slaves
in the states which were parties to the
compact, but it makes no further ac
knowledgement. it bears on its plain
and expressive page no agreement, ex
press or implied, for the further exten
sion of human slavery. that this
national wrong has been extended with
the progress of population, is not an
argument in favor of its justice, its
constitutional right, or of the salutary
effects it has produced in the territories
where it has been admitted. shall it
i be further extended? to the congress
i ol .the united states belongs the aur
ij thorjfy to settle this important question
rr nert)re it srtmtt rmvir trwn sjcrcrurfm-rf,
the opinions of our citizens on the sub
ject should be fully and distinctly made
known, through their public function
i aries, to the confederate states. the
right to instruct our senators, and re
quest the representatives in the na
tional councils, ought not to be used
on light and trivial occasions, while on
subjects gravely affecting the well
being of the country, it becomes a duty
which no one will decline. in the ex
ercise of this admitted right, the legis
lature will find the opportunity to
express in terms not to ho mistaken,
the position which is held by pennsyl
vania on this grave and momentous
question.
while the compromises of tho con
stitution should ha maintained in good
faith against our southern brethren,
it is our duty to see that they are ob
served with equal fidelity to ourselves
no encroachments however sanctioned
by use, should be acknowledged as
precedents for further wrongs, against
the interests, prosperity and happiness
of the non-slavrholding states of the
union. if slavery he, in itself, an in
fraction of human rights :—lf it be di
rectly opposed to the enlightened spirit
of our free institutions, —if it destroy
the equality of power in the general
government, by enlarging where it ex
ists, the constitutional representation—
if it possess a direct or indirect influ
ence against northern and western
policy and interests, by promoting a
system of laws, destructive to domes
tic industry, arid vitally affecting free
labor—if it retard the natural growth
of population and improvement, by the
appropriation of large tracts of land,
for the benefit of the few, to the inju
ry of the many,—if it b« in open
defiance to the spirit of the age, the
march of natural truth, and the en
lightened policy of mankind, —it is time
to arrest its further progress. these,
it is believed, are the settled convic
tions of our citizens, and their deter
mination to maintain them is unalterable
(.oal lax os.— at a recent vale of coal
lands, about five mile* from pitubui *h, om
thousand dollars per acre was received lor
the coal. the land was ihk add with the
coal.
in pawtucket on sunday morning last, a
young man named nicholas kivanna was
auitoe'iud iti can y qutoee of inhaling the im
pure air of a will that had heroine dry into
vv inch he had descended for the purpose of
deepening it. another persou that was ue»r
bun caote :*car sharing the uuue late.
a family kissed to death. —the
house of a colored woman nan.**! celia
butler, at a place called keggs.’* seek. i«
st. mary’s county, md was desl/uyfd by
fire on saturday night week, and her foui
children, the eldest nine years of *g*< p**
tshed in the flame*. tho mother absent
at a huakmg fem. _
anductjort cask* l* xlaavi-aad. hi is**
lot county court. i** l
thomar. bekmgjtg ut cmk, was
tried and rontxied «i enuring and asewuci*
four »k*vc* run sway. he was aeateaced
i*fifteen years **d mootoa labor u> the
puuuawtiary i» the same court, jam*-* k.
work w*s cmrnma of abdoetmg two slave*.
ilowoof-atutc v *medieal rel
ief** according to this system of medicine, is
about being entab'iahej ta philadelphia
jcaoes tad wuhagtoa tie tofeth?
p ianti«klnvery
jons ji. jacob#, of massachusetts. a fug
tive slaw, w ill hold meeting* as follow#
ontario, monday, jan. 20th, at 7 p m
webster, tuesday, 3pth.
pinfold. thursdav. feb. ist,
egypt, friday. id.
fairport, jsunday. mb,
the friend# of the slave in each plane an
requested to provide a (dace and give cxtende*
notlfo of the meeting#, that all mav hear ow
who can tell ably, from personal experierice
#shat american slavery is.
american slavery
the fourth of a senes of lecture# on tin
subject will be delivered by frkdkrh k hot
clash, in minetva hall, on sunday events
next, jan. 27, eommencmg at 7 o’clock.
htv. samvel j. may. of syracuae isal#
expected to deliver an address on the sam
mib(ect, on monday next of the time an
|.la«*e particular notice w ill he given hereaftei
thirtieth onfirehs.
january 10, 1549-
pko/k«.t or colonization. the senai
proceeded to the consideration of the motio
made yesterday by mr. underwood, that tli
peuuon of daniel p. bedinger, praying tin
t 'ongress may appropriate money for the pm
pose of removing free |>eoplr of color to i,
lieria, or elsewhere, from the united state
and also to make an appropriation for if
purpose of colonizing such slaves as may i
hereafter manumitted for that purpose, be r<
ferred to. the (’ouunittee on the judiciary
with instructions to impure and report whethe
congress possesses the f onstitulioiial jhiwc
io appropnate money lor the removal ol th
lice [»eople ol color viliu may choose to mi
urat» and slaves who may hereafter beeman
ipaled h»r that purpose, to the republic c
liberia, or elsewhere and if, m the opinio
i, the cwinmiltcc, congress possesses tha
p.iwer, whether it is expedient and proper t
make such appropriations.
mr. dickinson demanded a division of lit
question.
mr. dayton was oppose*! to instructing thi
committee. he did not w ish the judgment o
the committee forestalled, for the reason tha
■sometimes subjects were sent to committee
upon which it was not advisable for them t<
icpoit at all; and in those cases—of whicl
be considered this to be one —lie thought i
uell to leave the committee some discretion.
mr. underwood said he had no great objec
to subserve in moving the instructions; but in
j, i think this an appropriate occasion upoi
w inch to have a rejiort from the committee
mi the judiciary, on the subject referred to iq
the petitioner. he desired it, because tin
p.'tition teferred to a convention about to ik
brhl m kentucky, at which the question o
•mancipation was expected to come up am
,t was desirable that, before that couventioi
*b,ml<l meet, a report niighl ih* had from tin
judiciary committee, upon the constitutional
itv and expediency of such an appropriatioi
that referred to.
jt is very well known, sir, (said mr. 1
that in the slavehoiding states there is a dt
vnled opinion. it is perfectly well knowi
that, among slaveholders themselves, then
are jkiition willing to emancipate their slaves
pmvided they can lie sent out of the coun
trv but lliev are decidedly hostile to email
i ipaiion, if they are to be allowed to remait
here.
now, sir, 1 do desire to test the opinions o
northern men northern representatives—
upon the question with reference to the powe
wild capacity of appropriating money out c
the treasury to relieve the country of negroes
by sending them where slaveholders may b
disposed to send their slaves, if they knot
itu:> .vnl mu lie allowed to remain here. j
ihe” remarks which i made the other day,
called the attention of the senate and of tli
committee to the appropriations made for th
removal of indians to the west, and for tli
removal to the coast of africa of recapture
africans; and 1 desired the committee t
make a distinction, if they could, betwee
these appiopiiations and such appropriations a
the petitioner asks for.
one remark more, sir, and then i am done
it is this there seems to be a sensitiveness
upon the subject of slavery which 1 mysel
never have felt. there is a southern sens;
liveness, and a northern sensitiveness like
wise, which i have never experienced, and
disjkjsition to agitate in some quarters, whic
1 have alike and always disregatded. 1 100
upon it, mr. president, as utterly hopeless, a
utterly useless, to attempt the suppression ti
discussion of any subject before the america
mind and onr attempts to suppress it here <i
elsewhere must always end in a failure. w
of the south only do ourselves an injury, ac
cording to my opinion, whenever we attemp
to exclude a discussion here, if northeri
gentlemen choose to enter upon it. sir,
always was, while a member of the othe
house, opposed to the 21st rule. i an
opposed to every restriction here. i am fo
throwing the responsibility upon northeri
men, whenever they choose to investigate am
»pc.iu upon the subject, to do it where am
bow they please. sir, j want to a>certaii
tor my constituentsthe length and the breadth
ibc heightli and the depth, of the feelings o
the north, upon this subject, and what an
ail it# bearings, l»otli speculative and practical
and i hold it to be mv duty to get from tliosi
northern gentlemen, at all times and upon al
occasions, just exactly what they intend to do
therefore, sir, 1 have l>«eii always in favor o
unshackling them on e cry opportunity. i
was for this purpose that 1 moved a rceonsid
nation of the votes by which the motion:
oi the gentlemen behind me (mr. hah
and mr. corwin) were laid upon the table.
mr. president, do you ever exj»ect, or doe:
any sensible, rational man ever expect, tha;
we are to allay this excitement —which hai
been progressing from year to year, until i
ha* reached the point of almost severing this
nation—except you can get men rationally t<
think amt rationally to talk with each othei
upon tins subject 1
northern man or a northern woman
***»ds a petition here asking you to legislate
upon the subject ol slavery, as in the ease to
which i have alluded, asking you not to ex
i»-ml slavery mm the country over which you
ran legislate. du you exj>eoi to conciliate
the feelings ol that man or that woman by
turning around and saying, “von had uu
light to speak or, if you do speak, we will
not hear you—we will treat yon with con
tempt
mr. president, it is utterly hopeless to ex
pect to do any good by the course which we
lake in reference to petitions sent here. w'hat
has been tlie lesult of llns course in the othei
branch of the national legislature when
i |ir>t came into uongrees, all these peiihuns
were referred. it went on that way year af
ter year, until at last we passed the 21st rule
iejecting them without question, without ac
non, without doing anything. has the pas
aage of the 21st rule done any good 1
lias, in my judgment, only aggravated th<
matter: aod so the course which we take
here, sir, can do no good, excepting to aggra
«>ate the question. what is the remedy
refer their petitions, sod then give the projwi
answer. now, sir, upon the right ol pen
non, let me say, that i entertain the opimor
th;« it is not unlimited; that there ur a r. stn6
non upon it, and that that restriction consist!
m two things. if the body petitioned has nc
power to grant the prnyer of that peniion,
then the jietitioiier has no right to prefer the
petition. if fie prefers! lie petition to s body
ilist cannot comply with the wishes of the
petitioner—that lias no constitutional power to
do so—th*- presentation of tlie petition is to a
body, sir, wluch, in respect to the aetum
wl..ch the petitioner desires, has no possible
i
power toart. and therefore there i* no right in
the care of that aon of petition.
the other limitation is, sir, that where the
petitioner ask* the body that ha* the power to
act to pare a law, to modify a law, to repeal a
law, which law doe# not operate upon the pe
titioner, but upon somebody els*, then th** in
dividual who is not affected hy the taw and
cannot he affected by it, has no right to inter
pose. and introduce a j**titi«*n to have a law
passed which shall affect the rights and inter
ests of others, from whose action he is alto-;
gether exempt. in a casr of that sort, sir, it
is direct despotism. it i* tyranny, in the
worst nensc. f »r a man win* does not feel the
••pcration of a law, ami who from his aitua-<
lion can never feel it, to apply to a legislative
bndv to put manacle* upon other* which he is
not to feel himself.
now mir, with these restrictum*, the right
of |ietition has been violated in innumerable
instances. i want the north to understand
that they are calling upon the national le
gislature to do things the effect of which they
arc not to leel themselves 1 and i want, sir.
hi my view of the subject, the committees of
this house and of the other to answer these
jieople—to answer them in a calm, dignified
manner, and say to them, \n hen your peti
tions coin*' here, you are begging for a ihing
which you are not to feel by legislative action,
and which you arc to make others feci most
sensibly.*
sir, there are differences of opinion upon
this subject, i know. these northern gen
tlemen and their constituents may think, as
conscientiously as i do, that they have the
1 1 right to ask the legislation of fongress upon
a question the eflecie of which they are not to
1 feel. i think they have no such right. the
only way is to allow these petitions to come
to the committee, and then let northern gen
tlemen w ho are disposed to agitate this ques
tion. do it at their peril. sir. we shall hive
all these things up. this is inevitable
these territorial bills in reference to new
mexico and california, bring the yyhole ques
lion before us. and why u|m>ii this question,
sny more than upon that, shall we ot the
south he allowed to speak 1 -and whv should
we not allow northern gentlemen to argue
j these points 1 sir. i experience no such
alarm as others appear to feel, 1 led as
though i stand upon impregnable ground with
reference to this institution. 1 think 1 under
stand it better than they do. and 1 have no ob
jection to then discussing anything they
choose to discuss. i have nothing l*< fearlrom
the discussion.
i therefore hope, sir. not only that the in
quiry whether congress has the power to aid
in 1 liis matter may is* made doling the present
session, but 1 am |*erfeetly willing to have a
reconsideration of those petitions which were
presented day before yesterday, and to let
them go to a committee, that they may is*
reported upon, as well as the paper which 1
had the honor to present.
mr. metcalfe followed in remarks of a sim
ilar naiurc.
mr. hale.—l rise, sir, for the purpose of
expressing my grateful acknowledgments to
the senator from kentucky who first address
ed the ('hair, (mr. underwood,) fi»r the mag
nanimous course which lie has pursued with
reference to the petition w filch 1 ha 1 the honor
of presenting the other day and, indeed, it
was no more than 1 had a right to expect
from his whole course upon this floor. but
w hile 1 do this, i beg to dissent, in the most
unqualified manner, from the limitations which
that honorable senator lias laid down, to the
exercise of the right of petition, which right
that gentleman so freely concedes because,
sir, wttli the limitations and restrictions which
the honorable senator puts upon this right,
(and which 1 am sure he would not have put
upon it if he had examined it with his usual
keenness.) the right of petition is utterly de
stroyed and the right is not worth the natno,
nor the petition the paper upon which it is
written.
f the position of the honorable senator i
i understand to be this—that the petition must
lie presented ,to a liody having the power to
grant it and it must not be for any measure
whirl, n ill uflfeci others if.su those who pre-
i sent the petition. now, sir, w hat is the right
of petition, thus limited, hampered and fet
tered 1 the question is, whether congress
have the power. petitioners come here and
1 ask you to pursue certain measures and if
you decide -in advance that you have not the
power to pursue those measures, you just as
i effectually deny the right of jictitiou as if you
refused to receive the petition for any other
reason whatsoever. this jusi as effectually
5 j debars the citizen from the right of petition as
f any mode which human ingenuity ean devise.
if you say, we have not the power to grant
1 and therefore we will not hear your petition,*
it is equivalent to saying, you have no
right to come here, and we will not hear your
ti prayer.”
s but the gentleman says that we must not
f: pray for measures affecting others than the
petitioners. i was reading the other day the
r correspondence between the minister of the
i united states and lord palmerston, in great
britain, relative to american citizens unjustly
detained in the prisons of great britain and
1 saw with high satisfaction that the american
secretary of state, very much to his credit,
urged upon our minister at the court of st.
that he should ask not only for the
li!>eration of citizens of the united slates un
justly thrown into prison, but should intercede
in lielialf of the whole class of those who had
fallen under the censure of the british gov
eminent, on account of the movements they
had made in their attempts —mistaken though
they might lie—to reform and perhaps to revo
lutionize ireland. where, sir, would have
!*een an intciference in that case, if the ame
rican secretary of state had been governed
by the consideration w’bich has been urged
i upon the senate hy the gentleman from ken
tucky, that the right to pray, the right tc
l.eg, was confined to the simple, poor, and
narrow pri\ ilege of asking blessings for our*
selves?
what is, the whole scope and tenor of the
religion w hich we profess, and which i know
the honorable senator not only professes, bui
practices 1 is it not to make prayer and
intercession tor all men’’ and, sir, is it tc
lie announced tiere to-day, as the deliberate
conviction of the american senate, that the
circle of human sympathies and human affec
tions is to u- so circumscribed to a rigid
1 selfishness, that we have not the right even to
j pray and to beg for the subjects of our sym
pathy and regard has the right of petition
got io be as limited and restricted as that
j yet. sir, if i understood the gentleman from
kentucky, this is the limit and the restriction
which lie would impose upon the right of pe
ntion io be enjoyed by the citizens of the u.
stales, when addressing the senate of the
i united states.
will trespass upon the attention of the
senate but a moment longer. 1 must say
that i have been—l might say—amused but
i have been astonished at the tone of remark
which i hear every day m this senate, iu the
house of heprescmatives, and elswhere,
upon this subject of american slavery, as if
northern gentlemen were aggressive upon
this subject. aggressive' howt when
when’ why, sir, the course of northern
kepietenutives and northern senators—l
say it to our shame, and i take my portion of
it—lias been so pusillanimous, so cowardly,
so craven, so submissive upon this subject,
that the women and the children reproach us
for »t. yes, sir, the very women call ua
craven. 1 received a letter from a female
friend to-day, who inquired why, in the name
of heaven, it was, that northern spirit baa
so ooaetf out, aud that we had become so sub
missive and so tame upon thu subject.
why, sir, slavery has ruled the govern
ment from the very first adoption of the con
stitution up to tbe present time; and it hat
got re now, that if we cse rciae the poor righ
of the beggar, and cry, and petitioo, we are
denounced as insolent es, sir, if we look
up to our masters, and say god help us? we
are called “insolent,” and “aggressive/'
and trespassing upon the right* ot the
south.” now 1 piotest one* and forever,
aftiu-t the injtmtice of any such term*. we
h«»e been mibroissivc. and we arc mill. we
have bent our faces to the earth, and our
bock* hr the lash, and we ought to he re
proached for that. we hare been submissive
long enough and we have beta tatne enough,
heaven pod earth know. i am much at a
lose to know what is meant bv this northern
aggteasion. m our mono* and our wood have
bei'u^a wn upon us as profusely as our i**'
tienoa. we have yielded anything at*d
everything, in our individual and mrr notional
action, in behalf cff. in support of. the insti
tution of southern slavery.
i do not wish u» interfere with it. i do not
wish to he aggressive, i only w ish that we
may lie let alone. nay, sir, i am willing—
arnl i *(»t:«k also in i* hall of those who sent
me here—l am willing that we should be
held responsible to the limit of the constitu
tional obligation, for everything that may he
required for the support ami sustenance «»l
american slavery. i am willing to go to the
last letter in the bond. if you find in it the
(pound id' flesh, take it ami if you find out
heart's best mood written there, take it. i
am ready to come up lo the work freely,
fairly, and fully, and to conform to the con
tract. hut w hen we are called to go turthei
than that—when we ask in the name ot com
mon humanity, from our clearest conviction*
of our obligations, that we may not be com-
i>elled lo go even beyond the line of coi slitu
lional obligation, i do pray that we may not.
for that reason, !>c called aggressiver.
mr. dough s .—i do not intend to enter inti
any discussion. it is only the last few re
marks of the gentleman from new hamp
shire [mr. lfale] whicn have brought me t«
the floor. as a northern inan, i ani no
willing to have it said here, without deuying
it, that the north have degraded themselves
to thedsoiith. i am not willing to have that
.libel pronounced upon the north, on this
floor, and to sit in silent acquiescence to its
correctness. the north have always main
tained their rights. they are the last people
to yield to an infraction of those riglus.
northern men have shown their willingness
to meet the issue at all times in the halls ol
legislation, whenever the issue has been
brought before them. and. sir, if there has
been any submission upon the part ot the
noitli in former times, if there has ipeen any
humble submission, it has fieen an humble
submission to the principles of the f'onslitu
lion, ami not to dictation from the south.
i have only regretted in these latter days
that this liurnhle submission to the principles
of the constitution, on the part of my north
ern friends, had not lieen continued. sir,
have voted to keep the abolition agitation out
of those halls. 1 have voted to keep down
i that spirit of fanaticism which was agitating
and exciting the country to no good, and
which could have no other effect than to rally
the north against the smith, and the smith
against the north—to weaken the bond ol
union between the different portions of the
country, and to create factions w hich are will
ing to rule upon the ruins of the l 'onstitution
and of the union.
and, sir, is this submission to the spirit and
jthe principles of the ('onstitution to !>e de
itounoed as a base submission to a southern
faction no, sir. i wish to execute the
(lowers of this government in that spirit of
harmony and conciliation which brought the
'constitution into existence- if the south
land the north had come forward vitb theii
defiance, each taunting the other, and adding
insult to insult, every time that one of the
opposite section rose upon the floor, do you
think that we should have had a consti
union and shall we be degenerate sons ol
tr.oie jires, who framed the constitution i
,4he constitution w as good as it came fron
their hands, how shall it lie said that we whe
live under it, and its provisions, are dc
generate for our fidelity to it?
we would have no cause, sir, of complain
j upon the subject of slavery, if each mar
would mind his own business, and not en
*deavor to introduce the subject into thest
halls. the constituents of our new hamp
i shire friend would neyer know how in gel
1 these poor negroes suffer, if it was not fob
them by those who never saw their sufferings
1 and know nothing of what they are talking
about. and the south would not know how
badly they are treated by the north, if th<
subject was not brought before them for flu
purpose of exciting the people in a popula
election. i wish, sir, to banish the whoh
agitation from these halls. let us rival end
other in our devotion to the principles of tin
constitution, to the spirit of harmony an<
conciliation and to binding the different por
tions of the union together more firmly,
rather than in abusive attacks upon diffemn
portions of the union, calculated to exciti
j angry feeling and discontent.
if we wish, sir, to settle this question o
slavery, and banish the agitation iioin tliesi
[halls, let us remove the cause which produce:
it. let us settle the question in that territory
which we have acquired, in a manner lhai
saves the honor and respects the feelings o
every portion of the union. do not insult
ione section of the union by bringing fonyart
your prohibiton of slavery, nor defy the pfher
by threats of disunion. bring it into this
union upon an equal footing with the fstates
the people in each state settle the ques
tion of slavery as they would settle the questior
of banking, or any othet domestic institution,
themselves—for themselves, according to theii
own wishes. whatever that settlement may
be, 1 shall be contented with it.
if we of the north would mind our owr
business upon that subject, and if you of the
south would be quiet and mind yours, and let
california act for herself, i think then we
should have very little trouble. neither the
noith nor south, either ?»f them, has any
right to interfere there. i do not speak of
constitutional right.
1 do not choose to go into abstractions or
metaphysical reasoning. i speak of those
moral rights which go higher than the consti
tution, and which we are liound to observe
when we assume to dictate forms of govern
ment to a people wlto are about to form an
independent state.
and, sir, let us settle the question iir this
district in the same way. let us retrocede
it to maryland. when you have done these
two things, there is nothing left for agitation
upon the subject of slavery. then, parties
can be formed upon principles upon which
they can stand. the whigs can stand upon
their own whig measures. the democrats
can stand upon their own firm and eternal
1 principles. i jet us leave the one to combat
i the other. 1 believe the country is safe in
the bauds of either. but may god prevem
this country from ever being ruled by a faction
which comes into power by appealing and
i pandering to prejudices; which combines
men of all parties and all factions, with no
one principle in common. god prevent that
we may ever be ruled by such a party in this
country. if we would quiet the agitation,
let us remove the causes, and thus may we
avert such a calamity.
mr. underwood followed in reply to the
argument of the senator from new hamp
shire, [mr. hale,] while maintaining the
position thflj* citizen has no right to petition
for that whfc the body petitioned has not the
power to grant, or which does not affect the
i petitioner individually. mr. u. a* id
but, air, let ine tell the gentleman, and let
me tell the country, that my view of the right
of petition is, thst it is a practical question.
that right is not infringed by the action o.
either branch of congress, when we reject
any paper which may be presented here, that
merely utters the religious sentiments, or the
philanthropic sentiments, of the petitioner*.
we do not interfere with that right, when
we say that the paper shall not be considered.
but my view of the right of petition is, that
t it is a practical thing. it becomes practical
when you are salted to pass a law, and to
repeal or modify a law. this congress is
s legislative body, and all the action of con
gross, in my estimation, is in iu legislative or
executive character.
now, air, whatever it can do in it* legisla
live ot executive chancier boo a bearing upon
the orisons of the united state* generally, m
upon particular'classes si*j 4 *p*<’*t*
or apart from the gw» *3
hate its effect upon the people of las i nits*
states in one uiv or the other. ,ww»tsnyi
then, relates to the general interest ol tha
country, operate* alld him upon the *iw,
either in the executive or in legislative
character of t «m.gn». i bow to bean orcaama
for the people of the united stale* to petition
upon. but whatever action of ongrese in
its legislative character affects a partiealai
lu*tnet, then i hold, sir, that it is the business
1 nf that particular district which feels the
action of the government, and that d»tnn
ahmc, to {iciition to t "iingress for its action.
now, sir, to illustrate, what are tliese
northern permute constantly doing they
are petitioning with reference to the institu
tion of slavery in this district. do the law?
w hich operate upon the institution of slavery
in this district operate upon the noithern
men» not at all. does it affect their rights
or property t not at all. ft may affect tbeii
moral and religious sentiments.
mr. hale. will the senator allow rnc f j
w ish to ask him if the citizens of the whole
l nion are not at an expense in this districi
for the support of fugitive slaves, and others
—whether we do not thereby pay our monet
for the support of this institution in this
district l
mr. underwood. well, sir, i suppose yoi
do to some extent. if there is any expense
j iu. maintaining the seat of government, it falh
upon the general treasury of the country
that i admit. but, sir, in the view of tht
1 constitution of the united states, are you t<
lie relieved from ihe expense of maintaining
the seal of government in the ten-miles square
ceded to the nation for the purpose of a seal
of government 1 does the mere fact tha 1
vou are subjected to a small pecuniary contri
bution anthorize you to make that a basi:
lu]>oii which to ask the passage of laws whicl
do not affect you, but which only affect this
particular district 1
mr. dayton. my simple purpose, sit, ir
calling the attention of the senate to this
reference was, that the judiciary committer
might he left free to the exercise of a certair
discretion common in such cases—to report oi
not ujwin the questions involved in the me
morial. 1 wish this memorial to stand a;
other memorials ordinarily stand when rc
feired to our committee and i think, sir
ihat the remarks which have been made b)
my friend, touching the memorial that he ha:
presented, serve to show the propriety ol the
course which 1 suggested.
mr, mason submitted a few remarks, the
purport of which was, that the slate of vir
ginia would submit to no inquiry upon the
question of slavery, either for or against tin
institution.
mr. davis, of mississippi.—mr. president
j it is exceedingly to be regretted that, from
day to day, those assembled here to discharge
their constitutional legislative duties should
find themselves balked by irritating question:
lorced upon them by those whose piety is st
great that they must always he repenting o
other’s sins! when did the south ask for this
vicarious repentance? and when did slit
ask of you lessons in morals let thest
pious intcrmeddlers answer these questions,
orhereaft er stop ibis perfidious interference
with the rightsof other men.
but, sir, of all the clap-traps that have evei
i gouged forth from the mouths of demagogue!
to catch popular favor, this question of the
right of petition is the greatest. what die
the constitution guaranty ?-•—and under whai
i terms and for what purpose was it adopted?
i when these states were colonies, whoevei
denied those colonies the right of petition:
it was the right peaceably to assemble foi
specific purposes, which was tested, and tha:
was the right which was guarantied—the
right peaceably to assemble to petition foi
grievances. that was the only right whicl
i was ever interfered with; and the right t(
petition carried with it tlte supposition tha
there was a grievance. what grievance is
there to any non-slaveholding state, tha
where communities think proper to keej
i slaves, they should interfere with their lights
1 does this right to beg, imply the obligator
to grant? there is the question, and tin
whole question before congress. shall wt
i receive, and entertain, and discuss petition;
ij upon a subject, when every one concedes tha
we have no right to grant anything? jt i<
an idle waste of time to pass upon such peti
tions, and thus to squander the time whicl
i ought to lie devoted to some useful purpose
i mir, it has been stated, that in the course o
1 this debate, that the course of the southerr
men in objecting to these petitions has createi
all the excitement. let those who entertair
this opinion reler lo the action of the hous<
of kepreseutativos, and there find the decisiot
against them. in that body—where tliest
petitions have lieen received, referred, anc
discussed—abolitionism has gone on increa
sing step by step w hile in tlie senate—the
more rational rule having been adopted of lay
j ing such petitions on the table, without dis
cussion— it has scarcely been a tiling con
sidered, until some very zealous, over-pious,
latter-day saints have come into the senate tc
force this question upon us.
sir, we have been told about the enlarging
of the circle of human sympathy and affection
and those who warn us of thus enlarging this
circle are such as can never reason in any
other circle than that t>f affection for the negro
race. it begins and ends there: it can heai
of nothing else that is progressive in any hu
man reform—nothing which does not centre
j in the single question of abolitionism.
what, now, is the proposition it is to
take money from the treasury, and bestow it
upon a certain class of passengers l what
right have you to distinguish between one
j class of passengers and another? i am sorry
i that,, when my friend from kentucky was
speaking, he did not say to the north, you
are the men who imported these slaves from
africa—who have enjoyed the benefit of the
carrying and selling ot these slaves—who have
reaped the largest proportion of the profit
i and you are the men who should contribute
1 the largest proportion ol the money to carry
them back
i as to any influence to be exerted upon the
(convention in kentucky, 1 have only to say
that i agree with my inend from irgiuia,
[mr. mason.] i am unwilling to attempt any
interference with the convention they aje
able to take cate of* themselves, and they
i have a light to do as they please. if they
wish to emancipate their slaves—although 1
should regret it —i would interpose uo ob
i stacie, by showing them that we would not
transport their slaves and most certainly no
inducement, by showing them that we would.
and it would be well, sir, for those who cry
out “good god (and i think there is more
propriety in crying out “good devil,” wlien
their whole purpose is to scatter seeds of dis
sension in this union,) it might be well for
them, duriug alt their lamentations about
slavery, to look upon the other side of the
picture, and ask, if it has brought evils, what
evils has it prevented l lias it made one
more a slave, than would have been a slave
1 without that institution 1 has it reduced one
man from liberty to slavery? this is the
question. 1 answer not one! under laws
older than the records of history, men were
taken in bondage and made slaves as captives
of war. those were purchased of chieftains,
warring with contending elans, who held
them in slavery and that purchase saved
them frwn a more ignominious slavery than
that which exists on this side of the atlantic.
that purchase bought them, too, from the
dreadful darkness w hich bung over the sav
age interior of africa and it brought with it
enlarged products—enlarged commerce —the
palm of civihxation and of inlet national amity,
and all those blessings which now hind the
people of the remote quarters of the world
together. these are some of the fruits which
sre to be considered before you condemn so
freely this institution.
it is only to answer the libellous slanders
of this msutuui n— about which i know soane
j thing ottered by tboss whs are entirely ig
norant of k, that i have entered into the dis
cassias. 1 thank the senator from lllams
,[>(r. duogbasj for the manly manner m
which he hea this question; sad ii
all those of equal mtelhgeaoe, representing a
like constituency, would thus speak to those
they represent, appealing to their pntnotum
and good sense, it woold present this agita
tion which can be productive of nothin* but
evil. this n» the question, the agitation ol
which ts drstroving our institetioi», if. indeed,
they arc to fall". now is the tune for than*
men who love the. union better than tbej
lore the negro rare, to speak plainly to those
whom they represent; to tell them they mis
took the issue— that when they argued ahoul
the existence of slavery, it was an issue ol
their own; there was another which they
were bound to consider, and it was the ques
tion of non-interference with the rights of th«
slates, or the question of the disunion of thu
noble confederacy, and of all the bright hopei
of human liberty w hich have been built upor
it. with this issue, let our northern friendt
appeal to their constituency, and if they an
nut so far degenerated from such sires at
hancock and adams, they will return to then
allegiance to the constitution, and forbear t<
interfere with the rights of the southerr
states.
mr. butler.— shall not undertake} to din
cuss the question of slavery with gentlemer
who present petitions of this kind. but, mr
i president, i am a member of the judicary
committee, and if petitions and resolutions o
this sort are to be given to it, i must beg ti
be discharged form the painful duty of enter
taining them for while i am willing, from i
j sincere respect to this body, to obey all its
1 instructions. i trust in god that you will no
make me the instrument of my own degrada
tion, and that of my country.
mr. dayum remarked that, that part of thi
resolution which proposed instruction to th<
committee had been stricken out.
mr. butler.—l do not want any reference a
j all!
mr. berrien expressed himself entirely op
posed to the object of the petitioner, and eon
sequently to its reference.
mr. -siles concurred in the view taken hj
the senator from georgia, [mr. berrien.] hi
further held, that the petitioner asked an ap
propriation such as congress had no con
stitutional power to grant. he believed this
to lie a matter which belonged to the states
and not to the federal government.
mr. dickinson concurred in the views ex
pressed by the senator from connecticut, am
moved the indefinite postponement of tin
whole subject.
the question being stated upon the motion
the yeas arid nays were demanded and or
dered; and being taken, the yeas were ‘27
nays 23, as follows:
yeas —mesrss. atherton, bell, berrien
borland, breese, butler, calhoun, davis o
mississippi, dickinson, douglass, downs
fitzgerald, fitzpatrick, foote, hannegan
houstan, hunter, johnson of louisiana, john
son of georgia, king, mason, pearce, rusk
sturgeon, turney, westcott, and yulee—27
nays —messrs. allen, baldwin, benton
bradbury, bright, clarke, clayton, corwin
dayton, dodge of wisconsin, dodge of low a
felch, hale, hamlin, jones, metcalfe, mil
ler, niles, phelps, spruance, underwood
upham, and walker—23.
j so the further consideration of of the sub
i the north star.
rochester, january 26. 1849.
colonization.
in order to divert the hounds from the pur
suit of the fox, a “red herring is sometime!
drawn across the trail, and the hounds mis
taking it for the real scent, the game is oftei
lost. we look upon the recent debate in th<
senate of the united states, over thii
wrinkled old red herring” of colonizatior
as a ruse to divert the attention of the peoplt
from that foul abomination which is sought t(
be forced upon the free soil of california ant
new mexico, and which is now struggling foi
existence in kentucky, virginia and the dis
trict of columbia. the slaveholders are evi
dently.at a stand to know whaf trick they
shall try next to turn the scorching rays o
anti-slavery light and truth from the blood
shot eyes of the monster slavery. the dis
cussion of it is most painful and agonizing
and if it continues, the very life of this foul
unnatural and adulterous beast will be put ir
imminent peril; so the slaveholding charmeri
have conjured up their old famliar spirits o
colonization, making the old essence of abomi
nation to flounder about in its grave clothes
before the eyes of northern men, to theii
utter confusion and bewilderment. a drown
ing man will catch at a straw. slavery is
sinking in public estimation. it is going down
it wants help, and asks through mr. under
wood, of kentucky, how much of the public
money (made by the honest toil of northern
men) will be at its service in the event ol
emancipation, as some are in favor of eman
cipation, provided that the negroes can be
sent to liberia, or beyond the limits of the
i united states.”

here we have the old colonization spirii
revived, and the impudent proposition enter
tained by the senate of the united states ol
expelling the free colored people from the
united states, their native land, to liberia.
in view of this proposition, we would re
i spectfully suggest to the assembled wisdom ol
the nation, that it might be well to ascertain
i the number of free colored people who will be
likely to need the assistance of govern-
i ment to help them out of this country to
liberia, or elsewhere, beyond the limits of
these united states —since this course might
save any embarrassment winch would result
fiom an appropriation more than commen
surate to the numbers who might lie disposed
to leave this, our own country, for one we
know not of. we are of opinion that the
free colored people generally mean to live in
america, and not in africa ami to appro
priate a urge sum for our removal, would
i merely be a waste of the public money. we
do not mean to go to liberia. our minds are
oiade up to live here if we can, or die here if
we must so every attempt to remove us,will
be, as it ought to be, labor lost. here we are,
and here we shall remain. while our brethren
are iri bondage oo these shores; it idle to
think of inducing any considerable number of
the free colored people to quit this for a for
eign land.
iot two hundred and twenty-eight yean
has the colored man toiled over the soil of
america, under a burning sun and a
laab —plowing, planting, reaping, that white
men might roll in ease, their hands unhard
eced by laftor, and their blows unmoistened by
the waters of genial toil; and now that the
moral sense of mankind is beginning to revolt
at this system of foiil freaehery and erod
wrong, and is demanding its overthrow, the
mean and cowardly oppressor it meditating
i plans to expel the colored man entirely from
the country. shame upon the gnilty wretches
that dare propose, and all that countenance
aoeb a proposition. wt live lure hf
lived here—have a right to live here, redrew
to live here.—f.
iatfapmßm and flinii ti the navy.
a great anti-flogging and temperance
meeting »a convened in concert hall, rt-ch
filer, on tseadav evening, for the purpose of
hearing the system of intemperance, and the
moody and inhuman practice of flogging in
the navy exposed by a mr. w. s. haynes, a
sailor, who is devoting hts energies to the im
provement of seamen. having another ant»<
meeting to attendee failed to reach the hall i
in lime to hear thus child of the norm anti
wttrf nprrate his own bittei experience.
the chair was occupied by his honor ihe
mayor, and the platform adorned by a large!
number of professional gentlemen, embracing
lawyers, pnests, and politicians. several
speeches were made after we got there, all
condemnatory of the practice of flogging in
the navy, denouncing it as derogatory to the
character and genius of american institutions
—to the dignity of american citizenship—to
the enlightened spirit of the age, and as being
utterly barbarous. it was alleged that whip
ping was not only useless as a means of s>e
curing obedience and order, but was also de
structive to those qualities of mind and spirit
in the sailor, necessary to a warm and gen
erous devotion to the cause and character of
his country. a series of resolutions were
read, (but which we believe was not heard by
any considerable part of the audience,) in
character with the speeches. now all this is
well, and shows that there are some links of
brotherhood remaining unsevered, and that
there is yet some heart in man to feel for the
wrongs of man. the practice of tearing the
flesh of man by the terrible thongs of the
“ca/,”or of bruising it w ith the death-dealing
“co//,” is at once revolting to the better feel
ings of human nature, and ought to call forth
one united and universal cry of shame and
disapprobation from the whole brotherhood of
man. the exposure to which this horrible
practice in the american navy is now under
going at the hands of mr. haynes, will, we
trust, be of great service in awakening a
deeper interest in the cause of the poor sailor,
and suffering humanity everywhere.
we have no difficulty in giving our hearty
co-operation in such a movement as that to
which mr. haynes is himself, and
which seems to have the encouragement of
the piety and respectability of rochester.—
a long experience of the lash in our own
person, leaves us without the need of philo
sophy to teach us its stupifying, deadening
and hatred-inspiring qualities. resides our
experience on the plantation, we have the tes
timony of intelligent witnesses on unit sides
of the atlantic as to the barbarity and inutil
ity of flogging in the navy. we had the
privilege to attend and speak at a meeting ill
exeter hall, london, more than two years
ago, to discourage this infernal practice and
heard on that occasion narrations of cruelty
that chilled the blood, and made one to hang
his head and blush to think himself a man.
when quite a boy, w’e remember to hav«
sat and listened to a sea captain nariate witli
fiendish glee his own inhuman treatment tc
sailors; and from that moment until now,
the sajjor has had our warmest sympa
thy. on one occasion he had whipped a
man till his back was raw and bloody, and
sent him aloft to reef’ or furl some sail,
we misremember which, but the outraged
man, instead of performing the work, leaped
from the yard-arm into the sea. the jolly
boat was at once dropped, and the captain
with two men made for the drowning man,
and on reaching him, the captain seized him
by the arm, and essayed to drag him in; but
instead of allowing himself to be saved from
a watery grave, he caught the hand of the
captain in his teeth, lacerating it in a shock
ing manner. this done, he looked up at the
captain with a smile of revengeful satisfaction.
placing his hands against the sides of the
boat, he gave himself a sudden push, and
darted down the briny deep, feet foremost,
looking up the while at the object of his hate
with all the fury of a demon. he rose no
more with life. he preferred to die and be
food for the hungry shark, than to live and be
food for the bloody “ca/.” vve have ieason
to believe that cases of this kind are numer
ous. but be this as it may, there are facts
enough to harrow up the soul of any in whom
the pulsations of humanity are not extinct.—
down with the infernal practice, arid let the
image of god be no longer the subject of the
“cat, cowskin or colt.”
mr. haynes is circulating petitions, asking
congress to pass a law abolishing the rations
and flogging, which everybody ought to sign.
of course we hate the whole naval system,
and would aigu a petition to have it utterly
blotted out of existence. it is a system of
blood from beginning to end—not merely a
blood-shedder, but a blood-sucker. we
would have the whole head of lazy, lounging
officers set at wotk, and not strutting the deck
or the street in epauletted idleness, at the ex
pense of the people. but use people love to 1
have it otherwise arid while this is the case,
we may do all we can to mitigate the suffer
ings of the poor and helpless under it; and if;
we cannot abolish the navy, let us do what we i
i can to abolish the barbarous inhumanity of.
subjecting the soft flesh of man to the cursed
and bloody seoturge.
we are therefore glad to see the interest
which is being taken in this subject among.
the piety and respectability of this city and
this state generally. though the movement is
of receot origin, it already numbers among its
friends and supporters, many of tire first men
of this city and state. it has attracted at it#
very inception, those men who generally stand
aloof from humanitarian movements, at least j
until they become popular.
very well, let them come, and let thetm
labor in this cause. it will do them good
and a may be the case, that while contem- i
plating the gross inhumanity of cutting tire
backs of white men, they may after a while
come to see the foul brutality of cutting the
becks of mack mm— especially so, sines this
whole system of whipping is* but an off
shoot tf the system of slavery we cannot,
therefore, close this article without inviting
his boast the mayor, sad the reverend clergy j
sad ether professional gentlemen who at
tended and encouraged the nsecting cf mr.
hayses oa tuesday evening last, to attend
ours, to he held oa sunday evening next at
minerva hall. the difference between the
two objects, ooosißts sun ply in the color of the
•km. the backs of those you would save
from the lash sis whilo those for whom ws
pleaders black.
da"
the fair at williamson.
this praiseworthy endeavor to raise fund#
with which to aid the anu-davery cause, by
sustaining and circulating the north .star,
took place on thursday and friday ot last
week; and although the sum realized was not
large, only amounting to eighty dollars, tb<*
occasion was one of much interest to all en
gaged in it. the notice was short and lim
ited—the weather was bitter cold, and in
other respects unfavorable the goods were
altogether too ornamental to meet the ideas
of hard-handed, industrious farmers. could
the women have brought together large quan
titles of useful implements of husbandry, and
presented them for sale in the midst of that
agricultural region, their receipts would have
been commensurate with their noble effort#
we are however well satisfied with the re
sult, and feel a sincere gratitude to the benev
olent persons engaged in the woik. tb»*
anti-slavery women of ilochesier, always
zealous and persevenug in efforts to break the
power of the oppressor, ami to liberate the
slave, displayed even more than their accaa
tomed devotion and activity in promoting this
fair. the piercing winds and chilling frosts,
which damp the ardor of sterner frames,
had little terror to these noble women, with
such an object befoie them. they bundled
up in coarse garments, and vveie soon out,
journeying over nigged hills and n v roads, in
open wagons, twenty-six miles, william
son. sectarianism and evangelical piety may
turn up its pro-slavery nose at these devoted
women, and declare their conduct m if us
matter to be unwomanly, “out of h* sphere,”
&c., but heaven approves, and tin slave will
bless them for th“ir humane effort* to deliver
him front his chains.
the readiness and cordiality with which
the women of williamson and the surrounding
towns volunteered their kind co-operauuii,was
soul-cheering. the heartaand pursea of the
anti-slavery friends in williamson were gener
ously opened in aid of the fair, as were also
their homes tor the accommodation of strung
ers who had come to attend the fair and the
anti-slavery meetings which were held the
evening previous and the day after.
among those to whom we feel indebted
for valuable aid and assistance, are the seelys,
j.anthonys, potters, greenfields, spoors, uii-
i derwoods, coopers, hillmans, stretchs,
i piers, smiths, meunets and stmightonburghs.
'1 hese were not only generous contributors,
but active workers, lor all of which they have
our warmest ami sincerest gratitude. we
1 shall long remember the three days we spent
i among the noble-hearted men and women of
and shall look idiward with
pleasure to the day when we may again press
j their generous hands.
the anti-slavery meeting on the first eve
ning was highly satisfactory. cold and
j pinching as was the night, the baptist church,
j a large building, was full of earnest listeners.
i john s. jacobs being introduced to the audi
j cnee by that friend of man, the african as
j well as the indian,griffith m.coojier,proceeded
lin his usual, ealin, clear, and yet eame»t
maimer, to expose the system of slavery, and
1 to hold up to view the subserviency of lint
north to the south and to slavery, and to
make bare the inconsistency ami hypocrisy of
the people at large. his address was listened
to with fixed attention.
after he had concluded, we addressed the
the meeting at some length, on the moral si at?
of the nation, and illustrated our subject by
the result of the late political whirlwind
which placed that murderous wretch, zachary
1 taylor, in the presidential chair. we were
told afterwards that some of the pious voters
for this inan-stealer and human butcher,
thought we displayed an unchiistian spirit m
our assaults upon the character of general
laylor. this shows how christians, so
called, may strain at a knat and swallow a
i camt *l* they can give the whole sanction of
their intelligence, morals and religion, to con
fer honor upon a slaveholder, slavetrader, a
bloodhound importer, and a human butcher
and then assume to be discerners of spirit*,
and very much shocked at anything that looks
like an unchristian spirit. out upon the hypo
crites they act like devils at the ballot
box, and talk like saints in the church.
they would vole for the murderer of jesus
for president, and denounce those who abhor
the crime as having an unchristian spirit.—
iho time has gone by when such miserable
twaddle can have much influence on the
minds ol men. there is another and better
test than mere words by which to try the
spirits of men and that is, thkik works
and when these are ol a wicked character,
mankind will attach little importance to any
amount of pious words which the actors may
be able to string together.— v. u.
one hundred hollar#.
we tender our heartfelt thanks to the
ladies of the north star fair at philadelphia,
for the timely aid which they have rendered
us by their donation of one hundred dollar#
it is not only most gratefully received, for ns
intimate value, but as a noble testimonial of
the esteem m which the north jstar u> held
by those who feet the crushing weight ol
american oppression. we learn that, clear
of all expenses, the receipts of the fair were
two hundred dollars—a large sum, when the
circuinstances under which the fair was held
are duly considered. the ladies have di
vided the result of the fair between the lugi
live slave and hi# guiding star from the bouse
of bondage to a land of freedom. we thank
them on behalf of both.
we learn that the ladies intend to go—-aye
have gone immediately to work preparing tor
another effort. thi# is right and noble
they deservo, and wo doubt not will have
the kind co-operation of all the good and tjie
true friends of improvement and elevation,
among the respectable ami intelligent colored
ladies of philadelphia, we hope to u* able
to lay before our readers the constiluturn of
this "octety of ladies in our next week’s
paper —r. o.
the boston 'monotype says m reference t o
gov. briggs' message
“h» bomaiag of our great superiority to
king-ridden europe, is pietty fair for reput
l**n self-flattery. thank god, it u ah true,
to point of feet. but did not the goveiuoi
•t that we owe it to our acres aa well aa to
oar institution* when he spoke of s gov
ern meat with a hundred thousand offices at its
disposal, had he no misgivings that we are on
the way to european tyranny and famine,
going as feat as time and the laws of popola-
itoit will entry us we have something to
do besides boasting of offt fine sailing qenli
tioa, if we would keep oi the breakeia,where
kingcraft has a wreck.’
the henrietta fair
we met nt to ha»* said a word of tbia m
t-reaung gathering of freedom* fnenda. m a
previous number of the north sur, but in
,he multitude ot other engagements it (dipped
our memory. as it is never too late to do
miod, we may notice thw effort now. hen
rietta is seven miles from rochester, and is a
(arming region, and on that account not a
very favorable place to hold fairs of any
kind—especially anti-slavery fairs yet the
reeeipia of the^single afternoon and evening
•luring which the fair was held, amounted u
more than forty dollars; and although tho
urn was small, it nn highly satisfactory tc
ihe few friends of humanity with whom ii
originated.—r. i>.
iletti y hush
we have received a long letter from the
pen of this individual, complaining of our re
marks upon the proceedings of the western
new york anti-slavery society. aside
from tlm charatter of this letter, which is
quite objectionable, it is entirely too long and
irrelevant for publication in the north star.
w’e are perfectly willing that mr. rush, or
any one els* upon whose conduct we take the
liberty to comment, should be heard in their
ow n defence; but we are not willing that,
under the plea of self-defence, they should
wander all over creation to gathet up matter
which ha* no neeessaiy bearing upon the point
at issue, and thrust u upon the readers of the
north star.
we have no inclination whatever for an
elaborate personal controversy w ith this indi
vidual, and ceitamly shall not offend the
tastes of the readers by engaging in any such
controversy.
all that mr. bush has a right to ask of us
is, that the north star shall do him no injus
tice. this he has a right to demand and
tins demand we are willing to comply with to
the extent of our ability. ihe admission ol
other matter, with which his letter is cum
bered, is optional with us, and we decide
against it. w e therefore present at once all
that we have said with icsped to mr. rush,
accompanied by his remarks with respect to it.
after much discussion, reason prevailed,
and the society was saved from dissolution by
adopting a resolution admitting all persons to
express their opinions on the proceedings, hut
that members of the s.reiely alone should
vote. it is however to he regretted, that one
/«v, of /lie society, mr. henry hush,
should not acquiesce in this sensible arrange
m nt, but i ntently sought to embarrass anil
/nnihr its happy operation ic/on questions
„tre submitted to the action of the society.
w e are glad to add that hut little sympathy
was shown with him by the audience, and
that the society almost unanimously stood for
the complete integrity of our anti-slavery
oiganization.’’
mr. rush says in his letter before us, that
this accusation is not true” and further
says 1 appeal to the chairman of the meet
ing, and the executive committee, who
would he as likely to know as frederick
douglass if that statement is true. my crime,
if anv, is, that j talked and voted in opposition
to frederick douglass; and i now assert that
my views were and are in harmony with the
majority of the anti-slavery men and women
of rochester and western new york, and
all previous meetings of the society/’
here, then, is the question in very small
compass, wc have assumed in the remarks
respecting the course of mr. rush at the an
nual meeting, that lie did not acquiesce in the
arrangement restricting the voting to the mem"
hers and friends of the western new york
anti-slavery society. if mr. rush says he
did acquiesce, we have perhaps done him
wlong, and are mistaken, and will readily re
tract our statement, though we should still be
unable to explain much of his conduct on the
occasion referred to; for whether intentionally
or otherwise, his conduct did serve to embar
rass and hinder the happy opeialion of the
sensible arrangement in question.—p. d.
i r gives us pleasure to note the progress ol
liberal sentiments in this community, and tc
show in just what estimate the cause ot otu
despised race is to he held by tilt
people of tht' north generally. the follow
ing notices are front rochester papers, ant
show that prejudice against color, howevei
stiung, is not invincible, and that a lugl
moral sense and intelligence must event nail)
ttiumph over it.—r. n.
•the north star.—this paper, edited bv
frederick douglass and m. r. delany, am
published in this city by mr. john dick, has
entered upon its second vyiuine with, as wt
are happy to learn, encouraging prospects
success. whatever opinions people may haw
of the peculiarities of the slur, it labors lion
estly and zealously lor the elevation of tin
race to whose interests it is devoted, and ai
such, deserves encouragement and support.
ikuunrat.
fheijekick doi ulass’ em ti ke. mr
douglass delivered the first of his course ol
lectures on american slavery, at minerva
hall, on sunday evening last, to a large and
respectable audience—when we say kenpmt
adi.t, we mean intelligent, well-behaved per
sdna, w ithout reference to fantastic dress ot
pecuniary circumstance*.
mr. 1). spoke about an hour and a half, in
his usually pleasant manner, dwelling mostly
on the sufferings of the southern slave, and
lelalwig facts, some of which came under his
own observation, to show how completely the
giant evil outraged every high and holy senti
ment of humanity, and set at defiance every
principle of justice and lighteous law.
in reviewing the question of the relative
difference between the white and colored races
—from whence the strongest pro-slavery ar
gument, if it can be called argument, is do
med, douglass wanned into that eloquence
which the subject is susceptible of bunging
out from one who feels within himself that
evidence winch invalidates tilt* too-oftcn ac
credited ude: and when he reminded his
anglo-saxon hearers, that the proud norman
once trod noon ihe necks of their ancestors,
the saxon sl.ive, it was clear that the mental
power ol a fugitive slave held sway over sev
eral hundred half emancipated american re
publicans.
i pon the whole, the meeting was a profita
ble one, and will »>e productive of good. we
*.«w several ol our “mniburumg” democrats
t here, at.d others, wbu have not been in the
habit of attending lectures „f this kind so
ibe seed has lalleii upon ground which the
late political campaign has broken, and we
trust that it may yield much ftuit. the next
lecture will be on sunday eveniug, at the same
place—the course to occupy six consecutive
sunday nights.—.w/o/urf litfonnir.
a fact. —two millions of dollars worth
of gold dust is at san francisco, w aiting u
be transported to the foiled states, and her*
are we sellihg a patter worth the whole of i
for unx rknt! chronotyjk.
we learn from kentucky that mr. t laj
will be elected ij. s. senator. so nays ih<
n. v. tribune.
communications.
the wert-lhe west t
friend dot class —i ami happy lo find
that the- principle* and fact* of my funner
communication were agreeable with your opin
ion and that the small objection which you
make, relate* only to the propriety of a term.
but after 1 shall hare called your attention to
my full meaning and design, i do not appre
hend that ereu that objection will remain m
your mind. by “a christian convention," i
meant a meeting in w hich the principles of the
gospel of our saviour should be exhibited and
his doctrine* enforced. this i* the extetit ol
my idea, and no more. you know, my
esteemed friend, that,in those tiroes upon
which we are cast, it is customary for
men when they are about to act in public ca
pacities, to define their positions, and to erect
their platforms. my position is defined by
christ, and by him was my platform laid^—
hr came not to call the righteous ones, hut
sinners to repentance. on this principle, i
would have a general meeting called, and in
i ite men and women to come to the rescue—
yes, let sinner* come as well as saints. such
a meeting at first, i presume, would be small,
hut that would not be discouraging. there
are not many majestic streams that spring from
large sources. l hev are usually small at
first, but as they how onward, they receive
additions from various tributaries. so it may
be with an enterprise like ours. at the first,
we must start in an apparently insignificant
and trail vessel; but when we are about to
approach the great ocean of a nation's im
provement, we can launch a ship which shall
be freighted with the best interests of our race.
from her masts shall stream the standard of
the cross the captain of our salvation shall
guide the helm, and the breath of heaven
will swell her sails. 1 am thoroughly con
vinced that the colored race in america must,
m their ascent, avoid the old beaten and nar
row path. we must organize anew, on the
broad platform of the gospel. in such an
organization, the church, the pi ess, science,
literature, the arts and agriculture, will lie
promoted.
the stars of our people on this
continent, will arise in the west and south.
many will doubt this; but whoever shall
w rite our history a hundred years hence, will
record as a fact what may now be regarded as
a mere chimera. those who dwell in the
eastern and middle states will be crushed to
death by old aristocractic anangements, and
by the ponderous wheels of wealth and the
various forms of monopoly. the more sensi
ble will seek the shores of the creat lakes,
or fix their homes on the greeu prairies; the
unwise w ill stand still and die. in the south,
the chains will fall off, and freedom will
daw n and on the ground where my people
shall he emancipated, they will become the
i artisans and laborers, and, as is the case in
the west indies, many of them will become
the owners of the fields which they once cul
tivated without requital.
these being my views, 1 find myself con
flicting with a doctrine which you advanced
last week, wherein you say that we must
banish all thoughts of emigration from our
minds, and resolve to slay just where we
are.” wherever other men immigrate, there
should we be found. emigration is often the
source of wealth, prosperity, and independ
ence. indeed, we do colonize where other
people go, but we generally wait until they
j have had the first choice, and then we come
i|n for the scraps. i would to god that wt
were scattered over the entire west anc
south-west: then should we have had homes
in michigan, wisconsin, lowa and illinois.
my heart would rejoice if 1 could see many ol
of our new* england brethren following tin
good example of frederick douglass and win
c nell, and making western new yorl
their homes. they have intelligence, piety
and souse jiecuniary means. you have, mi
brother, most gloriously proved my point, hi
coining amongst us, and establishing in lh<
sky of our long unbroken night, that peerlesi
i geiu—the nokth stab. thank heaven fo
it! long may its rays scatter tokens of re
demplion on the pathway of the fugitive, am
on the minds of the sons and daughters o
africa.* i hesitate not to say, that my mind
ol late, has greatly changed t in regard ti
the american colonization scheme. so fa
as it benefits the laud of inv fathers, i bid i
(iod-speed hut .-o far as it denies the possi
bility ot our elevation here, 1 oppose it.
would rather see a man free in liberia, than:
slave in the 1 mted states. in every countri
and in every nation, i desire to see men living
in the love ot cod. in western new york
we have the means ot our elevation arouni
us, and all that we need are men. may got
1 send them in the iuhness of ids spirit!
henry h. garnet.
gkntcva, jan. 21, 1 m4b.
if? we should be glad lo know whal
1 friend garnet means by the old and beatei
1 path.” if he means to say that the agencies
i j o
that have been, and are nota used, for th<
overthrow' of slavery, are inefficient to lira
end, we must, of course, beg have to difle
from him.—r. d.
___
t utored jmeu’s convention.
we have received a letter from our friend
geo. ji. william*, enclosing i|,e following
account, from the ohio standard, of the con
volition recently held in columbus, o. agi
tate agitate agitate
a convention of the ('’olored freemen o
the state of ohio has been in session m thu
city for several days, and is numerously at
tended by intelligent and resj>ertahle mei
from all part* of the state. it was organize*
on wednesday, m the methodist fpisoopa
church on street, by the ap|»oiiitment o
j charles esq., of chillieothe, a;
president, with the usual number of vice
j presidents and secretaries.
on thursday pursuant to penni*
sum obtained for the purpose, the conveatioi
met in the hall of representatives. thi
meeting itself, aside from the unusually inter
eating nature of the exercises, is an inciden
well worthy of reflection and remark. tin
colored man has been allowed to come up
without insult and w ithout reproach— toente
into a place hitherto deemed sacred to th<
white man alone, *od standing there, to plea
i the right to be deemed a man and a brother
1 and to claim a community of interest in a]
that appertains to humanity—to say “ou
.■god,” and to beg pernuaeion to say“ot>
i country.”
a prepared address was delivered by wn
h. day, a young man from oberiin, upo
the subject ot the grievances which the colore
people of the united states, both tu slaver
and eiiiannpated, suffer in comparison wit
those borne by the father* of this republic
under the rule of great bn lain, before the
revolution. the parallels drawa bait ween
1 the two cases were extremely striking and
forcible, and for beauty of composition and
propriety of delivery, ibe oral ion would
bear a comparison with the labored efforts
of men of tar greater fame and far higher
pretensions.
at ibe ekwe of mr. day's address, the au
dience was agreeably entertained by aupeecb
from john m- watson, of cleveland. mr.
watson announced himself as a native born
citizen of virginia, the land of washington,
and a self-emancipated slave. he thought
that he might recommend himself and his
remarks to the democrats present, by the fact
that lie was born upon the same soil, and bad
breathed the air that blew over the same hills,
with thomas jefferson. an emigrant from a
sister state, he came here to beg as a booo
the bestowal upon him and those who were in
hi* situation, of those privilege* which were
freely granted as a right to the emigrant from
ireland or from germany. he went into an
examination of the black laws, their constitu
tionality, and their legal and moral effect.—
they work, he said, degradation lo the black
and disgrace to the white man. if they are
a dcail letter, why leave them as a monument
of the barbarism of the past; if they hre a
irving law, interpose to prevent the horrid in
justice of w hich they may be made the instru
ments in future.
the address was a stiong and a good one,
and was enlivened by sparks of genuine wit,
which elicited frequent and tumultuous ap
plause. the speaker himself was an evi
dence of what a soul can do, even under the
pressure of extraordinary difficulties. in his
■case it has made a man.
the meeting was enlivened by some fine
singing, and was a model of all that was de
corous and respectable.
the southern convention
in relation to this convention, the corres
pondent of the new york courier, under date
of washington, jan. 13, says—after an ex
citing session of five hours, the general com
mittee of the southern states has just ad
journed. tne policy of reporting mr. cal
houn's address to the caucus on monday, was
the principal subject under consideration.
every member in the committee participated
in the debate, but the. speech of mr. rusk, of
texas, was on all hands conceded to have
made the profoundest impression. he resisted
any action on behalf of the south, but such
as asserted her rights under the constitution
and 1 moil. for these he would contend at
at all hazards, and bequeath resistance, as a
legacy to his children. dissolution was not
a remedy, it was the worst of calamities that
could befall any portion of the confederacy.
mr. calhoun endeavored to impair his pur
pose by intimidation and persuasion, but both
equally failed. mr. rusk admitted his per
sonal obligations to that distinguished senator,
and his friendship towards texas but his
oath to the constitution, and his sense of du
ty, required at a time like the present, that he
should forget all such considerations, in high
er demands of fidelity the union. mr.
foote, mr. baily, mr/ king, mr. venable
and others, endeavored to shake his deter
mination, but without effect. they urged
the regard that had been evinced to texas,
and claimed that in a moment, such as this
gratitude demanded a requital, and the south
expected her co-operation.
mr. gentry, it is understood, resisted the
address with considerable eloquence and abil
ity. he opposed the conclusion, recommend
ing union and concert as inconsistent with the
declarations of its author, who had declared
that the legislatures and people of the south
were already united. if this was so, what
was the need of such a recommendation if
there were covert designs masked under the
manifesto, looking to means of redress which
were not disclosed, he could sanction a pro
ceeding so disingenuous. he was for ex
hausting the constitutional remedies, before
adopting any forcible alternative. mr. ste
phens concluded the dehate, and the address
was finally ordered to be reported to the cau
cus, by a majority of one. ayes—messrs.
atchiuson, borland, bayley, calhoun, dowjis,
foote, king and venable. nays—clayton,
cabell, chapman, gentry, morehead, rusk,
stephens.
pending the- discussion, mr. chapman, of
maryland, offered a resolution, declaring it to
ibe inexpedient for the members from the
south, to assume any other position than that
demanded by their duty as senators and rep
resentatives, this was voted down by the
same divsion that occurred on the foregoing
test.
i have not attempted to give anything but
a bird’s eye view of the proceedings, and to
stale results in which the country is now so
deeply interested. it may be necessary to
r enlarge moie in a subsequent letter.
at this moment, it is doubtful whether the
opposing portion of the south will attend the
caucus on monday night, or, satisfied with
i what has occurred, will conclude to absent
r i themselves from any farther participation.
!in a word, the sign is auspicious, and if the
north comes up to sustain our southern
friends in anything like a fair spirit, the gloo
l my anticipation of disunion and civil strife
j may be avoided.
the philadelphia north american has the
following from its washington correspon
-1 dent
1 washington jan. 15, u p. m.
after the organization of the .meeting,
and the transaction of some preliminary busi
ness, mr, calhoun submitted the report
1 adopted by a majority of the committee ol
fifteen, which was lead.
[j mr. foote then moved|to take the address
just submitted out of the possession of the
i meeting, his object being to give to that docu
ment a private character, that those only
should be accountable for it who might choose
to give it the sanction of their signatures.
this motion was ruled to be out of order,
and the address being before the meeting,
mr. clayton opposedjts adoption iu a speech
of great power and ability. he portrayed in
1 glowing colors the danger and impolicy ol
j merely sectional movements, and deprecated
all snch as inconsistent with the duties "m
i national legislators, and calculated to impaii
i the stability of the union. mr. bayly it
1 now replying. there are about ninety mem
bers present.
1 o'clock, a. m. —the address, after a
i vigorous discussion, in which several par
ticipated on both sides, was reamviuutd by a
1 inajurily of two. this result produced con
-1 siderable excitement, and obviously alarmed
l as well as astonished some of the more viol
j ent members of the convention, or more
j properly speaking, the caucus.
i a motion was made to adjourn tint die, bul
this failed by a decided vole, as many of those
f 1 who were opposed to an extreme course, ai
i the same time did not wish to prevent future
discussion. a geneial feeling ot dissatisfac
i. non, however, prevails in regard to the whole
1 movement, and the purposes to which certain
i ultra leaders have attempted lo wrest it|; and
fll aiu confident that a portion—and a very
respectable portion —of the south will de
el me all farther connection with it.
i at the time of preparing this dispatch, s
fragment of the meeting is engaged in a di»
i cussiou as to the time when the genera
committee shall meet again.
t: from the same paper, uqder date,
j washington, jan. 16, 1649,
the proposition introduced by mr. foot*
r to allow the address to be signed by sud
i only as accepted it, is regarded as an unvror
1 i thy ruse to smuggle s paper through, to t*
j sent out to the country as the expression o
1 the "southern delegation in congress,” sod
being the caption of the address. thu wai
not the only attempt lo carry by stratagea
what the unequivocal sentiment of the can
cus had refused to adopt,
a although many of the southern loco-foe**
1 voluntarily expressed themselves, in ptivali
r intercourse, as jmsuie to the manifesto, uwr
i» lacked the courage to meet the question fairl]
when it vraa presented, and anoenab to a die
tatiun which they were willing, bnt afraid to
resist. thus although mr. clayton, who
opened the debate on the address, and dosed
1 with a motion to lay it on the table, waived
his right to compel a division, and permitted
(the discommon to be freely punned—when he
did insist after some boors of pvofiues gas
conade from mr. liayly, mr. .wescou, and.
mr. j. davis, to bring the question home,'
it hey refused to sustain bun, there being but
27 ayes, sad 55 nays.
after this failure to get a direct expression!
of disapprobation, the test was made upon
mr. benien's proposition to recommit the
address to the committee. with instructions'
to report an appeal to the people ot the,
i whole union, in digiyfied and temperate terms'
setting forth the eonsequanees that would l
j inevitably ensue irom a continuencc ot tbej
1 movements which had been recently witnessed
to congtpss. mr. mckay insisted upon a
division of the motion, so that the
would occur upon the recommitment, with
out the instruction*. this step was in fla
grant hostility to the wishes of mr. calhoun,;
and all his influence was employed to defeat i
it and keep the address before the meeting.'
a vote was taken, the result of which was
41 ayes to 42 nays.
it may be read ly discovered from this vote,
that mr. calhoun.'s defeat was overw helming,
i for he had the advantage of support, which,
upon a final test, of accepting or rejecting the
address, would have recorded themselves in!
the negative, or escaped from the hall v
mr. stephens then proposed to adjourn sine
du, but the regular troops rallied the doubtful
to their aid, and it failed by 22 ayes to 57;
nays. it is worthy of remark, in this con-!
neciion, that mr. mclane of md. and gentle- 1
men of his stamp, opposed the motion of mr.:
clayton and mr. stephens, while they sua
taiyed that of mr. berrien, amended by mr.
mckay, which in effect produced the .same*
result. i rite the fact to show, ihat they 1
were indisposed to meet the responsibility of)
their whole duty and yet willing to strike an
i equally effective blow by. indirect means, i
they were faithless to themselves as well as
to mr. clhoun, whom they had not the nerve
loencountei in an open and manly engage
ment.
the recommitment was an effectual quietus'
to the movement; for mr. clayton lumediately
rose and stated that, as he had participated in
the proceedings of the meeting and com-;
mittees in the hope of giving a judicious
direction to the proceedings and of promoting
wise counsels, he would no longer serve-on
any committee or participate in any future
meetings. my telegraphic dispatch of this
date has informed the public that mr. stepheus,
mr. chapman, mr morehead and mr. rusk
j also withdrew from the general committee.
gov. metcalf, in accordance with his duty
as the presiding officer of the meeting, will
i supply the vacancies, and an effort will be
made to contrive another caucus for next
monday night. if the present temper con-t
tinues—and i see no reason why it should
falter—a failure is inevitable. mr. calhoun
may issue his address, but he must incur the
odium of acting for and through a faction,'
j and not on behalf of the united south. the
i disunionists are down, and they cannot revive
i hut by intemperate agitation. shall they be
j allowed the opportunity 1 indkpendent.
correspondence of the tribune.
washington, jan. 16.
among the reasons assigned for not open
ing the doors to the reporters and to the pub
lic, last evening, was one, stating that the
journals of the doings would have been
published, and furthermore, that had the
public been admitted, there would have been
danger of excitement and uproar in the gal
leries as discussion might progress.
mr. venable of n. c. read the address,
which was drawn up by mr. calhoun, with
mr. bayley’s assistance. speeches were
made against the address by mr. clayton of
delaware, mr. stephens, and mr. toombs ot
geo. mr. morehead and mr. underwood of
ky, and mr. gentry of tenn.; and the ad
dress was advocated by mr. calhoun, mr.
bayley* mr. gayle of ala; mr. mason of va.
mr. westcott of fla. jefferson davis of miss.
speeches in favor of action, hut for modifying
the address, were made by mr. berrien and
mr. mckay.
the address was opposed on several
grounds, one that it asserts that organized
bodies of men existed through ihe states,
reaching into canada, to aid slaves in escap
ing from service. the proof of this position
was wanting. another reason was, the ad
dress declared that the north had raised a
false issue by charging the south with legis
lating in congress, with the view of extend
ing slavery, while the south openly denied
the charge and proclaimed thru there was nc
authority to restrict or expand slavery.
mr. toombs could not sanction this, as he
had taken opposite grounds in congress the
last session. another reason for opposing
the address was that it proposed no definite
chart for*action, but left all to risk as to the
future.
the address was finally recommitted to the
same committee, without instruction.
mr. berrien moved instructions, but they
were rejected. the committee is to report
next monday evening, till w hen the meeting
stands adjourned.
►several membeis of the committee got
excused from farther serving; among them
were mr. stephens, mr. clayton, mr. rusk,
mr.'chapman and mr. morelit-ad.
the address gives an enumeration otl what
the south regard as acts of aggression by the
north upon the institution of slavery as
guaranteed by the constitution.
the following resolutions were presented
in the congressional caucus by senator rusk
of texas, a*, a substitute tor mr. calhoun's
address:
resolved, that this country look upon the
union as the only safe guaranty of republi
can and constitutional liberty*
resolved, that a strict adherence to the
letter and spirit of the constitution, iu all its
compromises, is our only safety.
resolved. that it is inconsistent with the
broad principles of justice, and a palpable in
fraction on the spirit of the constitution to
exclude by legislative enactments any ponioo
of the citizens of the united states from a
full and equal participation in the benefits ol
any territory acquired by the coipmon blood
and treasure of all the states.
resolved, that in our capacity as repre
-1 sentatives, we would firmly resist all attempts
at partial and tlierefore oppressive and unjust
i legislation, and that we have an abiding con
fidence in an appeal to the patriotic citizens ol
every portion of this confederacy to secure
1 and protect our constituents in the enjoyment
of all their constitutional rights.
resolved, that if northern fanatics and
politicians persist in carrying out their unjusi
plans, the american people and the civilized
i world will hold them responsible for any eon
sequences that may ensue.
hoaxes gskelm in «p*j to ,he
objectors to mr. gott’s resolution, that it wai
insulting and incendiary, observe*
ax* as 181#. randolph,
virginia an extensive and determined slave
j holder—moved the foßowing resolution
i resolved, that commuiee be appoint*
to inquire into the existence of an inhuman a ot
illegal traffic in slaves, carried on and throug*
j the district of columbia, and to report who
ther anv and what measures are necessary fui
patting a stop to the
viaoisia.— the follow.
rilfe (va) democrat ibna sp«uks of the ab
politioo of slavery uxihe district:
“we predict that the act, sboiwhmg sla
i very and the slave-trade is the district o
columbia vißpnut, and that not ooe siavi
be removed and the sonot wui retain uiem
1 neverthewe, we earnestly hope***, tnfra.
the entire who* pepobnnn of tim stare* free
tbcieprcncbof** tplifhtneed chnetendwn
the net may pare.
the lost man.
a prairie sketch,
an unfortunate trader once strayed
from hit companions, and was tout lour
or five davit, suffering (he keenest
pangs of starvation. it was years age
yet the story has only been told in oral
repetition among the old traders, and
has never before, to our knowledge
fallen in the. way of a scribe.
the man wandered away upon a sub
try midsummer afternoon, oppressed to
desperation with thirst, in search oi
water, while the caravan was dragging
slowly along the dreary and heated
prairie. making his way to a cluster ol
timber that appeared at no very great
distance, he was fortunate enough to
find a small cool spring gushing and
rippling at the bottom of a rocky hollow’.
the fresh water, the cool shade of the
steep rock and the trees above, together
with the knowledge that the wagons
were still moving along in sight, in
duced the poor fellow to yield to hi?
weariness and suffer his eyes to close.
when he awoke, the grey of the even
ing w as deepening around the prairie,
and rushing up from the hollow, his
eye wandered about in vain search ol
his companions. he was a raw adven
turer, upon his first travel, knowing
nothing of how to direct his steps in the
wilderness, trusting entirely to the gui
dance and experience of those with
whom he travelled. hasty, impulsive,
and careless, and without possessing a
quality of character to assist him in
such an emergency, confused terror at
once took possession of him, and start
ing as he thought in the direction where
he had last seen the wagons, he ran
with headlong speed, shouting wildly
at every step, in hopes of being heard
and answered by his companions.
the terrified man, bereft of all
thought by the fearful nature of his
predicament, could not even remember
to fire the rifle he held, hut continued
to tear his lungs w’ith wild and deso
late cries for assistance. w bile rush
ing blindly forward in this manner, the
night still deepening around him, the
man met w’ith a violent lull and was
stunned into insensibility for some
hours. we are giving now the sub
stance ofthefpoor fellow’s own relation.
he came hack to consciousness some
time during tlie night, in the midst ol a
pack of howling wolves, and found him
self lying by the si.le of a buffalo’s
skeleton, not yet entirely stripped uy
the prowling dogs of the desert. a
situation more appalling to heart and
j nerve, may not be imagined. the
man doubted not but that he was
i aroused prematurely from his state of
torpor by the hungry creatures assault
ing his own body, for his clothes were
mauled and torn, and the scratch of a
claw was on his leg, though a tooth it
seems, had not yet touched him. he
had tripped upon the skeleton, and
struck his forehead on a horn or some
other part, as he discovered a huge
lump upon his head, which also ached
distressingly when he came to his
senses.
the poor fellow, in the heat of his
terror, made out to scare away thf
wolves from himself, and escape front
the spot, leaving the famished animah
to return again to the buffalo v bones
and give them a cleaner polishing
just escaping from one frightful dan
ger, perhaps took something from the
j keen horrors of his desolate ant
wretched condition, but the unhapp)
man’s sensations were harrowing anc
fearful in the extreme. he still press
ed onward, his strength failing at ever)
step, calling in harsh and broken shriek*
to his friends, and changing his course
again and again, in utter and miserable
uncertainly of which way to turn.
daylight came, the sun rose noon
approached and passed, and the losl
man was alone in the desert, famished
and faint, and without a solitary hope
of regaining his companions or finding
the track they were pursuing.
that night the unhappy wretch sank
exhausted upon the grass and tlept, tc
awaken in a state of fear and dangei
1 more appalling even than the night be
j fore. a compact and innumerable
band of buffaloes carne moving slowly
across the region of the prairie on
j which he lay, and started from sleep in
j imminent danger of being trodden tc
death by the huge monarchs of the
plain. as these dense masses of buf
faloes move, they emit sounds that rise
in the air like a sea surge, and as the
vast black herd came towards him in
deep midnight, the poor trader declared
that a rolling ocean seemed about tc
overwhelm him. utterly paralyzed
1 with bis danger, the unfortunate man
could but start on bis feet, and stand
confounded, fearing either to fire ot
use other means to alarm the buffaloes,
lest by exciting their terror, he should
but increase bis own peril. from this
critical position he likewise escaped
unhurt, for the animals separated, as is
their custom, when a strange scent is
detected, and passed on in two divis
ions, keeping some two hundred -yards
clear of the mysterious intruder in the
middle. daylight was again appear
ing, as the last of the innumerable herd
of creatures passed him, and the man
was starving.
he took aim with his rifle at a re
treating buffalo, and missed fire, for
bis percussion cap was damp with the
night dew. still he was famishing,
and his only hope seemed in the slaugh
tering a buffalo. he followed crawl
ing on bis hands and knees, and, after
hours of weary watching and labor,
wounded a cow at last with a successful
i shot, and the whole band disappeared,
while the poor trader fell prostrate, too
i exhausted and faint to make another ef
i fort in the pursuit.
this unhappy wretch lay groaning
aloud, alone an the inidst of au inter
min able waste, abandoned to despera
turn and despair, when the thin bark of
i a small prairie dog attracted his alten
tion. once more he charged his rifle,
for the little creature was in sight, with
its nose lifted just above the mound
surrounding its hole. the starving
man lay prostrate upon the earth, took
slow and cautious aim at the dog, and
was fortunate enough to knock it out of
its hole with a broken back; but before
he could reach the spot, the dying crea
ture had wiggled back into iu hiding
place and tjsappeartd. with bis tea
fingers, the desperate man raked up
the earth and succeeded in dragging
the dying dog out upon the grass,
where without waiting to finish his
agony, be tore its warm flesh with his
teeth, like a wolf, while the expiring
creature was still biting at bis fingers.
this unnatural sustenance restored
the drooping man, and he was enabled
to resume his wanderings, which be
continued for three more nights, alone,
desolate and miserable, until he en
countered a hunting party of cvrnan
ches, whom, so far from avoid
ing, he rushed to embrace, as though
they were kindred near and dear, and
the best friends he could meet on
earth. they were friends as it turned
out, for they set him on the right track;
to regain his comrades, with instruc
tions to dirrect him, and buffalo meet to
support him, paying themselves by;
stripping him of his rifle and every
thing else of the slightest value he had
about him
after four days travel the poor trader
reached his friends again, and was
welcomed as one from the grdve.
upon the evening of his loss, search
wa? made in all directions and signal
guns fired which he would have heard,
had he not been lying insensible by the
buffalo's skeleton. search was also
continued upon the succeeding days,
as the carravan moved along, but his
wandering had been irregular, tending
in a far and opposite direction, that it
was impossible to trace him. the
five dttys suffering of this unfortunate
man may be but faintly imagined.
barton and whittier.
james russell lowell, in noticing
whittier’s poeins, in the anti-slavery j
standard, thus compares two quaker
poets:
the quakers never had a poet who i
wrote in rhythm before whittier. poets'
enough who wrote in prose they have j
had, and men whose lives were poems,
but nothing better than bald vmkse
inakers before. bernard barton was
drab to his heart’s core. his verses
are precise, strait breasted, and thee
one most tediously, yet there is no true
quakerism in them neither. dry
husks they would have been, indeed,
to hungry-hearted george fox. the
quakers have crystallized into the
most angular formalism, and they de
served just such a poet as barton. he
was sent to them for their sins, and we
hope they read him, tlie men who dis-;
own hopper and dugdale, and look!
askance at lucretia molt. not that!
barton was not a very worthy fellow’.
he was good enough beyond a doubt,
more truly pious than sbakspeare, very
likely, but there is no tang in him. he
coincs as near to being a poet as a ripe
cucumber conies to being a fruit.
whittier is quite another matter.
there is the soul of quakerism in him,
for quakerism is essentially aggressive.
his poeins would have been cordial to
fox in nottingham jail. nailer might;
have recited his ballad of cassandra
southwick exultingly at the cart-tail.
woolman would have found a delicious,
but unwilling, relish in them, as in
forbidden fruit.
if ever a man deserved the title of
poet, (maker) john greenleafwhittier
does. he has made more than verses.
he has not only written, but done
something. he has made (directly)
more public opinion, on the right side
than any poet we can think of. this is
making to some purpose. nor has it
been a sacrifice in whittier to become
a partisan. he was created for it, and
he has accomplished his destiny nobly.
we do not desire him to be anything
other than he is, any more than we;
should think of lamenting that an ap
ple was not a pear. he has perhaps,
fulfilled the truest vocation of the p<»et
in this transition age by being in some
sort the voice of one crying in the
wilderness.
mr. remington in the den.
in the first instance, we invite the
new york literary world to favour
us w ith a notice of the following con
tradiction to a statement which would
not have appeared in our colnmns had
we not found it in those of our much
respected contemporary. we have
since seen it in many other american
papers of repute, and invite their at
tention, also, to the matter. last week
we did not give all mr. remington’s
letter, because it read to us like the
bitter effusion of a disappointed and
worried man, an unreasonable bitter
ness: it was therefor that we omitted
much fault-finding of mr. bancroft,
the american ambassador. of mr.
tyler, the proprietor of the surrey
gardens, mr. remington, on the whole,
spoke without disrespect; but, from the
entire letter, an inference might he
drawn that mr. tyler had not behaved
very generously. from a belief that
mr. bancroft was not a man to behave
as mr. remington said, and from a
knowledge in which all who know mr.
tyler will bear us out, that he was not,
we omitted the reflections upon those
two gentlemen, attributing them to the
discolourment of gall and bitterness.
mr. remington asserts that he was
starving when he got admittance to mr.
tyler’s establishment that he was
living, at least, an 3d. a day—that he
was in rags clothes had i none”)—
that he slept in a lion’s den, whilst the
model of his most ibgenious bridge was
being prepared —and took charitable
crusts from the carpenters’ dinners.
we should have disbelieved all about
the lion’s den, had we not thought that
his lodging therein was unknown to
mr. tyler, ami was a sort of carpenter's
bed made up, in the summer, too, for
an impoverished man of great engin
eering ability. the circumstantial ac
count, allowing for prejudice and
bitterness, seemed unquestionable as to
its facts (facts!), and all the united
states now admire remington for bis
fenius, and pity him for bu 3d. a day!
le raid that he never received a farth
ing from mr. tyler (admitting, at the
same time,'that he was not entitled to
one), and that the bridge cost £b. now,
mark the following statements, in a
letter written by mr. tyler, which that
gentleman has shewn us, by written
documents —unnecessarily, for his word
was sufficient —to be perfectly cor
rect:
my first introduction to mr. rem
ington was to inspect a new light for
the table, which be said he had m
vented. upon his telling hm that be
had no fends to complete the apparatus,
i—in concert with mr. jones, gss
fitter, of coveni-garden—guaranteed
to mr. madd, the payment of xko, if
successful; all expenses of patent and
bringing it before the public were to be
eid by mr. jones, and myself, mr.
sreington receiving one-half. this
experiment turned out a complete
failure. mr. remington also had £4
to redeem a one-wheel velocipede,
which, after weeks* gratutious aid of
my carpenters and blacksmith, also
proved a failure. the bridge, he said,
having been repeatedly erected in
america, be attached no importance to;
all he wanted was an opportunity oj
bringing his name before the public
for he had other invention! be relied on
to remunerate himself. —during the
trhole time he teas superintending the
construction oj ths bndge, he boarded
and lodged at mr. ladd's mathematical
instrument maker, amelia-street, penion
place, to tr horn i paid £'33, for such
board and lodging, and other expenses,
w hich sum i never asked mr. reming
ton for. in addition to which, i hold a
note of hand for £l9 for money ad
vanced. he never slept in the gar
dens!—he never partook of the
carpenters’ meals!—he dined frequently
at my table. he had free access to
the gardens when he chose, and i
should mnch i ke to possess the instru
ment by which a yankee bound himself
to pay 10 dollars for the advance of
is.! previous to lodging at mr. ladd’s,
i understand he hoarded and lodged at
an hotel in leicester-square for four
months. he told me, also, that he had
been residing at morley’s hotel,
strand!”
we have italicised the lines in mr.
tyler’s letter as an instructive com
mentary on the 3d. a day story. mr.
remington’s letter was not addressed,
we believe, to any american paper. it
purports to be a private letter to a
friend in alabama. let us hope it is a
forgery or a hoax; if it be neither one
nor the other, then, why then, we say,
our readers on both sides the atlantic
may draw conclusions for themselves.—
douglas jerrold’s netcspaper.
id* we published the letter referred to
above, as our readers will probably remember;
and think it no more than justice that we
should also publish the correction. this
makes sonic deduction from the privations of
mr. remington.
jack bunsby on califonia. —gold
vs. potatoes. —the following sensible
hit is from the new york sunday
news:
being asked what he thought of the
gold panic, bunsby crossed his boots,
took a whiff, and said: “if so be, as
how gold can he got in california for
digging, why, good; the only question
would be, to dig or not to dig. and so,
but then do ye see, a man must do
something else besides digging. he
must eat, drink, sleep, and be clothed
withal—and if all the people turn gold
diggers, who shall perform all the other
kind of work? now, if so be, a man
should dig gold, and fill his pockets,
why, so. and, if so be, another man
should dig praties, and fill a tinkettle,
and put it over a fire, in unison with
some wild kids and a few yarbs, and
the man who had been digging the gold
should come and say, give me some of
that’ere mess, why, so also.—now,
wat would the pratie digger say? how
much gold have you dug? oh, says
the gold digger, i have had great luck
to-day, but lam very hungry. good,
says the pratie digger;—give me two
thirds of your gold, and you shall dine
with me. why, you inhospitable fel
low,*do you want to rob! no, says the
pratie digger, but go and eat your gold.
i’ll eat my dinner alone, and save what
is left unlill to-morrow, and then i can
go and dig gold, and you can dig pra
ties for yourself. now, says bunsby,
the pratie digger would be the best off,
for the other could not wait until the
morrow for a dinner, and it’s therefore
my opinion that digging praties may
he, under some circumstances, more
profitable than digging gold, and my
name’s jack bunsby.”
chinese etiquette.— the chinese
are so punctilious that their code of
etiquette outvies the most ceremonious
courts in europe. as 'soon as a guest
alights from his sedan chair, he is met
by the host, who bows his head, bends
his body and his knees, joins both hands
iin front, and with them knocks his
j chest. when he wishes to *be very
polite, he takes his guest’s hand with
his and knocks it upon his chest. this
is their inode of shaking hands. now
follows a polite contest as to prece
dence, which, after various knockings,
bowings, and genuflections, terminates
jby the host and guest entering the
house together. at the sitting a|>art
raent another ceremony takes place,
equally protracted and irksome. the
i poinfto be determined is where each
i shall sit, and who shall be seated first.
etiquette extends even to a decision on
the size of a chair, by which invariably
the rank or importance of a guest
determined. the host now motions to
a large chair, and attempts to take a
smaller one himself. good breeding
compels the guest, in turn, to refuse
this compliment; and, after a wearying
contest of politeness, the point is ami
cably adjusted to the satisfaction of the
belligerents, either by both parties 'sit
ting down simultaneously on the same
beuch, or upon two chairs of equal di
mensions. the fatigue of this courtesy
may be easily conceived as the same
routine is performed on the arrival of
each guest. as soon as the guests are
assembled, tea is banded round in
covered cups, which are placed in sil
ver stands in the torn) of a boat. these
are fluted and beautifully chased. the
cups on the occasion to which i refer
were of that antique porcelain so ex
ceedingly valued, which is as thin as
p*pe*\ pure white, perfectly trans
parent, and is ornamented with obscure
figures, whose dark outlines are only
perceptible when the vessel is filled
with tea. the mode of* making tea in
china is similar to that in which coffee
is made in turkey. the tea is pot
into a cup, boiling water poured over
rt nod instantly covered, to prevent the
escape of the aroma, with a lid, which
is used as a spoon in sip the tea. they
never ase sugar or milk with tea in
china.—datfin umvernhf