ARGUMENT
Of Charles Sumner, Esq., against the Con
stitutionality of Sepw ate Colored Schools
in the case of Sarah C. Roberts vs. Th>
Ctty of Boston. Before the Supreme Court
of Mass., Dec. 4, 1849.
May it please your Honors:
Can any discrimination, on account
of color or race, be .made, under the
Constitution and Laws of Massachu
setts, among the children entitled to the
benefit of our public schools.' This is
the question which the Court is now to
hear, to consider, and to decide.
Or, stating the question with more
detail, and with a more particular appli
tion to the facts of the present case, are
the Committee, having the superinten
dence of the public schools of Boston,
entrusted with the power, under the con
stitution and laws of Massachusetts, to
exclude colored children from these
schools, and to compel them to resort
for their education to separate schools,
set apart for colored children only, at
distances from the homes less conven
ient than those open to white children?
This important question arises in an
action by a colored child, only five
years old, who, by her/iext friend, sues
the city of Boston for damages, on ac
count of a refusal to receive her into
one of the public schools.
It would be difficult to imagine any
case which could appeal more strongly
to your best judgment, whether you re
gard the parties or the subject. On
the one side is the city of Boston, strong
in its wealth, in its influence, in its
character; on the other side is a little
child, of a degraded color, of humble
parents, still within the period oi natu
ral infancy, but strong from her very
weakness, and from the irrepressible
sympathies of good men, which, by a
divine compensation, come to succor
the weak. This little child asks at your
hands her personal rights. So doing,
she calls upon you to decide a question
which concerns the personal rights of
other colored children; which concerns
the constitution and laws of the Com
monwealth which concerns that pecu
liar institution of New England, the
common schools; which concerns the
fundamental principles of human rights;
which concerns the Christian character
of this community. Such parties, and
such interests, so grand and various,
may justly challenge your most earnest
attention.
Though this discussion is now for the
first time brought before a judicial tri
bunal, it is no stranger to the public.—
For five years it has been an occasion
of discord to the School Committee.
No less than four different reports —two
majority reports, and two minority re
ports —forming pamphlets of solid di
mensions—devoted to this question,
have been made to this Committee, and
afterwards published. The opinions of
learned counsel have been enlisted in
the cause. The controversy, leaving
these regular channels, has overflowed
the newspaper press, and numerous ar
ticles have appeared, espousing oppo
site aides. At last it has rsached this
tribunal. It is in your power to cause
it to subside for ever.
Forgetting many of the topics, and
all of the heats which have heretofore
mingled with the controversy, I shall
strive to present the question in its ju
ridical light, as becomes the habits of
this tribunal. It is a question of juris
prudence on which you are to give
judgment. But 1 cannot forget that the
principles of moral and of natural jus
tice Ue at the foundation of all jurispru
dence. Nor can any reference to these
be inappropriate in a discussion before
this Court.
The great principle which is involved
in this case, I shall first exhibit in the
Constitution of Massachusetts, next in
RIGHT IS GF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—
the legislation, and then in the judicial
decisions. I shall then consider the
special circumstances of this case, aao
show the violation of the Constitution
and laws, by the School Committee ol
Boston, answering, before I close, souk
of the grounds on which their conduct
has been vindicated.
I. I begin with tho principle, that,
according to the spirit of American in
stitutions, and especially of the Consti
tution of Massachusetts, all men, «nl4-
rmt distinction of color ot mice, ere equal
before the law.
I might, perhaps, leave this proposi
tion without one word of comment.
The equality of men will not be direct
ly denied on this occasion, and yet it
has been so often assailed of late, that
trust I shall not seem to occupy your
time superfluously in endeavoring to
show what is understood by this term,
when used in laws, or constitutions, or
other political instruments. Mr. Cal
houn, in the Senate of the United States,
and Lord Brougham, in his recent work
on Political Philosophy, (Part 2, c-hap.
4.) have characterized equality as im
possible and absurd. If they had cho
sen to comprehend the true extent and
application of the term, as employed on
such occasions) something, if not all ol
the force of their objections, would have
been removed. That we may better
appreciate its character and its limita
tions, let me develop with some care the
origin and growth of this sentiment,
until it finally ripened into a formula of
civil and political right.
The sentiment of equality among men
was early cherished by generous souls.
It showed itself in the dreams of ancient
philosophy. It was declared by Sene
ca; when writing to a friend a letter ol
consolation on death, he said, Prinui
emim pars Equitatis tst Equalitas
(Epist. 30.) The first part of Equity
is Equality. But it was enunciated
with persuasive force in the truths o.
the Christian religion. Here we learn
that God is no respecter of persons;
that he is t'ie father of all; and that we
are all his children, aui brethren to
each other. When the Saviour taught
the Lord’s prayer, he taught the Bub
lime doctrine of (hr .motherhood of
mankind, enfolding quality of men.
Slowly did this sentiment enter the
State. The whole .oiislitution of gov
ernment in modern times was inconsist
ent with it. An hereditary monarchy,
an order of nobility, and the complex
ranks of superiors and inferiors estab
lished by the feudal system, all declar
ed, not the equality, but the inequality
of men, and they all conspired to per
petuate this inequality. Every infant
of royal blood, every noble, every vas
sal, was a present example, that, what
ever might be the truths of religion, oi
the sentiments of the heart, men living
under these institutions were not born
equal.
The boldest political reformers ol
early times did not venture to proclaim
this truth; nor did they truly perceive
it. Cromwell beheaded his king, but
caused the supreme power to be secur
ed in hereditary succession to his eldest
son. It was left to John Milton, in po
etic vision, to be entranced—
W ith fair Equality, fraternal atale.
Sidney, who perished a martyr to libe
ral sentiments, drew his inspiration
from the classic, and not from the Chris
tian fountains. The examples of Greece
and Rome fed his soul. The Revolu
tion of 1633, partly by force, and partly
by the popular voice, brought a foreign
er to the crown of Great Britain, and
the establishment, according to the
boast of loyal Englishmen, of the free
dom of the land. But the Bill of RighU
did not declare, nor did the genius ol
Somers or Maynard conceive the polit
ical axiom, that all men are born equal.
It may find acceptance in our day from
individuals in England, but it is disown
ed by English institutions.
It is to France that we must pass for
the earliest development of this idea,
for it? amplest illustration, and for its
most complete, accurate, and logical
expression. In the middle of the lasi
century appeared the renowned Ency
clopedic, edited by D’Alembert and
Diderot. This remarkable production,
where science, religion and govern
ment were all discussed with a revolu
tionary freedom, contains an article on
Equality, which was published in 1755.
Here we find the boldest expression
which had then been given to this sen
timent. “Natural Equality,” says the
Encyclopedia, “is that which exists be
tween all men by the constitution oi
their nature only. This Equality is the
principle and the foundation of liberty.
Natural or moral equality is then found
ed upon the constitution of human na
ture, common to all men, who are born,
grow, subsist, and die in the same man
ner. Since human nature finds itsell
the same in all men, it is clear, that ac
cording to nature’s law, each ought to
esteem and treat the others as beings
who are naturally equal to himself; that
is to say, who are men as well ss him
self.” It is then remarked, that politi
cal and civil slavery is in violation of
this equality: and yet there is a recog
nition of the inequalities of nobility in
the state. Alluding to these, it is sim
l ly said, that those who are mast eleva
ted above others, ought to treat their
inferiors at being naturally their equals,
shunning all outrage, and demaoding
nothing btyond what is due, and de
manding with humanity that which is
moit incontestably their due.
When we consider the period et
which this article was written, we shell
be astonished less at its incompleteness
and vagueness, than by its bravery and
generosity. The dissolute despotism of
Louis XV. overshadowed France,—
ROCHESTER N. Y.; FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1850.
Selfish nobles and fawning courtier
filled the royal antechambers. Th<
councils of Government were controlle*
by royal mistresses. Only a few year
before, in 1751, the King bad founded
in defiance of the principles of equalit
—but in entire harmony with the con
duct of the School Committee in Bos
ton—a military school, for nobles only
carrying into education the distinctioi
of Caste. At such n fwaM sbwdKnsy
etopedie did wetl in utnfrfng such Tm
port ant and effective truth. The senli
tnent of eqeality was here fully declared.
Nor could it be expected at that earl}
day that it should adequately perceive,
or if it perceived, that it should dare tc
utter, our axiom of liberty, that all mei.
are born equal in civil and political
rights.
It is thus with the history of all moral
and political ideas. First appearing
merely as a sentiment, they animate
those who receive them with a nobit
impulse, filling them with generous
sympathies, and encouraging them to
congenial efforts. Slowly recognized,
they fihally pass into a formula to be
acted upon, to be applied, to be defend
ed in tho concerns of life.
Almost contemporaneously with this
article in the Encyclopedia, our atten-,
tion is arrested by a solitary person,'
poor, of humble extraction, born in
Geneva, in Switzerland, of irregulai
education and life, a wanderer from hi*|
birth-place, enjoying a temporary home
in France, —a man of audacious genius,
who set at naught the received opinions
of mankind, Jean Jacques Rousseau.
His earliest appearance before the pub
lic, was by an eccentric Essay on the
Origin of Inequality among Men, in
which he sustained the irrational para
dox, that men are happier in a state of
nature than under the laws of civiliza
tion. This was followed by a later
work, the Contrat Social. In both of
ihese productions, the sentiment of fi
nality was invoked against many of the
abuses of society, and language wa«
employed going far beyond equality in
:ivil and political rights. The conspic
uous position that has been awarded to
he speculations of Rousseau, and the
nfluence which they have exerted in
Jiffusing this sentimeut, make it proper
o refer to them on this occasion; but
he absence of precision in his proposi
ions renders him an uncertain guide.
The French Revolution was now at
land. This great movement for en-
Vanchisement was the expression of
his sentiment. Here it received a dis
inct and authoritative enunciation.—
n the constitutions of government
vhich were successively adopted,
imidst the throes of bloody struggles,
he equality oi men was constantly pro
claimed. King, nobles, and all distinc
ions, passed away before this mighty
md triumphant truth.
Look at these constitutions, and see
it once the grandeur of the principle,
md the manner in which it was explain
ed and illustrated. The Constitution
if 1791 declares in its first article as
ollows: “Men are born and continue
ree and equal in their rights In its
lixth article it says: “The law is the
expression of the general will. It ought
o be the same for all, whether it pro
ects or punishes. All citizens being
qual in its eyes, are equally admissabU
o all dignities, places, and public em
iloyments, according to their capacity,
md uiithout other distinctions than their
'irtues and talents.” At the close of
he Declaration of Rights there is this
urther explanation of it: “The Nation
il Assembly, wisning to establish the
French constitution on principles which
t has just acknowledged and declared,
ibolishes irrevocably the institutions which
founded liberty and equality of rights.
There is no longer, neither nobility,
lor peerage,nor hereditary distinctions,
lor distinction of order, nor feudal rule,
tor patrimonial justices, nor any titles,
lenominations and prerogatives, which
vere then derived, nor anv order of
chivalry, nor any corporations or deco
rations, for which proofs of nobility are
required, or which supposed distinc
:ions of birth, nor any other superiority
:han that of public functionaries in the
discharge of their functions.
There is no longer, for any part of the
nation, nor for any individual, any priv
ilege or exception to the law common to
nil Frenchmen Monsieur, 1791, Mo.
250.
In fitful mood another Declaration of
Rights was brought forward by Con
dorcet, Feb. 15,1793. Here also are
fresh inculcations of the equality of
men. Article Ist, places Equality
among the natural, civil and political
rights of man. Article 7th declares:
Equality consists in this, that each can
enjoy the same rights.” Article Bth:
“The law ought to be equal for all,
whether it recompense, or punish, or
repress. Article 9th: “All citizens
are admissable to all public places, em
ployments, and functions. Free people
cannot know other motives of preference
than talents and virtues. Article 23d:
“Instruction is the need of all, and so
ciety owes it equally to all its members.”
Article 32d: “There is oppression
when the law violates the natural, civil,
and' political rights which it ought to
guarantee. There ie oppression when
a law is violated by public functiona
ries in its application to individual
facta. "—Monsieur, 1793, Mo. 49.
Next came the Cooetitutien of June,
1793. This announces in its second
article, that the natural and imprescrip
tible rights of men are Equality lib
erty, eafety, property.” And in the
next article it shows what is meant by
Equality. It save, “All men are equal
by nature, and bsfot* the law.” (Mon
iteur, 1798, Mo, 178.) Here we first
meet this form of dentition. At a late
day, after France bad passed througl
an unprecedented series of political vi
eissitudes, in iorae of which the i ighti
of Equality had been trampled undei
foot, when, at the revolution of 1830
Louis Philippe eras called to a “thron*
surrounded by republican institutions,’
tire «b»rtet wllteh y then promulga
be their titles or ranks.”
While recognizing this peculiar
enunciation of the equality of men as
more specific and satisfactory than the
naked statement that all men are born
equal, it is impossible not to be remind*
ed that this form of speech finds its pro*
totype in the ancient Greek language.
In the history of Herodotus, we are
told that “the government of the man)
lias the most beautiful name of isono
mia"—or equality before the law. (Book
3, 80.) Thus this remarkable lan
guage, by its comprehensiveness and
flexibility, in an age when equality be
fore the law was practically unknown,
nevertheless supplied a single word,
which is not to be found in modern
tongues, to express an idea which has
been practically recognized only in
modern times. Such a word in our
own language, as a substitute for E
quality, might have superseded some of
the criticism to which this political doc
trine has been exposed.
After this review, the way is now
prepared to consider the nature of E
quality, as secured by the Constitution
of Massachusetts. The Declaration of
Independence, which was put forth af
ter the French Encyclopedia, and the
political writings of Rousseau, places
among self-evident truths this proposi
tion, “that all men are created equal,
and that they are endowed by the Cre
ator with certain unalienable rights;
that among these are life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness.” The Con
stitution of Massachusetts repeats the
same idea in a different form. In the
first article it says: All men are bom
?ree and equal, and have certain natural,
essential, and unalienable rights, among
which may be reckoned the right of en
oying and defending their lives and
iberties.” The sixth section further
>xplaltis the doctrine of Equality. It
lays: —“JVb man, nor corporation, or
issociation of men, have any other title lo
tbtaiu advantages, or particular and ex
•tusire privileges, distinct from those of
he community, than what arises from the
otmderatian of services rendered to the
mblic; and this title being in nature
leither hereditary, nor transmissahle to
:hildren, or descendants, or relations
>y blood, the idea of a man being horn
i magistrate, law-giver, or judge, is
ibsurd and unnatural.” The language
lere employed, in its natural insignifi
:ance, condemns every form of inequal
ty, in civil and political institutions.
Though these declarations preceded,
n point of time, the ampler declarations
if France, they may, if necessary, be
mnstrued in the light of the latter. It
s evident that they aim to declare sub
stantially the same things. They are
leclarations of Rights, and the language
imployed, though general in its char
icter, is obviously to be restrained to
hose matters which are within the de
ign and sphere of a declaration of
lights. It is a childish sophism to ad
luce in argnment against them the phy
sical or mental inequalities by which
nen are characterized.
It is a palpable truth that men are
lot born equal in physical strength, or
n mental capacities; in beauty of form
>r health of body. Diversity or ine
juality, in these respects, is the law of
reation. From this difference springs
livine harmony. But this inequality is
n no particular inconsistent with the
nost complete civil and political equal
ty-
The equality which was declared by
>ur fathers in 1776, and which was
nade the fundamental law of Massa
chusetts in 1780, was equality before the
aw. -Its object was to efface all politi
cal or civil distinctions, and to abolish
ill institutions founded upon birth. “All
nen are created equal,” says the Dec
aration of Independence. “All men
ire 6om free and equal,” says the Maa
ischusetts Bill of Rights. These are
not vain words. Within the sphere of
heir influence no person can be crea
ted no person can be 6om, with civil
ur political privileges, not enjoyed e
jually by all his fellow-citizens, nor
can any institution be es.ablished re
cognizing any distinctions of birth.—
This is the Great Charter of every per
son who draws his vital breath upon
this soil, whatever may be his condition,
and whoever may be his parents. He
may be poor, weak, humble, black—he
may be of Caucasian, of Jewish, of In
dian, or of Ethiopian race—he may be
i»f French, of German, of English, of
Irish extraction—but before the Con
stitution of Massachusetts all these dis
tinctions disappear. He is not poor,
or weak, or bumble, or black—nor
Caucasian, nor Jew, nor Indian, nor
Ethiopian—nor French, dot German,
nor English, nor Irish he is a man,
the equal of all his fellow men. He
is one of the children of the State,
which, Ike an impartial parent, re
gards all its oflspriag with an equal
care. To some it may justly allot bigh
er duties, according to their higher ca
pacities, but it welcomes all to its equal,
hospitable board. The State imitating
the divine justice, is no respeet*r
GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
ish every form of discrimination foun
i ded on birth.
Quamvig ill 3 nigei, <juamvU tu candidu* cue*.
11. I now pass to the second stage
of this argument, and ask attention tc
this proposition. The legislature ol
Massachusetts, in entire harmony with
the Constitution, has made no discrim
nation of color or race, in the establish
ment of Public Schools.
If discrimination were made by the
laws, they would be unconstitutional
and void. But the legislature of Mass
achusetts has been too just and gener
ous, too mindful of the Bill of Rights,
to establish any such privilege of birth.
The language of the statutes is gener
al, and applies epually to all children,
of whatever color or race.
The provisions of the law regulating
this subject are entitled, Of the Public
Schools. (Revised Statutes, chap 23.)
It is to these that we must look in or
der to ascertain what constitutes a Pub
lic School. None can be legally such
which are not established in conformity
with the law. They may, in point ol
fact, be more or less public; yet, ii
they do not come within the terms ol
the law, they do not form a part of the
beautiful system of our public schools—
they are not public schools.
It is important, then, to examine
these terms. The first section provides
that in “every town containing fifty
families, or householders, there shall
be kept in each year, at the charge el
the town, by a teacher or teachers ol
competent ability and good morals, one
school for the instruction of children in
Orthography, Reading, Writing, Eng
lish Grammar, Geography, Arithmetic
and Good Behavior, for the term of six
months, or two or more such schools
for the terms of time that shall together
be equivalent to six months.” The 2d,
3d, and 4th sections provide for the
number of such schools to be kept in
other tov ns having more thpn five hun
dred inhabitants. The language here
employed does not recognize any dis
crimination of color or race. Thus in
every town, whether there be one or
more schools, they are all to be
“schools for the instruction of children
generally—not children of auy particu
lar class* or color, or raee, but chil
dren, —meaning the children of the
town where the schools are.
The sth and 6th sections provided
for the establishment, in certain cases,
of a school, in which additional studies
ure to be pursued, “which shall be
kept for the benefit of all the inhabitants
of the town.” Here the language not
only does not recognize any discrimi
nation among the children, but seems
directly to exclude it.
In conformity with these sections is
the peculiar phraseology of the me
morable law of the Colonies in 1647,
founding public schools, “tothe end
that learning be not buried in the
graves of our forefateers.” This law
obliged towns having fifty families
forthwith to appoint one,” within the
limits “to teach all such* children as
ihall resort to him, to write and read.
[Ancient charters, 186.)
It is on this legislation that the pub
lic schools of Massachusetts have been
reared. The clause of the Revised
Statutes (chap. 23) and the statute
(1838, chap. 154) appropriating small
■urns, in the nature of a contribution,
out of the school fund for the support
of common schools among the Indians,
do not interfere with this system. These
partake of the anomalous character of
all the legislation with regard to the In
dians of this Commonwealth. It does
not appear, however, that any separate
schools are established by law among
the Indians, nor that the Indians are in
any way excluded from the public
schools in their neighborhood.
I conclude from this examination,
that there is but one kind of public
school established by the laws of Mas
sachusetts. This is the general public
school, free to all the inhabitants.—
T. ere is nothing in these laws estab
lishing any exclusive or separate school
for any particular class, whether rich
or poor, whether Catholic or Protest
ant, whether white or black. In the
eye of the law there is but one class, in
which all interests, opinions, conditions,
and colors, commingle in harmony—
excluding none, comprehending all.
From the legislation ofthe Common
wealth, I pass to the adjudication of
the Courts.
[To be Continued.]
A Numerous Ancestry.- Fowler,
the Phrenologist, in his work entitled
‘Hereditary Descent,’ says that every
human being on the face of the globe
is compelled, from a demand in nature,
to have two parents, four grand parents,
eight great grand parents, sixteen an
cestors of the fourth generation back,
thirty-two of the fifth, two hundred and
fifty-six of the eighth, thirty-two thou
sand seven hundred and sixty-eight of
the fifteenth, almost one million and
fifty thousand of the twentieth, and
nearly one thousand seventy-three mil
lion of the thirtieth generation. The
whole number of every one’s ancestors
for fifty generations, amounts to two
thousand three hundred and sixty-tour
billions, seventeen hundred and forty
nine thousand nine hundred and four
teen millions, two hundred and fourteen
wr
running in the veina of ovary living
mortal, and that, reckoning baeifimlj f
fifty generations!
I From the National Et<i.
NEW YORK AND SLAVERY EX
TENSION.
Governor Fish, of New York, dr
votes a large portion of bis messag
to the discussion of the Slavery Que
tion. He lays down some s.iund prin
ciples, and shows ample reasons foi
resistance to the extension of Slavery
But, after a careful search, we cpi
find no distinct recognition of tb<
power and duty of Congress to prohibii
by positive enactment Slavery in itu
Territories. He insists that the Ter
ritories are /ree—-that the Mexican Jae
excluding Slavery therefrom is still in
force—that New York cannot give hei
assent, and Congress ought not to give
its sanction to the extension of Slavery
into them—and that California, having
organized a State Government, inter
dicting Slavery, ought to be admitted
into the Union. These positions em
brace the entire practical ground taken
by Governor Fish, which is de
fined in hia own language:;
“The people of California have re
cently taken initial steps toward ad
mission into the Union as a sovereign
State. By the Constitution which they
have adopted, they have embodied in
their organic law the prohibition o(
slavery or involuntary servitude. And
a petition was presented to Congress,
during the past winter, in behalf of a
portion of the people of New Mexico,
asking for the establishment of a Ter
ritorial Government, which should pro
tect them against the institution ol
domestic Slavery. The voice of the
people of California has thus been ex
pressed in favor of freedom; and there
is little room for doubt that New Mex
ico sympathizes in sentiment with
California. Congress cannot, without
a transgression of its constitutional
powers, estoblish Slavery within this
Territory; nor can it, without the viol
ation of the principles of justice, and
an utter disregard of the wishes of the
people, and of the protection which it
is bound to extend over the territory to
which it has acquired the title, refuse
admission to the new State, or coun
tenance or sanction in any way, the
introduction of Slavery within the ter
ritory. And without the sanction and
the assent of Congress, these newly
acquired territories are secured to
freedom, and must remain, as they
now are, exempt from the institution of
Slavery. The emphatic voice of the
Legislature of the State of New York,
expressed in the resolutions passed al
their last two sessions, and the nearly
unanimous sentiment of the people ol
our State, have declared that, under
no circumstances will their assent be
given to the extension of Slavery into
these territories, from which it is now
excluded.”
Examine carefully these paragraphs,
and you find no affirmation or recogni
tion of the right and duty of Congress
to interdict Slavery. The burthen of
them is, that these territories are
already secured to Freedom, and that
Congress cannot, without a transgres
sion of its constitutional powers, sanc
tion or countenance in any way the
introduction of Slavery therein.
Well—this is the ground of General
Cass—the ground of non-intervention
—nothing more, nothing less. The
Slaveholders have no dispute with
Governor Fish, for they do not ask|
that Congress sanction or countenance'
the introduction of Slavery into the
Territories—all they demand is, that it
abstain from any positive interdiction,
and this the Governor does not claim,
or even allude to as right or expedient.
The resolutions proposed in the
Senate of New York, by Mr. Geddes,
“the able and faithful Whig Senator
from Onondaga,” as the Tribune styles
him, are marked by the same fatal de
fect. The first recognises the duty of
Congress to pass a law to suppress the
slave trade in the District of Columbia.
The second recognises the duty, not of
¥>sitive interdiction of Slavery in the
erritories, but merely of resistance
to its extension by all constitutional
measure*” without specifying whether
the Constitution authorizes positive
prohibition—and instructs the New
York Senators in Congress—not to
vote for the Wilmot Proviso, or to uee
their efforts to procure the passage of
a law prohibiting Slavery in the terri
toritories, but—merely to resist all at
tempts to yield to Slavery any part of
the territories, however small, and by
whateaer pretence of compromise.
Mr. Dickinson would be greatly re
lieved by the passage of such a reso
lution He coaid pursue precisely the
course he has always pursued, without
his instructions. He could
vote against the introduction of the
Wilmiot Proviso in any territorial bill,
without transgressing one jot or tittle
of his instructions. In fact, this se
cond resolution may receive the sup
port of every Hunker in the legislature
without thereby subjecting himself to
the charge of inconsistency.
We regard the resolutions as inten
tionally evasive, and cannot believe
that a majority of the members will
countenance such an attempt to impose
sound for substance upon the people.
Resolved, (if the Assembly con
cur,) That as the Federal Constitution
was formed and adapted expressly to
secure the blessings of liberty to the
people of the United Steles and their
posterity, our Senators in Congress
are hereby wsTaucTxn, and our Re
presentatives are requested to use their
best efforts to procure the passage of
laws that will effectually tod forever
M Resolved, (if the Assembly con-
WHOLE NO. 110.
cur,) That the determination indicated
by the Governor’s Messages apd the
resolutions of the Legislatures of the
rarious'of the alaveholding States, and
by the Representatives of such elected
in Congress, to extend domestic Sla
very over the Territory acquired by
the late treaty of peace with the Re
public of Mexico, we feel bound to op
pose by all constitutional means—and
'Hir Senators in Caogreas are hereby
instructed sod our Representatives re
quested to resist all attempt**? yield
to Slavery any part of such territory,
however small, and by whatever pre
tence of compromise.
Resolved, (if the Assembly con
cur,) That the territory lying between
the Neuces and the Rio Grande and
that part of Mexico lying east of the
Rio Grande is the common property of
the United States, and that our Sena
tors in Congress are instructed and
our Representatives are requested to
use their best efforts to preserve the
same as such common property, and to
protect it from the unfounded claims of
the State of Texas, and prohibit the
extension over it of the laws of Texas.
ResolveU, (it the Assembly con
cur,) that the Legislature of the State
of New York has learned with great
satisfaction that the people of Califor
nia have adopted a Constitution which
is entirely in accordance with the spirit
of the free institutions of our country,
and our Senators in Congress are
hereby instructed, and our Represent
atives requested to aid in the passage
of such laws as may be necessary to
admit that State into the Union.
Resolved, (if the Assembly con
cur,) That the Governor be requested
to forward copies of the foregoing res
olutions to each of our Senators and
Representatives in Congress.”
MR. COBDEN AND THE AUS
TRIANS. J
Mr. Cobden has addressed the fol
lowing letter to Dr. Alexander Bach,
the Austrian Minister of Home Affairs:
Sir, I address you not as a member
of the Austrian Government, but as a
man whose enlightened and liberal sen
timents made a lasting impression on
me when I had the pleasure of your ac
quaintance at Vienna. You will find an
excuse for this step in the fact of my ta
king it in the interest of those princi
ples of humanity and civilization which
in those days were cherished 4 by you
as well as me. Mindful of the views
which in 1847 recomended me to your
kind notice, I cannot induce myself to
believe that these views will find in you
a less energetic advocate at the pres
ent, than you were in the days to which
I allude.
Sir, the public opinion of my country
is shocked by the cold-blooded cruelties
which are being practised against the
fallen ehiefs of the Hungarians. This
feeling is not confined to one class or to
to one party; no! there is not a single
man in England who by word or letter
would defend the conduct of the Aus
trian Government in Hungaiy. The
sense of the civilized nations of the
continent of Europe on this question
must already have reached you, nor
will the judgement of America fail to
make itself known in Vienna. You
are too enlightened to be ignorant oftho
fact the unanimous verdict of our con
temporaries is likewise that of posterity.
But did it ever strike you that history
will not accuse the brutal soldier—-the
tool of cruelty—but the Ministers, who
are responsible for that soldier’s crimes?
1 scorn to appeal to lower motives than
those of an honorable ambition; but I
must ask you; die it ever strike you
what dangers surround your present ca
reer? You, who are so well read in
English history, ought to reirember
that four years after Jeffreys’ 14 bloody
assizes,” both he and his royal master
were compelled most wretchedly to fly
from the avenging hand of justice. Or
do you think our time allows the pub
lic conscience to be scorned with impu
nity? Is it not, on the contrary, th# pe
culiar feature of our time that reaction
follows at the heels of any violence, no
matter whether it proceeds from the na
tions or from the Governments?
But I fear I take too great liberty
by offering to speak in the interest of
your reputation or safety. I appeal to
you in the name of humanity, entreat
ing you to put a stop to this new reign
of terror, which, not satisfied with the
'I butchery of its victims, puts all better
l and nobler feelings of mankind on the
rack: for truly the world is too far ad
vanced in civilization to suffer your Al
bas and Haynaus. I adjure you to
to make a public protest againrt the
butchery of prisoners, the still more
disgraceful whipping of women, and the
abduction and incarceration of chil
dren; and thus to rid yourself of all re
sponsibility for actions which might im
print upon their aHthor the stigma of
everlasting infamy.
I am, sir, your most obedient servant
RICHARD COBDEN,
1
Railwat Employees in England.
—The somber of miles of railroad in
England, now open for traffic, is about
4,25®, and the number of miles in th*
course of construction is about 3000.
The number of persons employed upon
the open lines is 68,688, according to
the last Parliamentary retorn; and the
number employed upon the uoeom
pteted lines 188,177. Total, 250-865
We have hardly yet learned that pure air is equally important to health and life, as good nutrition and pure water. We forget that we have bodies, the preservation and training of which are not less necessary (to the young) then the acquisition of knowledge.
Breaking up at the Slave Trade.
The December number of the Maryland
Colonisaiion Journal” haa a very interesting
article, which aeta out with the formal an
nouncement of a fact which haa otherwiaeand
lars suihoralively been made public—to wit,
that the famous slave mart so long known and
held in execration under th=» name oi Gallinas,
haa at last been effectively broken up by the
persevering blockade of the British cruisers.
The traders there have de i oli»hed ibe barra
eoons, or slave pens, given up all the slaves in
their possessions to the British comntodore,
and nude arrangements for their own removal,
and that ol their properly, to Sieira Leone.
So far, then, the crowning work'Of slavt
trad* extinction, at leaai on this part of tlu
African coast, has haen effected; the danger
remains that Galhnas may again become a
slave marl, when the system of cruizing anu
blockading shall be abandoned by the British
Government, as will probably be the case be
fore any long time shall have elapsed; and the
only efficient safeguard against this danger it
the aqulsition of the territory by the Republic
of Liberia, either through purchase or con
quest.
The whole coast, through an extent of 15
00 miles, from the Gambia to Cape Palmas;
was, in former years, doited with slave marls,
or stations; but Galliuas, taking its name
from a river at the mouth of which it lies,
was the principal and most atetive. This dis
tincUon it owed, mainly, to the peculiar f.rcii
ities afforded by its situation; the post being,
in fact, a cluster of small islands, giving ample
opportunities tor escape and hiding in time oi
need, aud the bv* at the mouth of the mei
m .king it difficult and dangerous fur cruisers
to enter, and in the rainy season being alm.isi
impassable. It lias bean eaiiraaied (hat for
years some ten thousand slaves per annum
were shipped from this marl alone.
The principal manager of this business—
for there were several merchants or factors a>
Gallmaa—waa a Spaniard, Don Pedro Blan
co. He was a man of intelligence and edu
cation; possessed ot great ealih, gentleman
ly in his manners, humane uud generous a?
bis calling would allow him to be, and exer
cised an almost unbounded influence among
the native*.
He lived in a semi-barbarous manner, ai
Mice as a private gentlemen and an African
prince. He maintained several establish
ments; one on an island near the river's mouth
which was his place of business or of trade
with foreign vessels, that came lo Gallinas to
dispose of merchandise; on another island,
mure remote, was his dwelling house, where
he kept hia ptvate office, his books, dined,
took his siesta, slept, &c. Ou a third «s.>
hia seraglio of native wives, each in her seve
ral dwelling, af-erthe manner of native chiefs.
Independent of all these were his barracuont
of sla.es, of greater or less extent, as circum
stances required.
As an illustration both of his authority and
of the determination wnh which it was exer
cised, it is related of him that being on one
occasion at a point on the btach, some distance
from Gsllmas, where his person was mu
known he approached the hut ol a native aim
required the owner, who was sitting at tin
door, to briQg him a light for his segar; tin
man refused, on which Bianco drew’ back,
took a a carbine from one of his attendants,
and laid the native dead at his leei. To hi
alaves, however—his human merchandize—
he waa uniformly humane and kind, taking
good cate ofilieui in sickness, supplying them
with abundant and wholesome loud, smelly
prohibiting improper intercourse between hie
subordinate and the females, and never allow
iog any to be flogged or utbetwise. misused.
Tbe first peculiarity noticed by visitors to
Gallinas was an arrangement of numerous
look-outs, or watch staimus, consisting oi lof
ty seats, fifty or a hundred feel above the
ground, either among the branches of tall
trees or on the tops of high poles, whence
•aotiuels were always scanning the horizon,
with good glasses, as well to descry the ap
proach of traders in want of slaves, as to give
warning of a visit f rom a hostile cruizer.
Auoot a mile from the river’s mouth was a
cluster of islands, on each of w hich was loca
ted Uie factory ot some particular slave mer
chant. The buildings, generally, consisted
a business ro .in, with warehouse attached
filled with merchandize and provisions, and a
barracoon lor the slaves; the whole built by
•cuing rough stakes or small trees into the
ground, these being wauled together with
withes and covered with thatch. That con
taining the slaves was much the strongest,
sod generally surronnded by,or connected with
a yard iu w hich the slaves were permuted to
exercise daily. There were some ten or
twelve of these establisnmnms, each contain
ing iforn 100 to 500 slaves. One contained
sear 1000 which it was expected, would be
shipped daily. Each banacoon waa in charge
of from two to four while men, Spanish oi
Portaguese.
They bad all suffered more or less from the
fever, were very weak, much emaciated oi
swollen by dropsy or diseased spleens, and
DMie of them particularly clean The slaves
were as well taken care of as could be expec
ted, when provisions were plentiful in the
country,but in scarcity they suffered severely.
Many instances have occurred wherein whole*
barracoon* of slave* have been let loose tbi
want of food: and it may well be
their owner would allow them to suffer sc
verely beloie giving them up. For this rea
son and because they can be stowed moft
closely in a vessel, children are generally
preferred to adults. Another peculiar feaiuu
of the place was the collection of long canoes
and boats, all kept ready for the dispatch ol
claves the moment an opportunity should oc
cur. Probably one thousand slaves could be
shipped in tour hours, ail things tavoiable. In
case the coast is dear of armed vessels, and a
slaver appeals in the offing, her signal is at
once recognized. She is signalized in return
to e >me in, and if she is watered and piovis
ioned for the voyage, and deck-laid, which l.
usually the case, she does not even come to
anchor, but stands close in the bar, whete
she is met by the whole fleet of canoes and
boats, the contents ot which are speedily pui
on board; she then stands off or up the coast
again, the canoes return to the barracoon fin c
more staves, again to meet outside the bar as
before. Sometimes however ihey are not ao
fortunate, even when not molested by a man
of-war. The bar at the river’s mouth is not 1
unfrequently dangerous, even in the dry sea
son, soar in the anxiety to ship the slaves
they run great hazards, and many a boat load
of poor w retches becomes food for sharks,
which often follow such boats and canoes in S
great cumbers. c
In the Liberator of last wtek, we find an
eloquent account of the Boston Bazaar, from
which we extract the following:
Mrs. Thomas. Mjss Carpenter as Mr*.
Rick aids again enriched the lLzaar by then
very beautiful drawings in w ater colors and
dtw.
But perhaps the most ingenious and attrac
tite object in the whole Bazaar, and the one
that elicited the liveliest expressions of won*
der sod sduiirstion, wss the model of ‘A
Da* Village Club and Fur, in the
West of ißoglsnd.’ This was the work and
gift of Mr. Mitchell and Miss Ames, of Bris
tol, and we are not surptised to learn that
aix months were occupied in its construction
We feel that no words of ours can equal the
vary lively and piquant discretion of the
•ante, by another Bristol lady, and we will
therefore take the liberty of subjoining it,
■remising that the description is not in the
least overcolored
*1 chanced, one bright May morning, to be
riding through a pleasant part of Somerset*
•bite, and after passing through a long lane
ef beauty with the roost perfect quiet, J came
suddenly, at a turn in the road, upon a large
village green and my attention wae instant
ly withdrawn from my own meditations, sod
attracted to the acene befote me. Between
one and two hundred persons, and all kinds
ef animats, were eolleeted on this spot, and 1
fade so, amidst the merry laughter of some,
the eager talking of others, the about* of
children, the balking of dogs, the braying of
asae*. tbe whistle of the ;<enn; uuutpet, the
buy a broom” of one girl, and tbe “pleese
give me a halfpenny” of another. Soon I
caught tbe well-known, cbeerful sound of the
village ♦'and, as it paraded before ooe of the
prettiest gioups of girta, marshalled in order
of two and two, and all bending their siepe
to the centre of the greeo, where stood the
aitiaction of the day, the far-famed May Pole.
Thi'se young girls, peihape twenty in Dum
ber, were dressed in w bite, with blue scarfs,
and at the loot of the Pole stood those who
were to be elected King and Queen.
O, what a happy, cheerful sight waa there
befot’eme! Here, a booih with rare mil
linery. with the dainty seller of the same;
another stall had a supply of the prettiest
porcelain then came one with a collection ot
toys, ot all deactipitons, and children, eager
ly longing for each and all, as they were dis
played by the vender. In another part, 1
espied a boy, just made the happy possessoi
of a skipping rope, which he had scaicely had
time to whirl over bi* head. Then there
came the attractive stall of toffy, and lolly
pups, and gingerbread, and barley augar, and
all iho tempting store of sweets. There a
little cage held the “Happy family,” dog,
cat, bird, mouse, in most harmonious ease.
Then the swing,' and the ever delightful
inerry-go-round, and “do look here”; Punch
and Judy showing off; “du come,” ciies one;
‘Stop,’ 1 says anuther, “one minute, heie is a
monkey rid Jin* on a dog—what fun Look
at the gypscy woman with her child on hei
back and, better still, there’s a show—The
Great Serpent—do let us go in Hera is a
stall of such pretty things, baas, and baskets,
and ribbons, and combs, and fans, and every
tfiing W hut a pile of vegetables! 0, do
look at that old beggar! And there stands
the covered cart, which, I dare say, brought
many of ihese things here. What fat men—
w hat fine women—what meny children
have not seen one half of the stalls and peo
ple yet, and must pass on. But one moment
1 must wait still, for they will sing God save
the Queen directly one of the girls has just
unfuiied the flag on which it is written. All
this, and much more,! saw and heard.
But, gentle reader, do you really think I
saw and heard all this If you do, l am
bound to undeceive you, and to tell you, that
this joyous, bappy scene was all faithfully
portrayed by ladies’ taste and ladies’ fingers,
on a platform of coik, and materials of bread,
and paints, and beads, and such like fairy
means. It was beheld by me, not on the hr ght
and flowery green, on the first of the bloom
ing of May, but in a parlor of a house in
Park street, Bnsiol, and on one of the dullest
days of dull November. But it teas one blaze
of light lor its purpose was, lo give pleasure
•o our trans-Atlantic brethren, by showing
them an old world rural scene, and giving its
proceeds to aid the cause of freedom to the
-lave!’
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, FEBRUARY 1, 1850.
The North Star is sometime* sent to friends
who do not lake the pii|er, in the hope that they
may tee fit to subirrile for it. Subecrption* tod
donations for the name may be safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederick Docgla**, Rochester,
N. Y.
{^Wasted —.Several TraVelliso Agists,
to procure vubscribers for the North Star. A
libetal commission will be given. Non* need apply
tnit such a* can bring good recommendation* for
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred-
CRICK DocgLaSS, Rochester, N. Y.
Notice to Subscribers.
Business and other communications, con
nected with the “North Star” establishment,
must hereafter be directed to Frederick Dou
glass, Rochester, N. Y., he having taken the
management of the business affairs of the pa
fe; upon his own hands.— f. d.
Notice to Subscribers.
Pay up! Pay up!! Pay up!!!
The subscribers to “the North Star” (in
Rochester, especially,) are earnestly requested
to forward their subscriptions for our third
volume, at once. Let ua start with a light
heart, a clean sheet, and a fair bre«e, upon
the voyage of the year, of which this is the
commencement.—r. o.
Notice to oar British Subscribers.
The subscribers to “the North Star” in
England, Scotland, and Ireland, are desired to
forward their subscriptions to Miss E. Nichol
son, 11 HowgilJ street, Whitehaven, by Post
office orders.—p. d.
Remond and Gibbs in the Field
ANTI-SLAVEKY MEETINGS.
Mifflin W. Gibbs, of Pennsylvania, and
Charles Lenox Remond, of MassachuMits,
will visit and address «he people on tlje above
subject, in the following places:
January 31st, Thursday, Canandaigua-.
February Ist, Friday,
3d i Sunday, Rushville.
4tb, Monday, Penn Yan.
sih, Tuesday,
6*b, Wednesday, Branchport.
7ih, Thursday, Prattsburg.
Bth&9th, Frid.& Sat. Bath.
10&11th, Sun. Si Mo. Corning.
12ih, Tuesday, Elmira,
13th, Wednesday, Millpoit.
Let our fiiends in the above places givt
'ur friends Remond and Gibb§ a cordial re<
eption, and secure for them large audiences
y circulaiing ihe notices far and wide, am
hereby advance our glorious cause.
Rochester, Jan. 30, 1850.
1 have been requested by the Lawrence
Sentinel to publish a speech made in the
city of Lawrence, at the Quarterly Meeting
of the Essex County Ami-Slavery Society.—
I regret my inability to comply with the re
quest, so kindly made by the editor of that
paper. I spoke on that occasion without
notee, and on the impulse of the moment; and
am sure that at.y attempt at an accurate te
pott, on my part, would be a failure.— w. j>.
We received with pleasure, some time
since, communications from our friend, F. T.
M.,of Leicester, England. Will he favor
us with a renewal of his poetical effusions on
philanthropic subjects.
Samuel R. Wasp charges us with sanc
tioning uncourteouH remark!, which be al
leges to have been used at the recent Con
tention at Syracuse. We deny this, and
pronounce Mr. Ward to be We
were neither called upon to sanction nor to
disown the opinions given by Messrs. Piib
bury and Foster. We thought thst every
man tn that Convention was responsible only
for hie own expressed views. Don't be in
harry for a misunderstanding, brother Ward.

Witt some kind English friend occasion
ally rend us a Loodon Times ne«« 4 »per.
A Southern C«««U« Di lTC
the Üblob*
Nothing ilJwtrttee better the timid and
•elfish material of which the Northern preaa
•od Northern politicians ate composed, and
the keen sagacity of slaveholders, than the
effect usually produced by threatening the
dissolution of the American Union. This
threat has ever been the chosen instrumeo
in the hands of the South, to bumble, sub
dee and alarm the North into n compliance
with the most unjust, dishonorable, and scan
dalous behests of Slavery. We must give
the slaveholders credit for profound skill in
the use of this mode of assault. They have
resorted to it only when all others have
failed, and have never allowed the public
mind to become so familiar with it as to des
troy the terror with which it is contemplated.
They have thereby been able to use it all
the mote successfully in sueh emergencies as
have demanded its exercise. We would not
imply that this hune bugbear has lost none of
his power; for such is far from being the
case. Many there are who once trembled at
the thought of dissolving the Union, who
can now read of and hear the proposition
beiog urged, no matter how vehemently,
w ith the utmost composure. In fact, there
are petsons of much intelligence, who are
situated in positions altogether favorable to
forming a correct judgment, wbo pronounce
all the threats of disunion from the South as
the most unmitigated of shams. We are not
certain but that this is a correct estimate oi
the character of such threats, as they drop
from the lips of Southern politicians. We
have no ides that with their knowledge ol
the exposed condition of the South, from
foes within—from foes without, any one ol
1 them would be willing to reduce his rainbow
views of disunion to the stern Teality oi
practical operation. With them it is the
long gun without powder or ball—a mere
cloud without rain. They well know the
hazardous position which the isolated South
would then occupy and we are persuaded
that the blindnesa they now evince is more
seeming than real. We apprehend, there
fore, no danger to the Union, from Southern
politicians. The only source, at the South,
whence danger to the Union may be ration
ally apprehended, is, that by familiarizing
'he masses with the ides of disunion, as the
remedy for fancied evils, the latter may, in
the blindness of their ignorance, produce a
tide in favor of disunion, so violent that even
the statesmen of the South may not be able
successfully to resist it. The case now sup
posed would not be without a parallel; and
yet we have no hopes of a dissolution of the
Union even from that source for there is not
a slaveholder of any intelligence in the land,
j w ho does not know that the American Union
is the most powerful bulwark that protect!
slavery in the South. To dissolve the Union
would be to exclude the Southern Siatei
from the sympathy and respect of the civil
ized world. They wou d be shut up within
the limits of their own horrid slave prisons,
and left alone to grapple with the strong
arms of their sable bondmen. Woe to the
slaveholder when the Union is dissolved!
-Whither can he look for succor when hit
dominion shall be disparted by his
victim The spirit of the age—the move
ments of the world, are tending mutually in
the establishment of liberty and justice among
mankind. Ever; year adds its fearful lesson,
written in characters of blood, to startle and
to stun the tyrant and the oppressor into a
sense of their guilt, and to lead them to re
pentance. It is no time now for slavery to
isolate itself. To stand alone is to stand
where the accumulated bolts of** world's
public opinion may descend, and exterminate
the system for ever.
We did not propose to speculate as to the
probabilities of a dissolution of the Union,
in the present remarks; but we desired to
call attention to an article in the Rochester
Daily American of Monday last, as a speci
men of the success of Southern bluster in
alarming that paper into apprehensions for
the safety of this Union. A mure frothy,
shallow, puerile and contemptible piece of
servility we hive seldom, of iste, seen in a
Northern paper; and certainly never in a
paper of this peculiarly free and liberal city.
It seems that the writer has been spending
two years in the State of Georgia, where he
has become quite enamored of the peculiar
institution. How such a creature could ever
be thought a fit person to edit the Rochester
American, is too mysterious for. oar ken.
He would have answered, perhaps, pretty
well for that post fifteen years ago; be is
certainly not up to the spirit of these times,
and may be deemed far behind u.e present
age. Tbia new editor of the American
treats his readers to the following dish of!
editorial twaddle
Knowing how much Whig*, and Whig
journals have suffered, by resisting fanatic*
and fanaticism at the South, 1 cannot but
hope that their political friends at the North
wiU nut render their eflutts to preserve the
i integrity of the Un.on utterly fruitless. If
I any great good was expected to accrue from
all this popular agitation, from one extreme
of the empire to the other, this hope of good
might be something like sn offset to much
positive evil. But it has put off the begin
ning of emancipation in Kentucky, at least
quarter of a century, and pais)>aed the
tongues and pens of every friend of the mea
sure in the fifteen slavelioldtng States. In
calculable injury has been done to the slaves,
and so far as 1 can discover, no benefits
have come to freemen anywhere.
Here yon have it! The sufferings oj
the Whig journals to preserve the inte
grity of the Union T’ This dear Whig editor
would alleviate the sufferings of the Whig
journals, calm the troubled waves of po] ulsr
agitation, and preserve the integrity of the
Union illuttriogg patriot! He sees no
good itr this agitation—this opposition to the
extension of slavery—this demand for the
abolition of slavery and the accursed slave
trade in the District of Columbia,—is all this
he sees naught but positive evil Pity
he sorrows of a poor old man 111l 11 He says,
that this agitation has pot off the beginning
»f emancipation in Kentucky, at least a quar
ter of a century, and paralyzed the tongues
and pens of every friend of the measure in
the fifteen slsveholdmg States. Will Mr.
Lee* of the American, tell as how many
tongues” every friend oi
the measure" he*. Row does be know that
this agitation has put off the beginning of
emancipation in Kentucky stall? I* this thr
usual effect of agitation f Did the agitation
Ibf *m|rxg*in9ftA|) offrM fgt yMajJ tkmt
wmMdhrafv wimp mm ueueas tMml
measure Did the agitation fot, the abolition
of slavery ia the Wm India erfoako aarve
to “pot off” that measure Did the ag«a
tion for tiie abolition of the corn-laws ia
England, pot off tba consummation of that
measure! If ao, the enetnie* of each and of
all (boat measures ought to have bean fote
most in supporting such agitattooa, aa the
beat means of preserving the integrity of the
iostitations sought to bo abaliebed. How we
wish this editor could make the slaveholder
believe that the heat way to pat off emanci
pation, »to unite with the abolitioniata, sup
port their papers, hoy their books, pay their
lecturers, help them to bold Conventions, and
and by every means of agitation, put off*'
the day of emancipation. It would teem
that our worthy editor differs somewhat (to
compare a little man with a great one) from
i Calhoun, who is a man of admitted
•hiewdneas and foresight. The latter thinks
if this agitation is permitted to go on, it will,
in the nature of things, pervade the land,
and destroy slavery. But then Mr. Lee has
spent two years in Georgia, and his opinion
must be taken as good against that of Cal
houn He says, that “incalculable injury haa
b?en done to the slaves, and aa far aa he can
discover, no benefits have come to freemen
anywhere.” Now we have not a very light
opinion of this gjmUeman's powers of disco
very. He is able to discover incalculable
injuries” to slaves in simply asserting iheir
right to be free. Why will not our cotetn
porary point out to us a few of these incal
culable injuries f Give us facts, brother
editor, instead of your vain and stupid ima
ginings.
The following is another chip from the
same rotten block:
“I submit that something is due from the
friends of the Union at the North, to those
Southern men of both parties, who cheer
fully make no inconsiderable petsonal sacri
fices to prevent civil war and bloodshed.—
Fur, as the Louisville Journal truly remarks,
the Federal Government never will be sev
eied, till sectional antipathies, which alone
can cause a separation, must lead to long and
sanguinaty hostilities.”
Something is due from the North”!—
Will our brother tell us what is due?
What has Hot the North sacrificed for the
preservation of this unhallowed Union? It
haa bartered sway its conscience, to swearing
to return the fugitive slave to bondage, and
to put down slave insurrections. It has ex
pended nearly thirty millions in an infernal
slave hunt in the ever-glades of Florida, to
preserve the Uniou. It has annexed Texas:
and has uniformly voted for slaveholders and
their mean abettors, to fill tne highest offices
of honor and profit in the gift of the nation, 1
to preserve the Union. What mure would
this Whig editor ask Something is due!"
Come, try your hand, and tell us uhat it is!
We give another splash from the pen of
this tender-hearted editor:
Few appreciate how much pain the hare
discussion of such a topic in the lamily circle
at the South, causes in female bosoms, whose
only fault is, that they were born to an
inheruance which the bad policy (not ’great,’
as the oompositor made me say iu a previous
letter) has lastened on their country.”
How his gnxious heart xpjpitaies aa Jte
thinks of the pain and shuddering experi
enced by the white alavehoJding ladiea of the
South, when the subject of slavery is men
tioned l His sympathies are easily excited
for these; but the hideous howls and piteous
cries of black women, under the bloody lash
of an obdurate slaveholder, awaken no in
dignation, excite no sympathy, in the breast
of this worse than Northern dough-facd.—
The only fault of these slaveholding la&Mts,
that they are born to an inheritance of human
flesh, aa their property. How much are they
to be commiserated And ia he not an ob
durate and cold-blooded man, who can witness
the agitation of those anxious “female bo-
sad nut be moved to compassionate
their unfortunate predicament
We do c w* marvel that those wicked white
women of who have no more sense
of justice M»n «o veb their equal sisters of
their hard earnings; who have no mote tee!-
ing than to cause them to be driven to the
field under a driver’s lash; who have no
better idea of than to breed
children for the slave market, in utter disre
gard of the marriage tie;—we say we do not
marvel that such hardened and guilty crea
tures should be agitated when their dark and
damning crimes are subjected to exposure.
The remainder of this remaikable article ia
similar to what we have quoted. We give it
entite, without further note or comment. It
speaks for itse f.—r. d.
If li e people of tbs slsveholding States
could be permitted to humanise and elevate
the negro race without the assistant j of citi
zens in the free Slates, the existing laws
against teaching slaves to read and write,
would anon become t dead letter, if thev
were not geneiallt repealed. Now, those
that would gladlv see them rise in the scale
of intelligence, comfort, and freedom, cannot
lift a fi iger to ameliorate their condition,
without exciting suspicions which jeopard
I heir «*wu and result in anything but
good to toe slave. It is the non-slavebtdders,
many of whom cannot rAud, that do not care
to see negroes educated better than them
selves. An intelligent servant being worth
twice as much as a stupid one, why should a
well informed slaveholder oppose the en
lightenment of persons whom he is proud to
call “my people”!
“The non-slaveholders have this whole
matter in their own hands; and they diffei
entirely ftom the Providence Journal, which
stated a few days stnee, that it is for the in
terests of those who hold no slaves to abolish
the institution. Among the h unde reds of
intelligent and not intelligent men, not slave
holders, with whom i have poavetaed on this
subject, during a residence of over two years
in Georgia, I never found one who would
consent to the liberation of slaves on any
terms, and permit them to remain in the
State. There may be Northern States
whose people would rejoice to have aa many
Georgia slaves citizens among them, ss there
are white Peri Mis; but I doubt the fact. At
all events, before five hundred thousand are
imported, the friends of the measure had
belter reside a year or two ia a community
where persona of African descent outnumber
all Others. As no man h*g more than one
life to live, and that any let be a long one.
soom little eboiee in oompeoy is allowable,
even in this age of equal rights. L M
Rev. S. J. May.—This philanthropist was
in this eity on Sunday, and delivered thtee
discourses. His rermons are made up mostly
of appeals to the better elements of human
nature, and iff eloquent enforcements of the
Christian standard of morality. The op*
P*weed sod the enslaved are never forgotten
•itbee ia the prayers the preaching of Mr.
May,—g. a.
Kdlfwnal Item,
Olite Cemetery.—lt may be almost too
hte to my e word in wnuwmdatioo of the
enterprise, industry, sod taste, of that class
of our colored brethren in Philadelphia, who
hare been active in providing a respectable
place for the interment of the colored dead of
that city. Our leaders will remember, per
haps, that we were present at the laying of
the corner-stone of the chapel erected st the
entrance of Olive Cemetery, in May last.
We had the pleasure of visiting it, in com
pany with our esteemed friend Guinea, a few
weeks ainpe, when we found the grounds
tastefully .laid out, and the beautiful chapel
almost completed. The whole reflects high
credit upon the young men under whose
management this cemetery is placed.— r. o.
Omission.—We omitted, in our thanks to
our Philadelphia friends, fer their valuable
co-opdration in efforts to sustain the North
Stas, the names of Mrs. Burr, Mm. Bna
tal I, Mrs. and Misa Buatill. These dear
friends will, we are sure, readily paidoo this
omission, since it resulted from no want of
appreciation of their good works,—r. d.
The Rochestcb Anti-Slavery Fair.—
The Fair, held in this city, during two davs
of the past week, realised two hundred dol
lars—a large pait of which will be consumed
in defraying the expenses attendant upon
holding it. While in a financial point of
view the Fair must be considered a failure,
we ate sorry to say, that morally, it has been
far from successful. This is to be deeply
regretted, and the more so, because s few
devoted friends in this city have been labor
ing industriously to make it a successful
effort in both ways. A box of goods was
received from our kind friends in Manchester,
which formed the most saleable part of the
contributions. The articles in papier mache
were greatly admired, and aold readily.— k.o.
Boston Fais. —We learn, from the Li
berator, that the proceeds of this effort
amounted to three thousand three hundred
dollars.— d.
The Washington Daily Globe contains
the late speech of General Csss on the Wil
mot Proviso. It occupies nearly twelve
columns of that paper, and is made up of a
bungling assortment of testimony, drawn
from a variety of sources, sugared over with
the usual servile truckling tu the siaveholding
overseers and slavedrivers of the South,
which has so long and so justly distinguished
General Cass as a politician. He is wholly
opposed to the Wilraot Proviso and although
instructed by his Legislature to vote for that
measure, he intimates his intention to resign
his sett in the Senate, rather than to carry
out that instruction. Is he not a conscien
tious man 1 !—r. d.
Utfi4 Ruffles.
The following minute account of the ill*
new of our dear departed friend, the late
Dc. Buggies, la from the pen of one inti
mately acquainted with the facta in tire case.
We copy the letter, aa a well deserved trib
ute to the worth of the noble man who haa
thus been called from amongst ua in the very
midst of his years and his usefulness. The
meti.ory of the just shall live, and thousands
who have escaped the yoke of slavery by hia
aid (we among the number,) will never cease
to remember this faithful friend of the slave,
and lover of mankind—with grateful ad
miration.—f. o. 1
Eaily in Sept, he began to be troubled
with a severe pain and inflamation in the left
eye, from which he waa never entirely re
lieved. At timea the pain was ao intense be
feared there was something in the eye, but it
wss examined by Dr. Walker of Northamp
ton and Dr. Dix of Boston, who both con
filmed Dr. B's first opinion that it was a seri
ous case ot inflamation of the optic nerve.—
Dr. W. advised him to give op all care and
businesa for a while, that hia already over
tasked mental and bodily energies might have
time tn recruit. But it was difficult for him
to do this while his house was filled with pa
tients, some of them very sick, and most ol
them depending upon him for daily advice and
attention. He declined taking new patients
and sought, as far aa waa poaaible under the
circumstances, the rest and quiet be so much
needed. But his heshh continued to fail, and
in the latter part of November he waa seised
with severe inflamation of the bowels. He
had the advice of Dr. Walker (Homoepath
tst) and Dr*. Wesselhoft and Giau of 3ratt
teboro, but nothing that was done for him
seemed to avail anything to restore him to
health. The inflamatioo wss removed, but
over-exertion, mental and physical bad ao en
tirely prostrated bis strength, causing a re
lapse of a former complaint (induration of the
bowels,) which added to the acute attack
rendered his oase a hopeless one. During
the last three weeks of his life he was con-
Ifined to his bed, and most of the time his
tmind seemed to be wandering, and burdened
with the care ot patieuts, arranging plans for
the iiuproveiug the grounds about the estab*
isiiment, erecting new buildidgs &a See,
hough he recognised any of hia friends who
spoke to ltiin and would converse sensibly
for a few moments.
His mother and sister were here during his
illness, and in accordance with their wishes,
his remains were removed to Norwich, Ct.
(his native place) for burial.
Though he haa passed from earth in the
midst of hia days few accomplish more in a
life time than haa he. Truly4f life be reckon
ed by deeds, rather than years, then wss his a
long one—longer than tbe lives of most men
whose years are three score and ten. For
several years past his labors have been ex
cessive an ordinary man ouuld not so long
have sustained the weight of care and re
sponsibility which his tested upon him tinee
he commenced the Hydropathic practice.—
Ho has literally worn himself out in humani
ty's service—ever ready to do whh hia might
whatever he could for the benefit of the race.
As a physician he was eminently successful.
I feel as do many others who bare been under
his mure, that to his skill and attention 1 owe
my life. To the cause of Hydropathy, to the
Anti-Slavery movement, sod to tbe cause of
humanity in general hie loee is irreparable.—
We look in vain for another to fill his place.
Only those who knew him intimately felly
ippreciate the worth and excellence of hia
Bharacter. Though remarkably energetic
ind determined, he possessed a gentleness ol
disposition, a quick aad ready sympathy
which tadsesed him the beam el hit
Bat to you by whom he «u loved u i
brother, I need sot speak of bit worth, 01
tell you how deeply we who hove enjoyed hii
society the pest year feel h» hies. Anothei
bee 101 l us to join the Angel beod of loved
ones tint wait to welcome as to that Heaven
ly Home. Z. W. H.
We publish with pleasure some extracti
of a letter from our esteemed correspondent
E. B. We should be glad if be would,
from time to time give ue hie views on the
political movements of the dsy. Will out
Fenchurch Street friend apprise him to tbia
effect.
Rothesay, Isle or Bute,
Dec..l4, 1849.
My deae Friend I lately
hesrd s popular preacher, who opened hit
sermon with the axiom (hat “Christianity
was the religion of a gentlemanand he ad
mirably maintained his proposition by tbs
teachings and the deportment of its founder
and its early votaries. Well, then, if the
above proposition be e truth, in what cate
gory are we to place the arrogant and the
rude! Both incompatible with the attributes
of a gentleman, and consequently with those
of a Christian.
It is a striking fact, that the Almighty
made choice of men remarkable for meekness
to be the founders of the two great religious
systems anterior to Christianity—the Pain
Srchal and the Levittcal. How beautifully is
this attribute displayed in Abraham's conduct
towards Lot, in surrendering to him the right
of choice of land.
The meekness of Moses has become a pro
verb. In one memorable instance it forsook
nim— of the cowardly mal
treatment of a child of bondage, by his op
pressor. He had looked upon the burdens u!
hta enslaved brethren, and the miseries ot
their condition caused his meekness to be in
abeyance during a moment of indignation.
Ihe whole life of the Saviour was a per
sonification of this virtue. Superficial ob
servers have confounded meekness with
pusillanimity. Was the exposer of the Pha
risees, the purger of the temple, ever pusill
animous? Never. By Ittm meekness was
elevated to an elegant refinement, a dignified
complacency and the raeek will commonly
be tuund to possess the fortitcr in re, as well
as the suaviter in modo.
It is seen, in the majority of instances, that
those persons who have suddenly risen from
a low station in society, to a higher, are more
arrogant and assuming than those who are
born in the higher spheres of the community.
And the Uutted Suites seetn to exhibit na
tionally the characteristics that the low-bred
manifest individually.
Wby will the Americans, by their coarse
rudeness, remind a stranger that their exist
ence among civilized nations is of a recent
date?
M. Guizot has said that France is the only
country in a perfectly civilized state. Either
bia assertion ia untrue, or Christianity is not
an instrument in civilization lor in France,
vainglory and arrugance are much more con
spicuous than humility and meekness.
Outward polish is plearing, and the observ
ance of conventional forms convenient, but
to deport oneself as a complete gentleman, te
quires something more. These are mere
outward displays of good breeding; but a
gentleman acta from a sentiment and an in
ward perception of propriety. He will so
demeau himself in his intercourse with those
of an inferior grade to himself, ss to cause in
them a cheerful acquiescence in the ine
quality—a conviction that it is fur the well
being of society that it should be so.
How beautiful would be the social inter
course of Christian principles, were innate
and Christian precepts carried out! Chris,
tianity supplies rules for all conditions, all
circumstances, and all contingencies. But,
alas the votaries of false religions often by
their conduct put self-styled Christiana to
ahame.
Contrast the recent acts of lbs Mussulman
towards the Hungarian, the Polish, and the
Italian refugees, with the bloodthirstiness of
the Russian and the Austrian Christianity.
The contrast almost palliates the spostscy of
a Bern and his ninety comrades.
jtUmil there be on earth peace and good
will to men,” the adaptation of benign
Christianity to restore a fallen world, will not
be seen the extinction of war and slavery
will be the precursor of the suppression oi
all other ills.
In mentioning slavery, contrast the feelings
of Lawrence Sterne with those of the citi
zens of the United States. Ignatius Sauchn,
who was an emancipated slave resident in
London, wrote to Sterne his gratitude for
Sterne's denunciation of slavery, thanking
him for advocating the cause of his African
brethren. Sterne in reply says, “My dear
Sancho, the Africans sre no more your
brethren, than mine."
I close this letter with a quotation from the
Philosophy of the Plan of Salvation,” by
a“ Citizen of America The soul findt
rest only in meekness; never in pride oi
selfishness.” E. B.
Philadelphia, Jan. 12, 1650.
The Hungarians were here last week and
received much aueotion. They visited Inde
perdence Hall sad were shown the relics.—
Introduced to the Mayor of the City he made
then a speech in whieh he said Th«
American heart ever beating for Liberty can
deeply sympathise with any of the human
race in their struggle with despots for free
dom.” The worthy man most have forgotten
the millions of Americana in boudage at the
South, or believed the ex-governor of Comoro
to be ignorant of the ‘peculiar institution,’
when he made so great a mistake. Among
the people who pressed into the Hall te see
the distinguished ‘exile,’ wae a colored man
whom Mtie Appolonia Tagtila shook as
heartily by the hand as she did any of the
rest; consious, no doubt that a man is a man
no matter what his eomplection. This inch
dent a reporter for the San, (I suppose) en
deavours to render ridiculous by presemine
him as a fair specimen of a good naturad
Ethiopian die., but I have no doubi that hm
right to he termed an Amertean was much
better than that of many others present.
On Tueeday evenleg, IW* alt Rev. Chas.
Gardiner of Princeton, delivered an addrem
fi«foie the PUlsd. Library Co. subject—‘Se
cret Societies.’ Himself a member of each
an Institution be was warm in their praise—
ye* he was by ae means backward ra repri
amadiM item fax their defeats omi
He manuined that their impeTfeckma wen no
argument fur their abolition, tor, said the
1 R«*. gentleman. I know of no institution
which ia perfect. The church herself is not
infallible. He described to the taiiatotioo of
Sis audience a Temperance Asaocuuon which
himself and a few others had organised is
Princeton, and a Hall which they had built,
with the beneficial influence that bad been
produced upon the fairer portion of comm ini
ty. A debate followed the lecture by the
members of the company.
On Wednesday evening, Mist E. T. Green
field gave a Concert in the Hall at the Phila
delphia Institute, assisted by some ft tends,
sod “several lady amateurs, her pupils.
This lady baa progressed rapidly in the pub
lic estimation a result achieved entirely by
her extraordinary talents as a vocalist
teacher of music. A dnet—a piece for four
hands—in which site was assisted by one of
her pupils, (a white young lady) was deserv
edly much applauded. A lady and a young
girl, (her daughter, 1 believe,) sang with an
excellent effect, and were “encored” in moat
of their pieces. All the pupila did well, and
the large audience (the Hall was crowded)
seemed exceedingly well pleased. Prejudice
it appears is vincible. I atn of opinion that
the “North Star Fair,” held in this city,
dealt the monster an effective blow. Thera
were many white persons present at Mice
Greengeid's Concert.
On Friday evening, I repaired to the Phila
delphia Institute, having seen an announce
ment that Dr. Rock, of Salem, would lecture.
The gentleman, however, did not af>pe*t and
the audience were entertained by extempora
neous speeches from other distinguish**! gen
tlemen.
Mr. Griffin, of New York, will lecture be
fore the Philadelphia Library Company, on
1 uesday evening. Subject: Commerce
and on Wednesday evening, the first lecture
of a couree will be delivered before the “Ph«-
nixonian Institute.” R j}
The following letter is from ibe pen of Mr.
J. C. Holly of Brooklyn, one of the des
pised and oppressed of this boasted land of
Liberty, He is not a mulatto, but a black
man. Let hie wicked dcspiaera read this let
ter, and learn that our down trodden race are
rising from the ignorance and debasement into
which American tyranny has crushed them.
—r. o.
Brooklyn, L. I. Jan. 91, 1850.
To Hon. Henry United States Senator,
Washington, D. C.
Diar Sir —I perceive by a report of a
meeting held by the American Colonisation
Society, at the seat of the general govern
ment, that you .still seriously entertain the
idea of expatiiating a large pertion of the
American people, and forcing them by might
ol oppression and discouragement at home, to
settle on a distant and foreign shore.
ou will pardon me as one of those whom
it is ptoposed to “benefit” by the scheme,
for addressing you ray views, in relation to
ibe justice, expediency, or practicability of
the proposed measure, of which you are the
distinguished head and exponent. And al
though not apecialiy deputed-to represent the
views of those with whom I am identified,
yet l hazatd the opinion mat I express but
the views of one “generation,” of that much
abused, injured and under-estimated portion
of the American public.
I take pleasure in addressing this to your
consideration, because of your, Jevotioo to
the cause of humanity and justice, made
manifest in yot:r eloquent appeals in behalf
of the oppressed of Europe the Greeks,
the Poles, the Irish, the Hungarians; and to
doubt that your philanthropy ia as broad as
the race of man, would be to doubt your
Democracy—to doubt your Chiiiuanity— to
doubt your sincerity, in those appeals, that
were responded to by the friends of Freedom
every where; which it is far from my pur
pose to do in this communication.
V\ e will first consider the proposed expatri
ation as relates to its justice. Simultaneous
with the landing of the Pilgrim fathers, on
Plymouth rock—those founders of civil and
Religious Liberty—those mighty men of
whom every American in whose bu* m throbs
a heart of flesh must be proud—those wondei
ful men, the admiration of an impartial world,
who far lrom their and trienda, perse
vered, amidst dangers and privations, until
History points to them, as the founders of a
vast Empire, and a Nation stands as a Monu
ment, hearing record of their greatness;—, aim
ulwneous with their landing, landed the
shackled cargo of a slave ahip, upon the
virgin _aoil of your own native Virginia,
proud mother of States and Statesmen, long
before her Washington, her Henry, her
Jefferson or her Clay, had enterad upon the
stage of existence, or into the imagination ol
their ancesters—the hardy Pilgrims of toil
the meek and wronged forefathers of those
it is proposed to rudely tear from their homes,
and re-outrage by similarly against their
might, forcing them to a repassage of the
mighty deep, to a shore as foreign to them as
was Virginia to their ancestors. And as the
sons of the Northern Pilgrims, have by their
perseverance and skill, rendered the vast
wilderness, the nigged hills of New England,
into cities, towns, and villages, teeming with
industry, enterprise, and intelligence, filled
her waters with whitened sails and groaning
hulls: so have the sons of those S rathein
Pilgrims, by their lab.*, their sweat, and
their blood, tilled, watered and fertilized the
South, whilst your Norman ancestry fur
nished the skill and capital. And if the south
te leas beautiful, less prosperous, less con
venient comparatively than the east, it is not
that they have been idle, but because the
•oil has been cursed by wrongs, that it,
they have not been permitted to acquire that
intelligence and skill, by mental culture, and
honorable incentive aa to enable labor to pro
duce abundantly. If Virginia is leas dene*
in her population—leas wealthy-lem diffuse
in her education, it i* no fsult of theirt,
but of her Legislators; snd in obedience to a
law of the Supreme Legislator, that \i me
m its own reward, vice brings its own punish
merit. We are endeared by a thousand
recollections, to oar native soil, and have
purchased by a thousand toils sod sufferings
en inalienable right to a participation therein.
We have contributed to the prodo tion of hex
wealth, in the defence of her nationality,
and in the support of her government. Wo
frel proud of her broad plaint, villas, and sa
vannaha—her lofty mountaine-ber beautiful
men and feel more sorrow than anger
whan we are rudely, and falsely told, tha
we have no right to call them our own; tha
Henry Clay, and Thos. H. Benton, ant
Daniel Webster, and John O. Calhoun, an
not our exalted fellow citizens; but our God
created and ordained enemies, that He whi
bath created each, as suited hie wise provi
dence, in color, form, and feature, te the au
thor ef an enmity like unto that between the
feed of the woman and the aerpent; and that
neither the political faith aet forth in the
American Magna Char la, or the Christian
religion, which proclaims peace and good will
on earth among men, can remote this enmity.
I can not believe this. Our variegated free
colored and slave population foibida that 1
should—that population in whose veins it has
been said flows the beat blood of the chiv
aliy of Virginia, and petmit me, to add of
the whole Union.
I appeal to you who have said, that it i*
the duty of those having superior moral and
intellectual endowments, to foster and pro
tect, instruct, encourage and improve
those less favored—if it be jist to thrust the
descendants, of the Virginia pilgrims, of 1620,
from their dear bought homea, by oppression
and discouragement. I appeal to you who
have lately professed to have become a fol
lower of the meek and lowly Nasarene, who
preached that whosoever hateth hie biotlier.
is a murderer—that if you love not your
brother whom you see, you cannot love God,
whom you do not sec, —if that God be the
author of the prejudice that dogs the track of
the free colored man, but which is giving
way before the enlightenment of the age,
and the ptogress of the race of men, ot is
the growth of seed sown by slavery and
injustice, and fostered and cultivated by the
American Colonisation Society. 1 beg speedy
answers to these questions, as upon them
depends the removal, or confirmation of im
pressions which, if wrong, ought to be re
moved.
Secondly. We will consider the expediency
of the proposed measure. Although art hum
ble foliuwer ot that school who believe
that right is at all times expedient—duty in
terest, yet we will endeavor to consider it in
accordance with the generally accepted rule,
that it is not always expedient to do right, or
safe to do duty. For convenience, 1 will sub
divide this into three minor propositions —capa-
city, policy, and interest. l«t. As to capaci
ty. The United States, embraced according
to Malle Btun, Woodbridge and others, pre
vious to the Annexation of Texas, and the
acquisitions of California, and New Mexico,
two millions of square miles. By those ac
quisitions eight hundred and.fifty one thou
sand five bundled Square miles have been
added. It is estimated that this extent of
territory is capable of maintaining four times
the present population of the globe. The
South, though she would promote her Inter
est by changing the relation existing be
tween capital, and labor—
By urging on, from love of rub,
Rather than forcing, by thr lash;
yet she cannot afford to lose a class of
laborer*, who from long nsage of toil and
hardship, are pre-eminently calculated to cul
tivate cotton, rice, sugar, and tobacco—her
ample products; not that Europeans could not,
cultivate them but it wbuld take much time
and hardship* tu prepare them for their suc
cessful culture; beside there is an abundant
field for the industry of all who may seek an
asylum here, wiihout supplanting those ac
climated and useful laborers. There is
room for all to work on harmoniously for
the developement of those great resources,
embosomed in our extensive dominion, each
oonuibuling in his own sphere, to the nation
al wealth, prosperity, and glory; and to the
advancement of purely liberal iostitutions
such as were contemplated by the founders
of our common country.
SJly. As to the policy of our country;
The fundamental principle of our country is,
that government derive powers ftoro the con
sent of the governed that when laws are op
pressive, it is the right and tbe duty of the
people to repeal them through their represen
tatives. It contemplates that all ahall actively
assent to, or dissent from laws existing or
proposed. It contemplate* a tecogniuon of
all men—no matter what institutions they
were fitei subject to, or what sky their eyes
firrt beheld, if they but declare their prefer
ment and attest their allegiance as citizens. It
proclaims to open its doors to the oppressed
of all nations. It contemplates at some fu
ture period, the world ot mankind, enjoying
its institutions, and by general consent, uni
ted in one vast republic, one brotherhood, one
great pelitical family. Then how impolitic to
advise an inoffetiaive, a highly useful and pa
triotic. people, whose toil, and blood, and bones
are linked as indissolubly with the soil, as
Plymouth rock, and whose identity with the
country for weal or woe, (and they have had
their share of the latter,) are of as long dura
tion, as the memorable pilgrims, who landed
upoi that base of Amerinan greatness. 1
would humply ask if such a proposition, is
consistent with American policy? Does it
flnd an advocate in the eloquent defender of
the cauee of liberty in Europe?—the em
bodiment of that system which has for its
mot'o, The encouragement of home indus
try.” An impartial yet ignoiant observer,
would suppose we had a redundant popula
t on, and the question was, Who can we
best afford to part with
3dly. Of what interest would it be to this
country, to get rid of tome four of five mil
lions of iu native pipulaiion, who have by
two hundred year’s labor, assisted in enriching
her firtfds, sod ad ninistering to the ease and
comfort of it* ettiasns; who side by side with
other of their countrymen, have bieasted the
stonn of bullets, and borne triumphant aloft
the stripes and stars, the fellow soldier* of
WxasMiNOTox, Guess and JacxsoS, the
private aid* to many of the heroea in the
Mexican war; who .have become interwoven
with American aong and literature, and who,
with the Indian, f »nn the basis of a purely
Amermao literature W hat crime have they
committed, that they mutt away to the con
vict ships, and be transported from the bones
ef their forefathers? I* their crime only the
color ef their *kio? or are they who have made
this Cob* the badge of meanness, a pretext
for insult, reproach and hatred 1 Would ask
whether those who have enacted that the
color ef a negro or mulatto is prima foot evi
dence that be Ist sieve, bate not violated the
Constitution of their country, which provides
that no bill of attainder ahall he panned

A Grecian philosopher, once asked ih«-
question, Whom do we hate most?” nd
t after several ineffectual attempts to answer it.
d from his cotemporariea, answered, Tbost
s we have most injured.” Perhaps this ma}
enable colonieatronists to discover, that their
i> victims ate not so dangerous as they appre
head, that it is their own hatred that ha unu
their imaginations, and like the ghost of the
i murdered Banquo, will not down at tftieii
i bidding.” Render but justice to os, and by
i gones will be buried in oblivion, and we will
ever be proud o{ our Harry of the wet t. v
Had you been in New York or New
England, in 1844, and seen with what erif hu
siaam the majority of the colored voters,went
for the anti-annexation candidates, you would
have thought them, perhaps, a too forgiving,
instead of a dangerous population.
The third and last proposition, is, the prac
ticability of the colonotation scheme. It ap
pears to me, that the most sanguine advocate
of negro expatriation, should by this time be
convinced of the impossibility by any means,
of removing the four or five millions of par
tial descendants of Africans, from this coun
try. We are here, and here we mean to
remain; we can’t be coaxed, cheated, hit sed
or kicked out of our country we look v.ith
unmitigated disapprobation upon all such (pro
positions, and heartily scorn and despise the
means by which 'it is sought to be attained,
vi*. exclusion, special and oppressive higi*
lstion, and the fostering of an unnatural pre
judice, such as the American colomzatioi i so
ciety has essayed to do, and charged upon
tbe author of our existence, (by its tail c ol
impassable gulfs,) natural repugnance and
such choice epithets, in the same inconsisaam
harrangeis, in which they hove claimed par
excellence, our dear, devoted, distinguished
friends. We hail with pleasute the grow ing
sense of justice, east, west, noith and sot rlh,
and balieve there is love of liberty, and
Christiautiy enough in the American people,
of all sections to yet do us justice; and
above all that the great RULER of the uni
verse hath ordained it; we mean neve i to
cease demanding it but with the cessatio n ol
ourheart’a vibration, we mean logo where you
go, die where you die, and be buried ir» the
place of your burial and finally, if the en
lightenment of the American people, will
permit them to annihilate us by foul naenns,
they shall consummate the darkened,moosti ous
deed, and appear before the Supreme Judge
of men, and natiois andwith stained ha nds
and souls.
In conclusion permit me to subscribe my
self your fellow citizen,
JOSEPH C. HOLLY.
Rochestes, Jan. 35, 1850.
Fredrick: —Being a contributor to the
Anti Slavery Fair which closed last evening,,
my name and presence will doubtless be
used as endorsing the entire proceedings. I
am not ashamed to identify myself with the
cause of the slave, but I believe it need not
necessarily follow that I must approve every
thing done professedly in his behalf or lor
emancipation.
Allow me to say, then, that I regret that
them is so much of the fanciful and so Mule
of th e useful presented «t our Anti-Slavery
Bazaars. While Abo lionisis are reasonably
expected to he economical in furnishing their
dwellings and in their manner of living—not
only for the preservation of health and
strength, the better to furlher the causo of
freedom —but to afford better facilities in time
and money for the diffusion of Anii-Slui ery
Truths, they ought to carefully avoid an en
couragement of extravagance. Abolitionists,
too, should be enough couversiant with the
laws of health and longevity to avoid late
suppers; especially of the character of the
one got up on this occasion. Another thing
I did not like. The lottery system in both
morally aud legally wrong. Yet tickets
were sold to the value of the articles designa
ted when but one draws the prize. Tv be
sure the proceeds are used for the benefit ol
tbe oppressed instead of enriching one at the
expense of many. Still if this system is
used for certain purposes, however good, does
it not encourage ns use for another purpose
not quite as good and so on till we uray soon
find it doing its former evil work
1 am glad that the North Star, like its An
ti-type, or its original in the blue vault of the
Heavens, continues to shine, and that the pros
pect is somewhat favorable that like that, it
will ever be a beacon of freedom to the down
trodden slave. L. Mabbett.
We here give our readers the promised
rentalks ot Wra. Llovd Garrison on the
Character of the Chronoiype, a paper recent
ly discontinued, in Boston. They are full of
instruction to all who engage in the work of
reform.— f. d.
The Boston Ckroaotype.
This paper has been discontinued tor lack
of patronage. It was edited with industry,
tact and ability, but was sadly deficient in
dignity consistency and principle. The time
has been when we entertained for its editor
the warmest affection and the highest esteem;
and at that period he deserved both. For
the first half a dozen years after his espousal
of the ami-allvery cause, he was conspicuous
for his zeal, courage, self-sacrifice, uncom
promising spirit, indefatigable labors in its be
half; and had he endured to the end—-had hr
not identified himself with the tieacherous
seceders from the American Anti-Slavery
Society, and become as malignant to it as be
fore he had been faithful—had he not made
shipwreck of principle, and ridiculed the idea
of a standard of absolute justice and right
had he not thrown away all self-respect, all
regard for fairness and truth—he might,have
won for himself a solid and permanent repu
tation, and continued a burning and a shining
light. Alter his defection, he became the
editor of the Massachusetts Abolitionist,* a
paper started with the hope of crushing the
Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and
strongly characterized by personal malevo
lence aud abuse, by misrepresentation and
falsehood. Falling of success in ilm un
gracious business, he subsequently gave him
self wholly to the fabulous for a living—i„
other words, to the translation and publication
of La FolUaitu’s Fablet. But this did not
pay and finally the Coronotype was launch
ed on the uea of adveuture, not exactly for
piratical purposes, but with a variety of flag*
to be used deceptively according to the exi
gencice of the case, without much scrupto as
to the kind of freight taken on board, and
having no eeruis destination. It has now
gone down, but not at all tuthe detruneat of
lawful and honorable commerce.
From its commencement to its extinction,
the Chronotypt was a catch-penny sheet,
havieg two special objects in view— first, a
bitter sod unmitigated fowtiUty to ‘old organ-
Med aboilUomaot,’ end secondly, a superficial
support of various teforntatoiy movements,
so as to catch the putnmegeof all who reason
sad foe! superfisially is regard to thaae mat-
ter*. It nun«l an air of independence and
>oldne«a, yet was accomodating, adroit and
rickish, aaan end waa to be gained, it was
.iot without its merits, and published much
useful and valuable matter; yet its advocacy
»f any cause, so fat as the editor was coo*
terned, was generally in such s trifling, un-
Jiguified manner, at to afford it no substantial
itd. At times it was scurrilous in the extreme;
■I could not, therefore, make any moral im
resssion upon the community. Men read it
mbe amused, not instructed, as tbey read
ihe Boston or New York Herald. It waa
flippant, it was smart, it waa puguacioua, it
vas unscrupulous. Why then did it not
succeed Because nobody could safely trust
it; because it said enough on the subject ol
■efoimto lose the countenance of conservat
ism, and equivocated and diluted too much to
win the hearty support of radicalism. 'lf it
had told less truth in its life,’ says the editor
in his valediction, 'it would not be lying here
in death,’ This is not certain. At almost
any time, while it was. living, it might have
been said of it—‘here lies the Chronotype’—
or it was not veracious. It was the chosen
medium through which apostates from the
inti-slavery cause sent their poisoned arrows
at its uncompromising and conscientious ad
vocates. Its moral philosophy was of the
Paley type. It ridiculed consistency, and
made a mock of conscience. Witness its
course respecting the Disunion position ol ihe
American Ami-Slavery Society. It satirized
and denounoed that Society for recognising
any pro-slavety guaranties in the United
Slates Constitution roundly denied that
there were any such in that instrument, and
hen gave its support to the Free Soil paity,
which not only acknowledges all the compro
mises alluded to, but equally with the Whig
and Democratic parties is ready to stand by
them. Witness its plastering over the pro
si iverv character of Martin Van Buren and
the New York Barnburners. Witness its
mphialica), untruthful, billingsgate defence ol
'Father Mathew,’to shield that craven heail
ed, two faced reformer from condemnation.
Every position has seemed more agreeable
to its taste and morality than an erect one
and it very perceptibly giew weak in its tone
and lax in its moral requirements as it ad
vanced in years. Its editor is not deficient in
mental acuteness, or in ready talent; but tiia
past career has shown that he is not s relia
ble man.
There is great need in this as in other cities
•if a daily journal, that shall be broadly re
formatory in iis object, divested of ail person
al malevolence, dignified in its course, clear
m the perception and steadfast in the main
tenance of principle, edited with tact and
ibility, and Ht the same time equal to any
other as a newspaper, containing the general
intelligence of the limea. Such a journal,
we believe, might be made to live; but it
must have a very different urn at the helm
fro ii the editor of the Chronotype to whom
we wish better success with more honesty
and self-respect in his next undertaking.
DOINGS IN CONGRESS.
IN SENATE.
The following debate, (which took place
*n the United State* Senate on Thursday, the
24th tnst.,) shows the deteimination of the
Slaveholders' to persist in their demand upon
the North, in behalf of kidnapping the flying
fugitive—and evidences the very awkward
position of a Liberty Party man when sworn
to support the Constitution of the United
States. It will be seen, by the remarks ol
Mr. Chase, of k Ohio, when charged with
voting for a resolution, which nullifies the
clause of the Constitution relating to fugitive
slaves, that he merely discusses that part of
the Constitution which speaksof'mental reser
vation—that he leaves the impression upon
Southern men that he is opposed to the reso
lution emirs. To this complexion we have
always felt certain that Liberty Party men,
how brace soever out of office must come
when once brought face to lace, in office, with
slaveholders. Does Mr. Chase intend to re
gard the fugitive clause in the Constitution
It he do why not come out, and say so, in
plain language! If he do not so intend, he
ought to declare his views explicitly, that the
Noiih may be in fpossession of correct infor
mation respecting his position.—r. D.
CAPTURE or FUUITIVE SLAVES.
The Senate in Committee of the Whole,
proceeded to the consideration of the special
ordei—the bill pinvidmg the mure effectual
execution of the provision of the Constitution
telaiing to the recapture of fugitive slaves.
Mr. Butler addressed the Senate in sup
port of the Bill, stating its object, tnfl ex
plaining the necessities which, in his opinion,
required us immediate adoption, in the course
of his reiuatks, stating that the loss to the
South, by the escape of slaves, amounted
annually to at least $150,000. He must in
candor confess, that lie had no very great con
fidence that the bill would effect, to any con
siderable extent, the required object, because
the Federal Government had but lhtle authori
ty to enforce the recognition and fulfilment
of the requirements of the spirit of the Con
sniuiiun. The good faith and integrity ol
the people must be relied on, in a great mea
sure, for '.he support of the Constitution, and
if that would not preserve it inviolate, little
dependence could be placed upon statutory
provisions to effect that object. He referred
to the legislation of the various Northern
States in relation to the recapture of run
aways, contending that their laws were in
tended to evade the constitutional provision,
and that, under their operation, it was almost
useless to attempt the recovery of a fugitive
slave. Alter cuing from the statutes of vari
ous Stqfes, he said that lie bad not been able
to ascertain what were those of Ohio. The
sentiments of her representatives on this
floor were very well known. One of them
had, in a resolution,declared that when called
■i|>on to support the Constitution of the
United States, he would do so, with s mental
reservation, never to support this clause re
lative to fugitive slaves.
Mr. Chase asked to whom the Senator re
ferred.
Mr. Butler—To you, sir.
Mr. Chase l never offered such a resolu
iiun—never voted for such—never would offer
»url never would vole for such a resolution.
Mr. Butler said ibe resolution was im
puted to the Seustor in a newspaper para*
graph.
Mr. (/BASE thought that when the Senator
made such charges he should be careful to
have better authority for them than newspaper
pangraphs.
Mr. Butler said that the Senator from
Ohm presented the resolution in propria per
sona at an Anti-Slavery Convention. He
was glad to hear that the statement was un
irue. Mr. Butler stated further that those
of the Northern States which had not passed
laws evading the constitutional provision, had
failed to take eny measures to assist the
South, as they were bound in good faith to
do. At to any Congressional action on the
subject, he was well aware that the North
baa the majority end that the only hope of
the South was in the wisdom, honor, and for
bearance of that majority. They asked that
a constitutional provision for their protection
be carried out, that they might enjoy the
•imtection for which they had stipulated in its
adoption. In oor.doding hit remarks—
Mr. Butlks made some incidental allusions
to the quesimn of Slavery, which now agi
tates the Union. He acknowledged that the
discord and distraction now prevailing upon
the question, grew oat of the result of the
war with Mexico, but he Ml it due to him
•elf to eav, that while he advocated the war.
led voted for supplies in the ftrat instance,
that from the time it became a war of ta»a
■too, be was tbe only gsntiemao.on bis side
the chamber, who opposed the acquisition
of new territory as a fruit of the wtT. H*
fores* wthat such aquisiiion would prove at
apple of discord, as it had proved, lu allud
ing to the evila which he feared might reeuh
fn«n the acquisition of territory, by a.lirg
army, at a great distance from I wore, h<
passed a glowing eulogium upon Goner*
Sontt, who, with an influence over hia army
which might have enabled him to pursue al
most any scheme of sell-aggrandisement, a>
slime when hia achievement* were hemp
crowned with soceeaa, and when well-earuei
laurels were about to fall on him, for acu
which would have made a lame tor him* a
extended as the civilized world-left the fich
at the direction of hia Government and re
turned home, leaving others to reap the fruiu
of hi* ability and plan* lor success. Hia con
duct on that occasion deserved at the hands o
the people the highest reward which his count
ry could bestow:he deserved such distinction,
not only for the purity ol hia designs, but foi
the ability with which he executed them.
Mr. Caxsi row to address the Senate. He
did not know why any one Senator should be
singled out, aa be had been on one or two
occasions, unletn it was that a Senator not
belonging to either of the great parties was a
safer object of attack than one who was sup
ported by a powerful party. In a lew remaikfr
he should briefly say that he favored no con
cealment of purpose or principles, no mental
reservation or hesitation to avow what he be
lieved to be the truth. As to the Resolutioi
which had been attributed to him, he had
already denied his connection with it.
Mr. Mason inquired whether Mr. Chasi
was not present at the meeting which adopter,
the Resolution
Mr. Chase saidl the Resolution was adop
ted by a Convention of the Liberty Party,
held at Buffalo, at which he was present, and
of which he was a member. He was one ol
the Committee on Resolutions, and the Reso
lution in question was presented to that Com
mittee, who declined however, to present it t»
the Convention. How far hia action in th«
Committee led to that result, he would no.
say. It waa subsequently introduced inti
iheConveniiun by the mover, and adopted
He desired, while up, to say, that ihe Liber
ty Party was computed of meo of as pure
character as that of any body of individual*
ever associated for political purposes; men
who had the honesty to avow what they
meant, and the courage to fulfil what they
resolved.
Mr. Mason expressing his desire to hr
heard on this bill, iia further cousideixtion
was postponed until to-morrow.
Mr. Seward introduced a resolution of in
quiry into the propriety of giving to Capt.
Cook of the British bark Sarah, some suita
ble token ol the approbation by Congress oi
his gallant and humane conduct, in rescuing
the p issengers, officers and crew of the ship
Caleb Grimshaw, destroyed by fire at sea.
Laid over.
After a abort Executive Session, the Sen
ate adjourned to Monday next.
Wednesday, Jan. 16, 1850.
Mr. Seward presented a petition ui 325
dozens of New York for ihe abolition of Sla
very in the District of Columbia, an I moved
it* reference to the Committee on the Judicia
ry. Mr. Berrien moved that the question of
reception lie upon the table. Mr. Kmg of
Alabama ?*id that he staled the n her day ao
plainly that he thought every S-natur anil
the presiding officer would understand it, that
such petitions would always be objected to.
[Mr. King read the Chair a ecture on its
duty. It was the usage of the beuate, when
such petitions were presented, t» raise the
quesdon of reception, s"d lav that question
on the table. In this v sty sin y got rid of a
veiy disagreeable and excusing subject. The
Vice President, therelore, whenever such
missiles were sent heie, ought to presume ob
jection, and put the question, Shall they he
received The Chair stood corrected, of
courpe.]
The Vice President. The Senate will
pardon me. lam only anxious that ihe usu
al course should be taken. The Chair an
nounced that a motion had been made that the
petition be iHceived and referred. The 'hair
was nut aware that the Chair had any power
to present any question other than the one
which was moved.
Mr. King. As a matter of course, "Shall
the paper be received?” is the questiou.
The Vice Presuit nt. The question now i?
to lay the motion of reception on the table.
The yeas and nays having been ordered,
were then taken, and r< suited thus:
Yeas—Messrs. Atch.son, Badger, Bell,
Beniun, Berrien. Borland, Bright, Butler,
Calhoun, Ca-a, C emena,Davis of Mississippi,
Dawson, Dayton, Dickinson, Dodge oflowa,
Douglas, Downs, Foote, Hauston, Hunter,
Joues, King, Mason, Miller, Morton, Pearce,
Rusk, Sebaation, Soule, Sturgeon, Turney,
—32.
Nays—Messrs. Baldwin, Chase, Clarke,
Coo|ier, Corwin, Davis of Massachusetts,
Dodge of Wisconsin, Felch, Greene, Hamlin,
Norris, Phelps, Seward, Shields, Smith,
Spruance, Upham, Wales, Walker— l 9.
So the motion to receive the petition was
laid on ihe table.
[lt will be observed that Bright of Indiana.
Cass of Michigan, Dayton and Miller of New
Jersey, Dickinson of New York, Sturgeon of
Pennsylvania, Dodge and Joaes of lowa—
eight Senator* from free. States—four from
the West, tour the East, six of them Demo
crats and two Whigs—voted to lay the mo
tion to receive on the table—in other words,
voted against the right of petition.]
Wc copy the following extract from the
York Herald, which shows that our dear
brother, W. W. Brown, is doing a noble
work in directing the moral sentiment of
England against American slavery.—r. d.
American Slavery.
The numerously attended meetings, which
have taken place in ihe Lecture-hall, in this
city, during the present week, lor the purpose
of nearing addresses on the subject of Amer
ican slavery, have been ot a nature very grati
fying to the philanthropist, as showing the
strong feeling which exists, in the minds of
our fellow-citizens, agsmstt the barbarous
traffic in human flesh. Mr. Brown, who ad
dressed the meetings with great talent and
fluency, is a colored negro.who has succeer ed
in effecting his escape from the lash of h s
cruel taskmasters. Thomas Carlisle has laid
down the dociriue that the negro population
have not the capacity for being educated, but
here we have an instance, in addition to n nu
merable others which might he cited, if a
slave realising a great amount of knowhdge,
and the (tower of imparting it to others with
facility, in a far greater degree, than the vast
majority of the white population can boost.
Mr. Brown states that he acquired the sit ol
reading from some children, with whom he
had brief and secret interviews si nights m a
garret. He afterwards became a talented ad
vocate in behalf of his colored brethern, and,
ultimately, was appointed a delegate for B«w
ton to the Peace Congress at. Pans. His
statements, the results of persona I experience
and personal observation, exhibit a picture
the horrors of slavery, in a professedly free
country, that ought to raise the blush ot
shame on the countenance ole very American.
The severe laws against parties who harbour
slaves who have escaped, or who give them
food to prevent them perishing from hunger—
the punishment inflicted upon those who teach
slaves to read, or who impart any amount ot
education to t iera—the inconsistent conduct
of a large poition of professing Christians,
who are the owners of slaves—md the traffic
in slaves, for the benefit even «f doctors of di
vinity end theological institution—eli theee
facts are disgraceful to the character of the
American, and a foul blot upon the national
We trust that Mr. Brown will pursue hit
mission, until every city and town in this
country hae reciprocated the resolution pasted
by the citiwn* of York, that the inhabitants
of the United States have no right whatever
to me the word.‘*iiberty,” so long as slavery
exists within their dominions. The tinsni
muus voice of the people of Great Britain,
thus earnestly expressed, would, etlem, hi*
ten the emancipation of the negio popalatiou,
unless the Ataericrns be toially dead to Chris
nan feeling, and to the sacred obligations im
posed upon ihem by that g.wpel they pTofc*
to cherish, but the sacred precepts of which
they now so wantonly violate.
Hansaad Webster.
Out object in to give a sketch of Congress,
aa it is—its members sad their numbers; but
we must tike notice of a time removed soon
years back. We refer to the great South
Carolina debate upon the tariff question of 18
33. We wete in the gallery. The nullifi
cation fdver had risen almost frenzy high.—
Members of ail parties had deserted the lower
house to witnes the splintering of lauces be
tween Robert Y. Hayoe, of South Carolina,
and Daniel Webster. When we entered, the
halt Gen. Hayne was speaking. He was a
min of general youthful appearance, with his
shirt collar turned over his cravat, and his
hair stnootniy brushed across his forehead.
He was of the middle stature, and well made.
He waa speaking energetically; his eves we»e
peculiarly brilliant, and his face was extreme
ly pale. He moved up and down the aisle*
formed between desks, with a rapid step; hi?
gestures were vehement, and he appeared to
be under a high state of excitement. W«
were peculiarly struck with his whole appear
ance, and the tone of feeling evident in tht
chamber. Mr. Calhoun, then Vice President
was in the chair. With hia large, steady and
vigilant eyes, witnessing the first great bin.
tie of bis docuine, he seemed the very spirit
of embodied interest; not a word, not a ges
tuse escaped his lion-look.—The Senate waa
deeply interested, aa a matter of course. The
language of Gen. Hayne was rich and vigor
ous and his powerful sketch of the effect ul
the impost law on the South—the description
of our people—his own|bold and hazardous el
ocution and impetuous bearing—weie evident
ly making a strong impression on the body.
Prom time to time, attention would be direc
ted from him to the gentlemen who was ex
pected to answei him, whom Gen. Haym
attacked, undei cover of a terrible and galling
fire.
Cold, serene, dark, and melancholy, that
man, thus assailed, sat apart, bleak and frown
ing as a mountain rock, he evidently felt the
gigantic influences that were at work around
him, but Ins profound mind waa strengthening
ttsell for the contest. And how deeply sol
emn, was that hour, that moment! how grand
that scene! and what were the meditations
and spirit rallying! of that dark man?—Hi?
countenance wavered not during the whole ol
that tremendous speech; assault after aseauli
was made upon h ut, but yet he neither turn
ed to the right nor to the left, hut calmly and
gallantly, like a soldier waning ihe signal, he
b ded his hour. Thai time of retaliation came,
swift 33 the thoughts 01 vengeance, to Daniel
Webster. Who will forget the exordium of
that remarkable effort, the lashing sarcasm,the
withering tones of that voice, and the temper 1
of his language? Gen. Hayne (we remember
distinctly) changed color and appeared to be
d.sconceried. But who that heard him will
permit the peroration to be forgotten?—those
closing passages of grandeur, that majestic f
allusion to the flag of freedom and hia coun
try. Looking with hisdatk and lustrous eye, a
through the glass dome of the chamber, over a
which he could see the banner floating, he de- 1
litered an apostrophe, which lias never been
surpassed, and seldom equalled. It composed
a figure of ihe most thrilling interest—a burst
«f solemn and pathetic feeling; and coming
from such a source, (a man generally esteem- t«
cd phlegmatic,) it was electric. It 'was like
the beam of sunset, or the gleam of summer
liglitniug, radiating the brow of the tllifl to
which we have above alluded.
But these scenes are passed, and the coun-
try has the benefit of those speeches; but the
memory of them, and the incidents that atten
ded them are forcibly impressed on our
mind.— National Magazine.
English Newspapers,—The Family
Journal circulates, weekly, 125.000 copies,
Chambers’ Journal, 70,000, and Eliza Cook's
Journal, 60,000.
An intelligent gentlemen lmm California
estimates the amount of gold shipped ai the
mine $30,000,000 lor the year 1840. He
supjoses that not more than one-lhird of the
amount duu finds its way to the United States.
Receipts
Fur the .North Star, for the Wuk ending
January 90, 1850-
AnnT. Adama 2.00
Ditto, donation 1,00
Rol)crt Hills 2,00
Wm Savage 2.00
Richard Robbins 2,00
Francis Curtis 1,00
Joiiaiinui Higley 2,00
Richard Gray 2,00
Henry OjYVaggooer 1.00
Samui I Smith 2,<*o
Mis Sleeper and Friends don 1,00
J Thurher 2,00
Austinburg A. 9, Society 2,00
Am B Smith 2,00
Luther Me lend y 2,00
G W Easton 1,00
Mrs CKay 2,00
Mrs Hurst 2,00
John Molson 1,00
Merrell Humphrey 2,00
Wm Meredith 2,00
Dr Pierce 2,00
Isaac Poet 2,00
E P Willis 2,00
Henry Willie 2,00
Edmund Willete 2,00
Steplien Rnshmore 2,00
Joseph Flanders 1,00
Orlando Jones 2,0 U
CAUTION!
From the Chronotype.
The great popularity ot Wisiar’s Balsam of
Wild Cherry, has induced some meicenary indivi
duals in various parts of tlw country, to compound
quark noetiunis, for the purpose of deceiving the
public, and raising money on the a ell-earned reput
ation of this Valuable medicine. Tlw interests id
tlie proprietor cannot suffer, if be can but keep the
public informed against the falsa preparations at
tempied to be palmed off in the name of the Wild
Cbeiry; for certain it is that no wediciue e»e r
proved >g ffiencious in n long atalogue of the
most common dieses which human rttsh is heir
to.” or preserved die health and life of so many
thousands of our race, as has Dr Wniar’s Be! mu’.
Mr. S TH W. FOWLE. Druggist, No I*l.
Washington Street, is the sole proprietor of the
original reeeint for tha manufacture of the genuine
medicine, and supplies both at wholesale and re*
Uil. and of whom, also, agencies Can be obtained.
The Genuine and Original Dr. Wistar’s Bal-
SA* or Wild Cmxrrt, has been extensively
counterfeited in Philadelphia, end to am ihottMnd
dottles of tlw spurious imitation thrown into the
market and extensively circulated. This is to
caution dealers amt the public generally against
purchasing any other than that baviag the written
signature of 1. MUTTS on the wrapper.
Tor suit by fo«T Jt Willis t alto by Wm.
Piteiii.
FROM DU BUQUE, lOWA.
Do Bctguc, March 27,1349?
Mr- W. B. Slonu: Dear Sir—l have within a
few days purchased of Masers. Bargoyue Jk Co.,
all your (Sloan’e) Medicines, that they had on
baud; also guy and all interest they may have bad,
as your Agents in this dace. It is my wish and
intention to keep a gaud supply of these artic as
always on hand. You will please send me some of
w
Iwarer will pay you Mr. I shall advertise yuut
medicines ia two of' city papets: ibis, I think,
will promote the sale of them. If it dues not in
terfere with your business arrangements, I WU «J.
Hanchen of Udorf
Near the hamlet of Udorf, on the
banks of the Rhine, nqt far from Bonn,
there yet stands the mil) which was the
seene of the following adventure:
One Sunday morning, the miller and
his family set out as usual to attend
church at the nearest church in the
village ol Heasel, leaving the mill, to
which the dwelling house was attach
ed, in charge of his servant maid
Hanchen,, a bold-hearted girl, who
bad been some time in his service. The
youngest child, w ho was still too little
to go to church, remained also under
her care.
As Hanchen was busily engaged,
preparing dinner for the family, she
was interrupted by a visit from her
admirer, Heinrich Battlehen; he was
an idle, graceless fellow, and her mas
ter, who knew his character well, had
forbidden him the house; but Hanchen.
could not believe all the stories she
had heard against her lover, and was J
sincerely attached to him. On thixco
casion she greeted him kindly, and not
ouiy got him something to eat at once,
but iound time in the midst ot her busi
ness to sit down and have a gossip with
biro, while be did justice to the fare set
before him. As he was eating he let j
fall hit knife, which he askrd her to j
pick up for him; she playfully remon-|
strated, telling biin she feared, from
all she heard, he did little enough work,
and ought at least to wait on himself:
in the end, however, she stooped down
to pick up the knife, when the treach
erous villain drew a dagger from under
his coat, and caught her by the nape of
the neck, griping her throat firmly with
his fingers to prevent her 'screaming;
then, with an oath, he desired her to
tell him where her master kept his
money, threatening to kill her if she
did not comply with his demand. The
surprised and terrified girl in vain at
tempted to parley with him; he sill
held her tightly in his choking grasp,
leering her no other choice but to die
or betray her muter. She saw there
I was do hope of softening him or chang
ing his purpose, and with a full con
viction of bis treachery, all her native
courage woke in her bosom. Affect
ing, however, to yield to what was in
evitable, she answered him, in a re
signed tone, that what must, be must be;
only, if he carried oft* her master’s gold,
he must take her with him too; for she
could never stay to hear thiir suspicions
and reproaches, entreating him at the
same time to relax his grasp of her
throat, for she could hardly speak,
much less do what he bid her, while he
held her so tight. At length he was
induced to quit bis hold, on her re
minding him that he must lose no time
or the family would be returning from
church. She then led the way to her
master’s bed-room, and showed him
the coffer where he kept his money.
“Here,” she said, reaching to him
an axe, which lay in a corner of the
room, “you can open it with this, while
1 run up stairs to put all my thmga to
gether, besides the money I have saved
I since I have been here.”
j Completely deceived by her apparent
readiness to enter into his plans, he
allowed her to leave the room, only
exhorting her to be ns quick as possi
ble, and was immediately absorbed in
his own operations; first opening The
box, and then disposing of the money
about his person. In the meanwhile,
Hanchen, instead of going up stairs to
her own room, crept softly along sev
eral passages till she again reached her
master’s chamber. It was the work ol
a moment to shut and bolt the door
upon him; and this done she rushed to
the outer door of the mill to give the
alarm. The only being in sight was
her master’s little boy, a child of five
years old; to him she called with all
her might, “Run, run to meet your fa
ther as he comes from church; tell
him we shall all be murdered if he does
not come back.” The frightened child
did as she bid hiui, and set off running
on the road she pointed out.
Somewhat relieved by seeing that
the child understood her, and would
make her case known, she sat down foi
a moment on the stone seat before the
door, and, full of conflicting emotions
of grief and thankfulness for her es
cape, she burst into tears. But at this
moment a shrill whistle aroused her
attention; it was from her prisonei
Heinrich, who, opening the grated win
dow above her head, shouted to some
accomplice without to catch the child
that was running away so fast and tc
kill the girl. Hanchen lookejl around
in great alarm, but saw no one. The
child still continued to run with all hit
might, and she hoped that it was but e
false alarm to excite and overcome hei
resolution; when, just as the chile
reached a hollow in the next field (a
channel of a natural drain,) she saw a
ruffian start up from the bed of the
drain, and, snatching up the child in
his arms, hasten with him towards th«
j mill, in accordance with the direction!
j of his accomplice. In a moment sht
perceived the full extent of her danger
and formed her plan for escaping it.
Retreating into the mill, she double
looked nnd bolted the (lour, the only
apparent entrance into the building
every other means of obvious accesi
being prevented by strong iron grat
ings fixed up against all the windows,
and then took post at the upper case
ment, determined to await patiently hei
master’s return and her consequent de
livery from that dangerous position, 01
her own death, if indeed inevitable—
for she was fully resolved to enter into
no terms, and that nothing should in
duce her to give up her master’s pro
perty into the robber’s hands.—She
had hardly time to secure hersell in her
retreat, when the ruffian holding the
screaming child in his arms, and
brandishing a knife in one hand, came
up, and bid her open the door, or he
would break it down, adding many aw
ful oaths and threats; to which her only
answer was that she put her trust in
God. Heinrich, who from his window
wa9 witness of this colloquy, now called
out to cut the child’s throat before her
eyes if she still persisted in her refusal.
Poor Hanchen’s heart quailed at this
horrible threat, but only for a moment.
The death of the child could be no
gain to them, while her own death was
I certain if she admitted the assailant,
and her master too would be robbed.
She had no reason either to suppose
that her compliance would save the life
of the child. It was to risk all agniast
nothing, and she resolved to hold out
to the last, though the villain from
without renewed his threats, saying
that if she would not open the door to
him, he would kill the child, and then
set fire to the mill over her head. “I
put my trust in God,” was still the
poor girl’s answer.
In the meanwhile the ruffian set
down the child, for a moment to look
about for combustibles to carry out his
threat. In this search he discovered a
mode of entering the mill unthought of
by Hanchen. It was a large aperture
i in the wall communicating with the
great wheel and the other machinery of
the mill: and it was a point entirely un
protected, for it had never been con
templated that any one would seek to
enter by so dangerous an inlet. Trium
phant at this discovery, he returned to
tie the hauds and feet of the poor child
to prevent its escape, and then stole
back to the aperture by which be in
tended to effect an entrance. The situa
tion of the building prevented Hanchen
seeing any thing of this, but a thought
had inrauwhUe struck her. It was
Sunday, when the mill was never at
work; if, therefore, the sails were set
in motion the whole neighborhood
would know that something unusual
was the matter, and her master especi
ally hasten home to know the
meaning of anything so strange.
Beiug all her life accustomed to the
machinery of the mill, it was the work
of a moment to set it all in motion-—a
brisk breeze, which, sprung up at once,
set the sails flying. The arms of the
huge engine whirled round with fear
ful rapidity; the great wheel slowly
revolved on its axis; the smaller gear
turned, and creaked, and groaned ac
cording as the machinery came into
action; the mill w%s in full operation.
It was at this moment that the ruffian
intruder had succeeded in squeezing
himself through the aperture in the
well, and getting himself safely lodged
in the inteior of the great drum wheel.
His dismay,-however, was indescrib
able when he began to be whirled about
with it* rotation, and found that all bis j
efforts to put a atop to the powerful
machinery which set it in motion, or
extricate himself from this perilous,
situation were fruitless.—ln hi# terror
he uttered shrieks and horrible impre
cations. Astonished at the noise,
Hanchen went to the spot, saw liim
caught like a rat in his own trap, from
which it was no part of her plan to,
liberate him. She knew he would he
more frightened -than hurt if he kept
within his rotary prison without any
rash attempts at escape,' and that even
if he became insensible he could not
fall out of it.
In the meane tim the wheel went
raund and round with its steady, un
ceasing motion; and round and round
he weut with it, while sense remained,
beseeching Hanchen with entreaties,
promises, and wild, impatient threats,
which were all equally disregarded,
till by degrees feeling and perception
tailed him, and he heard and saw no
more. He fell senseless at the bottom
of the engine, but even then his inani
mate body continued to be whirled
round as before; for Hanchen did not
dare trust appearances in such a vil
lain, and would not venture to suspend
the working of the mill, or stop the
mill gear and tackle from running at
their fullest speed.
At length she heard a loud knocking
at the door, and flew to open it. It was
her master and his family, accompanied
by several ot his neighbors, all in the
utmost consternation and wonder at
seeing the mill-sail in full swing on a
Sunday, and still more so when they
found the poor child lying bound on the
grass, who, however was too terrified
to give any account of what had hap
pened. Hanciien in a few words, told
all; and then her spirit, which had sus
tained her through such scenes of
terror, gave way under the sense ol
safety and relief, and she fell fainting
in their arms, and was with much dif
ficulty recovered.—The machinery ol
the mill was at once stopped, and the
inanimate ruffian dragged from his
dreadful prison. Heinrich, too, war
brought foith from the miller's cham
ber, and both were in a short time sent
bound under a strong escort to Bonn,
where they soon after met the reward
of their crimes.
The story of this extraordinary act of
presence of mind concludes by telling
us that Hanchen, thus effectually cnred
of her penchant for her unworthy suitor,
became eventually the wife of the mil
ler's eldest son, and thus lived all her
life in the scene ofher imminent danger
and happy deliverance. —London paper.
HORRIBLE ADVENTURE.
1 Extract of a letter from Kirkee near
1 Ponnall.—The writer having been out
shooting l&y down to rest under a tree,
1 when suddenly he was aroused by the
furious haying of his dogs. On turn
-1 mg around 1 beheld a snake of the
cobra de capclla species, directing its
course to a point that would approxi
mate very close upon my position! in
an instant 1 was on my feet. The
moment the reptile became aware of
my presence, in nautical phraseology
it brought to, with expanded hood, eyes
sparkling and neck beautifully arched,
the head raised nearly two feet from
the ground, and oscillating from side to
side in a manner plainly indicative of a
resentful foe. 1 seized the nearest
1 weapon, a short bamboo, left by one
of the beaters, and hurled it at my op
-1 ponent’s head; 1 was fortunate enough
to hit it beneath the eye. The reptile
immediately fell and lay apparently
lifeless.
Without a moment’s reflection, I
seived it a little below the head, hauled
it beneath tiie shelter of the tree, and
very coolly sat down to examined the
mouth of the poisoned fangs, of which
naturalists speak so much. While in
the act of forcing the mouth open with
a stalk, I felt the head sliding through
my hand, and to my astouishment 1 be
came aware that I now had to contend
with the most deadly of reptiles, in its
full strendth and vigor.—Indeed, I was
in a moment convinced of it, for as I
tightened my hold on the throat, its
body became wreathed around my arm
and neck. If the reader is aware of the
universal dread in which the cobra de
capella is held throughout India, and
almost instant death which invariably
follows its bile, he will in some degree
be able to imagine what my feelings
were at the moment; a faint kind of
disgusting sickness pervaded my whole
frame as 1 felt the cold clammy folds of
the reptile tightening around my neck.
I still held the throat, but to hold it
much longer would be impossible.
Immediately beneath my grasp there
was an inward working and creeping
of the skin, which seemed to be assisted
by the very firmness with which 1 held
it—my hand was gloved. Finding, in
defiance of my efforts, that my hand
was each instant forced closer to my
face, an idea struck me that, were it
in my power to transfix the mouth with
some sharp instrument, it would pre
vent the reptile from using his fangs,
should it escape my hold. My gun lay
at ray feet, the ramrod appeared the
very thing required, which, with some
difficulty I succeeded in drawing out,
having only one hand disengaged. My
right arm was now trembling from over
exertion, my hold becoming less firm,
when I happily succeeded in passing
the rod through the lower jaw up to its
centre. It was not without Consider
able hesitation that I let go my hold of
the throat, and seised the rod in both
hands at the same time, by bringing
them over my head with a sudden jerk,
I disengaged the fold from my neck,
which had latterly become almost tight
enough to produce strangulation.
There was then little difficulty in
freeing uiy right arm. and ultimately
to throw the reptile from me to fhe
earth, where it continued to twist and
writhe itself into a thousand contortions
of rage and agony. To run to a neigh
boring stream, to lave my neck, hands
and face, in its cooling waters was my
first act after despatching my formida
ble enemy. This concludes a true
though plainly told tale. As a more),
it tnay prove, that when a man is poe
sess.'d of determination, coolness and
energy, combined with reason, he will
generally come tq triumph, though he
may have to circumvent the subtlety of
the snake, or combat the ferocity of the
tiger.
effect* of stove* UPON
HEALTH.
All experience has demonstrated
their debilitating influence upon the
system, and nothing is more true than
that the mind sympathises with the
body in all its derangements. Our old
men remember when the aggregate of
good health was iar above its present
standard; when men and women could
endure twice the fatigue that they can
now; and when consumption, the pre
sent scourge of the north, and New
England in particular, was almost un
known, or existed only as a slow dis
ease, that had to battle with life for
many years before its strong victim
succumbed to its power. It has been
thought that the bad health and con
stitutions of our farming population,
particularly the female portion of farm
ing families, are owing to a change of
diet. There is no truth in the idea.
Farmers live as judiciously now as they
did fifty or one hundred years ago. In
our mountain towns, among the primi
tive hills and pure air of Vermont, all
over New England in fact, the popula
tion are better fed and better clothed,
are subjected to less injurious ex
posure, and are called to bear less
prostrating fatigue, than in those ‘good
old times, a hundred years ago.’ Yet,
where the pure air roves freest, where
the dark wings of miasm never come,
all along the green mountain ridge,
through Vermont and Massachusetts,
do we find consumption doing its dead
liest work, and an aggregate of female
invalids that can hardly be equalled in
any miasmatic valley in the far south
west.
It is in vain to look for the causes of
all these evils in any thing but the
atmosphere of the dwelling. The food
is wholesome, the air is pure as any in
the world, and the water as good. The
simple statement of the case is, that
the houses are made too close, the
rooms are kept too hot, and the grand
ventilator—the chimney is closed.
The evil is insidious, and in the man
ner of its approached should be a warn
ing. A reference to experience will
show, that when the stove was first in
troduced, the heat was intolerable. Af
terwards it became agreeable; then it
was found necessary; still further on,
the heal was raised, until, at last, the
weakened and relaxed skin shrunk with
dread from a breath of cold air, and
all stirring from the ro~>m was forbid
den on penalty of a cold. The differ
ence between the atmosphere out and
in doors made the transition always at
tended with danger. Every physiolo
gist, ana every common observer,
understands the intimate sympathy that
exists between the skin and the lungs;
and here, at this point, is where con
sumption and other similar and dis
similar evils step in, and find prepared
for them a house, swept and garnish
ed. Here lies the secret of mountain
diseases, the erysipelas, low fevers,
rheumatisms, etc., etc.
1 We by no means propose the aboli
tion of stoves. They form a prominent
part of family economy.—The poor
cannot do without them, nor will the
rich. The fire and the damper should
in all cases be controlled by the ther
mometer. This little instrument should
be in every house. Again, free ven
tilation, that shall secure to every room
good pure air, is absolutely indispensa
ble; and still further a proper amount
of cold bathing and friction, to enable
the skin to retain its tone, should he
observed by every individual who
spends the winter in doors.—Spring
ifield Republican.
i Drunkenness in Sweden. —ln
Sweden, where intoxication has been a
great vice among the people, brutaliz
ing and debasing them, rigid measures
nave been adopted to reform the evil
practice. Whoever is seen drunk, is
fined for the first offence $3; for the
second, third and fourth times, a larger
sum, and is also deprived of the right
of voting at elections, and of being ap
pointed a representative. He is, be
sides, publicly exposed in the parish
church, on the following Sunday. It
the same individual is found committing*
the same offence a fifth time, he is shut
up in the house of correction, and con
demned to six months’ hard labor; i’
he is again guilty, to twelve months
punishment of the same description.
If the offence has been committed in
public, such as at a fair, an auction,
&c., the fine is doubled; and if the
offender has made his appearance at a
church, the punishment is still more
severe. Whoever is convicted of hav
ing induced another to intoxicate him
self, is fined three dollars,which sum is
doubled if the person is a minor. An
ecclesiastic who falls into this offence,
loses his benefice; if he is a layman
who occupies any considerable post,
his functions are suspended, and per
haps he is dismissed. Drunkenness is
never admitted to be an excuse for any
crime; and whoever dies when drunk,
is buried ignotniniously, and deprived
of the prayers of the church. It is
forbidden to give, and more explicitly
to sell, any spirituous liquors to stu
dents, workmen, servants, apprentices,
or private soldiers.
Selling Free Negroes. —Mr. C. A
Wickliffe, the Postmaster General of
the United States under President Ty
ler, presented the following proposition
to the|Kentucky Convention,on the 13th
inst. We extract from the official re
port to the Kentucky Statesman:
I desire to submit a resolution of en
quiry in relation to free negroes to one
of the committees. 1 think from what
we have expressed here, that all aides
would be very gled to get clear of them
from Kentucky. I have devoted aome
reflection to the subject and to the va
rious expedients suggested to attain
that object, as well as its connections
as a State arising under the federal
constitution. I propose as a subject
of enquiry, for the committee on mis
cellaneous provisions, the propriety of
substituting, in lieu of the punishments
now imposed on that class of people for
crimes other than murder, the penalty
of exportation, or of being sold again
into bondage.—l think it is worthy of
enquiry; and it strikes me if it has no
other effect, it will at least have a ten
dency of keeping this class of peraoos
out of the State; and it may be the
meaae t nf inducing others to leave it
voluntarily. It is a subject worthy of
enquiry, anq I offer it in that shape.