on ena Prioee SEreets, for the purpose
of STJ.nftng theft views ip relation to
The qtJesSSs*<W4>ending in Congress,
to settle the slavery qu Jtion, and the
recapture of fugitive slaves.
The meeting having been called to
order, Mr. Win. A. Tyson was called
to the chair. Messrs. Louis H. Put
nam, Thomas Van Kensellaer, and
Rev! Mr. Gloucester, were appointed
Vice-Presidents; George T. Downing,
and John J. Brown, were appointed
Secretaries to the meeting.
The Chairman then proceeded to
address the meeting. He said, some
week or fortnight ago, a meeting was
held, at which a committee was ap
pointed to draft resolutions for the pre
sent meeting, in regard to the doings
of Congress, at Washington. This
was no ordinary time, they may de
pend upon it. The enemies of the
Colored race the pro-slavery men
throughout the country, ahd particu
larly at the South—were threatening.
It was, however, only threatening; for
Calhoun meant no woe in his speech,
knowing well, as he did, that if matters
went further than threats, he would
lose hie cherished institution, and his
cherished race of lt was in-,
tended to frighten the Northern Mem-j
bers, and particularly the Free Soilers,
into a compliance with his measures,
and the rejection of California, as a
free State. Calhoun had been long
ambitious of the president s chair; hut
lie was killed oflfby nullification. Re
solutions would be submitted to the
mealing, which would express better
and more concisely what ha meant to
#a y; and he would, therefore, trespass
no ionger upon their time. He trusted
they would so conduct themselves, as
might favorably compare, as
*latav a had done, with the meet
ing 4 al Tauiinany Halt.
arv then read the pls
mmxA, AWfig the
NjjflSmt! l Chairman oPNflbo CaaEßltlee
Appointed to draw upllfcolutionei^ead
the report, as tollowA.jj
The Committee ap||ji||rd pre
vious meeting, to
suluiiona. •*pre«s|VMf
ihu colored p*opW«»f cu* «nd
county of Ne* Vo*. <>me
of the een
placed before the lyjifiWfy* et
tlernent of the slMpr/ <|»iaq(Pon, and
the recapture of beg
leave to present preamble
and resolutions, a» their report:
Whereas, the constitution of these
United States was formed to ensure a
more perfect union than the articles
of confederation afforded; to establish
Justice, and secure the blessings of
liberty to the people of this country;
and whereas, free and slave Stales
have banded together under it, con
taining within their several forms of
government the elements of disunion;
and whereas, the power of legislation
on all subjects involving the general
interests of the people, is vested in
C ngress composed of a Senate «ud
of Representatives, consisting
VvL ablest men that can be elected
RIGHT 18 or NO BKX— Tagrra 18 OF M*#5OLOR-
and lbe admission of new slave States
and whow« rwn tr/ has fctcr. in
voleed in wars, and unJlione of th
poblic treasure have been squandered
and thousands of valuable lives hav
been sacrificed for the purpose of ob
taining more soil to augment ths pro
ductions of the South, and increase tin
commerce of the North; and whereas
-Mich have been the stupendous effort
put forth akm <*»*ve newer of thi
naUftu, Sow*/, iod|l*Sei
*oT the people of the *Nordi, as well ai
some in the South, have become
alarmed* lest every other interest shal
be sacrificed to maintain its ascend
ancy; and whereas, such is now the
agitation in the councils of the nation,
in regard to the subject of slavery, a?
that some* of the ablest minds in Con
gress, aud out of it, are racking theii
brains, to originate some compromise
by which the whole question may be
settled—now, therefore,
1. Resolved, that in the deliberate
judgment of the colored citizens of the
city and county of New York, no plan
can be proposed or adopted to arrest
the discussion, or settle the agitation
in regard to American slavery, that
does not aim to effect its entire aboli
tion.
2. Resolved, That we must regard
every admission of a slave State into
the American Union, by Congress, as
4 surrender of the principle which the
Constitution was established to pro
tect—namely, to secure the blessings
of liberty; and that the only way in
which that instrument can be rightfully
sustained, is to refuse to admit slave
States into the Union; and for Con
gress to do ail in its power to abol
ish slavery wherever it has the consti
tutional authority.
3. Resolved, That the proposition of
Senator Mason, of Virginia, to pass
more stringent laws for the recovery
of persons “owing service in one
State, and escaping into another,” un
der which all colored persons in the
free States are subject to be arrested,
aud hurried into Southern bondage;
destroys the right of trial by jury for
all persons so arrested; breaks down
every safeguard of personal liberty;
and if passed by Congress, will have
ntJMUilmg force upon «s f( and tnual be
rsiristtflbf every Wafts Which mny be
at our command, fyy|? /at the sacrifice
4- ResolvedJVbat the adoptipn, by
the Senate ©f tfhe United States, of Mr.
Clay’s propositions to “settle and ad
just all questions of controversy, aris
ing out of the institution of slavery,”
so far from accomplishing the end de
signed by that distinguished Senator,
must result in prolonging the difficul
ties by which the subject is now sur
rounded; in disappointing the hopes ol
a large proportion of the people of this
country; in creating false issues in the
discussions now in progress between
me friends of freedom and the advo
cates of slavery; in wasting the peo
ple’s money, and in imposing upon
posterity a responsibility which ought
to be assumed by the present genera
tion—namely, of doing all in our power
to remove the cause of difference be
tween different sections ol the couotry,
and in restoring to life and vigor the
great principles set forth in the Declar
ation of American Independence.
5. Resolved, That if our Senators,
and Representatives in Congress, de
sire to use the power delegated to
them, for the benefit of the people of
this nation, they must cease to propa
gate slavery, and do all in their power
to spread the area of freedom; they j
must withdraw the protection of the!
American flag from the foreign and
domestic slave trade, and let it untold
itself as the emblem of liberty, that its!
stripes he no longer emblematic of the
scars of oppression, but that its stars
may shine in the light and glory of
freedom; they must obey the call for
the suppression of domestic violence,
by which one man is made the proper
ty of another —his wife and children
torn from him, and he stripped of
every right; his labor forced from him
for the benefit of one who exercises,
ih«» right to violate the virtue of hisi
wife or daughteFT Tney*TnrisrTewßnrr
liberty, provide for the common de-,
fence of the domestic relations of
every Inhabitant of the country, and
protect all in the pursuit of happiness;
they must take from the nation the fes
tering canker of slavery, and impart
to it the health and beauty of freedom.
6 Resolved that having hoped and
struggled on under the Union, despite
of prejudice and wrong, we desire its
perpetuity in view of our hopes and
expectations, believing that justice still
awaits us —that our country will short
ly relieve herself of her present curse,
and stand forth pre-eminently the
1 country of the world,
j 7. Resolved, That the question at
i present presented to the couotry, is not
that of liberty or the Union; hut
should the issue he presented, of liber
ty or the Union, we would, as a matter
of course, he found on the side ol
liberty.
S Resolved, That the noble and
manly position taken by the Hon. Wm,
H Seward, Senator from New York,
in declaring that the newly-acquired
Territories should remain intact to
freedom, end denouncing the Mason
and Webster project for the purpose of
the .l.*e ehornblee of the
i South, \>J capturing the iymg f.git.re
kidnapping the colored Ireeman,
i merits our commendation, and should
receive our warmest gratitude.
9. Resolved, Thst inasmuch 4a
large majority of thn legal vetera ol
Massachusetts are inimical to the £j*|f
are u&ii.g eveiy possible means to re
move the foul bioi on the
of the nation, therefore, we
of the opinion, that the f
Webster, in a speech reocntlljieH'*;'
ed by him before the Sena® fit
United States, “wilfully,
knowingly,” violate the j
reposed in kiirn by hit Coust‘jMHNwPJ’l
giving ntterance to jf juvrjßjßwnM
ance with their sentiment s,|® «y**f
eating the doctrine, that iiffr
States inuat be formed out °ty&P
lory now claimed by
fact, giving the weight of h IMuII
name to sanction and legalize the J
spreading and increasing o 1 the
man traffic in flesh and blood, and
which must have a tendency to lessen;
him in tiia opinion of those who ha\e
heretofore viewed him as the Gbd
like.”
10. Resolved, That in order to en-,
large the borders of treedomtferrito'ial
government ought to be estaDlished in:
all territories belonging to the Upi,ed
States, upon the basis of the W ilmot
proviso, or on some similar legislative
enactment, that will have a tendency
to harmonize with the sentiments ex
pressed in the Declaration of Ameri
can Independence, and that free Stains’
ought to be admitted into the Unisn.j
having republican constitution*, aad
guaranteeing to all their cititeqs cqdsl
rights and privileges, without any dis
tinction whatever.
11. Resolved That should a dissi u
of the Union occur by any act of le
slaveholding States to defender o
gate slavery —should any of them beso
rasli and inconsiderate as to jnglp out;
of the pan of the Union because it be
gins to warm a little lor freedom—-they
may find themselves in a tire blazing
with fury; they may find that they have
proved the vengeance of God and arm
ed bondmen for the defence of his life
and his liberty; they may find that they
have drawn upon themselves a thun
derbolt of Heaven red with uncommon' 1
wrath, to blast the criminals who have i
traded in the bodies and souls of their j i
fellowmen (Signed)
John J. Zuille, l
jT 1
Louis H. Putnam, g
Daniel J. Elston, 1 5L
-—^jrtftMiArru^
Mr. Downing moved the adoptioiyifj
the foregoieg. i
Mr. Van Kenselaer seconded the j j
motion.
The Preamble and resolutions were 1
supported by Messrs. John J. Zuille,
Louis H. Putnam, Philip A. Bell,
James N. Gloucester, Thomas Van
Ranseluer, Geo. T. Downing,Jeremiah
Powers, and Robert Hamilton, and
were adopted with enthusiasm by the;
meeting.
Resolved, That the Proceedings of j
this meeting be published in the "‘North] 1
Star,” the Impartial Citzen,” the
“National Era” at Washington, and
that other papers throughout the coun
try he and are hereby respectfully 1
requested to copy them.
Great interest was all*
present in the proceedings until a late
hour when on motion the meeting ad-'
joirned. j
WILLIAM A. TYSON, Pres.
Loris H. Putnam,
Daniel A, Tilghmam Vic j
Thomas Van Re.nssalaer Pres.
James N Gloucester
George T. Downing c 1|
id i aecretanes.
John J Brown
i
From ihe Liberator.
GREAT MEKXINC IN FANEUI I
HALL.
Pursuant tt> a call in the publie jour-i
nals for a meeting of citizens, vfpbouti
distinction of party, to express their
strong moral reprobation of the senti
ments contained in the recent speech
of the Hon. Daniel Webster in the
U. S. Senate, a large concouree of
citizens assembled in Fnn*uil Hall on I
Monday evening,2sth instant,and ware
called to order, at 7 1-2 o’clock, by
Francis Jackson, Esq.
wnlb^fuappSn ite'd* officers of the
meeting:
President —Samuel E. Sewall, Eaq.
Vice Presidents—Francis Jackson,
Esq., Win. I. Bowditch, Esq., Benja
iniu French, Esq.
Secretaries William A. Vvnile,
Samuel May, Jr.
Mr. Sewall on taking the chair, read
the call for the meeting, and
forcible and striking remarks.
Mr. YV. A. YVhitc read to the ■jjfpt
ing an admuable letter which hadffcen
received from Hon. Charles F AtMifea.
The Rev. Theodore Parker adJfcs
sed the meeting in a speech of
power and eloquence. [We are flip
py to learn that the speeches of Mr.
Parker, aqd of the other gent!eineft>*l
this meeting, are to be reported iujpll,
and will be speedily published.]
At the close of his speech, Jif*
Parker presented the following
lutions: j*
Resolved, That we cnosider the tpfet
tion of Slavery in the Territories ofltie
United States, now before the Ceej
ress of the nation, as paramount tf«i!
merely commercial, or political Mo
tions now before us; that it dm ip
and demands the serious attention®
the People themselves, for torn w«’u®
of millions of men depends on the
decision that shall be made.
fteeolved, That the recent speed! of
Hon Daniel Webster, in the Sewte
of the United States, on the subject of
Slavery, is alike unworthy of a *»*f
UOCHSafrK, N. BAY, APRIL 5. 1850.
■l* a j
Lb-,
vari
lion,
iena
a its
New
the
e ot
od,”
body
new
ibor,
and that the war will Mexico was
waged to acquire this tfrrri ory and to
extend Slavery over if. (2d.) By
giving his sanction to*ll Bill and its
amendments now befoll the Senate,
which aims fosever to deprive every
fugitive of the right toja trial by jury
to decide upon his cotflition, —a bill
which enables the slavliolder to seize
any person whom he nay choose, and
on his affidavit bring tyn before any
judge of the United Sties eourts, be
fore any commissioner, jrlerfc, or mar
shal thereof, before ana Postmaster or
Collector of the the United
States, present at that ne, and on the
decision of the most pgtjr Postmaster,
Collector, or Clerk, cn| Commjsioner
of, an United States court, hurry his
vg&tim otf to the South ind irremedia
ble bondage; a bill wlfllTi allows the
slave -hunter his oath aad forbids it to'
and which lunishes with a
fine of One Thousand fiollurs, and 12
months’ imprisonment, *ny one who
shall “aid, abet, or assi|” the fugitive
UK escape from his pursier. (3d.) By
avowing his readiness tdvote 200 mil
lion dollars of the pubfc money for
Lho purpose of expatriating the free
colored population of jthe South, —a
measure tending to baiefit only the
Breeders of Slaves and the oppressors
3f mankind. (4th.) By maintaining that
four new Slave States may be made out
>f Texas, and thdt Congress has no
right to oppose their admission as such
into the Union.
Resolved, That it is snwortliy of a
senator troin Massachusetts, after
1 welling on the allegedvftn* vances
which the South the
North, to'omit in hiqemnkda jepeenkahli
iiWsion orTofhe
>fthe Southern Skates, by which free
colored citizens 6f t!4» 'North, when
going to the South on board ships, are
aken and shut up in jail,—and in his
printed speech to treat the matter with
mostwlender and delicate reproof.
Wendell Phillips, Esq., nex ttook the
floor, and made a close and able ex
amination of the principal points in
Mr. Webster’s speech.
The Rev. Samuel R. Ward, of,
Syracuse. N. V., (Editor of the Im
partial Citizen) made a brief, but effec
tive speech, alluding to the pro-slavery
attitude of Daniel Webster, and that,
other Daniel (Senator irom New York) I
Daniel S. Dickinson. f
The resolutions were then adopted
bylgn unanimous and emphatic vote.
AdiLlhe meeting adjourned sine die.
S. E. SEWALL, President.
Francis Jackson,
Win. I. Bowditch, Vice Pres.
Beuj. V. French. j
•William A. While, Secrelarie
Samuel May, Jr.
From the N. Y. Eresing
LETTER FROM HON. WM.JtY TO
THE HON WM. NELSON, M. C. j
New York, 16th March, 1850. j
My Dear Sir—Avaiiiag* myselt of
ypw kind invitation to give you myj
sentiments at any time, oo topics occu
pying the attention of Congress, 1
wrote to you a lew weeks ago, in rela
tion lo the compromise proposed by Mr.
Clay. Since the date of that letter, you
and 1, and indeed the whole nation,
hetii bden astounded by the strange
cogipe* pursued in the Senate by Mr.
WfbtUtr. 1 inquire not into his mo-
Tiven. To bis own mastei he standeth
or fail el h; but certainly it must be ad
u,. —J
cent somerset is one of till boldest and
ever thrown by n
political tumbler. 1 will lot inflict up
on fnu, a min ate examination of his la
mfljtable spe« ch, but I will take the
iib&ty to call your attention to a few
ofSrprommeitt points.
Qen. Cass frankly coifessed that,
witk’ regard to the Wibot Proviso,
“a f£»ange had come ovgr him”# but
J4 f /\y e bster, while his fersonal iden
ittj n elmoM wholly desfroyed, while
tcflifceJy afi gment of t! ft former man
refltttus, is under the halluciuatioo,
that be is the same Daniil Webster as
befef«, and hile denouncing and ndi
cuing the proviso, pro!esse* to be as
«u*devol< <1 to its principle as ever!
Hi now pours contempt, not only
npsnbJegislauve instructions, but also
vpgfejegisla ite expressioas of hostility
to eaten-ion of slavery. “I should
be willing to receive frstn the Legis
lature of Massachusetts any instrue
tioodia presnJ resolutions expressive of
mny crjfuions hatreer on th* subject of
iJiiuW W for two reasons; first, I do not
con#m#r that the L gudstwe of Mas
ber JlfresontlßVe, fc*xe anything to
%)n the lstlUdHilHt 6 read
in the Senate
ry resolutions setts
lb.o r.buU hi.
GOO IS THK KATHRK UK 01 AIJ* A*l» AI.I. MKN ARK WRKTIIIO V
m I
«tet« far —doling with uLal was roar
of t»uM»e««r Hear tom—»“! thank
her (Massachusetts for if, and an
raouo of her, for she has denounced
the whole object for which our armies
are now traversing the mountains ot
Mexico. If anything is certain, it i»
that the sentiment of the whole north is
utterly opposed to the acquisition of
territory to be formed into was slarr
holding states.'^ Cong. Globe, p, 55- r
In ASUfeMr. 4^T f
committee, submitted (o wr Boston
meeting two resolutions, viz: That
the Congress of the United States poss
ess the constitutional power upon the
admission of any new state created be
yond the limits of the original territory
of the United States, to make the pro
hibition of the further extension of sla
very or involuntary servitude in such
new state condition of its admission
and that “It is just and expedient that
this power should be exercised by Con
gress upon the admission of all new
states erected beyond the original lim
its of the United States.” .Vote Mr.
Webster, as the representative of Mas
sachusetts in Congress does not con
sider that he has anything to do with the
subject of slavery!
When it was ascertained, during the
war, that new territory would be acqui
red, and when it was openly avowed
that it was to become slave territory,
the House of representatives passed
Mr. Wilrnot’s proviso, expressly exclu
ding slavery from the territory to be
thus acquired. This, he as well as we
know, led to a violent political agitation.
What part did Mr. Webster take in
this agitation? In 1847, he addressed
a meeting of his own party, and declar
ed-—There is not a man in this hall
WHO HOLDS TO THE PRINCIPLE OP THE
Wilmot Proviso more firmly than
I do.” The principle of the proviso
was the exclusion of slavery, by act of
Congress from the territory to be acqui
red from Mexico, and that territory we
all knew, was none other than New
Mexico and California.
The agitation, waxed fiercer and
fiercer. The whig party at the north
pledged themselves to the proviso; the.
Legislature of Massachusetts, as we
fiavc seen unanimously declared for the
exclusion of slavery from New Mexico
and California, and Mr. Webster pub-j
licly thanked his statu, and was proudi
Massachusetts nominated Mr. Webster
for the Presidency, and he stood before!
the country os the Wilmot Proviso can
didate. General Taylor was ultimately
selected as the whig candidate, and
was supported by the northern whigs,
on the pledges made by his friends,
that he would not vote the proviso, i
General Cass, on the other hand, was
the avowed anti-proviso candidate, and
as such, was opposed by the whole
whig party at the north. The great is- j
sue on which the election turned in the
free states, was the prohibition or per-'
mission, by Congress, of slavery in
New Mexico and California. After
the candidates were nominated, and
while the whole country was convulsed
with this issue, what was the course of
Mr. Webster? Dissent from his nor
thern friends? Did he tell them the is
sue they had made was a nonsensical
one? Hear him once more. On the
10th August l!<48, after New Mexico
and California were acquired, he rose
in the Senate and thus delivered him
self: “My opposition to the increase
of slavery in this country, or to the in
crease of slave representation, is gen
eral and universal. It has no refer
ence to the lines of latitude or points of
the compass. I shall oppose all
such extension at all times and un
der ALL CIRCUMSTANCES, EVEN AGAINST
ALL AGAINST ALL SUP
POSED IflNlTATldff OF GREAT INTERESTS
AGAIN? rALt cdm» INATIONS, AGAINST
To d£it, let att |sk, did this solemn,
emphatte, ußqwatfabd asseveration re
fer? BH he lheh4now that there was
not a fail ff fejntory in the United
StatesrfOVen #h»ci it was not morally
and pbyefaali/ impossible to extend
slaverw WfU hft-g)romisiug, in these
oddojw: whai h*
never be attempt
ed on maß this pledge before
this cofajMhl mental reservation
to unit? General Cass
and -in denouncing
and scorninglfie proviso? Did be de
sire to keep up an angry agitaiioo,
throughout the nation for electioneering
purposes, and did be thus intimate
his belief in the danger of the extension
of slavery and slave representation,
when he well knew that the fiat of the
Almighty had rendered such extention
impossible? Was be then acquainted
with the “law of physical geography,”
which would render the proviso “a re
enactment of the will of God?” and did
be purposely conceal the secret of this
j law in his own breast, when, by reveal
ing it, he might have stilled the raging
billows of popular passion which threat
ened to engtdf the Uuioo To suppose
all this, would be to impute to Mr.
Webster a degree of trickery end tur
pitude rarely paralleled even among
politicians. Hence we are bound to
assume that the lew of nature, on which
be new relies, is a recent discovery,
subsequent at least to the I(hh August
1 ms.
It is. however, extraordinary, that a
gentleman of his acquirements, did not
sooner become acquainted with this
“LAW 0F FHYSICAL GEOGEArHT—THE
LAW or THE FORMATION OF THE EARTH
THAT SETTLES FOREVER, BEYOND ALL
j TERMS Of HUMAN ENACTMENT, THAT
i slavery cannot exist in California
or flaw Muieo.*’ it is to be regrev-
Mr. WthaHr. Jnl not c«#d*>
sccodto demonstrate the existent*
this lav and to explaiu the mode «t
operation. He indeed tell* u* thm
our new territories are “Asiatic
their formation and scenery;” butthi*
fact does not prove his law, since sla
very bee existed for ages, amid th*
scenery of Asia; it exists in the des
erts of Africa, has existed in eferj
country of Europe, and now exist in
(lilt flfirr-n “regt<>niy>r i’hl*
1a w, inoreorpu iu u s*Nii vyt»ee offset
ed by the Creator since ISM, or its
operation must have been previously
suspended in deference to the Spanish
government; for under that government
negro slavery did exist in New Mexico
and California, and i» ceased in 1814,
not by the law of “physical geography,
but by a Mexican edict. Thousands
of slaves are employed in the mines o!
Brazil, and Mr. Webster does not ex
plain how bis law forbids their employ
ment in tiie mines of California.—Mr.
Webster ridicules the application of the
proviso to Canada, in case of annexa
tion. I neither see nor feel the point
of his wit—slavery is already prohibi
ted by the local law of Canada, but were
it not, most certainly ought to be pro
hibited as a condition of annexation.
New Y r ork adjoins Canada, and Mr
Webster probably regards the prohibi
tion of slavery in our recent constitu
tion as the height of absurdity. In
17G0 there were 21,000 slaves in New
York, and on the 4th of July 1827,
about 10,000 slaves were emancipated
not by Mr. Webster’s law, but by act
of the Legislature, and the number
would have been much greater, had
not laws for their gradual emancipation
been in operation since 179*3. For a
long period, slavery flourished in New
York undisturbed by abolitionists
The absence of all anti-slavery agita
tion was as perfect as Mr. Webster’s
heart could desire. Stray negroes
were caught with almost as much ease
as stray pigs. Neither pulpit nor press
ruffled the happy serenity of the slave-'
holders. But this blissful repose was;
suddenly broken in 1741, by rumors of
an intended insurrection. Courts and
executioners were immediately put into
requisition, and in pursuance of judici
al sentences, thirteen slaves mere btumi
alive at the stake in the city of -Vett?
York, eighteen were hanged, and sev
distressed by the supposed unhappy in
fluence of the anti-slavery agitation up
on the condition of the slaves. They
were never better treated, were never
less miserable than at the present mo
ment. The more public observation is
directed to the conduct ot the masters
the less reprehensible will that con
duct be.
The promulgation of the law of
“physical geography” seems to make
no impression on the slave-holders, as
they contiune as ravenous as ever for
the new territories. But with one ac
cord they unite with the pro-slavery
democrats at the north, and with our
northern politicians and merchants ea
ger for southern votes and southern
trade, in lauding and glorifying him, j
not for his discovery of a new law of
nature, but for his discovery of a na
tional pledge, to receive into the
Union three slave states to be
formed out of the Texan territory—for
his denunciation of the proviso, and for
his promised aid in catching the future
Latimers who may be found on the soil
of Massachusetts.
Congress by the constitution may ad
mit new states at discretion, and
hence new states have been admitted
on various conditions. The joint reso
lutionaadmitting Texas imposed restric
tions on this power. Congress may,
with the consent of Texas, admit one
state north of 3f>deg 30m but if admit
ted it must be as a free state- Con
gress may admit three states, with the 1
consent of Texas south of that line;
but if admitted, no restriction in regard
to slavery can be imposed on them.
Mr. Webster now finds in these resolu
i tiona what bad escaped the knowledge
of both the north and the south, viz, a
national PLEDGE to admit three
j slave ititm. As no state can be ad
'mttted without the consent o! Tex
!as and as that consent will be
withheld for a state north of 3<>deg fttlrn
it follows according to Mr. Webster,
that we have made a one-sided bargain;
of the four contemplated states we
must have rhree with sjavery, but are
to be cheated out of the one with free
dom. This discovery, whten has taken
the whole natiou by surprise is like the
discovery of the geographical law, of
recent dste.
On the 22d March, 1848, Mr. Web
ster was ignorant of this national pledge
lln bis speech in the Senate, on that
day, alluding to the joint resolutions,
he remarked:
“If you refer to the resolutions pro
viding for the annexation of Texas,
j you find a proviso that it shall be in the
I power or Congress hereafter to make
four new states out of Texas territory
—present and prospective five new
states; ten new senators wtv come in
to the Union out of Texas.”— Houston's
Ik ports p. 404.
Mr. Webster pledges hirnsalf to vote
for the bill now pending m the Sen***
for the recovery of fugitives slaw*, by
which a citizen of Massachu»« (t
be converted into a beast ef burthen,
and by which any man or women may
1* m»d e to p. r $l. B*>.
Jssgusrpgrs
cri e S** 11 aldin| him m
I«tl\ I'IU. p.,.m
WHOLE NO. 11l
out of hie. hbertv end haaom— e
Possibly Mr. Webster may berueAer
liiaroter a la« of huinau nitara that
Will render tins pledge m worthless at
Km geographical law has reaeered aa
hit proviso pledge Let u* taqusre mlo
the practical working of lh>a proposed
law.' A’* Mr. Webster if tMj
he ofcourse, can have no c 4
objection to aid m executingJfr
then imagine a scene in
wMeDCjj with the position hejHKjkflßMhiMi
On his return from Washington, he
is followed by Messrs. Hill and Bruit),
who retain him in a prosecution they
have commenced against &<flostoa mat
ron. She had harbored their beauti
ful slave, for whom they had lately de
manded eighteen hundred dollars, and
who had effected her escape from bon
dage and outrage. The cauae is ready
for trial, not before u postmaster, or
other solitary offiicial, but, as in this
case it hiujl be, before a Boston Jury.
The Court is opened and the jury em
panneled, but the room is thronged to
suffocation, and an anxious multitude
without is striving for admittencc. A
cry is heard, to Faneul Haul. Ihe
court yields to the wishes of the peo
ple. The lady, guarded by constables,
and Di.viil Webster, locked arm in
arm with his Alexandrian clients, wand
their way to the Hall. The judges
and jury have taken their seats, the
old Cradle of Liberty is filled to its ut
most capacity with citizens of Boston,
the silence of the grave pervades the
vast assembly, but men’s hearts are
heating with unwonted violence, and
scorn and indignation are distorting
the lineaments of every countenance.
Damel Webster rises as counsel for
the prosecution,and Hancock and War
ren, and the Adamses, and other apos
tles and martyrs of New England lib
erty, seem to look down upon him
from their canvass with unnatural
sternness. The fee-ed advocate ot the
slave traders, turns to the jury with
some little embarrassment ot mantiar,
some tremor ot muscle. He commen
ces his address with a learned expos
ition of the constitution. Next follows
a soul-stiring eulogium upon our glor- t
fgfrf
But he lias a sacred duty to perform,
and fearlessly will he discharge it.
The cause of human freedom, and of
human rights, and the preservation of
our glorious Union, upon which that
freedom and those rights depend, re
quire, imperatively require, that this
lady, virtuous and benevolent as she
may be, shall be torn from her hus
band and children, and immured with
felons in Leveret street jail, for six
months. Ho intimates, that this is
only a portion of the punishment due to
the crime of the prisoner. His injured
clients are enittled to one thousand dol
lars from the husband of the lady, and
the insulted majesty of the Uniou claims
from the same source, satisfaction to
the amount of five hundred dollars.
After a high wrought peroration on the
obligations of justice and good faith,
he calls a witness to prove the guilt of
the prisoner. At this point he is inter
rupted by the opposite counsel. Who in
forms the jury he will not detain them
by the examination of witnesses. The
prisoner freely, cheerfully, admits the
act with which she is charged. It is
true that she saw in the panting fugi
tive at her door a representative of
Him who said "inasmuch as ye did it
unto one of the least of these, my
brethren, ye did it unto me.” She
did take her in; she did feed, and
clothe, and lodge, and conceal, and
succor her. If, m thus obeying the
flaw of God, she has broken that of
rnan, she is willing, if needs be, to suf
fer bonds in His cause, who gave his
j jite tor her. 4*e then msntains that
the constitution imposes upon the •tale*
i learned counsel for the prosecution,
expressed in his late speech*in the
I Senate. But he rests the defence of
the prisoner on higher grounds than
constitutional law. Ha appeals to the
i.aw or love written upon the human
heart, and proclaimed by the voice of
the bon of God, and if the constitution
of the United States abrogates this law,
I then is it a conspiracy against the vir
i tue of man and the government of Je
hoAth, and therefore null end void.
The cause is submitted by the court,
with a brief intimation to the jury,
that hi criminal case they sra tbo
jadges of the late as well as of the fact.
The jury, without leering their box,
return a verdict of pciLTT. Ac
the words ere c.ught by the attending
I multitude, P'"* U P d
vent iti l»uJ «»'l prolonged hurr.bi;
end the once favorite soo of New Lng
land blanches as he hears w the tnum
bMnt shouts of the reorLC, the knell
of bis own fame and power.
Be it, that all this is fiction. Ales!
lit is fiction founded on sact— founded
on Mr. Webster’s broken pledgee
—founded on his open apoetacy from
the cause of freedom founded on hie
proclaimed intention to vote for e law
outraging alike the persona) security
of the citizen and the obligation of tbu
1 Christian. Mr. Webster treats with
1 disrespect the legislatures of fourteen
•«*te» of the free north, whi«*» bave
protested against the extend'’ 0
«ry to the new territor.**, not by quei
'ioning the binding force of their in
struction, but by virtually rebuking
them all for expneMing "any opinion
whatever” 1 in relation to slavery, and
by insisting that they “have nothing
to do”with a question occupying the
thoughts and enlisting the fcelinga ot
every citizen, and involving the honor,
power and prosperity of our country
and the happiness or degradation of un
born millions of the human race.
HHe pay» a sorry compliment (to the
common sense of the people in offering
to them at the eleventh hour, a new
and unheard-of law of “physical geo
graphy,” together with the “Asiatic
scenery and formation” of the con
quered territories, as an excuse for vio
lating the faith lie had plighted, in be
half of the proviso He has shocked
the moral sense of a large portion ol
the community, bv giving in advance
his sanction to a law w hich suspends the
libarty or bondadc of a citizen on the
affidavit of a slaveholder, and the
judgement of a post-master—a law
whieii sympathy for guiltiest
misery into crime, ind threatens to ten
ant our jails with our moat estimable
mtjLand women.
r Webstar underrates the iotelJ
igafkce of the masses. Relying on th<
southern affinities of our commercta
cities, on the eubservieacy of politi
cians, on tb« discipline of party* and or
his owtf great influence, Mr. Webstei
looks doirn upon the people; but the
time-is probably not far distant wher
the people will cease to look up to him
Parties will accept of any leaders wh<
can acquire for them the spoils of th<
day; but in the political history oT oui
country, the people have never placei
their affections upon any man, in whos<
stability and consistency they did no
confide.
I remain, dear sir, yours truly,
WILLIAM JAV.
XXXIat Congress.—ln Senate.
[From the Report ol tlie N. V. Tribune.]
Washington, Wednesday. March ‘JO.
Mr. Foots appeared in his seat.
After the usual morning business th
Senate resumed the consideration of Mr
Cl.at *8 resolutions of compromise, and Mr
flsie resumed and concluded his remarks ii
reply to Mr. Calhoun’s romance of History
with inference to the Slavery agitation. H<
denied that Abolitionism had grown and he
come powerful by the aid or countenance o
the great political parties at the North. Oi
the contrary they had attained whatever po
sition they now occupy in despite of fhosr
parties. In illusttation of this position ht
referred to the various abolition nots which
had occurred in various places in the Nortli
in years past.
Mr. Dawson, interposing, said he believed
there w as one mob in Dover, N. ii. to w hich
the Senator had not icferred. He hoped an
explanation ol that occurrence would be
given.
Mr. Hall ssid he never heard of any
■uch inob. The Senator must have found
in ibe same book which contained the false
ot abolition emissaries being sen!
»oinug the -Paves to excite them to msuriec
a y connection with it, what?
took lit constitution a i ground just as tut de
signed now to do, defending the constitutions
righis ol the South. [Laughter.J That meet
ing, however, exhibited nothing like the
spirit of a mob nor did it approach to it any
thing like as much as the Senate does some
times. [Renewed laughter.] There was nt
violence, no attempt at violence. Alluding
incidentally to the position assumed a few
days since bv Mr. Webster, he expressec
ins sincere regret that lie could not agrei
with his views then expressed, while lie re
joiced th it he could agree with what thai
distinguished Senator sad, two years ago n
the Senate, upon the same subject, declarer
decided, eternal, ancoinpronnsing hostility u
the extension of Slavery. Mr. Hale proceed
ed, at considerable length, wall some forcible
and occasionally humorous lemarka in reply
to Mr. Webster, charging hiui with incon
a latency. He also examined the pending biJ
lor the recapture of fugitive slaves, contend
tog that us provisions weie subversive of goo<
order, and every principle of the Constitu
lion.
Mr. Cass, interposing, put a question no
distinctly heard bv the reporter, but under
stood to call lor an explanation of the prince
pl« under which Mr. Sev\ard, alter taking an
oath to support the Constitution, could refuse
to carry out its provisions because lie believed
«hem to be in contravention of the laws ol
Clod.
Mr.SxwAßii—l stand by every word that
I oitored on that subject on the occasion in
terred to* a» it 1S recorded. 1 have no expla
nations to make here nor elsewhere. My
position* are not without explanations there.
I have only to say that my conscience is in
uiy own keeping, and that the consciences ol
others are in theirs—they will take care of
their own, and, by God’s help, Wl( i
t-aie of mine.
Mi. Cass mads no reply.
Mr. Hale res«|#d, with some general
remarks upon the question at issue between
the two sections, incidentally alluding m
powuou wjteo Speaker for the
Messrs’. BI'7LXR, Klim, anti Foote denied
tiiHSvMr t ajhoon assaftm-d to speak fui the
Sowtla.
Mr. Hale read several passages in which
Mr. Calhoun says what the South objects to,
what will please the .South. It that was
tor the South, what v.as it
M*. Fooix Mr. Hale that Mr.
:,,a
Mi. Ha lx admitted the statement and
said that, with the explanation, u. t mteience
was regular that when Mr. Calhoun said the
South, he meani himseit (Great laughter.)
In concluding, Mr. Hale o [liei Umi Ul
North were aggressive, an.l u» B re d u out
•»ge the rights ol the South.— Thev a.a
Jeure einiiicination, and the in.pj.ive., r
the cond.uon of man. They d!i h
the day would come when the word „i ave
wou.d be Without a meaning. They did
des.gn lo opersn- upon, or through.‘the t in
stitution; they o*»;red lo operate upon rh e
hearts and conscien*,* u ,e ople 4 ,f
slaveholding States, am hoj.cd lo secure their
hearty cooperation, 111 bi«* uij y al>uul UIM da
when oppression, of every ci. a(at U r sjH>ij .j
hare no place in any country U|lu||
They ask not the aid of human p -\err,m<.i.'.,*
lo bring this about; they knew perfectly
that, under the Constitution, Congress n*,j
right to give such aid, but they did ask,
lustice, mat the govermuent be not put i;i iht
way of this work.
Mr. Chase obtained the floor, and the fur
her consideration of the subject was post
pui.ed until 1 uesday neat.
R*- Moore's motion lor a Select l onilinllec
till Friday next.
l‘ a *lDg the flour, ihe Prcai
iant Caororm* Message was postponed until
Monday next.
Mr. HvMta bavmg the door, tlm census
4il *M ibdtt lakeo up, amended, atH J diacua-
I sed until after four o’clock, when the Senate
adjourned.

Settee or Mr. Giddings,
according to all accounts, made a very sale
e hott *P«ch on the Ifttb inat., in Co»-
m.uee of the Whole We bare not teen ant
report of it yet. but it will douhtieae come to
hand toon, when we hope to find room for
extracts. He did net forget to pay hi* ree
pecta to the sleek Mr. Winthrop, the ‘Art
tui L>odge r (root Boston. The correspondent
of Ihe 1 nbune toys that be was listeoed to
with undivided attention. His bean was foil,
and he thundered out his anathemas and
axioms with great vehemence. In a firm
voice he declared that there siiould by do
s'ave-market in the territories of the Ameri
can Union—and that Western Texas should
I come in free—free as the glorious breose that
fanned the fathers of the Republic when they
were engaged in the struggle for indepen
dence.—W ouid that all the members of Con
eress flora the North were ttue as Joshoa
R. Giddimrs.— Anii-SJ/irmi finale.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, APRIL 5, iB6O.
1 Hr. North Bt*r it sent tofr iendi
j who do not take the paper, in the hope that thej
may tto aubecrile for it. Subacriptioca and
donatjoti for the name may be safely eackmad, ad
dreaeed to Frujibici D»»«uh, Boehtater
,'icv.
{D“ Wanted— Several Tbavelliss Auiti,
to procure aabeeribera for the North Star. A
libera! comtmaion will be given. None heed apph
I but aueli aa can brio* good recommendations foi
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
F.RiCK DoUfiLass, Kocliester, N. I’.
Mass Meeting in (oriithian Hall.
A Mass Meeting of the citizen* of Roch
I ester, irrespective of aect or party, will b
held in Corinthian Hall, on Friday afternooi
t; and evening, April sth, to sustain the nobl
position maintained hy Seward, Mann, Chase
Bissell, Stevens, and their noble compeers i
Congress, in their manful efforts in behalf c
Freedom, —to protest against the passage c
any law in Congress converting the people c
the North ioto bloodhounds to hunt dow
fugitive slaves, —and to consider such othe
important matters as the present crisis dt
mands.
Several distinguished speakers are er
gaged. Discussion free to all.
i Open at 2p. m., and at 7 1-2 evening.
Rochester, April 2, 1850.
Oath to Support the Constitution.
1 he present i 9 a peculiarly fitting time t
examine the nature of, and the obligations im
posed by, an oath to support the Constilutioi
of the Inited States. The recent speech o
the Hon. W. H. Seward has attracted th<
public mind, with much interest, to this par
ticular point, and has called forth a torrent o
sonflieting opinions on the subject, from thi
presses of the two great political parties. Hii
reeoguitiou, in that speech, of authority
higher than the Constitution of obligation!
not to be mpealed by hnman enactments, ha:
i cirned intense alarm into the foremost rank:
JJlyjh political organization. They stani
r*j|pn<ed— terror stricken, at the approach o
this heijeiily truth—and howl under tts toucl
mv
to torment ms before the time Gen
the head of American Democracy
has pronounced the speech in question th
most dangerous of any he ever listened to i<
the Senate. The Taylor party are said t
repudiate it. Doughfaces” at the North
and Slaveholders at the South, have beei
alike stunned by it, and even the politics
friends of Mr. Sewaid cannot wholly epdors
it. They bestow upon his masterly effort
large amount of general praise, but it i
general. It is declared by them to apes
the sentiment of the North, but they do nc
come to particulars. Meanwhile the Demo
j ciatic press is pouring out its vials of wratl
upon the head of the distinguished Seftatoi
Now why is this timidity on the c
friends, and this bitterness on the part of ene
j mi s The answer is—Wu. H. Siwar
has, (in the face of this Christian country?
intimated a belief that the Authority of th
Most High God is greater than the authorit
of man
i bo verv head and front of his offending,
Hath thin extent; no more.”
It must be confessed, that, while Mr. Sew
ard has said many other excellent things, th
idea to which we have *boye referred, cun
stitutes the chief peculiarity of his speech
and forms the chief ground of offense. Du
for this, he might have passed unscathed
Calhoun would cot have denounced him as
cut-throat, nor would the Republic have re
pudiated him as a member of the Whig party
For the utterance of that sentiment he is t
be visited with political excommunication,aui
to be branded as a political heretic. All thi
may be inferred from what is transpirinj
around us; and the wind naturally inquires
what is to be the result of such a course
To us a seems clear, that a more suicida
policy could not ha adopted bv the Nonhen
Whigs, than to oppow and make Win. h
Seward the object of attack If the Wtiij
patty wish to cover itself with odium, and ti
encounter a storm more terrible thin tb<
whirlwind itself, let it come out and declan
before all Israel and the sun, that there is n<
God higher than the Constitution, and l*et i
further pronounce political annihilation on ev
ery man who will not receive upon his brov
their mark of rank atheism. Such a cours<
might for a time cover the party with a blazi
of glory but the day of retribution wouh
come at last; and Ichabod” would certainb
be w ritten upon the w alls of Whiggery. For
dark and depraved on this subject as the grea
majority of the people of the free Slates are
they are not yet so sunken in atheism, nor s<
lu*i i u all sense of consistency, as to permi
foul blasphemy to pass without thej
reprobation. We say again—let Whigs an<
Democrats make war oo Win. H. Seward
let lhen to inflame the public mint
»pasnsi h.m; and jthey will have, (or then
l, e creation! of a new and powerfu
-mihern party, which will not leave the
m>ker* 0 f 4 J P g tu Mao j
1 I,4 an who could calmly and distinct)/ad
“fUmenu dll W. 11. .Stwnd
T. is man hljo m| y k
easily silenced not
lL* native man
,!l b» liijh e»
do.m«u will drfcw .w.* be >Uti
portion of the American people
ready given form, force tod expression
latent droughts and feeling* which have lon|
groaned tod sighed for utterance An to
mom of Northern religious men; and should
be become the object of general attack, this
class woo Id rail; around him and their levs
for him, mad tbsir adherence m him* *ooM
increase, jost in proportion to the tateasitj
and bitterness of the assaults made upon
him.
Bat it was not our purpose to defend, nyi
to eulogise Mr. Seward. That we feel I
warm gratitude to him, sod to other Seoaton
and Representatives, who have.eteod forth in
defense of justice, is most true. We think
that Mr. Seward aharea the giateful regard
of e«er; colored mao in the land and ;et, it
becomes us to state, that even with him wi
cannot fell; agree. While we thank him foi
extending to ua all the legal protection which
the Constitution— strained to its utmost ten
c*oo allow; while we thank him foi
demanding the Rights of Habeas Carpus an<
Jur; 1 rial, for the fugitive from bondage, wt
submit that to such trial can be rightful It
had, as the trial of a man for his freedom
To be arrested for being at large, eveo befon
a jury, is a hardship too great to be quietlj
endured by any man. We therefore think
that no arrest should be made, no trial abode
be had, oo the groond that a man is allegec
to have been bald The slave
OiMhs uf iftweteotfeatahtM be made lo&nov
that Northern ground oneibt.be polluted
and that Northern people will not submit t<
be shocked and insulted by any such atrociom
proceedings in their midst. But then, w<
are asked, whit becomes of the Constitutioi
and of the oath to support it 1 We answer
that the oath requires that which is moral li
impossible.
Among the many truths which have beei
elicited during the present discussions, w t
i have been impressed with none more that
this; that the whole framework of the Arne
rican government is radically at fault; that i
i is founded on a gross and scandalous fraud
f that in it are comprised two distinct and hos
f tile elements and that no Jesuitism can evei
f reconcile and render them consistent.
1 Liberty and Slavery—opposite as Heaver
r and Hell—are both in the Constitution ant
the oath to suppoit the latter, is an oath U
perform that which God has made impossible
The man that swears to suppoit it vows alle
giance to two masters—so opposite, that fi
delity to the one is, necessarily, treachery tc
the other. If we adopt the preamble, with
Liberty and Justice, we must repudiate the
enacting clauses,with Kidnapping and Slave
-1 holding. It is this radical defect in this Con
stitution—this war of elements, which is now
I rocking the land. There is a deep reason
for the singular attitude in which the straight
forward opponents of slavery are now placed,
contending as they are for the very measure
I a s a means of preserving freedom, which the
Slaveholders threaten to adopt as the last re
sort to uphold slavery. Garrison sees in the
Constitution precisely what John C. Calhoun
sees there—a compromise with Slavery— a
bargain between the North and the Sdbth
the former to free his soul from the guilt of
slaveholding, repudiates the bond and tha
latter, seeing the weakness of mere parch
ment guarantees, whenfopposed to the moral
scope oi ine pariwS-iv Smk, wcehit» diasqflE
tion of the Union a? bia only means nf tiafefp.
This fundamental contradiction in the Const*
tution is the real cause of the present storm
tossed condition of the public mind. The
South have looked Jo the Constitution, from
i the ramparts of Slavery, and have seen in it
their highest power of defense. Slavehold
ers have sworn to snpport it as such, and
ha*e pever sworn to support the whole Con
stitution. On th/a other hand, Northern men
have recognised in the instilment the princi
pies of liberty and justice and have scarcely
observed the pro-slavery principle cunningly
wrought into the instrument. The opposite
view, therefore, of the Constitution and its re
quirements, is the primary cause of the pres
ent agitation.
The question arises, as to who is right in
1 this contest» We answer, so far as the
1 Constitution is concerned, that all are wrong;
and necessarily so; since neither party,
North nor South, could, if they would be
faithful to the requirements of the oath to
I *upport the Constitution of the United States.
Ever y slaveholder in the land stands perjured
i n the sight ot Heave.', when he sweats his
purpose to the establishment of justice—
the providing for the genrta'l welfare, and the
preservation of liberty to fie people of this
country for.edfry such slaveholder knows
that his whole- Me gives JA emphatic lie to
his solemn voW. And ht*>tan«U case
with our Free iSeii friend, who swear to
promote the Constitution I Why, they differ
from the slaveholder only jq motive. They
swear to prcm*n the Ciwsti tution, as a
mean, of promoting tenement measures;
and under a certain svsMfe of reasoning,
based on alleged necessity they justify their
oath. They have our• sympathies, bu» not
our judgment. They hakes theory of human
wfclafc fni |L, liteecessarv to do
evil, that goodxm eoife. e are uU con
vinced that that theorjy Correct and we
must continue Jo for the present, that
the Constitutyk being,# par with itself,
cannot be lived up to f and what we esnqot
do, we ought not to swear to do; and that,
therefore, the platform for us to occupy, ia
outside that piece of parchment.- j-. o
To Coskespon ora*v*.—W e are reeling
communications from all parte of ihe country
respecting the mysterious noises,” which
are beard in Rochester, and in other parts of
Western New York. Being too much en
gaged in tbs discharge of the numeroui du
ties of our position, to reply u, uUr cores
pondents upon this tuhject individually, we
bag to state to them briefly, through the
columns of the .Vor/A S/ar, firstly, that we
have beard the rapping* eeeoodly, that
we have put quotient, s*d jgpeived whst
were alleged to to aaswgi foe
thirdly, shat those Tan mme sometimes
correct, sad sow Hi—l fe)—t; fourthly,
that the answers nuami men alwavs just
useh as might h»_g»toa by lining sad
movieg human being, an 2 seeding oo ghost
to tell us the*fifthly, we have sever re
received an; intelligence from these alleged
spirits; they are ”of the earth, earthy," **d
possess no mu:* iliaminatioo than we, wto
are yet in this clod of cumbrous day. Wifo
this impression, we have contested ouraeives
with bolding communion with our fellow
I ba«e not Iflri}
rn.«iPeA|.
r—ooe njny
lependentbptop
i, supported b}
ill ''go übr a:
in tbe wood
hound «jban. of th* fugitive, most havj mo
1 of every hnm —“fm,n
This hsa been well espmc
and cipp—ii bv lb# Senator fiom this Sum
Hon. W|gH. SnvAao, and others. -It H
desirable, ta-much as possible to th*
hand# 5f n#p. Under this-nupriesion
the fuUowtig petiin has been d«wn, ant
waits fat ggnatuijp in this othee.
PETITION Agomtt the passage of'imp mar
D a r Recapture of. Fugi
T> ttUZ&r of mUMitui 1
IVundersigned, citizens of Statj
residing chiefly in Rochester
i in* the Ouhty of tearne
with surprise and deep sorrow, that it
eontemplatpn by your honotable body, a
pass a laW by which the carrying into effet
of the proiaions of the law of 1793, for tky
or Fugitive Slaves, will k
rendered pore stringent and obligatory upoi
the free f tizeus of the Northern States,
respectful but earnestly pray that thjp Bjl
under cobideratton be oot passed r einf«
such enaoinent would be contrary to the law
of God, afd of Nature, —converting sympa
thy for th* suffering into a crime—rfenderug
the universally acknowledged virtue of has
pitality at offence against the State—aid
setting a premium upon wrong a#d inliu
-1 manitv.
I
As will be observed, this petition is sc
worded tint every anti-slavery man may an<
ought to affix his signatuie—the
union ahcltionist, not Jess than lA Wag,
Democrat, Fiee Soiler, or Lib m 1 npy
man, whrfholds to the emstr c
tion of tie Constitution. The refMti Ui
take oatty or to vote under the Constitute a,
on account of what are considered ita ex X*
ing iniquitous provisions, does the
person sqrefusing, from the right lay, dbei
not releaf} him from the imperial* obtyt
tion, resfng upon all men, to
moostrate- protest,against threatened wrong,
whether by a government or an individual
He is still, as much as ever, called upon t<
cry alone, and spare not,” in every pos
sible way through which his voice may b
heard. Now that the Congressional gag-law
has been broken down, and there are men tr
the Senate,as well as in the House, who ari
i willing brave the obloquy of presenting
from erprv city^^Ta^
hamlet throughout the northern States, and
the akveoeracy, whatever may be their nu
merical majority in Congress, Mill cease to
disgrace the statute-book of the United
States with their barbarous enactments, and
the national halls of iegisiation with their no
less barbarous discussions on the subject o|
property in man. We hope, therefore, that
this petition will be signed by persons of all
parties, pects, and colors, in such mifitets aa
to give a fair representation of the sfiSElfi
of the people of Rochester rr»apeftinJn% jn
capture of fugitive slaves.— j. d.
Albany, April%. L&O.
Mr. Douglass: The .*ortk
the heraljf for the oppressed.
for a passing notice of some turn-ups
our city, which are of rest to tbs
of freedom. The colonel peefk of this
place, for some months prat, have Hm'.atrQ
the idea of the advantage of sanding bej*
children to the seveial District -Seboek. Pot
haps the iii.utmnaiu>n fro u jhe fyrtk blof
has done not a liule to thtpi the
disadvantage u l being coh nised to m g.elo*
sive school at any rate, ioy 'rwt rot -s«)r
manifested a disposition to avatf'
of the benefits of the general
About tec days since, t iai bartifend 4mmd
Prejudice was ajrouseb in ki| 'if sat 2 ok nd)
Commissioners, Whetin i
ed by ifae malignant poison J[
nefariots speech, or whet ter unde* Set (***&s
most glurious vindication ofiiM
colored race, 1 know n
hkwar4a speech reache. *23
psttkln tki schooll. of Hjjpl
se^tMofy, «yerj ehildof th ifdtjitiiT
mm ensiled at once, u j
tunate asle-fieed cbildrei wqjre jm( uk tiukj
exciasireness, to acquire *^lMhns
ia, by «r free schoo! is prJßbj is j|W
Without distinction of
SevMa) parents of tie aggß||dL }mR
coitceizng the w hole i mh
gation iMhe Commissioaers, piMw ,|#V
on theato ascertain whv ihttrgjpfon i
cavalierly, and were most uoeuplnMMi#
that the admission of imloredAlrittM
the scbosls with wbhs ogiMNW,
amaJgAxaauon too med, tmt Mkt
Alone n were determined
meeting, drew up a protest,
u tbs Commisviooers, «sMm
from that day, they mat
|lh| maiaftnk
iIfTT
00
-eoolvihf to te*i the question legally, >f tb
oonMMcmer* do not ttpttl their decision.
A jpt favorable Mpecl of tbt wboh
oov«pe»i i», the united deterouneue® of Um
Mocrtff people to abandon their old colon i**"
MT
Ooe pleasing feauure whieb eharactetieei
tjt (Metion, vii the acknowledge* 0
Right*.
Earapvaa Afaln.
Tin 3 learner Niagara, which ie the !a»t ai
rival from Europe, bringa dates from London
to Ike 9th. and from P*n», ,h oth uh
There it not much particularly noteworthy n
the political aapeelof the Old World. Th
chief poiota of interest are the elections u
France, aud the altitude of Roaaia toward
England.
In England, there has been an imports*
kliuiion io the House of Coalmens, on i
motion introduced by Mr. Hlmc, for the ex
loom on of the suffrage. The boa. member
motion waa for leave to bring in a bill, to ex
inti the franchise to every rate-payer ef lul
a|e, and of sound intellect; and u» vote b;
■ballot. Lord John Russell, and bis oo!
leagues in office, opposed the measure, on tin
ground that there is now no popular deinant
for the extension of the suffrage. W e i ma
gine it would not be difficult to obviate tha
ufapction. The Premier, however, doee no
.uina nun ts a limit th*
“must always necessarily be adhered to
so that with a proper amount of out-of-door
pleasure, he might possibly see fit to changi
3 hi*, opinion. The motion was negatived by i
large majority.
Anliher important motion was recently in
troduced into the House of Commons. We
refer to the motion of W. J. Fox, for leave
io bring in a bill to promote the secular edu
ci,Mn of England asd Wales. This motion
•ndfewith a better reception. The Ministry
looked, if not smilingly, at least com
platilhtly upon the proposal, and leave was
granted to bring in the bill. That some gov
ernment scheme of popular education is much
needed in Britain, is abundantly evident. Ob
jections have hitherto been forcibly and con
scientiously raised against any such measure,
on the ground that the government schools
will or may be made, in the hands of a tyran
nical* government, instruments of popular op-
by instilling into the youthful mind,
WjhLpnnciples of religion and politics. The
*r*<*ience of this country does not sustain
jbn idea; at least not to an extent from
wiich there is anything to be apprehended.
Mtfhe school books be of a general and non
sectarian character, and let the teachers be
Aosen indiscriminately, from Dissenters and
<&uychmen, simply with a reference to their
Bafifications as secular teachers, and we do
t apprehend much danger. No doubt some
teachers will instil errors into the mtnds of;
j their pupils so they do now; *nnd so they|
always wijl do, until the human mind arrives
at perfection but right is always in the end.
stronger than wrong. Let Error do its worst,
j if Truth is left free to combat it.
The conduct of Lord Palmerston, in con-!
I tinning tha Greek blockade, is severely com
mented upon by all the Eugliah journals.
Tbe tobwfaur bridge over the Neaai Strait*
wpW ~d urn. r*md
eat* ukei. though rßli iumj.! tb, w't'gt
j set tests, and engireers pronounce it perfect
jly safe. 1
j The weekly trips or thg jCunard steamers
are to commence on the Bth of April, on
which day the Hibernia will leave Liver
pool.
A new energy, (says the European
Times) seems to have been diffused suddenly
i throughout Ireland. All the population are
■.busy at work, and it is finally settled that the
f rtffice of Viceroy is to be abolished—a mea
f sute essei tial to the growth ol better opinions
m that country.
There was a report on the other side o t
e Atlantic that Sir John Franklin had been
und, and conversed with by some one who
Wrote to England tnom Karnschaika, viz
san Francisco and Panama. The report was
%nt'*unded.
France. The election* were to take
place on the JGih of March, the day alter the
x JSui£jra sailed from Liverpool. Great ex
citement prevailed. Tbe prosecution of the
Ikess is continued.
4k l'i,e l ostmaster General opens all letters
tMesing >0 and from suspected persons. This
(Amu’iCt has given rise to warm debates in
pftie Assembly,
fell it said that Russia and France are cora
etely at one upon the Greek question, and
iposed to England.
f JtA- There is no change of importance
In tb«- a Jaira of Jtalv. The Pope is still an
eXiJe, aid seems likely to remam so, from
hit kin; dour. His abdication is freely talked
Of.
t Switzerland has yielded to the
of Austria and Prussia, and has expelled the
more prominent German at.d Italian refugees,
flt'C.trfe‘u:r vkikstimi a,
j olatwos of war. Urge numbers of the Hun
fgamn refugees are collecting on the frontier*
of /J»jssinia where they are treated with great
by the Turkish Vizier. I^j e ad
-1 vices state 4hat all the sentence* of death
have been commuted to terms of imanaoo
meot to iron*.'
GaSE> e. The Hamburgh bartcnhalU has
letter from Trieste, which says—
The Greek question may be considered
as settled, inasmuch as England has declared
herself ready to raise the blockade, and to
abaodon all other coercive measures. The
courier who conveys the requisite orders to
Admiral Parker has arrived beip, £ud was
forwarded by rhe Lloyd steamer to' Athens
the day before yesterday.” So the “peace of
Europe'’ may still be preserved.—j.
ft cast a* Fima tiers.—The Emperor of
Hussts has ordered the erection of a line o!
I‘jfta along tbe boundary towards Pioasta.
At tbe present moment Russia has oo thie
Iroiot only the fortress of Zamosk. The
>fl ICI P t4 object of this measure ta said be the
aoncMiratiob oi a «;ur.*:derab!e force at the
it estetn extremity of the imperial dnaumona
bbe ready io of any event of tmpor
aoce occurring trj Central Europe.
Heory GrmneU’s Arctic Expedition, io ?cl
mteer search of Sir John Franklin, wilt eon
m of two vessels, to be called the Ad
«l i> Hunt. 1 Th., will m

spMck mi H#«. J. 1. GUM logs,
or Oki«.
In Mr Hamm af fUfaaaaatotiam, am MbW« v, March
IS, ISM, m Cammm-aftha ll'Mr <m fht Hal* af
Mr (W, M rt' Pftm Jtn/’t Wdh( tra*amsflimg
Mr frunoM af C4t^»«.
Mr. Giooiwo* said he regarded it it very
dm treble tbit geotbintb should understand
etch other, and that il»« imu« between us,’
should bo defined, in order that the country
night ooderitand distinctly the quea&ioft* oa
which we dlifer.
Complaints are «M 0» tod reiterated by
Southern gsotlemen, that we are encroaching
on the rights of the Slav* tmereet; but there
ie an apparent relurt4r.ee to cume down te
particulars, and to define those rights whteb
they allege hive beet* invaded. The gentle*
man from Georgia [Mr. Too«ae] told us, in
bold language, “that ibis i* pio-sisvery
Government.” Hot how fcr, f
pects it is such, he his not pointed out. 'as
JsSSSS-£r%SSS
.UveawHh our blood;” M*«
to carry slavery wherever our Jag jU* ta and
we have exclusive jurisdiction.
Now, if this be the doctrine of the Consti
tution. gentleoMO of the North ought to
understand it. Duly adauM no medium
course, by which we shall keep our covenant
in part, and yiojste it in other part*.
We of the North, alao, cotnplaiu of en
croachments upon our right*. These should
be pointed out with precision and maintained
with firmness, or they should be abandoned
find suirehderetf. f There IT no intermediate
oourse consistent'WfekdlttT! J, for one, dis
card ail cv;mp?omiaes, arofrejec* ot&s* to
compromise, [came hereto enforce, to car
ry out the provisions of the Constitution, not
to compromise, nor to surrender the rights
secured to us by that instrument.
regard the constitutional obligations of
this fewsrds the institution of
j slavery a* too obvious to be misunderstood by
statesmen. The line of demarcation which
separates the poop's of the free States from
the support of slavery lias been so plainly
drawn, that it would seem no intelligent, un
prejudiced mind could mistake it. It is, how
ever, true, that much obscurity is thrown
upon the surest by the ingenuity and the
sophistry of those who profess io reason
upon it.
Much has been said about slavery being
the “creature of municipal law.” Men it
both political parties now urge, that “slavery
cannot exist, unless sustained by municipal
law.” They say thal this is the doctrine of
jurists; tiiat the most profound judges have
so decided. Otheis deny this doctrine. Now,
what is the fact History shows us that it
was introduced into Virginia, and existed
there for years, without any municipal regu
lation or authority. We know from history
that it existed in each of the slave States of
this Union long prior m the enactment of any
laws on the subject. It found its way into
Oregon, into California, Deseret, and, if we
are to credit reports, it has been in New
Mexico, without any law. It has been sus
tained in all those States and Territories, sot
by municipal law, but by the superior physi
cal and intellectual power of the white over
the colored people. This was slavery in fact,
hut not in law. For instance: slavery con
tinued in Ohio, even against the provisions of
our Constitution, and in violation of all our
laws, as late as the jear 1840. It exists in
Illinois to this day. Slaves are there bought
and sold, not merely without law, but against
law. But when those slaves become intelli
gent, and claim their rights before any court,
the judges say that “slav«ry is the creature
of municipal enactment; that there is no such
enactment in Illinois, and therefore there is
no slavery in thal Slate.” The judge means
by this, there is no legal slavery there; while
alljare aware that segroes are there held in
to subject others to his will. In that State,
however, each possesses the right of self-de
fence. Not so in slave States. There, the
right of the slave to protect his liberty, or
his life, is taken away by tbe laws of such
State. For instance; if a slave in Virginia
lifts his hand against his master' in self-de
fence, the master may at once slay him with
impunity. But this right of the master de
pends on the law of that State; and the
njotpept tfie master goes beyond the jurisdic
tion of that State, this righf ceases. Tet
him bring his slave to Ohio, and the moment
they stand on our soil, under the jurisdiction
of our laws, the slave becomes a man, pos
sessing the equal rights, and powers, and
privilages, with the master. Such is the
case whenever they go beyond the jurisdic
tion of Virginia into Free territory.
These piuiciples have often been advanced*
Tiiey were familiar to our fathers. They
bad been declared bv the courts of Great
Britain, prior to our Revolution. Slavery
at that time was discountenanced in all the
colonies, excepting perhaps South Carolina
arid Georgia.
My colleague [Mr. CA.MebtLLj has shown
manable manner, that the objects of the
people of the South, before an<j at the pom
mencement of the Revolution, were the enure
abolition of slavery arid of ail slave laws.
These objects were proclaimed in language
most direct and appropriate, in 1776, when
entering upon thd ;var of the Revolution.
After the close of that memorable struggle,
the Confederated Congress, in 1783, sent out
an address to the People of the Untied States,
penned by Mr. M».dtson, in which tfisy say,’
“Luinbe remembered, finally, that jt hai
been the pride and the hoaat of America
that the rights for w hich she contended were
the rights of human nature.” These senti
ments teen prevailed tn all the States.
Fach State at that time held jurispiction
over its western territory, and, so Far aa in
ships were concerned, over (he high seas
laws of Virginia extended over
her northwestern territory, and overall ships
belonging to the people of that State while
sailing upon the high seas; and slavery, ol
Boirjevery ship thus subjseied^tMbT^lawi
of that State.
!n 1786, she ceded her territory to the
L?r^ d h Ul 1 he jurisdiction was tran*
lerred, her laws cessed to be in force there
natceTrb-“t- h W ,he
nance 1787, Congrem confer,ted that
IZL'MLTu freedOU4 —ng that
slavery should never mure exist there Thin
was expected by the people. They des,red
it. Ip to this period, each State held wruh
diction upon the high seas, .|.'e£
wued to exist there. ,be convem.on
then in session (or the purpose ij ra l:
.h. cwu,
tiM.alK, fi,«. s«i!h <;«,oiu» and Uwr/,
Ib« «l».e btii,; Nirnhlra
menibtr. would 00l jo 1010 ui,i„u wnll
poodle devoted lo ll»l e»mm,m,
11 -d CO,„^ m
of the subject was the resju. V
ih r ,he ectlon of b first article of
Congress all jurisdiction over commere ton
,h h,gH #nd bjf ,h mn,h
sec no* of (he asms article, it was provided
that Loogrewi shnyld not p, u hibjt the slave
trade until the y—fkom.
oi^TT UU °l' eonoeet »h# history
of ;ts adoption, show*, 0 Me mow eooclusiv*
aiaoner, tbe hoaitiJtt,
hat commerce in our own species. Ail
Wted that .t would be abolished at the ea£
est moment w fa.ch Coeg.ess should
•ess the poWerlo -tti ry into efieci the wjJl
and in !en lions of the pm>ple. 'Acting
ror f*® c Ifirs expectshod, fU* gTo>|
prohibited the importation of Slav* i.
but which did wot lake «d*ct uaiii M* .Ir!;
Jan wry, 1808. lu
0
This compromise of the Constitution bos
beer. fullf earned oat. The South enjoyed
the benefits of the thee trade for the time
stipulated, and the whole mittei has pt«ed
by forever. Yet, this compromise ia cited by
the gentleman from Georgia, to sustain the
doctrine that ibis ia a ‘pro-alavevy Govern
ment,” and the power given by tba Conaa*-
ution for Congress to prohibit slavery under
out flag, after lioB. he construes into anofeC
gallon tu protect, in all eoming time, whatever
our flag may float. .Such is the n»onstr*wity
of the slaveholding construction of the Con
atitution.
The gentleman fr jm Georgia also rites that
clause of the Constitution which relutes m
iugitive slaves, for the purpose of proving
that we are bound to maintain the master's
right to hie slave with uur blood. I nder the
Confederation, when a slave eseaped mu,
another State h* became free. At the for"
nation of the Const, .ution, an amendment’
was presented, mkrng ,t .he duty „f lhe f te l
States to arrest and imprison fugmve sJa e
in the saule ms.ner that they do fufliuve*
from just,pe. ha the amendment wa*
jeered.TThe Matere Ma.ter was compromised bv
stipulation the free State, should “paw
I, nplaw nor rrgulatmn by which the slave
stiounj d*Mhargefi from the service of his
master.” I construriinn which this clause
has received from the Supreme Court, makes
it the duty ff the free Stales, nut to act, but
U) abstain from action.
Now*, sir I am not syrare that any State
has passed aws to discharge facniv es tro
semce. fin the contrary, believe ever
btate has abstained l.om such legislation
"at constitutes the who* duty of thy free
i j States They owe no further duuee on fee
®ubject ander the Constitution. W# live tp
*j to our guiupact. W| «J»;t Uto the full ex-
»«n». 1 here we step. This stipulation can
imply nothing further than is expressed. K
ha» relation to fugitive ajhves only, h, O jjj*
feresce beyond that can be draft* from j,
J How gentlemen can infer from this clause
that we are bound to maintain the power of
the master over his slave with our blood, is
j tt/iotner cf tn.uo monstrous asjumpt.onj
w hich slaveholders are accustomed to ma*.e'
I bit for which they can assign no reason whs*
ever.
*r»»
i uere is no action obligatory upon the free
Statea. They fulfil their whole duty by ab
staining from action. Ohio Jogs this, and 1
believe all the free States do it. The last
clause of the paiagraph, which, referring u,
the fugitive si tve, says, he ‘“shall be delivered
up, on claim of die person to whom such
service or labor may be due,” has no refer
ence to State legislation, or Stale action
1 hat proposition was rejected by the Con
vention Ihe Supreme Couit of the United
States have placed a construction upon if
I they hold ihat it refers to the individuals of
the State, imposing upon them the duty of
permitting the master tojtake the slave, m
the same mannei that we surrender up our
tilends to the officers of justice. They have
decided that tt is the duty of individuals nut
to secrete, or to defend, the slave against bis
master. They admit that the individual
niay act in aid of the master, but deny tp
the State all power of acting on the i-uhject.
It is worthy of remark, that this is the
only instance in which Congress is authorired
to legislate in favor of slavery. On this point
it is conceded that we may pass Jaws. But
bv this clause of the Constitution we are
i only authorized to legislate lor the arrest and
return of fugitive slaves. It does not make
it oui duty to legislate for the further benefit
o, the master. It is left for us to act agree
ably to the dictates of our own judgment.
We have the power to pairs further laws, or
we may repeal the law of Congress now in
force on that subject. But it gives us no
juiwer to go further in support of slavery
and ui peas laws tor the protection of that ;n
stitution within the .States. Such tnierpr*-
I utIOU would be a perversion of language,
and of the intention of those who farmed the
GwpirtMtrao It wg a ititetitUf jjjfjr \U*r
'NffMtengiit to reclaim In* fugiflfii slafeF
and teCoporess Dower to aid him in reclaim
rsi*! the W.v-
f he exiendno further. Nor ha-j
frog Georgia CMr.J[oo*aaL
ImrM aa ip whu manner of
of conafruction he infers any power in Con
greaa, under this clause of the Constitution
to protect slavery wheievei our flag may’
float, or that it is our duty to piuleci it with
our blood.
The next compromise of the Constitution
to terhich the gemleanao fiorn Georgia iMr
I oombs] refers, is that o( the slave represen
1 lBt,on 39 Provided in the 2d clau.se, 2d section
of the Ist article of the Constitution In re*
i gard to this article, ,t would appear that „u
difference of option could pJsatbly e *i» t
I here can be nq doubt that tt V*s intetided
to give the slave States an advantage over me
Th« .i„«,, teool
f m this Hall nor oan we legislate for their
benefit; but the slaveholders have a reprsseo
tation here, in proportion to the nunlber o,
isavesmey bold in bondage, count” n/
s aves equal U>* three freemen.
ffian sixty year, the slave State, have erim,**
f. nVl,e f e u "tan has ever dem/d
n obe their right under the Constitution
But ins equally plain that ihisdaua*
intended to give no further privilege. It a,.
1 Jde9 to no °‘her auo.eot auu cannot be con
strued to give any other powers. Tbegcn
f enia fMr. Toohm) referied to it to show
’ll Bl lhls aiavehojdmg Government that
j w e are bound to maintain the muster’s power
over his slave wah uur blood; and to carry
slavery wherever our flag floats. But the
I way and manner he brings this clause to
sustain his positions, he has failed to show
us. t repeat, tnat the whole oh.eet sou in
i tent ion of this clause has been thus far obser
j ved and carried out. South Carolina has
now ihree representative* on this floor more
th*P sit# wopld be entitled to, .wording L
the number of her freemen; and twenty mem
i*i ,he#lave S '»tes are admitted here
solely by virtue of the superior advantage
which the slave States possess over ii.«
j reopie ot the
It gitret lo the South an influence over out
righ(f and interests, pot according to their
ove of freedom, hut proportioned to their
disregard of liberty. The
slave, exerts an influence ia
the P ederal Government erpiol to foo^eHneert*
V****"* political power* equal to
hup<M citizens of the T
I know,, of nothing mole ss
digotty of our
•waguabty of our political influence. W.
W® place# i«« poetical position between the
M’reiliouflrMasn-r and his crouching menisi,
••penor one arid inferior to the other.
«||||omiac of fronnern honor, i;
boualf io oppression, bestowed pri**-
%ee uponiho*e who disregard “self-evident
2E: r? the toalieoable
*j«ga ofmaa: K has taught Northern men to
iy< Wft' f 11 tntjtled to
hftKl I •fanning dictation. I, wa,
ihifiMee of U.+ herhng which constrained
Northern members o# tfaj, a uor t 0 wttnd
up their own independence i r r e ut<
unite with ik. *f”~ ence d for h>
sidersuonsj TL^ U,h 10 from con
dom of alfuck down ihe fres
d ih9 dotUlues of political equably.
yoara held tbs National Gov
*“»»»v lent to the slave power. It
h,ch fur h8lf century
Northern m* n to tremble at Southern"
rail?," l l dl w,i¥e L oion; which now
ouia together the timid and the irresolute in
r cooirnercial cutes, to pass resolution*
Jfatnai the maihlenance of our own rights
jhe same feeling ol servility also manifest
oy a portion of the Xortlieru press, which
i» alwayx reat‘y to advocate
P*«iey. Yet, ws sbius o j me compacv.
States, ftoo the adoptioa uftlii*
Goasiitotioo to this day, have esjoyed this
pmilege ol a superior representation ia itu,
WU and iu the elec none of President and
*Mt Praeideot. No Northern man has vth
jected to carry out th»» provision, which, o
all others, is tb* l d*»iroctive to out in
temtand oor pnde.
But. air, tl» ®°««««woo waa never intend
ed to extend beyond what it plainly imports
It gives to *l*re States no other privilege
thao that of repteaentatioo agreeably to ilm
number of their slaves. It imposes no obli
gallon, whatever, upon the people of tbefre*
.•State* to maintain the ••master's power ovei
hta slave with our blood,” nor doeah impose
upon Congress the duty “to protect slavery
wherever oar dag floats.*' Nor can any mi
terence, whatever, be drawn from this clause
of the Constitution beyond it* plain arid obvt
ous apportionment of representation and di
rect taxation.
In order toeatabliah the duty of this Gov
ernment to sustain slavery we are referred to
the obligation 1 upon os to ‘‘protect
each of the States trom invasion, and against
domestic violence."
This provision extends to the free as well
as to the slave States. History informs us
that the rebellion in was the
occasion o! its adopuoe. Mr. Madison in
forms us that membeis from the slave States
assured the Convention that they neither
needed nor required any provision of the kind.
But no man can mistake the object and de-'
sign of this section NVe are bound to pro
tect cv* y Slate from invasion. This piotec
lectio.. is thrown around the State, including i
all the people therein; the righteous and the
wicked, the bead and the free, the black and
{be white, the hardened aamam, and the in-;
♦meant child, art i protected; And you may j
allege that tbtsdause waa adopted to protect i
pities aodMhKerete, w ith the same propue- J
y* 11 to have been adopted j
p r »4ae atghjfcoldera or any other men of a.
•ftl* iamb wagoning applies to the suppres
sion bf domtsua violence. We are bound to
proteelflhe whole'people of the State against
domestic violence We do not institute an
jo joirv as to ihe character of the people We
do’not ask whether they are slave* or mas
ter*, white or black, righteous or wicked.
he insurgent® are shu{ dqtyn by onr troops
Without inquiring who they are! The master
found in arms is shot down precisely as the
»!lvd ,hfl Insurgent slave is butchered
with just as little ceremony as the insurgent
master. Indeed we know of no distinction!
in such case. Our troops have nothing to do
pith slavery; their duty if. to quell t|ie vio-,
fence. That dona, every slave'm the State j
may walk off to Canada, in full view of our;
army, and they possess neithei the right nor
the constitutional power to interfere, oi in any
manner to prevent their escape. But in case
of invasion, or of insurrection, the power ot j
{he Government in repsllmg the one or sup-j
pressing the other is unlimited by the Consti-i
tution. The whole physical power of the
nation may then be brought into action for
that purpose, and iI deemed necessary by the
Executive, who is the commander of the
army and navy, he may liberate every slave
in such State for the purpose of saving the
people qr of restoring peace. This is a pow
er, however, lying behind {he lyonstituticn,
based upon the right of self-defenco, upon
{he duty of presetving {he Government. *»d
existing only in time of foreign or of civil
war.
And now, Sir, I have examined what
we so often hear called the ‘‘compromiaes of j
ibeConstitution.” They consist entirely in:
the privilege conceded to {he slave States, to
continue the slave trade until 1*08; to pursue j
and recapture their fugitive slaves; and to be
allowed a representation in Congress propor-j
honed to the number of their slaves. They
have no further claims whatever tn favor of j
slavery. Beyond these, we are bound to act
fox freedom, for the political equality of all
men, for the mwniamsnce of‘‘the rights or
Jl to life and liberty.” Aside from these,!
the people of these fiee States pusses* the
clear and indisputblc right to be separated,!
at* entirely exempted, fr«nfll
n ihe support of aUxetjr, tnefci purified from f
<ta moral guilt and etflirelf ajguhyd from Us!
i/ fm T ■j*-»m*|
*ei»®afro* tt» jPyrti aud polnic&l contagion
yvffl be 1 owing W the vjtiated ®pntini<n{ and*
{Hh.MryiU jjjambara.|
if wi> remain contaminated with the crimes;
attendant upon the slave trade in this District j
and upon our Southern coast, the responsibil-;
,V musl rest upon those Northern members
of Congress who are willing to contiqge U',er,'
man cipation in this tale of men and of women
i—-this treason against God and humanity.
But the gentleman from Georgia [Mr
Toouvl says that we “have |iere{ofp?e sus
-med the r.gh{ of {he master to hold his
Have upon the high seal and even in foreign
uiirts ff this were correct, {t would im*l
Jose upon us no duty to violate the Consit
tunon and defeat the entire object* for which j
our Government was instituted. But 1 will j
examine this point. Until the year 1808, the
oenolP of South Carol.,* and Georgia weie
Wnulied to import slaves. But they went to
Africa at their own peril. >Ve furnished
ifiem no protection. if. in attempting to
*eize and ens‘ave the unoffending people of I
that country, they were slain, all regarded
their fate as roost just and righteous. W hen
their victims were placed on shipboard, these
dealers in human flesh looked not to thi*
Government for protection. They depended
upon phvsical force, upon chains gfld fetters
the scourge and thumbscrew, the pistol and
dagger for their safety, until they reached the
,uri.diction of the slave State to which they
hutried their cargo. There the laws of such
State threw its protection around them: and
f the glare* subsequently *es*sleq their mas- j
ters the pewera of .he Stile were brought to j
the matter’s aid in holding his vetira in sub-;
lection. But this permission of the slave j
ilsde expired in 1808, and the traffic vyas
pencefbriti entirely iflterdicted. At the same
note, Congress restricted the coastwise slave
trade by imposing heavy penalties for trans
porting slaves from one of our#wn sea-ports
to another in vessels of lew than forty tons
burden or without filling affidavit! that the
*ere no{ imported after the year and j
f Ue alavedealevs now pursue their vocation on.
ou Ssduthern coaat at their own pert!, pre-
c.»ih as they pursued the foieign slave trade;
buer u. 1808. The United States have pas-
Wnu law of slavery authonxing one man to
h .’u another as urunerty upon the high *eas^
there, under the exclusive
i f law*, the master has no more ngbt to
IT .1..* h- to cor
-2s, m asier. The slave baa the tame
while there to defend his life and liberty
i 4. the master possesses. It either, in
if |eually defending hiniMlf, »l»y hie
f .h?n w »o l»« ""he United Slim
nny other Siete. ot om.lore o, of ne
turn e*C.i»d, Hint hulde him inepoinibln
•lime, .re the «ocu.ne.rm..l oh,ou.ly ep
pl.tni.le 1., rtiii d ho d m
“Thu hi true ih.t the rie.id.nt.ndS.n
jurisdiction of our laws, it ia
fraud and de eplion, compenaauon waa o
tamed from the Bnt.sh Goverament for two
aigues of slaves wfm were mad® free try
na shipwrecked uul landing on 8011
but it equally true that the unp«®moo
discovered, the right of aucli protecuou denied
and sll such compensation has been for tlw
♦i**i.velve y earsl w lllhe,d b y England, and
~obch olaun* h avu l° n B bee abandoned
by tlie fixecutise.
Win'll in 1838 the British minister* refused
to listen to the claim* of this Government f 0(
indemnity to ti e slaveholders, whose vtctun,
uo board the ship Enterpn.* had l»een mauu
muted by shipwreck, on Hi® British island o
Sew Providence adiaunguiahed Senator Iron
Cmh Carolina, fMr. CatHuuH.j »piit**t a
Offers r®®oluUooa in th® ether erwi o
yfapJLl. declaring is ®Ut»U.«®. not m.relj
l•; P u.»rv existed upon lb® high sea® w
wiU. life*

I slate, when drives by ww of weather mb
ihe port of a foreign nation. In troth, th<
resolutions, for as that body could do
N,lio 10 M«»>n claims o
them dealer ta human flesh. No metric
objected to in* doctrine so repugnant to ere
rj principle of je«ke aa d sodn**];
to the Constitution and to ieteroetfoeel law
Tbe tokjo o, New England
?f N,w ork wtf Ohio, wm tlwmanam
■X“‘ r V‘.° »bol. North n
i f z*zr jsi
J*? »»*Mono«J; th«,o«. .Met
m now ao ready to abandon the Wilmot Pr»
iso so willing for the admission of toon
.7* miooa to give further ak
to the aiaTchekier, as bo pursues his trembling
with* oar free States, was then silent.
That Senator opened not b» lips, neither did
he rote on that occasion. From an exaroina
ton of we journal, J discover the naroeofbni
one whig from the free States who voted or
that occasion. He awed for adopting the
resolutions. The others appear to hart been ab
sent.
j j¥ f r y Southern Senator of both parties,
and all Northern Democrats who voted gava
their support in favor of the resolutions
I his was in the year I*4o, and soon after that
period, one of the Senators [Mr. Webster]
who Jtd not rote on three resolutions, was
called to preside over the State Department,
under President Tyler. While he was gui
ding the most important branch of the Exec
utive duties, the case of the Creole occurred.
1 hat ship sailed from Richmond, with a car
go of slaves, in October, 1841; while on the
high seas the slaves arose, asserted their
right tc freedom, and slew one of the slave-
*ancf guiding the ship to the lafand of
New Providence, went on shore, and became
entirely free. The piratical dealers, who
professed to own the people thus restored to
freedom, called upon the President to aid
them in obtaining indemnity for their loss;
and Mr. \V ebster was requested to carry out
the doctrine fir which be Ind other Northern
Senators had refused to vote. A statesman
tired up and educated in New England, one
who had long breathed the free air of ihe
North, who had been taught the language ot
freedom, condescended to become the agent
ind solicitor of those who deal in human flesh
ind to exert fiia o&oial influence to maintain
i commerce in the bodies ot rneu and wo>
men,
The attention of the nation, however, was
railed to these facts by resolutions presented
n this body. The proceeding of the Execu
tive was condemned by all. Not even slave-
Holders were w illing to sustain the dootrine.
The further prosecut.on of their ial'amous
jlaun was given up. The State Department
receded from its position; the celebrated reso*
lotions which were intended to establish new
principles in the law of nations, remain a
lead letter upon the journal of the Senate.
The owners of the slaves of the Creole have
pocketed their loss; and the slaves themselves
ire now most of them tlntiah subjects, and
i few are freemen, residents of our fiee States
Yet, air, these attempts of Mr. Calhonn, aid
ed by Southern slaveholders, and of Mr. Web
ster and President Tyler lo commit the na
tion to the doctrines centended for by the gen
tleman from Georgia, [Mr. Toombs,] are now
quoted in both ends of the {Capitol to show
that wp are bound to carry slavery uhere
jver our flag boats signal failure to
sustain the doctrine, is couMaktly cited by
slaveholders to demonstrate its correctness.
The reasoning is of that absurd charactei
which requires onlv to be staled to b« appre
nated. The views which I have thus advan
ced are not new. They have been ufter
asserted here and elstwpere, b ul il seem*
that ho arguments, uo facts, no exposure o:
the sophistry and the absurdity of slave-hold
ing doctrines will prevent their repetion; an'
then reasserted, we are Con**^ nea
jr
♦The gentleman from Georgia also insist!
is bound to protect the master's right to th<
slave in the same manner that we ara nt
hO protect him in tbe*enjoyment of other pro
peny. Such was once the opinion of Eng
lish jurists, but it was a darker age. Thi
latest decision to that effect in the Engliel
courts beats datp mo;e than a hundred years
since., jn 1772, Eord Mansfield denied tin
doctrine, and combated it with such argu
ments as to set the matter forever ?i rest it
the courts of Great Ejritam. From the com
n.eneemem of the Revolution to this day w<
have refused to admit that slaves are property.
This Government has always refused to pay
f H{ slaves killed or lost in the public service.
In 1816, Congress passed a law making com
pensation for property lost oy destroyed in
the service of Government. Pending the
bill, a motion was made so to amend U as tc
allow compensation for slaves killed or lost
while in the public service, in the same man
ner as the Ciovernmeot paid for other proper
ly; but the amendment was rejected by a
large majority, there being only thuty-twe
members in favor of it. In 1828, the case ol
"D’Auterive'’tane before Congtoss. The
slave, hotse, au-4 the cart of the claimant
were passed ;nto toe public service against
his consent, on the day of battle at •New
Orleans. His slave and horse were killed,
and cart destroyed; and the owner called on
Congress to make compensation. A hill
was reported paying lot the horse and cart,
but refusing to pay for the slave- The claim
was of the strongest possible character. It
was discussed some weeks, w hen it wa9 laid
on the table, and has never been heard fiom
since. In 1832, the case of Larche, of the
same character, was rejeoted- In 1842, ano
ther attempt wq» niade to induce Congress
to pay lor slaves ’qsl in East Florida by the
action of our troops in 1814, but the claim
was rejected —only thirty-six members voting
for it. During the last Congress, efforts
were made to pass the bills to pay for slaves,
but none of them succeeded, lit the 28th
Congress, a bill to pay for a slavedost in the
Florida way came id this body from the Sen
ate Uw as committed to the Committee ol
the Whole House. 1 was perfectly aware ol
its character, and called the attention of my
venerable and lamented friend from Massa
chusetts, [Mr. it. 1 know it was
Jjjfc in ar o i l m>se 1 daysmen" biluTre hurried
through this body under the rules without ob,
jeer,or, it passed. 1 was myself unalde to be
and it escaped the notice of Mr. Ad
ams, and became a law. No man will foi a
moment pretend that an accident of that char
acter constitutes a precedent or establishes
any punciple. With this exception, Con
greMdrom the first session under the old con
federation to this day, bay rejected the princi
ple that man can hold property tn man.
Mr. Madison declared in Convention that “it
mould be wrong to admit in the Constitution
THXT THKKK COULD BE PKOeORTV IN
To this opinion ol Mr. Madison, every mem
ber assented. No oue controverted it. to
that doctrine Congress, as well as the Sup
reme Court of the United States, has at all
tunes adhered. Yet we are constantly told
that slaves are property, and gentlemen ap
peared determined to overthrow, not merely
ihe practice ot ihe Government, the decisions
of the courts, and the Constitution itself.in or
der to sustain slavery, bnt they aoeni dispo
*ed to repeal the law of nature, and reverse
the decree* of God himsell, in order to bring
the level of the brutes that per
***V have now anaweied all the poeitiona of the
Mfitleman from Georgia which l regard aa
material- I have paid particular attention to
Sl soeech as I am not aware that any other
4>ulbeut member has dwelt upon the consti-
obligations of this Government to
.liver* IwN onw luru mv all B,,u
newly -acquired lernioricv.
f I. u constantly asserted that, by adopting
J iSTf**. *WB.
i U. mih «M»f ,m"*r
eb«r,« u with Uwpttn* W el»»W rn-
Unctions between 'hsjtnMWhl ifl
those of the Slave StttedflPS(iQ»|w ti
meet* are unfounded '|'flll|fopjjgg|^H(t
tlsTery a for the pwftts
men, of every State, at
and tongue, and peojtfc, ifrir Hr a 1
there upon term* of ptrkit ■MHp/4HR
propose to give to dSf St I
the tame security tv Hf«. l&ert/nfcHBH
to admit of no dittiaejili* eJfeMk mff
moral worth. It i» this
rights" to which Sooth*«» att*dHfc§MH
to the want of it. 'I boa saotua WBOmM
the fact, that wr recsfoiaa vs jPfhfiK|S
that we will permit nonaa to gpifcjflgfewfl
of another at bis disposal, to ilfgmlmJJf]
liberty, to best and scourge,
such are the objections to
parnut slavery to ertabfcr these fc|rS
ri tones, we shall show
the discharge of onr flmmi.lA
insensible to our
we shall deserve and mine sS; .‘Vf |h#'pww
sure, the condmnnatfor fef.4i iiaif*diE
world. It is not my pur; 4 )glt’ws*i>4jt(
travel over ground alrea y jbMT m
moral turpitude of p*. ntmg’Stftery |d|
slave markets to be tita Wished terrify y
hitherto consecrated to i r esd.fa, baa itwfl
ablv examiued by other gentf aßjfc
is, however, an abstraction, *dMa>S#r
within the last two yea b»u r «S,#alvot#stJ
by individuals of both p-V;oe-,.|l rtWiag,p>l
nying our right 10 pmh it c!a''< IB
regions. I believe the iftfilr
theory admit that.owmi toe la 1 j(-J
ing the sovereignly of t) use Te«»| :Mfofp M|
hands, we may probihi the reM-'
hia money, his wn li i. kyu 1 •V'l'W'
'•"ir-ri. rwhi. fwK.
estof possible ciimes, '-y rekbu 'v»*w
man or hia wife and chi s Wi* kMtp,
his intellectual eojoyun ms, b*f Are i <pe*
—of himself—such robl ry mtu pt*Mt
ted, and we have no right trap* Wh\.
1 stated that tins tber ry was* It hag,
certainly been d sii)ce T» n I
our fatbere declared “ihat Gove w**a*rs
instituted for the very purpose f sactang*
“/Ac people m the enjoyment of r t **u/ ji£;
erty.'' Nowit is said that, is nahliHug
Government inters, we lrfusi leave
of liberty ojt of view, to be deter: i:aaaby\ho
people ot that country. Who d< geatlenen
mein by the ptujJel Do they include iR
persons who now live in New Me eo, or v:>o
shall hereafter go their 1 Do they pteud
ear-h human being shall have a iff: an*
vote on ibis question of his own I’bafty i l
they by legislative enactioent sepers the ri{
of such vote to every man* No, sy» Swab i
not the iniention of gentleman w ifo use tlja
language.. They intend that one poBjRR °f be
people shall determine w hether th«r will nb
another portion of their liberty and'Jttli then
as property. Such is the effect of this P*J
icy; yet gentlemen are unwilling 'Jhbome Oil
before the eountry and avow th.srjtesfion u
undisguised language.
Again, it is urged that slavery vlfßist
there. In. the opening ot my reuu 'i%isboy.
ed that it existed in Oregon and kWfoitit,
that it now exists in Deseret, and,if ween j
credit accounts apparently correct ,Tkh»» f y
isted in New Mexico. In my t e
mines of New Mexico will fuvuien a% pit V'
tabhe epiplyymeoi slaves as canAe foo d
upon the face of the earth. That,
ted, those mmes will be filled wit If ft deh e
slave population, And such we krpjFto 1 1
tlie opinion of slaveholders gentrtKy, aut
they are complete judges. 1 regard those-ay
guments merely as apologies for leaving' lh>
question precisely as slaveholders desire it to
be left. Ti—s will not permit me to examine
these points further
hile commenting upon th*
offhe Oonstltuuon. l compromises
iesui.iv» s l >,,ke of ,he slave rt‘P
..,on in Congress—the political position
in which it placed the freemen of the North;
that this position' was intermediate between
the supercilious master aou Ins abject slave.
itJgnmnTg p'osnlon'lfaS n&*<fTi
this body, upon the Northern press, and upon
the timid and irresolute men of the North,
generally. The question now propounded
to us is, Shall this political inequality be
tween ourselves and slaveholders he extend
ed and increased? Shall we consent or per
mit the holdet of a thousand slaves jn mines
of New Mexico to wield the same influence
in this Government, and exert the same con
trol over our commeicial and national rights
and interests, that is held and exerted by six
hundred of our intelligent farmers of the
North? No, sir, the motto of our North
ern people is, “no slave Territory; no more
slave States.” We intend to permit no in
crease of slave power. We will oppose -it
uow, hearalter, and at all times; under all
circumstances; in all legal and consfitutional
ways; by every honorable mean®. The
Northern man who hesitates to
outrage upon the interests, the honor, |y>|
the conslitutiontl rights of the wPVM
gard as a traitor to fieedom and to humaßMy
Dut. sir, the most insidious treason
freedom and the North is that which uljpM
upon us the propiicty of leaving this queagWi;
of slavery entirely to the electors of sie$ ie
rttones. If they establish it, and form
Constitutions of a slavehuldmg character, they
hey urge that each shall be adiniitedlfcA
the Union as a slave State, and every inww
of five slaves be entitled to an infh||M
over opr national rights and interests,
io live laboring men of the North. He wfo*
embraces this insidious mode of difradfeg
the Northern character, adds to hqf ruyral
and polttioal treason, the baseness ot du|lgfr
ty and of cowardice, and is far less
to our respect than he who comes out
and frankly declares that Northern Jabwgr
are less entitled io respect, and less quaJAB
to discharge political duties, tu® t c
slvaeholders of the South.
[to BE CONTISI’EO.J
Scene in the Senate.
The following accouiK is given of (HfKfili
passage between Benton and h uote,nn* l|tt
Senate
Mr. Foote moved that the hill organ
the Territorial Governmenis of Kuta* m§
X'WJASk'W "o refer for an fl
Mr. Benton, as the friend of
gave nouce to those who designed htrTjrf
mission, that they must stand by her. J
tornia was entitled to the consideration
Senate, and her right was not to be W
poned. Her bill was first reported,
her friend, he gave notice, that froin
time henceforth, be intended to have life may
ject pressed and urged upon the
until it was definitely acted upon.
jected to giving th-i territorial bi I pr 4fon
ence, The State was entitled u th» JIA
cedence, in every irrpect. She hai the AM
to act independently upon the coaM
Pacific. She is not able to borrow a I.#
to carrv on her government, becar se ow
anomalous posiuon. Six bundled
dollars of her money had beeu taken troo. t|§£
uhilr nothing afl'ording her protect on or fcgfe
menung her piospemy I
been given her. Ihe peop.e h-d b< en,
and would be suffering, for- w ant of pr<»«h
non. until lha Senate f-hould decide wh*
ehe he longer postponed. As afr«w o' Ofo
S admission of California,he w ould not
struggle for that object. 'mm
i Mr Foote replied wuh much waruith.u
aiog in a persooal attack upon Mr Ben mg
course, impugning the motives of bm
sod intimating that h» new fK»rn frierw m
fur California was not h«r tU sake M
people, hot becaeus of the her
her Senators, whose admission to m
eJuumaed that ih® Califoraig iw4
of the new Saute, whik the
Territorial bill, it was luwwd, would give
rise io much di«t»es»oa; in thiastate of jbmga
b« oooatdsred it bifblj proper that the
Jfev* this is the AtnericfsMate. I better*
Ike Uvs ot ifc' Seosfe ted be rales of de
«*s), personalities, aspeiioohand attacks
mi motive* art forbidd*. pus i
knew tbit the attacks bees
my motives to-tfey> heretofore
«pQ|> chamber, ate fialae and cowardly—that
IMfell know, sir! [Exanemerwj
JK/Foote, after some remarks ftM he par- 1
|ne of show tag that the objectiont by the
ter Sfnatus to peraooaliuea, was tatirely
ooaisieoi with his owe (horse and exam-1
replied to the charge trffowatdice w fol- 1
vs l am not in the habit of dealK| in I
tonalities never have that he
sator was cowardly. 1 never make aif
tent that 1 cannot prove. loot bound n« v
*y, that when the Boa| dares in hi*
1 ufic (ear which be knows fiave witnessed
lienever he comes out frakly aad boldly,
hfctead of shielding himselfkaiud his estab*
fctfied cowardice —ubenevf he is prepared
a* hold himself amenable wthe laws which
•vein gentlemen, I am spared to meet
■n on that footing,
/Mr. Benton—l prononno it cowardly to
be insults where they canpt be chastised.
pMr. Fo<'te rose. [Loud fils of order.]
I&lr. Benton—ls a be blackguard-
P day in and d a y out?
;Mr. Foote,in his seat—Hds a blackguard.
%der! order']
Mr. Benton, resuming—lalarguage to lie
Md w hich could not Mused in an oys*
aucellar, grocery or tavern 1
fnUr. Foote called to orders
Tice President—The Sector is called to
Trlr. Benton, continuing—#re such things
Unwed to go on, Sir? It 1 high time to
them; and if persons uafsuch language
t§|e. in a place where a culgel cannot be
■pied to them, the voice of&qblic indigna-
P| must be brought to bek upon them,
ipfil public sentiment can mtje them behave
sith* the manners which he due to the
Vice President repeat! calls to order, j
Mr. Benton —Well, Sir, II the words ob-
•ejed to be taken down in in aceord-
Mfe with the established rutbof the Senate.
v After some further colloquy
y-qpL Foote said—lfthedmiof the Senate
vtjg not thrown open to him br Mr. Benton
fterould not proceed further.He intimated,
however, that he stood by he said,
and if Mr. Benton would in the mat
ffcr, he was ready to meet nypj
CpVfthvfc J ~7
j,,..- .avvyf.rs and Statesmen in
...*ica.—lt is now some )5 or 20 years
since the emancipation of the slaves in the
(British) West India Llaql of Jamaica.
Since then the negro race tppear to have
made lapid advances. A litter of the Ist
iust. t» the New York Evening Post says:
Ooey( the most
ate ms terms
at Lincoln's Inn, aa must all banisters who
•v ietv to practice here; the Judicial authorities
the island having no power to admit any one
to practice the law in myof its de-part
ments. This is a circumsance, by the
way, which has given to Jamaiia a bar ot rare
culture and talent.
It so happened that the Sifry Assize was
sitting in Kingston when 1 arrived, Sir
Joshua Howe piesiding. 1 availed myself of
the courtesy of a professional friend, and ac
compamed him one day to thecourt, while in
session. Though the room contained a
erowdof people, there did nit appear to be
twemy white persons among them, the court
!md bar tnclaeise. Two colored lawyers!
were sitting at the banister’a table, and the
I jury box was occupied by twelve men, all but
I Uiree ef nottfwere colored, and ail bat two
-who we’-i negroes, were Jews. Two wit-
I unM4pr' e AXMnined before 1 left the room
yHTT.hlifeie colored aud both police
AH the officers of the court, except
colored. 1 was assured
pOiwt mmt than seven-tenths of the whole po
lice lores of this island, amounting to about
KytdVad men, are colored. Judging
fflg^l^rwinporiion that fell under my obser-
wimate cannot be far from cor
rect o*l yPp l will the southern readers
of I'la Bi ming Poet say whenl add,that in the
lagislldCf assembly of Jamaica, composed of
r fifty-seven British subjects, aome
ttn VtX tfoaeo are colored men. Nay, more
t )i4 n/fli pnoters of the legislature, Messrs.
SOabotn, are both colored men, and
ge editors of the leading govern
or; the Kingston Journal,
ay privilege the other day to make
liMeare of one of the moat highly
men (Mr. Hill) I ever met, upon
iaplexi »n the accidents of birth bad
left ftHh whicu betrayed the African bar on
fiig ggmTieon. He ia a brown mao, about
forty-ftc of judged, and was ed
ucateit one of the English universities,
wfceril onjnjed every advantage which
medm- ould procure for hb improvement.
j£3| ranee tnd address both indicate su
mllpK lsemer t. He enjoys an enviable
se a laturslist, and bss published
q ih birds of Jamaica, illustrated
n M (W**S^ J WrV!
Stipendiary maguitriles el the is-
W_ apiary of £5OO sterling peran-
TbliljfkiioN a Monument.— I The plan of
d Monument, designed to be erect-
rongt >3, at the Capita;, meets with
frue the arcbitectuotl ciities to
i Q ymMl’ cently.a proportion having
m Hi- Massachusetts Legislature
Mack of granite by tie Sute, Mr.
fM> oe shafts at tht plan which
i..liable effect; sad now he is
jMenions by a sensible writer
Boiton Conner who comes
anomalous pLk*’ in the fol
lious pile, then, is intended to
parts—a circular temple an ffie
u enormous obelisk ruung out
i tfte same way as s candle ti
cket oo the cover of the oid
i box, to which useful imple
ae service its whale outline, as
>ee bears a Mriksg and unmis-
Maoee. The expedieat of ap
a pile of atone, ax hundred
i< roof of a budd©g beneath it
tk feuded on any eenoua pno
jc propriety. Were our ejee
jU gone out a vtaiuog, our
fish of «ocb praetites, and from,
m, tfrm front anrople, we
teller. Phe says an
•ppea:; worst TSft ugliest,
l Maftui m the h«Ms, hie seen
a porn u to whtab it doee not}
teat edit -iy. h arails nothing:
coiStrit joi.-
cened, to
mmmss. ot wut
ia pained by tb« apparent MtabOity. aM W
evident impropriety of poaitiee AH fa#
•teapJet af the Buddie afn* tm lathe gra— i
aad rest m that lttm mwimi
Ura roof, or mterfeie wmb n raaay w*T<
difierem style observe the same rale; wad tt
mu> reality*noi a rede of style hot of cu—tl'T
tjMjMrta dicton axehmivaly, bet a
Hew HtriT rnrut! The foilow
iae advert Meant, takaa fraa the “Louisiana'
fMhiui, H is a bee temple of the ehtuby
and the beauty of aiavery! Gfoneoa fellows j
are oar brethren of the gee erne* Sooth:
“N«mo Docs.—The mMirrsigocd bss oe
bend some ef Urn beet Doga in the Stale, i
and be wishes le let the public know that he
ie prompt and randy to attend any calls that is j
not over 15 miles. He ban been ia the habit
of charging every one five daflara far eateb
tng each negro; be does mot loteod to redone
h.s former prices, bat will charge nK« fix
long trips. He does net advise any petaoa
to come after him unless be eaa take aim to
i trail that is nut more than eight nr ten boon
aid. Any person wasting a negro caught,
will either go after himer send a man author
ised to make a baigian with him before he
starts. Some persooe do not like tbeir ne
groes caught with dogs, on account of having
them hit, he assures al! such tbit if they re
quest it, he can have them caught without
being bit. Residence two miles west ol
dinjniyat the forks of the Jackson and Port
will be required when the work
*9(Br a W. B. ROT T RK.
Intfe&oa Sold into Slavcrt.— Elixa
Mf&ikton a colored girl of about 24 years oi
age left Ithaca, Tomkins county, aometirns in
the summer of the yesr 1848, as a waiter to
the daughter of Dr. Coryell of Ithaca, who
was about taksng a tour, to Boston New
York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Virginia and
Sonth Carolina. It was represented by
the lady upon her return to Ithaca a short
time afterwarcs that she left Elixa sick at
Boston, sines then she has never been heard
from. Her brother who signs this notice
fears that she may have been reduced to sla
very, asd now living in the south under the
the yoke of bondage; and would be glad if the
papers east and south who take an interest
n the cause of the oppressed, would copy
his notice and give him any information,
ouehing the residence and condition of his
ost sister.
Isaac Middletown.
Reynoldsville, Tomkins Co. N. Y. March
12th, 1850.
A Washington correspondent of the Sa
rannah News remarks of Mr. Webster and
lis late speech:
“After the adjournment, the Senator oame
o Mr. Webster to thank him. Gen Dawson
if your State, clasped Mr. Webster’s hand
letweett his own and with great fervor ex
pressed his gratification. At the same time
te introduced another Georgian, who said,
n the fullness of his heart. “Mr. Webster
[f you will come to Georgia we will reoe ,ve
fou with open arms
Well, I dont know hut Ms. Webster 4
tave to go to (Georgia, or aotnewb*- *‘L
Sew England after hit 'j Ce ou
eady tokens of Ise
n the storm gathering over him
.„rin. Mr. Webeter, as I personally
niiow, wholly disregards all that. His trust
is in the intellect that God gave him—and
that i 3 a surer guid£ and a safer reliance
than the appiobaiion of prejudiced men.”
Ice, to the amount of 8525 tons, was
exported from Boston in February—not so
much by 5000 tons as during the the same
month in 1840. 
MADAME ROLAND.
»r *EV. JOHN S. c. ABBOTT.
II vii midnight when the condemned
‘jirondißt were led from the bar of the
Palace of Justice to the dungeons o(
the Conciergerie, there to wait till the
swift-winged hours should bring the
dawn, which was to guide their steps to
the guillotine. The arms of the guard
clattered along the stone floor of the
gloomy corridors of the prison, awak
ening the unhappy victims of the rev
olution, who torn from homes of opu
lence and refinement, were plunged
into the grated cells from whence they
also, in their turn, were to be dragged
to the scaffold. The acquittal of the
Girondists would afford them some lit
tle hope that they also might find
mercy. They peered through the grat
ting of the cells upon the group moviug
along, by the dim light of a feeble
lamp, and learned their doom. La
mentations and wailings filled the
prison. The condemned, now that
their fate was sealed, had nerved their
*onA® Ia anil muiuaHy cheerskg
one aaother, prepared as martyrs to
eucounter the last stern trial. They
were all placed in one large cel), and
the dead body of their companion,
with which they were to be buried on
the morrow, was placed at their side.
A wealthy friend who had escaped pro
scription, and was concealed in Paris,
had agreed to send them a sumptuous
banquet, the night after their trial,
which was to be to them a funeral re
past or a triumphant feast, according
to the vordict of acquittal or condem
nation. Their friend kept his word.
Soon after the prisoners were remand
-1 ed to their cell, a table was spread and
preparations were made for their last
supper. There was a large oaken
table in the prison, where those await
ing their trial and those awaiting their
execution met for their coarse prison
fare* A rich cloth was spread upon
this table. Servants enterci bearing
brilliant lamps, which illuminated the
dismal vault with an unnatural lustre,
and spread the glare of noonday light
upon the miserable pallets of straw,
the rusty iron gratings and chains, and
the stone walls weeping with moisture,
which no ray of the sun or warmth of
tire ever dried away. It was a strange
scene—that brilliant festival in the
midst of the glooms of the most dismal
dungeon, with one dead body lying
upon the floor, and those for whom the
feast was prepared, waiting only for
the early dawn to light them to their
death and burial. The richest viands
of meats and wines were brought in
and placed before the condemned.
asesot flowers diffused their fragrance
and expanded their beauty, where
flowers were never seen to bloom be
fore. Wan and haggard faces, un
washed and unshorn, gazed upon the
unwonted spectacle, as dazzling flam
one oftef another, until the board was
covered with luxury and splendor.
In silence the condemned took theis
places at the table. They were men
of brilliant intellects, of enthusiastic
eloquence, thrown suddenly from the
hights of power to the foot of the scaf
fold. A priest, the Abbe Lambert,
the intimate personal friend of several
of the most eminent of the Girondists,
had obtained admittance into the prison,
to accompany his friends to the guillo
tine, and to administer to them the las!
consolations of religion. He stood in
the corridor, looking through the open
door upon those assembled around the
table, and with his pencil in his hand
noted down their words, their gestures,
their sighs—their weakness and tlieii
strength. It is to him that we are in
debted for all knowledge of the sublime
scenes enacted at the last supper of the
Girondists.
The repast was prolonged until the
down of morning began to steal faintly
in at the grated windows of the prison,
and the gathering tumult without an
nounced the preparations to conduct
them to their execution.
Vergniaud, the most prominent and
the most eloquent of their uumber,
presided at the feast. He had little,
save the love of glory, to bind him to
life, for he had neither father nor mo
ther, wife nor children. And he felt
that posterity would do him justice,
and that his death would be the most
glorious act of his lite. No one could
imagine, troni the calm conversation
and the quiet appetite with which these
distinguished men partook of the en
teitamment, that this was their last
repast, and but the prelude to a vio
lent death. Hut when the cloth was
removed, and the frui’s, the wines and
the flowers alone remained, conversa
tion became animated, gajr, *n<J at
times rose to hilarity. Several of the
youngest men of the party, in sallies ot
wit, and outbursts of laughter, en
deavored to repel the gloom which
darkened their spirits in view of death
on the morrow. It was unnatural
gaiety, unreal, unworthy of the men.
A spirit truly noble can encounter
death with fortitude, but never with le
vity. Still, now and then shouts ol
laughter and songs of merriment burst
from the bps of these young| men, at
they endeavored with a kind of hys
terical energy to nerve themselves tc
show to their enemies their contempt
both of life and of death. Otheri
were more thoughtful, serene, and tru
ly brave. “Wbat shall we be doin|
to-morrow, at this time said Ducos
i All paused. Religion had its hopes;
I philosophy its dreams; infidelity it:
dreary blank. Lach answered accord
lu g to tu-i faith. “We shall sleep aftej
the tatigues of the day,” said some
Atheism had darkened their minds
i is an eternal sleep,” had be
come their gloomy creed. They look
to the slide of the guillotine
tiding alt thought, and consigning
e,J ~,l° ’hat non-existence, Iron
w hich they had emerged *t their crew
lion. NoV repled Fauchet, Carra
and others; Annihilation is not ou
•lest my Ere Manorial. These bo
dies may parish. Th*s« UvuigifcoHghla
tnese boundless navr
die To-morrow, tar away M ,h«,
worlds, we shall think and feel
set, and »oU« tbs problems of the un
material d«stmv of the human mind
Immortality was the theme. The song
was hushed upon these dying lips; the
forced laughter fainted a wav Standing
upon the brink of that dread abyss,
from arheacp ho one has returned with
tidings, every soul felt a longing for
immortality. They turned to Ver*
gniaud, whose brilliant intellect, whose!
soul-moving eloquence, whose spot
less life commanded their reverence,
and appealed to him for light and truth
and consolation. His words are lost.
The effect of his discourse alone ia
described. “Never,” said the Abbe,
“had his look, his gesture, his language
and hia voice, more profoundly affec
ted bishearers.” In the conclusion,
of a discourse which is described as
oneof almost superhuman eloquence,j
during which some were aroused to
the most exalted enthusiasm, all were
deeply moved, and mauy wept, Ver-i
gniaud exclaimed, “Death is but the 1
greatest act of life, since it gives birth
to a higher state of existence, Were
it not thus, there would be something
greater than God. It would be th*
just man immolating himself useless!/
and hopelessly for his country. This
supposition is a folly of blasphemy, and
I re P*l it with contempt and horror.
J»t>! ia Wot greater than,
God, but God is more just than Ver
gniaud, and will not, to-morrow, sudor
him to ascend a scaffold, but to justify
and avenge him in future ages.”
And now the light of day began to
stream in at the windows. “Let us
go to bed,” said one, “and sleep, until
we are called to go forth to our last
sleep. Life is a thing so trifling, that
it is not w’orth the hour of sleep we
lose in regretting it.” “Let us rather
watch,” said another, “during the
few moments which remain to us. Eter
nity is so certain and so terrible, that
a thousand lives would not suffice to
prepare for it.” They rose from the
table, and most of them threw them
selves upon their beds, for a few mo
ments of bodily repose and meditation.
Thirteen, however, remained in the
j large dungeon, finding a certain kind
of support in society. In a low tone of
voice they conversed with each other. 1
They were worn out with excitement,
fatigue, and want of sleep. Some
wept. Sleep kindly came to some,
and lulled their spirits into momentary
oblivion
At 10 o’clock the executioners came
to lead the condemned to the scaffold.
Their long hair was cut from their
necks, that the action of the ax might
not he impeded. Each one left some
affecting souvenir to friends. One,
picking up a lock of his own black
hair, gave it to the Abbe Lambert to
give to his wife. “Tell her,” he said,
“it is ail 1 can 'end her of my re
mains, and that my last thoughts in
death were hers.” Vergniaud drew
from his pocket his watch, and with his
knife scratched upon the case a few
lines of tender remembrance, and sent
the token to a young lady to whom he
was devotedly attached, and to whom
he was erelong to have been married.
Each gave to the Abbe Lambert some
_ X
those who were lefi behind. Few
emotions are stronger, in the hour of
death, than the desire to he embalmed
in the affections of those who are dear
to us.
All being ready, the executioners
and the <rtns d'armet inarched the con
demned in a column into the prison
yard, where five rude carts were await
ing them, to convey them to the scaf
fold. The countless thousands of
Paris were swarming around the
prison, filling the court, and rolling
j like ocean tides into every adjacent
avenue. There were five carts. Each
j contained four, with the exception of
the last, into which the dead body ot
j Y&laze had been thrown. And now
came to the Girondists their hour ol
triumph. Heroism rose exultant over!
j all ills. The brilliant sun and the
elastic air of an October morning in
vigorated their bodies, and the scene,
of sublimity through w inch they were
moving, stimulated their spirits to the
highest pitch of enthusiasm. As the i
carts moved from the courtyard, with
one simultaneous voice, clear and
sonorous, the Girondists burst into the
Marseillaise. The crowd gazed in
silence as thisfunera/ chant, not like,
the watltng of a dirge, but like the
strains of an exultai.t song, swelled'
and died away upon the air. Here
and there some voice among,
the populace ventured to swell the;
volume of sound as the significant words
were uttered,
“Contre nous de la nranuie,
LVtemiard aaaglant tat lefe."
They arrived at th« guillotine. One
asceuded the scaffold, continuing the
song with his companions. He was
bound to the plank. Still his voice
was heard, full and The plank
slowly fell; slid be joined bis compan
ds m their k aong. The
glittering ax gn«t?uf like iigmumg,
down the groove. head fell into
the basket, and one voice was hushed
forever. Another ascended, and ano
ther, and another. No ateji trembled,
no voice faltered. ButeUeh succeed
ing moment the soug grew more faint,
as head after head tell, and the bleed
ing bodies were piled side by side.
At last ergntaud alone was left, the
most illustrious ot them all. Pale,
but firm and dauntless, he continued
the solo into which the chorus bad now
died away. With a firm tread he
mounted the scatfold. A hectic fiush
ernusoued his cheek, as looking down
upon the hqadless bodies of his friends,
and around upon the silent crowd, he,
iu a voice of the richest melody, com
menced anew the strain,
**AiU>u> etaibna tie la pan te
Lt jour tic gLtre r*l arrnre
In the midst ot the exultant tones the
ax glided on its bloody mission, and
the lips of Vergniaud were sileni in
death. Thus perished the Girondms,
'the purest party to which the revolu
tion gave birth. Their bodies were
J rudely thrown into one common cart,
and thrown into one grave.
1 f Tv be Voidmued
A JIORRIBLI: MTI ATION.
W« had been plating ail the evens
mg at whist Our stakes had been
gold mohur points, and twenty on the
I rubber Msv- y, iw «a a 1
[had won five aucca«a«vU Lu opera, »Inch
teat jr»l\ to hi* coulh
losers, loaft
SAyikUt Mbid, when he suddeo
l> *nd hesitated
tojcty; (MUM non surprised ft*,
since he «rol« that aeidon p»ud
esed, hanri JMlfi i H.i master or ifra
|«De tha y itemed long considered
"PIM-iSy, Msxey; what are you
about?** ifopsiently demanded Churtrh*
ill, one of tfamost impetuous youths
that ever wort the uniform of the bail*
guard. r 7
Hu£,” replied Maxey, in a tone
which tpnlJed through us, at the
time tuning deadly pale.
“A* you unwell?” said another,
aboutto start up, for he believwh i|ur
frier* had suddenly been taken il£
the love of peaee, sit quitl!”
rej/oed the other, in a tone denoting
ejteme fear or pain, r j he laid dqwu
hk cards. “If you value my life.
Jove not.”
hat caa he mean?—has he taken
leave of his sensesdemanded
Churchill, to
“Don\ dart!—don’t move,-* I tell
you!’’ina >«tt of a whisper I never
can forgefi tittered flhtxey—“if you
make any j|hkn motion, I am a cfcud
man. looks'. H*
continued* Vtnain quiet, and all may
yet be I have a Cobra Capolla
around ny leg.”
Our firft impulse was to Hfrdw back
our chairs but an appealing look from
the victim induced us to to remain,
although W were aware that should
the reptile transfer but one fold and
attach himslf to any of the party, that
individual light already be counted as
a dead mat so fatal is the bite of the
deadly moster.
Poor Maey was dressed as many
old residets still dress in India—name
ly, in breehes and silk stockings; he
Therefore ae more plainly felt every
moment othe snake. His countenance
assumed sltvid hue; the words seemed
to leave hi mouth without that feature
altering it: position, so rigid was his
look, so ferful was he lest the slightest
moveinentdiould alarm the serpent,
and haste the fatal bite.* VVe were
in agony Jtle less than his own during
the scene.
“He iscoiling round!” murmured
Maxey, feel him cold—cold to my
limb; for he love of Heaven call for
some milk? —I dare not speak loud;
let it be piced on the ground near me;
let some fc spilt on the floor.”
Churclll cautiously gavs the order,
and a serant slipped out of the room.
“Don’tstir; —Northcote, you moved
your heat By everything sacred, I
conjure y-u do not move again! It
cannot be lo*g ere my fate is decided
I have a vife and two children in Eu
rope; tel them that I died blessing
them; that iny last prayers were for
them; tin make is winding itself around
my calf; I leave them all I possess—l
can almo4 fancy I feel his breath—
Great Heivtn! to die in such a man
ner!”
The mlkwas brought, and carefully
gut down ftkw drops were sprinkled
drew r back. Again Maxey spo&e
“No—oo! It has no effect! on the
contrary he las clasped himself tighter,
he has urcurled his upper fold! I dace
not look down, but I am sure he is
about to Iriw back, and give the bite
of death with more fatal precision.
Again he paused. I die tlrm; but tbit
is past endurance; ah! no—he has un
done another fold, and loosens himself
Can he be goirg to some one else? Wc
involuntaiy started. For the love o
Heaven, stir not? lam a dead man:
but bear with me. He still loosens—
he is about to dart! Move not, bu
beware! Churchill, he falls off that
way—oh this agony is too hard to bear
Another pressure and 1 am dead! No
he relaxes!” At .moment pool
Maxey ventured to 4ook down; the
snake had unwound hinsseltltwfie las
coil had fallen, and the rsptile .wrti
making for the milk.
9
“I am saved! I am saved!” am
Maxey bounded from juj chair, a.it
fell senseless into the mis of one o
his servants. In anothefr instant, n«s<
it be added, we were all dispersed; ibi
snake was killed, and our poor fnwM
carried more dead than alive to bif
room.
-I hat scene lean never forget; i
dwells on my memory still, strengft
ened by the fate of p*or Maxey, wrfad
trom that hour, pined in hopeless Ins
becihty, and sunk into an eafty grave
—Uourt in Hinddotlan.
LH'/
CITY OF MOSCOW.
V
The C ity of Moscow rendered feap
ous by Napoleon’s celebrated expddi
lion, was built in the 12th century, Ini
now contains 400.000 inhabitants.- I
is situated in a great valley,- and tht
the city Stands the walled hJ|>rKr
lin, why fa is surrounded by ebnek i at
-30 to Tablet high aud a aula am a
half in circumference. \V3bm these
limits are several public fctiildiigs!
The popular opinion that the Kreipifo
is a palace, is erroneous. It is stmp>
ly, as its name signifies, a walled et*
closure, and was built as a defence
against domestic insurrection. I
could so more be blown up by powdei
than csuld a great hill. In the ch*rd
which stands within its limif* is a be!
weighing 140,000 lbs., fat th«
eclipsed by the great bell which atindf
at the fool of the tower. This it
leet high, 65 feet in cir<Mßfer%iea
Its inches thick, and weight 400001
pounds avoirdupois. A large ec
has been broken out of it, and ft j.
sometimes used as a cbapsl. Aitmni
the city atretches a public wurdei
Boulevard, and outside of this a >a!
of turf t 0 or 40 feet in hetf£t. The*
handra) churches each with tv# «r m
dome#, fcre scattered tbrhughou: tb<
city. The domes are four shjptjj
and arc surrounded by a mum
cross, wah the creseenMjsietffc i
Tbef'tre painted sometiftss ten*
and o f lin a bright btuejtolof, tHJ
j forge s tangles of gold. AfPNkfrw m
from IjKlOto 2,000 dome* u> lie city
dMHBShn the sue is shioiig wpo
(hast, I* fraireoMly brdUaat. Aboe
h. w»4sHhj| of the c*ty wss bwm b
ifoultwsihhs. w**«o «*ey ovseisisd i
irntm