SLAVERY AND THE SLAVE TRADE
1H THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The following letter from our dis
tinguished fellow-citizen, l)r. Howe,
was, as we understand, addressed to
on© of his English friends and com
panions in the liberation of Greece. It j
lias found its way into print in England.
We copy it from an English pamphlet, j
entitled, Slavery at Washington.”
“Narrative ot the heroic adventures of
Drayton, an American trader, in ‘the
pearl,’ coasting vessel, which was cap
tured by American citizens, near the
mouth ofthe Potomac, having on boare
seventy-seven <nen, women and child
ren endeavoring to escape Irom slavery
in the Capital of the American Repub
lic, (in a letter from Dr. S. G. Howe,
U. 5,,) together with the proceedings
upon Capt. Drayton’s trial and con
viction.” _ ir
All who are familiar with Dr. Howe s
philanthropic character, —particularly
as shown in his participation for seven
years in the \Var of Greek Indepen
dence, and in his more recent efforts
for the Blind, —will readily unders and,
that his feelings must be strongly
moved in behall of the slave:
Boston, Jun* 20th, 1848.
My Dear I am pleased to hear,
by your last letter, that the views I
expressed concerning the Mexican war
meet your approbation. I know so
well your liberal views of this country
and its institutions, and your friendly
regard for me, that I am sure you will
not misunderstand me whem I seem to
•peak disparagingly of what, by almost
common consent, men uphold through
evil report and through good report.
Sometimes, when I read the praise be
stowed on us by foreigners, I feel, as
an American, that sort of guilty shame,
which one feels upon receiving praise
which he knows he is utterly unworthy
of. I love my country; I cannot, if I
would, break the tender ties which na
turally bind one to the land ot one’s
birth and the home of one’s childhood;
hut I hope 1 have outgrown that selfish
and blind love which arrogates to itself
the name of “patrotism,” which is
born of egotism and nurtured by igno
rance, and which, in its turn, begets a
brood of evil passions, out of which
come hatred, strife and war. 1 lore
my country; but I love the world more.
I love my countrymen; but 1 love hu
manity better. I would tain promote
the prosperity of Americans, but not at
the expense of th® interests and hap
piness of Europeans, Asiatics and
Africans—certainly not at the expense
ot right. As for that vulgar love of
notoriety, that enlargement and exten
sion of individual vanity, which makes
one covet for ones’® country, at what
ever price, the admiration and envy ot
other countries—glory, honor and the
like—ot course 1 have put oft »uch
childish things- only let my country
men do right, act nobly, and carry into
public alfatrs the sublime mordTity
which makes the man do uuto others as
lie would be done by, and I will gladly
leave the the houui mid glory to nations
who still delight in the sounding brass
and tinkling cymbals.
If there was anything which justified
Americans in their feelings of national
ft ride, it was that their country was
ooked to as a place of retuge fer those
fine spirits of Europe, who could not
brook the religious bigotry or political,
intolerance which forbade all hope of j
progress at home. But surely we can j
make no such boast now, for at this
moment the spirit of reform and pro
gress is abroad all over the the nations
of Europe; and in some respects they
THE NORTH STAR.
are teaching uato admire them, and t<
be ashamed ot ours lavas. For instance
1 have lately returned from Washing
ton, and 1 cannot help blushing at Um
thought, that tt is the only capital wee
of Constantinople, where tyranoy ant
oppression dare manifest themselvei
openly, and where despotism, in broac
day, rivets the chains upon millions oi
slaves, and forges new ones for unborn
generations. Yes! Washington hat
not only its slave market, where men
and women are bought and sold like
cattle, but its halls for legislation, in
which laws are deliberately framed
to perpetuate and extend slavery
j through coutles ages, and over vast re
gions of now unpeopled territory!
How can one boast of his American
ism, when he is obliged either to re
j nounce his allegiance, or to become (in
his capacity of citizen) a jailer, and
punish men, by impriaonment among
felons, for attempting to do deeds, more
truly noble and generous, than those
for which Parisians and Remans re
ceive the thanks of their country and
the praise .of the world? Yes! the jail
at Washington, a prison—not of a
State, but of the United States—a
prison which every citizen of the
United States helps to support, is used
as a place of confinement and punish
ment of men who struck a blow, not for
their own freedom, but for the freedom
of others—for the rescue of men, wo
men and children, from a state of slave
ry, the like of which Parisian and Ro
man, nay Russian nor Turk, never en
dured.
I want to Washington, mainly to see
what could be done for the legal de
fence of the three white men who wero
imprisoned for attempting to rescue a
large number of slaves aad set them
free; and I cannot, perhaps, make my
letter more interesting to you than by
relating what I have learned about the
affair: it will be at least in striking
contrast with those scenes receutly
witnessed by you in Rome.
Some time ago, a rough, hardy,
generous man, named Drayton, part
sailor, part trader, went to Washing
ton in a small coasting vessel under his
command. While there, he became
acquainted with a black man, who,
with his wife and five children, were
held as slaves by a free citizen of this
republic. Drayton became interested
in their salvation, and, yielding to their
prayers, resolved to attempt their res
cue. He directed them to come down
to the wharf at noonday, when he was
shout to sail,, and to mingle among
the crowd of idlers who frequent such
places. They came accordingly aud
he contrived to get them, one by one,
down to the companion-way, unper
ceived by the bystanders. He then
closed the hatches, cast off from the
wharf, made sail, and bore away his
prizes to the State of Massachusetts,
where they now live, a free and happy
family.
If this is the true version of the
story—and I think it is—we need not
wonder that Drayton longed to repeat,
upon a larger scale, his practical ex
periment at emancipation. Who that
has ever done a bold and generous
deed, but sighed to do another, still
bolder and more generous?
Last winter he formed the bold
and perilous plan of sailing in a small
coasting vessel, from Philadelphia, up
the Potomac river, to Washington,
and bringing off by night, as many
slaves as he could crowd on board.
They were to be carried down the Po
tomac, through that great inland sea,
the Chesapeake Bay, then up the Dela
ware Bay, to a point of landing in the
State of Pennsylvania, where carriages
were to be in readiness to carry them
beyond the reach of pursuit.
This plan required the aid and as
sistance of persons of wealth and in
telligence: and it was found; for, as
you must know, many in this country,
who believe they have no right to in
terfere with slavery in the independent
States of the United States, hold that
slavery has not even the shadow of
legality in the District of Columbia,
because that belongs as much to the
free States as to the slave States.
They say, ‘‘it is our soil, and we will
do all we can to purge it of the guilt of
slavery.” Be this as it may. Drayton
f.»u;id friends, who hired a vessel for
him called “The Pearl,” and supplied
the necessary funds. The plan was
rendered the more perilous, because
it had to be entrusted to a great num
ber of ignorant negro slaves, any one
of whom might betray it. Drayton,
however, undertook to arrange every
thing, and to risk everything, asking
only that his wife aud children should
be provided for, in case of the dreadful
event of his failure, and of his falling
into the hands of his enraged enemies.
He made known his plan to about fifty
slaves, as many as he thought his frail
craft could carry safely in the open sea,
and, though they guarded the secret
carefully from every white man, they
communicated itto so mnay blacks, that,
when Drayton came up in the Pearl,
they crowded down to the wharf at
midnight in such numbers, that he was
forced to cast oft' suddenly, and soon
fuund himself with seventy-seven men,
women and children on board, besides
the two white men who had come with
him. Not a moment was to be lost;
and away they swept down the broad
Potomac, ffymg for liberty and life,
from the capital of the freest and most
enlightened nation upon the earth,"
and steering dear of every vessel that
boro the stars and stripes of the boast
ed Republic.
The daylight broke upon them, and,
oh, God! if it is given to the spirits of
the just made perfect to linger ibout
the scenes of their early lore, what
must bars been the sight revealed to
the spirit of Washington on that peace
RIGHT IS Of NO SEX-TRUTH Of NO 001/>R-GOU IS THE FATHER Of US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN
ful Sabbath morning? There, skulking
under the shadow of hie loved Mount
Vernon, fled feet ewey towards the
i oceen, e freii berk, leden with four*
score men, women end ctnidrtn,
I striving to escape from the cruel tyran
ny which reigned in the city honored
by his name, their hearts oinking with
terror, as they looked back upon the
spires and the dome which bore aloft,
in mockery the cross of Christ and the
flag of freedom, over the slave*market,
the slave-prison, and the sieve-owners;
their hope rising to gladness, as they
looked forward to the wide ocean, as to
tb. (bw* 2~*-Zw+>
dering from the Egypt they left behind!
And that city of his founding, what an
aspect did it present to his benighted
but saddened vision! What noise and
confusion, what wrath and cursing,
what fear and trembling! Masters and
mistresses, in rage and despair, cry
ing out that they had been robbed and
ruined robbed of their hewers of
wood and drawers of water —robbed of
the bones and muscles of their human
beasts of burden, by tho sweat of whose
brows, and the toil of whose limbs they
had lived in laziness; the magistrates
hurrying to take counsel; the officers
beating about upon the scent of the
fugitives; the slaveholding Senators
and Representatives increasing the
turmoil, cursing the interference with
their right, and threatening their com
peers from the North, who hastened to
purge themselves by solemn assurances
of want of all knowledge of the plot,
and all sympathy with the liberators.
Meantime the mob gathers together;
it swells to thousands, arms itself, and
S'oes about threatening to emeute the
rae presses, and drive out the free
men, just as the mobs of Paris and
Berlin break in pieces thrones and
drive out tyrants, five la liberie! a
baa lea tyrana!** cry the Frenchmen.
—‘Hurrah for slavery! Down with
universal liberty! ‘Damnation to those
who meddle with our slaves!’ cry the
Americans.
During all this time, no tidings were
heard of the runaways, and no know
ledge was obtained of the direction
they had taken; but the whole neigh
borhood had become aroused. The
slaves who had been out in the night
were examined; some of them were
whipped; and, amid the din and turmoil
ofthe whites, were heard the agonizing
shrieks of poor wretches who had failed
to get on board the Pearl; until one of
them—a mere boy—was so cut iuto
the quick by the cruel “cat,” that be
confessed all he knew. Instantly Is
steamer was manned by free and fierce j
republicans; the steam was urged up,
and away they w ent in hot pursuit, j
Meantime the little Pearl had glided
down the river many leagues, until
she approached its broad mouth, where
it empties itself into the great Chesa
peake Bay—an inland sea—which be
gins to swell with a risirg tempest. The
night was coming on; they had seen no
sign of pursuit; they thought their
course was unknown; they gave them
selves up to a joyful feeling of security;
they ran their vessel into a small cove,
dropped anchor, and were soon asleep.
But the slave-hunters were upon their
track furious as tigers in the pursuit.
Twice did they pass, in their steamboat,
the little cove, and very near the Pearl,
when at last, just as their stock of coal
was about exhausted, they discovered
their prey, and dashing suddenly on
board, took them completely by sur
prise. Indeed, the most of the negroes,
worn out with the excitement, the hope,
the pains, and the labor ofthe past day
and night, were asleep under the
hatches, which were suddenly fastened
down upon them. Then went up the
shouts of savage joy and exultation
from the captors, mingled with the cries
and groans of their poor victims, as
the steamboat took the Pearl in tow,
and sailed proudly in triumph towards
the capital of the Republic. Then did
the Potomac present a scene from the
dark drama of the slave trade, which,
if enacted on the Thames, the Seine,
the Neva, or even the Dardanelles,
would have roused a storm of indigna
tion in the whole surrounding country.
Yes! had these slave-hunters approach
ed with their prey, so taken in the toils,
any capital in Christendom, excepting
Washingtan, they would have been re
ceived with hisses and scorn, and their
victims have been torn from their grasp
oy a justly indignant populace. But
their return to the capital of the Re
public was hailed as a triumph; they
were received with shouts of gralula
tion; a wild joy thrilled through the
city; the crowd ran eagerly together;
and hardly could the poor negroes be
carried in safety to their prison, so
eager were the multitude to get hold of
Drayton and his two white companions,
and wreak their vengeance upon them.
I will not dwell upon the sad fate of
these poor slaves, who, catching here
and there a word about tho glorious
revolutions of Europe, foolishly thought
they too were men, and might be free.
Hurried off to the rice and cotton fields
of the far South they may have to pine
away under the lash wielded by free
men. But, long as is my letter, I must
add a word about Drayton and bis com
panions. I found great difficulty in
being admitted to a sight of them, for
they were subjected to an imprisonment
far more clone and cruel than 1 have
ever known in this country.'even in the
case of murderers. By dint, however,
of the influence of two noble members
of Congress, who have dared to stand
up and stem the torrent of public fury,
1 was allowed to enter and aee the men
in pretence of the jailer. They had
been kept au s*cret, as the French have
it that is, cut off from all communica
tion with aach other, with their friends,
and with the world. The severity was
How relaxed, and their counsel was ad-
RWHEStE!£!rY. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1849.
mil/d to see them. 1 found Drayton
to btf) tall nan, of iron frame, and]
ataoeg Wtarvioed feat urea; quiet, yet
■tom m) •oflmehiof. Ho had fared j
uardiy iiftta narrow atone cell, wuhoul
a bed to’ie upon, and yet ho quailod
not, attfeem plained not. He seemed
to have node up hi* mind to endure the
md knew that, in all probabili
ty, a seiteoce of Jifo4ong imprisonment
would *e Wdoom. lie said to me,j
as he£raeped tlae hand 1 thrust in be*
twee£ the grating. M i know that I
ha the laws winch men hare]
mado for this particular part o&the
but I hwfg broken 'nottc of the’
laws which God enacted for all the,
earth, and for alt time.*' I bade him
cling to that thooghft, aa to an anchor
of safety, and went endty nwey, to do
what could be done o« hie behalf.
He will have able attf earnest coun
sel, men who hesitate not to beard the
lion in his den; but I fear that it will
not avail him, and that he will have to
wear his weary jife away in a prison,
unless that day which has dawned shall
be hurried on to its meridian fulness, in
the light of which neither slave prison
nor slavery can be countenanced in the
capital of this country. The fulness of
that day may be nearer than we thnk
lor; there are so many good men, and
so many more good women, in .he
South—the pressure of public opinion
is becoming so strong, the moral feel
ing is becoming so active, the sense of
religious duty is becoming so keen, tie
prickings of conscience are becomiig
so sharp, and above all, the progress
of humanity is becoming so rapid—that
slavery must soon yield.
There is one circumstance in the
life of Lafayette, which strikes me as
furnishing a remarkable proof of tie
inconsistency and guilt of the proceed
ings against Drayton. The Southern
men, and even the Northern men, sty
that it is not only wrong and illegal,
but cowardly, to go by night into other
States and steal away slaves; though
they admit the right of the slaves to
run away. When Lafayette was im
prisoned at Oimutz—legally imprison
ed, if the Austrian government was a
legal one an American gentleman
made a very gallant and almost suc
cesslul attempt to rescue him; that at
tempt was looked upon here as a noble,
generous and heroic deeds and the au
thor of it would have been carried in
triumph from Maine to Georgia, had
he been here. Such was the indigna
tion which was felt at the imprisonment
of one man, for a political offence, aud
«*ch th« sympathy With his wpuidrbe
rescuer. But wnea fourscore men,,
women and children, are made slaves'
for life, without any offence, and one
American, Drayton, attempts their res
cue, he is hooted at, from Maine to
Georgia, as a wretch; and nothing
but the granite walls ol a prison save
hint from the fury of a mob, to be re
served for the slow vengeance of the
law. Such however, is poor humanity;
such is the result of ignorance, error
and wrong. May God hasten the day
when they shall give place to know
ledge and truth! Yours, &,c.,
S. G. HOWE.
From the Portland Transcript.
PROGRESS OF REFORMS.
True reform is not volcanic in its
operations. It does not startle a sleep
ing world by the sudden belching forth
of tiery torrents of innovation, or the
up-heaving of old foundations. It is
rather like the little rivulet which
steals forth from its source amid the
hidden recesses of far-away mountains,
and glides along, noiselessly at tirst,
but as its course becomes obstructed,
it works in its bed, gathers strength
from all its tributaries, and rushes
fearlessly on, until it forms a part
of the great sea of life. And as the
sources of many streams are often for
gotten or unknown, so the origin and
originators of most reforms are sligh
ted and traduced by the world.
Illustrations of the truth of this prop
osition are numerous in the world’s
history, but there is one now existing
in our own land, which, to our mind is
very striking.
Just now the world is all agog at
the enormity of slavery. The murmur
of i ndignant voices rises all over thei
land, and strong arms and stout hearts
are valiantly at work to destroy the
monster, or at least to stay his further
progress. A great reform is iu opera
tion The dead sea of slavery rumbles
and roars and dashes its dark wavaa
heavily under the strong gale of popu
lar indignation. The purifying process
has fully begun. To one who wishes
to investigate the secret springs of hu
man action.it is an interesting question,
whence cometh this commotion? Where
and when did the work begin? Who
first aroused the sleeping sense of jus
tice of the nation, an l directed the
sympathies of the popular heart to the
sufferings of the blacks?
Doubtless since the earliest times
and in nearly all hearts,there has lurk
ed a sense of the wrong inflicted, but
ii took not bodily form, and cried not
boldly out for justice, until some eigh-.
teen or twenty years since. Then was,
heard the voice of one crying in the
wilderness, and *«y»“g» R«pent ye,
Repent! Then Garrison girdled up his
loins, and went forth to battle with the
nation, a nation proud ofita institu
tions, and righteous in its own esteem.
That he was opposed, denounced, im
prisoned, mobbed, and nearly mtirder
ed, the world knows; and the world
knows, too, bow impotent were those
acts truth has been spoken—
God’s truth—and. as the truth ever
wU! it found its way to the hearts of
the people. In vein did ‘gentlemen of
property end standing’ swear and fight,
in vain did dignitariee threaten, infant
did polUictmnt spent ehom patriotism,
and tremble for the safety of tbo ‘dear
people/ and in rain did religionist* and
pr:ests life up their hand* in holy hor
ror, and call down curses on the beads
oi those who would mature me *e»;ao
lished order of society.’ Slowly, but
surely, the divine leaven worked in the
hearts of the people, and now behold
the change!
Slavery is a dangerous evil, cry the
united voices of millions, and in that
cry how many once discordant voices
blend! He who once assisted in pla
cing a halter around the neck of an in
nocent man, is now shocked at the bar
barities of the slave system :—They
who but yesterday said that all aboli
tionists should be imprisoned, are now
thrusting into jail the agents of slave
holders! Loud Mouthed politicians now
shout themselves hoarse to prove their
devotion to human freedom, as once
they shouted in defence of slavery!
And pious priests drawl dolefully over
the iniquities of our southern brethren,
and pray for the liberation of the bond
man, as erst they prayed for the des
truction of his best friend! And do not
all join in doing justice to the man who
opened their eyes to this wickedness?
Alas, for the perversity of human na
ture, no! The divine truth which he
and his followers promulgated has for
ced itself upon their acceptance, but
the promulgators they reject. And
why? Because, as the Spanish prov
erb has it, the rnan who has done you
an injury will never forgive you. Shall
they acknowledge themselves in error
to those they once reviled as totally in
the wrong? Pride and prejudice for
bid it. And now comes the most ludi
crous part of their performance. Not
only do they reject the early abolition
ists, but they become suddenly alarm
ed on account of the injury they are
doing to the good cause! Pious, bc
benevolent souls, how it grieves them
to think of the good which might be
done for the slave, were it not for these
‘hot-headed fanatics.’ They, good,
honest, consistent, conscientious men,
are extending all their sympathy for
the slave in words, while those distur
bers of the peace will persist in calling
for action! How provoking that the
true friends of the slave should he
thwarted in their good intentions by the
rash measures of those deluded men.
Now if all this is not the utmost height
of the ridiculous, it is assuredly the
lowest depth of the contemptible. Why
is it not as plain as the light of the
heaven, that all these mournful philan
thropists are bankrupt,utterly bankrupt,
and are trading on borrowed capital
Who arouseSa B th* public mtfla
sense of the enormity of slavery? .The
early abolitionists. Who gathered to
gether the facts and statistics which
now form the stock in trade of the pol
itician? The early abolitionists. Who
created that public opinion which the
demagogue labors to propitiate,and be
fore which the priest bows? The ear-j
ly abolitionists. And what power now,
holds the mas 3 of the people up to a
certain point in the anti-slavery faith?
The influence of early abolitionists.
And yet, ‘gentlemen of leisure’ make
speeches occasionally, and call them
selves the only true friends of the
slave!—while the hard working, perse
cuted pioueers of the cause are his
greatest enemies! True, the pioneers
have gone a long way in advance of the
multitude, and have struck into a
strange path, but we must remember
it was their task to drag behind them
a people with a very swinish propensi
ty to hold back, and hence they had to I
advance a long way, in order to get
the mass to move at all. They havej
gone far into the future, and the future
will do them justice.
CHEAP PATRIOTISM.
In this goodly city of ours tnere is an
abundance of cheap patriotism. Let
it but be known that some 4,000 miles
off, a people are becoming restless
under long continued wrong and op
pression, and forthwith our popularity
seeking politicians are brimfull of the
most disinterested philanthropy. They
will, at a moment’s warning, congre
gate together and pass patriotic; resolu
tions by the hat full. A few months
since the “domestic institutions” of old
Ireland were not conducted to the sat
isfaction of our humming bird patriots;
a court-house sympathy meeting was
therefore convened and tbe govern
ment of England duly lectured in a se
ries of resolutions, freely spiced with
patriotic anathstnas against tyranny,op
pression, kingcraft and all that sort of
thing.
Within the past year we have had,
in this city of Louisville, public rneet-j
ings of sympathy with the Greeks, the
French, the Poles, the Irish, and the
Dorr government of Rhode Island, all
of which were doubtless very proper, j
and against which we have not a word
to say. We have attended many of
these meetings, and we do not recollect
of hearing a word said against inter- j
fering with tbe “domestic institutions”!
of an oppressing or on oppressed peo-
pie. ‘Vested rights’ were generally for
gotten. “The rights of property bad
no peculiar sacredness or precedence
over the “rights of persons.” Hoary'
beaded precedent, if founded in wrong
was bitterly denounced—tbe right and 1
the true eloquently advocated. Men 1
could then stand up and give utterance
to those immortal sentiments of the
Declaration of Independence—in which;
it declared that “all men are created I
equal, and that they are endowed by
their Creator with certain unalienable
rights, that among these are life, liber-
t j and the pursuit of happiness.” With
out any equivocating and contemptible
comments—comments which are a dis
grace to the living and a slander upon
the dead— speakers and listener* spoke
and acted generally American freemen
might be expected to speak and act,
■md one would not suppose that a stave
could tread “the glorious soil of patri
otic Kentucky.'*’
The secret ot ail tms spowtaueoot
patriotism lies on the surface. I'l
COSTS NOTHING, AND IS POPU
LAR. Wo can alford an abundance
of eloquent denunciations against all
oppression and wrong, provided it ex
ists in another continent and in anoth
er form than that which prevails in our
land. Our skin-deep patriots can tread
on the toes of the Pope, knock Gen.
Oudioot over the knuckles, curse the
Sivaaatneot of England, anathematise
e Emperor of Russia, for all this
can be done without suffering either in
their purses or their popularity—but
i ask them to “look at home,'* and too do
or say something that shall tend to des
troy a system of slavery that regards
i MEN simply as property, and which
I cannot be sustained a moment without
a violation of the most sacred rights of
humanity, and all at once they are “as
dumb as oysters.” They will tell you
that liberty is a very good thing Home
i times and under certain circnmstances,
but circumstances (especially color)
‘alter cases.’ That the sentiments
about personal equality premulgated
in the Declaration of Independence,
are a ‘lying abstraction,’ long since
exploded by the inventive genius of
John C. Calhoun. That political and
social wrongs are best remedied by the
slow process of “moral causes.” That
1 Jesus Christ does not in terms con
demn slavery, therefore slavery can-
I not be very wrong, and that after all
slaves are in a better condition the
than “free negroes.”
With our views of right, as founded
in the laws of man’s being, and as
clearly proclaimed in our National
Charter, we have no confidence! what?
ever in this time-serving, and superfi
cial patriotism, and we have no doubt
that a large proportion of the fairweath
er patriots who thus openly proclaim
themselves the slaves of prejudice, and
who are always ready to bow down to
that ever-changing but omnipotent idol
—public opinion—would, if they were
residents of Europe, be the most obse
quious slaves of monarchy, or the most
radical levellers, just as the popular
breeze or fie instincts of self-interest
would seem to dictate.
We have been led to make these re
marks by reading the proceedings ot
the meeting held at the Court-House
on Monday evening last, for the pur
pose of passing resolutions of sympa
thy Cor those Hungarians who are now
making a moat heroic straggle to ob
tain that freedom which is the birth
right of the human race.
The resolutions passed meet with our
unqualified approval.— Louisville Exam
iner.
From lhe .N’atio ml Era.
NUMBER OF SLAVEHOLDERS IN
THE UNITED STATES.
No census has ever given us the
number of slave holders. We hear
and see and feel so much of their pow
er, that we arc apt to confound them
with the white population of the South.
It is one of our popular delusions, that
every Southerner is the owner of
slaves; whereas, in fact, the people
who are forever threatening to dis
solve the Union, unless permitted to
govern it, are a very small landed aris
tocracy.
In “An Address to the Non-Slave
holders of the South/' published a few
years since, there was a long array of
arguments and statistics, to prove that
each master could not, on an average,
hold less than ten slaves. Of course,
on this average, the slave population*
divided by ten, would give the number
of owners, viz: 248,771. This num
ber, deducted from the white males
over 20 years old, in the slave States
and Territories, vtz: 1,016,307, would
give us 767,590 adult white non-slave
holders.
A fact has recently come to light,
that most conclusively proves that this
supposed average of the ten slaves to
the masters is very far below the true
number. It seems there was a census
taken (1848) in Kentucky of voters,
slaves, and slaveholders. Mr. Under
wood of that State, in a recent speech
published in the New York Express,
gives the number of voters as 139,612
—of slaves, 192,470 and of slave
holders, 8,743!! being an average of
more than 22 slaves to each master.
Now, let it be recollected, that the
slaves are necessarily less concen
trated upon Kentucky farms, than they
are upon the large cotton and sugar
plantations of the more southern States.
It is well known that the great planters
hold from 100 to 2,000 slaves. A let- j
ter, lately published in tha newspapers, 1
from the* Parish of Ascension, Louisi
ana, giving an account of the ravages
of the cholera in the neighborhood,j
•ays: “Mr. Fish has lost 20 negroes,
Kenner 31, Ueile 40, Minor 66, Colo
nel Bibb has lost 70; Bishop Polk 61.”*
But applying even the Kentucky ratio, j
which is obviously too small, to the>
whole slave region, the result is as
tounding. The whole number of slaves j
—men, women, and children—were,-
by the last census, 2,487,711. This
number, divided by 22, give* 113,977!
as the sum total of the slaveholders iu
the United States. Beyond all ques
tion, this in an exaggerated estimate.
We are now qualified to judge of
the accuracy of the reports made by
the slaveholders themselves of their
number.
Mr. Horace Mann, in a speech,
June 30, 1848, in the House of Rep
resentatives, observed: “I have seen
the number of actual slaveholders va
riously estimated, but the highest esli-
Ditto I htn ibrtD hoa
drtdtboDMDd'" H* kert inter-
I'flV MCI. p.«a.n
WIIOLE NO. W.
ruptcd by Mr Cayle of Alabama—"lf
I the geniirmun Iroin .\J as»achu*ctts
been informed that the nunu>vr of *l***.
holder* m only then 1 will |*U
>lUt U|» MitVtlU4ilu|| utility tS '9.
Maun—“\\ ill the gentleman toil
j u h°w many there are Mr. tia/le
—“Ten timo* a* many.” l'en tnaea
three hundred thousani bvi.ig three
millions, there were, accoidug to the
gentleman Iroin Alabama, in .ru *jave
holders than slaves* Mr Meade, of
Virginia, seeing tne awkward position
in which Mr. Ciale hud placed himself,
came to hi* relief by remarking—
I "When father or mother owned slaves
[they were considered the joint property
of the family; and that, including the
grown and the young, thero were about
three million* interested in slave
property.” Thus wa* it attempted to
neutralize one absurdity by another.
Allowing on an average six person* to
a family, the slaveholders, their wives
and children, cannot, in the aggregate
exceed 600,000 nor the slaveholding
voter*, 100,000!
This small but powerful aristocracy
wield the political adlhority of the
States in which they reside; and this
they do, not only through their wealth
and superior education, but by making
the masses bclievo that, by protecting
and perpetuating slavery, they are pro
moting the common good. According
to Mr. Lnderwaod there ia in Kentuc
ky a majority of 1:30,867 non-slava
nolding voters; yet, at the recent elec
tion, most ol these men were persuaded
by "the Lords of the Lash” to go for
everlasting slavery. 6
It is obvious that the power of the
masters rests wholly upon the igno
rance and subserviency of the non
•laveholders. Hence the wrath and
trepidation manifested by the masters
whenever an attempt is made to en
lighten the masses as to the influence
of slavery on their interests. Some
years ago, the New Orleans papers
announced that 500 copies of an ad
dress to the non-slaveholders had been
received at the Lost Office in that
city; but, instead of being delivered to
the persons to whom they were addres
sed, they were burnt!
Mr. Barrett has recently been ar
rested in South Carolina, and is now in
prison. His solo offence, and the only
one of which he is accused, is that of
having deposited in the Post Office
sealed wrappers, addressed to certain
white ciAzena, conta.ning a printed
tract, written by a native of the State
and virtually addressed to the non!
•Uveholders of South Carolina.
*7 e the effort* of»l*T*hnW**»
fto keep their indigent fellow-citizen*
in ignorance of the wrongs they suffer
and ot the rights to which they are en
titied and to punish whoever would
enlighten them, a despotism as jealou*
•old World.' S any k OWn in ,he
Our 100,000 slaveholders are now
threatening 20,000,000, of people with
rebellion and civil war, if forbidden to
establish, over vast regions of the Am
erican continent now lice, the system of
white serfage, with a landed aristocra
cy, with which’South Carolina is
cursed, i o their insolent and iniquit
ous demand, the Wilmot*Proviso inter
poses a stein denial. But niultitudt*
of Southern citizens, recreant to their
own republican professions, are devis
ing how they may co-operate with tha
champion* of human bondage, in pre
venting the enactment of the Proviso.
Many of the Whig leaders, fearful of
offending their .Southern allies, are heap
ing contempt upon the Proviso, calling
it "an obstruction, and denouncing
those who insist upon it, a* a faction
The Hunker Democracy, in the face of
the world, unblushinglyavow that they
cannot consent to divide ihe party, and
thus sacrifice their expectations of pow
er and emolument, merely to secure
the future liberty and happiness of New
Mexico, and California. Never since
the birthday of the Republic ha* any
great political association been actua
ted by more generous and disinteres
ted motives, or proposed a more noble
end, than the Free Soil party. For
this party are reserved the plaudits,
and for the Northern mercenaries of
the Southern aristocracy the reproba
tion, of unborn generations. A. B.
Bigotry.— What will God, in his
justice, more surely give up to delu
sion, thiin the sanctimonious bigotry
which crucifies an error and hugs a sin
The worst of all heretics is the man oif
a loose practice. The best defence of
purity is never to cast out of a church
never to withhold the acknowledgement
of brotherhood, for any kind of opin
ion, which does not destroy the confi
dence of character. By their fruits ye
shall know them.—Or. Bushnell.
The Gateshead Observer states
that an eccentne dissenting minister
in that neighborhood has excommunica
ted six members of his church for lis
tening to the song ‘There’i a good
time coming,’'when sung by a lady at
an evening party.
Culture of Grave* is Ohio. —lt is
stated in the report of the Agricultu
ral Society for the county of Hamil
ton 0., that not less than five hundred
bushels of Catawba and Isabella grapes
were sold at Cincinnati, during last
season, “for table use.’’ The price is
three to (bur dollars per bushel. But
the quantity sold for the table is
said to have been inconsiderable, conn
pared with the quantity used in ibe
manufacture of wine. The grape cul
ture is profitably carried on in the vi
cioily of Cincinnati, on the roughest
bill sides, which are of but little value
for the ordinary purposes of agricul
ture.
The Barrett Case in South Carolina
From the N.Y. Express
Mr. Barrett continue* a prisoner to the
Sp irtant, and ia kepi in clow* confinement at
the Spartanshurgh jail, in defiance fit aH law
and justice. The case to the individual iseae
•f peculiar hardship, while to the State «*f|
S *mh Carolina it is moat dSjfrscefuL Mr. I
Barrel! ia llfade a prisoner Upon the liare!
suspicion. and without a particle of proof, that
he wan abobinmt**. All the documents as-'
•ociated w ith his name contain nothing more j
than facts aitri arguments addressed to white
men, show that the apportionment of Re{»-
Teseniatives tn that State was unfair and un-|
just
One ot two of these documents io envelopes
were sent to Barrett, without Iris knowledge, l
and he waampioted to deposit them in the!
post office. O.i tlna he was arreted and im- j
pnsont-d.—-But in $lOOO was demanded,
which Barrett could not give among rang
ers, but he was assured that when he cm.ld 1
indemnify security, he could be M out on j
bail. He finally obtained the moor--, but
under the direction of a public meeting oi
madmen, the bs*| was increased and the.
ptisoncr retained!
Mr. Barrett has written from his p ace «*t 1
confinement ihe following letter, which pi >ce*
the conduct of the w hole Spartan cutto.nm?!-
in a most shameful light. W«; would as soon I
look lor mercy among cannibals, or justice a
tnong b.imiitn, a> to iho**» who l old this man
a prisoner upon any e'likutce of guilt which
has yet been made to ap|«ar. We know
there are tnanv honorable and Intel igt-n’
Carolinians who condemn this whole .not ced
ing, and we hope there are enough in the
Stale to control it.
Spahtansbckgu Prison.
20th Aug I*l9. S
Mr. Ed. Harwc.od Co —D*ar Sirs; —I,
wrote vou last that measures would be taken
on the next dav h»« mv releaj-e, as my in- J
deriiiiity iiad arrived. Ihe magistrate hasj
refused to bad me in the sum ol 1000, and
lam still m pritori. Ims was- a in<>si arm*-j
ful »>d perfidious 3ft and should elicit r. »lh-
ing but honorable indignation. 1 was cast in- 1
to prison without the shadow ol a cause a- j
gainst rue, a= everv one who read ihe show j
»ng made by the “Spartan,” oi tins place, at
the tune ol my arrest, must have seen. It
was because of certain communicaiions ad-!
dressed me by anonymous wmers who* con- j
duct 1 could not in the least control and can-,
not therefore be responsible for. One ol these.
communications contained three copies, it is j
said, (for they were violently taken Irom me
without my being allowed to s e them) ol an j
obnoxious document, which the writer re I
quested trie to deposit in some Post Office.
and although there is not a particle of test!
mony to show that a document of the kind
was ever addressed me at anv point in ties
Stale, or that I ever circulated, or violated a
law in any other respect.
1 nm as closely held m prison as though 1
had committed the worst of felonies, on ac
count it is said of the above named and other!
anonymous letters, which have reached my
self and others since my arrest, a principle i
which if carried into practice m the Courts of!
Justice, would make the Post Office an en-j
gmc of desliuciion, in the hands of any base
enough to use it, against the best c.tizen-. j
And although my papers conclusively showed j
according to the admiss on of the ‘’Spartan”
at the time of my arrest, that I came into the j
State to prosecute a legal and worthy hnsi-,
ness, and although it was an admitted fact;
that there was no legal cause for my deten-.
tion; yet the hue and cry was raised against
me to such an extent, that my legal adviser
thought it impracticable to 6 ck a release un
der a writ of habeas corpus, according to the 1
natural course of justice. But my hud health,! 1
which was the main reason of my being on
travel, forbade that 1 s um d lie in prison and j
therefore 1 thougnt best to enter a recogni-;
sance for n>y appearance at Court, as the j
most suie uiui a t ,eedy method for my Te-
lease. j
Upon application to the rnng stra>e, Mr. G.
VV. H. L egg, uhocommr led me, I was mid
by him emphatically that lie would admit me
to bail in the sum oi $l,OOO. As none would j
sign my bond without my intummiy m money, 1
1 v. rote to yon and finally my lather, request
ing &n imiTiedi uc enclojtire of the ain iuut.
Never once dreaming that alter causing you
the trouble n ,d lit to collecting money ai a
time when business is so much suspended in
Cincinnati, your indemnity when it reached
me would be perfidious'y relused and my sell
left in prison. 1 looked forward to the lure
when the $l,OOO should reach me in p!> ;<s-!
am anticipations of being once more permit- j
ted to walk the green earth and breath the!
sweet air w hicii my health so much demand-j
ed. H. iw shamefully have l been disappointed!
The people around me knew that I was mak
ing every exeriioii to procure ihe required in
demnity, and ilie magisirate, even expre-sed
his settled purpose to release me i jmn a bond
of 1.000 w henever I should be able to offer i
1 t; yet immediately upon the arrival of ihe
requaite.ajuount a public meeting was held,
and fiery and vindictive speeches were
made
M yself sick and m prison, was branded, as
I learn, with ihe vilest epuhets and a resolu
tion passed, denouncing as a traitor to his
coun’rv, eveiy magistrate who would admit
me to bail in the sum of $l,OOO.
Mr. Legg he t lie fore the furious tide, and
announced on the next day that it the matter
was pressed upon him he must violate his
nacred promise and raise the bail. I i ihe
name of justice why was such a courre pur
sued' Did these men seeing me a prisoner!
in the land, in had health, making every
effort m gaoi an honorable release, upon tin
terms themselves had proffered ine and there
by causing my distant friends much expense
and tinuble, only await their action, till my
hopes were almust fulfilled, to have the pleas
ure of disappointing mo 7 1 lea\»- it for the
country to determine.
If 1 had committed the mo-t heinous
crimes, it were no mitigation of the conduct
of men who could so shamefully violate ih- r
proflered faith with in* 1 am ju«:lv mdignaoi
at such peifid*>us c. iiduct. hut am almost i n
decided what is proper for me iq future, 'ihe
antipathy againtt Ohio and her people, i so
cially myself, is so strong In r. mat a res*»ii
to the habeas corpus would doubtless prove a
failure; although would not cast unmerited j
censure upon them, many ihi’-gs indicaie to
arc that some »>t the most nifloemi:.! men will
prevent if possible, my bavin a tali ami I ou-j
orable hearii.g in a enmt of justice. There*!
fore, although 1 would not create an unwont
ed excitement, it teems hut ju.-t to me that
the lulhuiiiifi ot Ohm, of which Slate 1
claim to be an humble nuien. should sp -ediiv I
look into my ft jg u.cduiy of her Gov
ernment to affiid protection to her people*
when they have not fi,it.- d tx j,y llieu l)Wn
misconduct, ami v. ,en she lads to afford such j
protection she (ads to accomplish the pur, ose*
of her organ.iation. ii it can Lt faiily shown
that lam justly amei able to th- U v.s' 0 f this, 1
State for any offence 1 have cummmed against
them I resign myself ca'mly i< mv pu*on
If otliuwiae, J demand mi honorable k tease
Very mpectiutiy, y*,ui*.si C
J. M., lLr.*kT.
TJie Secret Expedition to Cuba Frus
trated.
On Tnuraday last, Mr. P tacoti H/.1, U. S.
Dtairict Attorney, received a 1 iigi*,.hic d.>-
patcli fiom Mr. Clayton, fcecr*taiy f Siaic
Uirccnng him to sl*>p the prop ii> rs S a u jj
and Florida, and the fmo steamer New Or
leans of New Oifeaue, *uppos-d enunec
ted with a secret war like expedition, ti e ob
ject of which was to levy vver against G .ha,
the dependency ot Spam, a Iritndlv (tower.
Others say that tlu; expedition was inioi d
•d to co-operate witii the malconteutt cf the
Northern Suteaof Mexico, hut ti.ia is not (tie
cute
A genu of the dteiff'Ctcd sh*e-owners off
Cubs have tieen here t<>i a>m« time, co-opeca-r
ling with some of our cit.xenß in arranging
an expedition having cml war ru Cuba, and
i
the extension and perpetuation of slavery
thereby, 1U eaily annexation, when tndenee
r^‘,nt, to ihe United States, as a sixteenth stave
state, for us object.
Collector .Maxwell and Commodore. Mc-
K*>rr*r declined taking my active part in the
pirmtse*; the Sea GuH had cleared regulai*
1 1) for Curacao, on account of Mr. C. L. Cole,
i her if parent owner and neither the Collec
tor nor the Commodore had any new ground*
i nn which to act. Mr. Hall felt that he had
'he power to detain the vessels, and applied
to Com. McKeerer for the necessary force
Com. McKeerer detailed from the Navy
ard, fuity sailors and ten marines to the
j support of the Marshal, in aid of the civii
The sailors turned oat with great
alacrity, wore only theirsbirta and pantaloons,
and each of them was armed with eutlam.j
ou!*ket and pistol*. They ware commanded
by Lieut. Swartwout.
The d'strict Attorney did not accompany
the expedition, but those who did found the,
i hea Gull at anchor at the lower quarantine'
i nation. There wa* no resistance, and very'
lew persons were found on board. The mate
n It (or professed to feel) quite pleased at the
j detainer; said he was quite ignorant when
j ih**y were going, and didn’t know bet that
be should have run away had not the Mar
sin I’a |Kwae enlightened him.
The party found 130 boxes with 1,000
Maud of muskets, with powder and provisions
j in plenty, but no cargo. We understand there
was also a small howitzer battery, but are
noi posiiive.
j Tne Marshal took possession of the propel-'
ler, and she it now in charge of the maiines,j
and anchored under the guns of the North t
Carolina.
The fine steamer New Orleans, and the
propeller Florida, were taken possession of by
a guard of Marines, at Corlaer’s Hook, near
the Grand-st. Ferry. The N. O. was fitted,
1 up for a transport ship, had accomodation* foi j
&00 to 900 passengers.
One of the returned volunteer? tells ihe
edit, rs of the Philadelphia Ledger, that he
and mx others from that city were promised
1.000 “and plenty of plunder.”
The New Orleans packet Union, with men
|on boaxd, had already sailed, it is believed.'
for Cuba. Whether the proceedings of our!
District Attorney will derange operations, j
j remains to be seen.
The delay which has taken place in the'
i sailing of the expedition had been caused by j
the failure of anticipated remittances. Prob
abiy but for ibis the vessel would have been
i .iff before the Government was ready to arrest
then:. Tnbvne.
The Peace Congress.
We last week gave a portion of the proceed
ings at the Congress in Paris. Further ex
tracts follow. The letter of the Archbishop
j tif Paris was referred to. Here it is—
“To the Members of the Congress of the
Friends of Universal Peace.
Paris, Aug. 17.
j “Gentlemen—l have been profoundly touch
cd by the visit which Messrs. De Laroche
fouc iuld-Liancourt, Victor Hugo, Coquerel,
and Eiihu Burritt were good enough to pay
me, and by the letter which you have wrtten
to me, to offer me the Presidency of the
Congress of the Fiiends of Universal Peace.
This, gentlemen, is an honor, the full value
of winch feel, and for which I should never be
able adequately toexpress mygratitude. I think
with you, gentlemen, that war is a remnant
of ancient barbarism; that it is accordant with
the spirit of Christianity to desire the disap
pearance of this formidable ecourge from the
face of the earth, and to make strenuous ef
forts to attain this noble and generous end.
Perhaps, alas! the time has not yet come
when it will be completely possible for the
Rations to enter upon the path of peace Per
haps war will continue for many years longer
1« bo cruet necessity. But it is allowable, it
is paaiseworthy, it is noble, to labor to make
the people understand that they, as well as
individuals, should endeavor with ihe least
possible delay to terminate their dif
ferences by pacific means, and that humani
ty and civilization will have made immense
progress on their way when an end shall
have been put to these fratricioal contests. I
beg you, therefore, gentlemen, to iuaenbe
my name among those ot the friends of the
Ptace Congress; but it causes me deep regret
that 1 cannot, on account of my health, ac
cept the honor which you have so kindly of
fered tne, of presiding over you. If my phy
sictan, who strongly urges nte to take a tnp
into the country, to prevent my health be
coming worse, would nevertheless consent to
I tme put it off for a few days, and if my
neuralgic pains were not too violent, it would
afford me sincere pleasure to be present at
one <*f your sessions. Receive, gentlemen,
i together with the expression of these senti
ments,the assurance of my most distinguished
consideration.”
Marie Dominique Auguste,
Archbishop of Paris.
The well-known dissenting English der-j
gyman, Rev. John Burnet* make a very hap
pv bit at the outset.
He satd he was rejoiced te sec so large an'
assembly. This was a practical refutation of
the slander that France and England were;
natural enemies.
[The whole meeting stood up and cheered. J
The Pasteur Coquerel stood up and repeat-■
cl tlie expressions in French, amid renewed)
diet is. j
Mr, Burnett resumed by saying they were
.imural friends. It never would do lor next
1 diKO neighbors to be enemies—it was foolish,
.uid Franco was no fool. (Laughter.) He
'.M uton to say that ifEengland and France
declared against war. It would be impossi
ble It was asked w hat did they mean to do?j
Did they want to disarm nations, and let
them loose on one another? By no means;
they wanted no arms at all. What they
wanted was arbitration, established on such)
principles as that no nation could refuse
to accept the award of such tribunals. He)
made a happy allusion to the dags of different
nations that were eutwined peacefully togeth
or, which elicited loud cheers. In refer-!
i tnoe to the greatness of nations, be hoped thei
t rue u« old come when the distinction oil
“pieat” would only apply to morals and in-1
telligence, not to military power.
On the third day. M. Emile de Girardin,
the cel biated Paris editor, made a sinking
Ei eeeh. “Soldiers of peace!” be began by
saving, be not astonished that I so address
you, lor there must he soldiers of peace as
ol wa>' War ts made to end m peace, why
not have it w ithout having recourse to anna?”
He then went on to describe the enormous
expenses of standing armies, and especially to
insist upon their utter uselessness for the very
purposes they are kept for.
No one denies, (said he) that armies are a
1 gnat evil, and yet it was declared that it was
impute ble to put them down. Why should
i that be the case 1 Did not nations exist in
foimer tmtesperfectly well without them, or
at least with exceedingly small forces? From
1500 in 1600, in the time of Henry IV. the
f<>r. e of France amounted io not altogether
7000 men. and yet it was with such a force
that the military glory ol the monarch was
achieved in 1616 the force of France waa
240.000 men, and at present, thirty three
years after the proclamation of peeee, the
army was not less than 360,000 men. Thus.
the larthet we withdraw from war the larger
becomes ihe armed lore* of tbo country.
Such fact is an anachronism, to na
ti"°al the permanent misery of
me people. (Cheers I maintain that we
h..v« a right to say to the Government.
Vou ha e no right to take the money of the
P h,i in order to keep up an army of 600,000
men; you arc r ot justified m impoverishing the
country in order to keep up seek a fotce.”
Mr. Cobdeo’e speech was received with
great applause. vv« quote a passage:
r \Vny haa France boao obliged to establish
i excessive tariff* to eupport her trading inter
ests? Because what she spent i& emit*
would have enabled her to escort comfort foe
I
tb« whole oat too. The upraae of the a my
from 1881 to 1849, has amounted to Ml tew
then aix milliards (890,000,000.) If that earn
bad bees applied to the public works of mm
metre, and the promotion of the interests of
the working classes. what a difference weald
now ha obfombie in Franca. During the
last thirteen year?.you and wo bate bean con
stantly increasing oar navies, adding eor
coast defenses, enlarging oar anenala, build
inf new basins for steam vessels, aad con
structing fresh harbors lor refuge. No soooer
S is the keel of another lino of battle ship laid
l down in your dock-yards, than forthwith fresh
hammer* begin to resound at Portsmouth A
new forge baa hardly begun to work at Cher
bourg, whoa immediately ibe sparks lie seen
to fly from fresh anvils at Plymouth, and net
verm. The consequence ha? been that the
cosi ot our navies has been increased fifty per
j cent in a time of peace. My first objection
to this is its supreme folly.; for as both coun
j tries increase their naval strength in equal
proportion, nettbet party baa gained soy thing
I by the change, the only result being a pare
waste to the amount of the augmentation. My
next object too is to the extreme hypocrisy of
this system; for at the very lime that all this
increase of armament has been going on, our
respective Governments have been exchang
ing assurances of mutual feelings of friendship
and good will. But my greatest objection to
these vast armaments is, that tbey tend to ex
cite dangerous animosities between the two
nations, and to perpetuate fear, batrqfi and
suspicion— passions which find their gratifica
tion instinctively in war.
The correspondent of the A. S. Standard
writea—“The thing that most interested us,
as it will your readers, was the success
of our fnend William W. Brown in address
ing the audience. So many are desirous to
speak on such an occasion that an unknown
man can hardly hope or fan opportunityjbut our
friend's color and cause, the two very rea
sons that would have prevented his obtain
ing a hearing in the United States, remov
ed all obstacles here. Our friends R. 0.
Wchb and Cochran and many others intet
ested themselves warmly on the occasion,
and when he rose on the platform die gen
eral feeling of the assembly sustained him,
notwithstanding the efforts of the hiisser, in
the performance of his functions to keep him;
down, his name not being on the listof speak- 1
era. He spoke about five minutes imid the;
most cordial applause, having been intiodu
ccd by M. Coquerel as a fugitive slave,j
whose good character and abilities had cna-;
bled him to attain his liberty and to appear i
before them iu the character of a delegate of
the American Peace Society. His idea was
as follows. 1 cut the slip from the Galig‘
nani
Mr. William W. Brown said, that at so 1
advanced a stage of theproceedingshe should j
not have thought of taking up the time of the
meeting, were it not that he desired at the
Peace Congtess of Paris to protest against
the existence of the war element,which con
demned thtee million of men in the United
States to Slavery, (Cheers.) He had been
a slave for 20 years,’ and he could speak;
from experience on the point. He could ut-;
ter his sentiments with perfect freedom in
Paris; but he could not do that in the Capi-i
tal of the Uuited States. Were he to do so,bis
life would be in danger. Slavery had now
been abolished in almost every country in Eu
rope, whilst, shameful to say, it still existed
in America. France, in her revolutioons of
1648, had rendered not only her inhabitants
at homo free, but had set her slaves, in Mar
tinique and Guadalupe at liberty. He want
ed to have the same effect produced in the
United Slates. That could ouly be done by
the destruction of the element of which he
had spoken. The dissemination of princi
ples of peace, he firmly believed, would be
the best means of leading to the emancipation
of the slave population in the United States.
(Hear, bear).
This was instantly translated by M. Co
querel, and received moat enthusiastically.
J. W. C. Pennington (says the Noncon
formist) another escaped slave, came forward.
He fully agreed with Mr. Brown that sla
very was a great element of war, and that
every man of real Chr stian feelings should
put shoulder to shoulder to get tid of such a
curse. He was sure that with the assistance
of that society, the advocates of the abolition
of slavery must triumph, when universal peace
would reign on the earth, and when no other
sentiment would be heard or expressed than
that of peace and good will to all men (loud
applause).
The rev. gentlemen on leaving the tribune
was shaken heartily by the hand by the Abbe
Duguerry and the Rev. M. Coquerel, and by
the Chairman, and received the congratula
tions of a number of other parties on the plat
form.
After votes of thanks had been passed, to
the French government, the President, the
Vice Presidents, and the Secretaries, M. Vic
tor Hugo rose and returned thanks.
The immense crowd then slowly left the
building, and the last day’s sitting of the
Peace Congress of Paris was closed at a quar
ter past aix.
Dismissal. —A telegraphic despatch to the
Journal of Commerce, received on Monday
night, slates, “the Piesident has directed that
the French Miniater, Poussin, be informed
that his passpoits are ready for him.” An
important note from Poussin is the cause.
There is a great deal of speculation as to the
matter ef the note, and it is generally sup
posed to have had reference to the appoint
ment of Mr. Rives as Minister to France,
which it is 6aid displeased the French Gov
ernment. A difficulty has occurred, evident
ly, between the two Governments.
The following version of this affair, which
has created not a little excitement, may bere
garded as the truth:
Some weeks since M. Poussin made up
i on the Government at Washington a demand
fondemnity fora French ship damaged or
captured at Vera Cruz in the Mexican War.
Several letters were exchanged between the
Envoy and Mr. Clayton on the subject, in the
course of which the former indulged in re
marks which were deemed positively msul
ring to our Government. In consequence ot
this the correspondence was suspended, and a
copy of the offensive letter was transmitted
directly to Paris, with the expressed wish
that he should be recalled without delay. We
are informed that M. de Tocqueville, the
French Minister of Foreign Affairs, replied,
maintaining ihe same ground as that taken by
M- Pousatn. and declining to recall him. It
is, however, reported on the other hand, that
no answer whatever has been received
from Paris, bat that, after having waited
a sufficient time in vain, the of the
Envoy has taken place; but we have reasons
f*»r supposing the version we have given above 4
to be more authentic. It wa?, no doubt,
this very matter which carried the President
so suddenly back to Washington from bis Nor
thern tour. W* are told that the quesrioo of
of Mr. Rives’a reception at Paris was not in
volved in the affair.
Frusi (he Liberator.
Letter from George Thompson
W e venture to lay the following private
letter before our rssdera, as we are tun they
•re eager to bear directly from one for whom
tbey cherish such strong admiration aed snai
termble attachment—aa it is a keg him
tbey have seen anything from his pee, sad
w, *h lo ksow bis present views aad
feelings—and aa his letter contains s grea'
promise that will make all their pulses thril'
with joyous excitement, namely, to come over
here next year, Dto telmie, in season to ceie-t
brate the glorious anniversary of West India]
snunctpatios! May svery thing work pro
pnwHJsiy to make certain the rsotcinplaiel j
MI A wonderful change has been]
wrought in the opinions of the people of Mae
smhuseita. New England, ibe free Staler
aisce his depeunre from them shores, m ref-'
ereocs to slavery; and we osa mfoly promise 1
hm as enthusiastic reception wbere once be,
81
i met with acorn. eo»t«nmlT, and it fiermmt
i persecution
WaTMUX¥> PlAtat. lx DO* i
I Mr Dea* Gu«i«4 j# „«5
I W. W. Brown callwt of me, ana
placed in my hands tnw kueri>ftntWuciH»tf,
dated July iTUi. i fcarc firefi km Jhwtj
welcome, a* I shall ever do cwy ftfieidoali
wfeo brings with him a recommendatm from
you. He, however, needed none. I hast;
seen all the notices of him that haycaopeared
in the Liberator, and base read wio deep in
tereat the aeeooot of lhe*fawwe*kßeeting in
Washingtonian Hall. W. W B. called
upon me before be weel to Pap, but I was
at the seaside with my family Am I hare re
wired to poet you a few line by this even
ing's mail, I hare deferred- until my letter t«*
you ia despatched, any cc.rersation with our
friend respecting his fetue movements. 1
will giro him the beat ounsel in my power.
What aid I can rende him, he may com
mand.
You hare, my dea Garhaon, abundant
ground of complaint agun|t me fur my ex
treme negligence in with you,
but I fep confident you will nafct infer* from
my omissions in thia reject, any declension
in my lore for yo», tty attachment to the
anti slavery cause. Tba work I have had to
do baa at all limes be%i as much, and of
ten mere, than my were adequate to,
and 1 hare therefore left nil but necessary!
letter writing alone.
1 mourned m srfnpatby vhen I read nf the
departure of your dear child Charles Pol
len. My wounds are still fresh, made by the
death of our dear Elizabeth; and 1 can conse
quently weep with those who are called to
bear the trial of seeing the desire of their
fses taken away with a stroke.
You did quite right in contradicting the ab
at'd report, that I had spoken in terms of ap
rroral of the American Colonization Society!
nerer referred to the scheme at all in Par
liament. Hqd I done so, either there or any
where else, it would have been in terms of
censure and denunciation.
Your expectation of seeing me in the Uni-i
ted States will not be disappointed, if we both
live till the autumn of neat year. Should I;
be able to act according to my present pur- J
poses, I shall be with you to celebrate the Ist
of August, 1850. This if God will.
Every column of ihe Liberator is regular;
perused, so 1 sec how the causa is going.
If I can, I will send with this a paper, giv-
ing an account of the Peace Congress. Ii
was my intention to be there, bull found I
could not conveniently attend.
I must conclude. Offer my warmest re
gards to all friends. I desire to be particular
ly remembered to my dear friends Samuel J.
May, Edmund Quincy ,Wendell Philips and
Francis Jackson.
Farewell! Accept the renewed assurance
of my undiminished affection, and of my con
stant and earnest wishes for your health, hap
piness, and the triumph of your cause.
Fraternally yours,
GEO. THOMPSON.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, SEPTEMBER 28, 1849.
Letter from the Editor.
I wrote to you last from Oswego. I hare,
since then, visited Fulton, Pultneyville, Mt.
Morris, and Scotsvillc. My meetings in Ful
ton were very successful, and will doubtless
prove of advantage to the cause. There is in
that place a number of churches, only one of
which is opened for anti-slavery purposes, and
that one is the W esleyan Methodist.
This house was fieely gtaoted to me for a
meeting on Saturday evening, anu tw ice dur
ing Sunday. I found the minister of this
church to be a most devoted abolitionist, and
highly intelligent concerning the who e anti
slavery movement. Although a preacher to
a Wesleyan congregation, he is thoroughly a
free man, and wholly unshackled by secta.
rianism. He sees clearly through the hollow
ness and impotency of political parties, as re
formatory instrumentalities, and looks beyond
them, in humble faith, relying upon the power
of truth, and the persuasion of love, to re
deem the world from the curse of slavery and
all kindred ills. I shall long remember my
short interview with the Rev. Lyndon King,
and shall rejoice in the opportunity of again
meeting him on the anti-slavery platform.
I had the pleasure while there of listening
to a powerful discourse on the subject of re
form, as connected with Christianity, from
Mr. Mitchell, of Ogdensburgh, in which he
nobly stood by the cause of the slave, and ex
posed the weakness and worthlessness of the
current religion of our land. My intercourse
with these gentlemen afforded me a pleasure
which I seldom experience in meeting with
ministers of any denomination. There was
in their manneis an absence of all ptieatly as
sumption and domination, and they conversed
with me in a manly way, on common ground,
and on equal terms—a thing rather unusual
for ministersto do.
From Fulton I went to Red Creek, a flour
ishing little town, about twelve miles fiom
Oswego, whither I had been invited by a
number of gentlemen, who called upon me at
the hotel, and solicited me to lecture in that
village on ray return from the east. The
I meeting was held in the Methodist Episcopal
Church, and was densely crowded by s class
of intelligent looking people. In the course
of my remarks, I requested the audience ts
vote on three or four propositions, supported
by mv speech. All seemed to progress well,
until I came to the question which involves
the Christianity of slaveholders, when a Bap.
list minister of Red Creek arose, end wished
to be excused from voting, on the ground that
he believed that a slaveholder might be a
Christian that education and habit might so
far warp his judgment and blunt his moral
sense, as to prevent his seeing the relation of
master and slave to be sinful; there weTe, in
sums esses, s aves held because they were too
old to be emancipated. In the latter case, the
Reverend gentleman contended that slave
holders sustained the relation of master from
benevolent motives; and he said that be could
never uooseat to unchristian ae such perrons.
I asked him to mention a single cane where a
slaveholder found it necessary to continue a
slaveholder in order to perform offices of be
nevolence to his slave. He named one ease
in Baltimore. The plea was good for nothing.:
There is not a slaveholder in that eity bat has
the power of emancipating his slaves, and ot
performing towards them all the offices of
kindness which can be suggested by the prin
ciple of benevoleooe and he who does nor
exercise his power to emancipate, does nor
give the world a sufficient evidence of Chris
tian charterer to warrant hit admission and
fellowship into a Christian church. In respect j
to the alleged ignorance of Cbnsuan nkro
bolden, as to the sin of slavery, it any be
i answered, that such ignorance, where it ex
is, m itself, the heel evidence that the'
i MM dretitatc of the light' tad life-giving
power of ChrauaUtf upon all who heartily
ewhneu it. Tbo Reverend Baptist nrimslei
makes any unoent of businaps compatible
•Hb Christianity, by nupporaptf 'be theory,
that a man any be a Obrnp, althoatgh he
in the evftrjKlay robber ofsn equal brother
manof- all hie natural (^p-gi** 0 nghta.—
Mail monstrous and vantfitng A erttf!
In Paltneyvtlfc, I found tbe Methodist
Church readtlyjlbrown open for my meeting,
and preparation for tbe occasion.
Mr. John R Jnokla, of that place, had caused
the notice xgrho extensively gi»en, and, as a
consequent, a large meeting was obtained.
A number of our frtenda from VI i Ilia arson
were present, and did good service, by inter
esting ihe villagers in the objects of the
meeting.
The anti-slavery meeting and fair at Mt.
Morris, may be set down as htilc better Oran
a failure. I had tbe misfortune, on ray jour
ney thither, to be met by a man who, either
carelessly or maliciously, or perhaps both, ran
his ugly wagon into my carriage, and broke f
my axletree. This accident caused me six 1
hours' detention in repairing damages, and it
was with difficulty that I induced the careless
man to pay the expense incurred. Of course j
the delay prevented my reaching Mt. Morris j
in time for the-proposed meeting, which was j
therefore postponed until Saturday evening.,
Owing to this circumstance, the notice of the
fair was too limited to secure any success.—
The ladies, however, with rare industry and
perseverance, succeeded, by calls, in awaken
ing some degree of interest, and securing,
from a few families, contributions for the re- j
fresh me nt table. Our anti-siavery ladies of
Rochester feel deeply indebted to Mrs. Sleep
er for assisting them in their efforts and T,
would also gratefully mention the names of'
Bacon, Johnson, Bond, and Green.
Mt. Morris is scarcely a place for any anti
slavery enterprise of this kind. Although
there are many benevolent persons who
would be willing to assist, by donations, there
are very few who would give to it their per
sonal attention and presence. I have seldom
been in a village where color madness is more
rampant, and where a colored gentleman will
meet with more rudeness. In this respect,
that community is behind the age. The
churches of the place are all closed against
the anti-slavery lecturer. The people, with
such an example before them, treat the whole
anti-slavery movement as unworthy of their
attention and respect. Tho trustees and
ministers of the Methodist church deserve es
pecial mention, since they deported them
selves towards me in a most discreditable and
shameful manner. On my arrival in Mt. Mor
ris on Thursday evening, I was too late for
the meeting advertised, and they then prof
fered me the use of their house, and allowed
mo to give notice for a lecture there on Sat
uiday evening; but when that time arrived,
instead of finding the church open, 1 learned
from the bystanders that the trustees had or
dered the doors to be closed against me.- On
conduct so inhuman, unjust and false, com
i ment is unnecessary. In ordinary business
j life among non-professing Christians, such a
disgraceful breach of faith would be branded
aa it deserves to be; but unhappily such base
ness finds securer shelter under the droppings
of the sanctuary, than it meets on ’change.
I held no meeting m Caledonia, as no notice
!of my visit there had been given. The meet
ing in Scotsville last evening was held in the
Presbyterian Church, and was very fully at
tended. Ample notice was given of the fair,
j and we are at work to-day in fine spirits.
Since the foregoing was written, the obove
mentioned fair is concluded. The gross re
ceipts of it amount to fifty dollars, thirty-one
dollars of which were taken at one table.
I ought perhaps to apologize to my East
Bloomfield friends for delaying until now to
notice the fair held in that place two weeks
since. The omission was certainly not from
a want of gratitude to the many kind friends
in that place who contributed so generously
and bountifully for the refreshment table, and
who otherwise assisted on the occasioii We
feel all the more gratified with the success at
tending that fair, in view of the limited notice
given of it. Tbe ladies of East Bloomfield
were not informed of the intention to hold a
fair until the evening previous; yet in the
I short space of time intervening, they brought
together a most liberal supply of delicious
cakes, tarts, jellies, and pies of all deacrip
j tiona. One gentleman donated a roast pig,
j which, to all appearance, was gratefully re
j received by tbe numerous guests who were
I privileged with a taste of his quality,
i A large number of friends from Canan
daigua attended the fair, and added much to
i the interest of the occasion. It was alto
gether one of ths most pleasing anti-slavery
demonstrations of the series. 1 hope that the
Secretary of the Fair Committee will give to
the readers of the North Star a minute ae
i count of the Fair in her general report. The
friends in East Bloomfield deserve the most
favorable mention —not more for tbeir liber
aiity in contributing to the fair, than for their
bountiful and generous hospitality.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
Fairer Fairs! Fain!
The Ladies sod Friends of the Western
J New York Anti-Slavery Society intend to
i hold a Fair at Hooeoye Falls, on Friday
1 Sept. 28ib, which will be preceded by a
j meeting on the evening of the 37th intt.
j There will also be an Anti-Slavery Fair
j at Lock port on Friday, October sth.
I There will be a Refreshment Table, for
which contributions are earnestly requested.
Cakes, Pies, Fruit, Coflee, Tea, Sugar, Ac.
1 will be most acceptable gifts.
Frederick Douglass will hold aa Anti-
Slavery Meeting at each of these plants, on
the evenings preoeding the Fsirs.
The meetings will commence st 7 o’clock.
Tbe energetic co-operation of the Asti
Slavery friends in these towns is earnestly
solicited.
We havt slwavs thought sod said that the
cause of emancipation is ths esuss of truth
sod toe cause of justice, and than therefore it
must oiumaiely prevail. We think no still,
and so tar from tbe late elections proving
j that this cause is dead io Kentucky, we firro
,iv believe that rightly considered THEY
PROVE IT STRONGER THAN EVER.
—Louisville Examiner
A female owner of human beings tinted
New bury port a few daye since wuh what she
oalle **n piece of progeny.” The Union
aaye the "property” naa become more par
[tial to liberty than shivery, and hence the
Virginia hue been deprived of her sot-
TIMU a,
Jfaunsrtva or Htftv lh>« Baeww, sh
tafai from Motor y m a bar tkre* fast long, two
tmle, red turn amt m kalf hsgh. Baas
Csrmhtit, IMm. Pm* rmf*.
What w3l not a man do for freedom’
Slaveholders tell us tbst slaves aw cootemcd
•ad happy. Behold tbe proof I To escape
from that state of happiness which, according
to the Southern doctrine, is the perfect and
natural condition of tbe negro, we find him
enduring all sorts of strange sod unheard-of
hardships. At one time, he is seen, cold
worn ont, and perishing, hiding from the
bloodhound—biped and quadruped, in marshes
and forests, at another time, secreting him
nelf in tbe hold of a steam-boat in imminent
risk of suffocation; at another, as in tbit ease
of tbe adventurous Henry Box Brown,
cramped up and packed away, like so much
merchandise, in a box three feet by two.
America has tbe melancholy honor of being
the sole producer of auch books aa this. She
rs so busy talking about the doctrine of human
rights, that she has not time to pot it in prac.
tiee. Boasting forever of bet republican in
stitutions. where shall we find the nation that
has less reason to boast? Shouting contin
ually about freedom, and human equality; but
m practice denying the existence of either.
The narrator, commencing his story of
wrong, says that he is not about to harrow tbe
feelings of the reader by a terrific representation
of the untold horrors ot Slavery. He will
present the beautiful side of the picture,
will relate stories of partial kindness on the
part of his master, and of comparative enjoy
ment on his own part. He never, during bis
thirty years of bondage, received a whipping.
It was not for fear of bodily torture, that he
suffered himself to be coffined alive. Is there
nothing besides this, in slavery, to be feared
Henry Box Brown was born a slave iu
Louisa couuty, V a forty-five miles from the
city of Richmond. His mother was a reli
gious woman, and used to instruct him in the
principles of morality. She taught him not
to steal and not to lio. From some other
quaner, his youthful mind got hold of the
idea that his master was Almighty God, and
his young master Jesus Christ. While a
young lad, his chief employment was waiting
upon his, master and mistress, with, at inter
vals, lessons in the cultivation of the planta
tion, with the fearful apprehension hanging
upon his mind, that the time was not far dis
tant when he should be driven to daily toil
beneath the rays of the scorching sun. He
was anxious to learn the condition of the
slaves on other plantations, and did not lose
any opportunity of gratifying his curiosity,
He and his brother were in the practice of
j carrying grain to a mill twenty miles distant.
J On one occasion, while waiting for their grain,
j they saw a number of forlorn-looking beings
pass, who, as they passed looked wiih aston
ishment at the two colored persons with shoes,
vests, and hats on. The brothers followed
these poor creatures to their quarters, and en
tered into conversation with them, which was
soon cut short by the approach of the over,
seer. They had not gone far when they
heard their screams while suffering under the
I lash for the erime of talking to strangers.
Henry and his brother felt tbankfui that they
were exempted from such terrible treatment,
but were filled with apprehension. By and
ibye their master died. As he was about
I to expire, he bent for the two brothers.
iThey ran to his bedside with beating hearts,
i expecting to be set free. The unrepentant
slaveholder's dyiug bequest was, ”1 have
given you to my son William, and you must
obey him.” After thi», he was taken to
Richmond, to work in his young master’s
tobacco manufactory. The overseer of this
establishment was a bad man. He used to
rob and cheat his employer, who never sus
pected anything of the kind. He thought
,Mr. Allen was always right. This man was
church member, and waa very devout and
J regular in his attendance on public wotship.
He prayed long and loudly with the pupil# in
the Sabbath school; but was ofteo heard to
say that he thought it all ‘‘a d d lie
I that niggers could be converted; for they
had no souls. Another part of hia ereed waa
that a white man might do as he liked, pro
-1 vided be read the Bible tad joined the church.
As Henry grew up, he began to think
about finding a wife and formed an aequan
tance with a young woman named Nancy,
i He learned to loye Nancy. Her master was
a pious roan, and promised Henry Brown; if
he married her, that she should never be aold.
After their roastera had talked the matter
I over, and given their permission, they wct#
married. About a year after, tho pious Mr.
Lee forgot his promise, and sold Henry’s
wife. She now became the property of a
saddler, one of'Dr. Plummer’s church mem
ber*. This man’s wife used her cruelly.
Not long after she waa again sold to a Mr.
Cartrell, another member of Dr. Plummer’s
church. This into induced Henry Brown to
pay him 50,00, to assist him in the pur
chase and jilso $50,00 a-year for har time
and for a season all went smoothly. Bat
soon came the erowning catastrophe. It was
oo a pleasant morning in August 1*46 (says,
,Henry Brown,) I left my wife and threa
1 little children safelv io our little home, and
proceeded to my labor. I felt that although
j I wae a stave, there were many alleviations
to my cup of sorrow. 1 felt that life was not
all a blank to me—that there were some
pore joy* yet my portiea. 'Hist day, as he
continues his sad story, ss tbe hour approach
ad when he should take hia little prattling
children on he was told that hia wife
and smiling babes were locked in prison, and
that to-morrow’s auo would sea them oo their
way to the distant South. He attempted to
panoede hia master to buy hie wife; but he
»oold net; he tried to persuade others to do
it, bat all in vain. Tbe neat day (be pro-
I eteds) T static >ed myself by t|ie road, aloeg
*bieh the staves were te peso. The pur
chaser ef my wife was a Methodist minister,
who waa about starting for North Carolina.
Pretty aeon five waggon-loads of little ehiUh
r ao passed, and looking at the for*meet, I
atw a Uule child pointing its tiny hand to
ward# me, sad aaying “There’# mj fatbar
h waa my ctdasa child. Seoo the gang ap
proached la which hia wife waa that nod. Ha
1 locked aad saw har faouhar free. He
seised bar head, intending te hid hai farewell;
but words foiled him. Ha arnruapami bar for
some distinct, with bar haod elaspad in hia,
hut could not speak, and waa compelled to
tura sUeatly awaj.
iw*#*
•Phi# joorxay firm slavery to freedom TL#
■tory is soon told. After this cruel sepirx
two, be eould think of nothing, but how i..
••reps from slavery. He prayed earnest)*
to Heaven for guidance. Tho thougot dsrt
«d into hia mind “get a box, and put your
self in it. He got tbe box and carried it to
his friand who had promised to assist him,
who inquired, when he saw ft, if ,t was to
put hia clothes in. No, said he, it is to ptt
Henry Brown in. Henry’afriend was aston
ished. as wall he might be; but tpon hia in
sisting, he finally consented The box was
taken to the Express office, ami although di
rected “This aide up with caie,” a was
placed on its end so That the candidate for
liberty started with his head downward#
From thence was carried io the depot, M d
tumbled roughly into the baggage wagon—
“right aide up” this time. He was then put
an board a steamboat,head downwards again,
and *o remained for an hour and a half; but
aa he had resolved on “victory or dea;h,”
ha endured the pam of his eyes bursting
from their sockets, with the courage of a mar
tyr. Soon a cold sweat covered him from
head to foot. He expected that avetv minute
would be hia last. He prayed to God fo.-
dehverance. He overheard one of the pas
aengerasay to another. “We have been here
two hours and have travelled twenty nulet
Ist ua ait down and rest ourselves.” They
turned oveT his box, and sat upon it. They
wondered what the bow contained. One of
them guessed it was the mail. On striving
at again fell on hia head. He
waa then rolled down a declivity, when he
thought hta neck was dislocated by the vio
lence of the concussion and then to add to
his misery, he heard soma one say, “there is
no room for this box it will have to remain
behind,” but in a short time, directions were
given to place it aboard. The box was
then tumbled into the car—head downwatdi
again. More baggage was taken in at a stop
ping place not far on the road and the good
Samaritan of a baggage-master placed him
“right aide up.” The box reached Philadel
phia at three o’clock in the morning At six
o'clock a wagon drove up, and a voice wav
heard inquiring for a box. It waa the box he
wanted. They were not long in getting it
carried to the house, where a number of per
sons were waiting to receive it. Now is an
anxious moment. They crowd around, doubt
ing whether the box contains a dead body or
a living man. At last one ventures to rap
upon Ihe box, and with a trembling voice
aaka—“la all right within'” To which the
one time slave, but now freeman, replies “All
right!” Then the box is opened, and Hen
ry Box Brown appears, a noble specimen of
humanit v, who ha# dared and suffered for
freedom in such a way as was never before
dreamed of.
Such iv a very imperfect aketcli of this trt
terosting Narrative. We say to all our rsa
ders, Get the book.—i. d.
THE NATIONAL LEAGUE.
Meeting in Philadelphia.
Philadelphia, Sept. 21, 1849.
On Thursday Evening 13th, inat. The
third adjourned meeting convened in Btick
Wesley Church. The audience wis large
and respectable. And upon being called to
order by Mr. G. W. Goinks, Chairman pro
tem., the Committee appointed at the last
meeting made the following report, which on
motion waa considered and by Sections unani
mously adopted:
Whereas. This meeting have listened
with much pleasure to the Communication
aoniained in the “North Star” of 10th ult,
purporting to be a suggestion, for the forma
tion of a National League as an institution
wall calculated to assist in testormg to 119 lib
erty sod equal rights, Therefore,
Resolved, That we cheerfully respond to
the proposition, sympathise in the object—
and will to tho best of our ability co-opente
in its accomplishment.
Resolved, That we recoguize the necessity
and utility ol calling a National Congreta ot
Conventional the earliest practicable moment,
and in the moat available place, for the pur
pose of forming the National League, having
for its object the “Union of the oppressed for
the sake of Freedom.”
Resolved, That we respectfully suggest
tbe additional article to the Constitution pro
posed that one or more agents be employed to
travel and lecture under the auspices of the
institution, to form auxiliaries—collect funds
—and secure members to the same. We
would aJao suggest, that the place for hold
ing tbe first Convention be designated bv s
majority of tbe respondents remarking,
should Philadelphia meet their approval,
cheetfully welcome them to our city.
Unanimously adopted and ordered to I*
sent to the “North Star” for pubiieation. Tte
meeting then adjourned.
DAVID BOWSER, Chairman.
.o*. D J. Peck, Secretary.
Address
To the Anti-Slavery Ladies of Great Britain »"i
Ireland, from two English friendi
Through the medium of the columns
the North Star, we earnestly dewire t«
solicit your aid and co-operation in ihe good
Anti-Slavery cause; and we would plead
with you more especially for assistance, 00
behalf of the Western New York Anti-SU
very Society.
One of the objects of this Society s
help to sustain the North Star newsptpcf
which is, we believe, one of the best A*
Slavery instrumentalities sow in operat.m
Tbe Annual Anti-Slavery Fair ml
held at Rochester toward* the close o the
year and a aerie* of Anti-Slavery l air
now being held in the towns and village u
Western New York; consequently the* a
an unusual demand for useful and fancy sit;-
cles. We earnestly entreat our Bd-* 6
friends to send us renewed help 10 thf» l)
of contributions
To our London friends, and to those
Birmingham, Coventry, Leicester, L* s
Sunderland and Bristol, we would
that they forward their contribution*, hr
third week in October, to Mim Carpeotr,
Bristol, who has this yeat kindly conse'-'”-
to forward the London box.
To the friends in Carlisle and MnnebnU*.
who sent boxes to Rochester U»» yea,
j renew 001 appeal, hoping and bel.enni tb*
they will continue to give u# ihnr »id
we uual that the Friends in NewcaaßM 1
Tyae, Northampton, Cofebrookdaie, Ul
borgh, Belfast, aad Cork, who then
them to thia good work, will testify, o
present oeearioa, that they are not we/y
well-doing.”
Julia and Eliza Griffiths
Revolution in Haiti
Dear friend Douglass, I take advan
uge of the bailing of Her Urtianiur Majes
ty s Steamer Plumper for Jamaica, to give
vou tb® history of this day, which will in all j
probability, be regarded hereafter one of;
iha most eventful that have evot dawned
upon Haiti. Uoubiksn, the new* that 1 am
about to communicate will appear incredible
and 1 must confess, tb it matters wear almost
a dreamlike aspect to myself, who base been
a spectator of the various scenes that have
transpired wuhin the last twelve hours. But,
to be brief, as mv tunc is limited. I
This morning, about ten o’clock, palms ot
triumph were to he seen waving before all
the doors, and suspended to all the galleries
of this goodly city of Port-au-Prince. The
drums beat, rhe trumpets sounded, the can
nons roared, the people shouted—and Haiti
became an Empire Yes, a veritable empire,
with its tmpeiia! family in esse, audits dukes,
counts, marshals and other titled dignitaries'
»n futuro. The change, certainly, is a Bud
dsn ono; and wc who, upon rising this mor-,
rung, snuffed the airs ot a republic, and now 1
inhale the atmosphere of a monarchy, might
well regard it as nothing but a fantastic vis
ion, were it not for the vast amount of ocular
and auricular demonstration to the contrary.;
And ycl, no violent outburst, no effusion
of blood, marked this transition from one
form of poliyical existence to another. l>u-1
ally, when a people, grown tired of the
governmental fabric which hitherto has shel-
tered them, resolve to tear it down and con
struct another, it chances that some tenacious
lover of the time-honored edifice, or some ar-
dent laborer in the work of demolition, finds,
a willing or unwilling grave beneath the fall-
mg stones and flying rafters. But no such
event has taken place here. Ihe republican
scaffolding which, for forty-six years, fits
served its purpose but indifferently well, and
which many persons’regarded as a permanency,
has been quietly taken down and he, who,
yesterday, was the President Soulouque, is
now, by the grace of God and “the Sover
eignty of the People,’ Faustin the lirst,
Emperor of Haiti. With regard to the new
structure, it remains for the future to judge
of the correctness and purity of its style, the
justness of its proportions, and the strength
of its columns.
This change, also, has been almost as un
expected as it wassudden. I rue, any obser
ver of events might have foreseen it for some
tine back but even then, only as a contin
gency which might take place in the course of
years. However, the first intimation that the
period was at hand, was the appearance of a
Circular on Thursday ia9t, to the effect that,
in consideration of the eminent services ren-l
dered to the country by His Excellency, the.
President, he sheuld he named Emperor.
This document was signed by a large number'
of persons; action was taken upon it last,
evening, in the Senate and Chamber of Hep- j
resentatives; and, in accordance with this
action, Haiti ceased, this morning, to be a
republic. A very quiet and respectable Revo
lution, certainly and in all respects, totally j
different from those of which Europe recently 1
has boen, and still is the theatre. But, to re-1
turn to the affairs of the day.
Hearing the repeated discharges of artille
ry, this morning, I hastened out into the
streets, and learned that the Senate had just
made proclamation of the establishment of the
Empire; and that body, accompanied by
life Representatives, had already proceeded to
the Palace to offer the imperial diadem to
his newly created Majesty. On my may, I
encountered the troops, crowned with gar
lands, onjtheir march lo the Church, with
beating drums and flying colors. Shortly af
terwards, the Imperial cortege came into
view. It consisted of the Emperor, the Em
press and two of their nieces, on foot and at
tended by the General Officers of the Army,
and various other military ami high civil au
thorities of the Government. His Majesty
was attired in the most simple uniform and,
indeed, a bearing in all respects, the most be
coming, marked the first appearance of the
new dynasty in public. Arrived at the C hurcb,
a solemn 'le Deum was chanted—wild bursts
of martial music, ever and anon, mingling
with the deeptoned harmony of the choir. At
the close of this service, the bells pealed,
the cannons again fired repeated salutes: and,
amidst liudand reiterated cries of ive VEm
pereur, the most important ceremonies of the
day were terminated. The Empress and her
niece# returned, in a carriage, to the Palace
while the Emperor, mounting his horse, pro
ceeded, with ins usual attendance, to make a
turn through the city.
Manv true friends of Haiti will, perhaps,
see in this revolution, much cause of regret;
and it certainly is asa l thing to see a re
public sink into an empire. But, although
an ardent admirer of the political institutions
of my native land, and a iirui believer m hei
political creed, still 1 cannot but tliiuk thai
there are many persons, outside of the wall*
of lunatic asylums, and yet within the pre
cincts of civilisation, who are utterly unfit for
self-government. And perhaps, (a* with the
■tifl-necked Israelites, who demanded
king,) it may be necessary for the eventual
well-being of this country, that she be ruled
with a strong hand and a rod of iron. Possi
bly, the-‘imperial authority may present a
front sufficiently imposing to keep in checl
the fierce oulbreakings, which hav# lor si
long a period, saddened her history.
I do not, as yet, know under what contti
tutional restrictions the pow er of ti e Einperm
will labor, or, indeed, whether there will lx
any. It should he hopeJ, however, that hu
man hie, liberty and property will find surei
guarantees under the present order of things
than th#y have ever done, heretofore. Ear
neatly trusting that this may bt the case, ant
in all confidence that the Gml who controls
the destinies ofjiat.ons, may inspire the rulen
oi ii viti, (under what tide soever they may
exercise lhe,r authority,) to take such m#a*
fcure# as may render her tranquil, prosperous
and happy,
I am, my dear Friend,
l As ever, truly y,.ura,
iiAKOED.
Col. Benton it is said, is coming out stron
ger and wrong®! ®g»w»‘ ®Uwy.
Foreign Men of Um Wetk.
Th« Cambria, from Liverpool, brings
intrlligmicf seven dayb later from Europe.
Kkolako. The Pham Congress in Pans
supplies the English pa pen with a topic. The
Koneonforauat has aa article on the subject,
written with the usual ability of that paper.
The doodutton of that article is aa follows:
We believe io Christianity, and Christiani
ty breathes snd inculcates a spirit of peace.
The question is, whether ihe gospel proposes
anything as sn object of human pursuit which
is in itself of no moment, or, however impor
tant, unattainable. To this question our ret
aou and our faith directly answer, “No!” If,
then, the thing cen be dune, if it ought to be
done, if there is a oeede-be for doing it, why
not do it now 1 Public opinion, human pen
sions, dynastic habits, national aspirations, we
are told, are against it. Be it so—but will
they ever become changed without effort, and
must not all effort have a commencement
Earnest working can change the dreams ol
one age into the realities of the next. “Faith”
of the right sort “can remove mountain*.”
Meanwhile, Providence plainly co-operate*
with the peace- maker*. Dynasties and gov
ernments have nearly come to the bottom of
their military resource** The sword will be
no sooner sheathed again in Europe, tfian the
penalties of haring drawn it will begin to be
exacted. Ruinous taxation, or a general dis
armament, will become the altei native of all
European states. The system has reached
its zenith. It cannot be pushed farther.
It cannot remain as it is. ljet it once begin
its decline, and it* descent will be more rapid
than its rise
“And when it falls, it fails like Lucifer,
Never to riee again.”
The Cholera is on the increase in London.
The deaths for the week ending Bth inat.,
were 2796, of which 1,603 were of cholera.
It was also spreading rapidly in different parta
of England. A proposal is afloat to obtain a
royal proclamation appointing a day of na
tional humiliation, fasting, and prayer, on ac
count of the disease now so fearfully preva
lent. Probably, as was the case here, those
who talk moat about fasting for sin, are the
farthest from repentance. The continued
fatality of the cholera in the metropolis has
drawn attention once more to the subject of
sanitary precaution*. Intermural burial is
the chief object of attack. Burial yard* in
great cities are denounced as a disgrace to
the age. And so they are. The Times,
true to its usual instincts of aiding with the
strnng, pounces fuiiousl y upon some of th
small private nuisances in that way but
passes by the burial-grounds connected-with
the numerous churches throughout the city.
The Bishop of London and the clergy must
have their fees out of the burials —no matter
although the public arc poisoned by the im
pure atmosphere. They have power, and
wealth, and influence on their side there
fore the Times is silent, or at the best only
veiy gently hints at the existence of the Es
tablished Church share of the nuisance,
which is by far the largest and most offen
sive.
The recent brutal murder in Bermondsey
by the woman Manning and her husband, is
exciting much interest. Jhe coroner s Jury
have biought in a verdict against them. Man
ning is said to be delighted with the notice
taken of him. In his examination he denied
having any share in the murder.
An influential Committee lias been organ
ised in London, for the purpose of collecting
a fund for the relief, of the Italian patriots now
in London. Among the members of that
Committee, we see the names of Lord Dudley
Stewart, M. P., Richard Cobden, M. P.,
Joseph Hume, M. P., Chas. Dickens, Esq.,
Walter Savage Landor, Esq. The Com
mittee has issued an address, Irom the pen of
Charles Dickens, which says, “The funds
raised are proposed to be applid to the relief
of the more immediate and urgent wants of
the exiles, to the provision of the means of
enabling them to reach other countries as they
may desire, and generally to their assistance
and protection.”
The Anti-State Church cause seems to be
1 progressing in England, t tne evidence of
this been recently given at Leicester. This
important borough has entirely emancipated
itself from the obnoxious church-rate, li
seems that for years past, in one of the par.
ishes of Ijeicester, the goods of Dissenters
have been annually sold to pay for the religion
of their Episcopalian neighbors. This year,
for the first time, the Dissenters have suc
ceeded in obtaining a majority againat the
rate.
The Queen was still at Balmoral in Scot
land, but was expected to be at Osborne
I House, her favorite summer residence in the
j Isle of Wight, on the 20th.
The harvest prospects are considered
favorable. There has been a continuance of
fine weather, and flattering accounts of the
yield have been received from all quarters,
i The Dublin correspondent of the Times saya,
that “a gentleman who has made a minute
inspection of the crop* in the south gives it
as his decided opinion that there will be more
food in the country on the Ist of January,
1850, than there has been foi the last quarter
of a century.”
Report* from the manufacturing and com
mercial district* continue to speak very fa
vourably of the present stale of domestic
trade, and the demand for goods to supply the
1 foreign market*.
Franck. Political affairs are tranquil in
France. The Councils General have com
menced their sittings all over thecauntry. The
Councils General will have to decide on a
plan of organisation for the service of the ad
ministration of the respective departments,
communes, and cantons. The whole of the
I deliberations will be submitted to the Council
of State, and afterward* to the National Leg
relative Assembly.
The Abbe Chate), well-knowo for hii
Socialism, has been tried before the Court ol
Assize of the Seine, and acquitted, on I
charge of exciting the military to iusubordi
nation and violation of the law a. The Abbe,
who appeared in clerical costume, defended
himself. M. Rohilliard, editor of the Revo
lution Democauii/ve el Suciak, ha* been sen
tenced, to three years' impnsooment asd 4,-
000 fraucs fine, for a seditious article, entitled,
“Messieurs ies Royalties, Fire First.” M.
Bareste, editor of the Rejntbbque, was sen
tenced, on th* »*tu« day by default, to 50C
francs fine for neglecting to deposit, in tba
office of the Attorney-General, the number ol
that journal of the 16th ult. Not a greai
deal better this, than South Caiolma liber
tv.
The French Government continue* to re
fuse passports to the German refugees who,
on the way to America, are forced to invent
France.
4
Tbe Priaidwit ho iaa4i several trips to the
Departments, od made ipwchM at .public
dinner*. Ha w artt received everywhere.
Lamartine ho refused a public subeenptkm
for hia benefit, because bit writings gits him
sufficient
Italy. Voice has hlka. The Au»-
triant tee now is possession of Milan and
Florence, Leghorn and Bologna. Thanks w
“the shadow of his unde,” Itriy is sgaia
the footstool of tyrants. 11m sunender ukes
place sccording to tbe terms of Radetski's
proclamation —that is, unconditional surrender.
On the 21st ult. Gen. Ondioot officially
announced his departure from Rome. The
Triutnivaie of Cardinals eootinue to rule with
a rod of iron. One of their latest acts is lha
institution of a Commiasioa for tbs purpose of
prosecuting the authors and accomplices of
the outrages committed doting the Revolu
tionary period against “religion, its ministers,
the majesty of the sovereign, sod public se
curity.” The Pope has divulged his plan ol
government. His Holiness concedes to his
subjects extensive municipal franchises. In
each district there is to be a municipality, tb
members of which are to be elected by tbe
inhabitants, tbe electoral right being granted
to almost every male individual in tbe district.
The Pope reserves to himself tbe choice of
mayors and deputy mayors, who are to be
selected from among the members of the mu
nicipal bodies. His Holiness also proposes
the establishment in each province of a pro
vincial council whose powers will be vwy
similar to those of grand juries in England. In
addition to these, a State Consult a" com
posed of one delegate from each province,
and as many members as the Pope may pleass
to appoint, is to meet at Rome. This with
the Council of State, will constitute the po
litical machinery of Rome.
Austria and Hungary. Comorn and
Peterwardein still hold out. The former is
commanded by Klapka, the latter by Kird.
The Russsian General, Berg, had a loug
interview with the Utter on the 23d ult., the
result of which was that a Hungarian Major
was senuto Gen. Haynau to arrange terms
for the capitulation. The impregnable posi
tion of Comorn induces Klapka to deinami
good conditions.
Letters from "V ienna state that the em
paror of Austria has pardoned Gorgey, and
tha latter has departed for Styria, where he
intends lor tha present to reside. Tbe cor
respondent ef the Times slates that the
bulk of the Russian army is about to be with
drawn from Hungary, and that a compara
tively small number of these troops will ie
rnain in the Austrian provinces until the
pacification of Hungary is complete. There
is no intelligence of Kossuth, Bern or Dem
braski.
Germany. A provisional arrangement has
been concluded between Prussia and Austria
on the German question. A Frankfort cor
reepondent'of a Londcn paper writes, “There
is little doubt that a Congress of Princes will
be held here in the course of next week, for
the purpose of settling the German question.” j
Switzerland. It is said, that lor some!
time past a report has been spread of a col
lective note from tbe three great powers of
the North, io|accordance with the French Gov
ernment, to the effect that the Canton of Neuf
chatel must be restored to Prussia.— t. d.
Indignation Meetiug,
Collins Center, 9mo. 10, 1849. j
Dear Friend, —Since my late letter to
thee, an indignation meeting has been held at
this place. As 1 have thought a statement of
ts doings would b 8 interesting to fliee, I have
concluded to give thee a copy of its proceed
ings. They are as follow
At a meeting of the friends of the Slave
without regard to party or name, held at Col
lins, Center the 28th of Bth ino. 1849,
Win. Henry was chosen Chaitman and
Andrew Varney Secretary.
Resolved, That a committee of three be
appointed to report business for the considera
tion of this meeting.
Resolved, That Cornelius Smith, Lorenzo
Mabbett and Elisha W. Henry be said Com
mittee.
The following Resolutions were according
ly reported to the meeting and being separately
considered, were unanimously adopted, save
only one dissenting voice on one resolution.
Whereas it having come to out knowledge
that considerable search has recently been
made on or about the Indianßeservation in this
vicinity, for a slave* said to have bean a few
months since the house servant of a distin
guished individual at the South, and whereas
there are reasons to believe that some persons
have been employed, and others quite likaly
to be, who are entirely reckless of the great
and fundamental doctrine of this nation's Lib
erty and Independence, viz. that all men are
endowed by their Creator with certain inalien
able rights, among which are Lite, Liberty
and the pursuit of happiness, it ia therefore
hereby
1. Resolved, That any person who will
suffer himself to be hired or m any other way
influenced to seek and return the poor panting
fugitive, ia not only unworthy the name of an
American Citizen, but should he regarded as a
base minion and willing instrument of tha
slave power.
2. Resolved, That if any of our fellow citi
-1 tens of this town or ‘vicinity should be demo
ted m aiding or giving countenance to the
kidnapper and slavocatcher, such persona
shall receive such a stigma as nothing but
repentance and amendment of life can remove.
3. Resolvedt Thai we repudiate the idea
that it ia necessary for the Slave to go to
Canada in order to secure his Freedom, but
that every human being whether from the
north, from tbe aouth, from the east or from
the west, may and must be entitled alike with
our own citizens to all the immunities, guaran
tied to all who compose the population of our
noble State.
4. Resolved, That the jaws and paws of
the British Luio are not necessarily any mao
effectual in the protection of the weak aor
defenceless, <han the beak aud claws of th
American Eagle.
5. Resolved, That we are in favor of all
honorable moans for the promotion of freedom
and the suppression and destruction of slave
ry, and that wa recognize and daily appreciate
the efforts of tbe Free Labor Association ot
this town and vicinity, and bid them Godspeed
,n their enterprise.
6. Resolved, That wa will use all efforts
in oar power to make oar town as wall known
as tha Home of Freedom and the retreat at
the oppressed aa it is now distinguished for
its Better sad Cheese in short may it aver
be in a proper aeaae the empire town of the
Empire State.
7. Resolved,That tbe House resolve itself in
to e vigilant Committee for the purpose of ettry
ing out the spirit of tha abovt Resolutions.
8. Moved sad seconded that a copy of these
oraceedings be pretested to Gov. Hamiltoa
Fiab and to tbe Editors of the Bufmlo Hopeh
lie National Bra, tbe North Star, Impartial
QtiWh* and such other papers a* will fi”
them fiatww** ihwruoo,
9. Hetolrcd, That a f«py of ft# ferafohi|
Resolution* and praceedinge fe» pMMM#d ta
Zachary Taylor n
Wm HfcXHY P*».
Andrew Va«*Et. S*ar*y,
cotataraKDCvcS with coy. viva.*** n»«.
t
Got. Hamilto* Fish,
Dui Friend —There having been coo
adorable inquiry ia this vicinity for a fugitive
Slave, a few moothe since the body servant o
a distinguish*! ia#ividual ta the southern
states, and it being conjectured, too, that tbete
would be an application to oar Governor for a
requisition to take aaid slave, on tbc plea that
be waa guilty of room crime, it seemed dea*
rable by the fnends of freedom and the Slave
in this locality to be apprised of the facts in
the case. In their behalf, then, I would ask
whether thou hast received any applications
for a requisition to take a slave or pietended
eiiminal, within the last thtee or six mouths,
ahd if so, whether such applications have been
complied with, and in what instances? If
no request has yet been made for the requisite
authority in anv such case, it may be proper
for me to say tnat the people in this District
and region of country are desirous that thou
should be duly apprised that men who are so
reckless of the principles of Freedom as to
hold ss property not only their fellow beings,
but in many instances, their own flesh and
blood, are dot very likely to have conscienti
ous scruples in making false oaths that tbeir
fugitive Slaves have been guilty of theft.
Please do the friends of the slave the
favor to reply to this brief communication at
thy earliest convenience.
We wish to know whether the state of
New York is a safe leireat for the poor toil
worn Slave; or whether he must contrive
to go on to Canada. Be assured that the
sons of oppression may be safe in this region
of Western New York, unless Gvo. Fish lends
his name and influence to the oppreasor for
their recapture.
For the redemption of our noble state from
the service of the Southern Autocrat, the
Tyrant and oppressor thy Friend,
LORENZO MABBETT.
REPLY.
Executive Chamber,
Albany Aug. 23,1849. J
Sir :—Your favor of 21st inst. is this day
received. You ask whether I have received
within three or six months any requisition for
a Slave, a pretended criminal.
I have during that period received several
requisitions for alleged criminals or fugitives
from Justice—hut none where 1 had any rea
son to suppose the alleged fugitive had ever
been claimed as a Slave and as such helJ in
involuntary Servitude.
As you do not mention any name I cannot
say positively whether any application has
been made for the individual to whom you re
fer. But I have no recollection of any appli
cation which could have referred to such a
person as your letter alludes to.
With great respect, your obedient servant.
HAMILTON FISH.
Lorenzo Mabbett Esq. 1
Collins Center, Erie Co.
Dr. Brigham, the resident physician and
superintendent of the State Lunatic Asylum
at Ulica died on Sunday morning last of
chronic diarrhoea.
John M. Barrett now in prison for frighten
ing South Carolina with a Circular, has writ
ten a letter to his father, denying that he had
any knowledge of the character of the docu
ment.
Notices.
Western New York Anti-Slavery Society.
Pursuant to adjournment at last meeting,
the Executive Committee of the Western
New York Anti-Slavery Society will meet at;
the House of Isaac Post, 36, Sophia Street,
on Saturday, September 29, 1849. Attend
ance is requested at half past six p. m. punc
tually.
3 JOHN DICK, Sec.
Anti-Slavery Lectures and Fairs.
Frederick Douglass will visit and lectuie,
and Fairs will be held, under the management
of'the Ladies of the W. N. Y. A. S. Society, j
at the following places in the course of next
month namely:
West Walworth, lecture, ruesd. Sep. 4th. I
1 Marion, Wednesd. sth.
Palmyra, Thurstl. 6tli.
Victor, Iriday <th.
(t Fair, Saturday Bth.
E. Bloomfield, Lecture, Sunday 9th.
Fair, Monday 10th.
Oswego, Lecture, Thursday and Friday,'
Sept. 13th and 14th.
Fulton Village, lecture, Sunday and Mon
day, 16th and 17th.
Mount Morris, Lecture, Thursday, 20th. j
Fair, Friday, 21st.
Caledonia, Lecture, Sunday, 23d.
Scottsvillc, Monday, 24tb.
Fair, Tuesday, 25th.
Honeoye Falls, Lecture, Thursday, 27ih.
Fair, Friday, 28tb.
LoekpoA, Lecture, Thuisday, Oct. sih.
Fair, Friday, 6th.
N.B. The Lecture at each of the above
named places will commence at 7 r. n. pre
cisely, unless some other hour is named in a
utuie notice.
Appeal of the Philadelphia Associatioa
The “W’omeu'a Association of Philadel
phia” appeal to a benevolent public, aad to
Sub friends of the Slave everywhere, to aid
them in their approaching Fair, the ob
ject of which is to sustain the “North Star.
To ihoae who are familiar wiih the pages of i
this paper it is uoneeemry to apeak of its
went. To the* who have o<* soeo it we
may say, that we regard it as one of the very
best anti-slavery instrumentalities now in the
field. 1
We are the more interested in it» because
the editor ia ooe of our oppressed race, and
admirably qualified by ha talents and moral
worth, to perform with credit the arduous
u*k of editing a paper devoted to our elsva
tioo We believe and iruet that our fneuds
will give ua their liberal aid-
To our own people we look earnestly auk
hopefully- Siatera, Brothers, shall »e U>od
The iron has entered into your souls.
Ye bo heavily, bowed down to the yery dust,
dispirited, etushod by the weight of oppres-
y t hear the taunts of the enemy,
««Tbev are so ignorant and aarefinod! ’They
J wLoe. of eoe other! Yes they urn*
hut vlu only IO put dowa one who is rntwe
i- 6 --r
unerring language of conduct that theee as
sertion* to often thrown ia w faces are wo*
boons slanders. Sustain F. Doaglaw, be
maod your respect sod coolieoorl
Mli beostfse it Hntrbtaa dßse. and bscaos’
■d~hi it Minins tin |njnnpii r woi
thy an acun%«ill assuredly being U m»w four
Tbc Fau will be held on CbnaUnas week.
Donations for it may be sent to
HARRIET SMITH. 319 Lombard-street,
RACHEL LLOYD. 303 Pine-aiieet,
AMY M. CASSEY,“ I^Lorobard-street,
Or to any member of tbeMsoociatkm.
Elizabeth Am, Ltdia Awn Brmu.,
Maby Babboty. Hetty Bees,
Locisa Bbistol. HeUEN John suet.
Hutu Bvstill, Euxa Joses,
Charlotte Mills.
SARAH M< DOUGLASS, Cor. Sec y.
No M Mullbeny at.
Philadelphia, 6ih m0.,'25. IM9.
Tcbbiblt Scalded.— FHfow-citiians of Chi
cago:—The deep mad distressing wwuwds I w«f
received ia being terribly scalded hr the bursting of
a distillery boiler, were healed m the short space of
14 days by lbs free application of Sloan's celebrat
ed Ointment. Abo, my child, arho had been sorely
afflicted for several months with ¥ot««w, on
vUu I had expended a large. sam of money for
dinars and medical advice, was restored to health
i a less three weeks by tire osc of Sloan's Oint-
For injuries on horses, I am confident Sloan’*
Ointment is far superior to any other remedies now
used.
In my opinion, every family should constantly
keep on baud thij TaJnable Ointment.
MICHAF.I. DIVERSE.
Chicago, Jan. 4, 1949.
f See Agents’ nan—i at the hem! of Sloan s
T'olnaai For further particular* and testimonials,
pi pamphlets of agent*.
CoasCMfTlOB. There is perhaps no disease
with which our country is aff-oted, which sweet*
iff so many victims, as that fell destroyer of the
human race Consumption. Day after day, tear
after year, that insatiate monster hurries to the por
tals of tlie cold and silent tomb fresh added victims
to it* conquest. No walk of life is sacred from its
blighting influence. No age is exempt from its
death-dealing shafts. The old, the middle-aged ami
the young, all alike, are food for this common enemy
if mankind. 'The white-haired patriarch, whose
life of temperance lias rendered his system impervi
>us to the attacks of oilier ills, and whose good 1
deeds prepared him for the enjoyment of life’s calm
evening, finds Consumption fastening it- fangs upon
tia vitals,and tearing him from a world ever bright
to minds which look complacently on days well
(pent.
Is there no help for tlie afflicted T—no preventive
>f the dangers which beset us in our changeable anti
ickle chine? We think there is. And if the alle
gations of those who are at least entitled to veracity
—y be believed, there is a preventive and a remedy.
IV istar’s Balsam of Wild Chet ry is offeted to a suf
fering world as soch. It needs not tlie “adventi
ious aid” of a long string of fictitious certificates to
rive it notoriety. Its true value and intrinsic ex-
•elfence, are sufficient to entitle it to the confidence
>f the public, and to “waft on to fame” the name of
ts Inventor, as a benefactor of his specie*.
None genuine unless signed I. BL ITS on the
vrapper. 1
For sale by Post Willis; also by Y\ m.
Pitkin.
DIED i
At Battle Creek, Mich., Amt Mott, late of the
;ity of Albany, N. Y., passed away on the 11th j
nst., in tlie full rigor of her intellect. As a rose
■astetli off its outer leaf, slie cast off her mortal in- j
lumbrancc, and passed into the spirit world, in the
find year of her age. Having lived a life of use
iilnes?, she anticipated the opening of tlie future
vith a serenity of mind which accompanies only
he faithful. From her early life, she was an un-
iring advocate for the rights of tlie oppressed. She
•ver bore a faithful testimony in tlie Society of I
Prieads, of which slie was a membei, against their
ipotliy in tlie various reforms of the day.THE DEAD A LITE,
The subjoined narrative, published
originally in Chambers’ Journal, is
stated to be translated from a foreign
newspaper. It is necessary to remind
the reader, that the island of Mauritius,
appertaining at this day to the English,
was originally colonized by the French,
and that the population yet consists, in
a great measure, of persons of that na- 1
lion, to whom, by a formal treaty be-!
tween the |>owera concerned, their an
cient laws and uauages were preserved
without any material alterations.
About ten or twelve months ago, the
Sieur Clodomir Frenois, a rich mer-1
chant of the island, was found dead and
frightfully disfigured in his own habits-'
tion. His body was discovered lying
on the floor, with the head and face
mutilated by a pistol, and all doubt as
to the cause of the catastrophe was dis
pelled by the discovery of the fatal
weapon by the aide of the corpse, as
also of a paper in the handwriting of
the deceased. This paper contained
the following words:—
”1 am ruined !—a villain has robbed
me of twenty-five thousand livres ster
ling; dishonor must be my portion, and
1 cannot survive it. I leave to my wife
the task of distributing among my
creditors the means which'remain to
us; and I pray that God, my friends,
and my enemies, may pardon my self
destruction! Vet another minute and
I shall be in eternity?
(Signed) Clodomir Frenois.”
Great was the consternation caused
by this tragic event, which was the
more unexpected, as the loss alluded to
in the note had never been made pub
lic. The deceased had been held in
great esteem over the colony, as a man
of strict honor and probity, and was
universally lamented. His attached
widow, after endeavoring faithfully to
fulfil his last wishes, found her grief
too overpowering to permit her to min
gle longer with the world, and took the
resolution to consecrate her remaining
days to the services of religion. Two
months after the sad end of her husb
and, she entered a convent, leaving to
a nephew of the late merchant, a physi
cian, the charge of completing the
j d.stribution of the effects of Freuois a
mong his creditors.
A minute examination of the papers
of the defunct led to the discovery of
the period at which the unfortunate
merchant had been robbed; and this
period was found to correspond with
the date of the disappearance ofn man
named John Moon, long in the employ
ment of Frenois. Of this man, on
whom suspicion not unnaturally fell,
nothing could be learned on inquiry;
but, shortly after the division of the
late merchant’s property, Moon re-ap
peared in the colony. When taken up
and examined respecting the cause of
his flight, he stated that he had been
sent by his master to France to recover
certain sums due to the merchant there,
in which mission he had been unsuc
cessful; and he further averred, that,
I if Clodomir Frenois, ia his eviuting
correspondence, had thrown any injuri
ous suspicions upon him (Moon,) the
whole was but a pretext to account for
1 deficiencies of which the merchant him
self was the sole cause and author.
This declaration, made by a man who
seemed to fear no inquiry, and whose
worldly circumstances remained to ap
-1 pearance the same as they had ever
been, had the effect of silencing, if it
did not satisfy, the examinators; and
the affair soon fell, in a great measure,
out of the public recollection.
Things remained for a short time in
this condition, when one morning, Mr.
j William Burnett, principal creditor of
the late Clodomir Frenois, heard a
i knocking at his gate at a very early
hour. He called up one of his servants,
who went down and opened the door,
and immediately returned with the in
telligence, that a stranger, who seemed
desirous of keeping his person conceal
ed, wished to speak with Mr Burnett
in private. Mr. Burnett rose, threw
1 on his dressing gown, and descended
to the parlor. He saw there a stranger,
of tall person, seated in an easy and
familiar attitude upon a sofa, with a
number of the Morning Post in his
hand. The back of the visitor was
turned to Mr Burnett as he entered.
Rather surprised to see a stranger con
i duct himselfso like an old friend of the
house, Mr. Burnett said aloud, “Sir,
may 1 beg to know your business with
me?”
The stranger turned round and ad
vanced to salute his host warmly and
courteously. Mr. Burnett started back,
and uttered a loud exclamation of sur
prise and alarm. Well he might; for
before his eyes stood his friend and
debtor, Clodomir Frenois, whom he
had beheld, nearly a year before, a
mutilated corpse, and whom he himsell
had followed to the grave!
What passed at that interview, be
tween Mr. Burnett and his strange
visitor, remained a secret. Mr. Bur
nett was observed to issue several
times, pale and agitated, from his dwel
ling, and to visit the magittrate charged
with the conduct of the criminal pro
cesses of the colony. In the course of
that day, while John Moon was regal
ing himself with tea under the palm
trees in his garden, along with a Cir
cassian female whom he hsd bought
some-time previously, he was arrested
and taken to prison by the officers of
justice. On the following day he was
brought before the criminal court, ac
cused of robbing the late Coldomir
F renois, the crime being conjoined with
breach of trust and violence. Moon
smiled at the charge with all the confi
dence ol a roan who had nothing to
f car The judge having demanded of
him it he confessed the crime, the ac
cused replied that the charge was alto
gether absurd; that clear testimony was
necessary to fit such a derelict upon
him; and that, so far from there being
■ny such evidence producable, neither
e widow of the deceased, nor any one
I person m his service, had ever heard
the pretended robbery even once men
tioned by Frenois during his life.
ou *hen affirm your inno
ceace/ repwud ih. JBdg
after hearing all that the other bid to
say.
“I will avouch my innocence," re
plied Mood, "oven before the body of
my late muter, if that ha accessary
(Such a thing often took place under
the old colonial law.)
"John Moon,,’ said the judge, in
voice broken by some peculiar emotion,
“It is before your late master that you
trill bare to assert your innocence, and
may God make the troth appear!"
from the judge accompanied
the words, and immediately a door
opened, and Clodomir Frenois, the
supposed suicide, entered the court.
He advanced to the bar with a slow
and deliberate step, haring his eye
calmly but sternly fixed on the prison
er, his servant. A great sensation was
caused in the court by his appearance.
Uttering shrieks of alarm and horror,
the females present fled from the spot.
The accused fell on his knees in abject
terror, and shuddering confessed his
guilt. For a time no voice was heard
but his. However, as it became appa
rent that a living man stood before the
court, the advocate for the prisoner
gained courage to speak. He demand
ed that the identity of the merchant be
established, and the mystery of bis ex
istence be explained. He said that
the court should not be biased by what
might prove to be a mere accidental
likeness betweeu a person living and
one deceased; and that such an avowal
as that of the prisoner, extracted in a
moment of extraordinary terror, was
not to be held of much weight.
“Before being admitted here as an
accuser or witness," continued the
advocate, addressing the resuscitated
merchant, “prove who and what you
are, and disclose by what chance the
tomb, which so lately received your
body, mangled with bullets, has given
up its tenant, and restored you to the
world in life and health."
This firm appeal of the advocate,
who continued steadfast to his duty un
der circumstances that would have
closed the lips of most men, called forth
the following narrative from Clodomir
Frenois:—
“My story may soon be told, and
will suffice to establish my identity.
When I discovered the robbery com
mitted by the accused, he had then fled
from the Island, and I speedily saw
that all attempts to retake him would
prove fruitless. I saw ruin and dis
grace before me, and came to the reso
lution of terminating my life before the
evil day caine. On the night in which
this determination was formed, I was
seated alone in my private chamber. I
had written the letter which was found
on my table, and had loaded my pistol.
This done, I prayed for forgiveness
from my Maker for the act that I was
about to commit. The end of the pis
tol was at my head, and my finger on
the lock, when a knock at the outei
door of the house startled me. I con
cealed my weapon, and went to the
door. A man entered whom I recog
nized to be the sextou of the parish in
which I lived. He bore a sack on his
shoulder, and in it the body of a man
newly buried, which was destined foi
my nephew, the physician, then living
with me. The scarcity of bodies foi
dissection, as the court is aware, com
pels those who are anxious to acquire
skill in the medical profession to pro
j cure them by any possible means. The
sexton was at first alarmed at having
met me. “Did my nephew request
you to bring this body?" said I. “N 0
replied the man; “but I know his
anxiety to obtain one for dissection,
and took it upon me to offer him this
body. For mercy’s sake," continued
the sexton, “do not betray me, sir, or I
shall lose my situation and my family’s
bread.”
“While the man was thus speaking,
a strange idea entered my mind, and
brought to my despairing bosom hopes
of continued life aud honor. I stood
for a few moments absorbed in thought,
and ts.en recollecting myself, I gave
two pieces of gold to the resurrection
ist, the sum which he had expected.
Telling him to keep his own counsel,
and that all would be well, I sent him
away, and carried the body to my cabi
j net. The whole of the household had
been sent out of the way on purpose,
and I had time to carry into execution
the plan which had struck me. The
i body was fortunately of the same stat
ure as myself, and like me in complex
kin. I knew the man; he had oeen a
poor offender, abandoned by his fami
,y'
“Poor relic of mortality!" said I,
with tears in my eyes, “nothing which
man may do can now injure thee; yet
pardon me if I rudely disfigure thy life
less substance. It is to prevent the
ruin of not one, but twenty families!
And should success attend my attempt,
I swear that thy children shall be my
children; and, when my hour comes,
we shall rest together in the tomb to
which thou sbalt be borne before
me
At this portion of the merchant's
1 narrative the most lively interest was
excited in the court, aud testified even
by tears from many of the audience.
Frenois thus proceeded:
“I then stripped off my clothes, and
dressed the body in them. This ac
complished, I then took up the pistol,
and with a hand more reluctant than
when I applied it to my own person, I
fired it close to the head ofthedeceas
ed, and at once caused such a dis
figurement as rendered it impossible
fur the keenest eye to detect the sub
stitution which had been made.
“Choosing the plainest habit I could
get, I then dressed myself anew,
shaved off the whiskers which I was
accustomed to wear, and took other
means to alter and disguise my appear
ance, in case of being subjected by any
accident to the risk of betrayal. Next
morning saw me on b oard a French
vessel, on my way to a distant land—
the native country of my ancestors.
The expectations which had Jed me to
the execution of this scheme were not
disappointed. 1 knew John Moon was
the man who had robbed me, and who
now mauds at the bar of this court,
and that he had formed connections in
this island, which would in all proba
bility! bring him back to it as soon as
the nteliigence of my death gave him
the promise o! security. In this I have
not been disappointed. I have been
equally fortunate in other respects.
While my unworthy servant remained
here in imaginary safety, I have been
successful in discovering the quarter in
which, not daring at first to betray tbs
appearance of wealth, be bad lodged
the whole of the itoleo money. I here,
brought it with me y and alio sufficient
proofs, supposing his confession of this
day to be set aside altogether, tq con
vict him of the crime with which he
stands charged. By the same means,
continued Ciodomir Frenoia with a de
gree of honorable pride, in which all
who heard him sympathized, “will I be i
enabled to restore my family to their
place in society, and to redeem tbe
credit of a name on which no blot was
left by those who bore it before me,
and which, please God, I shall transmitj
unstained to my children, and my
children’s children.”
John Moon, whose guilt was thus
suddenly and strangely laid bare to the
world, did not retract the confession
which he had made in the extremity of
his terror; and without separating, the
court sentenced him to confinement for
life in the prison of the colony.
The news of Ciodomir Frenois’s re-!
appearance spread rapidly, and the
high esteem in which his character was
held, led to an universal rejoicing on
the occasion. He was accompanied
from the court to his home by a dense
multitude, who welcomed him with pro
long* d shouts. It would be in vain to
attempt any description of tbe feelings
of the wife who thus saw restored to
her tbe beloved for whose sake she had
quitted the world. She was released
from her ecclesiastical vows, and re
joined her husband, no more to part till
the grave really claimed one or the
other of them as its due.
WATERLOO-BEFORE AND AFTER.
We were forcibly struck lately,
(says the Knickerbocker,) in reading
Dutnas’ “Shores of the Rhine,” by his
contrasted picture of “Napoleon going
to and returning from Waterloo.” The
two scenes are worthy the pencil of
Delaroche:
“We saw two coaches approaching,
galloping each with six horses. They
disappeared for an instant in a valley,
then rose again at a quarter of a
league’s distance from us. Then we
set off running towards the tow n crying
il L'£mptreur! L'Empereur We
arrived breathless, and only preceded
the Emperor by some five hundred
paces. 1 thought he would not stop,
whatever might be the crowd awaiting
him, and so made for the post-house,
when 1 sunk down half dead with run
ning; but at any rate I was there. In
a moment appeared, turning the corner
of a street, the foaming horses; then
the postilions all covered with ribbons;
then the carriages themselves; then the
people following the carriages. The
carriages stopped at the post. I saw
Napoleon! He was dressed in a green
coat, with little epaulettes, and wore
the officer’s cross of the legion of hon
or. I only saw his bust framed in the
square of the carriage window. His
head fell upon his chest—that famous
medallic head of the old Roman Emper
ors.—His forehead fell forward; his
features, immoveable, were of the
yellowish color of wax; only his eyes
appeared to be alive. Next him, on
his left, was prince Jerome, a king
without a kingdom, but a faithful broth
er. He was at that lime a fine looking
young man of six-and-twenty or thirty
years of age, his features regular and
well formed, his beard black, his hair
elegantly arranged. He saluted in
place of his brother, whose vague
glance seemed lost in the future—per
haps in the past. Opposite the Emper
or, was Letort, his aid-de-camp, an
ardent soldier, who seemed already to
snuff the air of battle; he was smiling,
too, the poor fellow, as if he had long
days to live. All this lasted for about
a minute. Then the whip cracked, the
horses neighed, and it all disappeared
like a vision.
“Three days afterwards, toward
evening, some people arrived from St.
Quentin, they said that as they came
up they heard a cannon. The morning
of the l?th a courier arrived who scat
tered all along the road the news of the
victory. The eighteenth nothing. The
nineteenth nothing; only vague rumors
were abroad, coming no one knew
whence. It was said that the Emperor
was at Brussels. The twentieth three
men in rags, two wounded, and riding
jaded horses covered with foam, enter
ed the town, and were instantly sur
rounded by the whole population, and
pushed into the courtyard of the town
house. These men hardly spoke
French. They were, 1 believe, West
phalians, belonging some how to the
army.
Toall our questions they shook their
heads sadly, and ended by confessing
that they had quitted the held of battle
of Waterloo at eight o’clock, and that
the battle was lost when they came
away. It was the advance guard of
the fugitives. We would not believe
them. We said these men were Prus
sian spies. Napoleon could not be
beaten! That fine army which wg had
seen pass could not be destroyed. We
wanted to put the poor fellows into pris
on, so quickly had we forgotten ’lB and
’l5, to remember the years which had
{'one before? My mother ran to the
ort, where she passed the whole day,
knowing it was there the news mtlst ar
rive, whatever it were. During this
time I looked out in the maps for Wa
terloo, the name of which even I could
not find, and began to think the place
imaginary, as were the men’s account
of the battle.
“At 4 o’clock, more fugitives arrived
who confirmed the news of the first
comers. These were French, and
could give all the details we asked for.
They repeated what the others bad
said, only adding that Napoleon and
his brother were killed. This we would 1
not believe—invulnerable he certainly
was. Fresh news, more terrible and
disastrous, continued to come in uutil
ten o’clock at night.
“At tea o’clock at night we heard
tha noise of a carriage. It stopped,
and the Postmaster went oat with a
light. We followed him as he ran to
the door to ask for news. Then he
■tepped one step back, and cried, It’s
the Emperor! 1 got on a stone bench,
end looked over my mother’s shoulder!
It waa indeed Napoleon; seated in the
•ame corner, in the same uniform, his
head oa his breast as before.
A Black Bishop. —A black Episcopal
Bishop it soon to be ordained in England,
And sent to Africa.