henry bulwer-the model
republic-english press.
To thk Editor Sir: l have been
giyen to' understand that the sentiments
of the Examiner on the subject ot
\mencan slavery, remain such as they
have been in any former period of its
career; and I am not disposed to im
peach the testimony on which 1 have
been assured of that fact. Yet it may
pe thought by sonr,e that qccasion
taken to appeal to those sentiments v\as
not altogether inappropriately chosen,
after perusal of some portions ot a
speech hy “Sir Henry Bulwer, at Bal
timore,” transferred from an American
paper in the Examiner of May the
fn my anticipation that the bane and
the antidote might he permitted to go
togejher. a»4 thqt i\\e in}pre sion rpade
by that speech might to some extent be
corrected through the same medium. 1
was doomed to he disappointed. But,
as 1 continue to think the mischief ot
►hat effusion by no means slight, I ven
ture to hope th# tl»e facility has
RIGHT IS OF Jffl SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR;
VOL. 111. NO. 29.
“A brighter and more real picture
offered to his eye. The glorious spec
tacle of tyvo great States the
same in origin, in language, and above
all, in character! standing side by side,
hand in hand, in'the van of all man
kind! the first wherein true glory was
to be gained; justice and mercy to be
vindicated! Commerce, civilisation,
and religion to be spread. The past
hallowed their union, the future smiled
on it, and heaven cauld not but bless it,
for it was tho union of one family, and
had for its object the benefit of the
whole world!”
This somewhat remarkable escapade
is Sir Henry HulwerW The italics W
tong to Are. And I make use of that
expedient to draw attention to the deli
cate flattery applied to this country by
assimilating it in character and object
with another wty>se are some
what differently rated by one of her
own greatest soas, in the ever memora
ble words of President Jefferson: “I
tremble for my country when I reflect
that God is just; and that, in the revo
lution of the whpe] c,f fortune, which is
among possible events, the Almighty
has no attribute which can side with us
in such a contest!”
Sir, this compliment to England was
paid by her representative in a land
where the following judicial definition
has been given of a man, who, in being
a slave, is accounted a thing, “Dop me d
to live without knowledge and without
capacity to make anything his own,
and to toil that another may reap the
fruits.” It was *poken in a land where
men are raised for th? rpafket like
oxen for the shambles;” the same Jef
ferson being our authority. Nay, it
was spoken iq a city M’hogp streets at
that moment were witnesses of the
“justice and mercy” belonging to a
State thus, in 1829, described in the
Baltimore Reporter, quoted by Theo
dore Parker, in “A fetter \o the peo
ple of the United States, torching the
matter of Slavery,”now before me;
Dealing in slaves has become a large
business, establishments are made in
several places, in Maryland, at which
they are sold like cattle; ti»asa places
of qeposit are strongly built', and well
supplied witli iron thumb-screws and
gags, and ornamented with cow-skins
and other whips, often bloqdy. ki“
naliy, this Apottieosis of the YVebstera
and the Clays—one of whom would
abolish slavery, the Lord knows when,
and the other never —was pronounced
in a land, associated with England, as
j “in the van of all mankind/’ of which
Thomas Clarkson being witness, the
good
From Correipondenuof tlie London Inquirer.
LATTER-DAY PAMPHLETS. Edited
br Thomas Carlrb. No lll.—Down
inf-street. No. IV.— The New Down
inf-street.
Mr. Carlyle ia a capital fault-finder,
a great master of tbe philosophy of
discontent. He has a keen eyo for
tbd defective in existing arrangements,
and fastens at once on an abuse. He
ean.give us clearly enough the diagno
sis of 4iaease, but has little talent for
prescription. His genius is critical,
rather th4h constructive.- Ho fulfils
but one part of the teacher’s office.
He is unsparing in his “Woe unto
V(MI h..*
compliment, “Do this and live.” In
the few cases in which he haathought
fit to indicate a remedy, we could wish,
for his own sake, that he had preserved
that “divine silence” which he is so
fond of coinmending. The truculent
champion of the “beneficent whip,”
the man who would insult the intelli
gence and the feeling of the
Sga, hy proposing a return to the penal
atrocities of the darkest times, is clearly
not one on w hose counsel we should
rely ip dealing with the difficult social
and political problems of the day.
Mr. Carlyle’s panacea is force. The
world, he thinks, is much injured just
now by a certain pestilential potions
respecting self-government, reform,
popular rights, and so forth. It is also
the victim of a grand delusion called
philanthropy, the object of his nn-|
measured scorn and reprobation. What
men most want is to be well dragooned!
instead of governing themselves, they
should be placed, furfhwith, under a
salptpry despotism. The people must
be “regimented,” and disposed under
captains, who should keep them to
their work. This blessed process,”
Mr. Carlyle imagines, wopld accom
plish our redemption., “and, in the
course of generations, make us all,
once more, a governed commonwealth,
and Civitas Dei, if it pleases God.”
He would solemnly abjure the princi
ple of love as an agency i,n dealing
with ev*l. “Tv guide scoundrels by
‘love;’that is a false woof I take it, a
method that will not hold together;
hardly for the flower of men wih love
alone do, and the sediment and
ycoundrelism of men ii has not even a
chance to do.” This sounds to us,
we confess, very like a solemn repudi
ation of Christianity.
The scoundrel trihe Mr. Cprlyle
would hand over remorselessly to the
hangm&n. Qur P ar t s to get rid ol
them as summarily, and with as strik
■—j—lfcMliM ot “hatred” ns
ROCHESTER, N. Y., THURSDAY, JULY 11, 1850.
which, in the critic’s judgment, are
urgently required? t£| as a nation, we
ai* not to “sink to death eternal.” In
tfthalfof “the dead
pedantries, indolent som
nolent impotences, and accumulated
dung-mountains, ’of
we nave no plea to Roller; we betters
them to be quite as had as Mr. Carlyle
has represented then* and rejoice thpt
he has undertaken toimpose them, die
certainly succeeds hlmaking us very
sensible of the impuriies of our "ad
ministrative stable r ||pt us thank
him for the office,- '%e,evil once re
cognised. we ak*ll ZjmtmS.thm. Miinttimm
writer fur flea fnoye inn nye.
Before following Mr. Carlyle into
the “redtape jungle,” and introducing
the “doleful creatures” that tenant it,
we must not omit to notioe a blot,
which deforms the opening pages oi
the Pamphlet on “Downing-street.”
Our authoris the victim of a strange
monomania. On the subject ot Negro
Emancipation, he is positively mad.
Exter-hall has turned his brain —cer-
tain aspects of philanthropy, as there
presented, having disgusted him; he
vents his spleen relentlessly on his
colored brethren. Even in a book on
the political wants ot England, he must
go out of his way to renew his attack
on the unhappy race, which, though
long ages, has endured utterable wrong
from the cruelty and avarice of civil
ised man; and those sufferings, if
nothing eUe, should secure for it ras
pectful sympathy. To us t lie re is
something unspeakably mournful in this
perversion of genius.
Mr. Carlyle starts with the proposi
tion, that there is something radically
wrong in our “sublime establishments
in Downmg-street,” and that a reform
in these must precede all other reloims
whatsoever. NVhat we want is not a
reformed Parliament, but a reformed
Executive; not a better “talking-ap
paratus,” but a better “acting-appa
ratus We suffer from want of wis
dom in our rulers. We have men
in high places unfit for them work, in
bondage to traditions and formalities;
mere histrios and dexterous talkers,
instead of heroes and Herculean men.
We must have abler rulers or perish.
The great practical question lor us is
this;- “Can we by no industry,
energy, utmost expenditure of human
ingenuity, and passionate invocation
of the henvens and the earth, get to
attain some twelve, or ten, or six men
to manage the affairs of this nation in
Downing-street, and the chief posts
elsewhere, who are abler for the work
I than those we have been used to this
GOD IS THE FATHER OF US All; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN
frages,” will not be likely, as yet, to
secure us the ablest men as govet-oors.
The question, then, recurs, How shall
they be obtained? Mr. Carlyle can
suggest no other method than this, that
we should “pray” for an increase of
“reverence for human intellect”
amongst as! We shall certainly not
object to this. It is excellent in its
way, but gives us, it must be confessed,
no immediate prospect of gaining our
oligarchy of heroes.
The fact is, that Mr. Carlyle, in
speaking for his remedy, has begun at
the wrong end. He ignores the ex
nsnnra "ftsfanar tm
evils. “Thirty thousand
men, a Cannaught fallen into potential
cannibalism, and the Idle Workhouse,
everywhere bursting”—these terrible
realities haunt him. He infers (hasti
ly enough) that the tendencies of the
modern era are in a wrong direction;
thus our political reforms and princi
ple of self-government are a delusion.
He sees no safety but in submission to
a few strong intellects, that shall sub
stitute divine order for the present
chaos, and maintain an obsolute con
trol.
As we have seen, he is unable to
give us any receipt for obtaining and
perpetuating our oligarchy of wisest
and best. In no way could he be sure
of such. His proposed remedy, there
fore, is little better than a mockery,
after all. But could we find to-mor
row the able despots, whom Mr. Car
lyle commends to us, who could reform
us and “regiment” us in the most ap
proved style, we should decline to ac
cept them. Could wc be sure of a
succession of good and wise despots,
which he could not, we should prefer
our present liberty with all its attendant
evils,. The great lesson, which the
nations are learning in this epoch,
amidst many discouragements and
much severe discipline, 19 that of self
government. We have all faith that
they will master it in time; and amidst
their many blunders, and the sad evils
remitting therefrom, the very process
of acquiring it is not without its salu
tary fruits. The stern experience of
failures is teaching wisdom, which, in
due season, we doubt not, will enable
them to command success. Mr. Car
lyle’s philosophy would almost seem
to he the fruit of impatience. He would
seek to cure by the speedy application
of force, those evils which necessarily
attend the evolution of new systems,
and the progress of nations, from the
tutelage of infancy to the self-control
of maturity. He would revert to the
i.- i_
WHOLE NO. 188.
I«KTTEr from grace
GREENWOOD.
This lady is in Washington. The
following tetter, which we copy from
the Philadelphia Saturday Evening
Post, will be read with interest:
Washington, June 16th, 1850.
Gentlemen:*— l reached the Capitol
city on the night of the 12th, after
a really pleasant jeurney from Phil
adelphia; for the kindly attentions
of the gentlemanly conductor, under
whose care 1 was placed, and the most
agreeable conversation of some ae
«i>if»in>*i>«w which I made, did away
witk my lonely feeling, and almost
ftf rfay 11 aed
This is my first visit to Washing
ton, and it was not without emotion
that 1 found myself in the gallery of
the Senate chamber, looking down on
the assembled wisdom of the nation—
to use a novel expression. Webster
and Clay I had 9een before, yet 1
should have singled them out, 1 think,
had I not known them. The unap
proachable grandeur of Webster’s
head—the imperious eye of Clay—the
Wellingtonian front of Benton, who
could mistake
There was that morning, an animat
ed discussion on the Compromise Bill,
oif which )ou will have seen the report.
Clay, Webster, Benton, Seward, and
Foote were among the speakers. Mr.
Clay was suffering from recent indis
position, but he spoke with great ener
gy and with keen Hashings of his
wonderful eye. It cannot be denied,
however, that he oftener parried the
attacks of his opponents with wit, than
met them in argument. At one time, I
when Benton was thundering out a
severe passage directed especially to
him, he bent forward and placed his
hand to his ear, in the attitude of listen
ing, saying,—“Speak a little louder!”
But ere the close of the debate, this
early morning, coolness forsook the dis
tinguished Senator—there were some
keener passes between him and Ben
ton, and both the honorable and vener
able Senators seemed somewhat obli
vious of lhe little proprieties naturally
to be expected of such “potent, grave
and reverend signiors.”
Webster’s manner }n speaking had
a sort of solemn heaviness, which may
have been impressive, but certainly
was not inspiring, I was surprised to
find Senator Foote a slight, genial
looking, elderly gentleman. I had
supposed him to bo a younger and a
I more liery-visagcd individual. He is
j a moat restless statesman—seems af
dieted with a sort of patriotic form of the
f v
in the form of bis head and the out
line of his face, he is strikingly like
Napoleon, but the expression is more
frank anc genial. Personally he is, I
hear, guile popular with all parties
here, and politically he moves on in a
straight and open course, not antagon
istic in spirit, but most uncompromising
in principle.
Mr. Clemens, of Alabama, the
jjroungeit member of the Senate, and
quite well known of late for his unflat
tering estimate of Northern Indies, is
oho by myself—a decided individual.
The length and disposal o! his locks,
and a certain ornate style of dress,
i bordering on the flashy, are remotely
I suggestive of a favorite character well
known to Philadelphia playgoers. On
i the whole, I should say he was a gen-
Uletnen likely to smoke vehemently,
drive rapidly, and wear his hat with
i a one-side inclination.
Mr. Chase, of Ohio, makes a fine
appearance, with his powerful figure
and his noble, earnest face, but I have
not heard him speak. Mr. Corwin, as
you well know, has a head and face of
great “character. I hope I may yet
listen to his peculiar and powerful
oratory.
On the second day, visited the
House, when I could hear but tittle,
yet was deeply and pleasantly interest
ed by the new scenes and impressions.
The House, most of the time, is a
strange scene of confusion, Mr. Cobb,
the Speaker, is kept hard at work,
calling honorable gwrtlemen to order S
and making decisions pounding a»<£x
expounding. His office is evidos£J
T* *ir*, t l '»»r nn
In the gallery, I had the'
seeing Horace Mann—one of my en
thusiasms, and a most delightful person
I found, —Mr. Giddings, a man as
agreeable in manner as he is impres
sive in appearance, and strong in char
acter —and one or two other gentlemen,
whose conversation more than recon
ciled me to losing the speaking on the
floor, which, in my position, I. found it
impossible to hear, Charles Francis
Adams wav in the House. He is strik
ingly like his father, hut shorter, I
think, and with a colder eye. Horace
Greeley was pointed out to me, a man
of mark. I think one may safely ven
ture that.
Mr. Winthrop, of Massachusetts, is
a most elegant gentleman —David Wil
mot is a ponderous man, and—hut l
must visit the House again, and give
you a fuller report. This morning t
was at the W hite House, but I will re
servo the account of my visit for my
next letter. My friend Miss Lynch is
in town, creating a sensation, as usual,
by her elegance ot person and charm
ing vivacity of manner. She is admir
ably calculated for life at the Capitol
Miss Bremer is expected soon. Both
are to stay at the house of a friend of
ours —so, won’t we have times l
1-ke Washington immensely. It is a
pleasent rambling, desultory, well-ven
tilated sort of a town open to some ob
jection on account of its “magnificent
distances” perhaps, but delightful, for
all that. But more of the city, of every
thing, anon. Yours,
Grace Greenwood
An African Serpent Tamer.— The
hippopotamus which arrived by the
‘Ripon’ steamer on Saturday, is now in
the Zoological Garden, Regent’s Park.
;On board the steamer was the collec
tion of birds, beasts and reptiles,which
Iwe referred to in our last number. A
[correspondent ot the Daily News, at
HE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, JULY 11, 1850.
The North Star is sometime* sent to friend:
who do not take the pa| er, in the hope that the'
mav we fit to subscribe for it. Subscriptions an>
donations for the same may lie safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederick Douglass, Rochester
N. Y.
{JcJ*\Vle ted— Several Travelling Agents
to procure subscribers for the North Star.
liberal commission will be given. None need npph
but such as can bring good recommendations foi
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
ERICK Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
Oun English friends vho have not pan
their subscriptions to the North Star, foi th.
year 1850, are requested lo forward them, b'
Post Office Order, to Mrs. Henry Richard
>n, 5, Summerhiil Grove, Newcastle-c.i
Tyne.—r. d
TT/* Will our IWonto friends who hate no
paid their i inscriptions for the preset t yea
of the North Star, have the kindness to for
ward them lo our Agent, Mr. J. James Carey 1
From the Loudon Inquirer, June 15.
British Opinion of car “J-ree and
Enlightened Republic.”
Those who are borne along by a strean
are not always c r.scious of their own mo
tion. Tne change of place seems to them t
be ill th: stationary objects w hich they leav
Too ueiudaut iUluuu:d Stau<ss«.
JVngetous conclusions; but ih?re are fe\
amongst themselves in whose minds tii<
movement excites any serious misgivings.
znay appear rash lossy of a society so pros
perous, that it is drifting towards anarchy
but tins is the impression which many fact
concur to produce in the minds of Euro
peans. and it is, unfortunately, confirmed b
the most recent intelligence. Nothing ca.
be clearer than that habits of obedience
the law lying at the basis of all civilization
Wherever these are wanting, we ate sure n
find barbarism and wretchedness. Civilize
tion is another word for universal peacelu
co-operation, for the periect reliance of mai
upon i.-.an, and of ail upon the stability am
regularity of ihe atrangemenia under wh ci
they live. Whenever individual wilfulnes:
disturbs this order, it tends to sever the in
numerable ties of confidence which knit me
together; and if the law, which is the ex
pression of all the collective will, has not t
clear and decisive efficacy in crushing the re
bellious impulse, the ultimate result must bt
complete social disorganize ion. Habitus
submission lo legal authority is essential ti
all governments, but it should be the vert
viial principle of a Democratic or Republi
can uonsiiluiion. A poweiful executive, will
misses of troops at command, may hold un
der coercion a population inclined to disturb
ance; hut what are the prospects of order
where a people, which is itsell sovereign, and
the only guaidian of law, is prone to sanction
or to to'erate ilegal violence? We canno.
h*dp being painfully struck wiih the growth
of lawless iiabiis in the United States. They
augur ill for the fortunes of the great com
mun.ty which is spreading itself from the
Atlantic to the Pacific.
The Cuba expedition, in spite of its ridicu
lous termination, is a serious fact. If a
piratical band of several thousand man can’
be recruited, armed, and organised, on Ameri
can soil, what are we to think of ihe authori
ties which permit such an occurrence? li
each a thing could take place in any Euro
pean kingdom, it would provoke a universal
self-defensive league against the country to
distingu:sited; and scanty any measure oi
restraint or punishment would be thought
unwarranted. 13m no Europ ari government
would thus suffer itsell u< be rendered a pub
lic nuisarce by ill-disposed subjects. It would
punish, or give up t» punishment, those who
were guilty of such a crime. But it is un
fortunately doubtful whether, in the eyes ofa!
nothing more humbling, nothing more degra
ding, than the spectacle which it presentc,
md yet we daily witness the exhibition of it.
in its most repulsive form, in ths great Re
public of the “stripes and stars,*’ the “free
ind enlightened” State* of the mighty
American Union. Let us. as an instance,
rake the following extract form the New
York Globe:—
•‘Frederick Douglas*, the impudent negro
who has oflate taken upon himself the privi*
ege of abusing our country, its pottiots, and
constitution, without having that chastise
ment he so richly merited at the hands of our
republicans, who would not condescend to no
tice his blasphemy and negroisms, had the
audacity yesterday morning to wslk down
Broadway, the principal promenade in our
:ity, with two white women resting on his
inns. Several citizens who noticed this
Jisgraceful scene followed the impudent
scamp to the Battery. On observing that he
•vas watched, the negro commenced laughing
tnd sneering at the gentlemen who were be
u nd. One of them could not withstand the
pro-oked and justifiable temptation to award
o the i.egto that punishment which his dar
ng rascal ly had subjected him to. The
gentleman aepped up to him, and politely
equested the women to leave their ebony
oiiipaniun ami place themselves undet the
protection of a gentleman who was standing
ear by. The women very quietly did as
hey were desired to d<>, and then the indig
ent and insulted gentleman administered to
he baftk of the negro a “dressing” that he
vill have occasion lo rememhet some time
h mce.—Maddened justice forgets the dc
ates of law in a case of this kind; and, per
on&lly, we can see no reason why it should
Hit.” r
Frederick Douglass— the “larupped nig*
rer” *s*n-uy me law of'the Slate
n which he received this outrageous usage,
md in which a public journal thus comments
•n his conduct. He had committed o of
etice against the municipal code wh ch reb
ates the right* of its inhabitants; but he was
guilty of the fearful, atrocious violation of
he social code—-the code established by the
prejudices and passions of the “ftee and en
ightened” citizens—of dating publicly to as
sert an equality with oiher human beings,
whose skins were not of the dusky hue of
ns. He “had the audacity” to walk through
Broadway—the great public thoroughfare of
New York— “with two white women!”
For this offence lie was “larupped,” by a
New York “white gentleman.” “Madden
'd justice” could not look on tamely, a» the
‘disgraceful exhibition,” and disregirding
aw, its promptings led lo summary castiga
tion.
For the real crime—the corpus delecti—
was that of publicly promenading with the
white women, lielore ihs indignant eyes of
all fashionable New-Yorkers. The laughing
and sneering at the “gentlemen,” who dog
ged his footsteps, is all moonshine. Had
poor Douglass turned round in a fit of
nadJened justice,” and given a sound drub
bing to one or other of his followers, for j
heir black-guardism in pointedly and of
fensively carrying on an espionage over his
conduct, it would have been natural enough,
and what a very “m id mannered” sort of
man might have been well prompted to, by
puch “audacity.” This, however, we must
suppose, would in the “free” stale, and un
der the “equal” laws, which are theme of
such bombastic praises, not only from our
yankee brethren, but from their admirers here
and elsewhere, have subjected the hapless
negro to being not merely “Isropped” but in
all likelihood “Lynched.” The “free and
enlightened,” we shrewdly surmise,—from
reading the extract which we publish—
would in a burst of “wild justice” have lorn
the wretch in pieces.
To understand fully the atrocity of tht
conduct of these New York gentlemen, ihe
atrocity of the social code of which thev
were—to do them justice—only the volunteer
executive, we must recollect that Fredericx
Douglass is not only a “free” man— by the
law hut is moreover an intelligent, educated, i
citizen—one who has read, and travelled, and
thought. He has the mind and heart—the
intellect and the fetling— of a oran* but his i
lipv are somewhat thick, his nose rathei flat- I
MM—>ii i inn
To Frederick Dougins*.
Mr Dear Friend: On perusing your
remarks on my letter to Mr. Ward, I perceive
that your feelings hare been woucded because
of the impression you are under lhai my
strictures were intended to apply entirely to
youtself, and that I compared you to the
Mississippi ruffian. This was not the
case; and no one, I am persuaded, who reads
that letter will place any such construction
upon it.
It would be useless l.ete for me to state
the estimate that I set upon your talents and
ability as a man among us. I have often
announced that with pen and voice, and have
ever felt proud that we had so noble a speci
men of our oppressed and enslaved brethren,
who, with a righteous indignation, cursed the
slaveholder, spurned slavery, and, with the
power of a Hercules, had riven the contempt
ible fetters that bound his manly form, dashing
them to atoms, and walked fopth untrammeled
as nature had designed Ifim, a god-like native
nobleman. I borrow not the term of “native
noble” as applied to you; for I find in the
files of a paper before me, the term used by
myself towards you, more than six years
since. 1 believe I need no endorsement to
prove my abiding if 1 did, I should apply to
no other than yourself. But this 1 think will
be conceded at once; and 1 should rot have
sa d a woid on this point, had 1 not desired
wastes w vwfi'etoMtw.-
to put at rest any miscomprehensions or mis
constructions that might follow the tone ol
your remarks.
The letter, though addressed to Mr. Ward,
contained atrictuies upon your late review o!
his course, yet I will go, and so intimated it
Mr. Ward, an even length in attacking or con
demning the posit on of Mr. Ward on that
occasion, as stated by you; but I cannot ad
mit that, in doing this, ii is necessary to im
pugn his motives, unless he was an avowed
or known enemy, which 1 do not accuse you
of charging designedly to injure Mr. Ward
but such, my dear sir, was the -.enor of your
whole course towards him.
My letter was intended as much a review
of past feelings that existed among you, as
for the present—as much to Mr. Ward as
yourself, (only on presumption, as 1 had no
means of ascertaining his course toward you,)
and indeed not only Mr. Ward and yourself,
but that distinguished eloquent gentleman of
whose manly beating and unexceptionable
ability I have often borne testimony—Mr. H.
H. Garnet, but his name being disconnected
with the late transaction, I did not feel at
libeity to drag it in, although during the
controversy-—the unfortunate, unhealthy con
troversy that existed between you last summer
and fall, I sat down to write a letter similar
to my recent one, but forebore, lest it would
be received with a different feeling and spirit
from that which it was intended, and instead
of good, evil might result therefrom.
In the connection in which I made refei
ence to the uncivilized, vulgar attacks of the
Mississippi ruffian,” far, very far be it from
an intention, on my part, to liken you, or any
other gentlemen for whom I entertain sentt
menis of respect, and this t’edairner was
particularly made at the time—l repeat that
it was not so intended, bu; simply to illustrate
the fact that the position occupied by those to
whom I then addressed myself, could easily
be construed to emulate such persons only.—
You re *ji l .y.P%W»M ‘he excep.
menu of the great body of the |»eople West,
when I say that it h to me painful in ihe ex
treme, and mortifying, to see talent, useful
ness, ability, and acknowledged greatness
amoug our leading men, unconscious though
they may be of their attitude in the eyes of
the public, brought to no higher aim than
driving each other into obscurity This, dear
air, is precisely the position occupied by our
great men, as viewed by the scrutiny of public
observation. Uncharitable though it be con
sidered, yet (let the fsult be whose it may,
with which we have nothing to do,) there is
true cause for such reflections.
Subsequent to the publication of ray letter,
a friend placed in my hand the September
number of the Maryland Colonization Journal;
and although coming from an enemy ever
ready to fault-find and torture, yet its con
ductor, Dr. HaJI, is a competitor with whom
I have had mjmy'an editorial conflict, and
have found him generally candid, generous,
high-minded, and more libera) than might be
expected of a Cdonizaiionisi. The article
which I extract therefrom, precedes the letter
referred to, copied fiom the Njflh Star, and
serves at least to show the bad impression
such personal controversies make upon the
public mind, as the public has an indisputable
tight to inquire i«o and pass judgment upon
the acts and duisgsuf all public men and
his letter but reifcratea the true spirit of the
controversy t
Trow THOrmtTlOTn svmrn» j*rr—
I other. —Considering the intense sympathy
manifested for the slaves by Abolitionists, it
is a matter of astonishment that so little Jraler
J tiling €Xi9t9 between these philanthropists
lor each other. I rom all quarters we hear of
strife and wranglings Not only between the
whites, where it might reasonably be expect
ed, but between the colored" leaders 'hem
selves. Asa specimen of this interchange of
Friendship's offerings,” we copy a letter
from the Rev. H. H. Garnet, a colored man
"f education and trlents, to his brother and
fellow-laborer, Frederick Douglass. It is one
•*f the most able and most courteous of the
class wo have seen. It seems this being
lionized in England causes no little jealousy
and heart-burning among our colored adven
turers.”
hat I have written has been dene in Jove,
as an act of justice, not only to yourself and
our deai and esteemed friends and brothers,
Ward and Garnet, but also our people at
large and the cause in whicli you have em
barked.
Lot me repeat again, that what I have said
in humbleness is exeupt from all attempts of
censure, believing that whatever errors do ex
ist are the result of oversight and not design;
and that a suggestion alone is sufficient to in
duce a sufficient remedy and that greatness
should fully appreciate the design of one,
however humble and obscure, when approach
ing you with every manifestation of kindred
sincerity.
With every hope and desire for your con
tinuance, prosperity and eventual success in
the sacred cause of our elevation,
I am, dear sir,
\oure for God and humanity,
M. R. DEL ANY.
Pittsburgh, July 1, 1850.
Copenhagen, 27ib of 6th n o. 1850.
h redekick Douglass Although our
national legislation the past season has been
as good as could have been expected, it is a
disgrace to a free people. When we look at
the opposing elements of liberty and slavery
that are in the nati*rw+if« I J
n -C.I.AA gUOIIP
Mast Meeting of Colored Citizens■
At a Mam Meeting of the colored citizens
of Pittsburgh and Alleghany cities, June
18th, 1850, convened in the basement of the
W,ley fcireet Church, to take into considers*
tioo a case of kidnapping which has recently
taken place in our midst, by unanimous con
sent, THOMAS NORRIS was called to the
Chair, and John N. TtnettroN chosen ss
Secretary:
The Chairmen, havhg taken his seat,
called on the Rev. A. R. Green to open the
meeting w ith prayer; after which, the Chair
man biiefly stated the object of the meeting.
The following preamble and resolutions
were presented and read to the meeting by
Dr. M R. Delany, Chairman of the Commit
tee; which-, on motion, were received.
Whereas. By an act of Congress of 1793.
i the right of seizure of a person claimed as
a fugitive slave by the person calling himself
master, is made sacred and inviolable; and
whereas, by the power vested, any white
man has a right to claim, se.ze, bind, and
carry away into bondage, any colored person
at any time, and from any place, as his own
slave, without the semblance of s trial or
legal inter feranco from any source, provided
the contrary is not proven by law, the weight
of w hich proof rests on the defendant; and
1 whereas, it is known to be difficult with s
i great majority of cases to prove their free
dom according to the requirements of law,
the difficulty being mttcii greater with those
free hy birth-right, and frequently impossi
ble, thereby the more endangering the liberty
vf ’I 1 5'4fi r fd Persons wherever located in the
r United States, tnererore, oe n
l Resolved, lhai the time has fully arrived,
when it becomes imperatively necessary that
we should enter into some judicious and
effective measures, for the protection of our
wives, children, and ourselves.
Resolved, That we have learned with
astonishment, surprise, and alarm, of ihe
f decoy, seizure, and carrying away into
slavery of a colored man on Thursday, the
6ih inst., from the livery stable of Benjamin
F. Hancock, on Fifth street, Pittsburgh, by
a white man by the name of Ellis, "in the
employment of Hancock, the name of which
colored man we have not yet been ab e to
learn, and from the previous conduct of ihe
aa:d Htncock, while acting as one of the
city constables in a base attempt in assisting
Ezekel Showers, of Martinsburgh, a Virginia
slaveholder, in kidnapping Violet Strickland
of this city, we have every reason lo believe
the said Benjamin F. Hancock, guilty of
partjcipalioo in the late nefarious transaction.
Resolved, That we cannot feel ourselves
safe while such outrages are committed with
impunity—spreading desolation around our
hearts and firesides, ravaging she sacred ties
of relationship; and self protection compels
us to use every lawful means in our powei
in ferreting out the particulars of this case,
and biioging the guilty parties lo justice, if
p byto be had.
Resolved, That we have good reasons to
believe that there are some other persons
covertly concerned ip the abduction of this
unfortunate man, prompted only so to do by
the impulses of their prejudices aud desire to
enslave the colored people; and duty as well
as self-respect requires us to find out such
persons, and furwarn and caution all colored
persons, and friends of humanity, and lovers
of liberty generally, i# avoid patronising,
supporting, or in any way encouraging such
peisons in business, of whatever frow they
may be ngaged—as we are determined to
distinguish between our friends and our
enemies.
Resolved, That we recommend to the
colored people throughout the nonslavehold
tng States, to coincide with us, by the adop
tion of similar resolutions, as the time lias
come, when we must stand by our own
rights, or fal, still deeper into degradation,
the mangled victims of ireachery and despo
titin, aud that we will pe ition Congress
against all proceedings, in any way infringing 1
upon our liberties.
those States wjtere the law provides against
this violence, n is permitted, it done in a
quiet and peaceable manner, thus shielding
the claimant from litigation; and it must be
forcibly apparent, that in a great majority ol
caaes. it is a difficult matter for any person,
according to the requirements of law, to
prove their freedom, the difficulty being
greater in «!l cases with those free by birth
right, and frequently impossible, thereby en
dangering the liberties of each and every
colored person wherever located in the
United States. As for illustration: One or
more persons in the South becoming free by
emmncipaiion or the putchase of their liberty
—according to the laws of those States,
hSVe their titles and privileges immediately
recorded, which may at any time be referred
m, by a recourse to Book, Volume, and
Folio, as security to themselves and off
springs. therefore, in the event of such
persons recently, after becoming free, being
reclaimed according to the Act of Congress,
made and provided, for the arrest of fugitives,
not only may the Recorda be obtained in their
defence, but their former holders, and many
other persons competent to defend, may still
be surviving, with full recollection of all
the concurrent circumstances. So that, in
•he event of a destruction of the Records
which may occur by fire or otherwise, they
have still the living witness in their behalf.
But not so with those born free in the non
slaveholding States, and consequently with
out the necessity of record-pioof of theii
freedom, also, those from the slaveholding
States who have for any length of time bteii
at liberty; because in ihe event of the absence
of tecord-proof and the demise of those hav
ing personal knowledge of the transactions,
any such persons claimed under the Act ot
1793, would be left to the mercy and discre
tion of tbe claimant, and theicfore without
anv recourse or redress wtiatcTcr.
In view of all these circumstances, alarm
ing and teinble in their aspect, thereby sub
jecting our hearths and firesitjps ro dismay
and desolation, our wives, our children, end
ourselves to outrages against which all other
Americans are most sacredly and securely
protected, and at the thought of which,
every feeling of humanity recoils, and claim
ing io be American citizens by birth, educa
tion, association, and in every relation known
to Ameiicar.!*, therefore,
We the colored people of Alleghany
County, in the Slate of Pennsylvania, do
most respectfully and solemnly remonstiate
and Petition, against the provisions of the
Act of Congress, 1793, relative to the re
capture of Fugitive Slaves, and against all
and every Act, Bill, or Provision now in ex
istence or that may hereafier be introduced
into eiihet House of Congress of the United
States, in any way or manner infringing
upon our liberties as American Citizens.
Resolved, That our people throughout the
United States be requested to adopt this or
similar Memorials, to be as unanimously;
signed as soon as possible, by male and female, I
and torwarded immediately to Congress.
A Thought or two about the late Anti-
Slavery Convention,
BY 8. M. HOBBS.
The late Anti-Slavery Convention, held in
Boston, was one of the most distinguished
and efficient ever convened in the country
Whether we look at its measures, its men,
or its discussions, we come to one and the:
same conclusion. It signally marked
by valor, mind, energy, union, putpose,
heart, soul, life. Its meetings from day t«
day were a series of active and efficient effort, 1
directed by plan, principle, Jove, devotion,!
earnettness. When such are the elements of
a body ot men, il need not be wondered that'
its result will mark, histqrize the time.
The sterling ability—the chivalric fortitude
—the mental acumen—;he talent at extem
pore oratory—(tie powers at argumentation—i
the manly eloquence of the heart as well as
of the head and tongue, were indeed admi-;
rable, and we think were never surpassed by
any assembly of any kind or nature in the,
country.
Among those who took an active part in
Theodore P* r L.» iGarti.i
BHHHHfenL iimiana
ondly, the Mm of extraordinary ability, en
ergy and perseverance that are gathered
around it. In these two elements wo find
the sequel, the philosophy of the power tint
has built up, strengthened, and made healrby
this body; and it is these elements, in their
steady and irresistible action, that now wield
a power on the genera! seniimcnt of the
country, that is feared by one section of the
Isnd ss much as it is admired by the other.
We repeat, that these conventions affect it, Q
public opinion to a measureless extent. This
••pinion alters and shifts its position every
year, to get imo the geniality and reason of
the advancing light. Men, see, feel, act; and
every motion wafts them on these same An
ti-Slavery grounds. They can’t help it.
Reason. Reason, common sense, humanity,
duly, religion, our noblest interests and aspi
rations, hope, God, will be obeyed. If men
think,and think with their btains, consciences,
souls, conceptions of right and justice, they
must come to the right conclusions and tight
grounds— lo these grounds.
No one who attended this convention could
but be impressed with the fact that the An
ti Slavery party is having s most rapid, en
ergetic and healthy growth. The crowds
that filled the capacious Metodeon lor four
consecutive days and evenings—the eager,
active, entire, absorbing interest that per
vaded, filled ihe very reepeciable, high-mind
ed and intelligent attendants—ihe conaiaiit
pleasure with which the people sat through
this long series of hours, when there was so
much to attract and distract general attention
—these and other numerous facts, tell a story
of vigorous growth we will not attempt to
amplify. It speaks in tones not to be misun
derstood or evaded, lint the country is not
only simply thinking, day dreaming, but act
ing on this stupendous movement of the age.
Here were men not only from out own sturdy
full-shod, rock-bound New England, but
from the far West, the land of the magnifi
cent liver and lake, ihe horse ot e*ger life,
of pulsating energy, of modern light,thought,’
ihe sea; of the chivalrous and daring young
America; and here, too, were eager hearts
Irom the Northern cliffs and bold mountains
and clear airs of neighboring Canada. Even
voisea from the distant South mingled in the
gladdening harmony.
No human strength can stay this Anti-
Slavery organization. It is founded on jus
tice and humanity, and its object will enevi
tably prevail. Its voice and power echo
clear over the South in thunder tones. Its
forces gather stronget and stronger every
day. Men of faith, and heart, and atronath
are rallying around its sacred standard. The
stiong, steady, cheering light of the day is
nearing its meridian. The crisis approaches.
The cause goes bravely on. Hopes and
hearts beat high. The good lime is rapidly
coming. Slavery groans, the bondman
breaihes. Heaven be praised.
Fiom tiie New York Evangelist.
Would I be a Slave 1
Not wi.iingly, hat would be to consent
I that another should decide whether J may or
I may not read God's holy word—whether I
may worship him in his sanctuary—whether
I may speak to my fellow-sinners of the Sav
ior’s goodness and love, it wou'd be to sur
render, what 1 have no tight to surrender to
man—the rights above mentioned—the right
to call my wife, my children, my qv n limbs,
eyes, ears, and longue my ow n It would be
lo consent tfiat another should have the power
to take my w ife and children and sell them
when, and to whom, and fur whatever vile
and criminal purpose he should choose. It
would be to consent that I would be made a
chattel—a mere thing of merchandise or traf
fic. It would be to surrender myeelf, my
wife, my children, to the will of a despot,
and to put body and soul at hismerev. When
I give such consent, I deny my obligation is
God. and my accountability.
Would I submit quietly to forced servitude*
I think I would, rather Ilian take the life of
tny oppressor, or offer him any violence. I
am taught to resist not evd—to return good
Ibr evil. J (eel quite sure that I would sooner
consent to be enslaved, than to enslave
another. Here again I am taught from an
unerring sourse oj if
The Csba Sedition in lmn
of the “Invasion” in London _
on the .abject in the House of l ord..
Lord Brougham, fter t«"
Council ,«wrd.,.M«» r j
“'jWi'kmi" ‘t™*
ask, observed, prepared in the port*
,"u s
m .him for the purpose of taking pewes
LT ot "e greater of the West I«*g
Islands—the ancient colony of Cuba. Hi
had bo conception that that expedition had
sailed with the consent of the American Gov
ernment; on the contrary, he believed that
if had sailed contrary to the declared wishes
and order, of that Government. He under
stood that that expedtion had not only
sailed, but had escaped the Spanish cruiiere
at sea, and had actually landed in lhat island
Hi. hope was, that those pirate.—for the
individual, composing that expedition and
going to plunder and make war on an un
offending peopie were nothing elae bu.
pirates—would meet with condign punish
ment. He wished to know whether any
communication of the sailing of that piratical
expedition had b-*en made by the American
Minister iu this countiy to Her Majesty r.
Government? He considered the Government
of the United States, though of a republican
class to be a respectable Government; and
he hoped that it had power and strength
enough to prevent it* subjects irom engaging
in a piratical expedition upon a large scab
against a peaceful anJ unoffending people.
The Marquis of Lansdowne replied, that it
he had the good fortune to meet his noblt
and learned friend yesterday, he did not know
that ho could have giver him any further in
formation than that which he was ready t
give him at prsssnt. This piratical expedi
tion—for a piratical expedition it certainly
was, a"d th it, too, of the very worst descrip
Slon had been undertaken, not only without
the cognizance, but aiso with the entire dis
arm and reprobation of the Govern
tr.ent of the United States. If Her Majesty V
Government b aH 111,1 ,ull y believe, 'tom tin
communicat!;:::* il bad from Ameri
ca, that such was the case, it would havp
made known its sentiments on the subject ti
the Government of the Uniied States. Wi
had received information from the Govern
ment at Washington that it was its intention
to prevent and to cheek this most unjust ex
pedition. Informiiion, however, had been
received that morning from New Orleans,
staling that part of that expedition had ac
fjally succeeded in landing at Cardenas.
Lord Brougham would have been much
better satisfied if the American Government
had gone something further lhan the mere
disclaiming and repudiating that expedition.
That expedit on was formed for the express
purpose of practicing piracy, and piracy of
the worst description. Private plunde. was
s great wrong to indivirtuals, but, in this case,
an expedition was collected of Fome 0,000
or 8 000 men, with the intention of carrying
fire and sword, with a view to subsequent
plunder, into an unoffending countiy, not only
fn amity with ua, but with the United
States.
The Marquis of Lansdowne ought to
have stated lhat the Government of the
United States had not only disclaimed and
repudiated this expedition, but had actually
given orders to the commanders of its
avustjipns and its cruisers tp stop and pre
vent it, in case it sailed from the ports of the
United Siatea, or in case it were met upon
th open seas.
Lord Brougham considered lhat statement
to be a satisfactory addition to lhat which had
ce’n previously made by the noble marquis.
Ha could r»o' s however, understand how p.GOO
or 8.000 men could be armed and sent off
from the United States without the know
ledge of the Government theie.
The Eirl of Aberdeen had no doubts «s to
the iiiicer'ty of the proceeding, of the Gov
ernment of the Untied States on this subject.
It ha I lo ig been supposed that Cuba was an
obj ct ol desire to vaiioua Power.. We had
ourselves been suspected of looking with an
eye of desire upon that island; and he recol
lected weli that when, twenty years ago, we
were suspected of unlawful designs against
Cuba, he had proposed that the Uniied State
and France should concur with us in guar
anteeing that island to the Crown of Spain.
The Untied State., however, refus’d to ac
cede to that proposal. He hoped that the
force in that island was sufficient to give a
good account of the buccaneer* who b»d un
dertaken this expedition.
Lord Brougham, as a lawyer not unac
qiainted with the international law, challenge
el denial to this proposition, —that all civi-
I zed nation, were bound to give help against
p rates, and that] tha commander of any
British cruiser would be negligent of his duly
if ha did not aid the Spuiitfd* against the®*
p rutes. A pirate was considered as hostis
humaru generis. His hand was against every
tpan, and every man*, hand against hiqi.
Lord Sttnley observed that the noble mar
quis had given a very satisfactory explanation
with regard to the courae which the Govern
ment of the United States had pursued and
wis pr’pared io pursue; but he had not Mid
8 word respecting the course which we pad
pursue I ard were going to pursue. Hej
warned to know whether any instruction*, j
and, if any, what instruction, had been cent i
to thg commandei. of out squadrons in the
Indies in reference to this expedition?
Toe Marquis of Lunation ne was not aware
what inr ruction, had been sent. More than
die cornttUc'Cation had passed between the
English and American Governments on this
si bject. What means the American
einment had to put down this expedition ht
could not say witho it notice.
Lore Stanley could almost fancy that the
poble marquis had uot heard hi. question.
H* then repeated it, and concluded by any
in/. “Have any instructions been sent at all?”
The Marquis of Lansdowne—l am not
prepared, without notice, *o state what in-,
.•ructions were sent, and I shall pot answer
that question.
L 7d Stanley—The invasion of Cuba by a
b iccancering expedition was not a matter ol
i idtfference to the people of this country; and
th?y were ia u aly anxious to know wh»t
i •»!ruction, had been given to our cruaiers in
t e West Indian seas.
Lite Marquis of Tne instruc
tions could only be eventual instructions, and]
such instructions it was not usual to makej
known.
Lord Stanley—Had any instruction, been j
Mnt at nil?
Eurl Grey—ln the present stato of affairs. 1
it would ba a bleach of duty on the part of
any minister to answer such a question at all
He was surprised that, with his official ex
perience, the noble baton should have asked
it.
Lord Stanley—l am not io be taught my
I duty by the noble earl opposite. [Hear hear.]
It is the right at.d duty of every peer in thit
h< use to ask any question whereby he can
I ascertain whether Her Majesty’. Government
I has performed it«* doty on a matter which
I concerns deeply the honor and interest ol
I tb s country. We have a right to ask whe-
B ther instructions have been sent to our corn
mandets in »he Weal Indies, especially as it
appears that ibis mailer has been thought
H wouhy ol being made the subject of inter-
M cmnmunnications bet ween our Government
in and that of the United States. 1 have put a
to Her Majesty’s Mtnislsrs, and i
mm w.bil to'knovv whether they will give me any
H answer at all?
|B I. H smnont was rising lo speak, when
|nLo;d Stanle waved his and, saying at the
UHW "No, no!”
The Marquis of Lansdowne made some re
i„ the orders ot the House, which
d not catch. He did not deny the right
Buc noble lord to put ihe question, but he
the ether hand, exercise his discre
to answesit.g it or not. The noblt
Bm nut consider himself as the sol*
Bf the will ot ihe House, or the d**
iu dignity.
Lord Beaumont made some remarks on the
conduct or Lord Stanley, and imputed (if w«
heard him correctly) some want of courtesr
to hia lordship m having interrupted him
when he was about to addreaa their lord
•hips The answer that the question was
under the consideration of the Government,
ought to have satisfied the noble lord; snd
any other answer, under existing circum
stances, would have been indiscreet.
Lord Bjoughani condoled with hia nobit
friend (Lord Stanley) who ought to be suf
fering acutely under the rebuke which he had
juat received, but who appeared to estimating
it, as he should have done, at its proper value,
if he might judge from the smiles which weir
playing on Lie countenance. He was not
aware that there was anything like a duty in
cumbent, either on the House collectively ot
on noble peers individually, to stop an inquir)
merely because the minister gave an answet
with which another peer thought that tbr
House should be satisfied. The answer which
had been given them that evening by ’host
who were supposed to be in the seciet jus
amounted to this, that there was no secret
to tell. What ministers had to d them this
opening was nothing more than this: “Wt
have no certain knowledge on the question.’'
ft was, however, a very serious question
The law was clear that these men we,-t
pirates. There should be no delicacy about
treating them as pirates, though they wen
six thousand or eight thousand in number.
They should be treated as Rajah Brooke had
treated the pirates whom he met in the Indian
seas. Some of his friends thought that thus*
parties had been treated 100 harshly; but h
did not go along with them. The men wen
pirates, and proved to be soj and, in hit
opinion, Rajah Brooke had treated them at
thev deserved to be treated.
The Earl of Aberdeen —There was ont
nonsideralion whiqh made the question put b>
his noble friend to the noble President of the
Council quite correct and necessary. During
<he period in which this expedition was as
sembling and arming itself, we were not
maintaining very friendly relations with the
Government of Spain. His noble friend had,
iherelbre, a r ght to ask whethei a tegard to
Brtijsb interest bad led us tu take sten*
uo-opetate with the Governments of the
United Slates and of Spam to put down
those pirates 7 If our al.enatiton of feeling
front Spam had made us lukewarm with re
spect to interfering with that expedition,
ureal culpability would rest on the heads ot
Her Majesty’s Government.
Earl Grey—Thue who had heard the
speech of his noble friend and colleague, must
be aware that he had condemned this expedi
tion in terms quite as strong as those em
ployed by the noble and learned lord opposite.
He had described a as a piratical expedition
of the veiy worst character. It was one
thing to call on the Government to make a
statemeut of that description, and anolhet
to call upon it to explain the nature of the
instructions which were sent to the com
mander-in chief of our naval forces in the
West Indies. To answer such a question
would be not only inconvenient, but detri
mental to the public service. It was not until
further inform itton was receiveJ from that
quar.br of the globe that Her Majesty’s
ministers would be justified in answering
that question- No one doubted our right to
check a piratical expedition; but it was very
difficult to determine to what extent we were
prepared and entitled to go.
Here ihe conversation terminated.
Mothers and Children.
St. Lous, June 12,1850.
Editors of the Freeman: I am in receipt
of a letter from our friend Jj**** who sug
gests mu an occasional item from a slave
State would not be unacceptable to the rea
ders of your paper. While looking over a
morning paper of this city 1 notice the fol
lowing advertisement which seems to alford
matter of comment, and which shall form the
burthen of my first communication.
Is there a husband's or a father’s heart in
Michigan that does not swell with indigna
tion that women and children are sold under
the hammer to the highest biddet—not in
heathen India, or in the distort islands of the
sea—but here at home, in our beloved coun
try our boasted land of liberty—in the mid
dle of the nineteenth century! And is it
possible that freemen can wink at this Can
it be thae wives auc mothers can tepnae upon
their pillow: without a tear for the bbftd wo
man, without a prayer for the oppressedl
Would that we could ail feel the responsibili
ty that rests upon us in this business! Here
is the advertisement in full;
“Sale or Valuable Neoroes at Auction.
On the sth day of July, 1850, l wjjl,
virtue of an order of the Sl‘. ni|g fiuh
Court, sell at publig |UCUoo U)e highe
at me eastern dour of the St. Louis
court hooae, a valuable negro woman, named
Tiolet, aged 0S years, an exce'ient cook,
washer and inmer, and her threg Chi^'* n
Charles aged 6 years, agc d 3
and William aged 1 year. 3
Terms of the sale—One third of the pur
chase money in cash, and the remainder in
semi annual instalments, secured
by noifi w'*!*. approved security, bearing in
terest from the day of sn,le.
GEO. HALL,
Gi a d. of Julia N. Moore."
This is no uncommon occurrence. Al
though we have no regular auction market
here for slaves, we have sales in this way
frequently, arising from closing up of estates,
attachment, or other ptocess of law. 1 have
never had time to visit these sales, but have
all the details described to me by those who
have. —The separating of families, sundering
the tenderest heart-strings, the tenderer
sensibilities crushed by unfeeling treatment!
Your readers can appreciate the proceedings
at such sales. Hear the seller extoll the
condition, qualities, and virtues of the object
—young, competent, indusirious, Christian,
—w hile the buyer examines the limbs the
teeth, and the devil in the eye.
In future I may say something upon the
moral bearings of slavery, as observed in this
State, where the monster assumes its mildest
form, and although its remedy lies in the
politics of the country, i will avoid this part
of the question. Missouri.
_ r
1 wftr*. m rrrrnan.
The Spirit of American Slavery Undis
guised-
In debate before the Ho'tse of Represents
tivet on the California Bill, Mr. Morse ot
Louisiana is reported to have said,
“The Union was not worth a straw so
long as a difference exists between the slaves
of the South and the horses and cauiages ol
the Noith as property.”
Here we have it—slave-men and horses cn
ihc same footing—slave-born children and
colts, alike the creatures of legal protection
or oppression; alike possessed, and alike
divested of rights—alike entitled to edura
lion, to the rights of concience, and to tht
saci'd prerogatives of the marriage institu
tion! Your horses and our alavca—alike
property and nothing but property, or tht
Union is not woith a straw?
What a Union on our part—on the pan
of all men of conscience and men of heart in
the free North, if we are destined to enjoy it
coupled forever with an appendage ao revolt
ing—with a brotherhood which dooms ua In
rustain such a slave system! American
Slavery undisguised annihilates manhood
yokes men and horses together— legislate*
away all human rights, leaving none hut
cattle rights enjoyable; and then modest))
turns to the Christian men of the Norjh t«
tell them that political Union with them b
not worth a straw unless they can swallow
this tancid abomination without a qualm!
It is to be hoped that the Christian freemen
..f the North will *how the world that the)
have too much conscience and too much heart
aieo for this! and that in their view property
i« not the only interest in the untvsiae.—
Qkrttn
“The Southern Press.”
This i* the name of the new Southern or
gvn in this place. It appeared ins 4 Monday
and is published as a Daily, Tri-Weekly
and Weekly. It is belter tempered than th<
Union, less conservative than the Intelli
gencer, rather more extreme than either in iu
doctrines respecting Southern tights and in
terest a.
1 he Intelligencer, noticing its appearance,
avails itself of the occasion to magnity iu own
devotion to sectional interests.—lf, it says,
“'hey,” (the editors.) '‘shall devote them
selves to the true interests of the Union, and,
obovt all to thou of ike South, with more
steadiness than this press has been able to do
during the existence ot fifty years, nobody
will be more willing than the editors ot this
paper to congratulate them.”
"Above all, to thou o f the South!" So we
are to understand that the Intelligencer
ranks the interests of the South above those
of the Union! Good Heaven—is there any
other place than "the South in some peo
ple’s geography! But, why feel surprised a:
the language of the Press, when we see both
Houses of Congress acting on precisely this
same geographical dogma!
We wish the Southern Press all the pat
ronage it shall deserve. It is edited by Ell
wood Fisher and E. De Leon, published by
G- A. Sage and Her. H. Health. So far as
we understand, the editors beliete that Sla
very is the normal condition of hutnaniiy,
and Freedom the exception; and they are
just the men to prove this if anybody can.
One thing, we are sure, will gratify them,
as an indication of the sound feeling of this
community on the subject of slavery. The
National Era a paper somewhat respectaLle
for contents and appearance, pselty well do
mesticated in Washington, tolerably known,
with a few contributors of ascenained men,
has not been favored uiith ill# •Siglitc** token
of recognition by the old presses here, fiom
the time of birth.—Thu reason is, that it be
lives in the Divine right of Human nature to
Freedom: it is suspected of entertaining cer
lain dogmas concerning Human Rights pro
claimed in the Declaration of Indeiwndence.
1 :.ow ana men broached in the North.
On the other hand, the Soulhirn Press
unfortunate as it is in its outward being, no
sooner appears, than the old presses here,
take off their hats and greet it as a most re
spectable peisonage. Anti the reason—
highly flattering to iheir taste and good sense
—is, that the grand idea ot the new organ is
to be the Divine right of Slavery .—National
Era
Hew Mexico a Free State*
We Tejoice to learn that New Mexico is
taking the necessary steps to settle the sla
very question for he self in the right way.
By articles in other pans of this paper it will
j be seer that she has had q Convention for
framing a Slate Constitution —that they have
succeeded in adopting a Constitution PRO
HIBITING SLAVERY; and that they were
soon to have an election to choose Members
of the Legislature and a Representative in
Congress. This movement is one we hardly
expected; but as it has resulted in the rejec
tion of slavery by the people of the Territory,
we heartily rejoice in it. It has already
raised the wrath of the south; and all manner
of threats are thrown out —one of which is
that Texas is about to wage an exterminat
ing war upon tfte people of New Mexico.
But if we can get the right kind of action,
let them foam; we care nothing about it. We
do not know whether New Mexico ha 6 a suf
ficient number of inhahiiants, and is in all
other waya qualified for admission as a State.
The number of inhabitants we suppose de-;
penda very much upon the boundary letweio
her and Texas. At any rate if she Comes
with a Free Constitution and asks for admis
sion, and it can be done without a violation
cf tha ponsiituiton of ihe United States, we
say admit her immediately. It is outrageous
i that the noith should submit to be dallied
with so long in relation to California. That
i Slate ought to have been admitted long ago,
and It might have been if northern Congress
men, w ithout feat or favor, had gone straight
i i aiong with the voting her in. And had they
i, done so they would now have been clear of
•I the matter, and ready to welcome anoiher
•I free State. At any rate,-we are glad New
I Mexico has moved; for every month’s delay
would have tended to render the caso more
J dangerous for freedom; and even if the south
should succeed in keeping her out of the
Union as a State, this action will go far to
i ward keeping slavery out of her borders
»j Light is breaking, away in the south-west,
though it is dark ns Egypt in Washington
j yet.— Wyoming Mirror.
The Slavery Question in Maine,
On Wednesday of last week, I*“* ouse
of Representative! o* -ine took U p t e
resolutions *?,‘ncerning slavery. In spite ot
l recommendation of the Governor in his
Message, and the efforts of the Hunkers,
they were passed by the yeas snd nays. The
first resolution was unanimously adopted
thus:
Resolved, As the sense of the people of
this Stale, that California ought to be prompt
ly and unconditionally admitted into this
Union, in accordance with her application to
Congress for tha* purpose.
The second resolution was as follows:
Resolved, That territorial governments
ought to bu formed for New Moxico and
Utah, prohibiting slavery therein and that no
t irritorial government should be formed wit I
out an express prohibition to that effect.
Adopted—yeas 109, nays 31.
The third resolution was against connect
ing the California admission with any other
question. It was eariied by 106 to 26. This
is a blew at ihe compromise. The fourth
resolution, instructing the senators and re
quesiing the representatives to vote for these
principles, and not vote in any event for any
territorial bill which does not prohibit slave
ry, was earned by 04 to 35. Well done,
Maine!— Eman. Repub.
Missouri.—The Bentonites of the Third
Dis'ricl have found a candidate foi Congress
in p'ace of their fir-t nominee, A- McKinney,
woo declined. John Miller has consented to
be s*t op to be knocked down. The Whig
candidate is John G. Miller. We suspect
the present anti-Benton incumbent. Jatnds S.
Green, will give John G. a hard sweat, and
run t’other John out of sight.
In the Fifth District, Samuel H. Woodson,
whom we announced ss the probable Whig
candidate, has been fotmally presented bv s
lirge Whig Convention at Osceola. The
Convention
Resolved, That as patriots, devoted to the
whole country, we have looked with deep
regret upon the agitation of every question
that has a tendency to excite sectional preju
dices, or to alienate one portion of our confed
eration from another; and inasmuch as our
Federal Constitution was the result of mutual
concession and compromise, we consider that
it is only to be preserved by the same spirit
which produced it, and we therefore cordially
approve of the plan of Compromise of the
Senate Committee of Thirteen.
Resolved, That we endorse and approve
the wise and patriotic administration of the
i present Chief Magistrate of the United
1 States. n
Resolved, That we disapprove the Southern
Convention now in sesstou in the city oi
Nashville.
Resolved, That we pledge ourselves to our
i country and to each other, to uae every hon
t oraSle and patriotic means in our power to
secure the election of Samuel H. Woodson
to the next Congress of the United States,
r And las', not the least, they
i Resolved, unanimously, by the Whigs in
Council assembled, That avery member of
i- i his Council hereby pledge himself to exerciae
1 all his influence in enlarging the circulation
i of the several Whig papers published in ibis
D Ttele Whigs ought to win.—iVtns Y#k
From the Buffalo Express.
Table Rock Fallea!
It was announced by Telegraph on Satur
day afternoon, that table Rock, at Niagara
Falls, had fallen mio the abyss below. We
have received the following particulars from
oneof the proprietors of this paper who was at
the Falls:
Clifton House, Niagara Falls,
June 29th—9 P. M.
About half past one o'clock this afternoon,
the large mass of rock known as Table Rock,
gave way and went tumbling into the river
below.—The man carried away was about
stx rods in width and twelve in length, and
fortunately no one was injured. Not ten min
utes before the oCcu> rence, party of some
twenty or thirty were standing on the rock,
but happily had just left. A gentleman was
sitting in a carriage on the lock when it com
menced giving way; he leaped from the car
nage and was saved; the carnage went
down with the whole mass of the rock.
A gentleman and lady accompanied by the
guide were passing under the rock at the lime
it commenced falling, but fortunately got out
from under, beioie the large mass fell. Large
numbers have visited the spot this afternoon
to witness the place where the table rock
once was. A story was put afloat and sent
off by telegraph that a number of persons
were buried under the falling rocks, but there
is no truth in the report.
Confidence.— A shrewd writer, who ap
pears to think that “confidence” is necessary
in other things besides in eating sausages,
offers the following excellent advice to our
American literati:—
“Whoever would attain to excellence in
any tiling must repose a generous confidence
in himself. H« n»u»t fe*»i it»»« t»«
what he undertakes. He must proceed
calmly and with a conscious strength to his
task, if he doubts himself—if he feels that
he must make an effort, that he must strain,
he will do nothing but betray his weakness.
We Americans, in literary matters, no
self-confidence. There i« no repose in our
literature. There is even a stiatqmg after
effect—:a labor to be eloquent, staking, or
profound. Th a proceeds, in a great measure,
from the fact that we have found our model
of excellence; not im our minds and heatts,
nor in human nature generally, but in the lit
erature of that land frum which our for
fathers came.’*
Progress at the South. —A corespon
dent of the A. S. Standard writes from Bal
l more as follows:
F.o.nwhat I have observed, since I have
been here, I am convinced that the Anti Sla
very sp rit is fast advancing through all the
South. The immense agitation now going
01 in a'l this Southern country, the terrible
battle of worJs which rushes with thunder
sweep over the enti r e land and all the mighty
ftiryi which to-day lashes Southern Socie y
into a level, afe symptoms of that last great
spasmodic struggle, which an institution,
doomed to perish, engages in, and in which
it usua'ly finds its death and its grave. As
far as Baltimore is concerned, Ido not be
lieve there is any real love of Slavery or any
wish to see it perpetuated. The institution
exists here by its inertness, it has not life
enough to die It must be kicked out of ex
istence. Anti-Slavery people are not only
ro be firm, temperate, and active, and vicloiy
wiUctowu their offoits
Santa Fe, May 25.
Important from Santa Ft —Formation
of a State Government. —A convention of
delegates had been called and held; which
formed and promulgated a constitution for the
government of the State of New Mexico.
The convention assembled at Santa Fe on the
15th of May, and the session lasted eight or
nine days, in which time the constitution was
formed, which go into operation
about July. The boundaries of the Slate are
defined, and slavery prohibited. The con
stitution was adopted on the 25ih of May;
in fifteen days afterwards an election was to
take place for meinbeis of the legislature.
Two Senators and Representatives in Con
gress would soon be elected, aodetfbna would
be made for them to tqke their soaia. Mr.
St. Vraim, JudgeOtoso, and Henry Connelly,
arc among the most prominent candidates for
Governor, and Captain R. W. Reynolds and
Major tt. H. Whitman for Senate. It is
soppostd tha Hugh N. Smith, the present
Delegate in Congress, w juld br elected to the
House of Rooret;entativ?3.— Daily Globe.
Trials fur Aidwq TUI
rivE Smvei ••—'The M A .K* o, v^F?
grauli. o» —nn.gion (Iowa) Tele
~,e llih mat., contains the result
a trial just had in an action brought in the
U tied Slates District Coutt tor the Southern
D.rtticl of lowa, by Rueil Daggs, of Clark
1 ounty, Missouri, plaintiff, against E'lhu
Frazier and four other defendants, fur harbor
ing, concealing, and preventing the arrest of
ulaintifFs S aves, who had absconded into
lowa. The Slaves were two men, one wo
man, and two arnail children. The jury found
a verdict <<*r the plaintiff for $2,900.
lad the Indian i tie Sentinel of the Isth
inti., received by the same mail, we observe
the account of a similar trial had before
Judge McLean in the Circuit Court of tho
United Stales. The action was brought
by John Norris of Kentucky, against eight
residents of Michigan, lit this case the
number of Slaves was four, and the damages
given by the jury 53,846 —Republic.
Votes Polled by New States.—On her
admission as a State, Louisiana polled 4,748
Votes, Indiana 6,789, Mississippi 7,475, Illi
nois 8,075, Arkansas 3,638, Michigan 11.360,
Florida 5 301, and lowa 13 271. California
polled, last year, 14,213 American votes.
These statistics are taken from an article in
the last Southern Recorder j to show that Cali
fornia is better entitled to come in, as a State,
than e ther of the others mentioned. Bee>de,
Texas, when admitted, had an area of 625,-
000 square miles of territory. Cahlornia
covers, bydier Constitution, 158,000 square
miles—less than one-hall of Texas—and half
of that a sandy desert or njnarable and rocky
mountains. How unreasonable, then, for the
South to object to California because she
chooses not to have Slavery!— Georgia Citi
zcn.
Slavery in the Territories.—Hon. S.
R. Thuiston, Delegate from Oregon in Con
gress, has written a very able lette. to Horace
Mann, in which he show* clearly and conclu
sively that slavery would go into all the new
leiriiortea, even to Oregon, unless excluded
by Congress or by local legislation. He says
that slave labor would be twice as valuable in
Oregon as in the Southern States, and still
more so in California and New Mexico lor
mining. In California, during the last year,
slaves would have rented lor $BOO or SI,OGO
a year. This letter puts a pretty etke ual
extinguisher on Daniel Webster's .aw of na
ture,'which was to excludd slavery from the
Territories. Mass. Spy.
Damascus Blades. —The East has long
been famous fur the manufacture of sabres, the
steel of which is said to sutpaas all other
kinds. Damascus in Syria, and Isphahau in
Peisia, ate cities celebrated for their sword
manufacture. The Dam**® oB blades have,
however, been more highly extolled ihan
those manufactured in any other part of the
world and havo been sold at exceedingly high
prices The true Damascus sabres are said
to possess gteat keenness of edge, wonderful
flexibility, a peculiar flecked grain, and a re
markably musky odor when the blade is bent
or rubbed.— Art. Journal.
ft-? 1 The friends of temperance in Western
New York feel “gteat ly disappointed and
chagrined” that John B. Gough failed to
fulfil appointments in that vicinity, though he
|j*sed through Rochester to Cleveland and
_ The Peach Crop —Throughout Western
New York, there is a most promising ap
pearance of an abundant cr:»p of Peaches
Hie tre-a are loadtd with blosoms. In a
laige poii on of the Northern States, appear
ances are equally favorable. Northern Ohio
will doubtless afford an abundant supply, but
m the central portions of that State the crop
ia thin, although in many localities a fair
product will be obtained. It sometimes oc
curs that the crop is distmyed or injured
i*te in spring, or after the present period, but
such occurrences sre unusual. We ;nust not,
however, be too confideut in advancs, as it it
better that our hopes should be exceeded 'han
disappointed.— Cultivator.
Agricultural Prospects in Ireland.—
The provincial accounts aie of the most en
couraging kind, with .the sole exception of
wheat, which does not bear an appearance
«hich would indicate a productive y tld. The
Londondeiry report states that the early pota
toes are more usual— hit the:*
has been no failure in the seed, and that
‘here is no symptom of disease. The Cork
Examiner estimates the potato crop in the
-utilities of Cork. Limerick, and Kerry, as
equal in extent to any planted during the last
ten years. —London Inquirer.
English all over— Stability Mr.
E nerson, in one of his lectures, tel a a story
to exemplify the stability of things in Eng
land. He says that William of Wykeham,
about the year 1150, endowed a house in the
neighborhood of Winchester to provide a
a easure of beer and a sufficiency ol bread to
everyone who asks it, former; ird when
Mr. Emerson was in England, he was curi
ous to test this good man's credit, and he
km cked at the door, preferred his reques
and received fits measure of beet and quan
tum of bread, iho’ its donor had been deau
700 years.'*
The Morning Qup or the Mexican.
The first tiling a Mexican does alter getting
up ia to swallow every small tup ol chuco
late made very thick and sweet. This it
calltd dtsayunar, and corresponds to tin
French dejeuner. Your Mexican lives on
this till half past ten or eleven, when lit
takes bieakfast, (almuerxu,) although thi*
breakfast bears far more resemblance to a
dinner than to the meal whose name it bears.
The R fie Rangers.
ICP Punch thus tells how it is dune “To
re&usciiate a drowned Yankee search ins
pockets.
To resuscitate a drowned Englishman—
broil a piece of beefsteak under his nose.
A Frenchman may be brought to life at any
time by the skillful imitation of a bullfrog tu
t ir ear.
A Spaniard, by applying garlic to hts ol
factories.”
ITT The great defect of (he new House ol
Commons (says Punch) seems to be an ex
treme s owt.ess in transmitting stun 1.” V e
snail nut uitiid the defect so much, if th<
slowness is only compensated for by an addi
tional quickness in transmuting sense.
KJ 3 Grace Greenwood is about to publish a
volume of poems to Ire entitled Greenwotro
Flowers,” a companion of her prose work.
“Greenwood Leaves.” Of course, Ttcknor,
Reed A Fields will do her honor in the style
of the work.— New-Eng.
p~P A paper, to be called the Boston
Punch, w 11 be soon published in this city, it
is said, by an association of wits and artists
it will be conducted upon the plan of the
London Punch, with engraved illualiations,
&c. —New Englander.
ITT Good maanerB is the art of making
those people happy with whom we converse.
Whoevet makes the fewest persons uneasy is
the best bred in the company.
IT? It is more from carelessness gbout truth
than from intentional lying, that there is So
much, falsehood in the world.
|D*An association of gentlemen from Wa
ferbuty, Connecticut, are about to erect ex
tensive copper wot ka at Detroit.
The Fugitive NEGRO BLACK
SMITH.
We have had the satisfaction o
forming the acquaintance of a veritable
negro doctor of divinity—a man o
agreeable manners, and pastor of i
colored congregation. The history o
this person—the Rev. James W. C
Pennington—which has been publishee
in the form of a small volume, is so cu
rious, that we propose drawing atten
tion to its comments.
Dr. Pennington was born a slave
in the State of Maryland, and for the
first twenty-one years of his life he
was brought up chiefly on the estate o
his master, who also owned his mothei
and several brothers and sisters
While still young, he was taught the
craft of a blacksmith, in which occu
pation he made himself so useful t<
his proprietor, that his value, whci
grown up, was a least at thousand dol
lars. Brought up in total ignorance
of letters or of religion, and performin(
the dull round of mechanical drudgery
James was left entirely to the rudi
promptings of Nature. There was ii
him nevertheless, as in God’s crea
tures a spirit, which revolted agains
coarse oppression, and made him aigl
Tor lihAotjr— iii« unchallenged posses
sionofhis own person. The specta
cle of his father “cow-hided” for n>
offence produced a commotion of feel
mg that almost induced him to fly;—
and matters were brought to a crisi
by a fresh insult. “I was one day,'
savs he, “shoeing a horse in the sho
yard. I had been stooping for som
time under the weight of the horse
which was large, and was very tired
meanwhile my master had taken a po
sition on a little hill just in front of me
and stood leaning back on his cane
with his hat drawn over his eyes, 1 pu
down the horse’s foot, and straightens
myself up to rest a moment, and with
out knowing that he was there, my ey
caught his. This threw him into i
panic of rage; he would have it that
was watching him.
“What are you rolling your whit
eyes at me for, you lazy rascal. H
came down upon me with his cane
and laid over my shoulders, arms, an
legs, about a dozen severe blows, s
that my limbs and flesh were sore fo
several weeks, and then, after severs
other offensive epithets, he left me
This affair my mother saw from he
cottage, which was near; I being on
of the oldest sons of my parents, ou
family was now mortified to the low
est degree. I had always aimed to b<
trustworthy; and feeling a high de
gree of mechanical pride, I had aime<
to do my work with despatch and skill
my blacksmith’s pride and taste wa
one thing that had reconciled me to be
come a slave. I sought to distinguis!
myself in the finer branches of the busi
ness by invention and finish; 1 fre
quently tried my hand at making gun
and pistols, putting blades in penknive
making fancy hammers,hatchets sw *rd
canes, &c. Besides I used to assis
jmy father at night in making strai
hats and willow baskets, by whicl
means we supplied our families with lit
tie articles of food, clothing and luxury
which slaves in the mildest form of th
system never get from the master; bu
after this, I found that my mechanic’
pleasure and pride were gone,
r thought of nothing but the family dis
grace under which we were smarting
and how to get rid of it.”
Without counsel or assistance
James determined to abscond, and i
possible, to reach the free soil of Penn
sylvania. One Sunday in November
when all was quiet he stole away int<
the woods, but so ill provided for fligh
that his whole stock of provisions wa
a morsel of Indian corn bread, abou
half a pound in weight. Pursuing hii
way, darkness came on, and his onf
guide was now the north star, thong]
when or where he should strike Penn
sylvania, or find a friend, he knew not
Several days at least would require t<
be consumed on the journey. At threi
o’clock in the morning the strength o
the fugitive began to fail, and he fei
the chilling effects of the dew. “A
this moment gloom and melancholy
again spread through my whole soul
The prospect of utter destitution whicl
threatened me was more than l couU
bear, and my heart began to melt
What substance is there in a piece o;
dry Indian bread what nourishment ic
there in it to warm the nerves ol
one already chilled to the heart?
Will this afford sufficient sustenance
after the toil of the night? But while
these thoughts were agitating my mind
the day dawned upon me, in the midst
of an open extent of country,where the
only shelter I could find, without risk
ing travel by daylight, was a corn
shock, but a tew hundred yards from
the road, and here I must pass my
first day out. The day was an unhap
py one; my hiding-place was extreme
ly precarious. I had to sit in a squat
ting position the whole day, without
the least chance to rest. But besides
this, my scanty pittance did not afford
me that nourishment which my hard
nights travel needed. Night came
again to my relief; and I sallied forth to
pursue my journey. By this time not
a crumb of my crust remained, and I
was hungry, and began to feel the des
peration of distress. As I traveled, I
felt my strength failing, and my spirits
wavered; my mind was a deep and
melancholy dream. It was cloudy: I
could not see my star, and had serious
misgivings about my course. In this
way the night passed away, and just
at the dawn of day I found a few sour
apples, and took my shelter under the
arch of a small bridge that crosted the
road. Here I passed the second day
in ambush. 7
Night came on, and he once more
proceeded on his* wearisome journey.
I* requently he was overcome with
hunger and fatigue, and sat down and
slept fora few minutes.—At the dawn
of day he saw a toll bar, and here he
ventured to ask the best way to Phila
delphia. This information he received
and set off in the right direction. His
taking the open road was fatal. Short
ly he was observed by a man who was
vigilant in detecting runaway negroes,
and by him he was ordered to give an
account of himself. After a little par
ley, James took to his heels; buta hue
and cry being raised, he was speedily
captured. Led to a tavern as a pris
oner, his fate appeared to be no long
er doubtful. To all questionings James
persisted in saying he was a free man;
but he could produce no papers, and
his case was desperate. Here takes
place what the writer calls a moral di
lemma. In imminent risk of being sent
back to slavery and punishment, was
he justified in trying to escape by tel
ling a falsehood? We may hope that
the recording angel will blot out the
unfortunate negro’s offence against
truth on this occasion. James’ fabri
cated story was ingenious. He had
belonged to a slave-trader who had
been taken ill and died of small pox
while on his way to Georgia with a lot
of slaves. Several of the gang also
died of this infectious disease, and no
one claiming, or wishing to have any
thing to do with the survivors, they all
dispersed. On hearing this account,
the assembled bystanders moved off to
a respectable distance, and some voted
for letting him go. He was however
retained during the day, and received
some food, which was the first meal he
had eaten since Sunday. Towards
night, being watched only by a boy, he
contrived to slip away, and again was
lost to pursuit among the woods.
Wandering in darkness, the north
star being shrouded in murky clouds,
and stumbling through bushes ant
marshy grounds, the miserable fugi
tive was totally at a loss as to w'hat
course to pursue. “At a venture,’
says he “I struck northward in search
of the road. After several hours ol
I zig zag and laborious travel, dragging
through briars, thorns, runvines, 1
emerged from the wood, and found my
self wading marshy ground and ovei
ditches. I can form no correct idee
of this distance I traveled, but I came
to a road. I should think, about three
o’clock in the morning. It so happen
ed that I came where there was t
fork in the road of three prongs. No«
1 arose a serious query—which is the
right prong former I was remindei
by the circumstance of a superstition:
firoverb among the slaves, that “tin
eft hand turning is unlucky,” but a:
I had never been in the habit of pla
cing faith in this or any similar super
stitition, I am not aware that it had tin
I least weight upon my mind, as I hat
the same difficulty with the right ham
turning. After a few moments’ parlej
with myself, I took the central pronj
of the road, and pushed on with all mj
speed. It had not cleared off, but i
fresh wind had sprung up; it was chil
ly and searching. This, with my we
clothing made me very uncomfortable
my nerves began to quiver before tV
searching w'ind. The barking of mas
lifts, the crowing of fow ls, and the d
tant rattling of market wagons, warn
ed me that day was approaching.”
At this juncture h'» sees a farm es
tablished with a sma,.', hovel-like barn
and into this he glaaly skulked, am
buried himself among tiie straw. Hen
he lay the whole Thursday, his onl;
danger being the yelping of a smal
dog, who had noticed his entrance in
to the barn. In the course of the nf
ternoon he heard with terror the noisi
of horsemen who passed in search o
him.—They spoke a few words to thi
farmer, mentioning that the runawa
j nigger was a blacksmith, and that i
reward of two hundred dollars was of
fered for his recovery. It was now to<
evident that the country was arouset
on the subject of his escape. Nigh
came, and he was again on the route
but speed was out of the question
“All I could do was *o keep my legs ii
r motion and this J continued to do will
the utmost difficulty.—The latter par
of the night I suffered extremely fron
cold. There came a heavy frost;
expected at every moment to fall on thi
road and perish. I came to a corn
field covered with heavy shocks of In
dian corn that had been cut; I wen
into this and got an ear, and thei
crept into one of the shocks—ate a
much of it as I could, and thought
would rest and start again; hut wear
nature could not sustain the operatioi
of grinding corn lor his own nourish
meat and I sunk to sleep. When
awoke the sun was shining around,
started with alarin, but it was too lat<
to think of seeking another shelter;
therefore nestled myself down, ary
j concealed myself, as best as I coub
from the light of day. After recover
a little from my fright, I common
ced eating my whole corn. Grain bj
grairi l worked away at it ;when mj
jaws grew tiV?* 4 a* flften did, J
would rest, and then be K ir
Thds, although I began an
breakfast, I was nearly the whole of
the forenoon before I had done.
Nothing of importance occurred during
the day, until about the middle of the
afternoon, when 1 was thrown into a
panic by the appearance of a party of
gunners, who passed near me with
their dogs. After shooting one or two
birds, however, and passing within a
few rods of my frail covering, they went
on and left me once more in hope.
Friday night came without any other
incident worth raming. As I sallied
out, I felt very evident benefit from
the oar of corn I had nibbled away
My strength was considerably renew
ed, though I was far from being nour
ished, I felt that my life was at least
safe from death by hunger. Thus en
couraged, I set out with better speed
than I had made since Sunday and
Monday night.”
He now believed himself to be near
the boundary line of Pennsylvania, and
under this impression, skipped and
sang for joy.—The day dawned, and
the fugitive continued his course on the
public road. What ensued may be
in his own words: “A little after the
sun rose, I came in sight of a toll gate.
For a moment, all the events which
followed my passing a toll gate on
Wednesday morning came fresh to my
recollection and produced some hesi
tation; but at all events, said I, will try
agaiu On arriving at the gate I found
it attended only by an elderly woman
whom I afterward learned was a widow
and an excellent Christian woman. I
asked her if I was in Pennsylvania
On being informed that I was, I ask
her if she knew where I could get em
ployment. She said she did not, but
advised me to go to W W
t Quaker, who lived about three miles
from her, whom I would find to take at
interest in me. She gave me direc-
tions which way to take. I thanked
her and bade her good morning and
was very careful to follow her direc
tions. In about half an hour I stood
at the door of W W
After knocking, the door opened upon
a comfortable-spread table, the sight
of which seemed at once to increase
my hunger sevenfold. Not daring to
enter l said I had been sent to him in
search of employment. “Well,” said
he, “come in and take thy breakfast,
and get warm!” These words, spo
ken by a stranger, but with such an
air of simple sincerity and fatherly
kindness made an overwhelming im
pression upon my mind. They made
me feel, in spite of all my fear and ti
midity, that I had, in the providence of
God, found a friend and a home.—He
at once gained my confidence, and I
felt that l might confide to him a fact
which, I had as yet confided to no one,
From that day to this, whenever I dis
cover the least disposition in my heart
to disregard the wretched position of
any poor or distressed persons, with
whom I meet, I call to mind these
words—“ Come in and take thy break
fast, and get warm.” They invariably
remind me of what I was at that time.
My condition was as wretched as that
of any human being can psssibly he,
with the exception of the loss of heath
or reason. I had but four pieces of
clothing about my person, having left
all the rest in the hands of my captors.
I was a starving fugitive, without home
or friends; a reward offered for niy
person in the public papers; pursued
by cruel man-hunters, and no claim
upon him to whose door I went. Had
he turned me away I must have per
ished. Nay, he took me in, and gave
of his food, and shared with me his
own garments. Such treatment I had
never before received from the hands
of any white man,” We have copied
the whole of this passage. Its simple
eloquence is the best tribute that can
be paid to that spirit of benevolence
which so universally distinguishes the
Society of Friends.
By VV W |CF* (it might be
imprudent to give the whole name ol
this good man,) the wretched wander
er was, as he tells us, fed, clothed and
employed; not only so, but was in
structed in reading, writing and much
useful knowledge. Here, for the first
time also, did he learn one word of the
truths of religion. “As my friend
poured light into.my mind, I saw the
darkuess; it amazed and grieved me
beyond description. Sometimes I sank
down under the load, and became dis
couraged, and dared not hope that I
could ever succeed in acquiring knowl
edge enough to make me happy, or
useful to my fellow-beings. My dear
friend W W however,
had a happy tact to inspire me with
confidence: and he, perceiving my
stato of mind, exerted himself, not
without success, to encourage uie.
He cited to me various instances of
colored persons, of whom I had not
heard before, and who had distinguish
ed themselves for learning—such as
Bannickcr, Whealfty, and Francis
Williams.”
James resided with the benevolent
Quaker for six months, when it became
necessary to depart and pursue his for
tunes elsewhere.—He found employ
ment in T'Ong Island. The subse
quent career of the refugee is not nar
rated in the work before us; but we
learn from himself, that, by the kind
ness of friends, he was educated for
the Christian ministry, for which his
aptitude in learning, and his tastes in
clined him. In due time, he became
pastor of a colored congregation in
New York in connection with the
Presbyterian body.—To this scene of
usefulness he remains attached, and is
now on a visit, for a few months only,
to Europe. At the late Peace Con
gress at Paris, it will be recollected
that] he made a respectable appear
ance; so much so, that the University
of Heidelberg, much to its honor, had
conferred on him the degree of Doc
tor ofDivink) —the diploma for which
distinction has been submitted to our
inspection. It is, we believe, the first
time that any such honor has been con
ferred on a member ofthemuch abused
negro race, and will, it is to he hoped,
•carry its proper weight beyond the At
lantic. Dr. Pennington returns to
New York in May, and is meanwhile
visiting various parts of Great Britain,
where he meets the attention due to
his talents and acquirements, and the
worthy direction which he has given
them.
WAjiHiNjGTOH, June, 23,1850.
Senator Wt s Pn o^«um.ento.
-A rich scene ca.T* uff of
Brown’s Hotel to-day (Sunday.;
Foote, who is much excitjd by the ar
ticles which appears in the Mississpp
ian against himself and his friend Judge
Starkey, during a controversy which
Judge Smith, openly denounced his
enemies in the porch of that Hotel this
morning, in his usual energetic man
ner and collected around him a large
crowd of passers by, who witnessed
the scene with much amusement.
During his remarks he defended the 1
course ot the Administration on the
California question, and stated his de- 1
termination not to resign his preten- 1
tensions to re-election to the Senate,
and that if superseded he would take
the stump like Benton.—JWtc York 1
Tribune.
Progress is the interpreter of
History. It reproduces the past,
threads the tangle mazes of the pres
ent, and augurs the future. It is the
eternal lamp by which wisdom is guid
ed through the dark labyrinths of the
world; by which she reads
deed in the soul of humanity, in defi
ance of its foul disguises, and beholds
hope sculptured on the gates of hell.
Progress is also an inclosed highway;
its extremities are occupied by the sav
ago and tbe angel, the animal sacrifice
of fear and lust preparing below the
spiritual offering ot love and knowledge
made on high.
IC7*Tbey call Ben. D’laraelt the
Parliamentary Jenny Lind, as he is
sure to attract a crowded house when
about to speak. On tl%e same scale,
Webster must be called the Marini
and Clay the Salvi, of the Senate.—
High honors for statesmen —NesA.
