From Parker’s Letter on Slavery,
SLAVERY CONSIDERED AS A
WRONG.
I am now (o speak of Slavery con
sidered as a wrong, or offence against
the natural and eternal Laws of God.
You all know it is wrong a crime
against humanity, a sin before Almighty
God. The great men who call slavery
—right and just;—do they not know
better? The little and humble men who
Jisten to their speech—do not we all
know better? Yes, we all know that
slavery is a sin before God; is the un
ion of many sins. On this theme I will
gay but a word.
The Roman code declares liberty the
oalural estate of man, but culls slavery
an institution of positive Law, by
which one man is made subject to an
other, contrary to nature, liy the He
brew Law it was a capital offence lo
steal a man and sell him, or hold him
ns a slave.
Now if that doctrine he true which
the American people once solemnly de
clared self-evident—that all men arc
created with equal rights then every
slave in the United States is stolen.—
Then slavery is a continual and aggra
vated theft. It matters not that the
slave’s mother was stolen before. To
take tile child of a slave must be theft
a* much as to take the child of a free
man; it is stealing mankind. He
that murders a child has no defence
in the fact that he first murdered the
.sire.
When wc hear that the Emperor of
Russia or Austria, for some political
opinion, shuts a man in the Spielberg,
or sends him to Siberia, for life—we
pity the victim of such despotic power,
thinking his natural rights debarred.—
Hut the defence is, that the man had
shown himself dangerous to the welfare
of the State, and so had justly forfeited
his rights. When we reduce a man to
a slave, making him a thing we can
plead no extenuation of the offence.
The slave is only “guilty of a skin
not colored like our own”—guilty of
the misfortune to be weak and unpro
tected. For this he is deprived of his
liberty; he and his children.
Slavery is against nature. It has no
foundation in the permanent nature of
man, in the nature of things, none in
the eternal laws of God, as reason and
conscience declare that law. Its foun
dation is the selfishness, the tyranny of
strong inen. V\ c all know it is so—the
little and the great. Letter say it at
once, and with Mr. Rutledge declare
that religion and humanity have nothing
to do with the matter, than make the
miserable pretence that it is consistent
with reason and accordant with Chris
tianity even the boys know better.
In the last century your fathers cried
out to God against the oppressions laid
on them by England, justly cried out.
Yet these oppressions wer# but little
things—a tax on sugar, parchment, pa
per, tea; nothing but a tat, allowing
no voice in the granting theroof or its
spending. They went to war for an ab
straction —the great doctrine of Human
Rights. They declared themselves
free, free by right of birth, free be
cause born men and children of God.
For the justice of their cause, they
made solemn appeal to God Most High.
What was the oppression the fathers
suffered, to this their sons commit It
is no longer a question about taxes and
representatives, a duty on sugar, parch
merit, paper, tea, but the liberty, the
persons, the lives of three millions of
men are in question. Y'ou have taken
their liberty, their persons, and render
their lives bitter by oppression. Was it
.luihwß tT***t*Mh*A •srl*
THE NORTH STAR
AJLXA-i II Ull 111 m 1 illlr
r i right in your fatherf to draw the swore
and slay the oppressor, who taxed their
for his own purpose, taking bat theii
money, nor much of that? Wereyoui
1 1 fathers noble men for their resistance i
‘j when they fell in battle did they fall ir
j the sacred cause of God and theii
country?” Do you build monument!
to their memory and write thereon,
Sacred to Liberty and the Rights ol
Mankind?” Do you speak of Lexing
ton and Bunker Hill as spots most deai
in the soil of the New World, the Zion
of Freedom, the Thcrmopyla of oni
i versa! right? Do you honor the name
of Washington far beyond all political
names of conqueror or king How
then can you justify your oppression?
how refuse to admit that the bondmen
of the United States have the same
i right, and a far stronger inducement to
draw the sword and smite at your very
life? Surely you cannot do so, not in
America; never till Lexington and
Bunker Hill arc wiped out of the earth;
never till the history of your own revo
lution is forgot; never till the names of
the Adamses, of Jefferson, of Wash
ington, is expunged from the memory of
men.
When the rude African who rules
over Dahomey or the Gaboon country
burns a village and plunders the shriek
ing children of his fellow barbarians to
sell them away into bondage forever,
far from their humble but happy homes
and their luxuriant soil, their bread
fruit and their palms, far from father
and mother, from child and lover, from
all the human heart clings to with ten
derest longing—you arc filled with hor
ror at the deed. What steal a
man, say yon; Great God, you
ask, “is the Gaboon chieftain a man,
or but a taller beast, with mind more
cunning and far reaching claws?” That
chieftain is a barbarian. He knows not
your letters, your laws, the tenets of
your religion. The nobler nature ol
the man sleeps in his savage breast.—
His only plea is—his degradation. His
defence before the world and before
God is this: He is a savage, he knows
no law- but force, no right but only
might alone. For that plea and de
fence the civilized man must excuse
him, perhaps God hold him guiltless.
But when a civilized nation comes,
with all the art and science which man
kind has learned in the whole lifetime ol
the race, and steals the children of the
defenceless, stimulating the savage to
plunder h*s brothers and make them
slaves, the offence has no such excuse;
it is a conscious crime; a wrong before
the judgment of the nations; a sin be
fore God.
In your case it is worse still; the Au
tocrat of all the Russias may have no
theory of mail’s unalienable rights ad
verse to the slavery he aims to abolish
on his broad estates and wide-spread
realm; the Bey of Tunis deals not in
abstractions, in universal laws, knows
nothing of unalienable rights and the
inborn equality of man. liut you, the
people of the United States; you, ana
lion of free men, who owe allegiance to
none; you, a Republic, one of the fore
imst nations of the earth; you, with
your theories of human, universal jus
tice; you who earliest made national
proclamation to mankind of human
right, and those three political ideas
w hereon the great American Cominou
i wealth now stands and rests; you who
profess to form a government not on
force, but law, not on national tradi
tions, but abstract justice—the nation’s
constant and perpetual will to give to
every one his constant and perpetual
right; you who would found a State
not on cannon balls—but Universal
Laws, Thoughts of God, —what pica
can you put totth in your defence?
You call yourselves Christians. It is
your boast. Christianity,” say the
courts, “is the Common Law of the
land.” You have a religion w'hich tells
that God is the Father, equal, just and
loving, to all mankind—the Red man,
whom you murdered, and the Black
man whom you have laid in iron, hurt
ing his feet with fetters. It tells you,
all are brothers, African, American,
Red man, and Black and White. It
1 tells you, as your highest duty, to love
God w’ith all your heart; to love his
justice, love his Mercy, love his love;
to love that brother as yourself—the
more he needs, to love him still the
more; that without such love for men,
there is no love for God. The Sacred
Books of the nation—read in all pulpits,
sworn over in all courts of justice,
borne even in your war-ships, and shel
tered by the battle-flag of your armies
—the sacred books of the nation tell,
that Jesus, the highest, dearest revela
tion of God to men, who loved them
all, that He laid down his life for them,
for all; and bade you follow him! What
is a natural action in the savage, a mere
mistake in the despot of Turkey
or Russia, with you becomes a con
j scious and fearful wrong. For you
ito hold your brothers in bondage, to
keep them from all chance of culture,
growth in mind, or heart, or soul; for
you to breed them as swine, and beat
as oxen; to treat them as mere things,
without soul or rights,—whv, what a
’mistake in political economy,’ a wrong
before your ideas of Government, be
comes a sin foul and heinous before
vour ideas of Man, and Christ, and
(rod.
1 When you remember the intelligence
!of this age, its accumulated stores of
knowledge, science, art, aud wealth ol
j matter and of mind, its know lodge ol
justice and eternal right; when you
consider that in political ideas you stand
the first people in the vanguard of man
kind, now moving towards new and
peaceful conquests for the human race*
when you redact on the great doctiinea
of universal right set forth in so many
forms amongst you by the Senator and
the school-boy; when you bring home
RIGHt W OF NO fcfcX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR-GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
to your bosoms the religion-whose sa
cred words are taught in that Bible, las
up in your churches, reverently kept ii
your courts of justice, carried unde
the folds of your Rag over land and mi
—that Bible, by millions multiplied am
spread throughout the peopled work
in every barbarous and stammerinj
tongue, —and then remember that ski
very is here that three million men an
now by Christian Republican Americi
held in bondage worse than Egyptian
hopeless as hell,—you must take this
matter to heart, and confess that Ame
rican slavery is the greatest, foolest
wrong which man ever did to man; tb<
most hideous and detested sin a natiot
has ever committed before j«Mt, ah
bounteous God a wrong and a su
wholly without excuse.
«THEY ARE A STUPID RACE,
MADE TO BE SLATES.**
Two slaves in Louisiana were lei
out by their master, at a considerable
distance from his own residence. Thej
were skilful, intelligent mechanics, and
of course h e obtained high wages foi
their work. What time remained aftei
their daily allotted tasks were finished,
they were allowed to have for them
selves; and these precious hours they
employed most industriously with the
view of purchasing their freedom.—
When they had accumulated, by patienl
toil, a sum which they deemed suffi
cient, they endeavored to negotiate
with their master, hut without success.
Again they went to work, and after twe
or three years were enabled to offer a
sum so large that they felt almost cer
tain it would tempt him to accede tc
their wishes. But he found them toe
j profitable to be lightly parted with;
moreover, whatever they had of pro
perty was in reality his. He might,
with perfect impunity, have taken all
their hard-earned wages, and kepi
them in slavery still, as thousands ol
slaveholders had done before him. But
whether he doubted their having sc
1 much money as they pretended, oi
whether he was too honorable to steal
more than ninety-nine hundredths ol
their earnings, I know not; at al
events, he would not listen to their pro
position on any terms.
Finding they could not purchase li
berty, they wisely resolved to take it
The enterprise was a perilous one, foi
1 tlirough a long line of slave states they
must run the gauntlet of patrols, blood
hounds, lynchers, jail keepers and rifle*
—and if they reached the States called
j free, they must dodge constables and
kidnappers,backed by the glorious Con
stitution.
They were sufficiently intelligent an<]
1 well-informed to understand the dan
gers they would incur, and to devise a
most cunning method of avoiding
them.
They made themselves acquainted
w ith a white beggar, and made him of
fers large enough to secure his secrecy.
They dressed him in a handsome suit
of clothes, and through his agency
purchased a carriage and a fine span
of horses. They brought the carriage
to an appointed place, stood hat in hand
1 while lie entered, and then mouuted
outside as footman and groom. Ol
course no patrol thought of challenging
I such au equipage; and a white geutlc
inan travelling through the couutry, at
tended by his servants, was welcomed
|at all the inns. The obsequiousness oi
their manners was an admonition to
their brethren in bonds. “Yes, massa,”
and Certainly, massa,” were accom
panied with the most profound bows,
and spoken in the humblest tones.
The trio arrived in Buffalo unmolest
ed there the carnage and horses were
sold; and the white beggar paid hand
somely for consenting to play the gen
tleman.
The slaves passed over to Victoria’s
I dominions, whence they wrote a very
friendly letter to their whilom master,
begging that he would feel no uncasi
ness on their account, as they were
most comfortably situated. —l. m. c.—
A. S. Standard.
FRENCH REVOLUTION.-SLAVERT
AT HOME.
Mr. Palfrey, of Massachusetts moved
i the reconsideration of the vote of yes
i terday, upon the French congratulatory
i resolutions. His motive was a speech,
of course upon this Revolution, and
upon kindred topics at home. He
avowed the doctrine that despotisms
might exist in the form or name of free
institutions. He meant Slavery, but
meant by this speech to say something
in reply to the member from Virginia,
t(Mr. Bayly.) Mr. Palfrey reminded
that gentleman, that though Massa
i chusetts was by no means, a perfect
commonwealth, she was not too old to
learn as he feared Virginia was.
Mr. Bayly wished to know whether
Massachusetts allowed colored men to
sit in the Jury box.
Mr. Palfrey said he did not know,
but there was nothing prohibiting it.
1 The selectmen of Massachueets could
put such names among those selected,
l if they wished. But the time had been,
he believed, when a colored mao was
elected to the Legislature of Masse
chusetts.
Mr. Bayly. Did he take his seat?
Mr. Palfrey believed nut. Perhaps
the man was modest, aad did eot like to
take bis seat in a body where all were
,of a different color. Wuald the gen-
Llemaa like to have his seat in an
'assembly composed entirely of black
men JlrOTnense laughter]
Mr. Palfrey went on to show what
Massachusetts had done in this matter,
t and defended her liberal measures fo
wards the colored population of the
State. Many ef tbeee were worthy
men, and many of them were wealthy
BOCHESTEB, N. Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1848.
and intelligent mm% Among these h«
I had the pleasure of affixing the seal of
i Massachusetts, as Secretary of State,
r to one of the colored men claiming to
i be admitted to the bar. He assured
I the gentleman from Virginia, if he
I shoe Id come before this magistrate,
that be Would be treated with a mark
of caorteay and kindness. He had a
mu attending a high school, which was
t open alike for free Macks and whites;
and if his son would treat any one not
i his own color, with less respect than
others, he should foel leas affection for
him than he now entertained.
Mr. Johnson, of Tennessee, wished
i to know if be [Mr. Palfrey] would
allow one of these blat,* boys to be
i wedded to bis daughter?
Mr. Palfrey said, be should intro
dace no one to bis family, who was aot
agreeable to them, aad the defence el
a principle of liberty did not suppose
that be should be required to change
the social relations of his own family.
The gentleman might ask much more
important and difficult questions than
this.
Mr. Palfrey spoke further in defence
of the meliorationg laws of Massa
chusetts.
Mr. Bayly rose to reply. He did
not mean to say anything unkind to
the gentleman, whom, for his courtesy
of manner and great propriety of con
duct, he esteemed, but whose senti
ments were most abhorrent. Mr.
Bayly commented with some severity
upon the Massachusetts law, which did
not allow her State officers to provide
for the rescue of fugitive slaves.
There was quite a running debate
upon this topic, from which it appeared
Pennsylvania had done precisely the
same thing as Massachusetts.
There was much comment upon the
celebrated law of *93. and Constitu
tional power in regard to fugitives
from labor.
Mr. Bayly argued these questions
just half way, leaving out all matter
material to the other side. He forgot
to say, what none was pleased to state,
that Chief Justice Taney had given it
j as his opinion that the State Legis
latures had power to pass a restraining
law prohibiting her officers from exe
cuting the law of ’93 in regard to
fugitives from labor. Pensylvania and
j Massachusetts have done this and no
more. Bayly was at a loss for facts,
j in sustaining the laws of Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania and New York, upon the
question of legislation touching run
away slaves.
Mr. Ashmun spoke of the overbear
ing and insolent manner of the gentle
man from Virginia, of his arrogance
and superciliousness of temper. He
should not reply in any such spirit, but
would administer a rebuke to the geu-
J Demon for the manner in. which he had
i addressed the House. And Mr. Ash
mun, in good taste, good temper, and
j even great good humor, did administer
this rebuke. I have heard nothing
better in the House for a long, long
time.
Mr. Giddings was allowed to explain
the law of 1793, and to define and
defend it at some length,
j Mr. Ashinuu reminded the Southern
I members haw Massachusetts inen had
been treated in Carolina, Louisiana,
and elsewhere. They were itnpris
j oned, punished, maltreated, and their
owners compelled to pay the cost of
this illegal punishment. They would
not even allow the validity of the Con
stitution to be tried upon this point of
debate.
Mr. Bayly, of Va., was permitted to
rejoin in a few words, and the debate
i was now upon personal topics, though
I comparatively calm. Mr. Bayly am
i used the House by his arrogant man
ner—always arrogant, though he ap
pealed to the House to say whether it
was so or not, as if members, one by
one, were to rise and tell him he was
arrogant, and supercilious, and haugh
ty, as he really is.
In regard to the colored citizens of
Massachusetts, (imprisoned at the
South,) the act was defended out and
out.
The fight ran from Massachusetts
into Virginia. The Virginia delegates
were all appealed to by Mr. BayTy to
endorse him, and their silence was to
be construed into an approval, whether
they had heard him or not.
Mr. Pendleton, of Virginia was not
willing thus to endorse in the dark,
j and said, not having heard, he could
not approve or disapprove.
Mr. Bayly, in much temper. —Then
there was no occasion for you to rise.
Mr. Pendleton.—And there was no
occasion for your appeal.
Mr. Bayly said, now he cared not
what his colleague thooght, and Mr.
Pendleton retorted with s mw just re
i kuke of the uniform bad temper of his
i colleague, whose manner now he cer-
I tainly did not endorse, however much
he might concur with him on the sub
ject of slavery. There was no Aboli
tion party in Virginia.
The question was now taken at a
late hour, and the motion to reconsider
laid upon the table by yeas and nays,
125 to 44.— Csrr. .V. V. Exprtt.
Washington, April ll*.
Rk*pi*«. Three very excellent
things, ami of great utility, are reading,
i conversation, and reflection. By read
ing, we treat with the dead; by eon-
I vernation, with the bring and by reflee
tion. with ourselves. Reading enrich
es the memory, conversation polishes
the mind, and reflection forms the judg
merit. But of these noble employments
of the soul, were we to say which we
1 think the most important, we unit con
ffcaa that rending seems to be the
i groundwork of the other two, since
without tending, contemplation is fruit
less, «t»d conversation dull and insipid.
BUCK LAW or ILLWOUL
The people of Ifthnon, have adopted
by a large majority, the clause of the
New Constitution which was separately
submitted to them, authorizing the legis
lature to adopt measure* to prerent the
immigration of negroes to that State.—
Any provision of that character which
the legislature may frame, win he ia
flagrant violation of the common consti
tution, and void. It will be so declared
by the proper tribunals of Illinois, and
no actual mischief will be done to those
against whom this decree of Chinese
barbarism is directed. The question
was settled, so far as the opinion ot
Congress could determine it, upon the
admission of Missouri. Site presented
a constitution containing a similar pow
er of exclusion, but was obliged to de
clare her assent tea funds mental con
dition,” that no such law should ever
be passed, before the act erecting her
into a State took effect. She hasviola
ted it, to be sure, with the habitual
shamelessness and bad faith which
characterizes the legislation of the slave
States, but the principle has keen sol
emnly decided, by the representatives
of the people, including those from the
infected region.
Citizenship does not depend upon
color, and the free black man has,
therefore, pledged to him by the bond
of our Union, an indefeasible right ot
going to and settling in any part of our
common country, with no restrictions
which are not imposed upon other citi
zens.
The only thing to be lamented then,
is the ungenerous, base, and truckliug
spirit which has been manifested by
this impotent injustice. It is base and
truckling, because it is dictated by
sycophancy to their neighbors of Mis
souri, and by unwillingness to undertake
the defence of their colored citizens
against the bloodhounds, two footed and
four footed, from the opposite side of
the Mississippi. It is ungenerous, be
cause it is an assault upon the weak
and powerless. The stain upon the
j character of Illinois will remain indeli
ble, while the purpose for which her
people have “filed their mind” will fail
of accomplishment. It is, in the lan
guage of Talleyrand,worse than a crime
—it is a blunder.
Think upon it a little, and upon what
reason can it be justified, suppose the
power was clear? Has the great com
tn mwealth of Illinois no land to spare
in her borders? Does she abjure tjie
proud claim of the other members of
the confederacy, to be the refuge of the
oppressed of all lands? Is she fearful
that her internal quiet will be jeapor
dised by the advent of a few poor, ig
norant, friendless negroes, seeking only
toe means of subsistence and debarred
from all political power? Why, they
are few at the most, and the sure pro
gress of mortality exhausts them in a
Northern clime with greater rapidity
than the whites. The truth is, that the
tyranous and the slavish spirit are made
of the same elements. Cowardice is
the fundamental basis of both. Those
who arc most jealous of their own
rights, and most ready to defend them
to the last extremity—respect most the
rights of others. Those who live in
abject fear of the strong, compensate
for their self abasement by oppressing
the weak.
That the naked prejudice of color
may have had sxnething to do with the
action of the Illinois majority is very
probable. That its being one of the
strongholds of what styles itselfDcmoc
racy, may serve yet better to account
for it, is beyond question. Nobody is
more averse to any measure of genuine
equality, that regards man as man, and
looks to that elevation of masses,”
which is the eternal cry of the party,
than your thoroughbred Democrat,
especially at the South and West.
Rochester Dctnocrat.
THE PBEM IN FRANCE.
In no portion of Europe is the press
conducted with more spirit, ability, and
independence, than in France. The
j Press of Paris elevated Louis Philippe
ito the throne, under the most solemn
promises of reform on the part of the
ambitious aspirant to it. The same
power that elevated the now exiled
monarch, was the willing instrument
of his downfall.
No sooner had Loots become fairly
warm in his seat, than he attempted to
make the Press of Paris wholly sub
servient to his dictation. This he
found an impossible task to accomplish.
Persuasion had no effect. Threaten
ing did not silence the utterings of
thought. As a last resort prosecutions
were brought to bear, but that did not
stifle the cry of reform, it only resulted
in tbc dethronement and exile of the
i monarch, and the liberty of the French
nation.
t The number of prosecutions against
I the Press, during the reign of Louis
j Philippe, almost exceeds belief. They
amount, according to the National
newspaper, to 114).
Add to this, there have been fifty
seven newspapers suppressed by order
of government.
Upwards of a million and a quarter
of dollars have been drawn from editors
in the shape of fines.
One of the public prisons of Paris
i has berm constantly crowded with the
managers of public journals.
I On the I?th anurveruary of Louis
t Philippe** reign, common malefactors
t were the only prisoners singled out to
receive the royal pardon. Those con
victed of political oflence* were beyond
the sympathies of the Citizen King.
Such has been the policy of fronts
Philippe, in regard to-the Press of the
s French nadon. The result wifi be
lesson to ■Hies in power, who attempt
to subsidise, or fading to do so, to pro
socuto tbe Press for uttering its boor*
N convictions of right end doty.
i
HAPPY SLAVES.
I once passed a colored woman *1
work on a plantation, who was staging,
i apparently, with animal ion, and whose
i general manners would bayjs led me tc
set her down ad the happiest of the
gang. 1 said to her, Your work aeean
pleasant to you.* She replied, No,
massa.* Supposing she referred to
something particularly disagreeable in
her immediate occupation, 1 Mid to her,
Tell roe then what part of your work
is roost pleasant.' She answered with
much emphasis, ‘No part pleasant. We
forced to do it.*
The celebrated Dr. Raab, of Phila
delphia, in one of his published medical
papers, entitled “An account of the
diseases peculiar to the negroes in the
West Indies, and which are produced
by their slavery," says:
We are told by their masters that
they are the happiest people in the
world, because they are merry.
Mirth and a heavy heart, 1 believe,
otlen meet together, and hence the pro
priety of Solomon's observation, 1 In
the midst of laughter the heart is sad.
Instead of considering the songs and
dances as marks of their hnppiness, 1
have long considered them as physical
symptoms of melancholy, and as ccr
t tain proofs of their misery."— Jim. Mu
seum, vol. 4. p. 81.
Finally, if slaves were contented and
happy, that fact alone should be the
everlasting condemnation of slavery,
and hunt the monster from human soci
ety with curses on its head. What
does it so paralyze the soul, subvert its
instincts, blot out its reason, crush its
upward tendings, and murder its higher
nature, that a man can become con
tented and happy, though robbed ol
his body, mind, free choice, liberty,
time, earnings, and all his rights, and
while his life, limbs, health, conscience,
food, raiment, sleep, wile and children,
have no protection, but are subject ev
ery moment to the whims and passion
i gusts of an owner, a manstealer? No
bly was it said by Burke, in reply to a
vaunting slaveholder, who boasted that
his slaves were “contented and hap
py”: “If you have made a contented
slave, you have made a DEGRADED
MAN.'
ADDRESSED TO HUSBANDS.
A woman ought to have her own
I purse, great or small, which ever it
may be. Ten, fifty, a hundred, or a
thousand dollars, according to circum
stances, but her own, for which she
accounts to herself. Would you know
why,’ you gentlemen who make your
wives account for.pins and cents?
Why, most especially and particularly
for your own sublime peace and pros
perity. You do not think so Well,
then a tea-cup, a glass are broken,
or suddenly tea-pot, cup, and glass, all
at once fall in pieces, and nobody has
broken them and so on. The wile
who has not her own purse, but who
must replace the cups and glass, goes
to her husband, relates the misfortune,
and begs for a little to make good the
damage. He scolds the servants, his
wife, who ought to look after the serv
ants. “Money, indeed!—a little
money—money does not grow out of
the ground, nor yet is it rained down
from heaven—many small brooks make*
a great river.” And such like. At
last he gives a little money, and re
mains often in a very ill humor. Again:
if the wife have her own little purse,
then such little vexations never come
near him. Children, servants, mis
fortune, remain the same but no dis
order is remarked all is made right
as at first all is in order and the
head of the house, who, perhaps, with
the greatest ease, could lay down a,
thousand rixdollars at once, need not:
for a few pence, squeezed out at differ
ent times, loose the equipoise of his
temper, which is as invaluable to the
whole as to himself. And dost thou
reckon as nothing thou unfeeling nabob,
those little surprises, those little birth
day and names-day pleasures, with,
which thy wife can give herself the de- j
light of surprising thee—those thousand
small pleasures, weich, unexpected asj
failing stars, gleam like them on the
heaven of home, and which rauwt all 1
come to thee from the affection of thy
wjfe, though—a little money, which j
thou must give to her in the gross, in
order to receive again in the small,
with rich interest of comfort and happi
ness? Now, is it clear yet? To every
true woman’s heart it is indescribably
delightful to give—to feel itself alive
in the satisfaction and happiness of
others it is the suusUiue of the heart, j
and is more needed here iu the cold,
north perhaps than elsewhere. —Jiory
Colo** or 30,000 Blacks is Cas
io a.— This colony, settled in the fer
tile country between Lakes Huron and
Erie, seems to be flourishing. They!
have a manual labor school—the Bri-!
tish American Institute, at Dawn Mills,]
the bead of navigation on the Syden
ham river, sixty miles from Detroit, I
with a tract of 900 acres attached,!
and sev en buildings. Among the new t
enterprises ia progress is a large steam
mill.
AorißTiou 09 CiMur PovrAea.—j
Great Britain, with 90,000,000 of peo-,
pie—sent through the mails last year
eleven letters to each person, at two
cent# per letter. The Unit* d Slates
with 30,000,009 of people, only sent in
the same time two and a half lctt«*i* i
each, at five and ten cent* a letter. i
wi r
JO i
WF'U
Tins YOVS6 SAITS COTIiSE.
I
I mw him first at a social parly.
He look but a single glass of wine,
ami that in compliance with the request
of a fair young lady with whom he
t conversed.
1 hint »®*t, when he supposed
e w unseen, taking a glass to satis
fy the slight desire formed by his sordid
f indulgence. He thought there was no
i danger.
1 saw him again with those of his
own age, meeting at night to spend a
i short time in convivial pleasure. He
said it was only innocent amuse
ment.
i I met him neat, late in the evening.
»n the straet, unable to reach home. 1
assisted him thither. He looked
ashamed when we next met.
I I saw him next, reeling in the street;
a confused stare was on his coun
tcnance, and words of blasphemy on his
I tongue. Shame was gone.
1 saw him yet once more—he was
pale, cold and motionless, and was car
ried by his friends to his last resting
place. In the sraal’ procession that
followed, every, head was cast down,
and seemed to shake with uncommon
anguish. His father's gray hairs were
going to the grave with sorrow. His
mother wept to think she had ever
given being to such a child.
1 thought of his future state. I
opened the Bible,, and read—“ Drunk
arris shall not inherit the kingdetn of
heaven?”

Colored Guests. —lt is well known
that very few colored people belong to
the Society of Friends. Natural tem
perament, and tne influences of their
i station in life, both tend to make tli* in
i partial to more exciting forms of reli
gion; and the Friends, being no more
free from prejudice against color than
t other sects, offer no additional attrac
tion to draw them into their met tings.
On this point, our friend Isaac T. Hop
per once bore his testimony in a very
characteristic manner. l)ai id Maprs
and his wile, the only colored members
of meeting, were a very worthy
and respectable couple. r l hey enme,
among other Friends, to share the hos
i pitnlity of Isaac’s house at Yearly
meeting. Some questions arose in the
family whether or not the white Friends
w’ould be offended to eat with them.—
Leave that to me,” said Isaac. \Y he n
the hour came, he announced it thus:
Friends, dinner is now ready. David
and his wife will come with me; and as
I like that all should be accommodated,
these who object to dining with them,
can wait till they have done.”
Several smiled, but none of the
guests remained behind.
A Ruffian in a Quaker Coat.—A
correspondent of the Christian Citizen,
writing from Harveysburg, Ohio, under
date of Feb. 23d, says:
4 Our heretofore quiet village is now
laboring under great excitement. We
have a prosperous Academy, the Super
intendent and Teacher of which is Mr.
Wilson Hobbs, an Orthodox Quaker.
A few weeks since a young lady, of
wealthy and respectable parentage,
entered the Institution as a student and
t remained two days, when one of the
j female teachers learned (by means not
I known) that, by tracing her ancestry
back through several generations, it
j was found that her blood was slightly
I tinctured with that of an African. Upon
hearing this, Mr. Hobbs rushed into
the female department for the purpose
of expelling her, but not being able to
distinguish her he retired in confusion.
The next day, having her pointed out,
he insultingly expelled her in the pre
sence of the whole female department.
Th^*Philosophy of Drowning.—
Man is the only animal that drowns
naturally. He does so because he is
endowed with reason—that is to say,
with a large spherical brain with a
skull on it which rises above his nose.
If he falls into deep water, in spite of
his great brain, he has not presence of
mind enough to stick his nos* out and
keep it out, as he might easily do, but
lets his heavy head, like a stone, press
his nose under water. In this position
he inhales and tilts his chest with
water, so that he becomes on the
whole so much heavier than water, an
to sink. While the lungs arc filled
with air, the body is lighter than its
bulk of water, and and of course sniriis
just as an iron vessel does. All, there
fore, which is necessary to keep a
person from drowning in deep water,
is to keep the water out of the lungs!
Do you ask how this is to he done
Suppose yourself a bottle. Your nose
is the nozle of the bottle, and must he
kept rut of the water. If it goes
under, don’t breathe at all till it comes
out. f*hen to prevent its going down
again, keep every other part under—
head, legs, arms, ail under water, hut
your nose. Do that, and you eannot
sink in any depth of water, All you
need to do to secure that, is to Hasp
Joor hands behind your back, ami
eep perfectly still. Your mne will
never go under water to the end of
time, unless you raise your brain,
band, knee, or foot, high. r than it.
Keep still, with your nose turned up in
perfect impudence, and you art* safe.
This will do in tolerably still water; m
boisterous wafer, you will need s little
of the art of awimming, which, if you
don’t get, you deserve to be drowned.
1/wrPiwjpr*
PniNCir*.K*.— -A man without prin
ciples ia tike a ship without rudder or
ballast, having making to steer its
course or keep it even. Hence arises
hat variable and uneasy disposition—.
that inconsistency and wavering ness so
•meotably and injcnousiy prevalent.
which, since Soniety |*f& 4«Vfo r ban
b :oa removed from lip Sabine to tb? Nueces,
»t is now h J to remtm
sail furtiur into the free tcmioty of a sutei
Krfpublie. Wa have Jed* rosoon te expea
a ro>ra farorabb termination to the two years'
war Avag.;d, at an enormous cx|<cnoe of Wood
and tnrwwro, fhr the able purpose of extendhi§
worst nystem ol hrnnan bondage by con
Whether the Abortionists of th<
iswntry can arrest the perpetration of tliu
atupnadous national crime, or not, k u no 1r«
t«w»r duty to make tag effort, Tl»e las
paUic protes\ they may have the opportunity
to recojd agaiu&t it, should b? earnest ant
unanimous. jn
i ho of the moment should al*
reinind us of how much of the work is ttiH t<
b'do.rt, which this Society, fourteen yean
ago, resolved to do. Since its formation, Sla
very his not been abolished in a single Stau
of the Union. A million more of our coun
try .h**i have been born to the Jot of slaves.—
JJ at th at this Society and its auxiliaries have
anus ;J, to a certain degree, a universal Anti*
Slavery sentiment at the North, and have
ran.la the topic o:ie of absorbing interest
t ironghoat the roimtry, is the best evidence
of the wisdom of their measures, and should
b? the strongest incentive to still more strenu
ous mid self-deflying toil.
The old and tried friends of the causa,
a:i I tfio.se who have been but recently
a.ous -d to the necessity of the overthrow of
the felon system of America:) Slavery, are
nry -.1 to make of this meeting a grand rally
for freedom.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Presft.
Wendell Phillips,
S. 11. Gay. i S>,-«ctoM..
National Conveatiou of the Liberty
League.
Th? undersigned coiunittce appointed at
Miea»lo:i Locks in Juno last to call a Na
tl »:i i! (’.invention some time in the year 1848,”
d i p. 'i Those who wish to provide equal
civil a for th rights of all men,, to
ilij 't hi Convention nt the eitv of Rochester,
on th° Hist day of May next, at 10 o’clock
A. M.. l’»r tiie purpose of nominating a can
didate for the Vice Presidency, and the trans
action of such otliet Imsuteas as may come
before the convention.
Tit? convention will b? held two days.
E. S. Gilbert,
W. D. Babbitt,
Wm. R. Smith,
A. Pkvnel,
Hikam Pitts,
X itionil Ca n. of the Liberty League.
llo.Ni.ovt, IVo. 29, 1318.
X 'Tice. Agreeably to the reeomtnenda
tio l of Li Liberty Party Convention, held in
Auburn, January 12th and 13th, 1848, a Na
tion il Lib Tty Party Convention will be held
i t th: city of Buffalo, on the 14th and 15th
days of June, 1M!8.
Puis Convention, from the fact that itisex
p—; l io nominate candidates for President
an 1 Vice President; and to take high and ef
f-Clive ground in behalf of personal liberty,
l’ree-tra le, free-soil, exemption from the bur
den and curse of war, and from other viola
tions of the equal rights of all men, will proba
bly attract a large concourse of persons and
b? of a dhaply interesting character.
State League Couveuiion.
A mass convention for the nomination ol
Sut officers, to be hupjiorled by the Liberty
I,»igu? at the ensuing fall election, will be
boll?a at Rochester on the second day of June
next, at 10 o'clock A. M.
Lit our friends see to it that the various
parts of the State are well represented.
E. Gilbert,
W. D. Babbitt,
Wm. R. Smith,
Ilia am Pitts,
A. Pens el,
Central Com. of the Liberty League.
Honeove, Feb. 29th, 1848.
Notice. —Messrs. E. R. Dunlop and S. H.
Day, are not agents for the Colored people of
Canada, as is generally supposed and
if they have collected money in their name, it
has been done on their own responsibility,
and not of the British American Abolition
Society in the city of Torouto. Mr. Dunlop
was dismissed from his agency for said society,
on th? first day of December, 1847. Mr.
Dunlop was sent out with Mr. Day, fbi the
sole purpose of getting signers to establish a
paper in the city of Toronto.
In b .half of the Executive Committee of
the 13. A. A. Society,
CHARLES FREEMAN, Sec.
April 21, 1847.
Lectures by the Idditor.
Faros rick Douglass will lecture on Ame
ricv.i Slavery in th? fallowing places:
S mem Fulls, Thursday even. May 4.
Syracuse, Friday, 5.
t uca, Saturday, 0.
Albany, Sunday, 7.
To the Colored Citizens of Detroit.
W ASHJN'GTON, April 3, 1848.
Mu. W ili.iam 11. Day 1 have to ac
kno a lodge the reception of \our letter, ac
eomptnymg tlio resnlulions adopted by thu
coloied citizens of Detroit, in hunor of the
memory of my departed husband.
ll is one of ihe cheering reflections which
attend my present bor« aved state, that the in
dwidu.d whom we mourn did his duty whilst
on earth, tu>4 leas to die enslaved t tuan to
the free map, not hiss to humaaity thau to
lib rtv.
With many thauks4brthcexpre»siuu of your
►ympathv, I remain,
LOUISA C. ADAMS.
Practical CiWiimviTr. Six colored
persona, being a portion of sixteen slaves
frees by Josjah Darker, Esq., former! f a
r **u lent of New Orleans, but uow a resident
of East Grccawich, U. L, aruu-d at Now
Bedford on Saturday, loth mot., ooruuguod to
Be.ijatmn Rodman, E*q. lT»e y were for-
VA ird.-i in charge of a special messenger of
Messrs. Hatch, Gray A' Co.’s Express, to
Eun Greenwich, where they ore ui meet their
b uefictor. We uiuk-rstaod that it is the in
13iHion r#f Mr. Barker te settle tliem upon
farm, and provide thmn with the means te
ae jtrw an honorable livelihood.
CaftM «r «I»WT
Hoventh street, oo Saturday eight, and se
•oil down thcmer. smoeg tin
mtasiug slaves were about eighteen or tweati
from Georgetown.it was »lw» awmffctod then
were mote than thirty belonging to the arisen
of Washington.
The citizens of Georgetown determine tn
Sued sy to give ehv :to the piratical schonfi
in nuntber, arm 'd w ith tnuskets aod othe
[vfrhapons, left Georgetown about I oVkrk
and qwcklv an poamMe Allowed the schbene
down the Potomac. There were vsrioe* re
porta in the city on Monday night that th.
runaway slaves hgdb&jo captured, after i
d*uij»era'te struggle, in whicn seven of thei
number were killed Hut nope of the* re
porta were t£ue. Was known o
either the fugiUTcs ur their pursuers unti
about 7 o’drti K yesterday morning, when tin
Salem arrived it our steairiboat wharf, bring
inf with hef the ecboener aad ail (he skr«
1 prisoners, tog other* with Edward Sayree, s
i whit? man, who wm captain of the schooner
and a, person uatuc.l Daniel Drayton, o
w!k» had 'chartered her.
It apj«ars that the Salem discovered th<
schooner (called tl e Pearl) lying in Corufiek
harbor, at the mouth of the Potomac, abou
i ivro o'clock on Monday morning.. The fugi
drives, seventy-seven .in number, were fas
asleep below, and Edward Sayres, the cap
tain, Cheater English, a white boatiaan, am
Daniel Drayton were also below.. The S»
lent being immediately run alongside th*
J Pearl, the Georgetown party almost instanta
neously boarded her, fastened down the hatch
ea, and secured the fugitives and tins whitr
j men on board. The movement was a rapk
and successful one, and all oo board thePeari
were thus made prisoners without bloodshed
although it was evident that the slaves would
have resisted if there had been any chance ol
escape.
On the arrival of the Salem and the
schooner at the steamboat wharf yesterday,
a large number of persons were assembled,
some of w hom used very threatening language
towards the white men who were brought up
prisoners; and if the latter escaped without
serious personal injury, it was owing to the
prudcucC and firmness of the guard by whom
they xverc attended, am! their being quickly
conveyed to jail in a hack, w hich was pressed
into immediate requisition.
We called at the jail yesterday, after the
safe lodgment of the prisoners und the fugi
tives, and we learned from the commitment of
Justice Williams, who went down the Poto
mac in the Salem with the pursuing party,
that Edward Sayres, (’h'stcr English and
Daniel Drayton have been committed foT
further examination on the charge of aiding
slaves to escape from tlmir owners.
Th? fugitives consist of 36 men, 96 women,
and 13 children. They are now all in
prison.
We learn that a final examination of thp
parties now in confinement will take place to
day at 1 o'clock, at the jail, before Justices
Williams and Goddard. National Intelli
gent,tr, 19/A.
The negroes will be sold and sent south.
I have been told that the first man to sell one
of these poor fellows was a distinguished
clergyman of tbis city 1 shall not mention
his name till I try to find out correctly.— Cor
respondence of the Tribune.
From tlie National Era.
Disturbance.
Last Saturday night, we learn, some seventy
or eighty slaves escaped from this place, in a
slo p or schooner, and proceeded down the
river. The fact was not discovered till next
day, when a steamboat was despatched in
pursuit. The fugitives, together with three
white men, who navigated the craft, were
j caught, brought hack, and imprisoned. A
great deal of excitement was the result; and
the cry soon arose among ihe crowd, that the
National Era was the cause of the mischief.
Of course, there is uo truth in this not one
particle, Rut excited men do not inquire or
reason. While we are writing this, at ten
.o’clock at night, a crowd of men and hoys is
collected about the office many stones have
been thrown but ihe police are striving to do
their duty. They may fail; the multitude
i may overpower them but we hope for the
best. We cannot but think that the sober
second thought of the ringleaders in this af
-1 fair will arouse compunction for this violent
assault against the liberty of the press—a lib
j erty in our case which even they dare not say
has been abused.
All we have to say is, xve stand by the
j freedom of the press, whatever the result.
Wednesday morning, d o’clock.—The mob
'dispersed last night about 12 o’clock—thanks
to the efficient conduct of Captain Goddard,
and the rest of the police. The rumor iliai
the office of the National Era was concerned
in the escape of the slaves in fhe Pearl, is ut
terly groundless—-this its originators know,
but they are willing lo use it to inflame popu
lar feqling against our press. Whatever we
do, we do openly. We cherish an instinctive
abhorrence of any movement which would in
volve us in the necessity of couccalmcul, stra
tegy, or trickery of any kind.
No no! We understand this outrage.
It is aimed at the freedom of the press. We
own and edit a paper which is as free as the
winds of heaven. It bows neither to slavery
nor to the mob. We stand upon our rights as
a man, as an American citizen, and will use
these rights iit speaking and writiug freely
upon any subject we please, despite all threats
or violence. It is a damning disgrace, that at
the very moment we are rejoicing with the
people of France at their triumph over a des
pot who undertook to enslave the press, an
attempt should be made to strike down the
freedom of the press in the capital city of this
Republic, in sight of the National Legis
lature.
We are again threatened—the outrage is to
be repeated again, it is said. And for what l
WllSt is our offence Is there a man in this
community whom wc have injured! Hsve
we not boon kind and courteous to all men.
studious of* the propriety which ought to dis
tinguish the discussion of all important ques
tions There is no roan iu this city wUo has
examined our paper tbit finds any’fault with
its tone, style, or temper.
Enough. Wc yield to no violence. We
appeal to the good sense of this community—
aye, and as we said, the sober second thougfn
1 oi ihs infatuated persons who. in a paroxysm
of blind excitement, assailed our press." Ii
1 auinot be that in the nineteenth century, it
i the face of a world struggling f or f ree
thought, fte* 1 speech, free action, and kwhing
|up to tbi* Jh pubitc for examine and en
couragutosat, a free jirces should he put down
by violence in the capital cuy «f this Re
j public.

f Samuel li*oo*>\—lt 1* a long inns MMe
wc had a note from this devoted friend of Um
slave. We hope bis how yet abides is
j M'cngth; that be is stiU m the noble service,
resdy, able, and determined to work for tbs
good cause, while life shall bo voudutafed to
him. Never were hi* services more needed
ihsn now. We long to see him again in the
field, leading on jest such as army as be had
the honor to marshal last summer. We won
to see northern Ohio agitated as he eae do it,
with faithful men good and true. If we do
net bear Irian him/ww, wc shall call louder
before lung.
Tin ArtHknif Mnrfsri
to tie Strain* far
ig^p^tant
tor, with tie n— JouaMkltu
Low ell, as Corresponding Editor.
1 Mi. l»weU‘s osimbvuoes will be weekly.
aa«l over kit own initial*.
Emnrso Qtriwcr. whose letter* from Bos
km are already knows to. awl appisrjaiqd kjr
our readers, wilf ewrtinac our regular Atfm
CWrcflMedbrt. A letter from him will be
t PTWBBWI crctj
r Oar Dublin Conemooleat, B. Wk*»,
will teep tw informed of the condition ot
r Ireland, sod the state of Europe generally,
„!«s heretofore, by regular commuaicatioti*,
twice each ewMh.
We bare the promise, also, of occtsirertd
letter* from two well known friend* of the
cause, who will leave this country on the
first of Jane, (or Europe.
With tmeh a Hat of regular fontributart to
ira columns, in addition to theoe who favor uc
i w»th ocension.il oornm unicat ion*, we at eonfi
deat that the Standard will be worthy of, and
we trust will receive, the hearty support ol
every friend of the American Anti-Slavery
j-| Sori«*fy. We are certainly speaking within
bounds, when we say, that no volume, siner
its establishment, has been commenced undei
more favorable auspices. The engagement
!of Mr. Eiwcll, whose reputation aa a poet,
_ j and a reviewer, is secoud to no other in this
country, we esteem as a most fortunate on*
for the paper and the cause which it advo
cates. And it is net improper to say here,
that the frequent quotations which are ma<k
i from the letters of out Boston and Dublin cor
j rensmndento, are the beet proof of the esteem
i in which they are held by ear oontemporviei
of the press.
Two years since, the price of the Stand
ard was put at 1 per annum, in the hope ol
an increased circulation. The success of the
experiment has not been such as to justify, in
.1 the opinion of the Committee, the eontinutUon
i of these terms, in view of the increased ex
j |>enditure involved in the new arrangement,
i The subscription-price, therefore, will be
j raised, at the. commencement of the new vol
ume, to its former rate of two dollars per
annum payable in adv.tnce. The new ar
-1 rangentent commences immediately, hut the
price will not be raised till the Ist of June.
All subscribers who have already paid in ad-
I vanoe for the next volume, will receive the
paper, till the close of their year at the old
price. All whose year commences before the
j close of the present volume, and who pay be
fore the change is made, will receive the paper
I to the close of their year, at 1 per annum
j But ail who do not pay before the Ist of June,
whose subscription commences at that time.
and have not already paid, will pay the new
j price of 2 per annum.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, APRIL 28, 1&18.
France.
AJI eyes continue fixed upon France and
I her infant republic, the offspring of liei
recent revolution. The voluminous news
i from that quarter do not satisfy, so much as
strengthen curiosity. The more we know,
the more we want to know, and the Wore
need we have of knowing. Thanks to steam
navigation ahd electric wires, we may almost
i hear the words uttered, and s„*c the deeds
1 done, as they transpire. A revolution now
cannot be confined to the place or the peojrie
where it may commence, but flashes witfc
lightning speed from heart to heart, from land
to land, till it has traversed the globe, com
pelling all the members of our common bro
therhood at once, to pass judgment uj>on its
j merits. The revolution of France, like
bolt of living thunder, has aroused the world
from its stupor. All are up and inspecting
the scene. Various are the views, and mill
i gled are the emotions which it has created
The despots of Europe—the Tories of Eng
land, and the slaveholders of America, ari
i
astonished, confused, and terrified; while itu
1 humble poor, the toil-worn laborer, the op
pressed and plundered, the world around
have heard with exultation the glorious peal
and are looking forward with ardent hopes tt
the glorious results of which this event is bu
I the commencement.
I Simultaneously with the fall and crash o
royalty in France, a terrible noise rung oui
from the galling chains of fettered millions h
our own Luid, a ray of hope penetrated th<
lowest confines of American slave prisons
imparting firmness of faith to the whip-scarred
slave, and fear and trembling to the guihj
slaveholder. The pent-up fires of freedon
still live, and though bound dowu by tbt
strata of tyranny for ages, the sovereign ele
ment will burst all fettets. Thank God fen
the event Slavery cannot always reign.
We occasionally see in our exclumges sur
prise and mortification expressed that few 01
no demonstrations of sympathy with France
are held in the various parts of oar widdj
extended country. Wc would most respect
fully ask, What sympathy have freemen wit!
tyrants How can the latter congratulate
the former! What concord has hypocritica
piety with infidel honesty? How cap t
nation with a manstealer in the presulcutia
chair, aad manstealers filling every other de
partnunt of the government —a nation tm
corrupt and too mean to be fairly represent**
by any other than a thief and a robber, *ympa
thise with a government which has just com
into existence with the glorious motto
I 44 Liberty—Equality—Fraternity”? and ha
proved its sincerity by taking steps for lb
immediate emancipation of aD its slaves, am
guaranteeing the right of suffrage to all men
independent of all complexion*] distinction
It would be unbecoming us to ejgocd, an
France to accept our sympathy. A nation c
w lute men addressing 44 colored men 44 m
grot*,” as 44 C Miaous, friend*, and brothers,’
ought Dot to expect much, and do not expec
much sympathy from nation which pro
scribes, insults, plunders and enslaves th
black man, in its wry capital. ShouM w
venture into Washington to-morrow, a felon'
doom awaits us for no earthly crime that nr
hare committed, than that we are the ehil
of a white man by a cofeted mother. Whii
we write this, a paper ban keen handed a
containing a detailed account of the aim
aud imprisonment an Washington of seventy
seven sis von, fee an attempt to swops fro*
the bad of slavery to a bod a liberty; aw
for helping these men to recaps, three whit
American citmme are confined in an Amen
ean dungeon. In view of three facts, mm
the overwhelming me, that within fifteei
States of this boasted republic, nearly oae
half of the people are held in the Bias
grievous nod rivalling butdage»«»d that lb
«We Uyopji M|nwiP"Jff JilhT #k
'psSnwfSff
I for cowardice,) to'invjh F«4*l m ‘*h
«Ut« s I T» their l««t I?
tfmpotbt* withTranre her straggles for
s republic.
There are only tfrorisasrsin th» country
who are ia a poritioo sincerely to sympathise
wtth France m her present giorkm straggle
I ia hohalf of liberty, pad these are the qrgfoea
and AhohtMPMnN. *We here eaose »rejoice
of sincerity. AH olhera stand rebuked by
her eoMe example. The American people
do not—cannot sympathise with any great
movement in behalf of freedom, while fifteen
States of the Fnioo are uilhskvery.
It is an incubus upon their spirits—a standing
a constant reproach Jobson**,
when the rotes of Irishmen me wasted, a
slight demonstration can be aaada m behalf at
teponi; and when the Roman CmhoUe into
eoee ia nseded, sympathy meetings ran be
j held fur Pope Pins IX.: but all intelligent
men know, that this is mere sham—the most
misrrabte gammon. The feet is, while Eu
rope is becoming republican, we aie becoming
i despotic; while France is contending for
freedom, we are extending slavery; while
the former are struggling to free the {ness,
j we are by mobs aad penal enact
ments, to fetter it. Whils France is expet
liog tyrants, are are glorifying them, aad
seeking to elevate them to die highest offices.
There is no sympathy that can be called
national, for France, and we ought to be
ashamed to affect it. We believe that Louit
Philippe would be welcomed in Washington
with far more demonstrations of regard than
I Lamartine. We love tyrants and hate free
men.
The Stneben Courier.
Frederick Douglass.—lt will be recol
lected that this colored gentleman, accom
panied by Hathaway and Kcinond, was in this
place some two weeks since, lecturing at
Slavery, and getting subscribers to the Nortl
Star, an Abolition piper published at Roches
ler, of which Douglass is editor. In the lasi
number of this paper, we discover a somewhai
flattering notice of' our village and its inhabit
ants. Among other things, it is alleged thai
we have just completed an elegant Unior
School house—that the blacks have been taxet
equally with the whites for its construction, al
of which is true and that recently a petitior
to exclude the ch Idren of the blacks from al
participation in the benefits of the school, has
been circulated, and numerously signed by
the white inhabitants, which is not true. Nr
such petition lias been circulated or signed by
any one. It is, however, the intention of the
Trustees to exclude from the Union School
—though not from the advantages of a good
and what is more, a free school, the childrer
of the blacks—and these facts were well
known to Mr. Douglass. The State has
wisely made some provision for the education
of the blacks, in places like our own, w here
they arc somewhat numerous, by appropri
ating $72 a year for ihe. support of a school
for their exclusive benefit during six months
of the year, while our village Trustees have
I employed a competent teacher at some $25
j per mouth, and the amount beyond the sura
appropriated bv the state is paid-out of the
village Treasury, so that in fact the blacks oj
this village are schooled at the public ex
pense.
Had Mr. Douglass stated the whole truth
l instead of designedly s uppressing a material
1 portion of it, there would have been less
I occasion for lus crocodile tears, and his fierce
denunciations against the inhabitants ol
Bath.
We do not justify the principle of excluding
colored children from the Uuion School upon
any other ground than mere expediency. We
have lived king enough to take the world as il
i is and things as they exist; and we are fully
satisfied that the admission of negro children
into the Union School, with the whites, would
prove fatal to its prosperity, and the result ol
the experiment of a Union School would be a
complete failifre. 'Die course contemplated
i will undoubtedly be better for all concerned,
No pecuniary injustice has been done or is
premeditated towards the blacks, for tin
I whites pay much more towards the schooling
of their children in a separate school, than
they pay for the building of our School
House.
The denunciation in the same article of one
of our respectable clergymen, as a sell
righteous ruffian,” is an exhibition of taste on
the part of Mr. Doughs*, which shows the
want of an early education.
i It was doubtless necessary for the editoi
to qualify the gentleman with the word
44 colored.” It would have been quite out ol
character to have said, this gentleman.”
The statement pronounced untrue, was made
to us frequently while in Bath, and by persons
j of the first respectability. On their authority
i we made it at several meetings in the {dace,
and solicited a denial, if any could be made.
None was made, and we therefore believed it
true; and our editor will pardon us, if we
Micro that still, his assertion of its untruth
nevertheless. The expression that 44 no pecu
niary injustice will be done to the' colored
citizens of Bath, will be duly appreciated
both by our readers and the colored people
j themselves. The promise from such a quar
ter is not to b 3 relied on. The men that ean
take our money to build school-houses, under
the pretence that th- school-house is for the
common good of all, and then exclude os,
are not the persons in whose promises we
i con confide. 44 No pecuniary injustice” The
1 community that can degrade our children,
1 stamp them with inferiority and unfitness to he
j taught in the same schools with white efaild
rsn, ha* done more positive injury, than any
I pecuniary injustice could infect. Yes; you
j are going lo educate us—going to educate,
and at 44 your own expense.” Wo say foi
ourself, and we believe we speak the senti-
I merits of the colored citisrns of Bath, nfe re
f podiste all chanty schools for our children
j We ask no charities at your hands. 44 Gin
us our rights; we rerfHng more, Lo
L, the white men of Bath do justice, before foot
make a parade of being generous to the eulossc
M people of that place.
The editor of the Courier has “loomed
t that he must take ike world os'ke Jmds
i Tlh sentiment is worthy of all the indolen
I; flood-wood of aoeyty, 44 Dead fish coo flow
down the current.” b takes life, activity
i and a manly courage, to resist passu si evils
and to make the world bettor. That thi
editor is dsaritoio sTthsso yishrira. wo few
i istooevidcwL How maeh of snob msterfal
1 so tint of whflfc be is mods, wooM it how
’tsksnle bring shoot the revolution in Franco 1
The taunt in the feat sentence as worthy ol
the mean quarter fiom whence it cremates.
We have been rubbed Of aa education byths
proscribing, 4 *een»J attempting tn nosh*
•aleeed praam from their jut righto cod
jrrmkfct ip the j|j|i school of
yehhope that Uifpiapfe will show thcteaelvcs
•a If b*for jig their editor, aadf adbiit
oolMi ehildttw, «i equal tense with that*
•m, M»
fhee th» forrgomg wee written, tie hire
refSvtd tttf following letter from a highly
Tcepeciahte otam of Beth, which show s
with whnm fehetefod rests:
r r Be-ra, Sfo Apr*, W4B.
Mb. Fubukk Doctua: Mr Dui Su,
—I noticed, ia the lest number of the Steo
bee Cottier, tn attempt on the port oT its
editor, to invalidate and overthrow the re
marks yon male in rrjrarl to oar Paw
school, charging you with fokehond, ic- 1
therefore seed you the bets, that you may
reply to them iateUigcntly.
v h is true, that a petition has been emeu*
httnd sad wgned by a greet portion of the
1 inhabitants of the district, the object of which
1 wae, to jwyyerf the school by a tax upon all
the property of the district; also to support
a ryarate school for colored childml. These
facts can he substantiated by a large number
of our most respectable inhabitants.
Yours for equal burdens sod equal rights,
s s
Cassius M. Clay.
The biting letter uf this geutlemaa to his
aged nssaesake, is producing considerable
sensation. We shall not be respected of any
j partiality for Mr. Clay when we »y that the
1 attack of Cassius is obviously too bitter and
j malicious to do serious injury to his opponent,
j or to elevate himself in the estimation of his
onsntrymen. r If Mr. Clay was the dishonora
ble knars which Cassius makes him out to
he, even as far beck as ISM, he makes him
j self as great a one, in that, he was striving
j at that very time to persuade ahplitkmists to
rote for him, and place him in what ought to
be the highest office in the gift of .the Ameri
can people. We have no sympathy with
Cassius. He will betray any man, or any
cause. Let him go into obscurity, where he
1 can harm no ouc hut himself.
i
Republican America f
4 As a nation, this country occupiee-in the
eyes of the people of the old world, an en
viable position. Our liberty was long since
achieved wc are free from the yoke of des
j potism, and have a government we would not
change; we seek no fundamental alteration
i of opr constitution. Henceforth this country,
if its laws are wisely administered, will occu
py a higher position in the eyes of the people
i of Europe, than ever before., As the mon
archies w Inch arc in a transition state,
1 modify their forms of government, the nearer
1 i will they approach to that of the United
States, now a model republic, instead of being,
as it was long termed, an experiment.
ITT The above little extract is from the
American of this city. Enviable position”!
Liberty long since achieved No alter
ation of the Constitution 44 Model repub
lic”! This is mere biag, humbug, and
hypocrisy. A model republic with one-sixth
of its people in chains Shame on the lie!
The ten thousand slave whips which daily
plough up the living flesh of American wo
imeu, proclaim the hollow' mockery of our
republican professions. Go learn of France
go and be taught by an infant the first prin
ciples of republicanism, before you utter the
loul lie that our liberty is achieved, and that
this is a model republic.
Fugitive Slaves from Washington.
The delight with which the lecent recap
ture of the slaves who escaped from Wash
ington, is narrated hv the New York Herald
and papers of that stamp, is absolutely
infernal. Our blood chills as we contemplate
the hardness of heart that can tcjoice over ;ut
event so horrible. Seventy-seven souls, God
ereated, Christ-redeemed souls, men, women,
and children, held in a worse than Egyptian
bondage—a bondage, one hour of which is
worse than ages of that which our fathers
rose iu rebellion to oppose, attempt in the
most harmless way possible, without violence
i or injury to any one, to gain their freedom,
of which they have been most unjustly and
wickedly deprived, and are overtaken by a
band of armed menhunters, w ho compel them,
at the musket’s mouth, to surreuder, and
return to their masters ip chains and fetters,
thrown into a slave prison, tn be sold like
blasts in the market; and our grave repub
lican legislators look on and laugh, while the
press becomes merry over the scene! Words
fail us. Shame, eternal shame on such in
fernal conduct! i
Comtmbis, April 15, 1848.
Deae Docclass —1 am now in Columbus,
I the capital of this State. The last letter I
wrote to you was from a settlement some 3
j miles south of Augusta, and being myself
out of the reach of a post office, it was haod
*ed to a person to drop into the nearest office,
which was at Augusta, Carroll county.
Whether or not it has reached you, I cannot
say. My second letter to you, written near
Hanover, was also delivered to a friend for
mailing. I name these matters in order that
should there be a retmmneat ia say corre-
spoodenee, you may know how to account for
‘it; for sometimes our situation, and the tegu
-1 larity of these by-mails are such, that we
1 must sobs the drat opportunity for mailing out
letters.
Sinee I wrote you from Hanover, I have
held meetings in the following pheco: Ontha
evening I wrote ia Hanover, in Augusta, at
the Cyrus Settlement, Shaw's school-house;
Norristown, Carrollton, Leesburg, New Mar
ket, New Athens, and Zanesville, at some of
which places I held several meetings during
the* day and night. In the neighborhood of
Hanover and the Cyrus Settlement, there are
a good number uf colored resuhmls, the most
of whom are new settlors, but all industrious
i taad respectable, the greater part formers, and
j some atechaiuca among them, doing a good
w—i nmrrr*i«iTnr~ sal I mvanahly
t {find that the formers sad mechanics among
>our entered brethren, onrereandthsrerec mil
respect nf their ncighbres that othnra
.Their somabthty in canted nat to a reach
greater extent than possibly could ar would
be the erae muter other unamttsncrs. ha
an uaftqquent occurrence for the entered resi
dents Id reeeire the civilities of tfoair white
oeftra* whde such at
doing thsir interior domestic ttfces, they are
neither noticed ant ttereght «C 1 wish to
hsasaa that amrtetthwa weald sue teas matter
Of dllifiiMii l tatfifciiMtfMbnrf,
ft! Curd county, is thtf nmre Abolhioniard.
|ven Sdto rtfMl tw< wii it. Here
slopped wtfh our afok friend J. W Walker,
who is doing a nfofc with that
atceOflot bu, friend Shelby, also Jacob
MiUisack, and the I* Sous and Piughters oi
Freedom,” a most flourishing and excelleui
Aatr'Sforery Association.
Is Walker’s parlor hang the fidlowing or*
oameets around the walls. 1 give them in
the order in which they hang Rev. O. Scott
Frederick Douglass, Benjamin Lundy, Germ
Smith, Wra. W. Brown, Lucrctia Mott,\V ea
deft Phillips, Branding Sfoves* on the'roast rt
Africa, George Thompson, Hie llutclaiwona,
Abby Kelly Foster, Wm. Lloyd Gwmaon,
The Puritans hanging a eat on Monday kn
lulling n fwt on Sunday! Cassius M. (lay
head downwards.
Such so influence has spread
over the place, that it has-embraced all, 01
nearly so, of the respectable young people ol
the village, who take as much pride iu calling
themselves Abolitionists as they possibly
could of any popular title of the time-serving,
pro-slavery mini*ms of the land. Abolition
with them is fashionabk. It is true there are
some pro-sbveites in the place, but like “be«
without a sting,” they hum, but cannot hurt,
Leesburg is the first and only town that 1
have been in in Ohio, where the miserable
effort at disparagement was not attempted
towards me; if it were, the serpent is so
nearly strangled, that his hissing cannot b«
heard. Thanks, for this, to Walker, Shwlby,
Milliaack, and the Daughters and Sons ol
Freedom, h i» heartily consoling to us way
worn laborers in the cause of humanity, espe
cially those identified with the slave, to find
on entering a place, that instead of b.ring
overburdened and weighed down, our hands
arc held up. To me, it is really cheering.
In Zanesville, I lectured to our colored
brethren, they aloue appearing to take an ac
tive interest in the anti-slaveiy effort. I held
two meetings, and though there is quite a
large population of them, 1 regret to say,
that the young people do not present that
promising feature, the foreboding of elevation,
of useful and respectable attainments that it
so desirable. The elder among the people,
appear to hold their own there licing some
few mechanics, business-men and farmers ;u
and about the place, who have continued
steadily forward but the young men aud wo
men generally do not appear to iia\e an am
bition above a private-house, hotel-table, oi
body servaut! The old may do, but if tbt
young come not up with superior advantages
j according to the superior opportunities, ad
1 vantages or qualifications ade*piate to the do
i mands of future society and posterity, wlion
they arc to head as leaders and advisers, wi
must sink inevitably down into buibarism am
J obscurity, worse by far, if possible, than tin
j present. The thought is enough almost U
arouse our sepulchrefffathers aud mother
from their oriental catecouTbw! There are u
course two or three exceptions on the part o
the young men, which we cheerfully make
j but do not know of tine among the young
women. If in this wo are wrong, thankful!}
and gladly will wo receive correction.
At Shaw 's school-house, iu the Cyrus Set
tlement, I had the worst and only disorder]}
meeting of any that I have as yet held in
this State, although a professedly Quakei
Settlement.” It is true, that so far ns the
aged who were present were concerned, they
were respectful and attentive; but the bids,
girls and youth, being by far the majority,
showed neither respect for ihe speaker, thoit
parents, nor regard for the slave. Certainly
their parents must hare felt the keen rebuke
giveu them !»v these ill-behaved youth, far the
lack of good breeding manifested by lb *m.—
Several of the old persons endeavored to re
prove them, but iheir admonitions were ridi
culed. It is but just to state, that the h- td -rs
of this conduct were a certain Robert Shaw,
a man of family and a famr r, also a colored
mau by the name of McPherson both, el
coarse, rank pro-slavery. The conduct ol
these men, especially the man Shaw, was in
sulting. Yoke these two colo-td and white
wretches together, as the enemies of mail's
best interests, and lash them naked through
the world.”
There are a large number of respectable
and well-doing colored people in Columbus,
i some (piite wealthy, among whom are many
good mechanics, who find constant emp! y
ntent aud plenty to do. Several are proprie
tors of business, and others find no difficulty
in getting employment among their while
fellow-citizens. The most prominent of these
tradesmen arc shoe makers, carpenters, paint
’ere, of whom there is a very large number,
plasterers, bricklayers, and several other*.—
There are mauy owners of real estate in this
city, decidedly wore for the size of the place
and number of the people, than any place i
have ever yet visited. These things tqeak
well for the spirit and industry of the colored
Columbians, and I have keen thus explicit in
naming them, because, in my judgment, they
are among the essential means by which, as a
nominally free but oppressed people, we are
to be elevated. We rmut become mechanics
—wc most become tradesmen —we must be
come farmers—we must be educated if w e ever
expect to become elevated, even after we have
1 gained our liberty. I ds nut desire it to l*
thought that I look upon these things as es
sential to foerty and freedom as such, as
fundamental basis, but 1 wish to be distinctly
understood when 1 repeat that they are eaten
lia) to elevation. Whatever is necessary for
others, is necessary for us. These things are
1 accessary for the elevation of others,
they are necessary for our elevatioo. 1 would
that our people could lie made sensible ol
three fools, and fewer «f them would be found
in the domestic departments of hotels and
private fowiltre, an a matter of choice, than
these am* are.
1 shwdd have mated that there mo a as*
bar of possums in fens city who own good
(anas in theeooatrf.
The cause of education among them is ikx
so feroasd as 1 coold wish, hot they ace gen
erally mtettfsat, having two or three good
crmmwm reboots, snpprered ready hy them
•afore, foe edaws previsions of the infernal
MaeMaw* prfottalfcg a large portion of tht
colored children feocn a port irepat too in thi
haanlii of the Blale school fund, ao pcuvided
hy law. The km msaine of iho Uyiskirre
■redo a kkd of ptreimaa, phieh m ao pee
VMHfofo #Wrere Ift Wen njim.. Lt I m
vismwHre WWW BldH WWifi mm* vwvwJUCIPM
foal foe dose agaisat foe coJo.rd fo
years. The act provide* that where
ere less than twenty colored children in an?
school district, they may enter th<? mu:.*
school hr that district with the %h:** eh:J.!rf n
enjoying all the privilege* of the school, p
Tided there is no objection or» the par: of *r,y
white tax-payer, or any person send.ng IA
children to the saiwr acliool f In a wo?d
there must be an uiiammious consent of a .j
tho tax-payers and parents who send children
in that district, before a colored child can bj
permitted to go. In all cast s whore ther are
over twenty colored children, they rr.tn it
a separate school, with their own directors
and teachers, when the Pint? will allow to ha
appropriated the amount of school lax d
ion tho number of colored reside*.is ui ibatci*.
tnct to said colored school, which assessment,
I hare learned on unpnrf, in the senooi dj.*-
jltfct h> the State, wdl he snfScicni for the
education of one dozen of children one
quarter
With the present prejudices of the whites,
according to this act of the Legislature t.f
Ohio, cannot every one ace that no colored
children will ever be educated in the common
schools of Ohio The tendency of the act
is to deceive, the common people, and lull ho
an indifference the colored people thcmsclvo,
land the friends of freedom at. A equal rights,
i by inducing them to b« lieve that equal justue
had been done to the colored people, la t
their acts of Wtckcdnca* and despotism b»*
exposed upon the house top, until they shall
learn to respect the rights of man, and ad
minister equal and even-handed justice US
ail.
The females among tlie colored people,
also manv. are doing their raft. There are
two teachers, and many seamstresses among
them, who make their livelihood by their pro
fession. This also is praiseworthy. Tho
population of Columbus is lb,ooo souls col
ored 1,000, or one-tenth of the whole city.—
Anti-Slavery appears to be at low tide here,
except among the colored people, and even
some of them are pro-slavery. This, however,
in the main, 1 look upon as more the effects of
ignorance than wickedness. They require
anti-slavery light doubtless.
Mondiy, ApHI 17th. A'isited th#* Blind
Asylum; Supcrintendant, Mr. McMiMen.—
This gentleman has recently taken charge of
the institution, auu is quite polite. The in
mates number OH pnpils—young w omen and
men, lads and lasses. Among them, at.d de
cidedly the lu.i st attractive and intelligent, is
Lucinda Shaw, from Pickaway county. She
acted as my gaule and conductur, (this being
her office,) taking me through all jr.rt? *:f ll
Asylum, showing me everything eot.net U.A
with it. AV.e would scarcely believe with
what facility she trips from tomii.io room, ami
apuitmeu; to apaitmeut, tolling to a cettuii.ty
I what is curried "on here and what iheie, joii.t
,ving out the* different articles, distinguishing
ilieir quality, aud naming their prices. \Y|,*-.i
ascending or descending a stairway, especially
j- the latter, 1 invariably fund myself tar mil's-
Tear, and her waiting at the threshla.M fi r n-v
arrival She sang for my entertain!! cut, at <1
plavcd sweetly upon tho piano. Hu r-iciig
wns painfully diet live—- her fist air I m g il
HoM>butl,” sonic of tic words if whim
lamented its being nq cd in the Lut!,’* ci
ir. as it did at the instant of the reception of
1 the intelligence of the death of r.iv ihur liu.e
j daughter, appeared like piercing uiv heart
with a goU’tu s| ear, or riddin g my breast
with prawns stem s It seemed isil 11 h
the innocent and unconscious young I.ucir.da,
seh-ctod that song intentionally, it v\: j an
fully singt.lar hi w 1 enjoyed it. Iwi itlilih t
she had sut g it again, and yet i would
that she had not sung it at all. The ii.st:lr
tion is wrell-ronducted, wi-11-fi.niishi d aid
handsome the pupils all well dro-n!. lc:-.u
and cheerful. L\ tv. batmer the other ruei' s
of tins institution, the jo< r blind color- d
youth can find no sympathy there.
This evening, delivered a lecture bofuie u
institution of colojed ladies an,l gentlemen.—
Tn-umirow tuning to lecture in tl.o Colored
.M. llodist Church.
Tuesday evenirg, April 18th, Ic-cUned in
i the colored M.-thodist Church, to a toleiahlo
audience, There is wane pro-s’au ry among
1 the colored tuple nere, apd, 1 am fearful, not
the best of union. But of this I may j rohably
1 speak again. I leave for irclevillc and Chi-
I lecofhe.
Vouis for Cod and humanity,
M. IL I).
j P. B.—There has been a fall of snow, and
a cold north-westerly winterly blast. Great
fears for the fruit.
M. R. V.
I “iLLVHTitAiicss or American Slavery.”
—This is the expressive title of a small sheet
j issued monthly from 5 SununcrhiU Grove,
I Newcastle-upon-Tyne. England, made up of
(facts aud statements selected tic m A memoirs
.newspapers. The purpose of us yebWaiiou
is, to supply the Btnkut press with so easy
mode of keeping the subject of slavery before
the British public. *S«*ne eighty newiqiaper
conductors had expressed their willingness to
copy lrrnn its columns, before we left Eng
land. A\ e deem it an important instrutnen
lality. Let slaveholders at the South, ar«l
pro-slavery men at the North, know tliat their
<beds are not bid, but proclaimed upon tho
ho use-top*. We commend the recent re
capture #f slaves in Washington, aiimiltaoo
ouaiy with onr sympathy with France, to
the British purees. Let the damning deed go
round.
lit Ttmxso* Family.—W« hate just re
ceived a letter from two members of this
swert-singing faintly, suggesting the propriety
of holding in New York, some time during
the at nirersarirs in May, a grand sjmpathv
meeting with France, at which the tree
fqends of fm-doro may utter themselves freely
.and without reserve on th« great subject of
t human rights. In o»u view, s«h a meeting,
j were there freedom enough leA us to buhl it,
(mould be of groat value; and we hope, at
tea*, that it wiH he attempted. We shall
try to he there. The Hwichiaato family •om»
heck from Washington whh their hmrur of
siavwy deepened, and their determination t*
battle for enwmei potion revived and increased.
jThey will be at the sympathy meeting, should
tt be held.
My Dear $750 I saw it recently stated in some paper, that the land of Ireland was owned by 23,000 land-holders, and l propose
to draw a comparison bet warn land nxmop
in Ireland and the I n.led Stave*. In lookiei
rtrrr the tart* and figures, I find the folio*
inf result*:
Ireland ha* 32.000 fcjnare mile* and 23,001
owners, giving to e;,ch, one and a third *qnan
miles, tl las 20.000,000 acres, which give* earl
landlord a fraction less than 000 acres. Thi
Slave States of the l etted Suite*, have abmi
727,000 {uale miles of territory and a bow
300,000 slave-holders, which give* each ovei
two square mile*. They have about 5U0.000,
OOOof arms, which gives each slave-holder ore:
1,500 acres.
I have not calculat *d fractions in this esti
mate, but have given w hat i» very nearly tin
fact* in fractions. Making all allowance fei
the fact, that there may be tn the slave StaUJ
some small land-holder* —say 200,000, yet w 1
havr an aggregate amount of land in cad
tyrant’s hands of over 1000 acres. The vas
mass of land in those States, must of neeessi
tv Ik* in the hands of the slave-holders.
The slave Stales have about 8,000,0000 o
population scattered over this area of land
the States Constitutions of most if not all iht
slave State*, render it just about impossible
for any thing but a large slave-holder and
land-holder to reach their local legislatures;
this is a well known and undeniable fact, and
what is the result up»n our 1\ S. Senate?—
Tbcso legislatures appoint these Senators, and
Hence we have one-half or more of that august
dignified body, made up of actual slave
holders—in fact none but a slave-holder has
a s;at in that body The United
States Constitution first makes a league w ith
these in an holders, and authorize* them to ap
point two Senators to the 1 S. Senate —their
local ktgislatures are the appointing body; this
body is so constructed by the Stale legislature,
the appointing b.*dv, tint none but a slave
led 1 *r can find bis way thith r.
Wat: giv -s istenec to tli U. S. Senate?
Min V. S. Constitution. Wiio authorizes the
Slate Jatgislatures ol slave States, to appoint
Senator* to Congress? The 1 S. oust it ut ion.
What are those State Legislatures Slave
holding Isidi :s and uotliiug else. hat is
llie V. S. S rate A pro-slavery slave-hold
ing bud c, in ide up of over one half actual
slave-holder* and the other half pro-slavery
insu, with tar exceptions. W ho, then is ro-
tor this pro-slavery charnel *r of this
vital branch of th •g *n ‘ral government Tlu*
Constitution plainly, for here it has its origin
—tilts i* Us father. Well, how is ir with the
Hous of !l ‘presentatives 1 This body origin
ates in the I", S. Constitution, but is begotten
in a diifer *ut way. This political beast with
s ‘veil hea ls and ten horns aud fifteen tails, is
produced by th J direct cogitations of the Con
stitution with the people; and liovv does it
1 sill politieallv when born? Why from the'
know i slave-holding cli trader of its father,
with that politi a! renegade tin* North lor n
loolli 'r it co:ti to light, and lo one-half ol
tli? child his a Ido it ed face and lowdy mien,
an I h dds in its light ln:i 1 a huge hull v\ hip,
wielihn j it \vit!i good e.Tect over the other
li ill* which is a paralytic, pale or purple in the
fiee crying out with cholic at every move ol
the other half: in plain language, this body is
compos 'd of one-half slave-holders trom the
.South a,id the oth t lia'.f dough-face political
gamblers, with here and th ‘r: an exception,
cringing, smitten with le.ir and trembling :it
every crack of th driver's whip—destitute
of even an mi n t siui dd as f vitalit y to nnpe'.
its blou oi give it on b 'ultby j ulsatum ol
political lit
At this point, friend Douglass, I wish to
paus- and ask what is this 4 slave power oi
v\ liich vve hear so inneh I is it an entity or not'
lias it any tangibility, or is it some ghost or
spirit from the vasty deep 1 summoned op
hv the hysterical fears of Northern fanatics
and sent out to vex and hi mss tin nation
or is it a being with political powers, having
•a vigorous vitality with a black heart healing
in its boso.il, sending streams ol withering
.death and consuming |K?sti!ciice into every
*veiii and artery of the body politic, leaving
rottenness in every bone, tainting every
muscle, paralysing every nerve, smiting the
lungs with fever, and tliebraiu with congestion,
rotting the skin with burning blains and dis
solving the w hole mass with a pestiferous pu
trescence, sloughing gangrene and fetid ulccrs r
Kilter if you will the District of Columbia,
and wend your way to the Capitol, entet the
hall of Representatives tmd there you will find
a body which you tnay call the lower extremi
ties of the slave powerenter the other
end of the Capitol and in the Senate Chamber
y >u w ill find a body of men you may call the
body, stomach, lungs and heart of tlii* “slave
power"—into another corner of the Capitol,
you will find the President acting the part of
head and brains, and w ill tothe w hole. From
this trinity in crime and infamy issue all the
slave acts of the nation, all the laws which
weigh down the slave in his chains and render
lus dungeon a den of despair. From these
three powers go forth other foul spirits,infest
ing like so many locusts, every foreign court
crying in the ears of Kings, and Queens, and
Kmperors, tobacco cotton sugar! and
rice!—From these bodies comes the judicial
court*, bending and warping all law to the
sule of vv rong and pressing the life-blood
tho heart of the poor slave.—Front these issue
our arum> commanding to kill and smiting
commerce unit decay, eating out the fruits of
industry, giving intellectual light mid moral
death lo 300,0000 f men holding the church in
its grasp, sending her ow n |*eople in a mass to
adestioyofignoiar.ee, stupidity and barbar
m-ti. mid au m hurt lance of infamy aud shams.
Thi* slave power" standing with ouefoot
«n the land aud the othnr on the nock of your
truther*, and b:r hand* fast clutching the
throat of the North, wields at its w ill the
rbu/ch and the stair; tire purse and the sword.
It can never be said, that our Constitution gives
no sanction to slavery till it is shown that it
doc* not organize the government under which.
\ru live, till it shown that Congress does
not originate in it—till it is shown that the
President i* not the legitimate executive under
it, in fact until it is shown that the political
•duvto-holJing influence of the land monopolist*
of the South, put forth through the three
bxauctioof our government, dot* not have it
origin in fhis terj same Coontitutkn *hid
tubers them bio pehttrel Wtttf.
Your* for men and had,
B. w. fnCRMDNm
Tire Model Bepnhttr.
Kp.ie.vo Dot cl.*« 1 dipped the follow
in* sod Mining article from The Troy D*i!\
Pm/,* paper that is col at all back ward a
Advocating the clausa of humanity. The an
tide will not be wry extensively coped I pro
Ma- In the duugh-foce portioo of the press,
who are patiently waiting to receive the
I crumb* from Slavery's table
A STaixc m« Farm©* Foiled.—A re
suit of tlic grand pympsthv meeting, got up
in WnsMngtnn, to’ glory in the suecota of
ItnpiMicaniom in France, with the fine speech
i* at tb in, in fovor of the rights of man, ap
pear* to have been, to lend a number of slaves,
ivh t w *rv probably !ist<»«ra, to think that they
ton were to share in the glorious boon of free
dom On Monday, from GO to 70 slaves start
ed for the free States, hot were pursued and
overtaken, and will probably be sold to Lou
isiana and Mississippi traders, doomed, mem*
hers of Christian churches though they proba
bly m >stly are, to the perfect honors of alar©-
r .v-
The friends of a free ptea in France, as
fumbled in mobocratic bands to destroy the
oils of the National Era, the Anti-Slavery
paper published in Washington, ami wen
w ith difficulty prevented from accomplishing
j thetr di-moiiish designs.
This mob was composed oflhe anli-Wilmoi
Proviso democracy. This reign of terror al
the Capitol is a doomed tiling, and unless the
outbreak is tenderly handled, will only tend to
defeat the aims of the victors.
Is not the u liole affair a shameful thing to
send back to the disenthralled serfs of Europe,
from the Capitol of (he I'nited States A
moh in Ihe presence of the National Legisla
ture, (of this mode) republic) and probably
excited and led on by many of its members,
avsr nibling to tear down the only press in the
Capitol that dare to advocate the cause of the
slave at home, and rip* for executing, on the
spot by Lynch law, any connected with the
unfortunate slaves in their attempts to escape
from ih *ir lionds.
The French with noble consistency, have
abolish ;d slavery in all their colonies and
when the accounts of the American vengeance,
dealt out on tlie actors of this attempt to be
freemen, shall reach them, they may well
with their National shrug exclaim, in the lan
guage of the glorious Madame Roland, when
about to submit her neck to the axe of the
sanguinary Republican, Robespierre—“ Oh
liberty! what crimes are committed in thy
name!’’
Since writing the above, the arrival of the
Steamer Duchess of Orleans, with intelligence
•hat another Republic is burn in Europe,
Prussia has throw if ofT her King that
Poland is striking for Freedom, encourages
the belief that soon, Moscow in Russia, and
Washington in the I'nited .States, will be the
only national capi ols that can furnish a mob
in destroy a free pres* and that the only vic
tory against human liberty this year is in our
national capital, over sixty negroes. It is in
/tunes of such disgraceful occurrences that the
death of Freedom's boldest champion, John
Qiiiney Adams, is ti-it to he truly a national
calamity.
'1 he attempted exodus of these poor breth
ren was utiiortunate. They ought to have
been better prepared. (hie good cannon, well
managed, would have crippled a dozen steam
ers. If white men were to undertake to run
away from human blood-houuds, they see to
it, that tin* Telegraph wires were cut the dis
tance ot every fen miles in the direction of
their bight. More than this thrv would do
'-hey w ould pull up the rails of the rail-roads,
and stop the speed of the iron horses. Do
you think friend Douglass, it w ould be an un
pardonable sin ibr slaves to do the same?
The correspondent of The Aitc York Tri
lunr informs us, that one of the chivalrous
sons ot the city of George Washington, broke
through the crowd and unde a plunge at the
'upturn, who was bound m Republican chains,
and marly severed his ear. What a graceless
ti-ig! Even barbarity itself was ashamed of
the deed—meanness said it was mean, and
Hell blushed to the neck. A minister, proba
bly ill Rev. Ct Ai iAH Brown, was the first
to sell bis man. Great God! what cruelty—
w hat ueviiism W e have many such minis
ters. They talk about ihe gospel—thev make
long prayers—they lift up their hands to hea
ven. and repeat the Golden Rule. Louis
Rhiiippc laughs at this—Mettcmicli opens his
eyes, ami Nicholas shrugs his shoulders and
says that this is rascality among rascals, and
intolerable hypocrisy among hvpocrits.
HENRY H.’ GARNET.
SAVINGS HANK.
The letter in to-Jay’s paper, sicneJ 11. O.
Waggoner, we take from the North Star,
published in Rochester, New York, and ed
ited by Frederick Douglass—a colored man,
whose name has already become familiar to
tli? general reader. The author of the letter
is a mulatto now residing in this city, who
lias at times assisted as a compositor in our
office, and from Ins unassuming manner, and
regular habits, has commanded the esteem of
all his co-laborers. \Ye do not, however, in
sert the letter merely to exhibit the ability of
ot colored man to get up a letter worthy of
publication, but we do it more for the very
excellent advice it gives to the colored popu
lation, in both their public and domestic econ
omy, and as worthy ot consideration by the
wonting portion ot the white population, who
determine to rise in the world by industry and
frugality.
Wagjpnar** p i an j s practicable, and, if
carried into offset, would be the sure means of
improving the condition of hi* race—who, by
the way, so far as relates to those in this city,
are very generally sober, industrious and very
useful citizens, in the various occupations in
which they are engaged.
The plan is no more nor less thin a Sa
vings Hank—and there an? none in this city
who could not, by a little eff»rt, pay in the
instalments prupoited by him, and in a few
years would amount to a sum that would be
ample to accomplish some great and useful re
sult. Money begets money. A disposition
for economy and frugality become strength
aned by practice. We hope Mr. Waggoner
>»ili stimulate bis colored brethren to make a
beginning, even if it is at first a small one,
upon this project. If they are coouselled by
»n experienced financier in appropriating their
funds, and an upright and honest lawyer, tq
taking securities,the results will astonish U,eiti
in a few vears.
And while we are upon this subject, we
would particularly eomine id this letter of Mr
Waggoner's to ihe careful [lerusai of all the
editors of the Democrat and Tnbtme, of thu
city —in whose voluminous essays upon fi
nanciering, in their columns, there cannot be
found aa much real, practical common sense u
is contained in this one letter.
The plan is practicable, and cannot but
succeed if'officers and attorneys aro ritelligenl
and honest. These they can find Obaw
Adotruur.
Manumission.—We learn front die Lynch,
burgh Yirgtuua, that Captain John Warwick,
of Amherst county, who died a few ye*o
since, manumitted by his will all hfe servant*
numbering between 70 and He hat
made ample prevision for their removal
outfit and settlement in one of the Weston
fStntCS.
CostiiMl tMMMtftaa ftp frapii.
ITar toww ftanffnaa and l>iim IMJOO ftm
mam At Pohtk Jhamitr—Pradamahom tkt
Eatptnr tf g.i. Tmmmtm*', rrpty to At kiak
tcm m lf*dhd Gram Em
dumat m Eagtomt mad bdamd—CkartUt W
atratim farbtddta if f*nrruw<a| Omwfn pradm
autma ft. ft.
The omaMMioa M the emtmcat of
Eamp* cone vm increasing. IV imeltigeara
re peating (be into rection io L»mhsrdy bar hr*.
I control ed, with (V- fan her taborted Vat* re ibai
(he K>ng at Sardinia, ot the bead of an e»a»y ot
30.(MM1 iroot a, crowed from lb* Piedinou.ere trrr
'o«y iitio Lombardy, fcsa eg aa hr paawd ihr
tromeis, a f final declaration of war im
A«* ria, defeated ot ev*ry point, fl-d aa kc ap
l road bed, and having been sarceinivety dtiaeo
front Paoma and P.rraei, and Dut'e> tin, eadrav
t>»ed 10 establish tbeawelvra on tbr MmmNo.
If I« Uid lhai a disposable force will be abort!)
at the command f Chari*a Allan, of m t |r«
•h*n 25u f’liO Wth *oet a army, not only w»
all Lomoardp be liberated, be Anatria nap b.
threatened, even at the gate* of Vienna,
The Italian Dtichtee have ba-at oai into open
inrnrmii n. Modena and Parma are revola
tionixrd, and Veniee, bich baa been dying daily
a«nce the la»l 18th of Jannary, 1798, now jna>
half a ermary, when the Anatriana took pnnaraa
on ol ol that ci y m vir us ol the uea*y of Cam
po Formolo, again ahvwa signs of life.
The Lyona Gazette of the 4 h ctvea the follow
mg under date ol Ctnmboirg, 3la<:
"Savoy will to trortow consulate Merlf g pe
public. A proviaional government will be eon
airoeted, and the r* public of S**i»y pr< claimed
The country w.ll be immrdiatriy con volt rd lode
cide on its political condition. There ia in thi*
no hostility to the King, *bo bar given never)
liberal mentations a thing of disa&cti. n to >h
F.tnch r public, lor which we preserve no* eym
pa'.hire nothing, 111 ihori, which pirjubicrf an;
cotrwr."
1 h:< intelligence ia, howevei, doubtful, and i
not confirmed by lettergjroni Lyons of the earn
date.
The Mdaneee have sent an addrre* to Pmr
IX, in which they ascribe to the Pontiff all th*
Honor of ibe emancipation of Italy.
In S cily, the Sicilian Parliament ir crn«iitu(ed,
and the separation of the island from Naples i>
complete. Ii is generally believed that the Km*
ol Naples has altogether abdicated bis right over
6 icily.
In Austria proper every thing seems disrrgan
zed; and amtcet the chaotic contatmn uhtcl
prevailed, ii ts quite impossible to fix the boarly
hanging ecene. It ia anticipated tint the .vua*
nan Gmeial, Radrtaky, who i» afraid to eniet
Mantua, lor want of piov sions, will be compelled
to capnulate upon the appearance of the Sardtn
tan troop*.
The Viceroy of the Emperor ol Austria, wbo
fled Irom Aulan, was at Bo.z*n, a town of the
G rman Tyrol, on the 29th uit, waiting the issue
ol evetn*
In Piuasia, after the bloody scenes which took
place in Berlin, the king has put himself at the
load ol ibe Griman tonlederaiion,and prom see
txienaive const nut tonal reforms. At (he same
nine he has plunged headlong into a dispute wi h
the Danes, respecting ibe long cun tested affair ol
the Din bn ol Ho a<ein aoJ Schleswig, which by
fore*, lie teem* re* dved to detach from D mnart*;
on ilie other I and, he i* exasperating the autocrat
ol kumia to the nigheai b uuds of passion. b>
encouraging lb* Pn.ea to erret an independent
governmeii l in the Duchy of Posen
It ia rumored that Cossacks have sud
denly a) peared at Tilst and in tne slate ol ex
citement in winch ilie Emperor isat the moment,
shm d the K ng ol Pi us* a water, the coneeqien
cea may be serious. The Emperor himaell i*
vigorous and decided he is Saul to have orderr.
every man in Russian Poland, be wrtn the age,
of la am' 35,iu be removed into ihe interior u.
Uutria Ruraia is concernrating a vast army it
.Southern Russia, which we should deem sufficient
t> crush any attempt to rr«ci a republic in ihai
11 vision ol ‘he «m. ire. The Empeioi hit* t*su> o
iimn.lr-to
it is »t.ied in tire Brest iu Gnzette that 150 000
Uua-iatir me aurally conrrntruted on the Pniivi
Irt.nmu.under the command ol Pa-kiewiteh. Ii
it alfo i< potted iitai 30 0(<0 h«ve suddenly beei
called o he sane iron tier Imm the Caucasus.
Tiie luluiwmg inanilr-tool lb* Emperor ol Ku
i i ha* brru puhi *li*d at S P< ter?i-u:gh, and re
criv>d with Ur greatest euUiu*ia»in:
Alter th«* bnirhu of a long peace, the We*
ol timis itselt, at thta moment, sudd*nl)
gtvtn o.er u peri u< bat ions wnich thieaien with in
ii and otertuow all legal power and the wh«l*
social sjaiern. Inruriectiou and anan by, the i ll
rp ing ol Fiance, *ooh crossed the German fron
tier, aud have eprrad th'inaelvea hi «v* ry d r*c.
turn, with an audacity which has gamed new (me.
m purport ion to the concession* of the government?
I nis devaa atiug plague has at last attacked ou
ad.es, the Empire of Austria and die kmgdo.n oi
P and n- ti»y, :n its blind fury, nie<ac>r
•<ur Russia, li st Russia whxh God h;is confided
to our care, hu> Heaven lorbtd that tb a shout i be.
F-al.ful lo tiie example handed down front ui
ancestors, having hrst invoked the aid of the Out-
B poun l *e are <ei>dy to encoSnler oureneniee
hum whatever s d* they may present ihemarlvee
and wiihout sparing oar own person, we wil.
Know how indissolubly united we a s io oamoly
country, o celetid the honor ol the Ruse.an name
and ihe invincibility of our territory. We are
convinced that e ery Russian, that every one o
our lai hfut aa> will respond with j .y to tb*
call of bis Kjveieign. Oji ai.cient war ery fui
our iaiih, our sovereign, and our country, will
once again lead us on *n ibe path ot vK-toiy’.aaj
then with sentiments of humble praise, as now
with feelings of holy hope,we will all cry with one
vo ee, “God is on our s de." Understand this, ye
people, and auburn, for God is on our a*de.
Given at Si. Peirreburgh, the 14 b day ol
Ma ch, in the yeat ot Grace, 1645, sod toe 23d oi
our reign
A letter ia the Schlsaischer Z nang of the 23 J
alt. eonfirms loimer reprnts ol the cooeratrsttofi
oi a targe nay ol Rusatsa troops dose to the trau
tiera ol Upper and Ljwrr SiU-sia. They con*w
chiefly ot Cossacks and C.rcaeaiana. The same
pap-r also confirms the rumors current oi dutu b
■mcea io ihe Kuasixn part vl Poland, especially at
Warsaw.
In Switzerland a strict neatraliiy seems io be
aimed ai, and the levying of uottpa is di?c<>unie
naneed by the V- rori. Alt the countries on the
rigat bank of the Rhine have been violently con
vulsed. At Baden, VVu/trtnberg, and ibxusjr.
liberal goveramenu have been conceded u# tar
prop e.
Iu Hanover, the triumph of pope pr feeling has
been conipletr, and she is now preparing an ar
my io march in favor ai the German aide of tor
quar rr.
Ail Silesia. Bretlan,and even Lithoanjf, appeal
to be man a tat ming state of c.>nvaiaiou.
In Drnmatk noaciatt hoa iltit be
piac* m regard to the Decfciee which have decia>
rd md* prudence hot the Dears era pfrparini
their fleet for offrUMve and drleaaive opera none;
aud it m in excellent etndtaoa, and would .in
dict incilcutable injury on the Piaea.au co«ameiee
>1 actual war take* place, tbr re ta cu*r> ap mdm«
beattattoo on both md«• as to who shad atiike the
first blow.
In Briflum, a<l attemp a >a averthrow the gov
era me at, or to create dwiarhsacea. haw tail*d
B*i* uni and Holland see comparatively trange I
Ithi* reported that the Tarkmh govemaieat,atider
the iafloenca of the Rnadaa Ambaaaadot, retaaae
to acknowledge the French Republic.
The advices trom Athena state that Ac Greek
ministry had rea gaed. Candueotii lad aaaopaed
the task of funaiaf a me w aahaan.
FRANCE*
In France the Wwozdod In the late re eolation,
rroeivrd la the poW>e haaphalo ofParia, wav 63d
namely. 64J aaro, 14 womaa ;of them ap aa the
I9ih, have heaa dw barged, saved aad boots lea
ce t and IB died. Tham pa w—ta M 3—
346 men and 7 wapra.
The the minister of war baa heaa
very basy aiaae the accaaaaa came of the dm arh
a< can at Twarns, Md a la aa d that the |WM>
r-ed m tha eamrm h*a»waa<*f Fraaae, «a asaheh
I nawarsa whmh dwy axpaas w fattaw iu
Laathaidy ana (ha (cat «4 Italf.
■Hwnoa or tbs nose swot*.
TKffl,
Tto ft* tor— tows tto day fa* to
■rabrasl »to «m >to total
to tefpia *we. topw**ai tto*Uft*a»; »toy
dr
tor addirm «d Ae Iran Ow-4- r
Irirtares taese f*ra-m+i ky Mr ft O C tma«
Jr krnm tttti'l by Mr. <n^rt
Mwel»jr; u 4 Mt
hfawriw sawders A U»- y4l. Tm teANriai
i* M Ist Mamri seplf
Cum tf Vatuxa-If n wqtffe 4 m
p«aU wt At p> ‘Mr pracisma
t*as of ito great dern'erar* principle, tbit new
Ararfaaity MWtnf «to epponaaa an.
*-w, aad dtvidovg *to *rU <t War My. to
(W|» Cbrbrht enaiflMMitf.at As aid tfti 4
ty <4«m<b« pt«f d'h* wanip.tmii -Titu
an tort, IB the Vw4»» a-iy yid IB lh»
eif to repaolieaa Fiance, tad tbs priori drs
»fc*k sntai fr tor, by 'h" *«*«*,U» by the frnr
rioasaftto aatiaas, af Esmpa. We are nat ar
t<».atod to tr*- t« day a drpa Mw% *Btol dead
Ireland |uwt« b>« daeaiy her 4m>Hi*s, tor M t
ter ags tad tor saere»-tal advaaars a (to path a
religious liberty, d »#’7, and of eMfutht'rantl
eqaa tty, with tto **«tor par»« *4 <to (Jibed ft at
doai,hate at all nar« aioved -to»can«f Strap*.
atid aa Bwrb if» day* ago W* ja«. itor de
pataiwn of y a fc-llaw ct'iaras—we totd aa much
to til tto children of that clarions Utr of Eri»
which the a* art I genius of itt inhabitant*. and
rtott iktageveatsef n» hioory, render *fo»Hy
tftoboiieal of (be poetry tod torotoa at tbsaa
itoaa of to aartb R-*> assured, therefor-, that
yoa will aad >a F toce. a ider tto republic, a re
•poaae ts ail the sentiment* which yoa expres*
towards it.
7Vi| yaar fir Haw eittoos that tto asm* ol
friaad m ayaaayatoa* with tf t at me of irhcny
courageously deleaded again* privilege j Aat it
•a one common name la retry Preach citizen
Tell ihe in that (hit reciprocity which the* meohe
—that thia reciprocity which they are asta».
vioaa—the republic will be proud to raitaibtraad
to prae'ree invariably towards tto Irith. Teh
them above all, that tto French repabtic ia not,
and aevrr ill to, an ansiacra'ic republic, in
which liberty ia mrt’y abas dat ito mark of pri
vile«e, <tot a repabtic en.braing the etmt com
mwnity, and wearing to ail the tame right# ano
the tame bene fits. At regard* other eneoartgc*
merits, it v oald nenb-r be expedient far u.r
hr*td them out, nor fU yoa t»receive them. I
htvr ready «xprtaeed the him oommn with ret*
erence to Germany, Belgium and Italy; and I
repeat it w.lh rrh-rer.ee t<> every nation which it
involved in internal disputes, which is ei'tier di
v drd againat itaell, or at variance w.tb i a gov
eminent, where there ia a diffeianee of race—
where nations are alien ia Mood—interna:ion i
not allowable.
We belong to no parry j Q Tre and or elsewhere,
except to that which contenda f*r juj ic .for lib
ery.and fur the bvppin-ss of the I i»h people—an
other party would be acceptab eto m in a lime ot
peace. In the interest and the paratooa of foreign
era, Fiance ia desirous of reserving toraeif free In.
the inamtainance ot the righia of all We area
pea.*, and we are desirous of remajng on yoon
term# ol rq taliiy, not with ih aor that part o
Great Bnci«n, but with Great Britain enirre.—
We believe this peace to to uatfol and honorable,
not only io Greet Britain and the Freheft Repub
lie, but io the human race. We will not comm;
an act, we will not with a word.we will not breath'
an insKgation at varienee with the principles oi
the reciprocal inviolability of natiors, which wt
nave proclaimed, and of which the comment ol
Europe i* already gathering the fruiia, The fal
len monarchy i.ad treaties and dipiouialis’s. Ou
d'plomatism are nationf—our treaties are sympa
thies. We should be insane were we openly t«>
exchange such a diplomacy lor unmeaning and
partial alliances with even ito moat legitimate
parfea in ihe countries wj.hh surround ns
We ate not compel' nt either to judge them or
io piesrr some ot tliem to oibers bv annouoei. g
our pariizaiuthipon the one side we should dectax
ourrrlvea ito enemies of ibe other—we do not
wish to to the enemies of any o* oar leilow coun.
trymen we wi h, on the contraiy, by a (ai hfu
observant s< f the republican pt'daes, to remov.
ail the prrjadices which may mot sally exist be
i ween our tie g bora and ooreetvea. Tr is course.
uowever painful it may to, is ioipn-rd on us in
-he law oi naiiors ns well aa by our hwiorical re
membrances. Dj you know what it was, wludi
most errvrd to iinute Fiance, »nd estrange he.
irom England during ito fir-t Rrpebiic I II waa
he civil war in a pinion ol our territory,supper
•ed, subsisted, and aaeisted hy ,Mr. Pitt ;u wav
he encourag inent t ai'd the arms aiveo <o F.eucti
im»-»i as ner.oc asyourseNea, but Frenchm-n ligh
mg agiinat tl«e<r te.tow citiz-n-; ih i wat no
tionoraide warfare; it was a r«yai:»i pr.pßfin
d aiU/Wag-d won French biooi ugainet ihe re
ounlic. Th a pi>l.i y h not vet, in pile ul all ou. j
.(Tons, entirely t flatted from the memory of tin
nation.
Th s cause ol d *e nsion between G'e-t» Britain
and u<, we will never lenew by fakin' any aim.
lar cm nr. We accept with eratrude the friend
ship ol u.ff-rent nationalists includ d in >he Bn.
i h empire. We ardent y wish tnaijieiiee may
bind and strengthen ihe friendship ot races; ths
qmiity may toemne more and nmre its bieis;
bu>, whne proclaiming wi'h you, wi.h her (Eng
land,) ano wtih all, ito ho y dogma ot Iraicrni.y,
We will perfo'in only ten of brotiierhood, m cun
lormity mour feel ngs towards the l ish nation.
Lama-tine has directed the dismissal of all
the English engineers and strukera employed
in French steamers.
An imme-'ee French army of observation is
in the course of being formed on the whole line
of tire I'alian frontier, from Ihe Mediterran
ean to Switzerland.
The street! ol Paris have lately b?en crow
ded with deputations of patriotic workmen.
g ing to the Hotel de Vile with their offering
hir the hewfit of the republic.
Remonstrances have been addressed to the pro
visional government, by the diplomatic agents of
Belgium, Prussia and Austria, for allowing Bel
gians. Germans and Poles to make public demon,
strations against their respective governments.—
M. Lamartine aaid that the French government
had no intention of interfering against these gov
ernments, bnt that it could- not deprive their sub
jects, ia Paris, of the liberty of freely expressing
their sentiments. With respect to ibe Poles, to
is staled to have boldly declared that French frit
the greatest sympathy for their cause, sod would
not be uuwilhug to aid them to regain their aa*
tionalitr and libertv.
According to Ihe National, the provisional gov
ernment has determined to take possession of the.
railways, by redeeming all the shares at tto price
they bore on the Slat of February.
The following prucbuoatioos and decrees, ia
additioa to those pabhaed to the last European
Times, have been issued by tto provincial gov
tmmen!
The bank of France authorised to discount
bilb haviag tto names ef two panics only—
bat on eoditiua of their toiag oollateraliy ac
es red.
The banks af Lyooe, R* ea, Bordeaux, Nanes,
Lisle Havre, Marseilles. Totdowe aod Oreaus,
to iis• mb nfMCiti Mtii fsnkfr ofdrn*
Ttoir coileotiyo issue* uot to exceed a total of,
102,0(1(1,01)0 irtßca. Tto mid baa »aoitoraed
io isatie 100 frapc-noie-, aad to receive local bill,
which may beto jprd them by tto aauoaal dis
count banka* v
A gaaiiiafy boak to kentoW ia sack lowa
wdteie a qaiinygfd i i book exists, tor tto
purpose of sClptiag tto intermediate to rt y to am
sack banks aad tto traders tto capital of (to
bosks to be raised by
ia bo ease to bo leas thaa macw Each
guaranty bank to fcsve attoetod to it I an
boodrd woretoow for roeetvtag depoaiu ofguoda,
aad oa these deposits tto bask la aapplv tto ad
ditiooal eadors*meats required by law to tto ao
gouabag of tolla through dtoeooot haaka. A
temporary redupuoa, eqwsl to
made ia tto expense of pro-mating tolls, mgisiim
um dues* aad tto eowlamesia attacked to tkaor
Tka pmviaiaßal gowratorat kaetag
ted tto Onraas aadjCwaSMl milway^Ae
ihaae ai tka Orissa* am Ito tfo,
aad those af dhe Owttal aa As WI to; that
the revoaarira af tto m qa**ruriaa to demaadeS
ef tto g sarameto m speed.fy aa toe;
httlmi by »kea fae Ike prior rwanaa a# Aa ngtoa
al Airakaidrri. aad af itord poruow
Ttosattamaat Aag^t- Ttorto kad dedtoed tto
tto pindsA fAftMM to tato ir-
IrSTtam TaTtm «MnaSw
a Iml afpawtokatoftvtdtoMy
fcl*NM»4ll»ll.OlMlNfiM|||«Mlt.
fiwAr»fcr sd* V.tSrv of Ef-dVd
hr n m hr «K*W «v VWiMn TwmU. t
ra»Mkl*lif. Ikiii»
II ntd lift f ia the nan nis
BM jIBUI f tht-gbst* F MltSt,
Pan* fMt, the It* »erwtli firm
Lf— i— i—iimiiiiiiin af in q rt.fr y M
dMItHf. TkflmllWlUlfcWMlltr W«H»»
•1 Qfirl htH.antnttr vnlni, irwniiH ia
Mtver «f the prpoafican CMdrJiiu.
POLAND.
Prtt#* AAn CiififfyA'i nfcff InAff i(
he test f*4 «t» C 4-ges m tn-
JSd.wi’kfir wynltini Tr emwnwmr*
ul >b- Hanni Chromclr on w
ik,k«t JifiriM ft Jie re.'vpi.i* grv-n in ih-
PtHNN" by the —lb—llUtaid |lfriM of At* U-
Cteptb.
SPAIN.
A *>»lw i—>■ tmdtVbe* at Madrid m th*
fwtim vl ibr Mk, At fNptr and th* nfdiefy
fMfiii in the nnrw fna 7 i* «k rva un* gnuf a
nr 4 t'ciock ia dr wwtamc, and a «w« lerubl
nembee wm» dtin a a»'l —dee. TV caaaa
nd l* kr i republican n***wmem and n
*a«i(f Coart martial h *ve brra held
on many «I >hr pctsewr*. ha no ra- cn io”* i«oih
place. Q «*ea Chrstina said to have fir J.—
In the Cui tf et. E-M-iunara, ihc minU'rr, «u sbm
mi »hr Mr Mfh iwrll, an E ictish E i*i
am, billed O the 2th *he city «M dfthtrd
m a auto of Tn*q>ili'f btiMacr nil
td, bat ibr pmvinert art ri riled o an sUnninr
degree. M Oritittnd M. E*cu«s .r« tu*e bo It
Vm arrowed by (f inei
Aa iaamtctioa occurred in Madrid mi th# night
rf the MMh all. A fill bad been farmed la over
throw tbe ministry by nrui of aa ms it ctioo
nr movement, of winch it woe expec.ed lb* mil*
itary would Hava remained passive spectators.—
T7»e lenders of tbe movement having suhseqaent
ly discovered that tbe troops were determined t<
reaiat, countermanded the aiders they had give*
to the people. The bitter, however, who hat
been wrought op to the highest pitch ol excite*
meat, declared that the# were bet eyed, and tbai
hey would fight even wi bout lenders. They sc
cordingly assembled about 6 o’clock a the a er
noon oi the 26th, and commenced erecting barn
cad a, wh'cb were c inpleteJ iu aa lucrediblj
short space of time. The lighting commenceJai
7 o’clock, and continned withoa m er isatno un
til 3 o’doct A. M. when tbe military were s>c
cesaful at all points, and a numha of insd genu
were c piurrd, two bund ed person?, civilians an*-
railitary, are a id to h ve been kille aid a vasi
number wounded. The Queen mother quit Mad
rid daring the disturbance.
Th H raid says the loss of the r- bels exceed.'
150 wounded, and JO killed, alth ugh no ofilcia
detail h a yet been published. The prisoners tc
be tried by the Couucit of War are 246 Th
Council of war haa -ondemned to d ath two o
the pri o era mde on he 26th Th Qne ha
however, pardoned them. Search was made'foi
M Salamanca, wh has eluded the aearch mad<
tor him. The arrest of M sera. O ozaga ant
Mendizabel, was re ortrd, but without founda
tion.
PORTUGAL.
In Portugal matters continue tranquil at pre ear.
the eoitvsoOlient ol the Mniu>**g Cnmmcl*
describes an emhusiasiic but dignified pubic rv
ceptio givi-u to the prince, by the authorities am 4
girri* »n of Aixla Chspelle. Tbe colonel of th.
Ltndwehr was the spokesman. Hr expressed
his pride and the happiness of all at meeting ih*
Polish veteran on Ru can ground. He then cm
traced the Prince in the name of the whole Prus
sian army. The people of Cologne and the au
thorities manifested the greatest del-ghi at th*
sight of him, and the authorities placed a guard
houof at hie hotel. He issued an ad Ires* pro
claiming Poland to be free, unprivileged and dem
•crane, and departed for P sen. The same wn
ersiys that in tor jo irney by tailway pr**cea-uon
o tbe churches were noticed in all parts of th»'
ronntry. The whole of ihe persons employe,
•n the itdways were armed w>tb swords and
ouskets.
ENGLAND AND IREL \ND.
In England and I.eland -be greatest excitement
rxists.
Lord John Russell repented, in the House o
Commons on M mday last, hi* previous dectan
ton, that the whole weight of the eovrrnmen
hituid be applied n the maintenance ol urder,»n:-
o put down d •ifF'ction and rebel),on. At ih
'•nt* time b»o kmiship expressed the sincere de
»>re of both his colleague*, and Lord Clarendon
•peciuliy, to listen to complaint*, and to apply
mu* dy or alhv.aiion to any distresses or evil*
•vimh xis’.
The accounts from Ireland are mt r* mrnacink
hin ever. Toe stnden** in Trinity College ar*
rmiitg in defence of the government, and the
nember* of the R.»y*| Duaiin Society are follow
heir txa np
Additional troops have arriv-d from Eigimd.j,
The repOilero in ihe city are **q nllv energetic,
ind aie warmly supported thepmviu
S.
At a meeting held in K Ikenny, foar delegner
isd bmi sppomte t *o tbe council ol JDO, admit
edly m drfinice of the law. The Mayor and
iiree magistrates are the del-gars chosen. I>
*aa reco.iimend-d at this meeting that the c un
til sh-uld assemble at L'verpod, in o*der to keej
•"his ihe lia.ts pttscribed by tbe Convennoi
bcu
It was expected that Dublin would be placed
mder the operation of tbe receut arms act and
hat the vist q i a ities of p kes sod arms whici*
ire being so rximstvely purcb aed, will be requir
'd to be given up.
Tbe provinces, rspeeisl'y in tbe south of I eland,
tppear to emulate Dublin in the violence of tb*
hrea and iutim datioos used by tb" repeal party
ind the pices and, indeed, it is openly declare
tf many of 'be j minals. tha* a repeil of the onion
nil no loners .office to aanafy tiwir alleged grkv
>nces, but tb*t tbe erection of a republic can n
none rent dy the evils tinder wu.c« tbe eouutry
(roan*.
Tbe groat demonstration of the diarists, whkh
vas to come off ia London on ibe ltf h mat. bar
iron fjrkiddoa oy tbo E igtwb government. Ail
bo airat'g'aaen s for tbe procemiow wrio going
m ssi s uctorily—the carriage lor oonveymg ib.
<etnioo, and th* bonnets, iostgn-*, Ac., decide
hi, wt*en Sm Gray ann mitced io Parlument m.
be i b mot, tbe de terminal ion of govemnaern
m to allow outer tbe assegib-age or powasisn
ake place. A prOvkataation appeared in a few
»-ors, forbidding ml persons to st rod tbe meet
ng. Ihe coarse panned b. the covernment bss
to* only mcrosord the former general rxeiCrmen*.
mi coltrd foitb tbe remonstrance* of even Uiai
ecu a of tbe pr« os bnouie to cbsrtiam.
Tbe tff-ct produced on the cbaius ibeiaselvee
ms not been, as uuxbt hive been anticipated
letermiwnttow to carry oat tieir obj-ci with mo
irdof than bef-jre. At tbe firs* morse si of itn
wAKtHua held ibr uwatog of tbe prvctemtuoo,
ia inaaigftw icootcuoa won come to, ‘bat :b
■eriiog and procession *b mid iab place, desptt
be ibren sot the government. Every deirgto
treornt fivmty sod ooully declared nTa deter-oiaa
ion to nak bis fits m ibe enmemptaard 4*mm
Mrsuon, and a gsorrai behrf was expressed that
neir conautaenta would emulate tbo example sr
nem, by holding stawltaoeons it*ee> bg* <a tbr i
wverai local.ties. Ou the a-me dav, lesofa mu.
suing moss asectingo, sad to* ibe invomc of m
pmoier ptocU M'MB, were si once agreed i«. j
Too nsembees is ib* prow—inn are m to cart)
ir.no. Mr. CFConner made a magemtno to the j
o-etieg. wmeb pp—ssrs some ngmicance a
me preurtM lime.
b wan that mry vb aid meommead to An
snunmema *bo urubdrawof of stt mwey* from
be A -vinga finds, m order no mt hasps mi*to t»
derange Ibe fioaorml oprmtmm of govrrmaew
tbo from sous tavesaed in ibeae mom a m,
imioois an and brfobgs a os^ten
trefy to mo m»dd eaod bow mow. of w on*
urge pr i|Hrti«o am Chartista. Thera m bon
fooot, m om Mr. QTUnaser* own word*, that f
ibe people would withdraw tbe*r ssvtogt worn
ibrr- koaka, they weld am Hfcetnaiiy auack
no gaoosmwooc than if *ey made a dwoct attack
so tao Umar G sends
Tbe gsovromr il kae aeensmg’y dmarwH o»
knagof assueso to aa none, anu tupe Mas
mvsky.mfitnary sad ar.diery. base kora dy«lte«.
metrnpoiM. as that u w emap .ted >k
IV ImpuTmbo*myv ft is am pastils in;
vamot Vfo h mat fbepoopte any have pea j
h#r F <o«ofrv.l,ond tbp m i-nstry
smpnblr »H ibeonwsid
siri r-SmiS. r!
MM —«TAIMHkNW atvrmt
tm Itaitf i«rt«
t?adee deep as A ahitiag imprr*«K>**f tl«
4**y w« mse to God mi <mrj£uw haiog
>l Wl l r mum of 4
Jl» esattimn' to |*mtw im m t
»ho nyipmiid mi ncff-nay
s** **»H towa Uiu<«u' tia
SST P Sfcu,‘r^iJ'.
*T ri V th~*e uuiviauot r-*-
>:r wente bm;-
f!Lg? »W ota
Ttfc ■'thjeciad |o tfe trod m>r. t >a t
wtragto of their tyrannical
k°* *hen are daily iiwmmi tJ f
dewny tna dearoat tow a* astnrr, ihw
’"■f"* ferrare. Amiran w r r\jvrt»r
thing better—can are look tor b.'teto!vma m
mw feelings from a synn m an fool and
wh aa abreryt h mm \4 tw tU
c n, i* oantn* bring kml
good frtlil. Tiiepjfure, knowing that wit*»
Mwauiaine action w* cannot r.-udrr rfi
awM to *h»o holy ran*-, ar alf.Tti»m Ui-!i
waits lha ONH>]mi<io of ihocnMi of R«»i;
*ke public Wo ikon
kear in mind th** imunefinao of Jera», u AI
lh **S* whatsoever ye would nwa should do u
you, do ye even so to tbm».' KriurmbtY
also, the beautiful parable ia which he call
our attention to the rick ar.d lo thoae who an
m prison, and eonrhirf-s hr the forcible ..*wr
lion, “Inasmuch aa re hare <k*w it tonne iff th
loart of these, my brethren, ye hare done i
uato me.” We fuel aa*nnH all that bav<
beam to feel, aad are carvlui to attend to th
munitions of conscience—nil who are deter
rntm’d to lire for U»c good of our rac--, m.< c a<
of devoting all their time to th -ir own u* r
aooal ease—all who feel bon a* Ito improve th.
proeiona time allotted to them hen*, hr pt<>
wotiag aa much aa possible the cause of Im l l
•mi righteousness to the earth, will rw»- for
ward m the work of laboring to hunisk ffoeve
the demon of slavery from our land; and
so doing, instead of an example of corrupt**
e ik#u,J <w Ugfct t,,il„
We hope no one will fee? too pn.*-, nor am
too rich, to enlist in this holy ran*.?. Ttu
Christian's influence, in whatever situation, i
always salutary, and will certainly produce’ hi
goixl effects. \V e jui ib r ri,e aid of am
of wwa,en we cull on Hr- old and th
yonng, the fiirm-r, the in rlmnic, and tht
merchant. We ask nil and ev.-ry one to giv
us their h-lp; to devote vrhnt th >y can «-.art
either of money or of the fruits of th*ir la
bor, to the work of restoring nif»n and wo'nei
lo themselves, to their manhood, to the riglr,
tnd blessings with which Uwy were eudowe*
bv our Creator.
For this object, we propose holding a Fai
n December next. Wo ask thj females u
be adjoining towns and cot ntrv around ns, t,
?et up sewing circles, and pre-wire such arti
sles as will be most saleable, and to fur
lish tables, give us their coiupanv, and helj
is, not only in selling tbo*.- lug pn
ared, but iu convincing the public mind o
he necessity of our perseverance and fidelity
md thus be helpers in hastening the day of
emancipation.
The misrepresentation
April 3d, 1848, Mr. Bayly, #f
ginia, in the House of Representatire*
in renlying to Mr. Gi<Minga, *aid:
But he would give the profenet
philanthropist from Ohio one iiv-tino
—-a horrible inatancc it was when
this process of. universal emancipatioi
was done at a blow, with a single das!
of the pen: it was tl.e well-known ca»
of St. nominee. Then (Its thing ha<
been effected by the busy interfiled
dling of visionary fanatics, just as i
was now sought to be done by the gen
tlemon from Ohio and his associates.**-
There was then a band of fanatics ii
London, who met in the Old Jewry
and who passed resolations very simila
to the amendment it was now sought t<
foist on the pending resolution.
It was then proposed to aid thew
i negroes with men and money in i
jstruggle for their freedom; and simila
resolutions were at the same timi
adopted. mv France by an associu
tron similar to that to which the gentle
man and his abolition friends beJnngct
among us. These fanatical visionanci
set the revolt of the blacks in St. Do
juiingo in motion; their machination:
succeeded in exciting a servile insur
rection, in the course of which ever}
white man, and woman, and child in th<
island were massacred, with the excep
tion of a small remnant, who fled to Um
shipping in the harbor, and barely es
caped with their lives. Whole heca
tombs of dead bodies were piled up ir
the streets, amid burning, murder, anc
pillage. Nay, so great was the fury ol
'the blacks, that their rage and revenge
could not glut themselves with the
butchery of every white person, (an<3
they found no diihculty in drauing that
line of distinction which the gentlcmar
thought so great a mystery; it was no
problem to the negrees;) but they thee
turned upon (lie muluttocs and extermi
nated them. They seemed to hate ev
ery human creature that had white blood
in his veins with a bitterness that had
i no parallel, unless in the breast of the
member from Ohio.”
Mr. Bayley,just before making these
statements, remarked, that the “House
knew very well that he was not in the
I habit of speaking of w’hat he had not
looked into, or of making assertions
without knowing on what they were
founded.” We shall soon demonstrate
to the satisfaction of every reader, we
enre not what his prepossessions, that,
in regard to St. Domingo, Mr. Bayly
has made assertions which he cannot
prove, and spoken on a subject without
j knowing anything about it, if we may
judge by the extract above quoted.
His loose declamation, we presume,
was stimulated by an editorial ih the
National Intelligencer, which appeared
on the morning of the day when the
speech was made, betraying a similar
misunderstanding of the subject re
ferred to:
La Amis des JVotr*,” says the In
telligencer, having, in the old Revo
lution, just as they have done now, pro
cured the passage of a decree to the
same effect as that to which wc have
referred, the Government of their prin
ciple colony, (St. Domingo,) knowing
that the decree was one of desolation
and death to them and theirs, made by
persons who either knew not, or were
reckless what they were doing,hesitated
to carry into effect. Impatient of the
delay, Les JVbt’rr took the execution of
it in their own hands.”
The assertion is here made that a
decree for the immediate abolition of
j slavery in the French Colonies was pro
cured by La Amis des JVoirs and
I that from this sprung the horrors of St.
Domingo. It is utterly groundless, as
we shall presently show.
One word in regard to the “Amis des
jJVbii**”— fanatical visionaries,” “an
j association similar to that which the
gentleman from Ohio and his Abolition
I friends belong among us,” says Mr.
Bayly. The leader of this Abolition
association, of these “fanatical vision
aries,- whose machinations succeed
ed in exciting a servile insurrection,”
was Lafayette, the friend and ally of
America, whose full-length portrait, in
the Hall of the House, was looking
down on the man who ventured to stig
matize him as a fanatic. Lafayette,
Condorcet, Brissot, and the Abbe Gr
egoire, were tho controlling spirits of
La Amis des JVoirs. This is a mat
ter of history, into which, we presume, i
the gentleman from Virginia had never
looked.
PRELIMINARY.
We now ask the attention of our
readers, especially the Southern por
tion of them, w hile wc present a record
well authenticated facts in relation
to the horrors ot St. Domingo.” Wei
have carelully examined standard au
thorities upon the subject, and if Mr.
Bayly or the Intelligencer choose to
question our statements, there is not a
member of Congress who may not veri
fy them by consulting the several
volumes treating of St. Domingo, in the
Library of Congress. It is a shame
j that the American people should permit
i their minds to be abused by the incon
siderate, reckless assertions of men.
either too prejudiced or too carr
ies* to examine, before they presume to
assert.
The population of St. Domingo in
1789 was estimated as follows:
In the French Section.
S' h ,CB i 30,826
Free colored,
sl,ve 463,139
Total, 5*23,803
Sp&iit&lt Suhon.
Free people of ail colors,
Slaves, 30,000
Total, 15*2,640
Grand total, 1*43,000;
Never was there a more heteroge
neous and inflammable population. Tt*.
white* were divided into three classes'
—the creole planters, or large proprie
tors, constituting the native aristocracy
the European residents, couijxjsing the
office-holders, adventurers, specula
tors; and the petits tilnncs, tho poorer
whites, tradesmen, mechanic*. Em.b
rn«KKiut»W of nftet itt lU h—do of the
feuroftas, add KgarM wiflij»ssf*mMl
contemp t the totter order' or Whites;
who* in (heir turn looked up with sullen
envy at the ostestatiQUS display of the
planters.
Thesa classes had MMMM feeling in
common; and that wan, a mort impfaea
hlc abhorrence of Che rnulattoe* orftee
I colored people, who, it is state <l, ow ned
5! one-third of the real estate and
one-fourth of the personal property of
i the island. Nets it standing this, <l*7
i were considered as public property;
compelled to do aoy kind of public ser-
I vice without compensation; degraded
and insulted in every possible way,
t short of absolute enslavement.
The sfevea, or negroes were idost
brutally treated in the French part rtf
the island. This is the testimony of all
who have written upon the subject.—
r; masses of them consisted of
Africans recently imported, who still
retained the heathenish superstitions
and usages of their mother country,
t It is obvious that whatever temporary
prosperity in a pecuniary sense such a
colony might enjoy, it was doomed to
ruinous convulsions. The state of so
j ciety was unnatural, abhorrent, repug-
I nant to every principle of humanity,
i* morals, and, we may add, political ee6*
nomy. Any violent change in the
i mother country would he certain to
j array in fierce conflict elements so fear
fully discordant.
We shall prove,
Ist. That Emancipation was not in
1 any sense the cause of the troubles and
insurrections in St. Domingo;
2dly. That the history of that doomed
colony furnishes conclusive evidence in
prool of the entire safety of Immediate
Emancipation, os it is called.
THE BEGINNING OF TROUBLES.
The beginning of troubles may be
dated in the year 1788. December 27th
|of that year, the Statcs-Gcneral ol
France passed a resolution to admit to
I that body a number of the Tiers
E/of, equal to that of the other two
orders. When the news reached St.
Domingo, the white colonists iininedi
ately resolved to assert their right to
be represented, and commissioned 18
j delegates, six of whom, after much dis
cussion by the States-Gcneral, were
recognized. About this time the Soci
ety of I*es Amis dt3 .Votes was organ
ized. Next arose in Paris a secret as
sociation of the planters, called the
Massaic Club, with branches in the
colonies; instituted ostensibly to
port the Revolution, but really to sus
tain this movement, so far as it might
strengthen them against the colonial
authorities who were supposed to favor
the rights of the free people of color.
Every blow struck for liberty in
France electrifies the colonies. When
the fall of the Bastilc was announced
in St. Domingo, the colonists became
wrought up with intense excitement?—
Liberty and Fraternity, sounded
from the lips of all classes. All were
seized with the fever of imitation; and
whatever France did was regarded as
a pattern for her dependencies. Just at
this time a rumor was started of a ser
vile insurrection, and a large force was
marched to the locality designated as
its scat, but everything there was tran
quil. The rumor was groundless; still
the preparations made against this ima
ginary horror, it is thought, suggested
to the slave possibilities never dreamed
of before.
THE REAL STRUGGLE.
Meantime, in the general discussion
of the subject of human rights, the
inulattoes or free people of color began
to take a deep interest. Many of their
number were at Paris, receiving an
education, and their correspondence
with relatives at home stimulated them
to the demand of rights, which the
French Revolutionists could with no
consistency deny.
October 22d, 1789, the wealthy mu
lattoes despatched a deputation to Paris
to urge their claims to representation in
the Colonial Assembly. They pre
sented 6,000,000 livres to the Govern
ment, and pledged one-fifth of their
property to aid in the liquidation ol
the national debt. The deputation re
ceived great encouragement. Lafay
ette and his associates deeply sympa
thized with them. The President ol
the National Assembly said, that no pari
of the nation ever reclaimed in vain its
rights from the Assembly of the repre
sentatives of the French people. M,
Charles de La met h declared that, al
though he was one of the largest pro
prietors in the colony, he was in favoi
of the admission of the mixed races tc
a share in the legislative power.
Encouraged by these indteations, the
free people of color in the colony begar
to press their claims on the attention o
the authorities; but they were at onc<
met by the most unrelenting oppositior
from all classes of the whites. La
combe, a mulatto, was hung at cap<
Francois for having merely signed s
petition on the subject. M. Ferrand dt
Eaudiere, a magistrate at Petit Goave
a venerable old man, who had drawn u[
a petition of a similar kind for the uiu
laUoes, was dragged from his home am
brutally murdered. The petit* b latte t
signalized themselves above all other*
by their outrages against these unfor
tunate people, who, thus far, had dis
tinguiahed themselves for their forbear
ance.
January, 1790, the Assembly of th<
colony convened, consisting of som<
230 members, who were implacabh
against the, inulattoes, and disposed t<
assume tor themselves independent le
gislative powers:
Lafayette and his friends were mean
while urging the claims of the fre<
people of color, and had the aatisfac
tion of procuring the passage of de
cree by the National Assembly, datei
March Bth, 1790, that every persoi
of tpenty-flve years of age, tbs pn>
prietor of real estate, or, in fault
that, who had been i re indent of thi
place for two vears, aod paid fates foi
the support of* the colony, should be en
titled to vote for members of the Colo
aial Assembly.”
Let it bo observed, that the contest
concerned not the natural rights of (Im
dares, whom nobody proposed to eman
cipate, but the political rights of tb<
free cobirsd people. Although the de
cree did tint, m specific tarns, extend
the right of suffrage to this class, H
«u clearly anded&fod that by tin
any quoWfring p*IN t«
the word <'p*r«L*r Its rig&s were s*
The pcwt(piii<w«r rfwactfchMflec
a flame in the note*#. Tbewhitenoae.
crated the Ngtfonal Aftsdibbly.■• Tht
Colonial Assembly passed A resoM |tmi
it would prefer death rather than short
political rights with a degenerate Mi
bastard rate.** The populace went m
far as to threaten death to thd PYcncl
residents in the colony. Thin Assembly
trail dissolved. A new election vai
held; the mulattoes wqre excluded bj
force from the suffrage to which tbej
were entitled; the same unrelenting en
emies of their class were returned; ant
one of the first acts of the new AhM
bly was to assert its right to originate
ail legislation, aad overcome the Go
vernor General's veto by a majority o
two-thirds. This functionary, finding
his prerogatives encroached upon, en
deavored to strengthen himself by se
cretly encouraging the colored party.
Ere this, however, intelligence oi
the disturbed state of the colonies, and
of apprehended violence in Martinique,
having been received by tha Home Go
vernment, the National Assembly pass
ed a decree explaining away that ol
March Bth, so far as it conferred politi
cal rights on the free people of color,
and, in effect, licensing the slave trade
—-an act of tergiversation which arous
ed the indignation of Lafayette and Lei
Amis dts JVoirs.
Bitter feuds continued to prevail k
the colony until the principal provinces
were arrayed against each other, and
open war broke out between the Go
vernor General and the Colonial As
sembly. In tha struggle, the free peo
ple of color were invoked by the for
mer, and he made such head againsl
the Assembly that the whole body,
driven to desperation, resolved to em
bark for France, and lay its grievances
before the National Assembly. Mean
while the mulattoes continued to be
subjects of the grossest outrages and
insults, and began to lose their pa
tience.
Vincent, or James Ogc, an educated
mulatto, in Paris, who had for a long
i time been laboring for the reclamation
of the rights of his class, disgusted at
the explanatory decree of the National
Assembly, out of heart, irritated, and
desperate, abandoned Paris, and on
I the 2d October, 1790, landed at Cape
Francois, where, without much deliber
ation, he put himself at the head of two
hundred of his friends, resolbed*to com
pel concessions. He demanded of the
Governor General that the decree ol
March Bth be carried into effect; ex
pressly excluding from his demand the
negroes or slaves. With them lie would
have nothing to do. No rights but
those of the mulatto were in question.
The response to this demand was a
force of six hundred men sent out tc
punish him. These were routed. An
other force, twelve hundred strong,
with artillery, was more successful.—
Oge’s band was scattered; he and his
fellow-chief, Baptiste Chavannc, took
refuge in the Spanish part of the island,
whence they were reclaimed. They
were tried secretly. The whole mu
latto population was deeply excited. At
last, after two months’ confinement,
they were sentenced; led, bareheaded,
c:i chemise, into the public square, with
ropes round their necks, and then
placed upon the wheel, where, with
faces upturned to heaven, and their
thighs, legs and arms broken, they died
a horrible, lingering death. This took
plac.e on the 9th of March, 1791. It
was never forgotten; it filled the hearts
of the free colored population with un
dying hate.
Similar efforts were made by them in
the Southern and Western provinces,
but they were peacefully put down by
the Governor General and his adviser,
Colonel Mauduit. But for this they re
ceived no credit. The planters sus
pected them of having made secret pro
mises to the mulattoes, to be fulfilled at
a more convenient season.
September ltith, 1790, the Assembly
of St. Mark’s arrived at Brest, and
soon made known their complaints.—
But the decision of the National As
sembly was against them. It passed a
decree extinguishing all the legislative
powers of the Colonial Assembly, pro
hibiting its members from being elect
ed thereafter, sustaining the Governor
General; and the King was besought
to issue commands for a new election,
conformably to both the decrees of the
Bth and the 28th of March—decrees,
by the way, clearly contradictory.—
The consequences of this unwise, va
cillating, inconsistent legislation by the
National Assembly were most ruinous.
This decree was dated October 12th,
1799.
Nothing could exceed the consterna
tion of the great planters. They looked
wiih dismay upon the elevation of the
pe(i!s blancs and both were fired with
deadly animosity against the mulattoes.
The authorities were overwhelmed.—
Col. Mauduit was horribly murdered;
Blanchelande, the Governor General,
was compelled to fly from Port-au-
Prince, and the colonists there usurped
independent powers. Cape Francois,
actuated by rivalry with Port-au-Prince,
received the Governor General with
open arms; but everywhere else the
wildest anarchy prevailed.
Amid all the varying animosities of
party warfare, says Brown, in his
History of St. Domingo, on one sub
ject the unanimity was perfect. Tha
whs the doggedness of creole prejudice
when the question was hrought up to
establish the political rights of' the mu
lattoes. Up to this moment, despite
ad the me as a res of the Home Govern
ment, these people had been excluded
from their rights. The Constituent
Assembly at Paris, to obviate all doubt,
and settle the question, decided, May
15th, 1791, "that a!i people of color
residing in the French colonies, and
'born of free parents, were mauled to
the same privileges ns French citizens,
and, among others, to the right of vo
ting at elections, and to seats in the
Provincial and Colonial Assemblies.
The violence of the onlnaials now over
leaped all hounds. The Constituent
Assembly was execrated; France wag
abjured; every French resident was
menaced; the parties swore to resist
force by fofjce. The Governor General,
that he wouM enspend the operation of
the decree ootinte could receive the re-
ply to 9 remonstrance Me had just ad
dressed to ths Minister of Slarikf.
All tWa ti*u« the free people m ©oka
were tpriet, earrAdty abstaining; fron
i violence, relying upon the energy nn<
.good fiAh of Home Government
An influential member of theirdew
wrote to a friend in Paris: Tim pun
ishmeut of Ogi* has only served to xnafu
us mure than ssur rrx*,.-,l to ronqn»r
i or pensn in me struggle which is to de
i cide whether we shall enjoy the right:
offered to us by |fie restorers of Frencl
i liberty. We have never been guilty o
murdering any one, or of inienffing anj
one's death; yet our own blood htu
been poured out like water. Wc coult
retaliate, but we refrain. The idea tha
the negroes might take advantage o
such hostilities to desolate this beauti
ful country, is enough to make us re
f| nounce the thought.’
[to be continted.]
THE WIFE or APDVBUIf.
Mr. Audubon married early, in tb<
family of the Bake wells in England
The family name, so familiar in thit
j country, is a sufficient pronunciation 01
her probable worthiness to share the
fortunes of such a roan. But apari
from all such extraneous considerations,
hef life is the. best commentary upon,
and her sons the best illustration of,
what such a matron should be she
shared with a smiling bravery all the
wanderings and necessities of her hus
band. Whether the temporary occu
pant of some log or frame hovel
attached to a trading post of the great
south-west, where it was necessary foi
the husband to take up his quarters in
the double capacity of trader and natur
alist,or a share of honor, regal so far as
artistic and scientitic apprediation could
fashion them, bestowed upon him amid
the imposing luxuries of European life,
she was always the calm, wise, cheer
ful helper, as well as sympathiser. A
noble relict of that almost exploded
school of matrons who recognized the
compact of marriage as a sacred union
of purpose as well as life; she docs not
seeimto have aimed at a loftier honoi
1 than that of being the true wife of J. J.
Audubon. In this is her greatest glory;
for a common woman, with the fears
and* weaknesses of common character,
would soon have crossed the gossamer
life of his fine enthusiasm, beneath the
weight of vulgar cares and appre
hensions. So far from this being the
case, she appears to have been so en
tirely identified with his successes, that
it would be impossible to separate hei
loving recognition of them. She was
his resolute companion in many of the
long journeys he found it necessary to
make, in his early days, to the far
west. She crossed the Alleganies wit!
him rtn horseback at a time when there
existed no other facilities for making
the journey. She shared with him the
wayside hovel of the mountaineer
laughed with him over the petty
inconveniences of the travel, anc
shared the lovely enthusiasm wbiefa
burst forth, when its accidents threw
in his way a long coveted or entirety
new specimen. When it became ne
cessary for him to sink his Jacob's stall
here and there, and leave her with his
family amidst strange associations, for
long months together, he could go with
the calm feeling, that, as the favorite
bird of his own discovery, (the bird ol
i Washington,) his eyrie would he safe
1 in the jealous strength of his mate,
and open and warm tor him on his
i return.
How many dark hours amidst the
deep shadows of savage woods, has
such reposeful trust been luminous
i with joy and faith to him. How many
t gloomy defiles can he passed, how
many cold and sudden plunges he en
dured, how many fierce extravagant
exigences be faced, by that deep abid
ing assurance which feels and is ccr
j tain that there is beyond all this a true
heart to welcome, and a home! Some
of the most noble, unpremeditated cx
j pressions of tenderness we remember,
are to be found in his biography ol
birds, referring to the anticipated de
light of such re-unions with his family.
—American Reticle.
Brah vm, the Singer.— The Gates
head (Eng.) Observer had recently a
a paragraph suggested by an old Eng
lish newspaper, the London Morning
Post of July 12th, and the peru
sal in k of that day’s bill of fare” ol
the Royal Theatre, Well street,
London, where, amongst other attrac
tions, The soldier tired of war’s
alarms, is announced to be sung by
Master Braharn, who is now signalized
as a veteran singer. At the time when
master Braharii sang this song, says the
Observer, Lord North was England’s
prime minister; Pitt and Franklin,
Burke and Washington, were promi
nent performers on the public stage;
Louis XVI. still wore his head, and
Tom Paine was sharpening the axe for
its removal; Scringapatam was un
stormed by Cornwallis; Bums was in
his prime, and Cowper still delighting
the world with.his verse; Byron was a
child in arms, Napoleon a name un
known, and Mrs. Siddons dawning into
fame.
Brahain has outlived them all; and,
nfter a lapse of nearly fifty-eiglit years,
!ik still before the public, living to
please, and pleasing to live!” The
voice which charmed the ear .if we
were musical) of George the Third,
when he had still three-aml-tbirty years
to reign, may also have been beard by
his great-grandson, Albert, Prince of
i Wales! A strange reminiscence, ro
marks the Boston Transcript, yet a tree
I one, and calculated to make us think of
I the improvement of a long fife, and of
the great beauty of the commandment
i with promise.
L; v/ v
PaoPERTV i* Me*. l cannot be
lieve that a being of human substance,
form, and image—endowed with the
1 faculties, and propensities, common to,
our race, and having the same ultimate
idestiny, can, by the force of any bn-!
man constitution or laws, he converted
into a chattel, or thing, in which an
other being, like hiuueH can have
properly; depriving him of his free
wiU, and of the power of celebrating t
his own mind, nod pursuing has* own
happiness, t cannot believe that can
be ifthi, winch Is not, and Cannot be
properly. Gorcruor Site aid.
ALSTON THEfAWTEH.
«b. Ah*n* ted contracted with B—
uild bint boO9C, iwl bad entered
into the usual spsciikalioiim When
the house was nearly completed, and
tl»e exterior decorations were putting
up, Mr. A. objected that ftie prcnara-
Itiorts for a cornice extended oriif to
three sides of the house. The builder
insisted that although it bad not so run
in the contract, ret that it was usual to
omit it an the back of the bouse, am!
he therefore refused to put it on the
fourth side. Whereon Mr. A. said, he
should not press the matter, but that of
of courso the builder could not object
Ito hhi choosing the side which should
be left without a finish, and he there
fore chose the front. The builder,
unable to object, did.as he was ordered;
but unwilling to have this advertise
meat of his unfaithfulness and unwork
manlike character staring him and the
public ’in the face, begged leave to
place tbe cornice on the fourth “sidfe.
It is related that on a certain occa
sion, Alston, accompanied by a distin
guished transcendental friend, drove in
from Cambridge to attend a party in
j Boston. Upon arriving at the door, he
calmly said, to the utter surprise of his
companion, I shall not go in.'* But
why not?” “I have discovered a
small hole in my stocking.” “But is
it so situated as to be very visible?”
“On the contrary,” said Alston, “it
is directly on the hall of my foot.” “Of
course, then,” said his companion, “it
can never be observed.” 1 shall
know it,” said' the poet in a decisive
tone, and ordered the coachman to
drive back to his residence in the
country.
THE OLD AND NEW WORLD-
I observed that a considerable num
ber of passengers carried a comforta
ble picnic box or basket with them,
and spread their own table. With
some, doubtless, this- provision pro
ceeded from a fastidious taste that fear
ed some poisonous dirt would be found
in the common fare of a steamboat.—
But with many, I presume, it arose
from a habit, which presents a marked
dillcreuce between the people of Eng
land and of America—l mean the habit
of economising. In America, we are
ashamed of economy. It is this feeling
which would forbid among us such a
practice as that referred to, and not
only tlusj but a great many more and
better practices. In England, economy
stands out prominently; it presides
over the arrangements of a family it
is openly professed, arid fears no re
proach. A man is not ashamed to say
of a certain indulgence, that he cannot
afford it. A gentleman says to you, “1
drive a pony chaise this year; I hnvt
put dow n my horse and gig, because 1
cannot pay the tax.” A man whose in
come, and expense?, and style of living
j far exceed almost anything to be fount
among us, still says of something quite
beyond him, which his wealthier neigh
bor does, We are not rich enough lot
that.” One of tbe most distinguished
men in England said to me, when
speaking of wines at his table, “The
wine I prefer is claret, but I cannot
afford it, and so I drink my own goose
berry.” I have hcaul that many fami
lies carry the principle so far, that they
determine exactly how many dinners
they can give in a year, and to how
many guests nay, more, and how
many dishes they can put upon the
table when they do entertain. This
frankness on the subject of economy is
among us a thing unheard of. Nut
that we are more wealthy, but, as I
conceive, less wise. r I he competition
of domestic life am >ng us is ton kern to
admit of any such confession of internal
weakness. We practise economy by
stealth. Nor is that the worst of it; tin
one consequence of this habit of feeling
is, that we practice too little. When a
stranger looks upon the strife of busi
ness in our villages and cities, lie ima
gines that he sees a very covetous peo
ple; but a nearer observation would
i show him that much of this eager, and
•absorbing, and almost slavish occupa
{tion, is necessary to sustain the heavy
drains of domestic" expenditure. This
extravagance at home chains imny a
1 man to the counter and counting-room,
i And this extravagance is of his own
choosing; because he knows no other
i way of distinguishing himself, but by
the style of living. Would he but con
ceive that he might better elevate him
self in society by having a well-read
library, by improving his mind and con
versation, by cultivating some graceful
but comparatively cheap accomplish
ment, he might live a wiser inan and die
richer. Who would hesitate to choose
between such a family and one whose
house was tilled with gorgeous furni
ture; where the wife and daughter are
dressed in the gayest of the fashion,
and the husband and father banishes
himself tbe livelong day, and half the
night, from that pleasant mansion, to
toil and drudge in the dirty warehouse
He sleeps iu a very grand house; he
lives in a counting-room! Detrey’t
Travels.
Sale or a Female Slave.— An En
glishman, passing through Clinton,
observed, opposite his hotel, a sale of
negroes, and, on approaching the auc
tioneer’s stand, discovered a young
female negro for sale, who had ju»t
been married to a young man, a slave
in the same town. ‘The reason of her
be mg sold was to pay her master’s
debts, who was then in embarrassed
circumstances. Tbe poor creature
seemed in the wildest grief; her hys
terical screams and sobs were most
heart-rending in fact, so exciting was
the scene, that it seemed to affect even
the callous-hearted slave holders
around, who were accustomed to such
exhibitions. The young man, her
husband, was not to be sold. The
party who wished to buy his wife, was a
trader from the for south, and in all
probability she would be separated
troin him for ever, many hundreds of
miles. A person in the town, with
more humanity than the rest, wishing
•e prevent this separation,’ bought her
in, much to the satisfaction of the by
standers. Tims, by a mere accident
was the nearest and dearest tie of lift
prevented being sundered. No thanks,
however, to the mini man system. The
screams of extasy uttered by the young
woman, os she rushed into the ar'nu ol
her huibttfwl, standing near,
were affecting t<* all who witiic<"«»d
them.— Report oj a respectable English
Tracellt r.
COOKE, AT LIVERPOOL.
Cooke hn<l been playing on a preri.
oils occasion, when great excitement
prevailed on account of the agitation of
the slave-trade abolition question in
Parliament. Tookc fancied himselfirr
suited because his benelit had not been
equal to his expectation; and passing in
his usual state by one of th? coflre
houses, he beheld several of the mer
chants assembled in the room and vi
cinity. Shaking his fist at them, he
exclaimed, I thank my (Jod I carry
away none of your d d money; ev
ery brick in your nccurscd town is
stained with African Wood.” When he
appeared afterwards on the ftngc, the
hubbub was indescribable. He at
tempted to speak but was saluted by
cries of, Off? off?” and a shower of
hisses. Rilcnce was at length restored,
and Cooke addressed the audience in
these words! Ladies and gentlemen:
If you will allow me to go through mv
part, I will never disgrace myself by
appearing before you again.” Ho
then retreated to the side scenes, and
said to a party there, from whom this*
anecdote is derived, with n satirical
expression of countenance! It’s thur
blood—the blood!” The managers ad--
vertised him for the next night, with thflf
same card Richard the Third and
Sir Archy Mac Sarcasm. The si gnak
of his presence was one universal mss.-
Cooke advanced to the stage, placing;
his hand on his breast with affected hu
mility, waited until the tumult subsided,
and then entreated the audience to hear
him* Had I not been unfortunately
interrupted, ladies anil gentlemen,
said he, in his blandest accents, “tnv
address to you would have been thus:
Ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow
me to go through my part, I will not
disgrace myself by appearing beforo
you again in the same condition. The
ruse succeeded. “Bravo, Cooke!”
resounded, and he played Richard with
more than bis usual energy. —Memoirs
of Mandril, bit his sen.
DU3IAS’S RAPIDITY OF COMPO
SITION.
We have had rapid writers before
now and prodigies but whose rapidity
ever approaches that of Alexandre 1c
Grand." what prodigy ever surpassed
tins friend of princes? Mr. James has
a pen which one ran scarcely call slow;
Mrs. (jio:e is not u tortoise Mr. Wur
ren has recently written a uovel of
five bundled pages in onc-and-twcnty
days uiui Lope do rga, the personi
fication of celerity, w ho took only three
days to write a three-act comedy in
\erse, is credited, by marvel-loving
chroniclers, witn having accomplished
i twenty-one million three hundred thou
sand lines ot printed verse, in his not
very long career. But I )umas distances
them all. His rapidity is something so
fabulous, tliat all soils ol supposition
ale put forward to explain it and one
iruh nt pamphlet undertakes to prove
that he has a regular manufactory,
where numbers of young men woik, he
only putting his name to their produc
tions. 1 here is, however, one very
strong objection to the cun out thcorv,
that Ihi mas sells, under his own name,
the works of others and, in justice to
the literary curiosity of the case, wo
must adduce it. It is this: if a number
oi men were employed writing novels,
which Dumas had only to retouch, or if
he only gave them a plot, which they
had to woik out. Dumas would never he*
at a loss tor “copy,” t„ satisfy the
demands of those journals to whirh he
is engaged. But, in the trial before
mentioned, it came out. that not only
had the journals great difficulty in get
ting from him the promised “copy,”
but that, having printed one or more
volumes, they were, much to their
disadvantage, compelled to publish
volumes by other writers, because Du
mas had not furnished them with the
continuation thus considerable periods
were allowed to elapse between tho
delivery ol one volume ami its suc
cessor. When we know, that Dumas
is in the habit of publishing several
works simultaneously, and, to this mo
ment, has no less than six unfinished,
and in course of piecemeal publication’
we can understand the delay. He has
not six hands to write six novels at once;
so he must finish volume three of this
novel, volume three of that, volume-six
ol another, volume ten of another, and
volume one of another—in this way he
has volume by volume, to satisfy* tho
claims upon him and, on the suopo
sinun that he, in conjunction with Au
guste Maquct, and perhaps, also his son
really does write the works published
under his name, the delay becomes
intelligible. On the supposition of a
manufactory, the delay is inexplicable;
X? *7® ,n 9t a, n opposition to
the idea of a manufactory, that aft the
woriu sold by Dumas arc bound to he
10 hand-writing otherwise the
publishers would be easy dupes. Now,
it is absurd to suppose 1 >umus under
takes the task of copying rhe words of
his young workmen absurd, because
every one knows, that a man who.
writes with ordinary celerity, will com
pose much quicker than he can copy
anything—and it is the question of time
which in Dumas's case form* the diffi
tultr. On the Whole, we belter, 'hit
witt* 's® ""I I"'"**- «*j»nctio..
with Auguste Maquet, invents and dictate, the novels, which young
Dumas whose handwriting is very like
His father’s, copies.
The Slave’s Idea of Liberty
You may place the slave where you please; you may dry up to your utmost the fountains of his feelings, the springs of his thought-you may yoke him to your labor, as swan ox, which liveth only to work, and worketh only to live, you may put him under any processs, which without destroyingg his value as a slave, will debase and crush him as a rational being - you may do this, and the idea that he was born to be free will survive it all. It is allied to his hope of immortality; it is ethereal part of his natures, which oppression cannot reach; it is a torch lit upon his soul by the hand of Deity, and never meant to be extinguished by the hand of man. Gov. Mc Dowell