SPEECH OF HON. J. R. GIDDINGS.
On the l/tli to pay thr Executrix of Benjamin Hedges,
deceased, for a Slave uho left his master in Prince
Georges county, in August, 1844, and was sup
posed to have escaped on hoard the British Fleet.
[concluded.]
Jiut, sir, I will express my thanks to
the gentleman From South Carolina for
bringing this subject before us in its
■present form. It is now under consid
eration, and must he disposed of; and
I most devoutly thank iny. God that he I
has permitted me to see*a time when
northern men must act; when there is
no way of evading this question; when
the doughfaces of this body will be
constrained to vote on this identical
question; and that such action will he
public, and their votes placed on record
so that their constituents and the coun
try may know and bear witness to the
question before us. Will they vote to
tax their constituents, at the dictation of
southern members, to pay for a fugitive
slave who ran away from Maryland 30
years ago? They must do it, or they
must refuse to do it. They must now
serve God or Mammon. They can no
longer act both ways. The subject will
soon be decided by the monosyllables,
yes, or no, to be pronounced by each
member.
It has been said that we de.-irc to
keep this money in the treasury. I,
sir, have no such wish. God forbid; it
is the price of blood. It was obtained
from Great Britain by the Executive,
without consulting this body. The
treaties and conventions were nego
tiated, and the money obtained by the
treaty-making power, with which we
have no right to interfere. The Presi
dent and Senate undertook to act as the
agent and attorney of those slavehold
ers. They obtained the money from
Great Britain; they have paid out all
but two thousand dollars; let them dis
pose of that as they please. If the
gentleman who reported this bill will
modify it so as to let the President dis
pose of the remainder to whom and as
he pleases, I will vote for it. lie is a
slaveholder; he understands this deal
ing in human flesh; I do not. Eet him
have the money, and let him pay it
out. I will have uotniug to d with such
business.
I differ fr»>m my honorable friend'
from Vermont, who gave us such a
lucid expose of this treaty and its stip
ulations. 1 understood him to say,that
if the committee would take the case i
again into consideration, and show such t
facts as will bring this slave within the
provisions of our treaty with Great
Britain, lie will vote to pay for him.—
fiir, 1 will do no such thing. I will not,
in iny capacitty as a legislator, acting
ns the representative of freemen, de
grade myself, while sitting in this Hall,
by an inquiry into the price and value
of our common humanity. 1 will not
disgrace my constituents, while acting
under their high commission, by enter
mg upon an inquiry as to the title-i
ee s y which one man holds another
as property. *ii| n(Jt g t j iere t(J
quire a» t, the value in dollars and
m lu,ll!U bones and muscles,
blood and a,new, N he
tor/ of our legislation .hall not bear to 1
pooling generations the fact, that the
twentieth congressional d.otrict of Ohio
at this age ot the world, w,th the light'
and knowledge which now beam, noon i
us, waa disgraced by ,u rep re n(allve
in thui Hall entering upon b Uc h au in
quiry. My constituents do not estimate
inan, the child of immortality, created
in the image of his God, with bis ex
alted nature, his undying intellect, by 1
the value of sordid dust.
I wish to address some inquiries to
THE NORTH STAR,
r the honorable chairman of the commit
tee who reported that bill, [Mr. Smith
of Connecticut.] He appears to hav<
united in this extraordinary report
1 which estimates the value of this mai
at twj hundred and eighty dollars.—
That gentleman is from Connecticut—
from the very county in which mv pa
rents long resided. I should like t<
inquire of him the price current of hu
manity in that land of steady habits.—
By what rule does he arrive at the valui
I of men? Is he governed by the bril
j liancy of their virtues?—by their intel
lectual endowments? Docs he estimaU
men by their religious devotion, or b)
their learning? Is he guided by theii
complexion? If so, which is the mosi
1 valuable, black or white or is a mix
ture of blood to be preferred? Whal
price, in gold and silver, does he place
upon lus constituents? How would he
sell them? Sir, I feel humbled when I
see northern Representatives consent
to enter upon this slavedealing legisla
tion, and become the instruments of the
slave-power, to strike down the honor,
the dignity, and independence of the
northern States. I appeal to northern
De Minerals and northern Whigs: by
wiiat rule are you governed when you
decide upon the value of your brother
man t When inquired of by your con
stituents as to your estimate, will you
say that he was valuable on account ol
his political principles? That he was
a supporter of Mr. Polk, or of Mr.
Clay? And when they ask you if you
believe that self-evident truth, that all
men are born equal, what will be your
answerr Will you, like honest men,
admit that »u have contributed your
vote fu tai\e Ui! m <nc\ 1; "in their pock
ets to p.iv I >r aoijUrTu slaves? If you
do. i apprehend tuey will tell you,
hereativr, to deal on your own account,
while trading in human i! sh, and not to
use then tulids for such purpose.
But this bill is based upon the prin
ciple, that under our Federal Constitu
tion, man may hold his feliow-man as
property. I speak not of the slave
Stales, but of the Federal Government.
I deny that we possess the power, un
der the Coiistituti m, to liubrute our
fellow-men and r< u r them property—
that we have pow-.i i disrobe man of
the dignity in which lie was created,
tear from him the rights which God has
given him, and deliver him over to the
arbitrary will of his brother man, to
toil at another’s bidding* cringe beneath
his owner’s lash, tremble at his frown,
and be sold at his will. Such powers
have not4»ecn granted us by the people
of this nation. Such doctrines .cahoot
find support in,this Hall ut the present
age of the world.
Mr. Holmes, of South Carolina, (in
terrupting Mr. Giddings,) said that the
southern States would hold their slaves
as property, in spite of any act of the
Federal Government, or the efforts of
Northern abolitionists.
Mr. Giddings. I have nothing to do
with the Southern States; they control
their own policy; their barbarism has
no relation to iny duties as a member of
Congress. If they see fit to make one
halt* of their people the property of the
other half, we cannot interfere with
their laws. If, with the inhabitants of
the Fejee Islands, they become canni
bals and eat each other, we have not
the power to prohibit such revolting
practice by our legislation. All we
can do is, to see that they shall not dis
grace nor degrade this Government,
nor the people of the free States, either
by their slavery or their cannibalism.—
Our motto is, Keep your slavery,
vour disgusting barbarity, within your
own States! Bring it not into this Hall,
nor attempt to involve us in its burdens
or its crimes.” I repeat that we are
not now acting under the Constitutions
of either of the slave or of the free
States, hut under our Federal com
pact. I he formation of that instrument
was preceded by a long and ardent
struggle b>r freedom, for the rights of
humanity.
In looking back to the darker and
more barbarous ages, when w'ar was
regarded as the only honorable employ
ment of mankind, we find that slavery
existed: and the prisoner captured in
war and held as a slave by his captor,
was considered as property. At that
period, when moral darkness enshroud-*
ed the minds ol men and shut out from 1
them an understanding of their nuturai
rights, the opiui >n that slaves were pro- 1
petty was g« n i <l, and no one doubted;
its correctness. I sav n>one I mean
none but the learned. except the
philosophers; for Aristotle, mhisdavj
with a mind enlightened by study and
reflection, although .he lived in a bar
barous age, long prior to the Christian
era, denied the doctrine so zealously!
maintained in this Hall to-day by south
ern gentlemen. The Immaculate Na
zarene declared that one object of His
Divine mission was, to proclaim lib
erty to the captive.” He, too, com
batted this doctrine of oppression,
which, through ages i jJ centuries of
intellectual darkness,r.moed a portion of
our race of their inalienable rights,and
which is now advocated in this body
with mortf zeal than it was among the
Jews eighteen hundred years since.—
Even at a comparatively recent period,
some learned and intelligent men held
this doctrine, now* so abhorrent to every
friend of freedom. As late as 1749,
Lord Hardwich, of England, held that
trover lay in the English Courts for a
slave brought from the West Indies
into England. When, in 1776, Gran
ville Sharpe published his first easava
denying this doctrine, it was looked
upon aa ujtraism, as opposed to the
doctrine of English law, to the princi
ple# expressed by Lord Hardwich,
and Sharpe was regarded as s fanatic.
At that time no lawyer dared to rise in
a British court and deny that man could
hold property in man on British soil.
RIGHT IS OP NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALU AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN
When, in 1709, Somerset was brotigb
up before Lord Mansfield on a “habea
corpus,” and the sole claim for his free
dom was the great fundamental truth
that God had created him free, andtha
no statute exist*! in England by w hicl
he could be deprived of that libertj
which God had given him, his lordabi|
saw the force of this heaven-bon
truth; his brilliant mind comprehended
its bearing, and the effect it must hav<
on mankind. Still he hesitated, remand
ed Somerset, and endeavored to avoid i
direct decision of the point by advising
the parties to compromise the matter.—
For more than two years he refused t<
declare the opinion of theoourt. A
length he gave judgment in favor of tlu
natural and inherent right of man tc
the enjoyment of his liberty. Speaking
of slavery, he said, “It is so odious,
that nothing but prsitive law can be suf
fered to support it.”
On the 4th of July, 1776, our fathers
assembled in solemn convocation, de
nied the doctrine so strenuously advo
cated here to-day, and with unanimous
voice proclaimed it a self-evident truth
that “all men are born equal; that they
are endowed by their Creator with cer
tain inalienable rights; that among those
rights are life, liberty, and the pursuit
of-happiness.”
Sir, no evasion, no sophism, can
break the force, or impair the perspicu
ity of this language. It proclaimed
slavery to be a transgression of the
laws of nature and of nature’s God.—
These undying truths took strong hold
upon the public mind of this nation and
of civilized man. They strike at the
existence of property in man. Wherev
er these truths are acknowledged, sla
very itself cannot exist.
Eleven years after these doctrines
were recognized as the basis of Ameri
can liberty and government, the pres
ent Constitution was adopted. The
framers of that instrument had passed
through a seven years’ war, had en
countered danger and toil, and great
suffering, to establish upon a perma
nent basis the doctrines they had pro
claimed in 1776. We have now reach
ed an important period of our history as
regards this doctrine of property in
man.
Mr. Madison, in his papers, informs
us that on Wednesday, August iial,
the convention proceeded to consider
the report of the Committee of Detail,
in relation to duties on exports, a capi
ation tax, and a navigation act., The
iourth section reported as fol
ows:
No tax or "duty shall be.laid by
he Legislature on articles exported
rom any State, nor on the migration
lor importation of such persons as the
several States shall think proper to ad
nit; nor shall such migration nor itn
>ortation be prohibited.’
Mr. Gerry thought we had nothing
o do with the conduct of the States as
o slavery, but we ought to be careful
lot to give'any sanction.”
Sir, will the members from Massa
:husetts, the successors of Gerry, here
o-day maintain the doctrine which he
aid down? Will they refuse all sanc
ion of slavery by refusing to legislate
a its favor? Will they discard the
proposition before us, as an indignity to
lie representatives of freemen? I trust
hey will. Mr. Madison informs us that
‘Mr. Sherman, of Connecticut, was
imposed to any tax on slaves, as making
the matter worse, because it implied
:hey were property.”
Sir, Mr. Sherman, that patriot of
distinguished ability, of the most un
sullied purity, of the highest devotion to
aur country, would do no act which
would sanction slavery, or imply that
slaves were property. Since that day,
more than sixty years have elapsed.—
Sherman has long since been gathered
to his fathers. His precepts and exam
ples are left on record for our instruc
tion. Light and knowledge have pro
gressed, mankind are advancing in re
finement; yet, Sir, an honorable mem
ber of the House from Connecticut, a
successorof her distingushed Sherman,
the present chairman of an important
committee of this body, one who has
long served here, and who is about to
be transferred to the other end of the
Capitol, silently unites in reporting to
this body a bill to tax his constituents
ind the people of the north to pay for
the body of a fellow' man as property.
Sir, when the gentleman gets into the
Senate,he and I shall be separated from
2ach other. I shall be uuahle to fol
ow him there, but I would now remind
him of the example of his illustrious
predecessor, and I would ask him if he
intends to oppose to-day the doctrine of
Sherman in 1787?
I cannot withhold the expression of
my regret that any northern member,
particularly a northern Whig of expe
rience, should have tacitly acquiesced
in presenting to us a proposition
so offensive to every sentiment of
freedom.
I appeal to the members from Con
necticut to come forward to-dav in sup
port of tbe doctrine which Sherman
proclaimed at the adoption of the Con
stitution. Will they acknowledge in
direct terms, by voting for this bill, that
slaves are property under the Federal
Constitution? Sherman would do no
act that could imply such an acknowl
edgement, But let us trace the pro
ceedings of the convention a little
further.
The discussion, it will be observed,
turned upon the peculiar phraseology
of the second part of the report, which,
in classifying slaves as merchandise,
seemed to imply that they were proper
ty. No one expressed a desire that
such an idea should be unbodied in the
Constitution; on the contrary, there
was a manifest desire on the part of the
members of the Convention, so to shape
the phraseology ss to exclude the eoa~
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, JUNE 16, 1848.
1 struction given to it by Mr. Sherman
Mr. Madison, it seems, agreed with tha
gentleman. He thus reports himself
f Mr. Madiwon thought it wrong t<
admit in the Constitotion the idea tha
there could be property, in man.
Colonel Mason (in answer to Mr
Gouvernear Morris.) The provision
as it now stands, was necessary lor thi
case of Convicts, in order to preveu
the introduction of them.
Still, the Convention was not satis
fied, and it was finally agreed, nem
eon., to have the clause read:
M And a tax or duty may be impose<
on such importation, not exceeding
for each person.’
And then the second part, as
amended, was agreed to.”
Thus, sir, the Convention that framer
the Constitution expressed their denial
that slaves were property. They have
left no doubt on that point; they would
use no language which would leave an
implication of the doctrine now con
tended for by southern gentlemen. It
was discarded by them, but it is now l
urged upon us. “Mr. Madison thought
it wrong to admit in the Constitution
the idea that there could be property in
men.”
Sir, the gentleman from South Caro
lina (Mr. YVoodward) asked with great
emphasis, “If any member of that
Convention was so stupid as to doubt
the propriety of holding property in
men.'” I answvr, James Madison, the
father of the Constitution, a southern
man, and afterwards President of the
United States, has left on record his
denial of that doctrine. I stand here
now, the advocate of the principle
maintained in 1778—maintained by the
entire Convention that framed the Con
stitution in 1787, including the illustri
ous Madison, and Sherman, and Gerry.
YY here are the representatives of Y'ir
ginia to-day YY here the successors of
YY ashington, of Jefferson, of Henry,
and of Madison? Sir, the representa
tives of that Old Dominion,” the
mother of Statesmen and of States,
now stand here as the advocates of op
pression, degradation, and abject sla
very: They,* sir, denying the doc
trines of the Constitution—the doc
trines of YY r ashington and his compa
triots—insist that one portion of man
kind may own the other as property.
Ah! sir, Yfirginia, has faHen; “the
fine gold has become dim.” Her sons
no longer lead thevhosis of freedom;
tiyry have fewonjr hostile to the senti
ments ot tneir fathers; her people
breed men, hke oren, for the shambles;
drive \ygn;en to market, and traffic in
babes and children; moral darkness
broods over her, anti physical desola
tion reigns throughout her dominion.
Sir, these arguments can have little
effect upon Southern men. They can
not and will not take any definite posi
tion on this subject. To-day, they will
insist that slaves arc not persons, but
property. To-morrow, should a differ
ent question come before us, they w ill
insist that slaves are not property, but
persons. 1 have for ten years been
striving to find out w hat definite princi
ple southern men hold on this subject,
but I find they refuse to adhere to any
principle whatever. They are some-!
times one w r ay and sometimes the other i
“Everything by turns, and nothing 1
long,” as the saving is. And now’, sir, 1
as an illustration of what I have stated,.;
I venture to proclaim that not a mem
ber south of Mason and Dixon’s line,
dare rise in his place and say that he
adopts the doctrine either that slaves
are persons or that they are property.
If suph a member be present, I chal
lenge him to rise in his place and say
which side of this question he will es
pouse and adhere to; and I now offer
for that purpose to yield the floor. Mr. 1
Biddings paused.
Mr. Y\ T oodward, of South Carolina,
rose, and stated, in substance, that
slaves were regarded as both persons
and property.
Mr. Biddings. Yes, they are a sort
of amphibious animal—neither one nor j
the other, but composed of both. They;
are partly persons and partly things;
part human and part inanimate. YVell,
sir, this I call sitting on the fence.”!
I was aware that gentb men could not
be provoked to take any fixed position,
in regard to slavery. The truth is
slavery itself is an anomaly. It is op
posed to all moral principle, as well as
to natural rights, and can be reconciled
to no rule of propriety. But to return
to the Constitution- In every instance;
in w hich reference to slaves is made in
the Constitution, they are termed per
sons. Thus, in fixing the ratio of re
presentation, it provides that the num
ber shall be ascertained by adding to
the whole number of free persons, in
cluding those bound to serve for a
term of years, and excluding Indians
not taxed, three-fifths of all other per
sons. It is clear that the framers not
only regarded slaves as persons, but
they were spoken of as other [persons,
thus placing them upon the same gen
eral basis as fre'etnen. In the 9th sec
tion of the first article, the Constitution
provides, “the migration or im
portation of such persons as any of the
States shall thfnk proper to admit, shall
not be prohibited until the year I5*W,
Blc. Here, agaio, the language is care
fully used to distinguish slaves from
property. Again, in the second section
of the third article, the Constitution
provides: “No person held to service or
labor ta one State under the laws there
of and escaping into soother, shall, by
any law or regulation thereof, he dis
charged from such service or labor.”
Thus, ta every instance in which the
Constitution refers to slaves, they are
designated as persons, coatr*-distin
guishing them from property. We are
not only informed that the framers re
garded it as wrong to admit in the Con
stitaftoo" that there coaid be property
in man,” but they carefully employed
such language, in fraifting that instru
ment, as to preclude such a presump
i tioo. So clear have they left this »üb
i ject, that no man who examines it can
have doubts. Nor is the subject left at
this point. The construction of the
Constitution belongs to the judicial
branch of the Government,
t In the case of Groves vs. Slaughter
and others, (15, Peters’ Reports, 449,)
this question came distinctly before the
Supreme Court of the United States.
The Constitution of Mississippi bad
prohibited the introduction oi abves
I i into that State after a certain day.—
Slaves were taken there and sold on a
credit after the time allowed by the
constitution of that State. Suit was
commenced on the note gjven, in con
sideration of the slaves. The defence
set up, that the contract was illegal and
void under the Constitution of that
State, which prohibited the sale therein
of slaves from without the State. The
reply to this was, that slaves were pro
perty, and therefore the State of Miss
issippi had no power to prohibit their
introduction intb the State, as the power
to regulate commerce between the
States belonged only to Congress.—
In deciding the law', Judge McLean
said:
By the laws of certain States,slaves
are treated as property; and the con
stitution of Mississippi prohibits their
1 being brought into that State by citi
zens of other States for sale or as mer
i chandise. Merchandise is a compre
hensive term, and may include every
article ol traffic, whether foreign or
domestic, which is properly embraced
by a commercial regulation. But if
j slaves are considered in some of the
States as merchandise, that cannot di
vest them of the leading and controll
ing quality of persons, -by which they
are designated in the Constitution.—
The character of the property is given
them by the local law. This law is re
spected, and all rights under it are pro
tected by the Federal authorities; but
the Constitution acts upon slaves as per
sons, and not as property.”
If slaves te property, slave markets
may be opened in Boston, and Massa
chusetts will have no power to prohibit
t here the revolting scenes which are
witnessed in this city*. If the doctrine
contended for by southern men be cor
rect, no £tate c aH exclude slave mar
kets from Ho territory, of consecfate its
sosi to freedom. well becomes south
ern gentlemen to examine this subject
before they base themselves upon the
principle that slaves are property. Let
that be established, and Congress will
have the power to prohibit the internal
slave trade at its pleasure. We may
then take slaves from their masters as
we do other property.
Gentlemen from the slave States, be
ing accustomed to regard slaves as pro
perty, under their State laws, draw no
distinction between the laws of the
slave State* and those of the Federal
Government. Persons educated in the
slave States, coming into the office of
President, or into either of the Execu
tive Departments, or into either House
of Congress, are likely to bring with
them the views imbibed in such States.
Thus we find that in some instances the
President of the United States and oth
er officers of the Government, have at
times, without examination, regarded
slaves as property; and, in some in
stances, have paid the public funds for
such slaves, not only without authority
of law, but in opposition to the spirit
and the letter of the Federal compact.
The same officers, after having their
attention called particularly to the sub
ject, have seen their error, changed
their practice, and refused to regard
slaves as property. So, also, in some
of our treaties, slaves are referred to
in connection with other property.—
Such language is used in the treaty of
Ghent, to which I called the attention
of this committee in the early part of
my remarks. But in these cases the
language was employed without refer
ence to the relation which slavery holds
to the Federal Constitution, as contra
distinguished from the character it pos
sesses under the Government of the
States in w hich it exists.
But if we examine the subject a little
more closely, we shall find that slaves
are not regarded merely as property in
any part of the country. In every
State of the Union they are punishable
for crimes tfnder the State laws. Such
is not the case with any species of pro
perty. Murder may be committed upon
slaves in any Statt?, and the murderer
hanged therefor. But no such punish
ment applies to the killing of any other
species of property. Slaves in such
States are, however, for certain pur
poses, under their laws, regarded as a
peculiar kind of property.” But the
laws of those States are local, and have
no bearing upon the relations which tha
Federal Government holds to the insti
tution. Slavery is the creature of mu
nicipal law, and can extend no further
than such municipal action has force.—
It is, therefore, strictly confined to the
jurisdiction creating it. So strictly is
this rule of law observed by courts of
justice, that if a slave escape from bis
ma-ter on to free soil but for a moment,
he becomes free forever. This is the
case of Forbes vs. Cochran et. al.,
(vise 2 Barnwell Si Cress well, 448,)
Baylev, justice, remarked: Slavery is
a local law, and therefore if a man wish
to preserve his slaves, let him attach
them to him by affix tioo, or make last
the bars of their prison, or rivet well
their chains; for the instant they gel
beyond the limits where slavery is
recognized by the local taws, they nave
broken their chains, they have escaped
from prison, they are free.” The same
principles were decided in the ease of
Somerset, (see 20 vol. State Trials,)
and srs itmpiisd by tha coarts of the
U oited States, and by those of nearly
aJI the several States of this Union
Property may be taken by the ownei
from one State to another or fiom ou»
nation to another; bat if a man volun
tarily take h» stave or send him to i
free State, the moment hoenters svil
State he becomes a freeman. Fron
that moment the power ovei
him ceases, and he can no more be eu
slaved. The property in such case i
instantaneously trandforiued into a per
son. But to examine this question t
little fort her Suppose the slaves u
South Carolina, or of afl* the shivi
States, should rise in the plenitude
their power* assert their own rights
and enslave the whites, they woul<
then become the owners, and thei
present masters would be transformei
into property, according to this slave
holding logit-: TBoTHUTK?; "n,
time to pursue this part of the eu&jec
further.
I The gentleman from Maryland (Mr
Chapman) has cited a case where tin
twenty-eighth Congress passed a law
directing payment to be mad to l)c
-peyster and another for a slave lost ii
the Florida war. This case is cited a:
a precedent to show that we have re
cognized slaves as property. I un
self advocate the observance of pre
cedents as strongly as any member o
this House. I would deal out equa
justice to all who pray for it. It is there
fore proper, that we should look to th<
former practice of this body in relation
to the question.
After the close of the late war wit!
England, in the year 181 ft, a law wa
passed allowing compensation to own
era of property lost or destroyed in tin
public service during the existence o
hostilities. Pending the bill, an amend
ment was offered providing for the pay
ment of slaves lost in the public ser
vice. After discussion, the amendnien
Wes rejected in Committee di tin
Whole, only thirty rising in its favor
Yes, sir; at that time only thirty mem
bers of this House regarded slaves a
property.
Many petitions were sqbsequentlj
presented, calling oh Congress to pai
for slaves killed in the public service
but no committee could Be found wht
would report in tavor of such a claim
In 1828—’29, the case of D’Auteirc
came before the Cmumiftee of Claims
Tbe "petitions* owned a slave, a hurst
and a cart. On the day of the battle
of New. Orleans, they were pressec
into the public service. The slave am
horse were killed, and the eart destroy
ed by the cannon-shot of the enemy.—
The owner then applied to Cbngres;
for compensation. The committee, re
ported in favor of paying for the hors<
and cart, but against paying Tar tin
slave. When the bill came up in the
House, an amendment wasoffered giv
ing compensation for the slave. The
subject was debated for weeks. Those
who opposed the amendment, based
their objections upon the distinct prin
ciple that slaves were not property.—
And the bill was finally laid upon the
table by a latge majority.
At a more recent period, in 1832,
Francis Larcbe, of New Orleans, pre
sented a claim precisely similar to that
just quoted, and it was referred to the
Committee of Claims. The committee
in reporting upon the case, say, that
they had caused examination to be
made at the Treasury department, to
see if slaves who had been killed in
public service during the revolutionary
war had been paid for; and they learned
that no such instance could be found.
They also cite many cases in which
compensation bad been refused. Those
cases were of the character to obtain
the most favorable consideration; but
no committee could in that day be found
wtiling to admit the moral and constitu
tional absurdity, that under our Federal
compact slaves could be regarded as
property. Yet, sir, they had not the
advantages which we possess. The
Madison Papers, setting forth the
views of those who framed the Consti
tution, were not then published; nor
had the subject at that time been adju
dicated in the Supreme Court. I wish
the ear of every member of this body,
when I assure them and the country,
that from 1789 down to 1842, the com
mittees of this body uniformly rejected
all claims for slaves lost in the public
service, regarding them as persons and
not as property.
In the 27th Congress, the claim of
James Watson for slaves was commit
ted to the Committee of Claims, of
which l was myself a humble member.
The friends of the claim by some means
learned that the committee had ad ways
reported against the payment for slaves.
They therefore obtained the transfer of
that case to the Committee on Indian
Affairs, who reported a bill to pay for
the slaves claimed by Watson. That
report, made six years since, was the
first in favor of paying for staves as
property, so far as my knowledge ex
tends, ever made to this body, under
our present Constitution, or prior to its
adoption. During that Congress, out
other of the like character was made
by the Committee on Territories. The'
bill last mentioned was rejected, on a
call of the ycaa and nays, after full di*-,
cossion, only thirty-six votes being
given ia its favor. No final rote was
ever taken on any ocher case *of the
kind, except the one referred to by the
gentleman from Maryland, (Mr Chap
®*n») "tech pasted the Jtotb Congress.
1 waa myself aware of |he nature of
that bill, and ao was the lata venerable
member from Massachosf Its, (Mr. Ad
ame,] now deceased. We both intend
ed to have made known to the Xlouse'
if* character, hut f was called away **u
one of those days when private bill*!
were under consideration, so* Mr Ad
ams’ IBiMidt wa* diverted fr» it by
some means, and thm bill passed the
WILLIAM C. MI L,
JOHN PICK, Pui'kir*.
WHOLE NO—*2s
House “ju*& sihwNo,*’ no one ©bjf¥ffhg
t<> it; and I presume a mem ln r
H of the »*»dy prefer nbn linden*** d
both the character rt tor bid and the
practice ot the H<Hto6 a mcii tl iua?,
M was conscious ol u* pa**uga. If such
11 members were hc:e, they &mkrtJ it to
pass without tailing tue apt niiuu ufi t).e
house to it. Being, as i: v.t;c, thus
smuggled through this body, it can
e hive no force as a fitter rh ut. The
whfle practice of Congress, when aft
i 1 ing understanding!*, tiomthe adoptio n
Pot the Constitutw.w to tine day, has
r| been a denial of the doetriw- that aiavt
if are property under our Federal Cowst i
,i tutiou. The decisions ot our c« uits
l f are to the same edict, The Consitu
•j tiou itself, iti every instance in a Inch it
j refers to them, denominates them per
sons, and not property. The Declara
tion of Independence declares them to
have been created equal with otirselves.
The sentiments of the civilized world
1 recognizes them as men, as brethren.—
Vet we are called on to disregard ail
these considerations, and to enter yptn
an inquiry of the title by which oee
I tnan holds another as property* ami to
I determine the value oi chatuiized hti
i inanity. Northmen tneuibers now see
the respectful petitions of tens of tliou-
I sands of their own constituents, pttty
j ing to be released from the support ot
slavery, disregarded end treated with
silent contempt. They are sent to our
committees; there they remain forever.
From that bourne no traveller r<
turns.” The voice of humanity is there
silenced; and those petitions, at the
bidding of the slave power, sleep the
sleep of death. No effort ol ours, no
artifice of legislation which we can cx
ert, can get the subject before this
House. No exhibition of the crimes,
the appalling gudt of the slave trade
carried on in this city, before our eyes
and before the nation, can provoke
those committees to permit this body to
pass judgment either for or against the
prayers of hundreds ot thousands ot
northern lovers of freedom: but a sin
gle slaveholder sends his petition here,
praying us to infolvc our people iu the
burden of slavery in Maryland; to take
the funds of northern philanthropists to
pav for human flesh; and
mittecs—even northern men on tho*e
committees unite iu favor of., the
ludtsurc; and* thirwhole My is at
once engaged upon wkilHtritrvohrw our
people still more.in the expense and in
the crime of supporting that institution,
not merely in this District, hut if» Ma
ryland. Will northern Whigs, will
northerh Democrats, meekly how to
such dictation? W ill w e continue to do
the bidding of southern ina*tci.~,
in our othciul chaiaeter, cut* r upon
this propost <1 slavetradc No* k tl!-
respept forbids it. Northern sentiment
forbids it. The Constitution, our*oath
1 of office, the age inf which we live, the
opinion*of civilized men, (he law* of
nature and the voice of Hod, foil.id
that we shall prostrate the dignify ol our
station thus to uphold nppressi n and
encourage crime.
PKOPLL OF MCDLKATL
FOUTT.NL,
If you are about to furnish a house,
do not spend all your nu n* v, he it
much or little. Do not let the beatify
of this thing, and the cheapness of that,
tempt you to buy unnecessary at tides.
Dr. Franklin’s maxim was a wise one,
“Nothing is cheap whiih \ou do nut
want.”
Buy merely what is absolutely neces
sary, and let experience of your wants
ami your means dictate what .shall be
afterwards obtained. If you spend all
at first, you will find you have bought
many things you do not want, and
omitted many you do want. Begin
cautiously. As riche* increase, in
crease iu hospitality and splendor; but
it is always painful and inconvenient to
decrease.
After all, these things arc viewed in
their proper light by the judicious and
respectable. Neatness, taslefulnes*
and good sc use, may be sbowu iu the
management of a small household, ami
the arrangement of a J.ttlo furniture, ns
well as noon a large* scale. The* con
sideration gained by living beyond one*
income, is not actually worth the
trouble it The glare there is
about such false, wicked parade, is de
ceptive.; it doe* net, in fact, procure
valuable friend* or extensive influence.
More than that, it i* wrong, morally
wrong, so far as the individual is con
cerned; and injurious, beyond calcula
tion, to the interest* of our country.
l*o what are the increasing beggary
and discouraged exertions of the pres
ent day owing? A multitude of causes
no doubt tend to increase the evil*, but
the root ot the whole matter is the ex
travagance of all classes of people!
W e never shall be prosperous, fill
we have sufficient moral courage t«»
make pride and vanity yield to the dic
tate* ot honesty and prudence. We
never shall be tree from embarrassment
till we cease to be ashamed of industry
and economy woman aid in tl.«
needful reformation. Let iheir hus
band* arid father* see them happy with
out finery; and if their friend* have, e*
i* often the case, a id* li*b pride m
ing them decorated, let tie hi *ik uii*
and gradually check tin* tee bar. by
allowing that they have hetfer IM*M
of commanding respect. Let the exer
cise ofir genuify, economy and neatne**
prove that go<*u taste *ud gentility a>
attainable without great
Mr* L. M tad./.
H*rrne*« i* like manna; it is f© be
gafhered in grains, and enjoyed eVfry
day; **»4 ktep, ll
i****<v. y* a. tv 4,
f c mu v v&a a por#*:aha# 4,
rasn. i <l. an l*fc*d»*»*i
doors, or reiher wrbts side them.
Annual Meeting.
The twelfth Annual Meeting of the Western
Anti-Slavery Society
Will be held at Salem Columbiana, Wednesday, Thurs
day, and Fnday, the 10th, 17th, and 18th of
Augutt, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.
Let a full lepreoeatatton of the slave*’
friends come up on this occasion from all
parts of the Great West. The political lead
en are marshalling their hoots for a conflict,
their followers are rallying by hundreds of
+—m db to (he eapport of their party ban
•era. Tune, and money, and labor are ex
pended to secure their object. And shall the
Aieudi of freedom, whose faith should be
rtrong in the power of Truth, be lukewarm
aad indifferent while politicians are ao ear
neat in their labora, ao untiring in their seal 1
The events of the past year should encourage
la to renewed e flora, for every movement of
importance which has been made, having any
bearing upon the question of slavery, fore
shadows the destruction of the system, and
the oppressors feel that it is so. The political
pwtiea will make a desperate effort to save
themselves from the destruction their corrup
tion has brought upon them; and the efforts
of the abolitionists to maintain and enforce
the Right should be pioportionably great.
Arrangements should be made at the coming
■toeting to continue the anti-slavery agitation
by the lips of the living speaker, and to ex
tend more widely the circulation of the So
ciety’s paper—the Anti-Slavery Bugle. Let
•one of the friends who can be there, absent
themselves for any light cause, for the pre
sence of all, and the counsel of all is desira
ble.
Besides the friends of Liberty in the West
who will be present on the occasion, Henry
C. Weight and Char. C. Burleigh are ex
paeted to be ia attendance, and perhaps other
representatives of the East.
LOT HOLMES,
Recording Sec'y.
Meetings ia the West.
Henry C. Wright, the Apostle of Peace,
and Charles C. Burleigh, the eloquent Anti
alavery Advocate, will hold meetings at the
following places, viz: at
Pittsburgh, Pa. June 15th, 16th 17th
New Brighton, 44 19th A 20th
Louisville Ohio 44 22d
Youngstown, 24th A 25th
New Lvroc 41 27th
Painesville, 29th
Chagrin Falls, 44 July Ist A2d
Cleveland, 44 44 4th
Twinsburgh, 44 44 6th
Jtiefcfield, 44 44 Bth A 9th
Akron, 44 44 1 Ith
Ravenna, 4 44 13th A 14th
Randolph, 4 15th A 16th
Massillon, 44 18th
The meetings at New Lyme, Cleveland,
and Akron, will commence a! ten o’clock, A.
M.; the others, on the first day of the meet
ings at two o’clock, P. M.; subsequent days
at 10 A. M.
The friends of Anti-Slavery and of Peace
are requested to make all necessary arrange
ments for the meetings, and give as wide a
notice as possible. Now is the time to
agitate.
Persons can avail themselves of this op
portunity afforded by these meetings to pay
for the Anti-Slavery Standard, to Samuel-
Brooee.
Western New York Anti-Slavery Society.
The Executive Committee will meet on
Tuesday evening next, June 20th at the
Anti-Slavery Office, 25, Buffalo Street.
Attendance ia requested at 7 o’clock pre
cisely.
W C. NELL, Rec. Sec.
______________ -r
Anti-Slavery Meeting.
A public Meeting will be held at the Court
House on Sunday next, June 20th, at 3
o'clock in the afternoon, which will be ad
dressed by Fredirick Douolass. Mrs.
Luceetia Mott is also expected to be
present. Come! Friends of the bondman,
foes of oppression, lovers of humanity, come
The Hutchinson*.
The following note from Jesse Hutchinson
to the editor of the Lynn Pioneer and Herald
of Freedom, would seem to lead to the con
clusion that the expected visit to the West of
this band of sweet singers, is for the present
deferred.
Friend Bradburn, —Dear Sir,— l regret
very much to inform you that the Hutchin
son Family may not be able to attend the
Buffalo Convention on the 14th inst. They
dtd intend and expect to go, but circumstances
seem now to forbid it. As 1 gave you the
information, it becomes my duty to make the
correction, that no blame may rest upon any
of us from non-attendance.
Let me say to yon, however, dear sir, that
we fully sympathize with you in the con
templated glorious convention, blieving and
hoping that the objects for which it is called
lie at the foundation of all our rights and li
berties. Yours with estsem,
Jesse Hutchinson, Jr.
Port ai Prince.
The brig Draco, Capt. Beauchamp, arrived
at this port, yesterday morning, haying sailed
from Port au Prince on the Bth inst. She
brings a connected history of the events which
have taken place in that eity. The main
partiulars agree with those already published.
It seems tha) the source of all the troubles
was in the hatred which the blacks entertain
towards the mulattoes, and that this hatred
and prejudice broke forth on the 16lh day of
April, the day for the weekly parading of the
guards and the army. A large number of
mulattoes were shot in open conflict with the
troops, and several as traitors by order of the
Government.
A Frcoch corvette was lying in the Roads,
and the French Consul, with a boldness
becoming bis dignity, demanded of the Presi
dent an annesty on threat of bombardment.
This had its effect, and a proclamation was
issued granting pardon to all except twelve,
whose names were given in the proclamation.
This notice enabled the twelve to escape in
disguise on board vessels in the harbor.
Another proclamation was issued calling
upon the citizens to open their doors and
resume business, but so little confidence was
felt in the sincerity of the President, that
very little attention was paid to the procla
mation. A letter dated May 6th concludes
as follows:
it No further disturbance has since taken
place, yet very little cunfieence is felt that
the peace will continue many weeks. The
President has sot out on a tour through the
South, with a large force, to restore order,
and until he returns W further demonstration
•nil be made.
The Commercial Ageat of the United
Stater hoisted his flag in the early part of
the troubles and his bouse, in eoawion with
the other Consulates became the asylum of
the persecuted mulattoes.
Commerce is at s stand, and the boost of
the country depreciating every dsy. Many
families have embarked, and others are pre
partag to follow as soon as they eaa arrange
chair nfleift"
There wae m fedkt, say the see—ton.
that the mnlnttose tfoked to France to m
than, sed Jtod requested that power to take
perereriea ef the talari. Boston Bee.
Fteperty Is Man.
_**TeH mm net ef rights says Lord
Brougham, 44 talk aetef the property of the
planter in his slaves. 1 deny the right; I ae-
not the prepay. The principle.,
the feelings, ef ear retotooo nature, rim in
rebellion against R. But the appeal made to
the undentomhaf to to the heart, the sent
ence in the same that rejects in. In vaia you
tell me of the law that saactioas ml a claim.
—There is a law above all (he enact menu of
human code*—same throughout the world
the same in all time; such ash was before
the daring genius ef Columbus pierced die
night of agee, and opened to one world the
source of power, wealth and knowledge, to
soother all the unutterable woes, such it is at
this day, it is the law written by the finger of
God on the heart ef man; and by that law,
unchangeable aad eternal, while men despise
fraud, and loathe rapine, and abhor blood,
the? shall rejeet, with indignation, the wild
*nd guilty fantasy that man can bold proper
ty in mao.”
The sentiment here so beautifully exprese
ed is every where finding ha way to the hearts
of the people, aad rapidly resulting in the
downfall of slavery. The institution has in
deed already been abolished in moot of the
governments of the old world, and most ere
long cease to be tolerated in any. The im
pulse of the age tends irresistibly to freedom,
and nothing can say its progress until the
44 wild and guilty ptontosy that man can bold
property in man,” is stricken from the code
of every nation.— Eat.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, JUNE 16, 1848.
The PresMeuer.
l When will the patient North learn—what
has been ao long known and proclaimed by
intelligent abolitionists—that they have no
r power or voice in deciding, through either of
the great political parties, who shall be nomi
nated to preside over the destinies of these
United States; and that the great and all
controlling political influence of this nation is
concentrated in the hands of three hundred
thousand men-stealers? When will they learn
that these two great parties, the Whig and
the Democratic, are chained to the bloody car
of Slavery, and that every man in them ia but
a pitiful pack-horse, with bit in mouth, to be
guided by the rein, and urged on by the whip
of his Southern masters? The Democratic
and Whig National Conventions are but places
where Northern men go once in four years, to
give the lie to all their former professions.—
The little moral capital which they manage
to accumulate during the interval of four years,
'is carried there and blasted at a blow. The
office of these Conventions is to whip and
brow-beat Northern men into apostacy—and
most successfully do they accomplish their
object. The recent nomination of General
Taylor for the Presidency, by the Whig Na
tional Convention at Philadelphia, is sufficient
proof of the trafh of our assertions. The
nomination of Crenesil Taylor was obviously
a slave-holding measure—intended to secure
slave-holding support, and in turn to support
slavery. It was made in view of the Wil
mot Proviso,” and to unite determined oppo
sition to that measure. It was made with a
view to conciliate the South, and under the
impression that the dull and servile North
eould be gulled, beaten, into sup
poit of Slavery, and a desertion of all their
pretended regard for human freedom. In this
nomination we learn the exact estimate which
Southern men place upon Northern integrity,
honor, and fidelity. We learn from this that
they look upon Northern men as the most
pliable matqpal in the world—without firm
ness— without principle—and without self
respect—ready to bow and cringe in any way
their Southern masters may elect. It is im
possible that a man could have been selected
more opposite to all the professions of the
Whig party at the North, than is this same
General Taylor.
They claim to be the true peace, virtuous,
humane, intelligent, religious, and liberty
party of the country—and they have as their
candidate a fierce and bloody warrior, whose
only recommendation is the success which at
tended his recent work of human slaughter in
Mexico. They are the virtuous party —and
they have as their candidate a man who
winked at the most horrid rapes and robberies
committed by our brutal soldiery on the wives
and daughters of a neighboring republic.—
They are the intelligent party —and they have
as their candidate a man notoriously ignorant of
all the great questions of national interest—
who declares that his life has been spent in
the field, and that he has never given the
questions that now divide parties of this coun
try sufficient attention to give an intelligent
opinion upon any one of them. They are the
idigious party—representing the moral and
religious sentiments of the North—and they
have as their candidate and representative a
man notorious for bis impiety, profanity, and
blasphemy. When on the battle field of 1
Buena Vista, when men lay scattered bleeding
and dying around him, 44 Give ’em hell!—
give ’em hell!” was the out-pouring of his
obdurate heart. They are the humane party
—and they have for their candidate the cruel
monster through whose agency blood-hounds
were introduced into Florida to hunt men,
women, and children, and tear them in pieces.
They are the liberty party of the country—
and they have selected as their candidate a i
villain who is the every day robber of hun
dreds of his fellow creatures of their rights i
and liberties. Oh! shame ever-lasting
shame upon Noithero Whigs, if they can de- i
grade their souls, by idvocating and support- i
ing such a man for the Presidency. How
can they support him without sumping them
selves as the most miserable of demagogues,
and worst of hypocrites? It remains to be seen i
whether they are ready to do this. We hope
not; and yet we greatly fear they will.—
What a commentary ia the nomination of such
a man as General Taylor!
Locmia Mott.
We learn with unfeigned pleasure, that
this distinguished friend of the poor bond
man is now in a neighboring town, and that
the ts intending to riait Rochester on Sunday
next. It ia hoped that she will a rail herself
of our mooting on that day, to open her
mouth for the dumb. We are sure that a
good word from her en this subject, would
remote mountains of prejudice existing espe
cially among those ef the mm* faith with
herself.
I" John Van Bares.
This distinguished gentleman, and ditomibei
of the pm* of the Democratic party, favored
our good city with his presence on Monday
last, and addressed a large audience in the
court-boom yard, m the subject of the Wil
■■t Proviso a' 4 the present aspect of Ameri
can politics. i-rum what we had heard of his
principles and ability, we expected much of
him ia the way of powerful oratory and noble
sentiment, and we were not disappointed.
His speech was a most able aad eloquent per
formance—abounding in clear and conclusive
arguments, truthful sad lucid statements, ele
vated and manly sentiments, in tempered with
biting sarcastic irony, wanned with generous
homer, aad enlightened and vivified with bril
liant Hashes of wit from beginning to end. It
was jost the speech for a popular assembly.
It was a discourse to the men before whom it
was delivered, and not to men in the distance.
It was a plain straightforward speech, which
the people could understand at once, and they
did understand it. The whole audience seem
ed in sympathy with the speaker, and manifest
ed their interest in the man and his address by
frequent demonstrations of applause. It was
highly gratifying to see that the most radical
thrusts at slavery were the most warmly ap
plauded, showing that the audience were even
with the speaker on this subject, if not in ad
vance of him.
It is hardly necessary to say, that we do
not attach much importance to the Wilmot
Proviso as a means of staying the desolating
curse of slavery. While we regard it as a
step in the right direction and hail it as a most
hopeful sign of the times, it is but a sign —a
mere sign— of a radical principle, which must
one day force itself into practice. To that
principle we must cling. It is not only hos
tility to the extension, but unrelenting hostility
to the very existence, of slavery. This prin
ciple it is the appropriate work of abolitionists
to fling among the people. They can not and
ought not to be turned aside from this substan
tial work, by pursuing signs, shadows, and
secondary objects. We look upon the Wil
mot Proviso and its supporters as indications
of the presence of a great principle in the na
tional heart, which by putient cultivation will
one day abolish forever our system of human
bondage. We are interested in the barn
burners” and other advocates of the 44 Wilmot
Proviso,” simply because they are at issue
with the slave power. To be at war with
this power in this form is of great advantage
to the anti-slavery cause—it serves to keep
(he subject of slavery before the people—to
deepen their hatred of the system—and to
break up that harmony between the Northern
white people and Southern slave-holders,
which has so long been the safeguard against
an uprising of the slaves against their cruel
masters. We therefore say to John Van
Buren and all others who have only attained
tis light, Come along in this glorious cause.
Say not to us, come back to you; but come
>n yourselves, and if we mistake not you will
soon find broader ad* more substantial issues
vith slavery than y<m have yet discovered.
Hie attempt to kick you out of the Dcmo
rratic National Convention, and its success,
>ught to lead you to examine the<value of
4 our glorious Union.” If New York can
stand without the union of the Democratic
>arty, she can stand without union with slave
holders and if need be, stand without the
rnion of these States.
Hopeful Signs.
Political parties and ecclesiastical organiza
tions are crumbling; the North and South are
falling asunder; Northom Whigs and North
ern Democrats are fraternizing, and a grand
rally is to be made against the slave power in
the coming political campaign. The con
science Whigs of fthe East, the Barnburners
of this State, and men of all parties in Ohio,
are avowing their determinaton to present an
opposing front to the impudent nominations of
the Whig and Democratic conventions. It is
evident to all reflecting men, that Northern
men and opiuions can never be respected in
either of the great political organizations of
this country, while slavery exists. Parties
must therefore be broken up. The salvation
of the country, the slave, and the national
honor, require their utter destruction. And if
we do not very much misapprehend the signs
of the times, the hour of their destruction
draweth nigh. It is impossible that persons
so opposite, principles so antagonistic, can
long continue in political union and good fel
lowship. There must and ought to be a
breaking up of parties. The issues present
ed at this time, are broad and distinct. The
South claims the right to introduce slavery
into free territory, necessarily to the exclusion
of free labor, and has succeeded in compelling
both political parties to nominate men favora
able to her schemes, while the North is
weaponless, and left to the alternative of
either succumbing to Southern domination, or
like men to rise up and snap their chains.—
We wait to see which course they will
choose.
Niagara Falls.
It is no part of our intention to attempt any
description of this stupendous wonder. It is
beyond the power of talent, poetry, or genius
to describe it. The jpinute and descriptive
pen of Scott would fail in such an attempt,
while the wildest and grandest flights of By
ron would be powerless, lifeless, and cold in
comparison of the awful thunders of this eter
nal reality—this living voice of the ever-living
God. We merely w ish to mentioo our recent
visit and the fact that we bad the privilege of
addressing quite a large audience in the Bap
tist meeting-house at Niagara village, on last
Sunday afternoon and evening. The oppor
tunity was one that we scarcely expected,
knowing the slave-holding influence ever set
ting in upon the place and its general pro
slavery character. We are happy to state
that a great change has evidently come over
the people. It ia now but three years since
we were insulted in the most shameful man
ner, and excluded from every iespectahle hotel
in the place, solely on account of our color, so
that to be decently accomodated, we were
compelled to go to the British side of the falls.
This rime we received no insults, were treated
with great chriliyr, and accomodated at the
St. Lawrence Hotel with every show of kind
ness and with only one drawback upon it all;
and that was, not being allowed to sit at the
table with the other boarders—ourself and
company being compelled to at at a separate
table. We mentioo this feet with no visor of
refleensg open the yrnprim of An boose.
He m altogether aa meh had* than I
naghbem tkat we wave surprised that I
dmuld he allowed ta live than at al. TV
adviro aboikwM visiting the M» to r
member tha St. Lawrence Hotel fteotabl;
Cwciwtn, J«w 4, 1848.
Duk Dorsuw:—l eead you »y h
epistle from this dty far the pneeat. Sine
I last wrote yea, I hare held several
ingi, all of which, like the preceding, wn
full of interest, by the presence of aumeroc
anxious listeners—the ladies, aa nsnal, fas
ing the largest part of the amrmhly.
I hare also been ta Ripley, 40 miles ahor
Cincinnati, in Brown county, where I he]
ooe meeting in the church of the famous Di
John Rankin, Jong and favorably known t
the friends of humanity in this country aa
firm friend of the panting fugitive. Hi
bouse has been made the resting place for th
way-worn and weary fa years, In the grot
chagrin of the sbveoerata of hit neighboi
hood, and the slaveholders of Kentucky.—
One friend informs me, and it certainly ap
pears like an over-estimate, that he hasknowi
as many aa forty to be there at a time
“packed away” in the underground depot.—
This depot, as a matter of course, is not ii
the house of Dr. Rankin, but situated in s
cavern about two miles south, of the wherea
bouts of which none but abolitionists an
aware. This accounts for the great mistaki
on the part of the soul-seekers, who fre
quently, or at least have at different times, b]
brute force, entered the house of this age*
gentleman, whes they knew him to be unpro
tec ted—his eldest son being absent, sod non*
but children and females at home—in searcl
of their victims, but without success. Twa*
well it was the house of Rev. John Rankii
they dared enter, and not some I wot of—yea
very well!
In Ripley, throgh a small village, there re
side several cdored families, all of whom
are industrious and well-doing, one of whom
is an undertaker, one had a rope-walk, anoth
er a brick-yard, in which many hands are em
ployed several carpenters, stone-masons, and
brick-layers, all of whom are industriously
employed at their several vocations. They
are nearly all freeholders, and have, or are
in the act of building neat and comfortable
little cottages, which do them much credit.—
With the assistance of an excellent and tal
ented young gentleman of literary qualifica
tions, who ieeently left Cincinnati and has
taken up his residence there, much good may
and will be done among the faithful few of
Ripley. They have a church and a literary
society there, and colored and white children
go to the same schools.
Our professed anti-slavery friends at Ripley
are not prepared to hear the declaration of
the whole counsel,” and the truth spoken
as it should be in God;” and I am much in
clined to think, with perhaps but one or two
exoeptiens, their anti-slavery finds enrreney at
par, on the credit of Rev. Mr. Rankiir, whose
solvency in that particular I believe to be be
yond a controversy and the old gentleman
faithful, being abaqpt at the time, may rea
sonably account for the detection on my jsart
»f the fictitious article, which only required
his presence to give it credit. I called at his
house, and saw his sons and tfyighters—
frank, familiar and intelligent, though plain
and unpretending. should have been pleased
to see and shake hands with the old gen
tleman faithful.
I return again to speak of Cincinnati, iu
which place I find many things of interest.—
i There are more, many more, mechanics in
this city than I was aware of; and it requires
lime to find out the facts. Indeed, there are
many of the most intelligent citizens of hoth
classes who are not aware of it, and the re
ality is only known when an interested
stranger or public man comes into the
city, whose business it is to make such inves
tigations.
In addition to other mechanical and profes
sional enterprises named in my last, there are
some colored men engaged in chemical estab
lishments—one in particular, in which the
principal chemist in the establishment is a
colored man. There is also an extensive
blacksmithing establishment carried on by an
aged colored gentleman in Walnut street,who
has a number of hands, white and colored,
working for him, he standing at one fire,”
who has contracts on hand with the first re
sponsible men of the city, of from one to six
hundred dollars. Occupations such as these
bring men into intercourse with the first busi
ness men of the place, and establish an ac
quaintance and secure a confidence that noth
ing else will. It gives men a credit for both
money and means, or articles of trade and
business commodities. Men of business, mer
chants and others, will seek an acquaintance
with men of this description, because, accord
ing to business policy, and the laws of com
mercial economy, an interchange of trade
being necessary for the sustenance of the
system, it is their interest to do so, as well as
duty.
There is also, I learn, about to be estab
lished a large and fashionable staple and
fancy shoe store, by a large capitalist and
very active gentleman of business tact and
habits, associating with him a competent me
chanic, and one of the best workmen in the
city—both colored of course. All this to me
is news the most cheering. It is that wnich
will raise the colored class in this country, as I
by enchantment, from degradation to entire;
manhood and actual equality with those who
now dispute their susceptibility for the higher
attainments.
The young women of Cincinnati, of the
colored class, are far in advance of those
of any other place that I have visited.—<
Nearly the whole of them have trades, and
have continually as much employment as they
can attend to. Those who are not employed
by others, and do not employ, take bostoeaa'
into their own houses, mod thus gain a re-'
spectable livelihood, with aD the advantages
of domestic comfort and social happiness.—
There is scarcely such a class to be found as
colored servant girls in Cincinnati, from the
fad that nearly all have trades- The white
girls, such as those of oriental” extraction,
are tbs complete monopolists of female me
nialism in this city. Nor do the young wo*
men find say difficulty in getting employment
in establishments controlled and owned by
white persons. These is ooe establishment,
in particular, perhaps the largest sad finest
in the dty, fa tha mannfoetam of linen and
comets, and all kinds af linens and muslin
gowns, where than are amt twain or
is eighteen jmnf «okri« women, constantly
ami jirrtnkly Hvw ***l P I*** 1
mj bn exported tnfcilrwtbepraieeworthy
example of the yean* edored tehee of Cm
r Chml tm; pim manMiaMy
oaae np to this standard? Detenmnatwo sad
niAmdstwo oaljr m aoeeamry tklermi
nation I* do—to M set, act, ia the living
e presence act.”
t- To m already elevated, and reined, and
e enlightened people, there might appear, in
a this notice and Bnoomotn upon mechanics,
h tradesmen, and the eoerse of the young col
ored women, scarcely aught to applaud or
a merit notice in an editorial correspondence;
I hot when it in bene in mind that we are hot
ia a primitive State—e people, as it were,
0 who, like the ancient Greeks and Romans,
a when visited by the literati and philosophers
of Africa, are just beginning to receive the
b germ* of enlightened gvihasthw; theu the
t appropriateneeajof the’eoarae will readily be
acknowledged. A practical precept of one
sentence is worth a page of unintelligible jar
gee. The elevation of our race in general,
i and class in particular, is the ultimatum of our
aim, and whatever respectfully and honora
bly contributes to this end, is among the
i means to be used for its accomplishment. I
i cannot agree with some writers, that great
matters, or ia other words, great things, ex
pressed by great words, are alone worthy of
f great minds, or the notice of great persona.
We are a small people—occupy a small
sphere—constituting a small number com
II pared with those by whom we are surrounded;
j also, the gieater part of whom, at present,
have but a small conception of things. Now,
11 to my mind, the greatest effort that can be
i made is, tD suitably adapt ourselves to their
underslanding, imparting to them a correct
knowledge of things, though the language
may appear homely aed void of refinement,
but proper. You know I care little for pre
cedent, and therefore discard the frivolous
rules of formality, conforming always to
principle, suggested by conscience,and guided
by the ligftt of reason.
The Cincinnatians, I mean the colored, are
a highly susceptible and very interesting peo
ple. They have been misrepresented in many
particulars, and it requires an actual acquaint
ance with them before their true character can
be known.
They have themselves a wrong conception
of the people in many other places, especially
their Pittsburgh neighbors, all for the want of
an actual acquaintance. There are some of
the noblest and best spirits to be found among
our people in this city, and they only want
the encouragement and approbabation of the
leading minds and master spirits of other pla
ces, to give them an impulse, which, like tbe
ushering of bodies into space, shall continue
forever in motion. I believe and expect
much good will be accomplished among the
colored citizens of Cincinnati, and they are
fully determined that nothing on their part
shall be wanting. They are willing and
ready to bear the expenses of competent per
sons to come and counsel with them. Indeed,
I found myself much disappointed. Instead
of that spirit of selfishness and bigotry with
which the hare bepn charged,«l
found, to thq contrary, that they are kind,
hospitable, sociable and unassuming in the
extreme, always ready and willing to give
merit its due, and, indeed, they extend their
courtesies to the utmost extent of the desires
of the most insatiable for such favors. Per
haps from the kindness of their hearts, they
sometimes extend it where it is not due—at
least, where it may not be merited. They
are indeed a very grateful people, and this I
conceive to be saying much. I opine, and
that not w ilhout the best of reasons for saying
so, that if the North Star continues to be
conducted as I know it will, as a useful and
instructive organ, that its conductors will al
ways meet with a most hearty welcome from
the citizens of the “Que^n.”
The whites, in the main, of this place are
kind and courteous, and the principal reason
of 'the distance between them and the colored
citizens, is, as expressed by an intelligent col
ored gentleman, because the colored people
themselves have never taken advantage of the
opportunities they haveof being sociable with
them. This 1 believe mainly to be true, and
is an eggregrious error on the part of the col
ored citizens. They must come forward,
confront opposition, and manfully, though
prudently it may be, maintain their rights in
every particular. This being done, the Cin
cinnatians must become among the greatest
and foremost in our country. The miserable
influence of those Kentuckians across the
river, ia fast losing effect among tbe Cincin
natians.
One word more to the young men. I men
tioned in my last that they were not doing
their part. It is true that there are some—
yes, an honorable few—who are found at the
cabinet, in the carpenter’s shop, at the shoe
maker’s bench, the anvil, and so on and
these I respect .as honorable exceptions but
by far the greater part coQtent themselves
with inferior situations to these. Many of
them have steamboating as a principal occu
pation, and after having worked studiously for
several months, they come off the river with
money sufficient to keep them respectably
jntil they could qualify themselves ia pen
manship and arithmetic, sufficient for counting
house purposes, or sufficient to purchase them
selves a hundred and fifty acres of good land,
in Michigan or elsewhere, or to set them up
in a respectable small trading boat ness of
some kind, or support them comfortably for
two years st Obeilin hot instead of this, the
most they appear to think about ia dress aod
pleasure—almost discarding the young indus
trious mechanic of ooane clothes and plain
habits; while they do nothing but buggy-ride
day after day, nntii their capital is exhausted,
and probably before their buaineas season re
turns and thus they get into debt for board
ing and washing, and out of credit with every
body.
The sequel of the matter that they in
all probability put fire hundred dollars into the
hands of an oppressor, who is rendered fast
much stronger, and torn qiicntly enabled to
■re aa minenee against there or their ebaa;
sad aneeriagly rebukes then by firing nuer
saoe to the faet, that s Fool and his money
seen part.**
Great efforts are being* made ia behalf of
the colored Orphan Asylum. A fob for the
parpaao is to commence on Monday, ia a
large hall ia the city. The ladies sad gentle
men are all my active, sad determined to da
their duty.
A mtfaieal senee via bald on Mat Friday
ftoili by (be wM hand of jrMßfcM
bMyof baldMinorfi’ Masting. TWfi
JM |Mt credit Is lha—rlvwe, and if ifrst
great taste and soneaptihility for the "fine
art** if Basic. On this occasion they bad s
fins andwnce, lbs spams ball being »*il
filled. The young bob are aery geaerons,
tendering their services without charge an all
benevolent occasions. May they grow great
and good, an they Boat certainly will Mines*
and skilful in their profession
1 leave on Monday for Dayton.
Toon for God and humanity,
M R. D.
New Englend AatMtemr Cnwvswtlwn.
It will be gratifying to the readers of the
North Star to learn that this gathering of the
friends of humanity was in do neaped behind
those of former years. One thing is certain,
nerer were bolder and sterner truths enunci
ated or argued, or their appropriate eloquence
more effective upon a thronged and intelligent
audience.
The Convention held its day session at the
Melodeon, commencing oa Taesday, May 3d,
and Faneuil Hal), the old cradle of Liberty,
was trailed of by the susses, who gave
eager attention to the sublime and lofty ex
pression of freedom's champions for the three
evenings. The following wets appointed offi
cers of the Convention:

J fcoMaXs
EDMUND QUINCY.
Vice Presidents,
Francis Jackson, Frxdibick Douglass,
Petes Libbey, Edmund Jackson,
Parker Pillsbury, Caleb D. Williams.
Business Committee,
Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips,
Chas. F. Hovey, STaria W. Chapman, Lucy
Stone, Caroline Weston, Stephen S. Foster,
Chas. C. Burleigh, Adin Ballou.
Secretaries,
Samuel May, Jr., Wm. C. Nell, Eliia J.
Kenny.
Finance,
James N. Buffum, Loring Moody, Samuel
Brooke, Wm. W. Brown, John M. Spear.
The resolutions submitted by the Business
Committee were of the most ultra character,
and their discussions were highly interesting,
being participated in by the following among
other speakers: William Lloyd Garrison,
Wendell Phillips, Theodore ParkcT,Frederick
Douglass, Wm. H. Channing, Charles Lenox
Remond, Parker Pillsbury, William W.
Brown, Stephen S. Foster, Charles C. Bur
leigh, Adin Ballou, John Pierpout, Edwin
Thompson, and other well known advocates
of a righteous but persecuted cause.
The topics embraced in the resolutions
were of the usual character, only improved
as, in the opinion of the movers, the signs ol
the times demanded. The pro-slavery fea
tures of the Constitution, and duty enjoined
upon all abolitionists to withhold their alle
giance while it was the formidable obstacle in
the path of emancipation the support guar
anteed to slavery by the American church, re
ceived its due share of attention. The posi
tion of political parties, their proMnnent candi
dates, each engaged the thought and voice of
the Convention. Expressions of sympathy
for Sayres, Drayton and English, now in the
prison at Washington for aiding 77 slaves to
escape, also were embodied, as were several
other departments of the great subject of
American slavery.
Frederick Douglass, at the opening of the
meeting, expressed the hope that there would
be no lack of speech, especially at a time
when there was so much love of freedom and
hatred of slaveiy, and called upon James N.
Buffum to narrate some of the incidents of his
recent visit to Washington, who detailed the
treatment meted out to the three men above
mentioned, and hie interview, in particular,
with Captain Drayton, whom he considered
the man of the occasion, the moving spirit on
board the Pearl. He found him resigned to
his fate, though subjected to very hard prison
discipline. A message from his wife excited
the lively gratitude of his heart. He con
fessed that nothing else had troubled him but
solicitude for those near and dear to him.—
The demonstrations of kindness on the part
of visitors, touched even the officers of the
prison,one of whom acknowledged his convic
tion that the anti-slavery people were doing
something. The visit to the National Prison
had tended in an eminent degree to increase
his (Mr. B.’s) opposition to slavery, and
nerve him with seal for its removal from the
capital and the country.
Mr. Garrison commented upon some ex
tracts from an English paper, relative to a
recent meeting in Kingston, Jamaica, among
the former planters, at which time an address
was delivered by a distinguished clergyman,
replete with anti-slavery sentiment, aud which
was received by the residents with unanimous
applause. He announced, That before he
w ould have slavery re-established in Jamaica,
he hoped the island would sink to the bottom
of the ocean; that the institution was a foul
blot: it was his abhorrence.** He uttered bis
indignation in view of America being the
strong bold of slavery.
Edwin Thompson of Walpole, suggested
an inquiry for many honest persons, whether
slavery could not be abolished without de
stroying the American Union, This gave
rise to as animated discussion between Messrs.
Garrison, Phillips, Pierpont, Douglass, Bur
leigh, and Mellea, as to the constructions
placed upoo the Constitution, and what re
sponsibilities were enjoined by yielding it
obedience. The majority of speakers and
of the Convention were confirmed in the be-
Iktf that honest ant>slavery men could not vote
or take office under a Consthution which, to
all intents, sanctioned and fostered the odious
system by which three miUkas of Americana
were held in chains.
Frederick Douglass alluded to the letter
from Jamaica, and believed that the demon
stration there was but a rose to gain anti
slavery infiumce in England. In the course
of his remarks, a tribute* was awarded Hun. J
R. GKillings, for his recent brilliant speech in
Congress, an an indication of anti-slavery pro
gress But a few years since, sentiment!
uttered there, fhr lean radical or pouted, bar
subjected him to expulsion; hut that new
southern members had lsatnnd that anti ah
very would bn heard on the is m, we haw
obtained what will eventually abobsb slavery
via—Free Speech.
The cause is onward, and esanrt now h
retarded for if Mr. Giddings thou Id be mm
Imnm for hia bold apeakwg, be would receive
a new baptism of freedom, and be returned m
triamph. Should pro-slavery hate, destroy hie
lifo, be would shy more at his death thaa
ever before, and the reach would prove an
awakened determination on the part of free
dom's allies to be beard and felt on tbs exciting
qaeatioa.
Anu-dsvery baa now become auch a pm*
ratling topic for (bought and discussion, that
aay of its gatherings, whether held in spa
cious halls or in ekarebes, —a village school*
boueee, or m the gteve*—Cod's first [temple*
—they are always prolific with internet, im~
I fining sometimes looked for, but
I seldom obtained at aay other meetings. This
is specially characteristic of the New England
Anti-Slavery Convention, where the devoted
band of tree men and women assemble from
all over the country, to lay their offerings on
freedom’s ahar, and inhale inspiration to be
developed on returning to their immediate
spheres of inflaence. It has been, and long
may it coalman thus, the aati-alaveiy Mecca,
to which, like 4he eastern devotees to their
chosen city, the boats feel boand to perform
an annual pilgrimage.
I am not rain enough to attempt a report
of the discussions elicited by the aeries of
resolutions, but will allude to a few prominent
individuals and speeches, whic hmajr convey
bird’s-eye view of a scene replete with hope*
and encouragement to the slave on the son th
em plantation. In another column, it baa
been already intimated that the evening mo
aions were held in Faneud Hall, where the
crowded attendance was an appropriate tribal*
to the eloquent arguments submitted by the
galaxy of talent and worth, unsurpassed oa
aay other platform.
The pro-slavery character of the America*
Constitution was frequently discussed, and the
remarks thereupon were listened to with un
precedented attention. Frederick Douglass
commenced his speech at Faneuil Hall by re
minding the audience that he stood before
those who were the enslavers of himself and
brethren, and that what he might feel to
offer, would not be agreeable to the venerators
of the Constitution but it was them who
said, through that instrument, “If you, slaves,
dare to rise and assert your freedom, we of
the north will come down vpon yoa like an
avalanche, and crush you to pieces.” He
met the taunt of cowardice charged upon the
slave, by Tebukbig its pro-slavery authors, aa
coming with an ill grace from them, they
being eighteen millions strong, the slaves ig.
norant, degraded, unarmed, and but three
millions. The crushed bondman appeals to
you, northern men, to stand away from the
southern slaveholder, and give us fair play.—
You should say to them, If yeu will im
brue your hands in the blood of your biethren,
do it at your own risk and peril.” There are
noble spirits among the slaves, who would
appreciate such a position, and assert their
rights to freedom. It you give them, instead
of their oppressors, your sympathy. Mr.
Douglass alh.ded to Nathaniel Turner, the
Hero of Southampton, who endeavored.to
gain liberty for himself and brethren by the
same means employed by the Revolutinary
fathers. When captured, he was stripped
and compelled to walk, bare-footed, 30 yards
on burning coals, and then fell, pierced by a
hundred bullets. I call upon you, said Mr.
Douglass, to refuse being the body guards of
slavery, and no longer render support to the
tyrants.
I know, said he, you look upon the colored
man as necessarily degraded, as beneath you;
but despite all that, we arc men. You may
pile up statutes against our manhood heaven
high, but we are men—your brothers for all
that. (This expression was received with
loud cheers.) The audience were reminded
that once the Anglo-Saxon race in England
were subject to their Norman conquerors*
though they now claimed superiority all
others, and the right to plunder and enslave
them all; and over France, too, this superiority
was claimed. Infidel France* you term her*
But Infidel France,” whet emerged from at
Monarchy to a Republic* emancipates hex
slaves, and the delegation of colored people
who waited upon the Minister Creimeux in
Paris, were treated—-not with indignity aad
contempt—-not rejected—not asked to show
their free papess—but responded to as meni
and brothers. I would not he regarded as an,
infidel to Christianity, but commend me al
ways to th«t infidelity which strikes off the.
chains, in preference to that religion which,
rivets them m.
Charles C. Burleigh, in a speech of much,
eloquence and power, alluded to the impris-t
onment of Capt. Sayres and companions at
Washington, contrasting the United Staten
with Algiers, though compelled to seknowk
edge the position of the lattes an the most,
commendable, for there slavery waa abolish-,
ed; while Washington, ouv national
was yet a slave marl.
In speaking ef the reeent revolutionary
scenes in Paris, he asked if it was noble in,
the blouses to erect barricades and achieve
iheir own civil liberty* bow much more ao
were those men at Washington heroes, who.
perilled their lives, tbeir all, for the liberty k
not of themselves, bat for others, who among,
you believes they did wrong 1 Not a man
of you. Retribution has fallen on the laocfc
m consequence of our sins. We are suffer
ing in the foct that we have no sensibility oa
the subject of slavery. The string is worn,
away that should vibrate to a lively senee of
tmr condition. The speaker coocluded with a
reference to the term No Union with slave
bolders,” not being understood by some.—
Because wo cannot establish complete non-,
intercourse are we justified by a connection
w hich holds the slave secure in his t J a
it not time to proclaim no union with slave
holders Answer it to your -mark in ts
William H. Chansing reminded the meet
ing that two years ago, when the Abohuon
had said that the Union waa diaaohrod*
they were called traitors. But thank God*
we were enabled to speak the true word
That was a noble position, and none now re
freoei for sewiming it then. When Texas
waa annexed, the bond of onion between the
Smiee wan aerated. Since then, the nation
hae retrograded we have become corrupt
and aeepoenl, and have loot the spmt of oea
snrastus. A bed deed bring* ha owe m*th
Mr. Oheaedeg spoke of the good nmaea
vuible— -east, west, north and iwtfi
tendering whet he coeeidered a jm* tribote le
the National Ere, with the edit* ef wbjchhf
_ painted, though differing some
in centime* f"* l hiin also the Louisville
in venuiw
which he believed was exerting a
Examiner

ration offered by the speaker em
braced aplaP** tl ooa Redemption So
tT said he, can the nation pros
per till ttP 61 I**™* 1 u sincere and made mam
Chairman announced Wm. W. Browi
one eminently qualtficd to speak on th<
object of Amtiican slavery, having beet
tong a victim of this peculiar institution.
Mr. fiiowa presented himself as a slavr
under the U. S. Constitution, which itwni
merit now held three millions of his brelhret
and sisters in cruel bondage. He was gist
to enjoy the opportunity of addressing th<
working men, the ciaas which the slave powci
would reduce to a level with its sable victims
The laboring people of the south, whether
Wack or white, were in a degraded condition.
He hoped tM working men of the north
would calculate the nature of thia union w ith
the slaveholder, and detailed many features of
the soul-destroying system which crushed to
the earth so many men women and children.
Mr. Brown had lately visited Groton Heights,
in Connecticut, where is a monument erected
to those who fell in ITHI, in the attack on
New hut the names of the colored
men are colonutA apart from the white men,
an evidence of the pro-slavery feeling then
existing among thoee who were sacrificing so
much fur their own rights.—w. c. n.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
S. P. Q. R., R. J. B-, an>l Candor, all next
week.
N. If., Pawtarket, R. I.—Credited to No 52.
A. I)., Marion, Ohio. Received; the |«a|>cr
will lie sent as directed.
Communications.
Notes by a Resident.
'Jo Ji. Ji'tUrts, Ety. Efltnburgh.
•Deac Sir, —I promised in my last to write
you again about things in general in this
4 great countryand do so with the more
freedom that I know it to be an interesting
subject to all classes in the Old World—espe
cially to those who are looking around them
wuh hopeful philanthropy, fot every m ans
that may be’ expected in any measure to
aid in solving the problem of human progres
sion, and are scanning, not without appre
hension, the operation of the free institutions
of this republic. The infidel points with the
finger of scorn, to the distressed, restless,
and uneasy condition of entire Christendom,
and says, whh a sneer— Behold your Chris
tianity !—what has it done 1 The aristocratic
asi selfish upholder of feudalism and serf
dom, in the plenitude of his self-complacency,
points to the American Constitution, and then
to American slavery under that Constitution,
and says—Heboid your republicanism!—what
Las it done 1 Most miserably mistaken both
Il w net Christianity, but the want of it, that
sanctions or encourages the many evils and
sorroire under which Christendom suffers it
is not republicanism but the want of it, that
sanctions or encourages the grievous wrong
of slavery, now eating like a canker into the
very heart of the social system of this entire
community, poisoning and polluting all the
streams of right sentiment and feeling.
Well, after all, this is a great country.
It is great in extent—great in fertility—great
in beautiful and picturesque scenery how
great, as an illustration of the tiuism that
a most mean practice may co-exist along with
the expression of a most sublime theory
Said a fox-hunting clergyman of England,
whec reproved by one of his parishioners for
set&ng out on a hunting expedition on Sun
day morning, shortly after he had preached a
sernaen on the duty of observing the Sabbath
Ximn’t do as I do, but do as I saw” The
United States may very well be allowed
t« be a model republic,” if her illustration
©f republican principles can be understood to
btur itkie construction—“ Don’t do as I do,
but do as I say.” She is great in theory
miserable, paltry, despicable, in fact. The
dwotnine of human equality, which she so
proudly boasts, is a noble, grand, and beauti
ful doctrine but the reverse of noble, grand,
and beautiful, is the American illustration of
it. •Of belief in this doctrine there is little
of the genuine spontaneous feeling there is
still less. Aristocracy here is as overweening,
selfish, and self-sufficient, as in the Old
World. America is not an El Dorado of
brotherly sympathy and love. Liberty—
Equality—Fraternity, are not vet engraven
on her escutcheon—probably never will be,
so long as the ill-assoited connection between
the Northern and Southern States continues.
Sime my last, I have been out on another
ramble through the romantic scenery of this
wild country. The object of this excursion
was a visit to the world-renowned Niagara.
There were a party of us, of whom Frederick
Douglass was one. e went by steamboat
on Lake Ontario, from the landing, near the
mouth of the Genesee, about three miles
from Rochester, immediately below the lower
falls of the Genesee, which were sparkling
bright and manv-colored in the sun’s wniii"
rays. The banks of thp Genesee, below the
falls, as far the lake, are high, sloping, and
covered with uncultivated verdure, reflecting
beautifully on the glassy surface of the water.
As we sailed late in the evening, we had
but lmle opportunity to see the lake; but so
far as w« did see it, before it became shrouded
•under the cover of a dark night, it was
smooth and unruffled as a sea of glass, with
v ir,v a rt l’ple to disturb its calmness. The
eapum and boat's company of the Cataract!
w« n courteous and attentive—a circumstance
80 lc Inore deserving of notice, since,
m r. informed me, it was a rare j
t ling or him, as of course for every other
person of color, however fight the shade—the
deeper thet shade,the more ram-tobe treated
with any degree of civility. He strives vi-1
gorously, however, agai„»uhi* most dastardly
and despicable system of American injustice
and despotism, with admirable courage and
resolution, tolling them in p ain hig
estimate of their character, hewing his'way
without mercy into their mean and cowardly
souls. It wiU strange to you, as it
certainly does to me, that a man of superior
intellect and character, like Frederick Doug
lass. should be subjected to insult, and be
liable to be ejected from the cabin of tfi®
steamboat, on no other account but that there
p a portion of Afo o blood hi his veins;
while miserable tobacco-chewing scoundrels,
into whose sensual souls ray of intellectual
light has never penetrated, ignorant though
they m*y be of all the decencies of civilised
life, are allowed without question to do about
just as they please. What aa empty boast is
j this American human equality How des
picably ridiculous is the theory of equal rights
when illustrated by the light of such a fact as
this! This system prerails throughout all
the Northern States, in the steamboats,
hotels, and all places of public resort. And
evea when the captain of the steamboat or
the landlord of the inn, would be willing that
1 colored men should he admitted on equal
terms with those of paler complexion, empty
headed puppies and vulgar blackguards, who
know nothing but to smoke cigars and grow
whiskers, are ready with their coarse ribaldry
and insulting taunts for the saucy nigger.”
Out upon such republicanism It u one of
the Northern fruits of Southern slavery. Let
the American name be held op to the world,
a* a hissing, a bye-worJ, and a reproach, till
this foul system of injustice and oppression,
only a little lens foul than slavery itself, is
blotted out entirely and for ever.
After leaving the steamboat, we went by
railroad to Niagara. This road, for several
miles, is cut along the side of a range of hills
of considerable height—probably about the
same elevation as your Pentland range, occa-'
sionallv steep, rugged, jnd barren; but, for
the more part sloping gradually, and wooded
to the very summit. The Tiew over the ver
dant valleys lying below, was at many points
exceedingly picturesque and beautiful—dotted
here and there w;ih a white farm-house, or a
cluster of venerable trees, the remains of the
forest which, not many years since, as ap- 1
pears by the stumps which still stand firm
and sound, reigned in undisturbed and silent
solitude, over tins entire district of country.
The village of Niagara consists of some four
or five small streets, with nothing particular
in them to attract attention. Some of the t
houses are large and aristocratic-looking; but
the business of the village is hotel-keeping. 1
There arc many hotels, several of which are
very extensive, for the accommodation of the
numerous transient visitors, who come merely
to see the Falls.
e were fortunate in enjoying fine wea
ther and bright sunshine, which doubtless
added greatly to the picturesque grandeur of
these wild scenes. I had heard and read
much about Niagara, and had always enter
tained some vague apprehensions that the
magnificence of the Falls was overstated.
But here exaggeration is impossible. No
description can give any adequate idea of their
thrilling grandeur and sublimity. The boil
ing waters must be seen, and their wild roar
beard, ere the inexpressible emotions which
are experienced while looking at and listen
ing to them, can be appreciated.
Now, as for ages pi-t, boiling, gushing,
foaming ever, rolling on continually, like the
car of Time, to which are lashed the per
turbed spirits of the restless and the wicked—
stirring up strife, enmity and division—cre
ating deadly feuds, wars, and commotions;
and at length hurried headlong over the I
fearful precipice, into an abyss of hideous
destruction.
Boiling, gushing, foaming ever, onward
and on, like the car of Eternity, to wliieh are
lashed ten thousand furies, struggling—
struggling! with all the energy of a last
effort, to release themselves from the chains'
by which they are bound; and at length 1
hurled impetuously, as by the aim of Omni
potence, into the hissing gulf of unending’
torment.
Boiling, gushing, foaming ever, while the!
morning sun sliinos forth bright and glorious,
and the dewdrops glisten on each blade of:
grass, like a cluster of the purest diamonds, 1
and the birds warble out their early song of
love, and the far-resounding woods echo and
re-echo the joyous melody, till it dies
away in softly-sootliing murmurs, in the far
distance.
Boiling, gushing, foaming ever, while the
noon-day sun looks down in dazzling splendor
upon the modest wild-flower at the rivers
brink, and the soft breath of summer gently
moves, like an unseen spirit, among the leaves
of the forest, and the rushing waters, as they
roll on and on, in their ceaseless toil and
bubble, sparkle and glitter in the sun’s
bright rays, like immense blocks of quartz or
crystal, which ai*e forced by some powerful
and unseen energy, over the dizzy height.
Boiling, foaming ever, while the
moon shines forth iu silvery brightness, and
the Btars twinkle in the deep azure, and all
else is calm and hushed, and the voice of God
seems to whisper in the ear of listening na
ture—Peace! peace! peace to the troubled
breast, rest for the wicked, hope for the op
pressed.
Boiling, gushing, foaming ever, in cloud,
and in sunshine, in storm and in calm, onward j
and on, ceaseless, resistless, as the hours ofi
Time wing their flight into the bosom of;
Eternity.
The river, immediately above the Falls, is
divided into two branches, by a cluster of
small islands, which are connected with the
American side by numerous bridges. On
these islands the visitor spends many hours
in a kind of bewildered ecstaey, listening to
the raging waters, and looking at the clouds
of spray, as they ascend from the boiling
gulf. The Canada fall is much the most
magnificent. For several yards in the centre
it descends bright and radiant as a polished
emerald, contrasting beautifully with the
white and foaming surface which the rest of
Fall presents. In order to sec the Fall from
below, it is necessary to descend by a long
winding staircase. Following the guide, and
well enveloped in an oilskin covering, there is
little danger either of slipping or of getting
wet. The footpath, for a portion of the wav,
is sufficiently wide for two to walk abreast,
narrowing ofF to a mere ledge of the rock,
and terminating in a rugged precipice which
overhaugs the hell of waters.” But a des
cription is impossible I have not tlui hardi
hood to attempt it. Suffice it to say, that the
distance in the bend of the curve, including
Iris and Prospect Islands, which divide the
American from the Canada Falls, is 1,400
yards, and that the depth of the fall is from
150 to 160 feet. I can acarcely find in my
heart to find fault with the man who, it isj
said, from motives of miserly selfishness,
preserves the rapids from the clatter of the
mill and tho manufactory. The day, how-!
ever, is probably not far distant when tha ap
peuaooe of Niagara will be greatly changed, j
But now h may be truly said of iV“ The ey t
is not milled with seeing, nor the ear with
hearing.*'
We returned to Rochester by way of Buf
falo. The distance between Niagara and
Bufialo is not more than twenty miles, and
takes but a short time to travel by railroad.
Buffalo, about twenty years mass, was a
mere village of 8000 inhabitants; now it is a
large and rapidly growing city of not lem
than 40,000. It is one of the most remark
able instances of the mushroom growth at
American cities. Lying on Lake Erie, it is
the connecting link between the East and the
West. There is a considerable amount at
shipping in the harbor —small brigs and large
steamboats. I should not suppose, from the
appearance of the steamboats, that very se
vere storms are expected on those lakes.
Standing high out of the water, with cabins
on the deck, like floating wooden houses,
they do not appear capable of enduring a
heavy sea. The journey to Chicago, which
forms the Western emporium on the lake
shore, is about 1,200 miles, and rifces nearly
four days. A great portion of the country
around Buffalo is still uncleared and on the
railroad, ibr many miles, nothing is to be
seen but deep and gloomy forests, into which
the sun has never penetreted. But even
now, how different must be the appearance of
this country from what it was half a century
ago! The steam engine is rapidly hewing a
way through these wild forests, implanting
civilization and commerce, and the hum of a
teeming population. Ere many years elapse,
I doubt not, the land around will be all
cleared and cultivated, and towns and villages
rising up in all directions. This change
would be produced even more rapidly, were
it not for the short-sighted and selfish spirit ol
speculators, who having purchased large
tracts of land, are anxious to obtain high
prices and thus those who wish to purchase
are driven off to the far west, where they
can obtain it at government price, and the
population being thus scattered far and wide,
are deprived of the means of improvement
and many social advantages. This evil is
extending itself rapidly. If legislative au
thority is of any use at all, it is in such a
case as this; and here it ought to be exer
cised. Monopoly of the soil is the w’orst and
most unnatural of all monopolies. It is one
of the most grievous curses of the Old
World, and will, unless some preventive
measures are adopted, be so likewise of the
New. Some of the new States are agitating
measures which will to some extent provide
a remedy and others will in all probability
follow their example.
The Presidential election is now beginning
to be the chief topic of interest. The popu
lar men of all parties are already in the field
With reference to the Whig and the Demo
cratic candidates, one feels involuntarily forcec
to exclaim—
Oh, that s'lfli difference there should lie
’fbvixt r.vee.iledum and Twcedledee!”
After all, I a n rather disposed to the con
elusion, that the election of a President is bu
little more than a party a.lair; and that the
qualification principally required is the possi
bility of obtaining preferment.
Yours truly, J. D.
Lo.vdon, May 2G, IS4B.
Dear Sir: However much we may
rejoice in the progress of liberty indicated by
the recent French revolution, it is impossible
to conceal from ourselves the fact, that French
liberty is exposed to many dangers from the
irregular manner of its birth. You will
probably have received, ere this reaches you,
full particulars of the mad attempt made bv
Blanqui, Barbes, and other fanatics, assisted,
I fear, more or less, by Louis Blanc, Albert,
and others, from whom better things might
have been expected, to overturn the present
Government, which, being established on the
broad basis of universal suffrage, is certainly,
ii not the best possible government, at least
the government best entitled to rule in France.
1 lie example of the 24th of February seems
to have put into the heads of these men the
foolish notion that in order to rule, it is only
necessary to get possession of the building
where government is conducted. Accord
ingly* on the 15th May, under pretence of a
demonstration of sympathy with Poland, they
invaded the National Assembly, dissolved it,
took possession of the Hotel de Ville, pro
claimed themselves a Provisional Govern
ment, and were in the act of publishing other
decrees, levying contributions on the rich for
the benefit of the poor, and introducing thus
a system of general distrust and terror, which
could end in nothing but civil war, tyranny
and despotism,when the National Guard, hav
ing absolutely rushed together, as one man,
with an enthusiastic determination to support
their own chosen representatives, they were
arrested in the government offices, and now
wait the trial and punishment due to their
criminal attempt. The National Assembly
again met, and I think it will be found, if the
Government is not carried away by fear or an
ger, from the moderate, and conciliatory, and
liberal course which Lamartine appears to
have chalked out, to any hasty or violent
measures, that it has been strengthened by the
attempt. The chief thing to be feared now,
is, that the Assembly, disgusted and terrified
by this display of popular ignorance and vio
lence, may be led to distrust the mild and
broad principle on which fcamartine seems to
wish to rule the people. Indeed, it has been
already rumored that he and Ledru RoUin are
about to resign their seats in the Executive
Committee, in consequence of the want of
confidence manifested by the Assembly.
In the meantime, so much disorder migns
in France, and in the Assembly itself, that the
ardor of the friends of freedom in this coun
try, who, immediately after the revolution,
addressed to the French nation loud and
warm expressions of admiration and sympa
thy, is somewhat cooled. We thought that
the revolution in France would accelerate pro
gress in this country, and no doubt it has done
so. But, alter all, we must rely entirely on
the justice of our cause, and the strength of
our arguments; for there is no country in the
world, whether it be in the shape of a mon
archy or a republic, to which we can point as
an example worthy of imitation. It is now
several years since reformers id this country,
who used to quote America as an instance of
the safe and beneficent working of political
equably, have been glad to forget your coun
tty altogether fur they were always struck
dumb by the triumphant finger of scorn with
which their opponents pointed at the Mack
plague-spot of slavery still existing among
yo«. I have no hesitatioa in saying, tin m
tag as slavery is numbered tmoag the msti
tntiona of the United States, they are, not
withstanding the sublime truth of their decis
ion of independenoe, n truth uttered with the
Hp and trampled, in the life and no (withstand
ing the amusing complacency with which I
notice some of your contemporaries talk of
the American Union as the Model Repub
lic,” an obetraetMM to liberty throughout the
world. It is with sincere grief that the re
formers of this country haveleanied that
cboly troth; and it is only in the noble efforts
that are being made by so many good men
and true, and the increasing success which we
see attending them, to cause to be proclaimed
from the capital at Washington, the glad and
welcome sound of liberty to the stave, that
we take comfort to ourselves, hoping yet to be
able to point to America as a proof of the
safe and beneficent workings of sell-govern
ment, and as a model worthy of the imitation
of the world.
The war between Lombardy and Austria
still proceeds with varying success. The
Lombards have not yet decided upon the con
stitution to be established. A ballot of the
population is to be taken on that subject, and
it is believed that it w ill result in an applica
tion for union with the kingdom of Sar
dinia.
There have been further popular commo
tions in Vienna, the object of which is not
well understood here, but they have ended in
additional concessions,’ including universal
suffrage to the people. The Emperor fled
from Vienna to Innapruck in the Tyrol, on
the 16th inst. The ministry immediately is
sued a proclamation stating that they would
rule on their own responsibility until his re
turn, and that they had sent the commander of
the national guards to induce him to corne
back. The town was in the hands of the stu
dents of the University.
Messrs. O'Brien and Meagher, two of the
great champions of the physical free repeal
ers in Ireland, have been tried in Dublin for
sedition, but without result, as the juries could
not agree to a verdict. This is taken as a
triumph by the repealers, and the most enthu
siastic demonstratiens of congratulation have
taken place in the streets of Dublin. Mr.
Mitchell, the editor of the United Irish
man,” who, amid all this violence, speaks ma
ny a word of
“Truth that winna ding,
And duu’na be disputed,”
is now in prison, charged with felony, under
the recently passed Crown and Government
Security Acy. The trial has just com
menced, and will not likely be concluded for
two or three days.
The Sites for Churches (Scotland) Bill”
passed the second reading some days since by
a very large majority in the House of Com
mons. It is called for by the circumstance,
that some of the landholders in Scotland, pos
sessing very extensive tracts of country, abso
lutely refuse pieces of land for chapels for the
Free Church Congregations. Of course, if
such tyranny were common, and unchecked,
it would amount to a virtual repeal of the act
|°f toleration. Uhe bill is liberal and cotnpre
hensive, providing that, under the circum-!
stances described, any hundred persons re- i
quiring ground for the building of a chapel,
without reference to sect, can compel the
landholders to let them have a site on fair aud
just terms. The same principle ought to be
acted upon with regard to many other mat
ters; for instance, parks and places of health
ful, intellectual and physical recreation and
exercise.
Mr. Ilumc was to have brought forward
his motion in favor of Household suffrage, the
ballot, triennial Parliaments, and equal elec
total districts, on the £3d, in the House of
Commons, but as the time of the House was
taken np by other business of much inferior
1 importance, it was 11 o’clock before he had
an opportunity of introducing it. He has
therefore postponed it until the 20th of:
June.
London is always alive in the month of
May, with its great meetings of religious and
philanthropical societies. The religious, that
j is, home and foreign missionary and educa
tional societies’ meetings are now’ over, and
1 passed off without any novel incident, the
only thing remarkable being the frequent in
troduction of radical sentiment in some of the
speeches, and the warm leception given to it
by the meeting. At the meeting of the
j “Anti-State Church Association,” thespeak
ers generally expressed themselves in favor
of throwing most of their energy at present
into the movement for reform of Parliament,
as the shortest and surest road to all other
ameliorations. The Anti-Slavery Society
held its meeting on Monday evening, and
passed off well. A colored gentleman, i
j whose name I do not recollect, from the Uni-j
ted States, was present, and spoke, and was,
as usual, well received. The Peace Society
held its meeting on Tuesday, when some
dreadful exposures were made of the horrid
cruelties perpetrated during our Chinese and
your Mexican war. A crowded meeting was
held last night in the Londontavern, in con-1
nection with the People’s League,” a new
organisation, having for its object a reform of
Parliament, on the basis of Universal,” or,
as it is now called, Manhood Suffrage.”—
Col. Thompson was in the Chair, and the
meeting was addressed by Burnett, Mr. Gard
ner, M. P. for Leicester, Mr. Miall, Ac.—
Tire physical force Chartists had succeeded
to some extent in packing the meeting,
but everything went off with great enthu
siasm and harmony, until the la&t resolution
had been proposed, when they moved,
not their usual amendment, i but simply
a negative to the proposed resolution, which,
I regret to say, seems to have been carried.—
This conduct proves them to be mere ob
structives.
It mav perhaps be taken as a curious indi-
tion of the effect produced is out court by the
recent events on the Continent, that Prince
Albert, who has for four years been President
of the Society fat Improving the Condition
of the Laboring Classes, and has hitherto j
presided at the meetings, by deputy, thought;
proper last week to do so in person. The
change is by no means to be regretted, for be
delivered a speech full of good sense and good j
feeling, of which I give you a sentence or two
as a specimen. Depend upon h,” he said, j
it ia to the advantage of those classes who
are so often contrasted, hot whose interests
are identical, \p anile, and it ia cofy ignorance
which prevents them from uniting fee each
others’ benefit. To dispel that ignorance,
ud to show the means hew mu ran hel r
mu, notwithstanding the complicated state at
chitixed society, ought to be the aim of every
philanthropic person. (Hear.) But it h
moot peculiarly the duty of those whs, undei
the blessings of Divine Providence., enjoy us
lion, wealth ud education. (Cheers.) Let
them be careful to raoid any dktatioaal inter
ference with labor and employment, which
frightens awsv capital, destroys that freedem
of thought ud independence of actios which
most remain to every one, if he is to work
out his own happiness, (loud cheere,) and to
repose that confidence in each other on which
alone the enjoyment and mutual benefit of
mankind rest.” This is sufficient to give you
an idea of the spirit of the speech, and surely
your southern slaveholders might take a les
son from the example of the occupant of a
throne, an institution which no doubt they
regard as a relic of tyranny, and which cer
tainly does seem to imply imperfect liberty,
expressing his anxiety for the dispelling of
ignorance, and the maintenance of freedom of
thought and independence of action among
the laboring classes. The objects directly
aimed at by the society, arc the erection of
model lodging houses, the establishment of
loan fuuds, and the allotment of cottage
lands, in order, as the Prince said, that the
working classes may learn with economy to
combine advantages and comforts to which
they have hitherto been strangers.”
In consequence of the suicide of Mr
Redhead Yorkc, one of the members of Par
liament for the city of York, there has been
a new election in that city, at which Mr. Vin
cent polled 600 votes in opposition to 1500
united votes of whigs and tones, who, after
all, have sent up a man who has declared in
favor of household suffrage and the ballot.—
This certainly is a cheering evidence of pro
gress.
Sir Henry Lytton Bulwer, our Ambassador
at Madrid, has just arrived here, having been
sent away at 48 hours’ notice by the Spanish
Government, in consequence of the cavalier
manner in which Lord Palmerston and he
urged upon them the adoption of a liberal
policy. This incident will probably give rise
to a long paper war, but, it is to be hoped,
nothing more, as far as we are concerned.—
\Y ith regard to the Spanish themselves, I
presume, hereafter, we will be more disposed
to let them fight for liberty in their own way,
and keep it if they can, and lose it if they
cannot, which probably will be no great loss
to them, if only all the European powers can
be persuaded to act on the same principle.
An insurrection is stated by the Prcsse,”
French newspaper, to have taken place at
Naples last week, in which 400 soldiers were
killed, and a large part of that beautiful town
reduced to ashes.
The Prussian National Assembly has met
for the purpose of forming a Constitution for
Prussia. The King opened the Assembly in
person. The proposed Constitution is under
stood to be very libera!, but has not yet been
formally published. A general assembly of
delegates from all the German States is also
sitting at Frankfort-on-the-Maine, for the pur
pose of forming a great Germanic Con
federation, on the basis of a union of
people, not, as formerly, of mere princes.—
At the opening of the Prussian Assembly,
the King of Prussia expressed the hope that
the war between Prussia and Denmark would
be terminated on the mediation of this
country.
I regret to state that the House of Lords
last night threw out the bill for the admission
of Jews into Parliament. The numbers were,
noes, 103, ayes, IJS; majority, 135. This
is much to be regretted, as it shows that
intolerance and bigotry are still dominant in
that House, and able to perpetrate injustice
under the cloak of Christianity hut it may
perhaps stimulate the movement for the reform
of Parliament. Yours, &c.,
R. S. D.
Which is the most Methodistical?
The other day, two exchange papers came
to our office at the same time, the Zion’s
Herald and the Cleveland True Democrat.
The Herald contains a letter from Hev. C.
Collins, of Krnorv and Henry College, Vir
ginia, giving a rather heated account of a
controversy on Calvinism now jroing on in
East Tennessee. This controversy is con
ducted on the Presbyterian-side, by Rev.
Frederick A. Ross, through the pages of a
periodical, called the Calvimstic Magazine.
Mr. Collins seems to feel it necessary to
turn aside from the merits of Calvinism, to
a consideration of the persoual affairs of;
his leading opponent, in the following para- 1
graph:
As a matter of curiosity to many of your;
New England readers, it may not be amiss
to mention a fact in the personal biography
of Mr. Ross. He is, by common consent,
at the head of the Presbyterian Church in
East Tennessee, and Is a man of learning
and talent. He is also a full-blooded mu
latto, the son of an old Virginian planter, by
one of his slaves. I mention not this fact
by way of disparagement, either of the man j
or his cause. The merits of controversy 1
rest on other foundations. Could a roan of 1
his color and origin, by any possibility 1
reach the same position of influence in New
England How much he is indebted tor
his position and influence to the great wealth
he inherited from his father, is not easy to
show. Every one can form Ids own judg
ment on this question.’
The other paper has a letter from Hon. j
E. S. Hamlin, formerly M. C., and also a
Methodist, written while on a journey, in.
which be relates the following incident;
*On leaving Rochester, I found Frede-,
rick Douglass in the cans, and on recogniz
ing him, he invited me to take a seat by 1
him, ‘if I was not ashamed to tit with a,
nigger.’ There is a good book in the world
called Methodist Discipline, that I used once
to be somewhat familiar with, that says,;
Never be ashamed of anything but nn
and as I thought there could be no sin in
sitting by one of the most extraordinary men
of this age, although a rugger,’ 1 very
gladly accepted the invitation—and well
was I paid for it, for 1 obtained from hirn
much information in regard to European
affiors, which he was enabled to impart from
haring resided several years in that ooun-
try mfoimation very interesting juat at this f
tune. He also furnished roe with several
English periodicals sent bun by his English
friends.
One cannot but be filled with admiration
at finding an ladividal only thirty years of
age, bom a slave, and living in slavery un
it] fall grown, and never having had any]
wekoohns, speaking the English language
with great fluency and correctness, and.
familiar, nut only with the affair* of his own
government, bat also with those of the old
world.’ Aa a man of natural and acquired
abilities, he has few equals of his age, and
stands, and will stand, an everlasting re
hake to those who proclaim the necessary in
feriority of the African race.
At prraent he la engaged is pohliahtag the
North riutr, at Kochwmrr. it as now about,
four months old, and haw between five am
■x tho«saul subscribers. [The writer bn
bmen BUS informed. The nmober is greath
WNamied.] Mr. himself spendb
■o** of his time in lecturing—» field f**i
he pceuliarh adapted. and whrl
f|*% tweds to be niltmird N him. lie
j.'"® F*****f« the Kocheswr aa.i
Anbum nolrnad, and was treated with great
cjvilitT br the Conductor* ami passenger*.
He tnld me he thought he should visit CkTe
la*"! m the coarse of the season.'
We hare no occasion to multiply comments
on these two jjaragraphs, ow p ut forth fo r
the evident object of enlisting the intense
bitterness of American mtorphfJta, as a make
—weight against a ihcvdogiesl antagonist,
who is a minister, of Christ, learned, able,
and eminently successful;—the other embrac
ing the opportunity of enjoying an hour's
conversation with a mun of odor, as otic of
the most intelligent and instructive of com
panions.—Etnannjxitor.
Addre&s of .IblMlatcry Women of West*
eni Sew York.
Under a deep and abiding impression of the
duty we owe to God and our fellow beings,
the Anti-Slavery women of Rochester feel
‘I constrained to continue to persevere in their
efforts for the oppressed and suffering bood
men who still remain toiling unrequited in the
i Southern prison house. We are frequently
brought painfully to remember that not only
b their labor wrested from them unremunera
ted not only do they suffer from intense hun-
I ser and cold not only are the fern lies, oyn
sisters, subjected to the cruel and passionate
outrages of their tyrannical masters and over
seers hut there are daily instances of sun
dering the dearest tics in nature, thus sepn*
rating them forever. And can we expect any
thing better—can we look for benevolence hr
fine feelings from a system 5© Joul and fiend
ish as slavery? It would be unreasonable,
because a corrupt tree cannot bring forth
i good fruit.’’ Therefore, knowing that with
out associative action we cannot render effi
cient aid to this holy cause, we affectionately
invite the co-operation of the eitizens of Roch
ester and the public generally. We ask them
to bear in mind the injunctions of Jesus, “All
things whatsoever ye would men should do to
you, do ye even so to them.” Remember,
also, the beautiful parable in which he calls
our attention to the sick and to those who are
in prison, and concludes by the forcible asser
tion, “Inasmuch as ye have done it to one of the
least of these, my brethren, ye have done it
unto me.” We feel assured all that have
hearts to feel, and arc careful to attend to the
monitions of conscience—all who are deter
mined to live for the good of our race, instead
of devoting all their time to their own per
sonal ease—all who feel bound to improve the
precious time allotted to them here, by pro
moting as much as possible the cause of truth
and righteousness in the earth, will come for
ward in the work of laboring to banish forever
the demon of slavery from our land; and in
so doing, instead of an example of corruption
and wickedness, we should be a light to the
world.”
We hope no one will feel too poor, nor any
too rich, to enlist in this holy cause. The
Christian’s influence, in whatever situation, is
always salutary, and will certainly produce its
good effects. We ask for the aid of men and
of women; —we call on the old and the
young, the farmer, the mechanic, and the
merchant. We ask all and every one to give
us their help to devote what they can spare,
either of money or of the fruits of their la
bor, to the work of restoring men and women
to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights
and blessings with which they were endowed j
by our Creator.
For litis object, vve propose holding a Fair
in December next. We ask the females in
the adjoining towns and country around us, to
get up sewing circles, and prepare Bitch arti
cles as will be most saleable, and to come, fur
nish tables, give us their company, and help
us, not only in selling those things thus pre
pared, but in convincing the public mind of
the necessity of our perseverance and fidelity,
and thus be helpers in hastening the day of
emancipation.
Abigail Bush, Rochester.
Sarah D. Fish, do.
Sarah L. Hallowell, do.
Mary H. Hallowell, do.
Sarah A. Burtis, do,
Margaret A. Larson, do.
Elizabeth Sully, do.
Phebe Treadwell, do.
Charlotte S. Wilbur, do.
llulda Anthony, do.
Rhoda De Garmo, do.
Catharine G. Braitiiwaite, do.
Sarah E. Thayer, do.
Catharine A. F. Stebbins, do.
Amy Post, do.
Henrietta Platt, Bath.
Susan it. Doty,} Farmington.
Maria Wilbur, do.
Elizabeth Smith, do.
Esther Hathaway, do.
Caroline Halstead, Walworth.
Julia Parker, do.
Eliza Cooper, Williamson,
Amy Mott, do.
Rebecca M. C. Capron, Auburn.
C. G. Hamblin, Port Bvron.
Margaret Prior, Waterloo.
Mary Ann McClintock, do.
Laura Murray, Victor.
Mrs. Mackintyre, Darien. 
DISCOURSE
By Harry Highland Garret, **tJW Pa*awf
Prrttnt Condition, end Dt«tnj oftkt Colon* R~i
Tht» is a well written pamphlet, published
by the Author, at the request of a Committee
of the Sicietv before whom h was delivered.
Fhe author has repeated the discourse in
various places, aud, we believe, to general
acceptance. e would gladly publish the
Address entire but have room for only the
following extracts
In order to pursue mv subject, I
must, for the sake of distinction, use
1 some of the improper terms of our
times. I shall, therefore, speak of
races, when in fact there is but one
race, as there was but one Adam.
By an almost common consent, the
modern world seems determined to
I pilfer Africa of her glory. It is not
enough that her children have been
scattered over the globe, clothed in the
garments of shame, humiliated and
oppressed; but our enemies weary
themselves in plundering the tombs of
our renowned sires, and in obliterating
their worthy deeds, which were in
scribed by fame upon the pages of
1 ancient history.
The three grand divisions of the
earth that were known to the ancients,
were colonized by the three, sons of
1 Noah, Shcm was the father of the
Asiatics—the Africans descended from
Ham; and Japheth was the progenitor
j of the Europeans. These men being
the children of one father, they were
I originally of the same complexion—for
we cannot, through the medium of any
law of nature or reason, come to the
conclusion that one was black, another
was copper-colored, and the other was
white. Adam was a red rnan; and by
j what law of nature his descendants
became dissimilar to him, is a problem
which is yet to be clearly solved. The
fact that the universal Father has va
ried the complexions of his children,
docs not detract from his mercy, or
give us reason to question his wisdom.
Moses is the patriarch of sacred
history. The same eminent station is
occupied by Herodotus in profane his
(tory. To the chronicles of these two
great men we are indebted for all the
information we have in relation to the
early condition of man. If they are
incorrect, to what higher authority
shall we appeal; and if they are true,
then we may acquaint ourselves with
the history of our race from that period
When yonder *pbere* sublime
Pealed their first notes to sound the march of time.” j
Ham was the first African. Egypt'
was settled from an immediate descend
ant of Ham, who, in sacred history, is
called Mesrairn, and in uninspired his
tory he is known by the name of
Menes. Vet in the face of this histor- 1
ical evidence, there are those who!
affirm that the ancient Egyptians were j
not of the pure African stock. The
gigantic statue of the Sphynx has the
peculiar features of the children ofj
Ham; one of the most celebrated
queens of Egypt was Nitocris, an
Ethiopian woman; yet these intel
lectual resurrectionists dig through a
mountain of such evidence, and de
clare that these people were not
negroes.
We learn from Herodotus, that the
ancient Egyptians were black, and had
woolly hair. These people astonished
the world with their arts and sciences,
in which they revelled with unbounded
prodigality. They became the masters
of the East, and the lords of the He
brews. No arm less powerful than
Jehovah’s, could pluck the children of
Abraham from their hands. The
plagues were marshalled against them,
and the pillars of cloud and of fire,
and at last the resistless sea. “Then
the horse and his rider sank like lead
in the mighty waters.” But the king
dom of the Pharaohs was still great.
The most exalted mortal euiogium that
could be spoken of Moses, w as, that he
was learned in all the learning of the
Egyptians. It was from them that he
gathered the materials with which he
reared that grand superstructure, par
taking of law, poetry, and history,
which has tilled the world with wonder
and praise. Mournful reverses of fof
tune have passed over that illustrious
people. Tlie star that rose in such
I matchless splendor above the eastern
1 horizon has had its setting. But
Egypt, Africa’s dark-browed queen,
still lives. Her pyramid tombs—her
sculptured columns, dug from the sands
to adorn modern architecture the
j remnants of her once impregnable
j walls—tbe remains of her huudted
i gated city, rising over tlie wide-spread
j ruins, as if to guard the fame of the
race that gave them existence, all pro
claim w hat she once w as.
W liatever may be the extent of pre
judice against color, as it is falsely
called, and is so generally practised in
this country, Solomon, the most re
now ned of kings, possessed none of it.
Among the seven hundred wives and
the three hundred concubines, who
filled his houses, the most favored
queen was the daughter
of one of the Pharaohs of Egypt. In
order to take her to his bosom, he
trampled upon the laws of his nation,
and incurred the Divine displeasure—
for a Jew might not espouse an hea
j then or idolater w ho was not circum
j cised in heart. hen he had secured
her, he bowed his great intellect before
her, that he might do her that homage
i which he paid to no other woman.
Solomon was a poet, and pure love
awakened the sweetest melody in his
j soul. 1 o her honor and praise he
i composed that beautiful poem called
the C anticles, or Solomon’s Song.
I' °f ,er ,e wove that gorgeous wreath
which is unsurpassed in its kind, and
with his own royal hand placed it upon
her dark brow. r
1 he interior of Ethiopia has not
been explored by modern adventurers.
The antiquarian has made his way into
almost every domiuioa where relics ot
former greatness have promised to re
ward him for his toil. But this coun
try, as though she had concealed some
precious treasure, meets the traveller
on the outskirts of her dominions with
pestilence and death. Vet, i n the
Highlands which have been traversed,
many unequivocal traces of former civ
ilization have been discovered. Y’erv
lately, British enterprise has made some
important researches in that region ol
country, all of which go to prove that
Homer did not misplace his regards for
them, when he associated them with the
Gods.
Numerous other instances might b<
mentioned that would indicate the an
I cient fame of our ancestors. A fame
which arose from every virtue, anc
talent, that render mortals pre-emi
nently great. From tbe conquests o!
love and beauty, from the prowess ol
their arms, and their architecture, poe
try, mathematics, generosity and piety
iI will barely allude to the beautiful Cle
j opatra, who swayed and captivated thi
heart of Anthony. To Hannibal, the
sworn enemy and scourge of Rome—
the mighty General who crossed the
Alps to meet his foes—the Alps which
had never before been crossed by ar
»rmy, nor never since, if we excep
Napoleon, the ambitious Corsican. T<
Terrence, Euclid, Cyprian, Origen
and Augustine.
In lti'-SO, the very same year ii
which the Pilgrims landed on the cole
and rocky shores of New England, i
Dutch ship, freighted with souls touch
cd the banks of James river, where th<
wretched people were employed a!
slaves in the cultivation ot that hatefu
weed, tobacco. Wonderful coinci
dence! The angel of liberty hoverec
lover New England, and tbe demon o
slavery unfurled his black flag over th<
fields of the sunny south.”
But latterly the slavctrade has beei
pronounced to be piracy by most all o
the civilized world. Great Britain ha:
discarded the chattel principle through
out her dominions. In 1824, Mexict
proclaimed freedom to her slaves. Th<
Pope of Rome, and the sovereigns o
Turkey and Denmark, and other na
tions, bow’ at the shrine of liberty. Bui
I France has laid the richest offering
upon the altar of freedom, that has
been presented to God in these lattei
days. In achieving her almost blood
less revolution, she maintained an ad
mirable degree of consistency. The
same blast of the trumpet of Liberty
that rang through the halls of the Tuil
leries, and shattered the throne of the
i Bourbons, also reached the shores ol
her remotest colonies, and proclaimed
the redemption of every slave thal
moved on French soil. Thus does:
France remember the paternal advice
of La Fayette, and atone for the mur
der of Toussaini. Thanks be to God,
i the lilly is cleansed of the blood that
stained it. The nations of the earth
will gaze with delight upon its demo
cratic purity, wherever it shall be seen,
whether in the grape-grown valleys
where it first bloomed, or in the Isles
of Bourbon, Guadaloupe, Martinique,
or in Guiana. The colored people of
St. Bartholomews, who were emanci
pated by a decree of the King of Swe
den last year, have lately sent an ad
dress to their liberator. Hayti, by the
heroism of her Oge.Toussaint L’Ouver
ture, Dcssalines, Christophe, Potion,
has driven the demon of slavery from
that island, and has buried his carcase
in the sea.
Briefly and imperfectly have I no
ticed the former condition of the colored
race. Let us turn for a moment to sur
vey our present state. The woful
volume of our history, as it now lies
open to the world, is written with tears
and bound with blood. As I trace it,
J mv eyes ache and my heart is filled
with grief. No other people have suf
fered so nuch, and none have been
more innocent. If 1 might apostro
phize that bleeding country, I would
say, O Africa, thou hast bled, freely
bled, at every pore! Thy sorrow has
been mocked, and thy grief has not
been heeded. Thy children are scat
tered over the whole earth, and the
great nations have been enriched by
them. The wild beasts of thy forests
are treated w ith more mercy than they.
The Lvbian lion and the fierce tiger
are caged to gratify the curiosity of
men, and the keeper’s hands are not
laid heavily upon them. But thy chil
dren are tortured, taunted, and hurried
out of life by unprecedented cruelty.
Brave men, formed in tbe divinest
mould, are bartered, sold and mort
gaged. Stripped of every sacred
right, they are scourged if they affirm
that they belong to God. Women,
sustaining the dear relation of mothers,
are yoked w ith the horned cattle, to till
the soil, and their heart-strings are
torn to pieces by cruel separations from
their children. Our sisters, ever man
ifesting the purest kindness, w hether in
the wilderness of their father-land, or
amid the sorrows of the middle pas
sage, or in crowded cities, are unpro
tected from the lust of tyrants. They
have a regard for virtue, and they pos
sess a sense of honor, but there is nc
respect paid to these j -wels of noble
character. Driven into unwilling con
cubinage, their offspring are sold by
their Ango-Saxon fathers. To them
the marriage institution is but a name
for their despoilers break down the hy
j menial altar and scatter its sacred ashes
on the winds.
Our young men are brutalized in in
tellect, and their manly energies art
chilled by the frosts of slavery. Some
times they are called to w it ness the
agonies of the mothers who bore them
w rithing under the lash, and as if t<
fill to overflowing the already full cuj
of demonism, they are somctioine:
compelled to apply the lash with theii
own hands. Hell itself cannot over
match a deed like this and darl
damnation shudders as it sinks into it:
bosom and seeks to hide itself from the
indignant eye of God.
The w I Kile numl ier of tiara in tbe F reach Col
(Hues wu almost 300,000.
LETTER FROM A BLIND GIRL.
The following very interesting letter, i
from a blind cot respondent of the RocJustc
Democrat.
Rochester Willow Bank.
My Dear, very dear Mary;—We
w hose eyes are closed, have but twodi
visions of time—a noisy night, and i
I quiet one. Morning comes, and the
light streams in sunny rills over all the
gladsome earth. Long ago, Mary, wc
two awoke, ere the sun bad kissed tht
dews into vapor, and ran joyous to greei
the faces of those we loved-, refreshec
and beautified by a night of slumbers
And oh, do you remember, Mary, bow
from the opened doors, in rushed, like
resisted waters, a flood of golden light
When far o’er the green lull*, the ful
orbed son showered his splendors; am
high up the blue sky, fleecy cloud
were flying; snd among the tree&merr;
birds were singing—and on the flowers
busy bees their nectar draughts wen
sipping, and all the insect tribes wen
humming, and we, too, in girLiood gle<
went singing. How joyful, oh, nov
joyful, is the morning But now it t
not so; oar night is unending. Day
steal on us—and steal from us. YY i
sleep and awaken but no changi
comes. No flowers spring up in ou
path; no garden walks or fields, untoh
their colors no mountains rise—w
rivers roll nor oceans swell. To us
beauty hath veiled her face, and gran
deur and sublimity, have passed away
I Yes, Mary, all things have passei
away. The moon has left the sky
and all the constellated stars have gom
down forever; so the bright dreams o
our youth have fled; promised joy:
come not. All around are blithe am
gay, but from morn till eve, Mary, w<
move cautiously and pensively. Ou
truant feet often go astray, and w<
know not when danger is nigh. As th<
chained eaglet looks heavenward, am
stretches out his wing in fancied free
dom, so we sometimes intercept thi
flight of time—and live forgetful ir
light, and joy, and hope, only to returi
and weep in darkness more dark, ant
loneliness more lonely. But Mary, oui
darkness, like the clouds, must have it:
sunny side, for God takes blessing:
from us only where their absence is thi
greater blessing sorrow sanctified
quickens into newness of life, the bet
ter feelings of our nature —and Mary
does it not make us love our friends an<
all the world more; and go not oui
thoughts oftener up to God and Heaven
Imagination, that sublime radius of th<
soul?is every day taking to herself s
broader sweep; piercing even tbe sep
ulchre of the buried past —and treading
fearless, within the boundary of the un
seen. Science or art, or earth, or sky
have no treasured worth, or hidder
beauty, that fancy, in her fleetness
does not picture in colors brighter far,
than open eyes can see; and as flowers
from the depths of the sea, come float
ing o’er the swelling tide, so beautitu
images from the long-forgotten past,
gladden now our searching memories
Uallileo, who saw more than ail the
world before him, and opened the eyes
of all after him, from the top of his pris
on, with the instrument his own hands
had made, watched the wheeling orbs
above, until bis eyes became obsaque as
the satellites he discovered; in his woes
he cried, Oh, ye Gods, for power to
look once more into tlie serene depths
of the clear night-heaven! If we may
judge from his frequent and happy de
scriptions of its beauties, Milton would
have given all other sights for the glo
rious morning. Sanderson desired on
ly once to look along the pages of a
book, and I have heard you say, Mary,
you would rather see the flowers, than
all the world beside! But oh! i! I wore
to be blessed with one moment «>l sight,
I would pray, lot me look ir.*o the luce
of a cherished friend a pair of soul-lit
eyes, beaming with intelligence and
love; whose spirit-glances imagination
cannot picture, and things so holy, un
sanctilied memory may not treasure.
Saddened feelings steal upon us, when,
w ith ravished ears, we listen to descrip
tions of paintings on the walls, and
rainbows on the clouds. But, Mary,
have you never thought the Angels are
always nearer there, to bear our
thoughts away, where light is, that
fades not? Where the painter with his
brush of divine art, dipped in color’s
native well, sketches holy imagery;
scenery of heaven, where deathless
flowers bloom by living fountains, and
the fair forms of the blest, where day
springs fragiant dews hang impearled
upon their seraph locks! here the
poet, seated upon some blissful mound,
writes while the inspirations of holy
genius burn along his lines; where
Truths, into which we here look and
grow bewildered with their depth, we
shall there explore, invited by the voice
of Him who sits in majesty enthroned,
and sways o’er earth and heaven his
potent rule whose creating hand
moulds worlds, and tosses them into the
fields of aether pencil hung; “clothes
the lillies of the field, and tempers the
winds to the shorn lamb.”
Mary, life is what we make it; shut
out from all that is external, we are
pretty much the creators of the world
we live in. Let us see to it then, that
we be good creators. Since day anc
night are the same, we can as well peo
ple our minds with the beams of the
one, as the clouds of the other; as wel
call back images of joy and gladness
as those of grief and care. The latter
however, may sometimes be our guest:
to sup and dine, but let them never b<
permitted to lodge with us. We came
forth in childhood’s morn to gatliei
flowers, and because on our way wc
have dropped a few, we will not si:
down and weep over the lost, but rath
er amuse ourselves by counting and
admiring those we have left. Blindness
makes us painfully dependent; but Got
forbid our hearts murmur, or our lips
complain. The earth is the Lord’s
aud the fullness thereof.” The cattle
upon a thousand hills are his; running
waters and green pastures are in his
hands, and even now, he may be lead
ing us hither, by ways wc have nol
known! In the love and sympathy o
friends, who every where hasten to d<
us kindness, we have a well-spring o
pleasure, inexhaustible as the good
feelings of the human heart. Cora is
an angel of patience, Mary, or I hac
not written you so long a letter. Hei
little hand must be weary, thi.ugh she
says no, and when I complain of trou
J bling her, she folds her am.* arouiu
my neck and w hispers, afflicted frjends
are our ministering spirits—for us the;,
languish—for us they die.
Mary, it is four by the clock, and 1
fancy myself again in the Inslitutior
parlor, drumming a piano lesson, as i:
noise w-ere its only object. Now opem
the door, Kitty, Libby, Jose, and Susa
all in tbe same breath exclaim Mr
Dean? Mr. Dean? No; he has not
come yet; now, they are not mistaken
his well known tread in the ball the)
heard, and his voice guides them to hit
arms; some are in his lap, others hang
around his chair; all expect a kiss, i
kind word; yes, and something more
Look! wharha* he new Jor these, hti
pet children Pine-apples, banoanaa
figs, oranges! These with a father’)
fondness he divides, answering mean
time their many questions, of the peo
pie who grow and gather such delicious
fruits; bow preserved, where procured
he. But where is Charley, the pet o
all the house? forgive the little rogue
be has gone trudging up the long stain
with a heart full of complaint to Mi*
i Wild, that his apron-pocket ain’t “big
ger enough.” Patting them on tb<
head affectionately, Mr. Dean says
jgo away now my children to play
I while 1 read a little to these larges
girls bless bis heart! some choici
book we know, perhaps just from th<
press; and as we sit encircled round
hour after hour goes unheeded by, til
late in the evening we bid him gooc
night at the yard gate. It is a lon§
walk to Mr. Dean’s mansion, but hap
py thoughts like good society, alwayi
annihilate time and distance. Oh
Mary, is it not heart-rending to live
over in after time*, scenes of such rid
enjoyment. I often wonder who comes
to read for you on Sabbath evenings,
now our good friend Mr. Murray has
J made his home in Oswego! We aevei
forget thoae to whom we have beer
truly kind; so we will hope thoughts ol
those whom his frequent visits made sc
happy, will come to him sometimes even
there. Mary, every body is kind to us
and why is it so? Yesterday, two Ca
naries were presented to me; one J
shall bring to you, and the other to Ann.
Their v.oices are equalled in sweetness
by none but your own. Pardon me, il
I flatter, but I could not complimeni
their musical powers more, or describe
them to you better. Remember me
kindly to all in the Institution, and say
in the month of roses I shall again be
with them. Good bye‘ Mary,
S. H. DeK.
IMPORTANCE OF LISTENING
WELL.
It seems paradoxical to observe that
the art of listening well forms a duty
of conversation. To give up the whole
of your attention to the person who ad
dresses himself to you is sometimes a
heavy task; but it is one which we
must pay for the privileges of social
life, and an early practice will render it
almost an involuntary act of good breed
ing whilst consideration for others
will give this little sacrifice a merit and
a charm of which the lowest proof of
Christian feeling can never be devoid.
To listen well is to make an uncon
scious advancement in the power of
conversing. In listening, we perceive
in what the the interest, in what the
failure of others consist. We become,
too, aware of our own deficiencies,
without having them taught through
the medium of humiliation. e find
ourselves often more ignorant than we
could have supposed it possible. e
learn, by a very moderate attention to
the sort of topics which please, to form
a style of our own. The ait of conver
sation, is an unph a ant phrase. The
power of conversing well is least agree
able w hen it assumes the character of
an art. In listening, a well-bred gen
tlewoman will gently sympathise with
the speaker; or, if needs nmst be, dif
fer us gently. Much character is
shown in the art of listening. Some
people appear to be in a violent hurry
whilst another speaks; they hasten on
the person who addresses them, as one
would urge on a horse, with Yes, yes.
Very good. Ah!’ Others sit on the
full stare, eyes fixed as those of an
owl, upon the speaker. From others,
a loud and long laugh is, at intervals
produced, and all the company turn
round to see what was the cause of the
merriment. But all these vices of man
ners may be avoided by a gentle atten
tion, and a certain calm dignity of man
ner, based upon a reflective mind and
humble spirit.— Hints to Yeung Ladies
on tlirir Entrance into Society.
HAMBURG 11.
I felt a sincere and deep respect for
the old city, which the narrow streets
and thronging masses of the people
helped to sustain. I really believe our
coachman drove us up one street and
down the other in order to show us the
imposing greatness of the town, for it
•lasted almost an eternity before we
came to the Hotel de Baviere,’ in
Neue Jungfernstieg,’ where we de
scended. Here within the city itself it
looks well, as the Alster, which is
broad and large, separates, as it were,
the old town from the new. The high
towers are reflected in the water, where
the swans glide along, and the boats
rock with their loads of well-dressed
persons. The Jungfernstieg is
crowded with promenaders; and along
here, where the one hotel lies by the
side of the other, the door-ways are
thronged with waiters, upper-waiters,
and upper-waiters’ upper-waiters.
We will, however, not tarry here,
but reserve our visit until the evening,
when all is lighted up, although it can
well bear being seen by daylight. We
will venture into the crowd, amongst
hackney coaches, shouting retailers of
ail kinds, flower girls from Vicrlanden,
and busy monied inen from ’Change.—
It looks as if it were but one single
shop—so thickly do they press on each
other. The streets cross one another,
and down towards the Elbe we find
some to wi.ich the entrance i 9 through
a lobby, and where scarcely any one
can live that exceeds a certain circum
ference, unless lie live in them contin
ually. I stuck my head into one of
them, but durst not go further, for they
reminded me of a dream 1 once bad:—
how the houses iu Ostergade, (East
street,) Copenhagen, where I wa*
walking, also began to walk, but with
their fronts towards each other, so that
the streets had the appeal ance of these
Hamburg streets; and as they made
another step,‘l sat squeezed in between
the walls, and could neither get forward
nor backward —which was rather un
pleasant.
Yet a swarm of children played about
in them, quite pleased and satisfied in
that half obscure Hamburger-world.
A poor man who was buried, four
men bore the coffin, and the wife fol
lowed; they had some difficulty in
passing through the narrow lane; the
way was straight;, not a sunbeam found
its way down here—it vy only when
they emerged into the broader streets
that the sun-light fell on the bumble
1 coffin. I heard a story about this fw
oeral, which ia as poetically touching
as it is true.
Within this narrow street, high uj
in an equally narrow chamber, lay this
"poor corpse; the wife sat and wep
over it; she knew of no expedient U
get it buried—she had no means. Th<
window stood open, when a canary-birc
flew into the room, and settled by its
head of the corpse, where it began t<
sing, it made a strange impression oi
the woman; she could weep no longer,
for she imagined it must have come
down to her from the Lord. The bin
was tame, it allowed itself to be caughl
j directly; and as she related the circum
j stance to a neighbor, and showed bet
the bird, the woman remembered thal
she had shortly before read an adver
tisement in the newspaper about a ca
nary-bird that had flown away from it*
home.
i “It was the smio bird; and the wo
man on restoiiug it to its owners, found
(there human hearts, who rendered hef
such assistance as enabled her to bury
the dead.”— Rambles, Sfc., by Hans
Christian dndersen.
VOCAL MUSIC.
"The Hutchinsons we consider an
exception to modern performers, and
their singing a fine specimen of what
vocal music ought to be. W hat is it
that adds such a mighty charm to their
music that attracts such full aad
crowded houses, upch a general rush,
wherever they go? Some may answer,
it is the power, melody and harmony of
their voices. But these alone would
1 not do it. These qualities, it is true,
are essential, but something more is
necessary, which they always have, to
wit—simplicity. All ostentation and
display, all affectation, or pretending to
be what they are not, is loathed and
abhorred by them. Nature, truth,sim
plicity, springing from purity of heart,
motive,. principle, these added to the
natural gills of voice, furnish the mys
terious popularity. It was simplicity
which threw around these unpretend
ing Americans such a halo of splendor
in Europe.- It was this which first at
tracted the attention and admiration and
enlisted the active exertions and power
ful influence of William and Mary
Howitt, and many other people of virtue
and distinction in old England, in favor
of our unassuming neighbors. Had
tiiese plain vocalists laid aside their
simplicity, which still so gracefully be
fits them, and put on airs of style and
fashion, and superiority, all their melo
dy and splendor of voice would have
availed t' ein nothing. Affectation never
reaches the heart. Nati.re, truth, sim
plicity, sincerity, find their way directly
there.
BERXABDIN !>E ST. PIERRE.
In referiing to modern prose writers,
I dwell with peculiar complacency on
that small production of the creative
imagination to Woicli Beuaidin St.
Pierre owes the fairest poition of his
literury tame —I mean •‘i’uul and Vir
ginia,” a work such as scarcely any
other literature can show. It is the
simple but living picture of an island m
the tropic seas, in which, sometime#
smiled on by serene and iavoring skies,
sometimes threatened by the violem
contlict of the elements, two young and
graceful forms stand out picturesquely
from the wild luxuriance of the vegeta
tion of the forest, as from a flowery ta
pestry. Here, and in the “Chauiniere
ludienne,” and even in the Etudes
de la Nature, (which are unhappily
disfigured by extia*.agant theories and
erroneous physical views,) the aspect
of the sea, the grouping of the clouds,
the rustling of the breeze in the bushes
of the bamboo, and the waving of the
lofty palms, are painted with iniinitahU
truth. Beruai din de St. Pierre’s master
work, Paul and Virginia,” accompa
nied inc into the zone to which it owes
its origin. It was read there for many
years by my dear companion and
friend Bonpiand and myself, and there
—(let this appeal to personal feelings
be forgiven)—under the silent bright
ness of the tropical sky, or when, iu the
rainy season, on the shores of Orinoco,
the thunder crashed, and the flashing
lightning illuminated the forest,we were
deeply impressed and penetrated with
the wonderful truth with which this
little work paints the power of nature in
the tropical zone in all its peculiarity of
character. Humboldt's Cosmos.
THE GOLD WATCH,
I have now in my hand a gold watch,
which combines embellishment and
utility in happy proportions, and is
usually considered a very valuable
appendage to the person of a gentle
man. Its hands, lace, chain and case,
are of chased and burnished gold. Its
gold seals sparkle with the ruby, the
topaz, the sapphise, the emerald. I
open it, and find that the works, with
out which this elegant chased case
would be a ineie shell, those hands
motionless, and those figures without
meaning are made of brass. I investi
gate further, and ask, what is the
spring by which ail taese arc put in
motion, made of lam told it is made
of steel. I ask what is sleet? The
reply is that it is iron which has under
gone a certain process. So then 1 find
the main spring, without which the
watch would be motionless, and its
hands, figures and embellishments but
toys, is not of gold—that is not suffi
ciently good, nor of brass, that would
not d<>—but of iron. Iron is therefore
the only precious metal and this
watch an apt emblem of society. Iu
hands and figures winch tell the hour,
resemble the master spirits of the age,
to whose movements every e>e is di
rected. Its useless, but sparkling seals,
sapphires, rubies, topaz, and embellish
ments, the aristoracy. Its works of
brass, the middle class, by the in
creasing intelligence and power of
which the master spirits of the age
are moved; and its iron main spring,
shut up in a box always at work, but
never thought of except when it is
disordered, broke or wads winding up,
symboihcally the laborious claqpea,
which like the main spring, w wind up
by the paymenf|of wages; and which
classes are shut up in obscurity, and
though constantly at work, and abso
lutely as necessary to the movement of
aociety as the iron mnn-npring is to
the gold watch, are never thought of
except when they require their wage*,
or are in some want or disorder of some
kind or other. Edward Everett.
QfbotrtisimfnU
UNmWSECOOUKGsTviTDr
THE Subscriber* iff manufactur.,. A
Cooking Store designed for I
wwMird to wt Mhfr Mote
»nd constructed strictly ut on philoaopbu
The Oven heated tiy but air, (the only bE ln< ‘V***-
patented.) and warranted to Udte ,T T
any brick oren. For sale only by the
wholesale and retail, 34, Exctwogr Street. nwl
II BCBH k Cv
OWEN 10 RBI S’ CITTBI3 DFH
o*i>RK Tar aiuiva—late rtaitra a
MR. MORRIS *u M the erupt- >y of Mr.
Xww fur seven yearn, and iltirinr that ha*
prortred ft»r him three Stiver Medal*, for the Vm
Ehnena t 4 Book Binding, exhibited at tl*
ikV Fair* held in tki* rity and Buffalo.
Gentlemen’* Libraries fitted np a**) repaired
Masir Paper rated; Mwie and Per ikd real* hound
and finished to any pattern. Blank Account Books
executed at this establishment base given
sati*fart ton, In their durability arvl k-gaace. Strin
attention i* always paid to the quality id' paper u*td
to render them c«mal to tin- best in tiie nited
or those imported.
