seventh anneal meeting.
of the massachusetts anti-si.aver!
society.
'file annual meeting of the massa
chusetts anti-slavery society was held
in faneuil hall, boston, on odnes
<iay* jau. 24.
the chair was taken by francis
jackson, president of the society, at
11 o’clock, a. m., who called the meet
ing to order, and gave opportunity for
vocal or silent prayer.
voted, that samuel may, jr., cor
nelius bramhall. and eliza j. ken
ny be assistant secretaries during the
meeting.
voted, on motion of wendell phil
lips, that the president nominate a
business committee of seven persons.
the following persons were_noiniuated
and accepted fc by the society as that
committee:
win. l. garrison, edmund quincy,
wendell phillips, charles k. w hippie,
anne w. weston,stephen s. foster,
james n. buffum.
the following persons, on motion 01
sam’l. may, jr., were nominated am
chosen a committee to report a list o
officers of the society for the year on
suing:
samuel may, jr., bourne spooner
oliver johnson, john m. fisk, join
bailey, abby k. foster, and edinuifc
quincy.
voted, that a committee of four or
the roll and finance be nominated by
the chair. the following were nomi
nated and chosen:
james n. buffum, samuel brooke
joshua t. everett, lewis ford.
samuel plulbrick, treasurer, pre
sented his annual report, duly audited
the report was accepted. it appeared
that the receipts of the society, during
the last year, amounted to #8,500; its
expenditures to #8,277 06; leaving a
balance in the treasury, jan. i, 1840,
of #251 80,
voted, on motion of wendell phil
lips, that we now hear the annual re
port of the board of managers, or such
portions thereof as the corresponding
secretary shall select.
mr. quincy then read selections irom
the report. notice was given that the
report had been printed, and would be
ready for delivery to members and oth
ers to-morrow.
wendell phillips, from the business
(’ommittee, reported the following res
olutions:
l. resolved, that while we look
upon the free soil movement as the
unavoidable result of our principles and
agitation, and hail it so far as its forma
tion gives proof of the wider spread o(
a degree of anti-slavery feeling in the
community, we feel called upon to warn
the old friends of our cause, the veter*-
aus of so long and fierce a struggle,
not to expect too much from the first
groping* of a community which, as yet,
sees men hut as trees walking; and
that we are not to sink the experience
of nigh twenty years, to suit the views
or wait the infant movements of those
who 'have just awakened to our enter
prise; that the maintaining of our ad
vanced position is the only security we
have that they will persevere in their
measure —the only sheet anchor when
this experiment necessary for their edu
cation has failed, as in its present lorm
it musir —the corps of reserve by which
alone their broken ranks and disheart
ened courage are to he succored, and
the labors of so man y years saved,
when this transition perihd is passed.
resolved, that as the success of
the slave power, in usurping the con
trol <if our government, has beenowing
the north star.
r to its being made the paramount objed
of a large class in this community, and
especially in the slave states, no effect
ual resistance can be made to such a
conspiracy, but by a party prepared tc
1 make resistance to the slave power the
exclusive and pahunount object of iti
existence; and herxe we view with
alarm and deep regret the course of the
free soil party in putting in nomination
in some cases, men who were not pre
pared to pledge themselves to the sup
'port of even their platform of princi
ples, deeming such a course treason to
the hopes and deserving to forfeit the
trust of the anti-slavery public.
!l. resolved, that we cannot look
upon the free soil party as an anti
slavery party, in any proper sense of
the term, as no effectual resistance can
be made to the slave power, except by
a party prepared and pledged to trample
under foot the compromises of the con
stitution; and we look upon any suc
cess attending the efforts of the free
soil movement, as due only to the fear
entertained by the south, that their
candidates will in reality be false to
their oaths of office, and ready to make
every use, covertly, of that anti-slavery
sentiment in the community which far
outruns its platform, and has lorig ago
snapped asunder the bonds of the
union.
4. resolved, that the church which
is in religious fellowship with slave
holders, or the members of which are
in political alliance with slaveholders—
or which cherishes and exemplifies the
spirit of complexional caste—or which
does not make the immediate abolition
of slavery its special concern—is not
worthy to be recognized as the church
of christ, has no claim upon human
sympathy or respect, and ought to be
abandoned by every one as radically
defective in christian principle and
character; and whoever continues in
willing connection and with
such a church, is to be regarded as an
actual supporter of slavery.
voted, motion of oliver johnson,
to adjourn to half past 2 p. m.
wednesday—afternoon session.
society met according to adjourn
ment, the president in the chair.
the resolutions reported in the morn
ing were again read; and on motion of
s. may, jr., the first three resolutions,
relating to the free soil party, were
taken up for consideration.
stephen s. foster, of worcester, i
objected to the resolutions, that they
admitted too much in behalf of the
free soil party, and would tend to re
compile the members of that party to
their present positfon.
james n. buffum, of lynn, moved
that all persons present, whether friend
ly to its principles or not, whether anti
slavery or pro-slavery, be invited to
take part in the discussions of this meet- j
ing. adopted unanimously.
stephen s. foster moved to re
commit the resolutions on the free
soil party, which was seconded.
e. quincy opposed the re-commit
ment.
leave being granted, the following
resolution was offered and adopted:
resolved, that every friend of the
anti-slavery cause, present at our meet
ings, be invited to enrol his or her
name as a member of this body, and
also to give one dollar, or such other
sum as is thought proper, towards de
fraying the expenses of this annual
meeting.
5. s. foster withdrew his motion to
recommit, and moved to amend the
first resolution by substituting as fol
lows:
resolved, that we hail with joy the
breaking up of the two great political
parties of the country, as conclusive
evidence of the progress of anti-slavery
sentiments, even though their sundered
fragments have been reunited on ground
scarcely less pro-slavery than that
of the parties from which they have
been torn.
jxwis hayden spoke in opposition'! o
the substitution.
the discussion was continued by
wendell phillips and abby k. foster.
at 5 1-2 o’clock, adjourned to 7
o’clock.
wednesday —evening session.
the society reassembled according
to adjournment; edmund quincy, of
dedham, in the chair, who rgad the
resolutions before the meeting.
james n. buffum moved to lay t(h
resolutions on the table, that an opp<jg
(unity might be afforded to introduced
the audience two recent fugitives from
slavery in georgia; which motion was
carried.
win. w. brown then gave a brief
sketch of the remarkable escape from
slavery of william and ellen ciaft.
he then sang an anti-slavery song,
w hich was much applauded.
henry c. wright moved to take up
the resolutions on the free soil party jj
this w as carried, and mr. w. address-j
ed the meeting in their support, sbowj
ing the pro-slavery chaiacter of thfl
constitution, and that the free soil
party goes for maintaining the compro-*
mises with slavery. he showed, the
inconsistency of those who had just re-
sponded so enthusiastically to w. w.
brown’s question, that they would pro
tect and rescue the fugitive slave,
while they supported a constitution
which bound them to deliver up the fu
gitive. 1
on motion of h. c. wright, ad*j*
j on rned to thursday, 10 a. m. -t
thursday—morning session, w
jan. 25.—the society re-assembled
in faneujt hall, according to adjourit
ment fwncis jackson in the chair.
the resolutions on the free .soil
movement again came up. mrs. abby
k. foster defended the amendment
ottered by s. s. foster. the subject
was further dmcueeed bf j. t. everett.
f is of no sex—truth is of no color-god is the father of us all, and all wf. are brethren.
mr. osgood, of salisbury, (the une
who came upon our platform last year
to defend the liberty party,) wm. a.
white, of watertown, w. l. garrison
and s. s. foster.
at i 1-2 o'clock, adjourned to 2 1-2
o’clock.
thursday—afternoon session.
met again iif faneuil hall, francis
jackson in the chair.
the committee on the nomination of
officers reported, by their chairman, a
list of persons (o act as officers of the
society the ensuing year. their re
port was accepted, and the persons
therein named were accordingly elect
ed, as follows:
president francis jackson, boston.
vice-presidents —andrew robeson,
new-bedford; edmund quincy' ded
ham; stillman lothrop, cambridge;
amos farnsworth, groton; adin bal
lou, milford; john m. fisk, west
brookfield; joshuat. everett, prince
ton; effingham l. capron, worcester;
wm. b. earle, leicester; jefferson
church, springfield; wm. b. stone,
gardner; oliver gardner, nantucket;
nathan webster, haverhill; george
hoyt, athol; john c. gore, roxbury;
caroline weston, weymouth; zenas
rhoades, new marlboro’; benjamin
snow, fitchburgh george miles,
westminster; james n. buffum, lynn;
cyrus pierce, newton; john t. hil
ton, cambridgeport; thomas t. stone,
salem; bourne spooner, plymouth;
wm. ashby, newburyport; john bai
ley, lynn; charles p. hovey, boston.
corresponding secretary edmund
quincy, dedham.
recording secretary —robert f.wal
cutt, boston.
treasurer —samuel philbrick,brook
line.
auditor —edmund jackson, boston,
j counsellors —wm. lloyd garrison,
maria weston chapman, cornelius
bramhall, henry i. bowditch, johnm.
spear, james russeh lowell, wendell
phillips, john rogers, anne warren
weston, eliza lee follen, charles k.
whipple, samuel may, jr.
the amendment offered by stephen
s. foster was rejected. the resolu
tions numbered 1, 2 and 3, were then
adopted.
voted, to take up the resolution on
the church.
naham osgood spoke in opposition to
the resolution, and in favor of union
with the american church.
james n. buffum replied, and vindi
cated the soundness and necessity of the
resolution.
henry c. wright spoke on thesame
side, and clecfarea yumseff opposed to
everything which went for the enslave*'
rnent of man, whether governments, or
churches, or bibles, or the gods of this
nation.
wendell phillips moved that the res
olution be laid on the table, to take up
the subject of funds for the future
operations of,the society. this was
carried, and mr. phillips addressed the
friends of the cause in an earnest
speech tor aid.
samuel may, jr. introduced the fol
lowing resolution, and spoke briefly in
its support:
resolved, that in prosecuting the
work of the redemption of the slave,
and in our determination to be deterred
from that object by no constitutions or
party organizations, or ecclesiastical
combinations whatever, we summon all
the true friends of freedom and hu
manity to come to our aid, and sustain,
during the year on which we have en
tered, that great moral movement which
has laid the axe at the root of slavery’s
tree, by their most generous contribu
tions and pledges.
the committee on finance then and
subsequently received pledges, to be
paid within the year, amounting to up
wards of seven hundred dollars. they
also received, in money,' donations
amounting to about nine'.y dollars, be
sides a sum sufficient to defray all ex
penses of calling and holding the an
nual meeting.
the resolution on the church was
again taken up, and mr. garrison made
an eloquent expose of the wlak idea
which had been advanced that we
should go back to the old anti-slavery
ground.”
adjourned to 7 o’clock.
thprsdav—evening session.
met according to adjournment, when
the chair was taken by j. n. buffum,
as v 7 ice-president.
the resolution on the church being
before the society, edmund quincy
in its support.
parker pillsbury followed in justifi
cation of the course of the american
anti-slavery society and its friends, in
boldly exposing and rebuking the faith
less and pro-slavery course of the
american churches. he spoke of the
jrfuence of those churches as on the
flwfendell phillips took a different
from mr. pillsbury, of the influ
the churches, and commended
perseverance and ability
with which they labored for the ends
■key sought. he acknowledged their
>smry, and condemned their coarse on
the subject of slavery, and would not
regard them as christian churches;
but he said they were enemies not to be
thought lightly of, and abolitionists
nugi.t learn a useful lesson from then
ot dauntless and unwearied self-de-
wion.
>!r. phillips, before taking bin seat,
'again introduced william and ehen
craft, the georgia fugitives, to the
meeting. they were received with
even more hearty and prolonged cheer
ing than on the evening previous., y
the e se of these fugitives occupied
the attention of the meeting therrtnoin*
der of il» n- 8< t&p.
henry c. wri*m, w.lg«w*«»»o<l
rochester, n. y., friday, february 16, 1849.
lucy stone addressed the audience.—
miss slone spoke in an uncommonly
eloquent and touching strain.
at a late hour, adjourned, to friday
morning, 10 o’clock.
friday—morning session.
the society met again in faneuil
hall; francis jackson in the chair.
the resolution on the church being
the subject before the society, it was
spoken to by samuel may, jr., and
parker pfllsbury.
its adoption was moved by stephen
s. foster.
seward mitchell moved to 'amend
that resolution by substituting the fol
lowing:
resolved, that as the american
church has been fully proved to be the
bulwark of slavery, we believe the time
has come when it should be destroyed,
root and branch, as of no use to the
people, and a curse to every canse of
moral reform.
after remarks by mr. mitchell and
john c. cluer, the amendment, on
motion of edwin thompson, was laid
on the table.
the question was then taken on the
original resolution, (that numbered 4,)
and adopted without a dissenting vote.'
stephen s. foster introduced the
following resolution, and advocated it at
length:
resolved, that in the opinion of this
society, it is expedient f to organize a
system of measures designed to array
its friends at the ballot-boxes, there lo
vote for men pledged to take no oath to
the constitution of the united states,
and to use all their influence to dissolve
the union.
adjourned to quarter before three
o’clock.
friday—afternoon session.
met according to adjournment, when
the chair was taken by francis jack
son.
the resolution offered in the morning
by s. s. foster came up, and was sup
ported by w. jenkins, of andover,
and opposed by w. l. garrison.
on motion of e. quincy k the resolu
tion was laid on the table.
charles stearns oflered the following
resolution, and supported it in some
very earnest remarks respecting the
sufferings of many of the laboring peo
ple of the north:
whereas, the rights of the laborer at
the north are identified with those of
the southern slave,|and cannot be ob
tained as long as chattel| slavery rears
its hydra head in our land; and whereas
the same arguments which apply to the
situation of the crushed slave are also
m forc-a in reference to the condition of
the northern in a less
degree; therefore,
resolved, that it is equally incum
bent upon the working-men of the
north to espouse the cause of the
emancipation of the slave, and upon
abolitionists to advocate the claims of
the free laborer.
john c. cluer attributed t h greater
part of the sufferings of the northern
laboring people, and especially of the
poor irish, to a too free cse of. iiitexi
cating drinks. he said he had paid
much attention to these subjects, viz:
the rights of the laborer, and temper
ance, and he spoke with a full assur
ance of the truth of what he said.
mr. stearns’s resolution was adopt
ed, and the society adjourned to 7
o’clock.
friday—evening session.
the society met, according to ad
journment; francis jackson, president,
in the chair.
mr. garrison, chairman of the busi
ness committee, reported the following
resolutions:
resolved, that the one great ob
ject to be attempted and achieved, to
secure the emancipation of our en
slaved countrymen —to assert and pro
tect the rights of the people of the
north—and to impose the awful crimi
nality involved in the slavfe system ex
clusively upon the incorrigible tyrants
of the south—is, the immediate
dissolution of the ameri
can union—a union based on the
prostrate bodies of three millions of the
people, and cemented with their blood
—a union 'which gives absolute power
and perfect security to the wholesale
traffickers in human flesh, by its com
bined military and naval power, and
the overthrow of which would inevita
bly burst asunder the chain of every
bondman—a union in which freedom of
speech and of the press, the right of
petition, and safe and equal locomotion,
are cloven down, and the citizens of one
portion of the country are seized for no
alleged crime in another portioo, bur
ned to prison, kept in chains, plundered
of their property, and in numerous in
stances sold oq the auction hlpck at
public vendue as slaves, in lots to suit
purchasers.
resolved, that iu openly and une
quivocally advocating slavery as a just,
beneficent and democratic institution,
john c. calhoun, of south carolina, is
to be commended for his frankness and
directness; that for his earnestness,
consistency, intrepidity nod self-sacrt
tice, in defending end ~*kmg to extend
and perpetuate what he thus profeeees
to regard ns superlatively excellent, he
m equally to be commended; and that
he in honorable contrast, and in
incomparably to be preferred, 19 those
northern time-servers and dough-faces
who rof'-iir** •'”"7
abhorrence, e®d
ready to compromise the sacred prioci
ptee ef liberty.
the north, and
ck* «»ke^oi»e
georgetown, d. c., who wu soon to
be sold to the south, if not redeemed.
a man was said to be now in boston,
raising money to purchase her freedom.
mr.c. also asked leave to take up a col
lection in the meeting to aid this object,
which was agreed to, and the sum of
$17,31 was contributed.
william w. brown advocated the
resolutions, and declared that he could
do no less than make war upon a con
stitution and union which made a chat
tel of him, and utterly refused to ac
knowledge his right to freedom or to
protect him in it. he referred to the
two fugitives from slavery who had at
tended some of our previous meetings,
and again introduced-them to the audi
ence, who received them with enthusi
astic greetings. mr. brown again gave
a sketch of their method of projecting
and executing their bold attempt.
wendell phillips referred eloquently
to the case of these interesting fugi
tives. he said that we should look in
vain through the most trying times of
our revolutionary history for an inci
dent of courage and noble daring to
equal that of the escape of william and
ellen craft, and future historians and
poets would tell this story as one of the
most thrilling in the nation’s annals;
and millions would read it with admi
ration of the hero and heroine of the
story, and would wish that they could
have lived to take part in the glorious
struggle of freedom and justice and
humanity against slavery, fraud and
tyranny. mr. phillips closed with read
ing the petition to the massachusetts
legislature (now in session,) for a
secession from the union, and called
upon all who are not mere hearers, but
doers, to come up and sign and circu
late this petition.
mr. garrison, from the business
committee, then reported the follow
ing resolutions:—
resolved, that if, in the earlier
days of our antislavery struggle, the
utmost zeal and alacrity were widely
and effectually shown by abolitionists,
in circulating petitions for the abolition
of slavery in the district of columbia,
and for the repeal of all laws in thi9
commonwealth in derogation of the
rights of our colored population, it is
incomparably more important, now,
that they should manifest at least a&
much zeal and alacrity in circulating,
for popular signatures, the petitions to
the legislature for immediate secession
of massachusetts from a union in
which she is hel<h as a vassal, and
which serves only to pollute and de
grade her.
voted, that the question be now
taken on the three resolutions reported
this evening.
the question was then taken on the
resolutions separately, and they were
unanimously adopted.
voted to adjourn, sine die.
francis jackson, president
samuel mav, jr. i
c. bramhall,, assistant sec’s.
eliza j. kenny,
from the anti-slavery standard.
ethnology.
we have just 9een the hopes of the
friends of liberalism and progress in
central europe, thwarted in a grea*
measure by foolish disputes about races
and nationalities. while the honest
men were falling out, the rogues have
succeeded in getting what was not their
own again. the german punch has a
print representing two men, in different
national costumes, engaged in a furious
combat, the point at issue being whe
ther the name of a certain town should
be pronounced gratz or graetz.
when this matter of nationality is
reduced to a downright absurdity, by
setting the inhabitants of two neighbor
ing villages together by the ears, it
affords us only matter for a smile, but it
becomes serious when acted on a
larger stage, and by more prominent
players, though abstractedly as ludi
crous as before.
almost all races, in proportion as
they have become powerful and distin
guished, have endeavored to justify
their pre-eminence, as it were, by at
tributing to themselves a divine or at
least a noble origin. nations, like in
dividuals, when they have risen in the
social scale, go immediately to the her
ald’s office lor a coat of arms and a
pedigree. had the pilgrims landed at
plymouth a thousand years earlier,their
exodus from the land of bondage and
their arrival in the promised land
would have been foreran and accom
panied by an abundance of signs and
wonders. as it is, we are obliged to
cootent ourselves with vague assertions
of our anglo-saxon descent, the truth
being that the settlers of new eogland
—end of those very few, can lay any
probable claim to such an origin.
we have no especial interest in
these assertions of national nobility,
in as far as they have been the cause
or the apology of national oppressions.
men are very willing to excuse any
unnatural feature in their social system
by tracing it ep to some inscrutable di
vine arrangement. whatever revolts
from the natural religion of the human
beset, they shore up with the props of
their artificial and traditional religion.
an inferior tribe among the hindoos
sprang from the feet of brahma, which,
of course, explains to general satisfac
tion why (hey have always been, and
should always condone to be, at the
febt of the social scale. in the same
way (he consciences of assay egeegent
people are aet no maeb negatively re
lieved a* positively exhilarated, when
they have succeeded in transferring (by
anything hat a baconian induct**) the
wrongs of the african race te the
sssaj'trsns
pretty certain to be received in n
m i. w 1 w* v
i strange place with an entertainment of
ham and eggs, (the clergy and people
contributing their respective quotas)
which kept the promise of hospitality to
the ear and broke it to the sense.
when the descent of the negro
races from the scriptural ham had been
pretty clearly disproved, and the appli
cation of the curse emailed upon his
progeny transferred to another race,
pro-slavery was necessarily reduced to
another line of defence. a divine ori
gin was attributed to slavery, by tracing
its natural cause to an innate inferiori
ty, both mental and physical, of the ne
gro family of main. it is here that the
researches of ethnologists become par
ticularly interesting to abolitionists and
furnish them with arguments more gen
erally appreciable by the man of man
kind than those appealing exclusively to
the principles of abstract justice and
right. it is worth remarking from hnr
various and unexpected sources e
quiver of the reformer is constantly re
cruited with fresh arrows, and how the
investigations of science, prosecuted in
directions which seem the farthest re
moved from every day interests, have
yet a practical bearing, more or less
decided, upon the hdmanitary questions
of the time.
ethnology, or the science of races,
is of very recent origin, and, depend
ent as it necessarily most be on glottol
°gy, (the science of languages,) which
is also in its infancy, it must generally
make its appeals to inferences and
probabilities, rather than to actual de
i monstration. its conclusions may in
i fact be assumed as incapable of experi
mental proof, since periods of time
quite beyond our ordinary conceptions
of duration, as derived from human
history, might be required to produce
any foretold result. and yet a suffi
cient number of examples may be
found of various kinds, in localities
widely separated, and wholly independ
ent of each other, where certain
i causes have produced certain effects, to
i establish a firm basis for reasonable in
duction. i
the most comprehensive work on
the science of races is that of dr.
prichard, “the natural history of
man.” it is necessarily somewhat de
ficient in arrangement, because ethnol
less an exact system than an
agglomeration of detached facts, all
however, tending to one result, so that
it is not difficult for the reader to gen
eralize for himself dr. prichard is a
man of great learning, and apparently
of an honest and well-balanced mind,
not likely to be led astray by theory,
nor to form his conclusions in advince
of his facts. he gives very full ex
tracts from the accounts of particular
tribes of men, given by travellers of
different nations, at different periods of
time, so that the reader may form con
clusions for himself, without being
obliged to rely too implicitly upon the
conscientiousness of the author.
the instances hitherto collected by
ethnological students seem to put be
yond question the fact that difference of
physical structure, and of the color of
the skin, may all oe referred to cli
matic causes, and do not in the least
countenance the theory of essential di
versity of race. the examples by
which this proposition is supported are
very numerous, are found among all
races and in all quarters of the globe,
and are, to our mind, perfectly con
vincing.
the jew, transplanted to poland, be
comes red-bearded and blue-eyed. in
england, his complexion grows gradu
ally fair. in the east indies, on ,the
other hand, colonies of jewish stock
are found who are entirely black, and
that without the least proof or proba
bility of foreign intermixture. in chi
na they are described as having ap
proximated very nearly in complexion
to the native type. this is a strong
argument, because the uniform reluct
ance of the jews, wherever scattered,
to contract marriages with other races,
puts the purity of their blood almost
beyond dispute, and refers us to some
other natural causes for a solution of
the problem. these natural causes are
to be found in difference of climate,
habits and food. of the influence of
climate a remarkable example is af
forded by the berbers, inhabiting ai
mountainous region of africa. their
language, habits, traditions, all prove
them to be of one unmixed descent,and
yet they differ in complexion and some
other characteristics in proportion as,
the particular tribes occupy a position
further from the plain, ranging from
yellow hair, fair complexion and blue
eyes, to black akiitp and woolly hair. 1
we have seen the influence of cl»-j
mate upon complexion and the color!
and texture of the hair. changes
equally remarkable in the shape of the
skull, in the length and general char-’
acteristics of the limbs, and in the de-t
deloproent and tissue of the muscular
system are broeght about by the hab
its and diet of a race, dependent upon,
the climate or some other circumstance
of local condition. the difference be
tween the turk settled, for four centu
ries, in europe, and the original race
•till existing in asm is so great, that
nothing hut the clearest proof deduci
ble from language and authentic history
would suffice to satisfy us of their iden
tity as* remarkable are the changes
which have taken place in the races at
present occ spying the western portion
of europe. not to spook of the entire
contrast they offer to th» original asi
atic type, it will be enough to allude
merely to their dimatnhmtkr m general
features from tbcur* ancestors, as de
scribed by the eaifiest trustworthy ob
servers.
the —r isipiilstl g
i
john wch. pssn»«*«.
whole no. 60.
uftd
not greater than may be fo 'listing
in individuals of the same r*®® subject
ed for a long period of time to the ac
tion of climatic or othe* physical
causes. we may say farther that the
conclusion to which many inquirers
hate been led is, that the white skin
i an< no* the black, is a divergence from
the original type, effected either by cli
mate, or by the propagation of an acci
dental variety, such as we still find to
ro<^uc among races naturally
we wish that dr. prichard’s work
might be reprinted in this country, since
the high price of the english edition
places it beyond the reach of the great
majority of readers. we have some
doubts, however, whether such a book
would pass the uice censorship of the
press which presides over our american
republishers. slavery demands the ex
purgation of science' mm well as reli
§ion, and like moliere's ‘‘doctor in
pite of himself,*’ woold change the
heart from the left side to the right if its
ends could be served thereby.
an excellent summary of the book
may be found in the last number of the
edinburgh review, where the reader
will be able to see at a glance the pro
gress of ethnological studies, and the
present boundaries of its discoveries.
except for purposes of reference, it will
be more interesting and useful than the
original book, which we have found to
produce some confusion in the mind
after a single reading, from the multi
plicity of its facts and references.
j. r. l.
voice of ohio.
i
j
no one subject at present more gen
erally or justly agitates the public mind
than does that of the extension of slave
ry. it is one of fearful import, as the
division is one of geographical lines
and adverse interests of soil and
climate.” so far as the state of ohio
is concerned, there appears to be but
little difference of opinion on this sub
ject. although our people differ upon
questions of state or national policy,
j yet upon this one subject all or nearly
all are agreed, thnt slavery ought not
to be extended: this unity of feeling
has been heretofore manifested by leg
islative action.
upon one occasion when one of the
great politioal parties into which the
state is divided, was in the ascendency,
and the question was agitated of adding
more slave territory to this union, that
project was unanimously condemned by
the general assembly. and at a
subsequent period the other political
party being in power, the same measure
was condemned by an overwhelming
majority of the same body. but this
was of no avail, this remonstrance was
unheeded, texas was annexed with
slavery irrevocably fixed upon it.
since that period, in consequence of
the war with mexico, a war waged
against the feelings and wishes of a
majority of the people of this state,
new territories of immense extent have
been added to the united states. these
territories are now free, uncontamin
ated by the blight of slavery, and the
great question which now agitates the
nation is, whether they shall be pro
tected in that freedom by an act con
taining the principles of the ordinance
of 1787, or whether by authority of the
congress of the united states the curse
of slavery shall be extended over them
w hile i would faithfuly accord to the
slavehoiding states all tie rights se
cured to them by the compact which
binds us together, i must also regard
the rights of the free states with equal
care, and believing as i do that the
fathers of the constitution never con
templated the extension of slavery
under the authority of that instrument,
beyond the limits of the original states,
i can never consent, nor will the state
of ohio ever consent, that this moral
and political evil shall be further ex
tended. the interests of free labor,
the general good of the whole nation,
and the yet higher claims of humanity
and justice, demand that any act organ
ising these territories should contain
the principles of that ordinance which
has contributed so much to the pros
perity and happiness of that portion of
our country once composing the north
western territory. i would therefore
recommend to your consideration the
passage of such resolutions as will ex
press to the general government the
voice of the stale of ohio upon the
aubjeet, and give strength to our sen
ators, and representatives in congress,
in their endeavors to restrain slavery
within its present limits.—ger. ford’s
menage.
am american niumm. —ft
should teach the people their true* in
terests and duty; their duty to them
selves, to their children, to a world
for freedom, and searching
for ait example of a pure and perma
nent republic. by it let the people be
taught that the advantages of a free
government are not in n% name, but in
the permanence and purity of its insti
tutionsand'that it is made «ccure only
through the general and equal intelli
gence of the people. thcv lav* ever
been awake to hs call, eufwr to go*d
or enl; let i! speak to them in the sub
lime accents of truth, and »#s lessons
will be heeded sod remembered.
thr lire or an exquisite
tleman.”—he gem up leisurely;
breakfast* comfortably; reads the pa
per regularfr; dresace fashionably;
lounge* eats a tart gravely,
touts insipidly; dines considerably;
drinks superfluous!y; smokes elcgaitfjy;
lives uselessly; dies reluctant! v
busied lugubriously; and is missed by
nobody.
temperance is the best physic
frederick douglass and jorn s. jacobs
will both hold anti-slavery meetings in the following places:
henrietta, monday evening, feb. 19.
mendon, tuesday 13.
rush, wednesday, 1 14.
avon, thursday, 15.
uma, friday, 16.
w. bloomfield .saturday l?.
canandaigua sunday 18.
rvahville monday rt 19.
penn van tueaday 20.
prattsbnrg, wednesday 21.
bath, thurad. frid. 22 it 23.
kj* thia is intended as the commence
ment of a aeries of meetings to be held in
thia state. our friends in the several place*
abuse-mentioned, will confer a favor on us,
and we hope mid the cause of the slave, by
securing suitable placet for the roeetinga, and
giving extensive notice of the same.
western new york aatfcdttavery society.
the executive committee will meet on
tuesday feb. 20, at the anti-
slavery; office, 25, buffalo street.
attendance is requested at half past 6
o'clock precisely.
w. c. nell. rec. sec
ohio.—vote on the black laws.
house of representatives, jan. 30.
mr. tuwnshend reported back moise’sbih,
with the pending amendments, sod recommen
ded that they be agreed to. the amendments
were agreed to.
mr. smith, of madison, offered a resolution
which was ruled out of order, as not pertinent
to the subject.
mr. olds moved the bill be laid on the
table. lost.
the question of engrossment was then
carried and the bill was ordered to be read a
third time now, which was done, and the
question being, shall the bill pass?
a call of the house was moved by mr.
creen, and showed 61 members present.
the absentees were all excused but messrs.
mott and holcomb, who, after some delay,
made their appearance, and were greeted with
loud applause.
mr. koedter said :—ln explanation of my
vote, i will make a few remarks. this bill
contains two separate propositions. first, it
provides that the taxes raised from property
of colored persons for school purposes, shall
he applied for the education of colored child
en. this is a principle of common justice;
and 1 would consider it a disgrace to depart
from it, by taxing colored people for the
education of our own children. the second
eart of the bill provides for the repeal of the
lack laws, so called. on a careful examina
tion of these black laws, 1 find them to be a
miserable patchwork of incongruous pro
visions, entirely inadequate to the purposes
of their enactment. 1 am in favor of a prompt
and full examination, according to the eternal
laws of nature and of reason, whether two
races so distinct and different from each other,
as tpe caucasian and the negro race can co
exist together in one state upon terms of
perfect equality. if they cannot so live toge
ther w ithout endangering the public tranquili
ty and happiness of the state; if they must
be separated then, sir, i am in favoi of enact
ing without delay, instead of those insufficient
black laws, one general law of sufficient force
and precision, for the purpose of effecting a
full and permanent separation.
the yeas and nays were then taken on the
passage of the bill and resulted in yeas 52,
nays 10.
capital pimshmext.—a bill for the
abolition of the death penalty is now before
our legislature. it is time that this relic of
barbarism was abolished. the following is
a form of petition put in circulation by the
new york state society.
to the senate and house of representa
tives of the state of new york
the petition of ihe undersigned sheweth
that, in the opinion of your petitioners, the
punishment of death is opposed to christiani
ty
that it does not answer the design of its
adoption in the code of criminal jurispru
dence
that its effects are demoralizing
that it not unfrequently involves the des
truction of the innocent, and at other times
favors the escape of the guilty, thus promot
ing the crimes it was meant to suppress.
vve, therefore, ask for the repeal of the
law inflicting death, and the substitution of a
more just, reasonable, and humane punish
ment.
prize fighting and duelling.—ln the
assembly of this state, on the ist inst, a
hill to prevent prize fighting and duelling was
passed through a committee of the whole and
ordered to a third reading. the following
are two of its provisions:
every person who shall challenge
another to fight with or without weapons, or
shall send or deliver any written or verbal
message, purported or intended to lie such
challenge or message, or who shall engage
lu any such fight, or be present at the time of
such tight, either as second, aid or surgeon,
or who shall advise, or in any manner induce, i
encourage, procure, or give any countenance
or assistance to such fight, shall, upon con
viction, be punished by imprisonment in a
stale prison for a term not exceeding five
years; or whsn any fight, or any matter con
nected with a prize fight, shall fall within the
provisions of this section, constituting such
fight, or matter therewith connected, an of
fence, such offence shall be punished as is
nuw provided by law m cases of misdemeanor.
5. every person who shall within this
state train or permit himself to be trained for
the purpose of being engaged in any prize
fight to be fought either within this state, or
any other state, territory or country, or who
shall in any manner aid or assist in such train
ing. shall, upon conviction, be adjudged
guilty of misdemeanor, and be sentenced to
pay a fine of five bundled dollars and to be
imprisoned in a county jail or penitentiary for
the period of one year.
flogging in the navy.—the following
preamble and resolution came up for dis
cussion in tins n. y. assembly. laid on the
table.
whereas, the infliction of punishment by
hogging is a relic of a barbarous age, that is
alike revolting to every feeling of humanity,
and degrading to the subject of it; and should
not, therefore, be tolerated by a nation churn
ing to be the most free and enlightened on
the globe: therefore,
jieaolved, (if the senate concur,) that our
li>%ators in (congress be instructed, and our
ftepreseittativea be requested, to employ all
reasonable means to secure the immediate
abolition of this unnatural punishment in the
military and naval service of tlie 1 mted
states.
apprentices and facto* v operatives.
—the following “ad to protect appreu
ucc* ftu<i operative* in i*
bow before our legislature
the people of the state of new ork, rep
resented in senate and assembly, do enact
as follow*
section i. 1 1 shall be the duty of every
employer having apprentices in hit service, to
cause them to he instructed in reading and
wnting
sec. 2. no child shall be employed in any
woolen or other manufactory or work
shop within thin state, who shall not beat at
tained the full age of tea yean, and be able
to read and write.
see. 4. it shall am be lawful for any child
who dull not have attained the foil age of
thirteen yean to labor in any manufactory or
work shop, more than five boon in any one
day, provided such child be employed
throughout the whole year.
sec. 5. when such employment shall
not continue mote than eight month* in any
one year, the provisions of the proceeding
notion shall not apply, hut no child ahafl
under any circumstance* labor more than ten
boors in mv one day.
hoc. 6. it shall not be lawful to employ
any child under sixteen yean of age in any
manufacturing labor during the night, that is
to aaf, between the hours of eight o’clock in
the evening and five o'clock in the morning.
see. 7. the penalty for a violation of any
of the provisions of this enactment, shall be
ten time* the usual wages for every day du
ring which aoy child may be wrongfully
closed or permitted to labor, to be recovered
from the employe! or employers, by the pa
tent or next friend of such child on due proof
before a justice f the peace.
sec. 8. this act shall take effect on the
first day of july, one thousand eight hundred
and forty-nine.
the english language. —the difficulty
of acquiring our language, which a foreigner
must experience, is illustrated by the follow
ing questioa: did you ever see a person
pare an apple or a pear with a pair of scis
sors.”
telegraph under the atlantic.—
messrs. hubbell and sherburne have peti
tioned congress for an appropriation to make
examinations, for the purpose of testing the
practibillity of constructing a telegraph across,
or through the atlantic ocean. they pro
pose to extend a line from the banks of new
foundland to the british channel, the distance
between the nearest points of land being only
nineteen hundred miles. they intimate that
if they can get soundings, they can anchor
buoys fur stations at ten miles apart, and sup
port the wires between in cork tubes.
this is indeed a magnificent project, and
ten years ago would have been regarded as a
hoax.—now, however, ihe scheme is not
deemed chimerical, or impracticable, and the
petition was received in congress without any
manifestation of surprise. we shall expect
soon to hear of magnetic communication with
the moon.— advertiser.
massachusetts* iteport.
the seventeenth annua! heport of this
pioneer anti-sjavery society has been re
ceived. those readers of the standard, dis- i
t
appointed for several weeks in not reading the
able articles from theii boston corresjkjndent,!
should each obtain a copy of this report, ex-'
hibitingin every page the characteristic genius
of edmund quincy. corresponding secretary
of the massachusetts society. every phase
of the anti-slavery cause is treated in a man
ner the best calculated to impart a correct
knowledge of the present position of affairs
relative to the now all-engrossing theme be
fore the american people. abolitionists
should read it, that their hearts may l»e re
newed for the conflict yet before them, by a
narration of victories already achieved. the
following extract will certainly interest all
who may read. —w. c. n.
it cannot be denied that this, first vic
tory of the norlh_over the south was the
consequence of the growing anti-slavery
sentiment at the north, and to the demonstra
tions which the presidential obliquities of the
two parties had called forth. for the first
time, in our history, has the north arrayed
itself in so unbroken a line against the south,
on a point involving the interests of slavery.
for the first time, since we were a nation,
was slavery disappointed of a purpose she
f had at heart, and which she was determined
s to carry through. she has sometimes waited
s for a season, while the pear was ripening,
but it has always been of her own mere no
tion, and with her own free consent. what
ever she has wished for she has had, and at
tjie moment she was ready for it. she has
met with her first reverse. the charm of
unbroken success is at an end. her' vassals
have made a stand against her aggressions, i
they are learning that the advantage is on!
their side, if they know how to use it. like
the oppressed everywhere, they are the many,
and woe to the few, when the imaginary
bonds which have held them in obedience are
discovered to be merely air. the maxim of
her rule, divide, and conquer,” failed her
for once. the threatening aspect of affairs
on the northern frontier has deprived her of
her usual tools, as soon as they saw reason to
apprehend that their interests and hers had
ceased to be identical. and so they have, by'
union, given her her first repulse.
and it is surely time that freedom should i
take her turn in the direction of affairs. the!
histoiy of the country is one connected sue-1
cession of slaveholding triumphs. first,;
kentucky split off from virginia then, lou- j
isiana purchased and admitted; then, the war i
of 1812 then, the tariff: then, the missouri!
compromise; then, nullification and the
tariff compromise then, the florida war
then, the annexation of texas; and last
of all, the war with mexico, and the conquest
of new mexico and the californias. and,
as instruments and consequences of these
victories, the appointment of almost every
president and important executive, judicial,
diplomatic or military officer. they have
had the victory and the spoils of victory for
sixty years, and the sluggish north is but
beginning to open its stupid eyes to the fact.
it is certainly encouraging to know that its
eyes were not sealed in a judicial blindness,
but that there was a reach of audacity which
could pour twilight, at least, upon them.
that, though it had been laboring mute as a
camel under the heaviest load that slavery
could bind upon its back, for years, a weight
could be at last found of w hich it would be
impatient.
we have always thought, and said, that the
only hope of the north jay in the very inso
lence of the encroachments of slavery. this
history proves it. having submitted patiently
to the extension of the domain, and, conse
quently, the dqration, of slavery, over mil
lions of square miles and years unknown, and
waged two bloody wars in its quarrel, the
north at last recalcitrates against the putting
of the new territory to the uses for which tt
was acquired. no resistance was made to
the acquisition of mexican territory by con
quest, though its acquisition for any purpose
was as gross an outrage as could well be per
petrated, if the uttered parchment of the
constitution had any virtue in it; but after it
had been wou at a great cost of blood and
treasure, then suddenly we awake to the con
sequences of our own act, and refuse to permit
it to be occupied for the purposes for w hich
it had been won! it is hopeful to see that
these latent sparks of vital heat exist, for they
may yet be kindled into a consuming fixe.
but it is the perpetual watchings and tbs
uuwearied importunity of the abolkiooisu for
the last eighteen years that are to be
for keeping them alive. their unwelcome
message has forced its way into the unwilkog
ears of the people and compelled them to see
where are and w hither they are going.
and, after all, the north deserves no credit
for w bat u has dorm, any more than pity for
what it has suffered. l has, all along, teen
willing to sacrifice the slave to iuowa im
agined advantage, and then made a meat
merit of it, as if it had been sacrificing itself
sstijr.ibhsrss
the successive cost of these eooceaaiens of us
own true interest and the interest of i. n
ty. and even the best of those who arc
aroused to a spirit ot resistance to the en-
croaebmenu of slavery ate stifl wsßm§ to
guarantee to it a)] the comfort and fxstrclmß
whicii the constitution extends to ml aai,
ao« t it m because the north sms that the cry
of tb* south i* that of the iwk 1 drag!to*,
gift, ffttc," m<l thsltberc is no end to its
eoptdhjr and its demands, bat that aa extent
of territory is to be extorted for the parpoaaa
of slavery, sufficient to pbee the seem for
«»et in her pipe, it is therefore that the
north is tardily and imperfectly arousing its
energies to resistance. if h had not had hi
vitality developed by the stale into which
its guilty selfishness aad indifference to the
wrongs of the slave had brought it, it woald
hare been indeed plunged in the dan of
death. and the first restless toesin^j/the
and oppressions, is enough to startle into
stillness, for the tine being, the onward march
of tyranny. what might it not hate dene
had its heart been always right, a* its hand
has been ever strong! how woo id slavery
have vanished away before its fsee like a
guilty dream
the north star.
rochester, february 16, 1849.
in the lecturing field.
in compliance with many urgent solicita
tions on the part of my anti-slavery friends in
different parts of this state, and for the par
pose of advancing the sacred cause of human
freedom, as well as with a view to extend the
circulation of the north star, i have now
resolved to devote several months to travelling
and lecturing in such places as shall seem to
offer tire most hopeful prospects of promoting
these objects. during my absence, the edi
torial management of the north star will be
committed to the faithful hands of william
c. nell.- those who have read the paper
from its commencement, and have seen tho
articles from his pen, need no assurance from
me that it will be conducted with candor and
ability. a colored man himself, and suffering
daily i'iom the influence of american slatery,
in the form of a malignant prejudice against
color—well informed on all subjects connected
with the anti-slavery movement, having
spent several years under the wings of the
“eagle-eyed” liberator, and being deeply
devoted to the cause of improvement and ele
vation of the oppressed, his words will have a
weight and a warmth which will secure for
them a ready welcome to the hearts of all our
readers and patrons. mr. nell takes charge
of the paper more with a view to aid it in
this its time of need, than from any pecuniary
considerations which may result from his la
bors, and on this account will be entitled to
my w arm gratitude, and that of all who wish
for the continuance and prosperity of the
north star, in addition to mr. nell, the
publisher, mr. john dick, whose pen has
already contributed to the interest of the
paper, has kindly offered to use his best en
deavors in making the north star all that its
readers and friends can desire, both with re
spect to its typographical appearance and
moral character. much, therefore, of the
regret and embarrassment which i should feel
in finding myself compelled to take the lec
turing field for a season is removed. the
hands to which the paper is ‘committed, are
able to make at better and more acceptable to
the reader than i have been able to do. i
shall of course keep our readers informed of
ray whereabouts and movements, and give
them a word of cheer occasionally. my
poor old horse and shattered old sleigh are at
the door, ready to take me through the snow
storm on my mission of freedom and human
ity. may god smile upon the effort!
frederick douglass.
rochester, feb. 12th.
philadelphia, jan. 16, 1849.
dear douglas* :—since my last, i have
held meetings in lancaster city, from which
place 1 wrote; and on thursday and friday,
the 21st and 22d, in the city of reading,
berks county.
the people in lancaster are few in number,
and generally well to do, and are intelligent;
yet there is an indifference about them in re
gard to meetings and lectures, which may
only be accounted for from the almost entire
absence of such meetings among them. as
among our people generally, the church is
the alpha and omega of all things. it is
their only source of information—their only
acknowledged public body—their state le
gislature, as it were—their common council
their supreme court—their dictator and only
acknowledged adviser; hence, that which
does not emanate from the church, may not
expect to interest the people to any considera
ble extent. i would not be understood to say
that they did not attend the meetings, nor
that opposition was given by those who had
control of the church. this is not the ease
as both of the clergymen who reside in thp
place not only gave their consent to the use of
the church, but gave their continual presence
at the meetings, and also subscribed for the
paper; but the lateness of the hour at which
the young people generally cams to the men
ings, and the indifference manifested when
there—the restlessness manifested by them
w hen in the house—the continued running jn
and out by tlie young women—at leaat mani
fested an absence of good breeding, if not
a want of interest in the meetings. it was
evident that they had no interest in
inytliing but religious meetings, an error
arising |from the misers bis blunders of our
former spiritual teachers, instilled into them
by their pro-slavery and slavebolding op
pressors, thereby the easier to degrade us,
and keep us in w retched servility and subjec
tion. this error in our religion, even taught
and preached now by many.whose advantages
of education and the times would warrant and
justify them in knowing and pursuing a differ
ent course, i look upon and bold to be a curse,
mote grievous in its nature and evil in its
tendency, than the mere existence of slavery
itself; for while there is no difieahy in find
ing s ready response from tbs moat abject of
oar oppressed brethien as to the evile aad
wrongs of slavery, it is among the meet com
mon circumstances in the progress of on
cause, to mm with sppmitisn from the
moat intelligent among them, so the ground
that the means to he used, however moral,
n«*«nly interfere with their religion.—
the nee of the churebea—holding meetings
on the sabbath—a dwbefcef is stale and mis
erable doctrines, each as the nrrnsitj of th«
cafored people being low, hmnue, dejected,
low-spirited, sorrowful, miserable beings, snf
faring e life of borrow in esdre to get to
heaves—all are objected as as emialty m
tetfering with onr religious litas; and non
•mntly many rendily mam that they
rather bn slaves then do aaythmg lbai
cw! to v|*srtatetf dagtadaiion and igno*
thom it a day-nehoot and sahhath-acbeul
•momg the calmed people m lancaster. and a
tolerably good feeling towards them or the
port of the whites.)
reading euatama quite respectable, indue
moot population of colored people, many of
"bom own good real estate. i was quite
disappointed in the people hem, not expecting
to find no large a number of intelligent iahah-
there are two churches—one methodist
mi a presbyterian church. tbs presbyte
rian church is a hr**-*— bride building, of
chaste modern structure, and does modi credit
to the people of the place. they have also*
school, taught by mr. joseph l. gardner, a
hoe industrious young colored gentleman.—
our people in this place have been eery much
neglected by public lecturers, haring never
been visited by any previous to my visit. a
few visits by efficient men among os may
make reading a very interesting place. the
city is much larger than i expected to find it,
the population being numbered at about
13,000 above that of any late estimate, and
several thousand above that of lancaster city,
which has always been known ss the largest
inland city in pennsylvania. reading is quite
the handsomest inland town 1 have yet visited
in the state.
on saturday, the 23d, 1 left reading, ar
riving in philadelphia the same day, greeted
and welcomed by many familiar faces and
loved acquaintances.
on monday, the 35th, the fair was opened
in institute hall, by those excellent ladies,
mrs. harriet smith at the head. the fair
was well attended, and the occasion was one
of much interest for many reasons. here
everything like party spirit, predilections, and
sectarianism of every kind, were thrown
aside, and the people came up to the aid of
this, the ladies’ first effort in a cause of the
kind with a right hearty good will,” that
was pleasing to behold. among not the
least pleasing features of this interesting
gathering, were the young and active people,
women and men, all manifesting a deep in
terest for the success of the undertaking, with
a full promise of bringing together their
whole energies when called upon another
season. the design is to make this an annual
undertaking, on an enlarged and extensive
plan, such as, if possible, to meet the ends
for wihich it is intended. the recent fair
was hastily gotten up by suggestion, without
organization, or any particular plan of opera
tion hence, the difference of opinion on the
part of the different ladies concerned as to
the appropriation of the proceeds. the fair,
however, was well managed and well con
ducted, and the ladies concerned, one and all,
have our hearty thanks. the sum donated
to the star of one hundred dollars, was lib
eral, generous, all the circumstances consid
ered, and will redound to the honor andcredil
of the faithful spirits therein engaged.
a committee is now completely organized,
with a well-devised constitution, having foi
its object the holding of annual fairs or ba
zaars for the furtherance of the great priori
pies now being propagated—self-elevation
or the elevation of the colored peoph
by self-exenion. if properly conducted
which i have no doubt of, i think the ladiei
will fully succeed.
on the 14th, 15th, and 16th, a series o
anti-slavery meetings were held in instituti
hall, the discussions of which were partici
pated in by messrs. mckim,purvis, remond
davis, bias, burleigh, weir, smith, wilson
butler, myself and others. these meetingi
were quite interesting. on the22d, 23d, 24th
25th and 26th, there was a convention o
the colored citizens of the city and -county o
philadelphia, held in hurst street weslej
church, removing after the first day’s sessioi
to institute hall. this was a political con
vention, held in obedience to the state con
vention recently held at harrisburg, for th<
restoration of the elective franchise to ou
politically degraded brethren of this common
wealth—a commonwealth of which i onci
felt proud to be numbered as one of her fret
enfranchised sons. but alas that miaerabk
gathering, misnamed ‘‘reformed conven
tion,” of 1838, which ended its session ii
this city, despotically wrested from the col
ored citizen his citizenship, degrading him t<
the condition of an alien thus were \v<
stripped and disarmed of our manhood, six
left to the mercy of the most consummau
demagogue.
among the leaders of that memorable high
handed political mob of 1838, judge fox, oi
bucks county, and attorney reed, of phha
ddphix county, (i believe both dead,) andthal
pitiable and most miserable of all creatures
h. gold rodgers, of alleghany county,whom
the democrats of that county reeoatmead«j
to mr. van boren as a suitable person foi
consul to sardinia, is now the wretched in
mate of an insane asylum, having lost bii
reason before the mission ended. rodgers u
a new englander by birth and education, and
the offspring of wealthy parentage, who have
him under guardianship. he sinned against
light and knowledge—against reason—strip
ping, in a trice, fifty thousand freemen ol
their rights. of this be was fully conscious.
it was more than he could bear; hence, he h
now “smitten of god.** he outraged a great
,principle, violated the morel law, one of god'i
fixed, eternal troths therefore, to suffer the
penalty of this violation is but an inevitable
consequence. sooner or later, the vengeance
of the law will overtake the transgressor. ia
this instance, the light of the transgressor ru
great; henee, the deed was the more palpa
ble and aggravated. he did the deed; god
did his will—god’s will be dene.
many interesting resolutions were freely
end in some instances fully diorama j m the
convention, the male atmsns (colored) gen
erally taking pert in the dehme. a city sad
measures entered into lor carrying out the
fwi iaisus of the state convention.
j. j. g. bias was president of the con
vention, and who always fremdes with much
dignity tad great demine of character.
deed, thsgetljar, 1 prefer or. bins hi the
*haii in aay other eaiered goatlsmsa i know
m the city ef philadelphia my only objection
hsmg, that in seme instances hp in too stem
and unyielding. thin, however, arises not,
in my onua, from any dispsririua an dm
ftrtof |jflfhai «o arrogate, but from s dispo-
raboe on 10s put to eueiain the dignity «f the
cfctb, aa f ssalkl part, p dmf
fitness for the posiw*. dr- bn*
my excitable, uni ooaeeqnmrtly
-trtiiiuill keep his balance in de
fcwr, and present
ungraded moments, frank taking p*®* lh
disenamou of questions. f«tmg"** pu^
asj>r.is kind trad
«»me; as a thorough
reformer, ne man taking a more decided ami
derated stand in the reform of the church
and oor religion than j. j. g. bias. this, l
am proud here to he aide to acknowledge, as
dr. bias is a minister in good and regular
■taadtag in the african methodist episcopal
church connection, and in point of talent and
ability, is second to no preacher in the con
nection who has not had the advantages of a
regular educa'ion. his love for his race is
great, at times leading to vague extrava
gances. dr. bias is a man and gentleman,
needing to be reminded that the greatest ob
jection to him, even conceded on the part of
his best friends, is, that he is too vindictive
against his opponents, which, if not properly
guarded against, leads at times to unjustifiable
severity, and may lead to intolerance. of the
liberty 1 here take with the dr.'a names ido
so in a public sense—he being a public iron,
is public property, which, as a journalist and
general observer, 1 have the right to make any
proper use of.
c. l. remond, my fast friend, and the no
ble, untiring advocate of the slave and his
oppressed brethren in this country, and my
self, were favored with a seat and voice in the
convention. much good, it is hoped, will
result from these series of meetings.
on the 25tb, 36th, 29th and 90th, i again
held meetings in wilmington, delaware, and
consequently left the convention in philadel
phia on the afternoon of the day next to that
of adjournment. our brethren of this place
were much interested in my first visit; hence,
i could not escape the anxious and continued
solicitations to return at a given time, which
according to arrangement was fixed on the
35th inst.
the meetings held during this visit were
interesting in a high degree—many, very
many of the young people entering into the
spirit and measures of reform, being stimu
lated to act and do for themselves, instead of
waiting for others to do for them, or like the
man in the fable, looking up to jupiter to dc
that for them which god has given them
strength and means to accomplish for them
selves. the impression made i hope is a
lasting one, and will only require renewed
efforts to kdep up the sensibility or alive the
seniation.
among the young people, a choice charac
ter is found in the person of mrs. mary anr
shadd, niece of the lady of whom 1 spoke ir
my letter, rising up in the meeting and de
daring that the subject upon which i spokt
was the “very, food for which the people’!
minds iu wilmington were starving to death,’
and daughter of that most excellent man
a. d. shadd, of chester county, pa. mist
shadd is the author of a work, now in press
on the elevation of our people. i had th<
favor of examining this pamphlet in manu
script before it went to press, and take plea*
ure in saying and recommending it aa a cred
itable production,and an excellent intoductior
to that great subject, the moral elevation o
the colored people. this pamphlet will b<
deposited, as soon as published, at the bool
store and anti-slavery office of g. w. goines
198 s. sixth street, philadelphia, atlso at th<
grocery store of a. j. williams, french st.
wilmington, delaware; price, 12 1-9 cents
miss shadd is an excellent girl, and wil
henceforth give her whole attention to writing
there is one difficulty and grievous wrong
under which the colored people of wilining
ton labor—a difficulty in getting the nortl
star from the post office. one half of ihi
papers that are sent never reach the subscri
here in this place, they being told by thns<
attending the office sometimes one thing am
sometimes another—sometimes that we ar<
impostors and have got their money,” aiu
don’t intend to send the papei—that there ii
no other north star’ in existence than tha
in the heavens—that the paper is sent by inis
take to baltimore—that only one or two pa
pers came this time’—that the paper is no
published sometimes actually giving one
person’s paper to another all of these out
rages ami impositions are practised with im
punity upon the colored subscribers to oui
paper in wilmington, and that too by person!
in the employment of the united states, whose
business is to serve the people, instead o
trampling upon their rights.
but what better can be expected in a slave
state, where the will of every white man is
the law—at least over a colored person 1
such numbers of the north star as they think
unfit fur the eye of the colored people, they
read themselves, and then destroy. we
shall take advantage of this baseness, and
send our wilmington package by another ar
rangement.
there is one fact, here worthy of remark,
which is, that the post office arrangements
under the roost vexatious bungler and amus
ing excuse for a post-master general, cave
johnson, have been the worst managed, and
moat abused in all parts of the country, of
any period daring my observation of public
affiurs. it is fortunate for the people of
this errantry, that his time in that position is
but short, when the people will be nd of as
consummate and contemptible a despot as ever
toddled in the moccasins of a conceited up
start. i am indebted for assistance in my
meetings in wilmington to rev. a. <‘oj«,
pastor of the wesley church, and rev. mr.
smith, pastor of bethel church.
you will perceive that my letter was com
menced several days since; but such have
been my continual engagements in meetings
and changes from place to place, that i h#ve
kept it snfhnshed ustil now. the ist of feb
nrary, before i could make an inta-higeot eon
elusion to it,
g. w. gomes’ book store sod auitrqjsvevy
office, no. hft south stub street, wfljftftfoe
philadelphia office of the north s#. where
«ingle copies can hr had, and also tui«4b -*r»
received. persons above arch street, can
•all at the anti-slavery affice. no. 31 north
fifth street, where suhemhsn are received iu
the north star.
having several meetings to attend between
this and monday, i shall leave hare aa tee*
day tan for the wsm.cn re foe to rechrsiet,
where i esyeet to be ia match.
ftai ■■■■nil mu i m*i *—f j faithful
ft am! of the abve sad his (prnmd country,
and of nan, robert douglass, senior, hu
gone from labor in reward. he deponed
this life on the smi |f january, after a ledt
oii4 afflict in of protracted duration, in lbs
78th year of hi* age—-ripe is fear*, and npe
ig the fruitfulness of works of goodness. he
ffled the death of the righteous. 1 frequently
called to tee him befetfe his demise, and to
one instance had a long conversation with
him. itte lamented much, and shed tears at
the thought, that the young laborers in the
cause of philanthropy and reform would so
fkr forget the old as to totally neglect them in
their bodrs of seelusioa and affliction. this,
of course, 1 endeavored to palliate as well aa
i could.
though enfeebled by age, and almost
exhausted with disease, at the mere mention
of liberty, or the condition of our race, the
bosom of the old gentleman would heate,
his eyes sparkle, and all the animation of
youth and vigor light up the full expression
of his countenance. may tin* young of the
present age live so useful a life, and eventually
die as happy a death
yours for god and humanity,
m. 1).
anti-slavery lectures at minerva hall
for six successive sunday evenings, fred
erick douglass has addressed the citizens
rochester on the subject of american sl*
very. the series have been delivered ir
minerva hall, (the most spacious in the city ,j
which has been crowded with highly re
spectable and intelligent audiences, whose
interest and attention manifestly increased u
the (inale, on the evening of the 11th inst.
tly first lecture was mainly on the natiirr
of chattel slavery now existing in the soul it
em states, illustrated by his ov. n observation
and experience, and substantiated by the
bloody code of those states, extracts ol
which were read and commented upon, cre
ating a marked sensation in the meeting.—
the criminality of the system—the absolute
power exercised by the tyrant over las pros
trated victim, was an appropriate introduction
to the several departments into which the
course was^divided.
one evening was occupied in showing that
the responsibility of sustaining this most atro
cious system continues to rest upon the
shoulders of the northern people, withoui
whose religious and political sanction it couk
not exist, but would soon be consigned to tha
grave from whence there is no resurrection
abundant proof was submitted of the variuti;
frateffal relations subsisting between tin
north and the south, the combined resul
of which was a complew subjugation of th
rights of millions of men, women an
children.
prejudice against color, that unholy hoo
tendered to slavery by the free not th, wa
exhibited in all its malignity. the chute
debarring the colored man from a free con
munion, consigning him to a prescribed seat
the exclusive colored school system, subject
ing children whose skins are unlike the ma
jority to assemble from all parts of a city o
town into a separate division, when the fa
vored portion are educated in their own di*
tricts the autt-republican laws of the kuipir
state, demanding of the colored america:
two hundred and fifty dollars as a price fo
the elective franchise—a right so freely en
joyed and highly appreciated by every whiti
citizen, irrespective of the clime where firs
he drew his native breath; the public con
veyances, railroads and steamboats, deprivini
the colored traveller from an equality of privi
leges—these, with many other features o
colorphohia were elaborately presented am
though the citizens of rochester are a nobh
exception to the general rule, yet there an
enough thus infected to profit by tlie applies
tion administered by the lecture.
an instructive and gratifying detail wa:
presented of the operations by which the abo
litionists had for the last eighteen years aime«
to influence public opinion, and the glori»ti<
success with which those means had beei
blessed. the “foolishness of preaching” hat
aroused the dormant sensibilities of the na
tion—the voice of william lloyd garrison
the acknowledged and ever-to-be-rememberet
pioneer in the cause of immediate emancipa
tion, had proved potent in summoning to tlx
standard of reform those faithful men ant
women who will never yield their convictioi
or suspend their labors until slavery is final)}
annihilated. 'che advance which those prin
cipies had made within the last ten years wai
unprecedented by .the annals of any reform
then, but a few indeed could be found to ad
mit even the wickedness of slavery now in
abolition is the all-absorbing topic, differing
though the multitude may as to the meant
thereof.
the liberty party, nor the free soil
party, would never have existed but for the
agitation put forth by the early movers in the
cause; though the latter stopped far short ol
what w as evidently their duty, yet they were
most earnestly entreated not to retrograde an
inch, bnt advance until their visit n would be
come so extended as to be satisfied with
nothing less than the total removal of slavery
fiorn the nation.
the last lecture was a review, in pari, ol
the recent manifesto of john c. calhoun
and fotty other thieves. after alluding
to the novel and (as some might regard) pre
sumptuous position which he occupied—vht.
a fugitive front slavery silting in judgment
upon calhoun, the embodiment of that giant
crime, lie proceeded to speak of the tendency
in the public mind, to express by an um, the
various movements of the day, thus: there
was uorruenttm, and now we have i 'mihmum
um—perfect antipodes of each other the
first universal freedom, the latter luiuulablr
slavery. the address of the southern dele
gates was freely commented upon, and in a
manner most heartily concurred in at times
by the numerous gathering. (the major
pan of his review has already been submitted
in the hud number of the star.)
an encouraging (act at this course of fee-
hits was the presence of n large delegation
of colored etuaena, which, while it proved a
heart fch pleasure to the lecturer, must have
produced a beneficial effect upon the large
main of their while fajftnw attendants, and
imparted an instructive anifrii dying influence
nf«nith— riven.
the interest of the meeting was aided ma
teririly by remarks nf john 8. jaeehs, t
fcgflin frees nonb cirnhaa, and now a ice
both ft* ft southern chattel and nominal
northern' freeman, awakened many to ih«
magnitude of the sin to prominently and po
ealiarly american.
in taddttkm to tlie enthusiasm created b\
the addrease*, a glee dub were in attendanew
and ponied forth, at commencement and
hose, their upon freedom’a altar a
tribute of thanka wa* deservedly presented on
the laat evening.
mr. douglas*, in eomlusion, spoke of the
■any favorable signs of a speedy triumph of
right over wight, urging the abohiionists to
be a uncompromiau.g in the appficatio.. of the.r
prioeiplee;:and acknowledging the abundant aid
(he cause was daily receiving from the efforta
uf women, expressed hi* gratitude to the
audience fur their fretful and kind atten
tion. the 'following resolution was unani
mously adopted by the mreimg
resolved, hiat wo hereby tender out
grateful thanks to frederick douglass foi f (i
si\ consecutive able, instructive, and eloquent
efforts against american slavery, and w„u},|
express a hope that the subject may be n*
sumed at his earliest convenience, believing
the same will prove a most efficient means t*
accelerate thn good tune coming.’’
w. t s.
the antl*slavery fair at canandaigua
'i'lie western new york anti-slavery
(society propose holding a fair in fanan
daigua oh tuesday, the 27th inst, the aim
and object of whthi is to obtain funds for the
spread of light and truth on the great question
of american slavery, through the medium of
lectures and other means of communication
with the people.
i lie aitides to l>* submitted are selected
from those recently donated by friends in
i england, scotland and ireland, combining the
useful with the beautiful, as also a rare col
lection of domestic manufactures, too numer
ous to mention, but which, on examination,
will be found to prove temptation to all who
may be present.
it is earnestly hoped .hat this effort of the
executive (committee will meet with liberal
encouragement from the enterprising citizens
of canandaigua and vicinity. it is no dis
paragement of the exertions that the men put
forth in furtherance of the good cause, when
we acknowledge the vast benefits contributed
by women for to their labors are the hairs
mainly indebted for their crowning success
theirs is an ambition the most laudable and
disinterested they aim tu regenerate the
common ty ami age in w hich they live—to
redeem it from the ton i shame of slavery; and
most tailhtully are their labors and sacrifices
appropriated to the promotion of fairs, justly
regarded by them as an efficient manner of
i appeal to the consciences, understanding and
purses. every unselfish heart must respond
to their call. let them be stimulated to re
i »ewed exertions hy your presence and patron
age. \onr own souls will he invigorated,
ami the day of the slaves’ deliverance thereby
hastened.—w. c. n.
the national era expresses its apprehen
sion that nothing decisive will be done at this
session of congress for the exclusion of sla
very from the new territories. this has
been our own f'eat, all along. there is too
much dough in the present congress, to allow
i ns to rely on its doing anything effectual as
against the slave power. the fate of gott’*
resolution is a conclusive proof of the (nmt
and treacherous spirit that controls the house
of representatives.— htrk. freeman.
the n. y. true sun says that ihe cali
fornia fever is at as high a pitch as ever, and
perhaps on the increase. a stroll along the
docks, especially on the east river side, m
the vicinity of the vessels bound lor california,
will give one an opportunity to witness new
scenes of excitement. groups of person*
going to and retiring from the vessels in great
excitement, and talking of thousands to be
realized within a short time in the new el
dorado, may be seen ami when a vessel h
about to depart, a novel scene is present. ihe
adventurers with their broad-brimmed hats,
and with a pair of large boots and gold-digging
instruments strung on their shoulders, and a
revolver in pocket, are hastening on board in
high spirits, aft though on a snort pleasure
trip. v esse is are taking their departure daily
for the gold regions, while their places are
rapidly filled up by others soon to leave for
the same destination.
phenomenon.— the new york journal of
commerce contains an account of a strange
i phenomenon in the heavens which has been
i seen by several gentlemen in .that city and
vicinity, among others by the editor of the
journal of commerce. it is described in a
communication from slonington, where it
i was seen by three individuals, as twinkling
jat first like a fixed star. ii increased to ihr* 7-
or four times its original size and then changed
color from yellow to a bright icd. it then
1 gradually decreased like a revolving light in
a light house, to the size of a h t ar of
the 4th and 6th magnitude, and then aoain
increased. subsequently, while two jieraoiis
were looking at the phenomenon, u moved
slowly toward the south, then returned m
the north, ami then like a pendulum, wring
back to its centre, moving over several h» t
of sky.
the editor of the athens (ga.) banner,
i nofj*** tlie same phenomenon, as having
j fhat quarter, and gravely inquire*
i d *t is a planet on fire. —hutton jmtrnui
j geneva medical college—the annual
i commencement of this excellent institution,
loo pl*ce on tuesday last, the 2?ld inst., on
1 which occasion the large presbyterian huirh
m dial village was filled to overflowing. the
degree of m. d. was conferred on ik youni'
gentlemen. an unprecedented incident dis
tinguished tlie occasion. this was the
graduation of elizabeth blackwell, m. |i
young lady who studied medicine with lh
elder, of philadelphia, and who after attend
*»g regular courses of lecture* at geneva
ha* been graduated as a doctor of medmm
we understand that miss b. acquitted h*i
•elf ua her examinations with very high
credit, and that site is a young ldy of un
common ability. in no other instance m this
country ha* one of her sex reached the mb'
of m. d. on^ receiving her diploma. *b"
•ddremed the rev. p,e*de nl m
u with the help of the
muai high* it shall be the effort of my hie to
shed honor upon this "the church
was filled with ladies, attracted by the an
usual spectacle above mention'd rorh. am
ijnpfror nicholas will cease to reign
on the f«t |h6| hy an organic
law utdatulfig that meknqieror shall reign lor
more than twealmfive years. some at st
reledimh thru* that he writ abdicate m
favor of the prince royal, alexander, and o«l»
era are of opinion that he will convoke the
yy fepeal the law braving 'the w ill of
wo* powerful and unscrupulous ansto
cne f tbevrorkl and expeamg hmtsrit to
ktkiht or time.—punch, on
ibr flight of i amos philippe, i’wlißaiij,
tht pope, &c ac., o#4bg the
1«m thiomhs. decider that is4® is decid
edly entitled to he called the ruomtitrr yen
m record.
l hart thii day
received a letter, which 1 copy below, and in
justice to all parties concerned, 1 transmit it
to you for publication. it is certainly proper
that the whole matter should be placed in a
proper light before the public. i know noth
ing personally detrimental to the character of
mr i>ewis. /am not, nor was ever, an
agent for torn, to receive money or otherwise,
notwithstanding such a statement is made in
the letter below. lam well acquainted with
mr. james 11. henderson, formerly of troy,
n. v.; and in all my intercoutse with him, i
have found him to be a christian, a cautious
man, and of the soundest integrity. he is
now prospering well upon the lands given im
in ease* county by the good mi- smith. if
mr. lewis is innocent of the charges made
against him, 1 hope it will be shown,
not make any charge. if thisig» are not as
they are represented by mr. liwis and his
agents, then hare we again been most misera
bly humbugged, and most shamefully gulled.
but oi# year ago, the people here lost a large
amount of money through the agency of a
land company in new york; and last week
they paid largely to mr. lew is’ agent. 1 his
matter must be seen to. the grantees can
not well afford thus to throw away money.—
california does not extend to new york.
the best diggers” get but a dollar a-day in
this region. h.h. garnet.
geneva, february 5, 1849.
west keene timbucto, essex co. j
jan. 29, 1849.
rev. h. h. garnet —dear sir:—read
and correct, and have it printed if you like,
and acrid roe a paper. i have been here
eight months, and i like the land and the
country well. there is no better land for
g ram. we get from 25 to 50 bushels of oats
to the acre. new jand is the best for oats,
and for potatoes and turnips of the two last
articles we get from 200 to 400 to the acre.—
the farmers here get 46 cents per bushel,cash
in hand, for their oats. i have seen mr. j. 8.,
of springfield, mass., and he say* that he
will move herein the spring, and will give
us a start if we will try and help outselves.
i have seen mr. waite j. lewis, and he says
that you are an agent for him, money
ai d send it to him. i have seen some of the
best men in the town of keene, and they all
tell one story about him —that is, that he is
not a man to he trusted all that he wants is
the money. we who are here can see and
know. there has been a letter sent to the
north star, telling what kind of a man he is.
i hear that some think that we ought to mind
our business. i am likewise informed that
will let him have money to go to law
with those who sent the letter from this place
to the north star. 1 was one who sent it.—
1 know the men who sent their names, and
they are in good standing. i have seen-where
mr. lewis hunted foi the old lines and made
corners. 1 say hunt, because he does not
make new lines, nor re-tnark the old ones.
he does not use a chain, but he has a brass
wire, ami that he says is ten rods he
also has his hrotlier-in-law with him; his
name is l. jones. the names which they
put on the corners are written with a lead
pencil, in a hand as fine as this letter, and he
does not quarter the lots. 1 could write more,
but this is enough.
i remain yours,
james h. henderson.
n. b. —mr. wait j. lewis is not known
here as a surveyor, and he is not a post
master. j h. h.
new bedford, jan. 31st, 1849.
frederick douglass :—we have just held
a large and interesting meeting here in relation
to the farming interest in the state of new
york, upon which subject we were favored
with an address by our friend stephen myers, i
of albany.
last monday evening, 29th inst., a meeting
was held in mechanics' hall. mr. ezra r.
johnson was called to preside over the meet
ing, and .t. b. sanderson appointed sec
retary.
after prayer by rev. mr. tilman, william
11. griffin, secretary of the new york flor
ence fanning association, read portions of
its constitution, opening to the audience the
objects contemplated in forming the associa
tion in new nork state, and auxiliary soci
eties in other states.
mr. stephen myers was then introduced,
and addressed the meeting for mote than an
hour, upon the .subject of farming and the
interests of the colored people generally.—
he spoke of our condition in large towns and
cities, often surrounded by unjust laws and
prejudiced public sentiment. everywliere
great obstacles upjmse our improvement afid
elevation. law public sentiment and popu
lar religion uiuie to crush the colored man.—
we see it and foci it in our souls. we are
determined to have a change ourselves only
ran bring about that change ourselves must
strike the blow. we must inform and
strengthen ourselves with knowledge go
into the occupations of hfe around us with
intelligence and confidence.
he spoke of the prospect opened to us by
ihe benevolence of that great-hearted man,
gerrit smith, in the gift lands, and those
offered at such low prices, urging upon us to
usuil ourselves of this opportunity to pur
chase lands —occupy them—engage in farm
ing and mechanical occupations. such a
course wdl tend to build us up in character,
wealth and consideration, and hasten the ad
vent of universal emancipation. mr. myers
*poke of the proposed settlement at florence
a# a measure full of encouragement to those
who design to engage in it. he has a map
of the proposed village and the lauds around
n. many questions in regard to this subject
were proposed by persons m the audience,
which were satisfactorily answered.
at the close of mr. myers’ address, our
fiieod m brown being present and
called upon, made some remarks, approving
the plan proposed by the n ew y ork farming
association. he said the colored people
have always been a loug-sufforing, patient
and religious people. that is well. we
should “seek first the kingdom of heaven and
»t» rigliienosneas.t? but we must not longer
suffer ignorance, degradation and abuse .w hen
we can prevent it. look up heavenward,
but look around upon the earth. get wis-
ami; be indnstnoon, reonwieal. leber
•bo to •eeemnbte the geode of this life. it
cannot be denied thei this ism* of the strong
est props that sustains our chime to equality
a number of oor wirisn* have bought in (be
smith lends, sod expect to go end occupy
them in the spring.
it was att interesting meeting. nmg the
dose, the following resolution wee tgiptedi
resolved, that we heartily approroef xe
florence farming association and its hans;
i and st the same time we have listened with
gratification and approval to the address of
mr myers, in exposition of those plans
the meeting then adjourned.
e. r. johnson, cvn
j. b, sandrbboh, sec'y.
the spirit of anti-ftlaoery in western
hew york.
since i entered the borders of the empire
state, up to this period, judging from what i
have seen, the cause of freedom has been
moving forward with signal success. the
willingness to hear, and the interest manifest
ed oh the part of the common people has been
far greater than i expected. i commenced
at buffalo, where 1 found both the white and
colored population awake to the cause of hu
manity. the latter numerously attended all
of ray meetings, and gave willing aid the
cause. the noble-hearted george weir, jr.,
d. harris, and many others are doing much
for the moral and religious elevation of our
people.
1 held meetings at lockport, geneva, wa
terloo, seneca falls, syracuse and utica.—
at all the above places i found more or less
of our people; the greater ipart of whom i
found somewhat interested in the anti-slavery
cause; and those who are not with us, are
most generally exerting an influence against
us. they support pro-slavery presses and
newspapers, to the exclusion of those which
are advocating the cause of suffering human
ity. others resoit to the gambling-house and
rum-shops, and thereby bring down reproach
and disgrace upon our oppressed race. the
number of colored people living in lockport
is about 200. geneva and syracuse has
about the same. utica little
about 50 in each place. geneva is the most
aristocratic, pro-slavery hole i have visited.—
i had the pleasure of visiting h. h. garnet’s
splendid school, and address a crowded anti
slavery meeting in his church.
when i arrived at syracuse, i found the
long-tried and faithful friend of the slave, the
rev. samuel j. may, who received me,
though a stranger, as a friend and brother;
and by his aid and co-operation in a series of
meetings, we made the church ring with the
appeals of our enslaved countrymen.
yours for the oppressed through the land,
henry 8188.
little falls, jan. 29, 1849.
in another letter the same writer says
i find that the florence village is all a
humbug, and will doubtless do great injury
to the anti-slavery cause, if it is not exposed.
i hope that you will not allow your name to
be associated with it. you are probably
aware [that your name is published in the
last number of their paper as being one of its
officers or agents, as are also many other
good men’s names, whom i know have noth
ing to do with it. i have every reason to be
lieve it to be a cunning trick of an unprinci
pled clique, whose chief object is to build up
themselves on the benevolence of our anti
slavery friends, at the expense of the reputa
tion of our best and most influential colored
men. when i arrived at utica, i found the
names of five or six colored men reported as
being the largest land-holders in the state,
who were going out to florence to build mills,
open factories, &c., which i have found to be
all false.- these men do not own a foot of
land; neither have they any intention of going
to florence; and i am surprised to see the
names of our best men connected with so base
a business. be on your guard.”
eaton, 0., feb. 3, 1849.
frederic k docglass:—you have without
a doubt ere this received the gratifying intelli
gence of the action on the 30th ult. of the
ohio legislature on the black laws, which
resulted in their unconditional repeal, by a
vote of fifty-two to ten. the measure was
unanimously supported by whigs and demo
crats, only six of the former and four of the
latter voting in the negative. it w ill pass the
senate, though not without considerable re
sistance, by a strong minority. in this body
there are several members holding their seats
by pledges made before the election, to go
against those laws. some, however,
begin to show signs of recreancy. the
other day, one of those so pledged remarked,
in substance, that he did not believe his obli
gations to his constituents required him to
support all, but that part only which relates
to colored testimony in courts of law against
white persons. as an act of justice he was
willing to concede this, but he was not yet
prepared to swallow a whole “nigger,” wool
and all.
a report amendatory to the common school
law, making provisional arrangements for the
education of colored children, was made, and
i think will become a law.
these achievements of victory over the
hitherto strong popular prejudices we have
had to encounter on every hand, are such as
should make us truly thankful to those who
have ao successfully advocated our rights and
rendered ua such signal aid in this our to be
hoped great triumph. five years ago, there
could not have been found a dozen in either
branch willing to have their names recorded
in favor of repeal, such was its unpopularity
at that time. now there is a clear majority
of forty-two m favor of it. true, certain
influences, (and 1 am sorry to acknowledge
the fact,) tended in some degree to produce
this result, aside from that of mere considera
tions to extend the common protection of jus
tice to the colored man. notwithstanding
this, the qoesum has been made one of the
issues during our last two gubernatorial can
vsesee; many of those most hemtide at that
time in their opposition, ware tnndriihiiiji
for it, 1 shall forbear expresanmmp opinion
as to the motives of those ao acting; suffice
it to my, that we at length have in put oor
rights recognized aftei the lapse of nearly half
s century. a. j. anderson.
jonathan walkeb. —this devoted friend
of humanity and victim of the american
slave power, ri how, we learn, at his home m
plymouth, mem., nmch out of health and
otherwise afflicted. any sympathy extended
will be gratefully appreciated.
lo**o*> jaa 26,1242.
newt is scarce, la france things remain
in a precarious wale. a gnat straggle is
going oa there between thorn who am ia
favor of a distribution of the assembly, aad
thorn who are against it. m. boday de h
meurthe has been named vice-president of
the french republic by a large majority.
socialist banquet* continue to he held hi
paris, at which seditious speeches are male;
and but recently, an attempt was made by
some of the malcontents to get up aa entente,
but it failed. tim president of the republic
is embarrassed both by domestic intrigue aad
foreign agitation; and whether or got the
cabinet will exist many weeks longer in n
doubtful point. the legitimists are using
every exertion for the restoration of the
monarchy, and the hopes of the partisans
of the house of bourbon are high. they
speak openly of the return of henry v.
there are rumors afloat, that a fleet is now
getting in readiness at toulon, to aid in the
restoration of the pope; but this is not coo
firmed. his holiness remains at gaeta,
whence he has recently issued an address to
the roman people but. bis threats of excom
munication yre either unheeded or ridiculed
by them.
for the present, hungary may be said to
be practieally'subdued. prince windiseh
grati entered buds pesth on the sth iost., at
the head of his troops, without a shot being
fired. a terrible and uusparing severity has
pervaded the course of the imperialists. kos
suth has retired to depurzier, an important
town between pesth and klausenburg. many
noble families are plunged into despair on ac
count of these recent events in hungary; and
daily arrests are being made of the leaden of
the insurrection there. messaros, the hun
garian minister of war, blew out his brains
the moment he fell into the hands of the
austrian soldiers. on both sides, the war
has been merciless. the hungarians were
not likely to prove a match for the regular
troops of their enemies, but could the twelve
teousand hungarian soldiers (which austria
still manages to retain in italy) have been re
stored to their homes, the result might have
been different. s. p. q. r.
a comparison.
look at virginia, the ancient dominion
the nursing mother of states, of heroes and
statesmen, and one of the principal founders
of american freedom. compare her with
new york, and how has time’s whirligig
dealt with .her 1 new york has an area of
fifty thousand square miles, virginia has one
of sixty-five thousand. the latter has almost
all natural advantages over the empire state,
richer soil, more genial climate, finer mineral
resources, and far better means of inter-com
munication, and how do the two states stand
to one another in 1769 virginia contained
a population of 475,000, and new york only
300,000. and hdw did the figures stand in
1840? new york had 2,429,000, inhabi
tants, and virginia had 1,240,000, a very
small fraction over half as many. the worn
out lands of virginia, is a common phrase
among the farmers of that state, but whoever
hears of the worn out lands of new york 1
what explanation can be given of these as
tonishing facts l if the productions or ele
ments tiiat exhibit the prosperity of the two
be compared, the 'resalts would be still more
astounding than those wc have shown. will
any one pretend that nature made vir
ginia the thrace, and new york the attica
of the united states or is it the work of
man?
in 1780, kentucky contained 75,000 inhab
itants, and ohio had but 3,000. in 1840, the
census showed that ohio hatf a population of
1,520,000, and kentucky only 780,000. the
question returns upon us, why are these
things so 1 is kentucky inferior to ohio in
climate, soil, mineral wealth, manufacturing
or commercial facilities? truth answers,
tiiat instead of being inferior in any of these
items, kentucky is superior to ohio in each
and every one of these sources of prosperity.
what, then has produced these results 1 are
not these political problems full of grave and
important subjects for the solution of the peo
ple of kentucky l do we not owe it to the
people of the commonwealth, to ourselves
and to posterity, to ponder over these things.
—louisville courier.
emancipation in kentucky.— the fol
lowing joint resolutions, preceded by a pre
amble, have been introduced into the legisla
ture of kentucky
be it enacted, &c. that, in the opinion of
this legislature, the present agitation of the
subject of emancipation is premature andl
must result in evil, uud only evil.
resolved, that the only hope of relief to
kentucky from the vast and acknowledged
evils of slavery is in a long, gradual course
of preparatory legislation in combination and
in unison with private and voluntary effort,
and in the ultimate colonization of the blacks
beyond the limits of the united states.
resolved, that in view of the great curse
of a free colored population to any community
in which they are incorporated, the early
creation of a moderate sinking fund, with
the purpose of assisting in getting lid of and
colonizing the blacks now free, or such as
hereafter become free in kentucky, would be
a wise, prudent, and laudable expenditure of
money by the people of this commonwealth.
resolved, that this great cause,' iu the
magnitude of its interest, and in the difficulty j
of its accomplishment, is worthy of the
exertion of the national energies.
resolved, that our senators be instructed,
and oar representatives be requested to urge
upon congress the propriety ot the creation
of a national sinking fund out of the proceeds
of the public lands, to aid the efforts and pro
mote the ends of colonization, and of con
tributing to the ends in any other proper way;
and if there be no efficient constitutional war
rant for these purposes, to propose, sustain,
and pass the necessary amendment to tbe
constitution.
slavery in kentucey. —the maysvihe
eagle publishes the following project as that
which meets the view's of most of those in
kentucky who desire the emancipation of
their slaves.
first—ah slaves now in existence, eg born
in kentucky before the first of january, 1860,
remain slaves for hfe.
second.—-let all male slaves born after
january, 1860, be free at twenty-five, and all
females bom, after the same period, be free at
twenty one—provided, that upon reaching
that age, they shall be hired oat for two
yean, or longer, if necessary, until a fond
shall be accumulated sufficient to transport
them to liberia, and give them a start ia that
colony.
a shrewd boy.—“ coma hers my lad,’
said an attorney, to a boy about nine yearn
old. the hoy came, and asked the attorney
what ease was to bs tried next!”
the lawyer answered, a ease between
the people and the devil—which do yon think
will be the saont likely to gain the action*”
the hoy replied, i guess it mil to i
men. bud sqeeeae—the people hau the meat
money bat the fevil tbe mast lawyers.”
fmw ash. —men need seven eshe feet of
air a minute, and ha who shots himself up
w here be does not have seven feet of fresh ur
a minute might aa windy shat himsnif off
from s supply affeod.
which have taken price imhw put the rights of
humanity oa a more elevated pedestal. itai
veisal suffrage has so for gained for itself m
power is the government of continental states,
wto deprem the general estimate of class
privileges, laddtot a respect for mb as man.
this in an imawro strife* tbe path of im
provement, aad one, the advantages «f which
sro not yet developed. it as much dear
gain to the eanee of freedom. if m great
britain vre have made ah advance ia this
dixectiae, we have the confident assurance
that we cannot long lag behind. feudaksm,
destroyed elsewhere, will not be able to main
tain itself her. saxon movements are pro
verbially slow, but rimy are sure. already
we detect symptoms of a riper stale of pub
lic opiaioo. the experience of the last
twelvemonths has not bqpa low upon the pub
lic mind. a desire for cheap government
begins to pervade all classes, not absolutely
interested in the maintenance at abases. but
cheap government cannot he had without
placing it upon a broad popular bum.. poli
tically and ecclesiastically, the public mtod is
maturing for extensive changes. these ap
pearances confirm our confidence in the wise
and gracious designs of him who overrules
all. by various means, he is evidently pre
paring to let the oppressed go free.” what
wonders the next year may evolve lie beyond
our ken, hat it will be a remarkable one, in
deed, if it prove as eventful as the year 1848.
nonconformist.
california gold. it is impossible to
resist the temptation of speculating upon the
effects of this great event. the possession
of gold was'a curse to spain; her blunders
ruined her, and other nations reaped the chief
advantage. spain will be a warning to the
states our present knowledge on economical
subjects will save them from a repetition of
her old mistakes. a temptation this region
will be; for a time it will draw enterprise
from slower, surer channels, to return when
novelty is over, and old necessities assert
themselves again. to us in england it will
be a gain. our manufactures will find a field,
our snipping a new goal, our emigrants more
room. its final effects must be great and
good; still is there in the earth much land to
be peopled, and to lead men to go forth, some
strong inducement must arise. long, long
years must have past ere this far-off region
could have been filled, but now a people will
arise in a day. the frontiers of anglo-sax
ondom will be advanced, and the ultimate
destiny of that race, to) rule the whole new
world, will be unmistakeably proclaimed.
the used-up races of south america will be
replaced, and the dependents of the north
men will show the universality of their genius,
by being equally at home amidst canadian
snows and tropical heats. let this encourage
us to strive to purify the fountain that the
streams may be purs.— btrm. mercury.
the palace of the french president.
—the palace of the ely see bourbon, where
the president is to reside, was built in 1718,
and was then called the hotel d’evreux.
madame de pompadour purchased it from
the evreux family, and kept possession of it
until her death, in 1764. it then became the
property of the financier beaujon, who sold
it in 1786 to louis xvi. it next became the
property of the republic, but was not turned
to any use. under the empire, murat pur
chased it; and at the second restoration the
state seized on it without paying attention to
the claim of murat’s family. the law which,
after 1830, fixed the civil list of louis philippe,
had appropriated the elysee bourbon as the
residence of queen amelie, in case she
should survive her husband. this palace was
the last place inhabited by napoleon before
he took lib departure in 1815 it was there
be alighted in june 21, after the battle of
waterloo; and it was there he signed his
abdication in favour of the king of rome.
seventy-two persons suffocated. —on the
ist of december a steamer laden with live
stock, left the west of ireland for liverpool.
her course lay around the stormy and iron
bound shores of donegal. nearly two hun
dred steerage passengers—poor emigrants,
men, women, and children —were crowded
on her deck, crouching in the cold and wet
amongst the cattle. their plight would have
been a piteous one had the weather been
propitious. but on that wild coast, in mid
winter, calms are not to be looked for. a
storm arose—the fore part of the deck, where
the emigrants lay, was swept by the heavy
seas—the cattle, half drowned, half strangled
by their halters, unable to keep their legs, foil
and died, crushing the alarmed and sea-sick
women and children huddled amongst them.
no man who has not witnessed the violence
and helplessness of horses and oxen in a
storm at sea, can adequately picture to him
self the horrors of such a scene.
as the gale increased, it became necessary
to send the steerage passengers below. in
spite of their resistance, they were actually
forced into a den, 18 feet long, 12 wide, and
7 high. one hundred and ninety people—wet,
crushed, bleeding, and sea-sick—were com
pressed into a space considerably less than
that comprised in the interior of three omni
buses this black-hole was ventilated by a
single aperture.
the door of this prison having been secured,
the little steamer proceeded gallantly on her
way—through, rather than over the seas.
her captain, fearing lest his vessel should
founder, or his passengers be drowned,
ordered a tarpaulin to be nailed over the fore
hatchway, the sole air-hole by which the
suffering wretches below were enabled to
breathe. their stifled cries aad groans
reached the ears of the crew as the wind
lulled but the noise, the work, and the dan
ger on deck, prevented any attention being
paid to them, until the steamer had rounded
the northern point of ireland, and found a
harbor of refuge in the smooth waters of
loch foyle. then the captain bad leisure to
examine into the state of the emigrants below.
their cries and groans had been succeededffiy
a suspicious and a fearful silence. a candle
introduced into the fore-cabin, was instantly
extingaisbed by the foul exhalations which
emanated from it when the door was unlocked;
and on air being admitted, a right presented
itself, the horrors of which are unsurpassed
by the gravest atrocities of the middle pan-
t one solid mass of agoej and dissolution
lay compressed the living, the dying, and the
dead the survivors, blackened and dis
torted, were with difficult and by force,
disentangled from the death clutch of their
kinsfolks and friends. nearly half the num
ber who had, on the previous evening, fees
forced down into that fore-cabin, bad been
emotbered.—loiwfon chronicle.
female extra vac ance.— the incurable
love of bargains.”
when things get to the wont, they gen
erally take a turn for the better.” tbit
psoverb applies more particularly lo a lady’s
silk dress—when she cannot get a new one.
—punch.
the tsimnca cloud ash' the dew dsor.
we trembte when the thonder-clood bursts
ia fury over oor heads; the poet aeries on
the terrors of the storm to add to the interest
of hie rorae. pmnts
inlribtosptimd they are heralded by thus
dert 1w wild imaginings have been the
of i mankind: these is sarieet fat

the dew-drop which ghstena cm the fewer,
that the tear which trembles oe the eye-lid,
l ij pxtfari te its transparent cells so imnnei
poetry afsaence.
bdeeatiro a cmtmeejsmifewor
mintemipu.,
fiom tlie national intelligencer.
perseverance.
a swallow in the spring,
('.une to our granary, and ’ueatb the eaves
e*«ayed to make a nest, and there did bring
wet earth, ami straw, md leaves.
day after day site toiled,
oil patient wait; imi ere her work was crowned
some sad mishap lha tiny f.iwir *|ioiled,
and dashed it to the ground.
sw found the wrought,
but, not cast down, foith from the place site flew,
and, w ith wr mate, fresh earth and grasses brutish
ami wilt wr nest anew,
but scarcely lir,d slie placed
i tie la«t soft iraiwr oil its ample floor,
lien w irked hand, or chance again laid waste.
and wrought the ruin o’er.
but still lier in-art she kept,
ami toiled again and last night, liearing calls,
i looked, and, lo! there little swallow* su-pi
within tin* earth-made wall*.
what truth is hrrr, o man'
ll.ith inn*- lecii tinitleu tu iu early dawn!
have cloud* o’erraat thy |ur|*>«r, trust or plan»
have raiih and struggle on!
gold'
by thomas hoot*.
gou! fr>lo! gohl'
bright and yellow ,mid and cold.
molten, graven, hajnmerrdvud rolled,
heavy to get and lioht to bold,
hoarded, inrtrred, nought ttd aold,
stolen, borrowed, squandered, doled,
sj«iro<-d in tlie young, hugged by the old
to the very' verge oc die church-yard mould;
pride of many a crime untold;
gold! gold! gold! gold!
good or had, a thousandfold.
how widely it, not vary
to nave, lo rum, to cni -c, to |,h*■
.vow siauqied with tie- image of good quern first,
ami bom of bkealy maty
!s tint ions.
dipricttlt rtrkiie,
the slaveholder* encounter trouble
from every quarter. their annoyance*
•re thicker afld more teasing than the
pigmy men round gulliver in littiput.
the abolitionists will print and talk
and agitate, and the northern people
mil let them and encourage them, not
withstanding the southern edicts com
manding silence. men will look at
slavery and the decaying slave country,
and compare its corruptions and crimes
and growing desolation with the vigor
and health and procress of freedom
ind free labor. the churches and
clergy are breaking away from south
ern control, and withdrawing the chris
tian mantle which has hitherto hid the
nakedness and moral dshrmity of slave
holding religionists. northern legisla
tures are withholding their aid from
kidnappers, and northern parties can
no longer be relied on, northern presses
are yielding to the popular opinion,
and even some of the most servile sup
porters of the south show signs of
treachery; and even congress, here
tofore a machine in southern hands,
shows insubordination; and to crown
their sufferings, their niggers” will
run away, in spite of patrols, blood
hounds, and raen-hunters, and find
protection in the noith or a home in
canada, and leave them—the white
fingered gentry, the natural aristocra
cy, to draw their own water, cut their
own wood, and black their own boots,
(provided they can get any to black.)
pitty the sorrows” of the poor slave
holders, whose troubles thicken with
each passing day
we see that a proposition has been
introduced into the virginia legislature
by a mr. faulkner, for some plan of
action to prevent the escape of their
human property.
he says the slave population in some
sections of the state is rapidly thinning
out, especially since the recent legis
lation of pennsylvania, proclaiming
protection to all who cross her borders.
he estimates the early loss to the
state, through the connivance of the
laws of- the neighboring states, at
$90,00.
his scheme is quite as foolish and
vain as the edict of the old danish
king to the ocean. the tide of free
dom is swelling in human hearts, and
it will not stay for virginia fetters or
commands. he may calculate on a
still increasing emigration northward
every year till this state ceases to de
cree half her children to be brutes and
chattels. it he would prevent the state
being depopulated of her laborers, let
him move to treat them as men. free
dom is the only embargo they can lay
on northern/emigration, and that will
be an efficient one.— penn. freeman.
push on.
the following extract from the
writings of john neal, may have met
the eyes of maijy of our readers be
fore hut it is worth repeating, and the
truths it conveys arc worth remem
bering:
“there are people who, having be
gun life by setting their boat against
the wind and tide are always complain
ing of their bad luck and always just
ready to give it up, and for that very
reason always helpless and good for
nothing; yet, if they would persevere,
hard as it may be to work up stream
all life long, they would have their re
ward at last. good voyages are made
both ways.
a certain amount of opposition is a
great help to a man. kites rise against
the wind; not with it. even a head
wind is better than nothing. no man
ever worked his in a
dead calm. the best wind for any
thing, is a side wind, if it blows aft,
how is he to get back.
let no man wax pale, therefore, be
cause of opposition. opposition is
what he wants, and must have, to be
good for anything. hardship is the
native soil of manhood and self-defence.
he that cannot abide the storm with
out flinching or quailing, strips him
self in the sunshine, and lies down by
the wayside, to be overlooked and for
gotten.
he who braces himself up to the
struggle when the wind blows, gives
up when they are done, and falls
asleep in the stillness that follows.
did you ever know any body to stick
to any kind of business, no matter how 1
unpromising, ten years at most who
did not prosper? no matter how had
it might be at the beginning if he stuck i
to it earnestly and faithfully, and noth-'
iug else, no matter how hard he may
have found it sometimes to have kept
his head aboye water, still if he
persevered he came bright in the long
run—didn’t he?”
mr. emerson on england.
ralph waldo emerson lectured
before the boston mercantile library
association, december 27, on england,
giving the results of his observations
during his recent visit. he apj>ears to
have derived strongly favorable impres
sions of the english character. he
spoke of the steady balance of the
qualities of their nature as their great
characteristic and the secret of their
success. everything in england be
tokens life. the land and climate are
favorable to the production and preser
vation of good men. mr. e. facetious
ly remarked that it was against his
theory to trave)_he did not like it, and
in most cases he believed it disadvan
tageous to the literary man. running
up hills and over valleys he believed
the office of a wheel not of a mati. but
he had profitted by his trip to england.
he referred to the elements of that
power which the english now hold,
and have held for centuries. after
looking at her manufactories, scattered
over all the land, her commerce, her
agriculture, her arts, and witnessing
the stupendous results which have been
wrought out, one is convinced that if
he would see the best development of
common sense, (the standard sense) he
must goto england to witness it. the
land, in every part so like a garden,
shows a triumph of labor; the fields
look as if finished with the pencil, not
the plow. every arable spot has been
cultivated, and everything turned to the
best possible use.
england, indeed, is a hugs mill, a
f,z d vhm mr yt*** p">
vim to one’* mind. on the railroads
w r fart, tad with o m hall
the faking that we do upon oer roads.
all england u a machine—everybody
mores on a railway —no english mat
erer touches the ground. eartand hoa
the beat working in the world;
it is never hot or cold; their wintei
days are tike oar november days i*
the early part «f the month. theoplj
drawback which emerson mentionet
was the dark gray color of the sky
which renders day and night too nearly
alike, and makes it painfal at times tt
read and write. to this mart be addet
(be dark, dense smoke of many of tfw
manufacturing towns, this smoke per
vading and at times completely envelop
ing every surrounding object.
england has all the materials of a
working country—iron, coal, btc., ex
cepting wood.
the englishman enjoys great heaut
and vigor of body. they are large
than americans. one hundred en
glishmen, taken at random, would pro
babjy weigh one quarter more than tin
same number of americans, taken in
the same manner; and yet the akeletoi
is said not to weigh more. the english
man is plump*, round and full, and pre
sents a stout, respectable, and grand
fartherly figure. the women, even
have thick-set forms, and seldom a tall
spare englishman is seen. the figure!
of the days of chivalry carved in stone
some of them 900 years old, whicl
adorn the churches all over england
present the same types which character
ize the present race. enjoying vigor
ous health, they last well, and theii
animal powers ate perfectly developed
they are great eateis and claim that t
good supply of food is absolutely essen
tial to health. they have more con
slitutional energy and vigor than wi
have. pluck is the national characters
tic—the cabman, the porter, the noble
man, the bishop, and even the women
have it; the press runs over with it.
an englishman speaks with his whoh
body—his elocution is stomachy—af
american's is labial. he may growl
at the petty annoyances of a] hotel
but he lias abundance of self-command
but the axes of his eyes” are unitet
to his back-bone, and only move witl
his trunk. wlioever else may fail, the
englishman will not. he has existec
for a thousand years, and will continue
to exist, as his character possesses as
much energy as ever.
london and england now are in ful
growth. birkenhead, opposite liver
pool, grows as fast as south boston, 01
brooklyn, opposite new york. lon
don is enlarging at an alarming rate
even to the swallowing up of middle
sex. the british moseum is not yei
arranged; london university is grow
ing as rapidly as one of our westerr
colleges. everything in england be
tokens life.
besure the englishman does not buih
castles and abbeys, but what the nine
teenth century demands he builds
docks, wharves, warehouses, &c,, with
out number. in all that the english
man does, even to the noise of clearing
his throat, he .gives evidence of grea
strength. it is not the land for fain
hearts.
one thing is very noticeable amonj
the people, and that is their total ne
gleet of each other.. every mai
shaves, dresses, eats, walks, and run
just as he pleases, and his neighbo
i pays no attention to him, so long as h
ns not interfered with; and this is no
because englishmen are trained to neg
lect, but because every man is trainei
to mind his own business. persona
eccentricities are allowed here, am
no one observes them. each islande
is an island himself, reposing in quie
and tranquil waters.
it is very certain that the englishmai
has so much confidence in the poncr o
his nation that be cares very little abou
any other. swedenborg, who visitei
england frequently during the last cen
tury, and an italian author, who wrot<
in 1500, were both quoted in this con
ncction. the englishman is handsome
and has always been so. if a handsome
foreigner comes among them the peo
pie declare it is a pity he is x not ar
englishman. this arrogance hi:
birthright. his praise is to tell you i!
is “so english” in character; aud the
highest praise is to say to an acquaint
ance? i should not know you fron
an englishman.
now this is admirable in some res
pects.
the english surpass all others ii
general culture—none are so harmoni
ously developed. they are quick t<
perceive any meanness in an individual
and it is reasonable that they shouk
have all those fastidious views whicl
wealth and power are wont to generate
but it is not to be disguised that there
is inuen in english culture which wil
not bear analysis. it is material buili
solely upon wealth, cockney ism, and if
most fully exemplified in boxing, racing,
gunning, &e., what are called true
english sports. they are neat, order
ly, and respectable, and have the nicest
care of their wines, politics, guns, see,
but these are trifles. the manly foruu
are attributed'to the exercises, such ai
boating, boxing and riding, in whicl
they indulge from early youth. th«
attachment to horses among them is
almost universal—they are always oa
horseback —the hotels are crowded
with pictures of races. betting not
without its uses, causes, them to be
very exact in their data, and settle*
everything as a fact.
an arab funeral.— the following
description of an arabian funeral ap
pears in the progresd'lndre et loire:
ou have requested me to apprise
you on what day you could be
to the presence of the emir. you will
have to wait a long time, for bis ‘re
ceptions’ are suspended. a child of
the deira died, 10 years of age and an
other, the son of ihe elder brother of
abd-el-kader, has died this day. these
two deaths have profoundly afflicted the
unfortunate emir, and the entire deira
is plunged in "•owning. abd-el-kader
shuts himself up in the strictest soli
tude, and will receive no one for sev
eral weeks to come. the amoral of
the deceased took place resterdav
this ceremony, was £rforaid without
pomp or perade, presented no remark
abb* features i was unable to ascer
tain what took place m the apartments
at (he hoar of interment. the grea
test discretion as you wiß readily iss-
mine, was utafrtrsd hf the attendants
of h* chateau on the occasion of the
funeral preparations, at which the
ijtta cl msfalirf the corpse was
unclosed m a him aatrrrrii with a white
cloth, and placed on a stretcher borne
on the shoulders of lour arabs.
at the mnwaf when the funeral cor
tege commenced ha procession, heart
rending cries were heard to issue iron
the window ef the apartment belonging
to the mother of the deceased child,
who, rimiplfisljr enveloped in her white
veil, addressed to her son one isst fare
well. the father walked behind the
coffin, with a chaplet in his hands, pray
ing with fervor and weeping, bitterly.
at his side were the lieutenant sidi
i kaddour and the steward, kara mo
hammed, accompanied by captains
botaaonier and fournier, and followed
by some fifteen arabs. the cortege,
surrounded *by unarmed soldiers, at
traded a fast concourse of persons in
i the streets of amboise. the touching
ceremony—presenting so striking a
.contrast to the absurd pomp of chris
tian funerals—and the mournful atti
t tude of the unfortunate exiles, could
not fait to exche the pity and even the
sympathy o( the spectators.
the populace in general manifested
much feeling, and if, occasionally, the
religious meditations of the arabs were
disturbed by a somewhat indiscreet
j eagerness to see the ceremony, we
must blame that idle curiosity to which
iwe flench are only too prone. the
cortege having reached the cemetery,
the arabs dug the grave. during
this operation the father of the de
ceased, who betrayed an utter absence
of moorish stoicism, did nothing but
weep and pray by turns. the arabs
inter their dead in much care and pre
caution. the corpse is laid down on
its right side, with the face turned to
ward the east. fragments of wood,
placed above the bier, form a sort of
dome, covered with leaves and grass/
and consolidated by stones.
the earth, which is cast over the
whole does not touch the coffin, which
the arabs take great care to protect
from the dampnes of the soil. the
grave-diggers having washed their
hands and feet, the ceremony termi
nated. on his return to the chateau,
the father of the decased thanked can
taios boissonier and fournier for their
kindnes, and immediately retired to his
apartments. it appears that the deaths
oi*these two children are ascribable to
the carelessness of their parents or
nurses, who allow them to run about
in the open air with bare feet, and very
thinly clad—a habit which may be
very safe in the scorching soil of al
giers, but is not exactly suited to the
ruder climate of these northernly lati
tudes.”
a tr4it op character in the
sixteenth century.
i there dwelt n the town a poor
woman who had a very fair daughter of
fifteen years of age. her poverty was
so extreme that to procure a' subsis
tance she prevailed upon her, partly
by persuasion and partly by compul
t sion to suffer herself to be secretly
"conducted one evening to his lodgings
by a varlet of his. returning late
t from a banquet in town, the good knight
found her in his apartment. she was
i lovely as an angel, but her eyes were
i swollen with weeping. seeing her in
r this plight, he immediately asked her
i what ailed her, and if she knew why
l she was come there. the poor girl
threw herself upon her knees and
i said, alas! yes my lord! my mother
i j has insisted upon it, nor would i have
i done so without compulsion, but- my
mother and i are so poor that we are
dying of hunger; and would to god i
were dead, so i might not be of the i
i number of unhappy girls, and in dis
honor all my life.” and so saying
she wept so violently that there was no
pacifying her. when the good knight j
perceived her noble courage, he said
to her almost with tears, “truly, my
friend i will not be so wicked as to seek
to alter your virtuous resolution.”
and changing vice into virtue, he took
her by the hand, and making his var-‘
l pt take a torch, he conducted her to a 1
female relative of his who lived near,
under whose charge he left her. the
next morning be sent for her mother
1 and asked if she were not a miserable 1
wretch to render her daughter vicious.
the poor woman, ashamed and afraid,
could only answer that they were in
i the extremity of poverty. “well,”
said the good knight, never do so vile
a thing as to sell your daughter, who j
is a gentle woman. you should be c
severely punished. tell me now has
no one ever asked her in marriage?” j
“yes, indeed,” she said, “a neighbor
of mine, an honorable man, but he re- a
quires /pc hundred florins, and i have
not the'naif of them.” and if he bad
them would he marry her?” said the
good knight. “yes, assuredly,” an- r
swe red she. he then took his purse d
and handed her three hundred crowns, t
■aying, “here my friend, are two hun- d
dred crowns, which are more than 5
equivalent to six hundred florins of this
country, to marry your daughter withal
and a hundred crowns for her wedding
gear.** he then presented the mother ll
with another hundred crowns for her-
self, and desired his varlet not to lose 2
sight of them till he had seen the daugb-
ter married, which she was three days
and kept a very creditable house,
taking her mother to live with her. 1 vi
believe you have never read in chroo-
icle or history a more courteous, lib- u
era), and honorable action, than this of
the gtfod knight —history of the (rood
k»gkt
laascibipity or tutr». the
greatest plague in life is a bad temper,
it is a great waste of time to complain
of other people’s; the best thing is to
amend our own, and the next best qual
ity is to learn to bear with what we
!®®*t others. irascibility is very
injurious to health, and so, in fact, is
every morbid indulgence of our inferior
nature—low spirits, melancholy, diffi
dence, disinclination for ordinary
duties, discontent, fretfulness, even
mental lassitude, indolence or
he made to eas/themah to the winds,
and look unbloshinglr into the troth of
it is astonishing what a littse
reflection will do—the fears are mostly
imaginary, and with one dahs of dissolution may all be overcome. 