Tut fallowing will show to the people of
the old world how the peoples petitions are
treated in the first nation tin the globe. We
are glad that the subject is now fully up
again. Such a course as that adopted by the
Senate will do more to make aWalitiuaiirts than
many lecturers; for the latter can only be
heard by the few, while the former speaks to
the whole nation, in tones of thunder, telling
them that their liberties are gone.
Fmm the Einanci|*tor.
MB, HALF. IN THE SENATE.
We are able to give the following
interesting particulars in regard to the
presentation (on the 22d) of the memo
rial of the yearly meeting of anti-slavery
friends in Indiana. Here follows the
petition:
To the Senate and House of Rep
resentatives of the United States, in
Congress assembled: We, your peti
tioners, believing all carnal war to be
anti-Christian, and the present war
with Mexico to be one of pre-eminent
injustice, wickedness and barbarity,
respectfully but earnestly request you
to use all the means in your power to
•put an immediate termination to the
i»l mdy conflict. And, farther, we would
solicit the exercise of the powers of the
government invested in your hands, to
put an immediate termination to slavery
with all its horrid consequences, so far
as those powers extend.
Signed on behalf of the meeting.
Walter Edgertox,
Rebecca Edgerton, j C,erks
On presenting this petition, Mr. Hale
.said:
J suppose, Mr. President, as this
petition prays for the exertion of all the
tpowers of government, so far as they
•extend, in relation to this subject, it
includes within its provision, slavery
within the District of Columbia; and I
am informed that the practice has
obtained in the Senate, when petitions
of this character are preseuted,. to
raise the question of reception, and
that such a motion is laid on the table,
there the matter drops. As this
course does not nccord with my own
Conviction of duty, I must urge a dif
‘r< nt disposition of this petition; and I
P« that if exception be taken, it will
mm oi? W th ,ul ,W *‘de-blow of a
Whk i ,y Ol ,L ,abl
recenti i v,ew the question ol
1 aak ihai u
of taking the l’' <er —Those in (avor
to hiY lhr'ln'Atnr,’ 1 11,8 made
Is to be put as a matter of cou™*
Mr. Halt. —l was not awar« of ihm
existence of such a rule; but th»»
the case, I would like to say
word on the main question, as the
tion to lay on the table is not debate
able.
Mr. JBcrrim. —l trust that the stub
y T _ m rn JLf »*J m h*m S ~*h? wv>
r I t M mM y A 4 B-'-m |E'"J[ a w “S""
T|-|wl MißTfr xT i B
JL JL JL JLJ «L X w JL m I a
r *H l C printed, tfcr
question of reception it raise* by a
raotioo to lay a p«ticaoa oa tto table. I
raise that question; I wtore to lay the
root ion upon the table.
Mr. IlM. —Upon that question! ask
the yeas and nays.
Inquired
whether it would be ta order to
postponement of tk.
tioo tilt to-morrow? r
mS'jrrii.etTp^esr-
Jdf*. Jokneen, of Maryland, then wd
ought be full before the Mas
lion?
Ti« presiding officer. —It is to lay the
motion to receive the petition on the
table.
M\ Calhoun. —What is the subject
matter of the petition?
Tat pretiding officer.—The abolition
of slavery in the district of Columbia.
Mr. Ilite. —lf it be in order, I will
state the subject matter of the petition.
The petition c mes from the yearly
meeting of Friend* at Newport, Wayne
county, Indiana, praying the termina
tion of the war in Mexico; and also
praying that all the powers vcstdß in
Congress upon the subject, shall be
exerted for the termination of slavery.
Mr. Bailer. That does not say
anything about slavery in the District
of Columbia.
Mr. Halt. —l remarked that that
was included in the petition.
The question was then taken on the
call for the yeas and nays. A.sufficient
number of members rising, the yeas
and nays were ordeied and were taken
as follows:
eas —Messrs. Allen, Ashley, Atch
ism, Atherton, Badger, Bell, Beirien,
Bradbury, Breese, Blight, Butler, Cal
houn, Cass, Davh, (of Mississippi,)
Dickinson, Dix, Downs,Fairfield, Fetch,
Foote, Hunter, Johnson,(of Maryland,)
Johnson, (of Louisiana,) Manguin, Ma
s>ii, JftTes, Rusk, Sevier, Sprusmce,
Sturgeon, journey, Westcctt, Yulee.—
33.
N.iva Messrs. Baldwin, Clarke,
Corwin, Greene, Hale, Miller, Phelps,
Underwood, Up ham.—9.
So the m ;tion to receive the petition
was laid upon the table.
Mr. Hale presented tho memorial of
David T. Burr and sixty-nine others,
citizens of Pennsylvania, praying fori
such an alteration of ibe constitution I
and laws as shall efcofcak slavery
throughout the Union.
Mr. Hale said:
I do not understand that there is a
standing rule or order of the Senate
that raises the question whether this
petition shall be received, or the motion i
to receive it kid on the table. Ia k
whether the motion to receive the peti
tion is de hat cable? Am I correct, sir,
in supposing it is debateable?
Presiding officer. —It is debateable.
Mr. Hale. —So understandutg it, sir,
i wish to say a single word in vindica
tion of the course which I deem it my
duty to take on this occasion. It is
with no desire to produce angry feel
ings, or excited discussion, but it is in
the discharge of my duty, under deep
and earnest convictions of my under
standing, that I attempt to discharge
that duty.
Wfiat is the refusal of the Senate to
receive these petit jins? It U saying
that there arc some subjects on which
the people shall not approach tins tri
bunal.
In this day, speculation is adventur
ous. Wc venture to inquire into all the
secrets of the material and the spiritual
world. The researches of geological
science have penetrated the bowels ol
the earth, and have there found the
mateiials by which it is essayed to
prove tuat
He wlio ma le the tvorld, and its age renal* J
To Mute*, was mistaken.
Nay, inquiry goes with adventurous
flight to the very throne of Eternity,
and undertakes to scan the laws by
which He win sits thereon governs His
own actions and t ie world he l:as cre
ated. And, sir, if speculation is thus
adventurous, have we, in the United
States ol America, an institution which
exalts itself above God; defying exam
ination or iaqui y, or petiti nr Most
emphatically, sir, do I conceive that
at the present day the people ol’ the
United States have a peculiar right to
come and ask of this b >dy a respectful
hearing of their petitions, and a re
spectful hearing on this very subject.
Sir, it is no mere abstraction. It is an
element of political power in the form
ation of our constitution; it is an ele
ment on which the constitution of the
other House is regulated; and it is an
clement in the political discussion and
action of the present day, which is in
volving the nation in a foreign and
aggressive war at an expense of forty
or fifty millions of dollars annually.—
And if the people of the United State*
are to be thus taxed for war, growing
immediately and directly out of an in
stitution of this character, are they to
be told that they shall not come ami
respectfully present their petitions upon
this subject?
1 have thus discharged my duty tc
those who sent me here, without any
expectation of influencing the action o,
this body, without any desire to excite
angry feeling or discussion. I ask tha
the petition may be received.
Air. Berrien. —The practice whirl
has been adopted by the Senate ha
been the result of calm and delibrrati
consideration. It has protected u;
from thole exciting discussions which
in another national legis
lat u re, have too often occurred. 1 d
not apprehend that h*
WT V *'i* I n.miMyiiii v mi UP i I in .—I W J,,7Tn IT
gciirn^s^Tnrnrsorsocoi^^B^
Jlcn firm the honorable Senator from
hw I'trap shire, who preseats this pc
toon, is calculated to change this well
settled conviction of the Senate on this
object. I theqpfore, air, the question
4 reception being before the Senate,
move to lay that question upon the
table.
The irotien to receive the •petition
vas theii laid Upon the table.
FronthtKewTwkßnati.
SPEECH OP JOKE C* CALHOUN,
CIS THE MElltih Hiß.
WawtScstov, Jan. 4,1848.
At twenty minutes to one o'clock,
Mr. Calhoun's rose lmmas were a»her
up, on motion of Mr. Sevier.
Mr. Calhoun rose and mid—ln offer
ing these resolutions, Senators, to your
consideration, I have been governed by
the same reasons which induced me to
oppose the war—fremthe same consid
erations which have ever since guided
me. In alluding to my opposition to the
war, I do not intend to advert to the
reas ns which governed me on that oc
casion, further than is necessary to ex
plain ray object on the present. I op
posed the war then, not only because I
considered it unnecessary, and easily
to te averted—n t only because the
President, with: ut authority,ordered the
United States troops to enter a dispu
ted territory, at that tunc occupied by
the Mexicans—not only because the
declaration of Congress Was unfounded
in truth—but from higher considerations
of policy: because I foresaw that it must
lead to great and serious evils to the
country, and greatly endanger its free
institutions. The war was declared 1
and recognised ns such, by the govern
ment, when it was too late to avert it.
I then felt it to be my duty to shape ray
course so as to prevent, as Car as possi
ble, the danger which was threatening
our fee institutions. Such was my ob
ject in prop- sing the defensive line, at
the last session—such is my object in
now offering these resolutions; but I
shall express my opinion at all times,
boldly and independently, such as be
comes a Senator who has nothing to
ask or gain, and whose only object is
to do what is goed for his country.
When I proposed, in the Senate of the
United States, at the last session, a diff
erent line of policy, we had a large por-!
tion of country In our possession; we;
stood in a better position than at any
other time since, to make it; fori hold
it to be a fair principle, that we may re
ceive indemnity, in tbe shape of unoc
cupied territory, from woods, but not
from the cultivated hemes of Mexicans.
In offerii2£, at the last session, peace
resolutions, I did it became I thought
it wculd be a great saving in men and
money; but above all, because I saw it
would save us from being involved to
the extent we now are. The President
t>ok a different view; he recommended
a vigorous prosecution of the war to j
Congress, to conquer a peace;'* that 1
is, i compel the Mexicans to make us
indemnity, and also to pay us the ex
penses of the war. I opposed it, be
cause I thought there was great hazard
if the war was continued. Congress
th ught differently; it voted men and
money. At Buena Vista we were vic
torious; Vera Crux fell; Cerro Gordo
was conquered—brilliant victories, that
do great honor to our army; and finally,
the gates of the city of Mexico fell i
prostrate to our conquering arms.— j
Well, sir, have the avowed objects ol
the war been effected Have we con
quered a peace? Have we succeeded;
in effecting a treaty Are we offered
indemnity No, sir, not a single ob-l
ject avowed by the President, has been
accomplished. N Mr. President, the
object is farther off t an ever. Now,
sir, I ask what has caused the complete
discomfiture of our m asure?
We cannot charge the failure upon
ourtr *ops. It is not charged to this;
but to the fact, that the plan of the cam
paign wals laid in error and founded on
a mistake. We aimed at indemnity.
If we wanted it, we should have enforc
ed it when we had the power in our
liands. We, however, endeavored to
arrive at it by a treaty, which, had the
Mexicans refused to sign, would have
completely upset the a rangenaen*.—
They did refuse, and not withstanding
all our briliiant victories, the war is still
npon our hands. After an outlay of
fit), 033,0 33 we are worse off than ever.
am ml looking at the conquest—l
throw that aside. We have lost 7033
or 8333 men besides, and all this for
nothing at all. But, Mr. President, it
is said that a defensive line would have
been as c ally as the prosecution of the
war. The President and the Secretary
of War have said it; but I must say,
to my mind, it is utterly impossible.
Tbe line which I proposed would hove
been covered with hostile Indians, and
would have required only a single regi
ment and a ship of war guard
coast.’ For seven years, Texas re
mained unconquered by Mexico, and
that too, when the Mexican resou ces
and power were greater and more pow
erful than they are now; and can any
man believe it would cost us more to
defend that line, than to carry on the
present war? We now come, Mr.
President, to the consideration of an
other campaign. Sir, the same mea
sures are proposed as were at the last
Hession. We arc told it is not for con
quest; that is explicit/disavowed. It
is not an order to blot out the nationali
ty of Mexico, for the President avows
distinctly he wishes te retain its nation
ality. Now, sir, we cease te the prac
tical question:—Shah we carry oa foe
war i I have mqptrtl carsfoMy into
the matter, and l mwa say there arc
many reasons now existing against it,
stronger than at the last session. A
hill has been aaiborwog the
jr:

ROCHESTER, N. T, FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, IMS.
'm* bap t haw
■arket at pnKiiU Last year ia eon
eeqncecn of the unfortunate feme in
Europe, we bore large balance of
trafe »a our favor and money plentiful.
W« are now encumbered with a large
Wi bath way*. We bare to send
large stuns, both tdftngland and Mui
co. If drafts ar® swt hare they are
cashed, and in the present state of the
market the money goes to England. 1
see treasury notes quoted below par
m»d stocks still lowejv The tad wifi be
A* Ae trt*««y rJKIf into the
mb-treasury, tod specie be given out——|
Am draining both. The end will be a
great commercial crisis and the faihiresj
of our basks. There is danger now of!
all this, which did not exist aft the begin*
ning oftbe last session. Men you may
get, but money you cannot. 1 bare
conversed with a gentleman well versed
i& commercial matters, and he has given
it as his opinion, that treasury notes
and they are nothing more or less than
loans, which must he repaid—would not
bring more than 90 dollars, for every
100 dollars; which is rather more, 1
think, than 7 per e?nt. But, sir, these
are not the only objections, formidable
as they are against the war. Ido not
see the slightest chance of obtaining any
thiog by it, if we should be successful
in our anna, which I don't believe; but
if we should, the avowed objects would
defeated. But, sir, I take the other
side. The more victories we gain, the
greater will be our difficulty in arriving
at a peace, as avowed. What is to be
the effect it we proceed to repress all
resistance in Mexico? We overthrow
her civil government, and leave her
without atfy power. Mr. President, if
that is done, how are you to obtain a
peace? One power can make war—it
requires two to make peace. If you
destroy the government of Mexico,
where is your second party to a peace?
1 ou are defeated by your own success.
Biu what do yeu accomplish by the very
object you disown? The free republic
ycu wish to sec will be gone—blotted
out—a mere mass of what she was, and
her sovereignty, for the time, conveyed
to her conquerors. The President has
very much the same conviction of what
is the vigorous prosecution of the war,
as I have. He says, that the people of
Mexico are divided into factions, gov
erned b/ military rulers, and the only
way to arrive at what we desire, is to
put them all down.
Well, sir, if we are to build up a re
publican form of government, from
those citizens who are well disposed to
wards us, and who are desirous of a
peace, Mr. President, I confess lam at
a loss to understand how an independ-'
;nt republic can prow up under the pro-|
cction and auspices of its conqueror. I
I can well see how an aristocratic or
lespotic government could be thus!
farmed; but how a free government can,'
cannot see. I had always understood
such a government must spring from the
tiearts of the people; but, sir, I see
these notions are antiquated, and we
:an now make free republics. The
people of Mexico do not wish it. The j
»reat body oftiie intelligence and wealth'
ts concentrated in the clergy, and they
ire disinclined to it. The other large
Pody, the owners of the haciendas, in
other words, the planters, might, per
laps, favor it; but they are scattered
vithout the means of forming a firm
government, and if put up, would tuin
>le down m a day, the moment our
roops should be withdrawn. The oth
»r course, then, would be to support,
ind foster the existing government. J
3ut it is said that would be useless, and
t would fall the moment our troops were
withdrawn. Mr. President, I protest
tgainst building up any power in Mexi
so, for we shall thereby be obligrd to
support it again and again, until at la-t
ve would be compelled to take it our- j
selves. The conquering of Hindostan,
.vhich we have so long deprecated, i
:arac on in this very way. There was
io intention at first to conquer it. That j
:ame on by degrees, till at last it ap
>eared a matter of course. So it would
>e with Mexico, if that government
diould agree to make a treaty on such
erms as we ask. The President him
»elf agrees we shall take the very con; se
have forshadowed. He rays, in so
nany words, if measures foil, we must
enforce terms which the honor of the j
country demands. Is not this an ac
knowledgment, that if the factional gov- j
eminent is not built up, we must con
quer and occupy the country, thus en
forcing terms, not upon the government,
but upon the people- Well, the Presi
dent is right. This will he the result
Every argument against taking a defen
sive line, will have a double force when
we have spent sixty millions of dollars
more, and occupy a still greater extent
of territory. The men engaged in the
war—the contractors, the several par
ties engaged, directly or indirectly—all
this large body will be adverse to return;
and their influence in favor of a cent in- 1
nation of the war, will be found too
powerful to oppose. Well, sir, now
that we have added sixty millions of dol
lars to the former amount expended,
what will you get to indemnify it?—
With the population, which you will
have to sustain, and the army of forty
or fifty thousand men, as the Secretary
of War says, you will never get enough
to pay it; and it will hare to come out
of the pockets of the people of the united
States. This and the next generation,
will have to bear this burden. We now
come to the solemn eonsidertion pro
posed by the reso«Hiou. 1 have Amro
diem n/mnunm nfIMhVM’MMM'i. Imp fkn
It is to bkft out tb* nationality of lfexi
oo and throw seven ar eight mi»mm of
ft
Shall wc do either? No, Mr. Piwhn,
neither; and for these reasons; lint.
It wiilbcacaioat the avowed object of
tliewar. No menage has been sent to
Congress which ban dbtiactljr denied
the object to be tint extinction of the
nationality «f Mexico and yet. air.
wbal are disavow will bare been accom
an need emeu *x|
|MBIIieU| «w w^» r «TWWTU Will DlVf
been defeated. This, nr, at leant, will
be an impeachment of the ability of our
f acknowledgethefiriT amountof glory
oor army has acquired aad abed#* the
country hot* Mr. President, I am
afraid an our applause will be confined
to our army. Every nation looks upon
»b« hard-hearted people, who are
more gives to war than modern nations.
Howevbr much we might rejoice at the
courage, bravery and skill of our troops,
and the astonishing victories they have
achieved, he was yet sorry to confess
that the government had lost that repu
tation for moderation and justice which
bad been its crowning attributes in its
earljr days. If we shall attempt to hold
Mexico as a province, or incorporate it
into this Union, we shall find it utterly
impracticable. We had never assimila
ted any of the Indian tribes witn our
people when incorporating tber territory
into our Union. We have removed
them farther away. We hare never
incorporated any people into this Union
but the Caucasian race—the free white
man; and shall we now corrupt this
free white population by introducing
into our confederation the Indians and
the mixed races of Mexico? He pro
tested most earnestly against such a
policy. Our government is for the free
whiteman.
This feature was the secret of its
stability. Tbe Spanish republics on
this continent had foiled, because they
had mainly attempted to place the
colored race on an equality with the
whites, in assuming that by nature all
men were equally adapted to free gov
ernment; yet it was proposed to annex
the Mexican states as territories, and
place them on an equality with the rest
of the states. He utterly protested
against the adoption of any such policy
in any form. He adverted to the proofs
of history to show' that the colored races
could not be blended in the same gov
ernment, and in the same terms with
the white races; that the colored races'
are always degraded, and that the!
whites, even in a savage state, main
tain some of the elements of free in-!
stitutions. He came next to consider I
the two points in one thaP the holding!
of Mexico in subjection would, in the!
end, be subversive of our free institu
tions, and that no such line of policy
ought to be adopted. It would be a
waste of time to argue that the incor
poration of Mexico would be danger
ous to our free institutions. He who
understood the American constitution;!
he who had studied its character; he
who from the examples of
history, and had marked the conse
quences, where large conquests have
been held by a hostile nation, as terri
torial possessions, would need no other
proof to convince him that to hokl tbej
republic of Mexico, either as a pro-;
vince or as territories, must lead to the
subversion of our f* ee institutions. In j
all the examples in which such incor
porations of territories of foreign peo
ple, bearing anything near the proper-!
lions which Mexico bears to the United;
States, the end had been the downfall j
of the conquering party. With us,
Mexico would add so much to the
powers of the general government, I
that it would absorb all the powers ol
the states; it would becofne imperial;;
it would usurp the powers of the legis-i
lative department; all the powers oi
the government would foil into the
hands of the executive, and with the
prevailing rule of party proscription,
and the increasing patroiage of the
executive, our institutions vould not be
able to combat the Pres dential elec
tion s.—they could not resist the check.
Mr. Calhoun admonished gentlemen
not to flatter themselves with the delu
sive idea, that we, as well as Great
Britain, could hold great empires under
subjection, and hold them in safety. Ot
all the governments that ever existed,
England is possessed of the greatest
power of expansion, withou# reducing
her people to anarchy, or Iter officials
to corruption. This was, in part, be
cause the executive branch of the
government, and the conservative, the
House of lenb, were hereditary.
Rome never bad such a capacity tor
expulsion. When the Roman empire
extended east and west beyond the
barriers of Italy, the central power be
gan to weaken, and soon it became
corrupt, and anarchy and violence were
the order of the day. Yet, England
had been going on in the extension
of her dominions, without any visible
symptoms of decay. Yet she could
not long escape. She is even, now
paying tbe penalty; she is saying a
penalty for her two hundred millions
of dependants; which, like dispropor
tionate superincumbent we ghf, threat
ens to crush the foundation* of tbe
superstructure. Yes, sir, instead of
indemnity from her conquests, they are
a burden to her; and even neighboring
Ireland has taxed her resources for its
support, and rim labor of her people,
almost beyond their newer to bear
Shall we go on and follow tins example
for territorial indemnities for the ex
pense of oor wars? Lot us now con
sider tbe incorporation of Mexico inti
Uns Union. There are twenty state;
m MRrieo; tbeae we should have firs
to initiate u territories. Tbe (over
the magistrates, the justices
wmM aft bare to be appointed by tla
B*mmi** m m our own territories
ssade up of our own people, or from th

M
StlfieUW* fiuhAfagk L. %MT
w&TWIWm*. muCv vNi OWPPWVBS* sV
kara, k tto fal fornraticw of m gov
glad of it; but when tboy mck
tke age of twenty-one; whan they
oatm to years of maturity, they come
among u u our equals, mod ia all
respects the setae. Not so with Mex
ico. You may eaU it aMStka; bat
it will be a forced annexation. You
wifi be compelled, whatever form of
government you may establish, to hoM
tt aa a province, and it will be but a
provincial government at iast.J
How long wifi yon have to bold it in
subjection, before it is reduced to obe
dience; before it ia aa truth and in cha
er IP** this confederacy It
*fl> »«k« l»H tin*. England bas
held Ireland for some several hundred
years past, and still they are a hostile
people. Canada has been in the pos
session of the British government for
oae hundred yearn past, and still the
Canadians are a hostile people. Never
will the time come, from all examples,
when Mexico will agres to be blended
with the laws and people of this Union.
The nucleus of her ruling population
are from the old stock; equal in every
sense to the original Anglo-Saxon, and
superior to it m that unconquerable
attachment to their sot) and their own
institutions. But' let us admit that all
these difficulties are removed, how will
it affect us to introduce some twenty
foreign States into the Union, with a
basis of one or two millions of pure
blood, and all the rest, —some seven
or eight millions, —Indians or mixed
races, inferior in every respect to our
Choctaws or Cherokees We are
under a great mistake, if we suppose
all this population are ready for our
peculiar institutions. I beard a gen
tleman of high character say, but the
other day, that he believed it was our
appointed mission to extend our insti
tutions of civil and religious freedom
over the benighted of this continent.
This is a. great mistake. Our institu
tions are only adapted to a people ad
vanced in intelligence and civilization
and it was remarkable that in all the
revolution of nations, the people had
been more indebted for any advantages
'hey had secured in their forms of
government, more to accident, or a
combination of circumstances, than to
my foretaste or previous decision of
:he human mind. We are indebted for
our constitution more to a conjunction
of circumstances, than to the superior
wisdom and intelligence of our foie
fathers; and herein lies our danger—
that a conjunction OfeircMrgitanccs to
which we may be mdiffrffwrTar the
time, may overthrow our institutions.
VVe seem to have no fear of their sta
bility; the preservation of our liberty
is now lost in the glory of our arms.
Nobody talks now of the blessings of
liberty. In our early history the great
inxiety was to retain our liberty. Now,
he great anxiety is to convince the
world of our military power. The
notto used to be, that the power was
always stealing from the many to the
few, and that the price of liberty was
perpetual vigilaoce. Now, we seem to
remember these maxims not at all; but
he opinion appears to be, that we hold
sur liberty by a divine right. I fear
hat if we do not be vigilant, we shall
find this to be the greatest mistake ol
fcl!; and it is a great mistake to sup
pose that it is our divine mission to
:nrry the principles of our liberty, by
force of arms, over this continent' and
that nothing can affect our security. If
we persist in this delusion, the day oi
retribution will come, and ft will bring
with it destructive consequences, as
mre as I am now addressing this Ame
rican Senate. I am, therefore, op
posed to the policy of holding Mexico
j*y right of conquest, and of annexing
it, either as a province, or territories,
or states of this government. But
what are wc to do? A Her speaking ol
his efforts to arrest the war and its
consequences, Mr. Calhoun said, be
saw not the smallest chance of disen
tangling ourselves, save in the defen
sive line; by taking, in this way, the
decision and indemnhy into our own
bauds. Had lime been allowed, when
the President sent in his message de
claring a Mate of war, Mr. Calhoun
said he should have vindicated a plan
to be pursued. He would have re
lieved Gen. Taylor; he would have
had a committee to inquire and report
un the relations between us and Mexico,
showing that as yet there was no actual
state of war. Had that failed of in
due ing negotiations, ha would have
held the territories on this side of the
Rio Grande, and muiuirancd his posi
tion on the boundary winch it might
have been deemed proper to claim,
which would embrace lands of so me
value to us, and of no use Ife Mexico.;
But he bad been overrated. Where
the defensive fine shook! now be, he
had no opinion now to give, He was,
not now prepared to say where we
could designate the best line; but he
would say, that we should evacuate
the central provinces.
Mr, tUvxaov Jenxsew. What's
that, Mr. Calhouc, we should eva
cuate
Mr. Csutocx.—We should evacuate
th# central parts of the states now
occupied, and call back the troops to
a derated boundary, receiving sufficient
territory for aK proper iadrmni*iee, the
final derision to he subject to negoeia
ties, as> well as the expenees of the
*er. It asay take years to secure i
fM§Jfofs&m dMemMa nng|m nglwMg Ittfidl dMfofi
greet point ahull he gasaed—we aha!
disentangle ourselves. We ere nee
tied to a dead corpse, sad we shook
disentangle ourselves from it as sow
as possible. If we should only hi
kept quiet, and pursue our «ru«
international policy with masterly in
activity, end wait the day for ewr de#
v
r>Kk tin****.
WHOLE NO. 11l
liny,we shall do better then to Mia
‘jrtrSJ^arSts
jjrwige or peculiar a pen the Semite,
they must attribute it to the ~r“tiinM
of thirty-five years ago. Thfowaa oot
the first tune he had opposed the policy
•t war. In the case of the proposed
reprisal epos France, he had rtood
thnost alone in the Senate to resist it
He was utterly opposed to it Ena-
Mod was utterly apposed to it. Eng
land had interfered, and no war to2k
place. Ha admonished hie friends V
the administration that there might bn
•ome conlingenOMs te come, which
they did not see—something an the vi
gorous central prosecution of this war.
from year to year, which would seal
the deaih-warrhnt of our beloved insti
tutions; and yet the party appeared to
be reversing the order of their doc
trines; they were opposed to the na
tional debt; and the prosecution of this
war was hourly adding to the national
debt. The expenses of this campaign
would be foundn equal to the expenses
of the revolution. They were opposed
to an increase of the patronage of the
executive government; yet what could
so rapidly increase it as the policy now
pursued? They were in favor of a
pure metallic currency, yet did we not
all know, that our treasury notes and
paper dock were becoming more
more the staple of our country They
were in favor orfree trade, yet the war
thus sought to be prosecuted has al
ready rendered it impossible to make
any progress in free trade for many
years to come.
Hie alternative is pressing. It in
magnanimous to retrace your steps
when you are in error; it is an act of
reason to sacrifice your mere pride for
the good of the country. In saying
that there is no alternative between
this defensive line of policy and that of
the President, I say so, because public
opinion is made up, and there can bo
no peace with Mexico, short of an
acquisition of territory. Mr. CaJhoun
only spoke to his friends on the whig
side of the House, and bore testimony
that though they had voted for the war,
which he had opposed, they had dene it
under promise, and for the relief of
Gen. Taylor; but they had voted to
get territory at the last session; and at
this session, when the public sentiment
was made up, the only way for safety
wow was, the defensive, and it must ha
adopted this session, er wa shall
WjlK&Sg*£
worse. He would propose nothing now;
but if he found that he should be sup
ported in these views, lie shouftf yet,
perhaps, move for a committee to con
fer with the distinguished generals now
in town, on the proper and best line to
be adopted. It may not be this year?
it may not be for many years; but wa
shall secure a peace; we shall secure
the great object of disentangling our
selves.
Mr. Calhoun having concluded, on
motion of Mr. Sevier, the resolution*
were then laid on the table', to be taken
up again after the bill to increase the
army has been disposed of.
THE BERATE.
Tar following is an extract Cron t letter
frem the Albany Patriot* Washington come*
pondaiit:
Ihe Senate has changed faces g
good deal in two ycara. A number of
the old fritlan arc there yet, though
somewhat crumbling. Mr. Calhonir
grown old—irretrievably so. He was
formerly erect as a May-pole—his hair
brushed up, sh »rt and stiff, gave him,
with the penetrating glance of hie eye,
the air of authority and command. His
hair is now allowed to hang flabby and
flax-like upon his his lace is
thiu and sharp as a w cdgJrf’sJii* spare
and shadowy trunk stoops and curves
at an angle of shout Ibrty-five. He
looks like the forlornert Prime Mfofcfrr
of all Christendom! Certainly the care
of the Palmetto State is sport his arm;
and that, to him, is ail the world! Poor
wen! When Clay and Calhoun are
gone, they have no successors m their
exact position; no heir apparent to their
pernicious influence. As things have
gone the last century, what they call
statesmanship has been the direst corse
of mankind. The less we have of
statesman craft, the better for tho
world. lid us try to educate, tinder
happier influences, and a better disci
pline, the budding mind tbit is soon to
rule the destinies of the world. Party
traffic and government barter hava
made sad havoc with public and pri
vate morals, m they have with the
weightiest interests of society. The
mock dignity and sok-uui viJJames of
our Senate stand in most deplorable
gioiitrasi with the clear-sightedness,
nigh-<oo«d integrity and devotion to
truth and duty that ought to character'
tte its uctieik in the inflexible maintain
eaee of justice, and is vindicating the
claim* of universal human nature. 1
will tell you more about the Senate at
another time.
A word now oh another subject,
The infernal deeds of tyranny m ‘be
form of ebtttelhood are still perpetrated
here with sufficient enormity and grim
I neea, one would think, to dtagurt and
put to shame the “outride barbariane"
.themselves. If we aum* mnamtm
virtue end meefinree enougls among
our people to eieanae thie Dutiifl from
the foul prectioee of oppression, naturs
is likely to take the work into her own
hands St last. She Works on a double
scale. The aspirations of freedom hava
started a Wrong tide of emigration
jjforlhward, and the issttgsrica* of
avarice and deviltry have forced an
other Southward! Betwfoaa the twe
v in.
•trange processes, ilawry
certain to H* dime**"
•inns at a pretty rapid rate aitbm Ibis
national enclosure. It is estimate
that not less than four hundred
rants” hare been said from the Pts*
trict—mostlv, of cowee, from the cities
of Washington und fieorgetown—
last reason; say within el ff ta
months. U is also
that number hare (•lira** uv
the tefatey pnocifl*. ««l
North m pursuit
Cif course this double business will go
w?t£X*e or less briskness till the
»lavc fabric here melU away, and its
place is supplied by the “industry of
freedom.” What an infamy upon the
nation! How foul a reproach upon a
people, themselves shielded by the pan*
olpy of free institutions! A sorrowful
young man just came to me for assist
•nee. A girl at the age of eighteen,
of his acquaintance, and brought op a
neighbor to him, and whom, 1 ceyw*
fare, he sincerely and ardently fore*,
has been sold, and is now in the pen.
Her matter disposed of her, because
her brother, some weeks since, made
his escape, and he did not know how
contagious the love of liberty in the
family might prove! -The slave trader
will take five hundred dollars for her,
if her friends can make the purchase.
Of strangers, he would demand consid
erably more than that sum!
My pen was stopped at the close of
the last sentence for the recital of an
other tale, and to hear the claims ol
other victims urged. A man was yes
terday told bv a white brother in his
church—the Methodist—that his family
were sold—-a wife and four children;
and that if he could do it, he had better
provide for their safety at once, before
the tmder could come for them! He
has secreted them for the time. What
•ball be done next? He, himself, poor
fellow, is the property of another per
son! How shall the rescue of that
family from the hands of gamblers in
human sinews, be effected The
whole North would lend boats, coaches
or horses, but rotes—the mightiest ol
all powers in this republic—they have
not the honesty or the independence tc
lend or give! I shall have occasion tc
refer to these cases again, perhaps. Il
is now time to finish these paragraphs.
For news, matters are rather dull just
now. After the holidays,” we shall
move faster, and I’ll tell you heaps
of gossip. Yours, ever,
HONEOYE.
THE NORTH STAR,
ROCHESTER, JANUARY 14, 1848.
JOII* C. CALIIOL*.
This bold senatorial defender ef slavery,
and faithful sentinel upon its bloody ramparts,
ever vigilant* unwearied, and undeviating in
his devotion to the American slave system,
has recently betrayed his fears in the senate,
as to the effect which the present false, foul,
and infernal war, waged against Mexico, will
have upon what he terms the peculiar insti
tutions” of our republican government. In
the speech before us, and which may be found
ii the first page of out present number, he
stoutly opposes the further prosecution of the
war, with its present aims and designs;
counsels the withdrawal of our army to a line
which he does not designate scouts the idea
of taking inhabited and cultivated lands as in
demnity from Mexico; explains the motives
which led him to propose peace resolutions
last winter; demonstrates the absurdity ol
that miserable pretence of “conquering a
peace shows that the more victories gained
the more difficulties wc shall find in making
peace; shows, also, that we have been de
tected by our owa success; argues the im
possibility ef a free government springing up
under the care of a conquering nation argues
the inferiority of the Mexican people; depre
cates with much apparent solemnity the ex
tinction of the Mexican government; and
thinks the incorporation of her people with
those of the United States, would be a death
blow to our free institutions.”
In reading this speech, the question natur
ally arises, What has given this new and
singular shape to his policy? What terrible
signs in the firmament, moral and political,
has this prophet of tyranny discovered Why
docs he abandon, or seem to abandon his
notions of extending slavery m Mexico?
From whence come those gloomy apprehen
sions which he so eloquently sets forth in the
Senate? Happily for us, we neeu not long
remain'in doubt. A little reflection supplies
the required information. Mr. Calhoun is a
slaveholder. Slaveholding has been for years
the very sun of his political system. Not a
measure has been proposed or adopted by
by him, but has lieen thoroughly examined in
the red light of slavery. In this light he re
gards men as well as measures. It is his great
test of character. Unite with him in this, and
bo will forget all other differences; differ
from limn in this, and he forgets and repu
diates all other points of agreement. Ha
regards Slawuy as the very corner-stone of
our republican institutions,” —as the most
safe and stable basis of free institutions in the
world and so far from being in any sense
an evil, he considers it a positive good. He
speaks as coolly about a man 1* fetters as
he would of a horse in harness. The con
dit.on of the former is to his mind as pro
per as that of the latter. His iron heart is
yet to throb the first time in pity for the
heart-broken slave; and his lips have yet to
confess the first sting of a guilty conscience.
What Mr. Calhoun has been, we may well
presume he now is; and on the truth of this
presumption will depend the correctness of
the solution of hie motives for opposing the
war and abandoning his system of slavery
propagan Jism- He etthet sees or apprehends
danger to slavery, in the prosecution of the
war, and the consequent Meeting out of the
Mexican republic He begins to nee, that to
subjugate, and fasten slavery upon a people
and territory already free, is a move altoge
ther too bold, and one that must only react
tg ibu his darling institution. For once,
tin.* brass-browed manetealer seems cheeked
in his nefarious designs, by the well-expressed
opinions of foreign cations. For aoee ho
makes a pause, to learn what the world think
of his diabolical movements and when he
hears the adverse report, like the whiskered
pirate who prowls along jhe African const,
when pursued, be counsels his infernal crew
pi foy low/V-ahide their time. Such is
Mr. CiflwWb p«B®f* wm
b k
L. af«—ehi— i*. He wwtd
f**7' ■**"‘T* v "J.,.
util «W «Moo has opened
tjM, et« of Diuan upon as; he would hill
than M deep with songs of penes, that he
to ha done openly. He srafciun in hi eom*
peetoian the boMneaa of (he lion and the
canning of the fox; and as he grows old, the
latter quality prodoounateo. The thne wan
when he was boldest among the bold; when
defying aO reposition, he boldly .marched
aneeremookMnly to his object. But age has
■net supply the place of atnngtlu Bat we
wars him sad hia eompaniona is crime, that
nvai them their otwngth shall be broken,
their owning confounded, and their whip
seared vietims roleaaed from their chain. God
•peed the day!
TliiuJlD OF LUBBKTY.
Tan is the title of a very accurate pirtete
of oar glorious country,” by that distin
guished artiat, phiioonpher, and refomrr.
Pvmth. Of all the intelligent and distin
guished persons whom we had the honor to
meet is Loodoa, none teemed to possess
more complete information respecting out
peculiar iasutstkms,” than this same Mr.
Punch; and we may do him the justice to
say, that few make better use of their know
ledge than he. It is not now, however, our
purpose to draw a picture of Mr. Punch, but
to give our readers some idea of the picture
he draws erf the present aspect of our glo
rious country.”
As might be expected, the artist has be
stowed the greatest amount of labor and skill
on slavery, that most prominent feature of the
American face, to which the people, old and
young—priest and politician, bow with the
utmost reverence and admiration. The slave
holder is drawn to the life. His person
stretched out on two chairs, resting his right
leg over the back of one, and his left on the
head of a prostrait bust of Washington.
Around his person is a belt of arms, contain
ing a bowie knife and a seven-barrel revolving
pistol. Under bis arm is a knotted cat-o’-
nire tails.” On the left of him is a chest,
upon which are papers labelled, Texas—Ore
gon—Dollars. Behind, is a woman half
naked, tied to a whipping-post. In front of
him is a group of slaves and slave-drivers.
Prominent in the group are two female slaves
kneeling with their hands closely tied behind
their backs. One driver is in the act of
dogging a woman; another, with a look of
Satanic indifference, is branding a kneeling
woman on the back with a hot iron,—the
smoke of her broiling flesh and blood rising
from the wound. Off in the distance is a
coffle of slaves driven by two while men, with
long-lashed whips. They seem to have just
landed from an American slave-ship. Above
this scene is floating our star-spangled ban
ner, fused upon a lofty staff, crowned with a
capacious liberty cap. On the right of the
flag is a representation of Lynch law—a mob
in the act of hanging a negro. On the left is
a picture of repudiation, illustrated by a well
drawn American in the act of stealing the
I handkerchief of an Englishman. Above this
scene are two pictures representing our duel
ling practices. Still further on, we have the
war with Mexico; stabbing, shooting, hang
ing, robbing churches, —bayonets, swords,
guns, cannons, bombs, —all enveloped in fire
and smoke. And above all this horrid con
fusion of blood and slaughter, is a terrific
picture of Satan brooding over the whole
scene with a grin of infernal satisfaction.
Now, what a picture is this to be looked
upon abroad! and what American has the
folly or audacity to deny its truthfulness! At
the hazard of making many enemies, and
losing some friends, we extend our heartfelt
thanks to Punch for the picture, and beg him,
in the name of three millions of our enslaved
brethren, to continue to notice]us, in his world
read journal. It is not impossible that we
may wring from a sense of shame what we
have been unable to gain from American
sense of justice.
COLORED NATIONAL PRES*.
Wi have waited patiently for a full official
report of the doings of the National Conven
tion of colored people and their friends, held
in Troy, New York, in the month nf October,
1847. Why such a report has not reached
us we cannot divine. We think, as a mem
ber of that convention, we were entitled to a
copy of the report, and we would' respect
fully suggest to those into whose hands was
committed the publication of those Minutes,
that promptitude is essential to the confidence
which is necessary to carrying forward a great
cause like that in which we are engaged.
We trust that no unwonhy motive has with
held from us tlioee proceedings; but would
like to know the cause. Perhaps Mr. Garnet
can explain.
In the absence of a full report we Itave
copied from an imperfect copy of Minutes,
furnished us by our friend, W. C. Nell, the
report adopted with reference to establish
ing a National Press. Upon this report we
wish now to say a few words.
It wss our good or ill fortune to oppose the
adoption of this report, in the Convention;
and there, as in the unperfect minutes before
us, our motives for opposing the report were
indirectly set down to selfishness; and we
doubt not, that such person* as are to
appreciate manly independence, mill set down
what we are now about to say, to the same
unworthy motive; but we shall «pt»ak out
scutimenta, nevertheless, conscious that in m
doing we are discharging a duty solemnly
imposed by the high responsibflity of out
position.
The report adopted by the Convention seta
forth the desirableness of there being a pop*
iug press under the entire control af colored
persons in this country. Here we agree will)
the report. To prove such necessity no args
ment need be urged. Our condition, as si
oppressed and injured people, proclaims it;
and »is with the view of securing dus —4-
fei press, that we oppose the doubtful n
prepared m the report. We assert, sad the
pram sf this country hns proclaimed the Cm
foam- sue- end of the knd to the other, feu
andi sr press now exists; foat, for the firs)
time ai fee western eontmeat, there is s press
under the entire control and directum o<
colored persons. We have, indeed, had
(wjmmemdtMtod by mM pereoaajtotjre
ton* m med to «h» country Restored
pMioM. Wcamke w» merit of this; forth*
wdh briny art to m* bos to the gMMfww
fttewb in. the oid wU, who, aedaf mt
destitution owl dHSeahiee, kindly ewa h ow
wwstanee. mi gwee he the means of
mg oor eotehlwhuoent Thnmgh them, the
adored people of this eoontry w* h»w
prinaag pram aad a weekly periodical de»l>-
eatod to ihcv cause, and devoted to their
Now, the question hs shall we faithfully
use the one we have, or shall we neglect to
aae it, and go in search of another Which
of the two eonzaea seems moat in harmony
with common mnoe? The report ptosdea
far a foreign agent to collect money, who
shall have for his services thirty cents on
every dollar which be may collect. By this
we understand that as agent is about to be
seat to England to solicit money for the esta
blishment in question. Bui we respectfiifly
ash the advocates of this measure, What
answer their agent can make, when the qsew
tioo is asked him abroad, What have you
done wtth the prvm which we hate already
given youf la it worn out in the service, or
does it now exist f Is it supported, or has it
been neglected and allowed to languish, for
the want of the support and countenance of
the very parsons who are now engaged in
soliciting another?” And may h not be very
properly said to such agent, You may ask
for another, with much greater probability of
success, when you have shown a disposition
to use the instrument already in your bands.
But to all this it may be answered, We not
only want a press, but a National Press.”
And pray, what is the difference between a
press and a national press and why is the
one to be preferred before the other? The
report informs us, that we need such a press
“to tell the world of our position in the path of
human progress.” And is it necessary that a
press should be called National,” in order
to tell the world of our position in the path
of human progress a We think that that press,
call it by what name you please,—Mystery,
Ram’shorn, Northern Star, or North Star,
best sustained, most ably conducted, and
thoroughly devoted to the rights and liberties
of our enslaved and oppressed fellow-country
men, will be the colored national press of this
country, in every essential sense of the word.
And we therefore say to our brethren, Use
and support the papers you already have; for
it is not impossible, that by catching at the
shadow you may lose the substance. You
have several newspapers. They are all call
ing upon you loudly for support: help them,
rather than seek for others. If they are not
what they ought to be, your support may
make them such. We therefore call upon
the Smiths, the Crummells, the Reasons,
the Zuilles, Beamans, Garnetts, Topps,
ana Penningtons, and all others who wish
well to our sacred cause, to unite in sustain
ing the colored periodicals already in exist
ence. We are happy to know that the two
gentlemen last named are already interested
in sustaining the North Star and we hope
others will follow their noble example.
Come, brethren, let us one and all lay aside
party differences and sectarian preferences,and
rally around the Star that never sets,'except
to those who go to the slavery cursed regions of
the south and a glorious victory over cruelty
and oppression will certainly crown our right
eous endeavors.
fn*On the’outside of this week’s paper
will be found a declaration proclaiming the
republic of Liberia independent of the Ame
rican Colonization Society. Thf document
shows the determination of the colonists to
occupy a highly commendable position among
the nations of the earth. We have no sym
pathy with the motives which induced the
purchase of the colony; and we have little
with the despondency that drove our brethren
from our shores. The bitter fruits of their
yielding to the infernal spirit of expatriation
in the first place is now in full bloom with us.
Fifty thousand of our fellow courtrymen, now
nominally free, in the State of Virginia, are
i on the point of being driven from their hearths
j and homes before the bayonets of these same
American Christians; which, had we resisted
in the first instance, might have forever pre
vented anything like this last effort to colo
-1 nize us.
We must feci this land to be our home,
and make our white fellow countrymen feel
the same. If we fail in this, mu case is
hopeless; but in this we cannot foil.
<#MMf SI I f A TlO AS.
For the North Star.
LECTURING AGENTS.
The toils and trials of those v ho go forth
through the length and breadth of this mis
named land of freedom to do strong battle with
the foul fiend, slavery, that, like the sorcerers
I of olden time, has thrown a spell over the
i people, are, I fear, known and duly appreci
ated by but few. It is no slight thing to lay
aside the many pleasures of home, and assume
a life almost like that of the nonuadk Tartar;
become a constant traveler from piaee to
place, and lace, by day snd by night, the
fierce blasts of the wintry tempests, or toil
on, beneath the burning sun of mid-summer,
toward some distant point, that must be
reached by a fixed time. These are, how
ever, only physical trials: a strong frame and
a stout heart will bid them defiance, although
they will, in time, do their work, even oa the
man of iron constitution.
Bu\, do aver abolitionists think of the life
of constant warfare which the anti-siavtry
lecturer leads! He must be armed, not with
the cumbrous and glittering psnolpy of the
soldier in carnal warfare, hut with weapons
1 which it wearies the stoutest champion always
to bear. The sword of truth must he ever
ready, and, like the knight of old, when enter
ing a conflict from which there could ha no
retreat, and m which powerful foes were long
to be struggled with, its scabbard may wefl
be thrown aside ae useless. The shield of
faith mast he earned; the breast-piste of
righteousness mast he buckled on; and,
though he may be shod, tike an olden apostle,
with the preparation of the gospel of pence, it
is not until the foe has hem smitten t» the
very heart, and lies prostrate at bin fast, that
he can dearly discern, in the glittering san
dals, emblems of the fact, that am must he
vanquished me true pram can he gained.
wfli»
«r Ibe pofhfcaa; and the sophfrtry and art at
the pretended patriot, mat be met and re
ntal. And hat, though mi famt, the ctdd
oaa tad sullen, or aetw* oppo*** which
often drives Urn, after a leaf mi weariaow
effort, Croat the ckaed doom of the church, «r
the hapa— Ms porta* of the popular hall, to
in which Is plead the gospel af freedom to a
feta who mar ha lad, fro* ifle cwrkmkr, or
loro to the caoae, to eeaae together. Not
that swrh a hie law ao oampemmkm; for, B
such were my purpose, I Bright tett of the
communing! with the noble «nee of earth;
The blr—iaga of die poor aw! needy; and the
strong frith that God pad right must triumph.
But the great object of writing these few
words is, to call to the mind of every anti
slavery man and woman, in city, town, or
country, the fret, that when the lecturer
creases their path, or comes beneath their
_roof, they can 4m much, eery mnuk, to make
hia way easy, and inspire him with cheerful i
courage, by giving him a cordial welcome,’
expressing their earnest and warm sympathy, j
and especially by showing their frith by
tcorks, and making every effort to open the
doors of the most frequented public places,
and extending notice which will insure a good
audience. 1 write hot thus because I deem
abolition ists dfehcigß in warmth or hospital
ity far from it; for my own heart has often
been cheered by the homelike welcome and
active aid of lovers of out great cause; but
simply to stir up the pure mind by way
i of remembrance,” so that they may do all in
i their power to strengthen the hearts of those
i whose place is ever in the front of battle.
G. B. S.
For the North Star.
DENUNCIATION.
Although an Abolitionist, in the strictest
sense of the word, yet, I do not believe in,
nor recognize, wholesale denunciation,” as
calculated to advance the righteous cause nr
ameliorate the wretched condition of suffering
and oppressed humanity.
It seems too much akin to the fierce, north
wind of icy winter, congealing with its chill
ing breath, the exhausted sympathies of
earth's vexed and wearied traveler; forcing
him, in his extremity, to wrap his fur-erabos
sed habiliments more closely about him, and
rush on with a reckless determination to stem
the fitful winds and currents that oppose his
onward, and, to him, justifiable course. Too
well does it compare with the destructive
winds that sweep o’er Sahara’s arid bosom,
rearing its sand-clouds of indignation, and
burying in its direful course every oasis of
sympathy in the breast of humanity.
But forbearance sometimes, it is said,
ceases to be a virtue yet a resort to denunci
ation, which is but the pretext for a resort
to force in very many instances, is a greater
evil. Oft times, as the tala of wrong and out
rage committed against helpless innocence is
iterated in my hearing, a spirit of indignation,
ere I am aware, arises, and I am led to ex
claim
Could I but grasp the forked lightning’s spear,
Aud thrust it deep into the guilty heart
Of him who 4m his fellow thus outrage,
’Twould do him justice. The impious wretch
That lire* beneath the vertic rays of light,
And having eyes, sees not his brodier’s right
To life :»nd liberty, and happiness;
And him deprives of these by brutal force.
Than this, severer punishment deserves.
And lie that aids or wilfully abets,
By priestly cant or lying tongue, this vile
And God-provoking sin of slavery,
Deserves perdition’s deepest, darkest plunge.”
But this, I am reminded, is but casting out
Satan by the prince of devilsand the rising
whirlwind of which the fostering
of such a spirit conjures up in the mind, is
checked and subdued by the words of Him.
w hose melting accents fell upon the ear of
man as dews
Upon the leaflets of the Tree of Life,”
and who only resorted to denunciation when
the destiny of Jerusalem and her children was
irrevocably sealed, and their destruction inev
itable.
Hew much more effectual and how omnip
otent is truth clad in its srtasive attire, let
Luther, Melancthon and others—Wesley and
coadjutors—Wilberforce, Hawkins and asso
ciates, attest. It is to the stolid minds of

men what the south wind and the sun from
Capricorn to Cancer wheeling back” is to the
thick-ribbed, icy mountains of the polar re
gions. It subdues and brings to its supernal
j influence implicit subjection; warns man of
his weakness and insufficiency; begets the
most kindly feeling, even towards enemies,
and counsels to dependence on the arm that
moves the universe, and, instead of denuncia
tion, when there is a prospect of reform, it
prompts, the humble petition:
Thou God of truth, in mercy grant that light
Hay pierce die enror-shrouded minds of men,
As barbed spears the hearts of them who fell
A sacrifice in war’s tmboiy strife:
That man no more oppress, nor brutalize,
Nor w rong his fellow man; but feel his woe.
And low estate, and haste to his relief.
And pom- into his wounds, that long have Ued,
The healing oil of mutual sympathy;
And aid, and love, that each from other needs,
AmA a ll demand, as Nature’s God ordains.”
T. P. R.
fltltct Falls, Jams try 2,1818.
For the North Sow
“THE BURNED
Tbs shore is the title of a thrilling tad
affecting story which I read tome months.
mate in the Saturday Courier, mid to be;
founded on fact, the substance of which is as:
follows:
The captain of as American ressel engaged
in the cotton trade, hearing of the mddea
advance in the price of that article in Great
Britain, immediately purchased an extensive;
cargo, and set sad. Having kmg and ardently
cherished the idea of one day becoming
rich,” and knowing that in view of the ex
trusive rise of eotton, if he could but reach
that port before others, his golden dreams of
wealth would he realised, be resolved that
nothing should turn him from his purpose,
and aB his thoughts were now heat os the ac
complishment of this one object.
The third or fourth night they had been out
at sea, a great light was descried at a distance,
which men proved to be a ship «a foe. A
little nearer approach gave him and his crew
and brought than within hearing of the cries
and shrieks at terror,. and the rear of the sig
nal guns from the burning reml, which lay
somewhat off dm Arrctmi they were pursu
ing. They men inmed that the fire had
made great inroads on dm ship, sod beheld
die passenger* and crew standing an the far*
ward deck, the dames at times almost curin g
round them. As soon as they discovered the
approaching vowel, they aft simuhanfw sly
held ap their hands and gave one long’ and
thrilling shout of joy, which rang out on the
night winds and ak>ng the billows of the deep.
They were about to be rescued!—those fath
ers, mothers, tasters, brothers and lovers—
from a doom so unspeakably terrible; and
thoughts of home and friends in distant lands,
from whom, a moment before, they expected
to be torn forever, now filled their hearts, as
they stood, embracing each other, nearly
frantic with joy! During this tune there was
a straggle going on in Ihe mind of the cotton
trading captain. The Inst for gold*’ haunted
him. He seemed influenced by a spirit of
infatuation, in that dreadful emergency be
hesitated. The delay of a few hours, or
moments, might be sufficiently long for other
vess.ls to pass, and then his fortune was lost.
What should he do f A moment more, and
the love of gold triumphed; and he ordered
his crew, who were as hardened as he, to
paw onward. Those on the burning ship,
not dreaming that he was going to pass, and
leave them thus to perish, stood gazing im
pressed with the thought that the vessel was
only rounding to,” until it had passed some
distance beyond them; and still they could
not believe it, though doubt and uncertainty,
and dismal foreboding now began to agitate
their hearts, as they gazed yearningly on the
receding vessel; and, at length, when the
terrible reality forced itself upon their minds,
such a wail of agony and despair as went up
from those poor beings, no mortal ear ever
before heard. It seemed to pierce the very
heavens, and rung on the eaT of the unnatural
and icy-hearted captain with a terrific power.
Their joy was turned to agony; their hope to
despair. The flames rotted on;” the wild
winds howled; and old ocean's “bounding
billows and foamy surges beat around the
burning ship, no more, nor less, unpitying
than the human monster who refused, for the
sake of gold, to reach forth his hand to save.
And he passed on, —reached the port in due
time—and realized a vast fortune. He re
turned to this country, and lived in splendoi
and affluence: but that dread shriek evei
haunted him. Amidst all his wealth, he wai
wretched, which was remarked by his friends
to whom, after many years, he revealed th#
awful circumstance.
So dark and terrible a picture of the humai
character seems unnatural and incredible. W<
can scarcely believe that any human being
could have the inhumanity and heartlessnesi
to do so base, cruel and hard-hearted a deet
—so revolting and shocking to all our bette
feelings—a deed which seems to stand with
out a parallel in the annals of infamy am
crime But is it so Is it more inhuman b
be a passive agent in the destruction of ou
fellow beings, than an active one Is it \vors<
to suffer them to perish, where we could sav<
them, than to go forth with sword in ham
and slaughter them? Is not this nation en
gaged in a work little less inhuman and dread'
i ful Does it hot stand passively and indiffer
ently by on the one hand, while thousands
are perishing by its peculiar institutions?’
and is it not actively engaged, on the othei
hand, in the destruction of fellow beings by
slavery, and by a war which riots in th<
slaughter of Mexican fathers and mothers
and their beautiful daughters and under pre
texts and excuses more paltry and unreason
able, if possible? And yet, agonizing as ii
the thought, these rapacious and horribk
doings receive the sanction and support o
those who set themselves up as the religioui
instructors and teachers of mankind —Rev-
erend Clergymen and Doctors of Divinity
This awful deed, when done under circum
stances a little different —when legalized am
sanctified —becomes popular and praise
worthy; winning for the actor the title oi
hero and patriot. Do not such men mon
nearly resemble, or partake of the nature o
wild beasts, or blood-snuffing vultures? An<
viewed in the light of a better philosophy
and a purer Christianity—when mind shal
have expanded and developed, will they no
be so regarded Then a truer apprceiatioi
i of things as they really are, will be had, ant
the glaring and fatal inconsistencies and in
congruities which now prevail, will be seei
and acknowledged, and practical works, ful
of blessedness, and wisdom and peace, wil
follow.
MILD A. TOWNSEND.
New Brighton, Pa., Dec. 26, 1847.
For die North Star.
RELIGIOUS EQUALITY.
There is no equality like that of religion
Not that of laws, the most clear and inviol
able; for human nature is fallible, and tin
most conscientious judge may, through igno
ranee, pass an unrighteous sentence. No
that of birth; for while some are sapplie*
with all that is conducive to the grow th am
development both of body and mind, other
are left to grow up like the neglected weed
without culture, and with scanty nourishment
subject to every privation and every hardship
Not that of life; for while some posses
every means of a pleasurable bodily and men
tal existence—free in thought, free in action
—others are the victims of a detestable, hea
ven-insuhing system of slavery, which de
bases the tbs intellect, unman
and deteriorates the whole bring. Not tha
of death; for while to some the coming o
the last enemy is delayed by the skill of th
physician and the healing virtues of medteiae
others foil bis early proy by the effects o
protracted toil and accumulated suffering
But religion is liable to no such partialities
The wonders of creation are above, beneath
and around ns. If we look op into the fir
moment, we behold it peopled with a thou
mad worlds, which forever proclaim the wi*
6om and majesty of their Creator. If w<
look around, we see beneficence every* her
displayed in the beauties of the primrose, th
carnation, and the dahlia, which delight th
eye, and perfume the air with their fragrance
and the notea of aatue’a warblers poor upo
the aar thahr awoet aonga of happiness, thrill
teg in aaeh bosom tike s delightful dream c
paradise. And the beautifully drrersifie
landscape the waving trees, the groan fieldi
and the winding stream—the tain mi th
j|
morning de#r, the ire mi tfee matt— we all
Induced by the tans sncontislled, ftw.onv
Srpreseat goodness. After «mrfi»g even
for m these wnrta rf his Creator,
shat sori man*» there th* doe# not ex
pand in gratitude and praise, and is ready to
Hirst forth, ar.tb die Hebrew pset, into one
jf those most beautiful songs, which are at
the same time the ray itoui of poetry and the
fseence elf adoration O ye frost and snow,
tries# ye the Lord; praise ye his name far
wer and ever Oye ice and cold, bless ye
the Lord, praise ye his name forever and
erer! Praise yc him, alt his angels; praise
ye him, all hosts; mountains and ml! hilts,
fruitful trees and all cedars; kings of the
earth, and all people, princes and all judges
of the earth. Let them praise the name of
the Lord, for his name alone is excellent; his
glory is above the earth awl heaven.”
Such is ths equality of religion. It is not
restricted to particular creeds, nor i» it the
peculiar privilege of any denomination. It is
free as the air we breathe it is extended as
the universe. It is the charter of our nature,
and forms a part of our very existence. It is
alike the privilege of the king and the beggar
—the prince and the peasant—the learned
and the ignorant. It is the inheritance of all
God's children—the inalienable birthright of
til bis intelligent creatures. —j d.
For ths North s***•
GLOOMY 'hIROIOCIAXS.
There is a class of person# with whom I
have no sympathy as they seem to have
none with the world around them. They can
sec no beauty in this world of ours, —no har
mony in the works of nature, —nothing praise
worthy in the works of art; and, apparently
afraid that Job's remark, Man is bom to
trouble as the sparks fly upward,” should
occasionally prove untrue, seem desirous of
increasing the curse of sin, by removing every
rational means of enjoyment; and of aug
menting man’s causes of sorrow, till not a
snifle enlightens the countenance, nor a feel
ing of pleasure gladdens the heart. May we
not ask such persons, whether they are acting
a benevolent part, in transforming this world
into a desert, barren and desolate, which the
sooner we have traversed the better Is it
true that we should not love and admire those
I things that are excellent and beautiful? Why,
then, did our Creator form us as we are
Why did he give us minds capable of enjoy
j ment Why does not every sound of music
grate upon the ear, instead of being pleasam
and harmonious,T. And why, was the world
made a scene of such beauty, grandeur, anc
sublimity? Above us, m the starry firma
ment, the discoveries of science show, in al
their inexpressible harmony, innumerable sum
and systems like our own, ever rolling on ii
their undeviating course, displaying the wis
j dom and power of their Creator. Is there n<
pleasure to be derived from the contemplatioi
of these We think of the inhabitants wit!
which these worlds are peopled. Are they
happier than we, or are they, like us, per-
I plexed with cares and disappointments Have
I they their Alexanders, their Caesars, and their
Bonapartes Can they boast of a Plato or a
Newton? and can they, as we, unroll a long
catalogue of poets, patriots, and philosophers?
Or are they <mot the abodes of the ever
blessed, —the spotless mansions of unfallen
happiness llow unenviable are, the feelings
j of the few who can find no pleasure in such
contemplations! Around, are spread out on
every hand the wonders of creation. The
air, the earth, the sea, and the sky, are
all teeming with beauty and adorned with
loveliness. The setting sun sheds on the one
horizon its stream of glowing light, and the
pale moon appears in silvery brightness on the
other. The min falls from heaven, water
ing the earth, and the dew distils its vivi
fying influences. The hill and dale, the
tree# and the fields, the streams, the lakes,
and the mighty ocean, all spread out before
us their unnumbered beauties. He must be
more than man who can fully appreciate all
their loveliness, and less than man who can
find no pleasure in surveying them.
I Away, then, with the rigid orthodoxy that
would rob this world of all that there is in it
worth living for! Away with the theology
that inculcates such doctrines! But let the
true soul of man, in harmony with God and
nature, continue still to find
Tongues in tlie tree*, aermoiu in itune*,
j Book* in the running brook*, and good in every
thing."—J. V.
THE MEETING ON MAIN STREET.
In the meeting house of the Wesleyan
Methodists, on Main street, where amid the
many popular and large pro-slavery congrega
i tions of this city, a small band of men and wo
men meet to hear the Gospel of Freedom and
Love for all, an Anti-Slavery lecture was given
by Frederick Douglas#, last Sunday afternoon.
After prayer by Mr. Benson, the clergyman
of the society, and the singing of an anti-sla
very hymn (which by the way arc rarely to Ire
found in hymn book# used in public <rr»hip.)
r Douglas# spoke for an hour or more to a
I respect-.hie audience who had come together
notwithstanding the severity of the storm.—
Ue dwelt for some time on the nature of real
Christianity .showiagjt tobea world-wide faitb
recognistng all as brethren, raising up the de
graded, freeing the slave, and strengthening
ths weak. Toward the contusion of hw re
marks, he spoke in a feeling manner, which
drew tears from many eyes, of the cruel preju
dice against his race, and gave a simple nar
rative of some of his own experience of good
and ill treatment as a colored man. The aut,
i dress was given m a familiar manner; the
f speaker saying that he felt more like talking
j with those present, than making a speech to
them, and apparently produced a happy effect
f on the listeners. His sentiments sere warmly
responded to by the minister and a number of
the members of the society and it was cheer
ing to see and feet that amid the prejudice
which drives the colored man to the negro pew
in ss many ehmdfesm this city, and the stern
bigotry which cries Infidel” against those
who ask that God’s truth shall free the black
t man as well as the Whiteman, and make all
8 brethren, here was a different spirit—-on oasis
,pthed«m. _
*OCHE*TB* LADIES* AJfTMU*
VERY SOCIETY*
4' TV* committee of the Ladies’ Anti-Slavery
i Society, gratefully acknowledge the receipt ol
i, valuable and saleable snides from friends u
e the country for the recent fair. A eontribu
-4K
tion from the anti-slavery women of Led yard,
helped to make the tables m the hail attrae
trie from Walworth and Farmington, came
the friend* with cheerful pitting,, bringing
the result of the effort of their sewing circle,
in rich, tasteful articles, and giving their ef
ficient aid at the tables front Waterloo, came
i token of remembrance, a donation of
hooks, perfumery, ke., a contribution from
Williamson, the result of the labors of, btti«
company of workers hi our good cam,, M
forwarded with an excuse for personal
tendance, owing to the fatal illness of one of
their number, whose decease in the flower of
her days, will be lamented by all. A frietd
in Ift. Morris seat her individual eontnbutton,
which went to aid the display cm the article
tables and another from Bath, brought ac
ceptable aid, both by donation of goods and
personal presence. During the fair, a box of
useful and fancy goods came from Port Byron,
though not too late to be sold, and thus gw*
valuable help to the cause an offering from
a friend in Wisconsin was indeed acceptable,
enhanced by the distance now separating u»
from one who formerly was a co-labeie* h«ro
at home.
Most thankfully were all these articles re
ceived; and in behalf of more than a million
of our sisters, crushed, abused and bleeding
under the lash, the earnest hope is expressed
that the same seal which urged the women in
the place* spoken to gome together in the
sewing circle, and thus send help so much
needed, may in the future bring forth fruit yet
more abundantly, and that the women of every
neighborhood in Western New York, may
41 go and do likewise.”
In behalf of the committee,
C. A. F.
Western New York Anti Slavert
Society.— The Executive Committee are
requested to meet at the house of Isaac Post,
36, Sophia Street, Rochester, on Tuesday
evening, January 18th, at 7 o’clock. A full
attendance is specially important.
Per order, W. C. NELL, Srr.
FRANKLIN’S BIRTH-DAY.
The Printers of Rochester will commem
orate the one hundred and forty-second anni
versary of the birth-day of Franklin, on
Monday evening, the 17th inst. They respect
tully tender an imitation to their fellow
craftsmen in the surrounding towns to unite
with them on the occasion also, to the retired
1 printers of the city. The celebration will be
held at the Irving House, kept by Cot. T. W.
Haskell, a veteran printer.
Our friends in the country, who intend t«*
favor us with their company, will please notify
the Chairman of the Committee of Arrange
ment* of the fact, on or by Friday next.
JAMES VICK, Jr., Ch’n
0 Com. Arrangements.
l
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
11. C., Poplar Ridge, New York. We hope to
give our reader* some extracts from hi* encouraging
letter.
J. H., Clyde. His view* may he perfectly cor
rect, hut they are regarded a* more theological than
i* united to the column* of tile North Star.
L. O. 8., Indiana puli*. We forwarded copies.
Ixit must ray to him, n* we do to ail wM would ob
tain subscribers, that m/mertptiimt must hr prepaid.
A. S. Sullivan, Ohio. We are glad to acknow
ledge hi* communication and cash enclusttl. The
|>arcel w ill la: forwarded to hi* address; and we
hope many other such agencies may be c*tahli»hed.
J. C. 11., Brw>kl)n, New York. Thank* for In*
letter of 4th inst., and exertion* fi»r the Star.
J. t\,\Yelt*ville, Ohio, l.ist received and whole
number mailed.
S. 8., Salem, Ohio. letter* of Jan. 7th received,
and name* credited, lie may expect a k’ttcr.
S. S. 8., (ireenhill, Ohio. We gratefully ac
knowledge the subscribers and friendly communica
tion. Such agencies are to our liking, a* we believe
them profitable to all parties.
\V .H. 1., Albany. The views of our friend are*
in harmony w ith many other* on the subject of our
letter to Mr. Clay; but neitlier the loss of subscrib
ers nor die displeasure of the community shall deter
from a faitliful exposure of slaveholders in high or
low place*; ami we are assured of your support irs
an uncompromising course.
CORRESPONDENCE.
The following is extracted from a letter
from an English friend
Hail to thee, bright and beautiful Star”
Over the wide ocean ware we trace thy first*
faint beams; and our hearts beat high with,
hope and joy. May eat thou shine, like a gem
of purest water, upon the darkened skies of
that land from whose hills and Helds of virgin
greenness the mists of slavery have so long
arisen; hanging, like a blank and lowering
cloud, where else the light of freedom, mtel
teet and religion would have shone with trans
cendent lustre. Often may the menacing
clouds of calumny and hatred threaten to
obscure thy beams and dim thy radiance; but
jahtne thou on, unchangingly, in the pure
heavens of truth and love. Receive thy light
alone from the Eternal Fountain, then will
the thousands who have rejoiced in thee, look
calmly on the threatening cloud, and aw*»»
its vanishing, in the firm faith that thej
shall again behold thec r iji reaewuxi beauty
and unsullied brightness. Ho shall thou be to
the mental eyo of *ppre»«t*l millions that
which thine antetype in the blue hesvens
above hath been so long to his outward gaze.
Point thou, ever and unchangeably, to a land
#f freedom, that tliu* thy gentle beam may
keep alive in his sou) one spark of that man
hood which the Hoods of o]»pre*sio« and ihn
wave* of tyranny have so long striven Ut
quench.
And not to the slave ak«4 shall thy h—
glance hope and confidence to the warn and
faithful hearts that beat ap ardently for hit
well being; to the true champions of freedom
who fight her bloodless battles with tbs sac ml
weapon* of truth and ju*te*v—be thou, as the
eonfiict deepens, a cheering, guiding Star.
May it be their* to rejoice in thy beams so
>**g the warfare rages; and to had, at
length, the dawn of the long anticipated
morning, when the rising sun of freedom
shall light the horizon of the eofiandusd
slave, and he shall tread, erect in hi* long
withheld manhood, the shores of bis nativity,
and walk through the length and breadth of
a fated ef hkwvtjr, H lejohang is the jsy” of the
present, and with a heart filled with adoring
I»**t*de fc» fas memory of these hy-gons
times, when darkness was around him like a
funeral P*B> and his trembling and timid
glance was alone chested by tho constant
beams ef the distant North Htai!
To the Editor* North Star:
<3x:m«*s»:—l* the rewdutioe* leaned si
the Yearly Anti-Slavery Meeting, held Of
Sunday, December 19th, m Minerva Hall
igt| published in the North Star of Jan. ?tb
there ia one that particularly attract* ray at
tentwn: not only oa account of ha intnnsu
importance, hot also on account of a circum
ounce which occurred at the time. It appear
as the first resolution which wan offire*
for the opinion of that meeting, and is a
follow*:
Resolved, That in assembling on th» day
for the purpose of lifting op our voice in be
half of oai oppressed and plundered felloe
coonlrynnra, we hot follow m the footrtej* 01
Him who has said, It ta lawful to do good or
the Sabbath day."
That resolution appears to important,
because if the principle propounded in I**
earned out, it open* up the v,l e
slavery, as well as, I had almost said, the
more important one of practical religion, tho
if both these question* be pursued to legit--
mate results, we shall find that they are only
parts of the same subject. Living as we do,
in the middle of the 19th century of the Chris
tian era, i‘ woild *P? firet ‘hn o
preposterous to offer such a resolution, for the
acceptance of so enlightened so audience.—
Hut on the other hand, when w© look around
tis, and perceive the superb and aristocratic
establishments, called churches, with then
stately architecture, their Upfondid ornaments
and cushioned seats, denoting their relation
ship to the ritual ordinances of a former dis
pensation, we adroit at once the appositene**
of the resolution. The Great Master, at
whose death the veil of the temj le w as rent,
and who, as far as He was concerned, with
drew the veil tliat was spread over all na
iions,” sufficiently explained his mission, to
leave no doubt upon the minds of the pure
and simple-hearted, as to the true meaning and
intents of His doctrine. But there was then,
•as now, another class of individuals who
claimed to bo preeminently the righteous;
and although he sufficiently unmasked these
’hypocritical pretensions of superior purity, and
denounced them in the plainest and strongest
terms, we find at the present time the same
love of outward show, the same attention to
mere ceremony, the same making clean of
the outside of the cup and of the platter the
same paying tithe of taint, and anmse, and
cummin; otrd sf omitting the w eightier mat
new of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith
the same making of hypocritical long prayers
and sad countenances, and of disfiguring of
faces, that they may appear unto men to
fast,"’ instead of the pure and noble ethics
promulgated by Jesus Christ: Whatsoever
ye would that men ahould do to you, do yc
.even so to. them A lthough tlie Mosaic law
contained the same sublime sentiment, it wai
jnecessraoly iu a nurre diffoerd form, and scat
iert d among a variety of other precepts equal
ly important at that period Ye shall do m
■ainrighteoiisness iu Judgment; tliou shalt no
respect the person of the poor, nor honor th(
jterson df the miglity, but in righteousness
.shalt tbeu judge thy neighbor.” Tliou
©halt h've thy neighbor as thyself.” Thou
shah rise up before .the hoary head, and honoj
.the face of the old man.” u The stranger
that duelled: vitii you shah be unto you as
«me bum asn«ng«t ymi.tnd :huu shalt line lrim
as thyself. These precept* are only so many
ports of the same principle o'" equity and love
hut for ‘the time being it was necessary thai
they should be enshrouded and intenwtven
.with a variety of outward forms and ceremo
nies. This circumstance becomes self-evideni
when w e take into consideration the ignoranl
and beuighled condition of the surrounding
cations their superstitition.; their ;idu!atrc us,
lascivious, and-cruel practices, and withal -the
general tendency ef fl« unguided passions ol
ruan to induce him to gratify his sensuality
and pride, made it necessary to observe strictly
the outward forms and ceremonies of the law,
until its inward principles were sufficiently
engrafted upon the mind of man to prepare
him for the more sublime doctrines of Jesus.
It is not, under these circumstances, to he
wandered at that the inherent ignorance and
selfishness of our rnee, should induce the
greatest portion of the Jews, as well as ol
other nations, to place their chief dependane*
for their acceptance w ith the Deity upon these
outward forms and ceremonies. This wai
(especially the case with the Pharisees at th<
advent of the Saviour. It appears that thej
wore garments of a peculiar shape, and band
ages, with impressive mottoes, or sentences o
scriptures written upon them: they were it
the habit of ostentatiously giving alms to tin
poor, and making long prayers at the corner
of the streets, that they might lie seen o
.men,” and also of observing, very minutely
•every punctilio of th ritual law, as well ai
the traditions added to it by their over-zealoui
predecessors. And u bile they made this pa
rade of the ceremonial and outward forhts o
religion, assuming that they were so mucl
more righteous than others, they were guilt\
of the most grievous oppression and w icked
ness. \Y e can hardly fail to recognize tin
wonderful resemblance in the position of tin
church of the present day to that we havt
-described above. And w hen we look at th*
Great Harlot, and all her daughters, and re
•member that John told us that Anti-Christ w ai
already in the world, we are impressed wit!
the necessity of exposing this foul hypocrisy
thm gaping ut a gnat and swallowing a cam
v-1.” if Antichrist w as then in the world
was it not that dependence upon fonns anc
ceremonies, instead of the righteousness o:
the taw?” that grasping at the shadow, am
suffering the substance to escajic, which St
l aul was cußtiuually combatting (Rom. viu
Lai. hi. 2 CoL ii. 17.) Supjxise w*
lUl, <<»r argument’s sake, the dogmas of th(
T orthodox church to be true: u
there a
raan the present day, inaan*
U U ““(“K Uf o
.»T!* w Wie
Wu.,„l J for bn evurL&sl
Ourth f
an* Jtapt f-' g P
an. ibbyW
I could almost udi to le*, e u
be answered by those whom u lUm[
but actions speak louder than wordb. If W(
follow the couse of this pretendi>d church o
Christ, from the age of the apo%tle* down
wards, w© sliaii find ifolpek so deeply mark**
m Wood, that it has etmed the dete*
ution to every liberal mind m every age. We
hwt ate* lk*B|Wrti>w pemewiioas of
the Romish f lusnpb prmfcee her own down-;
fan, though yet th( thinks the it no tetdme, bfj
forcing half F.oropc into open infidelity and
at hewn We hate seen her oWcst daughter,
the Pnrtcstant Church of Fnflaml, felfowmg
so closely w her footsteps, until, according to
•tatisticai writer*, thrse-fouith# of her
are rather iitfideb or dusoenters, and mssy ofj
ber wealthiest atoms have hem oWig d to
seek sun osvlum from her persecutions in this
land of freedom And what shall we roy
of this fwndeacrif*, many-headed monster,;
which has taken to itself the name of tire
Church of Clirart m/rre America. Are thej
skirts of her garments free from blood T. I*et
the present condition of the colored people in j
this country, and her silence, even in the
northern states, upon the monair eras sin of
slavery, answer; while in the southern states
she is rhe open abettor of the eritne that crime
which, as my friend DorcL\an truly said, in-'
eluded all other* in the decalogue. !9uchJ
gentlemen, are some of th© eircumstauce*
which rcudcreJ tlic proposing of such a reso
lution necessary, as appear* at the head of this*
communication, which, with your permission,
I will take an opportunity to diaeun in a fu
ture numlwr.
1 am, gentlemen, vours,
RICHARD SULLEY.
srtBCTIOKM.
WILLIAM LLOYD CARRISOL
We most sincerely rejoice, as will every
friend of God and liberty, and as would every,
fettered bondman in this slavehokling republic,
could they hear the glad tidings, that health,;
through a bountiful providence has been re
stored to William Lloyd Garrison,and that he;
is again in the field, at the head of his storm-;
beaten sheet, the Liberator. Seventeen-years I
of cloudy days and dreary nights have rolled 1
away, since all alone, with powerful hand
and dauntless heart he launched his bark upon
the menacing billows of our pro-slavery public,
opinion. Under his broad banner of immedi
ate, unconditional and everlasting emancipa
tion, many essayed to follow, but like a
disciple of old, some, alas! too many, havei
found their fears greater than their faith, and j
they have sunk to rise no more. Of these
however, we mean not to speak.
Garrison is again in the field, and in the’
thickest of the battle,
With all the gritty h-giont that troop
Under the sooty ffag of Slavery."
May God grant him continued life and'
health, till he shall see the travail of his noble
soul—“ w hen the sighing of the poor, and the
crying of the needy” shall have forever ceased
throughout our slave cursed land!
We copy, with ineffable pleasure, his first
words on resuming his editorial duties j
In resuming the editorial pen, after so long
an absence from my post, my first duty is to
express to my numerous friends, on both sides
of the Atlantic, the deep gratitude of my heart
tor the lively solicitude which they manifested
during my severe illness at the West, and the
warm congratulations which they have since
offered on my recovery. Such demonstrations
of affection and confidence would more than
counterbalance a century of abuse and perse
cution on the part of the enemies of God and
man. The earnest hope that I might survive
this powerful attack of disease has been based
on the expectation, that if my life should be
spared, I would consecrate it anew to the
cause of suffering humanity—to the overthrow
of all forms of despotism, whether spiritual or j
corporeal—to the promotion of peace and lib
erty throughout the world. That expectation;
I hope never to disappoint. It shall bo to me
a trumpet-call to the field of moral conflict,
inspiriting me to higher and better efforts to
jkromole the welfare of my race—to reunite
Jorever the broken ties of human brotherhood.
It is extremely painful to be impotent in such
a field, or absent from it, even for an hour.
How much remains to be done! How swarm
(the toes of liberty and equality How nu
merous are their banners, how extended their
ranks, how malevolent their purposes Over;
what continent, kingdom, people or tribe, do
they-not hold mastery? What vigilance and
determination, what energy and enterprise,
do they not exhibit! What resources, inven-
tions, machinations, are theirs! They rule
with a red of-iron. Though they cause hu
man blood to flow like water, it does not
satiate tlieir appetite though they have ob
tained universal conquest, they sigh for another
world to subjugate. But—as sure as light is
more pleasant than darkness, and truth is
stronger than falsehood—they are yet to he
put to flight, and their reign of cruelty is to
terminate. Their weapons are those of the
cow ard, the suicide, the assassin such can
not always prosper. Their courage is ouly
beastly it has no moral quality and in con
flict with spiritual heroism, it quickly becomes
pusillanimous. Their power is only an ag
gregation of self-destructive materials, and
constantly exposed to spontaneous combustion.
One brave, disinterested, world-wide spirit,
whose faith is an eternity of steadfastness,
and whose love is God-inspired, can carry dis
may through all their ranks. It is only for
the sacramental hast of God's elect” to lie
up and doing, in a spirit worthy of their cause
and profession, to usher in that glorious day
when the great human family, now isolated
and hostile,
Like kindred drop?, shall mingle into one.”
Having been so lung out of the conflict,
some time must elapse liefore I can wear m v
armor easily, and v igoroualy wield the wea
pons of Reform. I still feel, both mentally
and physically, the effects of my recent illness,
and must proceed in niy labors with much cir
eunwqiCCtion, lest by too great mental excite
ment, a relapse ensue, and my last condition
be worse than the first. Asking the indul
gence of all w ho feel an interest in the char
acter of the Liberator, and who desire to see
it kept a terror to evil doers, and a praise to
them that do well,” I shall aim to infuse into
its columns noble thoughts, great sentiments,
and glorious conceptions, such as the teeming
mind of awakened Humanity may place with
in my reach.
From the Liberty BeU of 1848.
BIBLEB FOB THE SLAVES.
by ntEDeaicK douglas*.
The above a watchword of a recent but
quite numerous clrss of persons, whose osten-
KiWe object seems to he, to give Bibles to the
American Slaves. They proj*ise to induce
the public to give of their abundance, a large
sum of money, to be placed in the hands of the
American Bible Society, to be employed in
purchasing Bibles and distributing them among
the slaves. 1b this spparently benevolent and
Chmtian movement, they desire to unite all
persons friendly to the long unbruted- and long
neglected slave. The religious press have al
ready spoken out in its favor. So full of prom
we and popularity is thw movement, that many
of theleadert in church and State ore pressing
into it; rhflorehas which have all alor g slumbered
unmoved over the ©rnel wrongs and bittgr
woes of the slave, which have been as deaf as
death to every appeal of the fetietud bondman
for liberty, arc at /art startled from their
heartless stupor by this new art of Bibles fog
the Stares. Miwhecrs ef rafigi* md foamed
Doctors of DMnsty, who w«mk) aotfift a finger
to give the stave to hanedf, ere now engaged
in the professed work of firing to the Slave the
Bible. Into this enterprise have been drawn
same who have been known aa advocates for
fsnancipatkn.
One Antt-Stavery Editor, has abandoned
hw position at the head ef a widrly riveufoting
Journal, and has gone forth to lecture and so
licit dooatiocs in its behalf. Even the Ameri
can Bible Society, which a few years ago per
emptorily refused to entertain the offensive
subject, and refused the offer of ten thousand
dollars, has at last relented if m* repeated,
ami now condescends to reedre money for this
object. To be acre we bare had no public
assurance of this from that society. It is,
however, generally inferred by the friends ol
the movement, that they will consent to rerxtVf
money for this purpose. Now what does all
this mean f Art the men engaged in this
movement sane snd if so, can they be honest?
Do they seriously believe that the American
slave can receive the Bible Do they believe
that the American Bible Society cares one
str w about giving Bibles to the slave Do
they suppose that slaveholders in open violation
of their wicked lass, will s’low their slaves
to have the Bible How do they mean to get
the Bible among the slaves It cannot go
itself it must be carried. And who among
them all, has either the faith or the folly to
undertake the distribution of Bibles among
the slaves?
Then again, of what valu* is the Bible to
one who mav not read its contents Do they
intend to send teachers mto the slave States,
with the Bibles, to teach the slaves to read
them? Do they believe that on giving the Bible,
the unfettered slave, will all at once, by some
miraculous transformation, become a man of
letters and be able to read the sacred Scriptures 7
Will they first obtain the slaveholders consent,
or will they proceed without it And if the
former, by w hat means will they seek it
And if the latter, what success du they ex
pect 1 Upon these pbints, and many others,
the public ought to be enlightened, before they
are called upon to give money and influence
to such an enterprize.
As a mere indication of the grow ing influ
ence of anti-slavery sentiment, this movement
mav he regarded bv the Abolitionists with
some complacency but as a means of abolish
ing the slave system of America, it sterns to
me a sham, a delusion, and a snare, and can
not be too soon exposed before all the people.
It is but another illustration of the folly of
putting new cloth into an old garment, and
new wine into old bottles.
The Bible is peculiarly the companion ol
liberty it belongs to a new order of things
slavery is of the old and will only be made
worse by any attempt to mend it with the
Bible. The Bible is only useful to those
who can read and practise its contents. Ii
was given to freemen, and any attempt tc
give it to the slave must result only in hollow
mockery.
Give Bibles to the poor glares! It sound*
well; it looks well; it wears a religious as
pect it is a Protestant rebuke to the Pope, and
seems in harmony w ith the purely evangelical
character of the great American people. Ii
may fortell some movement in England tc
give Bibles to our slaves— and this is very
dtsirablc. Now admitting (how ever difficull
it may be to do so) the entire honesty of all
engaged in this movement —the immediate
and only effect of their effort must be to turn
off attention from the main and momentous
question connected with the slave, and absorl
energies and money in giving to him the
Bible, that ought to be used in giving him tc
himself.
The slave is property. lie cannot hole
property. He cannot own a Bible. To give
him a Bible, is but to give his master a Bible
The slave is a tiling—and it is the all-corn
manding duty of the American people t<
make him a man.
To demand this in the name of humanity
and of God, is the solemn duty of every living
soul. To demand less than this, or anything
else than this, is to deceive the fettered bond
man, and to soothe the conscience of the slave'
holder on the very point where he should b<
most stung with remorse and shame. Avia;
with all tampering with such a question
Away with all trifling with the man in fet
ters! Give a hungry man a stone, and tel
him what beautiful houses are made of it
give ice to a freezing man, and tell him of it:
good properties in hot weal her; throw
drowning man a dollar, as a mark of your goo*
will; but do not mock the bondman in hi
misery, by giving him a Bible, when he can
not read it!
Rochesteb, New York.
Fr>m the Liberator.
REVEREND RASCALITY.
All abolitionists who are old e
nough to remember the early days o
the cause, recollect the Rev. Ezra
Styles Ely, D.D., and his man Am
brose. If their memory extend a littl*
farther back, and they had the gooci
luck to have been brought up in ar
evangelical school, (a training very
necessary to the understanding of the
ins and outs of the anti-slavery cause,
especially about the elays of the new
organization,) they know that the saic
I Doctor w as a burning and a shining
light, set in a golden candlestick of the
church, a great revivalist and saver o!
souls by the wholesale. We remembei
that at Andover, where, after the most
straitest sect of our religion we were
brought up, it used to be said of him
that he was in the habit of
I (whether in the pulpit or not we cannol
say,) and justified himself by the ex
ample of Whitfield. However, we
were then, and have been since, as
long as we were addicted to the vice
of going to meeting, in the habit ol
hearing so much more profane lan
guage in the meeting-house than in the
street, that we think none the worse ol
him for that. Had he clothed himaeii
in no worse garments than curses, it
would have been the better for him, as
well as for poor Ambrose and the or
phan daughter of his friend, ns shall he
presently related.
The Doctor, among other eminent
gifts and graces, possessed in a high
degree one of the choicest elements of
modern saintship,—to wit, be was, or
was reputed to be, vsry rich. For,
luckily, it is not in these days, as n
was in the semt-barbarous ones, when
h was said,} that ii was easier lor a
camel to pass through tho eye of a
needle, than for a rich man to enter
the kingdom of heaven. Indeed, the
turnpikes and travailing expenses
along the strait and narrow rood are
so much greater aow than they were
I then, that nose hot a tolerably teem
man has much chance of getting there
at all. But rich as he was, the Doctor
had the hnmitrty to think that this eras
j one of the graces of his Christian cha
racter, which might be increased to
advantage, and so he plunged into the
speculations of our Sooth Sea days, in
1535-6. At that time Providence had
cast his lot, (we believe we speak the
language correctly,) for some wise
purpose, in one of the slave States,
Tennessee, we believe. It did seem, at
one time, as if the object Providence
had in view, in this dispensation, was,
to show that slaves could be held for
their own good. For then it was that
Dr. Ely bought his slave Ambrose,
from pure motives of humanity, and to
prevent lum from falling into worse
i hands. The praise of the Doctor was
in all the churches: for at that time the
laboring point with the pro-slavery
piety of the land was, to show that
slaveholdiug was not sinful, because
j slaves might be held for their own
good.” And here was a case in point.
Happy Dr. Ely, who was raised up to
settle this nice point 4b theology for
ever? Happier Ambrose, who was the
chosen vessel of this great salvation?
But, unluckily for the peace of out
pro-slavery Zion, the bubble burst,
and the speculators found themselves
in the suds. It broke, after leading the
whole people a weary way, as it danced
with its rainbow' hues before them
leaving nothing but the empty breatl
and foul water, of which it was com
posed. All King Biddle’s puffing onh
increased its tenuity with its size, anc
made its bursting the worse, if not th*
sooner. It was in vain that he saw,
in clear dream and solemn vision,’
i the Presidential chair before him, with
i a ladder of cotton bag 3 leading uf
i thereunto, and he himself placed there
j in as the saviour of the south, and st
of the country. It was a lie and a de
lusion all. Ruin spread over the
south as well as over the north, anc
the United States Bank broke like
i rotten stick (as it,was) when interposcc
to check its progress. Among the
rest, Dr. Ely became bankrupt, ii
company with many better men, anc
perhaps, with some no worse than him
self. His lands, hereditaments anc
personality, were dispersed under the
hammer. Among his other chattel:
personal, household stuff, mules, asses
and farming utensils, poor Ambrose
i was sold to the highest bidder, and wa:
despatched to be grown into cotton oi
ground into sugar, in Alabama, Louis
iana, or the Lord knows where. Anc
thus this beautiful demonstration of the
curious problem of the holding of slave:
for their own good was broken off ir
the middle? Truly, mysterious are th*
ways of Providence
But it has lately evolved how it wa:
that he got the means for carrying oi
these speculations. It appears, from
report of a decision in the Court o
Common Pleas, in Philadelphia, tha
in 182'2 Dr. Ely was made trusts
1 under the will of Samuel Carswell, o
an estate consisting of three huudre:
shares in the United States Bank, wortl
about $40,800. After a few months
he transferred all this property fron
himself as trustee to himself individually
In 1835, he borrowed $50,000 on hi
own private account, of the Bank o
the United States, pledging these threi
hundred shares, standing in his ow r i
name, but rightfully belonging to Mis
Carswell, (of whom he was the guar
i| dian, as well as th<#trustee,) as col
lateral security. At the maturity o
his indebtedness, in 1837, not beinj
able to meet it, two hundred and fift;
of the three hundred shares were sol<
j to cover it. In 1843, Miss Carswel
married, and her reverend guardiai
was called upon to render an accoun
of his stewardship; whereupon, hi
proposes to pass over to her, for he
property which had been sold, twi
i; hundred and fifty shares of the Unitei
States Bank, then worth about si.
I dollars a share they having beei
wortli about $l3O a share when he by
them. In other words, hi
offered to give his ward about $l5Ol
ifor property for which he had himsel
received about $32,500. This modes
1 proposal being declined, and the matte
h coming before the Orphan’s court,
decree was entered against Dr. Ely
for about $50,000, upon which he ap
plies to the Common Pleas for th<
benefit of the Insolvent law. Tlv
fact* of the embezzlement was no
i denied, but it was contended that i
having been committed before the law
I excepting such malefactors from th<
benefit of the Insolvent act, and sub
f jecting them to condign punishment
was passed, he was not affected by it
—and, further, that a trustee is not
bailee, agtn*, or depositary, ruentionci
in the act. The Court decided in th*
Doctor’s favor, cn the first ground
I So that he is now white-washed, (s
1 whited sepulchre,” wc fear he alway
was,) and is in a condition to tak<
charge of anybody else’s money, tha
may be fool enough to* trust him.
Now we are a little curi »us to kno*
how this development will affect th*
"I standing of this holy man in the church
We sh mid like to know, for instance
if this reverend rascal, this solerni
swindler, should come to Boston, as
minister of the gospel, whether then
would be a single orth *dox congrega
tion or other evangelical pulpit closet
against him on account of its disho
nesty. We do not think that thm
would be. We are sure that then
ought not to be; for we know that there
is not one (at least of consequence
enough to be seen,) that would shoJ
its pulpit doors against him because h«
cheated poor Ambrose out of his body
and soul, or if he had done it to five
hundred like him. It was a sertoun
thing, no doubt, to Dr. Ely’s ward tc
find her portion devoured up by a dis
honest guardian; but it was a muck
more serious thing to his slave to be
himself devoured dp bodily. But ii
the one should excite a transient feel
ing in the American church universal,
the other will scarcely stir a holy
muscle. There are hundreds and thou
sands of ministers who are continually
guilty of greeter end worst dishonesty
than Dr. Ely in thia instant*, who are
•till welcome in all northern mdpita,
jwudMnntate in all national snrta
nan conventions, assemblies, and con
ferences; —worse and greater disho
nesty, because they rob their victims
not only of all that they pmwoss or can
acquire, bat of themselves; and strip
them nf all hope, of all resistance, oi«
all redress. We will not. then, be tx>
severe on the Boston ministers, if, in
the local canfusion and dissolution of
common morality which Slavery has
produced, they should give to Dr. Ely,,
who comes to them, smacking his lips
over the portion of the orphan commit
ted to hiiu, the same right hand of fel-j
lowship that they extend to the Rever
end cannibals gorged with human
tleah, —fed fat with slaves and souk of
men.”—q.
From Parker’s Letter 8b»«a
STATISTICS AMD HISTORY OF
SLAVERY.
I will first call year attention to th'- history
and statistics of slavery. Is 1790, th *re were
but 697,997 slaves ia the Union; ut 1840,;
2,487,355. At the present day, thsu number
probably b not for from 3,000,000. In 1720,
Mr. Gerry estimated their value at $10,000,-
000; in 1840, Mr. Clay fixed it at $1,200,-
000,000. They are owsdd by a population
of perhaps about 300,000 pereoas, and repre
sented by about 100,000 voters.
At the time of the Decliration of Indepen
dence. slavery existed in all the States; it
gradually receded from the North. In the
religious colonies of New England' it was
always unpopular and odious. It was there
seen and felt to be utterly inconsistent with
the ideas and spirit of their institutions, their
churches, and their state itself. After the
revolution, therefore, it speedily disappeared
hire perching by default, there abolished by
statute. Thus it successively disajroeared from
Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Sew Hamp
shire, New York, Pennsylvania and New
Jersey. By the celebrated ordinance of 1787,
involuntary servitude, except as a punishment,
after legal conviction of crime, was forever
prohibited ia the Northwest Territory. Thus
tha new states, formed in the western paral
I ds, were, by the action of the federal govern
meat, at once cut off from that institution.
Brides, they were mainly settled by men
from the Eastern States, who had neither
habits nor principles which favored slavery.
Thus Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wis
consin and lowa have been without any legal
.slaves from the beginning.
In the South, the character of the people
was different; their manners, their social and
political ideas, were unlike those of the North.
The Southern States were mainly colonies ot
adventurers, rather than ©stabiishraouts of
men who for conscience sake fled to the wil
derness. Less pains were taken with the
education—intellectual, moral and religious—
of the people. Religion never held so promi
nent a place in the consciousness of the mass
as in the sterner and more austere colonics of
the North. In the Southern States—New
Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, the
Carolines and Georgia—slavery easily found
i a footing at an early day. It was not at all
repulsive to the ideas, the institutions and
habits of Gaorgia and South Carolina. The
other Southern States protested against it;
they never.
Consequences follow causes it is not easy
to avoid the results of a first principle. The
Northern States, in all their constitutions and
social structures, consistently and continually
tend to democracy—the government of ali,
for all, and by all; to equality before the state
and its laws; to moral and political ideas ol
universal application. In the meantime,
the Southern States, in their constitutions
and social structure, as consistently tend to
•j oligarchy—the government over all, by a few,
and for the sake of that few; to privilege,
favoritism and class legislation; to conven
tional limitations; to the rule of forcb, and in
equality before the law. In such a state ol
things, when slavery comes, it is welcome,
In 1787, South Carolina and Georgia refused
i to accept the federal constitution, unless the
right of importing slaves was guaranteed to
them for twenty years. The new states
formed in the southern parallels—-Kentucky
Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi —retaining
the ideas and habits of their parents, kept als*.
the institution of slavery.
At the time of forming the Federal Consti
tution, some of the Southern statesmen were
hostile to slavery, and would gladly have gol
rid of h. Economical considerations prevail
ed in part, hut political and moral objection?
to it extended yet more widely. The ordi
nance of 1787, the work mainly of the same
rnan’who drafted the Declaration of Indepen
dence, passed with little opposition. The
proviso for surrendering fugime slaves came
from a Northern hand. Subsequently, oppo
sition to slavery in the North and the South,
became less. The culture of cotton, the war?
in Europe creating a demand for ihe produc
tions of American agriculture, had rendered
slave labor more valuable. The day of our
own oppression was more distant and forgot
ten. So in 1802, when Congress purchased
from Georgia the western part oi tier territory,
it was easy f<*r the Smith to extend slavery
over that virgin soil. In 1803, Louisiana was
purchased from France then, or in 1804,
when it was organized into two Te ritories, it
would have been easy to apply the oidmance
of 1787, and prevent slavery from extending
beyond the original thirteen States. Bui
i though some provisions restricting slavery
were nude, ihe ideas of that ordinance were
forgotten. Since that time, five new State-*
have been formed out of territory acquired
since the revolution Louisiana, Missouri,
Arkansas, Florida, Texas, all slave Stales—
the last two with Constitutions aiming to make
slavery perpetual. The last of these was
add: d to the Union on the 22d of December,
1845, two hundred and twenty-five years after
the day when the Forefathers first set foot on
Plymouth Rock; while the sons of the Pil
grims wete eating and dnoking and making
marry, the deed of annexation was completed,
and slavery extended over neatly 400,000
square miles of new territory, whence the
seim-barbarous Mexicans had driven it cut.
Slavery might easily have bsen abolished at
the tune of the Declaration of Independence.
Indeed, m 1774, the Continental Congress, in
t hair celebrated non- importation agreement,
resolved ircTt-r to import or purchase any slaves
aforr the last of Docenaber, in that year. In
1775, they declare in a report’* that it m
not possible f*»r men who exercise thelf rea
son to baiteve that the Divine Author of our
existence intended a part of foe human race to
hold aa absolute property ia so unbounded
power over others.” Incited, the Declaration
itself is a denial of the national right to allow
the existence of slavery We bold these
truths to be self-evident, that all men are crea
ted equal; that they are endowed by their
Creator with certain unalienable rights; that
among these are [the right to] life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness that to secure these
.rights Governments are instituted asnoeg men,
f deriving their just powers from th* consent of
the governed
But the original draft of this paper combined
a modem nation yet more explicit: (tot
King of England j has waged cruel war agaW
human mature itself: notating most sacred
rights of life sad liberty is the persona of s
distant people who sever offended him; cap
tivating and carrying than »to slavery. De
termined to keep open a market where mm
•bdsU he bought and sold, he has pratsituted
b» Tjmn for suppressing every legislative
attempt to prohibit or restrain this execrable
eommefee* This elans©,says its author;
himself, was struck not ia ramptisaee to
South Carolina aad Gaorca, who never at- j
tempted to restrain the importation of staves,
and who, ea the contrary. wtahed te cue-,
trnue it. Oar Northern ririhren »Nv be
!iw, felt a Trttle tahder owfcr tfcew eeanren;
<i« though tW»tr people ham very Cm stove*
they bed been pretty ceewd
'p*e*e were net the *e ntuumts of a single
wthu*iM.*c vuang Ueptibi.oae. I*. Rush, in
Cmrnmmul Wim, wished th-< ok>-
to shrew and eiwow age the
torn** «f tbe free mb**.**,- Another
Ajki«h IWrm drtdaved.
in 1770. M;*a am by natur free \he
nghi u» be free can never be al- j a>d.” u
1775, Dr. Ifopkat, the bend of the New
England divines, derUrrcd tint Slavery is,
in every insunr, unrighteous, and
oppressive a very gnat and crying
In the angles of (.’on federation, adopted in
1778, no ptuvmsjn is made few tfv support of
slavery none for the d**ir. ery vf fugitives.
Slavery is not once referred to in that doru
rnent. Tb' General Governta'nt had nothing
to it. If any slave to ihosi
Ststw whyre slaves are free,” said Mr. Madi
*w in lie become* emancipated by
their laws.’’
[to nc contwvsd.J
MLHC E LL IXEOI S.
Vs Indian a Free Person of Colo*.—
It has b.*.u d c«ied ui oue of the C'ourU of
Charleston, that a person of free Indian des
cent, untiuxcd with negro blood, is a free
person of color, and therefore an incompetent
witness. This decision is in opposition to tlx
practice uhfc’h has hitherto obtained in tht:
eourts of South Carolina; free Indians and the
descendants of free Indians, in aauly with Ur-
State, having been always regarded as cc-tu
petent witnesses of the supenar courts.
Min cn.it. Dts^ovcrt.— An extraordinary
mineral, pronounced by geolog.s’s to be part
trrpob, has been discovered in this country,
and is now being manufactured by a compnnv
formed for that purpose. For cleaning ihe
surface of glass, or removing the oxide from
to tals, it is certainly without an equal.
Windows can be cleansed with tins article
with one half llie labor that is required with
water, and the work is done much more
effectually.
Chinese Physician. —The Spadsb gov
ernment have r.rcentlv imported into Havanas
some 500 expatriated Cuinese, to work as
negroes. Among them is a physician who
judges of disease solely by the pulse. Such
is said to be the practice of the family in the
central flowery land,” they feeling the puls*
j in the temporal artery, in the wrist and ankle
The governor of Cuba gave him a license ft
i practice, and he has been doing an minions*
j business. Every one pays f 2 win) evei
enters his house, and on some days he take?
1 nearly $£K)O.
Afraid to Learn. —lt is related that Ga
lileo, who invented the telescope with whirl
he observed%he satellites of Jupiter, invtiet
1 a man who was opposed to him to look throng I
it. that he might, observe Jupiter's moons
The man positively refused, saying, “If
should see them, how could I maintain mi
opinions which 1 have advanced against youi
philosophy?”
This is the case with many; they will no
hoar truth, for fear that the arguments whicl
(they have framed will be destroyed, and the)
i may be obliged to give up their vicious indul
gences.
A Word. —Say not a word you had better
leave unsaid. A word is a little thing, we
know, but it has stirred up a world of strife,
i Suppressing a word has saved many a cha
rocter —many a life. A word unultered, ami
Hamilton would have lived the pride of hi;
country. Who can tell the good or bat
effects of a single word? He careful wha
you say. Think before you speak, and yoi
will never lie mortified with yourself, or causi
i a thrill of pain to flash through the heart of;
friend. —Albany Kmck< rbochcr.
Negro Ambassadors at the Court oi
France.— Messrs. Ardonia and Delia, mci
of color, presented to Louis Philippe, tin
f| the King of the French, on the I‘Jth October
letters accrediting them as envoys extraordin
ary and ministers plenipotentiary of the repub
lie of J lay ti to France, for the exchange o
ratification of the convention of 15th Ms;
last.
he colored coirrEwnoPf.
EEIKJAT TItS COMMITTEE 4 KA
TIOIfAL Kill.
Tub Committee on t N\\tioral
prefts and printing establishment r or
the people of color,*' made the follow
ing report on the importance and prac
ticability of such an undertaking:
It being admitted that the colored
people of the United States arc
pledged, before the world and in the
[face of heaven, to struggle manfully
for advancement in civil and social
life, it is clear that our own efforts
must mainly, if not entirely, produce
such advancement. And if we are to
advance by our own efforts, (under the
divine blessing,) we must the
I means which wtU direct such efforts to
a successful issue.
Of the means for the advancement
of a people placed as we are, none are
more available than a press. We
struggle against opinions. Our war
jfare lies in the field of thought. Glo
rious struggle! Godlike warfare! In
training our soldiers for the field, in
marshalling our hosts for the fight, in
leading the onset, and through the
conflict, we need a printing press, be
j cause a printing press is a vehicle o!
|thought—is a ruler of opinions.
Among ourselves we need a press
that shall keep us steadily alive to out
responsibilities, which shall constantly
point out the principles which shoult
j guide our conduct and our labors,
i which shall cheer us from one end o
the land to the other, by recording oui
acts, our sufferings, our temporary
defeats, and our steadily approaching
triumph, or rather the triumph of tilt
glorious truth “Human Equality,’
whose servants and soldiers we are.
If a press be not the most power
ful means for our elevation, it is tin
most immediately necessary. Educa
'tion of the intellect, of the will, and o
character, is, doubtless, a powerful—
perhaps the most powerful means fo]
our advancement yet a press ii
needed to keep this very fact befort
the whole people, in order that all may
constantly and unitedly labor in this
the right direction. It may be, tha
some other means might seem evei
more effectual than education evei
then a press will be the more ncccs
jsary, inasmuch as it will afford a fieh
in which the relative importance of tin
various means may be dtecussed ant
settled in the hearing of the wholi
people, and to the profit of all.
“The first step which will mark on
certain advancement as a people, wil
be our Declaration of Independent
from all aid except from God and oui
own souls. This step can only b<
taken when the minds of our peoph
are thoroughly convinced of iti neces
sity and importance. And such con
viction can only be produced througf
a press, w'hich shall show that althougl
wc have labored long and earnestly
we have labored in too many direc
tions and with too little conceit o
acti >n; and that we must, as one man
bend our efforts in the one righ
direction in order to advance.
We need a press also as our ban
ner on the outer wall, that all wh
pass by may read why we struggle
and what we struggle for. If we con
i vince the world that we arc earnestf
iand resolutely striving for our ow n ad
jvancement, one half the battle wil
already be won, because well am
rightly begun. Our friends will tin
!more willingly help us; our foes wil
i quail because they have lost their bes
allies—our own inertness, carelessness
strifes, and dependence upon others
And there is no way, except through
j press—a national press—that w r e cai
tell the world of our position in th<
l path of human progress.
Let there be, then, in these Unitei
I States, a printing press, a copiou
supply of type, a full and complete
establishment, wholly controlled b;
colored men; let the thinking writing
man, the compositors, pressmen, prin
iters’ help—all, all, be men of color
then let there come from said establish
jment a weekly periodical and a quar
iterly periodical, edited as w r ell a
printed by colored men; let this esta
blishment be so well endowed as to bi
beyond the chances of temporary pa
tronage; and then there will be a fixei
fact, a rallying point, towards whicl
the strong and the weak amongst u
would look with confidence and hope
from which would flow r a steady strean
of comfort and exhortation to the wear
stragglers, and of burning rebuke am
overwhelming argument upon thos
who dare impede our way.
The time was when a great states
man exclaimed, Give me the song
making of a people, and I w ill rul
that people.’ That time has passei
away from our land, wherein the rea
son of the people must be assnultei
and overcome. This can only be dom
through the press. We have felt, am
bitterly, the weight of odium and ma
lignity wrought upon us by one or tw<
prominent presses in this land w<
have felt also the favorable feelinj
wrought in our behalf by the anti
slavery press, llut the amount of tin
hatred against us has been conven
tional antipathy; and of the favorabl.
feeling, has been human sympathy
Our friends sorrow with us, because
they say, we are unfortunate Wi
must batter down those antipathies; wi
roust command something manlier tlmi
spmpathies. Wc must command tin
respect and admiration due men, who
against fearful odds, are struggling
|steadfastly for their rights. This cat
f 1 A I p
Di' pivod til OUi
j own. It is needless to support thest
views with a glance at what the pres;
has done for the down-trodden
men; let us rather look forward will
the determination of accomplishing
through this engine, an achievement
more glorious than any yet accom
plished. We lead the forlorn hope Oi
human equality; let us tell of its on
slaught on the battlements of hate ant'
caste; let us record its triumph in a
press of our own.
In making these remarks, your Com
mittee do not Ibrget or underrate th«
good service done by the newspapers
which lime hern, or arc now, <iil«<
and published by our colored brethren
We are deeply aim- to the talent, th<
rnergy, and p nu %ertmee, whi< h ti.«..
liaprr* manifest «>n the part of their sell
*rrll< mg conductors; and aa th* pro
•rtetura art p«wr, thw pap* re haw
>ecn jeoparded or slopped for the vast
t>f capital. Tbe hiatory of our new*-
papera is tbe strongest argument in
favor of tbe establishment of a press.
I'bcM papers abundantly prove, that
are have all the talent and industry
requisite to conduct a paper such as we
need; and they prove also, that among
500,000 free people of color, no one
man is yet set apart with a competence
for the purpose o! advocating with the
pen our cause and the cause of our
brethren in chains. It is an imposi
tion upon the noble-minded colored
editors; it is a Übel upon us, as a free
and thinking people, that we have
hitherto made no cfl’ort to establish a
press on a foundation so bread and
national that it may support one
literary man of color and an office of
colored compositors.
The importance and necessity of a
National Press, your Committee trust,
are abundantly manifest.
The following plan, adopted by the
Committee cf seven, appointed by the
Convention with full power, is in the
place of the propositions proposed by
the Committee of three:
Ist. There shall be an Executive of eleven
pernm**, to Ik: denominated, The Executive
Committee on the National Press for the I r:t
Colored People of the United States, viz:
2d. Massrn h i isctts —Leonard ('ollms, J a me;
Mars; Cmn^thut —ArnosG. Beman, Jama
W. C. Pennington; Kentucky —Andrew Jack
sort; Sew York —J. McCune Smith, Chas
13. Ray, Alex. Crummell; JVetc Jersey —E
P. Rogers; Pennsylvania —Andrew Purnell
George B. Vach«n; of which Commute*
James McCune Smith, of New York, shal
be Chairman, and Amos G. Beman, of Con
nccticut, Secretary.
3d. The members of this Committee resid
ing in the city of New York, shall be a Fi
naueial Committee, who shall dep*«sit, in trus
for the Executive Committee, in the Nev
York Seaman*B Bank for Savings*,'’ all th<
funds received by them from the Agents.
4th. No disposition shall be nude of th
funds bv any less than a two-thirds majority
1 of the whole Committee.
sth. The Committee shall hold stated meet
ings once in six months, and shall then j ub
lisli an account of their proceedings, tin
receipts, and from whom all sums arc sent t
them by the Agents.
Cth. The Rev. J. W. C. Pennington, o
Connecticut, shall be the Foreign Agent o
the National Press; and the Agents sha!
always be ex-officio members of the Com
raittee,
7th. The remuneration cf the Horn" agen
shall be twenty per cent.; of the Foreig;
agent thirty percent., on eojlcctions made.
Bth. The meetings of the Committee sha]
take place in the city of New York.
i 9th. The Agents shall report and remit t
the Committee, at least once a month fur th
Home, and oacc in two months for the Foi
eign agent.
10th. Members of the Committee, from an
two States, may call an extra meeting there
of by giving the chairman and secretary thirl
1 day's’ notice.
Respectfully submitted,
J. McCUNE SMITH,
G. B. WILSON,
WM. H. TOPP.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE O.N
ABOLITION.
The committee appointed to draft i
report respecting the best means o
abolishing slavery and destroying cash
in the United States, beg leave mos
respectfully to report: That they hav<
had the important subjects referred t<
them under consideration, and havi
carefully endeavored to examine al
their points and bearings to the best c
their ability; and from every view the
have been able to take, they have ar
rived at the conclusion that the bes
means of abolishing slavery is the pro
clamation of truth, and that the bes
means of destroying caste- is the men
J tal, moral and industrial improvemen
of our people.
First, as respects slavery: You
committee find this monstrous crime
this stupendous iniquity, closely inter
woven with all the great interests
institutions and organizations of th
i country; pervading and influencinj
every class and grade of society, sc
curing their support, obtaining thei
approbation, and commanding thei
homage. Availing itself of the advan
tage which age gives to crime, it ha
perverted the judgment, blunted th
moral sense, blasted the sympathies
and created in the great mass, th
overwhelming majority of the people,—
a moral sentiment altogether favorabl
to its own character and its own con
tinuance. Press and pulpit are aliki
prostituted, and made to serve the en<
of this infernal institution. The powe
j of the government, and the sanctity c
religion, church and state, arc joine<
with the guilty oppressor against th
oppressed; and the voice of this grea
nation is thundering in the ears of ou
enslaved countrymen the terrible fiat
You shall be slaves, or die l The slav
is in the minority, a small minority; th
oppressors are an overwhelming ma
jority. The oppressed are three mil
lions; their oppressors are seventeei
millions. The one is weak; the othe
is strong. The one is without arms
without means of concert, and withou
government; the other possesses ever
advantage in these respects; and th'
deadly aim of their million musketry
and loud-mouthed cannon, tells tin
down-trodden slave, in unmistakeabb
language, he must be a slave or die. Ij
these circumstances, your committe<
are called upon to report as to the bes
means of abolishing slavery. Am
without pretending to discuss all th<
ways which have been suggested fron
time to time by various parties and fac
tions,—though, did time permit,
would gladly do so, —they beg at one*
to state their entire disapprobation o]
any plan of emancipation involving i
r ft t i j 4 f r
A t-OUI 4 UlvrOiiOlit U. I I*4U
our condition before us, it is impossible
for us to contemplate any appeal to the
slave to take vengeance on his guilt*
master, but w ith the utmost reprobation
Your committee regard any counsel o!
this sort as the perfection of folly,
suicidal in the extreme, and aboininabh
w icked. We should utterly frow n dowi
and wholly discountenance any attempt
to lead our people to confide in brute
force as a reformatory instrumentality
AH argument pat forth in favor of in
I'urrr ctiofi and bloodshed, however wcl.
intended, is either the result of an un
pardonable impatience or an atheistic
w ant of faith in the power of ti uth aa t
means of regenerating and reforming
the wot Id Again repeat, let u»
cl our faces again* all Mueh absurd
•inn*ailing, dsagereu* and miarhirvoui
ating*. emanating from what sou ret
thsymay Tba t mea af <j«d, and si
common km, equally point out a
more excellent we/, and that we/ u a
faithful, earnest and persevering en
forcement of the great principles ol
justice and morality, religion and hu
inanity. These are the on!/ invincible
and infallible means within our reach
with which to overthrow this tou! sys
tem of blood and ruin. Your committes
decin it susceptible of the clearest dem
onstration, that slaver/ exists in this
country, because the people of this
country will its existence. And they
deem it equally clear, that no system 01
institution can exist for an hour againsl
the earnestly expressed WILL of the
people. It were quite easy to bring ti
the support of the foregoing proposition
powerful and conclusive illustration*
from the history of reform in a!i ages
aud especially in our own. Put thi
palpable truths of the propositions, a<
well as the familiarity of the facts illus
trating them, entirely obviate such i
necessity.
Our age is an age of great discovc
j ries; and one of the greatest is tha;
which revealed that this world is to b<
ruled, shaped and guided by the mar
relous might of mind. The human voici
must supersede the roar of cannon
Tiuth alone is the legitimate antidoti
of fa’sehcod.» Liberty is always sulfi
cient to grapple with tyranny. Frei
speech, free discussion, peacelul
tion—the foolishness of preaching these
under God, will subvert this giant crime
and send it reeling to its grave, os i
smitten by a voice from the throne o
God. Slavery exists because it is pop
ular. It will cease to exist when it i:
made unpopular. Whatever, therefore
tends to make slavery unpopular, tend
to its destrhetion. I his every slave
holder knows full well, and hence hi
opposition to all discussion on the sub
ject. It is an evidence of intense feel
ing of alarm, when John C. Caihoui
calls upon the North to put down wha
i he is pleased to term “this plunderin'
agitation.” Let u.s give the slavebolde
wiiat he most dislJcVs. Let us expos
his crimes and hi* foul abominations
He is reputable, and must be mad
disreputable. He must be a
a moral leper—shunned as a loathsom
wretch—outlawed from Christian com
munion, and from social respectabilit
—an enemy of God and man, to b
i execrated by the coummuuity till h
shall repent ol his foul crimes, and giv
I proof of his sincerity by breaking ever
J chain and letting the oppressed go free
Let us invoke the press and appeal t
the pulpit to deal out the righteous dc
nunciations ol heaven against oppres
sion, fraud and wrong; and the desir
of ou hearts will soon be given us i
the triumph of liberty throughout a
the land.
As to the second topic upon whic
the committee have been instructed t
report, tne committee think the subjec
worthy of a far wider range of discu-
I sion than the limited time at presei:
j allotted to them will allow. The inn
i portance of the subject, the peculiu
position of our people, the variety t
interests involved with questions grow
ing out of it, all serve to make thi
subject one ot great complexity us wc!
as solemn intcre.-t.
Your committee would therefore re
spectfully recommend the appointmer
of a committee of one, whose duty i
shall be to draft a full report on thi
subject, and report at the next Nations
Convention.
Your committee would further re
commend the adoption of the following
resolutions as embodying the sentiment
of the foregoing report:
Resolved, That our only hope fo
peaceful emancipation in this land i
based on a firm, devoted and unccas'n,
assertion of oi* rights, and a full, fre
and determined exposure of our multi
plied wr >ngs.
Resolved, That, in the language c
inspired there shall be n
peace to the wicked, and that this guilt
nation shall have no peace, and that w
will do all that we can to agitate
agitate!! AGITATEtH-till our right
are restored, and our brethren are re
deemed from their cruel chains.
All of which is respectfully submit
ted.
Frederick Douglass,
Alexander Crummell,
John Lyle,
Thos. Van Rensselaer.
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA.
DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE.
We, the representatives of the peo
pie of the commonwealth of Liberia, ii
convention assembled, invested with au
thority for foiming a new’ government
relying upon the aid and protection o
the great Arbiter of human events, d>
hereby, in the name and on behalf o
the people of tins commonwealth, pub
lish and declare the said comm nwealtl
a free, sovereign and independent
state, by the name and title of tin
Republic of Liberia.
While announcing to the nations o
the world the wew position which th<
people of this Republic have felt them
selves called upon to assume, courtesi
to their opinions seems to demand t
brief accompanying statement of lh(
causes which induced them, first tr
expatriate themselves from the land o
their nativity, and to form settlements
on this barbarous coast, and n >w V
organize their government by the as
sumption of a sovereign and indepen
dent character. Therefore we respect-
I fully ask their attention to the following
facts:
e recognize in all men certain
i .u.. _
these are life, liberty, and the right to
acquire, possess, enjoy and defend pro
perty. Ry the practice and consent ol
men in all ages, some system or fi-rtn
of government is proven to be neces
sary to exercise, enjoy and secure these
rights; and every people has a right to
institute a government and to choose
and adopt that system or form of it,
which, in their opinion, will most effec
tually acc nij le-b these objects, and
secure their happiness, which does not
interfere with the just rights of others.
The right, therefore, to institute govern
ment, and all the power* necessary to
conduct it, *n inalienable right, and
cannot he restated without the gruaarst
injustice.
We, the people of the Republic of
Liberia, were original!) the inhabitants
«f tha United htat «t* uf North A marts a.
Ik some parts of that eowatrjr,
were debarred by law from aB tb*
rights and privileges of men; in other
parts, public sentiment, more powerful,
than law, frowned us down.
We were everywhere shut out from
all civil office.
We were excluded frem all partici
pation ia the government.
W*e were taxed without our consent. 1
We were compelled to contribute to!
the resources of a country which gave
us no protection.
We were made a separate and dis
tinct class, and against us every ave-:
nue to improvement was effectually
closed. Strangets from all lands, of a
color different from ours, were preferred
before us.
We uttered our complaints, but they
were unattended to, or only met by
I alleging the peculiar institutions of the
country.
All hope of a favorable change in
our country was thus wholly extin
j guished in cur bosoms, and wc locked
with anxiety abn ad tor some asylum
from the deep degradation.
The Western coast of Africa was
the place selected by American btnev
olence and philanthropy, for our future
home. Removed beyond those influ
i ences which depressed us in our native
land, it was hoped we would be enabled
i to enjoy those rights and privileges,
and exercise aud improve those laeul
tics which the God of nature has given
us in common with the rest of man
kind'
Under the auspices of the American
I Colonization Society, we established
ourselves here, on land acquired by
purchase from the lords of the soil.
In an original compact with this So
cietv, we, tor impoitant reasons, dele
gated to it ceitain political poweis;
j while this institution stipulated that
whenever the people should become
i capable of conducting tne government,
or whenever the people should desire
it, this institution would resign the
deleted power, peaceably withdraw
its sftpervisi n», and leave the people to
the government of themselves.
Under the auspices and guidance oi
this institution, which has nobly and in
j perfect faith redeemed its pledges to
the people, we have grpwn and pros
peied.
From time to time, our number has
been increased by emigration from
America, and by accessions fr m na
tive tribes; and fr im time to time, as
ci cumstanccs required it, we have ex
tended our borders by the acquisition
1 of land by honorable pu.chase frou
J the natives of the country.
As our territory has extended, anri
our population increased, our coin-
I merce has also increased. The flags
of most of the civilized nations of the
earth float! in our harbors, and theii
merchants are opening an honorabh
t and profitable trade. Until recently
these visits have been of a uniformly
t harmonious character, but as they hav<
I become more frequent, and to mori
numerous points of our extending coast
questions have a:isen, which it is sup
posed can be adjusted only by agree
nient between sovereign powers.
I For years past, the American Colo
nization Society has virtually withdraw n
from all direct and active pait in the
administration of the government, ex-
I I cept in the appointment of the Gover
nor, who is also a colonist, for the
I apparent purpose of testing the ability
of the people to conduct the affairs oi
government, and no complaint of crude
f legislation, nor of mi.-management, noi
of mal-adiniiiistration, has yet beer
heard.
In view of these facts, this institu
tion, the American Colonization Soci
ety, with that good faith which ha
uniformly marked all its dealings with
us, did, by a set of resolutions, in Jan
’i uary, in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and forty-six,
dissolve ail political connection with
the people of this Republic, return the
power with which it was delegated,
and left the people to the government
i of themselves.
The people of the Republic of Libe-
V ria, then, are of right, and in fact, a
fiee, sovereign and independent State,
possessed of all the rights, powers and
functions of government.
In assuming the momentous respon
abilities of the position they have
taken, the people of this Republic feel
justified by the necessities of the case,
i and with this conviction they throw
themselves with confidence upon the
cand.d consideration of the civilized
world.
Liberia is not the offspring of grasp
ing ambition, nor the tool of avaricious
speculation.
C No desire for territorial aggrandize
went brought us to these shores; nor
P do we believe so sordid a motive en
tered into the high considerations ol
th se who aided us in providing this
asylum.
Liberia is an asylum from the most
grinding oppression.
In coming to the shores of Africa,
we indulged the pleasing hope that wc
would be permitted to exercise and im
prove those faculties which impart to
man his dignity; to nourish in our
hearts the flame of honorable ambition;
to cherish and indulge those aspirations
which a beneficent Creator had im
planted in every human heart; and to
evince to all who despi-e, ridicule and
oppress our race, that we possess with
them a common nature, are with them
susceptible of equal refinement, and
capable of equal advancement in all
that adorns and dignifies man.
We were animated with the hope,
that here wc should be st liberty' to
train up our children in the way they
should go; to inspire them with the
flame of a lofty philanthropy, and to
form strong within them the principles
of humanity, virtue and religion.
Among the strongest motives to
leave our native land—to abandon for
ever the scenes of our childhood, and
to sever the iws» endeared connexions,
was the desire fi r a retreat where, free
from the agitations of fear and moles
tation, we could, in composure and
security, approach in worship the God
of our father*
Thus far our highest hopes hnvs
been realised.
Liberia is already the happy home of
thousands, who were once the doomed
tut Hits of eppreaeton, and if tell unmo
lested to go on with her natwtal and
i spontaneous growth; if her movements
be left faee from the pereiysmg in
trigues of jealous ambition and unscru- 1
puloua avarice, she trill throw open a J
wider and yet a wider door for thous
ands, who are now looking with an
anxious eye for some land ot rest.
Our couits of justice are open equally
to the stranger and the citizen for the
redress of grievances, for the remedy
of injuries, and for the punishment ol
crime.
Our numerous and well attended
schools attest our effoits and our desire
for the improvement of our children.
Our churches for the worship of our
Creator, everywhere to be seen, bear
testimony to our piety, and to our ac
knowledgment i f His Providence.
The native African, bowii.g d wn
with us before the altar of the liviivg
God, declare that from us, feeble as
wc aie, the light of Christianity has
g ne forth, winle upon that curse o*
curses, the slave trade, a deadly blight
has fallen, as far as cur influence ex
tends.
Therefore, in the name of humanity,;
and viitue, and religion, in the name
of the g;eat God, our common Ci tutor
and our common judge, we appeal to
the nations of Christendom, and ear
nestly and respectfully ask ot them that
they will regard us with the sympathy
and friendly consideration to which the
peculiarities of our condition entitle us,
and to extend to us that comity which
marks the friendly intercourse of civil-,
ized and independent communities.
Fr>m die New York A. f .v.*cate nil GuarJiun.
A STANDARD-HEARER HAS
FALLEN.
A man of God, fouail faithful to his trust,
As Go ’s smbassaiior, !mt yt*ttrrioy
Was standing at his p*.*!, and wort s cf truth
Frll from his lips with solemn earnestness,
As from a dymg man to dying men. 1
To-duy those ten let tune* ate l-.uslie I in death!
The love J, the the giftc speaks no moie.
ttis lyre is tuned in other wot I s than tins;
His earthly toils all left to other han Is.
The ft ten iless and oppressed hare I st a friend,
Pcf.-tni in all its f rms lias suffered Las.
V, tut no firmer a .vacate e’er knew,
Her Weeding cause has few such tricn Is to lose—
WA' ftom the saetc i uh.u shall aiise,
j T till the breach, and utter all the law.”
From a communication received fr m
a friend in Poughkeepsie, dated Nov.
i 23d, we copy the foil wing extract:
“I presume before this
v u have received the sad news of the
death of that truly devoted friend of the
cause of moral purity, Rev. Charles
Van Loon. You will, I know', pa’don
me for intruding so much on your time,
hut I felt const!ained to give vent to
mv full heart, in penning a few lines
relative to the departure of one wb si*
loss is so deeply felt by this community,
and bv ethers. He was taken last
Sabbath, just before the time for even
inrr service, and died about 12 o'clock
the same night. He preached in hi?
usual impressive manner, on Sabbat!
morning, from the text, 4 1 am noi
alone, for the Father is w ith me/ It
his closing remark upon death, he sail!
the Christian was not alone. Hark,’
said he, what voice is that I hear? It
is the receding voice of the watchman
’(just before the morn, saying, All’s
j well, all ’s well. Oh, I felt as I hr Id
his cold hand while being paralyzed by
l the chill of death, and looked upon that
i beautiful face as the change of death
was passing over it, if those lips could
I speak, they would say, ‘All’s well;’
but that was not permitted: he was
j speechless from the time he was taken
.j until the last, lie was taken with
paralysis, occasioned by disease of the
heart, but breathed his last calmly,
without a struggle, so vve could hardly
believe he had gone. He was to have
preached in the evening from the text,
We all d i fade as a leaf,’ and said, as
the congregation were about leaving,
‘Remember, my friends, the withered
leaf will preach to you this evening.’
Oh, it seemed prophetic; for how cm-
I phatically it did preach.
“But his work was done, and well
done. There was no man that would
so fearlessly speak the whole counsel
of God, and reprove sin, all sin, as he.
The people of this village, can bear
testimony to that. I ever felt satisfied
in sitting under his ministry, that I was
listening to one who made no compro
mises, and who would do his dutv, rc
gardlc.-s of consequences. He thought
not a moment about worldly expediency,
but when he heard the voice of his Mas
ter saying, ‘This is the way; walk ye
in it,’ he conferred not with flesh and
blood, hut went forward. The oppresed,
the fallen and exposed of every class,
have lost a friend indeed. Oh, that we
may be anew consecrated to that work
j to which he was so devoted.
Rev. H. G. Ludlow, in an affecting
f manner, pronounced an eulogy upon
him as a man and a Christian, and such
an one as I never heard before. He
said he 4 was a nobleman in every sense
of the word; he was ttuly a holy man.
Never did I know a man like Charles
Van Loon. May his spirit fall on us
all.’ He was so affected that he could
hardly proceed.
“Mr. Waldo feels his loss deeply;
they sympathized with each other in
the moral reforms of the day, and were
like brothers. While lie gazed upon
that lovely countenance, cold in death,
it seemed as if his heart would break.
\Y e never shall look upon his bke
again, nor can his pulpit be filled by
another like h m. You w ill excuse my
saying so much, but you know not how
we I jved him. His poor, alllictcd
widow is almort heart-broken, and a
wide circle of bereaved friends will
deeply mourn their loss.’* r. w.
It will be recollected that our de
parted brother was one of the speakers
who addressed our late meeting at
•vhrt.-r. j i
t w Kbuvi.Ut
ren expected ere this in our paper.
I he Uriel notes taken of it would Itaxe
>etn given with the procei dings of the
meeting but for the fact that we relied
on a personal promise receivi d, that
the address should he furnished entire
for our pages. We had anticipated in
reception, and feared that illness cans# d
the delay, up to the receipt of the above
painful announcement. Thu address
contained a better, more conclusive
argumi nt tn favor of legal enactments
for the suppression of vice, than any
w« have yet beard, and appeal* d most
persua-ively to the ©oiMwiences of the
j leg is 111 ova, several of wb<m pr*»v
-j Wentially present to bear if. The claims
in Hm aeveral depail
monm w*n pleaded with tbc earnest
ttaaa ad mm Hbui words were bat the
m-rnm- lb* heart, and tbe
tkmmi tpml I* ib* friends amut to
haU on their way, taking encourage
ment from the indications of
and the promises of God, would not
probably .have been couched in strong
terms, had the speaker been fully a»ire
that he was speaking to us a< a n asso
ciation f r the last time.
Beloved ft tends of moral puritv
the solemn assembly, in the
circle, wc shall hear his voice no more
With the friends of tempi ranee, and t b*
friends of the slave, we may w’tU w#
tbe badge of sorrow. More cause
have we than they, for cur efficient
advocates are fewer among Ike teach
trs in Israel. The dear departed w a
not only a fa tiiful champim in the
enu-c, hut a brother in adveisity. \V C
well remember h:s woids of encourage
ment ar.d sympathy, when the trial h< ur
was darkest. “Leam,” said he,
sail complacently upon troubled waters
know ii g that the Lord of the stun*
above tuemr” and once and again, by
precept aud example, lia9 he b;d u*
to trend the thorns down,” ar.d pi css
onward.
We cannot contemplate his early
exit without deep emotion; and yet wc
rejoice that he has gained the bliss of
raven, and that he uas so Jong fpared
to do go d.
Are wo not admonished cn c?rry
hand by the voice of suddi n death
Many, during the past year, who, t.c
human view, cow’d ill Be sparru rr<
their posts of labor, have nly
obeyed the summons to depart henn-
Who among the living shnll he next to*
fall Who of us, in view ot the coinim*
shaft, would be ready to re.-pi nd wab
sweet composure, “My Master’s time
is mine?”
AN UTRACTr
There is a heresy—a most death
dealing heresy—p;e\alei,t among huh
white and colored people in this land,
in regard to the ahclitirn ot slavery.
It may be best expressed in ihe la.i
i.uage<fits own choice, to w it: Ma
very will he abi d just when the
Loid shall will its ab< litien.” Hat
white persons, csjecially j.r<— laviu
mi isters, and h’ p< critical 1 rcfois of
I)ivin ty, should use this miserable cart,
does not excite my surprise as much as
mv i‘idi_jns.t oi; but t at c< lore dpr tsr r.s
sh iild beguiled aud lulled ini a stiite
ofinuiflerencc atroul ihci r ghtsoi su h
a plea, fills me with umi i. g;ed m ititi
cation. It is a delusion and a snare,
:t think that Almighty d will undir
t ta’ce for us any Isrther than we under
take lor ourselves. His w< rk is dime;
ours al ne remains to be done.
G d’s work, is as ctaiphte m the
nr >ral and intellectual elements of ena
ction as it is in tbe physical works of
creati *n, and we hfive as much right to
expect that he will loake the coin to
grow and give us an abundant harvest,
vvithoat efi<>rt on our pait, as to expect
that we shall he a free and happy peo
ple, without effort on our part. It there
he one thing in i ur pet pie which. I
abominate more than another, it is th« ir
ever lasting praying for bit ssings w hi< b
they arc unwilling to lab r Ibr. I ir
member, when a slave, I used to piay
that the Lord would give me iret 4 m.
1 prayi d thus three yiaa*, and
far frein freedom in that way the thud
yearns the first; and I might have
prayed in slavery till this time, had J
not prayed n iih my heels/’ Cur work*
must be consistent with our praver*,
otherwise they are nn abomination be
fre God. \Ve shall redeem the slave
at the South, and obtain equal rights at
the North, just so soon us we have
faithfully used these means w hii h G< d
and Nature have placid witfiia cur
feach, and not befi rc "J cti'
miracles have passed. Truth, Love
and Justice are the instruments of sal
vation, ar.d “he only ie trcQ
Truth makes free.” The Almighty
will not make the ignorant inti iligi nb
the degraded respectable, the diunkia
sober, nor the indolent Uidustru w*. Ia
these respects man is to work out his
ow n salvation, and God will bless him
in the effort.
IllbGLfi’S VVATI li-t l KF.
A LTEOVCR mnnv ol vour renders I.a* elc< n
maiie acquainted with'Ur. lircru i skill m
delecting the symptoms of disease by the
sens#.* of touch, and ol the haj j y ri si Its that
have attended his appliratnm if the walcr
treatment in remarkable rases, I should do m
it a privilege to be allowed, through the roi
ernt.s of your ajcr, lo elate, for the mforji a
tion and encouragement of etch as nay be
suffering from scroft lows humor, the result cf
hss treatment in the f#.]b>u ing case
My son, t#*n years of age, irhented ib:s
debilitating disease fioin his mother. From
h:s infancy, I had raaorlcd lo the reinedie# ft
the regular hysicians, ai d the \ar;oi s is<k
m dirincs in t sc, without at til. In the Ac
mer of 1845, his sviuf ton s Iwiane n ore
alarming. Nausea, vertigo, inf an.mm ion of
the bowels, and extreme weakncr* i the n<r
voussystem, were among the syn p on s which
deeply concerned the family h r hrs luurc
prospects. At ihis time h#* wen examined by
fir. Huggles, who considered him a go#d
for the cure. lat once j land him under Ui*
eve, w here he renamed arid seven
during which time he had a jau.M cr*
which cinummced on the tiLr-k <f h s tody,,
ard extended dow n the legs to the f**el ar.d
toi*s, whkh became ti.fcnad aid tvoUei n*
rr ore than tw uv their t n u arv ire .lie toll r
of his f#*el changing ahcrratclv f #n. a lid to
a puqdish hut*. Thev f rally hi came wf
piarated, in which state they iei lir.u#d afrit
six weeks, ihe hi mor ex baling iu m the
of hisTeet aud the e» <N of his tec*, Usurg
thi* system entirely free fr# m ifiw i sc. Sine
Fax ii g ihe cure, he hat grown a* f»n es
could be desired, and renunues in the en.oy
tnent of good health.
AUSTIN ROSS.
NoitTi:A>:rTOS. Pcc. 16, 1817.
Anti-Si *vsav Monxtxi tv Vraoisu
J tie huusutk Ax an. me i soimm.mii*
mencement of a movement in t ta. lot
h'mar.ci|*si!#>n. It i* ma«le hv rpspimxiM* jeo
roes—mostly *fs*e-)ioldem. This njoxrmrrt
will answer ihe puipo*#-. st ties*, f rttirf
inquiry and aviiaiMtu. U e know that u«#
in Yirgitus are at Xm*i s for t'uaue
Mtinn, in fmrt, unless it dors take !;i.
larrr part of Vicuna ihrentctts to beo-mi
wiMrrani.
The FaajMiacr, spcakmg of thw woxwcal.
ay*
T}** important «m« MMSapre h*
«*p bs* tskrs t»*
•tsvrhohfrrs ih< in«rhr, T»w rhuftrur
Hrfser, R J|, sell
known pstWNMIf V m Htsrsctrr (h**n»fku«il
ifgmta and Ksnturkv, msn iMt Dixm* d
the rrrsbvtsotMi tmreh srd on* of the lr»f
•d men of ike Hnuik Rt h him —nwn»
ted N KrD Mmn>, Jells letahti, bits H
*o?. Ins O llswohi t frtir A
J H Intrv, I rlwrf. iso. b*ha M
J Fuller, J,„ #k.oi. mIWnR
FaIW AU ikons am an «d «knr**«M,
wnriy all nf iksm w know «fa«ehollers