DOINGS IN MARYLAND.
Correspondence of the Tribune.
Baltimore, June 20, 1848.
I observe that you state, on t*.ie au
thority of the Baltimore Sun, |he fact
of the recent conviction, in Somerset
County, of the free colored man Ste
phen Redden, on the charge of hav
ing in his possession certain pictures of
an abolition character, contrary to the
act in such cases,” and express the re
gret that the nature of the penalty was
not stated. Observing a similar call for
light in other Northern papers, I have
thought it well to answer your questions
in order that, if there be yet in the
Free States a single man who is really
uninformed of the true character of the
Slavery-protecting laws of the land of
Calvert, (“tolerant Calvert,”) he may
not be left in ignorance on the subject
any longer—perhaps to the pleading
of that ignorance hereafter, as an ex
cuse for not having thrown his voice
and his vote against the further exten
sion of the prolific root of all such op
pressive laws!
The law under which Redden was
convicted was, doubtless, that passed in
1835, as a supplement to a previous
law on the same subject, which was
enacted in 1831, but not found suffi
cient in its provisions and penalties.—
It has several sections, one of which
relates to the publishing of forbidden
matter—intended to overawe the free
dom of the press! The section relating
to the circulation of incendiary mat
ter,” reads as follows;
Be it enacted by the General As
sembly of Maryland, That, after the
passage of this act, it shall be deemed
a high offence against the Supremacy
of this State, for any person knowingly
to circulate, or in any way knowingly
to assist in circulating, among the in
habitants thereof, any pictorial repre
sentation, or any pamphlet, newspaper,
feaolMU or other paper,printed or writ
lea, of sr tefiaminatory character, hav
ing a tendency to create discontent
among, and stir up to insurrection, the
people of color of this State, and that
every person that shall be duly con
victed of this offctt.ee, ahull be guilty of
felony, and shall be seiiteneed to un
dergo a confinement in the Peniteatiary
of this State, for a period of time not
less than 10, nor more than 20 years,
from the time of sentence on such of
fender.”
L>o you ask me whether this enact
ment is not a dead letter” on the
Statute book of Maryland, sq as to ren
4«r the conviction of Redden a mere
Pf?*’. trough for the purpose of
intirmdqtion? 1 answer, No! Such
cruel farces »re, I know, sometimes
enacted m our houthern Courts, as in
fbe memorable case of Brown,who was
seateuoed to death by Judge O’Neil,
under the laws of South Carolina, for
•piritmg away his betrothed, but our
)«w ts reality. But recently our new
Democratic Governor reprieved a col
ored man, who had been confined in the
Penitentiary for nine of the “ten years”
provided in the above law, as the mini
mum penalty for this felony." j nm
for to the ew« of Sherry Wilson .which
the readers of that valuable melange
the Liberty Hell,” will remember to
tare read, M described by Caroline
Healy Dale in words of touching pa
thos. It is true that the indulgent
treatment poor
THE NORTH STAR.
during those long nine years, placed as
he was in the capacity of gardener in
summer and boot-black in winter—a
general favorite of the officials did he,
indeed, become —indicated more plainly
than words could have done, that those
who daily looked upon his venerable
form, felt that he was guilty of no crime
and deserved no punishment, and that
the law ought to be a dead letter; but
still he remained in that gloomy prison
I for thoee long and weary years, an ex
i ile from home and family, in obedience
to this same law, unwarrantably cruel
as it will seem to those who read its
provisions for the first time.
No! it is not a dead letter; and,
doubtless, had not the present victim ol
this law, in the spirit of Roman chival
ry, preferred death to imprisonment,
Stephen Redden would, ere this, have
taken Sherry Wilson’s place. For, be
1 it known, that like the slaves in Ken
tucky, whose tragic end is now thrill
ing the minds of Uiousands of humane
readers wherever the newspapers have
dared to give them the facts, Stephen
has chosen to die by his own hand!
I never have been able to justify the
act of suicide, and I have been of the
impress! hi that it could not well be the
promptings of a sane mind; but if there
is an exception to be allowed, it seems to
me that exception is furnished in such
a case as this. If there was meaning,
beyond the mere sound of a rhetorical
imprecation, in the exclamation of
Patrick Henry, Give ine Liberty, or
give ine Death! then we cannot help
sympathizing w r ith a poor, frieudless
individual, of a downtrodden race, ar
raigned in a slaveholding community,
before a slaveholding judge and a slave
holding jury, without money to employ
counsel, and convicted under laws of
1 which he was in all probability totally
ignorant, as was Sherry Wilson, and
whose penalties his imagination might
well be expected to exaggerate into
worse than a scaffold death—ay, even
in that act of suicide which has hurried
his soul into the presence of its God!—
An anti-slavery writer has well and
forcibly remarked, that slavery is
an anomaly,.that one cannot subject it
to rules of right and wrong applicable
to most other subjects of human in
quiry. Thousands of facts in the ter
rific history of this, our national crime,
have illustrated the thought and stamped
it true.
While I have my pen in hand, I will
give your readers another piece of
news, which may serve to relieve the
giooui of the narrative just given. It j
had been for some weeks rumored that!
our prince of slavedealers, Hope Hull!
Blatter, had abandoned the accursed
traffic, and closed up histolave prison.
Although a friend of mine, doing busi
ness nearly opposite to the establish
ment, told me that he had the fact from
Slatter’s own lips, it was such cheering
news as to stagger my credulity—too
good to be believed. But, when at the
prison of one of his competitors,
Campbell Co., (where, let me say in
a satisfactory parenthesis, I went to re
ceive into freedom Ellen Stewart, slave
of Mrs. Madison—one of the Pearl fu
gitives,) 1 was assured that there was
no mistake about the truth of the ru
mor. It seems the lot from the Pearl,
over which Rev. Henry Slicer struck
hands in such clerical complaisance,
according to the graphic description of
Hon. Mr. Siingerland, was about the
last that Slatter had the heart to buy.
Whether the scathing denunciations of
him and his tnffic, quoted by Mr. Sli
cer in his lame attempt at a defence,
were instr umental in converting Slatter,
I am unable to say; but certainly the
publication of them in the body of Mr.
Slicer’s letter in the Clipper, was at
least one help to the cause of truth—
albeit, the Reverend gentlemen was far
front intending it to have any such
goodly effect.
By the by, I observe that some of
the Northern papers—the Anti-Slavery
Standard am ng them—still speak cf
Slatter as a member of the Methodist
Episcopal Church. This is certainly,
not the fact. So far, he is only a pew-<
holder, (iu the Pew Church,” built &i
year or two ago by the Methodist elile,)
his wife being a member, I believe.—
However, it is not improbable that he
will be a member before long, should
he continue in his penitent state. My
friend above mentioned understood him l
to say that he would join the church, if
they would receive him. Why not re
ceive him? Mr. Slatter, aside from his
disreputable business, is a man whose
qualities could not fail to make him a i
useful member. Indeed, so different in
physical and intellectual conformation
—so far as one can judge without inti
mate acquaintance —is he from most oi
the men who have stood forth as human
flesh-mongers, that the surprise ha«
always been that he has continued sot
long in the business! But, apart from
these considerations, surely a slave
dealer out of the business is as worthy
to beeorne a church member as a slave
holder in his position; and it is well
known that there are thousands of
slaveholders in the Methodist Episco
pal Church! I see no reason, there
fore, w r hy Mr. Slatter should not be re
ceived with open arms the moment he
gives reasonable evidence that be has
resolved to sio no more. If a prece
dent were wanting, it might easily be
found in the case of Mr. Parsons, of
this city, who, becoming convinced of
the sinfoiness of the same traffic, aban
doned it, tore down his slave-prison,
built dwellings with the materials, and
joined the church!
By the by, teeing that the General
Conference, during its recent session in
Pittsburgh, restored the good old Wes
leyan rale respecting the exclusion of
rumsellers from the church, would it
not have been wise mad more ooaaiat
-1 fo fcw jfUjrged to ikfi Wpsbyaa
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD IS THE FATHER OF US afJ-, AND ALL WE are BRETHREN.
platform with respect to slaveholders
also? Alas! how has the glory of early
Methodism departed! No longer do
we hear slavery denounced in the lan
guage of scathing rebuke which he
habituelly used; but, on the contrary,
we behold the lamentsble spectacle of
a division of tbe church preferred to
the giving up of this darling sin, and
one half thereof seemingly taking the
ground of the Calhoun school, as if
slavery were the only sure foundation
of Christianity as well as of Republi
canism But 1 do not wish to be un
derstood as singling out the Methodist
Church as alone guilty in this respect.
The Presbyterian Church—the Church
of my fathers—has indicated afresh,
through her General Assembly recently
convened in this city, that she is given
over to the same unrighteousness.
Never was more special pains taken by
any body of Christians to keep the
subject of slavery out of the discussions
than by that same body—first, by plac
ing Rev. Dr. Thornweli, of Charleston,
S. C., at the head of the business com
mittee, (the “Committee on Over
tures,” 1 believe it is called); and, sec
ondly, by the maneuvering of the
stated clerk, who appeared to be a
“Northern man with Southern princi
ples,” selected with special reference
to his qualifications for the work! Ev
ery avenue whereby the question might
by any possibility find an entrance, was
guarded by Cerberus-like care —so
much so, that the word Slavery
would probably not have been found on
the minutes, had it not been for Rev.
Mr. Finney, a quite young man from
New Philadelphia, Ohio, and some
two or three other noble spirits who
had the nerve to join with him in a pro
test against the exclusion of the usual
epistle from the Irish Church! This
was not all. The Assembly even re
sorted to the expedient of puffing the
African Colonization scheme, as such
—a plan of quasi Anti-slavery which
just serves to quiet the consciences ol
thousands whose moral feelings have
been touched by the living truths of re
form! Oh! the immense—the irre-
I sistihle power of the Churches of this
land, if they would only consent to bear
the Cross in their hearts and lives, in
stead of upon their steeples and on
their lips in forms of outward praise and
prayer!
But I must stop, having extended this
letter to a length far beyond what I
designed—led on as I have been by a
class of facts and feelings that ever
rush to my pen and clamor for utter
ance the moment I touch the theme of
my country’s giant curse and sin.
J. E. S.
FREE ROIL CONVENTION AT
WORCESTER,
The following resolutions, among
others, were reported by the Coinmitee
and adopted.
Whereas, The Whigs of Massachu
setts, in their Convention of the 29th of
September, 1847, unanimously adopted
among other resolutions, the following:
Resolved, That if the war shall be
prosecuted to the final subjugation or
dismemberment of Mexico, the Whigs
of Massachusetts now declare, and put
this declaration of their purpose on re
cord—that Massachusetts will never
consent that American territory, how
ever acquired, shall become a part of
the American Union, unless on the un
alterable condition that, there shall
be neither slavery nor involuntary ser
vitude therein, otherwise than in the
punishment of crime.”
Resolved, That in making this de
claration of her purpose, Massachusetts
announces no new principle of action
in regard to her sister States, and
makes no new application of principles
already acknowledged. She merely
states the great American principle
embodied in our Declaration of Inde
pendence—the political equality qf per
sons in the civil State—the principles
adopted in the legislation of the States
under the confederation—and sanction
ed by the Constitution—in the admis
sion of all the new States formed from
the only territory belonging to the
Union at the adoption of the Constitu
tion. It is in short the imperishable
principle set forth in the ever momora
ble Ordinance of 1787, which has for
more than half a century been the fun
damental law of human liberty to the
great valleys of the lakes, the Ohio and
the Mississippi, with what brilliant suc
cess and with what unparalleled results
let the great growing States of Ohio,
Indiana and Illinois, Michigan and
Wisconsin, answer and declare.
And Whereas, a portion of the
Whigs have since that time nominated
Candidates for the Presidency and
Vice Presidency, without paying the
Smallest regard to the principles herein
declared, and even ventured to stifle
the discussion of the same in their Na
tional Convention—
Resolved, That we, tbe People of
Massachusetts, re-affirm the said de
claration as tbe voice of the Common
wealth, and whoever else may desert
or betray, we will inflexibly adhere to
the principles of freedom therein de
clared as the ark of our political salva
tion.
Resolved, That, we, the people of
Massachusetts, wsHl support no men as
candidates for the offices of President
and Vice President, but those who are
known by their acts or declared opin
ions to be opposed to the extension of
Slavery.
Resolved, That the power to prohib
it the introduction of Slavery into the
territories of the United States in dear
ly delegated to Congress by the Con
stitution; and that the highest consid
erations of patriotism, the Wrongest
sentiments of justice and humanity, nod
a proper respect for tfe* enKfbtcaed
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, JULY 14, 1848.
opinion of mankind, require that this
power should be exercised in favor ol
freedom.
Resolved, That in view of the im
portance and necessity of a full discus
sion of the greet question of the dsy,
we recommend to oer friends through
out the State, the establishment in eve
ry town and school district, of Freedom
Leagues for tbe dissemination of Free
principles, and of a like central league
for the County, for the dissemination
of sound opinions on these subjects by
personal discussion and cheap publica
tions.
Resolved, That Massachusetts wears
no chains, and spurns all bribes,—-that
Massachusetts goes now, and will ever
go, for free soil and free men, for free
lips and a free press, for a free land
and a free world.
Resolved, That this Convention
deems itself greatly honored by the
presence of Joshua R. Giddings ol
Ohio; and that it desires to express the
universal conviction of the opponents
of Slavery throughout the free States,
that there is no man living by whom the
great cause which they have at heart
has been so effectually sustained, or to
whom, at this critical moment, in view
of all that can be required of ability,
and discretion, and firmness, it can be
more safely entrusted.
Resolved. That this Convention re
gards with deep interest the' position
assumed by the Democratic party of
the State of New York, as represented
by the Convention recently held in
Utica; that it applauds the earnestness
and unanimity with which the principle
of free territory has been incorporated
into tbe basis of their organization; that
it commends the wisdom and manliness
which have been exhibited by Mr. Van
Buren in his correspondence upon this
subject; and that it anticipates the
most satisfactory results from the effect
of its proceedings upon all true Demo
crats throughout the Free States, who
are prepared to act together in prohib
iting the extension of slavery.
EXTRACT
From the Address read to the People’s Convention at
Worcester, by Hon. 8. C. Phillips.
TO THE PEOPLE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Fellow* Citizens;
The occasion on which we have
assembled demands of us an appeal to
the public sentiment of Massachusetts.
The occasion, in all its aspects, is ex
traordinary; and we cannot but feel
that when you shall ponder, as we have
done, with calmness, and under a high
sense of responsibility, the duty which
we all owe to the State and country,
the purpose we „have formed will com
mend itself to your judgment*, and that
your hearts must respond to the motives
by which we are actuated.
This Convention, as is well known,
was called by a small body of Whigs,
acting without any formal organization,
and relying upon the supposed state of
public feeling to mould its character,
and demonstrate its effectiveness. The
call was addressed to all who should
feel themselves interested in the de
clared purpose of the Convention; and
now that the day of meeting has ar
rived, the Convention is found to be
composed of many thousand citizens of
Massachusetts, of all parties, who
agree in the conclusion that they are
not prepared, and that they cannot be
persuaded to support Gen. Taylor or
Gen. Cass as a candidate for the Presi
dency.
It is deemed an insuperable objection
to the support of Gen. Cass, that, with
his admitted qualifications in some re
spects, he is still too much of a politi
cian, and not enough of a man, to meet
the crisis in which the country is in
volved. Born and educated in New
England, a pioneer in the settlement of
the Western wilderness, and bound by
all his habits and associatons to pre
serve untainted the spirit of a free man,
he has been prevailed upon to barter
his birth-right for the Presidency; and
he .stands before the nation, availing
himself of the advantages of his posi
tion as a candidate from the free States,
that he may acquire the power of estab
lisHing a policy which is designed to
perpetuate the ascendancy of the slave
States. Shame, we say, upon any pro
fessed Democrat, who can thus prove
himself insensible to the monstrous in
compatibility between an adherence to
Democratic principle* and the political
support of slavery! Shame, we add,
upon the candidate and the party, who
are not only prepared to assent to the
continuance of slavery in this professed
Republic, and a bo do not think it
hardship and disgrace enough to pledge
their power to sustain it where it exists,
but who also combine to make it a con
dition of the coming election, that there
shall be no opposition to the extension
of slavery, so far as slaveholders may
find it for their interests to extend it,
into any free territory acquired or to be
acquired by the Federal Government!
Let us congratulate ourselves that re
cent demonstrations, in New York and
elsewhere, make it certain that the le
gitimate anti-slavery tendency of De
mocratic sentiments is beginning to be
felt, avowed, end acted upon? and let
us rejoice to be assured that there are
already those amongst our Democratic
fellow-catiseft* of Massachusetts who
will henceforth emulate the firmest
Whigs in resisting aft tbe polls the elec
tion of any candidate from their ranks
wbouu chief recommendation it is, that
he is the champion or the dupe of the
slave power.
By the Whig* kero assembled it is
felt to be u duty to protest against tbo
priori sal act ol tbe Convention recent
ly held in the name of tbe Whig party
i Philadelphia. Upon u review of tbe
j proceedings of that body, it as imposm
l&s mi to sss that Ibsjr a*s without a
precedent in the history of the part/,
and that the/ involve alike an abandoo
meot of its principles and usages, a
disregard of the merits and services ol
its well-known and long-trusted leaders,
and the surrender to exterior dictation
of all discretionary authority in the
Convention to deliberate and act for
itself. Abstaining from the perform
ance of its manifest duty, by nominat
ing as a candidate for the Presidency,
some universally-recognized and ap
proved Whig, that Convention has re
sorted to the suicidal policy of endorsing
a nomination previously made by or
ganization's snd anomalous assem
blages having no political sympathy
with the Whig cause.
Of the candidate thus adopted, it
were, under ordinary circumstances,
enough to state, in objecting to him,
that he had explicitly refused to be con
sidered an expooent of the doctrines
of the Whig party and that he waa
known to be unwilling to accept a Whig
nomination on the only terms to which,
in reference to any other candidate, the
party would accede. But it is not, un
der ordinary circumstances, or in con
formity to an usual course of proceed
ing, or solely for the sake of aiding the
legitimate objects of the Whig party,
that General Taylor has been enabled
to attain the position, in which it is
claimed for him, that he is entitled to
their suffrages. So extraordinary a
result has been of course brought about
under extraordinary circumstances, by
the use of extraordinary means, and
for the promotion of an end which
ought now to be considered and ex
posed.
There may be no foundation tor the
suspicion that General Taylor has been
unduly prompted by his military fame
to aspire to the rewards of political
ambition; although it is to suppose him
exempt from human infirmity, not to
regard him as in great danger of
yielding to a temptation which has
seldom failed to be irresistible. That
none could have been more surprised
than himself by the form and degree of
the manifestations of public favor, of
which he has been the object, is made
apparent by his acknowledgments and
conduct; and it is a compliment to his
candor, which ought not to be with
held, that he has made himself the high
est authority for declaring his entire
disqualification for the distinction which
is sought for him.
That the resort to Gen. Taylor as a
candidate for the Presidency, was at
first a movement which seemed scarcely
to be seriously undertaken, all must
remember and it is therefore import
ant to review the succession of circum
stances, which has gradually imparted
to it alo many elements of. probable
success.
The leaders of the Whig party de
termined, like their opponents, to risk
the result of maintaining their organi
zation. The hope was entertained for
a while, that the obligations of the party
to Henry Clay, and the public sympa
thy which, in some striking modes, had
been expressed in his behalf, might
enable them once more to rally upon
him as their candidate, without incurr
ing the risk of the division that other
wise seemed inevitable. It is a fact to
be thought of, that but for the prospect
of a union upon Mr. Clay, the Whig
party must probably have been dissolved
at the commencement of the canvass.
No Northern Whig, acceptable to the
North, has been named, of whom it is
believed that the South would vote for;
aud it has been all along understood
and virtually conceded, and the whole
action of the party has proceeded upon
this assumption, that the North must
accept a Southern candidate, and must i
not even claim any other. With the
approach of the time for holding a Con
vention, the hope of succeeding with
Mr. Clay, and even of uniting upon
him, became visibly impaired. There
was a want of confidence in his politi-;
cal strength; he was a thrice-defeated
candidate; he had not done enough for
either party—as of course he could not
do enough for both—to bring himself
into full communion with the North or
South upon the great question of the
day; he seemed disposed to maintain j
his old stand upon the ground of com
promise, snd it failed from under him.
He was still not without bis friends; for
no man has been surrounded with
wanner and truer ooea; but there
were tboae who called themeelvea bis
friends, who bad resolved to abandon
him.
It was in this emergency, that the yet
tardy movement toward the support of
Gen. Taylor began to acquire an in
crease of interest. The hero bed re
ceived the nomination of the Native
American party, and bad aceefrted it.
Some detached portions of the Democ
racy bad tendered kirn ibeir support,
and be had accepted it. Sundry meet
ings of the people, almost exclusively
in the shareholding States, bad agreed,
to go for him, without distinction of
party, and be bad approved their pur
pose, and encouraged k. AU this bad
been done, manifestly without sny ex
pectation on his part, that the move
ment would make any farther progress,
or assume any other shape, than to
bun before the public aa a com
petitor with the regular candidates of
Um two grant parties; and (acta made
k certain that he permitted the move
ment, and promoted it with the sole
expectation and wish of eneonoteriag
the candidates of both parties, and of
I defeating them. In this state of things,,
the Whig polkieiaasdf the South, read
3y parcel vtag that, noon the abandon
ment of Mr. Clay, there was an other
atsveboldiag Whig in behalf of whom
tho Northern Whigs could be expected
to snerifico their sdmktsd right In a
candidate, to contemplate the po
sition of Gen, Taylor. They duly as
y a
timeted the advantages of has military
reputation, and tho political value of the
popular applause, which, for dm mo
-1 meat, waa everywhere concentrated
upon him. They recognized in him a
slaveholder, all whose interests wtre
deeply staked in the maintenance ol
slavery, and who bad allowed himself
to be described by bis friends as being
"as true to the South ns the needle to
the pole.'* They saw, toe, that the
glare of his military reputation would
be sufficient to conceal this fact at the
North, from the vision of nil, except
tbe more sensitive AboHtionists; and
they calculated, with tbe help of North
ern advisers, bow much this fact might
contribute to make him "tbe only
slaveholder that couM be elected."
The coincidence of the facts that the
Conventions of both parties have re
sulted in the nomination of candidates
identified with or pledged to tbe slave
bolding interests, end that it has been
the immediate effect of such nomina
tions to produce at once a division in
each party, of sufficient importance se
riously to impair its strength, or to de
stroy it, is the explanation of still an
other and most important fact, which
the numerous attendance at this Con
vention most strikingly attests. We
refer to the fact that there is thoughout
the free States a large body of intelli
gent and respectable citizens, until re
cently connected with the Whig and
Democratic parties, who, in connection
with others who had previously aban
doned those parties, now find them
selves ready and able, in good faith,
and upon principle, to organize a new
party, which shall have for its imme
diate object the resistance of every
scheme for the extension of slavery,
and the promotion of all constitutional
measures that are adapted to make the
country, to the utmost practicable ex
tent, a free, virtuous and prosperous
Republic?
The present Convention has been
held to deliberate upon, and to provide
for such an organization, at least so far
as it can be rendered effective, in refer
ence to the approaching Presidential
election. By a similarly-constituted
Convention which has been recently
held in the State of Ohio, it has been
proposed to hold a National Convention
in the CITY OF BUFFALO, on the
NINTH DAY OF AUGUST next, at
which delegates from all the States are
invited to attend, for tbe purpose of
nominating a candidate for the Presi
dency, known to be opposed to the ex
tension of slavery, and who may there
fore be worthy of tbe many thousands
of fiee citizens whoVill not give their
votes to Gen. Taylor or Gen. Casa.—
This Convention has now responded to
tbe call by providing for the appoint
ment of delegates who shall represent
the State of Massachusetts; and we do
not suffer ourselves to doubt that the
popular sentiment of Massachusets is
so far pledged to our object, as to
make it certain that none other than the
candidate of that Convention can re
ceive her electoral vote.
Can we be mistaken? If we are
wrong in the supposition that General
Taylor should not be expected to be in
favor of the legal prohibition of the ex
tension of slavery, we may do him in
justice. But if that supposition be well
founded, is it not to do you the grossest
injustice to take it for granted, or to
believe it to be possible, that any poli
tical combination can be strong enough
to place Massachusetts in a position in
which her prinoiples must be seen to
have been abandoned, and her charac
ter to be sacrificed. Does Massachu
setts abandon her principles, and will
she sacrifice her character? What has
been inscribed upon her Legislative
record so deliberately, and solemnly,
and repeatedly, aa the declaration of
her purpose to resist the aggression of
the slave power, to exert all her politi
cal and moral influence to promote tbe j
abolition of slavery, where it exists, 1
and to assume an attitude of determined
and uncompromising hostility to its ex
tension? Can she be induced to sup
port the nomination of a candidate who
is pledged, or must be expected to de-!
feat his purpose
Again, upon what other groooda can j
Massachusetts be asked or expected to
aid in tbe election of Gen. Taylor?—j
Can she now begin to assent to tbe•
doctrine that k is wise, or necessary,
or safe, to lavish civil honors, sod to
confer the highest political responsibili-;
ties upon military chieftains? Can she,
see in the hasty accomplishment of a
few victories in the Mexican war, aU
the evidence she requires of sound and
enlightened statesmanship, and all tbe
necessary elements of Executive ability
and usefulness? Does rim desire to
establish the precedent, in conformity
to which nil tbe heroes of that war,
from the highest general to the lowest
subaltern, are to consider themselves
entitled, according to this popularity,,
or, k may be, toe pertinacity wkb
which they shall prosecute their claims,
to uke precedence of other citizens, in
obtaining tbe various eivtl offices of tbe
Government? Or, if different results 1
are to he chiefly kept in view, is k
enough for Masse ebueeto, as aamduco
promiees which ate demanded of her,
to receive the iterance that her cki
zene shall not fail of obtaining a share
of the higher honors which the part
of the government may bestow, and that
her tlurrt for spoils shall be calculated
upon, and allowed for, in the aafieipe
tsons of victory? If, at any moment,
it has been supposed that Masse rim
setts might ha enticed, by the bepe of
dart iact ion or of profit, to divest her
self of her integrity, was aha net prop
erly vindicated by Charles Allan, when
he assured the UsreatiM at Philadel
phia, that she ‘spume the bribe?’
r, oft* of HMMckoMtta! TW
0-
JOHft DICK, hauwat.
WHOLE NO.-20.
course of duty is plain before ns? TUb
ts not the time to profess, but to art
upon oar principles. Tbit is not dm
time to shrink from trial, but to meet
it. The movement we base nidittntea
w« bow tmi «W.M it
not b« begun now, and here? When
Ohio leads the way, and New York
beckons bar to follow on tbe patk, is
ready to go forward?
W ben Ohio, and New York, end Mas
sachusetts shall have taken the field
together, any sot tbe union and co-op
eration of afl tbe Free States be safely
relied upon
Let ue not he discouraged. Them
am auspicious signs ia every direction.
The opposition to our movement, which
has thus far been attempted or threat
ened, betokens, on the part of oppo
nents, a most encouraging conscious
ness of our strength. Tbe symptoms
of dissolution in both tbe Whig and
Democratic parties, assure aa of the
additions? vigor that must be imparted
to our organization. We begin to sea
who they are that will toon be wkb as;
not at once tbe leaders, or the mem
politicians, or the office-holders, or of
fice-seekers of either party, and o!
course not their numerous satellites and
dependants—not at once the timidly
conservative, whose instinct k is to (bar
change and resist progress, even in a
right direction—not at once the unre
flecting, the undecided, and tbe irreso
lute—not quite yet those who calculate
cautiously the chtnces of a failure, and
always wait for the certainty of imme
diate success; but, instead of thsm,
and vastly to he preferred to any
of them, the comparatively few or
many, everywhere, who think and act
for themselves, and who are willing to
think, and will be ready to act in their
various spheres, as soon as this question
of public duty is presented to them—
the strong-minded and determined old
men, who cannot get rid of their settled
convictions, and who wish to spend
their last days in the peace of right
eousness—a large portion of the men
in active life, who make a proper use of
the intelligence and influence which our
free institutions have secured to them
—and a still larger portion of the
youngUr men, who, imbued wkb moral
and religious sentiments, respond with
enthusiasm to the call ol duty, and am
eager, a» they are ready, to en
ter at once upon tbe race of honor.—
To n party constituted of such intellect
ual and moral elements, combining in
fit proportions tbe wisdom of age, the
vigor of manhood, and tbe ardor of
youth, and concentrating all its re
sources upon tbe support of a good
cause, what obstacle can be insure
mountable?
Let us not be discouraged. The
spirit of the country, and the spirit of
the age, are in sympathy with odr
movements. An attempt to supply the
principal defect of our inStkutfeod, to
give complete efficacy to th« DfeJctA
tion of Independence,.to streugChtß (He
foundations of the* Union, must suc
ceed sooner or later, and just aa sahn
as we shall have discharged our whola
duty, a better day will dawn upon the
country. The good of the country is
our object, and we can consult and
provide for k; and as, with pure mo
tives and earnest efforts, we continue to
advance in our patriotic course, more
and more voices will be rawed to cheer
us, more and more hands will be
stretched out to aid us, and more and
more hearts will be warmed with grati
tude to heaven in the prospect of our
success.
Nor will sympathy and co-operation
await us in oor own country alone.—
Every steam-ship that now crosses tbe
Atlantic, is air Anti-Slavery packet, and
comes here freighted wkh intelligence
which serves to advance the cause of
freedom. Every revolution io Europe
re-acts upon America. As chain after
chain is broken there, u becomes the
more difficult to rivet new chains here.
Great Britain, pointing to her emanci
pated colonies, implores us to abolish
slavery. Republican France, too,
promptly appeals by her example. From
tbe banks uf tbe Rhine, from the Seven
Hills of Rome, from tbe towers of Con
stantinople, and from the Barbara
coast, the mingled voice of Protestant
and Catholic Christian# snd of Mahom
etans, solick and remonstrate wkb ua
to remove from our government its only
blemish, to make tbw Republic a model
for tbe world.
We will not, then, be discouraged.
Truth, Justice, Liberty, Patriotism and
Humanity are bound together ia indie
soluble union, and are destined U> share
a common triumph. WE ENOW OUR
DUTY—WE APPEAL TO THE
PEOPLE—AND WE TRUST IN
GOD.
Incatssx or Votes.— It is a singe*
Ur fact that the number of persoii
voting at presidential elections in tbe
United Statee, nearly doubled ha 1840
wbat it bad been in 1835, and that ia
1844 tbe number was still further in
creased. The popoUr vote, since 1828
baa boon as follows;
TEXES. TOTES
Notices.
Annual Meeting.
The 6th Annual Meeting of the Western Anti-Slavery Society will be held at Salem, Columbiana Co., on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 16th, 17th, and 18th, of August, commencing at 10 A.M. Let hill repcesoouuon of Uto slave*
friends come up on this occasion from al
pdbh’of the Otfst 'hje pMitw-al lead
era are rmraballing their hosts for a conflict
thousands to the rapport of thfir party ban
f Ttcn Time, and money, and labor ate ex
pended to secure (heir object. And rdjall Uw
j .tieoda of freedom, whose fejth should lx
aNO| in the power of Truth, he hi he warn
rad mdid'- renl while pofctieiaas ere so ear
(Mht in their labors, so tmtirinf «a their heel
*The event* of the post ye*r shraW fenctforagi
to renewed effort, for every* tmraement o
importance which has been madd, taring ant
hearing upon the question tft slavery, fore
shadows the destruction of flhie system, sot
the oppressors loci that it ia ap. The politico
panics will make a desperate effort to sav<
themselves from the destractioe their eorrup
•ion has brought upon them; and the effort*
of the aboimonisU to maintain and enforce
the Right should he proportionable great.—
Arrangements should be made at the coming
meeting to oontinoe the anti-sliTery agitation
by the lips of the living speaker, and to eX
tend more widely the circulation of the So
ciety’s paper—tbe Anti-Slavery Bugle. Let
none of the friends who can be there, absent
themselves for any light cause, for the pte
eenoe of all, and tiie couosel of all is denira
hie.
Besides Bid friends of Liberty in the "West
who will be present on the occasion, Hen by
C. Wsigut and Chas. C. Burleigh are cx
/pected to be in attendance, and perhaps other
representatives of the East.
LOT HOLMES,
Recording Soc'y.

Meetings in the West.
Henry C. Wright, the Apostle of Peace,
and Charles C. Burleigh, the eloquent Anti
slavery Advocate, will hold meetings at the
following places, viz: at
Pittsburgh, Pa. June 15th, 16th 17th
New Brighton, 19th 20th
Louisville Ohio 22d
Youngstown, 24th 25th
New Lyme 27th
Paincsville, 29th
Chagrin Falls, July Ist 2d
Cleveland, 4 th
Twinsburgh, 6th
Richfield, Bth 9th
Akron, 1 tth
Ravenna, 13th 14th
Randolph, 15th 10th
Massillon, 18th
The meetings at New Lyme, Cleveland,
and Akron, will commence at ten o’clock, A.
_M.; the others, on the first day of the meet
i igs at two o'clock, P. M.; subsequent days
lO A. M.
The friends of Anti-Slavery and of Peace
are requested to make all necessary arrange
ments for the meetings, and give as wide a
notice as possible. New is the time to
agitate,
5 Perarais can avail themselves of this op
portunity afforded by these meetings to pay
ior the Anti-Slavery Standard, to Samuel-
Beooke.
Freedom’s Jubilee.
CELEBRATION AT ROCHESTER, TUESDAY, AUG.
Ist, 1848.
The friends of Freedom in Western New
York, will commemorate the day which gave
freedom to 800,000 human beings in the
West India Isles, and also tender a tribute of
gratitude for the recent French demonstration
of Liberty, Equality, Fraternity.”
ORDER OP THE DAY.
Preliminary exercises at the Ford Street
Baptist Church, commencing at 11 o'clock
A. M. A procession will then be formed at
12 o’clock under the direction of the Mar
shals, Henry Scott, John Douglass, and Elza
•'ll. Johnson, and proceed to Washington
Square in the following order:
Ist. Music.
2d. Benevolent Societies of Rochester and
other places.
3d. President and Vice-President.
4th. Rev. Clergy.
sth. Orators and Reader.
6th. Colored School.
7th. Committee of Arrangements.
Bth. Citizens and Strangers.
EXERCISES AT THE SQUARE.
Prayer.
Freedom’s Ode—By the Liberty Vocalists.
Remarks by the President of the day.
Reading of the British and French Email
pation acts, by David 11. Ray.
Music Address by Fred. Douglass.
Music Address by Charles Lenox Re
mond.
Music Address by Henry W. Johnson,
of Canandaigua.
Benediction.
All riendb of Humanity are inviied to par
ticipate. Come as the waves come! T
N. B. Committee of Arrangements will I
meet at 10 o'clock A. M., to appoint Vice-'
Presidents and to designate the place for next
celebration.
Rodwmer, July, 1818.
t TllJbl CALL.
Tkfcgreat N ation al conven
tion OF COLORED FREEMEN of the j
United States, will be held in Cleveland,
Ohio, commencing on Wednesday, the with i
dsy of September next.
Let tbe Colored Freemen all rally to this
imporUQt gathering. This is a crisis, and
•omethuig we must and will do
.We hope to see the East, North, South
and West, come up iu one mighty, unbroken
phalaax, to do battle for God sod humanity j
(Signed, by request of lUmoia, Indiana,
Michigan, and Ohio, (the Western parts of.
New York and Pennsylvania being’readv.)
M. R. DELANY. 1
Hamilton,Ohio, June 6, 1848.
WT MydUry, ami*!! friradJy please j
j
Wrauro How York A*tJriMftVff, Sodatf.
The Fxooauve Cmm****
Tuesday evening next, July 18th* *1 the
Anti-Shreery Other, 25, Buffalo Srert.
Attendance is requested V o’chick pre
cisely.
we, NEU, R«. 9m ri
Wf 9 f f z At A‘ _
A ..Si
Two hundred and fifty-seven llmtlMunf with
of cotton cloth are manufactured iu LuwcU er- j 1
cry d»y of tbe week except Sunday. |i
for tfoPwiMeaef.
Tip Vrm *nd Dbinqfoiiic Candidates aj
with w |h| oootfrancy let tliej
Taylcs.— so Messrs. Hij
Webster, Clayton and M'Lean, all of whor
(at leaat m the estimation of their friends
possess the requisite mental and civil quail
ficationa for tbe Presidency, are throat aatd
to make room for a miserable oid slave-mon
:*er. who bos an qualifies turn of any sort
i except as a professional butcher of the hutnai
race—an occupation which they do say h
anderatands pretty thoroughly. As the pion
eer of Polk’s hired assassins tn Mexico, Gen
tfr
fienduih massacres of Palo Alto, Montere;
and Bums Mirta, is «detectable war for th<
extension of atavery—and it w this sbotmna
Me fact alone, and net tbs slighu *>l persona
1 men! o* bis part, that basesturud his noun
nano*. Tins well ftpgerstnod. Tbe ole
Tuck is said to be tbe owner of an extenaivi
f sugar plantation on with t*<
;or three hurrdnyf slaves, constantly driven u
unpslfl mil—toil so desperately ealiausting si
,to destroy the lives of the slave*, o* ai
average, in fire yeaxst A delightful condi
date (W.N'ortiiorofnseiaea to support! —llariu
mar f'ruum*.
Lewis ’T'xss.—Th* rties Liberty Prest
winds up Idwg artiele upon the Baltimore
Convention, with the following nonce ol
Lewis Caas. v* ;l .r
We have said n«>ibing specially of the
nominee of the Convention. N'or is it oeccs-
Mry. Lewis Cass jg one of the most misera
ble demagogues, alive. Gross in perstm—
almost idiotic in visage—narrow in intellect
—shrivelled in in taete—treach
erous by instinct crawling in his ambition
—devious is his course—truckling to bia
superiors—mean amoqg his equals—domi
neering to his inferiors—without one particle
of frank manhood in his composition—he is a
Hanker of the Ilunkdrs, pledged to veto any
Bet excluding slavery from our free territories,
ready and eager to stoop to the dirtiest work
of the slave power, and is the fit tool of flesh
mongers, who would blister the free noil- of
Mexico with the curso of negro bondage.
To think of the republic of Washington being
ruled by a Cass, while that of Lafayette is
ruled by a Lamartine! The possibility of
radh a degradation palsies our pen. We
atop.”’ r
Slavery in Congress.
Colonel Benton in a recent speech upon the
Oregon question, in reply to John P. Hale,
said
There enuld be no measure introduced
into Congress but this pestiferious” ques
tion of Slavery was attached to it. It pre
vented or clogged all legislation. It was a
question which affected and vitiated all sub
jects before the Senate. He had read in the
Holy Book of a people who were cursed by a
special visitation. They wore visited by an
inundation of frogs. If they looked upon
their tables, behold th r* were frogs; even in
nearer and dearer domestic relations, too mys
terious to be alluded to, they were still cursed
S>y frogs. Thus it was with this pestiferous
subject of Slavery; it was introduced to curse
ill legislation.”
The Buffalo Commercial, in allusion to
his passage of Benton's speech, remarks
That his story of the frogs might have f
•een turned, by Hale against his argument. 1
f the author of the 800k 1 of Genesis has
vrit his annals true,” the frogs w ere sent to
ilague the Egyptians for holding the Israe-1
ites in bondage as 6oon as tbe latter had
jermissioH to depart from their servitude, the
jogs disappeared. There could be no Wil- i
mot Proviso, or oilier plague of the kind, to
rex the United States,’ Senate were it not for
the bondage of certain individuals but little
larker in complexion than the Egyptians.”
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, JULY 14, 184*.
What are the Colored People Doing for
themselves 1
The present is a time when every colored
man in the land should bring this important
question home to his Jown heart. It is not
enough to know that white men and women
are nobly devoting themselves to our cause
we should know what is being done among
ourselves. That our white friends have done,
and are still doing, great and good work for
us, is a fact which ought to excite in us sen
timents of the profoundest gratitude but it
must never be forgotten that when they have
exerted all their energies, devised every
scheme, and done all they can do in asserting
our rights, proclaiming our wrongs, and re
buking our foes, their labor is lost—yea,
worse than lost, unless we are found in the
faithful discharge of our anti-elavery duties.
If there ka one evil spirit among us, for the
casting out of which we pray more earnestly
than another, it is that lasy, mean and cow
ardly spirit, that robs us of all manly self
reliance, and teaches us to depend apon oth
ers for the accomplishment of that which we
should achieve with our own hands. Our
white friends can and are rapidly removing
the barriers to our improvement, which them
selves have set up but the main work must
be commenced, carried on, and concluded by
ourselves. While in no circumstances should
we undervalue or foil to appreciate the self
sacrificing efforts of our friends, it sliould
never be lost sight of, lhat our destiny, for 1
i good or for evil, for time and for eternity, is, 1
by an all-wise God. committed to us and 1
thst all the helps or hindrances with which'
we may meet on earth, can never release us
from this high and heaven-imposed responsi
bility.. It is evident that we can be improved j
and elevated only just so fost and for as we
1 improve and elevate ourselves* Wc,
must rise or fall, succeed or fail, by our own
i menus, if wt ura careless and unconcerned
i about our own rights and interests, it is «ot
within the power of &U the earth combined to,
1 raise as from onr present degraded condition.
Hereditary bontmm, t,rx>w ye not
Who woull he free, iltcmarlves must strike
the blow V*
e say the present is a time when iwery j
jcolored unto should a»k himself the question,,
I bat am 1 doing to elevate arid improve mv
•oodtuon, sad that of my brethren at large
While the oppressed of the eld world aref
making efforts, by holding pnblic meetings,*
J putting forth addresses, passing resolutions, I
’and in various other way*making their wishesf
kaown to the worlJ, and the working meo of
jour owa country are pressing th«ir cause upon 1
popular attention, U»* shame |ha* w Kf »boJ
I*™ enduring wrongs far more grit sot* tbaa'
any other potuoa of the great family 44 man,;
are eoeiparstjvcly idle and inchfcieet *Wi.
awe welfare. We weafoas, wnh tbe deepest 1
mortification, that oat of da* five bundled
thousand free colored people m this country,
not more than two thousand can be aoppnded
tn take any special hottest Tn measures foe!
our own deration; and pfohaMy nbf'afore'
than fifteen hundred take, read and pay tor
Jan ami-slTve 7PT<*- We aay th* in sor
t row, not imfeget. It caiwot be sahClfceiwo
f are too pjpnnpatidntte oar ova prcgafo any
I greater eMmt thadfwe ao* do for m popu
i j masonry and the like, ve expend annually
1 from ten to twelve thouaand doHars. If we
pot forth a call for a National Convention, for
1 the porpbie of dotmldefinf ottf wTWigd, aOtf
r asserting our rights, and adopting measures
(or our mutual elevation and the emancipation
of our enslaved ;Jbllo -co n tfcrf men, ojr aMi
bring together 'about fifty: but if we cafi
M*gni I nl ImiiH if til mrfmm
masoory, we shall assemble, as was the case
j a few days agfe hi Neir York, from font to
fice thousand —the expense of which *!dne
1 would be from seventeen to twenty thousand
I' dollars, a sum sufficient to maintain four or
five efficient presses, devoted to oar elevation
asd improvement. We should not say this
i; of odd-fellewsbip and fifee-masoitry, but that
t! it is swallovriag up the best energies o r many
of our best men, contenting them with the
i glittering fellies of artificial display, and ki
disposing them to seek for solid and important
i realities. The enemies of our people see this
J tendency id us, and encourage it. The same
persons who would puff such demonstrations
is the newspapers, would mob us if we met
to adopt measures for obtaining our just rights.
They see our weak points, and avail them
selves of them to crush us. We are imitating
the inferior qualities and examples of white
Imen, and neglecting superior ones. We do
not pretend that all the members of odd-fellow'
I societies and masonic lodges are indifferent to
1 their'rights and themeans of obtainingthem
for we know the fact to be otherwise. Some
of the best and brightest among us are num
bered with those societies; and it is on litis
J account that we make these remark*. We
desire to see those noble men expending their
time, talents aod strength for higher and no
bler objects than any that can be attained by
the weak and glittering follies of odd-fellow
ship and free-masonry.
We speak plainly on this point, for we feel
deeply. We have dedicated ouiself, heart
and soul, without reserve, to the elevation
and *im prove inent of our race, and have re
solved to Bink or swim with them. Our in
most soul is fired with a sense of the various
forms of injustice to which we are daily sub
jected, and we must and will speak out against
anything, within ourselves or our guilty op-
pressors, which may tend to prolong this!
reign of injustice. To be faithful to our oj>-
I pressors, we. must be faithful to ourselves;
and shame on any colored man who would
have us do otherwise. For this very purpose
the North Star was established —that it might
be as faithful to ourselves as to our oppress
ors. In this respect, we intend that it shall
be different from most of its predecessors, and
if it cannot be sustained in its high position,
its death will be welcomed by us. But to
return.
It is a doctrine held by many good men, in
Europe as well as in America, that every
oppressed people will gain their rights just as
soon as they prove themselves worthy of
them and although we may justly object to
the extent to which this doctrine is carried,
i especially in reference to ourselves as a peo
pie, it must still be evident to all that there is
1 a great truth in It.
One of the first things necessary,, to prove
the colored man worthy of equal freedom, is
an earnest and persevering effort on l.is part
to gain it. We deserve no earthly or heav
enly blessing, for which we are unwilling to
labor. For our part, we despise a freedom
and equality obtained for us by others, and lor
which we have been unwilling to labor. A
man who will not labor to gain his rights, is
a man who would not, if he had them, prize
1 and defend them. What is the use of stand
ing a man on his feet, if, when we let him
go, his head is again brought to the pave
meat Look out of ourselves as we will—
beg and pray to our white friends for assist
ance as much as ure will —and that assist
ance may come, and come at the needed time;
but unless we, the colored jieople of Ameri
ca, shall set atiout the work of our own re
generation and improvement, we are doomed
■to drag on in our present miserable and de
graded condition for ages. Would that we
could speak to every colored man, woman and
child in the land, and, with the help of
Heaven, we would thunder into their ears
their duties and responsibilities, until a spirit
should he roused among them, never to
ibe lulled till the last chain is broken.—
But here we are mortified to think that we
are now speaking to tens w here we oaght to
i speak to thousands. Unfortunately, those
who have the ear of otrr people on Sundays,
have little sympathy with the anti-slarcry
cause, or the cause of progress in any of its
phases. They are too frequently disposed to
follow the beaten paths of their fathers.—
The most they aim at, is to get to heaven
when they die. They reason thus: Our
fathers got along .pretty well through the
world without learning and walien; meddling
with abolitionism, and we can do the same.—
We have in our minds three pulpits among
the colored people in the North, w Web have
the power to produce a revolution in the
condition of the colrted people in this country
in three years.
First among these, we may mention the
great Bethel Church in Philadelphia. That
church is the largest colored church iwthis
Uuiua, aod from two to three thousand per
sona worship them every Sabbath. It has
its branches in nearly all parts of the North
and West, and a few in the South. It ts sur
rounded by aomeruns little congregations in
Philadelphia. Its ministers and bishops
travel in aQ directions, and vast numbers of
colored people belong to its branches all over
the country. The Bethel pulpit in Philadel
phia may be said to give tone to the entire
deoommatieo—** as goes Jorge Bethel, ao
go tho small Bothebthroughout the Uuioo/’
Here is eooeenrraawi the talent of thocbemh,
and hem is the central and ruling power.—
Now, if that pulpit would but speak the
right word—-the word for progreat—the word
for mental culture—encourage reading, and
occasionally take up conirjbttUuaa u>
aid vhoae u bo ve LWmg tot their aeration,
as the wku« churches do taasd the eshuumr
•mo society u> «aod us oot of the eouaicjK
them is no totting the good that mooli rush
from sorb labao. Aa entire rbaags nofhi
aooalafeo pkms to that dsnomwshri t loftier
views of troth aod doty vrookf be pmoeofed;
nobler destiny would fifer opened up to (hem,
and a deeper happiness Would at ooce be co-
Joyed tbrowgfc all the laiMkatioto «f thi
ehurcb. fj U
Similarly ictoated tb#
|a New
IroUiag inlaMtoTcr ibe riK kt argent colarc
m this country. it, too, is i
trait—bss its kmUtm in 91 directions in th<
North rather than in the Sooth. I» minister
are tealous men, sod some of them powerfu
preachers. There is no estimating the goo.
these men might do, if they would only en
“I*#* M 3 fxpepl o0
in the subject of reform.
lip's, is New York. This church is raon
important on account of the talent and re
1 spectabflity which it comprises, than for iti
numbers. Now, could the influence of these
churches be enlisted in exciting our people u
a constant and persevering effort at self
elevation, a joyful change would soon conn
over us. K
What we, the colored people, want, i 1
character, and this nobody can give us. h k
s thing we must get for ourselves. We musi
labor for it. It is gained by toil—hard toil.
Neither the sympathy nor the generosity ol
our fi iends can give it to us. It is attainable
—yes, thank God, it is attainable. There
is gold jus the earth, but we must me it”—so
with character. It is attainable; but we mnsi
attain it, and attain it each for himself. 1
cannot for you, and you cannot for me.—
What matters it to the mass of colored people
iof this country that they are able to point lu
their,Posingtons, Garnets, Remonds, Wards,
Parvises, tlmiths, Whippets, Sandersons, and
a respectable list of other men of character,
which we might name, w bile our general ig
norance makes these men exceptions to our
race? Their talents can do little to give us
character in the eyes of the world. Wc
must get character for ourselves, as a people.
A change in our political condition would do
very little for us without this. Character is
the important thing, and without it we must
continue, to be marked for degradation and
stamped with the brand of inferiority. With
character, we shall be powerful. Nothing
eaa harm us long when we get character.—
There arc certain great elements of character
in us which may be haled, but never despised.
Industry, sobriety, honesty, combined with
intelligence and a due self-respect, find them
where you will, among black or white, must
be looked vp to —can never be looked dorrn
vpon. In their presence, prejudice is abash
ed, confused and mortified. Encountering
this solid mass of living character, our vile
oppressors are ground to atoms. In its pres
ence, the sneers of a carricaturing press, the
taunts of natural inferiority, the mischievous
assertions of Clay, and fine-spun sophisms of
Calhoun, are innoxious, powerless and una
vailing. lu answer to these men and ilia
sneers of the multitude, there is nothing in
the wide world half so effective as the pre'
scr.tation of a character precisely the opposite
of all their representations. We have it in
our power to convert the weapons intended
for our injury into positive blessings. That
we may sustain temporary injury from gross
and general misrepresentation, is most true
but the injury is but temporary, and must dis
appear at the approach of light,like mist from
the vale. The offensive traits of character
imputed to us, can only be injurious while
they arc true of us. For a man to say that
sweet is bitter—that right is wrong—that
light is datkness—is not to injure the truth,
but to stamp himself a liar; and the like is
true when they impute to us that of which we
are not guilty. We have the power of
making our enemies slanderers, and this we
must do by showing ourselves worthy and re
spectable men.
We are not insensible to the various obsta
cles that throng the colored man's pathway to
respectability. Embarrassments and per
plexities, unknown to other men, ?re common
to us. Though born on American soil, we
have fewer privileges than aliens. The
school-house, the work-shop, counting-house,
attorney's office, aud various professions, are
opened to them, but closed to us. This, and
much more, is true. A general and wither
ing prejudice—a malignant and active hate,
pursues us even in the best parts of this coun
try. But a few days ago, one of our best and
most talented men—and lie a lame man, hav
ing lost an important limb—was furiously
hurled from a car on the Niagara Buffalo
Railroad, by a band of white ruffians, who
claim impunity for their atrocious outrage on
the plea that New York law' docs not protect
the rights of colored against a company of
while men, Und the sequel has proved them
right; for the case, it appears, was brought
before the grand jury, but that jury found no
bill. We cannot at this time dwell on this
aspect of the subject.
The fact that we are limited and circum
scribed, ought rather to incite us to a more
vigorous aud persevering use of the elevating
means within our reach, than to dishea-ten
us. The means of education, though not so
free and open to. us as io white persons, are
nevertheless at our command to such an extent
as to make education possible; and these,
thank God, are increasing. Let us educate
•of children, even though it should ns
to a coarser and scantier diet, and disrobe u* of
oar few fine garments. For the want of
knowledge we are killed all the day.” Get
wisdom—get understanding, is a peculiarly
valuable exhortation to us, and the compb
i auoe with a i* our only hope in this land.—
Itteidle, a hollow mockery, for us to pray to
God to break the oppressor's power, while
we neglect the means of knowledge w hich
will give m the ability to break this power.—
God w H help us when we help ourselves.
Our oppressors have divested ns of nuny \ak
able blessings and facilities for improvement
aud elevation but, thank heaven, they have
not yet been able to take from us the privi
lege of bfung honest, ioduatnoum sob, r and
fofofogeoi. W# may read and uadernut;td—
we may speak and vnw—wo may ex put e
onr wrewgs msv appeal te the sense ui
j**iee yet dive hi the public mind, eed by as
honest, upright life, we may mi last wring
ft*om a reluctant puhlie Ihe all-important eao
ftwamd, that vre are men, worthy meo, good
ctusena, good Christians, and might to be
treated as such.
National appeals (runs oAdal
•foUeowts that the pihim debt of the Hatted
at the ptoeeat Ismeal yeas, lei
itly, Wtt, if ths treaty gam into etfeet* anil
*s a»eifreight iwMieoa fear Jumdred ami
f«yy-eeveo tjfceumakf eight baadrfed sad three
dollars.
aij The 1 mf— Ttee*.
Tbd jhmmeats and speculations of the
i^JAnMriotn press for the last few months, te
B-PSpcctiajr the various political changes goi*g
sdj forward ia Europe, and their probable eflfecl
a upon the institutions and government of Great
ic Britain, has provoked quite a lengthy review
n in a recent number of the London Times,
nf The complacency and consciousness of strength
id with which this ponderous sheet anchor of
v British order and conservatism disposes of the
at wild prognostications of downfall to the Brit
iah throne, and the erection of a British Re-
I* public, is truly admirable, and must be any
re thing but grateful to our democratic and ro
publican hearts. After attending to the Amc
ts rican press in general, it aieaes with a terrible
le grasp upon the New York Herald, and gives
o him, in American parlance, acomplete iL go*ng
f- oeec.” The North Star comes neat, sod ia
e placed by the Times in the same condemna
tion with the New York Herald. We have
long been looked upon, in this eountiy, as
b degraded, on account of oar complexion; but
it tn be classed in any way with the New York
1. Herald, is depredation intensified and intole
.4
if rable, and one which we have never, until
e 1 this time, been called upon to enduss- The
e Times says, after quoting from the New
o York Herald:
ll 44 There ate some compliments so much to
I the same purpose in the North Star (Roehes
_ ter, U. S.), that we cannot forbear adding
them.”
e
u And then quotes the following from a Lon
don correspondent of the North Star:
j “The Ilouse of Commons, as at present
constituted, is chiefly elected by the middle
j classes, who, politically, are the most ignor
ant part of the people of Great Britain. This
r class is composed chiefly of Dissenters, who
s. in geuerii wish themselves to be understood
as the must religious; but who, with few ex
ceptions, know very little about practical reli
gion. John Bull-has his own way of doing
y every thing, and his route is genenHy a
5 t rather circuitous one*/ lie has such a high
opinion of himself, that no one can teach
j I him.”
I I The article from the Times closes with the
following comment:
.j “The North Star like its cotemporary at
J New York, assigns this as a reason why no
serious political reform is to be expected here
•'in a regular way. One only conclusion,
it however, will be drawn from all this wrathful
i, and vituperative language. These gentlemen,
who do not, however, fairly represent their
fellow-citizens, are a good deal put out that
l there has been no revolution in England. But
why so angry if the thing must be 1 The
certainty of early success generally soothes
disappointment. Nobody is out of temper
i with the foe whom to-morrow he will see in
the dust. But these Yankee gentlemen are
:j very angry and scurrilous indeed. We are
forced to conclude that they are not quite so
sure of the boulevirsc/ueut as they pretend. At
1 1 least, they appear to think that it wants a lit
j tie help from their pens.”
In answer to the Times, we may state, that
1 1 the North Star, does not, and will nut, hold
i T
itself responsible for all the sentiments of its
correspondents; and that the article in ques
-1 tion was inserted in its columns in the absence
of its editor—and .s not in harmony with his
views.
Nothing could be more at variance with
our estimate of the intelligence, worth, and
piety of the classes referred to, than the state
ment of the London correspondent as expres
sed above: and if the Times will read the fol
!j lowing comments from our pen, written and
published la the North Star immediately alter
the failure of the great Chartist demonstration
on the 11th of April, it will at once see the
injustice which it has done us in classing us
with the New York Herald and other malig
nant American revilers.
Chartists of England.—When we first
learned that tins class of reformers had re
solved upon a resort to brute force, to over
awe the government of that country, we were
satisfied that the wild and wicked measure
.would be defeated. It was, therefore, as
expected as it was gratifying, to learn by our
last advices, that they had wisely abandoned
the mischievous and useless project. In all
circumstances, we are inflexibly opposed to a
resort to violence, as a means of eiiecting re
form; and of all violence, we iegaid none with
more absolute horror, than that attending civil
j war. W hatever may be the evils, and how
ever inveterate the forms of oppression and
tyranny in continental Europe, and whatever
prelexis may exist there for assailing those
lorms of oppression with brute force, we are
confident that no such causes or pretexts can
be properly cited in Great Britain, as justify
log a resort to violence. While ibe liberty ol
j Speech is allowed—while the freedom of the
press is permitted, and the right of petition is
respected- and w hile men are left free to origi
nate reforms without, and Members are left
free to propose and advocate them within the
walls ot Parliament, —no excuse can be valid
for resorting to liie leartui use of brute force
aud bloodshed. When worJswdl accomplish
as they certainly will, -d righteous measures,
it is wild, irraliouai and wicked to resort to
blows.
Under no government in the wide world is
there more respect shown, or encouragement
ottered to reform, than under that of England.
Luang the last thirty years, some ot the most
important reforms ever achieved under any
form of government, have taken place in Great
Britain so that now, that country may be
justly regarded as far in advance of all other
Euro[*ean governments, and in some, and very
miOJrtaut particulars, tar in advance of our
j own. The passage of the Kefoira Bill m '3l,
the Emancipation Act in *3l, and the repeal ot
the Lorn Laws in \tt». are reform* which are
stiii fresh iu the memory of all, and alford
ample proof that, that couutry may be us effect
ually ruled by opinion as our own. No re
form need fail there with patient, earnest and
persevering efforts for its success. Within
the walla ot the House of Commons—aye, the
Commons, the dearly expressed will of the
people, through that oody, whatever the loud
l spiritual and temporal may be pleased to a)
ft the first, is as certain to become the
law of the realm, that manhood follows
infancy. On floor of (bat House, tuay be
j Richard Cooueu, John Bright, Dr. ifow
lnuf» Sharmaa Crawford, W. J. lux, and
ute peerless orator and poiianinropui, George
Thompson- ready to advocate ami defoud jus
lice and liberty, encouraged or asaatied by
whom they may be. With such advocates in
Bari lament, bow aboard, monstrous and wick
ed it ts for Ch.mists or any other class of re
formers m that county, to dream ot btoodafo-d
as a means of furthering thru cause To do
Isois to deserve defiat, Wo axe, if we usder
stand Chartism, a ChabLt and we are even
iu favor of more radical Tonus than they have
yet proposed and still, for the time being,
we rsjmco that they have foiled in their loin
of Apfokiemoasinuto*. A victory gamed by
sue** mesas, would be for worse iu the sequel
than ail ihe pam and moruficatioa they must
have experienced in their present signal
failure.' Away drilh ail mobs and ail vio
fobce as a means of reform! Wo have
axpensoomt too stuck mi tins aperies ol
tyranny alnuody, There t» e mure exaeiient
wsy. With free speech, an unshaehkrd
pftMS. and Urn right ot petiuuo, we can defy
cnor, whether is (he church or in the state—
whether sustained by presenpodn, or defen
dwt by theft word- «s any ease truth shall tn
eraph. War, slavery, monopoly, mod the
whole train of inequalities that spring fron
file demon selflaboeee, MMM fill and expire in
the presence of time mighty agents.
“Tv pea afaefi mu i isds the •word,
Aad right nst aught thall be adored,
W(V good tin** oraM*.”

Shotting the Door after the Horae is oat
The Committee of the American anc
Foreign Anti-Slavery Society hare sent fortl
I an address, exhorting the members of th«
Liberty party to stand aloof from the Wilmo
Proviso movement and to adhere to tbeir owr
party and nominations. This advice, coming
t (torn that party, has much the appearance o
a mere farce—a most abeuid sham. It would
imply that thee party has, up to this time, had
a distinct sod separate existence, and main
tained its principles in all their integrity, when
the fact is, the party has been, in this sense,
dead for more than half a year, h gave up
the ghost m the nomination of John P. Hale,
and that committee sanctioned that.nomination.
Of Mr. Hale we would never speak reproach
fully or lightly. Ho has done much, before
and since his nomniabou, to fix public atten
tion upon the slave power of the country, and
has put forth many noble sentiments against
slavery in the abstract, but has done no more
to identify himself w ith the Liberty party than
what has been done by Messrs. Giddings,
Palfrey, and othere, who have rebuked the
j slave power, and opposed the extension of
slavery. In nominating John P. Hale as
I their candidate and representative, the Liberty
I party virtually dissolved itself into a Wilmot
Proviso party, and cannot be said in truth to
occupy any higher anti-slavery ground than
j that occupied by the Convention at Columbus
1 and other independent advocates of the Wil
mot Proviso; and it is, in such circumstances,
absurd, if not something worse, for that com
mittee, or any other body, to assume for that
party any higher ground than that occupied
|by other opponents of the extension of sla
very. As a means of inducing the approach
ing Free Soil Convention, to be held in Buf
falo on the ninth of August, to take up their
candidate, their address may possibly answer
very well; but as showing that party to be
more anti-slavery in its position than the gen
eral free soil movement, the document must
.be regarded a failure. On this subject, the
National Eva is just where it might be ex
pected to be from its milk-and-water tone.
It takes ground in favor of uniting with the
general slavery limitation political movement
at the North, and shows most conclusively, we
think, that that movement can, and promises
he accomplishment of every thing for Anti
slavery that any political party can do, which
admits, as the Liberty party now does, that
the Constitution does not give to the General
Government any power to interfere with sla
i very in the States. The Era shows that the
I Liberty party, acting as a party, can never
act against slavery in the States, and falls
back upon the gruund of the often-reproached
i moral suasion ists, as the only mode left them
for the abolition of slavery in the States.—
Webster once said, a lawyer will tell the
truth when it is for his interest to do so. It
is now confessed by preity high authority in
the Liberty party, that aller all tbeir preci
sions to abolishing slavery by political means,
that such an object cannot be accomplished in
any such way, and in no way except by moral
i action. This we have believed from the first,
and do now believe, and shall therefore go on
doing what we may to change and concentrate
public opinion, against slavery and all its up
holders, as the surest and best means of bring- 1
ing about the entire overthrow of slavery.
Woman’s flights Convention,
A Convention to discuss the Social, Civil
and Religious Condition and Rights of Wo
man, will be held in the Wesleyan Chapel at
Seneca Falls, New York, on Wednesday and
J J
Thursday, the 19th and iiOth of July instant.
During the first day, the meetings will be
exclusively for women, which all are earnestly
invited to attend. The public generally arc
invited to be present on the second day, when
Lucretia Mult, of Philadelphia, and others,
both ladies and gentlemen, will address the
Convention.
Disappointment.
j Our friends in Plymouth county, Mass.,'
cannot now regret more than we, our inability
to be with them on the 4th of July. Noth
ing short of tlie severe affliction in the injury
sustained to our organs of speech, would have
prevented our being at Abbington on that day.
To have been there without the power of.
speech, might have been pleasant to us and
friends, but not serviceable to the cause. We
are now happy, however, to state that the l
inflammation of the throat, from winch wo
have suffered so long, is alreoat entirely re
moved.
_____ __
William C. Nell,
The lecture of Mr. Nell, in the Third
Baptist Church of this city, “On the Lleva
lion of the Colored People,” was quite a
successful effort. Tire lecturer brought to
gether many interesting and important facts,
in science, history, and our every-dav experi
ence, very well calculated to quicken, expand
ami enlighten the minds of his audience, lie
did not pretend to the merit of originality, but
merely to have gathered up the words and
views of others, v,iuch h’j doomed useful to
a people situated as we aw.
lit* remark! on ike importance of industry,
frugality, sobriety, and reading, were happy,
elear, and effective. We hope he may
he induced to repeat liia lecture be
fore colored assemblies, as we are sure its re
petition will do much good. At ihc close of
the meeting, we being called upon for a speech,
moved a vote of thanka to the tpeaker for hie
address, which was unanimously adopted, and
the meeting adj-jurndt).
H Qr Maxxjeq Wonts* —Mr. Horn
of Washington county, has introduced a hill
in the Senate to exempt married women's
property.

Thx Axikk ax Peace Socirrv offer a
premium of five hundred dollars for the heat
j of the Mexican war, to he written
without reference to political paxttgp,
t “77777 I —f
Fee* SojTieoiw in Wut'orio —The
Senate of the new Stale of Wisconsin voted
I on the 14th, 15 to J, to instruct their Seen
tors sod Representatives in to ups
ihesr elforu lo psevent iho m trod octree of
*Uvtrj into my new territory th* my ho
by the United State*. ThOaMtree
ttsoe were sobraqaestly adopted by th* Iloose

First of Asian.
We cell special attention to the notice of
the contemplated celebration of West Info
Emancipation v in this city, on the first of
Ah putt. The day is one which the friends
freedom in this country mast cm contempUte
I with emotions of the deepest complacency
The even* which marks the dat and snrround,
it with a halo of glory, was the defWerance
from a most painful bondage eight hundred
thousand slares in the British West India
Inlands—an event which has justly been
f »*y ,ed the grandest of the nineteenth century.
The contemplated celebration wilt dooht
kaa be an admirable demonstrate]*, well cal
culated to impress the public mi ad with ideas
and principles which mum save the nation, if
it be over saved, from the crime and curse of
slavery.
Let the friends of freedom gather, aad
1 make the occasion memorable. Let every
colored man and woman within two hundred
miles’ distance of this city see to it that al
the appointed hour they are in Washngtow
Square, Rochester.
f
I The A«ti-slavcrt Haas: a Collection of
Snnp, by ll'a. \V. Brown. Published by Bek
l Marsh, 25, CornhiH, Boston. Price 12| cent*.
This i 3 an excellent compilation. It is
moreover the work of a fugitive from bond
age. We recognize among the songs some
old favorites; but, as the compiler says in his
preface, the larger portion has never before
been published. ,r There is no method of
spreading Anti-Slavery sentiment, and of
deepening the conviction of the wickedness of
the system, more effectual, and at the same
time more agreeable, than by singing it. We
have this week embellished our poetry column
with a selection, which contains some home
truths for the slaveholder. We hope the
book will have an extensiv circulation.
IT? Wo have just been informed that the
I Ram's Horn” is to be removed from New
York to Toronto. It will continue under the
charge of Mr. Van Renssellaer, its present
earnest and indefatigable editor. We regret
bis removal from New York on many ac
counts for of all places in the world we think
that city in need of light among its colored in
habitants. We however wish him entire
success in his new location, and shall look
with some curiosity to the first appearance of
the Ram's Horn from its new point of attack.
Sandusky, June Ist, 1848.
Hear Douglass I have arrived thus far
on my journey from the two great Conven
tions—the one an independent gathering of
the people, irrespective of party ties and
basis, opposed to the regular nominees of the
Baltimore and Philadelphia Conventions, Cass
and Taylor; the first a most unscrupulous
pro-slavcryite the second, an unconscionable
slave-holder —and the Liberty Party Conven
tion, which took place unmeiliatdy on the
adjournment of the Independent.
I shall not consume time by giving the
preliminaries, as these you have long since
hrid by the published proceedings but there
are two circumstances connected with these
meetings worthy of special notice that the
rabid editor of one of the most loathsome pro
slavery papers in the country, S. Medary, of
the Ohio Statesman, the Democratic organ in
Ohio, should actually tender the use of the
Democratic Ilall,” owned by himself, to the
Convention; and after its organization, which
took place in the hall, Mf. Wood, Auditor of
State, in behalf of himself and the proper au
thorities, tendered the use of the Ilall of Re
presentatives, in (he Capitol, which was oc
cupied by the Convention. lam credibly in
formed by knowing citizens of Columbus, that
in the absence of the Legislature, this is the
first instance in which the Capitol was ever
granted for any purpose whatever. However
much we may approve of the courtesy, it is
no difficult took for you and me to determine
the cause of this manoeuvre. Well, as the
old slave woman said, who, when hungry,
prayed that (Jod would, even as he fed
Elijah, the prophet, by ravens,” feed her, at
the instance of which sentence, a number of
mischievous youths, who had been listening
to her supplications, stealthily threw down
her cabin chimney a large loaf of bread,
turned round and exclaimed, Thank God, it
is good, if the devil sent it I”
The Convention was a numerous and en
thusiastic gathering of the tearless and inde
pendent spirits of the heretofore bound and
trammeled partizans. There was no public
building in Columbus sufficiently capacious to
contain them, rpid there being no shade nearer
than two miles from the city corporation, the
weather being extremely warm, many, very
many, came without an opportunity of once
gaining admitance within doors, as it was
impossible to sit without. I had a comforta
ble and conspicuous plate during the wbolo
s* ssion, which was two days, some on© of the
delegates always extending to ate the privi
lege of a seat,
Ihe President of the Convention, str.
•xawyer, of Hamilton county, is a stay Mb
and unffmehing Whig, and the iw# Vice-
Presidents, if J mistake not, were chosen
from the Democratic and Liberty party ranka.
The principal speakers were Messrs. Ifana
blio, W. Vauglian, W. Platt, D.
Cbaae of Indiana, L. Briggs, W. Lew**, L.
Vauoe, W. Biruey, Jr.,4*. Bliss#, Hull,
L, and Prestou. There wen a rmmknr of
other speakers also—a Mr, Harding, *f In.
duns, L., who, like L>r. Chase «f die Mnse
Stale, were there as mere visitors, in seder
to couvey to their constituent* the spirit that
prevails in Ohio against the monstrous out
rage upon the rights of freemen, perpetrated
by the Baltimore and Philadelphia Conven
tions. Aud certain an I. if they but ptoperl y
report the doing* of this Convention, they
will tell» story that shall not be Affkmlt
conprehend. Pwndsnt Mahan, I should
have stated, of Uherh. College, was among
»he most prominent speakers at the Cow
vent ion. t
IV> position of many of the speakers was
highly independent, some Ugly philanthropy,
knd one in particular, Sir. Vaughan, (late
editor of the was pangeniJj kft-
UMliauog when he exhibited the bkatctiag
contempt wuh yhich «h* .North »aa regaujpd
bj the. Sink, as wifrarsd 'm the Phrisdth
Pto* Ctmuim, of which be van a Whig
delegate, from Hamilisnesutty, Ohio. *ti»
fc 'Vaughan observed, that akheufh 4e
Soetheni delegation had ropeway
■pokes, stating their ehofce of persona, yW
the I*rssiden| emphatically refuted Mr. Gabwaay, the Secretary of State, or Cay of the
Ohio datef*«fo«, the privilege to apeak, for
the eery and ostensible reason, that he was
aware that their choice of candidates was
Judge McLean, Hon. Thor. Corwin, or some
athcr Northern man with Anti-Slavery feel*
jngi; hence, the determination to prevent
the name of such a person from corning before
the Convention. After repeated attempts to
•peak, without success, the Southerners all
haring done, ears Mr. Vaughan, and the
President being nominated, a Southern dele*
gate rose .n his place and obaerved, The
Northern members can now nominate the
Vice President; the South don't want all
the officers and this, said the speaker, was
said with such an air of conscious generosity
on the part of the Southern delegate, that he
wan gracious to hia inferiors, that O f «aid
he, I only wish that every freeman in Ohio
could have been there to hear him, and I have
no fears but every one would immediately
have denounced all the old parties, and never
more favor a Southern nomination.”
Another speaker said, Wo we for the
liberties of the whole Amecican people,with
out distinction. ‘Liberty, Equality, fra
ternity,' is our watchword.”
Mr. Hamlin, Whig ex-member of Con
gress, and also Mr. Vance, were quite ami
ilavcrv in their definitions but Mr. Briggs,
a prominent Whig of Cleveland, one who so
assiduously labored for the elevation of Henry
Clay to the Chief Magistracy of this nation,
was particularly and unreservedly explicit in
giving utterance to his sentiments, and what
lie conceived to be genuine Republican, W big
•nd Democratic principles.
44 It was intended,” said Mr. Briggs, by
our forefathers, that this country should be
the home of the children of every country
and cl me under heaven. They tell us that
the negro is inferior give the slave a chance,
give the black an equal chance with the
white man, and he will be all that the white
man is. lam in favor of universal education,
and the universal equality of all mankind,
and with these principle* we will march un
der a white flag, with a single Llack stripe in j
it, which shall represent the American
slate.”
Thaw and similar remarks were received
with rapiuious applause. Mr. Briggs was 1
most happy in his remarks, and made a dear
aod dwtiu* exhibit of those principles of Re
publican jdytlaailiropy, as the basis upon which
shouM twt rise superstructure of every free
and enhtgbiejuttd government.
Altogether, this was a cheering and hope
ful event for the downtrodden and oppressed
«f our land, a ray of light beaming upon the
difficult pathway of the half million nominally
free colored residentoof the U. S. in general,
and on those of Ohio in particular. I know not
whether it «ras the effect of policy or the ab
ftfcace **f proper feeling towards tliem; but it
is a fact worthy of remark, that all the sym
pathy expressed or manifested for the colored
people by the speakers, emanated from the
Win" and Democratic members, and save
C* f
Messrs. Chase, and perhaps Hull, none from
the Liberty party delegates.
I cannot cnuoteuiace and tolerate in Liberty
men that wkiek l hive ever condemned in the
oIJ conservative parties tail shall say here,
as I have and shall ever say elsewhere, that I
hope that our Liberty party brethren may
never lose sight of the fundaments! aad pri-
raarv object of their party, at least of Anti
slaverv organizations; because so soon as
they become conservative, they cease to be
the friends of the oppiessed, and, like the
other parties, stand as despots and tyrants,
resting in very indifference, with their horrible
weight upon crushed and outraged humanity.
I earnestly entreat our Liberty brethren, in
their deliberations, to think and say more
about the slave and the condition of the free
colored people. If these be discarded —if, as
1 have heard it asserted, these form no essen
tial part of the Liberty party —if, indeed,
these form not the foundation upon which
rests the Liberty temple—then let it, with the
other parties, be scattered to the four winds
of heaven, and by every colored person loath
ed as a monster in disguise, like the “Liberty
boys” of seventy-six, only requiring power
to carry their designs into execution. But
we must, and shall hope and believe differ
ently, until the contrary be fully proven and
ithen, and not till then, shall we lift up the
Ibattle-axe in vindictive warfaie against it.—
ißut our friends, if they desire our co-o[>era
ition or approbation, must not forget or neg
llect our interest. This is imperative. We
lhave been duped and cajoled now quite suff
icient.
The Liberty Convention met on Thursday,
frit 22d, immediately subsequent to the ad
jsmament of the Independent Convention,
itwkuig the usual course in such conventions,
Ibut deferred the gubernatorial nomination un
til the views of the Whig and Democratic
nominees—Ford and Weller —were obtained
oa the subject of slavery and free territory.—
If favorable, a Liberty nomination may not
be made; if to the contrary, the Liberty
Central or Executive Committee have the
pow-er, who certainly will, in such on event,
nominate a Liberty candidate for Governor of
Oiuo. At this Convention, great speeches
ware alno made, Mr. Samuel Lewis making
one-of hi* greatest and best efforts. He is a
gteat speaker*—ttern, resolute and determined
w i> rtupe too inflexible in general, but in
tkis Conventional considered his course quite
deliberative.
FmU* evening the 23d, held a meeting
in the Methodist Church, among the colored
crt»en*, and •obtained come subscribers. My
very worthy and talented friend, Charles H.
Langston, Usuicd rue on ibis* a* well as sub
sequent occasions.
Monday evening the 26th, held a meeting
M Meckamcsburg, a smi Vlilag(> in (lf j
mistake rot; Champaign county. Thu meet
ing was wcH attended, although I arrwed at
SUBSet, without previous notice one-hah’ af
the assembly eomusUng of ladies. In
place, M x. Wilson, the school-teacher, is sole
owner of the school-ham*, which u erected
on his land, for the double purpose of achool
kouss g«d sou-slavery meetings, previous to
wtiich s house could not be obtained for the
purpose. The little anti-slavery spirit which
pervade* this community, like the |jm P
leaven/* has almost 4 ‘leeveried the whole
Imp.”
Wednesday the 38th.—This evening, after
sunset, 1 arrived in s smell village of between
foot sod fiv* hundred inhabitants, (rolled Mar-
Millem On entering the street, 1 found s
of persons, who, from their appear
taoe, feolted a* though they were among the
principal men of the place, 11 pitching quoits* 1
in the centre of the principal street. As soon
as F was discovered, they suspended then
sport, alt, or nearly so, to the hotel at which
I slopped, as usual in those country places
Went, being attracted there by the novelty of
strangers, yet apprehended nothing more then
usual in such cases. I was soon, in a polite
manner, questioned by the proprietor of the
hotel, whom I found to he a Liberty man,
who, suspecting our mission, and who had
attended the recent Columbus Convention,
and withal a very clever man. Finding who
I was, and learning my miesioo, a meeting
was immediately proposed by this gentleman,
1 whose name, neglecting to note down, 1 have
since forgotten.
Consultation being had with several per
sons, especially one person pretending to be
an abolitionist, who sat in the room with us,
making many inquiries about Douglass, Gar
rison and Reroond, arrangements were effect
ed, and a meeting determined upon. The
house being lighted, in a few minutes, as it
was now- dark, Mr. Langston and I went off
to the place of meeting, the school house.—
On passing along the streets, the side-ways
were strung along with young men, lads and
boys, among whom were those who were the
most eager for the meeting, aad had lighted
up the house, who, as we passed, scoffed and
used disrespectful language, falling in the
train immediately behind us and close to oui
heels, until we entered the arhool-houate,
which we found empty, with the exception of
some three or four respectable-looking men,
who appealed as if they came for the sake of
the meeting. We had barely entered the
house, w heu they came pouring in, boys and
men, to the number of perhaps forty or fifty,
looking ready and eager for any and every
mischief. To this, however, I make the ex
ception of about half a doaen gentlemen,
among w hom are included our host of the
hotel, and a book-binder, who sojourned at the
same house. When on our way to the school
house, I turned back for a copy of the paper,
Mr. Langston slopping by the wayside to
wait for me, w ho being so light in color, that
many of them mistook him to be what is
called white” hence, he had a favorable
opportunity to hear their schemes and lan
guage concerning us. On my return to Mr.
Langston, he immediately related to me what
he had heard, peremptorily refusing, in con
sequence of the disrespectful spirit manifested
and the conduct of ilie persons present, to
speak at all on the occasion.
1 rose up, and in a respectful manner de
clined to speak under the circumstances.—
The house, it is true, was quiet, and may
have, for aught I know, remained so until 1
had finished a long diseouse, at least, until
some position was taken which displeased
them, when, from what really followed, it
would not then be difficult to determine the
consequence. The host of the hotel, and one
other gentleman, whose motives, there is no
doubt, were the best, hoped that I would give
them a lecture, they having no idea of the
cause of my refusal. Ins tauter, a man rose
up, the identical person who had previously,
Judas-like, manifested at the hotel such
friendly feelings, and observed “I move that
we adjourn, by considering this a darkey bur
lesque Tills was but food for the rabble
all leaving the bouse, with a loud shput of
darkey burlesque!” and this repeated con
tinually, with many other epithets of dispar
agement, until we reached the hotel.
But nothing less than a mob would satisfy
these craven wretches. They bad come to
the meeting with the full intention, and were
now ready to destroy us, by the aid of any
hand that would administer to their wrath
and second their vengeance. The more
effectually to accomplish their object, a brass
drum, tamborine, clarionet, violin, jaw-bone
of a horse, castanets, and a number of other
instruments, or whatever would lend to excite
and rally a formidable mob, did these misera
ble outlaws resort to.
The crowd, which consisted well nigh ol
all the men and boys in the neighborhood,who
were able to throw a brickbat, being now as.
sembled, the tar and feathers” w ere de
j inanded, with a tone which told forcibly the
determination with which they intended carry
ing out their threats. A tar barrel was pro
cured, and after many yelps and howls whief
rent the air around, they succeeded, in tht
the course of some twenty minutes, in staving
in the head. But it appeared that this barre
had been too closely diained of its contents
and as the village was but small, theTe Trai
i none other in the place, as the barrel wai
I obtained from the principal store, directly op
posite the hotel, which place was the genera
head-quarters of the rowdies for the night.—
Failing to find tar suffc-ent in w Inch to sat
urate us, they resorted to another expedient,
which they were certain would Lave th(
desired effect.
A torch was brought, an 1 the tar barrel set
in a flame, when store boxes were piled upon
it, which produced a fire that must have beer
seen several miles around. The fire was
built in the middle of the street, directly 6p
posite tire hotel in which we staid. Ther
came the cry, Burn them alive .'-—kill Uk
niggers!—they shall never leave this place!—
bring them out!—rush in and take them
(Which is their room? Niggers! come out
or we will Imrn down the house over youi
heads A consultation was lu Id, the resuli
of which was, that they would rush into oui
room, drag us out, tic and haad-cuff us, anc
take us immediately to the South and sell us
i declaring that I would bring fifteen hundrec
dollars, cash Turning to a blacksmith it
I the crowd, they asked him whether he wouk
make the hand -cuffs,” he, slave like, an
swered, “ye*, any moment/’ This, I would
'observe, was the language of men, and no
'of lad* and boys, who formed no inconsidera
ble part of thi* gang ol row die*. Our porotKx
was such that we could look dow n upon them
i reconnoitre their every movement, and beai
all that was said. This position we occupiec
1 w uh a* much coolness and deliberation ai
though nothing was transpiring below, full]
I determined not to leave it ouly with the km
'of our life. We had dooe nothing worthy oi
such uwtMDt, aad therefore, under no cm
cuinstances, could cobnut to personal»toleoc*
My friends may canonra me—even both of u
—for this, but wt cannot help it. 'Weareaot
•laves, nor will we tamely suffer the ties*
merit of slaves, let H Come from a high or low
•source, or from wherever k may.
Then came the moat horrible bowling sad
yeibuf ,OMMf and blasphemy, every draper
a jyi ywr fwimvaaklMl m
B ,n ft wprcufnfm, 9*gTmfßs ui N 8
epithet that could he cornerved hy the moat
vitiated imagination*, which bedlam yf shock
ing discord was kept up from nine until one
o’clock at night. There is an tongue can
express nor mind conceive the terrible uproar
and ferocious blackguardism of this night’s
proceedings- Hallooing, cursing, and swear
ing, black guardian*—Urn roaring of drams,
besting of tamborine*, binwing of instrument*
and boras, the rsttHag of hones, amnshisg of
store boxes and bonds for the few—all going
os at once sad the same time, tneeaeamlv for
the space of four hours, by fir exceediogmy
thing of a similar nature which I have ever
witnessed. If all pandemonium had been
let loose,” and every imp had been a demon,
each demon possessing a thousand tongues,
each tongue capable of uttering a thousand
demoniac bowls, it could not have increased
the infernal tormoil of this sight’s proceed
ing*. The wretches, not pnssesaing courage
sufficient to dreg us by fores into the street,
where to execute, ia the midst of their assem
bled hundreds, their hellish designs, conceived
the plot of disfiguring and disabling our hone,
and breaking the buggy to pieees. Two or
gentlemen, who overhearing their {dot,
cautiously secreted the horse and buggy in
the barn of a neighbor, which prevented this
nefarious scheme from being put into execu
tion. I would observe, that during aU*this
midnight outrage, the proprietor of the hotel
acted like a man, and 1 have no doubt but his
influence contributed much, in the morning,
toward bringing them to a sober reflection.
The mob eventually concluded,after rioting
around the hotel until past one o’clock, having
burnt, m all probability, all the spare store
boxes, to retire until morning; but not, how
ever, without giving strict instructions to the
ostler boy, who slept ia the bar-room of the
hotel, that should w e in the night attempt to
flee, to give the storekeeper near the hotel
speedy notice,w ho war to call up hist roop by
the beating of the brass drum, as they,likethe
forty Jews against Paul, declared that they
would neither eat nor drink until they look
our lives; and be this remembered, it was not
for anything that had been said, but simply
for what we did not say. We gave them no
pretext for a mob, but to have one they were
determined.
In the morning early, there were six only
of them on the ground, among them a store
keeper, as I learned, who howled and yelped
as we left the hotel, two of whom secreted
themselves in a shed, and stoned us, striking
the horse and buggy, fortunately without in
jury to either. I have no doubt had they not
feared the consequences, and probably from
their blackguardism the night previous, been
ashamed to he seen, though early in the
morning, and identified, but they would have
endeavored, at least, to do us some serious
injury. Those who were present threatened
us in the name cf the tow n, that should eithei
of us pass that way ogam our doom was
fixed. Unfortunately, 1 could not learn the
name of one of these insufferable villains.—
We left this place unharmed, and even un
frighleoed, as we were reconciled as to the
course we should pursue.
Wc arrived in Sandusky City on Friday
evening the 30th iust., and shall proceed from
hete to Detroit city, where there is now a very
interesting slave case pending before the U.
S. Court, Judges McLean and Wilkins. 1
shall report you concerting this case from
Detroit.
Tours, for God and Humanity,
M. R. D.
Errata. In my second letter from Cincin
nati, the compositor has committed several
errors. In the notice cf the price of bed
steads at Mr, Boyd's establishment, instead
of from $8 to $1,25, it should read, from
eight to one hundred and twenty-five dollars
apiece.
In the notice of the Orphan Asylum, for
hook, read Bath department. There are
several others of minor importance. D.
The last of the Creeks. —The steamer
Amaranth brought to Mobile, forty-eight
Creek Indians, the last remnant in Alabama,
of that once powerful and warlike nation.
They were on their way to join their brothers
west of the Mississippi.
Indian Murder.— We learn, that a man
known here as Pat Muaphy,” was killed
and scalped by the Indians, a few days since,
somewhere on the Maquoketa River, lowa.
—Galena Jeffersonian.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
M. P., KenUct Square.—The Star will be vent
as directed.
A. K., Maiodville.—Received.
N. J. 8., Conquest, N.Y.—Credited.
W. C. T. Poit Byron.—Must refer you to the
terms of subscription on first page.
W. S. D., Darien.—Credited fur one year.
&e rctgn Nctos.
Telegraphic Despatch.
SEVEN DAYS LATER FROM EUROPE.
New York, July 12—9 A. M.
The Steamer Niagara arrived at Boston this
morning, and brings 7 days later news from
Europe.
Awful insurrection in Paris. The Streets
of the city have been made rivers of Mood
After four days and fomr nights of eontifraed
fighting,- tbe insurgents were put down.
Ten thousand men wefe tilled,and seventy
five thousand wounded.
The Republicans wefe finally triumphant.
They tried (o stop the fight on Saturday
night. Tbe red flag was hoisted, and the
fighting raged with redoubled fury. On Sun
day, the President of tbe Assembly announced
that the insurgents were pot down.
On Monday some of the insurgents surren
dered, hot many fled or were shot. Fifty
generals vvSre' hilled or wOmkM star fifty
of the National Assembly.
A large porportion of tbe mAurgenls—afteT
their disconffiture —took refuge on the Pen
La^Cbases, hut were soon drives thence.
Tbe outbreak began by the working nan
of the city on Thursday the 9tt of Juts.
Barricades were made and dm National
Guards called oef Friday. Tbe insurgents
get possession of the right batik of tbe Seine,
and all the rfnfeflf oh left. At thif time
the Hotel dc TUtt was threatened by large
numbers of tbe and the artillery was
brought against them 1 and opened their firs.
On Saturday, P«k was declared m a state
of siege, mod Gen. CoVifnac put in supreme
P °o« T Bwadaf, the flght opefted ftniohsiy, and
mu—id tins whole day with horrible etiK
nage. The i— My betmjmd ns atinfl fil
this fngbt&l eendttisn,
Oar readers may aura re! for themselves, if
they cm, from the ftOowing extracts, the
tsofletf web <4 party paikks. The old sad
new parties are getting mixed ip inglorious
confusion. The resefr is every day becoming
more and more problematical.
MoraresTt or Buneuta tv Mam
urttirm.—la sdditioa W* the statements
that the Norfolk Democrat and Bnstol (V
Democrat, hare taken down the Cass flag,
it is rumored that a third Demoeiatie paper is
Middlesex county, is about to advocate the
cause of Van Bureo. The Van Barest men
of Massachusetts, are also about to move in
the matter of a Convention to nominate an
electoral ticket. The Pittsfield Eagle, states
that a caff was circulated at Lenox on
Thursday, for a Bsrebaoers Mam Meeting is
Berkshire. It was signed by many of the in
fluential members of the iecofoco party.”—
Boston Trans.
Ohio is in one blase against tbs Thy lor
nomination. His prospects in that great
State are hopelessly dark. The Whig stock
jobbers who nominated the Philadelphia can
didates, will get such a rebuke from the peo
ple, that it will be the last political fraud they
will dare to attempt. Ex.
Mabtin Van Boxen.-—The Washington
Union declares that Martin Van Boren, by
favoring the free soil nominations, has leaped
into a current, and 44 will sink to rise no
more.” It also declares that Gen. Dodge
will scout the nomination for Vies-President.
Mr. Dodge has taken his seat as Senator
from Wisconsin.
Wilmot a Barnburner.— We learn on
good authority, that the Hon. David Wilmot,
of the Bradford District, in this State, intends
soon to take ground in support of Mr. Van
Buren for the Presidency, and that he will
head the Free Soil Democracy in this State.
When it is recollected thst Mr. Wilmot’s
District gave Mr. Polk in 1844 about 2,300
majority, and the great influence of that gen
tleman with his constituents, and indeed, in
all the Northern part of the State, is consid
ered, it will be seen that his coarse must have
a very important bearing upon the Presiden- J
tial question, and tend to render Gen. Taylor’s
success in this commonwealth certain.—Pitts
burg Gaz.
The New York Evening Post, says:—
The Dissatisfaction among the Whigs.
We learn, on unquestionable authority, that
after the adjournment of the Whig n ruinating
Convention, on Friday evening, at Philadel
phia, the dissatisfaction was so great at the
overbearance of the slavery interest, that it
was resolved among a highly influential mass
of the delegates, to call separate conventions
in all the free States, and to hold x general
convention to consider and determine upon
the measures to be pursued for a decided re
sistance against the further extension of sla
very. This movement of the Whig party ap
pears to be of the highest and most influential j
character. State Conventions have therefore
already been called in Maine, Massachusetts
and Ohio.
Mahomet and tiie Mountain. —When
the mountain would not go to Mahomet, Ma
homet went to the mountain. Gen. Taylor
has proved himself of sterner stuff than the
prophet. He would not go to the mountain
of the Whig party, so the mountain went to
him. The party, through its Convention at
Philadelphia, surrendered at discretion and
to be as much like the General as |>ossihle, i
who has announced to us that he has not
yet formed any opinions ujion the political
questions of the day, the same Convention
adjourned without passing a resolution or ex
pressing a single opinion.—A ’at. Era.
Gen. Cass —The nomination of Cass has
given the Joco foco party the 44 dry rot.” It
is falling into rapid decay. Its leaders are
abandoning it in dtoves, as rais desert a sink
ing ship. The Columbus (Ohio) Press—
heretofore a prominent organ of the loco foco
party —has gone out in disgust. In leaving
the field, its editor publishes an elaborate
address, in which lie says, lhal the Press
has always occupied the position of a party
paper,” having willingly and freely supported
the measures of the democratic party, and
that he has felt it his duty to continue that i
support so long as he could do so consist
ently, 44 with that independence which should j
characterize every man who pretends to be
free.” 44 But,” continues he, I fuel it to
be equally my duty to withdraw from the
position of Editor and servant of my party,
as soon as I can no longer honestly supjiort
its leading measures and candidates. That
period, to my regret, has arrived.”
John P. Hale.— The National Anti-Sla
very Standard says that Mr. Hale will with
out doubt withdraw in favor of the Barn
burners’ nomination.

Mr. Fillmore. —The Phil. Pennsylvanian
I circulates the rumor that Mr. Fillmore awaits
the acceptance by Gen. Taylor of his nomina
tion as a Whig, before signifying hia own.
Henry Clay. —A letter was received in
New York city, on Thursday last from Mr.
Clay, dated the 30th of June, in which he
speaks coldly of the nomination of Gen.
Taylor. He uses the significant expression,
that No note can be properly endorsed, be
fore the maker signs it.”
The Missouri Republican tries to sugar
over the nomination of Gen. Taylor to the
liking of the anti-slavery wbigs, but it is a
hard dose. As an illustration of it* anpal
atableness here, the Sentinel has a piteoa*
appeal, taken from the whig journal of New
York, 44 not to desert their colors The
caution comes too late.— Weekly Wisconsin.
Since the Proviso” was kicked out of the
Whig Convention, a Taylor print i* the last
journal that should use the word, unless it in
tended to insult its former anti-slavery friend*.
Weekly Wts.
About forty Whig papers have refused to
hoist the Taylor flay, and about the same
number ol Democratic repudiate Cass.
Barnburners in Rhode Island. —The
Providence Journal announces that a Barn
burner or Democratic Free Soil party is to be
formed in that State.
Many of the Tavlor papers publish the
following; as having an application to the
Democrat*:
4 Do run go for principles, men
4 Yea, I do/ 4 Wdl, what are yotrr princi
ple* 4 Always to vote for oar candidate/
CeietoafeM mt tire Fire* Aifrit
The colored emxene of Western New
York design to celebrate in this city by ap
propriate exercise*, the Anniversary of
Emancipation io the Bnuah VV eat India
Islands. The exercise# will take place in
Washington Square. Arrangemeuta are
made on an extended scale, and a Urge at
tendance is expected. FasOEEiex Docotxss
of this city; U announced a* the principal
Orator of the day, aad theae who have heard
this able speaker. wiM "«d any amuraw i
ces that his admass will be doqtan* and
""EeaSes Mr. DdogUaa, we nodenKand tha
Messrs. Remdtid end JbbMoff «e expected
to speak. An occaMon of unusual interest is
sataeipaled;andtt -likely that iarge nombera
femd£refored people will be pee»n»
Queer S*rEaecaiFTi«r—A leOpr pened
Through the New York Poet Office- two er
three day* ejfb, with the following direction;
’Er. Rockwell, worker ia marble, tombstones,
fee,, with rfasnitism ia has neck, if eoM water
has m driven it eat, Pmeidenna, B. 1/
In ft dree*.—The number ef Eaflat arti
saa* and nmchaaiear orbo hare beea obliged to
leave Ffeaee acme* the femtoiaa of Fehyv
ary is upwards ef 7,CW.
Tu AmSumt BrmtuM|Hiikij
Hbaad of itself for intimating that we
praoed a niprwi that Frederick Donhw
might bo Jnfcrf by ■datimtioo to change hie
views of the tJ. S. Constitution. Will the
Suodanl, having accused as of piece of the
most sneaking ftaeoartesy to ia honorable
man, have the forme— to quote oar venr
words, which were aa follows, and in which
we had net the sfcgbtasi idea af inaaaatmg
that Mr. Doaglase' oppoaiuooto the Ceoattta*
boo would net wtmmd the test of a nomination
14 Had Mr. Duoglaae been a a usee of hk
other State, and thereby ooaautatioaally qual
ified for the office, it ia probable that the eon
ver.tion would have done more to pot (o the
test his resolution not to swear to soppntt the
U. 8. CoßSUtatfon/*
The Convention bad been kindly and frater*
oally urging the matter with Mr. Duugfsss.
aad wa aappeas that those who voted for hna
did bin the credit to suppose that be ought
have gives up his views which they deemed
unsound. That a single soul thought of
bribing Douglass, we do not believe—neither
does he, but the contrary. So far from be
lieving that Mr. Doaglsns could be bribed to
violate his conscience by so forinra a nomina
tion, we do not believe he could ba by the of
fice itself.— Ckronotype.
Whom to Cheat.—Cheat the doctor by
being temperate cheat the lawyer by keeping
out of debt; and cheat the demagogue of
whatever party by not voting for any.
Addresser Anti-Slavery Women of West
ern New York.
Under a deep and abiding impression of the
duty we owe to God and our fellow beings,
the Anti-Slavery women of Rochester feel
constrained to continue to persevere in their
efforts for the oppressed and suffering bond
men who still remain toiling unrequited in the
Southern prison house. We are frequently
brought painfully to remember that uot only
b their labor wrested from them unremunera
ted not only do they suffer from intense hun
ger and cold; not only are the females, ova
sisters, subjected to the cruel and passionate
outrages of their tyrannical masters and over
seers but there are daily instances of sun
dering the dearest ties in nature, thus sepa
rating them forever. And can we expect any
thing better—can we look for benevolence or
fine feelings from a system so foul and fiend
ish as slavery? It would be unreasonable,
because 44 a corrupt tree cannot bring forth
good fruit.*’ Therefore, knowing that with
out associative action we cannot render effi
cient aid to this holy cause, we affectionately
invite the co-operation of the citizens of Roch
ester and the public generally. We ask them
to bear in mind the injunctions of Jesus, “All
things whatsoever ye would men should do to
you, do ye even so to them.” Remember,
also, the beautiful parable in which he calls
our attention to the sick and to those who are
in prison, and concludes by the forcible asser
tion, “Inasmuch as ye have done it toone of the
least of these, my brethren, ye have done it
unto me.” We feel assured all that have
heans to feel, and are careful to attend to the
monitions of conscience—all who are deter
mined to live for the good of our race, instead
of devoting all their time to their own per
sonal ease —all who feel bound to improve the j
precious time allotted to them here, by pto-;
motingas much as possible the cause of truth
and righteousness in the earth, will come for
ward in the work oflaboringto banish forever 1
the demon of slavery from our land and in j
so doing, instead of an example of corruption
and wickedness, we should be a light to the
world.”
We hope no one will feel too poor, nor any
too rich, to enlist in this holy cause. The
Christian’s influence, in whatever situation, is
always salutary, and will certainly produce its
good effects. We ask for the aid of men and
of women we call on the old and the
young, the farmer, the mechanic, and the
merchant. We ask all and every one to give
us their help to devote what they can spare,
either of money or of the fruits of their lar
bor, to the work of restoring men and women
to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights
and blessings with which they were endowed
by our Creator.
For this object, we propose holding a Fair
in December next. We ask the females in
the adjoining towns and country around us, to
get up sewing circles, and prepare such arti
cles as will be most saleable, and to come, fur-
I nish tables, give us their company, and help
us, not only in selling those things thus pre
pared, but in convincing the public mind of
i the necessity of our perseverance and fidelity,
and thus be helpers in hastening the day of
emancipation.
sketch Of THE LIFE AMD CHAracter OF DAviD WALKEr
It it generally the dew re of the vend
er of any intellectual production, to
know aometking of the character and
the life of the author. The character
of Datid IFalker is indicated in hia
writings. In regard to his life, but a
few materials can be gathered but
I what is known of him, furnishes protl
to the opinion which the friends of man
have formed of him—that he possessed
I a noble and a courageous spirit, and
r that be was ardently attached to the
t cause of liberty.
Mr. Walker was born in Wilming-
L ton, North Carolina, Sept. 28, 1785.
1 His mother was a free woman, and his
1 father was a slave. His innate hatred
1 to slavery was vary early developed,
j When yet a boy, he declared that the
slaveholding South was not the place
1 for him. His soul became so indignant
at the wrongs which his father and his
kindred bore, that he determined to
rind some portion of his country where
he would see less to harrow up hit
soul. Said he, “If I remain in thu
bloody land, I will not live long. At
true as God reigns, I will be avenged
for the sorrow which my people have
suffered. This is not the place for me
—no no, I must leave this part of the
r country. It will be a great trial for me
1 to live on the same soil where so many
men are in slavery certainly I cannot
remain where I must hear their chains
continually, and where 1 must encoun
ter the insults of their hypocritical
1 enslavers. Go, I must.”
The youthful Walker embraced his
mother, and received a mother’s bless
ings, and turned his back upon North
Carolina. His father died a few
months before his birth and it is a re
markable coincidence, that the son of
the subject of this Memoir, was a
posthumous child.
After leaving home, David Walker
travelled rapidly towards the North,
shaking off the dust of his feet, and
breathing curses upon the system of
l human slavery, America’s darling
institution. As might be expected, he
t met with trials during his journey and
at last he reached Boston, Mass., where
he took up his permanent residence.
There he applied himself to study, and
soon learned to read and write, in
order that he might contribute some
thing to the cause of humanity. Mr.
Walker, like most of reformers, was a
poor man—he lived poor, and died
poor.
In 1827 he entered into the clothing
business in Brattle street, in which he
prospered and had it not been for his
great liberalityand hospitality, he would
have become wealthy. In 1828, he
married Miss Eliza He was
emphatically a selfmade man, and he
spent all his leisure moments in the
cultivation of his mind. Before the
Anti-Slavery Reformation had assumed
a form, he was ardently engaged in the
work. His hands were always open to
contribute to the wants of the fugitive.
His house was the shelter and the home
of the poor and needy. Mr. Walkei
is known principally by his Appeal,”
but it was in his private walks, and by
his unceasing labors in the cause oi
freedom, that he has made his memory
sacred.
With an overflowing heart, he pub
lished his Appeal” in 1829. This
little book produced more commotion
among slaveholders than any volume
of its size that was ever issued from an
American press. They saw that it was
a bold attack upon their idolatry, and
that too by a black man who once lived
among them. It was merely a smooth
stone which this David took up, yet il
terrified a host of Goliaths. When the
fame of this book reached the South,
the poor, cowardly, pusillanimous ty
rants, grew pale behind their cotton
bags, and armed themselves to the
teeth. They set watches to look aftei
their happy and contented slaves. The
Governor of Georgia wrote to the
Hon. Harrison Grey Otis, the Mayor
of Boston, requesting him to suppress
the Appeal. His Honor replied to the
Southern Censor, that he had no power
nor disposition to hinder Mr. Walker
from pursuing a lawful course in the
utterance of his thoughts. A company
of Georgia men then bound themselves
by an oath, that they would eat as little
as possible until they had killed the
youthful author. They also offered a
reward of a thousand dollars for his
head, and ten times as much for the live
Walker. His consort, with the so
licitude of an affectionaie wife, together
with some friends, advised him to go to
Canada, lest he should be abducted.
Walker said that he had nothing to
fear from such a pack of coward blood
hounds but if he did go, ho would
hurl back such thunder across the
great lakes, that would cause them to
tremble in their strong holds. Said he,
I will stand my ground. Somebody
tntwf die t» this cause. 1 may be doom
ed to the stake and the fire, or to the
scaffold tree, but it is not in me to falter
if I can promote the work of emanci
pation.” He did not leave the country,
but was soon laid in the grave. It was
the opinion of many that he was hur
ried out of life by the means of poison,
but whether this was the cause or not,
the writer is not prepared to affirm.
He had many enemies, and not a few
were his brethren whose cause he
espoused. They said that he went too
far, and was making trouble. So the
Jews spoke of Moses. They valued
the flesh-pots of Egypt more than the
milk and honey of Canaan. He died
1830, in Bridge street, at the hopeful
and enthusiastic age of 31 years. His
ruling passion blazed up in tbe hour of
death, and threw an indescribable
grandeur over tbe last dark scene. The
heroic young man passed away without
a struggle, and a few weeping friends
is death hi. rrchd. clow,

Like Sowm at art of Mn."
The personal appearance of Mr
Walker was prepossessing, being six
feet in height, slender and well pro
portioned. His hair wss loose, and
his complexion was dark. His* son,
the only child be left, is new 18 years
of age, and is said to resemble bis
father he now resides at Charlestown,
Mass., with his mother, Mrs. Dew son.
Ms. Walker wssnftthful member or
Em Methodist Church si Boston, whose
pastor b the mcnUs father Swv
det*.
The reader thus has ft brief notice of
the lift and characterof David Walker.
AM OFFICER DISARMED BY A
WOMAM.
Somewhere abort the jeer 1710,
there fared at Stourbridge a respect abk
family of the Society of Friends, by
the name of Winter. They occupied
a bouse contiguous to the principal Ini
of the town, and their windows over
looked the yard. Mrs. Winter was a
clerer, amiable woman, and the land
lady at the Inn generally consulted bei
in any case of domestic difficulty. Ii
l happened that there was a number w
soldiers quartered in the town, and tb«
officers' head quarters was at this Inn
One of these officers was given to hab
its of intemperance; and sometimes,
after hard drinking, he became quarrel
some and irrational, approaching ever
to madness. One afternoon, having sat
long over the bottle, a difference arose
between him and a brother officer,
when he became so furious, throug!
intoxication, that he drew his sword
and dared his opponent in a single
combat; at the same time rushing intc
the yard ready for the bloody purpose
There he continued raving and reeling
for some time, with his naked swore
flourishing about, making very ludi
crous gesticulations, and shouting fort!
most amusing pot-valiant defiances
when a number of thoughtless peopU
gathered around him to enjoy the fun
At this juncture, the landlady observing
the scene, concluded that murder woulc
most assuredly follow, and that foi
which her husband, who was then ab
sent, might be seriously brought intc
trouble; and she was so affected at the
sight that she fainted. In this dilemma
Mrs. Winter was hastily applied to for
advice and assistance and having
surveyed the ground, she immediately
perceived the danger the people were
in of being wounded or killed, through
some eccentric lounge of the drunken
warrior; and she paused a few mo
ments to consider if she could do any
thing to avert such a catastrophe.—
Confiding in the purity of her motives,
she now put on her bonnet and pro
ceeded to the scene of action. Having
quietly made her way through the
crowd, she placed herself directly be
fore the vaunting soldier, at the same
time looking him placidly in the face
His countenance quickly fell, and he
ceased his boasting, gazing on his un
expected visitant with awe and rever
ence, as though she had been an angel
Mrs. Winter now very gently put hei
hand on the hilt of his sword, when he
unconsciously relaxed his grasp, anc
she drew it away from him.
Having secured the dangerous wea
pon, she carried it home to her owr
apartment, to the no small amusement
of those who witnessed the hazardous
deed. The drunken man, having
stared vacantly around him for a while
staggered off to his quarters, and slept
away the fumes of his potations. Oi
awakening a few hours afterw ards, hi:
recollection returned, and he inquirec
anxiously for his sword, as his appear
ance without it on parade next morning
might lead to some very awkward inqui
ries. He therefore sent his servant
with Major ’s compliments t<
Mrs. Winter, and begged that she
would return the weapon. Her answei
was, that she had it safely locked upii
her closet, and if he would call hirnsel
in the morning, she would deliver it t<
him. These were hard terms for i
British officer to submit to, but he
very prudently considered, under pres
ent circumstances, it was the best policy
to yield.
In the morning the Major arose, fully
sensible of the folly he had been guilty
of, and the dilemma in which he ha<
placed himself. He however deter
mined now to pursue the only righ
course before him, mortifying as it wai
to his feelings, and he accordingly
sought an interview with Mrs. Winter
to whom he apologized very amply,an<
acknowledged himself under the great
est obligation for her kind and timely
interference. Mrs. Winter then re
stored his sword, desiring him to re
place it in the scabbard; after whici
she delivered him a short lecture on tin
benefits arising from temperance anc
peace. Promising to be more rircum
spect in his future conduct, and agair
thanking her for her kindness, he de
parted, let us hope a somewhat wisei
and better man. —Peace Advocate
O’Connell’s Tact in Cross-Ex
amination. —He was once examining a
witness whose inebriety at the time to
which the evidence referred, it was
essential to his client’s case to prove.
He quickly discovered the man’s
character. He was a fellow who may
be described as “half foolish with
roguery.”
Well, Darby, you told the truth to
this gentleman?
Yes, your honor, Councilor O’Con
nell.
How do you know my name
Ah sure, every one knows our-own
pathriot.
Well, you are a good humored, hon
est fellow; now, tell me Darby, dkT
you take a drop of anything that day
Why, your honor, I took mt share of*
a pint of spirits.
Your share of it? now, by virtue of
vour oath, was not your share of k—all j
but the pewter?
Why, then, dear knows, that’s true i
for you, sir.
The court was convulsed by both;
question and answer. It soon came
out, step by step, that the man was
drunk, and was not, therefore, a com- i
petent witness. Thus O’Connell won
his case for his client.
Reclamation of Waste lands.—
A tract of land containing sointiiiing
like a thousand acres, hitherto entirely
unimproved, south of Hicbsville, Long
Island, has been purchased for a com
pany of Germans, who are to take poss
ession this spring* As the land has not
keen tilled within the memory of man,
its cultivation will be so much gain to
the community, who will also gain
much by the addition of a bo4y of hon
est sad industrious Germans to their
number. We suggest that there is a
rot tpanliiy of waste land on. Long
•mpiopodtn the tarns way. i
AHTI.TATLOB KKBTIHC W
BOSTON*
At an early hoar last eremog
people began to throng the streets on
their way to the Tremont Temple, to
hear the Hon. Joshua R. Gtddings,
of Ohio, and Hon. Henry Wilson, of
Natieh.— The building was filled to
overflowing. The enthusiasm of the
vast assembly was equal to the great
Worcester gathering. The masses
are rousing in their might. The honest
and true-hearted people are determined!
now to take matters into their own
hands, and see to it that truth, justice
and humanity are respected by their
ruler*. The Tayloritea begin to
tremble—4he politicians don’t know
which way to turn. A few more such
failures” wiH be the death of them.
The meeting was called to order by
D. R. Chapman, Esq., and organised
by Ibe choice of William B. Srop.NER,
Esq., as Chairman.
vice Presidents. James Tolraan, F.
F. Boure, Dr. Walter Channing, T.
P. Chandler, Esq.
Secretaries. George F. Williams,
J. J. Meston.
The Chairman addressed the meet
ing in a few appropriate remarks, as
follows:
Fellow Citizens, —Every body knows
who Joshua R. Giddings is. Now that
John Q. Adams was no more, Mr.
Giddings was the great champion of
Freedom in the House of Representa
tives, and upon him the mantle of that
venerable statesman had fallen.
He alluded to the argument that
having sent delegates to the Philadel
phia Convention, those delegates and
those by whom they were sent, were
bound to adopt the candidate nomina
ted. But they had sent their dele
gates to nominate a Whig, and he
asked whether Gen. Taylor could be
called a Whig. One Whig measure
was that slavery should not be exten
ded over new territory but Gen.
Taylor had never given a word of
assurance on that point. It was against
the course of human nature to suppose
that a man who was born in a Slave
State, moved into another, bought a
plantation of slaves in a third, who
fought the battles of Slavery, first in
the Seminole war, and afterwards in
the Mexican war, could be opposed
to the extension of Slavery.
Mr. Taylor was a slave man, and
there was no mistake about it. Perhaps
the Autocrat of Russia, or the JDey of
Algiers, might be honest men, but he
would ask if such men had the right
sort of principles to govern a free peo
ple. The amount of it was, that he
was the candidate of war, and slavery.
His flag was black, its stars were blot
ted out its stripes were red.— Boston,
Whig.
GREELEY COMING OUT RIGHT.
Saturday’s Tribune contains an ex
cellent article from Mr. Greeley’s pen,
entitled, “No Compromise,” of which
the following is the conclusion:
Then let the friends of freedom
stand firm! We shall never be more
ready for the struggle than now. The
general breaking up of party lines is
auspicious to the formation and expres
sion of free sentiment. Let us meet
the danger at the threshhold, opposing
firmness to violence and calmness to
threats. The North may be betrayed,
as she has heretofore been, but let no
true man flinch or falter. Let a politi
cal grave yawn by the side of every
traitor, while every man who prizes
liberty too high to sell it, and reveres
principle too much to compromise it,
stand like a rock hy the side of univer
sal freedom. Pass the watchword from
rank to rank, and see what coward lip
it blanches, what false heart it flutters
—JYo Extension of Slavery.
This looks encouraging. We have
strong hopes that Mr. Greeley will de
cide to act for freedom. He exerts a
powerful influence, and we believe he
has it in his power to prevent General
Taylor’s election by the people.
Thousands of freemen are awaiting
Mr. Greeley’s decision. Will he not
take a manly stand on the side of
freedom? —Hampshire Herald.
SLAVERY.
Requisition on Ohio for Persons
Aiding Slaves to Escape.— We learn
that fifteen citizens of this State have
been arrested on a warrant issued by a
Justice of Warren County, and held to
bail in the sum of $4,000 apiece, to
await the answer of the Governor of
Ohio to the requisition of the Governor
of Kentucky, for their presence at the
Court of Common Pleas of Campbell
i County, Ky., to answer to the charge
of stealing five slaves, the property of
citizens of that county. The affidavit
upon which this warrant was issued
was made by Gen. Taylor, of Newport!
If we mistake not, everything now de
pends upon Gov. Bibb. They cannot
be compelled to appear in Kentucky,
"L u “P OO hla answer to the requUiti
I Will he deliver them up? They can
not be charged with having committed
I the crime m Kentucky, eacept con
structively, by aiding and abetting, af
ter the escape of the slaves. The ex
ample of Gov. Shunk will recur to ev
ery one. He retused to comply with
the requisition of the Governor of Ma
ryland, founded on an indictment, for
.the reason that no such constructive
presence could he admitted in law. We
do not think that Gov. Bibb would de
KeX:r if rea%
'Ve understand that Corwin and
Codings have been retained to man
age the suit. The arrested persons are
resident# in various parts of the State,
on the line from here to Sandusky
City, and are ail of them of high re
spectability. 6
bince the above was written, we
rm Gov. Bibb baa begged to
be excused from complying with the
P”**® '•que* of the Governor of Ken
tucky, on the ground that Ohio lawf
do«t recognize property In man.—Ci*-
cwmalt Herald.
My frtaad has a great reverence
IDT the truth, 1 said baronet to a
gsntkman. So I perceive, waa the
pirtfal
“THE
It is a fact well worthy of notice, that
“The Anglo-Saxon,” the Phoootypic
newspaper published in this city by
Andrews and Boyle, has attained the
extraordinary errcaUtioa of six thou
sand, weekly,, n little asore than one
year since he establishment. This is
certainly one of the boldest attempt* at
innovation on a large scale that we have
ever known, and is, so far, decidedly
one of the most successfek Phoaotypy
and Phonography together, constitute
what is known as “the Language
Reform,** or “the Writing and Spelling
Reformation.** We have heretofore
spoken approvingly of the principle
which lies at the bottom of this move
ment but, apart from its merits, the
fact that a family newspaper in the
English language, printed in an entirely
new system of spelling words, with an
alphabet of forty-two letters, instead of
the twenty-eix old stagers which have
served our forefathers, is liberally sus
tained, and that its circulation is rapid,
ly increasing, is indisputably one of the
most striking and singular phenomena
of the nineteenth century. The sheet
itself is one of the“ curiosities oflitera
ture.” To the uniformed eye, it may
seem the absurdest thing imaginable;
but the reputation of its conductors for,
scholarship, the fact that their labors
are not only approved and sanctioned,
but warmly advocated, by some of those
most interested in education, together
with the success which accompanies
the undertaking, should at least render
these who have not thoroughly studied
its principles and understood its advan
tages, somewhat modest in condemning
it. Phonography, a kind of rapid and
scientific short hand, is rapidly coming
into use for verbatim reporting, and
even for letter-writing. It is undoubt
edly the most perfect system of writing
ever invented. 'I he most obvious and
immediate use of Phonotype, is its in
fluence in correcting false habits of
pronunciation. A year’s reading of
“The Anglo-Saxon,” for this purpose
only, must be worth far more, as a
means ol'family education, than its sub
scription price of two dollars, and even
more than years of systematic study de
voted to pronouncing dictionaries.—
Children read the paper at once,
prompted by mere curiosity at its novel
ty; and incidentally they learn the true
pronunciation of every word in the lan
guage—Phonotype being an exact re
presentation of speech. We wish the
enterprising editors and conductors of
The Anglo-Saxon” even more tri
umphant success in future.— JY. Y.
Evening PosL.
Self-emancipated. —The Rochester
American, in a letter from Augusta,
Georgia, gives the following noble in
stance of man struggling to be free—
The talk of the town to-da} is the
departure of" Frank Shadwick, a self
emancipated slave, his wife and child
ren, to seek a more congenial home in
the State of Pennsylvania. This slave,
who is a native of this beautiful city,
began his work of emancipation by pur
chasing his time from year, to year at
about $lOO per annum—the usual hire
s jfor a good servaut. Possessing great
energy and much intelligence, with per
fect integrity, he could both oversee
other slaves and labor well himself, and
very justly commanded his wages. His
surplus earnings soon brought him
horses and drays, and enabled him to
hire good servants of such as had them
to spare. Thus established in business,
in the course of 15 years he has made
money enough to buy himself at about
$lOOO, to pay a larger sum for his wife
and children, and take to Harrisburg
three or four thousand dollars besides.
Some ten or twelve of the first men in
Augusta united in giving him a letter ol
high commendation. It was with pain
and reluctance that Frank left his troops
of friends and the scenes of his child
hood. The only motive was the law
ful education of his children— an ad
vantage denied them by the laws ol
Georgia.*.
“Ocean Penny Postage.—Will it
Pay? —There is one fact of great
importance lying at the threshold of our
argument for an ocean penny postage.
The English Government has never
stipulated with any ocean steam packet
company, to adhere to any fixed price
of postage on letters or newspapers,
transmitted in its mails. If the Govern
ment should ever undertake to convev
the letters of the world across the ocean
for nothing, it would be no breach of
contract with Cunard’s, or any other
steam packet line. In contract with
these lines, not the slightest allusion
was probably made to the rates of pos
tage which would be charged on the
matter conveyed in the mail bags. Let
it be remembeied then, that in giving
the world an ocean penny postage,
England will not have to pay a farthing
more per annum to the steam packet
lines in her service, than she does at
the present rates of postage on letters
and newspapers, to and from ccuntrio
beyond the seas. There can be no
reason to doubt that the ocean which
divides between live old world and the
new, is to become a vast field of compe
tition between the great commercial
nations, tor the transportation of mail
matter and passengers. The English
lines can bid as low for this carrying
trade as any other nation on the globe;
and there is no reason to doubt that
they would be glad to retain their
present price of carrying the mails
between Eogktod and America, though
newspaper were free of charge, and
only a penny a-piece, when uoder half
an ounce in weight. Perhaps this fact
in itself may serve to soflea down the
obstacles to an ocean penny postage,
which occur to the minds of those who
casually glance at the proposition from
a certain magnifying distance.'*
Blood or ajv inebriate. —lir. Pray
recently bled a toper and found that
the watery elements were nearly gone
and alcohol supplied their place. He
applied a torch to the blood and il
ignited. It had such an effect on the
inebrate, that be reformed.